

* >
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.—N0. 3342
Wednesday, March 1, 1944
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
Jeppelts
WHERE “MONS MEG” DREAMS OF HER WARLIKE PAST.
OVERLOOKING the Royal Mile between Castle and Palace
v '- / from this craggy eminence of the Rock, one sees the Old
Town of Scotland’s capital. In this space the Old Town grew up
and lived its day, and now, a huddled mass of grey old houses,
it gives the impression of an army encamped in the shelter of
a great fortress. There was little room for the Old Town to
expand, but, like the citizens of New York, those of Edinburgh
preferred to expand their houses skywards, and, until the age of
skyscrapers in the New'World, there were few higher houses to be
found than the “Lands” or blocks of eighteenth-century apartments
of Edinburgh. Many a duke and duchess, many a scribe and
merchant lived in a crew’s nest here, amid the winds and tempests
of the heights. Of the cannon now standing in the Castle grounds
tradition says it was made by Brawny Kim, a blacksmith, and his
seven sons for the siege of Threave Castle and named “Mons Meg”
after Kim’s wife, “who had a very powerful voice.” But, today,
Mons Meg is silent, brooding perhaps on an age that has passed
into glorious history ... of an age that was near its close when
He spurred to the foot of the proud Castle rock
And with the gay Gordon he gallantly spoke,
Let Mons Meg and her inarrows speak twa words or three
For the love of the bonnet of Bonnie Dundee.


I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244
The Red Page
Centenary of a Publisher.
Nobody devoted to books could fail
to be interested in Charles Morgan’s The
House of Macmillan (Macmillan). The
firm celebrated its centenary last year,
and Morgan tells the usual stories of
how it grew, what books it accepted and
what rejected, what books were money-
makers and what were failures.
The best anecdote of all concerns John
Morley’s Life of Gladstone, published in
three volumes in 1903. The book was
an instantaneous success:
There are stories of the volumes stacked
everywhere in lofty piles, of men running
up ladders to hurl down the topmost pack-
ages to collectors fighting for them at the
trade counter, of vast labors without food
or sleep; and, even though we discount
a little the romance of old campaigners,
it is plain truth that such scenes were
enacted then as never before or since.
The public was clamorous and insatiable.
Twenty-five thousand and forty-one copies
were sold in the first year. On May 6,
1904, within less than seven months of
publication, Macmillan’s sent the Gladstones \
a cheque for £23,872. People wrote letters
of almost tearful gratitude to the firm for
having made available the Life of so
noble and revered a man.
The humor comes in the footnote to the
story;
What Morley, who was an ironist, may
have thought in 1903 we can only guess. He
himself had not always been prostrate at
Gladstone’s shrine. In September, 1877,
Alexander [Macmillan] had invited Glad-
stone, J. R. Green and the Dean of St.
Paul’s to dine with him at the Garrick, and
asked Morley to join them. The reply was
this:
“My dear Macmillan,
“I will dine with you on Monday at the
Garrick at 7.0 with much pleasure.
“N.B.—Gladstone has nothing to say to
men like you and me—but it is interesting
to see the kind of men whom the world
thinks great. Foolish world!”
Reading Morgan’s history simply for
the items of literary interest as they
appear, one proceeds from an early pub-
lishing list —“Trench’s Hid scan Lectures ,
H. B. Drake’s edition of Demosthenes
On the Crown ; J. E. B. Mayor’s Juvenal ,
Edward Thring’s books on grammar
Westcott’s Elements of the Gospel Har-
mony ; Todhunter’s treatises on the Cal-
culus and on Statics” —to the discovery
of Charles Kingsley, the steady rise to
popularity of Westward Ho ! and the de-
scription of Kingsley finishing Two Years
Ago in a wild rush:
As well as the work of his parish and
the reading of proofs, Kingsley must have
written ten thousand words a week steadily
for seven weeks or more. It is a Balzacian
feat. No doubt Scott, Dickens and Trollope
equalled or surpassed it on occasion, but
it remains an achievement —no one not a
writer can know how great an achievement.
The courage of it lies not ih the ten thou-
sand words, but in the seven weeks. Even
Stevenson’s writing of Jekyll and Hyde in
one continuing drive is less remarkable, for
white-heat will sustain a story-teller for 10,
20, 30 hours, but only an undaunted
courage will carry him for 50 days.
Thomas Hughes appears, informing
Alexander Macmillan that he had “gone
and written or got in my head a one vol.
novel, a novel for boys, to wit Rugby
in Arnold’s time” — Tom Brown’s School-
days. There is the foundation of “Mac-
millan’s Magazine,” which indirectly
drew Tennyson to the firm, and to which
Henry James, Hardy, Henry Kingsley,
Charles Kingsley ( Water-Babies ) and
Blackmore contributed serials ; to which
Matthew Arnold contributed his great
essays on Wordsworth, Byron and Amiel;
and from which Meredith got 16 guineas
for “Love in the, Valley” and Kipling—
“exceptionally fortunate”—£Bo for’ “My
Lord the Elephant.” Morgan’s blueprint
for the running of a successful magazine
is worth noticing:
A great periodical lives not by little,
buzzing attempts to surprise and titillate,
nor by cautious solemnities, but by its
power to persuade a reader that, though
it is but interesting in June and reasonable
in July, it may in August take his breath
away.
Lewis Carroll comes into the picture,
preferring to publish at his own expense
and extraordinarily pernickety about
printing and format. Hardy shows a
touching modesty as a young author, hav-
ing the most naive respect for unimpor-
tant reviewers, and asking Macmillan’s
‘Would you mind suggesting the sort of
story you think I could do best, or any
literary work I should do well to g
upon?”
Frazer s Golden Bough is published i
1890, begins to sell well in 1922 whe
the single volume abridged edition
brought out, and is used by Morgan a
an example of the rewards of “long
term publishing”: bringing similar book
to the firm from other writers, it has bee
a “magnetiser” for over 50 years, anc
“Macmillan’s list, which had begun i
theology and grown through the religiou
and scientific controversy of Darwinism
received from it a double infusion of new
life.”
W. B. Yeats, though Macmillan’s after
wards became his publishers, was receivec
at first with astonishing hostility. John
Morley, usually a sound critic, found
The Wind Among the Reeds unintelli
gible, the book as a whole “absolutely
empty and void, an absolute nullity,” anc
said that if Yeats ever became a popula
author he would “really at last despai
of mankind.” Morley and another Mac
millan reader who reported on Yeats’
work with an equal fury wrote, Morgai
comments, “with the dangerous vehem
ence of men who feel that their citadel i
being undermined.”
An anecdote about Hugh Walpole i
probably without parallel in the history
of literature. Frederick Macmillan re
corded in his notebook in 1925 that Wal
pole had given him the following pro
gramme for his proposed work: “1925
Portrait of Man with Red Hair; 1926
Harmer John ; 1927, Anthony Trollope
Jeremy at Crale; 1928, Wintersmoon
1922, The Waverley Novels, The Moun-
tain ; 1930, Chinese Horses (short stories)
Millie and Peter ; 1931, Flight to Thorne
1932,The Herries Family, (1) Under Skid-
daw 1771-1832 ; 1933, (2) The Romantic
Story, 1832-1870 ; 1934 (3) Mark Herries,
1870-1930.” The programme was varied
somewhat, but “it remains a remarkably
accurate foreshadowing of nine years’
work.”
Interesting as a collection of anec-
dotes about books. The House of
Macmillan suffers to some extent from
the common fault of centennial or
obituary writings, an undue decor-
ousness. Charles Morgan records that
in the 1930’s Macmillan’s “needed young
poets,” and in 1934 established their
Contemporary Poets series: but he
does not mention the fact that most of
the verses published in this series were
of a lamentable weakness. There is also
a certain ponderousness about the book,
Morgan’s characteristic dignity of style
tending to become overweighted. He
never lets himself go. •
Macmillan’s having developed like
most Australian and New Zealand
houses, from bookselling into publishing,
one might have hoped to extract from
the history certain principles of publish-
ing which could usefully be applied here.
There are points, certainly. Prestige pub-
lishing, long-term publishing, the advan-
tages of Contact with a magazine ; and,
quite rightly, Charles Morgan sees the
firm gradually, as finance permitted,
“realising some of its ideals.” But the
chief lesson of the book is simply that
publishing is a business;
Shaw was lost, Mrs. Ward was gone, and
before spring was out J. M. Barrie, who
came to Alexander with an introduction,
had been allowed to pass by. In face of
this, 1885 might be supposed to have been
a year of triple misfortune, and so it
would have been for a firm that lived by
novels alone. But the 12 months that
lost Shaw and Barrie and Robert Elsmere
had many compensations. Hall and Knight’s
Elementary Algebra for Schools began a
series that produced rewards which few
school books can ever have equalled.
Alfred Russel Wallace made an excursion
into politics with Bad Times. F. O.
Bower and Sidney H. Vines published,
with help from George Macmillan so active
that it amounted almost to collaboration,
their Course of Practical Instruction in
Botany . ~
Arnold’s Discourses in America, Pater’s
Marius and Tennyson’s Tiresias were
published in that same year; literature
was served, literature advanced. But she
advances slowly in most cases, with many
false steps, and on the backs of Elemen-
tary Algebra, Bad Times and Practical
Botany.
"The Merciless Beauty."
Ernest Briggs, whose The Merciless
Beauty is the first of a series of “folios
of Australian poetry” to be published by
Brisbane’s lively “Meanjin Papers,” has
a style all of his own: —
And still they sing,
Those bright
inexorable voices
That incite
1 Through
Utter loneliness
A new
Delight.
Though pages in this manner are jerky
to read they sound smooth enough when
spoken aloud. But it is nevertheless not
a good style. Briggs is giving a rather
naive prominence to those internal
rhymes and half-rhymes which, more
often than not unconsciously, every poet
uses to increase the melody of his verse.
The great sweeping sound effects of
Shelley’s “Ode to the West Wind” come
from the internal rhyming of “west” in
the first line with the counterpointed
“pestilence-stricken multitudes” half a
dozen lines later ; but Shelley would not
have, as it were, pointed out his inge-
nuity—if he was aware of it —by break-
ing his verse into a new line every time
a rhyme cropped up.
There is a line of Meredith’s about
doves from “Love in the Valley” con-
sciously using, internal rhyme for
onomatopoeic effect: “Through the long
noon coo, crooning through the coo.”
In Briggs’s style that would be spun out
to:
Through
The long noon
Coo,
Croon-
ing through
The coo.
That naivete of arrangement is almost
the only sign of originality of style in
The Merciless Beauty, for in all other
respects it is very strongly influenced by
Yeats. This is not only in a section of
the book specifically addressed to Yeats
and consisting mainly of quotations from
Yeats’s poems, but throughout the book
—“All, all upon that whirling spindle
caught; Lost in that vast inhuman rout;
Drowned in that bitter storm” ; “Till all
that frenzy is magnificent”; “Part sage,
part fool, part child” ...
But there is an emotional originality
which is far more important than the
fact that this young writer’s first book,
ike nine first books out of ten, is written
in some master’s style: emotion so in-
tense that it amounts to vision. Briggs
responds to a vision of beauty
Shrieking its ecstasy
Till body bend
And all but break
Beneath its turbulence.
And that “merciless beauty” forces him
to
Shriek
Till the great shall answer from their graves.
What matter that it break
The heart,
So that the anguish saves?
And he knows that, if he is to make the
great answer from their graves and to
leave himself “a path of greatness Where
he passed along” he will have to
Cut of a resolute will
Exultant song.
When a writer feels like that about the
world and about himself criticism stops
short. All one can do is to wait for his
next book and to wish him good luck.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Rope” at the Minerva: —
Although it is a light offering, ranking with
the better sort of thriller novel, the Minerva’s
“Rope” is the best play seen in Sydney for
many months. The Minerva has been running
a series of American light comedies, of which
only “The Man Who Came to Dinner” and
“Arsenic and Old Lace” had real merit. Offer-
ings such as “My Sister Eileen,” “George Wash-
ington Slept Here” and “Separate Rooms” —
though all with their moments of gaiety—have
conveyed two impressions : (1) that Sydney is a
suburb of New York; and (2) that a play is a
string of flimsy wisecracks. In “Rope” Sydney
becomes a suburb of London again—-which, if
not quite the same thing as being an Australian
capital city—is at least refreshing for a change.
“Rope,” moreover, is an extremely well-made
play. Instead of laboriously working up to a
dramatic situation and losing it again in ten
minutes, as did “Separate Rooms,” it opens
with two young men putting a body into a box,
proceeds steadily with the unmasking of the
criminals and concludes with Edwin Styles blow-
ing his little whistle for the police: Crime,
Suspense, Punishment, the theme clearly stated
and satisfactorily worked out. It is the same
sort of play as “Ladies in Retirement,” “Arsenic
and Old Lace” and “The Amazing Dr. Clitter-
house” and, like those plays, becomes something
more than a thriller because of a thread of
psychological interest —the young killers being
decadent university students who have com-
mitted murder for the “thrill” of it and Styles
a supposedly blase professor who finds that
when it comes to the point, he can’t be blase
about murder.
The play has genuine wit. Styles is a versi-
fier as well as a professor and, discussing his
new poem with characteristic poetic modesty
says it’s likely to be not only the best thing he
has ever written, but the best he has ever read.
As the cynical professor, he gives a diverting
account of how he has broken all the Ten Com-
mandments with the exception of the injunction
not to covet his neighbor’s ox nor his ass —
having so few neighbors who keep oxen or
asses. Furthermore, it’s a play written not by
some shallow wisecracker but by a civilised man
who, even if he hardly emulates them, has the
grace to mention in passing Carlyle, Goldsmith,
Matthew Arnold and Conrad. And, lastly but
not leastly, it is well acted. Styles has heroi-
cally subdued himself for his role and plays the
professor as well as he usually plays Edwin
Styles; Campbell Gray surprises by an excellent
portrayal of the student' whose nerve cracks,
and Leonard Bullen, though he fails to warm
the play up in the opening scenes (a defect that
will probably be remedied in later performances),
rises more than capably to the dramatic third
act. Betty McDowall, without even an English
accent to help carry conviction, seems miscast
as a Bright Young Thing.
A considerably better play of the same type
as “Rope” is James Bridie’s “The Anatomist,”
based on Burke and Hare, the body-snatchers.
The Minerva might find it worth considering:
the title-role (the anatomist—not the bodv
snatchers) should suit Edwin Styles admirably.
“Princess Ida,” on The Bulletin's
invitation to the first night at Sydney
Royal, was misprinted “Princess Aida"~
which momentarily aroused the wild sur-
mise that the Royal had switched from
Gilsullivan to grand opera. “Princess
Ida” is a satire on a poem by Tennyson
written for a time when everybody read
him. With Tennyson rightly or wrongh
out of fashion, a really live and up-to-
date show would be a satire on I. S.
Eliot; if not one in five hundred of
the Royal’s audience would have read
enough of Eliot to know what it was all
about, how many of the present audi-
ences are acquainted with “The Prin-
cess”? The show is amusing enough and
well played ; but the Royal’s revivals give
the impression that the theatre is cam-
paigning for the patronage of the ghosts
of our great-great-grandmothers.
At the talkies;
An unusually good crop of new films is
headed by “The Younger Pitt” (Sydney Em-
bassy). It has the Gaumont-British historical
exactitude, and there is sterling acting by a
big cast, with Robert Donat in the title role and
Robert Morley as Fox. The reason for making
the film, of course, was to draw the parallel
between Napoleonic times and our own. There
are good and surprisingly lively scenes in the
Mother of Parliaments.
“So Proudly We Hail” (Prince Edward), a
story of the nurses on Bataan and Corregidor,
is remarkable in that, instead of being pictured
as glamor goils with carmined fingernails and
latest perms and all for ro-mance, the nurses
are portrayed as nurses. Claudette Colbert
switches from comedy to drama with practised
ease.
“Flying Tigers” (State) has to do with the
volunteer American airmen under Colonel (now
General) Chennaulf, who gave the Chinese a
hand before the U.S.A. came in. Combat
photography is hrst-class.
A Supreme Court Judge getting mixed up in
a small-town lawsuit while on vacation is the
basis of “Stranger in Town” (St. James), a
much better film than the chief “attraction,”
“Slightly Dangerous.” Frank Morgan is the
Judge.
“Mr. Lucky” (Regent) has Cary Grant as a
rather tough gambler trying to learn knitting at
a Red Cross depot' and getting intd other daffy
situations to an obbligato of wisecracks. His
dimple acts splendidly. ’
“Cine Ma”: There ought to be a law
restraining Hollywood producers from
using famous titles. “The Way of All
Flesh” was billed for a Melbourne
theatre, and one was reasonably entitled
to expect a screen presentation of Samuel
Butler’s autobiographical novel, which
Shaw regards as one of the greatest works
of English literature. Personally I don't
altogether agree. The terrible Samuel
was a remarkable man and wrote a won-
derful book, but it is also a horrible book,
and none of its characters are like human
beings. They are only aspects of human
beings ; and if Butler had a father and
a family like that he helped to produce
them. But that isn’t any excuse for Holly-
wood’s borrowing the title to give im-
portance to the sentimental story of a
small-town cashier who takes 100,000 dol-
lars to New York, has it vamped from
him by a lady, is presumed to have been
murdered and spends *the rest of his life
as a crossing-sweeper because he wants
his family to believe that he died a re-
spectable banker. The film would have
given Butler the horrors.
“Cauboy”: After the Beethoven Fes-
tival in Melbourne, Sutton-Crowe, sec.
of the University Conservatorium, de-
scribed Heinze as one of the world’s best
conductors. An “Age” correspondent
retorted that if the Ormond Professor
had used the scores the soloists might
have been spared some very ragged ac-
companying and the listeners some bad
patches in the synlphonies, and there was
the customary addendum that “while we
are cut off from the world’s best, let us
have the best Australia can produce, but
do not let us lose our perspective.” If
there was ragged conducting it wasn't
noticed by the orchestrions. Several have
told me that the third piano concerto
with Raymond Lambert as soloist was
the best they had ever had a hand in, and
they were equally enthusiastic about
Ernest Llewelyn’s fiddling in the violin
concerto. Patriotism, possibly. On the
other hand, the provincialism which asks
for a foreign label is apt to be just as
easily kidded as patriotism.. When the
Spivakovskys came here as young foreigc
virtuosi the music-lovers went mad abou'
them; only about 300 attended wher
they gave a concert several years later
though musicians said their playing wa:
better than ever. Again, when a well
known musical comedy singer who hac
been living in retirement in Melbourne
for some years was billed to appear ir
a revival it was thought advisable to an-
nounce her as arriving from Sydney. She
was given a grand reception at Spencer-
street station, several scores of galler)
girls being conveyed to the scene in 1-
Silver Buicks. Those who knew that she
had been living in a Melbourne suburb
and had been taken to Seymour and put
on the express from Sydney had a good
laugh.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
A
\j
n
,x>
/ r )
J'K
r
I'rr rj3
> r
J\W.
m
"THE SENIOR STORE"
Collona Eau-de-Cologne. A straight Eau-de-Cologne.
Prices 3/3, 5/6, 7/11, 9/9
Te Tree Oil (Antiseptic) Shampoo 2/6
Celebrity "Equator" Mosquito Repellent Cream contains
a high percentage of medication's compounded into a
smooth base 2/3
Fem-in-ex, the guaranteed deodorant. "Fem-in-ex" is
instant protection against bodily odours, etc. .. 1/6, 2/5
Atkinson's Chiffon Powder, in Rachel, Natural and
Orchid Mist 2/5
There is a fully qualified Chemist in attendance
in our Dispensary. Leave your Prescriptions
with him while you do your shopping and your
medicine will be ready for you when you are
leaving the Store.
3
X
>J
I®
m
s
JK. ,-UU
S=-
V*-
C 3
fn
«
E'moma Lavender and Musk Toilet Soap, a perfectly
milled soap suitable for toilet and bath 4£d cake
Loumay Toilet Soap by Colgate's. Excellent quality.
Price 1/7 cake
Joy-Wash, the modem way of cleansing. It removes dirt.
Invaluable for cleaning carpets, household blankets, etc.
Various sizes l/9» 9/6, 237-
Palace Antiseptic Liquid Soap, containing Te-tree oil. It
is antiseptic and germicidal, unsurpassed for use in the
bath, for bathing wounds in humans and animals.
Invaluable in the laundry for floors, etc. 2f-gallon
tin 21/-; 5-gallon tin 37/6
j
Klensol germicide and antiseptic, non-poisonous. For
cuts, wounds, insect bites, personal hygiene ... 1/6, 2/6
Irofros Tonic, invigorating and body building tonic for
children 1/8
Haiiborange, a product of Allen & Hanbury. Pure
halibut liver oil with orange 5/6, 8/11
Roomoova Rheumatic Remedy in all uric acid diseases.
Price 3/-
Palace Influenza Mixture, prepared in our own Phar-
macy. It gives relief; it checks and then ernes 2/6
• Chemistry—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
li
Q
r<
0
vW L.
y
» !
>T —iiO2G
1
‘: v «r
W-i '
U
r 0
tgf?
AMTHOMY UORDSRHS
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Uncle Patrick Was a Scholar
By MARGARET TRIST.
AUNT BRIDIE rose abruptly from
the table, seized the kettle from the
stove and poured the water viciously
down a crack in the kitchen wall.
“Dirty brute!” she said. Steam and a
smell of soaked wood mingled with that
of the summer day pouring in through
the open window, where the muslin cur-
tain hung in stiff, bleak protest.
“What’s the harm in a cockroach?” de-
manded Grandfather.
“What’s the use in them?” countered
Aunt Bridie. “They smell to high heaven,
they do so.”
“Hot water’s no good. Take your slip-
per to them. Squash them flat,” said
Grandfather with relish.
“Ugh! And not be able to face an-
other bite of my dinner! He’s gone any-
how. There’s not so much as a whisker
sticking out. Did you ever see the like!
Squatting there in broad daylight, bold
as brass, he „ was. We won’t be able to
live in this place soon with the pride those
cockroaches take in themselves.”
She refilled the kettle, set it on the
stove and came back to her meal. “It’s
got me beat where they come from. As
fast as I clear them out they’re in again.”
“They’re breeding somewhere,” said
Grandfather helpfully.
Aunt Bridie became grim. “I have it!
Mr. McGuire’s books. After dinner we‘ll
go and burn them all.”
“You can’t burn a dead man’s books,”
protected Grandfather.
“All the more reason,” retorted Aunt
Bridie.
“Say he wanted them again some
day”
“What does a dead man want with
books? There are times, Father, when
you don’t appear to have the good sense
you had once.”
“Say he wasn’t dead”
“You’ve been saying for the last forty
years that he was.”
“But I never saw him dead. It was
only hearsay. He was drunk one night
and jumped in a hole out along the river
with his boots and topcoat on. The hole
has no bottom to it. He never came up.”
“Didn’t they drag for the body?”
“What’s the use in a hole without a
bottom? Anyhow, what use is a body?”
“He’s dead as far as I’m concerned,
and he’s got no use for them books. I’m
tired of having a breeding ground for
vermin under my house. We’ll make a
bonfire out of them before the hour’s up.”
“That’s a very high-handed attitude for
you to take, Bridie,” said Grandfather
reproachfully.
“I’m not being cluttered with them any
longer,” averred Adnt Bridie. “Why
couldn’t he have drowned his books with
himself?”
“Maybe he didn’t drown himself,” said
Grandfather. “Anyhow, he didn’t have
the books then. He’d been gone a couple
of years when they turned up. He’d left
the last place he was in in a kind of hurry
and someone packed them and sent them
after him, thinking, no doubt, that Australia
might have been a bit short of books.
“And I have to pay for their meddling.”
Aunt Bridie looked at Grandfather sus-
piciously. “How did you come by those
books?”
“They were delivered to me,” said
Grandfather proudly. “As his only known
relative, they were entrusted to my care.
So you see, Bridie, you’re putting me in
a bad position if you go burning them.”
Aunt Bridie sniffed. “I don’t see how
he was a relative.”
“He was somebody’s relation, but he
never got round to saying whose. He
told lies much more natural than he told
the truth, so everyone took it he belonged
to us. At one stage I was named as the
best liar in the district.”
AUNT BRIDIE concentrated on her
dinner, her eyes filled with the glory
of the bonfire that was to banish the last
remnants of Mr. McGuire from the earth
for ever. “Now!” she said determinedly
when the meal was over and the dishes
washed and neatly stacked in the dresser.
“Are you ready, Father?”
“I don’t feel none too good,” answered
Grandfather. “You take Maggie and look
into the matter. For me, I’d rather rest.”
“You can rest afterwards.”
“But I can’t get under the house. It’s
years since I went crawling under houses.
I remember”
“You sit on the back stairs and Maggie
and I’ll go under. Come along,”
“Maybe there’ll be snakes,” said Grand-
father hopefully.
“Fiddlesticks! ”
“Or scorpions.”
“I’m a match for any scorpion.”
“Or a centipede or two, or death
adders. Great time of the year this for death
adders. You can feel them in the air.”
Grandfather was installed on the back
steps, his gammy leg stretched awkwardly
before him, his stick in readiness beside
him. He commanded a view of the back
path, a crooked affair of skewwhiff planks
running between scorched bindi-eye and
bulldog plants and the next paddock,
where a house had pnce been, but where
now only charred stumps, drunken
chimney and a withered rosebush re-
mained. Aunt Bridie and I, after step-
ping carefully over the bootscraper, bent
double and crawled into the neat, dark
space beneath the house.
Here the black earth was cool, with
cracks in it and an occasional yellow-
green weed with a white stalk. Above
our heads the verandah boards were fes-
tooned with cobwebs, and misdriven nails
poked downwards as vindictive as daggers.
The trunk that contained Mr. Mc-
Guire’s books stood carefully raised on
two bricks. P. McGUIRE, AUSTRALIA,
was blocked on the lid.
“Patrick McGuire,” said Aunt Bridie
reverently.
“What’s that?” demanded Grandfather,
his face appearing between the boot-
scraper and the stairs.
“His name was Patrick,” called back
Aunt Bridie.
“No, it wasn’t. It was Rory.”
“That doesn’t make sense. Rory
doesn’t start with P.”
“What’s the odds?” asked Grand-
father. “You can call anyone, anything,
can’t you?” •
“Is there a key to this lock?”
“Not that I know.”
“I’ll have to break it,”
“Maybe it’s not books at all,” said
Grandfather.
“What else could it be?”
“He left the Old Country in a hurry.
Perhaps he murdered someone and they
sent the bones after him.”
“What a silly idea,” scoffed Aunt Bridie.
“Or maybe it’s full of snakes.”
“What a silly idea,” said Aunt Bridie
again, but with less /assurance. The lock
was broken. She paused with her hand
on the lid.
“Tell me quick,*’ implored Grandfather.
She jerked back the lid. Its creaking
shatt|red the silence. The smell of old
paper and leather hung on the air.
“Books,” said Aunt Bridie shortly.
“You don’t say?” said Grandfather,
“That’s just what the man that brought
them said they were.”
SILVERFISH and cockroaches beat a
hasty retreat, from the trunk. A
pallid centipede slid down the side. Aunt
Bridie removed the tattered shreds of old
newspapers. There were books with
cardboard covers like exercise books and
leather-bound volumes riddled with
oblique holes. “Something’s eaten right
through,” she said.
“Who wrote them?”* asked Grandfather.
“There’s one by the name of Suckling,”
replied Aunt Bridie.
“Suckling. Never heard of him. You
sure it’s not Shakspeare?”
“No, Suckling.”
“Perhaps it’s the way they had of
spelling Shakspeare.”
“Of course not. It’s Suckling.”
“There was another called Dickens.”
“This is Suckling.”
“Don’t be obstinate, Bridie. Shak-
speare and Dickens were the names. I
never heard of Suckling.”
“People could write without you hear-
ing it.”
“How?” demanded Grandfather. “Per-
haps it’s another name for Thomas Moore.
Saddening through pleasure’s beam,
Gladdening through sorrow’s stream,”
he sang joyfully in his cracked voice.
Or maybe it was the other way round.
I forget. He became bored after that and
returned, to the steps. He was suddenly
eager about the bonfire, and began
plotting its whereabouts.
Aunt Bridie lifted the books from the
trunk, blew the dust from the covers,
opened them and stroked the thin pages,
then laid them in stacks on the news-
paper she had placed on the ground.
“That’s the lot,” she said at last.
“Come, Maggie, we’ll get them out of
here.”
We removed them awkwardly to the
outside air. Grandfather regarded them
gleefully. “Dry as bones!” he said. “A
few palings from next door and a bit of
dry grass and it’ll make the prettiest fire
you’ve ever seen,”
“What do you mean?” asked Aunt
Bridie. “Who’s talking about fires?”
“You,” said Grandfather. “You’re
going to make a bonfire of Mr. Mc-
Guire’s books.”
“Indeed! ” retorted Aunt Bridie. “And
who am I to burn Patrick McGuire’s
books? He was fond of his books”
“So fond he hopped off and saved his
own skin, leaving them behind him.”
“And as a relation I’ll cherish them for
him.”
“It’s not proved he’s a relation.”
“He was a relation. He owned books.
We’ve always been book people.”
“Help us, but we’ve never owned a
book in our lives.”
“We do now,” said Aunt Bridie firmly.
“Come, Maggie, help me take them to
the parlor.”
WE traipsed backwards and forwards
arranging the dead Mr, McGuire’s
books in prim heaps in Aunt Bridie’s
parlor. It was a fantastic room rich in
occasional tables and crocheted mats and
photographs peering from aluminium
maps of Australia and plush frames. It
had an organ with glass vases and a sofa,
the chief glory of which, was dimmed
with a draping of brown calico. The
remains of Mr. McGuire stayed quietly
between their covers. There was nothing
in the dull browns and reds and the
faded gilt to offend the modest air. No
sudden intrusion of a lady’s limbs dis-
turbed the tranquillity.
Aunt Bridie surveyed the effect with
satisfaction. Grandfather hovered in the
doorway.
“Isn’t there going to be a bonfire?”
he asked.
“There is not!” said Aunt Bridie.
“Maybe you’ll change your mind?”
“I never change my mind,” retorted
Aunt Bridie.
Grandfather’s mouth fell open. He wan-
dered away before he said something rash.
Aunt Bridie surveyed the books
dreamily. “Your Uncle Patrick was a
scholar,” she said.
A cockroach wandered unheeded up
the satin-smooth, unpainted wall.
OLD CLO'ES
By JOHN K. EWERS.
“ D EAUTIFUL material!
rou don’t get it
J nowadays.”
“Yes, it’s very
nice indeed,” .
“Look at the double hems. Look at
the stitching. It would look very charm-
ing on you.”
“Yes, but”
“I have plenty of other frocks here.
Ten shillings, twelve an’ six. But not
this quality . . . Good afternoon, sir. Can
I do something for you?”
“I have a suit here to sell.”
“Will you step this way, sir, and take
a seat? I won’t keep you a moment.”
“It’s all right. I’ll stand, thanks.”
“I won’t keep you . . . It’s beautiful,
isn’t it? Not a flaw in it. You could
Wear it anywhere. It’s very cheap for
fifteen shillings.”
“No. I didn’t want to pay that much.”
“Very well, you come again.” ( In a
whiSper ) “After I’ve finished with this
gentleman. You will come again?”
“Yes.” ( More whispering .) “Some-
thing about ten shillings.”
“I have plenty. Best stock in town.
You come again. Good-bye! . . . Now,
sir, your suit?”
(Slips off string, rustles open paper.)
“Did someone tell you to come to me?”
“No, I ... I saw your advertisement
in the paper.”
“Ah! . . . Very nice material. Yes!
A bit faded here, see? There’s a tear in
the trousers, too. On the outside. Pity!
On the inside of the leg it not matter so
much. Outside, very noticeable. Oh
dear, silverfish!”
“No! Where?”
“Here in the seat. Look! One, two,
three, four! Pity! You had a lot of
wear out of this?”
“No. As a matter of fact, I never
really liked it.”
“Ah, not your style. But someone like
it, eh? How much you want for it?”
“Oh, really, I don’t know. I’d rather
you put a price on it.”
“The seat of the trousers not last long.
Silverfish. Pests, ain’t they?”
“Tell you the truth, I had no idea those
holes were there. It’s been hanging so
long I thought I might as well sell it.”
“Of course. You got anything else?
Sports coat? Shoes? Underclothing?”
“No, nothing else.”
“Pity about those silverfish. But they
got to have somewhere to leave their
babies, ain’t they?’
“I never knew . . . really.” 1
“Of course not. How much you take?”
“Well, I don’t know . . . My wife, she
said I ought to get three pounds”
“Three pounds! Oh, but she not know
about the silverfish.”
“No. Neither did I.”
“Of course not. Very shiny here.
See! Nice material, but it fades. See
under the collar . . . the difference? And
here? Pity about that tear in the
trousers. That not silverfish.”
“No, a dog did that.”
“A dog. Fancy!”
“I thought it had been mended, but I
remember now it hadn’t. It was so
small. You can hardly notice it.”
“Yes, biit on the outside. See! Dif-
ferent if it was on the inside. Not so
noticeable. Pity. How much you take?”
“Well, my wife”
“I give you one pound.”
“Oh, don’t be absurd.”
“But it’s very worn, isn’t 1 it? The seat
of the pants will have to be mended.
Those holes will grow bigger. See how
thin it is. A little shiny, too. But never
mind about that. You see, old pensioner
come in. Like something to wear to see
his children. Not much money. You
take a pound?”
“No.”
“It’s dirty, too. Look here. See? I’ll
have to jiave it dry-cleaned. How much
you take, then?”
“Well ... I ... I won’t let it go under
two pound.”
“I give you four pound for a good
suit. Four-pound-ten. But this old suit!
See the cuffs, here? No more silverfish
anywhere else? No, I don’t see any.
No ... no. I give you one-pound-ten.
You take one-pound-ten?”
“No, Wrap it up, please. I’ll take it
back.”
“Oh, but you know it has seen its day.
Very nice material. Faded here. Look,
you see? You got anything else? Sports
coat, underclothes, shoes?”
“Oh, I’ve a bit of a sports coat I don t
wear much.”
“You bring it. I give you good price.
But this suit, you see . . . Tear on the
leg of the trousers ... on the outside .
silverfish in the seat . . . the coat faded.
See! Look under the collar. Pity!
Good material, but they all fade. You
take one-pound-ten?”
“No, I’ll take it back home.
“You bring in something else? That
sports coat.” ' T T
“It’s not much good. Besides, 1 . . . i
wear it about now and then.”
“You bring it in. Old men, they come
in. Not much money. They
say T want cheap suit. Go
to see my boy Sunday. Must
look nice.’ This just suit
some old man, perhaps. All
right, I give you one-pound-fifteen.”
“No.”
“I have lovely stock, ain’t I? * Beauti-
ful suits hanging up. Frocks, shoes, coats.
All good stuff. Good stock, eh?”
“Yes, you’ve got quite a lot.”
“Pity! New material. Good suit!
Smart! Poor people, they come in here
to buy. Some not like it. Some well-
born. They say T just happened to be
passing’ . . . That lady who was in
here when you come. Very nice lady.
Good family. But —how you say?—
reduced. She come back presently. I
sell her something else.”
“Hey, what are you doing? Don’t
crease it like that! I’m taking it home.”
“No. I give you two pounds.”
“You will?”
“Yes, Will you sign the book? We
have to sign the book. The Government
they come round ; they see I not over-
charge. Sign here, please, while I get
the money.”
“"THERE you are. Two pounds, sir.
1 I give good price.”
“Thanks.”
“Wait a minute, sir, if you please. You
say you see my advertisement in the
paper?”
“That’s right.”
“No. I never advertise.”
“But I”
“Yes, I know. But that was another
lady up the street. She advertise regular.
I been here six months. Advertise only
three times. Everyone see her advertise-
ment and they come to me. I had to
tell you so you wouldn’t think I was not
honest.”
“But”
“You see that shop over there? That
the lady’s husband. Separated. He adver-
tise, too. I no advertise. Everyone come
to me. I have better stock than both of
them. Only been here six months.”
“You’re doing pretty well then?”
“I have good stock. But that’s why
I always ask anyone new ‘Who sent you
to me?’ They say T see advertisement in
the paper.’ I say nothing. Then before
they go I tell them. You think I’m dis-
honest?”
“Good heavens, no!”
“Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. You
bring something else, perhaps. That
sports coat? Good afternoon.”
“Good afternoon.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3342.
Wednesday, Ma/ch 1, 1944.
ROYAL AIR FORCE NIGHT.
“‘Never in the history of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.’ Mr. Churchill revealed last week that the few are now many."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
CALL IT OFF!
In a little over six months there have
been general elections in the Common-
wealth and in Westralia. During the
next three months there will be general
elections in Queensland, South Australia
and N. S. Wales. In all these contests
service men and service women will have
voted, and after a little space, if Dr. Evatt
has his way, they will have to vote again on
his proposal for the transfer of powers
to the Commonwealth, his Fourteen
Points (ominous expression!), for a period
of “five years after the cessation of hos-
tilities.” They will be pretty sick of vot-
ing by that time, and people in that state
of mind can scarcely be expected to be
enthusiastic for Constitutional amend-
ments with a five-years limit. They are
more likely to resent the obligation im-
posed on them and express their resent-
ment by voting no or not voting at all.
And sharper resentments, born of the
proceedings and inertia of the Govern-
ment and the sayings of Ministers, are
sure to operate, so that the referendum,
if proceeded with, will be taken at the
worst possible time and in the worst pos-
sible atmosphere.
On August 21 the people elected 49
Labor Ms.H.R. and 19 Labor Senators,
giving the party in office control of both
Chambers, the House immediately and
the Senate after June 30. There is a
fatuous notion in the Canberra Caucus
that the referendum is certain to be
carried on that account. Mr. Hughes
knows better.
On April 13, 1910, a Labor Govern-
ment in which Mr. Hughes was Attorney-
General, like Dr. Evatt, was returned
with a majority in both Houses, and on
April 26, 1911, Constitutional amend-
ments of his drafting, dealing with legis-
lative powers and monopolies, were put
to the vote and defeated. Altered in form,
they were beaten again on May 31, 1913.
On December 13, 1919, being then
Nationalist Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes
submitted legislative powers, industry and
commerce and nationalisation-of-monopo-
lies amendments at another referendum,
taken, as in 1913, in conjunction with
the general election.. The electors
gave him a majority in each House,
but refused him, the additional Con-
stitutional powers. And the Bruce
Government, which swept the polls
on November 14, 1925, was rebuffed on
September 4, 1926, when it tried to get
plenary powers over industry and com-
merce and essential services. It had better
luck on the State debts issue in 1928,
winning that referendum as well as the
general election ; but State debts was the
only important Commonwealth referen-
dum which has been successful. • Sixteen
have failed.
Last August, as on October 28, 1916,
and December 20, 1917, when the con-
scription polls were taken, many thousands
of people voted the Labor way, and for
substantially the same reason, who never
voted the Labor way before. It is ridicu-
lous to suppose that these people will
vote the Labor way again to oblige Dr,
Evatt and Mr. Curtin and Mr. Ward. It
is far more likely that they will com-
pound for supporting Labor at the elec-
tion by opposing it at the referendum,
more especially as Labor has given them
so many reasons for turning against it.
Not even with those who vote the ticket
every time, and who have never been a
majority of the electorate, does the
Government stand as well as it did in
August—witness the trade-union outcry
against the catch in its mean and shifty
pay-as-you-earn scheme, so different from
the generous British grant of pay-as-you-
earn to all taxpayers with earned in-
come. In all other quarters the feeling
grows that the Government is pigeon-
livered where payroll professors, petty
fyrants armed with regulations, union
bosses and N.S.W. coalminers are con-
cerned, only less abject in its attitude to
organised pensioners and other pressure
groups, outrageously offensive when Mr,
Ward breaks out and Mr, Curtin defends
or pardons him, and the last word in in-
eptitude on such questions as finance,
food production and control and man-
power. In short, that it governs only
those who are willing to be governed and
bungles, often uncouthly, nearly every-
thing it touches.
For waging war and carrying on the
life of the country this Government has
all along had powers equal to those pos-
sessed by the Governments pf Britain,
Maoriland and South Africa, subject to
their single Parliaments. How has it
exercised them? Hurtfully to small in-
vestors who .have had to sell shares
(chiefly to pay their income tax) at “ceil-
ing” {i.e., sacrificial) prices and to would-
be vendors (and buyers) of homes ; with
kid gloves in the vast and spreading
domain of black markets, from which
bundles of banknotes are carried to the
racecourse; with maddening bureau-
cratic meddling in the field of industry ;
with such Gestapo practices as the arrest
and imprisonment of citizens without
trial, spying on a member’s telephone
talks and “examining” members’ mail to
see what constituents have written to
them, and, in respect of strike promoters,
strikers and absentees, with such pol-
troonery, ineffectually disguised at times
by brave words, that workstoppers do as
they please, not only criminally damaging
the war effort but challenging the very
structure of our democracy.
It will be impossible for people to go
to the referendum booths, if they have to,
unmindful of such things. Impossible
for them to forget the moving appeal
of the leader of the British Food Mission
to Australia (“there is not an Australian
who would not be deeply concerned if
the rations which Britain has had to ac-
cept during five winters of war had to
be reduced below their present level of
Is. 2d. worth of meat, two ounces of
butter, - three ounces of cheese and a
quart of milk a week”) or the shameful
sequel, embodied in Canberra reports,
that, with the shipping position vastly
improved, exports of butter to Britain
fell from 244,191,8241 b. in 1939-40 to
110,475,0591 b. in 1942-43, exports of
cheese from 40,682,2881 b. to 15,300,8891 b.
and exports of meats from 582,781,0441 b.
to 246,108,4791 b,, with further falls in
exports of all foodstuffs to be recorded
in 1943-44.
Impossible likewise for them to forget
that Dr. Earle Page attacked the Govern-
ment at almost every point of its war
effort, from army organisation and
strategy to the incidence of disease in
New Guinea, and from the alarming
and disgraceful food position to the
anarchy in the coalmines, and, instead of
being answered point by point, was taken
into the Advisory War Council again.
Impossible also to forget that Mr. Ward,
after his venomous attacks on the British
and American Governments on the score
of their treatment of Russia, and on the
conduct of the British in Malaya and
India, was not only at once forgiven but
placed in charge of “all matters relating
to civil administration in Papua and New
Guinea, whether for immediate or post-
war application.” This when, as is
notorious, he tried to get Papua, New
Guinea proper and the other mandated
islands excluded from the area to be
defended by called-up men, and when
his attitude to island settlers and native
administrators has been as venomously
hostile as his attitude to the British in
Malaya and India. Even after he was
named Minister of External Territories,
he had the face to assert that “the Fuzzy
Wuzzy angels” had been victims of
“shabby treatment” —an insult to the
memory of Hubert Murray and a
slander on the work of Murray and his
men, which has borne Such noble fruit
in this war.
The defence power, which is ample
for all purposes, though exercised so
harshly here and so feebly there, will
last until peace is made, and a year or
more may elapse between the laying
down of arms and the signing of the
treaties. That period will be long enough
for a great part of the repatriation job to
be done, if plans are made with a right
conception of the value of time. What
does the Government propose to do with
the powers to be substituted for the
defence power? “Establish socialism,”
says Mr. Ward. “Convert Government
munition factories into Government con-
sumer-goods factories,” say Ministers
Makin and Cameron. “Continue the
present controls,” say the payroll pro-
fessors and lecturers—meaning certainly
more maddening bureaucratic meddling
in the name of “reconstruction,” and per-
haps capricious experiments in the con-
trol of labor (“I could send you to Bourke
if I liked! ”), more violation of the mails,
imprisonment without trial and queues.
What believer in free enterprise, which,
left to itself, has wrought such miracles
of improvisation and achievement in
Britain, the United States, Canada and
Australia itself, will vote for Wardian
or Makin-Cameron socialism, with “con-
trols”?
For the adoption of Constitutional
amendments, even with a time limit,
majorities in four States and the Com-
monwealth are necessary. The Govern-
ment hasn’t a dog’s chance of getting
them. And an inglorious failure would
mean that the natural development of
the Commonwealth into a Common-
wealth with supreme and unchallenge-
able powers in national matters would be
thwarted for many years.
New Light on Singapore.
In the current American “Foreign Affairs”
Sir George Sansom, a higher authority
and a better historian than Mr. Ward,
strips away the ugly screen thrown over
Singapore by the breed that earlier pur-
veyed the idea that in war Japan would
be simply a pushover. As former Coun-
sellor of the British Embassy at Tokyo
and now Minister attached to the British
Embassy at Washington, Sir George
Sansom can be taken as speaking offi-
cially, It goes without saying that the
official account he presents is wholly
different from that smeared out by Can-
berra’s leading muckraker. And his
general finding is that the battle of Malaya
was lost elsewhere before the war in the
Pacific began.
It was lost directly when the strategical
decision was taken to give priority to
the supplying of war materials to Russia.
But it was lost long before that: from
the moment the British Empire—no part
of it more readily than Australia, nobody
more readily than Canberra politicians —
swallowed the concept that a parrot
hou«e at Geneva was an effective sub-
stitute for armed strength. When a Can-
berra politician seeks to fix the blame
on military commanders, on fifth-
columnists among the natives and on
suchlike local causes, he is shifting the
stigma of guilt from himself and his
caste to others.
The truth about Singapore, as Sir
George Sansom shows, is that, though
relatively to Australia and the island ter-
ritories left without defences by Can-
berra politicians, it was a strong base, it
was nothing like strong enough relatively
to the strength that Japan was able to
hurl against it. There were neither the
men nor the machines necessary to hold
it. The plan of defence, revised in 1941,
was sound, but “a plan is one thing and
the force with which to carry it out is
another.” Nor was the calamity brought
about because —vide Mr. Ward at his
foulest—“the military caste in that
theatre spent the bulk of their time at
cocktail parties and were in a semi-
drunken state when they should have been
attending to their military duties.” On
the contrary, Sir George Sansom points
out, neither at Kota Bahru nor at Singa-
pore were the British forces unprepared
for the Japanese attack. “It has often
been alleged that they were taken by sur-
prise, but that is not true.” It was no
Pearl Harbor. What men and machines
were available to try to stem the Jap on-
slaught were on the job from the start,
and at the start they very nearly suc-
ceeded.
“It is a curious thing,” the writer com-
ments, “that the full story of their gal-
lantry and endurance has never been
told. The Malayan campaign has been
represented merely as a somewhat inglori-
ous retreat.” Japanese reports have ad-
mitted that at the beginning Jap losses
were very heavy; “we know that at one
moment the Japanese commanders
thought that they were near to failure.”
They were saved only by the intense gun-
fire which their heavy cruisers and de-
stroyers concentrated on the destruction
of the British artillery and machine-gun
positions along the shore. Because, in
the general neglect of Empire defence
over the years, Singapore suffered most
severely in air strength, all that could be
thrown against the attacking fleet was a
pitiful group of nine British bombers —
in the whole of Malaya there were only
about 100 front-line ’planes, practically
all of them of obsolete type. The gallant
nine attacked and sank several Jap ships
before they were destroyed by anti-air-
craft fire or by the Jap ’planes operating
from Thailand or from carriers, in waves
of about 50 machines at a time.
The air cleared for them, the Japs were
able to bring in and land a mechanised
division and more infantry divisions. The
loss of the Prince of Wales and Repulse
is described not as a mere haphazard, ill-
considered venture into danger, but as
a deliberate attempt to save the day.
Aware of the approaching Jap convoy
in the north, the High Command in Sin-
gapore decided to take desperate meas-
ures. With the element of luck needed
for them, the desperate measures could
well have succeeded.
Admiral Phillips thought that if he coufd
get among the Japanese convoys in a dawn
attack with his big ships he might do such
damage as to defeat the Japanese invasion
plans. Critics have said that he was blind
to the importance of air strength, but this
is grossly mistaken. He was aware of the
risk which he was taking.
The great gamble in this part of the
operations was on the cloudy monsoon
weather holding out long enough to
enable the big ships to reach the Jap
convoy unobserved. A break in the
clouds near dusk and a Jap reconnais-
sance ’plane spelt the ruin of the venture,
which, had it succeeded, would have been
lauded as one of the finest in British naval
tradition, as it was, in any case, one of
the bravest and most desperate.
The whole Malayan campaign, as here
officially reviewed, was one of despera-
tion. Against the 100 obsolete British
’planes at the beginning the Japs could
hurl such numbers that within a week they
had almost complete mastery of the air.
They concentrated first on the total
destruction of the defenders’ air cover—
a hopelessly thin cover at its best. The
daily raids on Singapore airfields alone
were made by massed squadrons of 54
or 108 machines, while the Japs still had
ample aircraft to support their infantry
and artillery driving down Malaya. “It
is not known how many machines they
had at their disposal, but it must have
been several hundred front-line aircraft,
with plenty in reserve.” By sheer weight
of numbers they shot their gallant
opponents to pieces.
Fighting without the enemy’s advan-
tage of air cover —for bombing and obser-
vation both —and therefore fighting
blind ; outnumbered at all critical points
of the campaign, because of the long
coastline and the base itself that had to
be defended; up against “a Japanese
army consisting of brilliantly-trained and
seasoned troops, probably the highest
quality in the world at that time for the
type of warfare in which they were en-
gaged”—the defenders, so far from merely
falling back in an inglorious retreat,
fought magnificently against all-over
odds that were simply irresistible. It is
a miserable appreciation of what they
actually did do to regard the Battle of
Malaya as a shameful episode, best
hushed up and forgotten.
Nor is there any real evidence to sup-
port the vicious Ward sneer at the native
Malayans as showing hatred for Britain
by turning fifth-columnists, “There are
few, if any, proved instances of deliber-
ate and spontaneous fifth-column work
or sabotage by the Malay population.
There are, on the other hand, many in-
stances of loyal and courageous assist-
ance to the British troops given through-
out the campaign by the Malay and
Chinese inhabitants. This was the
general rule.” In Singapore, subjected to
day and night bombing throughout the
campaign, Malays, Chinese, Indians and
British worked side by side heroically in
civil-defence groups, in air-raid precau-
tion services, as auxiliary fire-fighters, in
medical units and in the volunteer police.
It is worthy of note that the largest and
most effective fifth-oolumn activities in
Malaya were those of Chinese supporters
of Wang Ching-wei, head of the Japanese-
controlled puppet Government at Nanking,
who were sent to Malaya with Japanese
connivance. The permanent Chinese com-
munity domiciled in Malaya was loyal and
extremely energetic in resistance to the
Japanese, not only in passive defence ser-
vices but in guerrilla activities, in intelli-
gence work and in many other ways.
“The fall of Singapore,” Sir George
Sansom sums up, “was a great military
disaster, but to explain it simply by the
incompetence of military commanders
and the mistaken policy of colonial
administrators is to misunderstand its
lessons.” The main lesson, it may be
hoped, all parts of the British Empire
have taken to heart —the folly of relying
on distant chatter-houses and grandilo-
quent phrases like “collective security”
as substitutes for defence strength. There
is not much doubt that when everything
is finally told about Singapore it will be
seep that blunders were committed there,
as blunders have been committed by both
sides elsewhere. But the balance will
show that what actually lost Singapore
was relative weakness. The part to be
ashamed of is not that of Singapore's
defenders, but that of the undefenders
of the Empire as a whole between the
wars. There were inglorious specimens
of these at Canberra in all the parties,
though chiefly in the party which Mr.
Ward is held to adorn. Many of them
are still there.
Tommies in Australia.
The Prime Minister made an announce-
ment the other day about British troops
arriving in Australia.
When it became known that Ameri-
cans were due here scores of willing
hands got to work arranging hostels and
the like for Uncle Sam’s troops.
What has been done in this line for
the Tommies? As far as can be learned,
nothing.
Yet the Tommies, on the same sort of
job—and second to none at it—are
notoriously far worse paid than either
Americans or Diggers. On U.S. rates of
pay a crowd of Doughboys could club
together and pretty well buy the Aus-
tralia. Diggers aren’t quite* in the same
class, but they’re plutocrats compared
with the Tommies.
There is certainly a job to be done for
these grand chaps. At once.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A National Tradition.
No real Australian can contemplate the
history of the A.I.F, without being
stirred. From Gallipoli to the Hinden-
burg Line Old Diggers wrote a mag-
nificent history to which New (and
Old) Diggers have added splendid chap-
ters in North Africa, Greece, Crete,
Malaya and Papua, and are adding
another in New Guinea. A.I.F. fighting
quality and battle discipline have drawn
glowing tributes from war statesmen and
commanders from Lloyd George to
Churchill and from Foch to MacArthur,
The A.I.F. gave Australia a tradition
of comradeship, courage and loyalty.
That Australians, on the whole, are proud
of that tradition goes without question.
But there was —and is—a small section
in which the name and uniform of the
Australian Imperial Force inspired only
sullen enmity. When the coast was clear
the worst specimens indulged in evil in-
sults such as “six-bob-a-day murderers.”
Others whose hostility was less rank or
more prudent got into Parliament. Some
of them are still there.
Mr. Ward has so little regard for the
A.I.F. that in his venomous speech of
February 10 he plumed himself on haying
opposed the sending of the three divisions
to Egypt. It would be going too far to say
that Mr. Forde, though of the same mind
then, believes the A.I.F. tradition should
be wiped out. All the same, as
Army Minister, he has at the least
been concerned in the pitiful attempt
to rob the Diggers of their shoul-
der badges and the still more disgraceful
business of removing the letters A.I.F.
from the crosses above Diggers killed in
action in New Guinea. And Mr. Forde’s
“explanations” on both occasions, on
each of which he has had to confess de-
feat, were as weak as water. In the
affair of the crosses he was told by Old
Digger Cameron in the House that he
hadn’t heard the last of it.
Men of all parties, States, sections and
callings have fought in the A.I.F. for
Australia. Seventy thousand have died
for Australia ; a still greater number have
been wounded, blinded, wrecked. There-
by they and their mates proved to the
world that Australians can unite against
a common enemy and beat him. That
is what Anzac Day signifies. Anzac Day
is only eight weeks off. Maybe Mr.
Forde would like to change it to A.M.F.
Day. Perhaps if Mr. Ward had his way
there would be a reversion to the position
in 1942, when the Anzac Day com-
memorations were cancelled, though May
Day blatherskites performed as usual,
Gestapo Style.
There was a lot of surprise, both inside
and outside the House at Canberra, over
what came out in the debate on the cen-
sorship of members’ mail.
Some people were surprised (others
were not) at the showing of the Prime
Minister, who was heard in one of the
poorest attempts to defend the indefen-
sible ever recorded, even at Canberra,
Looking longingly towards the exit, Mr.
Curtin made way for Dr. Evatt, who had
to answer the rightly indignant protests
of Major Cameron and others with a
Government promise to have a com-
mittee appointed by the P.M., after con-
sultation with party leaders, to look into
the matter on the point of privilege.
It was suggested that there had been
discrimination in this censorship, aimed
particularly at the member for Barker
(S.A.). It was alleged that the personnel
in one “communications” office included
notorious characters. Be that as it may,
Mr. Forde had the hardihood to protest
that “the present system should not be
interfered with.”
Under “the present system” or part of
it 16 N.S.W. citizens were, with Mr.
Forde’s sanction, arrested and held for
months, without trial, though Mr. Forde,
announcing the arrests in a sensational
style and a self-congratulatory strain,
promised a trial. And while they were
so held —damaged in pocket as well as
reputation, one victim, a third-genera-
tion Australian, being absolutely ruined
—Communists boasted in their publica-
tions that it was their doing. It is an easy
transition from the Australia First case
to censorship of members’ mail.
A.B.C. and Its "Weekly."
According to A.B.C.’s annual report to
June 30, tabled at Canberra, the “correc-
tive influence” of the “A.B.C. Weekly”
has “done much to stem irresponsible
criticism of the Commission’s pro-
grammes.” This is part of the annual
attempt to justify the annual losses on the
paper—last year, £21,108. Some figures:
Wireless licenses issued —1,419.793.
“Weekly”- circulation —60,000.
Cost of “Weekly” for year—£2l,loB.
Cost of “Weekly” for 1942 —£28,959.
Advertising income—£10,000.
Certainly an improvement, though
how far circulation gained from the
changing of the opposition “Wireless
Weekly” to the “Pocket Book Weekly,”
with a dropping of radio programmes and
features, isn’t stated. In any case, a
circulation of 60,000 among listeners
numbering 1,419,793 (most of them in
private homes) isn’t much to brag about.
In the publication’s brief span expen-
diture has exceeded revenue by well over
£lOO,OOO, and it has never attracted ad-
vertisers (this year’s £lO,OOO is largely
made up of commercial radio advertise-
ments). It overdoes the booming of
radio pussonalities, and there is too much
lackadaisical reprinting of uninspiring
radio talks, often Leftist. Infinitely more
interesting talks are given by A.B.C.’s
own field unit. These are nearly always
good, and the Digger talks are grand.
It is astonishing that 'they should be
printed so infrequently and sketchily.
"An Apple for the Teacher."
The scenario for an Australian documen-
tary feature, not suitable for the A.B.C.
competition, but guaranteed to be based
on fact. Alternative titles “A Lemon
for the Learner” or “If We Get the
Apples Who Gets the Pip?”:
Good unionist in workshop, studying long
circular from the Apple and Pear Board,
which advises him that his name has been sup-
plied by the union as one willing to co-operate
in the distribution of apples in 101 b. cartons at
2s. 6d. a carton delivered in lots of not less
than 30 cartons.
G.U.: “Half a caser a carton! That’s fair
enough. About a trey a pound. Twopence a
carton to me for my trouble. I’ll give it a
go. Helps us get apples and helps growers, too.”
Makes a canvass of works. Good response
from mates. G.U. advises A. and P.B. that
he’s willing to act.
Interval.
G.U. receives bulky parcel by mail, with cir-
cular from A. and P.B. stating “We would
thank you to hand this material to the officer
who has been deputed to handle the distribution
of apple cartons at your business premises.”
G.U. opens parcel. In a growing daze he
lifts out an Sin. by 7in. order book containing
forms to be filled in in triplicate, complete
with carbon paper; next, one large and two
small posters, highly-colored; then a bunch of
10 “order-form schedules,” each Min. by 9in.,
with 41 columns on one side -and 42 on the
other;, then a Din. by Sin. “Apples Service
Guide,” to be hung up; finally 214 slips, each
Sin. by 3in., urging YOU to place YOUR order
now.
G.U. eyes the heap, feverishly flips through
the pages of the order book, fingers the “order-
form schedules,” and runs madly through the
works scattering the 214 slips.
The foreman goes wearily to the telephone to
ring up the paper-salvage people.
And the workers, .their dreams of
apple-pie and custard shattered, return
sadly to their machines.
"Traps While You Wait."
To the article so headed (B. 9/2/’44)
there should be added, in common fair-
ness to Moscow correspondents, a day-
by-day description of the affair of the
German divisions trapped in the Kanev
pocket.” They numbered ten when first
counted by Moscow correspondents and
were then reckoned at 120,000 to 150,000
men. As the story proceeded they be-
came the Eighth German Army and the
theme of excited comparisons with the
“330,000 men of the Sixth German Army
annihilated at Stalingrad.”
Actually it was claimed that 15
divisions were “trapped,” the other five
being “trapped in the Nikopol area.
They were disposed of in a sentence by a
“commentator” ; “cut off and wiped out
in the next phase of the battle.” While
they were still in the picture the headline
artists got to work: “Dnieper Flows with
Nazi Dead—Nikopol Was a Massacre” ;
“Death-Ring Tightens on 200,000 Nazis,”
and so on. All this while the campaign
of depreciation of the Anglo-American
campaign in Italy was in full blast, so
many “alarmist reports” being in circula-
tion that Churchill had to apply a veto.
The narrative of the “trapped” ten
divisions or Eighth German Army comes
in here, with Reuter’s young man lead-
ing the band: —
“Little more than half the force of
120,000 will be left when the Russians over-
run the pocket if the present casualty rate
continues. German staff officers are hying
out of the pocket in transport ’planes. The
men these officers led into the trap are
nearing the end.” .
“Von Mannstein’s men are eating horses
and dogs for their one daily meal.
“Thousands of guns around the encircled
German divisions are turning the area into
a seething cauldron” (British United Press).
“The German army in the Kanev area is.
dying under a never-ending rain of shells.
Nearly 100,000 Germans are counter-attack-
in*' repeatedly in vain attempts to break out
of the ring of fire which is relentlessly
closing in on them. As more and more
guns join in the muddy earth around the
German positions is boiling and bubbling
(British United Press).
“The situation of the Germans trapped
in the Kanev area is deteriorating. The
weary German troops have had no bread
for three days. With the divisions smashed
or surrounded the Russians have accounted
for at least half of Von Mannstein’s army.”
“The extermination of General Stemmer-
man’s 10 trapped German divisions in the
Kanev pocket is being carried out with a
systematic thoroughness unparalleled even
at Stali-igrad. The trap has been split into
four sections, and practically every square
yard is being pattern-shelled, by
artillery, often at point-blank range.
“Late last night [Feb. 10] the Red Anny
solit into two groups the 10 German
divisions trapped in the Kanev pocket, thus
sealing their fate. Dawn today marked the
beginning of the end. The Germans still
refuse to surrender and are being m ol ™
down at point-blank range. Thousands of
German corpses and mounds of destroyed
war material litter the ground. .
“The Russians have bitten deeply into the
Kanev pocket, where the remnants of Stem-
merman’s Eighth Army are
last battle. The trap has now shrunk ,to a
rectangle 15 miles by five miles.
“Von Mannstein is swinging his panzer
battering-ram in a new fierce bid to force a
break-through from the However
this minor success has come at a tune* when
the whole defence system 9f the encircled
Eighth Army is falling to pieces.
“German efforts to break through to re-
lieve the Eighth Army trapped in the Kanev
pocket are getting weaker. ,
“The German relief column is only 15
miles distant, but any success Von Mann-
stein may achieve will be too late for any
but prestige purposes, because a good halt
of the 120,000 Germans have
probably been wiped out.”
There was mention of Russian “guer-
rillas” being inside the trap, but no men-
tion of what became of them. Perhaps
the enemy ate the “guerrillas” when the
horse-and-hound supply gave out.
“The Kanev battle, now at an end, cost
the Germans '83,000 men in a fortnight.
Only between 2000 and 3000 officers got
away in transport ’planes from the encircled
forces, who numbered between 70,000 and
80.000 officers and men. Mass suicide com-
mitted by order of the High Command
[Hitler, in another version] was observed
among German troops in the last few days.
“The last 48 hours saw the bloodiest of
the whole fortnight’s fighting. Fortified with
a triple issue of schnapps, the Germans
tried, under cover of a heavy snowstorm,
to fight their way out. Thousands were
mown down by mortar and machine-gun
fire. In the last 48 hours 8000 were killed.
“The German losses in the Kanev area
are estimated at nearly 100,000, including
20.000 killed in a futile attempt to break
through the ring. Inside the ring, thous-
ands of Germans were killed and captured
while hiding in the woods.”
“Frost-bitten emaciated stragglers are the
only live Germans in the Kanev pocket, now
called the Kanev cemetery. Thousands of.
German dead and masses of equipment he
buried under a carpet of snow. The only
bodies visible are those on roof-tops, where
some Germans tried fanatically to make a
last stand. The body of General Wilhelm
Stemmerman, who died with his men, has
been found in the snow.”
Presently the enemy admitted that
Stemmerman, described as a corps com-
mander, had been done in. But before
admitting it he announced that “the oak
leaves to the Knight’s Cross” had been
(Continued on page S.)
SECOND THOUGHTS—FOR THE SECOND TIME.
“Mr. Forde pleads that the letters ’A.I.F.’ were removed from Diggers’ graves for 'security reasons.’ It is pointed out that
crosses over the graves of A.I.F. men in Lulwyche cemetery, Brisbane, one that of a Digger mortally wounded at Buna, are
marked ‘A.M.F.’”


ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
V
L
..........
m
J
■Bwk
PYROX
THE ONLY
ALL - AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
■
>/ V
W
HP
■
M
%
'M
&
conferred on the deceased for “his break-
through in the fighting west of Cher-
kassy,” and “Berlin Radio repeated
its earlier assertion that the encircled
Germans fought their way out of the
trap.” It was even alleged that General
Invanov or Ivanov had been dismissed
because he had “failed in the Kanev
operation.”
So in the domain of “colorful” report-
ing the enemy has his champions also.
POLITICAL POINTS
Earle Page is back in the Advisory
War Council, this time as a third C.P.
representative—previously he was “co-
opted” by Curtin. Spender remains in
it as an Independent, having been passed
out of the U.A.P., to which he was ad-
mitted after his defeat of Parkhill, once
the Sydney hope of the Federal U.A.P.
side, in 1937. For nearly a year prior
to the Curtins taking office Spender was
Army Minister and War Cabineteer, as
well as member of the Advisory War
Council. So during that period he had
a personal responsibility for the home-
defence plan which Curtin, as P.M., pro-
nounced “defeatist in conception and
preparation.” Neither gentleman referred
to the deadly insult in an exchange of
pompous letters which followed a spoken
communication by Percy that he would
carry on as “an Australian.”
Both Houses at Washington have
passed a tax bill over the President’s veto.
Senator Barkley, from Kentucky, was so
upset at the Roosevelt attitude that he
resigned as “floor leader,” though he was
straightway re-elected. With the Presi-
dential and Congressional elections only
eight months off, the Democrats can’t
afford their frequent family quarrels,
especially as they have been worsted in
State and by-elections.
Archie Cameron had his say about
army administration and changes, men-
tioning in his forthright fashion the
strange cases of Generals Lavarack,
Rowell and Clowes. He allowed that
the Mackay appointment to India was
justified. Curtin, answering him, affected
to believe that he had criticised the Mac-
kay appointment, and plunged into a
passionate defence of Blarney. The P.M.
wasn’t so passionate when tackled by
Cameron on the score of letters ad-
dressed to and posted by the member for
Barker —one to Menzies and another to
Forde —being censored and held up, and
a weak admission that letters to the P.M.
had been opened and delayed drew a
crushing rebuke from Cameron. Other
members, among them Dr. Evatt, said
they had had the same experience, and
the House was so plainly of opinion that
the whole business was a breach of privi-
lege that the Government had to agree
to refer it to a committee. If it does
its job unchecked more startling things
may come out.
All coalmines on the N.S.W. South
Coast, an area to which Communists
have devoted particular attention, have
been idle since February 14, and the pro-
duction-loss is represented at 120,000
tons. The strike was against the three-
lift system (thiee pairs of men to a
pillar) in the Coalcliff pit. Offered a two-
lift, the men refused it. Meantime the
Curtin Government’s Coal Bill was
brought down and the Government
was preparing to give Norman Mighell
full powers as Commissioner. An
Old Digger with the firmness of
the breed, he ordered the strikers
back. They defied him. On Monday
500 of them between 18 and 25 got army
call-up notices.
It transpires that the speech in which
Ward attacked British officers and
colonial administrators and accused
Britain and America of a fell design to
bleed Russia white • (together they had
sent it to the end of last year war
materials and food round £1,500,000,000
in value) was censored for consumption
abroad, with the sanction of his colleague
and defender Calwell. In no wise
abashed, Ward came to light last week
with the speech that Curtin gagged.
Menzies was the chief target. Bob-
listened to the gutter invective with polite
scorn. He had a bigger and more
attentive audience for a review of the
Evatt referendum proposals, of which he
thinks little.
In an extraordinary attack on the Aus-
tralia-Maoriland pact, Keith Murdoch,
of the Melbourne “Herald” group, called
it “at best amateurish and schoolboyish;
at worst an offensiveness towards the
“WHO’LL COME A-WALTZING MATILDA WITH ME?”
“Mr. Spender, expelled from the U.A.P., remains on the Advisory War Council. Mr.
Hughes is considering his position.”
“Sing it again, Percy; I can’t hear you.
Allies, among them Russia and China”-
neither an ally in the strict sense of the
term —“and U.S.A.” The newspaper
knight asserts that “the resentments have
begun and snubs are arriving via the
American press.” The Bulletin, which
reads a lot of American papers, hasn’t
noticed any, except in the Colonel Mc-
Cormick quarter. Murdoch would like
to see the U.S.A. annex New Britain
and New Caledonia. Millions of Ameri-
cans wouldn’t.
Odd how English names crop up in
the distracted affairs of Argentina. Last
year’s military revolt or palace revolu-
tion was headed by a certain Rawson.
This year General Farrell is in the saddle,
and his “Acting” Defence Minister is
General Mason.
Speaking on the referendum, and as
good as telling Dr. Evatt it had no hope
in Tasmania, Dr, Gaha, M.H.R., called
Canberra “the greatest political tragedy
of the twentieth century,” and suggested
it should be abandoned as a Federal capi-
tal for Sydney or Melbourne, and “con-
verted into a great university city for the
training of students and for the arts and
culture.” In short, the doctor hates the
place, though he didn’t say so.
Interesting item from Canberra:
“Exhausted old men would not be the
best to frame programmes of reconstruc-
tion,” the Prime Minister said in a declara-
tion to public servants.
The declaration was made only a few
days after the Government shifted H. A.
Pitt from the chairmanship of the Com-
monwealth War Workers’ Housing Trust
(seven members) to the chairmanship of
the Commonwealth War Housing Trust
(four members). Pitt is an ambitious
youngster of 72.
As was the case on February 15, 1943,
the second anniversary of Australia’s
greatest disaster was little noted, except
by faithful hearts. But on February 23,
1944, for the second time since the first
week of November, flags were flown and
chin-music (some of it Ministerial) was
paid out as a concession to Communists,
presented as a compliment to Russia. Why
Red Army Day (it was Red Army Week
in Sydney) when there has been no A.I.F.
Day, R.A.N. Day or R.A.A.F. Day, nor
any British Army, Royal Navy or R.A.F.
Day, nor, for that matter, a United States
Army or Navy Day? Australia is not
a party to the Anglo-Russian alliance nor
is Russia in the war against Japan.
In a packed Sydney Town,Hall on Red
Army Day, when “extraordinary scenes
of enthusiasm” permitted, the Soviet Min-
ister to Australia “declared that up to
now Russia’s military forces had been
carrying the whole burden of the fight
with the main enemy forces” (“Sr M.
Herald” report). As if aware that this
assertion was about to be served up again,
Churchill, in a speech published on Red
Army Day, stated that since the outbreak
of war (it began 67? days before the out-
break of Russia’s war) Britain had lost
more than 10,000 ’planes and the R.A.F.
“38,300 pilots and air crews killed and
10,400 missing,” the 48,700 being ex-
clusive of “Dominion and Allied squad-
rons working with the R.A.F.” Also
41,000 Royal Navy officers and men, over
30 p.c. of the personnel in September,
1939, and one-fifth of the average number
then engaged in the merchant service had
lost their lives in British ships—many, of
course, in carrying free supplies for the
Russian Army and civil population. And
since the beginning of 1943 7677 officers
and men of the Royal Navy and 4200
officers and men of the Merchant Navy
had gone under. The figures were not
read at the Sydney Town Hall meeting.
The official account of the first and
worst raid on Darwin is still a tale to
be told. On the second anniversary a
Melbourne “Age” man stated that
“the second wave of bombers re-
duced hangars and workshops at the
million-pound R.A.F. ’drome to a
shambles of twisted girders and burnt
and gutted ’planes.” He mentioned
96 bombers. Another version is that
there were 81 bombers and 59 fighters
and that circumstances pointed to
the raiders being the Pearl Harbor lot.
Afterwards k union boss was the theme
of animated discussion, but that surely
can’t be the reason why the blinds are
still drawn, as it were.
What an Australian Agent-General
does in London in war-time is as difficult
to answer as the question of where the
flies go in winter. The principal justifi-
cation for his presence used to be that
he acted as a bagman. Dunstan has seen
fit to appoint Lienhop to succeed Bussau.
Perhaps Lienhop will be asked to report
on the disabilities the British suffer
through having one House of Parliament
instead of seven.
A Churchill statement on the Russo-
Polish boundary rumpus :
I have intense sympathy for the Poles, but
I also have sympathy with the Russian stand-
point Russia has the right of reassurance
against future attacks in the west, and we
are going all the way with her to see she
gets it. I cannot feel that the Russian de-
mand goes beyond what is reasonably just.
Though conditioned by an expressed be-
lief that “the creation and maintenance
of a strong, integral, independent Poland
as one of the leading t Powers in Europe”
is Stalin’s policy, this is sure to have a
bad effect in occupied Europe. It is open
to the interpretation that at Tehran Stalin
got his way on every point. In any case,
it comes up against signed and spoken
declarations of British policy, among
them that of the P.M. himself (Septem-
ber 3, 1940): “We do not propose to
recognise any territorial changes that
take place during the war, unless they
take place with the free consent and
goodwill of the parties concerned.”
A Federal Clothing and Textile Ad-
visory Council has been set up. It could
begin by explaining why people have to
put up with so much shoddy.


TOJO LIKES YOU TO WASTE MATERIALS
Careless use of your Exide Batteries helps the enemy. It wastes vital materials needed by
our Armed Forces who depend upon Exide for over 100 services. Take no chances with
your house-lighting equipment and car and radio batteries. Immediately you suspect the
need for repair, replacement or recharging, consult your Exide dealer. Remember extra
care of your Exide means months of extra service.
*
HOUSE-LIGHTING
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
■ ...
I
|v\
PERSONAL ITEMS
“One of the ablest administrators and
keenest minds in the British Empire” was
how the American Senator Brewster de-
scribed Viscount Knollys, who is visiting
Australia. Viscount Knollys is chairman
of directors of British Overseas Airways,
and the Senator was pointing to him as
an illustration of how Britain was taking
the greatest care possible to ensure itself
a leading place in post-war aviation. “The
former Governor of Bermuda,” the Sena-
tor added, “is now ‘ devoting his great
talents to the future of Britain in com-
mercial aviation around the world.” In
addition to the qualifications mentioned
by Senator Brewster, Viscount Knollys
has that of practical air experience ; join-
ing the R.F.C. in the last war, after ser-
vice with the 16th London Regiment, he
won the D.F.C.
When Professor Bernard Heinze laid
down his baton at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, after conducting seven Beethoven
concerts and one free Sunday encore, the
Ormond Professor of Music concluded
one of the most remarkable feats of
memory, let alone inspiration, in local
musical history. The 21 items in the
programmes included some of the longest
and most complex compositions in old
Ludwig’s canon, and all were conducted
without scores.
One interesting war story waiting to
be told is that of the appointment, career
and end of poet Kenneth Slessor as
Australia’s No. 1 war correspondent.
Appointed in 1940, he had a wonderful
opportunity provided for him by the
A.I.F. in the Middle East, and beyond all
doubt the man can write ; but so little
from him appeared in Australian papers
that Australians wondered if there was
an official correspondent or what was
wrong. In a row which also would
make interesting reading if all of it were
let out, Slessor has resigned. In the last
war C. E. W. Bean, going away as a
correspondent, became Australia’s official
historian, and in both capacities did a
great job. The historian part for this
war has been made a certainty by the
appointment of “S. M. Herald” war cor-
respondent Gavin Long to do it.
When he succeeds Louis Bussau as
Victorian Agent-General in London in
November, J. H. Lienhop, M.L.C., will
give up almost as many jobs as Pooh-
Bah. He is Minister of Public Works,
Assistant Minister of Decentralisation,
chairman of the State Developmental
Committee, chairman of the Industries
Location Committee and Government
Leader in the Plush House. In addition
he’s a member of the University Council,
is on the State Wool Committee, is presi-
dent of the Bendigo Jockey Club and a
leading member of the V.R.C., V.A.T.C.
and Moonee Valley clubs. As well, he’s
a pastoralist in a big way who raises fat
lambs for export. Born at Bendigo, he
has travelled far since then, having made
many trips to America and Europe.
“WX Digger”: Remarkable was the career
of Lieutenant-Colonel D. G. M. Matheson,
killed while serving as an A.I.F. officer with
the U.S. Army. -Born in Maoriland in 1904,
he enlisted at 13 in the N.Z.E.F. Twice
sent home from the army, he stowed away
on a troopship as far as- Sydney, but was
discovered and returned to M.L. The fourth
time he remained hidden till past Albany.
When the C.O. threatened to send him back
from the next port young George replied “If
you do, sir. I’ll do it again.” The upshot was
that he joined the N.Z. Tunnellers. While
working in a sap on the Western Front he was
captured by the Germans and spent a fortnight
working in their front line until rescued by
the Canadian Scottish, some of his fellow-
prisoners succumbed to the conditions, but
Matheson lived to help the Scotties bayonet his
erstwhile captors. The Armistice found him
with a commission and the M.C. and M.M.
He took his discharge in London and went to
sea, but came ashore on goldmines in N.Z,. New
Guinea and Queensland. He went to Westralia
in 1934, and in 1936 became an inspector of mines
on the Murchison. In 1939 he went to Eng-
land and West Africa, returning to W.A. in the
same year to become underground superintendent
for Wiluna Gold Mines. One day he was de-
scending a winze with the general manager,
H. H. Carroll, who slipped but caught a foot
in a rung of the ladder. Carroll, who weighed
15 stone, had seriously injured himself and whs
unconscious, but Matheson lifted him clear and
with one arm carried him down 100 ft. to the
bottom of the winze. As soon as he could
leave the mine Matheson enlisted in the Second
A.1.F., forsaking £l5OO a year for a private’s
pay. Within 18 months he was a lieutenant-
colonel. When the Japs entered the war he
was in command of Australian commandos,
and when the Americans arrived he joined
them at their request. On Guadalcanal he
went into the jungle alone, observed the enemy
positions and noted landmarks and bearings.
Then this extraordinary man, who had learnt
to fly in civil life, led a bombing attack on
the Japs, flying the leading bomber himself.
For his work in the Solomons President Roose-
velt awarded him the D.S.C. Brigadier-General
Sebree said of him: “No man on this island
contributed more to our victory than Matheson.
No man has done more to give us high regard
for the Australian man.”
In the A.I.F. the phiz here depicted is
identified by a regimental number and
the rank of sergeant of artillery. Radio,
PETER FINCH.
stage and picture fans, learning that it
belongs to Peter Finch, will identify it as
anything from a smart detective in an
A. serial to Captain Scott, of
Douglas Stewart’s verse play “The
Fire on the Snow.” London-born, Peter
Finch saw more of Paris than of his
native village, and came to Australia
when 14. His first public appearance was
in vaudeville at the Maccabean Hall in
Sydney’s Darlinghurst about 14 years ago,
since when he’s played a multitude of
parts, on country tours with the George
Sorley tent shows, with J.C.W. and Ernest
Rolls, with commercial and national
radio and in pictures. Just now he’s on
loan from the army to Charles Chauvel
for tho making of “Rats of Tobruk,” in
which Finch is a young English writer
who comes to Australia, joins a cattle-
droving outfit which has Chips Rafferty
and Grant Taylor (of “Forty Thousand
Horsemen”) as units, enlists with them
and dies at Tobruk. Finch never actually
got to Tobruk, but was as close as Mersa
Matruh. People who believe in the
parody of Diggers as undisciplined roi-
sterers would be astonished, says Finch,
at the average Digger’s quietness, self-
respect, knowledge and mental balance.
Elected president of the Methodist
Conference of Victoria and Tasmania,
Rev. Robert Williams has served in a
lot of circuits in both States. Born in
Shropshire (Eng.), one of a family of ten
to come to Australia, he got his religious
education at Queen’s College, Melbourne.
He is a prize-winning horticulturist as
as a. trenchant preacher,
Keith Ward, who at 65 retires, in poor
health, as Government Geologist of
S.A., is known all over Australia. A
son of F. W. Ward, of Sydney “Tele-
graph,” he was schooled in Brisbane, but
moved with an exhibition to Sydney Uni.
for his B.A. and B.E. Then with the
B. Co.; lecturer at Kalgoorlie
School of Mines; Inspector of Mines in
Tasmania ; and for the past 33 years in
S.A., where he has acquired a title, a
D.Sc. degree, the 1.5.0. and a Clarke
Memorial medal from N.S.W. Ward has
been president of nearly everything in
sight in his own line, and has done
special work on such important matters
as water-supply for the N.T. stock routes
and the Commonwealth Railways and
the Leigh Creek coalfield.
Flying-Officer Clarrie Herbert, D.F.C.,
of Fremantle, is the first Westralian to
return home after serving under Group-
Captain Hugh Idwal Edwards, V.C.,
D. 5.0., D.F.C., also of Fremantle. Before
going aloft Herbert set a motor-paced
cycling record in W.A. Joining the
R.A.A.F., he gained his “wings” in N. S.
Wales, and in England flew Blenheims at
the start before going to Malta. Back in
England he was posted to a Mosquito
bombing squadron at a station com-
manded by Edwards, V.C. Herbert went
on to complete 42 operational flights,
winning the D.F.C. when sent on a mis-
sion to bust up the railway line between
Berlin and Hanover. He is very fond of
the Mosquito, and has also experienced
how helpful Pathfinders can be in illu-
minating targets. Formerly a clerk in
the Agricultural Department, Perth, he’s
,11.
Taking over from jLieut.-Col. F. Waite
as commissioner for the N.Z. National
Patriotic Fund in the Middle East, Brig.
A. S. Falconer is an old campaigner with
a distinguished record dating from the
Gallipoli Landing. He returned as major
and wearing the D.S.C. and M.C. In
1939 he was off again as commander of
the 23rd Battalion, and served with it in
Greece. In the September elections he
had a shot at Dunedin as a National
party candidate, losing to naval reservist
Commodore P. G. Connolly (Lab.).
Prescott Childs, appointed U.S. Consul
and First Secretary to the Legation at
Wellington (M.L.) in succession to Ray-
mond E. Cox, who is returning to
Washington, entered Uncle Sam’s foreign
service in 1924 and had two years, 1924-
1926, in Berlin. The new Consul has
also done Uncle Sam’s diplomatic chores
at Lisbon, Canton, Nice, Montevideo
and, most recently, Rio de Janeiro.
Retiring after 45 years with the E., S.
and A. Bank, W. V A. A. Cawdell, manager
of the S.A. branch, with service in
N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland. Caw-
dell’s successor in Adelaide will be H. R.
Gledhill, of the bank’s Melbourne office,
formerly branch inspector in N.S.W.
One of a family of S.A. Methodists
who are good at sports, Hugh Thomas
Moffitt Angwin is the man behind the
construction of a big war-time engineer-
ing job, for which and other services he
got a C.M.G. at the New Year, Father
and grandfather both Methodist minis-
ters, H.T.M. played senior football and
cricket for West Torrens; his brother,
W. B. Angwin, who died last year, was a
champion sprinter and inter-State foot-
baller, and a daughter lately won the
H. T. M. ANGWIN.
State tennis championship for her (school)
age. Angas Engineering Scholar in 1912,
H.T.M. was a sergeant in the Ist Field
Engineers in 1914-18. He keeps up the
family church interest as councillor at
the Methodist Ladies’ College.
George W. Garcia, Aspro chairman and
managing director, who died in London
last June, left £216,000. Garcia/ started
out delivering bread and hot cross buns
for his mother, who had a small pastry-
cook’s shop in Malvern (Vic.). Before
that his mother was the postmistress at
what was known at that time as the
Malvern Village post office.
From John Brennan:
Seven from Australia have taken over almost
completely the running of the Red Cross Ware-
houses in New Caledonia. They live together
in The Mission, an old French convent building
and girls’ school outside Noumea.
“Mitch,” Cecil D. Mitchell, of Burwood,
Sydney, was born in Edinburgh in 1914, but
suggest he isn’t Australian and you buy a fight
not only with “Mitch” but with the other six.
Arrived at the age of five, he had his schooling
at Sydney Tech., worked as motor mechanic and
traveller and rode a motor-bike in Bathurst
races, till the A.I.F. took him in November,
1939. With the Sixth Div. he saw the whole
of the Libyan campaign, up through Bardia and
Tobruk. He was a dispatch rider in Greece and
Crete, and in Syria attached to the 13th British
Army Corps. In Greece he was mentioned in
dispatches for taking messages around the out-
skirts of Larissa while the Germans held the
town, and in Syria he suffered shrapnel wounds.
The army finished with him, he tried the Ameri-
can Red Cross as a means of getting back into
things.
Twice as old as “Mitch,” Cecil Derwent
Wardle —“Sid, the Mad Prospector”—was born
in Newcastle in 1884, saw service
in both A.I.Fs. and came back from this war
on the same hospital ship as “Mitch.” Wardle
was managing Rendova plantation in the New
Georgia Group in 1920. Previously, and after-
wards, he was a mining assayer, which took him
from Mt. Lyell in Tasmania up through Broken
Hill and Oodnadatta to Mt. Morgan. From
Port Kembla he set out on a boat for the
Chilean nitrate fields, landed a job goldmin-
ing in Colombia, tossed it in when the first
war broke out and wandered back to
Australia by way of England fo join up with
an A.I.F. mining battalion; it took him
to, of all places, West Africa, securing man-
ganese dioxide for British munitions. That war
over, he wandered through Malaya and Borneo
—always looking for something big —up info
China, to New Guinea and back to China,
where the Japs interned him for six weeks in
1938. When this war began he was back in
Australia, and went overseas again with the
Boring Section of the Sixth Div. Engineers.
Tom Weir, Glasgow-born in 1898, earned his
birthright as Australian in France in 1916.
He got info the Second A.1.F., too, “but only
for a day. They let me in in the morning,
caught up with my age in the afternoon, and
I was out again.” His only son, also Tom,
has taken- over for him.
Fred Stringer, born in Grenfell (N.S.W.) in
’97, was the first Australian taken on by the
American Red Cross. He’d been working with
Bon Marche till he saw this chance of getting
into things.
Bob Paterson took the same opportunity.
Balmain-born in 1907, he was a Farmers’
salesman and military traveller. That job took
him to all army camps in N.S.W., but the A.I.F.
wouldn’t have him on the inside. “It was
pretty bloody. I heard the Red Cross was
sending fellows away, so here I came.” He’s
had eight months of it now, and he’s looking
for more.
A. H. (“Hard”) Gilchrist has the same story
—“I couldn’t get a military job with our forces,
so I came out here.” Some people might
think he shouldn’t have been trying at his age;
he was born in Melbourne in 1888. The last
25 years he’d been in Wagga, where he founded
the Legacy Club in 1932, and had a term as
its president.
Latest-comer of the batch, Harry Russell,
had his time with the A.I.F. as a driver on the
Alice Springs-Darwin route. His discharge sent
him looking for the Red Cross also. He'd had
itchy feet before. Born near Young (N.S.W.),
in 1907 he went to Sydney as a youngster,
worked there for a time, then went droving up
through Queensland into the Gulf country.
All seven of them have the look in their eyes
as if they’re trying to see across the other side
of the range.
Into the silence:
At Johannesburg, at 69, Capt. Herbert
George Fitzherbert, M.C., grandson of an old-
time Speaker of Maoriland’s Leg. Council.
Joining the Devonshire Yeomanry in 1914 as
a private, he won his commission and decora-
tion in the artillery. Settling in Jo’burg in
1933, he became a well-known exhibitor in the
S’African Academy of Art. Before he left M.L.
in 1904 he and cartoonist Hiscdcks produced
a book of caricatures with the title Saints and
Sinners.
At 65, in New York, Dr. P. G. Clapp, geolo-
gist and petroleum expert, who led the Com-
monwealth’s official quest for oil in 1923.
Now accepted officially that Ken Ridings,
reported missing over the Atlantic last May,
must be presumed as dead. Though only 21,
he had played 30 innings for S.A., with two
centuries, both against Queensland, and an
average of 33, and was thought by good judges
to be in line for an opening bat for Australia.
Three brothers are serving in the war.
Adelaide has news of the death in London of
the wife of H. M. Orr, formerly of S.A. and
then manager in England of Elder Smith. Both
husband and wife have been well known in
Australia, and their hospitality to Australians
visiting England is famous.
At 67, Michael John McLean, sacristan for
over 40 years at St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney,
and lay master of ceremonies at dozens of big
ecclesiastical functions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pip”: Although the pin-up girl craze
is as old as photography itself, our Allies
have given it a new fillip. Their photo-
graphers have the knack of placing the
camera so that it accentuates all feminine
charms. There is scarcely a tent in the
place around here without four or five
Hollywood lovelies smiling down from
the canvas. Luscious Grables, generous
Fayes and slinky Sheridans ooze
“oomph.” Lemarrs smile in quiet under-
standing, like Mona Lisa; Hayworths
flicker provocative eyelashes; Dietrichs
display comely legs in sequined black
stockings. Beauties married to their fifth
husband pose in virginal lace with the
shrinking modesty of a debutante. A new
pin-up is inspected by everybody with
the gravity of an art critic examining an
Archibald Prize winner. A low whistle
signifies approval. “We’ve had her” im-
plies disapproval. Trading in pin-ups is
common, and at the moment two Ver-
“Nice model—who helped you with the rigging ?”
onica Lakes will fetch one Smith
in ballerina costume. The pin-ups even
become poker stakes in the lean times
just before payday, and it may cost an
Ann Miller to look or a Paulette God-
dard to raise. “Broncho,” with the wis-
dom of two wars behind him, seeks a
different outlet. His tent is plastered with
every advertisement for beer from Tas-
mania to Labrador,
* * * 49 %
“Melbn”: The house at Lewis-street,
Brighton (Vic.), where Adam Lindsay
Gordon spent his last days is likely to be
pulled down shortly, to be replaced, no
doubt, by a modern villa. The Historical
Society, which doesn’t say why, thinks it
not worth preserving. One reason may
be that the poet only rented rooms there
with his wife for one year before he
walked out of the house for the last time
with a shotgun on June 24, 1870. An-
other may be that two of Gordon’s homes
have been preserved already—his first
Australian domicile at Dingley Dell,
Mount Gambier, and the old livery
stables behind Craig’s Hotel at Ballarat,
where he conducted a business. All the
same, the Brighton place should be pre-
served. The house, built in the early
days, is of a sort now rare, and Mel-
bourne is short of such memorials,
though it has plenty of official statues.
The one in Spring-street, depicting the
poet sitting stiffly on a chair with his
saddle and bridle underneath it, could
be much more easily spared than that
simple, unpretentious cottage.
* * * *
“Tuart”: December 17, 1943, was
noted in America as the fortieth anniver-
sary of the day on which Orville Wright
became the “first man to fly on power-
driven wings.” He “skittered 120 ft. in
12 seconds over the sand dunes at Kitty-
hawk, N.C.” (hence the Kittyhawk ’plane,
sight of which gladdened Australian eyes
in those grim days when the Japs seemed
to be carrying all before them), “in
a flimsy contraption of wood and
cloth and wire, with a little home-
made engine.” That same day his
brother Wilbur “covered nearly a sixth
of a mile in just under a minute.” Wilbur
died nearly 32 years ago at 45, Orville,
“a shy, publicity-shunning philosopher of
72,” now lives in retirement at Dayton,
Ohio. The pioneer machine was put to-
gether by the brothers in their bicycle-
repair shop. Their father was a bishop
of the United Brethren in Christ.
* * * #
“Clooter”: We’ve got a multiple-
staffed and costly Department of Infor-
mation, yet a Sydney “D.T.” man in Lon-
don indignantly reports that “not one
Australian soldier or R.A.A.F. man
appears in a London exhibition of Pacific
war pictures.” Asked about it, an official
of the British Ministry of Information,
which is running the exhibition, re-
plied :
Well, the fact is we try to get pictures
from Australia. But in quantity, quality
and topicality they do not begin to compare
with those supplied by the American Office
of War Information.
To which I reply, in the language of our
trans-Pacific cousins, “Nerts.” Every
week, in the “North Queensland Regis-
ter,” are pictures by Australian camera-
men of Australian doings in New Guinea
that would hold their own anywhere. As
for Frank Hurley and Damien Parer —
but I was forgetting; the Department
of Information lost Parer because it
expected him to carry on at a wage that
a wharfie in good standing would scorn.
* * * *
“Bo”: Time was when, wishing to buy
an alarm clock you simply walked into
a store, picked the cheapest or the pret-
tiest or the one with the loudest clang
and softest tick, paid the price and walked
off with it, a matter of perhaps three
minutes—five if you were fussy. How
different now! First, a spot of form-
filling—and what a form! It doesn’t
exactly ask if your grandparents were
anti-vivisectionists or were subject to
dizzy spells, but little else concerning the
applicant has been omitted from the
catechism. I particularly liked the ques-
tion “What is time of starting at your
employment, and why is an alarm clock
necessary?” My answer that “I am an
undertaker’s collector and I start work
when I feel inclined ; I require an alarm
clock to tell me whether it is going to
“ What if the neighbors do call you Barnacle Bill! They're only jealous."
rain or stay fine” threw the jeweller to
whom I presented the form into a pro-
longed reverie. He seemed puzzled and
perturbed. Another question was “Is
there already an alarm clock in your place
of residence? Have you access to it; if
not, why?” I patiently set out the facts
in my case. There is another alarm clock
in our residential, owned by Miss
Whacker, an elderly schoolteacher, who
keeps it under her* pillow, and that is
why and why not. I haven’t got my
clock. I believe my application is being
analysed somewhere by an assistant ad-
viser to an under-secretary’s chief clerk,
who will turn it down, the cow! But I’ll
not be beat. I’ll keep fowls, and the
sound of a hen pecking wheat off a tin
plate beside the bed will apprise me of
the coining of day.
* * * *
“Taniwha”; I was born in Maoriland
over 60 years ago, and ever since I can
remember the country has been afflicted.
not by an inferiority complex, but
by a complacent acceptance of the
idea that the land and the people
are very small potatoes and but few
in the hill. Seddon, who hated that
attitude, did his best to dispel it
with his “God’s Own Country” line
of propaganda, and he was abetted
by such evangels from outside as
Thomas Mcßride, of Christchurch,
a rich American who travelled the
world in search of the ideal land to
live in and after wavering between
his own California and M.L. chose
the Dominion as having a freer
atmosphere. Rutherford’s achieve-
ments in physics, “Katherine Mans-
field’s” in the world of letters and
David Low’s success with cartoons
may have helped to put the com-
munity’s tail up; likewise Colonel
Jimmy Roosevelt’s remark about
“the finest soldiers in the world,”
but whatever the cause there has
lately been a new and more a'ggres-
sive spirit in Fernland. This is
exemplified by publication in the
newspapers of a letter from the
Registrar of the Royal College of
Music (London), Hugo Anson (him-
self a Maorilander), who says that
among the college’s present crop
of students are three from the
Dominion who look like being
front-rankers Denis Dowling,
baritone; Colin Horsley, pianist; and
Alan Loveday, violinist. It may be the
time will come when being a Maorilander
will be something to be proud of, not to
be lived down.
* * * *
“Visitor”; Adelaide’s second park-
lands murder of a soldier from N. S,
Wales has been again set down by
the coroner as perpetrated “by a person
unknown.” Both victims were men of
good character, and nothing was known
about the first case except that the lad was
seen asleep under a palm-tree on a hot
evening soon after leaving the train and
was afterwards found dead, terribly bat-
tered. The latest victim lived long enough
to tell how a stranger rode up on a
bicycle, asked for a match and then un-
accountably shot him. The police attri-
bute the first case to a homicidal lunatic;
is second is just a mystery,
* * * *
“Hist”: A fair proportion of the silver
coinage now in circulation in Australia
bears a very small “D” or “S” over tire
date on the obverse. This is the imported
article. Allied service men in Australia
are paid in our currency, and to meet the
abnormal demand (and for economic
reasons) dies for the manufacture of
Australian coins have been sent to U.S.A.
“D” indicates manufacture at the Denver
Mint; “S” at San Francisco.
* * * *
“Lao-dah’s” study of a dead lady:
There is an interesting story yet to be un-
folded in the drama of the domestic life ot
Mahatma Gandhi, whose wife has died at 74
in Calcutta. Most unusual men who have
led the solitary life of the social, political or
artistic revolutionary have had female helpers,
their wives in some cases, other men’s wives
in other cases, in the case of Gandhi young
European intellectuals. One of them, strange to
relate, was an English admiral’s daughter who,
clad in the Indian sari, sat at the feet of the
loin-clothed ascetic and wove the fabric for his
scanty clothing. Mrs. Gandhi stayed outside all
this. She remained the orthodox, self -abasing
Indian housewife, married in childhood and
doomed to suffer the disgrace of widowhood ii
she had the bad luck to survive her husband.
Gandhi lamented the fact, and in his auto-
biography denounced child marriage as a blot
on India, like many other Hindu customs.
Later on in life he also lamented with great
frankness having lived the ordinary life of the
orthodox Hindu husband and neglected his
wife’s education until she was too old to change
her beliefs. This conflict between the old and
the new makes the life of Gandhi much more
interesting reading than the political wrangling
around him. One instance is the announcement
that penicillin was flown to Calcutta in an
attempt to save the life of the wife of the man
who rejected Western science and modern civili-
sation and wanted to get back to the primitive
economy of the Indian village.
VOICES FROM THE DEAD.
A. fascinating subject, just restarted
By Ernest Fisk, is that which centres on
Communication with the dear departed,
Verbal exchanges with the dead-and-gone.
He sees a spirit world as the successor
To this we leave, soon as the mortal coil
Is shuffled off —the same as did Professor
Lodge and Sir Ccnan Doyle.
No one returns the puzzle to unravel
(As Omar pointed out so cogently)
About the road that we ourselves must travel
To some dim bourne —if any such there be.
And yet you can’t be positively certain,
Though theologians scout it as absurd,
Some ghost can’t send us from behind the cur-
tain
Now and again a word.
Myself, when young, though far from being a
scoffer
Or hardened sceptic touching things like these,
Have heard such messages as mediums offer
From certain vanished personalities,
And found that all I learned from the trans-
mittal
Of spirit voices, answering a call
From those on earth, of singularly little
Value — 05, none at all.
Still, humankind continuously nurses
A hope there may exist beyond the skies
Material for settling controversies
That never will be settled otherwise.
Who doesn’t wish there were a necromancer
To summon Shakspeare from some airy zone
And ask him questions nobody can answer
Excepting him alone?
And I’d anticipate some stirring moments
Could Archibald upon the air be heard
Unloading some unexpurgated comments
On how his will is being administered.
His views, I’ll venture, would be worth convey-
ing.
Expressed with all his old-time punch and
pith,
On Mr. William Dobell’s portraying
Of Mr. Joshua Smith.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE SIX HUNDRED.
“The Victorian Man-power authorities have ordered
between 500 and 600 bookmakers and their clerks to
call at their local National Services offices.”
“Forward, ’he Ike Brigade!”
Official voices said.
And while they all obeyed
And bags aside were laid
Some doubtless wondered
■ Whether they’d ever roar
“I’ll lay the field” once more.
Into the spacious bin
Where chaps are gathered in
To take their medicine
When there’s a war to win,
Went the six hundred.
“Forward, the Ike Brigade!”
. Was there a man dismayed
’Mong those who erst had made
Skinning the lamb their trade,
And in glad rags arrayed
Had fought where odds are brayed
And yelled and thundered?
Not one, it’s safe to bet.
Into the wide-flung net',
To do that war-time bit
For which they seemed most fit,
Books and their “after darks,”
Old birds and brisk young sparks,
Went the six hundred.
“Forward, the Ike Brigade!”
None might the call evade,
Though many knew full well
From jobs more likeable
They’d soon be sundered. ,
O’er each and every one
The martial rule was run.
Then they came back, I wof,
A somewhat shrunken lot,
Emphatically not,
Not the six hundred.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Adam”: Waiting for the lift at the
entrance to a city service women’s club
I had time to scan the floor directory.
It ran thus;
THIRD FLOOR.
WRITING ROOM (ONE GUEST
MAY BE SPONSORED).
FOURTH FLOOR.
DINING ROOM (ONE GUEST
MAY BE SPONSORED).
FIFTH FLOOR.
DORMITORIES (FOR SERVICE
WOMEN ONLY).
Our Service Girls look very nice and
competent, and they have uncommonly
firm and capable leaders.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Writing lately about Answers
to Correspondents given by The Bulle-
tin I forgot this one, which has always
been among the favorites: “Bill: You
and your argumentative friend at the pub
had better fight it out. Judging by your
letter you have a Dirty Right.”
* * * »
“Curtain Raiser”; Bernard Heinze's
ruthless but sensible treatment of late-
comers at the Beethoven Festival in Mel-
bourne would have commended itself to
Beecham, who never indulged the species.
Nor was S’Thomas particularly indulgent
to his musicians, though they adored him.
At a Melbourne symphony performance
the drummer fainted, and his drumsticks,
falling from his nerveless hands, rolled
down the steps of the platform behind
.him, making a dreadful clatter. Beecham
continued conducting without missing
half a beat, but the glance he threw at
the back of the unfortunate drumstick-
wielder as he tottered off was a blaze
that should have withered all the pot-
plants on the platforni.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: Like “Frosty” (B. 2/2/’44)
I was a patron of Pollock’s Toyland
Theatres. Over 40 years ago I bought
from S. J. Kirby, 440 George-street,
.Sydney, the last of his Pollock stock.
Each play was furnished with a book
containing stage directions ; among them
I recall “Rob Roy,” “Oliver Twist,”
“The Corsican Brothers,” “The Flying
Dutchman” and “The Miller and His
Men.” The plates for many of the char-
acters were drawn by artists such as
Flaxman, the two Cruickshanks, Finden
and Blake, and many of the char-
acters portraits of actors and
actresses of the time. The St. George
in “St. George and the Dragon” was the
famous Ducrow, of Astley’s Amphi-
theatre, and T. P. Cooke, Edmund Kean,
Charles Kean and Macready werfe drawn
from life in the theatre, not posing in
the studio. Adah Menken, who capti-
vated Dickens and Swinburne and fell
for John C. Heenan, the prize-fighter, is
the scantily-clad Mazeppa—-a role in
which she shocked some of London’s
playgoers.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: English surgeon Professor
Harold Burrows is right when he says
the more severely a man is wounded the
less immediate pain he feels. In the
1914-18 war I suffered more agony when I
got a slight leg wound than I did when
I stopped one in the intestines, liver and
chest. Apart from the shock of impact
I felt little or no pain from the wound
that ended my soldiering, and was able
to get back under my own power, though
breathing was a problem. Of course
there were months to come of dressings,
tubes, plugs and all the rest of the
ordeal that the badly-wounded man
has to go through, but for the comfort
of the relatives of wounded of this war
I can honestly say the four years I spent
in hospital in France, England and Aus-
tralia were as happy as any in my half-
century of life.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: A Victorian country
P.M. was trying a man for being drunk
and disorderly and the offender was
pleading justification. “I had been drink-
ing plink, y’r Worship,” he said. “You
mean plonk,” corrected the P.M. “No,
I don’t, y’r Worship; I mean plink.”
“I’ve heard of plonk —what’s plink?”
asked the Beak. “It’s bad plonk,” ex-
plained the old offender.
*** » *
“E.D.” is disillusioned;
After all that has been published, chiefly in
“Time” and other “news-reviews,” as they call
’em, about the terrible ordeal of Leningrad —
2.000. people were supposed to have perished
of famine or famine-caused disease, another
2.000. to have been evacuated across Lake
Ladoga ice and the remnant reduced to pulling
up the wood-blocks of the streets to provide fuel
—a statement by the President of the Leningrad
Soviet to Edward Angly, an American correspon-
dent who was in Australia not long ago, came as
an anthclimax. Denying the yarn about the
2.000. deaths Mr. Popov said that average
deaths per day from shellfire amounted to six
—about 5000 for the 880 days of the siege, of
whom 1100 were killed in a single factory by
500 shells and 150 in a tram block. Many an
English city suffered greater proportional loss
in the blitz. Mr. Popov said also that the city
did not lack water or electricity, the trams
continued to run, and Leningrad remains one
of the wofld’s most beautiful cities. Pictures of
Leningrad “today” published in the “Moscow
News” and other journals on Oct. 7 show the
buildings in the heart of the city round the old
Admiralty and English quarter untouched so
far as the eye can see, with church cupolas and
chimneys intact and all the trees, long ago sup-
posed to have been burnt up, in full leaf.
* * *
“Lord Luvus”: A society has been
formed in Melbourne to bring before the
public the virtues of Australian food and
wine. One of its customs is to hold
a dinner every now and then at which
bottles are handed round wrapped in
brown paper. Members are invited to go
through the ritual of smelling, tasting,
throwing the liquid round the palate and,
after long consideration, passing judg-
ment. Then the wrapping is removed
and the expert either confirmed or con-
On a recent evening a bottle
was passed round in this way and
generally declared to be a port of excel-
lent bouquet, flavor and color. Then its
skirt was taken off. It turned out to have
come from the vintage of some not-very-
well-known vigneron, and written across
the label in pencil was; “Returned by
Senator !” And the Senator is
supposed to be an infallible judge.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A Forests Commission officer,
surveying the sweep of the recent bush-
fires from the Strzelecki Ranges, got a
bird’s-eye view of the enormous job the
diminished ranks of the fire-fighters had
to tackle. Hounded by a 60-m.p.h. gale
a wall of flame swept to the top of the
range and showered torrents of sparks
on to the coastal plain, starting fresh fires
at a distance of ten miles. Most of the
"We’ve got orders to hang on at all costs.”
new blazes were mastered, but three
joined forces and tore off towards Tra-
ralgon.
* * * *
“S.T.S ”: Thanks to “Ologist” (B.
26 1 1 1 ’44) for a few more authorities sup-
porting the view I pressed, that “ideal”
is really three syllables, with the stress on
the “e.” But to say that “there is no pos-
sible doubt whatever” seems going a bit
too far. When poets like Dora Wilcox
and Auden agree in making it sound like
“idyll” ope has to think hard ; and even
since “Ologist” wrote I have heard (and
seen) on a newsreel an eminent member
of the Federal Cabinet pronounce if that
way. As for the “authorities,” all they
can say is what has been done by the best
people. They can only record —not dic-
tate. In another 30 years they will (one
fears) have to admit the two-syllable pro-
nunciation as optional.
“Avoca”: Isn’t it time for the daily
' newspapers to decide whether it is “bale
out” or “bail out”? It appears indiscrimi-
nately both ways in almost every issue of
the dailies, sometimes even in the same
.news item or commentary. In a book
reviewed on the Red Page, Winged Words,
a selection of broadcast talks by RAF.
airmen and others, the b-a-l-e spelling
was adhered to, and Everyman’s English
Dictionary, the most recently published
work in the lexicon line to reach Aus-
tralia, lists only “bale out” with the aero-
nautical definition. I think myself that
“bail out” is the more logical form (as
somewhat analogous to the act of empty-
ing water from a boat), but maybe “bale
out” is preferred by airmen to distinguish
it from the “bail out” used in connection
with a certain legal process. Some air-
men suggest that the parachute, in its
wrapped form, resembles a bale.
* * * *
“Visitor”; Adelaide City Council is
having a warm argument about the
Queen Victoria statue, in the middle of
the roadway in Victoria-square in the
centre of the city. It was presented by
knight Edwin Smith 50 years back, being
the first of the many statues the city now
has. King William-street is two chains
wide, but a “menace to traffic” is alleged,
and a strong claim for removal is being
made,
* * * *
“F.S.”: I see that after a long contro-
versy the question of the disposal of the
Wirth’s Park site at the gateway of Mel-
bourne has been settled, and that it is
not to house a foundry but will be de-
voted to cultural purposes of a nature to
be decided by a committee. Keith Mur-
doch, of the “Herald,” and some of his
fellow-trustees envisage the proposal as
part of their £2,000,000 five-year plan
fcff developing the National Gallery,
Library and Museum on a site where
they can be brought into association with
music, drama and the ballet “in a noble
building that would harmonise with any
town-pianning programme.” Nonsense!
The Museum ought to be removed to the
University, where good old Phar Lap
wouldn’t feel so out of place as he must
in Latrobe-street. The Library should
be allowed to stay in its present handy
position. As to the idea of putting the
Gallery in Wirth’s Park, the association
with a circus has something to com-
mend it.
* * * *
“Hayband”: “No good to Gundy” is of
abo. coinage. Gundy, a powerful abo-
rigine, arrested for murder, was being
taken to Deniliquin Jail-handcuffed, of
course. Offered refreshment by facetious
travellers, which his bound condition pre-
vented him from accepting, he shook his
head. “No good to Gundy,” he said with
a grin.
* * * *
“Avon”: News that a chamois has
been shot in the Southern Alps takes
memory back to an era when Maoriland
was running a sort of entente with
Austria. The Austrian Tyrolese have
always taken a brotherly interest in the
snow-clad mountains of the Dominion—
the name Franz Josef (attached to a
glacier) is a memento of that interest —
and in 1904 the old monarch with the
muttonchop ziffs sent one of his scientific
brass-hats, Admiral von Rutter, to Fern-
land to have a squiz at the flora and
fauna. The hospitable staff of Canter-
bury Museum rallied round and sent the
Admiral home laden to the taffrail with
tree-ferns, moa-bones, kiwis, kakas, keas
and katipos. That called for a truly
imperial gesture in return, and Franz
Josef produced it—a flock of the finest
chamois. These were released to inhabit
their new alpine home in 1907. They
throve and multiplied, and in due course
ate most of the sub-alpine vegetation in
the South Island. To check that develop-
ment some thousands of them were
slaughtered just before the present war,
and they are now scattered so sparsely
that to see and shoot one is an event.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: A demonstration of the
process of erecting pre-fabricated houses
at Newport, near Melbourne, is a re-
minder that an Australian pioneer of pre-
fabrication was a Victorian farmer, T. VV.
Fowler, of Werribee. Long before the
present housing crisis he experimented
with the idea of making walls of concrete
ih moulds and putting them together on
the spot, and a dwelling of his fashioning
still stands at Werribee. In the town-
planners’ demonstration a Railways De-
partment crane was requisitioned.
* * * *
“Gunner”: Richard Three wasn’t the
only king to get an unfair deal from
historians (B, 12/1/’44). Prof. Ernest
Scott, of Melbourne Uni., used to go off
pop about the chroniclers who gave King
John his bad reputation. According to
Scott, John, like Richard, was no slouch
as a general, although, tripped up by
traitors each side of the Channel, he lost
Normandy. Like Richard, he granted
many Charters of Liberty to towns, re-
lieving traders from feudal dues extorted
by bloodsucking barons. John’s fate was
sealed by the succession to the see of
Canterbury of his arch-enemy Stephen
Langdon. Temporarily overborne by an
alliance of bishops and barons, John sub-
mitted to the indignity of Magna Charta,
which had much to say of the privileges
of the “haves” but little of the rights of
the “have-nots.” Soldiering on, with in-
vading French among his foes, John
could still count on the loyalty of such
sturdy patriots as the smith who refused
to clap irons on Hubert de Burgh.
* * * *
“Pip”: I note with pleasure in my
remote camp that a Sydney daily which
has reported hundreds of military wed-
dings has struck a new line. It announces
the engagement of Miss Someone to Mr.
Somebody, “essential war worker.”
* * * *
“Macra”: Army slang is ephemeral,
and much of it has a restricted local ap-
plication. Besides expressions which have
common usage throughout the army, such
as “the doover,” “jungle juice,” “grass-
happy” and “pull your skull in,” there
is a variety of phrases of common usage
within units that must be unintelligible to
the outsider. When one of oar chaps
asked a new arrival at the entrance to
the Y.M.C.A. tent “What is the "every
hour on the hour’?” he met with a blank
stare, not realising he was being ques-
tioned concerning the hourly summary of
news from ’Frisco by short wave. If he
had been asked “What’s the good guts?”
he’d have “sprung to it” in a second.
These things come and go. Last week
everybody was greeting his cobbers with
“Hi-de-ho,” but this week it is “And a
good soldier, too!”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; Even the horses know
what is best for them. Two breadcart
drivers m Melbourne left their equipages
at the kerbside and disappeared inside
a Coilins-street building. A basket of
bread fell from the back step of the
front cart. The other horse worked round
until both muzzles were in the largesse.
When they had finished their repast all
the wholemeal bread had vanished and
the white loaves were untouched.
* * • * *
“Toreador”: Corporal Dixie is a bad
advertisement, for Grammar-school edu-
cation. , He was getting into his Sunday
best (sumptuous khaki drill), so I asked
him what was cookin’. “I have un
appoimoqg, mong amy,” he announced,
“un appoimong. That’s French for
rondy-voo, .you know.”
* H= * *
A subscriber writes from Peru;
Regret the copies of The Bulletin you sent
did not reach me. The last time I saw the
paper was in the Colombian jungle, where, with
two companions, I camped the night m an
abandoned Indian village. To our great sur-
prise in one hut we found half a dozen copies
of The Bulletin. Evidently an Australian
had passed through long before our visit. I
have met ontyifive Australians in South America
in 12 years.
sp * * #
“P.0.M.C.”; Sir James Jeans evidently
favors copper coins as illustrations in ex-
positions (B. 2/2/’44). Take his view, in
The Universe Around Us, on time:
“Take a postage stamp and stick it on a
penny. Now climb Cleopatra’s Needle”
(there’s a replica in Sydney’s Elizabeth-
street) “and lay the penny flat, postage
stamp appended, on top of the obelisk.
The height of the whole structure may
be taken to represent the time that has
elapsed since the earth was born. On this
scale, the thickness of the penny and
stamp together represents the time that
man has lived on earth. The thickness of
the postage stamp represents the time he
has been civilised ; the thickness of the
penny represents the time he lived in an
uncivilised state.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The Frenchman’s torrent of
words will not come if his arms are held to
his sides. Bill’s idiosyncrasy—but let me
explain. Reddust’s postmaster was being
transferred, and the township was giving
him a send-off in the School of Arts
hall. Speeches were thick and heavy,
and Bill, who runs the mailcar between
Tarrant’s Gap and Bindertwine, was
called on to say a few words. He
rose, looked around for a minute like a
newly-landed fish, and at last began
slowly, shunning all preamble: “I
remember w’en I was a nipper this
district was all prickly-pear an’ w’ere
they hold the stock sales now we played
footy ... I think the shire ought to do
somethin’ about that culvert this side o’
Bartlett’s just over the ridge—l neally
busted an axle there last week ... If this
dry weather keeps up they’s a good
chance of a snortin’ grassfire between
Dooley’s Ridge and the crick . . . I’m
thinkin’ o’ puttin’ Box On in for the next
Grassfed” Bill looked hard at the
end wall for another minute, said “That’s
all, I s’pose,” and sat down. Later, over
the nine-gallon, he unburdened himself
to Martin, the shire clerk. “I had a
better speech than that thought up,” he
said feelingly. “I’d figured it all out on
the run this mornin’ —too right. The
trouble was I didn’t have me hat to twist
round
* * * ip -
“H.G.”: When the giant cane-beetle-
eating toads were first liberated in the
N.Q. canefields the green frogs were
amongst their first victims. The toads
multiplied and the green frogs became
scarce. Now the few remaining live
mostly above the ground to avoid the
toads. One specimen appears nightly on
the outside of my verandah casements.
It not only walks across the glass (B.
9/2/’44), but it climbs around for two to
three hours, at a time catching insects as
they hit the glass in their efforts to get to
the light inside. Sitting on the verandah
we get a shadow show of the proceedings.
* * * *
“S.G.”: That about the bull-ant
and its offsiders raiding the honey (B.
23/2/’44) isn’t as far-fetched as it reads.
Was cook in a camp out of Eidsvold (Q.)
and used the inverted bottle device to
protect the sugar, but ants always got into
it. Yes, a big sugar-ant was doing the
lifting across the water, his rate being
about two a second. Woke the gang up
and showed ’em what was going on.
They’d not have believed me otherwise.
“Horseless Horseman”: So “Walk-
about” doesn’t believe my droving-hack-
cum-V.R.C. ranger’s horse can eat prune
stones (B. 9/2/’44). Well, as there’s a
war on and no sheep station on the argu-
ment I don’t intend to parade the animal
for an exhibition yet; I will just repeat
that the horse did crunch and swallow
prune stones, though he’s the only stone-
eating moke of my experience. To my
way of thinking those date pips the
Lighthorses in Palestine were unable to
digest are not comparable to flat-sided
prune kernels. I see no reason why
clever camp horses could not crunch
these kernels in their teeth as they do old
crusts, lumps of sugar and even grains of
maize. In the 1926 drought on Toorak
station, Nelia, N.Q., we fed the working
horses raw maize, and one adept mare
learnt to munch the fodder as readily as
chaff. Also, generally horses won’t look
at potatoes. Yet on A. McCay’s farm at
Silvan (Vic.), with no grass or chaff avail-
able, I saw a draught plough for a month
on a diet of whole spuds, three kero.-tin-
fuls a day.
“Billy See”: That Chris Wilkins (B.
19/1/’44) who splashed up half a guinea
getting a ride home with the doctor and
then had the medico wondering why the
lady hadn’t doctored herself with a
spoonful of carb. soda reminds me of
my friend McPherson. It was 2 a.m.
when Mac, hammering at the pharmacy
. door, brought the pyjama-clad Squills
down from his upstairs bed. “Three-
pennyworth o’ soda for the wife’s heart-
burn,” announced Mac. “Good God!”
Squills gasped.. “Waking a man up in
the dead of night for soda for a woman’s
heartburn when a glass of hot water
would have done as well.” Mac stopped
dead, the thrummer half out of his
pocket. “It would? A glass o’ hot water?
Ah, weel, then I’ll no be wantin’ the
soda.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: I contemplated a handful
of shells gathered from a beach in Ex-
mouth Gulf (W.A.), probably the least-
visited spot around Australia. Mostly
the cowries run to pinks and greys,
beautiful enough with their flawless
enamel, harder and smoother than the
most perfect porcelain, but these favor
the emerald, though many shade off right
to the heavy color of teapot-brown. But
that is merely the base color ; at each end
is a lighter patch, very definite, rising in
some almost to a pearl white. But the
highest beauty is in the large crown of
white spots on back of the shell. Several
hundred, each distinct, the whole blend-
ing into an exquisite pattern. And, odder
still, though one should examine a
thousand shells no two will have the
“With the life Mum leads him no wonder the old man can't raise a laugh!”
same pattern. Beachcombers and others
gather these cowries, insert a loop of
wire or a small safety-pin in the “mouth”
underneath, fill up with cement —and, lo!
an exquisite brooch for milady or a set
of unique buttons for her coat or jacket.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: I wouldn’t doubt that it
was possible for those loaded oonts to
be hoisted over a wire fence (B. 19/l/’44)
—that’s if the breeze was anything like
the zephyrs that periodically strike the
coast of North Westralia. In 1910 Joe
Eacott, driving 40 bullocks to Broome
from Edgar’s station in the Fitzroy Val-
ley, met with just such a wind. One
beast escaped; the 39 were blown
clean into the sea. A heavy draught also
in tow was blown over a 30ft. cliff and
killed. Joe survived by lying flat and
clinging like grim death to Mother Earth.
Out at sea in the same blow two whites
and 40 Asiatics lost their lives.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I can’t tell “G.M.”
(B. 19/1/ ’44) how long a turkey
hen may retain fertility after separation
from a male, but among poultry experts
the fowl’s limit is generally reckoned as
21 days, though I have at the moment a
Plymouth Rock chicken hatched from an
egg laid by a Black Orpington quite five
weeks after I had brought her home from
market. Actually, the span of life
granted , to the male sperm, which may
swarm in millions in the hen’s oviduct, is
dependent on the alkalinity, of the fluids
secreted. This alkalinity may be stimu-
lated possibly to an excessive degree
by a change of food, climate or even
scene. On the other hand, any tendency
towards acidity spells a quick death to
the sperms and consequently infertile
eggs. Which is one of the reasons why
the eggs of young mature birds show a
much greater averagfe of fertility than
those of aged hens. Age tends to pro-
mote acidity, not only of the fluids of
the sex glands, but also of all the glands
of the body.
“Currawang”: As a lad I recall a Ger-
man syndicate which worked the Colo
Valley (N.S.W.) for grass-tree gum (B.
2/2 / ’44) for shipment to the Vaterland,
It was the district’s opinion in those far-
off pre-World War I days that the square-
heads were exploiting the gum’s explosive
qualities for lethal purposes.
“Louden”: Twice weekly the baker’s
motor-van stopped at the huge box
fastened to the trunk of a tree where the
earth road joins the bitumen. After
glancing at the orders the driver would
wrap quantities of bread and small goods
in newspaper for numerous customers,
and after writing the customer’s name or
the name of the property on each parcel
would stack them in the box and depart.
The first time the illiterate station hand
was sent for the station supply he
brought back the right parcel. There fol-
lowed a succession of trips from each of
which he returned with someone else’s
parcel, even though he had had a speci-
men of the baker’s writing of the station
name to help him. Suddenly remember-
ing that the hand knew earmarks well-
the boss instructed the baker always to
draw a sheep’s ear showing the station
earmark on the wrapping on every station
parcel. It worked.
* * * *
“Allwet”: When I bought him the
dealer said “He’s a great ratter. His
mother used to belong to the city
rat-catcher.” He was alleged to be
a cocker spaniel, but so elongated and
low-slung was he that I am sure a
dachshund must have loitered by his
family tree. I turned him loose in my
rat-infested yard and he promptly went
to sleep. Rats came out and played
around his nose. He woke up and the
rats disappeared under the woodpile. He
prowled.about the yard, shaking his head
and looking at me with puzzled eyes.
Definitely there were rats. He could
smell them; sometimes he saw them.
But where did they come from? Where
did they go? Then one day a young rat
drifted into the wire cage I kept hope-
fully baited in the yard. My dog franti-
cally pawed the cage, growled, slavered
and howled. I killed the rat and let
him smell the body. Now that he was
blooded I expected action. When I again
went into the yard I found him crouched,
tense, by the open cage waiting for the
rat to appear. He looked at me, and
his eyes were no longer puzzled. At last
he had discovered the rats’ lair. What a
dog!
* * * *
“Naturala”; Bunny is a social animal,
and in the evening invariably leaves the
communal burrow in a family group to
feed. Should an alarm come the group
bolts for safety with remarkable unani-
mity. This is where the white tail comes
in ; it is the danger signal hoisted by the
first rabbit to take alarm, and immediately
followed by every member of the family
within sight. This white danger signal
provides man with an excellent target, but
it is effective against enemies such as the
fox which rely on a stealthy approach.
» » * *
“B. A. Ker”: Those foreigners who
dined off the local feathered fauna (B.
2/2/’44) were not unique. A lot of
Southern Europeans in Australia regard
anything feathered as poultry. Knew ah
Italian market gardener who had a dozen
or more brick sparrow-traps set around
his place (strange that the otherwise
shrewd spag is the only bird ever caught
in these crudely ingenious affairs). When
the captives numbered a score or 'so,
sparrow-pie graced the menu, and was
greatly appreciated by the junior Angelos.
The dove foolish enough to land within
gunshot of the house only did. it. ones ;
but peewees must be terribly inedible,
judging by their immunity. One day i
asked the swarthy “bird-fancier” how the
sparrow pies were going. “Hava da wild-
pigeon pie lasta da week,” Angelo in-
formed me. “Wild pigeon? I haven’t
seen one about here for years!” I said in
surprise. “Oh, plenty da pigeon on my
place—da big ha-ha pigeon,” the Italian
replied in all sincerity. Then I realised
why my morning kookaburra chorus had
been missing of late.
* * , * * '
“Wang”: The new hand seemed a
fairly intelligent sort of chap, so Dad
thought he could safely leave him in
charge of the farm for the day while he
took the family to see Dave’s new baby.
“There’s jest one thing I’ve got to warn
y’ about,” Dad said just before they went.
“A bloke named ‘Hungry’ Murphy lives
not far from here ; he might come over
on the cadge for somethin’, ’specially if
he gets t’ hear I’m not at home. If he
shows up don’t lis’en t’ him. Tell him t’
get, an’ if he gives cheek put in the
boot.” Early in the afternoon a long,
thin-faced party drove up in a dilapidated
car. “G’day,” said the visitor; “Mister
Greybox at home?” “No, he ain’t,”
replied the hand, immediately on his
guard. “What’s y’r name an’ .whatcher
want?” “Me name’s Murphy,” replied
the other shortly, “an’ I want civility fer
a start, an’ ” “Y’ll get nothin’ here,
so hop it,” cried the hand, bracing his
shoulders. The other turned towards his
car. “Y’ young pup, wait till I see y’r
boss,” he said over his shoulder. The
next instant he gave a yell as a hefty
boot was planted on his rear, and leap-
ing into his car he sped madly off. When
Dad arrived home that evening he was
vastly amused at the hand’s recital of the
happening. “Good fer you, boy!” he
chuckled ; “wish I’d seen it.” The tele-
phone rang and Dad answered it. He
came back from the instrument, a stricken
look in his eyes. “Goramighty! ” he
wailed to the hand, “y’ve lost me the
shire presidency. That wasn’t ‘Hungry’ y’
booted; it was Councillor Murphy,
whose vote I was dependin’ on t’ put me
in.”
* * * *
“Aperist”: Bees on the swarm are sel-
dom vicious, though they do get a bit
out of temper should rain threaten. But
if seems that, no matter the cohdition of
the weather, they are likely to attack
horses. If that happens, don’t rush in
waving hands about or even swishing with
a bush* That will only make Apis
madder, and she knows that the vulner-
able part of a human is the back of the
neck. Just take a kero.-tin, a billy or
even a hat, grab a few handfuls of
grass and start a smoke. Smoke
makes bees drunk, and a drunken bee,
much like a drunken human, at once
neglects the business at band and rushes
off in search of nectar.
* * * *
“Dixit”: It was hot and muggy when
“Battling” Fred arrived over at John-
son’s to do a bit of fencing. Old John-
son gave him instructions before he left
to lay poison baits in the far paddock.
“Run the line from this cornerpost to
the division fence near that clump of
trees,” he told him. “I’ll be back to have
a look at you this evenin’.” Just on dusk
Johnson returned, to find only two posts
up and Fred flat out on the ground.
Beside him were a sugarbag and a few
empties. At the boss’s approach he
struggled up and cocked his eye along the
two posts. “Who shed I can’t fensh?
he muttered. “D’ye know, bosh, I put
that shecond posht up without thinking
where I put it, but I bet you never shee
two poshts in a shtraighter line.”
* * *
“Zake”: Goat Flat’s new trooper, long,
sawny and humorless, had taken over his
new billet on the Saturday. On Sunday
morning he landed Maloney, at the
Splitters’ Rest, for purveying alcoholic
beverage to a resident. On the Bench
to hear the case were two Js.P., also
locals. It was a clean catch, and the
trooper was dogged in his clinging to the
facts. Wheedler, the lawyer who circu-
lated in the district, quite failed to shake
him. Ignoring further pleas by Maloney’s
solicitor, the Bench went into private ses-
sion ; then Parkinson, the senior J.P. an-
nounced that the case was proven; de-
plored the fall into iniquity of the pub-
keeper and imposed a fine of 10s., pay-
ment to be waived under the First Offen-
ders Act. Then arose Wheedler, who had
boasted there would be no conviction.
He had a witness who would be prepared
to swear that only lemonade had been
drunk. Steele, the other J.P., told him to
be quiet. As the now furious lawyer re-
sumed the argument Maloney approached
and pulled his coat sleeve. “Shut ’up,
you blasted goat,” he hissed in a stage
whisper. “I’m satisfied. And, anyway,
do y’ want to aggravate two of tne steadi-
est drinkers?,”
MOON SONG.
One night when the moon’s incurious face
Was blankly gazing down through space
(That empty dial could stand a wash.
1 never could fathom this wordy bosh
About “Dian’s lamp, that floats serene”
And turns uncovered fish-meat green.)
—This night a horseman swiftly rode,
Fear was his spur and haste his goad,
Under the moon and the silent sky.
(You’d be dumb with that dumb thing by—
‘‘A lamp for lovers!” Strike me blind,
Who needs a lamp his love to find?)
As I said, he rode, and a woman cried
With upraised face as she saw him ride
And thanked the skies for the precious boon
She found by the light of the silver moon.
(“Lady in silver!” Not me. I’m keen
On ladies clad in crepe-de-chine.)
So the man rode on and the woman, lone,
With shadowed eyes and a face like stone,
Turned through the humble doorway old
With beer he’d brought, in bottles cold.
For she sold sly-grog at the Long Lagoon
And hated the sight of the blasted moon.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIME.


“C.E ”: Big Jim and Midgie returned
from a fishing “session” on the river, and
while the babbler fried the catch Jim
languidly recounted their experiences.
“One thing about Midge,” he drawled
to the mob, “he never gives up.” In the
doorway, Midgie rolled his sft.. length
over and beamed at the unexpected praise
from the big bloke. “Take this arvo,
Jim went on. “I xVas whippin’ pool
a bit ahead, an’ I looked round t’ find
Midge playin’ his line like mad. Up an
down he went, diggin’ his heels in the
bank an’ every few minutes losing hi»
grip an’ grabbin’ at a saplin’ to hang on
to.” The mob sat up to listen. “Well,
after a bit,” continued Jim, “there wasn’t
no saplin’, but there’s a mighty tug o’
war. Then in went Midge, and before I
c’d get there off he goes, the catch towin’
him downstream at a great rate. Dunno
how he’d ’ave got on only for that old
pettin’ fence at the foot o’ the gap. When
I came up he was just crawlin’ out, an -
would y’ b’lieve it? —still hanging on t
the monster.” The mob raised a cheer.
“Good on y’, Midgie.” “But, cripes,’’
gasped Buck, “what was it?” “That’s
what I was wonderin’,” boomed Big Jim,
“when I seen him get his line half-
hitched round a rock an’ gradually work
the thing up the bank. Just as I dashed
up, out she come —an’ strike me pink
if the little coot hadn’t hooked a half-
pound rainbow!”
* =*s * *
“Bass Strait Pirate”: Mention of the
passing of the Cape Barren Island half-
castes’ whaleboats (B. 5/1/’44) recalls
that these double-enders, besides their
sailing qualities, had the additional ad-
vantages that they could be rowed easily
and beached almost anywhere. For this
reason they were the islanders’ main
transport about the tide-whipped Fur-
neaux Group for upwards of a century
and a quarter, until oil-driven vessels
superseded them. In my day the whale-
boats, with their locally-grown pine masts,
had “ill-found gear” only when there
were no wrecks around to replenish run-
ning rigging. And the half-castes didn t
only shift about the islands mutton-bird-
ing. Periodically they went wallabying,
others went crayfishing ; and it needed
only one case of measles or ’flu for the
entire population of Long Island settle-
ment of a hundred or so, and twice that
number of dogs, to migrate to remote
spots far away from the patient. And
anywhere around the 70-odd isles and
islets that surround 42-mile-long, 3500-
foot-high Flinders Island you could tell
if a darkle had been about by the limpets
on the rocks. Those shellfish were their
favorite food.
“Go easy after the next bend, Joe —accordin to the map the
road peters out!"
“Molecule”; The possibility of using
plankton as human food has cropped up
in U.S. scientific circles. Investigators
with a lot of time on their hands have
discovered that the “mean standing crop”
of plankton in Lake Waubesa, Wiscon-
sin, over a two-year period amounted to
2161 b. per acre dry weight, of which 49
p.c. was protein, 5 p.c. fat and the re-
mainder various carbohydrates and 6 p.c.
fibre. It was found that at least 98 p.c.
of the plankton is recoverable by pass-
ing the water through a centrifuge. The
catch, however, is that the centrifuge
would have to operate for 200 hours to
furnish enough food to meet the energy
needs of one person for one day. The
average annual yield of fish from the
lake over a five-year period was 2951 b.
per acre. The conclusion naturally
reached was that fish can convert the
plankton into human food more efficiently
than we can.
* * * •
“Nepean”: The theory that the juice
of paddymelon fruit sends horses blind
(B. 26 /2/ ’44) was exploded on the mid-
Murray a decade On Tammit then
most of the station hacks were, to say
the least, night-blind, so when 28 new
mokes arrived from north they were kept
away from the suspected paddymelon
fruit and turned out in Tongar Bend.
There the few vines on the red soil were
pie or citron melons originally from the
old homestead there, as down that end
of the run the white cockatoos devoured
any paddymelon fruit before it ripened.
Yet when we yarded those horses after a
summer most *of them were night-blind.
Later, as a result of riding them, they
went down with colic, and some died ;
and in their intestines we found fibrous
balls of old, withered vines. Veterinary
authorities said these press on the optic
nerve and thereby cause the blindness.
However that may be, I do know
from other instances that any withered
vine, not necessarily paddymelon, causes
the trouble.
* * * *
“Okey”: The big fellow stood gazing
mournfully at his wireless. “Can t make
this blasted set out,” he remarked; “it
goes all right for a bit, then it dies out
an’ comes on again! ” “It isn’t y r set,
said Jindabyne Joe; “it must be the elec-
tricity.” “The ’lectricity! ” echoed the big
bloke, eyeing his cobber suspiciously.
“Yairs,” went on the other ; “they can t
make all they want of it these times be-
cause of the coal shortage, so they have
to send the current out with gaps in be-
tween to make it long enough to go
round.” For a moment the big bloke was
silent; then he roared “Gripes, I never
thought of that—it’s just what youd
expect the thievin’, black-marketin’ cows
would do!”
*
“C.R.”: Out beyond Tibooburra
(N.S.W.) a swaggie “bit” me for the
makings. When I asked what brand he
usually smoked he replied “Popeye
That was a newie on me. “Yes,” he said ;
“it’s half tobacco an’ half spinach. By
cripes, the Chows must be makin a
forchun! ”
* * * *
“P. Ater”: Cootamundra wattles cer-
tainly bore tremendous seed crops this
season (B. 16/2/’44), but that was in part
owing to the prodigal rains at flowering
time. Their Queensland cousins, bloom-
ing earlier, missed that help. In the right
season and climate the blue-leaved
Queenslander can be just as prodigious
in production of pods of fertile seeds.
Much depends on climate. Up in Bris-
bane the Cootamundra will hardly set its
seed, while around Tumut way the
northern one is equally obdurate. Don
know about heavy seeding affecting the
tree’s longevity, but the next season’s
blossoms will be fewer; wattles build up
their buds well ahead of the next flower-
ing. If the seed pods are cut away better
blossoms will result. Heavy seeding cer-
tainly doesn’t affect the life span of
either the kurrajong or the flame-tiee,
both brachychytons.
*•** 4 , .
“Eley”: Nature appears to be the best
cure for animal hurts. My old cat came
home with a badly-crushed paw,
by a rabbit-trap. At first I thoug t o
shooting him, but decided to make
comfortable and watch events. e
end of two weeks I almost finished his
career, as the wound had become putrid ,
but as he seemed in no pain I let him
carry on. A few days later he licked
away several small pieces of broken
bone ; from then on the injury began to
heal. In four weeks he was as well as
ever.
* * * *
“Rover”: As the largest acreage en-
closed by a fence I nominate the bullock
paddock on Dalgonally station. Frotn the
“ Careful, boy! There's a fly in it!”
big waterhole at the homestead the track
leads for 39 miles, skirting “Dalgonally
Mclntyre’s grave, to the boundary gate.
Trailing along the stock route with Old
Mick Tracey in the dust of 6000 sheep
it took us a week from gate to gate.
* * * *
The queerest station pet I’ve
seen is a bobtailed lizard belonging to
Elaine Shiels at Tmara homestead near
Naracoorte, S.A. With a daub of green
paint on his back to distinguish him, he
turns up every summer morning for
breakfast, and so quiet is he that he
allows himself to be picked up. He eats
put of the lady’s hand, and fancies bread
and milk and cherry-plums. What beats
me is the way he remembers to turn up
in a new suit at the kitchen door for a
handout after hibernation.
* * * *
“Jaunty”: Toughest water hound I
ever heard of was the spaniel on board
the barque Joseph Craig. Driven ashore
on the Hokianga (M.L.) bar in a howling
westerly the ship was a'total loss. The
dog was swept overboard before the crew
abandoned ship. Seven weeks later a
keeper from the signal station found it in
a cave. Somehow it had swum or floated
ashore on the open coast through moun-
tainous seas. Crawling into the midst of
a seabirds’ rookery it lay there living on
its own fat and the moisture dripping
from the roof. It was just skin and bone,
but soon recovered. It didn’t lose its love
of the sea either.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie, just
arrived in Woomelang, received a depu-
tation from.the Law. “I know
y’, me boy,” said the deputa-
tion. “I run y’ in at Birchip
an’ kicked y’ orf the course
at Watchupga. If I catch y’
settin’ up y’r Yankee sweat
joint here in y’ go.” Mourn-
fully “Curyo” strolled on to
the course, half inclined to
give his bank a fling on the
neddies. He changed his
mind when Buck Bourke, the
bookmaker, took him aside
and said “ ‘Curyo,’ how about
springin’ me a tenner t’ open
on the first race? I got
cleaned out at nap cornin’ up
in the train.” “I’m stonkered,
too,” said “Curyo.” “The
John’s warned me off. Tell
y’ what, here’s me bank, 60
nicker; take it an’ I’ll go
y’ fifty-fifty on the day.”
Thankfully Buck grabbed the
dough and headed for the
The first two races
went to favorites, and Charles, convinced
it wasn’t his day, wandered moodily to
the edge of the crowd and found himself
watching the start of- the third race, a
mile. The favorite jumped out with the
lead, and “Curyo” broke evens back to
the ring, where he snatched the bag from
Bourke and roared “Fours the field!”
Bourke tried to pull the madman down,
but the equally mad punters trampled him
underfoot as, with the favorite racing into
the straight lengths in front, “Curyo
went on taking their bets. He was still
taking them when the race was over.
Bourke abused him foully, but “Curyo
merely grinned, thinking of the two plates
of lead he’d seen fall from the favorite's
saddle in the jump out.
* * *
Dear Maister Editor,—Angus Mc-
Usquebaugh (B. 20/1/’44) maun be an
awfu’ misbelievin’ deil o’ a mon, an’ Ah
hae ma doots about him bein’ sic a guid
Presbyterian hissel’. He doesna seem
tae mind onything aboot yon birkies o’
auld gettin’ dry shod across the Red Sea
when a bit wind blew the waters tae ane
side. An’ what aboot that ill wind that
blew 30,000 misbegotten Sassenachs richt
across the Big Divide in a dee at Ban-
nockburn? Aboot fifty year ago Ah
mind a breeze that blew wheat straw
richt intae the bole o’ a tree. Aye, an
the blade o’ a spade forby. That was
in Ammericky, whaur they dae things in
a graund style. Blawin’ camels ower a
fence was naethin’ ava’. Does Angus
no mind the Tay Brig? Hoots mon!
Fergus MacWhinney.
* , * . * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re pulled up on the
track near Stawell (Vic.) one day, with
the billy boiling, when a two-horse cara-
van ambles up and a young woman driv-
ing it calls “How’s the billy, boys?”
“Fair enough,” I says; so she stops the
outfit and another female comes out of
the back of the wagon. They get out a
tuckerbox, swing a billy on our fire, nose-
bag their noddies and settle down to eat.
Presently they start whispering and eye-
ing Mat off. Mat gives me a wild look
and says “Come on—l forgot we were so
close t’ Ararat an’ its asylum.” The girls
burst out laughing, then tell us they’re
painters and ask Mat if he’ll pose for
’em. He’s against the idea, but I help
’em talk him round, and soon one of ’em
is hard at it, blocking him in, while the
other keeps pushing him about, altering
the position of his hands, head and hat.
Mat gets redder and redder and mutters
to himself, giving me black* looks. The
painter lady snaps “My friend isn’t
the slightest bit interested in you as a
man. To her you’re just a lump of
clay, splendidly moulded, but just a lump
of clay. Get that into your stupid head
and stop being silly.” I never saw the
big bloke so staggered. His mouth opens
and shuts like a Murray cod. Then he
comes to and a slow sort of grin breaks
on his dial. “Keep y’r shirt on, missus,”
he says. “I’ll be good. But tell y’r mate
that about the clay, too ; she don’t seem
too sure whether I’m a hunk o’ butter to
be patted or a teddy bear t’ be cuddled.”
Then the real argument started, and we
got our swags and slunk away, leaving
’em to it.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: The reason why African
boxthorn can’t be used as a dingo-proof
fence (B. 16/2/’44) is that the plant
is proclaimed noxious. Both sale and
propagation are prohibited. The wild
briar rose, another introduced nuisance,
is sufficient warning to go very carefully
with plants from other countries, and the
Government department concerned wisely
bars the boxthorn because of the ease
with which it can be increased. Inci-
dentally, if the natives in Africa use
boxthorn hedges to keep out “man-eat-
ing. tigers” they seem to be worrying
themselves needlessly, seeing that the
nearest tigers, man-eating or otherwise,
are in Asia.
THE KOOKABURRAS.
First the rain ceased, then the ymd fell,
Then the gloom passed, and, thereatter,
When the sun arose this morning
Making bright our seaside suburb,
Came a flock of kookaburras —
Noisy fellows, jocund fellows —
Filling all the scene with laughter.
From the housetops, from the pine-tops,
All in tune and all together,
Rang their merry notes announcing
To all folk by them awakened —
Noisy fellows, jocund fellows — ,
That night’s storm and gloom had yielded
Place to morn and sunny weather.
Never yet in town or city,
Valley green or leafy forest,
Was there heard more gracious joyance
Than the kookaburras lifted —
Noisy fellows, jocund fellows —
When this morn they sought our suburb
And from pine- and housetop chorused.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUICKand DEADLY
- KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
k
(Regd.)
. SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, theaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Mules Operation.
N. W. Kater: We’ve been studying it
at Egelabra for some years. I never
heard of the Burdizzo pincers method (B.
9/2/’44), and find the best way js to
pinch up the skin with the left hand and
with ordinary shears cut off a piece 6in.
to Sin. long and 4in. to Sin. wide at its
widest part, tapering at each end. Don’t
do the job if there are many small flies
about, as they may infect the wound.
And do it in a clean place.
When “Sheepo” says that “if wrinkly
sheep cease to exist the Mules operation
won’t be needed,” he presupposes that
flies strike only sheep with wrinkly
crutches. Certainly such sheep are more
liable to be struck than plainer types,
but wrinkles aren’t the main predisposing
cause of strike, which is density and
length of wool.
Experience has shown that in heavily-
woolied sheep, devoid of crutch wrinkles,
flies may strike up to 30 p.c., and this
can be reduced to 3 p.c. by Muling.
Crutching may be necessary, however,
several months after shearing, on Muled
sheep.
Many other people seem to think that
Muling is useful only with wrinkly-
breeched sheep and that fly-strike can be
reduced if only plain-breeched sheep are
bred. The fallacy of this is shown by
the fact that Muling reduces strike in
plain-breeched sheep. Anyhow, you can’t
breed high-class, heavy-cutting merinos
without a certain amount of development,
and to insist that all sheep should be
plain-breeched would mean a diminution
of our total wool clip. S
Here’s a sample of results from the
operation, the flock being an old-estab-
lished one of heavy cutters, but generally
plain-bodied:
Fly strikes, 74- weeks, Sept. 30 to Nov. 21,
1942 (during this period flies were ex-
tremely active): 7200 Muled, six months to
three years, 34 per cent, crutch strike;
6800 not Muled, four to eight years, 33
per cent crutch strike.
In the Muled lot there were 1600 one-
yeaf ewes with 4in. tails; of these only 11
were struck. About 100 were struck on the
tail in the three-year Muled lot and most
of these had practically no tails. Up to
5 per cent, weekly in both lots .(Muled and
otherwise) were struck, not on the crutch;
for some time most of these were running
on country with some seed and high feed.
Crutching is much quicker and cleaner in
Muled lots, as the skin is stretched and
only thinly covered with wool. Some
crutchers say Muled sheep are about 30 a
day fastet; others say about 30 a run—
depends on weight of sheep. Whereas there
is no doubt that wrinkles on the breech
increase the susceptibility to strike, the main
factors are density and length. A dense-
woolled sheep becomes stained and a
gummy substance is formed, which is very
susceptible to strike, whereas in a Muled
sheep the density is decreased and the
amount of staining diminished to a mini-
mum.
On a neighboring property the mana-
ger, after watching a demonstration of
the operation, supervised the job on the
ewe portion of the autumn lambs. In
late November rain and humidity
brought a fly wave, yet out of the 1800
Muled ewe weaners fewer than ten were
struck on the crutch, and the ratio of
strikes in the untreated wethers was about
5 to 1 to that in the ewes. All were
heavily-woolled sheep.
Of a mob of 150 old ewes and 210 ewe
hoggets and wethers, the ewe hoggets
being the only Muled sheep, turned into
a paddock on fresh feed recently flooded,
about half the old ewes were struck, along
with half the wethers. Not one Muled
hogget was struck in the three-weeks
period.
This manager is convinced that the
operation gives a high immunity from
strike for from five to six months off
shears, perhaps longer, after which
crutching is advisable.
Farming in Drought.
“Plane Creek”: Dry farming might be
practised to “make the most of rain” in
this country (B. 19/1/’44). It’s already
"Then when the kids crawl in for the sweets we catch 'em an give
'em a bath.”
in use on a large scale in Europe and
the United States, but to date it hasn’t
had a fair trial here. We farm on the
English principle. “You can’t cultivate
too much or too often” is the cry. The
belief has got something to recommend
it, because frequent prior-to-planting
ploughings really put the kibosh on most
weeds. Others will come in force later,
however much you plough.
In England, they go in for many prior-
planting ploughings. Reason is that the
agricultural land is oversupplied with
moisture and needs aeration.
In some parts of Australia the year’s
rain falls roughly in one drenching
deluge. They used to say once that
Central and North Queensland had three
months wet and nine months dry. It
isn’t as bad as that, yet most of the rain
does fall in the wet season in those parts.
And there’s quick drying after the wet.
In some localities the country’s getting
very thirsty by the start of June—or even
earlier —reckoning on the rains ending in
March or mid-April.
Moisture conservation should be our
business in dry-winter districts. That’s
what is meant by the term “dry farming.”
It’s going down well in countries where
climatic conditions conform with ours.
Some of ’em couldn’t get on without it.
Dry farmers aim at preserving the soil
moisture provided by yearly deluges to
tide the crops over the dry periods. Im-
mediately the land is workable after the
wet they give it a good ploughing. Next
it’s harrowed flat. Thereafter it is left
undisturbed except for necessary surface
cultivation to keep weeds under control
until planting is done. The land is fre-
quently drilled and cropped without
further cultivation. Growing crops are
not cultivated more than can be helped.
Admittedly, conditions and crops vary, but
it’s a success if done properly. I’m not
prepared to accept the old theory that
constant cultivation prevents loss of soil
moisture.
Root Crops.
“C.H.”: Some N.S.W. dairy-farmers
are getting over 20 tons of carrots to the
acre and supplying tha canneries as well
as the cows. Carrots don’t deteriorate if
left unduly long in the beds, are not sub-
ject to aphids’ attack and don’t taint the
milk. Where soil is deep and free-work-
ing there’s still time to plant them on
tablelands and coast. Sow in rows 24in.
to 30in. apart at 21b. of seed per acre.
When the soil doesn’t promise enough
moisture to germinate the seed throw
two light furrows together and plant on
the ridge. Add super, at 4cwt. per acre
if available. Keep down weeds.
Carrots can be harvested by ploughing
out or forking. Don’t feed to the cows
whole. Chop or pulp and add to the
dairy ration. White Belgian is the best
field variety for stock. Ox-heart, St.
Valerie Intermediate, Manchester Table
and Chatenay are the best market types.
Mangolds are good cow, pig and sheep
feed. Plant on the coast from February
to April; on the tablelands from August
to October. Give them deep, rich soil,
a, fair rainfall and they won’t look back.
Make the first ploughing deep and follow
up with sufficient cultivation to turn the
soil into a fine, moist condition. Sow in
rows 2|ft. to 3ft. apart at 81b. to 101 b.
per acre. If the soil lacks moisture use
the ridge advised for carrots. Addition
of super, or complete manure will induce
quick growth.
Thin out seedlings to one plant every
12 inches. Don’t harvest before the
leaves begin to yellow. Roots left in the
beds over hot weather will run to seed.
Mammoth Long Red is the most popular
variety. Slice before feeding to stock
and supplement with other foodstuffs to
balance the ration.
Dorrigo farmers grow Jerusalem arti-
chokes for pig feed. Where the soil’s
well drained they’ll grow easily. August
and September are the planting months.
Prepare ground as for potatoes. Place
tubers 18in. to 24in. apart in furrows 3ft.
apart. Use whole or cut sets. Once the
flowers die off, turn the pigs in to root
for the tubers. Many farmers rely on
tubers left in the soil to produce a second
year crop ; results are better when the
sowing is annual.
Sweet potatoes prefer the coast, sandy
soils and good drainage ; warm hillsides
are ideal. Cuttings are better than roots
and should be struck from September to
October. Layer them in the sand on the
ridge system. Build the ridges 4ft. apart
and plant one cutting every 3ft. Turn
the pigs in on the crop or fork out as
required. White Maltese and Wannop
are both sturdy varieties.
White Cabbage Moth.
“Pat Ater”: It is proving a voracious
eater of cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli,
turnip and other Brassica family leaves,
and is the worst pest of cabbage growers,
being more numerous than the older-
established diamond cabbage moth, but
the control is the same. Derris dust is
hard to get. A good cover dusting with
equal parts arsenate of lead and kaolin
or hydrated lime will do the job effec-
tively.
See that the dust is renewed after rain
or overhead watering. It quickly kills
the caterpillars. Don’t use the dust within
five or six weeks of cutting cabbages—
or after “hearting”—-or when curds of
cauliflowers begin to form.
Any misgivings about white butterflies
attacking other than cabbage family
members—and a limited number of other
hot plants, including nasturtiums and
mignonette—are unfounded. Although
the butterflies swarm around lettuce,
spinach and the flowers of beans and peas
seeking nectar, they do not lay eggs on
* or feed off those crops.
Hints for the Farm.
“Portergaff”: ■ When cattle troughs
begin to show signs of rust best method
of renewing is to concrete right through
with a \\xn. layer. Mix a batch, three
parts sand, two of stone dust and one of
cement —make the cement a good one.
Lise two layers of wire-netting as rein-
forcements. Slurry the concrete well
behind the wire to form a key ; a brush
finish is all that’s necessary. Troughs so
treated will last for years.
“Myrr”: A palatable and nourishing
dog biscuit can be made by taking 81b.
of finely-ground wheat and boiling a
sheep’s pluck (heart, liver and lungs), re-
taining the liquor for mixing with the
wheat. Mince the boiled meat, add
wheat, mix well, pour in warm liquor,
add one tablespoon of salt,and knead
into a firm dough. Roll flat about half
an inch thick and cut into squares. Bake
till hard. Makes about 60 biscuits.
“Will C.”; Shove in a few%roots of
bamboo by all means (B. 15/12/’43). In
Japan it stands up to snow in winter
and intense heat in summer. The Japs
use the cylinders for water pipes. They’re
cheap, durable and as efficient as metal.
The lighter canes are extensively used in
the manufacture of the cheap novelties
that flooded this country before the war.
A belt of timber is useful on any farm,
and bamboo comes in handy where it is
too dry for most natural vegetables. I’ve
seen bamboos used for yard-rails, rake
handles, etc. A clump will last for ever.
“Sarina”: Don’t allow grass-trees and
zamias to ruin grazing areas. The two
thrive in company and form vast groves
that smash all grasses. Send a fire
through first to clean up the thick leaf-
age. Then with a good axe you can
slash ’em off at ground level.
From “T.R.”:
Not only Frith’s work (B. 16/2/’44) has been
appreciated at Washington. The U.S. Govern-
ment recently asked for a record of J. A.
Crawcour’s “Man on the Land,” put over
Station 2SM, with the compliments of Anthony
Horderns, Meggitts and other -representative
Australian concerns. It went to Washington
endorsed by Minister Scully.


Ruwolt
i *
w
IBP mm
: «. i s yr"
W mm
mi
mm
m
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
df
I
*****
■
u/t.
PRODUCTION
Y" OU step-up production to its fullest limits when
working conditions are right.
Fluorescent is an entirely new lighting principle . . .
It casts a soft, white, glareless light into every nook
and corner, merging perfectly with daylight and
giving daylight lighting at night. “Better than day- •
light,” say operatives working precision machines.
There’s no eye strain, no headaches, less nervous
irritation and fewer absentees. Industrial Lighting
Regulations are best met by “Cold Cathode” Fluores-
cent Lighting installations.
Only war industries can be supplied without restric-
tion. But make plans to instal in shops, factories,
theatres, cafes and private homes at the earliest
opportunity.
Test a Fluorescent unit in your factory ... at our
expense. Write or ’phone:—
miERIOR
UGHTinG
Division of Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
11-19 HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY - ’Phone: FL 3132
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pacific Navy War.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by Walter E. Lucas, who has been acting
as special representative in the Pacific area.)
A brief glancd at the map reveals that
the sea and the things that can move
across it must inevitably play the biggest
part in the Pacific war. In the largest
ocean mass in the world land appears like
stars in the vault of heaven. Unlike the
European war, where amphibian move-
ment is a means to an end, in the Pacific
it is amphibian the whole way, until we
have planted our troops ashore on the
quaysides of Kobe and Yokohama.
The strength of the enemy’s position is
based on the Japanese fleet; it is sup-
ported by well-protected sea supply lanes
and by a ring of interlocking airfields.
From the very first this war has been
in essence a naval one. The Japanese
Navy has to be destroyed or boxed up
in its harbors. The sea supply arteries,
through which the Japanese Empire Jives,
must be cut, ahd, if China is to be used
as a base for a. real offensive against
Japan, a safe port must be established
on the China coast and the supply lines
to it kept open. These are the reasons
for the appointment of two admirals,
Nimitz and Mountbatten, to the two
major Pacific commands for the coming
offensive war.
There has been a general idea that the
Pacific, and especially the south-west
Pacifi©, has been starved of men and
materials in favor of the European war.
Actually the total sum of American
resources in the Pacific is greater than it
has been up to date in the European
theatre.
More than anywhere else the Pacific
requires the greatest and most varied
accumulation of every kind of amphibian
weapon. Without an overwhelming
superiority in ships and ’planes and all
the minutiae of amphibian warfare on a
large scale the Pacific war either cannot
be fought at all or becomes a century-
long costly plod back through the mias-
mic swamps of a thousand different
Pacific islands.
Those “massive” strokes by which
alone we can beat our way to Tokyo
within a reasonable space of time will
be delivered from the east and from
the west in a closely-knit pattern by
naval commanders in control of power-
ful amphibian forces.
Neither the land fighting in Burma
nor that in the south-west Pacific will be
anything more than incidentals in the
broad sweep of Pacific strategy.
The future in the Pacific lies with the
American and British naval strategists,
who are embarking upon the greatest
naval adventure in the world’s history.
Allied Outlook Differences.
(From “United States News.”)
Russia opposes a strongly-organised
Europe. She fears that its strength might
be directed at her. She also strongly
opposes a Balkan federation for the same
reason. Russia’s diplomacy is directed at
assuring that neighbors are under Rus-
sian influence, that other nations aren’t
organised on a basis that might threaten
her security or her growing power in
Europe.
Britain opposes dominance of Europe
by any one Power. She has fought Ger-
many twice to prevent her dominance.
She has been interested in a Balkan
federation to stand between Russia and
Western Europe. She may be forced in
post-war to try to form a friendly bloc
in Western Europe, including a revived
France, or else to find a basis for friend-
ship with post-war Germany.
U.S. has regarded itself as unconcerned
by the balance of power in Europe. But
U.S. has fought two wars in 25 years to
prevent German domination in Europe,
to block a European setup that would
cast covetous glances toward Latin
America and its undeveloped resources.
U.S. after this war again will find its
interests closely aligned with those of
Britain ; .will seek to prevent any single-
nation dominance on the continent of
Europe.
The question of power will underlie
post-war arrangements. Alternatives are
these: (1) an effort by Britain, with U.S.
backing, to offset Russian efforts to
extend Russia’s power through Europe,
or (2) some new international machinery
that can take the place of balances of
power and national rivalries for power.
It still is uncertain which alternative
finally will be taken.
Britain’s Great Air Job.
[From a report by a N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent. A further crushing answer to
the Wards and suchlike sneerers.]
In 1943 the R.A.F. Bomber Command
based in Britain dropped 136,000 tons of
bombs on Germany, 6000 tons on Italy,
T 5,000 tons on occupied territory, a total
of 157,000 tons. In addition, British air-
craft operating in the Mediterranean area
dropped 110,000 tons of bombs, making
a total offensive effort by the bombers
of 267,000 tons.
The total tonnage of bombs dropped
on Britain by Germany since the out-
break of the war is 65,000 tons, less than
half the tonnage dropped on the Reich
in 1943.
In 1943, in which 2400 tons of Ger-
man bombs fell on Britain, the R.A.F.
bomb effort was 58 times as great as the
German effort. In two separate months
it was 100 times the German total over
the same periods, a striking answer to
Goring’s boasts that Britain would be
repaid a hundredfold for every ton of
bombs dropped on the Reich.
R.A.F. Coastal Command flew more
than 40,000 sorties in 1943, an increase
of more than 10,000 over 1942, with pro-
portionately lower losses. More U-boats
were sunk by Coastal Command in 1943
than in all previous years of the war.
R.A.F. Fighter Command flew nearly
460,000 sorties in 1943, against 150,000
in 1942. The changing character of the
war in the air was shown by the fact that
more than 90,000 of these were offensive
flights. British fighters also attacked and
sank three times as many ships as in the
preceding year.
The Mediterranean R.A.F. record is
noteworthy in addition to the bomb
tonnage dropped. The Mediterranean
Air Command flew 350,000 sorties with
the remarkably low casualty rate of
about 1 per cent. Between 3500 and 4000
enemy ’planes, including Italian, were
destroyed in the Mediterranean area and
more than 1000 ships were attacked, of
which nearly 250 were sunk.
Jap Morale Could Crack.
(From a London “Times” report .)
Sir Robert Craigie, British Ambassador
to Japan from 1937 to 1941, addressing
the Royal Empire Society, said that on
the fateful morning of December 8, 1941,
the realisation that Japan was at war
with the British Empire and the United
States caused bewilderment and conster-
nation among the Japanese people. To
the average Japanese, weary of the war
with China, the news came as a shock
he was at little pains to hide. Those
initial doubts and questionings would be
revived a hundredfold when defeat finally
stared Japan in the face.
Sir Robert Craigie did not suggest a
likelihood of any serious breakdown of
Japanese morale in the early stages of
defeat, but believed there would be a
lowering of it and a turning away from
military rule that would have a clogging
effect on the .whole machinery of govern-
ment and the conduct of the war. As
disillusionment spread and the army’s
prestige waned, a form of passive resist-
ance to army domination might well
develop.
Throughout the county were poten-
tially influential statesmen, politicians and
leaders in the business and professional
worlds who had opposed, and still ab-
horred, army control of their nation’s
destinies. When the present tyrannical
military regime began to lose its grip,
those men were likely to re-emerge and
might play an important part in the over-
throw of the military domination.
Taught almost from the cradle to
believe in the divinity of the Imperial
House, in the racial superiority and in-
vincibility of the Japanese people, in the
divine nature of Japan’s mission to lead
and control the other peoples of the
Orient, indoctrinated from an early age
with totalitarian theories, misled about
the progress of the war and the issues at
stake to an extent which would put even
Dr. Goebbels to shame—the Japanese


For Australia at War . . .
OYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
o
Q
D
SF
S'
D
£
TO'^
ii
Kdgy
ii
HR
dfs
,'jft
M
J
z
/
CfIJVC ,TE
MEETS THE NEED
While we are at war, your country calls for Cane-ite
for use in various structures indispensable to the
fighting forces for hutments, refrigeration, and cold
storage. The same reasons which make Cane-ite the
choice of the services—its ‘insulating properties, its
ease of handling, its strength and rigidity, and its com-
paratively low cost —commend it to you for post-war
use in the home you will build or modernise.
c a<£Ssi e
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING
CANE-ITE : : C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL : : PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS.
CA3-43
STOPvoup Rupture
Worries/
Mark © Location
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, A P PEI AN CE CO..
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
i
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty., Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
1
k
Pv
they never vary
Carreras Ltd 154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
ƒds
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 B
people were less prepared spiritually to
face disillusionment and defeat than any
other people in the world. A morale
based on so complete a misrepresentation
might crack under the sudden impact of
overwhelming popular disillusionment.
To begin those processes of internal
dissolution a series of defeats of the
armed forces of Japan, so decisive that
their true nature could not be hidden,
was necessary. More important still, the
army must be so discredited that it could
never again become a force, let alone a
dominating force, in Japanese politics.
The Allies should not blind themselves
by the belief that the final overthrow of
Japan was an easy matter, or to the
danger of deferring major operations
against an enemy that had secured control
of huge supplies of raw materials.
Youth-coddling Results.
(Condensed from a report by a N.Y. “Sun”
Washington correspondent .)
In an unpublicised report surveying
recent medical discharges, U.S. Army
officials have blamed the youth pro-
grammes and policies of the last quarter
century for the high degree of malinger-
ing noted among inductees in American
Army training centres.
While youths of the Axis nations had
been. subjected to training designed to
toughen them against the rigors of war,
members of the rising generation in the
United States had been taught to believe
that the world owed them a living and
that they had a right to expect their
Government to support them in luxury,
the Army officials complained.
The report was undertaken by the
Army medical officials when Congress
began to show an interest in the fact that
about 40 per cent, of the draftees in
recent months had been rejected on medi-
cal grounds, while large numbers had
been given medical discharges after in-
duction and during their combat training.
Neuro-psychiatric cases constitute, it
was estimated, from 25 to 35 per cent, of
all rejections and discharges. None of
these men is ever convicted of malinger-
ing, because no doctor is prepared to
state under oath that the patient really
does not experience the pain or disability
of which he complains. Line officers,
unable to make a soldier of him, are glad
to get rid of him, and the overworked
hospital staff is likewise glad to see him
get a discharge. So out he goes into
civilian life again, with a bonus, perhaps,
and a disability pension for the rest of
his life.
In some cases, the report declares, his
ailment is undoubtedly real, and, as there
is no way to distinguish with certainty
between the true neuro-psychiatric and
the malingerer, this works a grave in-
justice upon the truly sick man. The
report estimated, however, that there
were probably four malingerers to one
true neuro-psychiatric patient.
In this connection it was noted that in
the lakt war the mere news of the signing
of the armistice resulted in the immedi-
ate and complete cure of 8000 supposed
cases of shell-shock.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
“Those persons who think that after the
costly and time-consuming defeat of Germany
we can by a simple order fly our planes to
China, bomb Tokyo *nd bring Japan to her
knees do not yet understand the need for vast
supply lines, well-equipped bases and planes
built to fight under entirely different conditions
from those that prevail over Europe.”—^ Chief
of U.S. Army Air Forces General H. H.
Arnold.
* * * *
The military alliance of the United States,
Great Britain, the Soviet Union and China is
indispensable to win the war. It is equally
indispensable to prevent chaos in that transition
period between the unconditional surrender of
the Axis and the creation of a permanent inter-
national organisation. The danger lies in the
concept that this is all that will ever be re-
quired to ensure an orderly and peaceful world,
Every military alliance known to history has
sooner or later broken down as the policies
and ambitions of its individual members have
changed. Only through the adjustment of the
armed might which it controls to the require-
ments of international law, as decided upon by
an organisation of the free, peace-loving peoples
of the world, can there be any hope that such
an alliance might prove lasting. International
justice and international security can never be
found in any permanent sense through the mere
dictates of four dominant military Powers. —
Former U.S. Under-Secretary for War Sumner
Welles.
* * * *
The U.S. intends holding on to airfields which
it has constructed throughout the world until
there is a final post-war settlement that will
guarantee their use, for both strategic and
commercial purposes, under a system of “general
military security in which the interests of both
the U.S. and other United Nations are fully
protected.”—U.S. International News Service in-
terpretation of section of a report by President
Roosevelt.
* * * *
From the airdromes of north-eastern India
today there flows into China a greater monthly
tonnage of military supplies than was ever
carried over the Burma Road. The India-China
run, under the Air Transport Command, has
more business than any three pre-war American
commercial airlines and more transport pilots
than the whole United States had before the
war. It carries medicines, gasoline, artillery and
two-and-a-half-ton trucks as well as personnel.
It brings out tungsten and other valuable
Chinese products. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“When General Smut's advises us [Dutch] to
collaborate with England after the war, my
answer is—we can only consider this provided
that the British Empire, and Great Britain
particularly, show, like ourselves, that they have
no intentions of once more going the way
toward large-scale disarmament.” — Netherlands
Foreign Minister Dr. Van Kleffens broadcasting
to Holland.
* * 1= *
At the end of 1942 1,250,000 U.S. service men
were abroad and 4,250,000 were in America.
By the end of 1943 the overseas contingent had
reached 2,500,000 and 5,000,000 were in
America. By the end of 1944 an estimated
5,000,000 will be abroad. — “United *States
News.”
* . * * He
Consistent reports from the Balkans indicate
that the outlook for international peace and
co-operation there after the war is much better
than has been generally supposed. It obviously
is impossible to know what events may occur
between now and the defeat of the Axis to
change the Balkan situation, but as of today
there is substantial evidence that the Greek
and Yugoslav people are more anxious to find
a means of establishing permanently harmonious
relations with their neighbors than in punishing
them. — Cairo correspondent “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * *
“In-board turn” is the nautical equivalent of
a “bank” on a level area, such as the sea. With
the automobile, as with most boats, this is im-
possible when travelling at a fast speed. How-
ever, the Andrew J. Higgins P.-T. boats built
at New Orleans are especially constructed to
defy the law of centrifugal force, so that they
can make a turn within two lengths at a speed
of 50 miles an hour, without upsetting or
throwing the crew overboard. — N.Y. “Daily
Mirror .”
* * * *
Although the United States seems destined
to emerge from the war with more ships on its
hands than it will know how to use commer-
cially, every available vessel will be required in
continuous service for some period after the
war to meet food and other vital requirements
of devastated areas. A survey shows that meet-
ing the needs of Greece would mean more
than one Liberty ship for every 100,000 people.
On the same basis, Poland would require 350
or more, France in excess of 400, and so on.
— N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”


Public Notice.
I, ADOLF KURT STREBER, of German nationality,
born at Munich, Bavaria, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 21 Ball’s Head Road,
Waverton, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of George lII-
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
.strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
WAR-TIME HOURS
and MEALS sometimes
r spell ILL-HEALTH
■ HERE'S A WAY TO REGAIN
THRILLING GENERAL FITNESS
Irregular hours, broken rest,
sketchy meals, plus war-time
worries, often result in faulty
elimination and its attendant
disorders kidney and liver
troubles, rheumatism, joint
and muscle pains, lumbago,
sciatica, fatigue and just plain
weariness and a feeling of be-
ing out of sorts.
A simple corrective is to take
R.U.R. regularly for a while.
R.U.R. gently nudges kidneys
and liver; and gets them on
the job again.
It aids in reducing uric acid
accumulations, and keeps bile
flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of faulty
elimination are corrected.
Normal functions are re-
stored, and glowing health is
a speedy result. Pain and dis-
comfort disappear.
Your chemist or store usually
sells R.U.R., but if you can’t
get R.U.R. locally, send 4/-
for the smaller size, or 7/6
for the money - back guar-
anteed full treatment to
R.U.R., 841 George Street,
Sydney.
TAKE B.V.B. AND RIGHT YOU
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE. “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
“FOOD IS A WEAPON..
a most powerful weapon”
“The way we manage our food supply will have a lot to do
with how soon we win this war. Food is a weapon —a most
powerful weapon. And the food we consume here at home
is just as much a fnaterial of war as the food we send abroad
to our soldiers and our fighting allies,” says Claude R.
Wickard, U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
We, in Australia are facing food problems
similar to those of America, and can meet them
in the same way if we use our initiative.
“Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors, hauling the very latest in farm machin-
ery, can till the soil, sow and harvest in record time, working a 24-hour
schedule where necessary to keep faith on the food front.
The safe “Caterpillar” Track-type tread means that work can proceed
whether the going is wet or dry. While other equipment is waiting
for paddocks to dry “Caterpillar” is earning its keep. And, on big
scale operations, there is no comparison with “Caterpillar” fuel
economy or low maintenance cost.
“ Caterpillar ” pulling six row lettuce cultivator
on on 1300 acre lettuce farm in Californio.
'l ' M '
i a t b IJM 1 ;
-
WAUGH & Mr. R- Tweedf®.
102 **ss*t-*~***
euun - -
p or t Mac-
CT 2-33-43
■A
am.
Service Department.
Wants.
To buy any of the prose works of Henry
Lawson, any of the prose and poetical works
of A. B. Paterson, The Passing of the Abo-
rigines and We of the Never Never. —3430.
Lady wants to share riverside country house,
one hour from Sydney, with refined married
couple, matron or spinster. —3431.
Information Sought
Number of sheep in Australia since 1938 ?
What is the record high total since sheep were
introduced, and in what year was it ?
1938, 111,057,832; 1939, 119,305,391; 1940,
122,694,025; 1941, 125,189,129; March, 1943,
124,614,672. Record high number was attained
in 1941.
* * * *
What are the orchestral solos featured in the
film “They Shall Have Music”?
“Rondo Capriccioso” (Saint-Saens), “Hora
Staccato” (Dinicu-Heifetz), “Estrellita” (Ponce-
Heifetz) and “Melodic” (Tschaikowsky).
* * * *
Recipe for hair brilliantine ?
Mix equal parts of medical paraffin oil and
bay rum. Shake well, apply sparingly and brush.
ffi H: *
How to weatherproof soft hand-made bricks ?
Apply a cement render over the bricks or
paint with an oil paint that will thoroughly seal
the pores.
* * * *
How to make white leather?
Soak the hide in clean cold water for 48
hours. For fleshing and unhairing make up
ilb. unslaked lime and £lb. salt to each gallon
of water required to immerse the hide com-
pletely, and soak for 24 hours, when most of the
hair and flesh can be scraped off. Make up
another soak, using lime only; all hair and
flesh can then be removed. Before curing, soak
again in clean cold water. For a first curing
soak use 4oz. alum to each gallon of water, and
6oz. for the second. About two days in each
will be sufficient. Before taking out the hide
cut it and see if there is still a streak of color
inside; the curing must continue until the hide
is white right through. Then allow it partially
to dry in a dark, windless place and rub in as
much fat or tallow as it can hold.
Brief Answers.
J.H.: Apply to the Secretary, Naval Board,
Navy Office, Melbourne, furnishing full name
and rating... .W.J.8.: Specimens are quartz
pebbles of little value... .C.P.G.: Details
cannot be given... .K.E.W.: Plural of concerto
is concertos... .T.G.: Get in touch with Gordon
and Gotch, Barrack-street, Sydney... .H.L.:
Leningrad was besieged for 880 days, being
finally relieved on Jan. 27 last... .W.M.: Write
to Mr. McGee, District Rural School, Scone,
N.S.W., for honey locust seeds.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —•
C.H.R.H.:
Abraham Lincoln’s birth was honored today
Throughout the great land of the U.S.A.,
Whilst in Australia today we see
Billy Hughes’s bust thrown up a tree.
L.H.C.: “The Challenger’’ vigorous, but
patchy and diffuse S.H.G.; Good country,
but not when it’s seen through “rheumy” eyes.
. ...J.E.J.: We’re getting it off our chest, too.
J.E.A.; Mildly amusing doggerel R.R.:
A shower of dots won’t make the ordinary grow
into the sublime G.J.McM.: Merely jaunty.
M.W.: Reads as if if were written 50 years
ago W.H.: Don’t, know where you could
publish them S.P.: Description’s not enough.
R.B.: “Have I a flair for doggerel?” For
very bad doggerel, unquestionably... .P.J.R.:
Thistledown M.W.: Try dismounting from
that high horse T.E.McC.; At least they
never get any worse. They couldn’t S.C.
Grievous, grievous.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.G.W.: An ancient frump with curvature
of the spine sitting at half a piano, and her
hands could stretch five octaves Billy B.: He’s
one of those stokers we take our hats off to,
wielding a shovel that size,...Jock D.; And
ye hae him holdin’ a glass instead o’ a schooner
when it’s someone else’s shout!


“Victory
through Air Power”
■;;> x
yC
t!■'
Walt. Disney’s "Victory Through Air Power." United Artists Release
Alone amongst forms of transport, air-travel is
direct. All other forms of transport must adjust
themselves to conform with conditions natural
or man-made. Air-transport alone knows no
obstacles. -
The boon of air-power in time of war is shown
by this illustration from Walt Disney’s film,
“Victory Through Air Power.” It contrasts the
long line of sea communications with the short
hop of the airline route. In war this contrast
means greatly added speed and capacity for supply
of men and munitions. In peace it means short,
inexpensive travel in place of a lengthy, costly
voyage.
“INVEST IN THE FIRST VICTORY LOAN”
Australian,
National Airways
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN PEACE ... FIRST IN WAR ... FIRST IN FUTURE
tha>
■7
tat HP
Estate Administration
demands specialized
knowledge
Friendship is not a qualification for executorship. With the best intentions
in the world, your friends are not necessarily the most competent people to
be, entrusted with the administration of your affairs in the best interests of
"your beneficiaries. Do not burden them with unfamiliar tasks. Place the
responsibility where it belongs—in the hands of Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited, where your estate will have the advantage of the cumulative experi-
ence and specialized experience of coihpetent directors and capable
executives. Ask for particulars of the service we offer.
DIRECTORS James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LI MI TED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP 41-48
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £. £ £
1933.. 482,204 8} p.c. =477,751 ) QIQ r ,„
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) Jiy.oso
1934. . 567,119 9* p.c. =533,957 ) , 7 „ a
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) “ 8,lb “ 94/,708
1935.. 628,699 12J p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 696,028 10 „„ 589,017 7, n „ nl . Q7Q
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO ) 106,011 979,843
1937.. 774,695 104 p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 114 ~,,711,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939. . 855,709 12 „ „ 741.919 ( , nR 7qn ,
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) 108,790 1,344,983
1940.. 870,299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1941.. 809,036 12 ~,,741,919 67,117 1,540,480
1942.. 763,438 12 „ ~741,919 1
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) 16,319 1,656,999
1943.. 789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1,604,121
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
Civilian consumption of beer is pegged
at two-thirds of the Jan.-Feb., 1942, level,
and has bqen since March, 1942. Excise,
now 4s. 7d. per gallon, has increased by
2s. lOd. per gallon since the close of
accounts in 1939, lifts being 3d. 1939,
9d. 1940, 3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942.
Federal Treasury receipts from beer
excise bounded along from £B.Bm. for
the year to June 30, 1940, to £ll.Bm.
1941, £14.1m. 1942 and £19.6m. 1943.
For Tooths, which enjoy a lion’s share
of the trade in N. S. Wales, “supplies
required for the forces somewhat offset
the deficiency in civilian turnover.” Ser-
vice requirements aren’t subject to the
public rationing scheme, but have to be
bought through the Defence Canteens
Board, which regulates the flow.
The only increases in the selling price
of beer made by the breweries since 1939
have been those corresponding to the
lifts in excise, which have been passed
on to hotelkeepers and over the counter
to customers in a combination of price
lifts and adjustment in the size of con-
tainers. Gross return to the retailer
depends upon whether the bulk of the
beer is sold in large or small containers,
the small being best revenue-producer
per gallon. In the metropolitan area a
16oz. “schooner” costs lid., of which the
Government takes one half, and the other
half has to cover retailer’s and brewer’s
costs plus profit; and from the profit the
Government taxgatherer takes another
deep bite. Over 73 p.c. of the breweries’
receipts for bulk' beer is handed over in
excise.
Last term the co. installed special plant
for canning citrus-fruit juices for troops
in the tropics, and results achieved have
been “excellent.” Published accounts
show a sharp contraction of £259,140 in
gross earnings—that was after allowing
£154,248 (down £5673) for depreciation
and something for bad debts and other
contingencies:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings. etc. Gross. Profit.
1930.. £1,593,798 £907,406 56.9 £686,392
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
3937.. 1,642,657 867.9&2 52.8 774,695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,582 53.7 841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,562 58.1 855,709
1940.. 2,251,584 1,381,285 61.3 870,299
1941.. 2,612,593 1.803,557 69.0 809,036
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 763,488
1943.. 2,540,068 1,751,027 68.9 789,041
But there was a convenient drop of
£284,743 in exes., which suggests a change
in the method of bookkeeping. The net
result was £25,603 stronger at 12.7 p.c.
on capital as against 12.3, 13, 14, 13.8,
13.6 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1937. The div.
was kept at 12 p.c.
Government control of capital expendi-
ture has limited purchase and improve-
ment of hotel properties, which was the
chief form competition used to take. The
year’s reduction in the book value of
fixed assets was £196,556, and in debtors’
balances £181,919:
Assets:— 1941. 1942. 1943.
Breweries, etc. £6,880,511 £6,888,439 £6,691,883
Book debts.. 1,298,996 1,002,717 820,798
Stock .. 540,282 521,282 552,764
Liquid . . 1,328,559 2,060,412 2,713,910
£10,048,348 £10,472,850 £10,779,356”
Sundry creditors 1,874,133 2,278,463 2,538,142
Net assets . . £8,174,215 £8,194,387 £8,241,214
Paid capital .. 6.182,657 6,182,657 6,182,657
Liquids consist entirely of cash and
Government stock, mainly the latter. The
year’s improvement in net assets was
£46,827.
Within the framework of war-time con-
trols the lot of traders grows increasingly
difficult and their control over costs' more
remote. As to the future, much will de-
pend upon whether the people give the
Federal Government the increased con-
stitutional powers it is asking for. If
they do, more, not less, control and inter-
ference in the details of business manage-
ment by the new, unelected class of
techno-politicians can be looked for.
United Provisions, Ltd.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 22,090 5 p.c. Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 „ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 86,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,600 6,353 7619
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
' , Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Prof. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 55,185 8 „ li,, 47,87ij 7310 172,185
1941. .142,589 8 „ 4 „ 240,774
1942.. 71,756 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 7256 248,030
1943. .136,024 8,, 4 74-,000 62,024 310,054
* Including 3 p.c. arrears. f Subject to 'intangibles
of £641,632.
Imposition of the over-all price “ceiling”
on April 12, 1943, about halfway
through the last term, didn’t do this big
ham- and bacon-curing business any
harm—the co. welded the interests of
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones 16 years
ago, paying £1,355,000 for scrip with a
par value of £716,700. That was be-
cause expanding turnover more than off-
set the increase in costs. With turnover
on the downgrade it would be the other
way about; hence the Government’s
offer of a subsidy should such a thing be
needed. The point at which need arises
is the privilege of Government officials
to decide. The problem isn’t likely to
arise while British and Allied war de-
mands continue at their present scale.
After the war much will depend upon the
speed with which Britain and Europe re-
habilitate themselves, upon what happens
in south-east Asia and upon this co.’s
ability to compete with Canadian and
U.S. manufacturers for export demand
for hams, bacon and canned foods at
prices then offering.
The competitive power of this and
other Australian cos. will depend partly
upon their efficiency and the level of
costs, which in turn will be largely
wrapped up with the question of Govern-
ment controls. While strict control might
be successful in restraining civilian spend-
ing and keeping prices down, if more and
more money continues to come into the
hands of the public through war spending
and the Government fails to mop up the
surplus, or most of it, the bahked-up
flood of savings exposes the future to
ever-increasing danger. Thus release of
many war-time controls, which will be-
come irksome when the incentive for
them is removed, is being pushed further
into the post-war background.
Since war began earnings of this group
—it owns 10 factories in the Common-
wealth and three in Maoriland —have
been steadier than the figures in the table
suggest. The big leap in the 1941 profit
was due mainly to a change in the method
of treating taxation and only partly to
bigger turnover. Then Japan’s drive
south deprived the co. of wide and grow-
ing connections it had built up in south-
east Asia. But new service and British
demands filled the gap, and there was no
pronounced change between the co.’s
1941 and 1942 pre-tax earnings.
Last term turnover stepped up 13 p.c.,
passing the five-million-pound mark. A
lot more canned meat .was sent to
Britain, and our own and allied services
are taking nearly all the ham and bacon
and the major portion of most other
lines the co.’s factories-turn out. Both
buying and selling prices are now
“fixed,” but the buying figure for pigs
has pierced the “ceiling,” owing to short-
age of stock. Still, after paying the
previous year’s tax bill (£43,653, down
£16,071) and allowing for minor reserve
adjustments, net earnings sprang £64,268,
reaching £136,024, or enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 10.5 p.c. on the
£950,000 of ord. capital. But orfly a point
was added to the div., making it 4 p.c.,
because the taxgatherer will call for the
£62,000-odd that remained, or most of
it. When the books closed over one-
third of the ord. capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows ;
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital, .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Bank overdraft . . 60,034 201,192 165,486
Other creditors . . 144,413 146,979 212,151
Tax reserve .. 29,358 2,885
Suspense account.. 380 1,895
Freeholds . . . . 395,909 388,427 380,656
Plant, etc 158,204 164,182 161,220
&'tock .. .. 871,801 538,346 559,552
Debtors .. .. -236,021 328,418 351,598
Cash, etc 37,344 44,912 40,929
Intangibles* . . 641,807 641,682 641,632
Suspense account. . 4,094
* Mainly difference between book value and par
value of inter-co. shareholdings.
To lop £105,706 off the overdraft, carry
an extra £21,206 of stocks and add
£23,108 to debtors’ balances the co. leant
upon trade creditors for a further
£65,172 last term. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£584,442) was £80,937.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sepjfc., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 8,712 6 p.c. = 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12,762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12,180 10 „ ~ 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ „ 11,000 1232 72,360
1940.. 11.812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73,841
1942.. 11,177 10 ~ ~ 11,000 177 74,018
1943.. 10,90'0 10 „ 11,000 ' 73,918
F. N. Yarwood, who sat at the board
table for the past 30 years, and at the
head of it for the last 25 of them, died
on Feb. 4in his 85th -year. His many
sound and useful suggestions to the Gov-
ernment and others did much to benefit
testators and beneficiaries as well as the co.
Present financial controls, which have
forced down interest rates and kept rents
low, mean only modest returns for trus-
tee cos, from investment of their own
funds, which are represented mainly by
Government securities and rent-produc-
ing freehold. The moderate corpus and
commission charges are anchored by
legislation, as they always have been.
So the cos. have been unable to lift their
charges to offset, or help offset, infla-
tion of costs due to imperative war spend-
ing. Thus the cos. have been long sub-
ject to the “price-ceiling” principle, and
have been compelled, to absorb expand-
ing costs within the business. However,
the uncertainties, complications and con-
trols that war has given rise to have
created urgent need for revision of wills,
as well as thrown into still bolder relief
the advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee. One result has been a
steady increase in the volume of business
placed in the expert care of the cos.
The next table shows the effect of all
these things on the Permanent’s busi-
ness, so far as they are reflected in the
published accounts:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1920. . 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 p.c.
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 „
1938.. 21,117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 „
1939.. 21,890,250 72,998 60,166 82.4 „
1940.. 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
1941.. 22,854,436 78,087 65,818 84.2
1942.. 23,656,504 80,195 68,418 85.3 „
1943.. 24,352,657 82,035 70,525 8-6.1 „
New trust business put on the books last
term exceeded the value of estates wound


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. iork and Rarrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* ♦ « w
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.i. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anp Trade Marks.—Auv i.
df
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company,
Head Office :
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Take care of
your Pen.
1+ is difficult to
replace. Above all,
prolong its life by
regular cleaning
with warm water.
m
ftleadmote
SUPREME
Til&nimMA
DIPLOMA
MADE IN ENGLAND
up by £696,163, The improvement in
gross earnings from all sources was
£lB4O. But exes., including taxation,
took all the increase and £267 besides.
After striking the usual £6OO off the book
value of premises, the net result (down
£277) was 9.9 p.c. on the £llO,OOO of paid
capital as against 10.1, 10.6, 10.7, 11.1, 11,
11.6, 10,5 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1935. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., but there is no
certainty that it will remain there, despite
the Government’s attempt to arrest the
advance of costs generally by the over-
all price “ceiling.”
At the end of Sept, last the co.’s own
funds, together with £12,974 coming to
outsiders, were represented by freehold,
etc., £52,521, Government securities
£37,991, mortgages £74,162, cash, etc.,
£34,410 and shares in subsidiary £5OOO.
The offshoot, which set up in Canberra
during the previous term, isn’t likely to
have yet contributed to the pool.
North Deborah (Vic.)
Shareholders are perplexed by the
action of L. Rubinstein and G. B. Reed,
jointly holders of 8155 shares, in calling
an extraordinary general meeting to con-
sider a motion that directors Gair
(Deborah rep.) and Michelsen (well-
known mining journalist) have lost the
confidence of shareholders, and should
be replaced by G. A. Beattie and G. S.
Anderson. Rubinstein, who joined the
board in July, 1942, asserts that matters
of policy appear to be “cut and dried
prior to meetings of directors,” and
alleges working costs are excessive, as the
result of faulty ventilation, sloping, fill-
ing and development. These are matters
which independent opinion might be
called in to settle. He further reckons
costs can be cut 10s. a ton, and wants
to see one Geo. Pell, associated with
him in the small Gordon mine and de-
scribed before that as “a successful con-
tractor on the large producing mines of
Kalgoorlie,” given control of operations
as successor to the late George Kingsley.
The other five members of the board (in-
cluding W. G, Gall, for 13 years mine
superintendent of North Broken Hill) are
solid for appointing F. Chenhall, recently
manager of Monument Hill and Central
Nell and now in charge of Deborah. They
describe Rubinstein’s knowledge of min-
ing regulations and working conditions
on the field as “apparently very limited,”
and his “theories with regard to reef for-
mation and the location and occurrence
of gold” as “fantastic.” Of Rubinstein’s
nominees, Beattie was his associate in an
unsuccessful jaunt to London to “re-
organise” the management and control of
South Kalgurli (W.A.) in 1938 ; Ander-
son is a Melbourne accountant.
The co. (paid capital £24,375) was
an economical float, principal con-
sideration for the lease being 6000 and
4000 fully-paids respectively to Monu-
ment Hill and Deborah G.M., which still
retain their scrip. The mine has been
opened up in close collaboration with the
Mines Department, and under present
control has proved one of the most suc-
cessful in Victoria. While directors have
been content to divide a modest £250
p.a. in fees, shareholders have pocketed
no less than £342,500, or £5 7s. a share,
since divs. began to flow. In the follow-
ing analysis, results peed to be considered
together with labor and cost conditions
in the industry:
Value All-in
Half- Treated, Yield, Costs, Net , —Dividents.— N
year. Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
May,’4o.. 4684 £13.44 69/10 £49,244 13/- £41,600
May,’4l.. 5170 13.84 76/5 49,321 17/6 56,000
N0v.,’41.. 6397 10.79 61/4 49,558 15/- 48.000
May,’42.. 8309 7.38 48/9 41,235 14/6 46,400
N0v.,’42.. 9538 6.32 40/4 41,188 12/- 38,400
May,’43.. 7095 6.04 45/9 26,937 10/- 32,000
N0v.,’43.. 4961 5.95 47/1 18,075 6/- 19,200
The apparent high level of costs is due
partly to the fact that shaft-sinking and
other development exes, incurred in keep-
ing ore reserves ahead of the mill are not
separated from working expenses. Fol-
lowing the ounce-and-better returns that
showed up in the early years, results
have lately stabilised around £6 to the
ton. This because bulk of the mill-feed
is now coming from the 860 ft. horizon.
But large tonnages of better-grade stuff
are still claimed to exist in the upper
levels, indicating maintenance of a satis-
factory grade of ore in the future.
Venturesome Linden (W.A.) has taken
a working option on a “goldmining
lease” at Mt. Monger, a field of shallow
deposits. Manager Annear advises that
approximately 15 tons ore, which it is
hoped will assay well, have been broken
from a winze sunk 7ft. In August last
the co. sold its mine, plant and accumu-
lated tailings at Wiluna to Coolgardie
Brilliant for £3500.
* * * •
London-controlled Mount Elliott, which
owns copper interests in the Clon-
curry (Q.) district, reports a loss
of £2279 for the 12 months to June 30,
1943, as against £2533 the year before.
Directors say the £52,779 stg. debt due
from South American Copper (in liq.)
for loans, plus interest, must be regarded
as bad, although recovery of a small por-
tion is hoped for when liquidation is
complete. Shares in the S. American
concern are of little or no present
value, but those in Talbot Alluvials
(Vic.) are estimated to be worth £lO,OOO.
Another reorganisation of the capital
(£777,375), involving drastic writing down
of book value of certain assets, is under
consideration.
*** t *
From London: Rand white miners
are demanding a 30 p.c. wage increase.
Opinion here is that if they get extra pay
the S. African Government might find
it difficult to refuse reduction in ab-
normal taxation now borne by the in-
dustry, Directly and .indirectly about
70 p.c. of the profits from goldmines are
absorbed in normal and special war
taxation.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS AT ANNUAL MEETING.
At the Annual Meeting of Proprietors of the Australian Gas Light Company held on
February 24, 1944, in Sydney, the Chairman of Directors, Sir Samuel Cohen, said: —
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We meet today in the early months of a year
which is full of hope for the victory for which
the peoples of the British Commonwealth and
its Allies have endured so much since 1939.
How far in the future the final victory lies
none of us can say, but we can all agree that
not since this titanic struggle commenced have
we entered on a year so bright in prospect.
During the four years of war that have
passed your Company has played its part and
made its contribution to the national effort,
and although that part may have been com-
paratively unspectacular, it is difficult to
envisage what the position of secondary in-
dustry would have been had not the Com-
pany’s resources been available to aid the
development of essential work.
The fact that the last four years have proved
the value of the Gas Industry in the national
economic plan leads me to remark that I hope
that this position will not be challenged in
any future national planning and that the
Company will continue to serve the community
in the future as it has done for the past 103
years.
PRICE OF GAS
The first matter concerning the Company’s
business which it is desired to deal with con-
cerns the selling price of gas. In my last
address you were informed of our fruitless
negotiations with the State Government. In
April last, in view of the failure of the State
Government to take action to correct the Com-
pany’s position, the Commonwealth Prices
Commissioner was approached. It was then
indicated to the Company that any relief
sought by it would have to be by way of a
subsidy, in view of Prices Regulation Order
No. 1015 which prevented increases in prices.
Accordingly a case was made out and pre-
sented in May. Subsequently in September
the Prices Commissioner wrote to the Com-
pany pointing out that he was unable to take
any action in the matter without the authority
of the State Government. He stated, however,
that the Stale Government had been com-
municated with but had not indicated its
attitude, and up to the present the attitude
of the State Government still remains undis-
closed. A further interview has been had
recently with officers of the Prices Branch,
and we feel that the matter is by no means
closed. Your Directors will certainly continue
negotiations until finality is reached, because
they feel that the present position is intoler-
able. As matters stand at present this Com-
pany and The North Shore Gas Company,
Ltd., occupy the unique position of being
probably the only two companies in Australia
that cannot even obtain a review of their
income as against costs.
COAL
During the year the supply of coal has
again been the source of considerable anxiety,
for reasons with which you must all be
familiar. At the end of the year the stock
was 22,000 tons, equal to 20 days’ supply, com-
pared with a maximum stock of 116,800 tons
three years ago. Our position, however, has
constantly been placed before the Common-
wealth Coal Commission, and we have never
lacked any assistance which it was in its
power to give.
PURCHASE OF GAS
In order to supplement our production of
gas so that we could meet the heavy demands
placed on us by our customers and because of
our inability to obtain labour to operate cer-
tain additional plant, a temporary arrange-
ment was made in May, 1943, to purchase gas
from The North Shore Gas Co., Ltd. The
arrangement 'has worked very satisfactorily.
During the year a proposal was submitted
to the Company to buy methane gas from the
Balmain Colliery, which is owned by Natural
Gas and Oil Corporation, Ltd. Because of
the nationwide shortage of coal and with a
desire to do all possible to help the national
effort, the Company agreed to undertake tests
designed to establish the volume of gas avail-
able as a preliminary to entering into any
agreement. Tests were commenced at the be-
ginning of November, but were almost im-
mediately discontinued for technical reasons.
They will be resumed, however, when the
Natural Gas and Oil Corporation, Ltd., has
carried out certain work. The position at
the present is thus little in advance of that
at the time the matter was opened up.
SUBSTITpTE FUELS
During the year we concurred with a pro-
posal of the State Liquid Fuel Control Board
that gas be made available at certain garages
throughout our area of supply for filling gas
bags on motor vehicles. Although the addi-
tional load thus created meant added difficul-
ties with regard to our coal stocks it was felt
that in the national interests this should be
done. The quantity of gas sold through this
medium, together with that sold at filling
stations at various of the Company’s proper-
ties, was equivalent to 134,700 gallons of motor
spirit. This quantity is exclusive of any gas
filled at private points of supply.
INDUSTRIAL MATTERS
The year under review was accompanied by
what may be regarded as the usual industrial
problems which beset Companies of the magni-
tude and type of ours, and in this respect we
were perhaps no more unfortunate than simi-
lar large-scale organisations. Industrial un-
rest is unhappily symptomatic of the times,
but it is felt by your Directors that the Com-
pany’s traditional policy of fair dealing with
its employees, having always in mind that
customers and shareholders are also entitled
to a fair deal, has contributed to the absence
of trouble of a major nature.
A matter which the Company will have to
face during the current year is the payment
of rates to be fixed by the Women’s Employ-
ment Board to female employees who have
occupied positions formerly held by men now
with the Forces. An application by the Com-
pany is before the Board for determination
of rates.
WAR LOANS
Your Directors felt it to be the duty of the
Company to make a subscription to the
Liberty Loan which was raised in November
last, and a sum of £20,000 was subscribed. In
connection with War Loans the Company has
continued its policy of offering facilities to
employees to enable them to make purchases of
War Loans and War Savings Certificates over
a period of time. Subscriptions made by
employees through this avenue amount to
£12,000.
FUTURE EXTENSIONS OF GASMAKING
AND GAS STORAGE PLANT
Since the closing of the Kent Street Works
in 1921 the ■whole of the Company’s manufac-
turing plant and a large proportion of its gas
storage plant has been concentrated at Mort-
lake. The location of the whole of this plant
on one site has advantages, but experience
has shown that there are also disadvantages,
more particularly with regard to problems
connected with the distribution of gas from
one centre of production to the large metro-
politan area in which it is to be used. Close
consideration has, therefore, been given to
the best course to be followed regarding the
location of any additional manufacturing or
gas storage plant to be erected to meet future
demands for gas.
Having in mind the large area served by the
Company (approximately 250 square miles),
the magnitude of the Company’s operations,
and their importance to the domestic and
industrial life of the community, your Direc-
tors have decided upon the adoption of a
policy of dispersal of both manufacturing and
gas storage plants to be erected in future, as
being not only in the best of the
Company itself but more particularly in_ those
of the community generally, with which is
linked the goodwill and progress of the Com-
pany- . , , ,
It is felt that the dispersal of such plants
will give greater flexibility in supplying gas,
and the advantage of their location on more
than one area, particularly in a time of war,
cannot be overlooked.
BENZOLE PLANT
The progress of the erection of the Benzole
Plant has again been very disappointing.
This has been due to delays which have
occurred in the delivery of both locally-made
and imported materials. Notwithstanding
frequent appeals to the Department of Supply
and Development for high priorities to enable
contractors to concentrate on the work in-
volved in fabricating the parts locally pro-
duced, very little assistance has been forth-
coming. The various Government Depart-
ments concerned with the control of labour
have also been approached from time to time
for skilled and unskilled labour, but up to
date without result.
Despite difficulties an appreciable amount
of work has been carried out by the Company
in the erection of some of the materials
delivered.
EXTENSION TO NO. 6 RETORT HOUSE
AND AUXILIARIES
Last year the Board authorised an extension
to one of our gas production units, viz., No.
6 Retort House. A number of important con-
tracts for steel work have been delivered on
to the site, but again, due to shortage of
labour, the actual erection of the plant has
not commenced. All the machinery for the
auxiliaries has been on order for some time.
Some difficulty is being experienced in
obtaining large machined castings, and, in
an attempt to overcome the difficulty, some
of the machining is being carried out in our
own workshops by working overtime.
RESULT OF YEAR’S OPERATIONS
The nett profit for the year, Including
£11,120/6/4 carried forward from the previous
year, amounted to £235,443/15/9 after provid-
ing the full amounts allowed by legislation
for the depreciation of assets and a contribu-
tion to the. Special Purposes Account. An
interim dividend for the June half year of
2% amounting to £97,200 having been paid in
August last, the sum now available for distri-
bution is £138,243/15/9. A final dividend of
24% for the December half year is now recom-
mended which will absorb £121,500 and leave
a balance to be carried forward of
£16,743/15/9. „
In comparison with the operations of the
year 1942 the sales of gas showed an increase
of over 136 million units, being an increase of
approximately 10% over the sales for that
year.
POST-WAR DEVELOPMENT
In my opening remarks reference was made
to the approaching victory which will crown
the nation’s war effort. In marking the con-
clusion of one period of our history, that
victory will also mark the opening of a period
of perhaps equal importance in the nation s
life. As you know, both Commonwealth and
State Governments are already preparing
plans, and from what is known of them it is
evident that they will have a profound effect
on the development of the social life of the
community. Because of the nature of the
Company’s business and the place it occupies
in the social structure the period we are about
to enter upon will therefore be a momentous
one for us. . , . -
The plans we are most interested in are, of
course, those which concern future housing
developments, and, as you know, plans already
formulated envisage the erection of many tens
of thousands of homes. Naturally our future
development will be largely determined by
the extent to which we will be able to secure
the installation of gas appliances in these
homes. Up to the outbreak of the war tve
occupied a very happy position so far as
public acceptance of gas as THE domestic
fuel was concerned. We are not content to
rest on our laurels, however, and much
thought has been and is being given by the
Company’s staff to the additional problems
which will have to be overcome in the future
if we are to retain our favourable position.
In the more general field the National Gas
Association of Australia has submitted a con-
clusive case to the Commonwealth Housing
Commission as to why, from both the view-
point of the nation and of the individual
home-owner, gas should be adopted as the
domestic fuel to be used in homes constructed
by or under Government authority. The
Company has also given written evidence on
specific questions addressed to it by the Com-
monwealth Housing Commission.
Close contact is being maintained with both
the Commonwealth and State Commissions,
and it is anticipated that both will shortly
establish Advisory Committees to deal with
equipment to which this Company will be able
to make representations.
For some time attention has been given to
possible improvements in design and the
standardisation of gas appliances, with the
object of ensuring that in the post-war period
users of gas shall have better and cheaper
appliances. In dealing with this subject
reference has been made to similar work being
done overseas, and close collaboration is being
maintained with local manufacturers.
Another problem associated with post-war
housing developments which is receiving atten-
tion concerns the method of charging for gas.
You may remember that on a number of
occasions since 1937 we have endeavoured to
obtain authority from the various Govern-
ments in this State to alter our method of
charging and bring it, in principle, into line
with that followed by our electricity com-
petitors.
Other problems concerning the future expan-
sion of the Company’s business have been
defined and are being dealt with. No doubt
as time passes additional problems will
emerge, and these, too, will be dealt with.
We approach the future with confidence in
the knowledge that on the facts there can be
no justifiable decision by Governments or
individuals which would do other than ensure
that gas will be as widely used in the new
homes to be built in the post-war period as
it has been used in the new homes of the
pre-war period.
Before concluding my address I desire to
express the Directors’ , appreciation of the
assistance and loyal support given by the
Executive Officers and staff of the Company
during another stressful year.
I now move;—
“That the Statement of Accounts for the
past year be received, that the report of the
Directors be adopted and that this meeting
do order and determine that a dividend of
24% be paid' for the half year ended 31st
December, 1943, on the ‘A’ and ‘B’ shares.”


THE MORE YOU HAVE
THE MORE YOU HEED
TO TAKE CARE
The wrong use of money'can lengthen the
war, and, maybe, wreck our chances of
happiness and security after the war is oven
THE WRONG WAY TO
HANDLE MONEY AND WHY
The wrong way is to wink at high
prices and fool ourselves we can
afford them, simply because
money is in our pockets, or to
spend in the black market to get
an unfair share of rationed goods
or goods in short supply.
These actions press against the
price ceiling, which has been set
to keep prices down and the
value of money up. They waste
resources of manpower and
materials needed for urgent war
production.
THE RIGHT WAY
TO USE MONEY
The Government does many things
to keep living costs down. Ration-
ing helps—price control helps.
High taxes help. They are con-
trols on those extra pounds. But
the real control is in our hands—
yours, mine. Let’s make sure we
exercise that control. Let’s save
all we can and lend it to Australia
to win the war. Our self-denial
helps keep prices down, war pro-
duction up, and makes a direct
contribution to Victory.
Make an advance subscrip-
tion now at any Bank,
Savings Bank or Stockbroker, or buy S/- National Savings
Stamps at any Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office.
* GET READY FOR THE
VICTORY LOAN
a scrap
of paper
.... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERALINSURfINCE CO.LID.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PEBK.INS, General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Implications of Better Housing
It is here believed that housing of a
kind which gives a person a decent home
for which he can pay or reasonably hope
to pay is one of the things that will help
to bring reason and stability to many
of those Australians who seem, at times
to be lost to reason and stability from
a political point of view. And it is
thought that other people who have an
interest in the future of Australia should
also take more than a passing interest
in the housing problem. A comfortable
home and enough ground for a garden
have more appeal than many real-
ised. This has been revealed to some in
the present shortage of petrol, alcohol
and vegetables. Lack of petrol has kept
them at home, shortage of alcohol has
meant more mental and less social acti-
vity, and the absence in the shops of
many types of vegetables' has presented
a problem the solution of which seems
to rest in taking up the slack in enforced
recreational inactivity.
The housing question is at present agi-
tating many minds. There are those who
see an opportunity of providing desir-
able housing in the post-war period out
of the accumulation of wage-earners’
war-time savings and the development of
new housing methods and materials. In
Europe the wreckage of millions of
homes by bombing should result in hous-
ing on a wholesale scale, and that should
mean lower costs, new techniques. There
have been an Australian housing shortage
during this war and an increase in
marriages that should add interest to
home-making when that again becomes
possible. Also, home-building on an
extensive scale would give re-employment
to thousands of demobilised soldiers at
a time when many industrial acti-
vities were marking time pending the
shaping of post-war public demand for
other goods.
There are other people who see in the
housing problem a vehicle to further
their political aims. The Federal Gov-
ernment has been putting forward post-
war housing plans which are a thing of
form only, without any of the substance
which those who understand the realities
°f t be problem are looking for. Where
the Federal housing proposals are men-
tioned officially it can usually be found
mat they are accompanied by a reminder
that any Commonwealth post-war indus-
trial participation is contingent upon the
granting of additional Constitutional
powers.
Housing is not a thing to be used as
a political smokescreen or as a field of
exploitation by bureaucrats or private
speculators and profiteers. Many of our
war-inflated civil servants and “econo-
rnists” will hate to see the control of
housing slip out of their hands with the
com i n g G f p eace and revived civil indus-
try The full extent 0 f Government in-
trusjon j nto t jj e housing problem should
be researc h as to new designs, methods,
materials and fittings . investigation and
( w h ere necessary) supervision of prices
G f building materials ; an endeavor to
bring about co-operation between the
ma j or components of the building indus-
tr so as to reduce cos t s by increased
effic i en cy; the free dissemination of
literature and plans to do with housing
among municipa ] itieSj building societies,
etc , . and tke a rrangement of financial
facilities for home-builders at reasonable
interest and on reasonable security,
e , , ... . .
State preoccupation with housing, in
S. Wales, at any rate, has been mostly
a poetical sort of thing. In Victoria it
appears to have been handled better, and
at the present time there the State Hous-
ing Commission is doing progressive
work in the matter of pre-cast concrete
walls for workers’ cottages. In Tasmania
the State also appears to be taking a
practical interest in housing. But to be
of any use to the community housing
enterprises will have to get down to bed-
rock. It is no use of the Commonwealth
or any State Government doing some off-
hand planning about housing, spending
a few millions in an extravagant way and
then dismissing the whole matter with a
“Thank God we have done something
about housing.” It is evident that where
makeshift Government housing is being
carried out -for workers in N. S. Wales
at the present time results are not all
that they might be even when the limi-
tation on expenditure is recognised.
There are various big branches of
private enterprise which could well in-
terest themselves in the matter of better
and cheaper housing. The metal com-
panies, the cement concerns, the brick-
works and the iron-and-steel industry
could all make a contribution to the
cheapening and improving of cottage con-
struction. The mutual life offices could do
a lot about the supervision and finance of
home-construction ; one or two of the
biggest are already taking up a very prac-
tical and energetic attitude.
We are hearing a lot from overseas’
about the progress plastics are making
in the building trade, but there are many
in Australia who feel that the possi-
bilities of properly-made and -handled;
cement have hot been fully tested,
especially when used in a pre-cast slab
or wall form. The slab method, while
possessing possibilities of “streamlined”
building operations., has particular advan-
tages in the matter of variety of style.
But in all matters of cement construc-
tion it has to be remembered that any
old kind of concrete will not do. It has
to be made properly, cast in small sec-
tions where possible, and cured under
the right conditions. This is a matter in
respect of which the Government could
conduct research and establish standards.
Many people would at present be afraid
to put their hard-earned savings into any-
thing except a conventional type of house,
and it may be that convention is costing
them 25 p.c. more than is really
necessary.
Cheaper, better housing of whatever
type would stimulate nearly all building
activity. It would also tend to attract
population and increase employment
generally. In peace-time the tempo of
the building trades has always been an
indicator of employment and spending
in other industries. A healthy, efficient
building trade is therefore something to
which a nation can devote attention with
the aim not only of providing cheaper
and better homes than hitherto but also
of providing more regular employment
to all its people.
It will be a good thing if Australians,
whether they possess a home or not, at
this juncture start to become housing-
minded. The war is not over yet, nor
is it possible to forecast when it will be,
but it is well to think about projected
activities in advance. The return to
peace-time life may be something of a
riot unless the people have made plans
of their own ; mere legislation and regu-
lation will not control economic condi-
tions any more than they have controlled
black marketing.
There will need to be a personal
interest taken in housing problems by
all sorts of people and industries.
Building societies of the better kind did
something worth while in the past.
But it is probable that after this war best
results will be obtained by concentration
and partial standardisation of effort. In
that case it will be necessary to get down
to the essentials of all home-building, not
merely to provide finance and architects’
supervision in limited areas. Where basic
building, materials are standardised and
approved construction methods are given
nation-wide publicity it should be pos-
sible also to estimate fair building costs
in most areas, and the homeseeker safe-
guarded accordingly. The shark and the
speculator as well as the red-tape and
remote-control of the bureaucrat will be
inflationary forces in post-war building
unless counter-organisation against hap-
hazard construction and inflation is built
up in the meantime. ——
Private enterprise and the middle class
have raised vigorous voices the
pattern which the Australian economy is
taking under a Government that is
drifting willy-nilly towards socialism.
But they will have to do more than talk.
They will need to organise along lines
calculated to inspire a regard for thrift
among wage-earners, a respect for homes
and personal property and an esteem for
the industries which produce their living
requirements and provide their employ-
ment. Home-ownership is one of the
best educations in citizenship.
Farmers in M.L. are getting seriously
perturbed at the decline in dairy produc-
tion, and even city interests are waking
up to it. Not only did the 1942-43 season
provide the lowest butterfat production,
with one exception, for the past 10 years,
but at the close of the season on July 31,
1943, the cow population of the Shivery
Isles was the smallest since 1931-32. All
the evidence indicates that the trend is
becoming more marked, and the loss of
65,000 cows in milk in one season is
viewed with the gravest concern by the
industry. Not even the Government pre-
tends that the present guaranteed price is
sufficient to cover costs, but the position
continues to drift.
The plight of dairying in M.L. is tied
up with the man-power shortage and the
prevailing conviction that the country is
overcommitted. Under the “anomaly”
clause variations are continually being
made to the stabilisation regulations, re-
sulting in certain wage-earners having
their incomes stepped up; the dairy-
farmer sees none of this, though costs
constantly rise against him. Lack of fer-
tilisers can be largely blamed for the
drop in butterfat output per cow, and
apparently little can be done about it
until Nauru phosphates are again avail-
able. If M.L.’s principal source of
wealth is to be preserved drastic and
swift measures seem called for.


FACING A PARK
The one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . • . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
TAE WFNIWARIH
c=V"7
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HE\D OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
Aij Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E R Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Bucrland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager
ds
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Holary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
ONLY AGENTS
£l7/10/-
Built entirely in Australia by otaw
lACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pfy. Ltd.
- - SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
BAD for llte Country's Finances
GOOD for the Comdnfs Tyres
*
j
p ir.
X
1 1*
'V f i
0
iff
til*
pi*
ch°
W*
ft
PP/VE CAREFULLY- 0
HELP AUSTRALIA/
THE
Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
BUY 5/-
WAR
SAVINGS
STAMPS'
OLYMPIC
SrubberJ
’Sr
la
JINSULATEDI)
CABLESf
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE
INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
mmm
m
■2%
m
I
e
ft
m
n
m
, •**
,«»»»*“* * 1
4s of '« at wt fo»« 4 **
A *\e 4eW m „v\\\('4 ia , „\ e s MP*
u P , VpT ao«v cUV , \tvd\\sU' es
* ftirt vU nrVse of ** at 4 . mw4 P to4t^
° m>4 wW too Ae
" toWe * S ton. **** ; So V. addilb*
0 . n aevia\ tt^ ott V
***** * 4 , „.««•*•
5 m ° tot of the Were will
»dustn.es <•» .
e equipped and manned to make
Jody by Richards” a by-word
1 the skyways, as it has been
rfonnrnfinnc ATI fll A rA3 /I
1h
w a rbo n d s
dsf
R. 44
A Ministerial sub-committee, to be a
“standing sub-committee to deal with all
matters of civil administration in the ter-
ritories of Papua and New Guinea,” has
been announced by the Prime Minister.
The sub-committee will include Mr.
Forde, Dr, Evatt, Mr. Chifley and Mr.
Ward. Mr. Ward’s department (External
Territories) will be the secretariat for the
sub-committee, and Eddie is to be “the
responsible Minister in all matters relat-
ing to the. civil administration in Papua
and New Guinea, whether for immediate
or post-war application.” He will make
recommendations to the War Cabinet. At
present the administration is carried out
by the Australia-New Guinea Adminis-
tration Unit—a military administration
unit. The first recommendations of the
“responsible Minister” (Eddie) will be
awaited with interest by those whose
properties in the territories at last look
like becoming workable again. Rubber
has been onejof the first products to be
handed back to the partial control of
growers. No. 1 problem in the restora-
tion of plantations is native labor. Eddie,
before the Brisbane Lie, used to be Min-
ister for Labor (white).
* * * ♦
Treasurer Chifley has refused a request
by the Associated Stock Exchanges
for the removal of the prices ceil-
ing on shares. Chifley gave as his
reasons “the policy of the Government”
and fears of inflation. Some of that
might possibly pass as a formal excuse
even if not as a reason. But a claim that
there was “no justification for the re-
moval of the share-price ceiling while
limits operated on wages and other
prices” brings discredit to the whole
Government attitude. Whatever limit
there exists on “other prices” there is no
limit on the basic wage except that it is
regulated by living costs. There is no
allowance made in the share-price ceiling
for inflating living costs or depreciating
money. It is fixed hard and fast at the
level of September, 1941 —a method, of
course, which makes no allowance for
alterations in real values since.
» * * ♦
The plantations of Koitaki Rubber,
Papua, were taken over by the staff as
from July 1, 1943. The Australian New
Guinea Production Control Board has
recently been set up in Port Moresby,
and as at present constituted the
Koitaki directors find little fault with
it. The Koitaki , estates • suffered from
military occupation, but main damage
has been from neglect, and this is
estimated at least £4OOO, an item which
the taxation department has refused to
allow. Labor is not yet available to
check the excessive growth of weeds
which is impairing immediate prospects,
but tapping is going on, and new areas will
be producing rubber as soon as natives
are available to handle the extra work.
At all events, the directors feel that the
plantation has passed through its worst
stages. We are now securing better results.
The price for rubber will be shortly reviewed,
and we hope favorably, and it is therefore
possible that the balance sheet which will
be presented for the 12 months ending June
30, 1944, and which it is hoped to present
not later than November next, will show
satisfactory results.
A small profit (£3093) was shown during
the year in which the Japs approached
Koitaki’s back door. Since June 30,
1943, the co. has put £14,000 in Com-
monwealth loans, which would seem to
indicate a considerable accretion to cash
balances as a result of profitable produc-
tion. Paid capital is £75,214, almost
entirely ord. money. The plantations are
conservatively valued, and are capable of
producing over 500,0001 b. of rubber in a
good season. Tapping, is granted priority
over weeding or planting at the moment.
Australia, it seems, has a Scientific
Liaison Bureau, John J. Dedman being
the Minister and J. E. Cummins the
director. The idea, according to the
Minister, is to establish a “post office”
for those on war service, in industry and
in offices who are up against problems
which call for “the scientist’s help.” A
directory of “scientific resources in Aus-
tralia” —“tentative” —“it is certain to
have mistakes and omissions” —has been
brought out in a second edition to facili-
tate inquiries as to problems and supplies
and services. The idea of the directory,
especially when its compilers can be more
confident of its completeness and its accu-
racy, is. a good one. But there is an un-
happy emphasis on “the Hon. J. J. Ded-
man” throughout the publication. It is
to be hoped for the success rather than
the size of the bureau that there is not
a similar emphasis throughout its acti-
vities. The affair of penicillin production
in South Australia, in which the Com-
monwealth Department of Health was
involved, is not suggestive of “liaison.
* * * *
Beer production must stand at
7,200,000 gallons a month. Senator Keane
says. He adds that there is neither the
man-power nor the materials to produce
more. It is possible, however, that the
wine industry could supply more liquor
without lowering the quality and thus
help to overcome the tendency for poison-
ous concoctions to find their way through
black markets to service men on leave
and to civilians who are not on some-
body’s “quota list.”
* * * *
Involving “approximately half a mil-
lion,” five hotels of the Richardson chain
in Melbourne are reported to have passed
to Carlton and United Breweries. The
Alexander and the Richardson Family
Hotel are not included in the deal, re-
puted to be one of the biggest in the his-
tory of the trade. Nearly £400,000 of the
consideration has already been invested
in Commonwealth loans.
* * * *
The following table shows the rise in
Canadian income-tax collections since the
war began:
Year to Individuals, Companies, Total,
Aug. 31. $ Million. $ Million. $ Million.
1939 46 77 123
1940 .. 55 97 152
1941 .. 178 250 428
1942 .. 373 524 897
1943 .. 677 753 1430
Over the four years to August 31 last
total income-tax collections were $2907
million—sl2B3 million from individuals
and $1624 million from companies. Up
to that date $5O million of tax on indi-
viduals and $2O million on companies was
returnable after the war in the form of
post-war credits. The population of
Canada is close to 12 million.
* * * *
Dissatisfaction expressed about single-
weft “standard” cloth, says W. 0.1. Minis-
ter Dedman, is coming chiefly from
tailors who want to make extra profit on
suits cut from a heavier material. In
truth, the most weighty arguments against
the flimsy Dedman stuff are being put
forward by the woollen manufacturers
themselves, who see nothing but unpopu-
larity and economic waste in the standard
cloth. It would be interesting to hear
whether the Minister has any plans for
woollen cloths after the war. Especially
in women’s materials, competition from
synthetics, even of British manufacture,
threatens to be solid. In Britain,
though the home and export trades in tex-
tiles are subject to strict war-time con-
trols, styles and patterns of woollens and
other cloths for the post-war period are
given full attention. It would seem that
post-war problems of private enterprise
in Australia, including the wool and
woollen industries, are too bourgeois to
be given serious consideration by Can-
berra Ministers and the bureaucracy.


THE SERVICE MAN
In the Intermediate Defences.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in the South
Pacific have for the time being become
almost entirely naval and air-borne, with
some slight skirmishing as troops move
forward in the Maclay coast and out of
the Finisterre to the Astrolabe Bay coast,
which still has not been reached.
On February 22 the Allied S.-w. Pacific
Command announced the wiping out of
a fresh convoy of nine ships outward
bound from Rabaul which were shelter-
ing in various harbors round the Bis-
marcks. This brought reported Japanese
losses in the South Seas, including Truk,
to 63 ships, naval and merchant marine
—in the Pacific 92—in three weeks, plus
164 aircraft.
The vessels destroyed in the Bismarck
convoy included a corvette, two patrol
vessels and a 6000-ton vessel sunk near
Wewak. The rest were of 1000 to 2000
tons. About 250 barges were sunk in
three weeks, over 1000 in a year.
Attack on Saipan
On February 22 a large Allied naval
force, very similar in composition and
objective to that used against Truk,
struck at Saipan and Tinian in the Mari-
anas, about 1600 miles from Japan
proper and 700 miles north of Truk.
Saipan is the very heart of the Japanese
South Sea islands and their administrative
centre.
The attacks were led by Admiral
Mitscher and began on the same day that
the Eniwetok atoll (Marshalls) fell com-
pletely into Allied hands with the capture
of Parry Island after 12 hours of land
fighting. Eniwetok garrison was estimated
at 3000.
There were two attacks in force and
a minor one on Guam, and there was
fierce but not effective resistance, particu-
larly by land-based torpedo bombers
which came out to meet the attackers
at night and continued their assaults
next morning.
Including 87 machines destroyed on
the ground, enemy losses were computed
at 135 aircraft. Few Jap ships were seen,
but a cargo-ship was sunk, another
severely damaged, many light craft raked
over, along with seaplane and aerodrome
facilities. The Allied loss was six aircraft.
Carriers and warships were undamaged.
Liberators attacked Kusaie in the Caro-
lines and various atolls in the Marshalls
still in Japanese hands, among them
Jaluit, the capital of the group, which
has not yet been invaded.
Some officers who visited Truk with
the attacking fleet remarked later that the
base had not been as strong as expected,
but the standard of strength which they
envisioned seems to have been that of
Pearl Harbor. Nobody who had ever
seen the atoll could have imagined that
its meagre terrain would allow of its
being made anything more than a strong
but impermanent link in the chain of
heavily-defended staging bases. It could
never be a major base in the same sense'
as Pearl Harbor or Sasebo.
Mopping-up in New Guinea
In the Bismarcks and New Guinea and
the Solomons, the routine bombing and
strafing, with naval attacks for variation,
continued, chiefly against the dwindling
bases of Rabaul, which holds the lowest
concentration of aircraft yet seen there
in months, and Wewak, New Ireland and
the Admiralties. About 1000 tons of
bombs were used during the week.
There seem to be no major enemy
vessels in the Bismarck harbors. No
tankers have reached Rabaul for a long
time. The whole of the west end of New
Britain is in Allied hands after the series
of '’engagements which followed the land-
ing at Cape Gloucester on Boxing Day
and ip which enemy casualties were
placed at an estimated 7000, mainly from
the 165th Division.
Further vessels and barges were re-
ported sunk late in the week. And there
was little or no enemy resistance.
For the second time Allied destroyers
at the week-end cheekily visited Kavieng r
sank a ship in the harbor and silenced
shore batteries. Late in the week
bombers attacking Momote and Loren-
gau, in the Admiralties, encountered no
air opposition.
South-west Pacific H.Q. estimates that
there are still 50,000 to 60,000 of the
enemy in the Bismarcks and New Guinea
area and 22,000 in the Solomons.
Japan’s Reactions
A burst of optimism led Colonel Knox,
the U.S. Naval Secretary, to issue a
warning that the Allies had so far
operated against only the intermediate
defences of Japan, and had not tested
the strength of its inner defences.
Nevertheless, enemy reactions to the
bombardment of Truk and Saipan were
significant. The Imperial High Com-
mand was so far shaken out of the pipe
dream of great Japanese victories in
which it had indulged for months as to
acknowledge a serious setback for the
first time. It admitted the loss at Truk
of two cruisers, three destroyers, 13
transports and 120 aircraft—two light
cruisers, three destroyers, an ammunition
ship, eight cargo vessels among a total
of 19, and 201 aircraft had been claimed
by the Americans.
The Chief of the Japanese Army
General Staff, Field-Marshal Sugiyama,
was hurriedly replaced by General Tojo.
The Navy Minister, Admiral Shigetaro
Shimada, succeeded the Naval C.1.G.5.,
Admiral Osami Nagano, who was Japan’s
delegate to the London Naval Confer-
ence of 1935 and considered the virtual
builder of Japanese naval policy in the
past decade. Other changes suggested
that the Imperial General Staff had awak-
ened to the primary importance of large-
scale naval operations.
These measures were followed by the
issue of a staccato series of Imperial
rescripts, closing places of entertainment,
increasing the employment of boys and
women in armament industries, tightening
anti-aircraft defence measures and the
war-time sumptuary laws and suspend-
ing most of the little liberties which
Japanese still possessed.
Japan is now a grim dictatorship, its
people and resources nominally, at least,
at the complete disposal of the Emperor
and General Tojo in person, who are
directing it as quickly as possible to total
mobilisation in every walk of life and
industry.
Relief in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Critics who saw disaster
at the first hint of reverse were wrong
again in their diagnosis of events in
Burma.
It is true that the Seventh Indian Divi-
sion was cut off for a time (February 6).
In the kind of fighting which takes place
in such terrain or, in fact, in any modern
large-scale fighting, with its loosely-knit
fronts, brigades and divisions are apt to
find themselves alone. It happened on
both sides in the Anzio Battle with regi-
mental-sized formations. It happened to
Australian units in the Sattelberg battles.
But no great harm comes of it, and
often much good, if there are plenty of
reserves in the background and good air
support, unless the enemy is very power-
ful in artillery, which usually he is not
in such situations.
The Seventh Indian Division was in
due course relieved, after the enemy had
been given good cause to regret that he
had ever heard of it. He seems to have
lost at least 3000 out of 7000 troops in
the British counter-offensive, though his
operations gained time for him, which
is valuable in a short season.
With the Ngakyedauk Pass open, the
Allied 14th Army was able to carry the
offensive into what was likely to be the
main line of enemy resistance.
Heavy fighting was going on at the
week-end, with the Jap throwing in fre-
quent counter-attacks along the Maung-
daw-Buthidaung road. But the initiative
is in Allied hands.
There were some sharp encounters also
in the Chin Hills.
Armageddon on Wings.
“Ek Dum”: The Germans will remem-
ber the last week of February, 1944, as
the period in which two-way bombing of
German military objectives from Britain
and Italy, combined with day and night
raiding by U.S.A.F. and R.A.F. forces
respectively, began to operate.
Main operations included;
Feb. 20: U.S.A.F. formations, covered by
heavy and light long-distance fighters, attacked
Brunswick, Leipzig, Gotha, Bernburg, Aschers-
leben, Halberstadt, mostly in and round the Harz
Mountains, and—up on the Baltic—Rostock,
one of the principal service ports of the Eastern
front; also targets in Hanover and aerodromes
in the Low Countries. The Americans claimed
18 machines shot down by their heavy bombers
and 33 by fighters, against a loss o£. 15 bombers
and five fighters. Their target's covered nearly
40 per cent, of Germany’s fighter-production
factories.
The R.A.F. dropped 20QO tons of bombs on
Stuttgart, mainly on the Bosch works, which
produce most of the ignition equipment' of the
Luftwaffe.
Feb. 21-22: The heaviest daylight raid on
any objective was made on Regensburg, in
Bavaria, by two forces, one the biggest
ever assembled in the Mediterranean, the other
from Britain, on airframe component factories at
Aschersleben and Halberstadt. The Junkers 88
factory at Bernburg was also blasted. The
Germans claimed to have shot down 194 U.S.
machines for the day—“at Regensburg,” they
'alleged, “at least 38 p.c. of the attacking
machines, despite bad weather and popr visi-
bility.” The U.S. authorities admitted the loss
of 41 bombers and 10 fighters from Britain
and 15 ’planes from the Mediterranean forces
engaged, including the Regensburg raid, in
1600 sorties which reached Yugoslavia and the
Italian land battle line, as well as Bavaria. A
day’s bag of 133 German machines, making a
total of 310 for three days, was claimed by the
Americans, who said that they encountered
about 600 enemy machines all told.
Feb. 23: Mediterranean and British-based
U.S. bombers attacked Steyr, in Austria, in day-
light, their target? the two great ball-bearing
factories. They met heavy opposition, in-
cluding twin-engined rocket-firing machines, but
only seven aircraft were lost by the Med. A.F.
in all operations, which totalled 850 sorties,
against 36 aircraft lost by the enemy.
Feb. 24: Schweinfurt had savage night attacks
from the R.A.F. heavies, and Steyr, still a bon-
fire from the previous day’s raids, suffered a
destructive visit from British Wellingtons based
on Italy. U.S.A.F. issued a statement that
156 aircraft had been destroyed in some of
the greatest air battles of the war over Schwein-
furt and Gotha and in North-Sea-area aero-
dromes. British losses for the night raids
were 35 R.A.F. bombers. The American forces
from Britain lost 49 bombers and 10 fighters
and from Italy 10 machines.
Feb. 25: U.S.A.F. from both sides assaulted
Regensburg (Ratisbon), Stuttgart, Augsburg and
Fiirth, an industrial appendage of Niirnberg—
all dealing in large phases of aircraft construc-
tion. The raiders from Italy reported 95 out
of 250 interceptors shot down at Regensburg,
and the British-based squadrons claimed a bag
of 47. U.S. losses were 30 bombers and three
fighters from Britain and 39 bombers and five
fighters from Italy.
That night the R.A.F. struck at Frankfort
on the Main and two converging British air-
fleets followed up the U.S.A.F. daylight attack
on the Messerschmitt assembly works at Augs-
burg—from which Hess began his journey to
Scotland on May 10, 1941, and against which
the first Lancaster squadron ever in action was
used last year—with a helping of 2000 tons of
incendiaries and explosives. The R.A.F. lost
24 bombers. Bad weather then interrupted
operations.
A Record Week
In the whole week about 19,000 tons
were dropped on German objectives—-
more than had been thrown on Germany
in any month up till August last. It was
claimed that about 660 German machines
were shot down in the air ; just over 300
Allied machines failed to return. The
Germans asserted that 639 Allied
machines were shot down, the bulk four-
engined bombers, and that the week’s
operations had cost the R.A.F.-U.S.A.F.
5000 men.
It must be remembered that the bulk
of the enemy machines destroyed were
single- or two-man fighters ; the bulk of
the Allied machines heavy bombers.
In the week then, in their own esti-
mate, the Allies lost something approach-
ing 2000 aircrew personnel. Not exces-
sive, but grievous, for they would be
among the pick of the brains of the
forces, men with long training and special
aptitudes. Those lost in fighters are men
from a very limited class —men resilient
to high speeds who fly such machines as
the heavy Thunderbolt.
It can be reckoned that the battle of the
aircrews is now on. The battle of Britain
was lost by the Germans more because
they could not stand up to the loss of
aircrews and could not enlarge their air-
crew pools than through loss of bombers
o. any failure to inflict destruction on
land objectives. They not only could not
expand their effort, but they could not
maintain their personnel at a time when
crews and ground staffs were smaller
than at present.
‘There is a warning against overopti-
mism in the experience. At present
economy of man-power is on the enemy’s
side.
The types of machines used included
the new Heinkel 177, which began as a
two-engined job with two of the
world’s most powerful engines—24oo-h.p.
Mercedes Benz. About the size of
the Lancasters, they were meant to
be an opposite number. Empty, they
weigh about 35,0001 b.; loaded, 71,6001 b.;
overloaded, 82,0001 b.; maximum range
on the two engines—a new edition has
four of lower power—is 7040 miles at
180 m.p.h. Their top speed is well over
300 m.p.h.
Counter-raids
A February 22 Home Security com-
munique spoke of widespread enemy
activity over England. Out of about 200
machines about 100 penetrated London,
parts of East Anglia, south-west England
and the Home Counties. The raid that
night lasted longer than those of Friday
and Saturday, and it was directed mainly
against the city outskirts.
German raids on London last week
were more experimental than otherwise.
While they did considerable damage over
a wide area and cost many British lives
and the loss of many homes, they seemed
to be aimed at discovering the best points
and line of approach and the best
method of dealing with the new barrage
cover, radio-location and fighter protec-
tion, though newspapers referred to “hap-
hazard, scalded-cat methods” of raiding.
Mainly, in the raids of February 18 and
20, the enemy came in from the north
at height from a direction in which there
could be expected to be large forces of
British bombers going about their busi-
ness. He went over at jgreat altitude,
dropping bombs at random, and then
swept out across the Channel in long
power-dives of 50 miles or so.
The raid of February 20 showed the
Germans in a tighter formation than
formerly, with pathfinders ahead in the
British manner, and showers of tinfoil
sandwiches to baffle radio-location—that
again a British expedient.
They faced a forest of searchlights and
a gale of shells. They used flares which
were followed down both by showers of
incendiaries and high explosives which
damaged rows of houses, an old-time
music hall, a great public school and a
market. Many people were killed. Ten
raiders were shot down, including two
over their own bases.
On February 23 raiders came in in
coveys, flying fast and high. They
smashed up some blocks of working
men’s flats where the scene afterwards
was described as “like a battlefield,”
causing many casualties, including a high
proportion of women and children. In
one district high explosives killed a lot
of people; in another a street was set
ablaze for 200 yards on each side.
Eleven raiders were shot down during
another sharp raid on London on Feb-
ruary 24. Amid the whirling maze of
searchlights and the deafening roar of
the guns all the usual tragedies and hero-
isms were enacted —four houses wiped
out and 40 damaged by a single bomb;
dance-halls and a greyhound stadium hit;
brave harmless people trapped dnd
rescued or dug'out, mangled and dead.
But the organisation was a different
matter from that of 1940. Fires were
got quickly under control. The trapped
were dug out as fast as only highly-trained
rescue-workers could manage.
On Friday night, with snowy weather
over the Channel, there was for the first
time in a week no enemy activity around
London. Goebbels’s bombers made the
attack through the microphone from
Berlin, bragging that soon Britain would
not only be smashed flat but concave.
Most Londoners were more interested
in the Oxford and Cambridge boatrace.
The Balance In Italy.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in Italy have
been passing through a lull during which
each combatant has built up his offen-
sive and defensive power in preparation
for the main phases of the great battle
for Rome, which soon will begin.
The German command at the Anzio
bridgehead is in the hands of General
von Mackensen, descendant of a member
of the Mackenzie clan, and a relative of
the Mackensen who distinguished himself
against Russian and Rumanian armies
in World War I. The younger Macken-
sen is said to have brought in three fresh
divisions, making a total of 10 on the
Anzio front, and 19 in all southern Italy,
with six in easily accessible reserve in
the Italian north.
An official estimate is that German
losses on the Anzio bridgehead alone
have been 15,000, including 2816
prisoners—the equivalent of a full divi-
sion and a regiment. And Alexander’s,
estimates are conservative.
When the fighting had reached the
Volturno, eight or nine German divi-
sions were pitted against the Allies in
Italy. The feat of building up the Allied
armies while fighting forward in terrible
mountains, snow and rain, over many
miles of winding and well-defended roads,
is one which will go down in history as
the greatest feat of its kind yet organised
at the end of sea communications thou-
sands of miles long.
It assumes gigantic proportions when
it is realised that, contemporaneously, the
Allies have laid down in Italy a bomber
base capable of handling a striking force
which, including ground staff and sup-
plies, probably calls for the services of
not far short of 100,000 personnel, any-
thing up to 2000 or 2500 bombers and
fighters. It is a force which must require
up to 1,000,000 gallons (4000 tons) of
petrol, 1000 tons of bombs and seven or
eight million rounds of ammunition
loaded in its belts for any day’s work.
Time will shame the miserable critics of
the Allied effort in Italy.
The operations on the Anzio bridge-
head throughout last week consisted of
savage attempts to break into the peri-
meter and interrupt the building up by
the Allies of the strength which they will
not use till they feel it is powerful enough
to be successful. Rome Radio declared
that Allied losses had been 4000 in killed
and prisoners alone —an obvious lie.
The situation has been kept well in
hand, largely owing to the artillery which
General Alexander has been able to mass
and use with deadly effect.
On the Cassino front the bloody room-
to-room fighting of the early part of the


Public Notices.
I DOMONICO ANTONIO CARABETTA, of .Italian
nWionalitv born at Calabria, in the province of
Reffdo Italy and resident 16 years in Australia, now
Re ff?®’ at of Port Hacking Road and Kings-
wav, Caringbah, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
ghmefa sbi/al ffiujUe tfhm
week was interrupted by snowfalls. On
the Eighth Army (Adriatic) front, too,
there was still at the week-end a thick
carpet of snow. But on the west at sea
level the Anzio bridgehead had become
a of mud.
"Deliberate" Retreat.
“Ek Dum”: The Germans now refer
to their movement in north Russia as
“deliberate retreat.” Previously it was
described in such phrases as “In
sector our forces withdrew according to
plan to a new line of prepared defences.”
The retreat has taken on new forms
and greater speed, a fact due to the
opportunities presented by the last period
in which there will be hard, frozen ground
to move on —this following the heavy
snowfall and below-zero cold of the pre-
vious week.
The enemy seems bent on getting out
of swamps and doing what heavy river
crossing is necessary before the thaw fully
sets in. In a week or so much of the
terrain off which he is moving in the
region of Rogachev-Jlobin-Bobruisk,
north of the Pripet Marshes, will be like
melting blancmange.
His retreat last week affected all
sectors and, as before, was being carried
out along the routes through which he
came in. He began it with a continued
withdrawal towards the Pskov outlet,
below Lake Peipus, which presently en-
gulfed Dno, the junction town where the
Staraya Russa-Pskov railway crosses the
Leningrad-Kiev line. The Staraya Russa
German horn was quickly pulled in. By
the week-end it needed only another
short Russian advance to wipe out the
base of the horn.
At the same time, fighting was reported
from Moscow to be proceeding fiercely
in the suburbs of Krivoi Rog. The Ger-
mans presently announced the abandon-
ment of that place, which before the war
provided Russian industry with nearly
half its iron ore, “after all installations
and buildings and material of possible
military use” to the Russians had been
“either removed or completely destroyed.”
Krivoi Rog was the eastern anchor of
the northern wall of the Germans’ Bug-
Black Sea corridor, which formed their
outlet from the Dnieper to Rumania and
the Carpathian region. The mainposts of
the wall (B. 23/2/’44) were, besides
Uman, Vinnitsa and Kamenets Podolsk.
North of this German wall, which
bisects the Dnieper Bend area, east to
west, are Russian armies which would
no doubt have preferred to break through
at Vinnitsa or even further west —they
have troops as much as 350 miles west
of Krivoi Rog, at Luck. A break-
through at Vinnitsa or some other west-
ern point at this stage might have locked
off all the Germans at Krivoi Rog, Uman,
Kherson and everywhere else in the
Bend. But it seemed improbable at any
stage that this could happen. The corri-
dor gave way first in the Nikopol region ;
it began to crumble at the furthest end,
and that process is proceeding as the
German wall melts from east to west.
“The Kanev Pocket”
It seems clear that the so-called Kanev
pocket was an enclave of enemy troops,
left, like that to the east of it, in a sort
of horn to prevent Russian lateral move-
ment on the north along the corridor
defence line. Without that lateral move-
ment the Russian front was not a single
room, but a house with partitions. The
Russians could not make large surprise
concentrations without breaking down the
intruding bulkheads of German divisions.
Only time will be able to tell accurately
what this policy cost the enemy in the
“Kanev pocket” and whether it was
worth while.
It seems that all the Germans or most
of them in the 75-mile-square Kherson-
Nikolaev area or the lower Dnieper were
either out or preparing to leave before
the ruins of Krivoi Rog were yielded.
German forces are being sucked back-
wards towards Rumania, between the
Black Sea and Krivoi Rog.
Vitebsk Abandoned
The final series of moves was the most
important for three months. Simul-
taneously, the Germans in the Bobruisk-
Rogachev area and at Vitebsk began a
retirement.
Rogachev is on the west bank of the
Dnieper, about 140 miles south of
Vitebsk, on the main Leningrad-Kiev
railway. It is on one of the direct entry
routes by which the Germans came into
Russia and through which they made
their original drive on Gomel. With
Jlobin, slightly to the south, and Bobruisk,
40 miles or so west-north-west, it forms
the defence of the gateway north of the
marshes. Here, the previous week, the
Germans admitted heavy fighting, but
declared that they had beaten off the
attacks with great Russian loss.
Vitebsk is the main gateway to the cen-
tral entry and exit route across the Polish
border. It was through this town that
the main spearhead drive on Smolensk
and the Moscow road was made.
It has been the centre of a long battle
of envelopment which began in the
second week in December. The Rus-
sians have said little of it: the Germans
have alleged that up to 64 divisions were
employed in the dual attacks upon it, and
that since early December nearly 100,000
Russians have been killed there.
The withdrawal announced on Febru-
ary 25 from Berlin had not been con-
firmed by the Russians up to February 28.
Berlin declared again that all military
installations had been razed and all sup-
plies of use to the Russians removed. At
Rogachev this claim was not repeated.
The Russians had the place almost intact.
This beginning of the withdrawal from
the central sector At both ends is of great
importance.
The Dnieper east bank is now virtu-
ally cleared up, except in the Orsha-
Mogilev area along the Moscow road,
where the enemy holds a narrow bridge-
head east of the Dnieper. But the Vitebsk
move is an evidence of a considerable
impending fail-back in that region, and
the enemy must make a stage of nearly
100 miles of it which will take him to
the approaches of Minsk, the largest city
in White Russia and the German High
Command’s Russian headquarters.
A Difficult Stage
The retirement in all sectors is now
reaching its most difficult stage for both
parties. In the north it is coming to the
point where Lake Peipus breaks the oppos-
ing lines north to south, and where the
Russians will begin to follow the enemy
into a region of endless small lakes and
swamps south of the Peipus which are
apt to break up large-scale operations.
In the centre, with its peculiar unified
terrain, its wide rivers with banks of
black glue, particularly the mud-framed
Beresina, the retreat until it reaches the
Brest Litovsk-Grodno-Vilna line is a tick-
lish business for the enemy, whose safety
depends on co-ordination of the central
with the northern operations. When the
180 miles from Vitebsk to Vilna is nego-
tiated, the enemy will be served by the
easting railways of his main Watsaw
defences—three parallel lines run within
a band 60 miles wide, from Warsaw to
Minsk, to Polotsk and Sokolniki and to
Vilna and Pskov. These are connected
by grid lines at short intervals, and they
feed both from the Silesian industrial
area and from North Germany proper.
But till the Grodno line is reached there
is plenty of room for mistakes, even for
disaster
In the Ukraine, the withdrawal from
the corridor south of the Krivoi Rog-
Kamenets wall to the Carpathians is an
even more dangerous operation for the
Germans until the country east of Vin-
nitsa is clear of their rearguard, unless
they have the initiative fully in their grip.
One bad slip and their whole front south
of the Pripet Marshes would be chaos,
with the Russians driving to the Car-
pathians.
For the enemy the operations now in
progress on all fronts are the most diffi-
cult and crucial of the past eight months.
They will show whether he is still strong
or on the brink of disaster.
And the Crimea is a barometer worth
watching.
Reviews by Two Leaders.
“Ek Dum”: Last week Mr. Churchill
and Marshal Stalin summed up their
conceptions of the war; the former in
the first speech which he has delivered
since he went to Tehran, the latter in his
Order of the Day on Red Army Day.
Mr. Churchill obviously is not so hope-
ful as Marshal Stalin.
He said that the German Army still
had about 300 divisions, though many
were substantially reduced in strength ; its
quality was high and it had thousands of
highly-trained officers with a continuity
of tradition and with skill in handling
troops in action and in moving them
quickly from place to place, as proved
by the recent fighting in Italy. A strength
of 300 divisions suggests a total army
ration strength round 9,000,000 men and
women in uniform.
The P.M. declared that the Soviet
Army was inflicting immense losses on
the enemy, but, “while the facts in no
way detract from its glory,”
(a) The withdrawal of German troops
perforce to Yugoslavia (where there are 20
divisions) and Italy (where there are another
25 divisions), plus the attraction by tear
of the coming invasion of large numbers
of troops to France and Holland and
other North Sea countries, has been a help
in winning the Red Army victories.
(b) British and American, bombing of
Germany and German-occupied Europe
has withdrawn four-fifths of German fighter
forces from the Eastern front and “a still
larger number of bombers.”
He said nothing of the immense quan-
tities of material sent to Russia by
Britain and America or the immobilisa-
tion of the German fleet and destruction
of its construction yards by British sea
and air forces.
These two factors will probably be
rated by history as those which deter-
mined the ability of Russia to go on the
offensive.
And Allied food supplies have made a
marked difference in the Russian posi-
tion, still serious in respect of food. Also,
the knocking out olj the war of perhaps
70 Italian divisions, many of which were
used in France and the Balkans, has
added greatly to the strain on Germany.
Britain’s Great Effort
Mr. Churchill’s summary of the
British war effort was imposing. It must
be read in the light of the fact that the
U.S.A. has three times and Russia five
times the British population, and that
both had a long, uninterrupted start in
preparation and two or more years of
other people’s experience in weapons,
strategy and tactics to guide them.
Then Britain had to import raw
materials over thousands of miles of sea
infested with U-boats which, the enemy
claimed, sank more than 20,000,000 tons
of Allied shipping before they were
scotched. Russia and America had vast
resources of raw materials in their own
continents and are able to put their fac-
tories down at or near the sources of
those materials. America has immense
hydro-electric power ; Britain has none.
Yet little Britain, having been respon-
sible for winning the'Submarine war, had
a production of aircraft —“judged by
every possible test” —last year larger
than that of the Axis and equal to that
of Russia, She was able not only to
produce her own deeds but to export
thousands of machines, tanks and guns
to help Russia, to send large air fleets
and tank equipment and arms to India
and to the Mediterranean ; even to send
naval ships, Spitfires and Beaufighters,
guns and tanks to the South Pacific.
Mr. Churchill outlined some of the
things done in 1943 to “the present.”
The R.N. and the R.A.F. have sunk more
than half the U-boats of which there is
certain proof of destruction, and 40 p.c. of
the very large number of other U-boat's of
which there was definite evidence of de-
struction ; also, 19 enemy warships and large
numbers of other small enemy craft.
And they were predominantly responsible
for ‘ destroying 315 merchant vessels of
835,000 tons gross register. Sea opera-
tions in 1943 cost the R.N. 95 warships
lost in action or seriously disabled and
the lives of 7677 officers and men. When
war broke out there were 133,000 person-
nel enlisted in the R.N. Forty-one thou-
sand, upwards of 30 per cent., have been
killed. . ‘
The merchant marine has lost 4200
officers and men since the beginning of
1943. Since the beginning of the war
death in various horrible forms has struck
down one-fifth of the average number of
“merchant seamen hailing from Britain
engaged in the service.”
Bombing Takes Priority
In the air Britain has carried on the
biggest bombing attacks in history-
attacks in which for the first time in
growing might 500, 700, 1000 first-line
bombers were used in single operations.
Latterly the U.S.A.F. in Britain has
achieved something like parity with the
R.A.F., and it will soon be substantially
greater in attacking strength. The two
forces are working in the best kind of
co-operation —the U.S.A.F. on high-level
daylight attacks, the R.A.F. using heavier-
load-carrying machines which every week
achieve faster delivery and greater satura-
tion, so that in the terrifying hours of
darkness bombs come down at the rate
of up to 75 tons a minute.
The Flower of the Race
For its success in determining the air
technique which means more to the Allies
than any other factor outside the sea war,
the R.A.F. has paid dearly. Its machines
are models for all, and the newest types
a jump ahead of the field ; its strategy
and tactics are universally accepted and
have been copied even by the enemy.
But since September 3, 1939, more
than 10,000 British aircraft have been
shot down, and 38,300 British pilots
and air-crew members have been
killed, while 10,400 are missing, ex-
clusive of Dominion, colonial ana
foreign squadrons serving from Britain.
These figures take no account of the lads
in German prison camps, of the maimed
and the blind and the burnt and those
with broken nerves, who together must
number many thousands. .
It is a loss which cannot be counted in
numbers. For these youngsters, mostly
just out of their teens, were the pick or
the fighting forces in intelligence and
courage and the flower of the race.
Of the British Army, Mr. Churchill
recorded that, while it was merely a police
force in 1939, it had since fought in every
part of the world, and that history would
“record how much the contribution ot
our soldiers has been beyond all propor-
tion to the available man-power of these
islands” ; but he maintained that the air
offensive constitutes the foundation upon
which our plans for invasion stand.
“Scales and degrees of attack will be
reached far beyond anything yet employee!
or indeed imagined,” in order to make
war production in its widest sense in all
German cities, towns and factory centres
impossible.”
He had, he said, always deliberately
given primacy to the U-boat war ; but
it had been displaced from its position by
the great developments in air-power, the
main tool selected by Germany and Italy
for conquest of their adversaries.
He issued a warning that, though Ger-
man retaliation against Britain was so far
modest, an increase could be expected,
especially since there was no doubt that
the - Germans were preparing on the
French shore new means of attack on
Britain either by pilotless aircraft or
rockets, or both, on a considerable scale.
The invasion forces, the P.M. said,
would be made up almost equally of
British and Americans at the outset, but
if the duration of the war were prolonged
it was naturally to be expected that the
inflow of Americans, with their great
man-power resources, would give them
superiority; wherefore it was right that
they should hold the supreme command
in the west.
No indication was given of an early
attack on the Continent. The chances
are that even the highest command has
no inkling of the date. It will be neces-
sary to wait for the right tide, weather,
moon, length of day and visibility, which
might come in days after the organisa-
tion is ready or just as easily not for
weeks or months.
In 1944—0 r 1945?
Thus the Prime Minister was wary
about the duration of hostilities. He
had “never taken the view” that Hitler
was “about to collapse,” and he cer-
tainly had “not given any guarantee or
even held out any expectation” that the
war would end in Europe in 1944 or at
any other time.
The Allies were “in the advent of the
greatest operations they have ever under-
taken.” Their “task will be heavy, their
toil long and their trial severe.” But
“Victory may not be so far away, and
certainly it will not be denied us in the
end.”
On the general outlook Mr. Roose-
velt says that he agrees with Mr.
Churchill. He does not believe the
European war will end till 1945.
Stalin on his Conquests
Marshal Stalin’s Order of the Day was
briefer than usual on such an occasion,
and, contrary to custom, did not contain
a summary of the Russian estimate of
German man-power losses. He claimed
that the recent victorious campaigns
were unequalled in the history of war
and that the enemy had been cleared from
three-fourths of the Russian soil which
he had occupied during the reconquest
of 13,000 inhabited localities, including
82 towns and 320 railway stations, and
the liberation of millions of Russians.
His summary was that “it must be
clear to everyone that Hitlerite Germany
is moving relentlessly to catastrophe. If
Russia, “fighting single-handed,” was able
to withstand the German onslaught, the
plight of Germany would be more hope-
less when the main forces of Russia s
Allies entered the fray.” •


m
\c
■
mm
Pills
N^V\^ ,|/ / /
//
7
' ' w'\ '
MAKES THE SHINE
AND THE SHOES
LAST LONGER
THERE'S greater PERMANENCE in Nugget’s brilliant shine greater
PROTECTION in its extra "body" . . . Nugget penetrates deeper into
the leather—keeps it extra supple —stops "crows-feet" cracks. You
need less per shine, so every tin lasts longer. You save in every way
by using Nugget Shoe Polish.
53
nc-r
OIISHJI
pci
N P 13
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT”)
Counsel, a stayer racing for the first
time since he finished second in the Mel-
bourne Cup and ridden by a stable ap-
prentice, C. Jarman, who had not previ-
ously piloted a winner, gave most book-
makers a “skinner” in the £2500 Futurity
Handicap at Flemington last Saturday.
Starting at 50 to 1, and paying tote odds
of to 1, he came from a seemingly
hopeless position to win, running away
from Phoines and Simmering. Success
has earned him a penalty for the Aus-
tralian Cup, but he has firmed to favorit-
ism for that race.
Counsel was the outsider of trainer L.
Robertson’s three Futurity runners, Law-
rence starting at 7 to 1 and Simmering at
15 to 1. Simmering’s strong finish en-
hanced her St. Leger prospects, but excuse
was possible for Lawrence, a candidate
for the same race. Soon after the start
he received a bump which unbalanced
him. Winner of a division of the Toorak
Handicap last spring, Counsel, at the age
of six, is one of the most-improved horses
in training. He was a present from P.
Grant Hay to his daughter, Mrs. D.
Fraser Smith, whose husband is a pilot-
officer with the R.A.A.F. in England.
On paper, Phoines registered the best
Newmarket trial among the Futurity run-
ners. His second was a good perform-
ance, and seemingly he is back to the
form which enabled him to finish second
in the 1941 Newmarket and second in
the 1942 Oakleigh Plate. Burberry, 3-to-l
favorite, finished only eighth, but his
Newmarket prospects have not dimin-
ished. He received a severe bump near
the half-mile, and did not get a 3 clear
run subsequently. Regency, with a little
more luck, would have been closer than
fifth, but Tranquil Star and Great Britain
disappointed. Amana, second faVorite at
4 to 1, ran one of his worst races, finish-
ing second-last.
Twovals, who is not engaged in the
Australian Cup, beat a field of Cup
horses in the Woodcliff Handicap. She
ended an unlucky sequence when she held
Sir Romeo to half a neck, with Helianthe
a close third. Saul, resuming after a spell,
shaped as well as any of the Cup horses
in the field. Slow to begin, he was among
the leaders at the top of the straight,
where his condition gave out. The race
should improve him.
Delina, a stable-mate of Counsel, and
racing in the same ownership as Law-
rence, justified her favoritism for the
Alma Stakes. New Yorker may have
beaten her in a few more strides, but
Delina conceded him 221 b. Delina should
be equal to a place in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes next Saturday, but, on form, she
is not in quite the same class as Kintore,
and she may also be troubled to beat
Oaklaw, who ran a promising sixth in
Saturday’s race.
Lilette, backed from 10 to 1 to 4 to 1,
decisively defeated Law Student, 10 to 1,
and Orteli in the Hawksburn Handicap.
Law Student’s stable-mate Pharisee ran
poorly for a 2-to-l favorite. Stewards
questioned rider A. Breasley concerning
the colt’s indifferent performance, and
were informed that Pharisee met with a
check near the three furlongs, put no
heart into his work subsequently, and
appeared to pull up lame. Before the
race Pharisee was second favorite for the
Newmarket. Lilette, who dead-heated
with Law Student in the corresponding
race last year, has firmed for the New-
market. despite n 71b. oenqlty.
* * * *
In Melbourne recently a prominent
racing official told me that he believed
the peak had been reached in totalisator
betting and attendances at meetings in
that city. It is not so in Sydney, as shown
by an attendance of 24,000 and tote turn-
over of £56,277—# suburban record—at
the Ascot meeting at Rosehill last Satur-
day.
Finishes for the Kingsford Smith Fly-
ing and the Ascot T.C. Handicap gave
handicapper H. Frank cause for satis-
faction. In the sprint there was little
between Industry (Bartle) and St. Elmo
at the straight entrance, and when the
latter dropped back Irish Sea, Rex Felt
and Bruce Wood tackled Industry, who,
however, fought on to win by a half-
head from'lrish Sea, who similarly beat
Bruce Wood, with whom Rex Felt v/as
almost on terms.'- Bruce Wood had to
force his way through in the last half-
furlong and ran particularly well. He
might have won in another stride or two.
Bangster showed a lot of his earlier pace,
but John Halifax did not flatter his
backers after being checked in trying for
a run.
When Two’s Company, who recently
changed ownership, shot to the front
rounding the turn in the" Ascot Turf Club
Handicap her backers were jubilant, and
that she stopped in the straight was
attributed to her rider’s cap getting over
his eyes. Never further back than third
Dick Whittington (Kelly) led from
Bragger and Two’s Company half a fur-
long from home, and though more than
once his defeat seemed probable he
struggled home a neck ahead of Feltpal,
with Bragger a close third. Beau Rasade
ran fairly, but apart from those men-
tioned nothing ever looked like giving
trouble. Silverelda was out of her dis-
tance at a mile and a quarter.
Deputy Leader and Pangold were the
early leaders in the Encourage Stakes,
but Buzz Off (Freedman), getting to the
front at the leger, won by a neck from
Thanks America, who was not promi-
nent for the first five furlongs. Sancourt
was a good third, and of the remainder
only Marquis and Entally were reason-
ably close to the place-getters. Trainer
C. McLoughlin experienced so much bad
luck over many months that he cannot be
begrudged his recent wins.
Cragsman (Cook), who cost 900gns.
as a yearling, won the colts- and geld-
ings’ division of the Two-year-old Han-
dicap at his ease from Recka Oka and
Laudus. Cragsman, who had the race
safe a long way from home, is by Fel-
crag from Suncloud, by Brazen. Of the
unplaced runners the favorite, Cold
Shower, finished better than any.
In the fillies’ division of the Two-year-
old Handicap Miss Sovereign (Cook) ran
up to the form she showed when second
to Birthright at Randwick. Third to
Twice Royal and Chantilly after enter-
ing the straight, she quickly had those
two beaten, and won from Chantilly and
Scaur Fel —who will benefit from the
run —in time a quarter second slower
than Cragsman recorded in his division.
Lady Quality and Twice Royal were
nearest the place-getters, the latter again
tiring badly over the last furlong. By
Golden Sovereign from Pandora, Miss
Sovereign was a 260gns. yearling.
Versailles (Thompson) justified the
odds laid on him for the Bunnerong
Three-year-old Handicap, He led from
barrier-rise, and was not fully extended
to beat Fine Art and Cast Well in
which was only a second behind the
course record. Versailles has won at his
two starts, and at present it is difficult
to say how good he really is.
Gold Head (Thompson) made his
Welter Handicap opponents look cheap.
Bomb led for a few furlongs, but from
the time Gold Head took charge three
furlongs from home he had matters all
his own way. Grand Prodige, who led
soon after barrier-rise, and was never
further back than fourth, ran into second
place in the straight, but though he held
that position to the end did nothing to
uphold the booming he received a little
while back. General Smuts’s fourth
showed that he was still a long way short
of his earlier form, and perhaps Welles-
ley and Barrenjoey may be as well worth
keeping in mind as any of the other
runners. Gold Head’s 1.45 equalled the
course record.
* * * *
Melbourne has a really good two-year-
old in the well-grown and strongly-
built colt Kintore. I regard him as
superior to anything of his age racing in
Sydney, and though some of the southern
authorities are dubious as to how he will
fare at seven furlongs in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes the style in which he won
the Federal Stakes with 9.10 did not up-
hold the idea that he would be found
wanting at an extra two furlongs. He
led immediately after barrier-rise, and at
the winning post was doing better than
any of his 30 followers.
Kintore is by Caithness from Bridal
Path, by Manfred from Lady Nallen.
Oaklaw (Law Maker-Maid of Oaks, by
Manfred) stands high with many Mel-
bourne racing men, but in receipt of a
pound from Kintore he finished a long
way back in the Federal Stakes.
* * . * *
While at Seymour I had a run out to
A. G. Hunter’s Northwood Park stud
and saw the yearlings he is offering at
the coming Melbourne sales. They are
good, and their breeder is pinning his
faith to Simmering’s brown half-brother
by Tudor King to do best at auction of
his lot. A colt by Hellespont from Re-
buked should sell well. Though there are
other good-looking stallions at North-
wood Park, Hellespont would be hard to
beat in any show ring for conformation
and quality. Windbag is carrying his
years particularly well.
* * * *
The running of the Rawson Stakes
in March will be awaited with special
interest. Possibly the starters will include
Moorland, Mayfowl, Flight and Tribal
among the three-year-olds, and at nine
furlongs they will give backers cause for
hard thinking. Last year’s runners did
not include a three-year-old, Katanga
winning from Yaralla and Gold Salute.
The odds are against Katanga repeating
that success, as in the spring Tribal
downed him by six lengths in the Chelms-
ford Stakes, and then Flight beat Tribal,
Moorland and Katanga, among others,
in the Craven Plate.
* * * *
Whether it is quite fair to publish the
supposed order of preference for big
handicaps before the weights are issued
is a matter of opinion. In the main the
selections are bookmakers’ ideas of
horses’ chances. Still at an early stage
some backers are tempted to take what
are really unfair prices, and owners must
suffer to some extent when they wish to
support their horses.
Miscellaneous
“Sports” who go to Leichhardt, Syd-
ney, for the fights marvelled greatly, and
not silently, when George Elliott was
given a decision over Tommy Colteaux,
Elliott was a gory object when judgment
was pronounced, and, though he had the
“champion” down once, he himself was
floored several times. A bout for the
title, not involved on Thursday, will
follow in due course.
Hailed as having won the feather-
weight championship of the Allied forces
in the Pacific, Ernie Hoffman looked the
part, but not for long. Hoffman is a tall,
slim negro, and, moving around the ring
like a master, he jabbed Tommy Chap-
man with straight lefts and rocked him
with a right to the chin. Chapman shook
off the effects and traded punches. With
an inside-right counter to the chin, he
floored the negro. Hoffman tried hard to
beat the count, but failed. The contest,
including count, didn’t last a minute and
a half.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
St. Leger: Precept, 1 ; Simmering,
2 ; Lawrence, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Kintore,
1 ; Oaklaw, 2 ; Delina, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Burberry,
1 ; Phoines, 2 ; Phildoll, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Farm Novice Handicap; Great
Scot, 1 ; Bruegmah, 2 ; High Stepper
or First Water, 3.
Ingleburn Nursery Handicap:
Cold Shower, 1; Britannic, 2;
Cragsman, 3.
Berala Handicap: Mayfowl, 1 ;
Falcon Knight, 2 ; MacArthur, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: Bruce
Wood, 1 ; John Halifax, 2; In-
dustry or Warlock, 3.
Warwick March Handicap:
Wellesley, 1 ; Feltpal, 2; Beau
Timide, 3.
Sunnybrook Welter Handicap:
Bragger or Bruce Wood, 1 ; Thrax
next best.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
Phildoll 1
Lilette 2
Phoines 3


Public Notice.
I, NX41797 SERGEANT JEWSIEJ RASZBA, of
Polish nationality, born at Kiev, Russia, and resident
five years in Australia, now residing at L.H.Q.,
A.E.M.E. School, Ingleburn, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LYALL ROBERT LAMBERT late of 148 Under-
wood Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE LILY DAISY LAMBERT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2347 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you rpay enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th of May 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
SHAW MCDONALD & CO. Solicitors 11c Oastlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
TO ROY DALY formerly of Avoca and Stawell in the
State of Victoria but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EILEEN RUTH DALY has
instituted proceedings against you for a dissolutioh
of marriage on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
Supreme Court Melbourne on or before the Eleventh
day of March 1944 the ease may proceed in your,
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs AND
FURTHER if you intend to defend the said suit you
must cause an answer to be filed in the said office on
or before the Twenty-first day of March 1944.
This advertisement is inserted by 0. M. S. POWER,
of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor for
Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The war has done nothing to banish
the Wedding March from “Lohengrin”
or Mendelssohn’s triumphant peal from
bridal processions on account of their
Germanic origin. There are, however,
aesthetes who feel that these time-honored
accompaniments are not the best in
music, and are getting too hackneyed for
those who prefer to march to the altar
to something new and strange. On their
side is Spanish ecclesiast-composer Father
Muset, who has been visiting this city
for some time. At feast one bride lately
was united to her soldier husband (with
a platoon of brass hats looking on) to
the strains of Muset’s wedding rrilisic,
played by the composer. It sounded
smoother and more subdued than the
usual wedding march, and was shot
through with an attractive rippling of
flutelike notes.
The cook and provider busy on a war
job that takes her citywards usually has
some laudatory comments to make about
the housewives’ larder that the Victorian
Housewives’ Association always keeps
well stocked. The Victorian association
is independent of the similarly-named
one in Howey-court, and has its centre
in Flinders-way. The “larder” is across
the “why” from headquarters, and stocks
home-made jams as well as cakes and
biscuits, and customers occasionally can
buy poultry and suchlike sent down
from country centres.
City corners are beginning to look like
pictorial “still-lifes” now that high
summer has piled the street barrows with
fruitfulness. Colors vie with adjoining
flower-stalls, and brightest of all are the
vivid green apples that growers declare
to be the best eating. There are also
yellow- and red-streaked ones. Both varie-
ties in pre-war years, so barrowmen say,
went mostly to European markets, leaving
red-cheeked ones, not reckoned quite so
tasty, for home consumption. Canta-
loups in their grey-beige fibre covers are
a foil for green and purple baby grapes
that used to come to the city as sultanas
and currants.
The City Council has approved the
plan (which goes into operation at once)
for a nursery school and creche combined
at the corner of Racecourse-road and
Victoria-street, Flemington (just out of
the city proper). Councillors have been
alive to the necessity for such pre-school
centres for some time, and A. W. Coles
was particularly enthusiastic about them
during his mayoral term. He had a vision
of a ring of creches and kindergartens all
round the city. So far only one, the Lady
Huntingfield, in North Melbourne, has
been in operation.
A note from over the border:
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, oldest in Aus-
tralia, reported at its annual meeting that mem-
bership has jumped again to over 1200, getting
near to its pre-war figure, and it has renewed its
lease of the Tivoli, Adelaide’s biggest theatre.
It gives eight plays a year, three times each,
and all profits go, for the present, to some war
charity. Talbot Smith was re-elected president,
and Tom Nave vice-president. Nave is also
acting as secretary while Irving Johnston is away
on military duties.
The Arts and Crafts shop in Albany-
court is a Mecca for those who want
something different in the way of furnish-
ings and household ware. The A. and C.
.Society numbers amongst its members a
surprising number of very deft crafts-
men and -women, and its pottery and
linen prints are always worth a second
glance. Experiments in china hand-
made from local materials have produced
some stuff which will possibly have his-
torical as well as aesthetic importance in
S i„ r^w S „? r K besinnins
oi cmna-makmg m these parts.
A( mon f ent the sh organisers
( h aim is to bri craft workers and
; hose interested in tl f eir wares together)
{or Red Cross
funds ' Fflr the
winners two very busi-
„ r hand-woven and
derfull warm, are waiting. They
J Mrs. E . Jo hanson,
> pennies jn
... . J b
pict J red - here is Robin Mack who . n
, „ ■ , ot o£ distinguishe d predeces-
footlights when she takes
Cockney Eliza Doolittle
. a. ,
|e? Mo^^n^S;
p e 15.,.I 5 .,. ’ ’'I 1 caiherlrfe’s Tnorak Her
school life at St. Gather me s, Toorak. H er
SSSuSS. Soffit Snf Tobto
is a daughter of city businessman Colin
Mackay. and her dramatic skill, which
the producer is enthusiastic about, was
taught her by Ruth Conabere, who trains
many fledglings for the N.T. Movement.
Picture is by Ronald Esler.
Negotiations with Man-power to free
the winners of Red Cross service scholar-
ships from their jobs have made it clear
that young women aren’t allowed to leave
jobs for study courses unless a very good
reason can be shown. Girls going to the
University straight from school after
matriculation don’t find things so difficult.
Man-power frowns on the lass who wants
to make tracks for the seat of learning
after she’s started on some war work.
For this reason, amongst others, the Uni.
authorities are still a bit in the dark about
the chances of some students getting in
to the courses they wish to pursue. The
“freshers’ welcome” do last week included
quite a few who were still being weighed
in the balance.
The smell of paint and the sound of
brushes being actively wielded leads nosy
passers-by in Collins-street to a door
marked “United States Information
Library.” The spot that has been chosen
for it is the former “Sun” and “Herald”
branch office in Newspaper House, so the
new development is under the same roof
as The Bulletin’s Melbourne office. The
library-to-be, still in the hands of the
decorators and fitters, will have walls of
a yellowy-cream color.
With arguments about dog-feeding
under rationing conditions raging in the
daily press —dog-lovers and horse-lovers
are getting mad about horse meat —it
might have been expefted that puppies
would have gone right off the market,
but pet-shops carry on. Possibly there s
been some falling off in customers, but
an observer who watched such a shop
for ten minutes saw three newly-made
dog-owners emerge with their lively pur-
chases.
Doreen Langley, a dietitian to service
hospitals, has put together her experi-
ences of working with the staff of a U.S.
forces hospital here and made a very
readable book, which is to be published
soon. The author is now with the
R.A.A.F. She’s a Melbourne Uni.
graduate, and spent her collegiate years
in Janet Clarke Hall.
From Sydney
The festival of Russian music was
opened in fine style last Saturday night.
Bernard Heinze led the symphony or-
chestra, and a crowded house responded
with rounds of applause, Prokofieff,
Rachmaninoff andTschaikowsky were the
composers, the Rachmaninoff piano con-
certo No. 3 in D minor bringing back
pianist Marshall Sumner, to the pleasure
of his Sydney listeners. The Town Hall
was crowded, and in the vice-regal seats
were Lord and Lady Wakehurst, the
Governor of South Australia and Lady
Muriel Barclay-Harvey, and Russia’s Min-
ister to Australia Vlasov and his wife.
Long frocks were wdrn by the wives of the
two Governors, the Hon. Henrietta Loder
and Mrs. Vlasov. Background for the
hibiscus reds and pastel tones of this
frocking were the black taffetas and
crepes worn by Mrs. Hope Gibson and
Mrs. Robert Dixson, who received the
official guests. Chairman of the A.B.C.
Cleary and his wife were noted.
In the years before the war there was
a little song very popular as an encore
number with visiting singers. One bit
of it ran like this:
Your father, to be sure,
Thought it rather premature,
And your mother, strange to say,
Was another in the way.
But there were no parqptal protests on
either side over the romance between
Margareta Bridges and her Lieut. Peter
Evatt (A.1.F.). They wei£ married in
St. Alban’s, Lindfield, last week, so top-
ping off a friendship that commenced
when both were about three or four.
Margareta first made her bow to her
’groom’s parents on board ship travelling
to England. The belle of two and a half
made an instant hit.
Dr. H. V. Evatt was on his way to
a Privy Council case in England. J. G.
Bridges, Margareta’s father, was with the
Australian XI as a journalist representing
Australian and English newspapers. A
year later the two principals in last week’s
wedding met.
Margareta (known as Greta) was one
of the cleverest pupils of Hornsby Girls’
High School, and left a very bestarred
record for other students to live up to.
She speaks two or three languages
fluently, and plays the piano like a pro-
fessional. At the wedding reception
N.S.W. Premier McKell gave the toast
of the bride and ’groom. The ’groom’s
father is Minister for External Affairs.
Montgomery Dunn photograph.
Dame Enid Lyons talked of many
things to the housewives in their George-
street fastness last Friday. Not even the
heat could take the curl out of her spirit
nor the smooth roundness from her
phrases. With an alliterative twist she
referred to the days, that have just gone
as the aspirin age and to the days that
are present as the alcohol age. But as
the Girl in the Flat Opposite points out,
sherry was never harder to get, whisky
and brandy are almost forgotten words
in this city’s vocabulary, and even the
siphon that provided welcome accom-
paniment to the two of them seems to be
stamped R.I.P. Still it was a good speech,
showing Dame Enid’s true womanly in-
terest in the welfare of the young and of
the home, for which Australia honors her.
President Mrs. Glencross must have
been proud of the rally. Members started
to arrive about two o’clock, although the
party was not to start till three. They
came with cakes and sandwiches that no
austerity regime could make anything
but delicious. In between speeches there
was a musical programme. Mrs, Glen-
cross, the Countess de Vilme-Flautmont
and the Snowden lady were some who
spoke to the glory of the guest. Dame
Enid’s neighbor was Mrs. Toby Browne
—between them they have given 22 (or
is it 23?) good Australians to the Com-
monwealth.
From March 13 onwards there’s to be
a new secretary for the Governor’s wife.
Replacing Joan Holman, who goes back
to her family in England very soon now,
is Mrs. Bob Skene, wife of the famed
polo-player, who is now a prisoner of
war in Malaya.
An aristocratic angle on the old trunk
murder is provided in “Rope,” the new
show at the Minerva. Nothing less than
a handsome old Italian chest enshrouds
the murderee. He has been “done-in”
just before curtain-rise by Wyndham
Brandon (Leonard Bullen) and Charles
Granillo (Bunny Campbell-Gray), and
then, as the two are expecting guests, he
is hastily tidied away into the padlocked
ornamental piece, which is thereupon
neatly spread for supper. It just proves
what a handy thing about a flat, a good-
sized chest can be.
Those who like their drammer grim
get plenty for their money. If the
stomach is a bit queasy there’s a certain
touch of nausea in the sight of the un-
witting and somewhat feckless guests eat-
ing pate de foie sandwiches from the lid
beneath which lies the remains of one of
their friends. Indeed, the young man
with the mortal chest complaint is the
son of a lovable old bookworm (Leslie
Victor) among those present. Edwin
Styles, as Rupert Cadell, walks about
with a distinguished air and a sword-
stick. It seems a very useful wardrobe
item among the sinister lads. The
theatre was packed to the ceiling for the
opening. Here and there long evening
frocks, mostly of the dinner variety,
made welcome entry in the audience. The
only touch of the feminine on stage was
supplied by Betty McDowall’s slim
white frock.
Judy Lusby, former student of Sancta
Sophia, a recent graduate in Arts and
now petty-officer in the W.R.A.N.S., was
married to her Staff-Sergeant Aubrey
Follett (A.1.F.) a week or so ago. Mother
and father, the J. M. Lusbys, of Rose-
ville, had three days’ notice to get the
wedding bells swinging. The two prin-
cipals, getting their leave at the same
time, decided that it was the perfect
opportunity for matrimony. This was an
all-service wedding. The bride’s sister,
Captain Gwen Lusby, A.A.M.C. (A.1.F.),
was bridesmaid, and Judy’s brother,
Pilot-Officer John Lusby (R.A.A.F.), re-
turned, was best man. The reception was
at the bride’s Roseville home.
An American Tea, the members of the
Navy Auxiliary of the R.S.Y.S. have
named their fair for the .sailors which is
dated for March 25. But not even the
U.S. eagle could have hatched the mon-
ster basket of groceries which will be
one of the star prizes of the afternoon’s
guessing competitions. Next Saturday all
the workers for the great afternoon will
arrive at the Kirribilli clubhouse with
stock for the enviable collection. Mrs.
Marriott, cheerful and inspiring presi-
dent, is skipper of a willing crew.
Among those smart in the execution of
their duties are Mrs. Don Taylor, Mrs.
M. Meyer, Mrs. Middleton, Mrs. Gar-
ment, Mrs. Kraest, Mrs. Hepburn. In
addition there’s as alert a ship’s com-
pany as ever the eye of admiral rested
upon. And the admiral will be there on
the merry afternoon.
Already the worker in good causes is
freshening up from the hotbox of Febru-
ary and plotting the holdup of the city.
Last week the, auxiliaries of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital turned up in
great numbers in the Lecture Hail to
plan their campaign for April 22, The
Governor and Lady Wakehurst having
given the use of Government House
grounds on that day, a fair will rage
therein from morn till eve. Mrs. Bertie
K,elly being the president, that fair is set
for success. A stall stocked with fine
table linen has been given by Mr. Lin,
who so generously responded to the China
Day appeal. There are tablecloths and
napkins, too, for prizes on the lucky
wheels. There’s to be a children’s corner
run by Mrs. Harold Bott. Mrs. R. Dixson
is another of the day’s principals. Mrs.
Hope Gibson, Mrs. McKerihan and Mrs.
Roland Foster will also serve.
The Alexander Gordon lady, once
again, her friends will be glad to hear,
restored to good health, opened last
week’s meeting of the Red Cross special
appeals committee. The Appeals Office
in Martin-place was filled with enthusi-
asts who decided on another treasure
hunt to raise funds. Last year £5OOO was
netted from the Red Cross sale of silver
and china. This year the public is asked
to hand over precious objects, ancient or
modern. Jewellery, sporting prints,
antique furniture, china are among the
valuables desired. The collection will be
sold by auction on May 31, and previous
to that will be on display at David Jones’s
auditorium for a fortnight. Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere is secretary of the committee.
St. Patrick isn’t going to have it all his
own way on March 17. On that date, the
setting Martin-place, the grand finale of
the Sports Girl Quest will be enacted.
This search for the most popular sports
girl is State-wide, and it ends on the 7th
of next month. Forty-eight hours after
that the glad tidings will be broadcast,
and the winner and her branch of, the
A.C.F. will share the glorious hour. Not
only that, but the winner and the 12
runners-up will be entertained in the city
for one week, and will be presented with
tokens in commemoration of the event.
This will be the highlight of the A.C.F.
first button day of 1944, and hundreds
in Martin-place will no doubt raise
cheers if not beers in celebration.


to
SfN
V**'
t!V?SS£
?r
OP r*
57
It may still be difficult to
secure all you would like
of the good things made
by Heinz because the
demand is large and retail
output restricted, but when
you secure supplies you will
know for sure that the
Heinz 57 Varieties remain
unchanged in purity, flavour
and excellence. , . f That
is our pledge.
mm
TOMATO
SAUCE
■
X
For Quality
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
*
m
.■
UiUj]
IN PEACE AS IN WAR!
To-day Sisalkraft is used in
battle areas for make-shift
shelters, for damp-proof food
packs, ammunition protec-
tion, camouflage, weather
proofing Army huts and con-
crete curing.
When Victory is won there will be just as many peace-
time uses for Sisalkraft—for example, for sheathing walls
and sarkincf roofs of the thousands of homes that will be
built, for lining troughs, sealing silage pits, poultry night
arks, dunnage sheets, haystack covers, concrete curing,
damp-proof wrapping of valuable cargoes.
Men of the fighting services who have tested Sisalkraft
in the rain-soaked tropics have proved its value as a
damp-resisting material which has as many applications
in peace as in war.
1
SIS
SIS>9LKMFT
F. W. WILLIAMS & CO. PTY. LTD., 16 Loftus St, SYDNEY (Phone 86415).
SMOKE-OH!
“A man will take a lot of trouble to induce
a woman to marry him.”— Woman’s paper.
But he never realises how much trouble
he has taken until he is married.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Scots are amongst the most courteous people
in the world.” — “World’s News.”
Courtesy, it is said, costs nothing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A last season’s dress fakes on a new lease
of life.” — Woman’s paper.
Provided there is no back rent.
•J* •*€
“Wanted Chef over 45, used to numbers.”
— Advt. in suburban paper.
And expert at tables.
“There were pains all over my head, but
when I opened my eyes all I seemed to see was
policemen’s legs.”— Story.
Bobby pins.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Civil servants are touchy. Mention red-tape
and they’ll hit the roof.” — M.P.’s speech.
“Lower ceiling price for apples.”— “Argus.”
When growers hear of this they’ll hit
the roof.
4* 4* 4* 4*
And Free!
“In the Commonwealth medicine plan medi-
cines can be prescribed from 500 formulas.”
— “Sun.”
If your nerves are twittering madly like
the wings of captive birds, the doc’ll give
you bromide colored with some jaw-
break words. With half a thousand for-
mulas to choose from, what a break for
the patient who imagines he has every
kind of ache! Who knows? For those
who’re suffering from throttle trouble
chronic may have prescribed for them
fermented grape-juice as a tonic.
Loo.
Apparently Euclid never realised that
most triangles are based on curves.
4* 4* 4*4*
“She took the station turnout into the town-
ship to find her husband, and found him very
drunk.”— Woman’s paper.
He fell into the trap.
“If you’re keen on bulbs, why not try a
few in the house?”
—“Sunday Sun” gardening feature.
Quite right. Nothing like them to
brighten up a home—especially at night.
•J* *r-» *)«
“Ironworkers ceased work during the progress
of a shift.”
Probably they thought they were justi-
fied in striking while the iron was hot.
Aberration.
We toss two pennies, and if these
Come heads we think that heads they
are ;
Yet folk in the antipodes
Would say, if they could see this far,
Our heads are tails. A ghastly thought!
For if our heads are tails then we
Are queer monstrosities which ought
To be in close captivity.
But seeing heads don’t wag like tails.
Thank heavens such a theory fails !
T. W. NATHAN.
A Real Bird.
“Divorced man will live with the birds.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
She feathered her nest.
Then took to the wing
With the nest-egg. He thereupon flew
Into transports of rage.
Now: he’s out of the cage.
But he seems just a little cuckoo.
DOPE-E.
These civil servants twist the shape
Of things; they call a spade an axe ;
And if you mention scarlet tape
They’ll answer you with ceiling whacks.
B.B.
Bald Statement.
“Hair gets bored being kept in the same place
all the time.” — Woman’s paper.
I had a shock of shaggy hair
Of which my barber took scant care.
He’d mow it as he would a lawn.
Spray perfumed water on it, yawn,
And ask, as faith his comb he’d fiddle,
“Where shall I part it —in the middle ?”
“No, hard to port,” I’d say. He’d guide
The com If ad own the starboard side.
In fine (/ might have saved my breath )
That barber bored my thatch to death !
P. O. M. C.
King Hit.
“My husband claimed that he was related to
royalty, and was very superior to me. When I
laughed at him he struck me over the head.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
It seems confusion ruled when he
Provoked connubial strife :
Himself made claims to royalty —
And yet he crowned his wife 1
NAT.
True Bird-lovers.
‘lllustrating the simplicity and gentleness of
the Russian soldier, a correspondent visiting
the Leningrad front found a soldier with a dead
starling in his hands. The bird had been shot
down when the Germans fired at a flock of
birds overhead. ‘You, too,’ the soldier said,
‘they have killed, and you deserve a soldier’s
grave.’ And together with a group of men he
gathered up the dead birds and buried them
under the Red Star.”
It was a poignant scene that was being
enacted by a group of Digger bird-lovers
in a little clearing beside a jungle trail.
A tall, thin, bearded soldier, a look of
ineffable gentleness in his eyes, was hold-
ing a bird in his arms. “The bird,” he
announced with simple dignity, “is de-
funct.” Through swimming eyes he
looked at his comrades, but they were too
full for words.
After he had recovered sufficiently to
speak, one of them gulped and said “It
is indeed a dastardly thing that a poor
innocent bird should through man’s evil
actions bite the dust!” A murdered
simile, for it was the “wet” and
there was about 26 inches of mud every-
where. But a soldier with gentle thoughts
must be allowed to express himself by
borrowing a cliche where he may.
“Yes, indeed it is, Blue, and the beauty
of the thought does you credit,” said an-
other soldier. “But what shall we do with
this victim of man’s lust to kill?” he
went on. “Shall we give it solemn burial
beneath the Southern Cross? Truly it
deserves a soldier’s grave.”
Just then the bird slightly fluttered one
wing, so that the soldier holding it looked
down at it in mingled surprise and com-
passion. “It still lives!” he said. “It is
indeed a miracle. What should we do
now with it, think you?” It was then
that another soldier yclept Johnno spoke
—a great bird-lover was Johnno.
“Wring its bloody neck,” quoth Johnno
gently. “Or the blankard’ll squawk and
we’ll all be half-inched. And don’t leave
any feathers around. If the officers get
the oil that we’ve snavelled the hen
they’ve been feeding up for weeks we’ll
all get 28 days.”
And the bird was duly interred in the
pot of boiling fat under the Southern
Cross, and soon the soldiers who had
found it were too full for words, let
alone compassion,
Bo.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd, per line; all others per line.
Bushfires and Their Fighters
On the eve of their weekly stand-down
day R.A.A.F. and W.A.A.A.F. volunteers
were driven more than sixty miles to the
scene of a fire which was threatening a
Northern Victorian township. On arri-
val, they found a group of A.I.F. men
who had been fighting that same fire for
the better part of a week. The A.I.F.
team had come over a hundred miles to
do the job.
Early next morning the worst of the
fire was checked. The men slept where
they dropped. Most of the ensuing day
was spent in a systematic patrol of the
area and the cutting of breaks at
strategic points on the scrubby hillsides.
During the whole of that time, three
Forestry Commission officers, a small de-
tachment of a Volunteer Bushfire Brigade
from a town much farther afield than
that threatened, and two or three
“cockies” (who argued for over an hour
as to whose paddock would be the scene
of the next firebreak) were the only
civilians at the scene of the fire. When
the R.A.A.F. party finished off its section
of the job and drove into the township
itself, it found out why. The bars in two
of the local pubs were crowded with able-
bodied locals, young and not so young,
downing pots and listening to the race
broadcasts.
If the people most affected by the
bushfire menace will allow a fire to
approach within four miles of their town,
while sending out frantic calls for help
from service units so that they can relax
in the pub, then it is hardly to be
wondered at that inadequate measures
are taken to prevent fire outbreaks.
Until they realise that bushfires are in-
evitable yearly occurrences only so long
as they do nothing to prevent them, such
people deserve no help from service men.
—Nairb (R.A.A.F.).
That Centraiian Canal
If £12,000,000 were spent on flooding
the Lake Eyre basin it would literally be
money “thrown down the drain.” T.'A.
Sheehan’s plans (B. 16/2/’44) are nulli-
fied by the fact that sea water evaporates
and leaves its salt behind. The rate of
evaporation at Lake Eyre is about 90in.
a year, so the waters of a 60ft. lake
would be renewed every eight years, and
after 80 years the water would be at
saturation point; thereafter it would pro-
ceed to set to a solid mass of salt. It is
doubtful if posterity would thank us for
three million acres of salt.
Admittedly this is the extreme case, but
any improvement in climate which might
ensue could only, delay the inevitable
result by a few decades. Plans have been
made for flooding the Qattara Depres-
sion, south of El Alamein, but have been
abandoned for this reason.
Indeed, unless we made a very big
canal it is problematical whether the basin
could be flooded. A canal 100 ft. wide,
40ft. deep, flowing at four m.p.h. could
deliver about 60 million tons of water
per day, but three million acres of water
evaporating at the rate of 90in. per
annum loses about 75 million tons per
day. The Caspian Sea, which is in a
higher latitude than Lake Eyre, receives
the waters of the Volga and several other
large rivers, yet it is slowly drying up.—
Scire (S.A.).
Don’t Touch the Baby!
Let me tell G. Graham (B. 16/2/’44)
that we young girls of today, in N. S.
Wales at any rate, have been carefully
instructed in the care of babies. We are
put through a course of study at the main
State schools which includes practical
demonstrations with a gigantic Japanese
celluloid doll. These educational schemes
of super-hygiene left us all very wary
about babies. We are allergic to them.
Babies must not be rocked to sleep.
Babies must not suck dummies. Babies
must not be picked up unduly to be
played with or bounced. Babies must
not be overdressed and/or cuddled.
Babies must never be breathed on.
Babies must not*be fussed over or com-
forted when they cry. Babies must be
laughed at heartily if they accidentally
hurt themselves. This last is a cunning
piece of psychology to ensure that the
baby shall hurt itself again.
Babies, according to these gruesome
authorities, are only a higher type of
grub, and who wants to-nurse a grub?
No, education is not the answer to the
birthrate problem. Less talk is.
After all, we, the mothers of the
future, hear nothing but “help the poor,
harassed mother,”, give her the Child
Endowment to egg her on, give her babies,
playgrounds, establish clinics, arrange for
pre-natal and post-natal care, “help the
mother, help the mother!” You must
admit it all sounds terrifyingly difficult.
If people in authority were to play up
the fact that we women have deteriorated
since the days of grandma the sport-lov-
ing, high-spirited girls of Australia would
have babies again.— Cherub 103 (N.S.W.).
The Australian Accent
I should like to assist “Enveen’s” search
for an Australian accent (B. 2/2/’44) by
directing him to a passage in John
Buchan’s adventure story Huntingtower.
The Australian accent is mentioned, and
the author, through one of his characters,
says “They’ve all kinds of accents, but
you can’t mistake the voice. It’s got the
sun in it.” So it has.
Much the same thing was noticed by
an English author since the war began.
I forget her but the Red Page
review mentioned how, in the broadcast
following the declaration of war, the
author told how kindly Mr. Menzies’s
“As I won't be seeing you again would you mind fixing up my bill now ?”
voice fell on the English ear. “It was a
country voice.”
If our educated urban dy/ellers speak
with “a country voice” there’s no need
to worry about accent —nor about Aus-
tralia. — Fodgie (S.A.).
Miners on Strike
Summed up, this is the coal position:
There are approximately 22,000 miners
employed in all Australian coalmines
mostly in N. S. Wales. Only 2000 of these
appear to be malcontents and strike-
mongers. The remaining 20,000 (many
of whom have sons in the services)
appear to be' anxious to work the mines
but are ruled by the minority and strike
on any flimsy excuse, even if a boy
wheeler states that the horse walks too
fast for him.
It is plain that the 2000 malcontents
are practically dictating the policy of
Australia. It is high time there was a
showdown, even if the principal cities are
to be in darkness for a time and main
trunk railways are held up. That would
have the effect of placing a gratified
public behind a strong Government.
It takes only about six weeks to train
a miner.— Herbert Yeates, M.L.A. (Q.).
Senator Keane has told the Senate that
the Government will instruct the Aus-
tralian Minister to Moscow to inquire
how strikes in the Russian coalmining
industry are discouraged, with a view to
applying the same remedy here.
Was Mr. Keane joking? Doesn’t he
realise that with Russia fighting a despe-
rate war on its own territory no self-
respecting Russian would dream of strik-
ing? Even so, political systems of the
Soviet type will not stand for fragmen-
tary opposition, even in peace-time ; so
no doubt Mr. Maloney will receive the
answer “With the punishment of death.”
But why turn to Russia for advice?
Has not England also had industrial
peace since 1939? That peace has been
obtained not by threats or by violence
but by honest and sincere effort com-
bined with tolerance, co-operation and
loyalty to those ways of life so dear to
every Britisher. The Curtin Government
should think twice before it cheapens
Australia by seeking a foreign opinion on
a purely Australian problem.
And really the Senator, before ap-
proaching either Britain or Russia, should
seek the advice and opinion of his own
boss —the Australian public. Or has he
forgotten that he has a boss? Inko
(S.A.).
“Magazinish”
I don’t suggest that the review of
“Woman’s Weekly” short stories (R.P.
16/2/ ’44) is unjustified, but isn’t the con-
demnation of popular stories carried to
extremes? I am referring to a ten-
dency on the part of highbrow writers to
sneer at anything “magazinish.”
The early exponents of the short story,
Kipling, Doyle and Jacobs, dealt in plot
and situation, but the serious writer is
derided if he attempts to do this today.
Somehow “action” stories have become
separated from “character” stories, and
the rift appears to be growing wider and
wider. Nevertheless, I consider a nicely-
rounded plot a distinct improvement on
depressing studies of psychological mis-
fits. — Emdee (Vic.).
Getting on the Land
We need immigrants, but what I’m
wondering is how the fellow from Poland
is going on the land in Australia when
it’s so difficult for me —a fourth-genera-
tion Aussie—to get on it. My first effort
was in a State where 160 acres of free
land was available. Unfortunately it
wasn’t land that would provide a living.
To buy the extra acres capital was
needed. I couldn’t get any.
Town looked the place to save up the
money. But it took a long time to save
enough to buy even a small place.
There’s land for sale over the sideline,
but I can’t buy it. The new Government
mortgage bank isn’t interested, on the
score that I am not a full-time farmer.
How can anyone be, if he can’t get the
capital?
An auctioneering firm helpfully pro-
vides stock on loan ; all that’s needed is
sufficient land to run enough of them.
If I can’t get that land, how is the far-
off and probably penniless Pole going to
get it? — Enveen (Tas.).
Timber for Plastics
The statement by the Plastics Advisory
Committee that Australia has a future
in plastics manufacture owing to its
extensive forest lands should stir the
Forestry Commission to action at long
last.
We shall have no timber to spare for
plastics for many years after the war, for
the forests’ contributions to the victory
effort has not been made without heavy
cost to reserves.
The fact that Australia’s softwood im-
ports fell from 324,000,000 super, feet in
1938-39 to a very small figure in 1942
is more than a hint of the services
rendered by the forests under pressure of
war. Early in 1943 S. L. Kessell, Con-
troller of Timber, wrote:
Not only have Australian hardwoods
been called upon to replace imported soft-
woods for structural purposes, but, as war
demands for steel have overtaken produc-
tion of this commodity, timber has become
the principal building material for camps,
stores, hangars, workshops, etc. Tens of
millions of super, feet are required for such
purposes each month, and in some regions
the demand is still increasing. Landowners
with marketable trees on their properties
have also been called upon to sell the logs
to sawmillers and thus help maintain out-
put.
After the war forests the world over will
have to rest for many years to come.
Thus imports are going to be hard to
come by. Australia will need its timber for
other uses than plastics. Apart from this,
it should be noted that in U.S., Canada,
Russia and Sweden the increasing absorp-
tion of timber by the plastic trades has
made heavy inroads on forestry.
The Australian plastic manufacturer
need not go out of business. He still
has coal and other materials outside of
wood on which to draw. Moreover,
somewhere about 1942 U.S. introduced
a substitute for wood that has been
rendering splendid service in the making
of plastics. Such substitutes being avail-
able, Australia’s forests should be legally
protected from further indiscriminate
slaughter.— John Weyman (N.S.W.).
Labor and Health
“Lord Luvus” (B. 5/1/’44) is a little
too positive in his statement “Leisure
doesn’t keep people healthy ; only work
does.” If he really believes this true
I don’t blame him for thinking the real
Utopia was in the Middle Ages. I
haven’t noticed any terrific increase in the
mortality rate since the good old days
when Dobbin held sway and men worked
all day and half the night to keep the
wolf from the door. The leisured classes
today appear to me to be extraordinarily
healthy.
If the craftsman has no alternative but
to be a cog in the wheel of mass-produc-
tion lines of big industry, unrestricted
education is the answer to our problem
—the opportunity for everyone to express
himself or herself to the fullest extent
in leisure time. The thirst for knowledge
generally comes with maturity, and then,
for the working man, the leisure hours
are all too few.
Who wants to go back to Dobbin
in preference to the rotary hoe? “Asso-
ciational value” doesn’t satisfy hungry
stomachs and starved intellects or
remedy unhealthy bodies. Troppo
(N.G.).
Shoddy Goods
War-time restrictions have hit Queens-
land harder than they have the southern
States. People here are content to bear
the disabilities associated with what is
really an operational-base State, but they
are kicking, not because they cannot
obtain many goods available to southern
residents, but because much of what is
available here for essential civilian needs
is shoddy.
While prices have soared, quality of
clothing has deteriorated. Shoddy
material, minus wearing quality, and slap-
stick manufacture. Ready-to-wear gar-
ments with neither fit nor finish. Why?
It takes as much time, material, thread,
man- and machine-power to turn out
shoddy goods as it would to manufacture
a decent-class article.
This State carries a small army of Gov-
ernment inspectors, and the manufacture
and retailing of inferior clothing and
foodstuffs should concern them. — Shape-
less Pants (Q.).
R.S.L. Policy
Unlike the “policies” of pretty well all
Australian political parties, the policy of
the R.S.L. (B. 19 /1 / ’44) is based on prin-
ciple, not expediency. Therefore, it
stands like a rock.
At Digger Congresses there is nothing
resembling the furious somersaulting
which members of the present Common-
wealth Government have had to perform
on such questions as universal training.
There is never such a spectacle as that
provided by the present Prime Minister,
who, before he became P.M., strenuously
opposed universal training on the grounds
that it was an insult to Australians and a
violation of “the principles for which we
have stood and fought so long as we have
been a party,” and then, becoming P.M.,
with those “principles” meanwhile vio-
lated, only too pleased to let the supposed
violation of quite evidently hollow “prin-
ciples” stand uncorrected.
Whether a Diggers’ political organisa-
tion will subsequently arise is another
matter. It certainly will —and will have
tremendous support —if the post-war
Government makes anything like the
same sorry showing in handling the
vast services-rehabilitation problem as the
present Government has made in handling
such comparatively easy problems as
striking miners and striking wharfies and
food bungling. Whether as an organised
political party or as freelances, many
Diggers will later seek to take the hand
in conducting the affairs of their country
for which .they, above all others, have
qualified. The more of them the better;
and they could not do better than adopt
the issued R.S.L. statement of policy.—
f. D. (N.S.W.).


TRAIN NOW
POST-WAR JO
FOR YOUR
What are YOU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you ... the amount you can earn will depend on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
.
ii
%
'
%
Sfift,
H
••'J- '
Mm
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air, and in war industries—
ambitious men with an eye to the future are devoting part of their
free hours for another big offensive. They’re equipping themselves
with training to do their part in winning the peace as efficiently as
today they are winning the war.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN
YOU AS A DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR SPARE TIME”
WHEREVER YOU ARE.
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any high educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
course teaches you the whole subject in your own home, covering
both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over
Australia. Post the coupon below and full details will be sent you
by return.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
I he Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate the service Diesel engines
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE-NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
Se
K
'***<
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don’t ACT! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin”
just drop us a note!
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel, Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
Over 2,000 students of the Diesel Engineering College have
obtained the diploma issued by the College. Many have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others in essential industries have the satisfaction of know-
ing that their qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in
good stead when the time comes to transfer to other work. During
the past year over 430 students have enrolled. NOW is the time
for YOU to start.
Government Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate ... over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examinations.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
.B, l/3/’44.
I
■
ENGINEERING
255 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
