

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3377 #
Wednesday, November 1, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the Generai Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TOWER OF LONDON.
IT was at London rowing down to Greenwich to lay Ins cloak
1 before the Queen that Raleigh said to Mount: “There are two
things scarce matched in the universe: the sun in heaven and the
Thames on earth” And picturesquely standing on the Thames is
.hat range of stone rampart and turreted keep so aptly called the
Tower of London. None other of London’s many towers has the
antiquity and prestige of this stronghold, which has confined more
appealing victims than any other of its kind.” Although its story is
a poignant one, the Tower still preserves its air of a medieval
fortress, and even today under its low-browed vaults is preserved
the historic ceremonial attendant upon the bearer of the King’s
Keys. On the site of the Tower, built by the Norman Conqueror,
there probably stood first a Roman and then a British fort and
there may have been a Saxon fort restored perhaps b Kmg Alfred,
but the White Tower the oldest part of the present stronghoU,
dates from soon after the Conquest, while most of the othei fort,
fications belong to t epeno of eniy - . I fF prPf i u pre t i ie
As well as the many illustrious people who have here, the
Tower was used during the first World War as a State pnson, and
a number of spies were here executed.


ME AN J IN
A QUARTERLY OF LITERATURE,
Poetry, Articles, Reviews. Contributors to the
Winter Number include A. D. Hope, Leonard Mann,
lan Mudie, Oscar Williams and Robert Peel (U.S.A.),
Osmar White, L. A. Triebel, Elyne Mitchell, J. P.
McKinney, Max Harris, It. Ormsby Martin, Enid
Moodie Heddle, S. Musgrove, Judith Wright, Peter
Hope good, Geoffrey Dutton, Ernest Briggs, P. F.
Rowland, E. J. Stormon, S.J., Berta Irom.
AVAILABLE AT LEADING BOOKSTORES.
Learn
ftee\(m ce
Journalism
at HOrtF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND- MAIL— —-
Please send, without ob^ a “™’ V °Z Profit, «
Booklet explaining how 1
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
. ....AGE...
? 144
The Red Page
HARBOR AND OCEAN.
Kenneth Slessor’s “Five Bells,” the out-
standing achievement among his verses re-
printed in One Hundred Poems (Angus
and Robertson), arose in the same way
as did Milton’s lament for Ned King,
Matthew Arnold’s for Arthur Hugh
Clough and Tennyson’s for Hallam —it
mourns the death of a friend of the
writer’s youth.
Clearly without any attempt at imitation
—indeed, breaking clear away from the
Arcadian tradition set by Milton and fol-
lowed by Shelley in “Adonais” and
Arnold in “Thyrsis”—it is made very
much in the pattern of Arnold’s elegy.
This is Arnold establishing the fact of his
friend’s death: —
Some life of men noblest
He knew, which made him droop, and filled his
head.
He went; his piping took a troubled sound
Of storms .that rage outside our happy ground;
He could not wait their passing, he is dead.
So, some tempestuous morn in early June,
When the year’s primal burst of bloom is o’er,
Before the roses and the longest day— 1
When garden-walks and all the grassy floor
With blossoms red and white of fallen May
And chestnut-flowers are strewn —
So I have heard the cuckoo’s parting cry
From the wet field, through the vext garden-
trees,
Come with the volleying rain and tossing breeze:
The bloom is gone, and with the bloom go I!
And here is Slessor: —
You have gone from earth,
Gone even from the meaning of a name;
Yet something’s there, yet something forms its
lips
And hits and cries against the ports of space,
Beating their sides to make its fury heard.
Are you shouting at me, dead man, squeezing
your face
In agonies of speech on speechless panes?
Cry louder, beat the windows, bawl your name!
But I hear nothing, nothing . .. only bells,
Five bells, the bumpkin calculus of Time.
Your echoes die, your voice is dowsed by Life,
There's not a mouth can fly the pygmy strait —
Nothing except the memory of some bones
Long shoved away, and sucked away, in mud.
Here is Arnold recalling scenes he once
shared with the dead man: —
Where is the girl who by the boatman’s door
Above the locks, above the boating throng.
Unmoored our skiff when through the Wytham
flats,
Red loosestrife and blond meadow-sweet among,
And darting swallows, and light water-gnats,
We tracked the shy Thames shore?
Where are the mowers who, as the tiny swell
Of our boat passing heaved the river grass,
Stood with suspended scythes to see us pass?
They all are gone, and thou art gone as well.
And here is Slessor: —
The night we came to Moorebank in slab-dark,
So dark you bore no body, had no face,
But a sheer voice that rattled out of air
(As now you’d cry if I could break the glass),
A voice that spoke beside me in the bush,
Loud for a breath or bitten off by wind,
Of Milton, melons and the Rights of Man,
And blowing flutes, and how Tahitian girls
Are brown and angry-tongued, and Sydney girls
Are white and angry-tongued, or so you’d found.
Here is Matthew Arnold trying to dis-
cover where the spirit of his friend has
gone to: —
Thou hearest the immortal strains of old.
Putting his sickle to the perilous grain,
In the hot cornfield of the Phrygian king,
For thee the Lityerses song again
Young Daphnis with his silver voice doth sing;
Sings his Sicilian fold,
His sheep, his hapless love, his blinded eyes;
And how a calf celestial round him rang,
And heavenward from the fountain-brink he
sprang,
And all the marvel of the golden skies.
And here is Slessor: —
I looked out of my window in the dark
At waves with diamond quills and combs of
light
That arched their mackerel-backs and smacked
. the sand
In the moon’s drench, that straight enormous
glaze,
And ships far off asleep, and Harbor-buoys
Tossing their fireballs wearily each to each,
And tried to hear your voice, but all I heard
Was a boat’s whistle, and the scraping squeal
Of seabirds’ voices far away, and bells,
Five bells. Five bells coldly ringing out.
Five bells.
How, since the quotations have been
made, does “Five Bells” compare with
“Thyrsis”? Comparisons are supposed
to be vulgar, but they are the basis of
all criticism. If a poem by a contem-
porary Australian writer will not stand
up to comparison with the traditional
masterpieces of the language, then it is
not worth serious discussion.
Firstly then, Arnold’s elegy is the
longer —twice as long —and, as A. G.
Stephens continually warned Australian
writers, bulk is important. Yet some of
the great elegies—“In Memoriam,” cer-
tainly—are far too long; Slessor’s is
an impressive enough piece of architec-
ture to be judged in the best company.
Secondly, Slessor has both gained and
lost something by breaking away from the
pastoral tradition to a modern realism:
lost something of charm and sweetness
and melody, gained something in strength
and passion and the deeper music of grief.
Arnold’s is a poem of regret, Slessor’s of
agony.
To choose “Thyrsis” rather than “The
Scholar Gipsy” for comparison is per-
haps a kindness to the Australian poet, for
he has nothing in “Five Bells” to match
the melody and color of the great con-
clusion to that poem, the grapes, the
Chian wine, the green bursting figs, the
blue Midland waters and the dark Iber-
ians; but neither has Arnold in either
of these elegies the profound and tragic
music of Slessor’s conclusion, that mighty
waste of the Harbor, the boat’s whistle,
and the that ring and die.
It would be profitless to try to reach a
verdict on the comparisons. Poems are
judged by the world—and rightly so —
not in isolation, but in relation to the
whole body of a man’s work. We know
what Matthew Arnold’s stature is, but
it is much too early to try to say where
Slessor stands. Reprinted from three
books of poems published in limited
editions during the last twenty years and
amounting practically to a Collected
Works for the period, One Hundred
Poems will establish Slessor in the fore-
front of contemporary Australian writing
and ensure a permanent reputation for
him ; but exactly what that reputation is
to be depends on what he writes in the
twenty years to come.
Apart from its merits as poetry, “Five
Bells” is interesting as marking the end
of a phase in Slessor’s development. Ele-
gies are never quite the disinterested
lamentations they may appear. When
poets sing the death of their friends
they are to a large extent saying good-
bye not to the dead companion but to
their own youth; Arnold to “the old
days” at Oxford, Slessor to the old days
at Darlinghurst.
So “Five Bells” brings to a conclusion
aH Kenneth Slessor’s personal poetry.
Far more truly than “The Great Play,”
in which he makes this claim, it is “a
Complete Life and Works”; friendship,
beer, girls, country tracks where youth
strode with fury through the night, gas-
lit rooms in Sydney where youth argued
about blowing up the world—-that is
really what Slessor has seen shoved away
and sucked away in the mud of Sydney
Harbor,
Throughout the richness and variety of
his hundred poems —an achievement in
pure art to which Ronald McCuaig did
full justice in an essay first published on
the Red Page and lately reprinted in his
Tales Out of Bed —Slessor has returned
again and again to two themes, Sydney
Harbor and the Pacific. Though he has
written about the countryside with a fine,
sardonic clarity and sometimes, as in
“Wild Grapes,” with love, Slessor is not
a poet of the landscape, certainly no
pantheist. He may drive through country
towns with their willows and squares
and farmers bouncing on barrel mares ;
he may glance for a moment with a sharp
eye at the “gesturing wood” of the north
country or the “monstrous continent of
air” over the south country, but one
always feels that he is glad to get back
to the neon signs of William-street; the
countryside turns its back on him with
the “scornful rumps of cows.” Even in
the very second-rate rusticity of a botanic
gardens the swans- stare at him reproach-
fully. He is the poet of Sydney and its
Harbor:
Water remains, cables and bells remain,
And lanterns over Pinchgut float with light.
Beyond the harbor of personal life is
the ocean of the world; and Slessor —
one sees him as a poet at a tower window,
sometimes staring down at the water and
grinning wryly at his reflection, sometimes
gazing out to the blue horizon .beyond
the Heads and seeing the wraiths of the
great voyagers —is always likely to pack
his dunnage and set off on a voyage him-
self. Always likely
Suddenly to become John Benbow, walking
down William-street
With a tin trunk and a five-pound note, looking
for a place to eat,
And a peajacket the color of a shark’s behind
That a Jew might buy in the morning.
Not only Hugh McCrae’s poems, but
all the adventurers of the Pacific rush
into his mind like “Uncles who burst on
childhood from the East”:
Bearers of parrots, bonfires of blazing stones,
Their pockets fat with riches out of reason,
Meerschaum and sharks’-teeth, ropes of China
coins.
And weeds and seeds and berries blowzed with
poison.
Like his own Captain Dobbin, he has
watched from his Sydney window
boats go by, suspended in the pane,
Blue Funnel, Red Funnel, Messageries Mari-
times,
Lugged down the port like sea-beasts taken alive
That scrape their bellies on sharp sands,
Of which particulars Captain Dobbin keeps
A ledger sticky with ink,
Entries of time and weather, state of the moon,
Nature of cargo and captain’s name,
For some mysterious and awful purpose
Never divulged
with the difference that Slessor has at
least partly divulged his mysterious and
awful purpose: he has wished to be the
poet not only of his largely subjective
Sydney Harbor but of the broad Pacific.
Moving towards the larger creativeness
of an objective poetry, he has wished to
paint all the romantic colors of the
Pacific: —-
dozing houses
Crammed with black bottles, marish wine
Crusty and salt-corroded, fading prints,
Sparkle-daubed almanacs and playing cards,
With rusty cannon left by the French outside,
Half-buried in sand,
Even to the castle of Queen Pomaree
In the Yankee’s footsteps, and found her
throne-room piled
With golden candelabras, mildewed swords,
Guitars and fowling-pieces, tossed in heaps
With greasy cakes and flung-down calabashes.
And he has wished still more to celebrate
the great adventurers who travelled
through or made that color:
For Cook he worshipped, that captain with the
sad
And fine white face, who never lost a man
Or flinched a peril; and of Bougainville
He spoke with graceful courtesy.
Slessor’s earlier voyages, his adven-
tures with Lao-Tzu, Rubens, Marco Polo,
Heine and Laurence Sterne, might be in-
terpreted as a series of explorations in
search of the navigators of the Pacific ;
so, too, the wanderings of “The Atlas.”
He roved all over the world and all
through history looking for the great
theme, and came at last to “Captain
Dobbin” and the “Five Visions of Cap-
tain Cook.”
Slessor may be generally recognised
as the finest artist in Australian poetry
since Hugh McCrae, but he has probably
never been given full credit for his im-
portance as the poet of the Pacific, and
consequently as a “national” Australian
poet. While most of the younger writers
are now rediscovering and exploiting
what O’Dowd and Paterson found —our
own continent —Slessor (and Robert Fitz-
Gerald) are reaching out into the Pacific.
The nation is watching the islands now ;
it will watch them more and more in the
years to come: Captain Dobbin’s eye —
“that eye of wild and wispy scudding
blue”—was fixed on them fifteen years
ago.
In his latest poems, published in the
“Five Bells” volume, Slessor seems to
have forgotteh the Pacific. Only in his
verses on Marsden and momentarily in
the tribute to Hugh McCrae does he
revert to this theme of such magnificent
possibilities. The achievement of this
book was to bring his personal poetry
to consummation, the noble consumma-
tion of his elegy. But, delightful as
“Captain Dobbin” is—a portrait that
Browning could have painted —and in-
teresting as are the glimpses of Captain
Cook, one does not feel that Slessor
has said his last word on the Pacific.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“The Eve of St. Mark,” by the Aus-
tralian Department of Information beg
pardon, by the world-famous playwright
Maxwell Anderson —'recalls in its depth
of understanding and the complexity of
its observation a Second Victory Loan
poster. Why the Melbourne New Theatre,
which prides itself on its high intellec-
tual standards, thought it worthy of elab-
orate presentation or why the author of
“What Price Glory” thought it worth
writing it is difficult to imagine. It con-
cerns a young soldier who leaves his girl-
friend to meet the first fury of the Jap-
anese attack on the Philippines. None of
the characters is like a human being,
though some of them are very like
the official conventions about them.
And why should it be considered
necessary for an American play about
American people to be in a
spurious American accent? It isn’t con-
sidered necessary to speak a play by Ibsen
in Norwegian or broken English.
Not having seen the plays Frank
Brooks and Donald Davies have been
taking round the countryside, Sundry
Shows can’t comment for or against their
quality; but it can at least commend the
enterprise that has taken half a dozen
actors to 54 towns in the last three and a
half months, a journey totalling more
than 6000 miles. Calling themselves
“Sydney Productions,” they set out from
Armidale, N.S.W., and played all the way
up to Atherton, N.Q.; rested for a week
under the palm-trees of Green Island,
came back for a fortnight at Newcastle
Tivoli, then went out west as far as
Moree and played their way back to
Armidale. A second tour was through
the central west of N. S. Wales to Dubbo.
The travellers found the north more
“theatre-minded” than the west, but were
encouraged, nevertheless, to make a second
trip, and are shortly going on the wallaby
n that direction again, proceeding as far
“t> 5 dob i m and Brok en Hill with
Petticoat Fever,” the favorite “ st 2
play of the U.S. In January and Februan
maL toTa?-
mania. Their ambition—“to set in
theatre. ,,a permanent circuit of
Singing gloriously with the disciplined
abandon necessary for the occasion Mar
ir™ L fu WrenCe^ made a rea PPearance .J
the Melbourne Town Hall with the Svm
phony Orchestra under Heinze’s baton in
; Strau ss-Wagner programme.
The highhglit of the evening was the
Dance of the Seven Veils from Strauss's
Salome, which some 30 years asm so
interfered with New York’s musical and
moral digestion that it had to be with-
drawn after a single performance. Th-
rown Hall audience assimilated it with-
out the slightest symptom of displeasure
The voice of the prima donna soared
above the orchestra through three Wanner
items.
At the talkies:
“A Guy Named Joe” (Sydney St. James)
deals with the spirit of a dead airman who
returns to “shepherd” a young trainee pilot and
incidentally, keep an eye on the girl bereaved
by his death. The latter portion of his duties
gives the capable Spencer Tracy a chance to
lighten the story with humor. The spectacular
ending jars.
“Rainbow Island” (Prince Edward) opens
brightly, but quickly degenerates into cut-fo-thc-
pattern South Sea island musical stuti.
Whatever pretence of a story there is in
“Up in Arms” (Sydney Regent) you lose track
of it halfway through and have to be content
with the amusing antics and verbal cacophony
of Danny Kaye,, a patent-medicine addict,
unwillingly drafted into the Army, h/ursc
Dinah Shore warbles pleasantly, and the Gold-
wyn glamor girls are present in technicolor.
“This Is the Army” (Tatler) is designed
to fill a niche in America’s home-front
national psychology. The vaudeville is good,
and the music pleasing, but the field covered
is too narrow to warrant the title. Without
the real life and humor of the forces in opera-
tional and base areas it might as well be called
“This Isn’t the Army.”
An art show at the Education Depart-
ment’s Gallery, Sydney, conducted under
the aegis of the Kindergarten Union, which
benefits by commissions on sales, totals
nearly 300 entries. Erik Langker’s “Ever-
changing Sky,” J. R. Jackson’s “Hazy
Morning,” Howard Barron’s “Hilltop
Farm,” Garrett Kingsley’s “Rivals” (a
beautifully painted nude), Charles Meere’s
big “Beach Pattern,” Freda Robert-
shaw’s “Still Life” and a group of color-
ful water-colors by Maorilander Maud
Sherwood make a universal appeal.
Black-and-white drawings by Bulletin
artists Scorfield, Percy Lindsay, link
White, Leason, Oswald Pryor, Bruce
Cousins and Quinlan are included.
At Anthony Horderns’ gallery two
soldier artists make a show of sketches.
James Wieneke, the better-equipped of the
two in the matter of technical facility,
shows a pretty taste for color in such
water-colors as “Boats on the Harbor,"
“Morning Conversation” and “Tyalgun
Wreck.” Hal Sergeant, who has a round
100 of sketches in water-color and in
chalk-and-tint, atones for lack of train-
ing with tremendous vigor—a determina-
tion to convey impressions which often
succeeds by sheer force.
Colonel William Pestell, an ex-student
of the National Gallery, an architect and
a soldier of the last war, has been show-
ing sketches at the Park Galleries, Mel-
bourne, and it can be said that at 78 he
has a very pleasant hobby. He also has
an eye for the picturesque in landscape
and a love of old buildings. His water-
colors of old pioneer buildings should be
presented to the post-war reconstruction
committee as a reminder that Australia
once had a beautiful architecture that
could be developed, and stands in no need
of modern overseas importations.
The 35th exhibition of the Melbourne
Society of Women Painters at the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum is less stodgy than
predecessors largely because some of the
ladies seem to be embarking on the more
or less perilous seas of experimentation in
modern fashions. Dora Wilson’s “Winter
in a high key is less photographic than
usual, and Lina Bryans has a pen of leg-
horns painted in a slapdash way that is
not ineffective. In her “Country Road
the trees, leaves and road all look of the
one texture. .


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING' 1
"THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS' 121 Years of Service
a/'Av 7
\* (ry
v i
' //
-'i V '//
h]j J ..\\1Ui' 1 •/
& * *
V //\\\\U
I
k ( 0\ uvirY^/i\\\
# A\l) \\ \
1\ A I IK i
J\
1 1
A
V
VcO
,.;0
ni
W‘
iP
I
w\
W
|i^
V/. I 107, S
1
\\V\.
T
rv
£7
P |
u
r
r'
irj.
7i
X
dm v
V
/U
A
rc
r «A
n
,2)
-, J>
O
"HORDERNIA" Fully Fashioned Sheer Rayon
Hose, panel heels, finely knitted, summer
tonings. All sizes 6/9 pair
4 coupons.
First Grade RAYON HOSE, service sheer,
seamed leg, panel heels, finely, knitted,,, sum-
mer tonings. All sizes 3/2 pair
2 coupons.
FINE WOOL HOSE, seamed leg, lisle welt,
reinforced heels and toes, colour Fawn.
Price 4/1 pair
4 coupons.
"KAYSER" Fully Fashioned Service Sheer
Hose, panel heels, mercerised lisle welt, sum-
mer tonings. All sizes 6/5 pair
4 coupons.
"PRESTIGE" Lisle Service Sheer Hose, fully
fashioned panel heels, reinforced on wearing
points, Fawn tonings. All sizes .... 6/6 pair
4 coupons.
"DURELLE" Fine Mercerised Lisle Hose, ser-
vice sheer, seamed leg, panel heels, Fawn,
Beige, Black tonings 3/10 pair
4 coupons.
"HOLEPROOF" Sincerity Fully Fashioned
Hose, dull finish, panel heels, summer tonings.
All sizes 6/5 pair
4 coupons.
"BARONESSE" Rayon Hose, seamless fit.
Tonings: Talkie, Aloha, Peru. All* sizes.
Price 2/6 pair
2 coupons.
Postage free in New South Wales. The
difference between New South Wales and
Interstate Postage will be charged.
Orders for leather footwear accepted from
New South Wales and Queensland only.
Navy suede court shoe. Trimmed
with a cleverly folded kid bow
and complete with full stilt heels.
Fashioned by the famous "Shar-
wood" 36/4
8 coupons.
A most comfortable shoe is this
four-eyelet tie in soft, supple Navy
Blue Kid. Broad last and flat
leather heels 37/-
8 coupons.
• Laides’ Shoes—Fashion Floor, Pitt Street
• Hosiery—Ground Floor,
Pitt Street,
"?EAU MONDE" Lisle Hose in service weight,
fully fashioned, mercerised finish, panel heels,
fonings of Fawn and Mid Grey. All sizes
Price 6/10 pair
4 coupons.
MAIL ORDERS ACCEPTED ON* HOSIERY
, v .
m m
.■ .•'iV ■•('♦JJi
&
t- r
si*
■j ,
#i IH&>
"Julius Marlow" Shoes for men.
Made of super grade leather in
Black Box Calf and Tan Calf. Good
fitting London last. Full and half
sizes 32/6
12 coupons.
For hard work your boots must be
comfortable so we offer you these
comfortable Work Boots. Heavy Tan
Military Style Boots or medium
weight Officers' Boots in Tan or
Black, sewn and standard screwed
soles. Full and half sizes ... 23/6
6 coupons.
All Wool Cashmere Half Hose, medium
weight. Latest shades of Grey, Blue Grey,
Maroon, Navy. Sizes lOin. to 11 3/9
4 coupons.
All Wool Cashmere Half Hose,, medium
weight, with elastic tops, shades of Maroon, Grey,
Blue Grey, and Navy. Sizes lOin. to 4/3
4 coupons.
• Men’s Shoes—Ground Floor, George Street
-ANTfIONY HORDERNS'
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) FAMOUS LOW PRICES BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ACROSS THE SEA TO PELELIU
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THERE were ships of all kinds —
ocean liners converted as troop-
carrying transports; transports
specially built; cargo-carrying ves-
sels ; landing-ships that are no more than
an outer shell around one huge hold ;
small, crane-fitted tugs that had plugged
a way over thousands of miles of ocean ;
large open barges that, too, had come
along under their own power. They had
come to invade Peleliu.
At Peleliu, as at Guam, everything
that went ashore for the invasion force
had to be hauled across the reef. But
whereas at Guam the shallow curve of
Agat Bay did offer some protection to the
transports while they were unloading,
here the entire fleet had to remain hove-
to in the open sea. It was there for more
than a week, standing off-shore by day,
dispersing over a large area of ocean at
nightfall.
The whole question of supply presented
fantastic problems compared to those so
easily overcome on the beaches of the
south Pacific, where the shallow-draft
landing ships could throw their ramps on
the sand. The manner of their overcom-
ing was equally fantastic.
The landing-ships let their ramps down
into the sea, and there rolled from out
their bows amphibious tanks and trac-
tors —strange, squat, ugly vehicles that
churn a way through the water, propelled
by their steel tracks —and amphibious
trucks with rubber-tyred wheels and a
boat’s screw. The transports and cargo
ships put hundreds of small barges into
the sea. They milled around in an in-
describable confusion that was never
confused.
The men wept first. They filled the
barges with their small combat packs,
their arms and ammunition. Outside the
reef they clambered over the sides to
transfer to the tractors. The barges
scurried back to their ships for more men,
more supplies. Small pontoon barges
fitted with cranes were stationed off the
edge of the reef. They served as floating
dock space.
There were bottlenecks inevitably, but
after the first few hours of the invasion
there was no real hold-up. Control boats
moved in and out and around the mass of
small boats. Men shouted through mega-
phones above the roar of the engines,
directing a cargo here to a pontoon, an
amtrack there to pick up a load of
priority troops direct. Troops were taken
with seasickness as the barges rolled and
pitched in the swell and toss of the wakes
of a thousand hurrying boats. They hung
their heads listlessly over the sides of the
boats or sat staring unseeingly at their
boots.
THE Japanese defence was stronger
than anything encountered in the
central Pacific since Tarawa. Not that
the enemy fought any more doggedly or
bitterly than he did at Saipan or in the
first week of the fighting on Guam; that
would have been impossible.
The landings on the beaches just west
of the airfield had to be made across a
rough and shallow reef almost half a
mile in width. The tractored landing
vehicles clambered up the seaward edge,
ground away through the pinnacles and
outcrops, which reared above the water-
level even at high tide, and began a peril-
ous lurching through hidden holes towards
the beach.
The barbed wire, which was strung
liberally along the whole length of the
shoreline just below the water, became
entangled in their tracks. The beach was
lined with three rows of mines and buried
aviation bombs. Heavy and accurate
mortar, artillery and machine-gun fire en-
filaded the beaches from the promon-
tories at either end.
The mortars burst out on the reef all
through the first day. They still ranged
occasionally on the beach five days after
the landing. A number of the landing
vehicles were shattered with direct hits
while carrying the assault troops across
the reef. Many were left burning on
the edge of the beach, the explosion of
the ammunition they carried a continual
source of irritation.
Beyond the narrow beach there is only
one hundred and seventy-five yards or so
of vegetation before the wide stretch of
open country that is the airfield.
Here the tops of most of the trees had
been lopped by the bombardment, but
the area offered the only protection
against observation and the consequent
barrage of mortar fire. Any advance on
the airfield on the first day was driven
back by mortars and machine-gun fire
from blockhouses among the shattered
buildings to the left of the field. Every
structure above ground had been hit,
and in part destroyed, by the pre-invasion
bombardment, but here it was proved
again that naval bombardment, no matter
how severe or how concentrated, cannot
completely demolish well-constructed de-
fensive positions. -
Though there was an advance on either
flank, the regiment in the centre, directly
opposite the end of the airfield, was
pinned to the beach. It seemed that there
could be no clarification of the position.
But at 3.30 in the morning of the day
following the landing the Japanese
counter-attacked the centre of the line,
advancing behind three light tanks across
the open country of the airfield. The troops
from the blockhouses came with them.
Two of the tanks were knocked out
with bazookas and left burning at the
edge of the field not a hundred yards in
front of the Marine positions.
At 6 a.m, the attack was broken, and
as the enemy moved back the Fifth
Marine Regiment moved with him. The
advance carried the line beyond the
blockhouses before they could be re-
occupied by the enemy. It enclosed the
airfield within the perimeter.
ELSEWHERE the advance was still
painfully slow, a continual thrust
with tired infantrymen against series
upon series of concrete and coral-camou-
flaged dugouts and pillboxes, most of
them mutually-supporting, one beyond
the other.
The Japanese defenders died in their
holes, but they had to be killed there, and
each dugout had to be assaulted.
The Marine tank battalions were over-
worked, There were inevitable hold-ups
as the tanks were brought from one sec-
tion of the line to another to blast a way
past strongpoints that had defied the
efforts of the infantrymen. They moved
in with their seventy-fives pumping out
a stream of shells to the very mouth of
the dugouts ; then, that job finished, there
was a call for them from another section
of the line three-quarters of a mile
away. They moved continually up and
down the entire front.
On the far side of the airfield there were
tank clashes with the lighter, much less-
effectively used, Japanese tanks. On that
second day fifteen Japanese tanks were
destroyed by the Shermans.
A Marine tank had been caught with
one track damaged on the edge of the air-
field. Eight Japanese tanks approached
from the line of the trees and began
circling around it not more than fifty
yards away. Its turret circling with the
attackers, the Sherman succeeded in
putting six of (he Japs put of action. The
others scuttled back into the shelter of
the timber.
The Sherman crew’s story, told on the
beach, was received with a certain polite
scepticism, but the burning hulks of the
Jap tanks were there to bear them wit-
ness.
Always there was the threat of the
enemy mortar fire. It was discovered
that here the Japanese had a new weapon,
heavier than any mortar previously en-
countered in the Pacific —a 200-milli-
metre, about eight-inch.
’Planes and artillery combined in a re-
lentless search for the mortars. They
were hidden somewhere in the ranges to
the left of the airfield. The naval guns
could not reach down into the narrow
defiles.
As at Guam, the ’planes were unham-
pered by any Japanese ’planes. Fre-
quently they came down to a level of
three or four hundred feet to strafe posi-
tions a hundred yards ahead of the ad-
vancing infantrymen. The pinpointing of
positions by the dive-bombers was beauti-
ful to watch. Time and again they suc-
ceeded in quietening the mortars for a
time; they never actually silenced them.
There were close on a hundred shat-
tered Japanese ’planes on the edges of the
airfield and in the revetments surrounding
it. Fighters, bombers and four large
transport ’planes, they had been destroyed
in the attacks on the field by carrier-
based ’planes in the weeks preceding the
invasion. It wasn’t until the third night
after the landing that Japanese ’planes
were in the air. Then two floatplanes
came down over the beachhead, presum-
ably from the northern islands in the
Palau group. They dropped two bombs
before they made off. One man was
wounded, but there was no other damage.
They did not come back.
T'HE count of Japanese dead rose
1 steadily. On the afternoon of the
second day it had reached 2248 ; two days
later it was 5239, the figures those of
bodies actually counted. There was no
slackening of resistance. The enemy was
contesting every slightest advance. He
showed no tendency to cast away his re-
serves in suicidal Banzai counter-attacks
such as have proved so costly to him
elsewhere.
There were authenticated instances in
the foothills where Japanese were found
in caves and dugouts with their feet and
hands tied so that they could manipulate
machine-guns but were unable to leave
their positions. Various explanations, all
of them no more than surmises, were
offered: that these were not frontline
soldiers, but laboring troops, Koreans
probably, who had been used to bolster
a position, and shackled to prevent their
leaving their posts; that the Japanese is
a fanatical enemy and that these men
may have asked to be tied fearing that
their courage might desert them. What-
ever the explanation, there was no doubt-
ing the fact that they were actually tied
to their guns.
The American casualties were mount-
ing, too. The number of those killed in
action was still small in comparison—
-423 at the end of the fourth day ; but
there were 2622 wounded and some 300
listed as missing, most of whom it was
feared would have eventually to be re-
classified as dead. The price the Marines
were paying for Peleliu was a high one.
“T HE action in which the first battalion
1 of the Seventh Marine Regiment
stormed across the narrow isthmus on to
the tiny promontory at the extreme
southern tip of the island, and in two
days of continuous fighting killed all the
enemy’s last remaining forces in that area,
was typical in its cold ferocity of all the
early battles.
The Japanese fought with a tremen-
dous, senseless fatalism —a fatalism that
holds him to his guns until he is killed,
that will not allow him to consider the
thought of surrender no matter how hope-
less his position ; a fatalism that is horri-
fying in the implication of virtual exter-
mination before the war in the Pacific is
ended.
The promontory is less than half a mile
across at its widest point. It is nowhere
over four hundred yards in depth. When
the attack was ended 555 Japanese bodies
were counted there. All but nine of them
had been killed in action. Those nine
were the bodies of officers who had shot
themselves in the last dugout to be
assaulted.
By early afternoon on the second day
of their attack the Seventh came out
from the rain forest on to an open
slope which looked down on the promon-
tory. The only way across was a small
isthmus, about sixty yards wide when the
tide came in full on either side, and about
a hundred yards long to where it widened
out to the promontory. There was only
sparse, low scrub covering the approach,
but the promontory itself was thickly
wooded with high trees and jungle, pro-
viding good cover for the defenders. It
was nowhere more than six feet above
sea level.
It was obvious that a large number of
the Japanese who had been in the
southern area had retired there to make
their stand.
An air strike was called for over the
promontory, and the carrier-based dive-
bombers were over the target in groups
of four for almost an hour. Soon the
promontory was shrouded in smoke and
the ground shook. Fighters raked the area
with machine-gun bullets and rockets. A
battery of thirty-seven millimetre guns
was set on the slope to fire point-blank
at the promontory. It seemed incredible
that anybody could live under such a
bombardment, but it is incredible what a
Japanese-built dugout can withstand.
The attack across the isthmus was
timed for three-thirty in the afternoon,
but the men were without water. Ammu-
nition, too, was short. The attack was
postponed till the following’morning. The
barrage continued all through the night.
AT eight o’clock the next morning the
attack was ready. It was to be
headed by a tank and one platoon of
infantrymen, with B Company (Baker)
following.
The thirty-sevens were still plastering
the line of the promontory where it
opened out as the tank began a way
across the isthmus. It was halfway across
when cross-waves of machine-gun fire
from the trees beyond began tearing at
its sides, whining above the men who had
dived sprawling to the earth behind it.
The fire from the promontory slack-
ened and died. The tank and the men
pushed on.
Behind them the remainder of the com-
pany started out in squads, single file
across the promontory, running hunched
over a little way, then diving for cover
behind a bush or a lump of stone or
earth, then up and on again a little way.
Already the heat was terrific. There
was no shade from the blistering sun.
Tank and squad were across the isthmus
and in among the trees and still the
enemy held his fire.
The company was halfway across
before the murderous chatter of the
machine-guns began again. From ahead
there was the sound of grenades bursting
around the tank, and the brisk rattle of
a fire fight. It went on and on, and then
the tank was coming back, with the men
running ahead of it. They had been
ambushed; caught in the crossfire from
two cunningly-concealed pillboxes. They
left two of their men dead behind then;
seven of their number were being helped
by their comrades as they ran. Machine-
gun fire began to sweep across the isth-
mus again. There was no help for it but to
bring up more tanks to blast a way across.
The company withdrew.
All the morning and into the afternoon
they waited at the neck of the isthmus,
lying in the sun, watchful for any counter-
attack from the other side.
There was an occasional casualty from
bullet wounds. Men began to collapse
from heat-prostration, taken with a form
of hysteria that drove them to refuse aid,
to struggle to return to where the line
was holding.
In mid-afternoon the tanks arrived.
Baker company was relieved. Able com-
pany was given the job of making the
assault, with Charlie company to follow
them in.
There were six tanks. They followed
in one behind the other —a squad of men
with each—and fanned out when they
reached the promontory on the other side.
There were three pillboxes just at the
end of the isthmus. The tanks blasted
them with their seventy-fives as they
passed. The infantrymen poured auto-
matic rifle fire into the openings. Two
dead Japanese were sitting in an open
hole, fallen forward across a machine-gun.
The attack was pushed on in spite of
casualties, in spite of the machine-gun
fire. It came from every side. The tanks
lurched over the broken ground, over the
coral boulders two to three feet round,
the trees and vines and shrubs growing
out between them. Every twenty-five
yards there were the pillboxes, dozens of
them —they covered the entire promon-
tory. The tanks paused a few moments
while they blasted them or while a man
crawled forward to hurl a smoke grenade
in through the openings and drive the
defenders out into the open. The rattle
of fire was continuous. It was every-
where in the jungle ; on either side. There
was no knowing where the next tank was
except by the sound of its fire.
The attack drove on and on. It was
necessary to be firmly established on the
promontory before nightfall. It was in
the first hundred yards of the advance
that Damien Parer was killed. He had
been moving with the forward line of
troops, photographing them as they went.
He was caught with a burst of machine-
gun fire as he lay a dozen yards or so
from one of the coral-covered pillboxes.
WHEN the decision was made to halt
and hold for the night the line was
some two hundred yards out on to the
promontory. Baker company was thrown
back in to help strengthen the position.
The night was quiet.
Next morning the push went on again.
It was a slower progress now, the reduc-
tion of strongpoint after strongpoint by
infantry assault. The tanks were gone,
urgently needed elsewhere along the front
that was pushing north and east across
the airfield.
At noon there was still a hundred
yards to go across the promontory. Halt
a hundred ruined dugouts and pillboxes
had been passed behind the line.
At three in the afternoon there were
still some forty yards, still three pill-
boxes to be cleared. And then suddenly
the answering fire ceased. It was all over.
And at the end of it there were only nine
Japanese officers who had committed
suicide in a hole.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No, 3377.
Wednesday, November 1, 1944.
FULFILMENT.
“I came through and I shall return. I shall keep the soldier faith.”— General MacArthur, on his arrival from the Philippines, March 20, 1942.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street >
London, E.C.4.
ELECTING THE PRESIDENT.
On November 7 there will be held the
Presidential and Congressional elections,
the contest for the Presidency being the
first since 1864 which has found the
U.S.A. engaged in war.
Analogies have been drawn between
this Presidential election and that
of 1920, when Mr. Harding and Mr.
Coolidge were elected on a platform
apparently as promising for world-wide
peace co-operation as that of the present
Republican candidates. What followed is
familiar history; and it has been
suggested by zealots on both sides
that history might repeat itself. In
the meantime the' Republican promises
in this sphere have to be taken
at face value. They are not quite
so like the Roosevelt-Hull-Democratic
internationalism as what the late Mr.
Willkie put forward —there are, ia par-
ticular, signs of a more independent atti-
tude towards Soviet Russia —but in
general Mr- Dewey and Mr. Bricker and
the party itself appear at this stage
positively pledged to keep America
as closely associated in world peace
organisation as Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Truman can confidently be expected to
effect —provided Congress supports the
policy of the Administration.
One of the election cartoons has Mr.
Roosevelt seated in a chair, flourishing a
beard that winds down between his knees
and yards across the floor, beside a baby
Dewey in a cradle, nursing a feeding
bottle. Thus cheerfully it epitomises
miles of published campaigning propa-
ganda—the implication that Mr. Roose-
velt (rising 63) has become too old, that
Mr. Dewey (42) is too young ; that the
world situation calls for Mr. Roosevelt’s
experience, that it calls for Mr, Dewey’s
youth and vigor.
Hence an action which in Australia
could only be, and was, looked on with
unmixed admiration could well be taken
in pre-election America as politically
most pointed —General MacArthur, a
year older than Mr. Roosevelt, wading
up to his knees ashore in the Philippines
invasion. While Mr. Dewey is the young-
est candidate/ ever nominated by the
Republicans, and, if elepted, would be
the youngest President America has had
—several months younger than the first
Roosevelt, who, however, stepped up on
McKinley’s assassination, and four years
younger than Grant —Mr. Roosevelt, as
well as being younger than Mr. Churchill
(just on 70) and Marshal Stalin (just on
65), stands nowhere near so alone in the
Presidential age-groups. Of America’s
30 other Presidents nine took office for
either first or second terms at over 60,
and, including these, 25 at 50 or over. Mr.
Roosevelt was himself first elected at 51 ;
the minimum-age limit for Presidents is
35. Opponents have pointed out that if
he completes a fourth term Americans
Who were babies when he first went in
will have reached their last teen year
knowing only one President.
There is more in this than the sugges-
tion of being too old for the job, which
Mr. Roosevelt’s actions and utterances
flatly refute. If a President dies in har-
ness —as six have done, by assassination
or otherwise —the Vice-President auto-
matically becomes President. This is im-
portant in the present election, and there
are reasons why to many voters it might
be a deciding factor.
Long before the party convention —
when, in fact, Mr. Dewey was declaring
that he would not seek nomination for
the Presidency—Mr. Bricker, on the score
of his work as Governor of Ohio, was
one of the favorites for the nomina-
tion. He campaigned openly for it,
just as Mr. Willkie did; but Ameri-
cans appear to prefer as prospective Presi-
dents men who await “the call.” The
States governed by Mr. Dewey and Mr.
Bricker are of prime importance in
the Presidential election. New York
has the biggest block vote in the
Electoral College—47. Ohio has 25 elec-
toral votes. The Republicans are counting
on their men to carry these vital States;
hence the particular importance of their
strength both as individuals and as a team.
Mr. Roosevelt is so outstanding that
without him the Democrats—against
whom a strong domestic tide has been
running for some time —could hardly
have held any Presidential hopes. He has
not only smashed the previously well-nigh
sacred tradition against a third term, but
has proved himself the greatest vote-
winner in the whole gallery of Presidents.
In 1936 his percentage of electoral votes
was 98.5 ; the next-best was Lincoln’s 91
per cent, in 1864. The Republicans take
comfort from the fact that Mr. Roose-
velt’s last percentage showed a decline of
13.9 from his previous, and best, per-
formance ; but, while their hope is that
that decline will continue, Mr. Dewey will
need to reduce Mr, Roosevelt’s last per-
centage by at least 35 points to win. .
Such a crash has happened before—for
example, to Mr. Hoover against Mr.
Roosevelt in 1932 —but, patently, the chal-
lenger has the job ahead of him. More
especially as the war has 4aken a mar-
vellous turn for the better since the nomi-
nations were made. The Commander-in-
Chief role has been singled out by Mr.
Roosevelt’s party for electioneering em-
phasis and by the other side for criticism.
Mr. Roosevelt himself —with consum-
mate cunning, his critics declare actu-
ally made his acceptance speech from a
Pacific Coast naval base, there, he said, “in
the performance of my duties under the
Constitution.” One charge made against
him—that his visit to Hawaii, to which
post he brought General MacArthur and
other Pacific War leaders, was pure elec-
tioneering—now, with the great develop-
ments in the Philippines, turns on his
critics like a boomerang.
While all this counts very strongly in
Mr. Roosevelt’s favor, with the material
advantages which White House occu-
pancy and the 3,000,000-odd Federal
Government employees give to him also —
putting the challengers into the position
of having'to fight their way into a citadel
while the war news increasingly empha-
sises that the one in .charge of the citadel
is doing a magnificent job—the Democrats
would feel more confident if their pair
made out better as a team. In lists of
Democratic possibilities Senator Truman
was not included. He was not even one
of the eight on whose prospects the
Gallup people tool: a vote last December.
On that Gallup poll list were the names
of Vice-President Wallace and Mr, James
Byrnes. To the Democratic convention
bearing a Roosevelt-Wallace ticket went
Mr. Sidney Hillman, as head of the Poli-
tical Action Committee of the C. 1.0.,
backed by unions claiming a member-
ship of 5,500,000. Mr. Hillman, a
Lithuanian by birth and upbringing,
has denied being or having been a
communist—the communists are support-
ing Mr. Roosevelt; judging by one of the
President’s speeches and by other official
Democrat campaign statements, to Mr.
Roosevelt’s embarrassment. Be that as it
may, Mr. Hillman’s acknowledged aim
was to save Mr. Wallace if he could and
dish Mr. Byrnes in any event. Senator
Truman’s nomination was the outcome
of this jockeying.
Though elevated Vice-Presidents have
made notable Presidents, not even the
Democrats have mentioned Senator Tru-
man as a potential superman, while the
Republicans are more or less contemp-
tuous. It is this apparent weakness in the
Democratic team that gives most weight
to the comments on Mr. Roosevelt’s age
and the questionings on his health, which
have been sharpened by the deaths of Mr.
Willkie and Mr. A 1 Smith. To counter the
Republican campaign propaganda on
these points the Democrats are represent-
ing Mr. Roosevelt as in first-class fettle.
They have something to go on. In his first
campaign appearance last month not
even the ranks of Tuscany could help
noting that the President looked healthily
bronzed and made his points in great
voice, with flashing eye or with hands
gripped overhead in the salute of a win-
ning prize-fighter. In fact, the speech
was one of the best of his career.
“The greatest actor ever plucked by
politics from the American stage” thus
gave a firm answer to the pointed ques-
tions regarding his health ; but the issue,
with Senator Truman as the possibly
prospective President, has continued to
be pressed, and remains one of, the un-
certain factors. There are various others,
favoring one side or the other. This is
the first time that Labor has taken the
lead in the nomination of candidates, and
the electorate may not like it. The fourth-
term issue is not being so strongly pressed
against Mr. Roosevelt as was the third
term, it probably being accepted that the
American people in then electing Mr.
Roosevelt condemned the old and set up
a new tradition. In the past Mr. Roose-
velt’s supporters have largely included
the younger part of the community, so
that now it would be a case of youth
voting for age and age voting for youth.
But a great many of the young are now
in the armed forces and away from home,
and for one reason and another it is not
expected on either side that even 60 per
cent, of them will vote.
Further uncertainty in much the same
field comes through the shifts of huge
masses of people to munitions and such-
like jobs. It is hard to estimate how their
distribution will work out in the results.
Traditionally the negro vote is Republi-
can ; latterly it has supported Mr. Roose-
velt ; but, with serious racial troubles dur-
ing the third term, that could change. As
well there are other strong racial groups,
particularly the Poles, who might re-
act unfavorably to the idea that Poland
is to be sacrificed to Russia, and so turn
to the party which is rated as at least
not subservient to the Kremlin. And the
German-American vote can’t possibly
have been influenced the Democratic way
by the Morgenthau plan for the reduc-
tion of Germany to a country of small
farmers, since Mr. Morgenthau is Secre-
tary of the Treasury.
As they head towards the final count
there is no difference between the con-
testants on the most important issue of
all —the continued great effort of their
country towards getting the war won as
soon and as well as possible; and each
side stands pledged—in the Republican
platform’s words —“to make and keep the
Axis Powers impotent to renew tyranny
and attack.” Mr. Roosevelt is backed by
his own great performance and his un-
rivalled vote-winning ability ; Mr. Dewey
by an exceptionally strong campaign
organisation, a running mate of practi-
cally his own % prospective Presidential
status and a party which, until Mr.
Roosevelt came along, had had its nomi-
nees in the White House for 56 out of its
72 years. It bears all the appearance of
a great fight. May the best man win!
A Message to Greece.
It was in the form of a letter addressed
to the Greek Government:
We have heard some rumors of new dissen-
sions, nay, of the existence of a civil war. With
all my heart I pray that these reports may be
false or exaggerated, for I can imagine no
calamity more serious than this; and I must
frankly confess that unless union and order are
established all the assistance which the Greeks
could expect from abroad —and assistance
neither trifling nor worthless —will be sus-
pended or destroyed.
What is worse, the Great Powers of Europe
will be persuaded that the Greeks are un-
able to govern themselves, and will perhaps
undertake to settle your disorders in such a
way as to blast the brightest hopes of your-
selves and of your friends.
I desire the well-being of Greece, and nothing
else; I will do all I can to secure it; but 1
cannot consent, I never will consent, that the
English public or English individuals should
be deceived as to the real state of Greek affairs.
The rest, gentlemen, depends on you. You
have fought gloriously. Act honorably towards
your fellow-citizens and the world, and it will
then no more be said, as has been repeated tor
two thousand years, that Philopcemen was the
last of the Grecians.
Almost every word could, with perfect
appropriateness, have been despatched to
Athens by Mr. Churchill from London
last week or from Cairo by Mr. Eden.
Actually, the letter was written by Lord
Byron at Cephalonia on November 30,
1823. Byron, though fallen into unde-
served neglect in his own country, is still
universally honored in Greece. Going in
with the British, T. Southwell-Keely
reported to “S. M. Herald” that the words
“Byron zito Byron! ” (“Long live Byron! ”)
are “written on walls in every village and
town”; to the Greeks Byron is “the
typical Englishman, champion of the
underdog,” and “the average Greek learns
from his mother’s knee that England is
Greece’s traditional friend.” Sir lan
Hamilton wrote in the same strain 22
years ago: “When all is said and done,
Greece is the only Balkan State which
cares two pins about us.”
But the Greeks will need all their faith
in Byron and Britain and in their own
country and its future to lift them out
of their Iliad of woes. The country is in
a drpadful state, its currency “chaotic,”
its principal harbor and other material
possessions wrecked, many of its people
done to death by the Germans and Bul-
garians, many of the survivors suffering
from the effects of years of famine and
malnutrition —though the food position
has been promptly relieved—and a prey
to faction. More than once the liberators
have had to keep the factions apart by
main force.
On the Left there are the E.A.M. or
“National Liberation Front,” controlling
the “National Liberation Army,” and the
E.D.E.S. or “National Organisation of
Greek Bands” ; on the Right there are
Nationalists and Royalists, together with
a parcel of other “parties,” “all in con-
flict.” Thirteen or 14 groups sent dele-
gates to a conference in Lebanon arranged
by the Australian-born R. W. A. Leeper,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to the Greek Govern-
ment, and there a sort of unity agreement
was arrived at. Its duration was brief.
M. Papandreou, the Prime Minister, is
evidently trying to stand above the fac-
tions. He has formed a Ministry in
which Leftists predominate (the E.A.M.,
though not, perhaps, wholly composed
of communists, is communist-led), and
the first Cabinet meeting was “heated,”
the Rightists demanding greater represen-
tation. With at least a brave show of
leadership he announced that only one
army would be permitted and that the
return of the Dodecanese could be re-
garded as assured. To that there were
favorable reactions in all quarters, and
there was a moment of beautiful unan-
imity. It ceased when the King in exile
appealed for national unity, the appeal
being denounced by the communist press
as “an impertinence,” and the King him-
self as “the greatest • promoter of dis-
unity.” His position is to be put to the
vote, and if the vote is for a republic “an
election will be held for the presidency.”
Australians who served in the Middle
East have kindly memories of the Greeks.
They would like to see their Government
requite in some substantial form the
kindnesses received by Diggers in the
desperate days of the German invasion
from Greeks and Cretans who sheltered
and fed them, bringing perils and
scarcity on themselves, and offer the hos-
pitality of the Commonwealth to Greek
war orphans. But in this age, as in that
of Byron, it rests with the Greeks them-
selves to rise above their terrible
calamities. The words of great men like
Byron and Burke have a way of coming
true in succeeding crises of a nation’s fate.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Duty and Dingoism.
It is unfortunate that early reports of
the great operations in the Philippines, as
headlined, could have produced the im-
pression that they were just a series of
cakewalks and that the Japanese battle
fleet had been mauled so frightfully, with
trifling loss, that it could never go into
action again. Unfortunate, for so inter-
preted they did less than justice to the
brave men engaged with a bold and
fiercely fighting enemy —never bolder
than when he took obvious risks in an
effort to destroy General MacArthur’s
shipping—and gave slackers in all fields
one more excuse for slacking. And God
knows the slackers were already doing a
power of harm.
Sobering, though not to slackers, was
Mr. Curtin’s revelation that the R.A.N.,
which, as he said, “has suffered heavily
in this war in both ships and personnel,”
had in gallantly supporting General Mac-
Arthur written another sad and proud
story of sacrifice in the blood of some
of its finest men. H.M.A.S. Australia,
her sister-ship lost in the Solomons, had
been hit on the upper deck outside Leyte,
and, although the flagship hersel: was not
greatly damaged, 19 officers and men
were dead and 54 wounded. Among the
dead were Captain Dechaineux and Act-
ing-Commander Rayment, and among the
wounded Commodore Collins, all three
the pride of the Royal Australian Naval
College,
In the stricken Australia’s home port
there were strikes and threats of more.
There was a strike of wharf-laborers, and
arrangements were made for at least a
one-day extension in the ensuing week,
the one-day strike being a favorite com-
munist manoeuvre. Members of the
butchers’ union condescended to return
to their shops, enabling housewives to get
something for the stove after a meatless
week, but the Government slaughtermen
went on curtailing supplies, by, among
other things, refusing one of the duties
prescribed in their self-sought award.
The transport workers’ union, which had
a one-day strike into which even sanitary
men were dragged, because it was alleged
that the Industrial Commission had been
tardy in attending to its “demands,” made
an appearance, by deputy, when an in-
dustrial Judge and the other side were in
their places, all prepared—to ask for a
three weeks’ adjournment because the
union wasn’t ready to go on!
The worst threat came from the Sydney
headquarters of the worst example of
“union principles” in action, the com-
munist-led Miners’ Federation. It was
to the effect that the present “strike
wave,” which has caused a production-
loss of 165,000 tons this month, when
the fuel situation could scarcely be worse
might roll into a repetition of the 1940
stoppage (ten weeks) unless the Govern-
ment” did some more crawling to work-
stoppers or something to dish the High
Court, “vindictive and loaded against our
union” the “Government” complied
with both “demands” by producing a
National Security regulation nullifying-
if it can—a High Court ruling that wage-
increases ordered by one of the Go'-
ernment’s” coal reference boards were m
conflict with its own wage-pegging regu-
lations designed to stave off inflation.
And with priceless impudence it was
alleged that the miners were suffering
from war strain. ~
War strain! It is a term which could
be applied with saddening truth to tne
R A.N. —even in 1942 the officers and
men of H.M.A.S. Perth, overborne
superior numbers in Sunda Strai,
showing painful signs of their long an
perilous vigil in the Mediterranean, e
applied to the Miners’ Federation, *
its 40-hour week (36 hours unde,
ground), its 10 days off at Christmas an
its 9 pc. of “working” time given over
lo “dislocations” (a N.S.W "Industod
Gazette” euphemism), d,?| ds “ SU JL
the manifold injuries which toi com
munist outfit has inflicted on the


* The Ignored Enemy.
Ref erences to “good, soaking rain,” “re-
liefjfto drought-stricken grazing and wheat
districts,” “downpours that drenched
pasture grounds” and so forth in an
"afternoon paper can be excused only on
the score of its being a city paper. No-
where in N. S. Wales at that time could
the rain be regarded as either “soaking” or
“drenching.” Only one or two places got
more than 50 points. In most cases the
rain did little more than lay the dust for
ian hour or two and by next day the
drought was on again.
This ignorance of country conditions in
the nation’s biggest city is a tragedy for
Australia. It explains why the first essen-
tial post-war job—soil conservation —is
scarcely being mentioned in the Parlia-
ments or by the multitude of post-war
planners, all of whose plans won’t be
worth an ice-cream in Hades when
applied to a desert.
On 16/10/’44 Sydney, hitherto pro-
tected by its geographical position from
such experiences, was “blacked-out”
under a pall of dust, Sydney probably
thought it was having the phenomenon
all to itself. It wasn’t. That cloud of
dust swept over an enormous area of
Queensland, Victoria, N.S.W. and South
Australia. A summary of reports about
it:
The storm was of unequalled density
and velocity. Clouds of dust and sand
enveloped the country for more than 1000
miles east and west from western S.A.
to the N.S.W. coast and reaching north
into Central Queensland Millions of
tons of topsoil have gone; fencing, rail-
ways, dams, channels, roads were com-
pletely covered or filled; many sheep were
smothered by it.
The point is that even two inches of
rain afterwards would not have restored
that damage. If ever a nation was given
a warning Australia received one that
day.
Queensland Elections.
Lord Mayor Chandler, the Q.P.P.
leader, asked for a select committee to
overhaul the Elections Acts Amendment
Bill. The Noes had it: 36 to 16.
Mr. Power (Baroona) supporting the
measure, said it was designed “to make
better provision to enable electors to
record their votes” ; and then he said:
In Baroona approximately 300 names
were put on for one address. I took the
trouble to send personal appeals to these
people, paying postage. Not one of them
lived at that place; all the letters were re-
turned unclaimed.
But he did not protest that the bill
would prevent such pleasantries. An
Opposition member, Mr. Plurfkett, un-
availingly suggested “abandoning the
practice of numbering ballot papers to
remove suspicions,” pointing out that “the
Commonwealth does not find it neces-
sary to number them.”
Mr. Chandler was far more severe.
Describing the bill as deficient, obscure,
conflicting and complex, he said it would
be virtually impossible for a State elec-
tion to be conducted efficiently and fairly
within its limits ; and, while not question-
ing the honesty of the Attorney-Cjeneral
or Government officials, he made these
allegations:
The conduct and management of the last
election were loose, careless and conducive
to fraud Thousands of servicemen were
disfranchised; possibly thousands of proxy
votes accepted were invalid The At-
torney-General failed to account for thou-
sands of ballot papers issued.
The Attorney-General replied that the
rolls were “as clean as possible.”
Mr, Chandler differed;
More than 9400 ballot papers were miss-
ing.... There were about 22,000 more
names on the State rolls than on the Com-
monwealth rolls, and the discrepancy has
not been explained. Neither has there been
an adequate explanation of the disfranchise-
ment of servicemen.
There was more, but the vote had been
taken and the Assembly adjourned. “I
leave it to the Queensland public to form
its own conclusions,” said the Q.P.P. man.
But the Queensland public may not
bother. It has long been inured to the
strange fact that Labor has lost seven
of the ten Senate elections held in 26
years, mostly by immense majorities, and
carried off all but one of the State elec-
tions held since 1914, nearly always with
immense majorities of seats and some-
times with minorities of votes.
One to Win.
At the turn of the century J. F. Archi-
bald of The Bulletin had Henry Law-
son painted by John Longstaff, and he
was so pleased with the result that he
commissioned Longstaff to paint Law-
son’s editor. The Archibald portrait hangs
in The Bulletin office. That of the poet,
so like him and in every respect so
appealing that old mates like Roderic
Quinn can sometimes be seen communing
wistfully with it, hangs in the N.S.W.
National Gallery.
The Longstaff works must have been
in Archibald’s mind when he decided to
endow an annual prize for Australian
portrait painters with part of his con-
siderable fortune—so much and so
securely invested that the prize has be-
come the most valuable of its kind in the
world. His legion of writers thought he
should have established a literary prize.
That was done as a memorial to S. H.
Prior, his successor, after Edmond, as
editor.
Both men were Australian in spirit and
culture. Neither could possibly have
approved of his prize going to some ex-
ponent of the cult of ugliness or unin-
telligibleness, or to some exploiter of an
imported fashion violating the principle
of beauty and beauty as a principle
—however slick and capable of vastly
better work, and however boomed in the
jargon of the craze. It would have been
risky for any smart young Maxie to try
to convince either in a personal talk that
the standards of writing and painting in
which he had believed all his life were
all wrong and had been outmoded by the
vastly superior standards accepted in
Lublin and Tomsk.
In fact, old hands on The Bulletin
agree that if Longstaff s portrait of Archi-
bald had made him look like a horse or
a hairy ape there would have been no
Archibald prize. Nor would the painter
have gained anything by explaining that
the sitter wasn’t really horse- or ape-
faced, but had to appear that way because
the artist had formed that conception of
him and nothing else mattered, and that
in 43 years or so the “S. M. Herald” art
critic would make it as clear as mud that
he, Mr. Longstaff, had found it necessary
to “exaggerate” so as to “express Jiis
intense excitement about certain forms,”
and Mr. Archibald would oblige by com-
ing down with the dust. Archibald would
have thrown himself into the attitude best
remembered by the Oldest Inhabitant —
shoulders hunched, thumbs locked behind
his back and fingers working nervously,
sabre-cuts of Saxon speech issuing from
his “bearded lips.”
But it didn’t work out that way, and
so it came to pass that the Gallery
trustees, appointed judges under the terms
of Archibald’s will, awarded the prize
this year to William Dobell, a young man
with a deft brush and a sense of humor,
for a painting of an object which
resembled a praying-mantis, but would
have passed for Sim Tappertit, as done
in early editions of “Barnaby Rudge.” It
was declared to be a portrait of a friendly
competitor, Joshua Smith, faithful as to
essentials but with alterations made
within the fair limits of artistic license.
Straightway there were roars of protest,
and out of the hurlyburly came an Equity
Court suit challenging the award which
was heard in Sydney last week.
The Gallery trustees, though repre-
sented by counsel, did not go into the
box. Neither did the lady and gentle-
man, both painters, who brought the
action. The main evidence for them was
given by Jimmy MacDonald, who knew
Archibald and has been almost everything
in the Australian art world, and a
Macquarie-street doctor, who said the
portrait was apparently that of a man
three months dead. Witnesses on the
other side were Dobell himself—happy
at times, but not when he had to admit
that in an A.B.C. address he had talked
rubbish about “the sincere artist” being
“one who attempts to create something
which is a living thing in itself regard-
less of its subject”—and the “S. M.
Herald” art critic, Paul Haefliger. This
gentleman, who has a lofty contempt for
the efforts of representative Australian
painters, became involved in sallies with
Barwick, K.C., who has brought wit, a
welcome guest, back to the N.S.W, Bar.
Haefliger: The artist should, in his por-
trait, paint his Reactions to his subject. He
should paint spiritual concepts the
spiritual concept evoked by the sitter.
Barwick: Take Picasso’s portrait of his
father as a couple of packing cases. If,
gazing on his mother-in-law, an artist
found that the particular spiritual con-
cept evoked was a coil of barbed wire,
could he paint that and call it his mother-
in-law?
Haefliger: I don’t think a sincere artist
would do it.
Barwick: If you knew a girl of 16 with
brown eyes and brown hair and painted
her, because of your reaction to her essen-
tial self, as an older woman with blue eyes
and grey hair, would that be a portrait?
—Yes, so long as the spiritual content of
the sitter is there.
Having listened to the evidence and
counsels’ addresses, Justice Roper re-
served judgment, leaving Dobell free to
attend to the commission he got from
Lord Wakehurst. It is improbable that
he will paint the Governor as he painted
Joshua Smith.
THE YANKS ARE GO-ING.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
ill
■ I
111!
in'!
of
gcTED
Time
i/wafp
nil
By
The
PA
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
z"' ..noro 1
POLITICAL POINTS
is—very properly —doing what it can to
prevent the applying of the first part of
the prescription to Spain.
William Winter’s views about the neces-
sity of destroying Fascism in Argentina
are not shared by other American writers.
Dorothy Thompson wrote recently “We
are enforcing sanctions against Argen-
tina, but she has indulged in no aggres-
sive action” ; and Sumner Welles has ac-
cused the State Department of having
“exaggerated both the degree of Nazi
penetration and the amount of aid the
Government has given Hitler.” He
describes the dictatorship as “an old-
fashioned nationalist-militarist affair with
a few modern trimmings.” That could be
said with interest of the Vargas dictator-
ship in Brazil, which has lasted much
longer than the present Buenos Aires
regime, with its quick changes of leaders
with English names, Rawson and Farrell.
Introduction of coalminers’ pensions
led to some of the nastiest of the 1942
N.S.W. strikes, men who wanted to bring
in young fellows refusing to work with
60-year-olds who preferred carrying on to
vegetating in idleness. Delay in introduc-
ing pensions on the Tasmanian coalfields
led to a threat of a stopwork meeting.
Defenders of larrikinism disguised as
unionism are fond of “arguing” that
there are strikes in the U.S.A.; and so
there are. Material differences are that
(1) they don’t bring Government and the
laws into contempt, and (2) they haven’t
been on such a scale as to impair the war
effort. Nor have they brought disgrace
upon the greatest State and city in the
Union. Governor Dewey said this on
Labor Day (August 19):
In New York we take special pride in
the patriotism of Labor. Since Pearl Harbor
there has not been a single major strike
in New York, not one serious interruption.
The fruits of this peace on the home front
are being harvested on the plains of Tus-
cany, Normandy, Brittany and Provence,
as well as on the far-flung islands of the
Pacific.
If only Premier McKell could say the
same without his tongue bursting through
his cheek!
In September the Commonwealth Par-
liament voted £2,846,000 —up £376,000
to the Governments of S.A. (£1,200,000),
Westralia (£904,000) and Tasmania
(£742,000) to enable them to balance their
1944-45 Budgets. In October the Queens-
land Government handed £1,152,000 to
the Commonwealth as a Second Victory
Loan investment, £750,000 coming from
Post-war Reconstruction and Develop-
ment Fund. In all the war loans it has
invested over £7,000,000. Nearly all this
money was found by the Commonwealth
in the first place, and it is cockeyed
finance for the Commonwealth to be
paying interest on it while heavily sub-
sidising three States which have been pre-
vented by circumstances beyond their
control from wallowing in opulence, like
the Queensland and N. S. Wales outfits.
To end a strike, a farmer working at
an Adelaide aircraft factory turned up
his job, held since shortly after the out-
break of war. He said;
An appeal to our patriotism was made,
and those who could do so were asked to
go “into munitions.” I was one of them,
being too old to fight. When shop stewards
asked me to join the union I said I wouldn’t
on principle and asked them how they’d
like to be compelled to join the Liberal
Union.
While the strike was still on Holloway,
ironically labelled Minister of Labor and
National Service, had his say:
The man would serve the nation better if
he returned to his farm instead of causing
trouble in an industry in which he is only
temporarily employed.
That said, “poor Old Holloway” an-
nounced that wage-increases ordered by
N.S.W. coal reference boards, and pro-
nounced by the High Court inconsistent
with the “Government’s” wage-pegging
regulations, framed “to resist inflation,”
were to be “validated” by a National
Security regulation. Meanwhile, the coal
reference boards were boycotted, and the
boycott remains, the law of the push in
its new guise having, in industrial matters
at least, become the supreme law.
For all his pleasant voice and friendly
manner, William Winter seems to be just
one of those academic Leftists. He says
he has “met many people in Australia
who do not realise that this is a war of
ideologies as well as armies and navies,”
and that it won’t end when the Germans
and Japs are whipped and disarmed.
Fascism exists in Spain. It exists in
Argentina. It has reared its head in other
places. Our war won’t be over until we
have destroyed it, wherever it is.
The gentleman allows that it can’t be
destroyed “by military power alone” ; the
job is to be completed by “brainpower.”
The De Gaulle Government, at last
recognised by Washington and London,
“THEY SHALL NOT PASS!”
“Mr. Curtin says he positively refuses to see yoru— but, between you and me,
there’s no change in the policy of giving you everything you ask for."
The report says “it would have been the
first cessation of work by Tasmanian
miners since the war began.” On the
State Labor Government’s undertaking to
speed up the necessary legislation and try
to humor the Leg. Council, which took
the point that small companies couldn’t
afford the contributions imposed on them
and should be compensated, the slopwork
meeting was postponed.
There is speculation in Queensland as
to the future of the State Labor leader-
ship, Cooper having turned 70, though at
present he shows no signs of yielding
power to anyone. There are two con-
tenders: Treasurer Hanlon—he won the
first round when he was made Deputy-
Premier — and Transport Minister Walsh.
Much depends on the favor of Clarrie
Fallon, who controls the A.W.U., which
wags the Labor dog.
Eggleston has taken up his duties as
Minister to Washington until the Curtins
can decide when or whether they can
spare Beasley, the political situation being
what it is, and Owen Dixon is back in
Australia. It must have been a startling
experience for the High Court Just
to be accused of having said at a dinner
party that he knew 72 hours before Bean
Harbor that the Japs were preparing to
strike, and that “the information was
available for the U.S.A. if requested.
A Washington insurance agent put tne
alleged Dixon words in an affidavit.
Shortly after the outbreak of war in 1939
I left my judgeship to assume control ot
coastal shipping in Australian waters.
About 72 hours before Pearl Harbor 1
received a flash warning from my (!) Naval
Intelligence that a Japanese task force
was at sea and that Australia should
prepare for an attack. Twenty-four hours
later this was further confirmed, with a
later opinion of Intelligence that the task
force was directed against some American
possession. Finally, on December 7, my
Intelligence stated “We are saved; America
is in the war; Pearl Harbor has been
bombed.”
With cold judicial precision the Min-
ister replied: “I had no information that
any task force was about to attack any
territory of the United States and no
information that any warlike measures
were likely to be taken against the United
States, and never said so.”
According to Churchill, Stalin and he
came to an amicable arrangement about
affairs in the Balkans, and that s a com-
fort. There had been no holding Marshal
Tito since panegyrists and photographers
tracked him to his mountain cave and
gave him the run of the blither press.
The U.S.A. Government was the first to
incur his displeasure for refusing to place
the Yugoslav gold reserve, shipped across
the Atlantic, at his disposal. Then he
attacked Britain and the U.S.A. for
having, he alleged, starved him of arms.
U.N.R.R.A. was the next, its offence
being that it was reluctant to place him
in full control of its gifts of supplies and
money to the Yugoslavs. Last, the
Marshal turned savagely on the Turks,
styling them “Istanbul reactionaries.”
Turkey had modestly suggested that, as a
neighbor of Greece and Bulgaria, it had
a right to be credited with some interest
in the organisation of peace in the Bal-
kans. Replied Tito over his Free Yugo-
slav Radio from faraway Tiflis: “The
Turks had better not interfere in other
people’s business; Turkey is not a Bal-
kans State.”
Lord Vansittart, harping on his pet sub-
ject, the destruction of German mili-
tarism, said “It is likely that after the
present war there will be no peace con-
ference, but settlements spun out over
the years. Smuts said much the saline
thing. This was brought to the nonice
of the Labor people at Canberra, but thVy
thought they knew better; hence tHejr
referendum and their Communist alli-
ance and their undoing. They will * e t
another licking when they go to the
country, which may happen a long time
before 1946.
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor, supporting
pay for State members, told an A.N.A
gathering that he had “yet to find a State
member who was not the equal of the
average Federal member in brains and
capacity.” This is making State and
Federal members feel bitter.
E. N. T. Henry, town clerk of Portland
(Vic.), to the Public Works Committee:
Portland is the only deep-sea port in
south-west Victoria; it is the natural outlet
for the Western District and south-east
S.A., and its development would be a
great move for decentralisation.
So it would, but Henry is an optimist
if he thinks a Melbourne Government
will take any notice of him—that’s if any
Portlander can be an optimist.
Though blither about our “bound-
less potentialities” never ceases, a
growing number of people is real-
ising that there is nothing “boundless”
about our good soil. During a debate
on land settlement in the S.A. Parliament
the State’s small percentage of good land
in good rainfall districts was set down.
Acreage with under Sin. annually,
45,740,000; Sin. to 10in., 158,080,000; lOin.
to ISin., 18,560,000; 15in. to 20in.,
13,184,000; over 20in., 7,680,000; over
25in., 2,624,000, and by no means all of
good quality.
Other States are better off, but the S.A.
figures should make it clear that Australia
must jealously guard every acre of arable
soil, and this it is doing nowhere.
It was a full-sized manilla envelope
with “On His Majesty’s Service” in the
top left-hand corner, and in the bottom
left-hand corner “Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia: If not delivered within 7 days,
return to Department of Information,
P.O. Box 4148 X, Sydney.” Convinced
that it contained the latest information
on the war, the mail-sorter took it to the
editor, who opened it with suspended
breath. It contained advance notices of
forthcoming talking pictures news-
gazettes, dramas, etc. —and this interest-
ing item:
For Males: Post-war Re-destruction!
Bathing belles display post-war costumes
calculated to finally destroy male morale.
With fascinating accessories the costumes
really are a breath of spring—in fact, they
closely resemble the classic September Morn
school. The mere male will also find ex-
treme interest in the girl within the bathing
costume.
And some people have the hide to say
the Department of Information wastes
money!
In the Assembly at Perth a nasty C.P.
member quoted a Curtin statement that
“electricity supplies should not be pro-
duced in vulnerable localities,” and asked
whether this had “influenced the State
Government’s decision to instal an elec-
tric-power scheme in an obviously vul-
nerable position in Mr. Curtin’s elec-
torate.” The answer was in the negative.
Still, Fremantle is normally a border-
line constituency and a good body of
power-plant votes is a handy thing to
have about the place.
The main issues at the Presidential elec-
tion are neither remarkably involved nor
separately clear cut. In the domestic
field Roosevelt appears to have eased
away from his former hard - and -
fast New Deal policy ; and Dewey
and party are not positively committed
to make a drastic end of what remains
of it. In foreign policy there is appar-
ently so much in common at the naornen
between the opponents that the election
outcome can seemingly be awaited by in-
terested outsiders with equal equanimity
or despair whoever wins. In the long
run it may not work out quite so simp >•


advt
Special
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Now commanding a field ambulance
unit of the Ninth Divvy, Lt.-Col. K. J-
J. Domey, D. 5.0., has had an exception-
ally lively army career on the rriedical
side. Enlisting in 1939, with the number
VX327, he went away with a field ambu-
lance unit of the Sixth, was taken
prisoner in Crete, escaped about a year
later, was R.M.O. to a machine-gun unit
at Alamein, and subsequently went
through the Buna, Lae and Finschhafen
fighting. Dorney was in charge of an
advanced dressing station with the force
which spent 10 days in isolation over-
looking the Bonga-Wareo track. Operat-
ing under the worst possible conditions,
his first-aid post handled the numerous
casualties with such efficiency that Dor-
ney was awarded his D.S.O. for the job,
while one of his staff received the D.C.M.
The of the Commonwealth
Dried Fruits (Export) Control Board and
a member of the Commonwealth Tea
Control Board, R. H. Gilbert, of Mel-
bourne, has completed 50 years with the
Henry Berry co. Starting as a boy, he
is now g.m.
Roosevelt and Dewey;
The U.S. Presidential candidates (according t'o
one American authority presumably in a posi-
tion to know) have at least this much in common :
each sings in his bath. They’re baritones,
Roosevelt of the natural or self-taught variety,
Dewey a trained singer who was studying in
New York with professional ideas in 1928 when
he met and married a contemporary student.
Similarly, Roosevelt is a natural orator who
can orate by the hour extempore; Dewey paid
for speech instruction and prefers a prepared
speech. Roosevelt is a millionaire, Hyde Park
estate and family fortune dating back over
generations; the fortune was increased when in
1905 he married his relation Eleanor Roosevelt.
The first Deweys arrived in America in 1634
from England; the Republican candidate, born
in Owosso, Michigan, grandson of a Re-
publican party founder who twice declined
appointment as a Minister to foreign courts
(one of them to Russia), and son of one who
combined the jobs of local newspaper editor
and postmaster, delivered his father’s papers
as a boy and, by organising other boys to work
for him —selling the “Saturday Evening Post”
—saved $BOO needed to take him to the Uni-
versity of Michigan. Still working his way,
Dewey acquired a law degree at Columbia, then
had his one trip abroad, touring England and
France per pusfubike. Roosevelt spent six
years at very posh Groton —incidentally, at a
time when he was the only Democrat among the
150 boys there. When he had become Presi-
dent an old Groton master told an inter-
viewer “We didn’t think he was so much,”
and his Harvard and Columbia Law School
careers have been described as “exceedingly
obscure.” Having abundant means, Roosevelt
travelled extensively as a young man, and his
being stricken 22 years ago by infantile paraly-
sis hasn’t prevented him from becoming easily
the most travelled of all U.S. Presidents, though
his physical exercise is restricted to some swim-
ming, whereas Dewey plays a vigorous game
of golf and tennis. In making friendships,
speeches or decisions Dewey is careful, Roose-
velt almost carefree, a difference accentuated in
Dewey’s almost dudish, Roosevelt’s careless,
style of dressing. Both smoke cigarettes from
long holders, though Dewey never gets his
photographed—he’s particular about photograph
poses—and each is said to have an elephant’s
memory for anybody who puts one over him, or
tries to.
Captain E. V. Deschaineux, D.S.C., one
of the 19 fine fellows who were killed
or died of wounds when a Jap bomb
landed near the bridge of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia in the Philippines fighting, was a
Tasmanian, born in 1902. He headed
young for the sea, entering the Royal
Australian Naval College at Jervis Bay
in 1916. A torpedo specialist, he had a
distinguished career with both the R.N.
and R.A.N., going up to the rank of com-
mander in 1936 and captain at the begin-
ning of this year. He commanded a
destroyer at the Dunkirk evacuation. The
50 wounded by the same Jap bomb in-
cluded Commodore J. A. Collins, C. 8.,
commanding the Australian Naval Squad-
ron.
The newly-appointed press attache to
the Australian High Commissioner in
Canada is so familiarly known among
Australian scribes as Tommy Dunbabin
that Thomas reads like somebody else’s
moniker. Born at Bream Creek (Tas.),
1883, he was the Apple Isle’s Rhodes
scholar in 1906, and has done most of
his journalism with Sydney “Sun” and
“Daily Telegraph” and in London on
cables.
Royston Macaulay Evans, new chief
traffic manager of the W.A. railways, has
occupied pretty well every position in the
executive branch since entering the ser-
vice in 1900 as a cadet. Away from the
State’s trains he shone at cricket and
football, captaining the State XI and
Association XVIII.
Captain D. R. McFaflane, who’s been
looking Sydney over, has the singular
distinction of being the first commander
of the British Merchant Navy ever to
get the D.S.O. A Maorilander, he won
the decoration on Malta convoying, get-
ting his ship through when nobody gave
it a chance. Other of his war experiences
include being three days adrift in the
Atlantic before reaching port after his
ship had been torpedoed.
Dr. William Temple, Archbishop of
Canterbury, who passed on last week at
63, was a leading example of the Leftist
confusion over the present war, first
attacking Chamberlain’s attempts to
avert it, then, when it had come, attend-
ing in January, 1940, a secret meeting in
Holland to discuss with German, Dutch
and Scandinavian pastors possibilities of
arranging peace, and subsequently strenu-
ously supporting the struggle. The son
of a headmaster of Rugby, who also be-
came Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr.
Temple was headmaster of Repton at 30,
Archbishop of York at 48, and successor
to Dr. Cosmo Lang as Primate two years
ago.
Back in Australia, retiring from the
post of Australian Minister to the U.S.A.,
knight Owen Dixon did a good solid
job for his country in Washington.
Member of an old legal family, he started
in the same line at the Victorian Bar in
1910, became K.C, in 1922 and High
Court Justice in 1929. He’s 58.
Sgt. William Morse, of Melbourne, who
was decorated by the King at an inves-
titure the other day, is the Digger who,
after helping to beat off an Italian tank
attack at Bardia in January, 1941, brought
in single-handed over 1000 prisoners, in-
cluding a brigadier and 29 staff officers.
He also compelled six Italian tanks to
surrender. Sgt. Morse was the first Aus-
tralian to win the D.C.M. in this war.
In peace-time he was State champion
walker with the East Melbourne Harriers.
Alan Moyle, who has become man-
aging editor of the “A.B.C. Weekly,”
was at 18 editor of Melbourne
“Scotch Collegian.” He has been on the
“Age,” “Herald” and “Sun” in Mel-
bourne, the “Daily Express” in London
and has edited “Aircraft,”- “Picture
News,” the Bread and Cheese Club’s
magazine “Bohemia” and “Wings.”
Moyle took part in the aerial survey of
Central Australia in 1928, flew in the
1929 Sydney to Perth'air race, was organ-
iser and first secretary of the Australian
Chamber of Aviation and member of
the Air Committee of National Safety
Council. He is an accomplished musi-
cian, has published one book of verse
and has another in the press.
“Friday Island”; Brigadier John
Stephenson, a Lakemba (N.S.W.) pro-
duct, who preferred an early departure
as an A.I.F. infantry captain to a later
one as an artillery major, has been given
a civilian promotion in absentia —to the
post of Usher of the Black Rod, N.S.W.
Parliament. Stephenson’s Syrian souvenirs
include a spent French bullet wound, a
D.S.O. and a handsome young ex-army
matron wife (also A.1.F.). Subsequently
he knew Buna and Sanananda at their
worst, and since then Hollandia. He,
Hopkins and Allen are the only three
officers above colonel who footslogged
over the Kokoda trail; all other “heads”
flew over.
H. A. Young, temporarily appointed
Chief Justice of the High Court of
Western Samoa, spent 38 years -as a
stipendiary magistrate before going a
couple of years ago to carry on the
Christchurch practice of his son and
PICTURES NOT PRODUCED IN THE ARCHIBALD PRIZE ART CASE.
Henry Lawson, painted in 1900 by John Longstaff,
commissioned by J. F. Archibald.
J. F. Archibald, painted by John Longstaff, commis-
sioned by Archibald after seeing the Lawson portrait.
partner, who had gone on active service.
Admitted to the Bar in 1898, Young
went to South Africa after the Boer War,
and was there Crown Prosecutor for the
Transvaal for two years, then magistrate
for five years, returning to M.L. in 1909.
G. S. Ross moves up from Assistant-
Deputy Director to Deputy Director of
Rationing in Queensland in succession to
S. F. Cochran, who is to represent the
State on the Secondary Industries Com-
mission. The new D.D. joined the Com-
monwealth Public Service in 1914, trans-
ferred to the Queensland Insurance Office
in 1918, went from there to the Labor
office, thence to the P.W.D., and was
member and secretary of the Electricity
Board when the rationing job arrived.
Retiring after about half a century
of banking, W. J. Warren, g.m. of the
State Bank in S.A. He was in the E., S.
and A. before moving to Adelaide in
1926 to his present job.
A last-century Bulletin contributor,
Les Oakes, has compiled the story of
the early days at Ophir, where payable gold
was first found in Australia. The author
spent quite a number of his 82 years on
“The Ophir,” one visit lasting seven years.
He made notes of what the greybeards
said, and their yarns are now good read-
ing. A map of the goldfield shows all
the gold-bearing hills and the main
mining claims. The typescript and the
map have been purchased by the Mitchell
Library, the author being unable to face
the Sydney streets in search of a pub-
lisher.
Dr. J. N. Findlay, Professor of Mental
and Moral Philosophy at Otago Univer-
sity (M.L.) since 1934, has resigned to go
to Rhodes University College, Grahams-
town (S’Africa). He comes from those
parts —a native of Pretoria, 41, Rhodes
scholar for the Transvaal in 1923. His
Meinong’s Theory of Objects won him
his Doctorate of Philosophy from Graz
University, Austria, where Meinong was
a tutor.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, suddenly, F. W. Fosbery, former
London and Lancashire Insurance manager.
Retired before the war, he had latterly been
doing a war-time job for the Commonwealth
Government.
In Adelaide, at 59, Leslie Aitchison, accoun-
tant of the Education Department in S.A. and
during his 43 years service an active figure in
the Public Service Association.
In Melbourne, Mrs. W. Forster Woods,
widow of a former Stock Exchange chairman
and daughter of James Service, Premier in
1880 and again in 1883.
In Melbourne, at 82, journalist Critchley
Parker, who edited and published the “Aus-
tralian Mining Standard.” Also, at 63, journal-
ist Robert James Lawson, who had been with
the “Age” for over 20 years and before that
with newspapers in Bendigo, Ballarat and Gee-
long. Lawson served in the Boer War and in
1914-18.
At a military hospital in Adelaide, at 31,
Major Richard Harper Formby, who served in
Tobruk, Syria and New Guinea, and was men-
tioned in dispatches for gallantry at El Alamein.
For a thesis on the treatment of shock, written
in the Middle East, he gained his M.D. at
Adelaide Uni. Before enlisting in 1940 he was
medical registrar at Royal Adelaide Hospital.
In Sydney, at 67, Dr. Charles Anderson,
M.A., D.Sc., former Director of the Australian
Museum and latterly on censorship. An Orkney
islander by birth, he was educated at Edinburgh
Uni., was a member of the Zoological Society
of London, the American Museum of Natural
History, hon. sec. of the N.S.W. Royal Society
and past president of the Royal, Linnean and
Anthropological Societies. Strong as a horse,
he had a dry humor, and always held that The
Bulletin was successful because W. H. Traill,
one of its founders, had an Orcadian name.
In Melbourne, at 84, Henry Morgan Murphy,
for many years Secretary for Labor in Vic-
toria, and before that police magistrate and
chief inspector of factories.
In Melbourne, at 88, Joseph Levi, for 22 years
hon. treasurer to Melbourne Hospital and since
1914 a member of its .board of management.
He was a committee member for most of
Melbourne’s chief charitable institutions. One
of his sons, Capt. Keith Levi, was killed on
Gallipoli.
In Sydney, at 76, Constable Albert Edward
Lacey, who for 27 years did duty at the Chief
Secretary’s and Treasurer’s Departments, and
could claim acquaintance with more Ministers
of the Crown than any other citizen.
In Sydney, at 54, boxing promoter Charlie
Lucas, who handled last-war scrapper “Digger”
Evans, and a few years back brought some good
glovemen to Australia, including Jackie Wilson,
Sabatino and Gus Lesnevich. The last-named
afterwards became world cruiserweight champion,
though Ron Richards made him look easy.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Arter”: Though this has nothing to
do with the Archibald Prize Fight
(acknowledgments to the coiner!), a
theory I have long cherished, that the
people least impressed by the art
of the French post-impressionist school
and its various crazy derivations are
the French themselves, received sup-
port from a happening in newly-liberated
Paris. All through the occupation the
great Picasso, hidden away, toiled on,
producing canvases on which guitars, zig-
zags, vortices, human eyes and other
knick-knacks sprawled in a fine frenzy.
His one-man show was one of the first
social fixtures after the departure of
the Boche. But it was not ufliversally
applauded. “Uproar occurred,’ says a
cable message, “when one hundred young
men tore down the canvases and threw
them in the air. The riot went on for
three-quarters of an hour before the
police closed the room and put the pic-
tures back on the wall.” This might be
dismissed as merely an ebullition of hood-
lumism were it not that the Parisian
correspondent cheerily prefaces it with
the remark “Paris is getting back to nor-
mal.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I had long thought the
Sydney habit of crowding doorways was
confined to the city’s corridor trams, but
when I tried to board an electric train
I found that it wasn’t. Men, women and
kids were jammed tight in every door-
way, though there was ample standing
room in the aisles of the carriages. Only
by reverting to my footbdll days and
“going through” was I able to penetrate
the mass. I’d sooner handle sheep than
city crowds.
* * * *
“Croweater”: Another of those mys-
terious sex crimes, with all the trimmings,
came to a poor end near Adelaide. A
woman saw the body of a girl lying near
a rubbish dump. She told a citizen, who
telephoned the detective office. The d.o.
’phoned the nearest police station, where-
upon an officer gathered in the nearest
coroner and departed for the scene. On
the way he interviewed the reporting citi-
zen, who said the murder evidently was
fresh. At the spot the officer recognised
the “corpse,” and was about to invite
the coroner to “view the body, then lying
dead,” when it sat up and wanted to
know what all the fuss was about. She
had been having a sleep while awaiting
a train.
* * * •
“Avon”: A stir has been caused in
Maoriland by the complaint of a Maori
officer of the N.Z, forces that “the color
bar” is more obvious in his own land
than it is in England. He said he had
been refused lodgings in Wellington, and
had had a boarding-room door slammed
in his face. The experience, happily,
seems to be an isolated one. The secre-
tary of the Maori Advisory Council, dis-
cussing the matter, declared that no color
bar was drawn in M.L. in the sense of
“a deliberate attitude entertained more or
less mutually and popularly towards the
minority”; and he instanced the many
Maoris who have risen to posts of emin-
ence in the public life of the Dominion.
Xhere are two good reasons for the
absence of racial prejudices: (1) The
bravery of the native race and the high
character of its leaders (speaking gener-
ally) at all times during the last 100 years.
(2) The fact that the fortunes of many
leading white families were helped sub-
stantially in the early days by alliances
with Maori women of high rank.
* * * *
“Bo”; A ■ Sydney insurance canvasser
who has a reputation for softening up his
victims with a torrent of eloquence
before he confidently unscrews the guard
on his fountain-pen was put on to a
“prospect.” The lady had been tagged
“difficult” by others of the persuasive
fraternity, and the champion, his mettle
challenged, rushed eagerly to the lists.
Even before the door had swung open
six inches he was 50 words into his pre-
amble. Two minutes after the opening
burst he had got in 500 words, but he
made a fatal mistake by dropping down
to around 150 w.p.m. while he dived into
his pocket for the policy tables. It was
enough. In the half-second pause be-
tween his “this” and “will illustrate,” the
“prospect,” a stout and deep contralto,
was into the breach, and what came
back at him made his own oratory seem
by comparison a halting, feeble effort.
At a terrific bat she started on the family
medical history, shot through the opera-
tions she had had and should have had,
“His father's a pilot and his mother's in the Waaafs!"
and listed the multitudinous disorders to
which she was victim; and the salesman
stood spellbound as the verbal flood
flowed over him. As at last she paused
momentarily to gulp in air he hopped in
“Madam,” he purred, “I feel confident
that you would be accepted as a first-
class li” Then the door slammed in
his face. Next morning the field super-
intendent showed him a scorching letter
from the lady, in which she complained
of being called a “first-class liar.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: J. P. Quaine, a Melbourne
authority on criminal history, quoted by
the Melbourne “Herald,” claims to have
found sundry anachronisms in Douglas
Stewart’s “Ned Kelly.” “Cobber,” “get-
ting fresh,” “fair dinkum,” “grub-staked,”
“shoot your mouth off,” “put the wind
up,” “sheilah” and “handout,” says this
critic, were not in use in 1880. Probably
they weren’t; but that shouldn’t distress
the dramatist, who was endeavoring to
convey an impression, not to write a
history textbook. There’s plenty of re-
spectable precedent. Shakspeare gave
Bohemia a seacoast, and hundreds of
Renaissance painters who painted Bibli-
cal subjects robed the leading characteis
in contemporary costumes. From Mr.
Quaine’s point of view El Greco was an
even worse offender. Into a Crucifixion
he put in the background a little group
of people, among whom are easily recog-
nised himself, Titian and Velasquez.
* * * *
“ ’Erb’s Missus”: A Queensland abori-
ginal boy has come into the limelight
musically. Twenty-year-old Harold Biair
was brought up on the Perga Mission
station, outside Boonah, and since leaving
school has been working as a millhand.
Always he has loved to sing, first round
about the mission station and later to
and from his job at the mill. So his
friends took him along to Marjorie Law-
rence. Perfectly at ease in what must
have been for him a strange environment,
he sang for Miss Lawrence like a dark
angel. As he ran up the scale to high C
the rafters of Lennon’s Hotel rang.
The diva said the lad had “a lovely tenor
voice” with everything else in his favor
—physique, presence, intelligence and
musical taste. She promised to send a
telegram to a distinguished teacher in the
south. In his turn, Harold promised “to
work like mad” if he got his chance.
Harold’s chance has come. Some Bris-
bane businessmen have formed them-
selves into a committee, and are to find
the money.
* * * *
“H.”; It’s a mere detail, but Lord Dun-
sany is an Irish peer (R.P. 25 /10/’44).
Many Irish peers, of course, have U.K.
titles as well, which carry added rights,
but Dunsany isn’t among them. The
barony is an ancient one, dating back
to 1462.
* * * *
“Eureka”: In an Australian news
gazette at the movies I heard the
commentator claim that ,St. James’s
Church, Sydney, is the oldest in Aus-
tralia. That is far from correct. The
oldest is the Presbyterian Church at
Ebenezer, on the Hawkesbury River,
erected in 1809, 13 years before St.
James’s Church was completed. Nor is
St. James’s the oldest Anglican fane still
standing. This honor belongs to St.
Luke’s, Liverpool, whose foundation-
stone was laid in 1818, and which saw
its first service in 1819, though it was not
actually completed. The foundation-
stone of St. Matthew’s, Windsor, was laid
in 1817, and it was completed and con-
secrated by Marsden in 1822. If portion
of a church still standing can claim to be
the oldest church, then the oldest Angli-
can church in Australia is St. John’s,
Parramatta, whose familiar twin towers
were erected some time between 1815
and 1819.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: I had invited a friend to
dinner at my Sydney home, but when
the meat strike arrived I telephoned him
and apologised. He refused to hear of
postponement. I said he’d probably have
to be satisfied with tinned dog and tomato
sauce. “That’ll do me,” he replied. “In
fact, it’ll be a bit of a change. When I
was younger and batching I often ate it.
Be like old times.” He paused, evidently
savoring a memory or two of his younger
days, then said “Dammit, I’ll do more
than coriie ; I’ll bring a bottle of beer.”
I made the appropriate incredulous noises
and hung up. On the dinner date he
came into my office, triumphantly placed
a bottle on the desk, and was about to
cheer or something when he sighted my
desk calendar, which bears what its com-
piler believes to be a suitable quotation
for the day. This one was “No sort of
greatness is ever lightly achieved: it is
always a triumph over obstacles,”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Two family court cases
here. (1) Grandfather came home the
worse for liquor and hammered a seven-
year-old boy till he bled ; fined £3 and
compensation 30s. After which the Law
showed its impartiality by dealing with
an indignant uncle who had “dealt with”
the 72-year-old grandad on the spot; £1
fine and £5 compensation. (2) A man had
charged his mother-in-law £3 rent, the
ceiling price being £2. He admitted hav-
ing done so, but pleaded that he had
spent a lot of money on the place and
she was able to sublet half of it. A
puzzled P.M. allowed that he seemed
rather to have done her a good turn ; but
there the law was. Fine accordingly.
* * * *
“Mel bn”: What is erroneously de-
scribed as the first experiment in pre-
fabricated houses in Victoria has been
attracting interest in Balwyn, near Mel-
bourne, where a construction firm erected
in three days a bald-looking plywood
dwelling sponsored by the National
Building Research Station, Canberra.
There was a mild dose of prefabrication
in the boom years of the ’eighties, when
Melbourne’s accommodation had to be
doubled in a jiffy, and 40 years ago an
enterprising builder had another shot at
the desolating business. He bought a
large area of land, subdivided it, had all
his timbers cut to measure and in a sur-
prisingly short space of time erected a
glittering new suburb. To rhake the
houses more attractive he varied the
fajades by putting up corkscrew columns,
square columns, bulbous columns like the
ones to be seen on Egyptian temples, and
the Greek orders, Doric, lonic and Corin-
thian, to support the little eyelids mis-
called verandahs. He sold these dwell-
ings at prices ranging from £BOO to £lOOO,
and was repifted to have made £70,000.
The result is still to be seen and should
have some value as a horrible example.
♦ * * *
“F.M.”: One of the last-century jokes
revived by Tommy Handley in a broad-
cast (B. 18/10/’44) occurred in some
verses entitled “The Twins”;
Year after year, and still the same
Absurd mistakes went on;
And when I died the neighbors came
And buried brother John.
The collection in which I found “The
Twins” was published in the ’eighties,
and as the author, Henry S. Leigh, was
referred to as “the late,” “S.T.S.’s” “1870
at a guess” receives a measure of corro-
boration.
* * * *
“Zake”: The barrowman had just
pulled his pony-drawn vehicle into
the curb and begun extolling the
juiciness of his wares wfcen an aggres-
sive-looking woman came up and began
moving around the barrow, testing vari-
ous oranges for their soundness. He eyed
her off for a bit, then said “Y’re crool,
ain’t y’, missus?” The woman looked
at him. “Howja mean crool?” she de-
manded. “Tryin’ to squeeze the guts outa
them oranges,” he drawled. “If they’d
’ve done y’ any harm some time I c’d
understand it. Y’r just one o’ them say-
dists, that’s what y’ are. Crool because
y’ like bein’ crool. Why don’t y’ go over
to that barrer with the an
tackle somethin’ more y’r own size! ”
« * * *
“Nakhoda” : The inquest on the Mel-
bourne Zoo attendant who was trodden
on by an elephant resulted in what was
practically a charge of murder against
Queenie, the animal concerned, and there
was talk of capital punishment. Perma-
nent retirement from duty, under strict
surveillance, was substituted. In coun-
tries where elephants are among the nor-
mal means of transport and traction the
huge beasts occasionally lose their
tempers and kill their mahouts or other
people, but they are allowed to continue
in service. In nine cases out of ten it is
the mood of their keepers that produces
the nervousness in the animal, just as
with horses. This aspect of the matter
as it affects elephants is well understood
in Oriental countries, and-broad tolera-
tion is the order.
A TIMELY REMINDER.
“People frequently wonder what pictures they see
are all about. Pictures should not puzzle. They
should not need explanation.”— Mr. Will Ashton.
A punch, a fair punch on the muzzle,
A view that should verily vex
The painters of pictures that puzzle,
The dealers in daubs that perplex,
The birds on whose efforts one gazes
Beset by bewildering doubt
As to what the blue, blithering blazes
The thing is about.
To fathom such cryptical sketchings
The temper would tax of a saint,
The eerie exhibits in etchings,
The knotty conundrums in paint.
A fancy that’s fertile and festive
Some find in such features as these,
While others see something suggestive
Therein of d.ts.
“A southerly squall on the harbor,”
Some venture: “How vivid and true!
“A sunset,” some guess, “on Nullarbor,
Or back of the blazing Barcoo.”
But I’ll say it would stonker the smartest
Without some assistance to find 9
Which subject (if either) the artist
Had got in his mind.
Well, William, we welcome your candor,
For it’s clear that it comes from your
heart,
On that which arouses your dander,
“Non-representational art.”
How I sigh for some similar strictures
On a worry that wearies me worse
Than incomprehensible pictures —
Inscrutable verse!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
WORDS.
“Mr. Curtin said the Australian civilian population
must cease activities which impair the war effort.
An admirable dictum, you’ll admit,
A wholesome sentiment, beyond detraction,
But why, John, rest content with mouthing it
And take no steps to put it into action.
Mere words cut little ice in any event .
Unless they’re backed by deeds to prove they re
meant.
Orgies of betting, lotteries galore,
Zest in the mimic strife of dogs and horses
Are not the things to help us win the war
Or pay the debt we owe our fighting forces.
Wrestlers and pugs, whose prowess thousands
Aren’t bringing victory a bit more near.
This is the point, I take it, John, you’d stress:
Albeit of wholesome sport you re no behttler,
In times like these to boost it to excess
Is hindering our cause and helping Hitler,
Togo as well, and any pther crook
Whose goose we’re definitely out to cook.
These drags must cease, you tell us plain anu
On war-time efforts. Bui .you’re little liking.
It seems, to be the first to belll the cat.
And, I suppose, the same apphesto striKin*
A subject upon which SJU‘^J ce oI(i .
Speech may be merely suv ,
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Tuart”- A Sydney composer, Horace
Keats, has set the loveliest of Byron’s
Hebrew Melodies to music so worthy
of the lines that it has drawn praise
from Neville Cardus, whose very
name makes the aspirant to concert-
platform celebrity shudder. The original
music for the Melodies was the work of
Isaac Nathan and John Braham, who, in
addition to helping his fellow-Jew with
the compositions, sang them in London,
being about the most famous tenor of
his day. Byron mentions the pair in his
Letters, using the word “entusymusy,” a
Braham mispronunciation, in a note to
Tom Moore, and asking that poet in
another missive, in which Nathan’s name
crops up, “Why do you always twit me
with his vile Ebrew nasalities?” But he
“But I CAN’T tow ’ im , Martha—the sharks might get ’ im .”
acknowledged a gift of Passover cakes
from “my dear Nathan” in the kindest
terms: “The unleavened bread shall cer-
tainly accompany me in my pilgrimage ;
and, with a full reliance on their efficacy,
the Motsas shall be to me a charm against
the Destroying Angel wherever I may
sojourn.” Nathan spent 24 years of his
long life in Sydney, dying in 1864 —run
over in Pitt-street by, of all things, a
horse-tram.
* * * *
“Rooster,” with some facts about
malaria;
Army metis, had a busy time in fhe Milne
Bay area, Papua, fighting this scourge. Inci-
dence was high enough to compel the adoption
of rigid anti-malarial measures, including spray-
ing, extensive draining, clearing and anti-per-
sonnel precautions. Pathological research re-
vealed three groups of parasites: (1) Malign
or sub-tertian; (2) benign tertian; (3) quartan.
As a proof of what scientific control can bring
about, the Milne Bay area is now practically
free from malaria. After the disease was under
control troops had microscopic slides taken be-
fore returning to the mainland. Result: B.T.
cases were easily discerned, but some M.Ts.
failed to show, even though previous attacks
had been verified. Inference is that many M.Ts.
may have been missed. This is more likely
since the symptoms resemble influenza. Cases
are reported of “malaria-free” individuals col-
lapsing whilst' on home leave in southern States.
It seems that should the parasite meet with
opposition in the course of its life-cycle it lies
dormant after inducing slight pyrexia and “flu”
symptoms. As soon as bodily resistance is
lowered (and it certainly would be in transition
from N.G. to Victoria) it breaks out violently.
One definite rule was early established. Excess
of alcohol in the bloodstream means possible
complete collapse should malaria be contracted.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An interesting piece of news
for Austral ran motorists is the declara-
tion of the A.A.A. in S.A. that there is
at last “a good road” from Adelaide to
Perth. The track, of about 1750 miles,
has been as to its middle part, even when
petrol was unlimited, only for the most
adventurous; but now an itinerary is
ready for tourist traffic when able to start,
with a schedule of from five days to a
week “in comfort.”
* * *
“Hamer”: The “vomit” controversy
reminds me of another hard-trying versi-
fier whose finest 'poetic achievements
found their way into The Bulletin’s
Answers to Correspondents column. In
some verses about a man who could not
refuse the drink that was his downfall he
perpetrated the couplet:
Which I cannot omit
To mention he’d vomit.
Another of the “Answers” bards, describ-
ing a character of reverse proclivities,
penned;—
So great was his aversion from it
That at the very thought he’d vomit.
There was another chap who in despera-
tion rhymed “vomit” with “pommet,”
which necessitated a footnote explaining
that “pommet” is a variant of “punnet,”
a strawberry container.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: I see the N. S. Wales Police
Commissioner has been at a conference
with the P.Cs. of the other States jn Adel-
aide, whereat it was decided that the
wireless patrol system should be extended
and pedal wireless installed in outback
stations; that detectives should be inter-
changed between the States and that
there should be ‘‘united action against
the drug traffic. Sydneys Mac Kay
must have been interested in the
proposal that after the war Australian
police should be equipped with aero-
planes for crime detection. The spectacle
of Mac Kay hovering over Sydney wait-
mg to dive-bomb speeding bus drivers
or swoop on small boys letting off
crackers would be indeed uplifting, par-
ticularly if the booze and betting rackets
continue to flourish and most murders
remain unsolved mysteries.
* * * *
“Pip” on the technique of ring-
making:
Some time or other in his army career, it
would seem, every soldier makes a ring. To
some it is a permanent spare-time hobby, and
a paying one at that. When an aircraft crashes
ring-makers swarm from all directions to
acquire perspex and duralium. These materials
are easy to work, a file and knife being the only
tools required. Perspex is practically trans-
parent, and with designs carved along j£ edges
can be made into an attractive type of ring.
Duralium polishes brightly but lacks the solid
appearance of silver. It takes a color patch well
(the colors come from melted tooth-brush
handles). Silver rings are manufactured from
florins, quite illegally of course. Pearl shell
rings are most difficult to make. The “knuckle,”
or pink portion, where upper and lower por-
tions of the shell join, provides the material.
A sharp file and unlimited patience are needed,
but a very presentable effort can be turned out.
Many of the rings are sent away as gifts, and
the average soldier keeps one for himself. It
is often of a bizarre design, a snake swallowing
its own tail, or a death’s head, But rings
bearing the unit color patch are most popular;
so much so that in some camps to refuse to
wear such a ring is to incur odium.
.f * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Passengers on a north-
bound Victorian train thought the
thing had got adrift when it pulled
up and they found themselves looking
at rails that disappeared into a sea of
sand. For two miles ahead the track
was under two feet of sand, blown across
the permanent way from farm lands
suffering from drought and wind erosion.
The incident got headlines in the Mel-
bourne papers, though it is nothing new,
since all north-west Victoria is familiar
with sanded railways, channels, roads,
fences and even homesteads. To people
in other States Victoria is generally re-
presented as a green little spot, but the
disaster of the Mallee has gone near to
turning a fifth of the State into a desert.
* * * %
“Curtain Raiser”: The campaign to
permit smoking in picture theatres, sup-
ported by many managers, seems to
me to indicate that they haven’t much
faith in the ability of their films to keep
an audience’s interest. Soon, no doubt,
some conductor will suggest smoking at
symphony concerts, and, of course, the
orchestrions ought to have some solace,
so why not let them smoke? I rather
like Whistler’s attitude. One day he saw
a pupil standing in front of his easel
filling the inevitable briar, “Don’t paint,”
said that acid joker, “your pipe might go
out!”
% % sfc
“Sakabona”; Mention of newspapers
for the troops (B. 18 /10/’44) reminds me
of the Bloemfontein “Friend,” which was
taken over by authors and war correspon-
dents with Lord Roberts’s army when it
occupied the Free State capital in March,
1900. For some weeks it was a splen-
didly-edited four-page sheet —Rudyard
Kipling, Conan Doyle, Julian Ralph and
other topnotchers were among those con-
trolling its it was issued
two or three times a week. Verse and
other contributions were printed from all
ranks among the soldiery, and the editors
had a good deal to say themselves, which
they did in unrestrained and uncensored
style. When the army marched away
northward to Pretoria at the beginning of
May the paper reverted to its former
Dutch owners, and when I found myself
in a big canvas field hospital outside the
town later in the year Kaffir boys used
to sell it to patients, doctors and nurses
every afternoon. At that time it was
printed in Dutch and English, and many
of us succeeded in acquiring a good deal
of the Taal (the Boer dialect) by com-
paring its two versions.
* * * *
. “Hamfat” on a stage convention:
Having rediscovered the old stage “aside” the
talkies are using the device for more than it
is worth. As the lips of the character owning it
do not move, the audience knows that the de-
tached voice is giving his or her thoughts. That
sort of thing reminds me of actor-manager
Grattan Riggs, who delighted in plays giving
him an opportunity to change into a wide
variety of characters. His masterpiece was “The
Irish Detective,” in which the sleuth, hot on
the trail of a gang which littered the stage
with corpses, spent a busy time changing
into various characters, from a doddering old
.man to a drunken foreign sailor. The sleuth,
as his natural self, had a pleasing Irish brogue;
when its reappearance in an aside revealed that
the latest character, who had seemed to be an-
other of the gang of villains, was none other
than Tracey the Patsy sleuth, audiences yelled
their approval. The play itself was the crudest
melodrama, made art of a sort by these
character changes; and long after Grattan
himself was gone “The Irish Defective” was
kept going by mummers who. thought they could
handle the Grattan Riggs business, but mainly
couldn’t.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: Chivalry, eh? On a hot
spring day the sun melted the tar in Col-
lins-street, Melbourne, and a young woman
crossing an intersection in a hurry sud-
denly found her feet gripped as by a giant
hand. The traffic lights had changed, and,
wrenching her feet free, she hastily
escaped on to the pavement, leaving her
size fours stuck in the middle of the
thoroughfare. Safe on the pavement she
surveyed her property expectantly for
several minutes, but as nobody seemed
prepared to engage in salvage operations,
she took her courage in both hands and
in her stockinged feet waded back to the
scene of the disaster. Then, carrying her
tarry trophies, she made off, presumably
to a shoe shop.
* * * *
“Pawang”; According to figures col-
lected for the National Health and Medi-
cal Research Council, births in Australian
cities and large country towns are well
under the necessary replacement rate,
births in country districts and small com-
munities well above it. The official con-
clusion is that modern women prefer the
allure of picture theatres, beauty parlors
and dance halls to the raising of children.
Possibly some do ; but why do they?
Outside the towns children, generally
speaking, help on the farm and follow in
the footsteps of their fathers. Their
fathers can train them without the assist-
ance of university or technical college.
Not so in the cities. There, in the hor-
rible jargon of the economists, children
are, for the most part, Economic Dis-
advantages—current substitute for Little
Encumbrances.
* * * *
“Pelican”: Trouble seems to pursue
Max Harris, of Adelaide. First was the
Ern Malley hoax ; next a libel action,
which he got out of by an apology in
the press; and, later still, a prosecution
for having .“sold, offered or distributed
certain indecent passages,” 13 of them,
all in one issue of his “Angry Pen-
guins.” Prof. J. I. M. Stuart, of Adel-
aide Uni., and Brian Elliott, lecturer
there on Australian literature, were called
by the defence. The prof, gave “Angry
Penguins” credit for being a serious publi-
cation, but the passages complained of
he found “crude, offensive to the sense
of craftsmanship, emetic rather than
erotic.” Elliott was equally critical: he
pronounced “the sexual references sincere
and objective, but the methods those of
literary greenhorns.” The Crown said
candidly that much of the stuff it simply
couldn’t understand, but it considered im-
proprieties were “dragged in.” Fined £5,
with £2l 11s. costs. And now the public
has had more than enough of young
Harris, and he, too, has had a bit too
much.
*,* * *
“Craiser”: A young man who enlisted
in the A.I.F. from a Victorian count! y
district was troubled with defective ton-
sils, but had always resisted having them
removed. He even succeeded in over-
coming the m.o.’s objections to admitting
him into the army with his faulty organs.
He served through Libya, Syria, Greece
and Crete, and was finally captured, badly
wounded. After harrowing experiences
he landed in a p.-0.-w. camp on the
Polish border. The other day his parents
received their first letter from him. “What
do you think?” was his laconic message ;
“I had to come all this way and go
through all this to have my tonsils
removed by a Berlin surgeon.”
* * * ♦
“P.K.”: So far this war hasn’t pro-
vided a story to equal that of the Tommy
of World War I who was hidden for
nearly four years by a Frenchwoman.
At the battle of Le Cateau Private
Fowler, 11th Hussars, became separated
from his unit and wandered into enemy
territory. In woods near Bertry he met
Mme. Belmont-Gobert, who took him
home and hid him in her wardrobe—am
affair sft. high and 18in. deep with tw«p&
compartments and double doors opening
in the centre. Fowler entered the ward-
robe on January 15, 1915. Next morn-
ing German troops took possession of the
house, the Frenchwoman being retained
as a servant. Daily she smuggled in food
to Fowler, who managed to get outside
for a breather every night. His presence
in the cupbpard was never even sus-
pected by the Germans in residence. On
October 10, 1918, the Germans departed
hurriedly as British troops invaded the
locality, and on emerging from his prison
after three years and nine months’ con-
finement Fowler was greeted by men of
his own regiment. Mme. Belmont-Gobert
was paid by the British War Office for
three year’s rations for Fowler and was
awarded the 0.8. E. The piece of fur-
niture was bought by Lord Wakefield for
the Imperial War Museum, where, when
I was last there, it was shown together
with photographs of the Frenchwoman,
Fowler and the old. house near Bertry.
* * * *
“Aeram”: In pre-rationing days there
was a general exodus of commercial
travellers from Brisbane on the Sunday
night trains. One night the C.Ts. were
passing the tedious journey in time-
honored fashion —a few hands of poker,
the usual shop talk and some steady spot-
ting. At Inglewood, old Magillicuddy
said “No more beer for me ; it’s too
warm to drink.” O’Blaggin said nothing.
but left the compartment and soon re-
turned with some chunks of ice. At
Goondiwindi Mac replenished the stocks
of XXXX and O’Blaggin provided more
ice ; but before they could resume their
session a wrathful guard burst in. “One
of you cows,” he said, “has been pinch-
ing ice from that body in the van.”


ABORIGINALITIES
SWANS FLYING.
feet orf the ground, do y’? I’ll pull me
meat up to the top o’ the pole an’ it’ll
be out o’ their reach, see?” “But you
ought to have had it in the shade o’ one
of the trees, shouldn’t y?” asked Joe. The
hatter shook his head. “Y’ dbn’t get thfi.
idea properly,” he explained. “Gripes,
it’s hot enough down here, but at the top
o’ the pole—well, that’s 20 feet closer to
the sun, see, so as well as trickin’ the
buzzies I sorta get it half cooked for me
for nothin’.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: The boss was a hefty cove,
and when I found him down at the mail-
box squatting dejectedly under a grey-
box I knew there was bad news or some-
thing which had upset his usual hearty
appetite, for tea had been ready some
time. In his hand was a telegram, which
he passed to me without comment. “You
beaut! ” I said. “Y’ve won a thousand
in the lot’ry.” “Yair,” he said dolefully.
“But what’s the missus goin’t’ say when
she finds I’ve been gamblin’ on the sly!”
* * * 4=
“Aratta”: “That new hand we’ve taken
on seems a dopey sorter coot,” Dad re-
marked to Dave one morning. “Yes,” re-
plied Dave, “an’ I’ll be just as dopey me-
self soon if yer don’t shift him outer my
room.” “Why? What’s the matter?”
asked Dad anxiously. “Well,” replied
Dave, “he puts in about an hour ev’ry
(!)
It’s spring back there... .I’d trade this life today,
This grand adventure, all this foreign strand,
To see old Nigger plodding in the dray,
And she beside me, hand within my hand.
It’s mad to dream like this ... yet I still see
Her red dress blowing and her quick smile
strained
To hold the tears; waving her kiss to me
Which was good-bye. It’s clearer since it
rained;
I hope they come in earlier tonight
And get it over —bombing’s hard to take.
Yes, here they come; it’s funny in this light;
They look like black swans flying up our lake.
(2)
The long view down the lake is very still;
He always liked it best here in the spring.
The broom lies warm as gold along the hill;
He had an eye for every little thing; .
The first cuckoo; two spoonbills on the dram;
The trout that take the spinners by the bridge;
New fern fronds flaring; kowhai after rain;
Or carrying a calf home from the ridge.
* I’d give a lot to know he’s here and mine.
It’s mad to dream like this; a dream must
It’s funny how that flight of swans in line
Look just like bombers swinging up our lake.
MAORILAND. TEN DU CHATEAU.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Despite their families’ objec-
tions to a union, Millie Fagan and Tom
(McKenna ran away to town and were
married. After the event the long-stand-
ing Fagan-McKenna feud appeared to be
forgotten, and the families combined in
arranging a celebration when Mr. and
Mrs. Tom returned. Widgeeup Creek
attended en masse, and the evening was a
great success until McKenna, after a long-
winded eulogy of the Fagans and Mrs.
Tom, concluded with “ an’ t’ top
things orf, I’ve decided t’ set up the
happy young couple on that block o
mine at the Gap.” Fagan got to his feet
with a roar. “My oath y’ won’t!” he
said. “I’ve fixed it f’r them t’ run one
of my places on the shares.” Itfcwasn t
until the fight was over and the faces of
the rival sires were being patched up that
Tom had a chance to tell them he’d
signed up to take a share farm in an
adjoining district.
H: * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; When we pulled into
Forbes (N.S.W.) and booked rooms at
the Vandenberg we found ourselves on
the same floor as a rather benevolent-
looking old chap, who greeted us kindly
and inquired courteously as to the state
of the country. We further observed
that he was accompanied or surrounded
or hovered over by several unsmiling and
coldly-efficient blokes, including one who
never seemed to be more than a foot or
two from the old chap’s side. In the bar
we were informed in reverent tones that
our fellow-guest was a Circuit Judge.
“Whatinell’s that?” Mat inquired. The
publican explained, adding that the close
attendant was what was known as a
Judge’s associate. Mat absorbed this
thoughtfully, along with a pint or two.
Then for days afterwards, when anybody
asked what we were. Mat would answer
“Oh, us! I’m a contractor on circuit,
an’ me mate here, he’s me associate.” It
silenced the idly curious and intrigued the
men with work to let.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: So “Moyhu” saw
large numbers of black and mountain
duck on the “usually soggy regions” of
the Upper King Valley (B. 4/10/’44). I
have traversed the King from its junction
with the Ovens to its source between Mt.
Howitt and Mt. Cobbler without finding
enough “soggy” country to make a frog
ranch. From the entrance of the valley
to its source the river flows over sand,
shingle and rock, quite clear of reed beds
or aquatic plants, and in three years’ resi-
dence on its upper reaches I saw less
than a dozen wild ducks. This is hot sur-
prising, as the only animal life I found
in the stream consisted of a few small
fish, an occasional spiky-shelled, lobster-
like yabbie and a solitary platypus.
* * * *
“Bo”: Arthur Haplin had lived in
his sapling-and-kerosene-tin hut along
the river for 15 years. Timber was grow-
ing in the vicinity of his abode, so it was
with some surprise that Joe the mailman,
coming along the road within sight of the
hut one scorching day, saw Arthur
struggling to bring to the upright a pole
about 20 feet long, the base of which he
already had resting in a hole which he
had dug in the clearing. Joe came across
and gave him a hand. When the pole
was vertical and the hole plugged with
stones the mailman, looking up at the
pulley attached to the top and the ropes
hanging down, asked him what it was for.
“Keepin’ me meat on,” said the old cove.
“You’ll notice that blowies on’y buzz
around up near a man’s head or a foot
or so higher. Y’ never see ’em flyin’ 20
“Let it go, Beryl — I'll drop another ball and lose a stroke.
night prayin’ aloud fer my soul, so he
says.” “Oh, well,” laughed Dad, “I
s’pose he reckons yer need it pretty bad.”
“He puts in longer prayin’ fer yours,”
Dave replied, maliciously. “Eh! He
does, does he?” cried Dad hurriedly,
“I’ll certainly look inter this.” A bit
later he cornered the hand. “Look here,
me lad,” he said sternly, “what’s this
bizness I hear ’bout yer prayin’ at night,
keepin’ people awake an’ wastin’ yer
time what should be given over t’
sleepin’?” “I don’t think it’s waste of
time prayin’ fer yer soul, mister,” replied
the hand. “No matter how deep in sin
v’ mav be steened” “Cut that out ”
Dad 1 S tones “An’
look here if v’ must pray do it silent in
Sr^ y
plied the hand, “I will. An’ I’ll redouble
my efforts on yer behalf.” For a second
or two Dad stood eyeing the other
closely ; then he burst out “Gripes! Yer
will, will yer? An’ that means yer’ll be
awake twice as long of a night an’ next
day be twice as dopey asy’ are at present.
On second thoughts, me lad yer d better
cut out prayrn fer me either loud o
stlent, altogether, or yer 11 have me not
on y steeped in sin but pickled m it.
“Salva” • Our farm hand doesn’t worrv
becalt a .hermost"otte n S
He puts his boiling hot tea in a stone
bottle, then places the bottle in a syrup
billy and stuffs the space between with
paper. The tea keeps hot for hours.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: That fox which worked a
trout out of a shallow stream and then
ate it (B. 18/10/’44) wasn’t unusual,
Approaching a Murray sandspit from a
clump of gumsuckers 1 spotted a fox
across the sand on the water’s edge very
busy over something. With the timber
behind me I began to stalk him. A small
ridge of sand hid the object of his in-
terest. Every now and then he looked up,
and once or twice appeared to stare
straight at me, then he fell to again,
After many minutes I got to within a
chain of him, whereupon his suspicions
overcame him and he took to his
scrapers. Half in and half out of the
water lay a 50lb. cod, pretty badly
chewed, but still alive. Whether Reynard
caught it in the shallows or it had
grounded itself I couldn’t determine.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Agree with “Betcha” (B.
18/10/’44) that canine eyesight is a poor
thing. I’ve sometimes stood, having
caught sight of a squatted bunny, and
by whisper and sign tried to urge the
hound to the spot, only to see him
blunder around like a drunk at a picnic.
Had an old sheepdog once that was
short-sighted and knew it. Send him
after sheep and he’d quarter the paddock
till he found them, start them back and
every few minutes come wide to dis-
cover where I was and then resume the
muster. The best minutes I ever enjoyed
occurred when he found a sloughed
snake-skin blowing in the wind. Old
Jack circled, darted, bit, danced and
barked, every now and then shooting
glances of astonished reproof at me for
standing there and not reaching for a
waddy. When he found out how he’d
been had he trotted two miles home to
the hut and refused to budge for three
days.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Rooster’s” par. (B. 18/10/’44)
makes me wonder if he has ever seen a
snake. Only an urban bushwhacker
would imagine that serpents rear aloft
several feet and stun their enemies by a
sledge-hammer blow with their heads,
Most snakes strike low, the neck being
bent back in a quick curve to either side,
and the lightning strike delivered straight
as a gun-barrel. Had the big brown
adopted the usual technique in the battle
I described he would have been promptly
ripped by his alert foe. Np, the snake is
a realist in battle, and keeps his soft
underbelly low to the ground ; but the
venomous head poised on the flexible
body is capable of darting at incredible
speed in any direction, with a whirlwind
follow-through.
* * * *
“lan D.”: “Blime’s” par. (B. 18/10/M4)
about the good and the bad of a chestnut
horse reminds me that R. W. Dawson,
stock inspector on the Monaro (N.S.W.)
years ago, used to say about a horse ot
that color: “Ope white foot, buy him ;
two white feet, try him ; three white feet,
walk round him , four white feet, walk
away from him.
“p atro [ Leader”: The angry cackling
crie f “j 01 “V o£ bi w Le-breasted
se k 4o* huge nest virtually
smoth^red ’ a , ree just * from the .litfle
beach where we J , an(k £ g]leeted us as
we stepped ashore one August morning
on EagTelsland (N.Q.). The birds had
been dining on a large red-and-yellow
striped sea-snake the tail-end of which
hung over the side of the nest, at our
approach they ceased feeding and watched
us closely in silence until we moved for-
ward into the interior of the low, sandy
island, when shrill .cackles of defiance
broke out. The sand beneath their un-
tidy nest of sticks and branches was
littered with sea-snake skeletons and the
shells of crabs and other mollusks. Cap-
tain Cook named the island on August
13, 1770, because of the eagles he saw
there; and, judging by the many old
nests scattered about, the speck has been
a favorite haunt of the feathered pirates
ever since. Other bird-life was scarce on
the island, but the beaches were popular
egg-laying sites among the turtles, whose
babies doubtless saved the eagles many
long trips over the sea. Beneath one nest
overlooking the northern beach wa<=
found the complete carapace of a small
hawk s-bill turtle. Although every par-
ticle of flesh had been removed, not one
of the beautiful reddish-brown plates of
the shell was marked. We stayed only
one night on the island. Sleep was impos-
sible because of the biting bird-lice.
* * * *
“Tub”: Old Jim Stack sold his farm
and took on the pub at the Crossing. I
dropped in for a pot on the second day
of his new venture and invited him to
have one with me. “Gripes, y’ saved me
life,” he said. “I’ve been goin’ flat out
servin’ the mob this last coupla hours an’
pretty near dyin’ o’ thirst—an ’not one
o’ the cows asked me t’ have a drink! ”
* * * *
“Rooster”: While stationed at an
A.G.H. in Queensland we had two cases
of fish-poisoning—both from the “China-
man” (B. 11/10/’44). The men had been
fishing just off the coral shelf skirting
Magnetic Island. Symptoms of the severe
case lasted a week, resembling an attack
of gastro-enteritis. The victims registered
a temperature of 103 deg., a rapid pulse,
vomiting, nausea and migraine. In addi-
tion there was loss of appetite, with in-
tense thirst. There is, however, no record
of mortality from Paradicichthys vene-
natus, which got its name from a Lieut.
Paradice, who first drew attention to its
toxicity. Treatment is by emetics—castor
oil for preference. But there’s
no definite ruling regarding
seasonal immunity. The food
responsible retains its poison for
longer periods in some areas.
The cases quoted occurred in
October, well outside the con-
sidered danger period.
* * *
“Omi Gosh”: Got an offsider
on this small sheep station, fel-
low called “Blime.” Men bein’
scarce, “Blime” agrees t’ take the
place o’ three-four shearers, a
classer, rousie, skirter an’ mus-
terer, but he’s a bit handicapped
in his pressin’ by the attentions
o’ the cook’s five-year-old who,
f’r diplomatic reasons, mustn't
be offended. “What do sheep
have wool for, Mr. ‘Blime’?” I
hear soon’s me cobber’s sweat-
ing dial comes up through a
mountain o’ fleece. “I dunno,”
snaps “Blime,” as with three
fleeces, a press rope and oil-
drum under one arm, a kicking
woolly, tarpot and a couple o’
wool bales under the other, he
boots out a broody hen, trips over
the monkey and ends out the
chute. “What’s a broody hen,
Mr. ‘Blime’?” “What’s it for?”
“Where’s blazes!” “Eh?”
“What’s a hellion?” There’s a
wild look in me mate’s eyes by
the time we knock off, an’ he drops
on the step an’ opens The Bulletin
to relax. Next I hear’s a coupla gurgles,
an’ he’s pointin’ helplessly to the paper
whisperin’ “W-what’s a w-wild brood
duck? G-good-g ” And over he goes
on the floor, clean out, so I takes a squiz
at the paper an’ find it’s a bit from a
feller called “The 0.D.” Still wonderin
what “Blime’s” goin’ to say when he
comes to.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The Scowegian “praam”
(B. 6/9/’44) is specially designed for
pushing around on waters cumbered with
pancake ice, the upsloping bows and stern
suggesting how it performs in action.
In Nansen’s Farthest North references to
the “praam” will be found. Possibly it
was from the boat that the perambulator
got its slang name.
jf * * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie was on
the way to Watchem sports when he met
an individual who warned him that the
Law had sworn to prevent him opening
up his sweat-wheel at Watchem, and was
even then lying in ambush on the road.
“Curyo” cogitated. Then he dismantled
the wheel, shoved the parts well into a
bag of chaff tied on the back of the
buggy, turned the brim of his felt hat
up all the way round, put on a collar and
tie, took off his silver watch-chain and
practised a changed voice for a few
minutes. Then he spat all over his sleek
horse and rubbed its hair the wrong way.
He drove on, and when the Law emerged
from its ambush he asked in a high-
pitched voice if he was on the right road.
The Law wanted to know if he knew
“Curyo” Charlie. “That feller,” snorted
the high voice. “He’s back at Gunner s
Tank fixin’ a tyre on his off-side sulk}
wheel. Told me he used t’ drive a buggy,
but he’s bought a sulky because his buggy
was too well known.” The Law withdrew
into the shade to wait, and “Curyo
drove on, anxious to get to the sports an
into action before the ambush got tire
of waiting.


“Bennie”: Cproggins had been to the
township and, meeting his neighbor on
the way home, he pulled up to show the
stirrups he’d bought. They were miss-
ing. Sproggins returned, visiting each of
the six pubs he’d been in, and ending
with the Royal, where Ryan produced
the stirrups from under the bar counter.
“Thank heaven there’s someone who’s
honest in this town,” Sproggins said.
“Tried all the other thievin’ cows, but
they reckoned they’d never seen them
stirrups.”
* * # *
“E. 2”: “Trout ’ve got brains,” said
Benno. “I’m squattin’ on the bank of
the crick gettin’ the line of a wild £ees’
nest from where they’re waterin’ on a
patch of wet sand, an’ I see a big rain-
bow cruisin’ up an’ down an’ eyein’ orf
the bees. One flies low over the water,
then there’s a leap an’ a snap an’ it’s
gorn. That seems t’ make the rainbow
more anxious to get the others on the
sand, an’ he lies orf with the appearance
of doin’ some hard thinkin’. Suddenly
he darts up to the head of the pool, turns,
an’ comes back flat out, an’ as he goes
past flips his tail an’ sends a wave
skimmin’ along the sand t’ wash the bees
out on the water. Then he sucks ’em
down, half-closes one eye at me an'
paddles orf up to the rapid.”
* * * *
“Creel”: Those abo. fishing spears
mentioned by “Pip” (B. 18/10/’44) are
frail things compared with the great har-
poon N {wap) employed by the Murray
Islanders for spearing dugong. A
bamboo pole never less than 15ft. long,
the wap is equipped with a barbed spike
of fire-toughened wood 6in. to Sin. long,
fitting into a slot at one end of the pole.
Through a hole in the centre of the spike
is fastened one end of a coil of rope
100 ft. or so long, the other end being
tied to the boat. When a wap is launched
at a dugong the thrower dives over with
it as well, his weight behind the weapon
sending it deep into the sea-cow’s inch-
thick hide. After the strike the diver
pulls the pole from the spike and swims
back to the boat as the harpooned dugong
submerges and starts to race away. The
boat follows, and after a few minutes,
when the sea-cow has to rise again to
breathe, another diver goes overboard to
slip a looped rope over the victim’s tail.
The struggling creature is then hoisted
up by the tail-rope and its head kept
beneath the surface until it drowns. The
wap is also used by the Islanders for
spearing dugong on moonlight nights
from neets —20ft.-high timber platforms
built in the shallows above patches of
the peculiar sea-grass, known as “dugong
grass,” on which the vegetarian sea-cows
chiefly exist.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Though lacking the dog’s
size and strength, a snake-killing cat
usually has a longer innings than the
snake-killing dog, and it isn’t just a matter
of agility plus brain. Preferring to kill
unobserved, puss always plays a lone
hand with a snake, and is never tempted
to rate Joe Blake too cheap and play to
the gallery for the benefit either of master
or mate, a canine propensity which has
cost many a dog its life.
* * * *
“Larry”: When old MacCartney died
he left the farm jointly to his sons Tom
and Nick. Nobody would have recog-
nised them as brothers, Nick being small
and timid, Tom a powerfully built man,
whose black beard and scowling face
gave him a ferocious appearance. As
might be expected, Tom was the boss,
Nick doing everything he was told. How-
ever, they got along together well enough
until trouble arose over their prize ram.
Nick wanted to take it to the piare show,
but Tom said that it would be a waste
of time, money and petrol. No more
was said until the day of the show, when
Tom caught Nick sneaking out with the
old utility and the ram. The one-sided
fight ended by Tom driving the utility
hack to the shed and removing all the
spark-plugs as a safety measure. That
afternoon all hope of entering the ram
havin" been lost, the two brothers were
shearing Tom had just finished a ewe
an( j was rolling a cigarette when
Nick leapt at his throat brandishing
a long knife “Now will ya let me go ter
Glared” asked the little man fiercely,
Tom caught flatfooted and looking at
“We might as well forget ’ im, Charlie, and start lookin' for some beer
ourselves !”
the wicked blade, blurted out a hurried
“Yes.” At this Nick tossed aside the
knife and, smiling broadly, caught his
next sheep and calmly began shearing it.
* * ' * *
“Pat Ater”: It isn’t- because it has no
nectaries that the gorse is avoided by
“Fancar’s” bees (B. 18/10/’44). Actually,
the gorse is a rich pollen carrier, but it
is the closed floral envelope that deters
the nectar hunters. The pea family,
evolutionary “moderns,” don’t court
hybrids, and in this their functional parts
are as effective in repelling insect in-
truders as the orchid’s colorful lure of
labellum column is in enticing them
—for cross-pollination. “F.” may be
right in his contention that stamens or
other organs—even floral parts —can be
modified into nectaries, but it’s pollen
that the bees find there. A glance at the
busy mob around a whiter coastal wattle
in full bloom and at the bulging pollen-
bags they carry will confirm this.
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: The big Crocodilus porosus
of the north doesn’t confine himself to
rivers. Cruising up the western coast of
“He did two years with the horse transport before he joined our mob!”
Cape York Peninsula our patrol vessel
was joined at midday by an old man
croc., who came surging swiftly from the
mainland two miles off. He swam to
within 20 yards of the vessel. A
couple of shots from a .303 caused him
to drop astern, where, at a distance of
about 50 yards, he followed the boat,
only the top of his long snout showing
above the surface like a piece of drift-
wood. He followed us all afternoon,
disappearing when we landed. Around
ten o’clock that night, in bright moon-
light, he was seen crawling ashore near
the and when detected he crashed
off through the bush. That determined
15-footer came aboard round 3 a.m.,
his arrival being heralded by yells from
the cook, whose bunk was alongside
the stack of rations, the saurian’s
objective. The brute apparently got as big
a fright as the cook, for as a torch shone
in his eyes he swung and raced off,
a flick from his tail sending tins of
rations flying in all directions. After
that the scaly monster left us alone,
* * * *
“Rooster” (B. 11/10/’44) may
be correct in his dissertation on eels, but
I do know that eels hold high carnival on
moonlit nights preceding summer floods.
I have never seen them throw a party
during wintry weather. The Burdekin
River, N.Q., is ideal to observe the eels
en route to the sea. Have watched them
hurtling through the cataracts of Hell’s
Gates, twisting through the crevices of
the Slaty Gorge and flopping and
wriggling over and down the terraced
weir at Charters Towers. The average
length of these greenish-yellow speckled
pilgrims, their white weskits gleaming,
would be about three feet and the
weight five pounds. Bucketfuls of elvers
may be gathered at the base of the
Towers weir, but only after the summer
floods. Not all eels possess the pro-
creative instinct, else how explain the
monsters, five-footers and 30-pounders,
taken in the upper waters of the Dawson
and Nogoa, well inland? As the Sargasso
Sea is roughly 12,000 miles distant, the
nippers, larvae and elvers would have to
swim over five miles per day without
halts for nips, nap of tucker on the track.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The greatest clash of
ideas between black and white in the
Swan River Settlement was on the matter
of nudity. True, the aboriginal of both
sexes in cold weather wore a kangaroo-
skin cloak. But that garment was purely
one of utility; thrown around the shoul-
ders, it seldom —never in the case of the
women —reached the waist; while in
summer the innocent native wore no
garment at all. And it really was a start-
ling sight, for an age of whites that
clothed from ears to instep, to be con-
fronted in the street or even at the
kitchen door by aboriginal adult-
hood in the garb of Adam. The
Stirling regime, from 1829 to 1839, had
given the job up as hopeless, but John
Hutt, Stirling’s successor, thought the
matter worthy of attention. So a bolt of
print was taken from the stores and the
charitable ladies of Perth were organ-
ised as a sewing bee. A score or more
Mother Hubbards was the result. Then
on a given day the ladies of the tribes
were summoned to the front of Govern-
ment House in St.* George’s Terrace and
inducted into the mysteries of clothing.
When all were decently clad the Gover-
nor issued from seclusion and held a sort
of review. All was well. But next day,
when the tribe came down from the
heights of Mt. Eliza into town, John Hutt
to his horror saw that the ladies had
resumed the garb of Nature, while the
bucks were wearing the Mother Hub-
bards, some of them two or three.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: It was a perfect spring day
when I stopped at Alluvial Creek, where
George, who (fossicks among the old
workings for a crust, has his shack.
George’s conversation consists almost
entirely of a bitter condemnation of the
weather, and I thought the beauty of the
day would be checkmate to him.. “Rotten
sort o’ weather,” the old bloke opened
up. “Not that it’s too bad while it stays
like this, mind y', but y’ never know what
it’s gain’ to do next!”
* * * *
“B. 4”; Enjoyed a parallel incident
to “S.G.’s” (B. 4/10/’44) at Black
Sam’s Crossing on the Flinders, just after
the wet. An overloaded table-top was
down below the naves of the pony wheels
in the soft river-bed. Two horse teams
hooked on failed to move the “Western
Star.” Instead of unloading the wool the
teamsters hied away to the shanty on the
plain and enlisted two bullock teams
camped there. The two daughters of the
inn ambled along behind the trailing bul-
lock chains to watch the fun. Twenty-
four horses in line were given the right
of the road cutting, while 32 bullocks
were hooked on to the off-side. The
four knights of the highway now
rasped their throats with salvos of
yells and whoops, while whacks and
whip-cracks rent hair and air; but
those wagon-wheels rose not over the
packed sand. With blazing eyes the bull-
punchers glared hard at the confused
girls, who blushed and faded away. Soon
a pent-up blast of H.E. language burnt the
air, and the startled collar-slaves, further
shocked by lashing whips, cracks, cuts
and blows from reversed handles, dug
their toes in and heaved their darndest.
As they hung there, straining muscles
swelling in an agony of effort, something
had to go ; and the draw rod burst with
a gunshot bang, half the teams tumbling
to the release. As all hands belatedly
threw off woolbales the teamsters dryly
remarked that they’d never before heard
language burst a wagon.
* $ * *
“Gilmsucker”: This talk about blokes
threatening to destroy themselves and
renegging on it reminds me of the Blind
Man of Ballarat and his termagant wife.
Between the two afflictions the Blind Man
not seldom wished himself dead, a wish
heartily seconded by his worse half.
Came the day when he offered to trans-
late the desire into reality would she but
guide him to an abandoned quarry hole,
with sheer walls 20 feet deep, filled to the
brim. Arrived at the brink the would-be
suicide found his resolution failing, but
thought he could manage it would his
wife give him a good push. Eager to
oblige, the lady stepped back a few paces
and then charged. But again the would-
be suicide’s resolution wilted, for just
at the vital moment he side-stepped, and
it was his wife, unable to recover herself,
who went in. He made that deathbed
confession nearly 20 years later.
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver had been
growling about “the screws” in a foot, so
I kidded him to visit the doc. on his trip
into town. Next morning I dropped in,
to find him tugging impatiently at a
bandage on the offending hoof. “What’d
the doc. say?” I inquired. The unwind-
ing continued for a few seconds, then:
“Silly cow,” came the resentful snort. I
flopped on a box and waited. “Well, if
y’ must know,” he snapped presently, “he
said I better lay up for a fortnight.”
“That won’t hurt you,” I volunteered.
“Eh? But don’tcha see,” the old bloke
w r aved the bandage testily, “1 only Showed
the quack one foot; reckoned that’d do ;
but I got them aches in the other one,
t’ say nuthin’ o’ me right knee an’ one
hip. Well, they c’n cure themselves, see?
Gripes, think a man’s gonna sit round
the place doin’ nuthin’ f’r eight flamin’
weeks?”
ON THE ROAD TO OMEO.
It was summer on the mountains,
With blue haze upon the peaks,
And the bell-birds in the gorges
Chiming all along the creeks,
As we cantered up from Eskdale,
Where the white-faced cattle go
Through the trees, as straight as towers,
On the road to Omeo.
There was silence on the shoulders
Where the red road met the sky,
And an eagle wheeled and watched us
As his eyrie we drew nigh;
There were valleys deep in distance,
And a homestead far below,
And the flash of bright rosellas,
On the road to Omeo.
There was pleasure in the evening
As we rode the shadows through,
Watching soft light on the rooftops
And the wood-smoke rising blue.
There were voices in the darkness
And the lamplight’s yellow glow;
There were friendly hands to greet us
On the road to Omeo.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


AN IDEAL HOME
■Out fa/ cme&unp.'
liiii
S 35
'• ' ' V
An ideal home, BUT —in an unsewered area. Let HYGEIA DISSOL-
VENATOR give you all the advantages of modern hygienic sanitation.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a completely self-contained sanitary system.
Abolishes unwholesome smells, destroys germs, banishes flies, protects health. No
water supply required... no embarrassing emptying. Sewage material is chemically
transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the ground. Easy to instal,
modern and attractive. Thousands installed in homes, offices and hospitals throughout
Austrului
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVEN ATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR.
Name
Address '.
8TN.3.44
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTT, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOB NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
df
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CfcwpGAS
manpower
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef and Irrigation.
“Beefo”: The short-legged, thick-set
Shorthorn is ideal for the Cooper coun-
try (B. 18/10/’44) and for the whole of
Queensland’s far south-western corner. I
commend “Aeram” for saying that “irri-
gation schemes, even low-level dams,
would be a boon in these areas.” Aus-
tralia’s greatest natural bullock paddock
lies in that vast area, which is periodi-
cally flooded by the Cooper, the
Diamantina, the Georgina or all three.
It is a pastoral area where irrigation
would make a beef-producer’s dream
come true.
Periodically heavy rains cause the three
rivers to break their bounds. When the
waters subside the arid country becomes
thousands of square miles of succulent
pastures. Cattle fatten rapidly and they
fatten solid, their quality unrivalled else-
where in Australia. Unfortunately, the
flooding isn’t regular, and too often there
is a lengthy span between floodings,
whereupon drought takes its toll.
These precious waters will continue to
run away- to waste until a Chaffey or a
Bradfield is given the chance to establish
a water-conservation scheme. Irrigation
would follow, and Queensland’s far south-
west become what Nature intended it to
be—the pastoral heart of the continent.
Lamb Raising.
“Jock”: D. S. Thompson, sheep in-
structor, Roseworthy Agricultural College
(S.A.), has answered a question all fat-
iamb growers ask themselves at some
stage—whether to sell lambs which will
not fatten in the spring or to hand-feed
them and get them fat for the dearer late
summer and autumn markets. In an
article in the “Journal of Agriculture ’
(S.A.) Thompson describes his prelimi-
nary experiment in the fattening of store
lambs. He bought eight-month-old
Border Leicester cross lambs, landing
them at the college at 11s. 6d. They were
divided into three groups of 33 lambs,
the average weight of each group being
practically the same.
Group I went on to 20 acres of pea
stubble from a poor crop, of which one-
third acre had been too poor to reap.
These lambs had a salt lick and water
and nothing else. Group II were in a
i-acre plot on which they were worked
up to Ijlb. of grain (wheat and oats), and
the daily feed was made up to 2flb. with
f.a.q. lucerne hay. Group 111, on a f-acre
plot, were fed a mixture of 100 parts
grain, parts linseed meal and one
part of limestone. This was fed so that
the grain was equivalent to that of Group
11. The total daily feed per lamb was
made up to 2-Jib. with mixed cereal chaff.,
The fodders were costed at wheat, 3s.
6d. bushel, oats 2s. lid. bushel, lucerne
hay £5 ton, cereal chaff £5 ton, linseed
meal £lO 10s. short ton, lime 7s. cwt.
Pea stubble was reckoned to be worth
3d. per week per lamb. Labor costs were
not included, so this increases the favor-
able results obtained with the pea stubble.
Thompson had his results set out thus:
Grp. 1. Grp. 11. Grp. 111.
Days fed .. .. 60 60 60
Initial live weight.. 56.401 b. 56.331 b. 56.301 b.
Final weight .. 77.901 b. 75.231 b. 66.271 b.
Total increase .. 21.501 b. 18.901 b. 9.971 b.
Feed cost per head 2s. 2d. Bs. 4d. 6s. 7d.
Landed cost ..11s. lid. 11s. lid. 11s. lid.
Sale price .. .. 295. 7d. 265. lOd. 21s. 3d.
Net profit (deduct-
ing market costs) 14s. Od. ss. 2d. Is. 7d.
The lambs were bought at sd. per
pound (Dec.-Jan. price) and sold in the
March market at Bid., Bd. and I\ d. per
pound for each of the three groups. As
Thompson points out, this increase is
due to lambs being scarcer in March
and also because of the increase in
quality. The fat-lamb grower has here
some work that is going to save him a
lot of cash. Rarely can he quit all his
lambs as fats, but if he grows peas or
some such legume he will do better if
he quits his store lambs in December and
January.
T.B. in Cattle.
“Outback”: Publication the same week
of a statement by the Queensland Direc-
tor of Veterinary Services (Dr. J. Legg)
that t.b. in cattle has been spreading at
an alarming rate in some herds and a
statement by one of his senior officers
(J. C. Maunder) that only .8 p.c. of the
133,874 cattle tested on the Darling
Downs showed t.b. infection is the sort
of thing dairymen swear about.
Tests were conducted in the area from
which the Darling Downs Co-operative
draws its milk supplies, and they were
done by two inspectors from the State
Agriculture Department and two from
the U.S.A. veterinary service. American
Army authorities in July offered to pay
3d. per gallon extra for 20,000-odd gals,
of t.b.-free milk, and Toowoomba Milk
Producers’ Association decided to accept.
Under contracts already let they expected
to make £9400 extra by supplying t.b.-
free milk.
The dairymen decided to pay one-third
of the extra money obtained into a fund
to compensate owners for any cattle con-
demned when tested. Compensation was
fixed at £lO per head for dairy cows and
bulls, farmers to bear their own loss in
respect of young stock. Queensland Min-
ister for Agriculture anticipated that 2 p.c.
would react, and when advised that only
1.7 p.c. were reacting he agreed to
reactors being destroyed on their owners’
farms. Malanda Dairy Association, on
the Atherton Tableland, has for some
time been supplying t.b.-free pasteurised
milk, as the result of a voluntary herd-
testing scheme, to Americans.
In the coastal belt of the State the
incidence of t.b. is said to be much
greater, and probably Dr. Legg had these
herds in mind when he reported so dras-
tically. On some properties, he said, a
very high incidence was found in calves
a few months old. “It is well known,”
said he, “that the very bad generalised
case might not react to the test, and this
animal is undoubtedly the source of much
of the trouble.”
A test of a large stud herd of beef
cattle, running on pastures not heavily
stocked and where the animals did not
come into such intimate contact as in a
dairy herd, showed a high percentage of
infected cattle. Many bulls from this
herd, previously removed to other prop-
erties, also showed a relatively high inci-
dence.
Now that two large milk-producing
areas of the State*" are practically free
of bovine t.b., the Government should
complete the testing l job as early as pos-
sible.
Dingoes and Delay.
“Far West”: Dingoes are leaving a
trail of dead and maimed sheep in the
far west of N.S.W. Always a worry to
station-owners, the pests have increased
owing to war-time difficulty in maintain-
ing the N.S.W.-Queensland border fence
in proper repair. Without an adequate
fence sheep men on the N.S.W. side
would be unable to carry on, and old
established stations would go the way of
properties on the Queensland side, which
have been forced by the dingo to aban-
don sheep altogether and turn to cattle.
Provision of the necessary wire-netting
for maintaining the fence should be a
first priority. Red tape and delay have
already caused serious losses. A quantity
of netting has at last come to hand, but
the dingoes are now established, and
almost certainly breeding on the N.S.W.
side. The border patrol-riders have done
a good job in the circumstances, but if
Governments took the interest they
should the dingoes would have been
blocked. In the Tibooburra district hun-
dreds of sheep are being destroyed by
dingoes that have got through from the
Queensland side, and when men come
upon sheep lying dead or maimed they
do not mince words about regulations
that thwart and hinder delivery of essen-
tials like wire. In Queensland the dingo
pest is causing widespread anxiety.
Peanuts for Fodder.
E. 2 ; They do well from districts
where late maize can be grown success-
fully to hotter parts, but a moderate
summer rainfall or irrigation is necessary
for best results. At least six months free
of frost is essential; cold spells may
severely check young plants.
Light, sandy soil is best, and the crop
may be sown in rotation with others at
intervals of three years. Peanuts are
legumes and re-enrich the soil. Crops
mature in from four to six months,
atcording to conditions.
The crop may be cut for hay when
green or allowed to mature and the nuts
harvested, after which the hay is valuable.
If pulled when the nuts are ripening and
cured the fodder value for fattening stock
is second to none. At this stage pigs will
fatten quickly if turned in to graze, and
a good return will follow if the grazing
is rotational, a movable electric fence
being handy for the purpose. Those who
raise and fatten livestock should try* an
experiment plot of peanuts. I’ve seen
them grown successfully as far south as
the Goulburn Valley (Vic.).
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Young pigs kept in sties
with solid floors need a few spadefuls ol
fresh earth each day to nose around in,
from which they’ll get sufficient iron
for dietary needs. Without iron the
youngsters may suffer from anemia,
accompanied by heavy scouring and list-
lessness. Iron can be supplied also by
smearing the sow’s udder twice daily with
a mixture of Bfpz. sulphate of iron, |oz.
sulphate of copper, a pint of treacle and
a pint of water,
“Sarina”; Worst grassfires I’ve en-
countered occurred where anti-fire farmers
were plentiful, chaps who wouldn’t burn
a bit of grass on any accoupt. When it
got 'alight there was no checking the
flames, which jumped roads and creeks
and travelled for many miles. I’m also
used to men who let the grass get bone-
dry everywhere and then light it early on
a windy day. Farmers who leave the old
grass until a few days after a heavy rain-
storm before lighting up are too scarce
in this country. Such fires don’t travel
far, and are followed by green grass.
“Jock”: Always knock on the door of
the fowlhouse before entering. This
warns the birds of your approach, and
they look around to see who is coming.
An unheralded approach often frightens
the hens and, especially in a small house,
they fly about in confusion. The “knock-
and-enter” technique means quiet hens
and more eggs.
“P.R.A.N.”: The temperature of a
spray mixture undoubtedly affects its
consistency, and to get the ideal fineness
.necessary for a good cover I find that
equal parts of cold (about 70 deg. F.) and
boiling water gives a spray temperature
of about 130 deg. on the leaves of the
plants. I use it for tomatoes, passion-
fruit, strawberries, citrus, cabbage, cauli-
flowers and potatoes.
“Gip”; When preparing a bed for root
vegetables it is a good idea to heap a lot
of sticks, logs, etc., on the site and burn
them to ash. When cool, dig in. Fire
burns the top soil, killing all pests such
as nemitodes and other root parasites.
N.Q. tobacco farmers do this when pre-
paring their tobacco seed-beds and claim
there is nothing like it. They use the
interiors of anthills, which burn to a fine
ash with great heat.
“Myrrhee”; Harrow farmyard manure
in the grazing paddocks regularly and
spread the manure collected from bails
and yards on cultivation paddocks. As
grazing animals void more manure dur-
ing the night it is a good plan to use
each grazing paddocks in turn as a night
paddock.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pacific War Strategy.
(From an article by the N.Y. ‘‘Times’ 1 ' war
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
What disagreement there has been
about Pacific strategy has not been about
land power, but about where it was to
be used and in what quantities. The
majority school of thought apparently
still believes, judging from recent official
statements, that a landing must be made
on the China coast and a continental war
fought before Japan can be defeated.
A bolder, but minority, school in the
Navy, and probably in the Army Air
Forces, feels that a direct move toward
the Japanese islands from our present
positions in the Marianas up the “ladder”
of the Bonins, accompanied by maximum
possible bombing from China, from the
Marianas and from carriers, would even-
tually “liquidate” the bulk of Japanese
sea- and air-power and make possible a
direct landing on the Japanese islands.
The fundamental question in Pacific
strategy, in other words, is whether or
not Japan can be defeated without fight-
ing a great continental campaign. This
question has not been finally decided.
The Philippines, obviously, are off the
straightest and shortest course from the
Marianas toward Japan, or from the
Marianas toward China. Philippines
bases in our hands will imperil (but not
completely cut) Japanese supply lines
through the South China Sea, and the ill-
gotten Japanese empire will be almost
cut in two. But the gains will not be
decisive, and we shall f be no closer to
Tokyo—even if we get a foothold on
northern Luzon —than we now are at
Saipan in the Marianas.
But Allied bases on Formosa and/or
in the Nansei Islands and eventually on
the East China coast would cut off all
Japanese positions south of those bases
from the homeland, and the definite cam-
paign by land and sea and air against
Japan itself would then begin. How long
it will take no one can now say, but it
is clear that if we do fight a continental
campaign the number of men required
will be very large and the supply difficul-
ties tremendous.
Buzz-bombs Doom Germany.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Demaree Bess.}
During a few short weeks this summer
I watched a revolution take place in the
political thinking of an entire nation —
the British nation. 1 watched another
nation —the German nation —seal its own
fate, probably for several decades to
come.
What accomplished this? An amaz-
ingly simple invention known as the
flying-bomb. Hitler’s scientists discovered
the flying-bomb too late for it to exert
any decisive influence upon this war, but
they discovered it just in time to assure
that Germany will not enjoy an indepen-
dent existence during the foreseeable
future.
Why? Because the buzz-bomb has
shocked every thinking Englishman into
full consciousness that it is conceivably
possible now for a European aggressor
to hammer the British Isles into subjec-
tion without crossing the English Channel
or risking a single pilot in the air over
Britain.
Other things being equal, this new
weapon gives any European aggressor an
advantage against Britain. If the Ger-
mans had perfected this weapon in 1940
instead of 1944 the British people almost
certainly would have lost this war.
Englishmen are extremely grateful that
this German discovery came four years
too late. They also are extremely deter-
mined never again to be placed in such
jeopardy. Specificially, they are deter-
mined that Germany never again shall
have an opportunity to use this weapon
against them.
It is not the brutality of the flying-
bomb which revolutionised British politi-
cal thinking, but its diabolical efficiency
in performing the one function for which
the Germans designed it—namely, the
shelling of the British Isles. It can be
made so cheaply that only the closest
control of possible aggressors in Europe
can guarantee Britain against future
disaster.
For this reason the flying-bomb
abruptly settled all British arguments
about what to do with Germany, The
British people are sure now what they
must do with Germany—regardless of
what Americans may want to do or what
Russians may have decided to do.
Before the introduction of the flying-
bomb the question of what to do with
Germany was vigorously debated in
Britain. One British group, headed by
Lord Vansittart, argued that Germans
are incurably militaristic, and cannot be
entrusted with an independent Govern-
ment of their own until they become
completely re-educated, which is the work
of generations. But this argument was
challenged in Britain from all directions.
This national debate was at its height
when the buzz-bomb made its appear-
ance. Ironically, this German invention
weighted the scales in favor of Vansit-
tart. The robot silenced some of his
most formidable opponents and k simul-
taneously converted to Vansittartism mil-
lions of hitherto indifferent Britons.
What does the flying-bomb mean to
Germany? I have put this question to
Englishmen of all shades of political
opinion, and they all agree that it means
much harsher treatment for Germany
than after the last war. It means that
British opinion is now solidly behind the
occupation of the whole of Germany. It
means that the British people believe
they must control Germany until all spirit
of vengeance or aggression disappears
from that country. It means that the
British are prepared to shoulder this job
alone if the Allies do not undertake to
share the responsibility with them.
Aiding Pacific Wounded.
(Condensed from a report by a N.Y. “Times”
war correspondent at Advanced Headquarters
in the South-west Pacific.)
When General Douglas Mac Arthur’s
men go ashore they are backed by a fleet
of floating hospitals, ships that can be
pushed up on a beach no more than 45
minutes behind the first wave of assault
troops.
Ships are 2000-ton L.S.Ts. [Landing
Ship Tank], converted to serve as hos-
pitals complete with receiving compart-
ment, operating room and post-operative
wards in each under the supervision of a
“surgical team” consisting of three sur-
geons and 13 medical corps men.
According to the new programme,
landing ships that are beached to dis-
charge tanks and other materials will be
immediately converted into hospitals and
begin receiving wounded in a maximum-
of twp hours after the landing. Under
ideal conditions a man wounded on the
beachhead might be placed on the operat-
ing table within 15 minutes of being hit,
faster than his injuries could be attended
if he were knocked down by an auto-
mobile in Times Square.
The wounded pass through the receiv-
ing room, where they are stripped of their
dirty battle clothing, to a second com-
partment, where they are washed and
receive preliminary medical attention, and
where operative cases are sorted out. A
third chamber is an operating room,
which, like other compartments, is venti-
lated by power fans that keep the tem-
perature cool even in the scorching New
Guinea sun.
Forward of the operating room are two
wards. The whole is arranged in a straight
line system, so patients flow regularly
through the hands of surgeons without
being carried back and forth.
In cases of head and abdominal
wounds, where the chance of recovery de-
creases by a large percentage each hour,
long delays are nearly always fatal, and
the new plan offers an even greater
chance of recovery for men suffering
fr.om such injuries than in evacuation by
air.
To provide for handling particularly
serious cases a force of five specialists
will be scattered through the L.S.T. fleet
in future operations. These include ortho-
pedist, urologist, ophthalmist, thorassic
surgeon to care for chest wounds and
neuro-surgeon to deal with cases of shock.
The beach medical officer, who lands just
behind the first wave, will direct such
cases to the ship carrying the appropriate
specialist. L.S.Ts. are equipped to use
blood for transfusions as well as plasma.
Nazi Guerrillas.
(Condensed from a report by a N.Y. “Time /’
war correspondent at Supreme Headquarters in
France .)
The potentialities of guerrilla warfare
inside Germany after the formal collapse
of German arms are getting the undivided
attention of several members of the Allied
High Command.
That Allied military occupation of
Germany will not be an easy thing is not
only patent but probably a far more seri-
ous question than has been suggested by
the Allied press. No creed or organisa-
tion could possibly be more suited to
guerilla warfare than the Nazi.
As after the Napoleonic campaigns
came to a formal close, informal warfare
is expected in the late 1940’s and 1950’s
not only in Germany, but anywhere in
Europe or Asia where the Fascist idea
flowers naturally. Nazi guerillas in occu-
pied Germany would know from the start
that they were fighting alone against the
world. Yet this might only spur them on
rather than deter them.
There are, of course, a great many dif-
ficulties of armament that would face any
German guerrilla bands. Nevertheless,
the Nazi philosophy is sufficiently per-
verse to thrive on oppression.
China’s New Rich.
{From a Manchester “Guardian” article.)
China’s market has been abnormal since
1939. Rice cost 4 dollars per catty (IJlb.)
in May, 1943, 9 to 12 dollars in August,
and 20 dollars in January, 1944. Vege-
table oil was sold at 32 dollars per catty
in October, 1943, and 70 dollars in Janu-
ary, 1944. The price of land, of course,
keeps pace. In the business quarters in
Chungking a hundred square feet, which
cost from 200 to 300 dollars before the
war, now fetches 60,000 dollars.
Each rise brings new wealth to the
manufacturers, landlords and shop-
keepers. A joint owner of a factory had
made 70,000,000 dollars within eight
months in 1942. He spent 30,000,000 on
a palatial mansion. He paid off his wife
with one million. He squandered half a
million on a young woman and married
her. He paid another half-million to hush
the objections of her parents. He did
not know what to do with the rest of the
money.
These war profiteers indulge in all
kinds of luxuries. They ride in Ameri-
can Buick cars. (In the third year of
complete enemy blockade petrol and cars
are a real luxury and arouse great envy.)
They live in big houses whose roofs are
modelled upon those of the old Imperial
Palace in Peiping and whose interior is
entirely modern European. Their dinner
is a banquet. They pay 6000 dollars for
a dinner of 14 courses. A hundred dollars
are nothing more to them than a piece
of paper.
Policing by Air.
(From an “Atlantic Monthly” article by Allan
A. Michie.)
Disarmament provisions for Germany
and Japan, carried out under temporary
armies of occupation, must include the
scrapping of their military air forces, the
prohibition of future construction of mili-
tary airplanes, and the destruction or sur-
render of all anti-aircraft weapons (guns,
predictors, radar installations). With all
opposition from the air thus removed,
the Allied aerial police force that will
take over control on the withdrawal of
the occupational armies need not be large.
The main advantage of air control is that
a comparatively small number of far-
ranging airplanes can police a large
geographical area.
A contribution of 100 mixed fighter
and bomber squadrons by each of the
Big Three Powers would be more than
adequate to keep down aggression by
Germany in Europe and by Japan in the
Far East in the immediate years after this
war. As China’s contribution is added,
the squadrons provided by Britain, Russia
and the United States could be corre-
spondingly decreased. In other words,
figuring 12 operational and four reserve
machines to a squadron, the generally-
accepted standard, each of the Big Three
would be called upon to provide some
1600 aircraft, making a total air police
force of some 4800 machines —or about
one half of one month’s current Ameri-
can war-time production. Total man-
power needed for such an aerial police
force would be no more than 200,000
men, provided equally by the three great
Powers.
The component national units of the air
police force would remain within their
national air forces, but earmarked for the
duties of air control; and, unless the
peoples concerned willed otherwise, it
would not be necessary for either the air-
craft or the airmen to leave their own
countries until called upon. In order to
counter American isolationist objections,
which will revive with a vengeance after
the war, to the establishment of American
armed force outside the American hemi-
sphere, the United States squadrons could
remain at convenient coastal air bases
until their turn came for an air police
assignment; or, if the American public
after the war retains its war-time realisa-
tion that it is more sensible to counter
aggression far from home, the United
States squadrons assigned to police duty
might occupy airfields in Iceland, on a
lend-lease basis, or base in any one of
the half-dozen smaller nations bordering
Germany. This assumes, of course, that
the American imperialists who wish to
hang on to territories, air, land or naval
bases Americans have been “invited” to
occupy, or have constructed as a contri-
bution to the winning of the war, or have
recaptured from the enemies, will not
shape America’s post-war policies.
In actuality there would be two dis-
tinct air police forces: one designed for
duty in the European theatre, the other
for the Far East. These units would
remain under their own commanding
officers, and on a rotating basis the two
posts of Air Officer Commanding in
these areas would be filled by these
national commanders for a term of one
year.
These Air Officers Commanding would
be bound to select their planning and
administrative staffs from the qualified
officers of the three or four air police
units participating. We have seen dur-
ing this war, in the effective mixing to-
gether of British and American air staff
officers in one command in the Mediter-
Just before the war Britain’s trade
with India had become less than
British trade with Latin America
or with Scandinavia ; British invest-
ments in India less than British in-
vestments in Latin America. And
since the war nearly all British in-
vestments in India have been trans-
ferred to Indian capitalists in pay-
ment for war material supplied by
India, so that, far from India pay-
ing tribute to Britain, the boot is
now on the other leg, India is the
creditor, Britain the debtor, and
tribute, if that is the word, is from
Britain to India. —Norman Angell;
“Saturday Evening Post.”
ranean and also in the Indian-Burma
theatre, that airmen of two prestige-
minded, competitive nations can work
and plan together.
Participation in the police force does
not, as in so many of the earlier schemes
for an international air police force,
imply disarmament of any nation except
the defeated enemy countries, although
the continued successful functioning of
air control would naturally produce the
confidence that aggression is being
checked—the very confidence needed to
reduce for the peace-loving peoples of the
world the crushing burden of armaments.
To sum up the advantages of keeping
the peace through air power: an aerial
police force would require comparatively
few aircraft and airmen ; it would release
millions of Allied soldiers from the non-
productive tasks of armies of occupation ;
by drawing on the existing national air
forces, and enabling the allocated police
units to remain at their home bases until
needed, it would avoid the colossal cost
of maintaining either huge armies of oc-
cupation or ground striking forces in
overseas service; by allowing the air
units to serve under their own com-
manders, it would allow each participat-
ing nation to retain a great measure of
control over its own force.
The most important advantage, how-
ever, is that the yearly cost of the aerial
control duties which the police force
would have to undertake would prob-
ably not be so great as the combined
United Nations’ expenditure for but one
day of this war.
Eclipse of British Shipping.
(Condensed from a London “Nineteenth
Century” article by Archibald Hurd,)
Of all the major industries of Britain,
shipping has suffered most grievously in
making its essential contribution to vic-
tory. Though the enemy is failing in his
main aim—the domination of the world
• —he has succeeded in dethroning the
British from their proud position on the
seas. British shipping, as a private enter-
prise, has been deprived of the greater
part of its “tools” ; hundreds of liners,
tramps, oil tankers and coastal ships have
been sunk, while 26,317 merchant offi-
cers and men have made the great sacri-
fice in order that Britain might live.
The decline of Britain as a commercial
Sea Power has synchronised with the rise
of the United States to the premier posi-
tion. Let it be acknowledged that when
the crisis of the Battle of the Seas devel-
oped in 1942-43, owing to the great losses
of tonnage, and the cause of freedom
throughout the world was in grave peril,
the vast output of U.S. shipyards,
wrested victory from the Axis Powers.
If sea command had been lost nothing
which could have been achieved by land
or in the air would have been of any
avail. So Britain has cause for deep
gratitude to the Americans. But as a
result of the shipbuilding miracle the
United States will possess at the end of
this year about two-thirds of all the ton-
nage of the world; will have leapt at


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRLTAUVS LEAD.,
m
il
M
(■ 1211™;:
.
ESS
liiiil
E5
MS
r*
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
THE telephone, most useful and ubiqui-
tous of modern instruments in business
and social life, was invented by a British
engineer.
In the forward march of civilisation
British inventions and discoveries have
always played a leading part. Particularly
in the realm of textiles, the British record
is one of continuous progress, and no single
firm has contributed more to raising the
standard of living than have Courtaulds through
the development of rayon.
In the course of a mere generation, untiring
research and experiment carried out by Court-
aulds succeeded in establishing rayon as a
recognised and valuable addition to textile pro-
duction throughout the world, and in the
creation of a vast new industry not only in
Britain, but also in the United States, in Canada
and elsewhere. Courtaulds rayon yarn and the
beautiful fabrics made from it have brought
luxury and variety into the lives of millions in
almost every land.
Today, unfortunately, the demands of total warfare
leave only a limited amount of rayon fabrics available
to the public; but present research and development
will place an even wider variety of lovely rayons
within the reach of everyone when normal times return.
The World’s greatest inventions and' discoveries originated
within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns;
Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry, England.
ALEXANDER
GRAHAM BELL.
Born Edinburgh in
1847 and settled in
Canada. Invented and
exhibited in 1876 the
apparatus from which
the modern telephone
has been developed.
m
%
v*
as
v-
S'*
\v
Y s
e*°
*>
Y l
0?
1V>
-cV
V
**
v\
*
tfc e
**
**
v^
tgr
S*
***
\*
**
1
za
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Branches in All States
one bound to the position of the
leading maritime Power, supreme, inci-
dentally, in men-of-war as well as mer-
chant ships.
The extent to which British shipbuild-
ing has been eclipsed may be judged from
the fact that in the last balance-sheet of
the P. and O. Company the value of its
fleet was entered at less than half the sum
at which it stood in September, 1939.
Many other companies have suffered even
worse. One has lost 31 of its 32 ships.
The industry, having lost most of its
“tools,” as well as a large proportion of
its trained seamen, and having no pledge
as to its future status, regards the future
with anxiety. As the facts become more
widely known that anxiety will be shared
by the whole nation, and especially by
those who are making plans for the re-
vival of exports, which must be higher
by £350,000,000 than before the war if
British people are to live at a reasonable
standard of comfort, provide work for
men and women in industry, and pay
their way as a trading nation.
The Americans have placed a number
of ships at Britain’s disposal, but only for
the duration of the war, after which they
will be returned. The Americans are in
no doubt as to their own future policy.
The ships which are now the property of
the State are to be handed over to ship-
owners at “basement floor” prices—and
those shipowners are to be subsidised so
that they, with higher running costs, may
operate them on the trade routes of the
world where in the past the British flag
was supreme.
Not for Ideology.
(From a “Reader’s Digest” article by Sir
Norman Angell, who for many years has been a
member of the British Labor party.)
When Winston Churchill remarked in
the House of Commons that as the war
has progressed it has become less ideo-
logical he came in for severe condem-
nation both in Britain and the United
States. The condemnation involves seri-
ous confusion of thought on. the part of
the critics, who seem to have ignored
a simple but vital distinction concerning
the major purpose of the Allies.
If this war is to become a conflict of
armed doctrines, in which the Allies,
when victorious, are to use their coru-
bined power to impose throughout the
world some particular social or political
or economic system or ideal, then that
effort will surely fail. And not only fail.
It will quite certainly divide the Allies,
as they were divided at the previous vic-
tory, enabling the enemy to stage a come-
back as he did before. If such a purpose
is ours it will produce anarchy and chaos ;
and the world will know neither peace
nor freedom.
The Allied purpose is, or should be,
something entirely different; namely, to
render secure the right of all nations to
live under that form of democracy, re-
publicanism, monarchism, socialism or
communism which each prefers; and to
live under it free from outside interfer-
ence. To establish securely fob all
nations, big and little, this national Right
to Life, each its own way of life—this
will be task enough. And success will
constitute no obstacle to ambitious plans
of social reform.
We can pursue this task irrespective of
disagreement upon the ideal form of
human society. The capitalist United
States, by taking part in this war, is mak-
ing it possible for Russia to remain com-
munist. Communist Russia, by fighting
so valiantly, is making it possible for the
United States to remain capitalist. On
the basis of the right of each nation to
retain or create that form of government,
or that social or economic system, which
it believes best suited to its circumstances,
we may find a common purpose, a com-
mon ideology, which will give us unity.
This, surely, is the freedom for which we
fight. To turn our struggle from that
purpose into a crusade for some particu-
lar ism would be to abandon the method
of freedom and adopt the method of
force ; force used not for the defence of
each but for imposing some doctrine in
which the most powerful for the time
being happened to believe. It would be
the end of Allied unity in the war and
of all hopes of permanent peace as the
result of victory.
Even personages eminent in the poli-
tical and intellectual worlds seem unaware
that a war to enable nations (including
dictatorship nations like Russia and
China) to choose freely and live securely
under the system they prefer is not merely
different from, but the exact opposite of,
a war on behalf of some particular social
or political system. The purposes are
opposite, for the simple reason that the
former is to insure freedom of choice ,
the latter to deny it. _______ *
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Propaganda instils into the minds of Japa-
nese troops the belief that men captured by
Americans will be tortured and then .mur-
dered. It has resulted in innumerable suicides
by Japanese soldiers in hopeless situations, and
in the final days of the battle for Saipan
American Marines were not surprised to see
the remnants of the Japanese defenders doing
away with themselves. What did surprise the
Marines, however, was to see hundreds of
Japanese civilians killing themselves’in preference
to entering concentration camps. In this grue-
some and strange spectacle of mass suicide
civilians drowned themselves, leaped from cliffs
and blew out their vitals with hand grenades.
Fathers stranged or cut the throats of their
children before committing suicide. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Unless the Russian thirst for world domi-
nation is revived there is no good reason why
Russia and the United States cannot get along
amicably. A prerequisite, naturally, is the
suppression of the guerrilla warfare which the
Communist Government' of Russia has con-
stantly waged against our form of Government
through its Communist machine. But if Russia
is willing to agree not to allow her territory to
be used as a base for hostile action against our
political institutions, and will keep her agree-
ments, there are no fundamental conflicts of
interests between the Russians and us. — Chicago
“Tribune.”
* * * *
As soon as the German army occupied Hun-
gary in March of this year anti-Jewish measures
were applied with a brutality known, until then,
only in Poland. At the end of June 400,000 of
the 750,000 Jews in Hungary had been “liqui-
dated” —which means that the younger ones
had been put into labor camps, where they
work under conditions of appalling harshness,
and the older ones were sent to the lethal
camps in Poland. After reports had come
that more ihan 100,000 had already been done
to death in the gas chambers which are known
to be there both Mr. Eden and Mr. Cordell
Hull expressed the horror of the civilised world
and promised punishment for the guilty.—
London “Times.”
v * * *
Among the unannounced terms of Soviet-
Finnish armistice was a clause providing for
complete control of Finland’s communications
abroad, including telephone, telegraph, mail and
travel facilities, for at least two months. That
control, in effect, isolates Finland from the rest
of the world. — U.S. United Press Stockholm
correspondent.
* * * »
The Japs are profiting by Hitler’s mistakes.
The Nazis extended their lines too far and held
on too long. The Japs also spread themselves
too thin, but are now pulling back and con-
solidating their strength within a much reduced
defensive area. So don’t be surprised at “sur-
prises.” The Japs may be much stronger on
land, sea and in the air than optimistic pub-
licity has led us to believe. Habit of playing
up good news, soft-pedalling the bad, may
let us in for disillusionment. — Scripps-Howard
Washington staff.
# # * *
“Unless quick action is taken —rinless ex-
planations are made,” says London “Daily
Mail” in a leading article, “a grave and tragic
misunderstanding is going to arise between
Great Britain and the United States. It centres
on industrial and commercial rivalries now
in danger of overshadowing our common aims
in war. It is being stated now in definite terms
that agreements into which Britain entered for
purely military purposes have been cynically
exploited by certain American interests for
purely commercial reasons.” In one case it is
alleged that one of the first American units to
land in France took with it, in the uniform of
a Red Cross officer, a representative of a very
powerful financial corporation. Within 48 hours
of the Allied entry into Paris it is said this
man disappeared from the army and was sitting
in an office in Paris. He had changed to
civilian clothes and was busy with his clients.
Since then, the “Daily Mail” reports, a steady
stream of American business men has been
passing through England to the Franch capital.
On one occasion a whole ’plane-load crossed
the Atlantic together. One was a principal in
a sewing-machine firm, another was in the elec-
trical-goods trade; all were said to be wearing
the uniforms of comparatively junior officers.—
London correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune!'
♦Jc * * *
When the right moment comes in the Philip-
pines, Dunkirk and the Sicilian retreat will
be remembered as mere beach parties. The
Nips will never be able to crowd all their troops
into the protected areas of a much improved
Bataan and Corregidor. Filipino hatred will
wreck vengeance on thousands of Japs. — Royal
Arch Gunnison, in “Collier’s.”
*■.<**
The vast majority of the soldiers with whom
I have come into contact most certainly do not
feel that the Government owes them a living,
but they do feel that they are entitled to prime
consideration for jobs in civilian organisations,
and if they were to feel that every industry and
every business was not even now planning
for this contingency they would be deeply hurt.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” war correspondent
Lewis B. Seabring.
* * * *
A half-million people will be left by the
war without a country they can claim as their
own, according to an estimate of the director
of the Intergovernmental Committee for Refu-
gees, which represents 37 Governments and has
been reorganised in London. Its job, there-
fore, is a big one. The millions who can and
want to return to their old homes are the re-
sponsibility of U.N.R.R.A., which is consider-
ing plans for repatriating eight of the ten
million displaced citizens of the United Nations
within seven months. It’s those who cannot or
won’t go back who are the concern of the
1.G.C., among them >, 100,000 refugees from Ger-
many, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria and
elsewhere, who are now in the Middle East,
Italian East Africa and Tanganyika.— London
correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The French Committee of National Liberation
has adopted a press law establishing a single
French agency with exclusive rights to distribute
all French and foreign news within France and
banning all other organisations. The meaning
of this is that France, under De Gaulle, is to
have a Government press and and no other
medium of expression or information. That is
always the keystone of dictatorship.— N.Y.
“Journal-American.”
* * * *
The Europeans of the Soviet Union are the
only Europeans who welcome Asiatics to an
absolute equality with them, socially, culturally,
politically. In one of Stalin’s declarations of
war aims the first item is “the abolition of all
racial inequality. Hard; “Reader’s
Digest.”
* * * *
Not one of the foreign delegations to the so-
called Monetary Conference at Bretton Woods
got what it was after, except possibly the
Chinese. No one in the beginning could quite
figure out why the Chinese sent nearly twice
as big a delegation as had been invited, and
as the meetings wore on the wonder increased
for, while the Chinese were everywhere, they
took very little part in any of the proceedings.
Gradually it came out that the Chinese were
using the meetings as seminaries to train their
young men in the ways of the Occidentals.—
Samuel Crowther; N.Y. “Journal-Atnerican.”


RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
f
ACTS
LIKE THE HnilO
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
free literature.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lH), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
gd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course i
fg
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. <Jive him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO Iodine Bog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN COTTON ... 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BRAN BALER’S
TO
t*"*
<F><7.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C BBASDAOII a CO. XML. BiEUtSaUAM. ENO
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
►— Gel Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
"'ell and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
Pastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
'lay and so get rid of three pounds of waste matter.
tV hen the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
ar e often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
Altered out, waste and acids get back-washed into'
Ike blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
bep an d energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
*e e t and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
bains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
£our chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
SIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
ba ve been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
*>OBACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
Personal and Missing Friends.
MISSING BENEFICIARIES.
HIGGOTT, MISS IDA FRANCES.—WiII the above-
named, who left New Zealand for Australia about the
year 1900, or any person having information as to
her marriage, death, or present wTiereabouts, please
communicate with THE DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
ALEXANDER McILYENNA formerly of Pomborneit,
near Terang, and last heard of in 1926. Anyone
knowing his present whereabouts please communicate
with SNOWBALL & KAUFMANN, Solicitors, 339
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
I, IVAN BILICH, of Yugoslav nationality, born at
Stolac, Yugoslavia, and resident 20 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 21 Clarke’s Road, Kogarah,
near Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO AJ)A ELIZABETH INMAN.—TAKE NOTICE that
VINCENT INMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3127 6f 1944 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the Eighteenth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MR.
J. M. HOUSTON Solicitor of Prudential Building
39-49 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
df
DUPLICATOR
ias all the finest features of high-priced
mported machines at only a fraction of
ONLY their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli*
JC 17 /1H / wanted cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
aI// I w/ • ALL STATES Plans. Music, etc.
Built tntirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
s— ; svnwjy and Brisbane ;
V This Single Burner Stove gives an
intense Blue Flame for 6 hours
on one pint of ordinary lighting
kerosene.
Although supplies are limited, you can
still obtain a genuine “Thermit” Stove
through your local storekeeper. Ask
him about other “Thermit” Appliances.
£M£S
Cjh^inul
gOT COOKING APPLIANCES
BLUE
FLAME
Bo prim
INC
NO
p B'CKIH
HQ
p ®MPi«
x
'ip
m
m
'
Stffl <
ri
£ d*
ii
m
mm.
m
:■■
&
m
K- .
’/A
- "
--
4
-
MASSAWA
-»^Se3»^L^SSB«E , .
/
EPIC TREK
BY 16,000 FORDS
3000 MILES te
As shipping was not available at South African ports, these
re-inforcement Ford vehicles were driven 3000 miles from
Southern Rhodesia to Massawa on the Red Sea. There they
embarked for Cairo.
Though the vehicles had already seen 15 months severe field
work, they took this gruelling trek in their stride and then
joined the chase that began at El Alemein, carried through
to Tunisia, across Sicily and into Italy,
Performances such as this on Active Service
indicates the Faithful Service you can expect
from your next Ford.
V-8 CARS, TRUCKS, UTILITIES. MERCURY CARS.
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS. UTILITIES. ANGLIA 8 H.p.
i n. " 1 ■— F. 39.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc, in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vie.
Our Service Department.
Wants.
—3529 >U y Catlin ’ s The Anglo-Saxon Tradition.
To buy vocal score of Mrs. S. R. Fisher’s
operetta “The Lass that Loved a sailor.” —3530.
a | The Worst Journey in the World, by
Apsley Cherry-Gerrard (1938 Penguin Series,
two vols.). —3531.
. T ° bu y Ribbons and Medals, Naval, Military,
Air Force and Civil, by Dorling.-—3532.
bu y a rotary leather punch, for use in
military hospital.—3533,
Information Sought.
Vl/h**f UieS Queensland tobacco production ?
at proportion of the tobacco consumed in
V 7 , is home-grown ? How much does the
leaf fetch at present?
Annual production for the period 1935-42
excess °f 2,000,0001b. Labor difficulties
. ve forced a reduction in the acreage planted
Jl »iJ ecent yeais > but the expected post-war de-
vf of the -industry will probably bring
ogures. Average annual yield of cured
\ e Por acre for the period 1935-41 was 5651b.
atlst ics are not available. Australian
P^ oc v?5- on varjes greatly according to seasonal
conditions, but averages about 5,000,0001b.
annually, approximately one-quarter of the
average annual consumption of leaf. All leaf is
now appraised by officers of the Commonwealth
looacco Board, whose valuations are accepted
m growers and manufacturers; 2s. 4d. per
pound is the average price, although individual
parcels of high-grade leaf have realised over
5s. per pound. ,
* * * *
Directions for rearing a week-old orphan foal ?
Feed four tablespoons water and two tea-
spoons sugar with cow’s milk added to make
up one pint. This should be given at least
three or four times daily, fed warm. Gradually
increase the amount of milk to about one gallon
P er da y- Separated milk, if possible, could
be f £d after about five or six weeks. Some
feed, such as crushed oats, bran, crushed wheat
and lucerne hay, should be available to the
f° al from two or three weeks of age, and he
should be allowed to pick at it at will. Some
mdk or separated milk should, if possible,
be continued to two months of age.
* * * *
How is mustard manufactured?
The seed is ground as finely as possible to
produce “mustard flour” —usually with blending
of different varieties of seed. A flavoring is
then made up by mixing salt and various spices,
such as pepper and curry-powder, in vinegar.
The vinegar is brought to the boil and stirred
while hot into the mustard flour to produce a
paste. The preparation of high-grade mus-
tard is a culinary art, and good results may
- not be achieved without a great deal of ex-
perience.
* * * *
When did the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank close and reopen ? When it reopened
was any limit imposed on withdrawals?
The bank closed it doors on April 23, 1931,
rind reopened on September 7, 1931. When the
Commonwealth Bank took over the depositors
were requested to abstain from heavy with-
drawals, but no actual limit was imposed.
* * * *
Information on selection of site for the
Federal capital ?
The Constitution provided that Parliament
was to choose a site in N.S.W., not less than
100 miles from Sydney. In January, 1903, a
royal commission reported on areas near Albury,
Armidale, Bombala, Lake George, Orange and
Tumut. In October a ballot of members
selected Tumut, and a bill to confirm this
choice was passed by the House of Represen-
tatives ; however, the Senate substituted Bom-
bala. The two rival districts were investigated,
and on August 15, 1904, an Act establishing
the capital site within 17 miles of Dalgety was
passed. The N.S.W. legislature, considering
this locality too far from Sydney, objected
violently, and the matter was put aside for
two or three years. In 1907 some Federal
members were strrick by the merits of the Can-
berra district, and when Parliament met in 1908
the question was again raised. The bill was
amended by the substitution of Yass-Canberra
for Dalgety, the actual site to be determined
later. In 1909 the region was surveyed and
Canberra selected. On January 1, 1910, an
area of about 900 sq. miles round and south of
Canberra arid another of about 4000 acres at
Jervis Bay were constituted the Federal Capital
Territory.
* * * *
Biography of Henry Fawcett?
Born 1833. Compelled, by loss of sight to aban-
don law, he took up political economy, and after
publication of his Manual of Political Economy
(1863) was appointed to the Economics Chair
at Cambridge. He entered Parliament as a
Radical in 1865; as Postmaster-General under
Gladstone introduced the Parcels Post, postal
orders, sixpenny telegrams, insurance ' facilities
and the Post Office Savings Bank. Author of
Indian Finance and Free Trade and Protection.
Died in 1884.
* * * *
Members of the English cricket team which
took part in the first Test match at Brisbane?
Which members did not play? Scores of the
match ?
Allen (capt.), Worthington, Barnett, Fagg,
Hammond, Leyland, Hardstaff, Ames, Robins,
Verity and Voce. Others were: Fishlock, Cop-
son, Duckworth, Sims, Wade, Fames and Wyatt.
England scored 358 and 256; Australia, 234
and 58.
Brief Answers.
H.L.W.: Twelve A.I.F. personnel were men-
tioned in the London “Gazette” of May 9,
1941, for decorations won at Bardia K.J.K. :
Would depend on qualifications; ask your Unit
Education Officer fof information... .A.J.S.:
Flakes should settle if bottle is placed in a
refrigerator; pour out carefully when opened.
G.C.: Results depend on subject’s con-
dition; there can be no general ruling C.D.:-
(1) The N.T. is not a State. (2) Yes. (3)
Crown land. (4) In 1939 population of the N.T.
was 6973 whites and 15,002 aborigines
J.M.: In 1939-40 Australia produced 210,160,000
bushels of wheat. (2) Whitaker’s Almanack.
H.McL.: Single Wire Fence Cos., 207
George-street, Sydney... .J.B.McG.; Statement
was correct at that time; agreement has since
been extended till one wool year after the end
of the war with Japan.—L.E.A.: Book is un-
obtainable at present A.C.G.: Depends on
surface, weight and other factors J.M,.:
Quite usual M.R.: No recognised limit
A.E.F.: A Seville orange is definitely entitled
to be called an orange. All mentioned are
citrus fruits.... Stock; (1) Upwards of 1000
acres would be required. (2) The Department
of Agriculture, G.P.O. Box 36a, Sydney, is an
authority J.D.K.Z.: Trouble might be colic,
but impossible to say without inspection. Con-
sult a vet.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.L.: Too gruesome J.W.: “If lacerated
my aesthetic sensibilities to have to behold the
large all-enveloping sprigged pinafore that she
wore.” Why not say the darned thing annoyed
you and be done with it? M. 8.: The bloke
who arrives in the nick of time to save the
farm from bushfire is as welcome as the rent
collector.. . .8.F.C.: Magazinish A.T.W.:
Where’s the story? P.W.C.: Suitable for
“Comic Cuts”... .E.W.: A par. 0n1y....
K.McA.: Only unusual feature is gross abuse
of the short-sentence technique F.T.: It gets
nowhere... .G.R.: ’Sermonish... .R. 8.: Story of
a woman’s army being defeated by dropping
mice behind their lines sent the office boy into
a deep swoon M.L.: Melodramatic propa-
ganda... J. 5.8.: Only slightly different from
the 107,546 prospecting yarns we receive annu-
ally... .R.L.; Try again.. ..R.D.McF.: Trick
endings not wanted, especially when obvious.


Unities
in
s
It’s your fight — your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
|J| OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
■* under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with lle
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 58 years’ expenence.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS; T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 48,638 7 p.c. = 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231.269
1938.. 50,047 74 „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7',, „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7 „ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6 ~ „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed .. 100,000 385,400
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,309 403,709
Since war began sheet anchor of the
Australian wool trade has been the Brit-
ish. purchase contract, which runs for the
duration and one wool year after the
struggle with Japan and/or Germany
ends. A flat rate of 13.4 d. per pound
was paid until mid-1942, when the figure
was lifted to 15.4 d. to help offset the rise
in costs. And the British meat deal, to-
gether with requirements of the forces
in the s.-w. Pacific area, has kept live-
stock prices at very satisfactory levels,
too. Also, nature has been kind, as the
following table, showing sheep and cattle
pastured in N. S. Wales and Queensland
at dates mentioned, indicates:
Jan. 1, March 31,
1939. 1943.
Sheep.
, A ——, Increase.
N. S. Wales .. 48,876,663 56,043,598 14.6 p.c.
Queensland . . 23,158,569 25,650,231 10.7 „
Cattle.
. V
N. S. Wales .. 2,811,884 3,030,546 7.7 „
Queensland . . 6,097,089 6,466,316 6.0 „
Winchcombe’s does about three-quarters
of its wool business in N, S. Wales and
the balance in the northern State,
Last term the co. further strengthened
its hold in N. S. Wales by setting up
new branches at Orange, Forbes and
Bourke. Partly because of this it handled
an extra 16,430 bales of wool and put
an additional 47,581 sheep and 164 cattle
under the hammer:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1939 .. 207,354 395,256 29,272
1940 . . 259,596 434,870 28,500
1941 . . 239,856 504,617 17,346
1942 . . 242,581 493;326 18,931
1043 . . 238,900 569,271 23,183
1944 . . 255,330 616,852 23,347
Turnover in the produce section was
“satisfactory,” but controls affected sales
in the machinery department at Brisbane.
After setting aside £2BOO (down £922)
for depreciation and allowing whatever
was considered necessary for taxation
and other contingencies, the board fig-
ured net earnings £7261 better at £56,809,
equal to 10.3 p.c. on capital as against
9, 6.8, 8, 9.6, 8.7 and 9.1 p.c. back to
1938. The div. was kept at 7 p.c. And
£lOO,OOO was taken from inner reserves
and put in the window. It was provision
made for contingencies during the slump
of the early 1930’s and subsequent years,
now no longer considered necessary for
the purpose. So capital and reserves
combined have now to turn in only a
shade over 4 p.c. to cover 7 p.c. on capi-
tal alone. And it is unlikely that all the
co.’s inner strength has been disclosed.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital . . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities . . 568,622 479,390 415,956 487,352
Freeholds .. 200,624 255,901 253,151 260,241
Plant.. .. 16,452 15,618 12,141 11,270
Stocks .. 65,775 77,821 67,494 56,016
Advances, etc. 1,107,380 944,045 904,214 996,427
Investments and
cash . . 11,851 26,856 30,356 36,356
Consignments. -
The year’s apparent growth of £92,213
in advances reflects the disclosure of
inner reserves, which also explains most
of the improvement of £109,339 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£701,447).
As for the outlook, seasonal conditions
over most of Queensland are favorable,
but prospects in N. S. Wales are for a
lighter clip. However, the new British
contract for purchase of Australia’s ex-
port mutton, lamb and beef for the next
four years, and continuance of the wool
deal for at least another two seasons,
ought to mean much to graziers. Chair-
man Harold Bell takes a cheerful view
of the outlook for the staple. “Science,”
he says, “by discovering methods to pre-
vent shrinkage in the goods made from
it and to impart a silky finish to it, has
put it on the road for a forward march.
These developments, in conjunction with
the possibility of more trade with China
and Russia, give the sheep’s staple a
cheerful future, provided capable efforts
are made to develop these outlets.” Still,
accumulated wool stocks, estimated to
be in excess of a year’s world clip, will
need to be carefully fed to the market
if satisfactory prices are to be obtained
after the British contract runs out.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 84,426 64 p.c. = 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 7* „ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £100,000 .. .. 754,250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 ) q qqo
Staff fund, £5000.. -. 1 2,683 756,933
Share premiums, £70,000 . . .. 826,933
1938.. 161,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 \ 15 068 842 ,001
Staff fund, £5000 .. .. 1
Share premiums, £89,051 ,. .. 931,052
!939 152 287 9 p c = 144,327 | 2 960 934> 012
Staff fund, £5000 .. ■ ■ \
1940.. 170,213 9 p.c. — 155,843 ( q (mq qcq
Staff fund, £5000 .. . .j 9,,:57U 04 ’
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155,925 — 922,665
1942.. 143,649 8 „ „ 138,600 5,049 927,714
1943. . 149.184 8 138.600 j 6 584 933 ,298
Staff fund, £5000 .. .., \
1944 -; l 4 ?’ 95 , 7 I*nnn~ 138,600 | 6,357 939,655
Staff tund, £5000 .. .. J
For the five years to the close of last
accounts Tooheys’ net earnings averaged
£149,842, compared with an average of
£125,193 for the preceding quinquinnium.
The lift was due largely to service de-
mands from our own and Allied forces.
These demands aren’t subject to the pub-
lic rationing scheme, but the services have
their own machinery for regulating the
flow. Civilian consumption has been
pegged, since the beginning of March,
1942, at two-thirds of the immediately
preceding Jan.-Feb. level. Before that it
had stepped up with lengthening pay rolls
and wage lifts.
The only increases made by the brew-
eries in the selling price of beer since
1939 have been those corresponding to
lifts in excise—3d. per gallon 1939, 9d.
1940, 3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 19.42, a total
of 2s. lOd. per gallon, making excise
4s. 7d. per gallon. These increases have
been passed on to hotelkeepers and over
the counter to customers in a combina-
tion of price lifts arid adjustments in the
size of containers. Approximately 73
p.c. of the brewer’s gross receipts for
bulk beer are handed to the Government
in excise. The remaining 27 p.c. (about
5s. 5d. in the pound) has to cover pro-
duction, distribution and other costs, in-
cluding taxation and profit.
The other principal source of brewery
earnings, and it is a substantial one, is re-
turns from the hotel section of the busi-
ness. Here the general experience has
been one of improvement during the last
couple of years. For the decade to the
close of accounts in 1939 Tooheys added
£1,602,198 net to the book value of fixed
assets, largely on hotel account. This
widening and tying down of the market
for brewery products is the form com-
petition takes, there being no price-
cutting in the trade. Since the outbreak of
war Government control of capital ex-
penditure has restricted purchase, im-
provement and maintenance of these
properties, which will call for heavy out-
lay when labor and material become
available.
During the 12 months to the end of
July last the co.’s earnings also benefited
from the output of citrus-fruit juices for
troops in the tropics, special plant for
canning of which was installed during
the previous term. After visibly allow-
ing £33,648 (down £1355) for deprecia-
tion and providing something for other
contingencies, there was a spring of
£131,477 in gross earnings: —
1940. 1942. 1948. 1944.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings 935,661 1,232,538 1,441,784 1,573,261
Exes. . . 772,647 1,088,889 1,292,600 1,423,303
163,’014 143,649 149,184 149,958
The expansion of £130,703 in exes, was
mainly on account of excise. But neither
the amount paid in excise nor income
tax is disclosed in the published figures.
The net result (up £774) was 8.6 p.c. on
capital, as against 8.6, 8.3, 7.8, 9.8, 9.5
and 10.3 p.c. back to 5938. The div. was
dropped from 9 p.c. to 8 p.c. in 1942, and
has since been maintained at the lower
figure.
Here is a picture of the business from
another angle:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,782,500 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Sundry
creditors f 563,469 727,503 627,537 438,752
Loans* .. 795,301 809,643 804,690 804,973
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 3,339,178 3,492,611 3,447,597 3,282,615
Stocks .. 101,876 141,378 135,514 141,434
Book debts 623,858 581,847 538,645 513,907
Cash, etc... 13,491 11,613 11,358 11,450
Shares in
other cos. 39,212 39,212 39,212 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, f Including taxation, etc.
The years’ contraction in the book value
of fixed assets was £164,982, though the
visible allowance for depreciation was
little more than ope-fifth of that figure,
and there is no mention of any sales. The
amount coming to sundry creditors, which
includes provision for taxation and other
contingencies, was lowered by £188,785.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the sundry creditors,
etc., item by £239,539, an improvement
of £170,201 over the twelvemonth. That
leaves out of the reckoning loans from
and shares in the finance subsidiary,
which are family matters.
Current trade activity appears to have
reached its zenith, or thereabouts. As
for the future, dammed up savings and
rehabilitation activities, including public
works, promise a high level of employ-
ment and spending during early post-war
years. The real test will come at the end
of the rehabilitation period. Meanwhile
much will depend upon when and in what
degree present controls are relaxed, and
upon the level of costs, including tax-
ation.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1935.. 35,506 7 p.c. = 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25.640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 ~ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 ~ ~ 37,033 14.713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ ~37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 „ „ 38,113 6,299 150,289
J uly,
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 .. .. 152,722
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~ 38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ „ 38,663 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65,945 10 „ „ 39,253 26,692 221,149
* Six months.
The turning point in the co.’s career
came about 16 years ago, when it was
decided to curtail country trading, which
had not produced the results expected,
and concentrate on city cash turnover.
Slump interrupted progress, but the
figures soon began to reflect the benefits
of the new policy, of which service was
the keynote. The store was brightened,
shopping facilities improved, dead lines
were weeded out and turnover of others
livened, which meant keener buying. At
the same time the grip upon outgoings
was tightened, and the shopping centre
tended to concentrate around the Queen,
Albert, Adelaide Edward streets block,
in the centre of which Finney’s shop sits.
Though war brought clothes- and
drapery-rationing, the price ceiling and
a host of other difficulties, it didn’t do
retail turnovers any harm. Here are per-
centage changes in aggregate turnover of
12 Brisbane department stores compared
with the corresponding period of the
previous year:—
Average Three Months Ended
r ~'
Sept. Dec. Mar, June. Year.
1938- .. + 3.7 -f 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- .. | 6.1 . + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 -f- 8.5
1940- .. + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941.42 .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 +.3.5 + 3.0
The presence of Allied troops helped to
stiffen demand, and for the most part the
problem has been to get rather than to
sell consumer goods. About 80 p.c. of
merchandise handled by Brisbane retailers
is supplied by manufacturers in the
southern States, which has made trans-
port a major difficulty. Many lines have


Tur
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE ; GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips. G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire. Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
Genera] Manager.
T. C, Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager
etnobilizdlioft
for Peace.
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
This is an important thought for
all men and women in the fight'
ing forces or in essential services.
Are you planning and preparing
for your post-war future? Are
you training and qualifying
NOW for the new business con-
ditions that will come after the
war—when all businesses will be
in a great rush to get their goods
back on the .market, when many
new products will be exploited,
and when the man or woman
who has trained and qualified in
some specific business subject will
have the preference over the un-
trained person.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow’s
Opportunities
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Consultation costs you nothing.
Let us help you to choose the vocation
for which you are most suited seek
our advice start training NOW I
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
temd»4 o mi Oww* bv H.mmqwov 4 Robamon hy, Ud|
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
VI and in all Capital Cities, Newcastle
r and Launceston.
j Please send me FREE copy of your I
' 95 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’* 1
| Name Age j
| Address ........................... >
I Career Interested in 24/6fif) I
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worm patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain CoamionweaJth and loreign patents.— Advt,
* * ♦ ♦
DA TIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
ACCOUNTANTS.
ATTENTION of all engaged in any branch of account-
ancy is drawn to the accountancy legislation pro-
posed by the N.S.W. Government. Any who have
not taken steps to ensure the protection of their
interests are invited to write to the undersigned.
H. C. BRIERLEY, F.A.P.A., F.1.C.5., F.A.C.A.,
Public Accountant,
to O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872. s
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Made hy
FORD SHERINOTON LTD
iii
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
mm
m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
# : »
■a: M
V; *r
-
Jr
w
Short "Sunderland" flying-boats (four Bristol “Pegasus” engines) have
given invaluable service in convoy and anti-subma'ine operations. The
“ Empire ” class, their civil equivalent, is renowned on world air routes
PERPETUAL PATROL
In every climate, in fair weather and foul, British
aircraft have patrolled the oceans continuously since
the outbreak of war, spotting submarines and safe-
guarding shipping. Their duty imposes a great test
upon endurance, yet they are typical of the many
outstanding engineering achievements of the British
aircraft industry.
There is a very significant quality about them all:
though the years pass, many of the designs still do
not become obsolete ; they were far ahead of their
time when they were first produced, and are so
fundamentally right that simple changes still keep
them in the forefront.
After the war, whether you are booking a seat in an
air-liner, sending goods by air to a distant country,
or choosing aircraft for your own transport service,
you will remember with full confidence the fine
service given by British warplanes.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS, LONDON, ENGLAND
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
been unprocurable, most others have
been in short supply, their delivery irregu-
lar, quality has fallen and prices have
risen. Also, controls have stifled free
competition and development of new
lines of merchandise, while service in the
form of deliveries, and in range, quality
and the presentation of goods has been
reduced to a minimum. And so has
maintenance and advertising and other
goodwill expenditure. Thus exes, have
been artificially repressed ; they can be
expected to rise again as conditions be-
come more normal and controls are re-
leased.
Last term the physical volume of bin-'
ney’s turnover continued to expand. Still,
there was a shrinkage of £16,673 in gross
earnings (£271,045). However, including
£61,627 (down £1538) for taxation and
£6667 (down £539) for depreciation, exes.
(£205,100) were pulled back £19,050. That
left the net result £2377 better at £65,945,
or 16.6 p.c. on capital as against 16.5
p.c. and 12.6 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
£26,692 was put on the shelf, making the
prop for capital £221,149.
Since war production has passed its
peak, retailers and other traders are be-
ginning to plan for the time when a
buyer’s market will develop again. Mean-
while the position will be governed
by war needs. Still, the time has
arrived for the Government to give con-
sideration to the vital question of relaxa-
tion of controls. And the sooner its plans
in this direction are made known the less
confusion and dislocation will there be
later on.
Finneys is well equipped to reap the
advantages of cash buying as soon as con-
ditions permit:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £383,793 £388,793 £389,469 £395,595
Creditors .. 133,276 78,144 39,470 37,973
Tax reserves, etc. 30,150 41,109 63,647 61,923
Property, plant,
etc. .. 356,313 352,785 343,746 834,646
Stock .. 305,463 300,875 284,158 250,047
Book debts, etc. 48,799 31,769 19,791 14,579
Investments and
cash .. 15,156 6,358 58,721 137,148
Last term’s surplus earnings and allow-
ance for depreciation, etc., together with
a reduction of £34,111 in stocks, are
reflected in a growth of £78,427 in cash
and investments. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£301,878) was £39,074.
Sugarloaf Tin’s three portable sluicing
plants at Stanthorpe (Q.) continue to
operate under tribute agreements, which
turned in £3427 (down £587) for the year
to June 30 last. Including tax (£826)
exes, took £1790, leaving a -profit of
£1670, equal to 6d. per share. A shilling
div. (£333o)'was paid, making total dis-
tribution to date £24,975. When the books
closed the co. owed no man and held
£3007 in cash and Government securities,
and £147 in debtors’ balances and stores.
Plant is reported “properly cared for,”
and running satisfactorily. But “con-
siderable” depreciation of pipe lines and
sluice boxes has occurred. An option
has been secured over an area at Glen
Alpin, where No. 3 plant is now sluicing
across the lead. If results are satisfactory
a second plant will be moved to the new
area, details of which have not been
broadcasted.
3: $ $
Gold Mines of Australia, a Melbourne-
controlled exploration and finance co.,
netted £5lBO (up £576), approximately 3d.
per share, for the year to the end of
March last. Chief source of income is
management fees and divs. Sharehold-
ings are Victoria Gold Dredging, 3669 £1
shares paid to 10s. each ; Morning Star,
16,400 f.p. 4s. shares; Mt. Coolon,
19,600 f.p. 10s. shares; Triton, 6450 f.p.
10s. shares; Atlas, 90,000 3s. shares paid
to 9d. each. The lot figure in the books
at £15,557. To meet £1446 coming to
outsiders there was £54,306 in cash and
debtors’ balances, etc. Operations at
Triton and Atlas remain suspended for
the duration, owing to man-power diffi-
culties, which also interfered with output
of Morning Star and the dredging co.,
who each sent along 6d. per share. Mt
Coolon, which made its last hand-out
(6d. a share) in 1941, is marking time in
the hope of something worth while turn-
ing up post-war.
* * * *
Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen Wills
(Vic.), netted £lOOB (down £12,245) for
the year to June 30 last. The slip was
due to treatment of lower-grade ore, an
increase of £3868 in expenditure on de-
velopment, rise in mining costs and in-
ability to lift throughput owing to man-'
power difficulties. The mill, which oper-
ated to about half-capacity, treated 10,167
tons (down 523 tons) ore for 3679 fine
ounces (down 1060 fine ounces) gold, an
average of 7,2dwt., as against B.9dwt. per
ton. At June 30 ore reserves were figured
at 72,485 tons (up 205 tons) of pay-ore,
and further development is expected to
open up a lot more payable stuff. After
a complete overhaul of the property, J. Q
Coldham recommended a programme of
expanded development and production,
which will call for new power plant and
re-organisation of the treatment mill.
Details of the proposed developments,
which are to be put in hand when men
and materials become available, have not
yet been broadcast. Preparatory work
will be undertaken from existing re-
sources, “supplemented probably by the
issue of 30,000 reserve shares.” Current
assets total £22,205, mainly ore stocks
(£12,776), concentrates (£5280) and now
precious stores (£3124). The amount
coming to outsiders was £1495.
♦ * * *
Expenditure from the £lOO,OOO grant
to Western Australia for goldmine main-
tenance amounted to £40,140 in 1943-44,
bringing total disbursement at June 30
last in £53,424. Most has been mopped
up by Big Bell (£19,603), Triton (£18,453),
Gladiator (£5232) and Spargo’s Reward
(£3709); a dozen qther shows on the
dole have received only a few hundred
pounds each. At present Commonwealth
moneys are pouring into Nullagine anti-
mony, Wodgina tantalite and Yinnie-
tharra mica. The West’s strategic
minerals have made a useful contribution
to the war effort, but the economic future
of most of them is exceedingly doubtful.
# * * *
Belated accounts of Boulder Persever-
ance (W.A.) shows a decline in profit
from £49,328 stg. in 1942 to £18,860 in
1943. Chief difficulties were shortage of
man-power, higher costs arising from less
efficient labor and dearer stores and requi-
sites. The div. at 15 p.c. on the 4s. shares
is down 10 p.c.


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both, the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary's report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
!c) Insurance premiums ;
d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months •
Monthly
Instal.
16 8
I 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
8 6 8
may be
granteo according ™ «...^.-mstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept.,
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office. Martin Place, Sydney
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Price Control After the War
The control of prices has been found
necessary in this country during the war,
just the same as it ‘has been found essen-
tial in Britain, Canada and elsewhere. It
is part of what might be called economic
martial law required to prosecute a
war involving full mobilisation of the
nation’s resources. By checking war-time
inflation it helps to preserve that price
stability so essential to public confidence.
Price control has been neither fully
effective nor completely fair in any coun-
try, and Australia would probably rank
somewhere down the list with the
United States—so far as success is con-
cerned. But, considering the economic in-
fluences at work outside the scope of the
Prices Commissioner, we must feel thank-
ful for that which has been achieved, even
if there has been what some describe as a
diversion of zeal in the Prices Branch
towards profits control instead of full
concentration on prices control.
The necessity for controlling prices in
war-time arises from the fact that it is
almost impossible to equate the monetary
taxation of war with the actual military
demand for goods, services and living
standards generally. While of military
necessity the man-power, materials and
services must be taken from the civilian
market by the Government to carry on a
war, political “necessity” (or expediency)
seems to demand that monetary taxa-
tion be on a smaller scale. In short,
there is always a surplus of money by
comparison with the quantity of goods,
etc., available, and if prices were not con-
trolled nothing is surer than that the
excess of money would lead to excessive
prices for what was available.
War-time is “boom”-time —of a sort,
“Booms” are periods of inflation. And,
apart from the disturbance which
rapidly-rising prices represent, infla-
tion is usually a forerunner of de-
pression. Price control, therefore, has
two main objectives —to prevent a
runaway rise in the cost of living during
the war and to prevent inflation and a
subsequent depression afterwards.
In Australia the excess of money that
has banked up in relation to the supply
of things which can be bought is excep-
tionally large. Not only has taxation on
the lower incomes, when averaged
throughout the period of the war, been
less than in most British countries, but
support for war loans has been below the
experience elsewhere. The spendable sav-
ings of the Australian people are omin-
ously big. It would appear from these
savings that the country has grown richer
during this war instead of poorer. Poorer
is obviously the case when the position
is closely analysed.
Without the continuance of price con-
trol after the war for a period long
enough to build up a supply of products,
including houses, large enough to offset
the banked-up pressure of public spend-
ing power we are likely to see excited
bidding for what necessities and comforts
of life do become available early in the
post-war period. A people hungry for
the things they have missed during
upwards of five years of war may be
quite unreasonable in their willingness to
pay big prices. Yet no more people will
be able to buy the limited quantity of
things available whatever the price
happens to be.
Just as a good deal of the excessive
spending power in the hands of the Aus-
tralian people is the fault of weak Gov-
ernment economic policy, so are the dis-
abilities in respect of post-war price
control principally the fault of the
Federal Government. Lacking the neces-
sary constitutional powers to enforce
price control longer than six months after
the signing of the peace, the Canberra
Government asked for the right to amend
the Constitution in fourteen respects.
The Government referendum campaign
was charged with distortion and misrepre-
sentation, and there were many indica-
tions that nationalisation of industry was
one of the principal objectives desired.
The atmosphere surrounding the referen-
dum being that of gross political humbug,
and the Government’s record in adminis-
tration of the National Security Act being
one of many abuses, the people rejected
the referendum.
Judged unworthy of the people’s confi-
dence—and probably no judgment at the
polls was ever better merited —Ministers
have since made a habit of blustering that
rejection of the referendum is the main
reason for the post-war inflation danger
with which the country seems to be con-
fronted. The Government itself is almost
entirely to blame. It could have got the
right to control prices for a limited period
after the war if it had been straight-
forward, modest and had a good adminis-
trative record. But in its political ambi-
tions it overplayed its hand, and its
motives have become suspect. Still, the
air is the clearer for the referendum.
There is, most decidedly, a need for
some price control for a limited time after
the productive resources of the nation are
turned back again to peace-time use. s
Some other controls may also be desir-
able for a time—over interest rates and
the like. But while financial controls
may be enforceable by financial means,
price control has to be carried out by
legal means. The States individually
have the constitutional rights to enforce
price control.
It is possible that the actual signing of
the peace will occur sufficiently long after
fighting and the production of war ma-
terials have ceased to permit almost a full
return to production of goods for civil
use. But the position will be aggravated
in several respects by the need for so
much capital expenditure to restore pro-
ductive and housing conditions; the
potentialities of inflation will become
double-barrelled.
Price control in ordinary times is not a
desirable thing unless there are mono-
polistic practices to be dealt with. At
present the administration of this function
is as wearisome to industry as most Gov-
ernment “controls” are. The Government
has a distinct political and socialistic bias
in its administration.
But price control for a limited period
after the war is so necessary that if the
Government of the day cannot be trusted
with the responsibility then the Govern-
ment should be changed at the first oppor-
tunity. It is typical of the ineffectiveness of
State Governments that there has been
no conference between them to set up a
tentative, co-operative prices plan in case
the Commonwealth fails to get the neces-
sary temporary powers and the signing
of the peace is too soon after the end of
hostilities to allow production by industry
to catch up with civilian demand.
The threatening volume of public
spending power is shown in recent official
figures. Savings-bank deposits at the end
of September had reached £5OO million,
compared with £244 million at the out-
break of war. In addition, notes in the
hands of the public have expanded from
£35 million in 1939 to £lB3 million on
October 2 this year. And this expansion
continues in spite of the shifting of the
centre of gravity in the Pacific war from
the Australian area. There is not the
same demand for Australian currency by
troops as hitherto. It is clear that a vast
portion of the billowing note issue is being
hoarded by Australians, who are only too
often awaiting an opportunity of spending
it in a way that will not bring them under
the notice of the Taxation Department,
By contrast with this superabundance
of money, consider the many shortages
with which the people are confronted, and
consider the marked depreciation of capi-
tal assets during the period of the war.
In other words, consider the great spend-
ing potential that will exist when
war-time controls expire. It is to be
hoped that by the time the critical stage
is reached in this situation Australia will
have an Administration capable of deal-
ing with the danger on an administrative
rather than a doctrinaire basis. That is
the real difference between price-control
problems in this country and those in
most other lands.
Canada’s Prices Board chairman,
Donald Gordon, said on September 11
that it was not proposed to wait until
the end of the war to resume civilian pro-
duction ; any firm that can get materials
and labor may reconvert, provided its
war production has declined or ceased. It
is anticipated that as soon as civilian pro-
duction gets under way relaxation of
spending controls will become the rule.
In order to meet the inflation menace
by increased output, war-time controls
over Canadian civil production are to
be “reduced or simplified” as soon as
practicable. The Prices Board is deter-
mined that “all restrictions in its field of
jurisdiction must be lifted well in advance
so as to remove any possibility that their
continuance might prevent the maximum
use of production capacity and labor.”
But at present war production is still
standing in the way of anything greater
than a “trickle” output of civilian articles
hitherto scarce, and the relief of liberated
areas will be a drain when war demands
cease. The danger to prices will then still
exist. “If prices are kept from rising in
the early stages of transition the chances
of building a large volume of peace-time
production will greatly improve, because
prices must be kept down to get volume,
and volume is the only basis of low costs.”
In Canada the view is taken that the
duration of price control depends on the
length of the Japanese war and the time
taken for reconversion. “It is quite pos-
sible,” says Donald Gordon, “that the
withdrawal of price-ceiling control may
proceed by stages; for example, it might
be feasible to remove broad groups of
commodities from the ceiling as their
supplies increase and demand becomes
less exaggerated.”
New capital issues by private enterprise
will, it is announced, be permitted if
approved by the Secondary Industries
Commission and the Department of War
Organisation of Industry, to which they
will be referred by the Capital Issues
Board. The Secondary Industries Com-
mission was recently set up (1) to review
and investigate the war-time industrial
development of the Commonwealth,
special regard to be given to Government
factories, particularly munitions establish-
ments and annexes, and (2) to prepare
for consideration of the Government a
policy of industrial development and to
plan and recommend measures which
should be taken to implement it.
* * * *
Canberra proposes to allow the pur-
chase on a much wider scale of building
blocks out of subdivisions. Apparently
it is realised that many, controls over
spending and investment have not helped
war loans, and it is now thought that
early purchase of land by intending home-
builders will ease the strain on Govern-
ment-sponsored housing projects. Hous-
ing will represent one of the very difficult
problems when the end of the war comes,
* * * *
It is almost funny to hear Ministers of
the Curtin Government talking about the
“overseas capital” which it is proposed to
attract after the war to establish new in-
dustries in the Commonwealth. Over-
seas capital has never been keen on com-
mitting financial suicide by emigrating to
lands where the Government of the day is
suffering from economic St. Vitus’ dance.
Australia is undoubtedly a country of
great industrial opportunity, politics per-
mitting ; but until some of the wilder
members of the Ministry are, in the lan-
guage of dose friends of the Labor partv.
purged from the Curtin Government it
is unlikely that overseas capital will be
willing to take the risks implied by the
Labor Government’s attitude towards
private enterprise. After all, the overseas
shareholder is not likely to fare any
better than the Australian one in any
general economic “policy” which the
Government may sanction. The present
banking regulations, for instance, affect
the English, Scottish and Australian Bank
the same as they affect the Bank of New
South Wales. If the Government really
means what it says about attracting over-
seas capital it had better do a bit of hard
thinking about its taxation, financial and
industrial policy for the post-war period.
* * * *
In 1937 Sir Josiah Stamp—Lord Stamp
when he died—said that the United States,
then in the throes of an alphabetical
spending and “control” riot known as
the New Deal, was “grandmothering her-
self into a depression.” Australia, by its
excessive and unrealistic attention to
“social security” and “working condi-
tions,” plus its over-use of bank credit
and other deceptive finance, is grand-
mothering //self into serious difficulties
even before the end of the war. The
United States did indeed have a return
of depression, and it was only the Euro-
pean war which saved the Republic from
great economic difficulty. It seems, how-
ever, that war has but deferred the in-
evitable effect of a policy of over-spend-
ing in America. The difficulty into which
Australia has “grandmothered” itself over
the past few years is that of potential in-
flation on a large scale, with the danger
of depression later. The expression
coined by Lord Stamp was an unusually
apt one. The chase after artificial “social
security” in Australia has become the
mainstay of those vending quack politics
and false economics.
* * * *
In his opening address to various non-
Labor parties at Canberra on October
13, out of which conference a basic
arrangement has been made for unity
under the title of Australian Liberal
party, R. G. Menzies said: “This confer-
ence has been convened in an endeavor
to produce unity of organisation among
those who do not support socialism as the
solution of Australia’s political and eco-
nomic problems.” Later in his speech he
added: “As I see them, the true economic
functions of the State are as indicated
in a recent publication of the Institute
of Public Affairs of Victoria, called Look-
ing Forward.” This booklet was reviewed
in B. 11/10/’44. One comment on the
I.P.A. policy was that it appeared “de-
cidedly liberal.” Menzies quoted from
page 29 of the booklet:
In general terms the economic responsi-
bilities of the State should be regarded as
fourfold:
First, to assist in preventing the periodic
recurrence of large-scale unemployment.
Second, to secure to all responsible
citizens (through social legislation) at a least
decent and reasonable minimum of eco-
nomic security and material well-being.
Third, to impose a framework of law
which will give the utmost encouragement
to enterprise, resourcefulness and efficiency
of individuals and groups and which will lead
to the greatest possible output of the goods
and services which the community needs.
Fourth, to conserve, in the long-range
interests of the community, those natural
resources fundamental to the life and future
prosperity of the nation.
The Institute of Public Affairs (Victoria)
has done a good job in its research and
economic recommendations, and Menzies
has acted wisely to acknowledge a simi-
larity of viewpoints. The policy laid
down by the 1.P.A., while liberal to the
wage-earner, is based on free enterprise
and an increasingly productive, competi-
tive economy —something which the
leader of the Opposition has supported in
Parliament for years past.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
a scrap of paper
.... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
L AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V, PERKINS, General Manager,
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
The I Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
Tuberculosis is striking with swift deadliness at Australia’s national
life! Help stamp it out / Give all you can to the Anti-T.B.
£50,000 Appeal to help build an up-to-date Clinic and provide
a Mobile Service for Country Districts. Send contributions to
the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Si - St
>1
iC
&
»
Battle is the testing
ground for the researches of war-time labora-
tories . . . among them those of Stromberg-Carlson, as
suppliers of communications equipment keyed to
commando conditions.
From their war-time experience, Stromberg-Carlson will
evolve post-war radio products that will be an achieve-
ment as distinguished as their war production record.
Post-war, too . . . there will be nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson.
STROMBERG-CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia.
SO Years of Communication Engineering
BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
mm
■
■
m
■
m.
y.--'
1
m
m
55638
For Your Throat’s Sake.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
A decision has been reached on Aus-
tralian seamen’s war-risk bonuses.
Hitherto the rate has been 50 p.c. on
wages and overtime anywhere on the
Australian coast, provided the seaman
has been in continuous service for six
months. The new rate is 25 p.c. in respect
of ships operating south of Townsville
on the east coast and south of Port Hed-
land on the west. North of Townsville
and Port Hedland and to New Zealand
the bonus is 33| p.c., with 50 p.c. north
of 20 degrees south latitude if the voyage
is beyond Australia. Seamen on intra-
state vessels plying in Spencer and St.
Vincent’s Gulf are reduced to 15 p.c.
* * *
A recent London comment on the
Bank of England:
The bank, though privately owned, has always
been dependent on the State for its position
and authority. The State is its largest customer,
and the bank still, as in the past, advises the
State on financial matters. But nowadays the
State possesses in its Treasury Department its
own full-time financial advisers, and is, there-
fore, less dependent on the bank than it used
to be in framing financial policy. Certainly the
bank is now, more directly than ever before,
an integral part of the State organisation.
With the arrival of peace great new tasks will
await it, and no one doubts that under
Mr. Norman’s long tenure of the governor-
ship its organisation has been raised to a level
of efficiency which should enable it successfully
to cope with the financial problems attaching to
the full employment programme as well as to
the important work of funding the war debt.
Lord Catto, now governor, has had close
Treasury associations. But constitution-
ally the bank has not changed in recent
years, and “during the last half-century
the Bank of England may be said to
have been the most potent influence in
the world making for the spread of cen-
tral banking principles as evolved in
Britain.” The responsibitliy in connec-
tion with the funding of the huge
Treasury-bill debt after the war will be a
great one. The Commonwealth Bank in
Australia will have a similar job to do in
connection with our bank-credit debt, and
a great deal will depend upon the state
of the nation’s credit and the confidence
the people have in the country’s financial
administration. It would be impossible at
the present time, for instance, to fund
our bank-credit debt at prevailing interest
rates; this is obvious from the poor sup-
port given by the public to war loans.
Unless funding is to be carried out at a
penal rate of interest it will be necessary
for an Administration having a -high
regard for the nation’s credit to be in
charge in the Treasury benches. Govern-
ment by experimentalists and larrikins is
a danger to the national credit as well as
to essential production.
* * * *
Australians have been hearing, from
American servicemen, and through the
increased newspaper interest in United
States conditions other than those ijn
Hollywood and Chicago, that the cost of
food in the Commonwealth, by compari-
son with prices in the United States, is
particularly low. This is especially the
case so far as butter, milk, bread and even
some meats are concerned. Where a
number of our land products entering the
metropolitan food markets are not as
cheap, in proportion, as, say, butter, it
will often be found that handling and
selling charges are the expensive factor.
There is a big story behind all this. When
the metropolitan unionist insists that a
six-hour day is long enough to do the
nation’s work he is overlooking the fact
that land men are very often working 12
hours a day seven days a week, and that
as a result of this cheap rural labor the
unionist is being fed at a price out of
proportion to the charges he makes for
his own working time. If land men were
given a six-hour day the cost of food in
the city would become fantastic, while
the call for labor for land industries
would be multiplied. In other words,
the “living standards” demanded by some
unionists cannot be seriously visualised
without regarding our dairying and agri-
cultural people as a poorly-rewarded
peasantry.
* * * ♦
Australia entered the war with an em-
barrassing surplus of wheat; power-
alcohol distilleries were set up to help
make use of it. The advent of Labor
Government “planning” and a drought,
two disabilities from which the country
periodically suffers, have made it a case
of “Oh, what a difference in the morn-
ing ! ”
* * * *
Improved living standards are making
the leisure hours of many people more
attractive. But improved living standards
depend a great deal on working hours.
The day has to be divided reasonably
between work and leisure. The produc-
tion during working hours has to support
living standards and social security in
old age and misfortune; demands for
improvement in these things suggest
more working hours per week rather than
fewer. In any case, a greater production
per head is obviously required. Hard,
intelligent work is the solution of most
Australian economic problems.
At the week-end, with only two more
days to go, the Second Victory Loan (of
£l6O million) was £2O million short with
240,000 subscribers. For such a loan
there should have been treble that number
of applicants.
T . t u . ! u ! , „
The Labor party has long had a bug
in its svstem that aeitates for the
y ■ f . . ® T .
nationalisation of banking. It matters
T u * ,f . , • ~ •
little to the Labor party that during this
.. , , /i u u £ c
war it has made an awful hash of financ-
ing the war effort, and that public con-
fldence in the Labor Government so far
as financial matters are concerned is re-
fleeted in the poor support given to war
loans. Public support has been far short
of that seen in Britain, Canada or the
United States. Mr. Armitage, governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, has pointed
out that the aggregate of subscribers to
all war loans is still substantially below
the aggregate of Australian wage-earners,
The significance of that is understood
when it is realised that many of those who
have contributed to war loans have done
so more than once, and the number of
non-subscribers is thus increased.
* * *
The discontinuance of post-war credits
in Canada means the loss of $llO million
temporary borrowings annually But, be-
„Ollca, . , . ./ , ’,
CaUSe ™ any people re S arded these deduc-
tions from their income as being actual
■&; „ .. . T 1 ,
taxation. Finance Minister Ilsley con-
-j • f m •u, u u „
aiders that the lost income might be better
r „ orlo . , A - a ? .
n , P . Y add '" on f borrowing.
In «. opinion, compulsory savings
were considered a tax, and had a ten-
denc Y t° hinder production, as workers
fb a t th e benefit of the extra work
was reduced by the compulsory savings
feature. Total collections of post-war
credits in Canada are estimated at nearly
$2OO million. They will be repaid when the
war is over. The cutting-out of post-war -
credit levies does not apply to companies
or to the refundable portions of the
excess-profits tax.


THE SERVICE MAN
"A Smashing Defeat."
“Ek Dum”: The first landings in Leyte
and adjacent Philippine islands having
been accomplished, General MacArthur
announced on October 23: —
We are now commencing the construc-
tion of a great base for all arms for future
operations The enemy forces, after their
preliminary defeat, are apparently with-
drawing to the west. Our ground forces
are steadily extending their positions on
all fronts and work has started on the cap-
tured airfields at Tacloban and Dulag.
Tacloban had been proclaimed by Presi-
dent Osmena the temporary seat of gov-
ernment of the Philippines Republic.
There were no reports at that stage of
any action by the Japanese likely to dis-
turb the occupation beyond a strong local
resistance and “minor ineffectual air raids
on our shipping.”
Heavy air units on October 24 were
blasting bases all round the eastern sec-
tion of the East Indies war zone, not to
mention the New Guinea-Solomons areas.
And troops of the 24th U.S, Corps had
begun to advance up the diagonal road
which leads from mid-east of the island
at Dulag to Leyte on the north-west,
using tanks, infantry and flame-throwers.
They had reached a point some miles
inland at Burauen, at which the road
turns sharply to the north.
The Allied reports, indeed, were opti-
mistic and confident in every phase, as
well they might have been regarding the
local situation, since it was mentioned
that General MacArthur had 150,000 men
ashore in the first day or two and that
there were not more than 75,000 Japanese
in the whole of the waistline islands,
from Samar on the east to Palawan on
the west, with about 30,000, of whom
14,000 \were killed by October 28, on
Leyte.
If 150,000 men were ashore there
would have been at least another 100,000
working the supply trains, and the naval
and air forces operating from the sea
could be reckoned to double the strength
of the Allied personnel involved. It was
stated late in the week that reinforce-
ments were still pouring into Leyte.
On October 24 a Tokyo communique
declared that Japanese air forces had
attacked U.S. squadrons escorting troops
into the Leyte Gulf on October 19 and
20, had sunk a destroyer and a large
transport and had damaged two battle-
ships and two aircraft-carriers.
This was the first mutter of the Jap-
ansese counterblast to the landings.
Two days later the land fighting had
developed considerably along a 25-mile
front in the north of Leyte.
The movements from Tacloban and
Dulag were in a sense converging, while
the landing forces at the same time
pushed in towards the great Leyte valley.
On October 25 the American troops had
12 towns in their hands, together with
the hills dominating the coast halfway
between Tacloban and Dulag.
Jap Navy Arrives
At this stage a Washington com-
munique reported a battle with two Jap-
anese naval squadrons, both powerful.
The first communique from Washing-
ton on October 25 said that the fleet in
the Sibuyan Sea had been repeatedly
attacked by U.S. aircraft, and that three
(or four) battleships had been hit by
bombs and at least one by a torpedo,
and one cruiser torpedoed. The total
casualties for October 24 were reported
to be a large Japanese aircraft-carrier
sunk and two aircraft-carriers and five
battleships damaged, apart from lighter
craft.
The Japanese at that stage admitted
the loss of two cruisers and a destroyer.
The only U.S. ship mentioned as having
been sunk, U.S.S. Princeton, had been lost
as the result of land-based action by
powerful Japanese air squadrons on the
night of October 23, before battle was
joined with the enemy naval squadrons.
The Princeton, a 10,000-ton cruiser
hull converted for air-carrier purposes,
was seriously crippled and set on fire in
the first place. Her magazines later ex-
ploded, damaging her so much that she
was sunk, after the captain and 1227 of
the crew were rescued. Her casualties
were, therefore, light. And it was stated
that in the course of the attack 150
enemy aircraft were shot down.
The following day President Roose-
velt announced that he had received a
report from Admiral Halsey, C.-in-C.
U.S. Third Fleet, to the effect that the
Japanese- Navy had been defeated.
seriously damaged and routed in the
Philippines area in battles in which, on
the Tuesday, were combined with a large-
scale air attack on Allied shipping in
Leyte Gulf, in which 53 enemy machines
were shot down.
Admiral Nimitz’s Account
The details did not become available
till a communique issued by Admiral
Nimitz on October 29 gave the full story.
He said that the result was an over-
whelming victory for the Allied Third
and Seventh Fleets; “.... never before
has any nation’s fleet been so nearly de-
stroyed,”
The course of events was as follows;
On October 21-22 Japanese fleet units
were seen north of Singapore. Sub-
marines found them and sank two Atago-
class (9500-ton) cruisers and severely
damaged a third.
The Third U.S. Fleet moved to cover
the straits leading through the waist of
the Philippines to the Leyte area, where
there were large numbers of transports
and landing craft to be protected.
Carrier ’planes next day found two
enemy forces moving eastward.
(1) A squadron in the Sibuyan Sea con-
sisting of the new 16in.-gun Yamat'o and
Musashi; the Nagato (32,000 tons) and the
Kongo and Haruna, 29,000-tonners of last-
war vintage but several times modernised,
with eight cruisers and 13 destroyers.
(2) The Yamashiro and Fuso, two other
29,000-tonners, with two heavy cruisers, two
light cruisers and seven or eight destroyers.
Both forces were at once attacked by
Hellcat and Avenger aircraft from the
Third Fleet carriers.
In the first enemy squadron a battleship
was set on fire and might have sunk.
Three others were damaged and three
heavy cruisers were hit by bombs and
torpedoes. A light cruiser capsized and
sank when hit by bombs.
In the Sulu Sea both battleships of the
second force were hit, and the cruisers
and destroyers were plastered with rocket
and machine-gun fire. In both actions
the U.S. carriers were attacked by land-
based aircraft, of which 150 were shot
down.
Later Tokyo Radio figures placed the
number of Allied ships of all types
“sunk” and “damaged” at 84, including
landing craft,
A third enemy force had now beeti
seen, 200 miles off northern Luzon, and
headed south. There were 17 ships in it,
including two battleships, six cruisers, five
destroyers, an aircraft-carrier —believed
to be of the Zuikaku (Dragon) class —a
light carrier of the Zuiho class and two
light carriers of the Chitose (9000-ton)
class.
Admiral Halsey at once sent Third
Fleet units northward at full speed, and
at dawn on October 24 they surprised the
enemy. The aircraft-carrier by this time
had gone to the Philippines to refuel.
She returned too late for the action, as
did Japanese land-based aircraft.
The carriers were all sunk, together
with a cruiser, a light cruiser and a de-
stroyer, and both battleships, three
cruisers and four destroyers were dam-
aged. The Americans lost 10 aircraft and
eight pilots, shot down by flak, and 21
aircraft also were shot down.
The engagement was broken off before
all the damaged ships were tracked down,
as it was necessary to rush to the aid
of the Seventh Fleet carrier escorts, which
were under attack off Samar Island.
The Sibuyan Sea Jap squadron, in spite
of the damage inflicted, had pushed
through the San Bernardino Strait and
attacked the carriers. In the battle which
now took place off Samar, and in which
H.M.A.S. Shropshire and other Austra-
lian units played a gallant part, a cruiser
was seen to sink and a destroyer was left
dead in the water. The enemy force ran
westward into the setting sun through
San Bernardino Strait with most of its
vessels damaged. About 8 p.m. a strag-
gling cruiser was sent to the bottom.
Meanwhile, the enemy’s southern force,
attempting to rush through Surigao
Strait, met the Seventh Fleet and was
crushed in a night action on October 23-
24. All units of this squadron were sunk
or decisively defeated.
Five battleships seriously damaged at
Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941—West
Virginia, Maryland, Tennessee, California
and Pennsylvania—took part in the
actions, as also did the new carriers
Lexington, Wasp and Hornet, replacing
the ships of the same name sunk in the
Pacific in previous engagements.
Losses
Admiral Nimitz had previously said
“This is the greatest defeat our foes have
yet suffered in this war. The time is com-
ing when our fleet, unhampered by the
necessity of guarding American troops
seizing bases, will seek out the Japanese
Fleet, wherever it may be, and completely
destroy it.”
There was a note of caution in this, as
there was in the admiral’s further re-
mark that, although the victory was
smashing and it would be a long time be-
fore the enemy fleet would be fit to put
to sea:
We have completed a number of essen-
tial preliminaries for tackling the main
enemy strength The supreme test will
come a year ahead.
His message to the fleet expressed
“pride and gratitude for the courageous
and aggressive manner in which all offi-
cers and men have done their utmost to
destroy the enemy.”
Up to October 29 the enemy casualties
were set by U.S. Navy H.Q. at:
Probably
Sunk Sunk. Damaged.
Battleships .. 2 1 6
Aircraft-carriers 4
Cruisers .. .. 9 5 5
Destroyers .. 9 7 10
American ships lost were the aircraft-
carrier Princeton, two escort carriers, two
destroyers and two destroyer escorts.
Japanese Story
As usual, the Japanese were far from
admitting a defeat, much less the destruc-
tion of their fleet. They pictured the
U.S. Navy in flight and still being pur-
sued after a “glorious” Japanese victory.
These “reports” were issued by Admiral
Toyodo, the C.-in-C., and his senior
officers.
It was alleged that between October
24-26 the Americans lost three battle-
ships, eight carriers, two cruisers and four
transports sunk, dnd seven carriers, a
battleship and two cruisers damaged.
The enemy’s estimate of Japanese losses
was reasonably in line with Mr.
Forrestal’s statistics of actual known
sinkings to October 27; one battleship
sunk and one damaged, two cruisers and
two destroyers sunk and 126 aircraft
lost.
Mr. Forrestal’s statement was that
two-thirds of Japan’s battleships had
been sunk or damaged, and that Admiral
Nimitz would be able to announce addi-
tional damage. Nine enemy ships, the
Naval Secretary proceeded, were defi-
nitely known to have been sunk —two
carriers, a battleship, five cruisers and a
destroyer. The Allies did not escape
from these actions scot free... .“We, too,
lost ships, and others were damaged.”
A Japanese Mystery
Like Admiral Oilendorf, every naval
tactician in the world must be won-
dering why the Japanese should have been
such “suckers” as to approach through
narrow bottlenecks through the islands
instead of taking to the open sea. Pos-
sibly the Allied naval and air command
north and south of the battle area on the
Pacific side was so strong that they
thought their best bet was to try sur-
prise at night and under land-based air
cover. But the greatest mystery is why
they staged the attack at all since they
must have known the U.S. forces to be
overwhelming—they stated the U.S. force
in Leyte Gulf as nine battleships, 16
aircraft-carriers and 40 cruisers and de-
stroyers —and the immediate objective
was not worth the risk of even one
battleship.
It is all the more strange because from
Tshushima to Guadalcanal the enemy
admirals had certainly never been
“suckers.”
Amid all the legitimate enthusiasm, it
must be remembered that battleships and
cruisers have been reported, quite sin-
cerely, as lost in Pacific Ocean battles,
and have turned up again intact —the
Haruna, supposedly sunk by a bomb off
the Philippines on December 10, 1942,
was a ease in point. It is easy for this to
happen in long - distance actions in the
dark.
However, nobody can gainsay the
results of naval policy as stated by
Admiral Nimitz. In the past year 13
major enemy Pacific bases have been cap-
tured, many more rendered valueless and
80,000 enemy front-line troops killed. Up
to the beginning of the Philippines opera-
tions 90,000 first-line troops had been
isolated. In five months 900 enemy ships
had been sunk and more than 3000
enemy aircraft had been shot down or
destroyed on the ground.
And all this has been achieved without
the admitted loss of a single U.S.
capital or major ship outside an aircraft-
carrier or so, though with substantial
battle casualties ashore,
Samar Occupied
The effect of the naval battle on the
fighting in Leyte was all that could be
desired. There had been strong counter-
attacks by the enemy during the week
and considerable air activity, but the
attacks in the Leyte valley had been re-
duced to localised resistance. U.S.
cavalry arid infantry were pressing up the
H^nfn/° ad fi and river vall£ ys as well as
•, 9°ast. But there was a
considerable section of the island to be
fought for if the enemy intends to fight.
He certainly showed no fight on Samar
to the north-east, the island which forms
the stepping-stone from Leyte to the tail
at * s l an d was taken with
little trouble after the naval battle off its
coast, and the dispatch which detailed its
capture remarked:—-
The enemy in all areas is exhibiting signs
tion COm^, e^e lsor ® ai a sa ti°n and disintegra-
Enemy air raids were lighter at the
week-end than they had been for some
days, and the communique of October
29 reported the destruction of 20 enemy
8 in the air.
Captain Dechaineux Killed.
“Ek Dum”: The participation of the
R.A.N. squadron, including H.M.A.S.
Australia, Shropshire, Arunta and War-
ramunga, in the Philippines operations
was not bloodless.
Mr. Curtin announced on October 26
that H.M.A.S. Australia had been hit
during an enemy air attack, and though
the damage was confined to the upper
deck in the neighborhood of the bridge,
19 lost their lives —five killed outright,
including Lieut. H. B. Bayley, R.A.N.R.,
and Lieut. Ivor Jones; the others, in-
cluding Captain Emil Dechaineux,
D.S.C., and the Acting-Commander John
Francis Rayment, D.S.C., died of wounds.
There were also 54 wounded, including
Commodore J. A. Collins, C. 8., whose
broad pennant flew in Australia.
Captain Dechaineux was one of the
best-loved men in the R.A.N. A tall,
man, with an inclination to a scholarly
stoop in moments of relaxation, but
like a ramrod on duty, he looked
older than his 42 years. For he rode
himself hard, and he belied his sometimes
mild appearance with a reputation gained
in an intrepid record as a destroyer com-
mander overseas.
He was a Tasmanian, a product of Jervis
Bay, out of which he passed in 1920. He
had gained the prized Ogilvie medal
for his first place in examinations for tor-
pedo lieutenant at the R.N. staff college,
had been in the Tactical Division of the
Admiralty and had then become a
destroyer captain, winning the D.S.C. for
outstanding zeal and devotion to duty.
He came home in October, 1941, to
become Director of Operations. In
November, 1942 —still a commander —he
took over the new H.M.A.S. Warra-
munga, and great was his pride in her.
In December, 1943, he was promoted
captain and in March, 1944, was trans-
ferred to the flagship from the task-force
destroyers which he then was command-
ing.
Captain Dechaineux was by the time
of his death a veteran of the advance
in the Philippines. Wakde, Aitape, Biak,
Noemfor, Hollandia, Morotai, all had
heard his guns.
The pity of it is that so brilliant a sea-
man, so determined in battle and so much
a master of tactics, who was inevitably
destined for high flag rank within measur-
able time and bound to leave his mark
on the R.A.N., should have been cut off
in what was apparently a casual onslaught
by aircraft.
In Asia.
British troops continued their advances
in the Tiddim area, and there were num-
erous clashes on the hills west of the
Chindwin, but no major developments.
Success on this side of the Asian front
was offset by the renewal of the Japanese
offensive against the outskirts of Kweilin
by a double thrust which threatens to
engulf the town.
On October 28 it was announced that
General Stilwell, who has combined the
command of American troops in the
China-Burma-India area with the job of
Chief of Staff to Chiang-kai-shek, had
been recalled to Washington —as a result
of differences with Chiang, some reports
say, but for a “new and important” ap-
pointment, according to Washington.
The American command is now
divided in Asia—Major-General A. C.
Wedemeyer, formerly Deputy-C.O.S. to
Admiral' Mountbatten’s command, be-
comes C.O.S to Chiang and commands
U.S. troops in the zone. And Lieut.-
General Daniel Sultan becomes G.O.C.
of American forces in India and Burma.
Successes in Holland.
“Ek Dum”: There is not much change
along the main line of German border
defences. Fighting throughout the week
was mainly local, but the British, and
Canadians have made great progress in
widening the Antwerp-Arnhem salient on
the North Sea side.
The Germans there were full of fight,
but not full enough, though early in the
week they took back Breskens, on the
southern lip of the Schelde Estuary,
from the Canadians.
From that point, all the way to the
Waal, however, the shoe was on the other
- s .- ’a


Public Notice.
I, PAUL JOHANNES KRASNY, of Stateless nation-
ality, born at Vienna, Austria, and resident five and
a half years in Australia, now residing at Ascot
Racecourse, Mascot, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO FRANCIS LESLIE CASTLES or CASTLEI late
of Orange in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that RITA MAY CASTLES has hied a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3560 of 1944 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 4th December 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from N. C. ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO REGINALD HERBERT POTTS late of Tam-
worth and Wetherall Street Narrabeen in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE
NELLIE POTTS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3561 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 4th December 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from N. 0.
ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
foot. The Canadians on the seaside
pushed across the causeway into
Beveland, one of the Scheldt islands, and
at the week-end joined up with a sea-
borne force which landed on the southern
shore. Canadians also began, jointly with
the British to the east of them in the
Eindhoven area, a northward advance
along the higher ground south of Bergen-
op - Zoom - Rosendaal, Breda-Hertogen-
bosch, which 'is partly heath and partly
timber.
When the pressure began to be put on
across the Scheldt, north of Antwerp, the
British were already locked in a death
struggle at the north end of the arc for
Hertogenbosch, which is the key to two
bridge crossings over the Meuse further
to the west at Heusden and Hedel, and
also to the great Lek crossing at Zalt-
Bommel and the rear of the Geld Valley
and the south-east front of the Fortress
of Holland.
The Germans were taking no chances
here. They knew that the capture of
Hertogenbosch portended their end in the
Netherlands and the risk of the cutting-
off of their forces in the Scheldt area.
They were still holding out on October
28, but their line further south had given
way. On October 29 Hertogenbosch had
fallen to the Tommies.
The British had also taken Tilburg, a
large city of about 80,000 people south of
the Wilhelmina Canal in North Brabant.
This sealed the fate of cities nearer the
sea and of the Scheldt islands.
On October 29 Bergen-op-Zoom had
fallen, cutting the railway to Zeeland,
South Beveland and Walcheren. The
best the enemy could do in this area was
to fight to the death to keep the Scheldt
blocked and Antwerp isolated from the
sea.
A stronger force of British and
Canadians was pushing up the Mark to-
wards Breda, from which the Polish
spearhead was reported two miles away
on October 29. Later that night the town
seemed to have been almost cleared of
Germans.
The Germans tried to stage a diversion
by attacking the U.S. forces on the Ger-
man side of the Nijmegen salient in the
Venloo area, and gained a little ground,
without effect on the general situation.
The British an.d Canadian armies were
on the Tilburg-Breda line following
the routes by which the Germans invaded
the Holland fortress —a main southern
drive to Breda from the Tilburg region.;
a drive from Hertogenbosch keeping
south of the Meuse, cutting off traffic
across the river for its whole westward
course to the great Moerduck bridge over
the inner section of the Hollandsch Diep.
This route leads straight to Dordrecht
and the Waal Haven and Rotterdam, with
The Hague beyond.
There is such a labyrinth of river
channels in this region, however, that it
is very difficult to get at. The Germans
solved their problems—those which were
not solved when they found the Moer-
duck bridge open—by parachute landings
as large as those of General Urquhart’s
troops in September at Rotterdam and
the Hague. The Germans will fight hard
to hold the Dutch ports through the
winter if they have the men available.
There seems to be no hope now of a
conclusion to the European war this year,
and the winter outlook is gloomy for the
peoples concerned. Every occupied
country is infested with communists who,
non-combatants in 1940, have become
“patriots,” and are capitalising the chaotic
state of their countries (in Belgium they
are blaming the Government for the food
situation), being also under suspicion of
using the word “collaborator” to secure
the destruction of political enemies. In
France, while about 70,000 Germans are
holding out at ports like Lorient, St.
Nazaire and Dunkirk, and greater num-
bers are still in north-east France,
thousands of “patriots” crossed the
Spanish border in an attempt to start a
new war with Spain.
German propaganda is using this con-
dition of affairs to instil the hope that
these movements will bring chaos to the
Allies.
There was continued heavy bombing
of Germany, particularly the transporta-
tion areas and service towns of the front
facing the Netherlands. Cologne bridges
and communications were attacked at
the week-end in daylight by more than
1000 Lancasters, and a bridge was de-
stroyed. Walcheren had a low-level
assault. From these two raids five
bombers and a fighter were missing.
There were attacks at the week-end by
300 Fortresses and 200 Mustangs on
Hamm and Munster iq Westphalia, in
which three bombers and two fighters
were reported missing.
After an interval of 80 hours, flying-
bombs arrived in London and other parts
of southern England on October 28.
Rain in Italy.
“Ek D.” Weather held the land front
in its clutch for most of the week, but
some progress was made by Fifth Army
tanks, which on October 29 were only 15
miles from Forli. Poles, ever in the van,
have taken Predappio, on the outskirts of
Forli, where Mussolini was born.
The Germans claimed to have cleaned
up resistance in the northern industrial
areas of Italy. On October 29 they de-
clared that they had killed 3000 Partisans
there and captured 8300.
In Greece the abject German evacua-
tion proceeded. Larissa and adjacent
towns were in British hands during the
week, and there seemed to be no Ger-
mans south of the Servia Pass. Salonika
was reported burning as the enemy car-
ried out his demolitions.
His exit is being hastened by the fact
that the Bulgarians under the armistice
terms have agreed to fight with the Allies
under the general command of the Red
Army High Command. >
British troops have been landed from
H.M.S. Sirius on Piscopi, in the Dode-
canese. This island (sometimes called
Tilos) is a sizable bit of land about 20
miles off the north-western coast of
Rhodes.
The rule of Germany in the Dode-
canese is nearly over.
Another Gumbinnen.
“Ek Dum”: The crucial fighting on
the Russian front has been the fighting
in East Prussia, for the Insterburg Gap.
The reported enormous size of the Rus-
sian forces used was confirmed by Mar-
shal Stalin’s Order of the Day, announc-
ing the crossing of the border and the
capture of Goldap, in which he cited 63
generals. That suggests the use of up
to 40 divisions, with powerful tank and
artillery spearheads.
The 60-miie penetration of Norway
and the capture (by Russian and Nor-
wegian forces) of Kirkenes, is not
nearly so significant, though it would
have been important months ago, when
British convoys were fighting their way
against odds through the U-boats and the
Arctic. Although Kirkenes is less than
100 miles from Murmansk, and the Nor-
wegian border less than 10 miles from
the Russian border across a narrow strip
of Finnish territory, Norway was out of
bounds in those days for the Russian
armies, which were held well inside their
own borders.
The fall of Finland, however, has made
a difference, and there have been freakish
developments which would have been in-
conceivable even three years ago. For
one thing, the enemy’s retirement seems
to have been actually precipitated by a
Finnish Army threat to his flank. Again
King Haakon announced that Norwegian
forces were again fighting in Norway, and
that a working agreement had been
reached between the Russian and Nor-
wegian Governments under which the
Norwegian Government would return to
its country so soon as the military situa-
tion permitted and legal procedure would
be again fully operative.
There is, however, a long way to go
before thickly - populated Norway is
reached by the Russo-Norwegian forces.
Even by airline across Sweden it, is 1000
miles to Oslo, and down the narrow strip
of mountainous coastal country, deeply
indented with fiords, it is 300 miles across
the Finmark to Narvik by air and 1300
miles to Oslo by road. Also, it is
approaching winter midnight. In those
areas, 10 degrees above the Arctic circle
and only about 600 miles from the North
Pole, it is night now and will be for
months to come. And if the Germans
have 120,000 men in the Finmark, as
Moscow correspondents believe, they
must have abundant man-power.
A communique from Hitler’s H.Q.
asserted that, with the surrender of
the Finns and the evacuation of
the right wing of the German de-
fences in Finland, the only possible
course for the German command was
to take back the northern front and
re-establish it along a suitable line in
Norway. In the course of this operation
Kirkenes had been evacuated.
There was some speculation as to
whether the battleship Tirpitz would
leave Alten Fiord, near Tromso, which is
about 105 miles from Kirkenes. British
bombers are trying hard to prevent her
leaving, except for Davy Jones’s locker,
The R.A.F. scored at least one direct
hit on the Tirpitz with a 12,0001 b. bomb
on October 29.
At the Insterburg Gap
The East Prussian battle had, at the
week-end, been raging for 14 days. It
began with the usual rush, during which
Moscow correspondents were convinced
that a few days would see the Russian
armies in Berlin or somewhere, and Mr.
Ehrenfried Baume made them a present
of the entire province.
There was nothing original in the Rus-
sians’ approach. Their routes were deter-
mined by the terrain and the climate and
were the same as those used by the Czar-
ist armies at the outbreak of the last war.
Their strategy was much the same.
The Insterburg Gap, one of the four
main defence lines round East Prussia,
is about 45 miles wide, from the Eich-
walder Forest, in the north, to Anger-
burg, on the north of Lake Mauer and
the Masurian Lakes defence line. The
Russians approached in the north by the
Schirwindt area, on the route by which the
Imperial Cavalry Corps in 1914 got
behind Tilsit and threatened the Kdnigs-
berg perimeter and then pressed far across
the west of East Prussia, far behind the
Tannenberg lines. It is also the route which
the XX Corps by-passed to try to out-
flank the northern end of the Insterburg
defences and became involved in the
northern part of the Battle of Gumbinnen.
In this sector the Russians so far have
been held near Schirwindt on the border,
20 miles from the old battleground.
In the centre the Russians drove
straight along the railway through the
central approaches to the Gap towards
Insterburg, on the route followed in 1914
by the Imperial Russian 111 Corps,
Further south they broke into the
Rominten Forest along exactly the same
course as the Imperial IV Corps took in
1914.
On reaching the old Gumbinnen battle-
ground in the centre and south, and long
before they reached it in the north, the
Russians began to encounter strong tank
and artillery resistance, but this at first
was sufficient only to take the momentum
off their advance.
It is historical opinion that in the 1914
battle of Gumbinnen the mistake of the
German commander, Von Franpois, who
was himself an East Prussian, was that
he gave hattle too far forward to save
German territory being overrun. The
theory is that he should have cleared him-
self from the forest in the south and sat
back, with the Angerapp River for an
axis and breaker of the Russian ad-
vance, his southern flank covered by the
lakes, which are in depressions sur-
rounded by heavy timber.
No Enemy Repetition
This time the enemy has taken no
chances with the outflanking movement
on the north, holding firmly on the border
and withdrawing across the Niemen at
Tilsit so as to secure co-ordination with
his Insterburg Gap defences. In the
centre, instead of trying to slog it out with
a front fixed near the border at Stall-
uponen, the Germans have fallen back
to Gumbinnen itself, 15 miles to the rear,
where there is marshy ground and a tank
obstacle in the form of the river running
diagonally north-west—it is known in the
south as the Rominte, and towards the
point where it joins the Angerapp further
north, as the Pissa.
HrArrallv sneakimr the COlintrV of the
uenerany speaxing, me country Oi Uic
Gap is open and fenceless, dotted with
email to\vn9 anrl blocked in
small towns ana villages, oiocKeu m
places by bogs, with hunting castles on
the southern side round Goldap. One of
them is Amalienburg, lately given over
to Gdring’s uses, which is said to have
hepn cantnreH hv the Russians
oeen capiurea oy ine
It is great tank fighting country. The
fact that the Germans have elected to
stnnd here chnwc the nower of their
Stand Here snows me power OI ineir
armor and artillery. Indeed, there IS an
omen in thpir rhoirp nf b n 111 m* olln (1
omen in tneir cnoice or Dauiegrounas
both here and in Hungary. In mat
country they selected the plains of Deb-
J .5 . ,
rezeen on which to put up a vast tough
battle, which must have resulted in large
destruction of armor on either side.
The Russian plan has been to fling the
too in w/pifyLt flip drivp across tllC
mam .weight or me drive across me
Rominte, south of Gumbinnen—in Which
there was reported to be stiff Street
r- , .. • ~ . . ~
fightmg—in order to have access to the
route through Darkehnen and Norden-
u lir „ and trw tn link nn with fhr rent ml
burg, and try to linK up Wltn me central
drive along the railway to Allenburg
and the Koenigsberg perimeter, after
having cut the Insterburg-Deutsch Eyiau
railway, the rear linkage route of all the
main fronts. The success of these move-
ments would slice up East Prussia into
isolated wedges and disrupt all its main
communications.
The Russians apparently intended also
to concert with these drives two further
operations exactly similar to those of
the last war:
(1) From the Augustowo Forest (where
during the week they reported the cap-
ture of Augustowo, which had supposedly
been in their hands for some time), against
Lyck and the Lotzen Gap, the best possible
breach-point of the Masurian Lakes posi-
tion.
(2) From Lomza, on the Narew, to Alien-
stein, skirting the Johannisburg Forest on
the south-west and west. Allenstein marked
the northern flank of the Tannenberg battle-
field in the last war. Both sides reported
very heavy fighting in Narew bridgeheads
during the week.
A Vital Battle
The second version of the Battle of
Gumbinnen is one of the decisive battles
of the whole war —out and away more
important than the much-advertised pene-
trations into Ruthenian Czechoslovakia,
called a highly industrialised area. In
reality it is a mountain land of scattered
villages and scarcely more than medieval
towns, from Munkas and Uzhorod down-
wards, the villages so poor that right up
to the war period it was not uncommon
in them for whole families to live in a
single room along with their farm animals,
and for whole communities not to see
bread for months on end. The capture
of the 11,230 Germans reported here in
stubborn fighting would bulk very small
beside the capture of a similar number
on the Gumbinnen front.
There the Germans seem to have flung
in great weight. General Guderian, Chief
of the German General Staff, has taken
over command. He is the literal builder
of the German tank army and its strategy
an( j tactics
Hitler’s H.Q. announced on October 29
that on that front the battle had ceased
to rage with its usual fury ; that the Rus-
sians had made violent efforts with huge
forces south-east of Gumbinnen, on the
Rominte River, but had been met by
equally powerful artillery and armor,
which included the new Royal liger
tanks, in use for the first time, and had
been stopped with a loss of 275 tanks in
four days. It was added that Russian
tank losses in the battle so far were 900.
The crisis had not been reached at the
week-end, but it was evident that Ger-
many hung on the result with bated
breath. For the Battle of Gumbinnen will
do much to decide whether German
morale will remain strong enough to carry
on, and will have a greater effect on the
length of the war than all the much ad-
vertised occupations of abandoned strong-
holds and pursuits of rearguards across
the steppes of central Poland. The fall
of East Prussia would mean the outflank-
ing of central Poland and would add
enormously to German difficulties.
Operations in the Hungarian-Yugoslav
sectors have amounted to little more than
a following-up of German rearguards,
except in the pivotal area of central Hun-
gary, where there has been fierce thrust-
ing and counter-thrusting by either side
to attempt to disrupt consolidations.
Progress was scarcely to be expected
immediately, for it will take the Russians
some time to refit and reconstruct their
forces for an advance after the consider-
able battle of Debrezcen.


Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
R eai^ T£Reo
Blood, Veins. Arteries. Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
trained relief from this wonder-
ul biomedical treatment. It has
long 1 been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition:
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally: piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet —see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
TABLETS
that Elasto Is not a
drug- but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to ■■
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It 1» this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
IIUW.
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto’', Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
now.'
S£adsr \
Mu/e
The “VENUS” Z-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
Manufactured by
Dynamically
Balanced
df
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing To. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd.. Clarence
St, Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
St. Melbourne; Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Shocks were associated with the run-
ning of the W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee
Valley last Saturday, Tranquil Star (7
to 1) decisively defeated the Melbourne
Cup favorite Lawrence (2 to 1 on), the
latter pulling up apparently lame in the
off foreleg.
It was thought that Lawrence might
have struck himself when he had trouble
in getting through on the home turn, but
his trainer, L. Robertson, reported later
that the horse was “as good as gold, and
he could find nothing wrong with him.”
On Monday, however, Lawrence was
stated to be lame, and at the time of writ-
ing it was said to depend upon the veter-
inary surgeon’s report whether he would
be a Cup runner. Counsel, the other
early Cup favorite, was scratched on
Monday.
Tranquil Star received a wonderful re-
ception when Breasley brought her back
to scale, the crowd paying tribute to one
of the best mares Australia has known.
When Tranquil Star fractured a jaw in
two places in a race fall several months
ago it was feared she would never race
again. Veterinary treatment and expert
care by trainer Ron Cameron, however,
pulled her through, and with winnings of
£21,190 she is now second on the list of
Australian and Maoriland stake-winning
mares. Desert Gold leads with £23,133.
Tranquil Star yas weighted at 8.11 for
the Melbourne Cup, but, at the time of
writing, it had not been decided whether
she would be a runner.
Tea Cake ran his usual honest race in
third place in the Cox Plate, Sirius weak-
ening into fourth position. A good deal
of use was made of Sirius, however, and
the longer distance of the Melbourne
Cup will give him more time to settle
down. Bootle did better than the other
three-year-old runners. New Yorker and
Three O Three, but he has the job ahead
to defeat Silver Rocks in the Derby next
Saturday.
Queen Midas, a five-year-old maiden
who was balloted out of the Caulfield
Cup, recorded her first win in the £3500
Moonee Valley Cup. She did not beat a
strong field, but came from last to win
running away, and obviously possesses
the stamina of her half-sister Rivette,
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup winner in
1939. Queen Midas was bred by Rivette’s
owner, H. Bamber, but leased by him to
P. J, and R. G. Hatwell. An option of
purchase for 300gns. was exercised
several weeks ago, and Queen Midas now
is a very cheap mare. Connections expect
her to run well in the Melbourne Cup, in
which it is hoped that successful appren-
tice T. Hoppo will be able to take the
mount again. Trained by D. Zealley,
better known as a trainer of jumpers,
Queen Midas is by Frilford from Riv,
Gay Revelry, ridden by Sydney jockey
N. McGrowdie, recorded an overdue win
in beating The Bohemian and Pickway in
the Phoenix Handicap. The Bohemian,
however, was unlucky, and Leading Man,
fourth, also was unfortunate in running.
Rainbird, who is being trained for the
Oaks, improved on her form of a week
earlier to beat Antares and Fortune s
Folly in the Greenvale Handicap. Divi-
sions of the St. Albans Handicap, for
two-year-olds, were won by Destination
(Portofino-Lady Ormsby) and Macready,
a half-brother, by Actor, to The
Bohemian.
City Tattersall’s secretary, E. Byron,
and the committee had reason to be
pleased with the club’s meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday. The racing was inter-
esting, the attendance about 40,000 and
the tote turnover £144,280.
Orderly (J. Duncan) ran so well in the
Metropolitan that there was nothing sur-
prising in his City Tattersall’s Cup suc-
cess. Second to Chatham’s Choice most
of the way, he took charge turning into
the straight, and scored easily from
Craigie, who ran on well to beat Falcon
Knight for second. Katanga was fourth,
after being seventh or eighth at the turn.
Excuses were made for him on the score
of alleged bad luck, but they were not
warranted, and though his condition is
still excellent he is not as good as he was
a few weeks ago, and 9.13 was more than
he could manage. Gauntlet fell immedi-
ately after the barrier rose.
Nobleman (Thompson), who continues
to improve with racing, had a great set-to
with Fermanagh over the last furlong of
the Denman Stakes. Fermanagh, who
was second-last at the turn, got very close
to Nobleman near the finish, but the latter
held him off to win by a half-neck in
I.loi, which is only a quarter-second
outside the Randwick record. Bangster
set too strong a pace for the favorite,
John Halifax, and Strathdarr, neither
ever threatening danger; nor did Brazier,
but Corringwang’s third suggested he will
prove himself quite good enough for
Sydney company.
As it was little more than a race for
maidens, quantity, and not quality,
marked the field for the first division of
the Novice Handicap. • The favorite,
Brinawa (R. James), was not prominent
early in the race, but finished too strongly
for Wansey and Lance, both of whom
should shortly pick up a race. Western
Monarch had a useful lead entering the
straight, but tired to nothing over the
final furlong. Princess Annabel also
showed pace, but of the unplaced divi-
sion Man o’ War made the most promis-
ing showing. Aussie broke a leg at an
early stage.
After several failures Sunfel (Delaney)
came to light in the second division of
the Novice Handicap. Shaking off
Lavaine after going a couple of furlongs,
she won easily from the latter and Wheat-
land, with Deputy Leader and Penacre
heading the remainder. Insolvent, who
was a strong favorite, was a poor sixth,
and in running never looked more than
a possible minor place-getter. Ack Emma
and Cabaret Boy shaped badly. Sunfel,
who made a second faster time than
Brinawa, is by Midstream from Suncloud,
a Brazen mare.
It seemed to me that Silent should have
beaten Accession when they dead-heated
the previous week, and in the Two-year-
old Handicap he showed improvement by
shooting through on the rails immedi-
ately after entering the straight, and then
outstaying the favorite, Britannic. Invictus
came from a long way back at the turn
to run third, and Debenture, Beltana and
Gay Lovat are worth keeping in mind.
Beau Giraud (by Beau Pere) carried the
field along to the turn, but dropped right
out before reaching the winning-post.
Heavily backed on the strength of his
recent Newcastle wins and good track
work, Samoyed was unable to get near
the front at any part.
In the Two-year-old Stakes Tactician
gave backers a shock. He turned for
home with a lead that made him look
a certainty, but stopped so badly after
commencing the final furlong that Tou-
lon (Darke), second at the turn, headed
him without any trouble, second place
going to Huamight, who lost a lot of
ground just after barrier-rise. He looks
like proving as good as expected. St. Buzz
and Departure ran sufficiently well to
suggest they may yet be winners. Toulon
is by Simeon’s Fort from Marseilles,
by Rivoli from Midilli. His yearling
price was 370gns.
Streamford (T. Clarke) won the Club
Welter even easier than a division of the
Kensington Handicap a fortnight earlier,
and the probabilities are that a middle-
distance will not trouble him. His sire
is Midstream, and his dam Social, a
sister to Talking. Brueghelier was first
to turn for home, but Streamford had
the race safe soon after entering the
straight, Omapo cutting Brueghelier otit
of second money. Thrax, though fourth,
is not improving, but it is different with
Cordale, whose return to the winning
list is not far off. Van Eyck, who closed
favorite, beat only three or four, and
Cockcrow was below his previous form.
Winnipeg, after displaying his customary
pace, unfortunately broke down.
* * * *
Sydney will have fairly strong represen-
tation numerically in the Melbourne Cup,
but on recent form only Nightbeam
enters greatly into calculations. He has
101 b. more than he carried in the Metro-
politan, but his welter efforts put him
in the light of a weight-carrier. May-
fowl is in great condition, but his Rand-
wick deeds make it difficult to stand him.
Grand Fils generally runs an honest race,
but, though winner of a Tatt’s Cup,
Metropolitan and Anniversary Handi-
cap, a Melbourne Cup with 8.6 is likely
to be beyond his reach. Despite excuses,
Cream Puff was not really impressive in
the Metropolitan. It must be added that
Melbourne form may not be quite so
good as Sydney racing men have been led
to believe.
* * * *
Buyers of bloodstock in Australia are
evidently optimistic as to the post-war
racing and breeding dutlook. At auction
youngsters have been sold at prices sug-
gestive more of guessing than real assess-
ment of their probable return as race-
horses. Some may come up to expecta-
tions, but the majority will not. It is the
same with tried racehorsesthat have
reached marks from which further suc-
cess will be difficult. Some mares have
sold so well that their buyers must be
looking more to their stud than their
racecourse value to return them their
money, and that may mean they will have
a long time to wait. Anyhow, the posi-
tion is appreciated by breeders and
auctioneers, and it is to be hoped buyers
get the return they deserve, though, as a
whole, that is improbable.
* * * ♦
The American Derby was run at Wash-
ington Park (Chicago) at the end of
August. There were only five starters,
and By Jiminy (8.10) won in 2.3 for the
mile and a quarter, a record for the race.
First money was 61,650 dollars, about
£A18,745. Second money was 10,000
dollars, third 5000 dollars and fourth
2500 dollars.
* * * *
The most remarkable yearling sale ever
experienced in America took place at
Keeneland (Lexington, Ky.) at the end of
July and beginning of August. Alto-
gether 457 yearlings were sold for
2,285,000 dollars, an average of about
£A1520. The highest price paid for a
colt was 46,000 dollars (approximately
£A 13,810), and two others brought 40,000
dollars each.
Miscellaneous
Though Max Cameron’s form had
been shown up by a pug at Newcastle
who settled him in short order, Bobby
Clarke was no match for him at Leich-
hardt. Cameron did more clowning than
.boxing till he started hitting on all
cylinders in the sixth. Solid punches
made Clarke’s mouth bleed and he called
it a night at “corners.”
Ambrose Palmer has another fairly
good prospect in Lou Hillier, who showed
promise against Bob Turner at Sydney
Stadium. Hillier landed innumerable
lefts to head or body, but Turner did
more attacking than in any previous con-
test, and some fast fighting was seen. The
decision, a draw, was well received. In
another 12-rounder Les Fuller outpointed
Jackie Green, who had taken the engage-,
ment at a day’s notice.
VICTORIA DERBY.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Silver Rocks *
Bootle -
Hartnell
By "PILOT.'’
Bootle *
Silver Rocks 2
Delina
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Wheatland,
1 ; Lavaine, 2 ; Insolvent, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (colts and
geldings): Huamight, 1; My King,
2 ; Toulon, 3.
Two - year - old Stakes (fillies):
Belle Femme, 1; Vilna, 2 ; Quest-
ing, 3.
Flying Handicap: Lagoon, 1 ;
Star Gold, 2 ; Bruce Wood, 3.
Cumberland Handicap: Royal
Peer, 1 ; Craigie, 2; Orderly or
Gauntlet, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Wilton
Park, 1 ; Debenture, 2 ; Strathdarr,
3.
Parramatta Handicap: Chinook,
1 ; Bestow, 2 ; Our Barney, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The thing to do last week was to go
to Court to hear the Archibald Prize case.
The Land and Valuations Court, where
the case was heard, is quite small, obvi-
ously never intended to accommodate all
Sydney’s art and society followers, who
made a point of putting in an appearance.
Twice daily there was a queue before
the modest little court, that looks as
though it had seen better days, and is just
hanging on to its good address by the skin
of its teeth. It has St. Mary’s, the
Treasury and Parliament House for near
neighbors, and is practically under the
wing of Queen Victoria as she stands
looking down Macquarie-street.
The art critics were all right. They
were front-seaters. They were giving
evidence for or against. Jimmy Mac-
donald, former Director of our National
Art Gallery, had come from Melbourne
and was looking fighting fit' as he sat in
court. Artists Mary Edwards and Joe
Wolinski were well to the fore. Mary’s
hats were smart and of turban archi-
tecture. She had the good sense to carry
a fan. The atmosphere became quite
stifling on occasion. Dora Toovey worked
like a beaver doing sketches of import-
ants in the case.
Some of the noblest and best shared
the wooden benches in the entrance,
hoping against hope for some of those
within to be carried out fainting. Bui
that never happened. Barristers and even
press people were turned away with a
courteous but determined “house full”
from the decorated guardian of the door.
He seemecj full of a brooding sympathy
for the women and men locked out. He
held a lighted match to the cigarette of
one waiting girl. He invited the ladies
with a wave of the hand to the benches
in the entrance that suggested a pirates’
den during a housing shortage. Up
among the war period rafters and pillars
an electric bulb burned feebly. It
gleamed last Wednesday on the scarlet
jacket and pale-gold head of a pretty
young Melbourne artist. Hunger had
been her Waterloo. She had lost her seat
in court during the lunch adjournment.
If the war lasts long enough some
W.A.A.A.F., one morning, will wake up
to find an Air-Marshal’s baton mixed up
with her powder puff in her handbag. As
an example comes the career of Betty
Tassicker, who was Betty Evans before
she married her Lieut. Graham Tas-
sicker, R.A.N.V.R. In the latest list of
promotions she is listed squadron-officer.
She has been through eight different ranks
since she joined up early in 1941, and has
the distinction of having been the first
sergeant in the W.A.A.A.F. Another
new squadron-officer is Jean Mackay-
Sim. Section-officer Nancy Saxby is now
a flight-officer, as are 14 or 15 other
N.S.W. women.
Two thousand women and a sprinkling
of prelates were already gathered in the
Town Hall when Archbishop Gilroy
arrived to open the Conference of the
Legion of Catholic Women. His robes
of office glowed rich against the frock-
ing of the delegates and the members of
the council who received him. Black
was the recurrent note, though one dress
gleamed hyacinth pink. The real busi-
ness of the conference did not start at
this evening party, which mingled music
and chatter after an inspiring call to
women Co take an interest in public
affairs. President of the Legion, Mrs.
M. J. O’Neill, recovering after some
weeks in hospital, was one of the
speakers.
On Thursday morning the scene of the
conference changed to Legion House in
Castlereagh-street. Here in the concert
room, on which from his portrait on the
end wall the archbishop looks benignly,
papers were read and discussed. Dele-
gates had come from all parts of the
State, and a Newcastle woman, Mrs. W.
Chandler, slim, dark and capable, was
the first to hold the stage. Woman, as
wife, mother, head of the family and
even the material aspects of the home slje
should administer came under the micro-
scope. That marriage is a career in itself
and a family a full-time job Mrs. Greg
McGirr’s paper proved. “But if the
mother has assimilated during her
youth the principles of thinking, she
can while wheeling a pram reflect
on the nation’s problems, or sitting
on a park bench she can cogitate on
current burning topics while her off-
spring frolic in the sunshine.” Mrs.
McGirr also struck a blow for the
eldest daughter in large families who
might be “another St. Rose of Lima, or
a Madame Curie, and should not be sac-
rificed on the altar of household chores.”
On Thursday afternoon the Legion
rooms were thrown open for a full-scale
reception Mrs p G Barber and Mrs.
p Mackerras, who had contributed
p a p ers to the morning’s session, were
among the congratulated. Mrs. S. Mac-
kinnon was a serene and capable hostess.
There was music, and later the urns in
the kitchen worked overtime.
if a ll the women conferring in Sydney
for the betterment of their sex and youth
had weighed their words they’d have
found the scales registering among the
tons. Up in Castlereagh-street the Legion
G f Catholic Women discussed every aspect
D f the home, and in Federation House in
Phillip-street the N.C.W. was busy with
matters of nutrition, housing, films, youth
clubs and physical fitness. The National
Councillors are recommending, as an out-
come of their discussion, that a Ministiy
of Food should be established. Dr Grace
urged one central control of
food > s ° that s ates haying ;p]lenty of a
commodity could pass rt on to States
> ack ™g “• . Mrs -
Victoria. put forward the idea that worn.
appointed to the Housing Commission
On. Saturday afternoon Mrs. Waller
Ei,l ot and Miss L. K. Gordon e
sP«*crs, and the proMem of P ov.drng
the n B h ‘ recreation in the right surround-
mgs tor young things was threshed out.
of Sophie simmons
((he Mjn , hi * photogr £ ph) t 0 plight-
Lieut LyeU Giffen broug ht up the
very early days of the theat re in Aus-
tralia. The bride’s great-grandfather,
Joseph Simmons, gave one of the first
theatrical performances in this country.
That was over 100 years ago, and the
stage was set in the rooms above Barnett
Levy’s flourmill in Lower George-street,
Sydney. Later he became lessee of the
old Victoria and Prince of Wales theatres.
Sophie, who is the eldest daughter of the
Archie Simmons, of Kingsford, was mar-
ried last Wednesday in the Methodist
Church in Castlereagh-street. Her bride-
groom is one of the well-known Giffens,
of Molong.
Rear-Admiral George Moore, his wife
and daughter Barbara are now in Sydney.
Rear-Admiral Moore succeeds Rear-
Admiral Muirhead-Gould, and the family
will soon take up residence in Tresco,
Elizabeth Bay. Until then Mrs. Moore
and Barbara are staying with Mrs. Rus-
sell (Mrs. Moore’s mother) at Bellevue
Hill. The Rose Bay Golf Club has been
housing the admiral.
Back in Australia are knight Owen
Dixon, former Australian Minister to
Washington, and his family. The Dixon
lady was the guest last Monday after-
noon of the Australia-Amenca move-
ment. She told of the great friendliness
shown by the people of America towards
Australians, but corroborates the story
told by all travellers returning from
America as to the great lack of infor-
mation concerning this country through-
out the land of its neighbors and Allies.
It looks as if there’ll soon be as many
volunteers for work at the British Centre,
which is likely to be set in Hyde Park,
as there will be servicemen. The women of
Sydney are rallying to the call for helpers.
Not all of them ask for jobs as dance
hostesses or serving at table, says Edna
Davidson, who has had a regular army
of girls taking names and addresses. One
woman announced that she wanted to
help, but that there was only one sort of
work she’d volunteer for. “Oh, and what
is that?” she was asked. “Dish-wash-
ing” was the staggering reply. “I’m
good at washing dishes, and nobody ever
seems to want to do that.” Other women
come ready to prepare vegetables. As an
inducement to being assigned this chore,
they add eagerly they can bring their own
vegetable parers. Hie fund, since last
Friday’s meeting, is moving sturdily to
the £200,000 wanted. Offers to billet the
British soldiers for week-ends are coming
by every post, and already there is a long
list of would-be Christmas-dinner hosts.
• >< ..
rrom meiDOUrne
Badly-needed rain fell prior to the last
big meeting at Moonee Valley, and as
a result the racecourse made a beautiful
picture. The lawns were green and lush
and the spring flowers were out in all
their beauty, especially the roses. Their
heady perfume filled the air, and
althougn the day was bleak, with a high
wind, the beauty of the scene did much
to raise the spirits of racegoers. The
dressing, as a result of the weather, was
disappoipting, most women being
wrapped to the eyebrows in furs. Making
the best of the day, the younger-set wore
gay casual clothes, mostly bright plaid
skirts with trim tailored jackets, and
either tied up their hair with a smart rib-
bon or tucked their flowing locks into a
snood. One lass wore a smart grey suit
with touches of azure-blue on the pockets
of the jacket and a matching snood,
into which she had tucked a real red
carnation behind each ear.
Wife of the secretary of the Moonee
Valley Racing Club, Mrs. W. Cox, was
well dressed in navy-blue, with touches
of white, and wore a high off-the-face
navy-blue beret. Mrs. Ken Luke’s small
toque of brilliant blue feathers went with
a brown water-mole coat. Mrs. Eli
Phillips wrapped herself in a grey squirrel
coat as a protection against the cold. The
scene was enlivened by the many women
who wore pastel pink or blue. Black, too,
was the choice of many smart women,
and huge sprays of lily-of-the-valley,
which is always out in profusion at this
time of the year, worn in many outfits,
did much to relieve the sombre tone.
Composer and pianist Phyllis Batchelor
(subject of this Ritter-Jeppesen por-
trait) is to visit Sydney soon to give a
recital of her compositions over station
2BL. For many years she was a pupil
of Fritz Hart, and still values his opinion ;
so as each work is finished it goes to
Fritz for criticism. Phyllis is an outdoor
girl, and at the week-ends, when the
Albert-street Con. is closed, she roams
the countryside on horseback or spends
a week-end at the hillside home of her
friend, Madame Grace Angelau, a former
Metropolitan opera star, whose voice is
often heard at Red Cross concerts. Miss
Batchelor, who says she owes much to
this celebrated singer, has written a song
for her.
In Sydney, for the first time, Phyllis,
who previously has been heard in two
piano performances, will give a full half-
hour recital of her own works. The
broadcast is scheduled for 9.30 p.m. on
November 4, and the programme will
include “Variations on an Original
Theme,” “Children’s Suite” and “Prelude
and Fugue.” A tender little carol dedi-
cated to the children of Britain, “When
Babes Did Sleep on Christmas Eve,” will
also be heard. Phyllis’s ambition is to
get to the U.S.A. and to have her works
published there.
Melbourne Town Hall was a hive of
industry when the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell, opened the Paddy’s
Market conducted for the hospital ap-
peal. The thing lived up to its name,
for there was an astounding variety of
goods for sale, babies’ layettes and
peasant dolls, seedlings and shaving soap,
asparagus and marmalade being heaped
together. The gardens around Melbourne
were stripped to stock the flower stall,
presided over by Mrs. W. K. Burnside,
with Mrs. Olive Thring as a most success-
ful saleswoman. The Town Hall Group,
among them Mrs. Harold Wootton, wife
of the Town Clerk, stocked a stall which
sold cakes and a variety of other good
things.
The most novel competition so far
originated in Melbourne made its appear-
ance at this Paddy’s Market. Someone
presented 20,000 Yale keys, only two of
which would fit certain locks provided.
The two persons holding the lucky keys
will win prizes—a vacuum cleaner and a
wireless set. Not only has the key com-
petition found favor in the city, but
suburbs and country districts have sent
for hundreds of keys. Each key brings
in a shilling, so a substantial sum should
accrue. In other years a Paddy’s Market
has been a pastoral scene, with a couple
of lambs tethered in the foyer and other
animals around, but this year the Health
authorities said “no livestock.” The
Angliss lady, who is also a committee
member of Red Cross and the A.C.F.,
was treasurer of the market and an ener-
getic saleswoman. Miss A. Donoghue
was secretary.
The wife of Air Vice-Marshal Jones
presided at the annual meeting of the
R.A.A.F. Locker Fund. Over £7OOO was
raised during the year ended September,
and £5OOO has already been spent in
various ways. A.G.F. received over
£3OOO, and the balance has been used to
provide, among other things, a baby-
grand piano and a cinema sound unit,
both of which have been sent to R.A.A.F.
units in northern areas. Associated with
the Locker Fund are various groups.
One is entirely composed of business
girls, who over the past year have held
many functions and have forwarded the
money raised to the Locker Fund, thus
enabling the committee to carry on their
good work.
A shop stocked and staffed by mem-
bers of the Locker Fund has been most
successful. Many hundreds of second-
hand books have been reconditioned by
members, and ten steel lockers contain-
ing approximately 1000 well-chosen
books have been sent to R.A.A.F. units in
operational afeas. The R.A.A.F. welfare
officers having stressed the need for
books suitable for servicemen, the com-
mittee of the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund feels
that the £5O allotted by them for this
work is money well spent.
This city has said its farewell to Mar-
jorie Lawrence. The last two recitals
were thronged by many who boasted
proudly of not having missed one con-
cert, and for these two occasions the
singer chose her most dramatic and beau-
tiful songs. Raymond Lambert was
again her accompanist and fellow-artist.
Among those who attended the last con-
certs were Judge and Mrs. Kelly. For
Mrs. Frank Tait, who will be remem-
bered as the lovely Viola Wilson, of Gil-
sullivan fame, the singer especially sang
“Annie Laurie.”
The picture the diva made as she sat
in her shimmering white gown and sur-
rounded by flowers of every hue will long
be remembered by those attending her
last concert. So, too, will they remember
singing with Marjorie the old familiar
strains of “Auld Lang Syne.” Loud
cheers filled the Town Hall as the singer,
with evident emotion, waved a farewell
to the audience.
Marjorie Lawrence and husband Dr.
Thomas King gave a farewell late-after-
noon party at Menzies. It was a jolly
affair, and hilarity was increased when
the guests had a glimpse of the singer’s
new hat, intended to convey some Aus-
tralian atmosphere to the U.S.A. A soft
silken cap in the shape of a gumleaf is
the foundation and fits snugly on the
head. Two miniature kangaroos, about
six inches high, stand among gumnuts
and red-gum blossoms. A guest at the
party was Eric Fox, who was accom-
panist to Miss Lawrence when she first
embarked on her singing career, and they
had much to talk about.
Wearing a long black satin gown liber-
ally trimmed with gold sequins and with
a posy of flowers in her hair, the hostess
dominated the party, and her chair was
always the centre of fun. This is the
last time she will see her friends, for
after her two final concerts the diva and
her husband will go to stay for a few
days with relatives prior to leaving for
America to fulfil operatic engagements.
Visitipg Melbourne is the Anglican
Bishop of Adelaide, Dr. Robin, who has
given a series of lectures in the historic
church of St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill. From
the pulpit of this church were read the
letters patent signed by Queen Victoria
which gave to Melbourne the right to
become a city. The bishop has definite
ideas about the part women must take in
post-war reconstruction: and, as for
national defence, “Never again,” the
bishop says, “should Australia in time of
danger be compelled to seek outside aid.”
The bishop thinks also that women, by
virtue of their talents, should be promi-
nent in public life ; in fact, he would like
to see more women in Parliament, where
they should discuss housing, education
and all other matters which affect women
and children.


sst- c^lotel
FHGIN6 H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it Is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
yanep
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
io V
gw?
11(0-
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's- Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in_ cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes i.n a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd,.
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
\S$
u
\VvC-
o**»
b
*» c
\v
CO
»
«» *vW
——. „„ , Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tougA ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Piaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
P 22-44
Regarding
Supplies of
BOURN-VITA
While you can still obtain Cad-
bury's Bourn-vita the demands of
the Services, Military Hospitals
and Convalescent Homes do, at
times, mean that civilian supplies
are somewhat irregular*
(SlJfuly *
BCIRN-VITA
ID*AI
»ooVw.*«
A
Cadbury's suggest that, wherever
possible, you ask your
supplier to reserve your
Bourn - vita when he
next receives stocks.
IBOUIRN-YIUA
for deep refreshing sleep
BVPS-15
SMOKE-OH!
“Full or part board reqd. by bus.”
—Suburban paper.
A conditional stopping place.
•I- *1- *2*
“I wear my hair as the mood takes me.”
—“ Women’s Weekly.”
' Light and dark alternately?
“Flat wanted urgently—careful married couple
(no children).” — “Argus. v
Very careful, it seems.
“Bed four-poster, complete 7ft. pref.”
— “Argus”
A tall order.
4* 4*
“Will woman return to her home after war-
work?” — Inquirer in weekly paper.
Yes —for breakfast.
4» *l* 4*
“My husband did nothing but eat. One
morning before going to work I set 17 eggs
under a hen. When I came home that night
I found he had eaten the lot.” — Divorce report.
When this valiant trencherman sat down
to eat,
Those seventeen eggs were his grace
before meat.
And the prologue to putting the mother
bird back
On her setting once more —just to top
off his snack.
F. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Invisible Inkling.
“Women incline'to extravagance, men to par-
simony.”—Radio banality.
Anna Lapushkin felt elated. Her ser-
pentine form, gloved in velvet, was accen-
tuated by a zipper reaching from neck
to hem ; she had belladonna in her eyes ;
her perfume might have been distilled in
Persia and blended in Paris.
As the squadron-leader had kissed her
once more before leaving she had man-
aged at last to get his cigarette-lighter.
What a fool the man had been to let slip
the secret of its contents; no wonder the
thing so rarely worked, A costly even-
ing, but worth while. The Air Force was
tough.
Swifity Anna opened the base, removed
the tissue paper, expertly handled it into
shape and immersed it in a pink liquid.
Writing appeared. i .
“Which, like my lighter, Honey,” it
read, “only goes to show you.”
Anna Lapushkin made a very rude
remark.
J. B. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Heart Cry.
Where shall I turn ? Ah. whither shall
1 8° ? j u
Pray, show this ancient wanderer tne
. way!
For I am weary, and I do not know
At what hotel the beer is on today.
Nat.
4* 4* 4* , 4*
Concentration.
“A nation-wide ‘thought’ drive to induce
hopes of victory has been launched in Japan.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Probably because it’s so seldom used,
the influence of thought in international
affairs has been greatly underrated. But
in the British Embassy in Boroznia we
used it regularly as an instrument of
policy.
Our best effort was when Anglo-
Boroznian relations became strained.
We had a thought session of a full
hour, at the end of which we had to stop
as plaster was falling from the ceiling
and the walls were smouldering in several
places.
It was enough, however. The anti-
British Prime Minister developed a severe
attack of mumps, and by the time he
returned to public life the crisis had
blown over. The fact that his hair had
turned green and his beard orange was
attributed to a junior sub-deputy-assistant
attache with a vivid imagination and a
perverted sense of humor.
It was when we tried to instil a perma-
nent pro-British attitude of mind into the
Grand Duke himself that we met disaster.
Our concentrated thought brought him
out in a rash of miniature Union Jacks,
and an attempt during an emergency ses-
sion to change them into the Boroz-
nian flag only made the unfortunate
duke resemble a rather garrulous flagship
signalling to its fleet.
Since then we’ve followed the example
of other diplomats and kept our minds
a blank.
Plum.
Did You Know
That if one of America’s newest
45,000-ton battleships were laid on
its side along Martin-place it would
not only cause one of Sydney’s biggest
traffic jams but the traffic policeman at
the Pitt-street intersection would prob-
ably be badly squashed if he didn’t move
from his post?
That if a two-ysar-old canary weigh-
ing lj ounces and breathing 31 times to
the minute were taken in a covered cage
to the 1000 ft. level of a N.S.W. coastal
coalmine and the cover then removed it
would probably refuse to whistle and the
miners would immediately hold a pit-top
meeting and decide to go home for the
day, and that if the canary did happen to
whistle the miners would immediately
h °,d a pit-top meeting and decide to
go home for the day?
That if a 27-gallon keg of beer were
placed on a bar counter and tilted at
an angle of 15 degrees toward the bung,
and 18 pint pots and 36 middies were put
in two parallel lines four inches apart
commencing six inches from the keg edge,
and if the barman began to fill the first
pot, it would take 16 strong policemen
to prevent his being knocked over in
the rush?
That if in a field of seven horses, with
the favorite starting at 2 to 1* against,
the second favorite 3 to 1, the third 4 to
1, the fourth 10 to 1 and so on, and
during the race the second favorite ran
off the course, it would be odds on that
this would prove to be the one that was
backed by nine punters out of ten?
That if two persons were to speak into
separate microphones, both having their
mouths exactly 4* inches away from the
instrument, one holding his script 18
mches from his eyes, the other 24 inches,
and if one were to speak four times
longer than the other, it would be found
that the man who broadcast for the
greater period was an economics pro-
lessor laying down Government policy
and telling the people why they would
have to put up with “controls” after the
war?
That if two men weighing together 25
stone were to get into a taxi cab weigh-
ing 27cwt., the driver being 14 stone 61b.,
the pressure in the tyres averaging 301b.
and the mean speed maintained during
a journey from one part of the city to
another 22 m.p.h., it would be found that
if the two passengers were American
sailors or soldiers they would pay 5s. 6d.
per mile and within two minutes of their
entering the cab they would be put on to
a place where they could get beer at as
low as 4s. 6d. a bottle and whisky at
£4 10s.?,
Bo.
The Hawker’s Grievance.
As over my beat I determinedly job
At the calling which keeps me in tucker
and grog.
The warnings are few I’ve a scare of.
The menacing placard which shrieks to
the sky
That hawkers and canvassers need not
apply
I view with a coldly contemptuous eye;
But I own that I think it unfair of
That arrant deceiver, that fraudulent hog.
Who sticks up a notice “Beware of the
Dog”
When he hasn’t a dog to beware of!
H.
The Test.
“Ex-cricketer Joins Ranks of Bookmakers.”
— “Mirror.”
Why does'he flaunt the badge of Ikey
Mo?
Perhaps some barracker, some grace-
less lout.
Ironically counselled him to go
And get a bag. If so, we’ll soon find
out *
If he’s a defter fielder now he snatches
The punters’ dough than when he muffed
the catches.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Child Psychology.
“It is impossible for adults to imagine how
the external world must appear to the eyes of a
baby.”— “World’s News.”
One baby, gazing at another baby.
Perhaps would calmly view it as a rare
And wonderful phenomenon, or maybe
Would merely see another infant there.
However this may be, each babe, per-
ceiving
The other with its eyes of tender blue,
Unsoiled by unbelieving or deceiving,
As like as not would softly murmur
“Goo.”
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per Hne; all others per line.
A Soldier on the Land
My own experience may be helpful.
Discharged physically unfit a year ago, I
was at a loose end. Then I had a pro-
posal from a farmer friend. He financed
the deposit on a 1000 - acre sheep-
farm adjoining his own. What advice or
assistance I need he provides. We shared
in the cost of stocking the place, my
share coming from deferred pay and pay-
book credit. Profits are shared until such
time as my friend gets his money back.
Why shouldn’t our well-to-do farmers,
where opportunity arises, befriend in a
similar way discharged servicemen they
know? It would give many a good start
in farming. There’s ample safeguard in
running the place on shares until the ex-
serviceman is able to carry on by him-
self.
Such a scheme should suit the
temperaments of many who, like myself,
won’t be prepared for awhile to accept
responsibility, but would resent official
supervision.—C. S. (W.A.).
P.O.W. Farm Labor
The system of payment for p.o.w. farm
labor needs amendment. It is cruelly un-
fair to the soldiers whose farms have been
left to the care of women and old or dis-
abled men. In some parts of Victoria
farmers who have neither sons nor
brothers in the services—men, too, who
have never been known to employ a farm
hand except in seasonal emergency—
now command the labor of one to three
Italian prisoners. Many of these prisoners
are skilled men —builders, mechanics,
carpenters, roadmakers, gardeners and
farmers. Compare the state of the farms
that have such care and attention with
those of soldier-farmers at the close of
the war!
The p.0.w.-worked farm will be in first-
class order, and prosperous. On the
returned man’s place the buildings and
fences will be dilapidated, paths and
drainage neglected, machinery in dis-
repair, dairy herds broken up, crops and
pasture neglected, and, worst of all, the
folk left at home broken in health and
spirit by overwork and worry.
Farmers should be compelled to pay an
adequate wage for all p.o.w. labor, the
excess being taken by the Government to
help soldier-settlement. — M. Fahey (Vic.).
Preference for Servicemen
There are certain considerations that
should govern the administration of any
preference legislation.
The serviceman offers his life and
health to his country, and even if neither
sacrifice is exacted he has given up years
“They MUST be mad about something !”
? l the best part of his life in its service. He
lost valuable years of experience and
chances of promotion in his trade or
profession. The man in the protected
'fuiiistry who may also think he has
t -°me claim for preference had the ad-
jutage of training in his own or a new
and some years of experience on
, considerably larger wage than the coun-
pays its fighting men. The average
jrvioeman has been employed on work
, yiich has done nothing to assist him in
J s struggle for a living after his dis-
charge.
v> The disadvantages suffered by the ser-
Jceman can be recognised by giving
pc solute preference of employment for a
2 riod of, say, three years. This should
be long enough for the returned man
to become well enough established in his
job to be able to compete with the man
who stayed at home. After the end of
this protected period all preference
should be withdrawn.
Unless there is some limitation of the
preference period we shall again be
faced with the position that existed as
long as 15 years after the last war. In
States where soldier preference was en-
forced it was common for a middle-aged
returned soldier to obtain a position
which was poorly paid and intended for
a youth gaining experience in the voca-
tion he wished to follow. Thus industry
was robbed of promising material, a
youth Was denied the experience he
should have had, and a man who should
have made good years before was in a
job which he probably could not fill
effectively.— Brig (R.A.A.F.).
Discussion Groups
Almost all critics say Australians de-
vote too much time to sport and too little
to politics. We are too prone to let our
politicians run the country without taking
any active part ourselves. We only allow
ourselves to be worried about them im-
mediately prior to an election.
I recommend, as an antidote, the estab-
lishment of discussion groups. As n.c.o.
in charge of educational facilities in a
R.A.A.F. fighter squadron in one of the
most forward areas, I have seen the good
these groups can do.
Prior to the referendum the personnel
of the squadron were just as lethargic as
most as far as their politics were con-
cerned. The discussion occasioned by the
referendum awoke them to their respon-
sibility as citizens. Since then our weekly
discussion group has had an average
attendance of approximately one-third of
the squadron.
The attendance is increasing steadily,
and the lads are finding out by discus-
sion just what they want in the post-war
era. More than that, they are deciding
just how they are going to get it.
Discussion groups help to make Aus-
tralians more politically - minded, and
thus pave the way to the establishment of
a true democracy. When we have that
we will be able to discipline our poli-
ticians, and so ensure government by the
people for the people. E. H. J,
(R.A.A.F.).
Book Clubs
The answer to various correspondents
who are distressed by the lack of literary
culture in Australia and the disinclina-
tion for serious reading is—book clubs.
These clubs, a few of which were in
existence before the war, are certainly
effective in stimulating an interest in read-
ing. The gregarious instinct is strong in
man, and it is indulged by reading one
or two chosen books each month, know-
ing that many others are doing the same,
and that all are free to contribute com-
ment and criticism
to a readers’ monthly
paper.
There is no need
to be a professional
literary critic to con-
tribute to such a
paper ; it is intended
as a means whereby
just ordinary people
may simply and
humbly give expres-
sion to their
opinions. Discussion
groups, when pos-
sible, provided added
interest.
Opportunities to
join book clubs
should be offered to
boys and girls of
secondary school
age, and the clubs
might well be insti-
tuted and fostered
by the school authorities. —M. W. S. (Q.).
Know Thy Neighbor
Too long have we Australians lived as
provincials, ignoring our neighbors and
failing even to attempt to understand
them. Our knowledge of China in the
past did not extend far beyond the local
market gardener, and until the Japanese
became an enemy we did not give him
much thought, except when we sent out
our laundry or bought crockery from a
chain store.
From the present conflict a new China
will be born, and there are possibilities
that Asiatic culture will make itself felt
in various corners of the earth. With
the development of air transport the
ocean barrier between us and Asia will
lose importance. The Oriental races are
our neighbors, and a thorough under-
standing of them is necessary if we are
to secure permanent peace in the Pacific.
So the offer of £lOOO a year for five
years- to establish a Chair of Oriental
Studies at Melbourne Uni, made by
Melbourne “Argus” is a step in the right
direction. — Beja (Q.).
Young Folk and the Church
A church paper has just supplied me,
unintentionally, with one good answer to
the churches’ perpetual question, “Why
are our young people indifferent to reli-
gion?” The paper contains a vehement
article condemning Sunday sport. Tennis,
it says, will lead to organised games, and
organised games will lead to such horrors
as the opening of places of amusement
on the Sabbath.
I suppose there are minds capable of
seeing evil in any form of pleasure. But
if they would pause,
to reflect that God
made the Sabbath
for man, and not
man for the Sab-
bath, much might be
accomplished even
now. If a progres-
sive church would
introduce Sunday-
afternoon tennis,
cricket, bush-walks
and picnics, Satur-
day-night dances in
the church hall,
musical evenings, a
modem library—in
fact, if it would
organise an interest-
ing social, intellec-
tual and sporting
round for youngsters
in their teens, it
might find a great
reward.
Bewailing the
shortcomings off
youth never got any-
one anywhere. It’s
been done without
effect for centuries.
Youth has courage
commonsense
and ideals; it is
fundamentally
decent. Why not appeal to it —intelli-
gently?—Twenty-four (S.A.).
Children’s Shoes
One of the most iniquitous of all the
war-time rackets is the manufacture and
sale of shoddy shoes for kiddies. In
Victoria parents find that a pair of shoes
for a child of five years costs 16s. 6d.
and will last only three weeks. In many
cases, when the initial soles arc worn
out the shoes have to be thrown away,
as the uppers are so poor in quality
as to be unable to carry new soles. Where
repairs can be effected new soles and
heels cost 4s. 6d.
As Parliament very rarely sits, J. S.
Rosevear should have plenty of time on
his hands to look into this matter. Or is
children’s footwear too unimportant to
worry about? — Vautin H. Andrews
(Vic.).
Teaching Australian History
The remedy for the ignorance of Aus-
tralian history, complained of by Mr.
Calwell, lies in a revision of the history
taught in Australian schools. The history
of British and other civilisations should
be taught generally, so that our children
will learn something of the legacy left
to the world by the great nations of the
past and present, but much more empha-
sis should be laid on Australian history
and civics. They should form a separate
subject in the curriculum and should be
taught vividly, practically and without the
examination-at-the-end-of-the-year bogey
which militates so much against effective
teaching.
It has been said that the Australian atti-
tude to politics can be summed up in the
words “Politics. A dirty game. Not for
me.” It!s about time that we were re-
educated to the fact that politics touches
every facet of our life. Army Education,
with its Current Affairs Bulletin, is mak-
ing a good start. A proper study of
civics and Australian history at school
would ensure that every Australian knew
how and why the country is governed.
And if every Australian did know this
there might then be in our Parliaments
fewer of the present breed of politician
and fewer of those disgraceful scenes
with which Commonwealth legislators
have edified us in the last few weeks. —
Sailor (A.1.F.).
Charter for the New Liberals
Menzies’ Unity Conference may be
the beginning of better things for Aus-
tralia. His auspicious start suggests that
there are some big ideas behind it. If
the new party approaches the next Fed-
eral election with a sufficiently outspoken
and downright platform it will attract all
decent Australians and gain a big
majority.
But there must be no misunderstanding
of intentions. The party must be plainly
pledged to outlaw communist organisa-
tions, wipe out irresponsible control of
unions, insist on secret ballots, bring
agitators under the rule of law, freeze
union funds where lawlessness is prac-
tised and infuse democratic principles
into unions as well as into big business.
It must guarantee freedom of wage-
earners to refrain from joining or to re-
sign from unions or to work during
strikes.
The election of a Government pledged
to such principles would possibly produce
the greatest of all strikes; but Govern-
ments can be strong, and the position has
to be met sooner or later. Hughes and
Spender and the anti-Menzies press must
Must be a No. 3 stoppage, which says faulty
airframe."
be big enough to forget animosities.
Their alternative is Ward.
Events have shown the folly of the anti-
Menzies agitation. In Menzies we have
a man who has proved himself capable
of statesmanship, a man to whom we can
trust post-war government, and who can
clean up the social mess in no uncertain
fashion when we say the word. —G. D.
(N.S.W.).
A Higher School Standard
Queensland Education Department’s
post-war planning provides for raising
the school-leaving age. That is unneces-
sary, and it will handicap those who are
going to earn their living in a trade or
on the land—that is to say, the majority
of young Australians.
It is not because it is spread over fewer
years that State school education in Aus-
tralia is far below the standard set by
M.L., Great Britain, Canada and U.S.A.
Instead of raising the school-leaving age,
why not improve teaching methods and
provide better-trained teachers? The
scholarship system, too, should be de-
veloped to permit all those of outstanding
ability to continue their schooling.— Jiff
(N.Q.).
The Future of Wool
“C.R.R.’s” letter (B. 23/8/’44) is a
good example of that economic timidity
engendered by many years of running
cap in hand to European manufacturers
with our raw wool.
The climate of Europe, Asia and the
U.S.A. is so cold that the people there
must have wool. All so-called substitutes
are cold cloths, and have to be mixed
with wool for warmth. Actually, the only
effective substitute for wool is fur
Britain does us no favor in buying our
wool. Raw wool is 4s. a pound in
Britain today and 7s. a pound in U.S.A.,
so that if the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had bought our wool it would now
have a post-war bargaining asset of im-
mense and increasing value.
What makes “C.R.R.” think it would
be harder for the Australian manufacturer
to sell our wool made up as cloth to the
people of Europe than it is for European
manufacturers to do so? Cannot we
trade our woollen cloth with China and
Russia and see that the U.S.A. buys
woollen cloth from us in exchange for
oil and machinery?
And, lastly, cannot Britain be asked to
send us out a million or so of people to
help us manufacture our own wool into
our own cloth ? — John Ogilvie (N.S.W.).


It must
be TOUGH!
?sL,
n.
*9\
Vi
m
Rfe
w
s*r
m
M.
%
W'
''
n>
r«
Si?
SP
CO)
m
X
%
V
m
r
K
m
W
■/f/A
WAV
5^
Constant movement, rough handling, assault in the field,
on the seas, and in the air—radio apparatus for the Services
must be rugged and dependable. A.W.A. equipment with-
stands the most gruelling factory tests. It is scientifically
tested to operate at extreme maximum and minimum
temperatures; in dry heat of the greatest severity, followed
by the worst possible conditions of humidity. It is subject
to vibration tests and is also dropped upon a concrete floor.
The post-war Fiskßadiola, incorporating many wartime
technical developments, will again take its place as
“Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
THE FISK RADIOLA
A U ST R A L I A’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
<§>
