

CRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3353
Wednesday, May 17, 1944
Price 6cL
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THAMES EMBANKMENT AND OBELISK, LONDON.
ONE of the greatest recent improvements in the World’s
Metropolis is its embankment along the Thames. The wall
next to the river is of granite, and is backed with solid masonry
eight feet thick and forty feet high. This makes a handsome drive-
way one hundred feet in width, lighted by electricity, planted with
trees, and having several landing piers for the river steamers. One
of the most remarkable relics of antiquity which the world pos-
sesses stands now upon this river thoroughfare. It is the Egyptian
Obelisk, popularly known as “Cleopatra’s Needle, which was,
however, hewn from the primitive volcanic granite 1500 years
before that “Siren of the Nile” ever ensnared by her beauty Csesai
and Mark Antony. To convey this from Alexandria to England,
as was done in 1877, proved a very expensive and difficult under-
taking. Even after it had been successfully embarked at Alexan-
dria, the little iron vessel which had been specially prepared for it
was shipwrecked and temporarily abandoned in the Bay of Biscay.
A passing steamer rescued it and towed it into the harbor of
Ferrol on the Spanish coast. Thence it was conveyed to the Ihames,
and finally was erected here where it now stands in triumph. Yet
one can hardly look upon this symbol of the sun’s bright rays,
here in this city of fogs and smoke, without regarding this ancient
monolith as an exile from a land where through the entire year
the sky is rarely darkened by a cloud. Nevertheless, like many
illustrious exiles, its sojourn on the Thames embankment will no
doubt be of use to those who gaze upon its stately form, by remind-
ing them of the power and glory of ancient Egypt, beside whose
ruins London seems the creation of yesterday.


đ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, a*
udvertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 144 AGE
The Red Page
DOCTOR IN ALASKA .
Eight years old, an orphan living with
friends of his dead parents who don’t like
having to feed him, Harry C. de Vighne
sees a band of men marching down
Seventh-avenue in a political procession,
joins them and never goes home again.
One of the marchers befriends him,
and he becomes a newsboy in New York.
He learns to fight his way out of the side
streets into which he is at first forced ;
he learns to cultivate drunks and spenders.
In summer he sleeps in doorways, i
winter on an open grate behind th
World Building where heat comes u J
from the presses below or, if no accom-
modation is available there, he relies o
the charity of streetwalkers.
He stows away on a ship and learn
when he is discovered and handed ove
to the police, that it wouldn’t have sailec
for weeks.
A truant officer sends him, with a train
load of other waifs, to the country, wher
farmers are willing to adopt them i
return for their labors. He deserts th
farm to tramp his way to the wild Wes ;
and finds himself in the Deadwood of
1890, “a brazen hussy, ageing but stil
voluptuous.” Wild Bill Hickok and
Calamity Jane lie buried side by side in
the cemetery ; there are alarms of attack
by Indians. With Uncle Ike, a relative
of the farmer who had adopted him, De
Vighne joins the official party investigat
ing the massacre of the Sioux at Woundcc
Knee Creek: 25 soldiers killed, 35
wounded; 85 Indian men killed, 65
women, 20 children.
In all that frozen solitude no living creature
but ourselves could be seen. Dead horses,
blankets and personal effects were scattered
everywhere. Many tepees had blown down,
others were standing stark and cold, or
leanmg drunkenly with the wind. Long
gaping slashes in their walls and dark
figures lying singly and in heaps told a
tragic story.
He becomes assistant to a drunken
doctor, alleged to be a “quack,” and,
intending to take up medicine himself, is
rebuffed by the authorities of a medical
college because of his association with
the drunkard. So he goes gun-running to
Cuba, supplying the rebels in their
struggle against the Spanish. There are
narrow escapes from Spanish cruisers,
sham onslaughts from the U.S. revenue
cutters;
Upon recognising “Dynamite Johnny”
O Bnen, the lieutenant in command had
grown sternly efficient. The ship must be
searched for contraband. He then pro-
ceeded to examine with the utmost care
the galley, the pilot-house, captain’s quar-
ters, forecastle, every imaginable place
except the hold, which was filled to over-
flowing with exactly what he was supposed
to be looking for. Inadvertently he had
opened the door to a storeroom packed
with large cases of cartridges, all plainly
marked. Captain O’Brien explained that
these were sardines, an explanation which
the lieutenant accepted. He admitted
gravely that with such a large crew the
Dauntless must carry a big supply of food.
After the gun-running episode De
Vighne returns to his dream of becom-
ing a doctor. A job at an asylum gives
him a chance to save money. When he is
qualified, he takes up practice in Alaska.
“There were no towns to speak of in this
veritable outpost of civilisation, nothing
but small villages and trading posts,
peopled by a hardy race of hybrids de-
scending from shipwrecked mariners and
native women.”
There is a history of danger and adven-
ture—the mystery of the first fifteen Euro-
peans to land on Alaska, the boats’ crews
from Chirikov’s St. Paul who in 1741, in
calm weather and without a single shot
being heard to indicate a conflict with the
natives, disappeared without leaving a
trace; the drama of the goldrush after
a prospector and his Indian wife had
found the metal in “unbelievable quanti-
ties” in the Yukon River; and the coun-
try was still wild enough for the doctor
to have to attend the victims of shoot-
ings and to compete with witch doctors.
He tells an extraordinary story of one
Wabash Bill who, attacked by a brown
bear when he stumbled over a log, had to
“play possum” for two nights three days
with the bear mauling him every time he
dared to move: ‘We dressed 76 punctured
wounds made by the bear’s teeth, sutured
sixteen deep lacerations, dressed innumer-
able scratches. Every wound was in-
fected ; one bone in his arm was broken
in several fragments, yet in two weeks
he was out of the hospital and in two or
three months his arm had healed.”
De Vighne tells his story in The Time
°f My Life (Hale). The style’s direct and
good-humored, the material fascinating:
an outstandingly readable autobiography.
The Frog in the Bombs .
It was said here recently that the
British are a nation of bird-watchers. But
they don’t stop at birds. They watch
badgers and hedgehogs, slow-worms and
stoats—everything that moves or digs or
swims in the woods and rivers of Eng-
land.
They write letters about what they see
to the “Field,” and the result is Oddities
of Natural History (Seeley, Service, Ltd.),
edited by Eric Parker.
A gentleman from Teddington watches
his garden pond—4ft. by 3ft. by 2ft.—
and discovers that his six golden orfe
have deplorably ragged tails. Sixty-seven
ravenous frogs, to which the graceful
motion of the fishes’ tails had been an
irresistible temptation, are rounded up.
A stoat is watched performing a
witch’s gambol of triumph round the
body of a thrush it has killed. A game-
keeper carefully annotates the contents
of a wood-pigeon’s crop: 190 small snails,
25 grains of barley and 12 grains of
wheat. It is also revealed that a robin
will eat 26 flies (counted) at one meal
and then drink copious draughts of water.
A hare will take a dip in the ocean as
a refresher and, returning to the shore,
shake itself like a dog before racing away
over the golf links. And a goose well
over 40 years of age attributes its good
health to beer, stout and gin.
There are unexplained problems. Why
will a chaffinch peck madly at a closed
window? Does he see a reflection of
himself and pugnaciously attack the
strange male, is he hungry and asking
tor titbits ; or is he, as in all the best
ghost stories, a Warning?
Is a water vole just a common water
«t? M Apparently he is, but readers of
the “Field” are prepared to shed blood
over this question. In any case, Captain
R. L. Heygate, with the beautifully Eng-
hsh address of ‘The Wells,’ Bromyard,
Herefordshire,” is very annoyed because
a water vole (or rat) killed 15 toads a
night for some weeks and carefully laid
the cadavers in a heap on the steps of
his pond.
Brother Badger is. another whose com
duct falls shdrt of the gentlemanly—
poaching and killing the sacred British
rabbit, neatly skinning it and then bury-
ing the remains under a favorite rose-
bush.
While the Nazi bombs rained on the
English countryside, a lady at Kingston
discovered in her garden the only authen-
ticated British albino frog. Only one
other (in America) was known to
batrachian science. The lady cleverly
captured the exotic creature, pale-lemon
colored with bright pink eyes, and took
him in a basket on the erratic buses of
war-time to the Haslemere Educational
Museum. He is there today.
The bombs must have brought more
than frogs to light. When the old Gaiety
Restaurant was demolished some years
ago, from the top of a passing omnibus
you looked at the floor of London as if
you were looking at a seething mass of
tpaggots. The ‘'maggots” were rats.
Behind the grandstand they had gnawed
to pieces 1728 dinner napkins and had
somehow moved and stacked into posi-
tion for nesting places between 30 wine
and beer bottles.
4he screaming in the woods, however
as of a hysterical child being done to
death with a chopper is not so macabre
as it might seem. It j s two male hedge-
nogs fighting in the mating season.
Theatre in America .
Professor Boyd Martin’s American
Drama and Stage (Pilot Press; Angus
and Robertson) is as interesting as it is
ill-written: which means that it is very
interesting
The book reads as if it had not been
written, but dictated. The professor is at
the mercy of the catchword “definitely”
and, in addition, he talks a singularly
gawky jargon. On page 22 he decides
that “White Desert,” Maxwell Ander-
son’s first play, “revealed some of the
poetic flavor which later has been defi-
nitely considered Mr. Anderson’s forte.”
A professor of all people should know
that a “flavor” can only with the greatest
difficulty become a “forte.”
On page 27 he reveals that “Before
1914 the theatre in the United States was
a poor and sophomoric appropriator.
Now it is definitely an almost original
product, self-reliant and highly inter-
nationalised.”
On page 41 “definitely” is replaced by
an “undoubtedly” and a “conclusively” ;
and the sentence in which these two sins
are committed is tinctured with the in-
fernal music of extraordinarily unchoice
prose:—
"Winterset” undoubtedly marked Mr.
Anderson as America’s foremost poet-
dramatist and proved conclusively that he
could take the modern tragic theme and
tincture it with the supernal music of choice
verse.
i On page 121, near the end of his short
book, talking about Little Theatres, he
is still definitely in form:
Some may be grammar school groups,
some may be from junior high schools *
and high schools, others may be in colleges
and universities and others may be from
the community at large, but definitely the
Theatre of the States is a right potent insti-
tution growing more powerful each year.
The professor is indubitably a right
potent manhandler of the language.
Undoubtedly and conclusively, how-
ever, he is powerful informative. He
sees George S. Kaufman at one end of
“the dramatic seesaw,” Maxwell Ander-
son at the other, and discusses everybody
else of note who is ranged along the
plank, has slipped off it, or is fighting
for a place on it.
Points of interest are that Kaufman
(some of whose comedies Whitehall Pro-
ductions has brought to Australia, “The
Man Who Came to Dinner” and
“George Washington Slept Here” among
them) has always worked with a collabo-
rator ; that Eugene O’Neill, although not
active for some years, is said to be at
work on “a stupendous saga, parts of
which he will not reveal until the whole
cycle of plays is ready for production” ;
that Saroyan strikes him as “erratic and
indistinct, a self-appointed genius but
certainly no dependable dramatist,”
though “all his plays have been infused
with a poetical feeling and a brilliant
choice of wordage”; that George
Abbott’s best musicomedy in recent
years—book by Abbott and lyrics by
Lorenz Hart—was “The Boys from Syra-
cuse,” based on Shakspeare’s “The
Comedy of Errors”; and that, when
Katharine Cornell was on tour and was
delayed by a snowstorm, an audience
patiently waited until midnight for the
curtain to go up, saw the play and went
home in time for an early breakfast.
Undoubtedly, unmistakably, incontest-
ably and emphatically that last point is
relevant to the professor’s contention
that the American theatre should go “on
the road” again. American actors say
they enjoy trouping, he says ; definitely
they enjoy it; audiences flock to the few
travelling companies that do venture away
from the big cities; “it would seem
reasonable that the Toad’ could be re-
stored with pleasure and profit to all
concerned.”
Fifteen million Americans, says the
professor, are connected one way or
another with the Little Theatre move-
ment. The Theatre Guild, which solved
the financial problem by a system of
subscriptions, staged plays by O’Neill,
Anderson, Sidney Howard, S. N.
Behrman, Robert Sherwood, Phillip
Barry and Saroyan, and has done more
than any other organisation to keep the
American drama alive. Professor Boyd
Martin’s history of it should interest all
amateur groups in Australia. He tells
also the story of the Playwrights’ Com-
pany which was organised by Anderson,
Behrman, Elmer Rice, Sherwood and
Howard so that they could stage, their
own plays in the way they wanted them
staged, and which made good money.
Doggone it, this little book could
definitely be read with pleasure and profit
by all concerned.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Edwin Styles played Professor Higgins
in “Pygmalion” at Sydney Minerva in
way that Shaw himself would probably
have thoroughly approved of; consciously
funny in his wit, unconsciously funny in
his selfishness and arrogapce. Leslie Vic-
tor was too colorless to make a good foil
for him as Colonel Pickering, but Pat
McDonald put admirable spirit into her
interpretation of Liza. Campbell Gray,
playing Liza’s reprobate parent, made the
most of his amusing lines, and Hilda
Dorrington was well cast for the dignified
and dominating Mrs. Higgins. Betty Mc-
Dowall and Dick Randolph are still a
long way from an understanding of Eng-
lish types; Freddie, played by Randolph
with a vague pleasantness, is supposed to
be an Ass of the type Ralph Lynn used
to portray. Minor flaws on a first night
delightful as a whole were Styles’s occa-
sional and Victor’s frequent inaudibility
—due partly to the fact that the audience
was celebrating the winter like a pack of
hounds in full cry—and Pat McDonald’s
over-loud roars of laughter in the last act.
Possibly she was worried by the fact that
it’s a bad scene. Refusing the orthodox
happy ending of marriage between Eliza
and the professor—the situation is that
of Cinderella and a moderately charming
Prince Charming—Shaw obviously didn’t
know what the deuce to do with his
characters.
Sydney’s Metropolitan Players gave a
spirited rendering of “The First Mrs.
Fraser” at the Maccabean Hall, good in
every detail. The success of St. John
Ervme’s witty play of a wealthy Scot’s
double divorce in London society de-
pends considerably on the central charac-
ter: Alathea Siddons played the name
part with charming dignity. Charles
Tasman was admirably terse and harassed
as the errant husband. The minor parts
were well played, and producer May Hol-
linworth did a thorough job of work.
The Melbourne University Conserva-
torium Opera School dealt commendably
with Purcell’s “Dido and /Eneas,” Gluck’s
“Orpheus,” the balcony scene from
Romeo and Juliet” and Euripides’s
“Iphigenia in Tauris,” all in the one even-
ing. Amelia, Scarce gave the love-smitten
Dido the sort of voice that doesn’t make
the listener feel nervous. It was comfort-
ably sure of where it would come from
and what was wanted of it, and in the
lyric “in Attempting to Fly from Love’s
Sickness in Vain” it was as lovely as the
music. If Ronald Nott had had the heroic
qualities demanded by .Eneas this would
have been an admirable performance. In
the, Shakspearean item Elizabethan tradi-
tions were reversed, a woman taking the
man’s part. The result was more a tour-
nament of elocution than a passionate
love scene. That the sexes can be shuffled,
however, was shown by Margaret Murphy
in the Gluck piece. As the bereaved
Orpheus calling upon the shade of his
lost wife she was remarkably expressive.
Sutton Crowe acted with discretion in
selecting scenes from two old operas
whose music is as fresh as an October
morning. “The Unknown Hand,” an
allegedly humorous bit of drivel by Clif-
ford Bax, provided an arty-crafty anti-
climax. *
At the talkies:
“The North Star” (Sydney Century), based on
the Lillian Heilman novel, has a nicely done
setting. The story of life in a small
Russian town near the Polish border immedi-
ately prior to and after the German invasion
is interpreted with fidelity and imagination,
and if the rustic peace-time life seems rather too
idyllic the characters live. There is some over-
dramatisation, as when a young pilot, whose
’plane is not vitally hit, deliberately puts its nose
down to crash with it on to a Nazi lorry and,
of course, as he is plunging down he makes a
speech. And everyone knows that hat-groping
time has arrived when the characters start
making speeches about democracy and it-must-
never-happen-again. Walter Huston as the
village doctor, Erich von Stroheim as a German
medical colonel and Walter Brennan as a phleg-
matic farmer present fine character studies.
In “Hello, Frisco, Hello” (Regent) Alice Faye
again proves that she is the best' musical comedy
star on the screen. Set in the spacious days
when th% town gallants wore freezer check
coats, bowlers and peg-topped boots, the back-
stage story of San Francisco’s Barbary coast
district and the rise and fall of an entrepreneur
is laced with old-time melodies such as “Lindy
Loo.” There is a splashing of grog in the
saloons which will bring tears to strong men’s
eyes.
“Cauboy”: The A.B.C.’s response to
the prevailing frenzy for music in Mel-
bourne was a promise to repeat each con-
cert of the season. The first programme
deserved it. Except for a bit of Mozart,
it was all Elgar, and, although he had the
misfortune to be bom in England, Elgar
wrote some lovely music. The violin
concerto, in which the instruments some-
times sound like voices singing, had the
services of Thomas Matthews, the Eng-
lish violinist, who obviously loved his
Elgar and had the skill to do him justice.
The autumn show of Adelaide Society
of Arts is confined to “associates.” There
is much promise, though without, so
far, any great performance. Lois Gibson
takes an award for a neat blue sea-and-
shore-scape. The Repertory Theatre,
too, has given a chance to the juniors,
with an evening of three short plays.
Some of the work is really good, notably
by Gillian Fry, Leila Cocks and Therese
Denny, with Littledye and Lloyd Brown.
They were unexpectedly buttressed by the
experienced Ruby Litchfield, who, owing
to a couple of accidents, had to step in
and read a prominent part in two of the
plays.
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is
an exhibition of non-representational art.
Grace Crowley specialises in wandering,
wavering lines suggestive of those drawn
by little Effie on her first slate. Frank
Hinder, Gerald Ryan and Ralph Balson
try their hand with the geometrical forms
—discs, rectangles, triangles and straight
lines. Some of these designs, charming
in their innocence, would look well
applied to linoleum, but linoleum manu-
facturers being what they are it is un-
likely they will pay eight to 25 guineas
apiece for such patterns.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
udr
=D
iu
&
S3P
9%
/o
4s
X
u <r
A
U {3
*fc
&4A
f%
-/■
air
1
5 - i:
vv
■
sal
A\A
111
w
/A
w
A
n
y
M.
;/
-wvv\
■
*
£/ /
■o-ft 1 •-■
*
&S
%
fINTWONy HOiDEMS
'Phone M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Telegraphic Address; Hordernia, Sydney
Box 2712 C. G.P.0., Sydney
Our Fine Art Gallery
Is one of the most interesting places to visit
in Sydney. If you delight in art treasures of
many nations, you will find much that fascin-
ates .and absorbs your interest in our Fine Art
Gallery; also you will be told their story
by one who is a connoisseur of the beautiful.
It will be worth your while to put in a happy
hour ivandering around the Gallery, inspect-
ing its treasures, modern as well as antique.
Listen in to Station 2GB on
Sunday, the 21 st May, at 3.45
p.mto our sponsored session:
“TALES OF A CONNOIS-
SEUROur Connoisseur will
broadcast a delightful talk.


NUGGET
By NORMAN KING.
SO old Nugget is dead at last. The
news came in my letter from home
today, and somehow it brought
crowding with it pictures of the
past.
Nugget was the shaggy, philosophical,
shambling, humorous horse-of-all-work
at my grandfather’s place in the bush
where we three boys used to spend our
school holidays. His age was always
indefinite, but he was a good many years
older than I. He was patient and very
wise, with a wisdom that was as natural
to him as his honest aversion to work.
But, then, he was well acquainted with ail
forms of work, and perhaps this made
him aware of the futility of it all. I
always blame hint for a later develop-
ment of a similar streak in my character
and for a lack of the necessary resignation
to the inevitable consequences of possess-
ing an easygoing disposition.
We had some grand times out there
those days, and I am sure that Nugget,
in his reserved and non-committal man-
ner, enjoyed them, too.
We had a rickety and dilapidated old
sulky which our grandfather bought
from a drover for ten bob, and we fixed
it up and co-opted Nugget. The result
could hardly be termed fashionable or
smart, but it certainly was striking, and
what it lacked in dash and pace the com-
bination made up in strength and endur-
ance. My eldest brother was the engineer,
and he was always anxious about the
shafts and one wheel which had an
uneasy, creaking sort of wobble. The
trace-chains were of eight-gauge fencing-
wire, but they saw us through, and
Nugget wasn’t flash!
I remember a neighbor had some
skittish and supposedly well-bred sulky
horses which used to shriek with derision
as we went past, and maybe gallop along
their side of the fence the better to laugh
at us. Still, Nugget would never notice
them or alter his uniform lumbering trot
in the least. Sometimes, though, I would
notice,his left ear would twitch a couple
of times, as it did when he was thinking.
We went a long way in that old sulky,
and it always got us there, despite the
fact that it often had to do things a sulky
was not intended for. It almost broke
our hearts when the axle finally gave out,
and no amount of binding with wood and
wire would set it right again. Nugget
wandered up to the woodheap and
watched us tinkering about with the
sulky. Jim reckoned he looked sad and
hangdog, but I interpreted his uneasiness
as concern lest a heavy spring-cart be
introduced to fill the gap, George had
been doing most of the work, and he
picked up a stick and whanged Nugget
across the rump. Nugget took it philoso-
phically enough and wandered cheerfully
down to the creek to swap horse lies with
the mare and two colts in the next pad-
dock.
When I went looking for him he would
mostly be hanging over the fence with
that smug, complacent expression that
born liars and bores generally carry. He
would turn his head and watch me
approach and pass remarks about me,
and the silly whinnying giggle of the
mare would please him immensely.
Often enough, though, I would have a
long search before I found him, for he
was a born camoufleur, and used the art
to the best possible advantage whenever
unusual activity about the sheds told him
that his services would shortly be re-
quired. He would watch us like a hawk,
and be gone when we wanted him. By-
degrees we learnt his hideouts, and would
go straight to them instead of hunting
him down. This would hurt Nugget, and
sometimes we would see him going up
the road in a steady, preoccupied man-
ner as if he suddenly remembered some-
thing he had to do. He spent a lot of
time out on the road, for it was a quiet
locality, and traffic was light. Besides, he
was better able to gossip that way, and
sometimes I thought it was thus he learnt
his admirable philosophy of life.
I REMEMBER the grand times we had
when we harnessed Nugget up and
went out to the river camping and trap-
ping. We would camp in an empty
house and live more or less off the land
with the aid of a few loaves of bread and
other essentials. We usually set the trap
lines down around the river, and on the
way we would take? our fishing lines and,
after baiting them with grasshoppers or
worms, swing them out into the river
and leave them overnight.
We had great respect for Old Con, and
we posted a lookout whenever we handled
the lines. Con was the Fisheries Inspec-
tor, a sad, inoffensive little chap with a
drooping moustache and a despondent
air. He usually rode a big white horse,
for which fact we were always grateful.
We had many a good trout dinner
,from that river. The fish were always
biting better out of season we found.
Sometimes grub would run low. We
went around the lines every half-hour or
so on these occasions and probably
frightened most of the fish away. Some-
times, too, we would try our hands at
fly-casting, but this is a risky business
out of season, and once I nearly fell into
the river with fright when George tip-
toed up behind me and grabbed me. We
lived on rice for three days once, and
none of us has cared for rice since.
Once when it was time to go back I
went looking for Nugget and found him
miles away and two paddocks down,
yarning to a dirty, suspicious old pen-
sioner of a draught horse who was filling
his head with meanness. Nugget knew
we were going home, and, as usual, he
wasn’t enthusiastic—there were several
bags of spuds waiting to be sown at my
grandfather’s.
It was a bitterly cold day, and my
temper wasn’t the best when I finally
ran Nugget down. I lammed him, and
he looked sufficiently impressed on the
way home, but was very thoughtful.
Crossing the river at the ford he put one
foot in a hole and went down, giving us
both a ducking in the icy water. We
floundered ashore, me with no breath in
my body from the cold and gasping.
Nugget waited for me to clamber back
on his dripping back and set off at his
lumbering trot for the homestead. It is
the first and only time in my memory
that Nugget trotted without being urged.
I fell off his back blue and cramped
when we reached the house, and shivered
over a roaring fire for two hours before
I felt warm again. Nugget hung around
a bit to see that things were all right,
wisely concluded that we wouldn’t be
going home that day, and went back
down the river to tell his disreputable
mate.
AS a rule Nugget never objected very
, strongly to being caught, but his dis-
interest in the job in hand was obvious.
He would stand there with a patiently
bored expression while you slipped the
bridle over his head and the bit into his
mouth. He would roll the bit specula-
tively along his gums a couple of times,
then forget it. We didn’t have a great
deal of control over Nugget in the sulky,
and he seemed to make up his mind
where we were going and go there, mak-
ing any turns automatically and without
prompting. Sometimes he would be sur-
prised, though, and under the urgency of
the taut rein he would amble to a stop,
obviously think things over for a moment
or two, and then sidle cautiously round
crabwise and set out again with his ears
pricked forward, as if he remembered a
pal or acquaintance of his lived up this
way and he was wondering if he would
be home.
Fences were no worry to Nugget, and
he went more or less where he liked over
the neighborhood. He would stand medi-
tatively with his chest pressed against the
top strand of the wire (he was a mass of
little scars from barbed-wire tears), as
if testing the tautness, and then calmly
walk through it. He usually flattened a
panel or two in his passage, for often his
feet would become tangled and he would
have to shake them free. In the end
my grandfather used to leave the slip-
rails down, and he advised the neighbors
generally to do likewise. It is hard to
say whether Nugget appreciated this cour-
tesy or not, but he often went out through
the fence just the same, and my grand-
father would go inside and get the shot-
gun and threaten to shoot him.
Growing peas had a fascination for
Nugget. Maybe he was interested in how
his work was coming along, for we would
often find him browsing thoughtfully
over the rows or standing contentedly on
three legs swishing the flies away and
looking satisfied and happy about the
whole business. My grandfather would
go to the back door, stand speechless for
a minute and say “Look at that blasted
horse!” but it was never necessary to
look—we would know where he was.
Once my grandfather had an inspira-
tion and put in half an acre of cabbages
and lettuce which caught a shower or two
and came on wonderfully. In next to
no time they were ready for picking, and
experiments in the kitchen were very
satisfactory. The night before we were
to pick the best of them Nugget took a
short cut, laid two fences on the ground
and let the cattle in. We really thought
our grandfather was going to shoot him
then, and we took the cartridges out of
the gun when he wasn’t looking, and Jim
took Nugget down to the creek until the
air cleared a little.
Nugget must have developed a taste
for cabbages that night, for two days
later he broke into the Chinaman’s
garden. Ah Foo pounded him, and came
over to see us with none of the tradi-
tional calm of the Orient about him. We
had to sell our rabbitskins to bail Nugget
out and give Ah Foo some of our refugee
cabbages, and he was happy; but Nug-
get’s conduct didn’t improve.
The last time I saw him was shortly
before I joined up, when I went out to
my grandfather’s for a week-end. A
distant relative had some ploughing to
do, and had borrowed Nugget for the
purpose. He ill-treated our friend, and
Nugget walked seven miles home and
stood looking over the sliprails with the
marks of the whip and the rough harness
on him. Grandfather got the gun down
off the wall, filled it with saltpetre and
small shot, ramming it home hard, but
the relative never came near the house
again.
It will soon be “lights out,” and the
air is full of the sound of the “Aggies”
returning from the cross-countries. The
hut is noisy with the tired but animated
conversations of chaps who have been
flying since dark, but the camp will soon
settle down. I find it hard to sleep,
though, for I am too acutely aware of
the links with the past which are slipping
away one by one. Perhaps at this very
moment my brother’s Lancaster is out
over a hostile Europe, and far to the
north my other brother is lying in his
mosquito net listening to the dreary hum-
ming of the mosquitoes. We all know
that things will never be the same again.
SOME PEOPLE ARE FOOLS
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
\ | EXT week I’m going to be best
I\j man at Steve and Janet’s wed-
| I ding. Now that’s ironical. If every-
one had his rights Steve would be
acting best man and I would be marry-
ing Janet. And here’s a further rub; if
I, mug, hadn’t given Steve that harvesting
job he’d never even have met the girl.
It was just prior to the last harvest
season before the war. I was wiring up
a gate near the main road, and I saw
Steve dump a swag against a post and
climb through my fence. Right away
when he came up to me I knew he was
after a job. You could tell mainly by
the state of his shoes, and he looked
hungry. But he didn’t ask for a job.
He started right in praising my crop
of wheat.
9 Now I’m no fool. With anyone else
I’d have known he was simply blowing
down my ear to make landing that job
easy. With Steve it was different. I can
always tell when a fellow has a feeling
for a fine crop of wheat. Steve had it.
You could tell. You could tell by the
look in his eyes—a genuine and, I know
it sounds a bit silly, a sort of tender look
as if he loved the land as much as I
love it,
I felt a tendency towards kicking him
in the pants for beating about the bush
when it was obvious what he had come
for. But I didn’t. I gave him the job.
Rightly I could have done without an-
other man, but I thought it would be
pleasant having a fellow about who
shared my feeling, for the land.
Steve accepted the job casually. I took
him over to the men’s hut and knocked
him down to old Bill, who had been with
me for years, and to Clem, a young blood
who sometimes helps out at harvest time.
As I left, Steve was casting a quick
eye over things. I saw it rest for a
moment on the only bed with a spring
mattress. The bed belonged to Bill, and
I’ve seen Bill break the collarbone of
a man who had designs on that same
bunk. Yet, when I looked in later, Steve
was spread out comfortably on Bill’s
precious bed and the old fool himself was
perched on a camp stretcher.
The reason was Bill’s tomfool hobby.
He makes things with cotton reels—all
sorts of useless things that clutter up the
hut and overflow into the house. Steve
had one of the gadgets in his hands;
squinting at it, turning it around, admir-
ing it from all angles; admiring the art
and the workmanship. And Bill, the big
mug, was darning a sock and tapping his
right foot briskly against the floor boards.
He always does that when he’s pleased
about anything.
The old fool! Surely, I thought, he
can see that Steve’s pulling his old le£v
Steve was no more genuine about those
cotton-reel gadgets than I am about
prayer meetings. You could tell. It was
different about my crops. You could
tell that, too, I felt like tipping old Bill
off, but you can’t interfere, and he
wouldn’t have believed me anyway. Some
people are fools like that.
We were late getting into tea that night.
Florrie, my housekeeper, was stumping
about the kitchen switching at the flies
with a tea towel. When Florrie starts
switching flies you know it’s* going to be
useless asking for any second helpings,
I introduced her to Steve, and got out
as quickly as possible tp wash. I need
not have worried. Even from the wash-
house I could hear Florrie giggling. Steve
was at it again. When I got in she was
frisking around and tossing her head like
a young filly—and that was some sight.
Florrie is forty-five and fourteen stone.
Steve was hard at it, running down emaci-
ated women. He was all for curves—
Florrie’s curves. •
We got more than we could eat that
meal, and before it was over Florrie had
offered to do any mending, washing and
ironing Steve had to offer.
I saw Bill looking disgusted at Florrie
over his plate several times, and I’ll bet
he was thinking the same as I was —
that Florrie was a fatheaded fool to fall
for Steve’s blarney. But Bill can’t talk
anyway.
We started our harvesting the next day.
Steve was no slogger for work, but he
had that genuine feeling for the land, so
I let him mooch along at his own pace.
'T'OWARDS the end of the week Janet
1 rode over. She wanted us to give her
a hand in preparing the floor of the
town hal! for a dance the Younger Set
were running. Steve wandered over while
we were talking. When I introduced him
to Janet she said in a voice I didn’t quite
approve of “Oh, I’ve met Steve— he
opened the gate for me,” And by the
look in Steve’s eye I knew he had been
telling Janet the things I’ve always
wanted but never had the courage to
tell her. I made up my mind right then
to tell her that night at the hall.
I didn’t get near enough to her to tell
her anything. Steve surrounded her. And
I was surprised at Janet. She carried on
like a lady schoolteacher, acting in a
helpless, little-girl way that didn’t suit
her. I’ll admit that Janet is a good-
looking girl, but honestly any fool could
see that the blarney Steve was laying on
was not 100 per cent, genuine.
For me, that night was a failure. But
there was still the dance. Without Steve's
competition I had a chance of getting on
a firm footing, and I knew he wouldn’t
be there. He had no good pants. Clothes
here have to be ordered by mail, and it
takes weeks to get anything, so that ruled
out his buying any.
I felt better, thinking of that. That is,
I felt better until dinnertime the next day
when Steve began to work on young
Clem’s confounded muscles. Clem is an
avid muscle-developer. He’s doing it by
correspondence. Steve began by admir-
ing the slight bulge under the lad’s shirt-
sleeves, and by the time he had worked
down to his leg muscles I knew my goose
was cooked.
That night Steve went to the dance in
Clem’s new navy-blue suit, and Clem, the
young fool, stayed at home and developed
his flaming muscles.
That settled things. Steve really made
an impression on Janet that night. It
amazed me how an intelligent person
like Janet could be so stupid over some
things. I thought she would surely see
that Steve had half his mind on the farm
her old man will leave her some day. But,
no. Women are like that. Fools for flat-
tery. And you can’t tell them.
This all happened a good time ago,
and, as I said before, next week I’m
to be best man at Steve and Janet’s
wedding. I’m rather cut up about things,
but somehow, in spite of everything, I still
like Steve. You don’t often strike a chap
who has the genuine love for the land and
a good crop of wheat that Steve has.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3353.
Wednesday, May 17, 1944.
THE ONCE-WELCOME STRANGER.
(But with an election coming on our rulers are going to do something about it.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westhalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
iNEw Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (ppp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
HOLLAND v. CALWELL.
Just to keep the record straight, as our
American friends put it, the Calwell v.
Holland scrap is worth setting forth in
one piece, round for round. It stretched
out oyer four days, the Yarra Bank Tiger
hopping into the ring full of fight—or
froth and eventually crawling out
severely pasted. There were no clinches ;
all the fighting was at long range and
strictly by word of mouth, a form of
warfare —in fact, the only form of war-
fare —in which Tiger Calwell had some
claims to be regarded as a specialist.
The affair started on 3/ 5 / ’44, Tiger
Calwell leading with a very loose mouth-
ful, viz., “Owing to inability to obtain
employment many young men and even
middle-aged men joined the Second
A.I.F. to be placed on a payroll: quite
a number of the first enlistments were
economic conscripts.” Having spilt this
bibful, the Tiger glared around as if
expecting to be deafened by applause.
He seemed to hold it a particularly pretty
line of attack that would knock ’em cold.
Digger Holland, trained in the R.S.L.
gym., took up the Tiger’s challenge and
smacked back, hard: “Mr. Calwell,” he
said, “will strip from volunteers their
patriotic motives and their sincerity in
answering the country’s call.”
He bespatters good men. Even those
who were unemployed when the Govern-
ment made its urgent appeal to men to
enlist were prompted by the highest of
motives. Surely Mr. Calwell does not be-
lieve that patriotism is the possession oiffy
of men in good positions. Mr. Calwell’s
statement is unfortunate, and one can only
hope that his apology will catch up with it
before it reaches the men in the forward
areas. They are fighting not for a few
shillings a day, but to protect their homes,
their womenfolk and Mr. Calwell from con-
ditions worse than temporary unemploy-
ment.
That’s what they call hitting out where
the Digger breed comes from. Good
clean biff on the face of it, it still has
some technical flaws judged by the finer
points of this branch of the Noble Art.
For one thing, it expresses surprise that
Tiger Calwell should have overlooked
the better motives that lead men to enlist
and go away and fight for their country.
This seems unduly complimentary. It
suggests that the Yarra Bank Tiger might
have a comprehension of such motives.
What grounds are there for suggesting
anything of the sort? Rather, all the
signs point to the belief that when the
Tiger opened his mouth and let what he
thought was a devastating blast spill out
he was really only scrapping at the level
of his own mind. The height of that is
measurable by the word “job,” this being
anything that brings the holder in a few
shekels a week. Hence, it is a little un-
fair to expect an appreciation of higher
values.
This was borne out by the Tiger him-
self in his return onslaught. He came
back still full of fight (or froth); “Mr.
Holland’s malicious effort to misconstrue
my remarks is further evidence of his
reactionary conservatism and is typical
of his general desire to play the game of
politics for the benefit of his anti-Labor
friends.” As the “friends” Digger Hol-
land had defended from the Calwell
“slur” were the A.I.F. at large, this did
not seem the best of leads. It probably
left the Tiger open to hotter words from
his seconds than anything Digger Hol-
land had flung at him. “Shut your gob,
y' goat,” they might well have said to
him. “You’re lumpin’ all Diggers into
the other camp.”
Still full of fight (or froth) Tiger Cal-
well accused Digger Holland of trying
“to assist his U.A.P. friends by misusing
his presidential office,” and further lashed
out:
If Mr. Holland would expend some real
enthusiasm in helping the Federal Parlia-
ment to get additional powers to ensure
that the Second A.I.F. will not have to
suffer another depression and stop insult-
ing many of those whb enlisted in the first
, days of the war by describing as “tem-
porary unemployment” their vain search
for work for years befoVe war broke out,
he might be accepted as a defender of the
interests of our armed forces. Those men,
thousands of whom he doesn’t want in his
association, are now protecting him as well
as me and every other Australian citizen.
Barring the small matter of logic—of
some account in mouth-to-mouth scrap-
ping—there was a shrewd thrust or two
in this bibful. Without naming names —a
practice frowned on in Yarra Bank train-
ing as liable to leave you open in vulner-
able places—it clearly drags the militia
question into the arena. It is true enough,
too, that Digger Holland’s League—the
Tiger can be forgiven “association” ; he
just wouldn’t know—still excludes re-
turned militiamen from membership. The
matter was considered at the latest con-
gress of the League, held in Hobart, and
was there deferred to the next congress,
to be held at Adelaide later this year.
This, to put it bluntly, was taking,
or trying to take, an easy way out, the
forgathered Diggers nourishing the hope
that by next congress the matter would
have settled itself through all remaining
militia having joined the A.I.F.
It remains a knotty problem for the
League, so the Tiger was on good tactical
grounds in letting his mouth spill it. It
enabled him to indulge in his particular,
specialty, the smearing sneer. On the
other hand, it might, perhaps, have sug-
gested to the Diggers that they would be
wise in the long run to remember that the
constitution on which their League oper-
ates was put together in the last war,
to meet conditions entirely different from
those now prevailing. At all events, they
can depend on it that if they continue to
keep their League reserved for returned
volunteers, excluding returned militia —
and, for that matter, non-returned A.I.F.
and R.A.A.F. men who, through no fault
of their own, had to remain in Australia
—then political warriors of the calibre
of Tiger Calwell will certainly make the
most of it. One thing Diggers will ulti-
mately need to be on their guard against
is division among themselves. The Tiger
gave advance notice that if it’s possible
to cause, or prolong, such division it will
be done.
Though Capricornia Kid Forde, one of
Tiger Qalwell’s bottleholders, meanwhile
leapt into the ring and spilt a bibful or
two in the Tiger’s support, Digger Hol-
land declined to be knocked. Utterly
ignoring the Capricornia Kid, he fired
back: “Mr. Calwell may attack what he
calls our ‘rotten social system’ as much
as he likes, but he cannot with impunity
use service men to bolster up his case, at
least not without their permission.”
There is such a thing as decency, and I
am sure that even his political supporters
will not stand idly by while their representa-
tive strips the armed services of their senti-
ment and their quality of patriotism. It is
beyond question that, of the fit men in the
community able to do so, the patriotic
offered themselves for service and the un-
patriotic abstained, many of them to take
advantage of the enlistment of their fellows.
Everyone knew that when war came there
would be a man-power shortage with work
for all, but, instead of waiting for others
to enlist so that they could fill the vacancies
created, the men who were to form the
A.I.F. preferred to play the citizen’s part
and enlist.
Clearly not pulling his punches, Digger
Holland here introduced a pretty hot
argument in favor of widening the scope
of the League to include, at least, non-
returned men of the A.I.F. and other
service branches. Since many of these,
having enlisted as stated by Digger Hol-
land, have had to play their essential war
part in Australia, these, at least, have
reason for asking what ground remains
for excluding them. Still, this is entirely
a domestic matter, among the Diggers
themselves. Certainly it is for no Tiger
Calwell to dictate what they shall do
about their “association” or whom they
shall have or not have in it.
Happening in the exchanges to open
his mouth extra loosely, the Yarra Bank
Tiger spilt one other bibful which, as they
say in the bleachers, was a beaut, A
boomerang bibful, it possibly did as much
as even. Digger Holland managed to
render its user hors de combat. Quoth
the ineffable Tiger:
As further evidence of Mr. Holland’s re-
actionary outlook, I cite his advocacy of
one Australian Army for service anywhere
in the world, an Imperialist view which the
Labor party, with its healthy Australianism,
strongly opposes.
There is good ground for believing that
this was too much even for Tiger Cal-
well’s most impassioned bottleholders.
Not that they wouldn’t heartily endorse it
in private, but it might have been cabled
to America, where Mr. Beasley was cut-
ting a dash, and where there is no
“healthy” Americanism preventing drafted
Americans from fighting anywhere in the
world, in defence of, among other things,
places like Australia and persons
like Tiger Calwell, Or it might have
gone to Britain, where Mr. Curtin him-
self was cutting a dash, fraternising with
“Imperialists,” and where, too, there is
no “healthy” Britishism preventing British
troops from fighting anywhere in the
world, even youths of 18|, in defence of,
among other things, places like Australia
and persons like Tiger Calwell.
It quite probably was these considera-
tions which suddenly deflated the ram-
paging Tiger, though Digger Holland had
yet one more shot in his locker, and it
was a corker:
Until now no man has been low enough
to question their [the volunteers’] motives,
and it is a matter for deep regret that the
questioner should be a Minister of the Com-
monwealth Government. One can only
express a wish that, some knowledge oi the
source of the imputation will lessen the
hurt to service men and to the pride of
their relatives.
That most unkindest cut of all —“some
•knowledge of the source” —was delivered
on the third day of the prolonged scrap.
After it, all the fourth day saw was a
badly-bruised Tiger Calwell crawling
helpless from the arena, all the fight (or
froth) evaporated:
I regret to find that an interpretation has
been placed on certain words used by me
which was never intended, but which may
cause distress to some estimable people.
1 ask those people to accept my assurance
that I had no intention of causing pain
or hurt to anyone
Without exception, the most abject crawl
in Australian political history. Digger
Holland, gentlemen, on a technical knock-
out.
"Nationalised."
Because of the failure of mutton slaughter-
men to keep to the award tally (80 sheep per
man per day) 60,000 sheep were left unkilled
at the Homebush (Sydney) Abattoirs during
April. A spokesman for the Meat Commission
said this was the biggest loss this year, and
bigger than in most months last year. The
drop in production, he said, affected exports to
the United Kingdom and supplies for canning
and dehydration.
Homebush is one of those “nationalised
enterprises” which thrill Mr. Ward and
prompt him to suggest an unlimited
extension, for which, he says, there is
“no substitute.” Returned from Papua
and New Guinea, with roughed-out plans
for emancipating Brown Brother, Mr.
Ward claimed that if the N.S.W. coal-
mines had been similarly “nationalised”
when he recommended “nationalisation”
two years ago there would be abundance
of coal for everything and everybody.
The money for the Homebush “enter-
prise” was, of course, borrowed from the
loathsome capitalist. Nobody seems to
know exactly how much was borrowed,
but it has been roughly calculated that
about half was written off. With that
part of the interest borne by the tax-
payers, losses for three years were
reckoned at “about” £73,000. The place
swarms with inspectors. Commonwealth
Government inspectors and State Gov-
ernment inspectors, though at metropoli-
tan abattoirs in other States one set of
inspectors suffices. And in the sheep-
slaughtering part of the outfit particu-
larly, the union runs the show.
Under legal contract to work a five-day
week, members of the union absent
themselves, hold slopwork meetings on
the job, prolong their mealtimes, knock
off early and go on strike as and when
it so pleases them. They dictate the speed
at which the chains are run (900 per hour
at Homebush, 1100 to 1200 in Victoria)
and quit daily “an hour and 40 minutes
before the time specified in the
award,” leaving a trail of ill-dressed car-
casses and skins behind. No respect for
Commissioner Merrett or for the State
Government or the Industrial Commission
Judges, who devote not days but weeks
to the consideration of the union’s com-
plaints and demands, deters them from
their larrikin pranks. Neither do they
show the slightest sense of gratitude to
the men of the fighting services who pro-
tect them, or the slightest sense of duty
to their own people, whether producers
or consumers, or to the British people,
whose needs are great and urgent, much
less any feeling for the animals, carried
long distances in crowded trucks, they
leave waiting for death.
From time to time State Labor Minis-
ters plead with and fawn on these fellows,
almost going down on their knees to
them. On one of these occasions a
‘shivering Minister named Knight humbly
asked them to be good boys and go back
to work, imploring them to remember
that he had set up a Reference Board,
with Industrial Judge Cantor as chair-
man, for their convenience. He turned
from these abject appeals to have a crack
at the Commissioner, who has no political
friends, and whom he threatened with an
inquiry.
There was a sort of inquiry. Evidence
and findings have been preserved in a
report, presented to the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, which weighs over 21b. and costs
15s. if anyone wants to buy it. It was
the work of a Select Committee, with Mr.
Billy Gollan, Labor M.L.A. for Rand-
wick, a racing man and master butcher
(jetired), as chairman, and the inquiry was
contemporaneous with a union application
for the award since treated with such con-
tempt—it lasted “27 sitting days.”
The inquiry was spread over seven
months, the Commissioner being gruelled
for 15 days, chiefly by Mr. Gollan. He
was sorrowing for a son lost in the Air
Force, but seems to have been spared
nothing on that account. Evidence of
union job-control resulting in the persis-
tent refusal to make up the very modest
award rate of 80 sheep per man per
day was express and unanswerable. “In
Victoria,” a meat co. director with works
in three States testified, “slaughtermen
work eight hours ten minutes per day for
five days a week, less smoke-ohs, and three
hours ten minutes on Saturdays; and
each chain will do 900 or 1000 an hour,
according to how expert the men are.”
In N. S. Wales the men have the skill but
they won’t work the hours. They limit
themselves to 80 head per man per day,
although they seldom do that. At our works
at Footscray, out of two large rings, maxi-
mum output a day would probably be up
to 15,000 sheep and lambs. N. S. Wales
output on a 75-man ring would at the
most be 6000 sheep and lambs.
Yet Mr. Gollan and two other Labor
members had the face to blame the Com-
missioner. They accepted “voluminous
evidence from a number of union execu-
tives,” which was to the effect that “the
reasons for the innumerable strikes and
stopwork meetings and rampant internal
strife” were, “in the first place, that the
Commissioner himself is unapproachable
and unresponsive to the representations of
the men and, in the second place, the un-
conciliatory attitude which he has on all
occasions adopted.” The Gollan gruel-
ling and findings, which subsequent de-
velopments and Industrial Commission
denunciations of union lawlessness have
shot to pieces, removed the last rag of
authority from the unfortunate Mr.
Merrett. For the unspeakably disgrace-
ful position that now exists Gollan is,
therefore, in no small degree responsible,
and his electors will be very complaisant
if they don’t bring him to book —which
doesn’t mean a race-book and the
alleged Government with him.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Absent Friends.
Tormented by an accumulation of
troubles, all the results of administrative
weakness and folly, with the coal short-
age as the worst example, Mr. Forde and
his colleagues turned to the only con-
genial subject they could think of, that
of their absent leader. Him they con-
gratulated on “the splendid work he has
done since leaving Australia, especially
at the conference of Empire Prime Min-
isters,” It is much too early for this sort
of thing; and the judgment of contem-
porary history, when pronounced, will not
be partial.
The P.M. carried one good idea to
London, a proposal for an Empire secre-
tariat. It is not his own, having been
brought forth by Alfred Deakin long
before the first World War. Unfortu-
nately it has been scotched, as far as
Canada is concerned, by Mr. Mackenzie
King, who, with an election not far off,
shrinks from risking the French-Canadian
vote and is fearful of objections at Wash-
ington.
Mr. Curtin is also reported to have
urged (and “demonstrated” in one ver-
sion) that “Australia is incapable of
keeping its fighting forces at their present
strength and simultaneously meeting the
demands of the United Nations for more
foodstuffs.” With this Mr. Ward and his
friends are no doubt delighted, but
Britons and Americans may have other
views, however conciliatory the attitude
of their Governments. It seems like
playing with dynamite to suggest a shift
of British man-power from the U.K. to
Australia when war-worn Britain, its
greatest tasks still ahead, has reduced the
age at which conscript soldiers may be
sent overseas, with no geographical limit,
to 18 j years.
So far there is no mention of Cabinet’s
having congratulated Mr. Beasley on the
splendid work he has done at the Inter-
national Labor Office conference at
Philadelphia, but no doubt that will come
before Mr. Beasley returns or before his
head bursts.
Industriously boomed in the Sydney
papers as a living wonder, one of “the
Big Four,” and the most energetic speci-
men, Mr. Beasley set out from Australia
with a select party and a most ambitious
programme, which he had not bothered to
submit to Parliament. At Philadelphia
the booming went on, thanks to a friendly
reporter, and the reporter’s paper, also
friendly, obligingly set forth two points
of the programme which Mr. Beasley
“demanded.”
An international agreement pledging Gov-
ernments to domestic policies of full em-
ployment.
A declaration of policy on the treatment
of native races.
While allowing that its hero had “clashed
with a few delegates,” the paper asserted
that “mostly he has made new friends
for Australia.”
“The new friends,” it transpired when
Mr. Beasley put up for a place on the
governing committee and was defeated by
representatives of Peru and Greece, were
from South American republics and coun-
tries like Iraq and Iran. The delegates
with whom he clashed represented the
British and United States Governments.
Those persons objected very strongly to
the proposition that control of finance,
foreign policy and domestic affairs should
in a large measure be taken from Parlia-
ment, Congress, the Foreign Office, the
State Department, President and Prime
Minister and vested in a non-elected de-
bating society with a strong socialist bias ;


and, in respect of their particular coun-
tries at all events, their views prevailed.
Mr. Beasley’s ideas and ebullitions, as
recorded by the friendly reporter and
boiled down in the friendly paper’s head-
lines : ,
Beasley Attacks Britain’s Refusal to
Declare Policy on Native Races.
Australia [i.e. Beasley] Suggests 1.L.0.
Should Safeguard World-Wide Employment.
America Refusing to Implement Atlantic
Charter, Beasley Says.
Beasley Opposed to Post-war Policy—
Criticises Lack of Government Work
Pledge.
The pledge Mr. Beasley “demanded” was
that Governments should undertake to find
full employment for all the peoples of £ll
the world. To this was added “a vast
cradle - to - the - grave world insurance
scheme, covering sickness, maternity,
death of the breadwinner, unemploy-
ment, accidents and emergencies, and
considered even more comprehensive than
the Beveridge Report,” which had the
approval of Mr. Beasley’s offsider, Mr.
Barnard, M.H.R.
When he realised that the jig was up,
Mr. Beasley protested sadly that the
U.S.A.’s astonishing failure to agree with
him “revealed a fundamental weakness,
likely to threaten the whole future of
United Nations collaboration.” The New
York “Times” drily pointed out that
“the American delegates could not ac-
quiesce in Australia’s proposal that
America should sign a treaty, because
international treaties must be ratified by
the Senate.” Another paper noted that
“the delegates have sought to speak de-
cisively on every possible world problem,
even though what Russia decides later
may negative much of the 1.L.0.’s wis-
dom.” Russia was represented, not by
delegates, but by “a scathing article in
‘lzvestia’ saying that the 1.L.0. had better
sentence itself to death.” That, all un-
wittingly, it has done, and when execution
is carried out there will be few mourners.
Prisoners of War.
There were grains of comfort for rela-
tives in announcements made last week.
One was to the effect that the Japanese
had at last agreed to pick up U.S.
Red Cross gifts to prisoners of war and
civilian internees at a neutral port, Vladi-
vostok.
And according to the Acting-Minister
for the Army, Japan had declared that
the graves of dead Australians were
clearly marked and that urns containing
the ashes of cremated men would be
similarly distinguished. Germany had
made a similar declaration on its own
account.
The Japanese statement concerning sup-
plies came over Tokyo Radio. Though
so far limited to U.S. supplies for U.S.
nationals, which have been accumulating
for many months, it affords ground for
the belief that there will be an extension
to the Australian Red Cross, and so to
Australian prisoners of war in Japanese
hands.
Through the Apostolic Delegation ser-
vice established in November by Arch-
bishop Panico thousands of messages
have been dispatched to the unfortunate
brave. It has been learned that
many have reached Tokyo; also that
gifts from the Pope have been distributed
among Australian and British captivSs in
Japan by Archbishop Morelia. These
benevolent works go on.
An Annual Blister.
Though he said nothing about it in his
policy speech last week, Mr. McKell
promised three years ago to straighten
out the milk business. He did nothing,
and for the fourth consecutive autumn
Sydney is desperately short of milk.
All that Sydney’s Milk Board can offer
when the annual shortage comes along is
rationing. Last year the Consumers and
Producers’ Co-op. Society declared itself
able and willing to supply Sydney with
100,000 gallons of North Coast milk a
week. It has repeated the declaration this
year. Mr. McKell’s Government, if it is
a Government, ought to be asking the
Milk Board why the C.P.C.S. isn’t at
least given a chance to prove its claim.
The people are entitled to know the
answer.
Milk for Sydney and Newcastle is
drawn from a zone rigidly fixed by the
Milk Board, whose “policy” seems to be
that it is better for the people to go short
of milk than to extend the zone. The
zone has existed for 14 years and has
been flogged to death by grazing dairy
cattle, so much so that most of them are
stall-fed, a fact evident in the uproar
caused by the Prices Commissioner’s fixa-
tion of fodder prices. The same Prices
Commissioner has been asked by zone
dairymen for a 3£d. a gallon subsidy.
Doubtless the request arose from the
announcement that butter producers were
to get another £1,000,000 subsidy from
Canberra, whose paternalism becomes
most active at election-time.
Mr. Scully, its Minister for Opti-
mism, has found it expedient to clamp
a priority or something on milk,
which means that if you’re unlucky
enough to be over nine years and in good
health you get very little. Mr. Scully ought
to be calling on the Sydney Milk Board
to show cause why (a) it didn’t
take proper measures to meet the avoid-
able shortage, and why (6) those with
milk outside the board zones aren’t
allowed in.
Last spring and summer were lush
seasons for crops, grass and clover. This
growth went to waste, though experienced
voices cried out for help in cutting and
storing it against the very thing that has
followed —a dry and cold autumn.
But then, both Mr. Scully and Mr.
McKell are apostles or disciples or slaves
of the Labor fetish that everything
should be brought under board control
(Mr. McKell has promised N.S.W. five
more boards if his party is re-elected).
And though it is a demonstrable fact that
as soon as a commodity comes under
such control it becomes scarce and dear,
or disappears into the black market,
they’ll go on controlling and subsidising,
and milk and other boards will flourish
and grow more powerful and irrespon-
sible, and the people will simply have to
become used to periodic shortages,
rationing, queues and black markets.
On "Thrirack."
From John Brennan:
Call it Stuart Highway or the North-South
Road or anything you like —new names and
Routine Orders notwithstanding, it will always
be The Track to the men who take the convoys
along the 620 miles of it between Alice Springs
and Larramah at 'the end of the railway line
from Darwin.
The Track is now capped with bitumen from
end to end. There’s none of the bull dust
that once lay six inches deep along miles
of its length and made convoy driving a night-
mare, nor any of the corrugations that rattled
the trucks to pieces and made maintenance
of vehicles the biggest part of the job of keep-
ing the supplies moving “up top.” There’s not
another road in Australia on which it would be
possible to maintain a higher average sneed • :t
runs almost perfectly straight and level for
distances of twenty, thirty, up to fifty miles.
The convoys operate to a rigid schedule at
low speeds designed for their safest and most
economical performance; they are
minutes outside their time at “tea points or
night-staging camps along the road. Ihe brig-
adier who commands the Lines of Communi-
cations area, and has had under his care the
whole job of supply and convoy operation,
claims that his is the only section of the army
which costs its operations. “In _ reality,” he
says, “we are not soldiers ; but civilians in uni-
form. This is just a gigantic carrying company.’
He has on his area strength over 7000 per-
sonnel, with more than 2000 vehicles. Since
the road from Mt. Isa has been put through
to join the North-South road just above
Tennant Creek, operations in that area have
also come under his control. From the time
the first convoy took The Track on September 8,
1940, to the end of 1943, convoy vehicles car-
ried 361,900 tons of supplies and equipment north
to Larramah. They travelled 65,199,569 miles.
The brigadier’s figures show how costs have
fallen as the road has been improved and know-
ledge has increased. In the first year of opera-
tion 10,645 tons were carried, cost being 5.45
pence per ton-mile. The next year cost per
ton-mile was down to 3.59 pence for 84,472
tons. The year to last August saw it at 2.49
pence for 163,155 tons.
Convoys at times have employed over 4500
drivers with an average of 29 vehicles in each
convoy. Since the beginning of this year there
has been an average of 58 vehicles in and out
of the Alice each day. The convoys work on
an 11-day tum-round. They are eight days on
The Track doing the 1242-mile journey Alice
to Larramah and return. Huge six-ton semi-
trailers for the most part, they stretch out in
convoy over four or five miles of road. They’ve
carried anything and everything. For the return
journey, if there is no back loading, three-
tonners in the convoy are loaded on the semi-
trailers. For the trip north they’ve carried
new rolling stock, even locomotive engines, for
the Darwin-Birdum line.
The great importance of The Track to date
has been the manner in which it has rendered
possible the movement of men and supplies to
counteract a threatened invasion of the North,
to build a vast, forgotten area into a base for
possible large-scale offensives. It will have a
far greater importance in the years after the
war. It completes the communication link be-
tween The Alice and Birdum, and it gives the
Territory the first hope of reduction in the
freight costs that have always handicapped it.
The Track opens no new country. It follows
fairly closely the line of the Overland Tele-
graph along McDonald Stuart’s route, and it
doesn’t touch the best of the pastoral areas.
But it runs close to the wolfram fields, and up
Tennant Creek way, through Newcastle Waters
and Daly Waters areas on the edge of the
Barkly Tableland. Once beyond the belt of
good country around Alice Springs it passes
through rough, low scrub-covered patches of
broken rock and sand almost all the way to
Banka station. The bores the Army has put
down every few miles along The Track are
tr, r»r lastin'* valnn there".
THE UNFAILING SUBSTITUTE.
“Sorry, people —everything’s off except lottery tickets.”


:.jk
ft
v\tf
0^
k.V'
itfl!
t'&'J':
■>y—»■ * '
3g^
CJ>
ss
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really iough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being tree from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
d
Packed in Jute Bags. A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials Division]
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
POLITICAL POINTS
McKell played up his Government’s
part in the national war effort as the star
turn of his. election performance at Red-
tern. To hear him, anybody could have
been pardoned for believing that the Japs
really stopped on the Kokoda Trail be-
cause of McKell. He didn’t explain how
the booze and gambling rackets and the
black markets have helped the war effort;
but then he didn’t mention them at all.
Lang had a full house for his policy
speech at Auburn, and his indictment of
the mob in office was comprehensive and
contemptuous. He can’t forget that Mc-
Kell, Baddeley, Dunn, Knight, O’Sulli-
van, Lazzarini, Tully, Landa and co. were
his obsequious supporters in 1930-32, and
it is a fact that they never lifted a voice
or a finger to restrain him. In the whirli-
gig of events John Thomas has become
a watchdog, a useful animal to have
about the place, in Parliament as well as
in the backyard. For that reason alone
Opposition supporters should give him
and his group preference over the crowd
that pleads for votes on the ground that
it has been “going along quietly.”
Starting with seven unopposed returns,
S.A. Labor won only nine of the 29 seats
contested at the State election, and had
first-past-the-post rules obtained, as was
the case in Labor Queensland, it would
have won a mere seven. Though it
wrested Adelaide from D. H, Bardolph
(Ind. Lab.) and Prospect from Whittle
(Government), it failed of an outright
majority in each case. Preferences (all
Communist) put its men in.
McKell, whether pleased about it or
not, is to have Commo. support. The
Corns, have produced a policy which Mc-
Kell may or may not support, particularly
since it contains a determination “to
nationalise the breweries to regulate the
supply of wholesome beer for the
workers.” McKell is strangely shy of
the booze question.
Recently Queensland “Courier-Mail”
claimed a record for its State, Labor-
governed, in the number of holidays it—-
er —enjoyed. “S. M. Herald” is claiming
one for N.S.W., in tote and bookie
betting at the horses and dogs. Figures
for nine months of 1943-44: Tote,
£4,648,340; bookies, £22,773,200. Vote
for Labor and an open slather!
Abram Landa has four opponents in
Bondi (Sydney). None is a Communist,
and, a passionate Second Fronter (by
deputy), Abie is sure of Commo and
Second Front support. And at least some
of the refugees who abound in Bondi
must have qualified for the vote. More-
over, gratitude, as well as the sympathy of
the circumcision, may impel Abie’s pro-
tege, Prof. Julius Stone, the Zionist
Champ,, to go to Bondi and pulverise
Brkish policy in Palestine.
After McKell’s policy speech, in which,
with Dr. Evatt listening, he promised to
do many things which Dr. Evatt’s Govern-
ment has promised to do if its referen-
dum is carried, it was written that “the
Premier made history in being the first
N.S.W. Labor Premier to complete three
years of office.” The distinction really
belongs to Holman. Holman succeeded
McGowen as Labor Premier on June 30,
1913, won the election that year (Decern-
ber 6) and carried on as Labor Premier
till the conscription business in October,
1916. A Nationalist afterwards, he re-
mained Premier till April 12, 1920.
Finger, the medico-Com. who stood
lor Prospect (S.A.) and saved his deposit,
was rebuffed by the successful Labor
candidate when the poll was declared:
Finger: • The support of the Commu-
nist party was instrumental in Labor’s
victory. Within a very short time the
Labor party and the Communist party will
be affiliated.
Shard: I vow and declare that there will
be no such affiliation or amalgamation so
long as I have strength and health and
breath in me to oppose it.
All the same, the Corns, have high hopes
of capturing the N.S.W. Labor organisa-
tion at the annual conference next month.
C. Evatt, the McKell Minister for Erec-
tion and Purchase of Palatial Buildings
for Delinquent Boys and Girls, officially
opened a new one at Gosford on Sunday.
MOTHER’S DAY IDYLL.
"Speaking at the opening of a £24,000 sub-institution for 20 delinquent boys, C. Evatt, the
N.S.W. Minister for Child Welfare, said it was part of a plan to spend to spen £8OO,OOO in the same
way."
“I’m a soldier’s wife, Mr. Evatt, and I can’t get a house."
“Well, look here —if your kids are thoroughly bad I’ll take the boy.”
It cost £24,000, and is part of a “plan to
provide entirely new establishments” for
delinquent boys; estimate, £BOO,OOO.
Meantime, boys and girls who aren’t
delinquent have to attend draughty,
cramped, tumbledown schools while their
parents help to provide the £BOO,OOO. Said
parents may, or may not, be amused at
the, fact that C. Evatt’s new Gosford
building can’t be used because there is
no staff.
Scully, having discovered what a lot
of others had discovered, that a serious
shortage of veges, is likely in N.S.W.,
up and decided to app’int a committee “to
discuss problems of production and
marketing.” Not a carrot but will turn
pink with admiration.
Eire is to have another election, the
second in 12 months. The Opposition
groups united to defeat the De Valera
Government on a proposal to take over
two transport companies, the idea appar-
ently being to run the incorporated con-
cern as Amalgamated Wireless is run in
Australia. It is alleged that there was
“a leakage of information .which enabled
speculators to make huge sums by buying
up railway shares,” and an Opposition
request for a postponement of the
measure till the charges were sifted was
refused.
Having announced an impending “Min-
istry of Housing” and “Ministry of Con-
servation,” the Sydney Premier suddenly
took thought and hurried to Bondi,
where, supporting Abie Landa, he said it
wouldn’t involve an increase of Minis-
ters. It may mean that new jobs have
been found for Heffron (N.E.S.) and
Carlo Camillo Lazzarini or Dickson
(assistant Ministers). Or does it?
The organ of the Victorian Retail
Tobacconists’ Association asserts that
smokes are sold in many Government
concerns through “social clubs,” and
that in Melbourne there are dozens of
offices where they can be bought. It adds
that increases in supply go to these selling
points, from which the public is debarred.
If true, and there’s no denial so far, it
shows the fine, impartial spirit of party
government in Australia.
Things which N.S.W, Labor candidates
mustn’t mention: the coal and coke
shortages and the booze, taxi and black-
market rackets. It is all very well for fel-
lows like Dunstan to discuss what the fuel
restrictions will amount to, but any
N.S.W. Labor candidate referring even
remotely to the subject will “automati-
cally place himself outside the move-
ment.”
Beasley, it transpires, was misrepre-
sented by some foul creature reporting
the 1.L.0. circus at Philadelphia, who
made him say that “Australia would have
been invaded long ago if it had waited
for private enterprise”—as if any coun-
try since the creation of cats relied on
private enterprise to defend it. What he
said was that “if Australia had depended
on private enterprise for railways, the
Commonwealth would not have had vast
systems built up by public funds ; and
without these systems we would have
been invaded,” This means, if it means
anything, that if there had been no Gov-
ernmerft railways with a break of gauge
at every mainland border, which moved
Mrs. Roosevelt herself to polite mirth,
the country would have had no railways
at all. Silly, if not quite as silly as the
first vision.
Not long ago a Communist was elected
secretary of the Victorian A.R.U. Now,
though the concern is no longer* paying
affiliation fees to the State A.L.P., the
price of a union ticket has gone up from
20s. to 245. . Railwaymen who are not
Communists but who supported the com-
rade because he would “make the bosses
sit up” are now whipping the cat; but
what else could they expect? Raising
the price of the union ticket is a Red
custom,
A union deputation has had the amaz-
ing experience of getting a “no” from
Forde, The deputation put it to that
habitual yes-man that prisoners of war
employed on farms should be paid the
basic wage. One of its spokesmen com-
plained that farmers wouldn’t pay re-
trenched munition workers £1 a day and
keep while they could get ps.o.w. for £1
a week and keep. Farmers won’t pay re-
trenched munitioneers £1 a day and keep
anyhow.
Ever since Australians began eating
them, bananas have been sold at so much
a dozen or each. But the Prices Com-
missioner has put a stop to that foolish
practice; henceforth they’re to be sold
by the pound. And if the buyer wants
a banana each for his four kids and four
bananas weigh 11b. 3|oz. and the price is
7id. a pound it isn’t hard to imagine the
amusement with which buyer and seller
and kids will tackle the problem. How-
ever, this isn’t likely to amuse the Prices
Commissioner; his job is to fix prices and
he fixes ’em. Have a banana!
P. J, Clarey told the 1.L.0. conference
that he believed Australia could support
150,000,000 to 200,000,000 people. An
eminent geographer once placed the opti-
mum figure at 20,000,000. There are no
sure grounds for either figure. Coal and
iron in juxtaposition, plus machinery,
raised Britain’s population from 10,000,000
to 45,000,000 in a very short time, and
science hasn’t finished discovering new
forms of power, so there might be a
couple of hundred million in Australia
some day. That would be a decent-sized
population for coalminers to hold up.
Tasmania’s Leg. Council has rejected
a bill to control milk-production in that
State. If the Councillors could spend a
few weeks in Sydney under Milk Board
control they’d go home, call for the bill
and throw it out again.
An Orange (N.S.W.) “Leader” man
after a good look at professors, depart-
mental luminaries and other gentry who
propose to run Australia after the war;
They met in solemn conclave at Can-
berra. Never have 1 seen. such a gloomy
gathering. They were the saviors of the
nation —they thought—and they made no
bones about telling you so. Without them
Australia would be in dire straits —they
said. They warned of depression and chaos
—without them at the helm. They de-
manded powers wider and greater than the
tremendous bureaucracy now wields. They
left me with the impression that if they got
them.,. .then the first ship out would be
an excellent vessel to be on. It also struck
me they were more anxious about their
very good jobs than anything else.
As Lawson once remarked, “These fel
lows in the bush have too much time to
think.”


d
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Jack Fletcher, again returned for Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), is a product of his
electorate and in it combines farming
with a quarry of S.A. stone, this a geo-
logical feature of the district. Most of
the substantial buildings thereabouts are
built of the “stone,” which is a legacy
from when the district was part of the
great Southern Ocean. It was mainly
through Fletcher’s efforts that Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s home at Dingley Dell
was bought by the Government and is
now one of S. Australia’s national parks.
In his fourth year as president of
N.S.W. Advertising Agents’ Association,
as well as being the agents’ first Federal
president, Hugh J, Berry is head of the
organisation that does the Government
publicity work when it comes to extract-
ing loan coin and suchlike. A native of
Warrenheip, Ballarat, he tried his hand
at one or two other lines, including toil
in a tomato-sauce factory, before starting
his own ad. agent concern with a partner
in 1924. In his gnomelike appearance
and vitality he recalls Billy Hughes
at the Little Digger’s liveliest. One of
Hugh Berry’s part-time jobs is with the
HUGH J. BERRY.
Naval Auxiliary patrol, which did great
work when the Jap subs, were nosing
round. Another is dunning brother ad.
men for eggs for Sydney Hospital.
Cook, the Sydney jockey who car-
ried a “lucky cat’s-eye” in his riding boot
to help him get a winner home after a
long run of outs, could plead that he was
in high company. According to a yarn
sent by an American correspondent in
New Guinea to his paper, Lieut.-General
George C. Kenney, who has charge of
the air fighting up there, “rolled his
famous good luck dice” before sending
his men to have a smack at Rabaul.
“Gen. Kenney,” wrote the correspon-
dent, “has carried the tiny dice ever since
a Catholic priest in Paris gave them to
him in 1917, blessed them and told the
general they would always bring him
good luck provided he did not use them
to make money.” That smack at Rabaul
was a smasher, as it should have been;
the general “shot an eleven.”
Forty years back, Dr. R. Lawson,
Otago (M.L.) Uni.’s Professor of Educa-
tion, was a well-known Western District
(Vic.) cricketer, captaining Warrnambool
C.C. Now 59, he hasn’t lost the knack.
Playing for the Uni. staff against students
last month he stumped six and caught
one, which must be knocking at the
keepers’ records door. The prof, is a
Litt.D. of Melbourne.
Frank Browne, having a crack at Bondi
in the N.S.W. elections, is the present-
war Digger who polled nearly 18,000
votes against Dr. Evatt, who noted him
as “A fine young Australian with a
future.” Browne’s merit as a trier is
indicated by the fact that he was four
times medically rejected before he even-
tually got into the A.1.F., there to get
field promotions to sergeant and then
lieutenant. He did a first-rate job in New
Guinea as a commando officer before
being discharged last year. At Duntroon
he shone as a boxer, swimmer and
sprinter, earlier was a star member of
the Waverley football team that won the
Kentwell Cup in 1932, and played first
grade in both Rugby Union and League.
A journalist, formerly with “Truth” and
the “Daily Mirror,” he syndicates weekly
articles to over 200 papers throughout
Australia, using the literal nom de guerre
“Ex-NX.”
A soldier of two wars, Brigadier W.
D. Chapman takes over as part-time
Commissioner of Victoria’s big State
electricity scheme in succession to Profes-
sor A. F. Bursall. The other part of his
time Brig. Chapman is chief superinten-
dent of design to the Master-general of
Ordnance in Melbourne, Born in Lon-
don in 1891, he became a master of civil
engineering at Melbourne University in
1925, and has had a hand in some of the
State’s biggest construction jobs,
Horace Graham, of Adelaide, who
started out selling newspapers, lately gave
top price for a filly at yearling sales.
Many big men have started in that way,
but the unusual point about Graham is
that, after an interlude of circus life, he
came back to make his original job into
a regular trade, and at 40-odd is stili
selling papers in King William-street.
In the days when suffragettes were loud
in the land a well-aimed brick that went
through a window of the British Home
Secretary’s office earned free lodgings in
Holloway Jail for the young woman
composer who much later became widely
known as Dame Ethel Smyth. She
has now passed on in England. Sir
Thomas Beecham saw her conducting
through one of the prison windows, with
a toothbrush for baton, the singing of
her own suffragette song, “The March
of the Women,” the choir being a crowd
of 30 or so demonstrating outside. Still
regarded as a queer fish in England at
a time when she was accepted across the
Channel as one of the most significant
of modern composers, her first opera,
“Fantasio,” was produced at Weimar, and
her one-acter, “Der Wald,” also had a
first airing in Germany before going to
Covent Garden. Her English opera, “The
Boatswain’s Mate,” is based on a W. W.
Jacobs tale.
R. T. M. Pescott, appointed director
of the Victorian National Museum, won
2| scholarships in his young days and
subsequently one which took him to Mel-
bourne University. For a number of
years he’s been Victorian Government
Entomologist, and he is a Fellow of the
Entomologist Society of London. At
present entomologist to the R.A.A.F.,
he’s a 6ft. 2in. nephew of E. E. Pescott,
former principal of the School of Hor-
ticulture, Burnley (Vic.), and the author
of The Life Story of Joseph Furphy.
Had an eighty-seventh birthday, lan
Mclntosh John Hewlett Ross, known in
most States as a music adjudicator and
as a literary figure whose Laureate of the
Centaurs, published in 1888, is still re-
garded as the best published life of A. L.
Gordon. Ross is held to be the sole
living poet of Sladen’s Century of Aus-
tralian Song.
“Cauboy”: Wilkie Bard, who has had
his last curtain in England, was not, as
has been claimed, the highest-paid artist
ever brought to Australia. Ada Reeve
was paid much more. A charming, genial,
good-hearted fellow, Wilkie Bard so held
the affection of British people that once
when he got lost in a snowstorm pretty
well all England went looking for him.
He was found snowbound in a hut and
much less upset than the searchers. Mus-
grove brought him to this country. In a
long frock coat, tarnished top-hat and
large boots, Bard purveyed a rapid line
of patter and songs about Cockney love
which would sound in the mouths of Mo
and other latter-day comedians like psalm-
singing; but he had the personality that
puts it over.
Herewith Coventry’s version of Keith
Bentzen, who put so much of his super-
abundant energy into the South Aus.
£25,000 Legacy Club War Orphans’
Appeal that the brakes failed to act, and
now, the objective achieved, the impetus
looks like carrying on to £35,000. The sum
KEITH BENTZEN.
total will be used for the education and
general welfare of the children of dead
service men. Bentzen uses up other of
his surplus gnergy as manager of Western
Assurance in S.A., in controlling the
machinery of the Adelaide and Darwin
branch of the War Damages Commission,
as an Adelaide alderman and as director
of sundry companies. He’s 48, was bom
and educated in Sydney and was with the
old Ist Batt. at Gallip.
One who’ll watch the A.I.F. v. N.S.W.
Rugby Union match in June with special
interest will be Major W. T. (Billy)
Watson, D. 5.0., M.C. and bar, D.C.M,
Skipper of the A.I.F. Rugby Union
team which toured Britain and Australia
in 1919, he enlisted again in this war and
served with distinction in New Guinea.
He has good claim to be called tough.
When he was playing as a forward with
the old A.I.F. team he must have suffered
agonies in the scrums —he was still
covered with suppurating sores from mus-
tard gas. These had to be pierced before
he took the field. It never made any
difference to the grand game he played.
Commander Neil Alexander Mackin-
non, first Geelong Grammarian to attain
that rank in the R.A.N., entered the
R.A.N. College in 1920, and four years
later emerged as Chief Cadet Captain and
King’s Medallist. Also, he’d collected
his colors at most games; in fact, he s
probably the best all-round athlete ever
produced by the college. Heading abroad
COMMANDER MACKINNON, R.A.N.
in the Special Service Squadron, Mac-
kinnon returned in the then newly-com-
missioned H.M.A.S. Australia, became
flag-lieutenant to Admiral “Teddy” Evans
and later was with this same distinguished
officer when Admiral “Teddy” was
C.-in-C. South Africa. These days Mac-
kinnon is in the destroyer line of business.
Diggers lose a popular padre with
Rev. Leigh Cook’s move south from the
N.T. to take over the chaplaincy of Wes-
ley College, Melbourne. In his student
days he did a brilliant theological course
at Queen’s College in the Yarra city.
From Broken Hill:
H.M.A.S. Norman, mentioned in B. 3/5/’44,
was formerly commanded by Commander Henry
Mackay Burrell, a sister of whom was lately
on the staff of the High School here. Two
Broken Hill lads—Norman Brest and Allan
Pauli—have been with the same good ship.
Burrell was the first Naval Attache from Aus-
tralia to the United States. He went from
Washington to take the Norman to sea in 1941
and helped in the convoying of supplies to
Malta and the landing of troops at Madagascar,
for which Burrell got a mention. It was the
Norman, under Burrell, which took the Labor
Trade Council delegation, headed by Citrine,
to Russia. Some idea of what the R.N. ana
associated ships go through on that route was
given by Burrell in commenting on that par-
ticular trip: “Even the spray was freezing as
it came inboard. The guard rails were about
ten times their normal size. The sailors were
covered from head to foot —two or three bala-
klavas and skull caps and scarves. We were
issued with fleece-lined duffel coats and gloves,
but were never warm. I was wearing thtee
heavy sweaters and one thin one.” It should
be added that the complements of other coun-
tries’ ships in those freezing waters had the
drop on the men of Australian ships. There is
no regular rum issue for the Australian Navy.
Officially farewelled and with his pas-
sage booked to take the Churchill Flag
to London (B. 10/5/’44) P. W. Tewks-
bury was advised that times were unpro-
pitious and to look in later, when Mr.
Churchill will probably have more leisure.
Into the silence:
At 80, in Melbourne, Henry Williams, who
for half a century was g.m. for E. W. Cole, ot
the Book Arcade in Bourke-street. Williams
negotiated the purchase of the freehold and
subsequently as trustee sold it to the G. J-
Coles firm.
At Yarram (Vic.), at 65, Dr; John Hemphill
Rutter, one of the best-known medicoes ot
South Gippsland. A keen yachtsman and sea-
lover, he once voyaged to Sweden in the wind-
jammer C. B. Pedersen. His familiarity with
the sea stood him in good stead in his pro-
fession : he risked his life many times to succor
the sick on the Cliffy Island lighthouse, 20
miles from the mainland.
At 75, in Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia,
Tenge Whittington, who served in the Boer War
with the N.S.W. Lancers, and with Trooper
Milverton Ford, of the Australian Horse, made
a sensational escape from a p.o.w. camp at
Pretoria. Whittington joined up again, serving
with Warren’s Mounted Infantry and other
regiments, and, finally led a section of Cattle
Rangers. In the 1914-18 war he was with the
King’s Royal Rifles in France and subsequently
with the Australian forces in Egypt. His
brother, also an old N.S.W. Lancer, is a
Rhodesian member of Parliament.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 76, Charles Murray
Turrell, g.m. of the M.L. shipping co. Born
at Leithfield, Canterbury, he was with the
U.S.S. for 58 years. He filled many offices in
Wellington, including 25 years on the Harbor
Board, with two terms as chairman.
At Canterbury (M.L.), Patrick Lucas Hamil-
ton, who had his 114th birthday in March.
He was claimed to be the oldest man in the
British Empire.
In England, at 56, Brigadier Patrick A.
Ardagh, C.8.E., D.5.0.,4M.C., one of M.L. s
most notable army surgeons. He went to
England with Montgomery, after fine work
with the Kiwis# in North Africa, Sicily and
Italy, his patients including Freyberg. Before
leaving the Mediterranean area Ardagh was
senior m.o. of the whole British forces in Italy.
He was wounded three times in this war and
four times in the last war, in which he was
recommended for the V.C. A native ot
Ngapara, near Oamaru, Ardagh married Lily
Lowick, of Neutral Bay, Sydney. He prac-
tised in Christchurch between wars.
In Sydney, at 73, Sydney James (“Chiddy’l
Ryan, who had several scraps with “Gnffo
all friendly, for they were lifelong pals—and
was a noted field fighter of the period. Ryan
was a pupil of Larry Foley, and t'o the end ol
his days revered Larry as master and man.
At 76, in Melbourne, Thomas Hill, 0.8. E.,
chairman of the River Murray Commission and
onetime Commonwealth Director-General ol
Works. An Englishman, he joined the Victorian
Water Supply Department in 1890. He gave
Canberra the Cotter Dam and most of its early
developmental roads, sewerage and water supply.
In England, at 80, Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch
(“Q”), Professor of English Literature at Cam-
bridge and author or compiler of a long string
of books, perhaps none a masterpiece (unless
such an anthology as the Oxford Book of Eng-
lish Verse can be so called), but practically all
of them good.
In Adelaide, at 83, Dr. William Anstey Giles,
twice Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at
Adelaide Uni. and first president of the S.A.
branch of the Australian College of Surgeons.
At 66, in S.A., Sidney H. Jackman, the
architect who designed Adelaide railway station;
His firm, Garlick and Jackman, pioneered con-
crete construction in S.A. After service in the
Boer War Jackman spent four years with the
Public Works Department of the Transvaal.
Latterly he had a war-time job with the De-
partment of the Interior. He was an old-time
inter-State oarsman.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“A.M.C.”: A picture published in
“Guinea Gold” shows Ward in a native
village in New Guinea padding around
in bare feet. The boongs’ No. 1
Gubmint feller thereby left himself wide
open to hookworm, tinea, scrub typhus,
filariasis, elephantiasis and a host of
other tropical diseases. The wearing of
good, stout boots in the wet, muddy
places is the first law of the white man
in that land of treacherous soil —but then
Eddie was ever a law unto himself.
* * * *
“Hist”: The postage stamp now
has, in his collector aspect, an inter-
national standing. Values withstand wars
and depressions, and have been consis-
tently (and sometimes spectacularly) on
the upgrade. Practically every country,
including Australia, has founc|it necessary
since the outbreak of war virtually to
prohibit the import and export of col-
lector-stamps in order to prevent the
illicit transfer of funds. With literally
hundreds of stamps worth from £2 to £5
apiece, and not a few soaring over the
£lOO mark (£7200 has been paid for a
single stamp at public auction), it would
be a simple matter to buy in a local
market and forward overseas by regis-
tered mail for the recipient to cash in
by resale at his end. Much wealth was
smuggled out of Germany in this manner
by Jewish and other refugees prior to the
war, and some German stamp dealers
ended in concentration camps for their
share in the practice.
* * * *
“Hema”; When a group of Javanese
women were being evacuated from the
Island of X Colonel Brown (that wasn’t
his name), as good-hearted as they make
’em, was perturbed to find amongst his
charges 20 expectant mothers. Decid-
ing to make himself responsible for
their welfare he was hampered by his
ignorance of their language, but did his
best to explain everything by pantomime.
The ladies nudged each other and giggled,
and giggled again, till the colonel, almost
helpless with embarrassment, muttered to
himself: “Now, what the devil am I to
do to make them understand?” A small
Javanese boy, standing near by, was
helpful. “It is all right, sir,” he said ;
“they understand you perfectly. They all
speak English.”
* * * *
“Jik”: Add to the multiple-birth nota-
bilities the twin professors Picard, one of
whom is known for his researches by
balloon into the nature of the strato-
sphere, and the other for his work in
geophysics.
* * 4= *
“Subzero”; A claim by a more than
ordinary reckless German propagandist
that the Third Reich’s latest secret
weapon is a means of producing intense
cold—filling the English Channel with
icebergs is threatened —has fallen on very
interested ears in Maoriland, a country
seething with refrigerating engineers. The
German claim was that “a chemical” had
been discovered which produces a tem-
perature 364 deg. F. below freezing point
(minus 332 deg.) at “point of impact” and
204 deg. below {minus I72deg.) at a dis-
tance of 500yds. These are terrible de-
grees of cold. Jack London talks of “60
below” {minus 28deg.) in his Alaskan
stories, as of an almost incredible limit.
The refrig, men in M.L. have done a bit
of calculating, and they reckon that just
to freeze {plus 32deg.) a body of water
500yds. distant would require energy
equivalent to that stored in 35,000,000
gallons of petrol. That couldn’t be
packed into a bomb. Dominion Labora-
tory chemists, too, have had a tilt at the
“ That's the third one he's christened this week."
German claim. They say there is a pro-
duct of uranium (U 235) which liberates
energy at such an astounding rate that
loz, of it would boil 1000 tons of water.
But boiling isn’t freezing, and to make
even one pound of U 235 would occupy
nearly a million years and cost many
thousands of millions of pounds. Goeb-
bels and his staff must think up a more
likely story.
* * * *
‘‘Avon”: A timely word on behalf of
ship’s stokers and other seafarers who
are not plaster saints ashore was
spoken by Maoriland knight Alexander
Roberts, merchant and soldier (he was
M.L.’s Director of Field Artillery in the
1914-18 war);
I wouldn’t fire a coal burner for £5OOO a
year, living for weeks in an atmosphere of
coal dust and never knowing when a “tin
fish” is going to hit you. Let us be kind to
those men. They deserve to wash a little
of that coal dust out of their throats, even
with beer. Don’t criticise them. They are
carrying out a very difficult job. Imagine
travelling for weeks in a complete black-
out ; not allowed to smoke on deck. I say
thank God the men will do it; what sort
of a position would we be in if they did
not?
That needed to be said. The aspect of
this war would be very different had not
the British Merchant Navy kept the red
duster flying. Its Atlantic performance
alone—loo,ooo,ooo tons transported east-
ward in four war years—commands re-
spect and gratitude.
*•* * *
“H.W.M.”: The passing in Melbourne
of the widow of C. J. Cerutty, one-time
Commonwealth Auditor-General, recalls
the battle between Cerutty and the Fed-
eral Cabinet which tried to force him
to leave Melbourne and go to Canberra.
Cerutty relied on the provisions of the Act
under which he was appointed, won the
fight and stayed on in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Ipswich (Eng.) reports one
of those supernatural visitations which
are heard about only in times of great
emotional crisis. Hundreds of people say
they saw in the sky a vision of the Cruci-
fixion. An air-raid alert was happening
at the moment. The vicar of the parish,
who did not see the apparition, thus re-
ported eyewitnesses’ descriptions: “While
billowing clouds drifted by, a perfect
cross was silhouetted against a beautiful
turquoise blue. Some witnesses only saw
the cross, but many more who stayed to
g&ze at it have described it to me in such
a way that they could not have been mis-
taken that the figure of Christ appeared
on the cross with bowed head and crossed
feet, and remained hanging there for
some little time.” The description corre-
sponds with the way in which painters
for centuries have depicted the Cruci-
fixion.
$ # * #
“2nd Murderer” launches an indict-
ment :
I’ve often wondered how long it will take
the cinema to shed the useless vermiform appen-
dix it inherited from the stage—l refer to the
continuous musical accompaiiment. The or-
chestra could justify its place in the theatre. It
entertained the audience before the show and
between acts, and it lent much-needed emotional
aid to the very limited resources of the stage.
Moreover, it flourished in an era when drama,
for most people, was very scantily rationed,
and there was a necessity to reinforce and em-
phasise its conventions for the benefit of the
unsophisticated. But in this year of grace, with
a pitcher palace in every hamlet and subbub
belching forth two new plays (sometimes four)
every week, it should not be necessary, when
the great detective roars at the guilty man “Why
did you smother your mother?” for an orches-
trion to produce a cymbal clang and a trap-
drummer to perform low thunder, so as to
convey to my intelligence that the question is
a pertinent one. Anyway cinema-play music
is ambiguous. The stage orchestra was there
to be seen; it could not get unintentionally
mixed up with affairs behind the footlights. But
the cinema orchestra—whence is it supposed to
emanate? From a cloud (in those aviation
sequences) or up a tree in the forest, or in
a submarine in the depths of the lonely ocean?
Or, in the case of interior scenes, from a band
in the next room or from the radio set! I can
understand the convention that beings such as
Bing and Shirley and Deanna are indissolubly
linked to invisible orchestras of 60 performers,
so that should they burst into song the audience
will get full value for its money, but why should
all screen actors be thus miraculously attended?
“Zake”: Asked why this war has
thrown up no marches comparable with
those of 1914-18, English musician Sir
Sydney Nicholson put it down to the de-
generacy of the public taste through the
popularity of swing bands and crooners.
“The radio is constantly giving out ‘Dar-
ling, let me sit beside you,’ ” said the emi-
nent organist. Did those words and the
system of weird noises that go with them
constitute the low level of radio’s splurge
the position might be none so desperate ;
but, compared with “Murder, He Says,”
“Pistol-packin’ Momma,” and some other
choice opuses, the mush merchant’s plea
for contiguity sounds like a Shakspeare-
Schubert combination. In such a fetid
atmosphere would it be possible for such
virile stirring marches as Sousa’s “Stars
and Stripes for Ever.” Clarke’s “Constel-
lation,” “Colonel Bogey” and “Caracta-
cus” to be born? The sickness isn’t con-
fined to music. It is significant that the
absence of great war paintings in a war
rich in heroic exploits is contemporaneous
with a fashion for pea-green, octagonal
moons and earless, elephantiasis-
stricken women. And it is no coincidence
that with so many “poets” doing their
best to disguise tortuous thoughts in
obscure phrases no blood-tingling war
poems have resulted.
* * * *
“V.C.”: They’re at it again. Opened
my afternoon paper on the way home
and was confronted with a picture of a
freighter belting into big seas. The
caption read;
Priority cargo, Coal! Men are gambling
their lives against weather and the enemy
in the shipment of coal. And that is just
ft one more reason why you (that’s me)
f should not waste a single pound of coal.
Coal is absolutely vital to the survival of
Australia.... Coal must be saved!
“Gosh!” I said to the missus. “Wouldn't
that stir you to your boots?” “No,” she
replied, tartly, “first because I have no
presentable boots nor shoes, though I’ve
been trying to buy them for weeks, and
second because I read today of a mine
that didn’t work because somebody hid
somebody’s boots for a joke. If you’ve
come home with any intention of trying
to talk to me about saving gas, elec-
tricity or hot water, you can save your
breath. What’s more, if the people who
put that advertisement in the paper had
any sense they’d” But I’d managed
to get to the wireless and step up the
volume by then. Ido wish some of these
control blokes could meet my missus!
“I bought it from a man off a ship for two pound and no coupons !”
HOME-BREWED BEER.
■Senator Keane, Minister for Customs, has ar-
ranged for a police drive against compounders of
home-brewed beer, even if the same is only used for
private consumption. . Some of it, he asserts, is
stronger than the product of licensed breweries.”
Another prohibition due to war,
Decreed by Keane, the bulky Senator.
“Thou shall not brew,” he says in tones severe,
“Any commodity resembling beer.”
Even, ’twould seem, synthetic malt and hops
Will queer your pitch if cornered by the cops.
Even if all your aim and purport be
1 o lubricate your own anatomy
Or offer any friends that you may pick
A modest quencher with a bit of kick,
Illicit tanglefoot, like usquebaugh,
Is ruled with emphasis “agin the law.”
It's queer how customs change. When I was
young
Across the seas, full many an honest Bung
Held that the slogan “Home-brewed Beer” con-
veyed
A noticeable stimulus to trade.
In windows it was placarded to stir
Anticipation in the traveller.
Much as the legend “Home-made Cakes” de-
clares
Something a cut above mere factory wares.
Now none, the word goes forth, may try his
hand
At knocking up a crude domestic brand
Of that which temperance lecturers assail
With vim and venom, namely, nut-brovvn ale.
Some of the stuff-—here we have Keane to tell —
Is headier than the genuine article.
Quite likely, too. It needs no tongue to stress
Its alcoholic content couldn’t be less.
Well, for my part, I’m not the one to essay
Home-brewing—even if I knew the way.
But just suppose—it can’t be very hard—
-1 grew tobacco in my own backyard,
And cured and smoked it for my private ends
And gave it, if they’d take it, to my friends,
The fragrant herb being rationed, it is clear,
Just as relentlessly as brewery beer,
Would Keane, if only for consistency.
Invoke the terrors of the law for me?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
COPPERS.
“A Melbourne magistrate fined a man £2 for
calling a policeman a ‘copper.’ ”
Applied to the constabulary tribe
“Copper’s” a word till now I’ve never yet
Heard stigmatised as an offensive gibe.
Classed as a contumelious epithet.
Td hate to think it had to go the way
Of many another snappy sobriquet.
“Peeler” or “bobby” was an old-time term
That bore no sting. To be denoted thus
With perfect confidence 1 can affirm
Was not regarded as opprobrious
By any of the stalwart souls I knew
Who carried truncheons and were garbed in blue.
Why, if you call a baker one who bakes
Or designate a shopper one who shops,
Surely horse sense—sound grammar, too —it
makes
To ticket as a copper one who cops
(Or should, whenever there’s sufficient cause)
Offenders fracturing their country's laws.
“Bull” is the synonym in Yankeeland,
The monosyllabic to which recourse
Is had —or so I’m giv’n to understand—
In casual allusions to “the force.”
In Roosevelt’s realm I wonder if it’s full
Of risk to call a constable a bull.
It’s hard, it’s deadly hard, to get the hang
Of words on which so many disagree.
And to determine which are noxious slang
And which are amiable jocosity.
Will somebody advise me if you’d pique
A magistrate by terming him a Beak?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Pip”: Moustaches are enjoying a
new surge of popularity in the Army.
The Ninth Div. fellows are the acknow-
ledged masters of facial fungus, probably
imbued with the camouflage spirit of the
desert. They regard little toothbrush
affairs as sissy, and nothing less than
four inches long by two thick by two
wide will do them. Some of their
pointed handlebar-ends are a danger to
neighboring eyes. The Silent Seventh
favor the more dignified, straight-sided
effort, and are much given to combing
the bristles downwards in a curling
motion. Their bearing makes it plain
that they are masters of the adornment,
not its slaves. The Fighting Sixth are
fickle, with a passion for allowing weird
growths to flourish on the upper lip for
two or three weeks, then shaving them
off and starting again. Recent Army
orders forbid the New Guinea Digs, from
retaining their great spade beards that
have grown so profusely, and there are
sullen threats in the air of transferring
to the Navy. The naval beard is un-
doubtedly the acme of facial furniture*;
but some of the Air Force moustaches
arfe also things of beauty. I’ll swear one
recent R.A.A.F. visitor to this camp
tickles his right ear whenever he sneers.
S: ~ * * *
“Tuart”: During one of those war-loan
rallies in Martin-place, Sydney, a girls’
choir frohi the Commonwealth Bank
mounted a platform and sang “Sweet
and Low.” Very well, too, but Tennyson
would have been revolted at their pro-
nunciation of the essential word—the
young women made it “winnd.” This is
a modern fashion to which A.B.C. verse-
speakers give the sanction of their
authority, if any, but it is wrong. In
poetry “i” should always be given the
“long” sound. Take Shelley’s lines:
Be through my lips to unawakened earth
The trumpet of a prophecy. O Wind,
If winter comes, can spring be far behind?
Done by A.8.C., I suppose it would be
“fah behinnd.”
* * * *
“P. McM.”: Ingredients of a quart of
“rum” bought by an Allied service man
for £5 which made him so Violently ill
that he had it analysed: lodine, napha-
lerte, methylated spirits and water!
* * * *
“X.S.”: On a recent morning the resi
dents of the Melbourne suburb of Park-
ville woke up to find that a memorial
of the 1914-18 war, a statue of a
soldier standing on a pedestal, had
been deprived of the slouched hat, which
was found shattered at the base, leaving
the head cut down level to, the eyebrows.
Probably some skylarking youth who had
made a wager to climb the statue had
grasped the headpiece, not knowing that
it was not of one piece with the figure
but was merely dowelled on. If he did
he probably fell 17 feet and got plenty
of punishment.
* * * 4=
“Major of Gurkhas”; There is no need
for a warrant officer wearing the Military
Cross to feel embarrassment (B. 3/ 5 / ’44),
for the award may be granted to W.Os.
second class, and frequently is. The
assertion that two W.Os. won the award
in the last war is true. Two were
awarded to my battalion, the Fifth. Dave
Smith won one at Cape Helles ; Arthur
Fleming won the other in France. But
there were many more awards to W.Os.
of other battalions of the A.I.F. and to
the British Army as well. Furthermore,
lots of ex-officers of the last A.I.F. joined
up for this disturbance as privates, one
notable example being Ronnie Forbes,
of Melbourne, who won his M.C, as a
captain with the British Army, Six feet
four and 18 stone, Ronnie was a pic-
turesque figure as a sergeant in Melbourne
before he sailed for the Middle East and
came back a captain again ; but I never
heard him say. his M.C. was an embarrass-
ment.
* * H- *
“AJ.K.’s” vignette of N.G. life;
The air is cool, now, at five o’clock. The
humidity has dropped. There's a pleasant
freshness in the atmosphere that contrasts, like
ice with molten lead, with the sweaty purgatory
of midday. The Kalapi palms move overhead,
and an occasional detached limb rustles down.
Then, faintly, comes the sound of singing male
voices. It draws nearer and the swelling har-
mony is recognised as “Bless ’Em All.” There’s
a heavy rumbling as the transport carrying the
songsters trundles over the brow of the hill.
Bronzed, grimy songsters, these, back from
their toil on an. aerodrome somewhere in New
Guinea. The heavy six-wheeler bursts i.lto view
and passes orderly room where I cringe with
my pen-pushing cobbers. As they flash by, the
awalted-for tirade comes; “Any mail, mate?”
“Whacko, the shinies,” or “Up, Up, the castle.”
The metal brute snorts, and drones on to the
tent area.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The. vicar of a London
parish who recently complained in a daily
against the practice of shouting raised
novel objections, “I have often found
it embarrassing to be treated,” he said.
“People in the pub are, as a rule, so
pleased to see a parson there that they
welcome him in this way, but it would
often be kinder to let him buy his own
drink and go out without standing a
f round. We are not as well off as we have
to appear to be.” The spectacle of a
parson in an Australian pub bai* would
cause a sensation. There is a Melbourne
legend that a bearded young artist, asked
to have a snifter by a friendly bar-
frequenter, swallowed it with such symp-
toms of enjoyment that his surprised
acquaintance insisted on shouting him
three more. “Well,” said the philanthro-
pist as the final glass was lowered, “I
never hoped to live to see a Seventh
Day Adventist swallow one beer, let alone
four.”
* * * *
“Ken”; I strongly suspect that that
initial flight by the Wright brothers (B.
29/3/’44) was a well-rehearsed affair.
Among those present were an official
photographer and a newspaperman. It
is recorded that the official photographer
became so excited that he failed to do
the job for which he had been engaged,
the only photographic record of the flight
being one made by the reporter with a
small camera he happened to have With
him.
* * * *
“Billy See”: I remember Prosper Ral-
ston, “The Man with the Harp” (B.
12/4/’44). Met him one time in Perth, he
then being on his way to the Big
Smoke with a load of opals and harps.
A born showman, he had a happy knack
of being able to impress the English mind
With the recounting of experiences which
to the average Australian would have
seemed commonplace. And, although he
had his fUr rubbed the wrong way now
and then, on the whole he was fair to
Australia in yarns he wrote for the “Wide
World Magazine.” As a fellow-contri-
butor, I am pleased to hear, per The
Bulletin pages, that Prosper is pros-
pering.
“Deflate a little, my dear !”
“Cabalier”: The talk of terms that will
be offered to Fritz and the Japs takes me
back to the 1918 Armistice. We were
on the Somme. I read out the terms (they
took up a Whole page in the “Daily
Mail”) to the platoon, and the boys
listened in silence to the lists of railway
engines, guns, warships and trucks that
Jerry was required to hand over. When
1 had finished the corporal broke the
silence. “One way and another,” he re-
marked, “I’ve had plenty to say about
the heads, but now I must say this for
them: they do know how to open their
mouths.” But compared with the patriots
of the French Revolution our statesmen
were pitifully modest. In 1793 Barras
requested England to hand over Canada,
the Channel Islands, India and Gibraltar.
Ceylon could be retained by paying
Barras 1,200,000 francs and the Cape
for a further 800,000 francs. Comrade
Barras didn’t get his two million.
* * * *
“Mudlark”: “Nakh” (B. 19/4/ 44)
can’t have pushed his inquiries concern-
ing the relationship between multiple
births and genius very hard. The names
Rbmulus and Remus come to mind, but
nearer home the Michell twins—identical,
I believe —deserve mention. Old boys of
Wesley College (Melbourne) each has
F.R.S. after his name. One of the
Michells discovered the principle of the
thrust blocks that make high speed com-
patible with high tonnage in our modern
ships. He worked it out on paper as a
purely mathematical thesis.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Despite the house shortage
there is a whole village vacant in Mel-
bourne surrounded by a high wall. It
stands in the grounds of the mansion of
the late Oliver Gilpin at North Balwyn,
and a visitor coming on it for the first
time might easily imagine he was in a
South African kraal as Hollywood might
re-create it. They are 35 tiled-roofed cir-
cular aviaries which once contained the
finest collection of rare birds in the
Southern Hemisphere. It included 25
South American macaws, as well as thou-
sands of other avian wonders. The Zoo-
logical Gardens took over the best of the
collection. The house, the biggest man-
sion built in Melbourne since the boom-
time palaces of the ’eighties, is likewise
vacant. Gilpin was the founder of 91
chain stores in four States.
* * r *
“Mercutio”: In a recent broadcast
Ormandy spoke of his forthcoming visit
to Australia. He looked forward to meet-
ing members of Australian orchestras, he
said, but did not know how he would get
along with them. Probably he’ll get a
surprise—not entirely pleasant. When
Schneevoigt came to the Commonwealth
under engagement to A.B.C. he ex-
pected to meet with one moderately
competent orchestra which, when he had
knocked it into shape, would be taken on
a tour of the capital cities. Instead of
this, having worked strenuously with the
orchestra in Melbourne, he had to go to
Sydney and there carry out the arduous
task with another orchestra. He de-
clared that had he had the remotest
notion of what the Commission expected
of him he would never have set foot in
Australia.
* * * *
“Lawnston”; Pedestrian fecords? L.
J. Fullerton, of Hobart, has walked
120,000 miles in the Sandy Bay district
delivering letters in his 25 years in the
Postal Department. The next best record
is that of T. G. Perry, of Brighton, Vic-
toria, who has padded the hoof on the
same sort of errand for 118,000 miles.
With 2000 miles to go, Perry has a fair
chance of beating Fullerton, as his Apple
Island competitor has been transferred to
indoor work.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: T. M. Burke, Consul for
Poland in Melbourne, speaking at the
commemoration of Poland’s national
day, described the Australian career of
a Polish industrial chemist who, with his
wife and children, escaped from Warsaw
a few days before the Nazis entered the
city. Finding refuge in this country he
registered as a friendly alien, announcing
at the time that of the first £5O he earned
in this land he would give half to some
charitable institution. Three months later,
introduced by Mr. Burke, this chemist
handed £25 to the Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne. Ftis scientific knowledge en-
abled him to perfect a process which pro-
vided Australia with an indispensable in-
gredient of its war effort, supplies of
which had been cut off. This year his
income tax is £3OOO.
*.* * *
“B. A. Ker”: In a Sydney court record
dated 1840-41 the sentence in various
cases, ranging from “bearing firearms”
to “killing a horse,’’ “injuring a beast”
and “cattle stealing,” is recorded as
“Guilty. Ten years, transport, to N.S.”
An offender convicted of “stealing in an
age house” was sentenced to “Transport
for life to Van Diemen’s Land.” Where
was “N.S.” and what is an “age house”?
* * * *
“Zoetrope”; This war has done some-
thing the last one failed to do —it has
broken down the lofty ethical standards
of melodrama. Typical example of the
new trend is to be found in a current
Americal war film, “First Comes Cour-
age.” Norwegian heroine is being tor-
mented by Nazi major as a prelude to
murder. Her British commando-officer
lover is hiding in the room. At any
time prior to this war he would have
rushed out with a firm ringing cry ot
“Unhand that lady, you dastard! Throw
yout revolver on the floor and take what
is coming to you, man to man!” And
then they would have rolled all over the
screen and smashed all the furniture till
the villain’s minions, aroused by the tur-
moil, rushed in and overpowered the
hero. Not so in 1944. There is a dull
pop, the Nazi major falls dead with a
bullet in his brain, and the British officer
restores his silenced automatic to its
holster. He has not stirred from the
corner where he stood concealed from
the Nazi ruffian.
* * * •
“Visitor”: The departing Cowries
leave behind a sprt of sideline memorial
in the name of a county of S.A. It was
named Hore-Ruthven when his Ex. was
using that name as Governor of S.A.,
and it is alongside the oddly-matched
York, Manchester and Buxton in the Port
Lincoln backblocks. It isn’t much of an
honor anyway, for a county in S.A. is
never heard of except on a certificate of
title for land, and not one person in a
hundred knows the name of the one
he’s living in.
* * * *
“Hamer”: With A. R. Bluett dead, I
believe that Archdale Parkhill, solicitor
Platt-Hepworth and myself must now be
the only survivors of the Eastern Suburbs
Parliamentary Debating Society of the
late ’nineties. We considered ourselves
more virile than the P.D.S. of the Sydney
School of Arts, which we licked more
than once in debating contests. These
societies worked on Parliamentary lines,
with improvements: they elected a Gov-
ernment at the start of the term ; the Pre-
mier allotted portfolios, and if the Gov-
ernment was defeated on the stand it took
on any public question put down for
debate it resigned and the Opposition
took charge. The societies turned out
speakers whose gestures, table-punchings
and other mannerisms were more or less
standardised, but their proceedings had
some political significance —astute poli-
ticians kept an eye on them as a guide
to the direction of cat-jumping. They
began to wane when Labor Leagues gave
that party’s supporters a chance of airing
their oratory, but before they disappeared
the E.S.P.D.S. had sent at least a dozen
members into Parliament. Four became
Ministers.
* * * *
“Shibli”: Through the good work of
the P.E.N., M.t. has had its Jessie Mac-
kay Memorial Award for Verse for some
years. During her recent visit to Ml.
Mrs. Catherine Church (widow of poet
Hubert Church) offered the P.E.N. an
investment sufficient to provide an income
of over £5 a year for a Hubert Church
Memorial Prize for Prose. A third M.L.
annual literary prize is now 7 announced,
a James Cowan Memorial Prize for the
best journalistic work of the year. This
was first mooted in the “N*Z. Journalist,”
and followed up by the N.Z.J.A. asking
the M.L. Government to help. Always
sympathetic with and generous to writers
and journalists, the Government handed
over £350. The association will add to
the interest on this so that the Good
Journalism Prize will amount to at least
£lO a year.
* * ,* ♦ .
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide National Gallery
has at last acquired a Corot, and a highly
characteristic one, of misty trees on a
river bank against a warm evening sky,
with one small figure of fisherman with
boat. The Nat. Gallery’s quarterly mani-
festo takes the chance to deride all Aus-
tralian galleries for not buying the French
impressionists when they were still moder-
ately priced instead of “expending large
sums on story-telling Victorian pictures,
now mostly relegated to the cellars.” The
Corot was bought on the advice of the
National Art Collections Fund in
London.
* * * *
“Pip” gets back to camp:
On the journey dowh for leave discomfort
meant nothing, but the trip back would have in-
spired Dante to gloomier and bitterer efforts.
During the last thousand miles we’ve been
packed eight to a railway compartment meant
for six. Not so bad during the day, but it
makes sleeping a wearying pastime, a surrealist
conception of hobnailed boots elbows, knees,
bones and curses. We’re unshaven and un-
kempt, for wb’ve run out of water and
every time the hose has reached us it
has been time for the tram to move off.
If the winddws are opened soot pours in, ana
if they are closed temperature races towards
boiling point. Every so Often the train pulls
in at some loop for an hour or two, waiting
for the crossing of an “up” tram. We seem
to give way to every locomotive larger than a
hand trolley, and the loops are invariably miles
from habitation. Meals, too, are a problem.
We have just capped three successive sausage-
and-mash feeds with four stews and a curry.
Feeding times are irregular and a fast of 18
hours was succeeded by two meals within an
hour and a half. Grog is forbidden on the
train, we’ve no cash to play cards, and after
24 days amid civilisation we’ve even forgotten
how to swear. Definitely, we are not happy.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; When “Curyo” Charlie
drove on to a little Mallee racecourse he
was cheered to find a sweat wheel already
in operation, and rapidly set up his own,
only to be ordered off by the John Hop.
“Curyo” closed up and mingled with the
crowd, where a little judicious questioning
revealed that the gambling rights in that
town were vested in one man. Morosely
“Curyo” played the local wheel, found it
crook and retired to the village as night
fell. After tea he saw the local gambling
king and his offsider carry the sweat
wheel into the billiard saloon, drop it
and head for the pub, leaving the door
open. Charles went through that door
like a shadow, examined the wheel, made
a couple of quick experiments and an
adjustment, withdrew and tied his horse
and buggy up at the rear of the saloon.
Later, he planked eight notes on the six
for the first spin. The operator grinned.
The wheel stopped on three sixes. The
operator stopped grinning, “I’ll bet the
lot,” said “Curyo.” The operator sighed
with relief and spun. This time he took
particular care with the pressure, but the
wheel stopped on three sixes. Stricken, he
paid, gave “Curyo” a long look, then
closed the game and left. So did “Curyo.”
* * * *
“Bob M.”: Noticed that several cattlb
ticks which dropped off a dog all made
off in the same direction —south. Since
then I’ve experimented widely, and, even
though it sometimes necessitates their
circling preparatorily several times, in-
variably they have made off in the same
direction. Any known reason?
* * * *
“Curra-warra”: A link that has been
missing for three-quarters of a century in
the story of the discovery by John Deason
on February 5, 1869, of the “Welcome
Stranger” at Moliagul (Vic.) has at last
been found. The gross weight of the
nugget as sold at the London Chartered
Bank, Dunolly, was 2101 b. This yielded
22680 z. lOdwt. 14gr. of smelted gold, for
which Deason and his partner, Richard
Oates, received £9534. Before the nugget
was sold it was stripped of adhering
quartz which contained gold. Pieces of
gold were also broken off the nugget and
given as souvenirs to friends. It had
always been thought the weight of this
gold had never been known or recorded.
But from an entry in Deason’s diary,
recently disclosed by his descendants for
the first time, it is now clear that the
quartz yielded 270 z. of gold, and the
specimens given away amounted to lOoz.
So the world’s biggest nugget contained
23050 z. lOdwt. 14gr. of gold.
* * *
“E. 2”: “Wallabies are knowin’ crit-
ters,” said Dan. “One dry spell they were
pretty near starvin’ out in the hills, an’ a
few of ’em took on raidin’ the vegetable
patch at night. At first I useter rush out
bearin’ a kero.-tin to scare ’em, but they
soon got into the way of bouncin’ orf
f’r a hundred yards or so an’ cornin'
back when I goes back inside. So 1 set
up a few figger-fours with springpoles.
About midnight a great hullabaloo breaks
out, so I ups an’ takes a gander out in
the moonlight. Starve me, there’s a big
buck waltzin’ round with me kero.-tin
bashin’ it hearty whenever one of the mob
in the garden goes near a snare! I let
’em have the veges.”
“Squeaking Tree”: The neatest bit of
work I have seen among cattle was in the
receiving-yard of an Upper Dawson (Q.)
run. Four men were squatting on their
heels yarning when a Devon cow that had
broken back from the last pen-up pawed
across, its eyes revealing its mad rage.
Ignoring the needle-pointed horns so close
to him, one of the quartet scooped up a
fistful of sand and tossed it into the beast’s
face. The cow went straight up into the
air ; like a flash a hand shot out and
grabbed a foreleg. A short jerk sideways
and the beast was on the broad of its
back all within a couple of seconds.
* * * *
“Bahb Dwyer”; Let there be light
where darkness would fain prevail; and
for the dazzling shaft let us bless the
inevitable quiz. Here we are given a list
of words, more or less masculine —if you
can supply the feminine counterparts you
go to the top of the class. Thus for
“bull” the feminine is “cow” —get the
idea? And for “bullock” —are you listen-
ing, “Herbert Dawson,” Henry Lamond
and co,? —on the unimpeachable author-
ity of the paper which supplies me with
my Russian war news, the feminine is
“heifer”!
* * * *
“Esk D.”: There’s not such a great
difference in risk in working on the
scaffolding of a tall building and doing
a similar job on the precarious perch of
shaft timber with the yawning depth be-
low ; but there are few who will tackle
“ Rickshaw , Sahib?”
each job with the same degree of confi-
dence, Have seen men used to heights
become almost nervous wrecks on going
below. On the other hand I once saw a
lifelong miner brave 20 feet of tree to
put an aerial up and become so paralysed
with the giddy height that he was unable
to climb down without assistance.
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”; As well as the platy-
pus, the Flinders Chase sanctuary on
Kangaroo Island contains specimens of
the koala (native to neither the island nor
S.A.), the large brown K.I. ’roo, a variety
of smaller marsupials and what is be-
lieved to be the only pure strain of
Ligurian bees now in existence. The
aristos were placed on the island in the
’eighties to keep the strain free from
contamination with the blood of the
black heath bee, which converts the pro-
geny of the union into whizzing devils
whose wasplike spitefulness of temper is
feared by the most experienced apiarists.
Forgotten in their island retreat for
almost half a century, the Ligurians have
lately been rediscovered by the South
Australian Department of Agriculture,
which proposes to establish a stud bee
farm for their propagation and distri-
bution on the mainland.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow turned
out with Cowinka in the first match of
the season against Lingabool, and found
himself harried by the opposition rover,
a fast midget about eight stone in weight.
The little bloke darted in and out around
Mat’s feet, and even when Mat went up
for a mark it was obvious that he was
worried whether he might come down on
the midget. The climax came towards
the end of the second quarter, when Mat
found himself and the midget battling
for the ball close to the Lingabool goal.
Suddenly Mat straightened up. Firmly
under his left arm he clasped the rover,
while with his right hand he held the
ball and booted it through the posts.
The umpire was too flabbergasted to
blow his whistle, and the goal was re-
corded. “It’s the only way I can stop
meself treadin’ on him,” Mat explained
as the rucks ambled back to the centre.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; I’ve been bushed myself
and also in searches for bushed mates,
and I’m blowedrif I ever heard the bush
“ring with cooees” (B. 10/5/’44) at any
time. And the only time I ever heard
“Hoi!” as a hail was in the city. Any-
way, there’s precious little shouting done
by the lost or by the searchers —unless,
it’s city hikers lost in the outer suburbs ;
except on a frosty night or across swamps
the human voice at its loudest has poor
carrying quality, which is why public
speakers have to use amplifiers. But if
you really wish to hail somebody out
back, draw in your breath, swell your chest,
lift your head and let out a wild “Wah-
hOO-OO!” That’ll beat anything* else.
sic Jfc $
“Plain Angas”: It was risky to shoot
a hare in this district before the war.
Then there were big coursing meetings
when everyone turned out to gape, while
a lot of herring-gutted mongrels slaugh-
tered the hares. Now I’m free .to wander
over the paddocks and save meat
coupons. I can’t get shotgun cart-
ridges, but there are enough .22’s for a
careful shot who doesn’t try for long-
distance flukes and running shots, though
the man with the rifle must use some skill.
For instance, he must know the paddocks
for a mile or two round and just
where to look for squats. That means
knowing the best patches of feed and
the ideal hare hangouts near the
tucker. He must bear in mind that
puss prefers a good lookout and as much
cover as will shelter her from the wind
without necessarily obstructing her view.
If familiar with all this he’ll probably sight
an unhittable streak of brown lying flat
70 or 80 yards off. To get close he must
approach properly, walking round, not
straight to, the squat and stepping quietly
yet without stealth. On the other hand,
if the long-ear is out feeding the only
chance is to walk straight towards her:
the hunter then displays least movement
in relation to the scenery. And he needs
to study the wind. Makes coursing rather
like a kids’ game, doesn’t it?
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: What interests me most
about leeches is why the medical profes-
sion turned them down. In my youthful
days good old Dr. Fitzgerald could pre-
scribe nothing better for relieving the
blackened eye O’Dowd had acquired
through dropping casually into O’Brien’s
on Saturday night; or the bruise on her
leg collected by Mrs, Murphy from an
unruly cow. Applied to such discolora-
tions a couple of leeches soon brought
the skin back to normal. We kids, too,
used to earn many an odd shilling catch-
ing the bloodsuckers for Smith the
chemist —on bare legs immersed in a
grass-grown, sluggish creek and with-
drawn when decorated with a good catch,
which fell off when they had drunk their
fill. Our leech-catching was frowned on
by parents, but being meat-fed kids the
loss of blood did us no harm, though the
multitude of tiny wounds was a bit of
a teaser. t
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Few Maorilanders seem
to take any interest in, or even to notice,
the extent to which their country has been
and is being transformed by the pakeha.
Dr. George Jobberns, Maoriland-born
Professor of Geography at Canterbury
College, in a recent address, pleading for
a survey of national resources, touched
on this aspect:
An original flora, scarcely altered by the
Maori, has been almost stripped away.
Anew flora, European for the most part,
has taken its place. A completely new
fauna is the main basis of our economy.
The story of the transformation of the
New Zealand countryside is something that
our young people should have for the
fuller understanding and appreciation ot
their heritage—an interpretation of the de-
velopment of the New Zealand landscape.
The development was particularly rapid
in Canterbury province, where, within 40
years of the declaration of British sove-
reignty, the fertile plain, originally under
scrub and stunted bushes, was plenteously
dotted with belts and plantations of Eng-
lish trees —pine, poplar, willow, beech,
ash, elm and oak —with here and there an
avenue of Oriental planes. The Tas-
manian bluegum, too (being such a fast-
grower), found favor with the settlers, and
there were giants established as early as the
’eighties. Even 50 years ago it was neces-
sary to explore the Port hills to find rem-
nants of native bush, and to approach the
Alpine region a hundred miles to the west
before seeing a forest of native trees.
# H: *
“Prop”: All this argument about vita-
mins and the body’s need of fancy vege-
tables won’t make me go and eat grass.
My favorite veg. is the good old murphy:
he’s real tucker and a fine anti-scorbutic.
Out on my own I’ve lived for three
months on little more than bully beef
and spuds; what flour I had contained
rather too much protein on the hoof for
successful damper-making ; onions were
few and bad. I thrived on the diet, and
had not a trace of the Barcoo rot that
was prevalent on the run at the time.
I’ve seen big onion-eaters break out in
the rot, but not a man who fancied spuds.
« * * *
“8.A.K.”; Among those animals that
never drink (B. 19/4/’44) count the
guineapig. Asa boy I kept the rudder-
less pets for years, and proved conclu-
sively that the hottest weather would not
induce them to drink. But there is an-
other non-drinking creature found in
the haunts of man. Non-gregarious as
a rule, the species will periodically
assemble in groups and give vent to con-
certed series of howls which sound like
“Closethehotels. Downwiththedemon-
drink. Wineisamocker.” Although vir-
tually the same creature, the American
specimen is classified as a member of the
“pussi-phoot” family, and the Australian
as belonging to the “wow-zir” group.
.4 * * *
“Edjudina”: Big Broome had pinched
the barrel from the last pub before the
track led out into the mulga. When we
finally made camp we used it as a “save-
all,” tea drainings, washing water, soap-
suds ; and gradually it filled. A shovelful
of kopi dropped in acted as a purifier.
Apart from the heavy sediment the fluid
was as clear as gin. We were never reduced
to drinking it, though a gallon or so‘ de-
canted off came in handy on washing
day. One day a family of five abos.
limped in and begged for “yabbi.” We
had a hidden soak, so Long Ned gave
them the freedom of the “save-all.” They
were all pretty dry and so sunk the first
pint all round without a whinge. Then
they cadged a bit of tea, and, of course,
some “chuga”; boiled a brew in an old
black billy they had. As tea it was the
color of ink, but they reckoned it quite
the finest and strongest pekoe they had
ever tasted. More, a little experiment
showed them that only very little tea was
needed to produce this delectable strength.
So infatuated did they become that they
remained until all the fluid, all our spare
tea, sugar and our patience were ex-
hausted. And before we could get the
barrel full again it fell to pieces, as water-
barrels mostly do in dead, dry country.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were looking for cattle
grass, and, striking the deserted old
mining town about midday, dropped off
to feed. With his back to a rock. Seventy-
fiver gazed round the ruins, and between
bites pointed out sites of bygone interest.
‘•‘See that short scrub line west o’ the
granite outcrop?” he mumbled, pointing
to the slope opposite. “That was the
ol’ coach road.” I took in the steep
grade and registered astonishment. “Old
Sam Lynam drove the four-in-hand,” he
went on, “an’ he always took that last
stretch at a gallop.” “Didn’t he ever
have an accident?” I asked. “Once he
did,” the old bloke’s voice slowed
dreamily. “Yair, once. It was the time
Pintie’s sister come in on a visit. Right
enough she was till they started down the
slope there; then the poor old girl sud-
denly went batty. Her squealin’ didn’t
worry Sam, but when she grabbed him
round the neck he just sort o’ forgot
what he was doin’. Squirmed an’ shoved
he did ; then as he opened his mouth to
cuss down she went, bang. There weren’t
time t’ do nuthin’ —not at that pace. He
yelled t’ the mokes, o’ course, an’ jammed
the brakes, but it weren’t no use. Nothin’
t’ break the fall against them boulders.
Poor old Sam! One of the best, too, ait’
just smashed t’ bits.” “Bad luck,” I
mourned in a respectful whisper.
“Yair,” agreed Seventyfiver; “nuthin’
wus ever quite the same t’ Sam again as
that old pipe.”
THE SHIP.
There was a ship that used to come
Out of the blue south sky;
In a wild dream of spray and foam
They sailed her, full and by.
Her lofty trucks were golden-bright
And white her painted spars;
Her starboard light, her larboard light
Were like two painted stars.
Her course was always set the same,
Bound, like a tropic bird.
For some port with a magic name
Which I had never heard;
Though oft her captain hailed, as he
Took his tall ship away.
Over a windy, foaming sea,
Always at dusk of day.
She was a splendid, gracious ship,
Fairer than aught I’ve seen —
The way her shapely bows would, dip
And her tall topmasts lean!
And her white cordage taut and trim,
Her chain-plates painted black.
Her wake across the ocean’s rim
Made a long, rigid track.
Her captain hailed me as she went,
Telling of some fair land;
But what the words he shouted meant
I could not understand.
Twice, thrice, a dozen times she came,
Always at dusk of day;
And yet I never caught that name,
She passed so far away.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old Priller”: All this talk about
rabbits surviving in waterless country re-
minds me of the epic of the Minduk
wethers. When the Minduk tank went
dry in the ’19 drought, the paddock was
mustered, all except seven rangy wethers
then reckoned too weak to travel. The
paddock largely comprised mallee, hop-
bush, porcupine and sand. Three months
later a thunderstorm appeared to pass
that way and a hand was dispatched to
see if any rain had fallen. It hadn’t, but
the hand came in with a tale of seven
wild wethers that took to their scrapers
on sight and vanished. Later still, the
boss pushed through that paddock to
Wintong by car. The road was dry and
dusty, there was hardly a skerrick of
grass, the tank was baked. But he saw
the Minduk wethers galloping away to
his left. Rain fell ten months after the
muster and Minduk was re-sheeped. On
the bank of the tank, as the station sheep
headed bleating for the water after their
15-mile trip without it, the seven rangy
wethers stood, sneering at the sissies who
had to be kept on the river just because
the tank was dry.
•1* •(» H*
“Louden”: Sandy, who ran a couple
of thousand sheep on his leasehold in the
foothills of the range, owned a very intelli-
gent young lead-dog. According to Jack,
a drover particularly anxious to get pos-
session of the tyke, good lead-dogs, or
front runners, as he called them, were
born, not made, and were wasted on
small sheep runs. One day Sandy’s only
barking dog was killed by a car. As
soon as he heard the news Jack hastened
to Sandy’s place and offered to exchange
a barker and a silent wing worker for
the front runner. Sandy promised to
think it over. A week later, accompanied
by his lead dog, he met the drover out-
side the five-mile pub, and told him he’d
take the two dogs offered, plus a fiver, for
his specialist. Jack said Sandy was as
hard as goats’ knees, and suggested getting
Bung’s opinion. The argument and
wrangling which followed were cleverly
kept from fizzling out by Bung as he
kept liquid fuel up to the bargainers. An
hour later a stranger got out of a sedan
car in front of the pub and went in for
a drink. He listened intently as the sheep-
men talked, and shouted twice for Bung
"I've ad a cow uo a day at the factory — it's good t' get 'ome fer a bit
o' peace an' quiet!"
and the other two before departing.
Towards sunset Jack accepted Sandy's
terms, but by that time the lead dog was
many miles away and travelling in the
back of a sedan car*
¥ * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: While not commenting
on “The O.D.’s” cat that chewed tobacco
(B. 26/4/’44), I support his contention
that “domesticated herbivorous animals”
don’t have to be taught to eat human
delicacies. But why stop at d.h. animals?
A dog that has never seen, say, an ice-
cream promptly sizes' it up as a bit of all
right and treats it accordingly. My own
mong eats pears and grapes, loves
bananas and cracks peach stones in his
teeth to get at the kernels. And he’s no
pampered lapdog. A feline pet of my
youth departed this life after Dad’s
discovery of its penchant for eating
cucumbers on the vine. Magpies soon
learn the site of a camp’s food-refuse
dump and clean-up scraps of bread, spud
or meat indiscriminately. An old kooka-
burra which used to drowse on a dead
branch near the kitchen door always
snapped out of slumber in time to catch
meaty titbits before they dropped to the
ground. Many a possum has lost his
overcoat through putting a hind foot in
a rabbit-trap while reaching to nibble
at a daub of dough cunningly placed
on the trunk of a tree, or through sniff-
ing at a raisin which has been soaked
in cyanide. But if anybody still doubts
that wild creatures will eat human victuals
let him leave his flour, sugar, etc., in an
accessible place when a hungry pig or go.
is about.
“Chuck”: “Sur Cingle” (B. 19/4/’44)
asks do horses eat bread or must they
learn to eat it. The answers are, they
do and they must; and the necessity for
learning applies to other animals. I have
seen cattle, driven down from: the hills and
given hay for the first time, trample and
refuse it. With nothing else to eat one
will soon nibble experimentally; others
will gradually appreciate the smell and
soon the whole mob will be eating
greedily. And what could be more
exasperating than trying to feed a flock
of starving sheep on something they
haven’t seen before? They must be
patiently taught to accept it. Sometimes
a jumbuck will even starve to death
rather than eat linseed nuts, maize, wheat
or even hay; yet these are considered
correct and nourishing feed for sheep.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Vagabond”; Recent mention of Mc-
Intyre’s grave in the Gulf country recalls
an experience in 1927. We were on
the track thieving grass for a mob of
rams, ewes and weaners, and, to cap it,
there was lambing. Tucker was scarce,
and so was water: we’d had our fill and
sampled every type we knew of, includ-
ing gidya, kopi and weedy water. The
medicinal qualities of bore-water had
proved disastrous to our newchum fresh
from the coast. Mclntyre’s was the next
decent hole. Ten miles out on the stock-
route we passed a mob of bullocks
1400 strong making for Julia Creek.
Next day was a scorcher, and at
nightfall, thirsty and dry, we struck
the hole, to find the banks lined
with rotting perch. Having traversed
a dry stage the mob of cattle we
passed had rushed the hole, stirred up the
mud and suffocated the fish.
gjt j¥ ¥ ¥
“Rover”: Drunk’s luck is a byword,
and “Debil-Debil,” a busy little runt of
a man, always in a hurry whether work-
ing or drinking, had more than his share.
Periodical boozes were his custom, but
between times a week-end jag kept him
going. One cold night old “Debil-Debil”
was weaving his way back to his shack,
the usual bottle of rum on the hip. The
rutted track winding through dense shrub
and lantana forcibly reminded him where
his path lay. At last it penetrated his
muddled mind that he’d have to camp
till daylight. He managed after many
fumbling attempts to light a dry log near
the track. Taking sundry pulls at the rum
he dozed off with one finger rammed in
the neck of the bottle —an old custom to
safeguard the contents. The night and
the fire moved on, finally spreading to an
old dead tree. Next morning an early
horseman, finding the road blocked with
a fallen tree, dismounted to investigate,
and was horrified to see a body lying
beneath. On approaching the spot he
heard snores, and further investigation
revealed “Debil-Debil” peacefully sleep-
ing in a rut, with the trunk of the tree
across him, the rum bottle empty, his
finger still serving as a plug.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Blime”: Old Ted was stringing the
jumbucks along the narrow road when
a car started tooting impatiently behind
the mob. “Bob,” he called, “go back and
tell that car to wait till we’re through the
cutting.” A few minutes later the kid,
very red in the face, again worked for-
ward, while the car continued to crowd
the mob from the rear. “Well, I’d like
t’ see you make ’em,” Bob protested in
answer to Ted’s roar. “I told ’em. What
more c’d I do?” Just then the car
“ That's the last straw — you're fired!"
crowded several sheep over the bank, and
with a snort of disgust Ted turned back,
arriving just as the bumper knocked one
of the tail. “Here, whyinell can’t y’ be
more careful?” he bellowed. From
the window a highly-painted face
emerged. “Now then, you watch your
language, my man,” ordered a shrill
voice. In his early days Ted’s dial had
been trampled by a Clydesdale, and now,
riding close, he thrust the misshapen
effects close to the window and let go.
His language scorched the faces of the
occupants and shrivelled them back
against the cushions. “An’ what’s more,
you dressed-up something of a so-and-
so,” he spluttered through a twisted
mouth before the window was quite
closed, “you learn t’ keep y’ crimson
mouth shut.” They had no more trouble
from the car.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Botano”: I note that in his doubt of
my wattle-eucalypt theory “8.A.” (B.
12/4/’44) refers to wattle growing as
dense undergrowth beneath the tall euca-
lypts of south Victorian forests. Well,
that is quite in accord with the teach-
ings of botany, the wattle being per-
mitted to come into existence as an under-
growth only when the eucalypts had
grown so tall as to be indifferent
to the competition. Suppose one
of the forests were entirely de-
stroyed by fire. The wattles
would spring up with the first rain
and would keep the eucalypts
down until the wattles began to
die of age (they dp not live long
compared with other trees); then
the eucalypts would come into
possession with such of their seeds
as had escaped the conflagration
and the years of dormant burial.
The earth around by now would
be laden with dormant wattle
seeds, unable to germinate until
yet another fire happened along;
after which they would sprout, the
eucalypts being by then too strong
to be challenged. So the cycle
keeps on. The fight is mostly
underground between the roots
for food and moisture. I have
watched thickets of young euca-
lypts kill off the weaklings of
their own kind in much the same
way.
“L.McD.”: The filtering and storage
tanks in our area are all connected, and
one empties at the top through a pipe
into which, as the level of water lowers,
air is sucked. As the water rises the air
blows back with considerable noise and
a fine shower of spray. Here come a
number and variety of birds for their
morning plunge. The majority are honey-
eaters, who take a sudden dip and dash
off at great speed at the snort of air.
Not so Willie Wagtail. That gay devil-
may-care perches with evident enjoy-
ment on the rim, tail swaying, hands in
pocket, and as the spray flies he times his
dart to a nicety through it. A dozen times
he repeats this before, with a perfunctory
upward snap at an imaginary winged
insect, he sails off to dry and preen his
feathers on a stump in the sun.
“Pat Ater”: Those playboys of the
mountain gullies the satin bower-birds
generally put out a scout when any devil-
ment is afoot. That strategy gave them
a special treat on apple-shortbread pie
left by the wife on a verandah to cool.
But they are fastidious feeders, epi-
cures of the avian world. The green and
brown, ochre-spotted youngsters fly in
flocks. It takes the male from three to
seven years to gain the black and blue
raiment of the masters who build bowers
to play in and who pinch the bluebags.
These glorious violet-eyed mimics seem
to go about singly, except at mating time.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: On a Torres Strait island
a store boy sent up a bag of pollard just
as I was leaving on three months’ leave
for the south, during which period the
bag remained unopened. On return I
slashed the lashing on the bag and found
a fat death-adder reposing therein. He’d
lived on the pollard, without water, for
90 days.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Yarragundry”: Beat this! The Postal
Department called tenders for the con-
veyance of mail triweekly from Wagga
to Bull’s Run (N.S.W.) and back, either
by motor or horse-drawn vehicle. A
former mailman got the contract for a
horse-drawn conveyance mounted on
four motor-tyres. One tyre wore out
and he applied, through the proper
channel, for a secondhand tyre to carry
on. In reply he was ordered to install
a gas producer in one month or his petrol
would be cut 75 p.c.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Bo”: Ben Shepherd is reckoned a
calm and patient man —justly, if one may
judge from his effort on the Corktree
road. Ben had on his jinker a water-
wheel weighing several tons and drawn
by his 16 bullocks. A dip in the road
was covered by a few inches of liquid
mud from recent rains, and as the front
off-wheel went down into a pothole the
water-wheel shifted, until the near-side
wheels almost came off the ground.
Slowly Ben surveyed the position,
conned the possibilities, of the near-by
vegetation and got out his heaviest
chains. Around the stoutest branches
of two gums growing on each side
of the narrow road practically oppo-
site the water-wheel he slung his
chains, putting the hook of each chain
to its side of the wheel. That took half
an hour of testing and arranging. Then
Ben got out the banjo and proceeded to
undermine that portion of the roadway
under each wheel, so that as the jinker
sank down the water-wheel would swing
free on the chains, and he would then
proceed to work the jinker exactly dead
centre under the suspended wheel. Three
hours later the wheel was four inches
above the table-top, and Ben set the team
to work. He had just got the jinker clear
when one of the chains snapped and the
wheel crashed to the road. Ben walked
slowly back to the scene of all his futile
toil, scratched his chin with the handle
of his whip and drawled; “That’s funny
—I thought that might ’appen!”
LION, A GOLDEN RETRIEVER.
When we remember him well have in mind
Not “lower creatures” nor “the brute
creation,”
But a fine spirit who, lowly in station,
Follows afar the lodestar of his kind;
A faithful servitor who never asks
More than his small desert of any Fate,
Accepts with gratitude his humble state,
Content with narrow ways and simple tasks.
What though his world were vague and dim, as
when
The under-water swimmer skyward gazes?
He caught stray gleams of light from names
and phrases
And loved the warm companionship of men.
Upon the confines of our world he walked,
Barely half seeing and half comprehending
Our daily doings, yet could see us bending
Down to include him kindly in our talks.
Gentle he was, courteous and well-behaving,
A dog of character, a dog of parts—
Had he a soul for damning or for saving?
We know not, but he lives on in our hearts,
A shining memory; we see him moving
Among us with bright coat and pleading eyes,
Just one of us, a friend in dog disguise;
One of ourselves, less knowing, but more loving.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
Townsville, charleville, buenos aires, London.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
-
The safest,
menace.
The only w
out all the
to RABBITS
surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
&
carry
the maximum number of sheep is to clear
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
•ii'lt'o'eke. f p^ m , BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
jSterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Postures ond Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum o
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
A ll particulars from : ■
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Cattle Sales.
“Bulago”; They were the kind stud
breeders dream about; confidence evi-
dent, buyers from every State, values up
roughly 50 p.c., records established and
high prices extended to studs not hitherto
prominent.
There was a strong demand for im-
ported blood, both direct and by descent.
Many bulls brought four figures. D. R.
McCaughey set the pace by buying back
Coonong Kiltie for 1700gns. The bull
was bred by him and sold to E, L. Killen
a couple of years ago at less than a third
of the repurchase price. Kiltie was
Shorthorn champion, but the runner-up,
Coonong Napoleon, brought the record,
2000gns., from Woomargama. -Calool
Helmsman, junior res. champ., made
lOSOgns., Coonong and Antrim bulls
averaged over £750, cows sold well, and
every stud’s average went to three figures.
Prices for Polled Shorthorns were very
good. Gundibri made new figures with
Standard 41st, lOOOgns., the Bogan bull
which beat him at the show brought
800gns., and some others made 400gns. to
500gns.
Herefords were in steady demand. The
Golf Hill cattle brought excellent prices,
a yearling making the record of 1300gns. ,
for his age. Six bulls from this stud
averaged close on £750 each. Windsor’s
champion, Windsor Lancaster, was passed
in at 1400gns., but another Windsor bull
sold at 13Q0gns., and cows were snapped
up. Colly Creek averaged particularly
well with a top price of 1 lOOgns. Bexley
Monitor brought 1350gns. for Hays
Bros., but the best price for a Hereford
bull was 1500gns., obtained by J. H. i
White for Timor Hilarian. First, second J
and third prize bulls at the show each
brought over lOOOgns.
Poll Herefords were keenly sought; top
price was 500gns. for a Moreduval bull.
Milton Duntroon was sold privately to
Queensland for 750gns. Aberdeen-Angus
prices included a record of 1500gns. for
the show champion, Booroomooka
Lochiel. Buyers from other States
figured prominently in purchases of Black
Polls, but, on the whole, clearances were
not so good as in other breeds. About
30 p.c. of offerings were passed in.
There was a good demand for Devon
bulls, and Havilah made a record for the
breed with a sale at 550gns. Other cattle
from this stud and from Table Top sold
freely. Red Polls met poor demand, and
only two sales were recorded.
Drought in War-time.
“Bungaree”: In pre-war days there
were means of combating droughts. To-
day drought-feeding is hit by lack of
materials and man-power. About the
only method left is broadcasting of suit-
able feed in the paddocks. On hard,
bare soil grain may be trailed from a
truck, but on sandy, dusty country the
grain becomes trampled into the ground
and lost, and in their hurry to scoop it
up sheep pick up sand or earth.
The feeds most suitable for broadcast-
ing are hay and sheep nuts. Oats are
in short supply. Barley is very scarce,
and corn is too costly at 7s. to 8s. per
bushel. Wheat would have to be fed
in troughs in most cases.
Man-power affects hay. Few farmers
have been able to conserve more than
sufficient hay for their own needs; many
have not been able to do that. The hay
on the N.S.W. market for feeding stock is
practically negligible. The price of lucerne
hay puts it right out of the question for
feeding anything but valuable stud stock.
Feeding meals, particularly those with
a high percentage of protein, are un-
obtainable. Meatmeal is under depart-
mental control and will not be released
for feeding sheep. This and bloodmeal
constituted the ingredients of most of
the high-protein concentrates, but other
ingredients are practically unprocurable.
Bran and pollard are under departmental
“ Wot d' you think of my new pin-up girl?”
control. Linseed, peanut and coconut
meals are scarce.
Lack of high-protein concentrates
like meatmeal, etc., will mean losses
of lambing ewes through twin-lamb
disease. The drain on the ewe prior to
lambing is so heavy that, unless additional
nourishment is given, most of those carry-
ing more than one lamb are likely to be
lost. Supplementary feeding is the only
known preventive.
This leaves sheep nuts as practically
the only available feed suitable for use
under present conditions, but supplies are
low.
The position in N. S. Wales is that
if the drought continues there will be
no fat stock coming to market. Even
now it is too late to save many thousands
of sheep. A bad July and August would
cause great mortality.
The Wheat Position.
“8.C.”: According to the Wheat Board
about 188,000,000 bushels was held in
Australia at the end of April. Local use
was reckoned to account for 44,000,000
bushels of it by the end of December, the
rest being for export. The general con-
dition of the stored wheat is reported to
be good, though some damage has oc-
curred at odd places.
Wheat and flour sold, but not shipped,
runs into 48,000,000 bushels and flour
contracts are expected to keep mills going
for the rest of the year. The board fore-
casts a record mill year in 1945. It is
noted that as much wheat has been used
for poultry and stock feeding and general
purposes (whatever they are) as for flour.
If owners of starved sheep could get it,
still more wheat could be used.
A total of 94,804,000 bushels came
from the 1943-44 harvest, for which pay-
ment is made on the “Scully” plan. It’s
the same plan, with some price difference,
as has been named after various people,
but seems to have been originated by
Hugh S. Roberton, a Riverina man.
However, for the 1943-44 wheat it is 4s.
a bushel for the first 3000 and an advance
of 2s. on the rest. The 4s. was paid for
about 82 p.c. of the harvest.
The board has a net overdraft on wheat
of £33,000,000 and on jute of £2,000,000.
Bushel amounts paid or advanced to
growers for the various pools are; No. 1,
2s. 9.9 d. f.0.b.; No. 2,3 s. 7.9 d. less rail
freight; No. 4,3 s. Hid. less r.f.; No. 5,
3s. 7d. less r.f.; No. 6,4 s. at sidings on
first 3000, 3s. on over 3000 ; No. 7,4 s.
on first 3000, 2s. on over (silo wheat 2d.
a bushel less). Mr. Scully is arranging
an advance of 3d. a bushel n n No. 5
pool wheat.
Conserving Fodder.
“Graz” : A stockowner would need to
be a magician to do all his routine jobs
and find time for a fodder conservation
scheme as “Sheepo” suggests (B. 3/5/’44).
If he hires labor at harvesting award rates
his fodder is going to be pretty dear.
Big farming machinery is the only
means of cutting down labor costs. Such
plant is beyond the means of most
graziers, but there is nothing to stop one
man in each locality putting his money
into farming machinery, instead of acres,
and hiring it and his services to others.
Local councils could help by obtaining
and hiring out bulldozers.
There would then be no excuse for
every farm not having at least one ensil-
age pit, for a b.d. can shift more earth
in one day than a farmer with his little
scoop can move in a month. Mass-pro-
duced homes are eyesores, but mass-pro-
duced vermin-proof chaff and grain-sheds
would fill a long-standing want on most
farms.
Cabbages.
“B.”; Cabbages like rich soil. They’ll
take all the organic manure they can get,
even heavy applications of fowl manure.
’lf organic manure’s scarce, grow a green-
manure crop before planting out the cab-
bages. For the winter crop, blue lupins ;
for the summer, black cowpeas.
Don’t wait for the green-manure crop
to decay. Plant the seedlings out a week
or so after it’s been turned in. In addi-
tion to the organic manure, 4cwt. of
superphosphate and lewt. of sulphate of
ammonia should be spread along the
furrows immediately under the seedlings.
Cover with soil so that the fertiliser
won’t burn the roots.
When plants are half-grown, add llcwt.
of sulphate of ammonia to stimulate
heart growth. Don’t use cauliflowers,
Brussels sprouts, etc., as rotations to cab-
bages.
Hints for the Farm.
“Shive”; Growers have always been
advised to pay careful attention to skirt-
ings and see that they get the same care
as is paid to the fleece lines. Well, a
southern N.S.W. grower raises a good clip
of super spinners’ wool. In the 1942
shearing, owing to man-power shortage,
he was unable to have his skirtings picked
during shearing and had them appraised
in an unpicked state for an average of
17d. per pound. For the 1943 shearing
he engaged a piece-picker, and his broken
made to 20d., the first pieces to 15|d., his
average being Against this was the
cost of the piece-picker’s wages, which
brings his average price to lt looks
as though that grower’s “all-in” policy
in 1942 was the more profitable.
“B.”: To protect milkers from mos-
quitoes, mix an emulsion of three gallons
pine tar creosote with three gallons water
in which 11b. caustic soda (98 p.c.) has
been dissolved. Make up to 100 gallons
with cold water and apply as a spray.
“P.A.”; Swede turnips provide bulk
fodder over late winter and spring
months. They are nutritious and sus-
taining for dairy herds, pigs, fats and
even sheep. Sown in February in coast
areas m a deeply broken soil, which has
been given a generous super, dressing,
swedes jump ahead with rain or watering
to germinate the seed. They must be
kept moving for best results—-without
a check. Frosts improve both texture
and taste.
“Flock Ram”; The blowfly committee
of the C.5.1.R., which approves of the
modified Mules operation for blowfly-
control, has changed its official opinion
on the length of the docked tail. The
new recommendation is to cut the tail
at a level which will keep the tip about
a quarter- to a half-inch below the vulva.
The recommendation includes the hold-
ing of each lamb’s tail against the crutch
when docking ; the edge of the knife will
then be in correct position.
“L.C.”: To give leaking vessels second
life dissolve one part salt in as little
water as possible and mix into six parts
of cement. Plug, fairly dry, into holes
or faulty seams. Thin down the mixture
to the consistency of thick cream and
wash over the mend on both sides.
“Hux”: Leaves of yellowwood (Ter-
minalis oblongata), common in Central
Queensland, are dangerous to sheep,
which will eat them during dry periods.
The leaves form hard masses in the in-
testines and cause impaction. There is
no known cure. Don’t confuse the tree
with the large timber one of the same
name in south-east Queensland.
“Portergaff”: An excellent preparation
for the interiors of wrought-iron water-
tanks is a mixture of cement and salt
water or stiff brine solution. Run the
wire brush over first, then dust and apply
one coat at the consistency of thick paint.
Keep well stirred while using. The
cement will not wash off, but leaves a
clean, rust-free surface.
“E. 2”: If there’s an arc-welding plant
within reasonable distance, take along
worn tools or broken parts of machinery,
plus some material for patching. Worn
discs make extra-good blades for
shovels; chaffcutter knives are just the
thing for hoes ; and axles and parts off
scrapped machines yield good steel for a
number of jobs.


Ruwolt
*SSS
SSSS
.
¥
I J J
'■ ■■
S
m
: ¥,y.v'<¥
swS
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond. E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
DUNLOP
DUNLOP RUBBER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Some Russian Aims.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century
The Poles, fighting for independence
against the Germans, are also determined
to be independent of Soviet Russia. 1 hey
are opposed to the revived Pan-Slav
movement because it is the instrument of
Russian imperialism, now as before—and
has been revived for no other reason.
They are unamenable to Communism.
The Comintern was dissolved, as the
Western world was led to believe. But
what was known as dissolution was, in
reality, something different. The Comin-
tern, when on the defensive, was concen-
trated within the Russian fortress. But
it has now taken the offensive, and was,
for that reason, mobilised and sent into
action, each national Communist party
operating on its own national sector.
That there is hardly any Communism in
Poland makes it all the more necessary
for the Russians, from their point of
view, not only to annex half the country,
the eastern half, but to insist in advance
that the rest of Poland have a “friendly
Government”—friendly, that is, to Rus-
sia, and, therefore, subservient to Russia.
It is true that Stalin has declared that
Poland shall be strong and independent.
But to the Russians this means that
Poland—or rather the western half, for
the eastern is not considered Poland any
longer but a of the Soviet Union —
is to be strong in the only way they re-
gard as possible, namely, to be a Rus-
sian dependency, later on to become a
member of the Soviet Union. And by
independent, the Russians mean that
Poland shall be independent just as the
different republics of the Union are in-
dependent—independent, that is to say,
of capitalists, landowners and imperial-
ists, though not of the centralised Rus-
sian State.
The Czechs, or at least those of their
ruling class of tflat part of it which is
represented by Dr. Benes, are Pan-Slav
and Pro-Russian. They are, therefore,
the favorites of Russia today. Their func-
tion, as conceived by Russia, is to be an
instrument of Russian domination in
central Europe. Dr. Benes is, as it were,
Stalin’s prospective commissar in what
is to be the Russian version of the present
German-controlled “Protektorat.”
The western frontiers of Russia, as in-
dicated on Russian official maps since
1941 and proclaimed in numerous official
speeches and army orders, include not
only eastern Poland and the Baltic States
but also Bessarabia and Moldavia. Be-
yond these regions there are others —
Bulgaria, for example, Serbia, perhaps
Slovenia, Hungary, Austria and east
Prussia, and perhaps the northern part of
Norway, which are as Russian
semi-dependencies or at Ffeast as within
the Russian sphere of interest, with the
purpose of dominating the Central Euro-
pean industrial area and of securing
access to the Atlantic, the /Egean and
perhaps, through Slovenia, to the
Adriatic.
Similar phenomena are observable in
Asia. Russia will not go to war with
Japan except, perhaps, in the last stage
to expel the Japanese from Manchuria,
there to establish a “friendly Govern-
ment.” The Russian penetration of Persia
has gone far, even now. Even in Tehran,
where the Russians* share the control with
the British and the Americans, there is
a distinct Russian ascendancy and a
powerful Russian influence in Persian in-
ternal politics, an influence that will make
itself felt in the next Persian elections,
with the purpose of securing access to
the Persian Gulf.
There is not, and cannot be, the slight-
est opposition to Russian foreign policy
in Russia itself —or, indeed, any opposi-
tion of any sort, except amongst some of
the Asiatic border populations, especially
in Caucasia, where it is too localised to
be effective. Only the Red Army has an
independent spirit, but it is the chief sup-
porter, indeed one of the driving forces,
of Russian foreign policy. Demobilisa-
tion will certainly confront Stalin with
a most difficult problem. In 1887 Bis-
marck wrote to Lord Salisbury that the
Russian Government would have to con-
sider “the need of giving employment to
a numerous and able army, to satisfy
the ambition of its generals, and to divert
towards foreign policy the attention of,
the Liberals who demand changes in the
Constitution.” Today officers and men
of the Red Army are Russia’s “Liberals,
in the sense that they not only feel but
openly express the need for more free-
dom—for something that resembles what
in Western Europe is called democracy.
The Russian people as a whole would
“demand changes in the Constitution it
they could, but only the armed forces
might be able to do so effectively. Many
of them, no doubt, will be transferred to
Russian industry and agriculture when
the war is over, but for the elite there
will be much to do abroad.
Russia sees the prospect of securing
abroad all she has coveted throughout her
history. ___
Stabilising Europe.
(From N.Y. “Times.")
It is time to stress the point that the
primary question at issue is not the solu-
tion of the German problem but the solu-
tion of the European problem.
Germany is and must remain a central
factor in the European equation. For the
past 75 years she has been a highly dis-
turbing factor, and whether at the end of
this war she is to be divided, diminished,
left whole or organised into a Germanic
federation should be determined first of
all with reference to the future of
Europe.
It is clearer now than it was in 1919
that the first condition of the peace is a
strong and stable Europe. The chief
criterion today must be security, and the
underlying question is not so much what
to do about Germany as what to do
about Europe, to the end that Germany
can be integrated into a system that is
stronger than she is.
This immediately raises the issue of
the future of France. Without a strong
France a strong Europe is impossible. A
Europe headed toward democracy is un-
thinkable if the only great democracy on
the Continent is weak and unsupported
by the British and American democracies.
The sooner we learn elemental y
lesson of this war, which is that the. Co-
ntinent was overrun and we were direct y
menaced because France fell, the sooner
we shall understand that it is a vital i
terest to bolster up France and restore
her leadership in western Europe
France is not only a Power on the Con-
tinent which holds the key to peace and
war. She is the capital of a colonial
empire second only to the British m ex-
tent and importance, and so long as theie
is no disposition in any quarter to breaK
up that empire, and apparently there is
not, she will continue to hold key posi-
tions in the defence system of the world
Pacific Air Fighting.
(From a report by Major.-Gen. Willis H. Hale,
commanding U.S. Seventh Air Force. Hawaii.)
There is no such thing as area bombing
in this Central Pacific theatre. We must
pinpoint our targets for the simple reason
that the targets are small and must be
hit squarely. A single pin point in the
European theatre might be a facto i\ ,
here it would cover an entire island.
Each installation on an island is an
objective and must be carefully knocked
out The target must be directly hit. The
difference of 40 feet one way or the other
can mean that the bombs land either in
the lagoon on one side of an island oi
the ocean on the other. And we don t
fly 2000 miles to kill fish.
We do not fly in tight formation
because of the weather. Constantly, bad
weather lies between us and our targets
like a huge wall especially constructed by
the enemy. Just as bad is the fact that
the weather comes out of the enemy s
direction—and the Jap takes due advan-
tage of it. To get through our ’planes
have to break up into small elements and
fly through it as best they can.
Each step we make across the Pacific
shortens the distance to our ultimate
target, the mainland of Japan. Our
medium bombers are ready to swing into
action. .
As we draw nearer we win bring more
and more weight to bear on the enemy.


<ni>
you.
fot *merhj known as
* TEXACO
CALTEX
o
o) ?) (o
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
\W
w.
br
t\o^
cn<
-%3
T|
■
Lx^
11
1-1
'VTTT^
sb;
Y^>
On the table of the conference
room, and the bench of the work-
room, post-war refrigeration is
now being planned to give Australian industry the
advantages of war-time experience and up-to-date
knowledge.
In war plants, army installations, and naval ships,
Werner Refrigeration is being tested under
extreme conditions, the meeting of which will
enable Werners to supply you with post-war re-
frigeration of amazing worth.
Keep YOUR mind on Werner Refrigeration to serve
YOUR needs. Information gladly mailed on request.
INDUSTRIES
SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRIGERATION
O Abattoirs, Bakers
® Breweries, Butchers
® Butter Factories, Cafes
d Confectioners, Councils
® Dairy Produce Shops
Q Dairies, Fishmongers
Q Fruit Storages, Grocers
9 Guest Houses, Hospitals
O Hotels, Ice Manufacturers
# ice Cream Factories
9 Markers, Ships.
m
m
W 3/27
R. WERNER
& Co. PTY. LTD.
Burnley Street, Richmond. °
REFRIGERATION for INDUSTRY
INTERSTATE AGENTS—N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO. PTY. LTD., 174 Clarence St., SYDNEY; S.A.:W. J. WHITE, 30 Grots
St. ADELAIDE; W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH; QLO.: G. A. ROCHE PTY. LTD., Cr. Ipswich Rd. and Reis
St., Woo 11 oongabbo, STH. BRISBANE; TAS.; NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART; 59 George St., LAUNCESTON
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
- Doctors say your kidney's contain 15 SnileS
of tiny tutcs or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons iri your blood
fere the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-i
feche, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
fend energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
fend ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-
jaches and dizziness. .
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will taka up these poisond
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
a 5 MILKS of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
[BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS fit £881!
pr store,
and all our aircraft —heavy bombers,
mediums and fighters—will be in opera-
tion as we sweep across the Central
Pacific to bomb the economic strongholds
of the enemy and land our forces in
Japan.
Dragnet Digest.
Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
In what Australian girls think of American
service men there’s more than simple charm.
Chief among the worthy traits that endear our
fighters to the girls Down Under are these:
they thank a girl when they take her out, and
don’t expect the girl to thank them. They like
to do the chasing; and they chase well. They
ask a girl what she would like to do. They
don’t greet her with: “We’re going to the pic-
tures.” They like to be bossed. You can’t
boss an Aussie!— American press correspondent.
* * * *
To show the ramifications of the Turkish
treaty structure consider the following; In
1939 Turkey signed a treaty of benevolent neu-
trality with Britain in the event of a Mediter-
ranean war; in October, 1939, she signed a
non-aggression pact with Russia that was re-
newed in March, 1941; in June, 1941, she
signed a non-aggression pact with Germany;
in October, 1941, a mutual trade agreement was
consummated between Germany and Turkey.
In December, 1941, President Roosevelt de-
clared Turkey eligible for lend-lease, with the
understanding, of course, that none of the
supplies should go to Germany.— Chicago
“Sun.”
* * *
Chian g Kai-shek is likely to find a basis for
composition with the Wang Ching-wei puppet
Government of occupied China in order to
assure against an emergence of Left-wing con-
trol when and if the Japanese are driven out.
■ —“United States News.”
* * * *
The third-term Presidential campaign of 1940
delayed the rearmament programme by many
months, impelled the President to give assur-
ances against war involvement that the world
situation refuted and contributed disastrously
to the unpreparedness psychology of the people.
If the same political considerations, geared now
to a fourth-term effort, are permitted to post-
pone or obscure candid post-war statements of
national policy the eventual cost may be even
greater. — Arthur Krock; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
France, better than most, knows the tragic
meaning of the Nazi starvation doctrine. The
1914 class of youngsters who answered the
colors numbered 750,000. In 1939 there were
only 450,000. The missing 300,000 simply
hadn’t been born. Their potential fathers lay
dead on battlefields from Flanders to Switzer-
land. But the enemy now has a still better
method. Malnutrition is not only superior to
machine-guns but is less expensive and leaves
more food for the Germans. Germany may
win the next war, 20 or 25 years hence, because
her neighbors simply haven’t enough soldiers —
because babies were not born or were starved in
infancy.— Willim Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-
Telegram
* * * *
First peace feelers from Japan are being
looked for in Washington, now that the Japa-
nese are becoming hard pressed. There is not
the slightest sign that Japanese feelers would
get a reception in any quarter in the U.S.A. —
“United States News . v
* * # *
The lesson that the crimes of Japan, matched
as they are by those of Germany, must stamp
indelibly into the minds of all civilised peoples
• is that law without force behind it is no law
at all. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The worst thing any English man or woman,
particularly a politician or a journalist, can do
is to advise American people on how to vote in
the forthconiing election. It is absolutely none
of our business. The fact that Americans tell
us what to do about Palestine, India, the Far
East, Ireland, the colonies and everything else
is no reason for us to tell them what to do
about the White House. — London “Daily Mail”
New York correspondent.
* * * *
Reports from excellent sources suggest that
the Hitler Government is succeeding in its
effort to hold up morale under bombing by
giving bombed-out families Government bonds
in full compensation for damage and assuring
that these families can have new homes when
the war is won. The idea is to use bombing to
give the victims a new stake in victory instead
of leaving them with a feeling of despair.—
“United States News.” ' '
* * * *
Though Finland is reported to have rejected
the Russian terms of peace our [U.S.] Govern-
ment, through Secretary Hull, continues to urge
the Finns to get out of the war. To offer this
advice is implicitly to assume some responsibility
for the ultimate fate of the Finns if they fol-
low it. Yet, so far as the public record goes,
we have failed to say anything about the terms
on which Finland should leave the war, and we
have failed to offer the Finns any assurances
regarding their ultimate independence or in-
tegrity as a nation. — N.Y. “Times.”
« iH sK H>
It should be noted that the Nazi drive for
“negotiated peace” coincides almost exactly
with the setting up of the Peace Now move-
ment. When the war took a definite turn in
favor of . the Allied nations the Nazis finally
realised the best they could hope for was a
“negotiated peace.” At about the same time
the Peace Now movement took up the same
theme. Goebbels is undoubtedly using the fact
of such an organisation’s existence to bolster
German morale. The Dies Committee finds that
in specific instances the movement has been
guilty of acts whose nature is clearly seditious
and tends toward encouragement of treason.
Even though it is small and without significant
influence there is no doubt that the enemy and
certain neutral countries will seize on its propa-
ganda to try to show that American morale is
disintegrating and that the Nazis, and Japs still
have a chance of salvaging something.— Dies
Committee report.
* # * *
The Anglo-American high command had the
courage to delay invasion, despite tremendous
pressure from Russia, until the work of the
airmen—cutting the enemy’s production, dis-
rupting his supply lines, disorganising his home
front —should have had its effect. That decision
freed thousands of ’planes for strategic bombing
that otherwise would have been engaged in
tactical support of troops. It is a decision that
may well mean the saving of millions of
Allied lives. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
We [Americans] are outbuilding the Japs in
fighting ships by three to one, but when mer-
chant-ship construction is included we are out-
building them five or maybe as much as eight
to one. — Scripps-Howard Washington staff.
sfc # $ $
Counting in kings, queens and the two Crom-
wells, there have been 62 English rulers. Mr.
Roosevelt has already been in office longer than
25 of these rulers. This includes, of course, the
present King George VI, who may ultimately
rule longer than Mr. Roosevelt, but started four
years later. A fourth term, adding an addi-
tional four years to Mr. Roosevelt’s tenure of
the White House, would put him ahead of six
more kings and one queen in length of service.
This would make a grand total of 32 out of
62, or more than half. After that, all bets are
off.— N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Lord Halifax, Ambassador to the U.S.,
worried over increasing anti-British sentiment,
sent several reports to London. He feels that
sympathy for Britain when London was under
fire, England fighting for her life, has been
by suspicion toward the Empire. The
Ambassador is a sincere and devoted friend of
America, but his reports have been partly off-
set by unofficial British observers. — Drew Pear-
son; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”


Public Notices.
I, ANTONIO DICARA, of Italian nationality, born
at Forza D’agro, District of Messina, Sicily, and
resident five years in Australia, now residing at
Bentley, near Casino, New South Wales, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, HEINZ DIAMANT, known as HENRY DIAMOND,
N 224853, A.M.P., Stateless, born at Berlin, Germany,
and resident five years and three months in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 163 Queen Street, Woollahra,
N.SVW., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO WALTER ERNEST WATSON late of State
Penitentiary Long Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
MYRTLE JEAN WATSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2345 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
or upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th of July 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. SHAW McDONALD & CO. Solicitors 11c
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
EDWARD JAMES WILSON HOBBS.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of any
of the members of the family of the abovenamed
deceased person please communicate with the under-
signed ?
The parents of the deceased were Frederick Hobbs,
i brickmaker, and Lucy Hobbs, nee Wilson, who
were married at Liverpool, New South Wales, on
the 26th July, 1883, and at the date of birth of the
deceased were living at Chalder Street, Marriek-
ville. New South Wales. At the date of '' iv th of
the deceased on the 13th June, 1886, he had one
elder living brother.
J. E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
•mu
* &
w
&
=1
d.
&2%2y
Zts
£
n
i* :
CP
“Fair cities on western plains /hr out”
“It is they who will set fair cities
On the western plains, far out ;
They who would garden the deserts —
It is they who would conquer the drought.
They see to the dykes on the skyline,
Where a dust waste blazes to-day.
And they hear the lap of the waters
On the miles of sand and clay.”
—Henry Lawson,
mmmm
SIS®
|||||
•ISllSilil
:
■
aw
Hi
«
ip
■
m
m w
:
m
psai
I
H
M
m
WJI
m
1 '
ii
il
I M
y
IS
it
n
■
B
*
m
& v
4fi
' ■ %Z* *> ' i
:■■ -St
130 H.P. Caterpillar Diesel D 8 with elevating grader
making a road somewhere in Australia.
If Australia is to find a prosperous living for the millions of people necessary
to hold it safe ... we must make plans now for speedy development. The
population, which clings to its seaboards, must be offered a prosperous stake
in a bountiful hinterland made so by water conservation, irrigation and
cultivation. The fear of loneliness and isolation must be banished by quicker
means of communication. Out there where now lie loneliness and waste,
great cities must be built in the future. So that this gigantic task can be done
within our national budget only the most modern equipment should be used.
When the time comes the whole of our resources, now required for fighting,
will be placed at the disposal of the nation.
CATERPILLAR DIESEL
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunned ah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, S 7 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone-* 283 V. 102 Melbourne St..
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St,, Innisfail, ‘Phone—lnnisfail 475.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CTS-33-43
m
10 for 1/1
20 (or 2/2
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
Carreras Ltd.— 154 Years* Refutation fob Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 8
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy “National Geographic” magazine for
January and February, 1929; Jan., 1930; Feb.,
1931; March and September, 1932; and April,
1933.—3463.
To buy Voyages to the Moon and the Sun,
by Cyrano de Bergerac.—3464.
Information Sought.
What qualifications are necessary for officers
of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, and how are staff appointments made?
Officers are required to be highly trained in
science and are usually graduates with high
honors. All vacancies are advertised in the
“Commonwealth Gazette” and details are also
furnished to University Appointment Boards
and to professional bodies.
» * ♦ ♦
An alleviant for the sting of the Gympie
bush ?
Apply hot fomentation in the early acute
stages and follow by applications of calamine or
lead lotion.
* * * *
Is it possible to have tattoo-marks removed?
In nearly all cases it is necessary to remove
the area of skin affected. Local applications,
unless dangerously destructive, have little or no
effect.
* * * *
Method of reconditioning a leather coat?
Clean thoroughly with saddle-soap, go over
with shoe-polish and finish with a soft rag.
* * * *
How to rid soil of termites?
Make a paste of arsenic, sugar and fat and
spread on pieces of deal, placing each pair
together like a sandwich. Bury these just be-
low the surface of infested soil (marking each
place in case dogs or fowls scratch there) and
leave for a week.
Brief Answers.
K.F.O’N.: “The Star Spangled Banner” was
officially recognised as the U.S. National Anthem
on March 3, 1931 A.H.H.: Wages over £2
per week paid on and after April 1, ’44, are
liable to deduction of income tax instalments
irrespective of the period during which the in-
come was earned G.S.: Write to Emily
Macpherson Domestic College, Melbourne....
H.M.: No longer stocked by Sydney book-
shops. .. .H.A.: Wills may be read for Is. 6d.
each at the office of the Registrar of Probate,
Sydney W.A.F.; One myrtle leaf is worn on
the general service ribbon (irrespective of the
number of times mentioned in dispatches);
the “A” for Anzac is worn on the 1914-18 war
miniature color patch E.H.T.: Information
is contained in the August, ’37, issue of the
’’Queensland Agricultural Journal”; apply to
the Q’land Department of Agriculture and Stock
for a copy K.D.: No cases known... .Phil:
Nothing in the accepted general rules of poker
about splitting the cards of a five-card draw
W.G.; Any sort of routine flush beats any four
of a kind.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
K.E.K. : Good theme, too slightly treated
8.W.: Kipling and water A.A.W.: Diffuse.
Can’t trace “Coolah Grass” P.H.; Last line
weak F.Y.; Pleasant but conventional
J.N.: However he felt about it, you can’t rhyme
“land” with “damned” H.W.; “‘Help,
help!’ yelled poor old Clancy, as he wriggled
and wobbled about.” Presumably he, too,
was a poet E.H.: Not for us, but show it
fearlessly to the family 8.H.: Featherweight.
S.H.: Sentiments admirable, execution ex-
ecrable P.K.: “Should I send you some more
like this this?” Not if you have a spark of
humanity in you E.O’C.: The gloriously
setting sun diffused the gay city with its re-
splendent autumn beams.” Enough M.E.L.:
No wow endings E.R.R.: Nothing in it
D.M.: Dull J.K.E.: Joe is doing life in the
w.p.b J.C.: Overwritten W.WJ.
and K.A.; Magazinish G.W.: Not quite.
C.F.B.: Wordy, and just an anecdote
R.S.W.; Too much travel and too little myrtle.
J.L.: Call again G.L.T.: Mystification
isn’t story-telling R.E.R.: Everything’s there
except a story L.0.J.; Try elsewhere
R.D.: Nellie is skipping blithesomely home....
PJ.: You need a typewriter L.McF.: “She
turned on him a withering glance and flew out
the door.” She won’t perch here.


SECURITY
(OH THE PERFORMANCE OF TRUSTS
The appointment of The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Company
Limited as Executor of your Will, en-
sures ample security for the perform-
ance of the trusts:
Paid-up Capital £140,000
Uncalled Capital 660,000
Reserves . . .. 160,645
£960,645
In addition the Company offers more than 65
years’ specialised experience,, also continuity, im-
partiality, accessibility, secrecy, continuous audit,
moderate charges and sympathetic treatment of
beneficiaries.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free explana-
tory Booklet detailing the advantages of the
Company’s services.
Ir®ft>
■ i
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
I BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuan Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Milder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ssg
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a danonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp ba «
fumleamatine tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-niters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich., Ltd.
, Dividends x
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 5.4-7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38.361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c,
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ ~ 30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 ~ „ 30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund. £3OOO 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 74 p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO 75,810
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO 74,963
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. •• 96,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c.=26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. 106,255
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. .. 114,143
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
Blessed with an alert and enterprising
management, this co. (founded by the
Wunderlichs in the eighties of last cen-
tury) grew into the largest and most effi-
cient of its kind in Australasia. Pre-war
it turned out architectural terra-cotta
(popular in treating the facades of public'
buildings), tiles, showcases, shopfronts,
asbestos-cement (durabestos) sheets and
other building materials and embellish-
ments from factories spread throughout
the Commonwealth and Maoriland.
Thus earnings were governed largely
by conditions in the building trade. For
the prosperous decade to 1930 ord.
divs. averaged a shade over 12 p.c.,
£107,360 worth of share certificates to
staff partners was paid for out of earn-
ings, and £36,454 was distributed in divs.
thereon as well. For the next half-dozen
difficult years the ords. averaged 4.6 p.c.,
which called for £33,000-odd more profit
than was available after paying pref. divs.
Then the tide turned, the old policy of
distributing profits as they were earned
was abandoned, and for the eight years
to the close of last accounts the ords.
averaged 6.8 p.c., while £105,826 net was
added to reserves.
The next table shows what has hap-
pened in the now regulation-frozen real-
estate markets throughout the Common-
wealth. The figures exclude Government
building and defence contracts;
Monthly Averages.
Six Mlhs.
f Years Ending June—— N Dec.,
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943. 1943.
Metropolis, £OOO £OOO £OOO £OOO £OOO
Sydney.. .. 1111 1000 498 116 115
Melbourne .. 702 865 343 77 97
Brisbane . . 171 168 90 10 11
Adelaide . . 192 159 109 49 55
Perth ~ . . 145 122 68 14 15
Hobart.. ..32 28 ' 20 5 6
Six capitals . . 2353 2342 1128 272 302
Though the trade began to pick up dur-
ing the last half of 1943, it is obvious
from the introductory table that the gap
in Wunderlich’s turnover caused by stop-
page of all but essential private bqilding
has been filled by Government orders
for public buildings, and construction
and other activities for defence purposes.
The board figured the year’s profit
£7957 better at £64,488. That was after
providing £33,124 (tip £8734) for depre-
ciation and £48,437 (up £6033) for the
taxgatherer and paying £1206 in divs. on
staff partners’ certificates. The £64,488
wds enough to stand the prefs. a full 7
p.c. and then show 12.1 p.c. on the
£440,000 of ord. capital as against 10.3,
13.1 and 9 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div. was lifted a point, mak-
ing it 7 p.c. Of the £22,488 that remained,
£14,600 was allotted to staff partners—
considerate employee treatment has long
been a feature of the management’s
policy.
Another feature of the management’s
policy is provision for depreciation,
which. allows only a nine-year life for
plant, after striking 5 p.c. off the book
value of freeholds. Here are balance-
sheet figures:
1938. 1940. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors .. 127,665* 107,878* 215,564 185,442
Tax reserve.. 97.924 112,820
Staff funds . . 31,700 30,601 52,050 64,650
Freeholds .. 362,629 318,703 823,67? 312,477
Leaseholds .. 777 200
Plant, etc. .. 198,703 158,307 158,491 156,775
Stocks.. .. 162,034 188,873 335,346 327;234
Book debts . . 98,939 118,623 183,787 154,264
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 5,918 66,328 89,539 100,961
* Including tax provision.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£334,197) was £39,013.
Stocks (down £8112) are still double the
1938 figure. If large stocks are held at
the termination of the war much will
depend upon their suitability for civilian
trade requirements, which promise to be
heavy.
Transition from war back to civilian
production promises to be more complex
and difficult than was the conversion of
industry to war purposes. The problems
will fall broadly into three main groups,
namely, contract termination, plant con-
version and surplus disposal. Each of
these is closely related to the other two.
The sooner the Government, in consul-
tation with trade groups concerned, works
out its policy on these questions the less
dislocation will there be when the time
to change over arrives.
Australasian Catholic Assurance *
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 f 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530' 61,222 90,081 f 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 t 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 .. 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 f 946.439
Loss property, £1574 .. .. .. 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,1881 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 .. 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51.115 107,750 209,9231 1,347,160
Unexplained addition, £1852.. .. 1,349,012
1940.. 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,5331 1,513,545
Loss property, £124 .. .. .. 1,513,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
Unexplained addition, £525.. .. 1,714,002
1942.. 437,430 186,011 114,336 135,9781 1,849,980
Unexplained reduction, £942 .. 1,849,038
1943.. 445,567 250,201 107,901 87,4651 1,936,503
*Net funds apart from capital.
tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
J After paying 14 p.c. on prefs. and p.c. on ords.
The 23-year-old A.C.A. is one of the
healthiest of Australia’s young life offices,
and it continues to consolidate and
strengthen its position. The business con-
sists mainly of industrial assurance con-
tracts, with a comparatively small amount
of fire and accident risks, and is spread
throughout N. S. Wales, Queensland, Vic-
toria, South Aus. and Westralia.
Bonuses to policyholders, whose in-
terests were placed in the foreground from
the start, began at the end of the first
decade, and have continued to flow regu-
larly at satisfactory rates ever since. In
the first place they were derived largely
from interest on a well-selected lot of
first mortgages. Also, there was no
attempt at forced growth, with a conse-
quent moderate-for-age expense rate and
low lapse rate. Later a lot of money
was put into freehold premises in Syd-
ney and Melbourne, and rents figured
more prominently in earnings. Then,
under war-time controlled economy, sur-
plus earnings were mostly channelled into
low-interest-bearing Government securi-
ties, rents were pegged, the taxgatherer
called for more of the relatively lighter
earnings, costs generally rose and staff
was depleted by service and C.C.C. en-
listments and call-ups. It all meant a cut in
bonus rates to policyholders—a common
experience among life offices these days.
The amount of new business put on
the books isn’t mentioned. Last year’s
income of £445,567 (up £8137) was made
up of £351,063 (up £3543) life premiums,
£2903 (down £26) fire premiums, etc., and
£91,601 (up £4520) of interest, rents, etc.
Death claims (£25,823) were only £6643
heavier, which suggests that the war
strain under this heading was slight. Sur-
renders (£9356) were £12,176 lighter, re-
flecting, among other things, prosperous
conditions in the lower income groups.
Maturities (£214,811) were up £69,512,
which isn’t surprising considering age and
class of business. Leaving taxation
(£6344, down £4896) out of the reckon-
ing, exes, made off with 28.6 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums as against 29.4 p.c.
and 32.3 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The co. assumes that its funds will
turn in 34 p.c. After deducting taxes,
the net return from interest, rents, etc.
(£85,257, up £9516), was equal to 4.4 p.c.
on mean funds, including £14,512 of
share capital. So there is still a satisfac-
tory margin there.
Owing to heavier maturities, the
amount added to the life fund was
£46,746 lighter at £88,475, making it
£1,906,537. But this, the “Wild Cat” is
informed, exceeded liabilities under poli-
cies by £13,680. Together with £2OOO
from a special bonus reserve, this surplus
was distributed £10,559 in bonuses to
policyholders at same rate as for the
previous term, £951 (7 p.c.) in divs. to
shareholders and the balance to reserves.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £14,610 £14,610! £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 4,935 38,612 36,777 26,126
Mortgages. . . . 207,775 886,987 930,766
Freeholds . . .. 619,912 681,125 694,275
Govt, securities . . 26,716 95,302 115,506 231,022
Cash, etc 1,327 6,965 10,626 11,509
Debtors .. .. 1,788 4,378 >843 6,927
Loans oil policies 3,251 126,076 !31,331
Equipment .. 4,696 15,431 15,498 11-471
Shares in other cos. 1,682 11,647 11,672 15,146
* Other than under policies.
Outstanding movement last term was
the growth of £115,516 in Government
securities. Mortgages were reduced by
£42,657 and loans on policies by £12,550.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 8,253 8 p.c. = 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 . . 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,0/4
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 •• 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8,000 8,8/1 55.191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. .. 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 . . 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,790
1940 .. 11,248 9 „ „ 9,000 2,243 67,038
1941 . . 12,686 9 „ „ 9,000 3,686 /0.724
1942 . . 10.797 9 „ „ 9,000 1,797 72,521
1943 .. 15,446 9 „ ~ 9,000 6,446 78,96/
Loss.
1944 . . 3,513 5 „ „ 5,000 77,480
The loss, first thing of its kind to show
up in the last 33 years, was mainly the
result of the increased cost of hiring
stevedoring labor. There has been a
steady climb, owing to war-time con-
ditions, in all other costs, too, including
seamen’s wages and operational charges
and taxation, without adequate adjust-
ment of freight rates. Also, the fleet,
which used to consist of five vessels, has
been reduced to two, the other three hav-
ing been impressed for national service.
And the two, now the backbone of trans-
port of commercial goods between
NoWra, where the railway ends, and the
Victorian border, are inadequate for cur-
rent commercial needs. Last year’s loss
was figured without making any allow-
ance for depreciation. But since ship
property stands in the books at less than
£lO per ton gross—the Government pays
a bounty of that much per ton on steel
ships of local construction —the board
had no hesitation in drawing upon accu-
mulated savings to pay a 5 p.c. div.
The disturbing feature of the picture
is the crippling effect of Government
control upon a hitherto efficient and pros-
perous small unit of private enterprise.
The co.’s ships have been poking in and
out harbors on the N. S. Wales Sohth
Coast for close on a century. Since the
close of accounts, the two boats that re-
mained in the co.’s hands have beett
taken over by the Shipping Control Board,
the co. acting as manager. In the inter-
state trade charter rates are insufficient
to meet overhaul costs and replacement
needs.
The financial position is snug, and has
been for many a year:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1914.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* ~ 8,554 13,014 16,945 16,172
Ship property 24,880 24,880 24,5§0 24,§80
Freeholds arid „
leaseholds .. 2,460 2,455 2,455 -,45a
Plant, stocks, etc. 1,740 2,068 2,168 2,078
Book debts .. 17,176 11,301 12,622 9,689
Public securities,
cash, etc. .. 133,807 149,331 162,788 152,524
* including tax provision.
The loss and payment of the previous
year’s final div. are reflected in a shrink-
age of £10,264 in public securities, cash,
etc. There was a contraction of £12,514
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£147,352), still equal to approx. 295. 6d.
per f.p. pound share. With such a strong
constitution, financially and otherwise,
the co. will readily recover, provided
Government allows it to do so.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
BRANDALERS
ď
c,*
at*
d
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a lunum * an. us. shwclsoham. kho
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
d
ACTS
LIKE THE HflAO
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
merits. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARE ERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-dav for
FREE LITERATURE.
BAT*HEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2V), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
mpromM/R
OH/
Stimulate
its growth
and keep it
healthy with
McMahon's. Easy and eco-
nomical, quickly effective In
cases of falling hair, alopecia
patches, scalp dryness, dan-
druff and cradle cap.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
ď
đ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Aovi.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Auvt.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ... LONGER-LASTING
(3toMe
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
d
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
To-day’s World makes
YOUR WILL
and your executors
even in ore vital Matters!
IMPORTANT at all times, the making of your Will ami the choice
of your Executor are now more serious responsibilities tha " *'? r
before. War inevitably brings increased risk of personal atta ,
property destruction and the death of private executors.
Place your affairs in safe, independent hands by appointing '! 1 "
Union Trustee Co. your trustee and executor. Then you can be certain
that your wishes will be carried out exactly always.
Sound advice provided now by unbiased experts may save your
dependents needless difficulties in later years.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The onlv Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in t&eeStates-New South Wales. Victoria and Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE s
«Jir Henrv Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon! fir GrTha y m Wadde n il x.8.E., m.l.c ; £E. Heath, C.M.0.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c. _ ,
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager :L. K. Stephens
STATE EXPRESS
m
a&vayspbate •
'zeM
It's your fight your money is
needed now . Buy War
in g s Certificates
d 5/- National
Savings
Stamps.-
*««DU.4S
The position at Mt. Morgan (Q.).«
improving, thanks to better ore deliveries
from hto 5 bench following installation
of a power shovel. For the four weeks to
the end of April last opencut operations
were continuous, and both mills worked
full time. The result of the months
operations was a working surplus of
P 285 But no allowance was made tor
depreciation, etc., or for certain overhead
totalling £l7OO, or for pref. divs (£123 D-
For the two preceding months deficits ot
£6919 and £13,303 were recorded. How-
ever ore deliveries to the mills are still
far short of expectations, owing mainly to
shortage of man-power. Over six months
ago the board told the Government that
to maintain production for the current
term 65 additional men were urgently
needed, and that to provide for full pro-
duction 125 men would be wanted.
* * * ♦
Briseis Consolidated, Derby (Tas.),
netted £14,305 (down £10,932) for the 12
months of 1943. That leaves out of the
reckoning £5073 spent on development,
and no provision was made for depre-
ciation. A div. of 3d. per ss. share (one
penny of it free of tax) was sent out, call-
ing for £7500, same as for previous term.
Higher costs and lower values were the
trouble. The electrically-driven sluicing
plant worked practically full time and
handled more drift, but the average value
was only 1.051 b, per yard as against
I. and I.Bllb. per yard for the two
preceding years. The ground worked was
covered by No. 3 line of bores, which
indicated the fall in values recorded. No.
4 line, which shows better values, is now
being approached, and results for the first
quarter of 1944 showed improvement,
while a tight hold was kept upon costs.
But with the advance into deeper ground
and the handling of more overburden
and continued labor difficulties, costs will
become more difficult to restrain. Over
the next four years extraction is not
expected to average much more than 11b.
t.o. per c.y. When the books last closed
Government securities, cash and debtors’
balances totalled £32,309, and there was
£1540 coming to outsiders. The balance
(£30,769) was equal to approx. Is. 2d.
per share. Later in the year the board
will consider return of part of the
£150,000 of capital, which is in 600,000
ss. shares.
* * * *
A 1 Consolidated (Vic.) is paying
another 3s. a share, making total distri-
bution for the year to date 10s. In addi-
tion provision has been against recur-
rence of the circumstances which last
year required shareholders to dub up a
6d. call, because the till ran dry after
available ore supplies cut out. The ore
position has since been restored, while
yields—all from development work —
have been averaging a dazzling 4oz. a
ton. The last crushing fell to 3oz. —
returns promise to be measured in ounces
rather than pennyweights for some time
yet. The mine is at Gaffney’s Creek, in
Victoria’s snow country, where recent
falls slowed up operations.
♦ * * *
During the 12 months to the end of
March last, Wiluna (W.A.) handled some
100,000 tons less ore than for the pre-
ceding year, and recoveries also fell.
These are now around 2dwt. a ton —a
grade that no opencut mine, let alone a
deep-level producer, would look twice at
these days. However, with the aid of a
gold-tax rebate, the co. managed to break
even in the first half of last term; but
things have got worse since, and the
management has applied for a Govern-
ment subsidy. The mine has been an
important war-time source of such stra-
tegic minerals as antimony and arsenic,
which were once nuisances. At present
gold is almost a by-product. Exhaustion
of the property has been repeatedly en-
visaged, but there is still a “considerable
tonnage” of ore below the 2000 ft. level,
as well as a “substantial” pile of calcined
residues that might repay handling under
more favorable cost conditions. Biggest
goldmine war-loan subscriber, the local
working co. held liquids of £940,000 at
October 31 last—a handy nest-egg if the
Mt. Charlotte option proves worth while
persevering with post-war,
* * * #
With 87,196 fine ounces. Lake View
and Star was by far the biggest contri-
butor to Westralia’s 1943 gold produc-
tion of 531,7470 z., for which £9 14s, 6d,
an ounce was received, after deducting
gold tax. Other five-figure contributors
were; Great Boulder 63,3020 z., Wiluna
51,3770 z., Central Norseman 57,0890 z.,
North Kalgurli 25,7210 z., Sons of
Gwalia 24,0030 z., Boulder Perseverance
22,9850 z., Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
21,6100 z., South Kalgurli 19,1360 z.,
Paringa 17,1040 z., Kalgoorlie Enterprise
16,1100 z., Comet 13,2650 z., Norseman
11, Golden Horseshoe (Great
Boulder old tailings re-treatment)
10,7320 z., Hill 50 10,0540 z.
* * * »
Blue Spec (W.A.) has made another
twopenny call, the fifth since the Com-
monwealth Mineral Production Commit-
tee, after increasing its development and
equipment grant from £15,000 to £50,000,
stipulated that the co. should contribute
portion of its own requirements. Recently
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., holder of
109,410 Blue Spec shares, sent its con-
sulting engineer, R. M. McKeown, along
to look over the mine. His report is
stated to be satisfactory as regards de-
velopment and future prospects. Produc-
tion is expected to begin shortly, provided
the water-supply job i$ completed.
* * * ♦
Linden (W.A.) reports a loss of £156
for year ended October 31 last. Income
from investments was £3B and expendi-
ture £194. With about £2OOO in hand co.
is open to buy a suitable mining venture.
Several have been submitted, but either
they didn’t warrant exercising an option
or needed more capital than Linden has
or could raise to open them up.


The World follows Britain's lead
• r ’.*!&
•SiV-tT
PI
fci
JL.yw
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
The World's greatest Inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees. •
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free on request.
A. E. BOND (Chairman)
F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE. Manager.
Directors.
SIR THOMAS BUCK LAND
FRANCIS 11. WAY
N. L. SHAW.
CECIL H. DOYLE
JOHN EWING
Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
d
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
forced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY.. LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES: LA5034-5-6
Established 1890. Agents and Service Mechanics in all States of the Commonwealth.
I
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Man-power Management
All over Australia there is a waste of
man-power in some degree, a waste that
is being paid for by the people in in-
creased taxation and reduced standards
of living. This waste is to be seen in
Government factories, in munitions an-
nexes, in the civil service and in the fight-
u.g forces. It is to be seen on the coal-
fields, on the waterfront, in the abattoirs
and in the merchant marine. Sometimes,
perhaps, the waste is unavoidable, some-
times it is voluntary on the part of the
men concerned, sometimes it is the result
of radical trade-unionism, sometimes
purely of politics, sometimes of red-tape,
sometimes of departmental vanity and
desire for power, sometimes of failure of
the administrative “machine,” sometimes
of utter frustration of the individual by
a combination of Governmental circum-
stances.
Nearly all industrial, constructional
and defence activity depends upon man-
power. Taken with money and materials,
man-power represents the motive force of
our existence. Yet it is sometimes spent
in an odd manner in the Commonwealth,
and the only conclusion one can arrive
at is that the Government is not fully
awake to the implications of this waste
any more than it was awake to the impli-
cations of bank-credit finance when it
first tackled the job of finding money to
pay for the war effort. Now aware of
the danger of war-time inflation. Labor
is taking the matter of war-time finance
more seriously, and has run the risk of
political disfavor in its taxation policy.
But still the dangers associated with man-
power wastage do not appear to be fully
realised.
An allegation by N.S.W. Opposition
Leader Weaver that 2000 munition
workers in a country town were being
kept on against the wish of the manage-
ment “until after the State elec-
tions” was taken too lightly by Pre-
mier McKell. Although he was “not
aware of the details of the administration
of the Munitions Department,” he said
that if the Federal Government was able
to find work for men employed in muni-
tions factories in country towns who
would otherwise be dismissed it should be
commended. There is more to it than
that. It is far from enough for “work”
to be found for men. It should be work
that needs to be done, paid for accord-
ing to its worth.
The April issue of “Labor News”
records that “Mt. Isa (Queensland) man-
agement stood-off 250 men because of
alleged shortage of work and without
Man-power permission, and have been
forced to re-engage the men and pay
them in full for lost time.”
Before the present war and in the early
part of it there was a popular fallacy
abroad that money, however spent, was
never wasted, because “it went on circu-
lating afterwards.” The oversight in this
thinking was that someone always had
to bear the burden of wasteful expendi-
ture ; if a Government did the spending
the cost always came back to the indi-
vidual somehow, and hurt him just as
though he had wasted his own money,
At present we have something of the
same “it doesn’t matter” political view
being taken in the case of man-power—
so long as a job, however useless and
unproductive, is made for men, every-
thing is all right (votes particularly),
Men who are “eating their heads off” in
a country geared-up for war are a sign
of administrative failure of some kind,
With over half the national income to
play with, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is in a position to waste a great
deal of man-power and for the conse-
quent drain upon the country to be
disguised in the necessity for high war-
time taxation and in war-time shortage
of materials and production. That is a
reason why such wastage needs watching
with greater care than usual. War-time
powers and war-time regulations give
Governments unusual scope in the matter
of keeping their mistakes concealed. But
the strain of needed war production and
war services is so great that the added
burden of wasted effort and production
could endanger all our efforts.
Man-power is under Government
supervision throughout the Common-
wealth. It would seem that the only idle
able-bodied men who are free from call-
ups are unionists who are out on strike,
and even in cases of this kind sometimes
other work or duties are found. Free-
dom in selection of jobs is limited, par-
ticularly so far as tradesmen are con-
cerned. Elaborate records are kept, in-
cluding a National Register. “Permits”
and “releases” have become part of the
nation’s working life. It was inevitable
that there would be a loss of liquidity in
employment-giving and -taking even
where control of man-power was abso-
lutely necessary. When all the ramifica-
tions of mobilised man-power are investi-
gated it will be found that time-wasting,
frustration and idleness are additional
items of war-time expense to the Austra-
lian citizen.
Many of the shortages from which the
Australian people are now suffering have
a man-power basis (or excuse). This
is so in the case of meat, milk, butter,
fruit and vegetables, clothing (“stan-
dard cloth,” etc.), domestic assist-
ance, transport, etc. And much of the
official “pushing round” of individuals
has as its excuse a shortage of man-power
in the places where officialdom reckons
man-power should be. The inconvenience
suffered by people of nearly every type
in the cause of “man-power” is perhaps
the greatest disturbance to their lives that
the war has brought. There is, of course,
“a war on,” and man-power was bound
to be a major problem when a country
with only seven million people was con-
fronted with the danger of invasion by a
horde of Japanese. It was the Prime
Minister who at one stage of the war said
that we had to achieve a certain stage of
man-power mobilisation “even if we
crack,” and the same Mr. Curtin who,
now in London, has asked for special
consideration in the matter of Allied
man-power commitments.
But in a country where man-power is
obviously such a precious thing one
would expect it to be better utilised. If
Defence Minister Forde was satisfied
that the best thing to do was to reduce
the strength of the Australian armed
forces by 90,000 —satisfied that it was the
best thing for the remainder of the armed
forces, for Australia generally and for
the combined Allied military operations
throughout the world—then Mr. Forde
should go ahead with his plan irrespec-
tive of political criticism in this or any
other country. Australia’s man-power
problems have a basis of hard facts, and
those hard facts should be the basis of
our administration of man-power. As
it happens, of course, Mr. Forde’s Gov-
ernment has more than once left itself
open to charges of dealing with man-
power on a political and bureaucratic
basis, and those charges date both before
and after the case of the 90,000 men, and
go beyond even the incident of Mrs. Cas-
sidy and “I could send you to Bourke if
I liked.”
Problems of man-power administration ;
need the most sober consideration. Tre-
mendous difficulties have confronted the
Government in mobilising our resources, i
but we should be seeing progressive effi-
ciency in man-power matters, and not at
this hour hearing charges of political
manoeuvring in the allocation of men and
jobs. In the early part of our man-power
mobilisation the difficulty was to find
the right kind of men for skilled and
semi-skilled work in munition factories,
and a good deal of time was taken up
in preliminary training. Also, there was
some conflict between the needs of the
essential industries and the fighting ser-
vices. A present difficulty will be to find
work of a different kind for “muni-
tioneers” now that some of that employ-
ment is cutting out. This will be especially
so where members of strong trade-unions
are concerned. Unless work that these
tradesmen have been accustomed to do
can be found for them there may be in-
dustrial trouble. Non-unionists and dis-
charged soldiers have not noticed much
concern about finding congenial work for
them.
In the changeover from munitions to
the production of food, clothing and
other essential items there will be no
more excuse for bottlenecks than there
was in the changeover from peace to
war. There should be a great deal
less excuse. If it is impossible for the
authorities to find suitable occupation
for able-bodied men in the present state
of short supply of nearly everything there
is something wrong with their methods.
It may well be that in a transfer from
munitions to food production, etc;, the
income of wage-earners is likely to be
reduced. That is something we had better
get used to as soon as possible. We
cannot escape the fact that during this
war Australian wage-earners as a body
have been getting too much money for
the work they have done, and have had
too little taken from them in the way of
taxation and loans. It is a situation which
has made inflation a potential menace in
the post-war period, if not before. In
the post-war shaking-down there is
bound to be disillusionment for many
who have been living in a fool’s paradise.
It should be no part of the Government’s
policy to encourage illusions, and, even if
necessary changeovers are best done the
gentle way, there should be no doubt as
to what we ultimately aim at. Living
standards and industrial peace depend on
intelligent and full use of man-power and
our natural resources.
Mr. Chifley has stated that the 1943-44
war expenditure should be pretty close to
the Budget estimate of £570 million. For
the 10 months to the end of April actual
outgo was £451 million, which was below
pro rata Budget estimates. Mr. Chifley
has said that reciprocal lend-lease is
likely to cost more than estimated,
but it appears that outlay on muni-
tions will be less. Apart from the
abandonment of tank production, there
have been other restrictions, and the effect
on the man-power position is awaited
with interest. Although Dr. Coombs says
that labor will very likely be in short
supply when the war is over, the Govern-
ment is nevertheless making use of its
National Security powers now to keep
the munitions industries in a wage-paying
condition, even if, as in the case of Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, sufficient coal is
not always available for actual working.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'jolders' Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be Insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LiTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’4 3,
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'treet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Western Electric
HEARING A
Anything short of perfect hearing is a
handicap which becomes a burden as time
goes on and the difficulty of hearing in-
creases. The time to take steps to cor-
rect this trouble is now. Only when you
have enjoyed the assistance which is given
by the Western Electric Audiphone can
you realise how your impaired hearing
has affected your enjoyment of life and
the society of your fellows. Arrange to
have a free demonstration of this aid to
perfect hearing. The Stabilised Feed-Back,
an exclusive Western Electric feature,
which insures perfect sound reproduction,
and the new Tone Discriminator, which
suppresses background noise, are the very
latest discoveries by the research scientists
at Western Electric, the world pioneers in
sound reproduction and transmission.
Your visit places you under no obligation,
so make an appointment for an Audio-
metric test.
THE AUDIPHONE COMPANY
M.L.C. Building, 44 Martin Place, SYDNEY (Phone: 8W7387), and at 110 Collins
Street, MELBOURNE (Phone: Central 4195); also
Trevor Henderson, Grice Building, 90-92 Queen Street, BRISBANE, L. C. Stone, 66 Gawler
Place, ADELAIDE. Messrs. Finlay Pty., Ltd., 98 Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON, and Elizabeth
Street, HOBART. Messrs. Sainken & Sainken, 633 Hay Street, PERTH.
I
m
%
7*
*4
w
a*
d
One of the greatest
factors contributing to
fatigue, nervousness and absenteeism
among workers is eyestrain, directly due
(in most cases) to inefficient lighting,
or lighting of the wrong type. This
insidious robber saps the operatives’
energy, resulting in inferior work, de-
creased production and
higher accident rate.
dď
The installation of
efficient, well dif-
fused, glare-free Claude Fluorescent
Lighting will eliminate this factory fifth
columnist.
d
Consult us now
about your present
or post-war light-
ing projects ... our wide experience in
the field of illuminating engineering can
help you. No obligation of course.
INSTALLATION ON CASH OR RENTAL BASIS
“COLD" AND "HOT" CATHODE
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
“Brighter in the long run!"
f
2 ALISON ROAD. RANDWICK. SYDNEY. Maim*, amu*. ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
From the April issue of “Labor News”
(incorporating the “Ironworker” and
“Munition Worker”), by Comrade Ernie
Thornton:
When it became clear that retrenchments
were to take place from Government muni-
tion factories in the Western District of
N. S. Wales, we negotiated with the De-
partment of Munitions and secured assur-
ances that any dismissals would take place
on the principle of “last to come, first to
g 0”....
The Man-power authorities had other
ideas, and proceeded to take men out of
the Western District (N.S.W.) factories
just as it suited them, without consultation
with the union and regardless of the agree-
ment between the union and the Depart-
ment of Munitions.
Protests were ignored until finally we had
to threaten to take drastic action.
This brought result's and, following dis-
cussions between Messrs. Holloway and
Makin and Bros. Yates, Meehan (A.S.E.)
and myself in Canberra, and myself and
leading officials of the Man-power Depart-
ment in Sydney, agreement is now possible.
But the moral is that this stage could
have been reached without any trouble if
the Man-power authorities had consulted
the union first and had treated the workers
in the Western District as human beings
instead of like a lot of cattle.
From the foregoing two things may be
gathered, namely, (1) an idea of who runs
the Government, and (2) that to accept
official directions in war-time, though
good enough for fighting men, is to be
“treated like cattle” where unionists are
involved.
* * * ♦
“Labor News” announces that the
Amalgamated Ironworkers - Munition
Workers’ Union has served a “demand”
on B.H.P. that the co. guarantee 52
weeks’ pay in every year to all iron-
workers employed at Newcastle and Port
Kembla steelworks, “This,” says the
union journal, “is putting into a practical
demand the union determination that pri-
vate enterprise must never again be
allowed to determine at will the question
of employment and unemployment.” All
“determinations,” it would appear, are to
be left to trade-union bosses.
* * * *
The House of Commons has ac-
cepted a statement by experts on
the establishment of an international
monetary fund (B. 10/5/’44), but the
cables say “the debate clearly indicated
that the proposals represented only one
phase of the complicated subject.” Shin-
well, Labor M.P., said it was evident that
the House could not be said to be behind
the experts’ agreement. “After the war,”
he said, “we must import more than ever.
Many of the raw materials we will need
are in the United States. We can only
pay for them by exports. Where can we
find the markets? Is there the remotest
prospect of the United States reducing its
tariff? I do not think that there is.” Sir
John Anderson, Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, said that the financial and eco-
nomic future of the British Common-
wealth might depend on the establishment
of the international currency fund, which
would be mainly made up of national
currencies, with a proportion of gold.
“Its intention is to strengthen those
currencies. The United States can pay
its quota fully in gold. The general idea,
accepted by the United States and by
ourselves, is that voting power will run
parallel with the quotas, and the voting
power of the United States and the British
Commonwealth should, for practical pur-
poses, be equal. It probably will work
out in each case at between 20 and
25 p.c, of the total. There is no founda-
tion for the view that the scheme involves
a return to the gold standard. It is clearly
understood between Britain and America
that the plan contains no obligation to
Britain to abandon Imperial preference
in consideration of lend-lease facilities.”
* * * *
As from April 1 last a basic subsidy
of 3£d. a pound will be paid on com-
mercial butter. In addition, during the
“non-flush” months, an extra subsidy of
2d. a pound will be paid on half the
output for the year, the total subsidy
averaging 4|d. a pound over a whole year.
There will be some slight inter-State dif-
ferentiation between dairymen according
to output in the “non-flush” periods. On
an output of 180,000 tons of dairy pro-
duce the total subsidy will be approxi-
mately £7,500,000, or £1,000,000 more
than the payments made last year. All
payments will be made through dairy
factories on a butterfat content based on
the announced rates per pound of com-,
mercial butter. “The plan now decided
on,” said Acting Prime Minister Forde,
“will operate for two years from April
I, but it will be reviewed by the Govern-
ment at the end of the first year to ascer-
tain whether the scheme should be ex-
tended for a third year.”
* * * *
Australia’s expenditure on war during
the 10 months to April 30 has been
exactly the same as in the corresponding
period of the previous financial year at
£451 million. Many will still say that it
has been too great in comparison with
the value received, but this year’s outgo to
date has the virtue of having been paid
for to a greater extent out of taxation. In
the first 10 months of 1942-43 revenue
available towards payment of war expen-
diture was £92 million, whereas in the
later period £129 million has been met
from taxation, an increase of £37 mil-
lion, or 40 p.c. The actual proportion
which taxation bears to total war expen-
diture has risen from 20.4 p.c, to 28.6 p.c.,
and the tendency is for these proportions
to rise further as the year draws to a
close and income-tax collections increase.
Possibly the pay-as-you-go system has
hastened the collection of income tax this
year, and the final two months may not
show such a proportionate improvement,
but in any case there has plainly been a
check to the inflationary trend in Aus-
tralia’s war-time finances. Borrowing
during the present period has been £322
million, compared with £359 million in
the previous one. These figures both in-
volve bank credit, but the strain has been
lessened, although at what seems to be a
late stage of the war.


THE SERVICE MAN
New Guinea and China.
“Ek Dum”: Cleaning up in the New
Guinea zone has reached another inter-
mediate stage. With Australian forces 30
miles beyond Madang, and Japanese a
minus quantity in the perimeters of Aitape
and Hollandia, the north-coast operations
have ended, pending the final blow at
Wewak or some intermediate point which
will wrest from the enemy his last foot-
hold on the Mandated mainland.
The whereabouts of the bulk of the
14,600 Japs thought to be at Hollandia
before the invasion has still to be estab-
lished. To May 14, 1716 Jap dead had
been counted and 354 prisoners were
taken in operations at Hollandia and
Aitape.
A highlight of the Hollandia operation
was the rescue of a large band of mis-
sionaries, men and women,' from enemy
hands. Their pitiable emaciation and
general condition advertised the terrible
sufferings they had gone through.
Rescued, too, were the first batch of
prisoners of war from Malaya to be
taken from the enemy. They consisted of
462 Sikhs and 159 civilians —Australians,
Americans, Dutch, Poles, Czechoslovaks,
Chinese and Filipinos. The Sikhs, who
had been brought to New Guinea as
laborers, reported brutal treatment also
and affronts to their religious suscepti-
bilities which will not go unnoticed in
India. But they were in far better shape
than the missionaries and burning for
revenge.
Bombing of Truk, Rabaul and other
strategic areas continued on routine lines
during the week.
Hard Pressed in Honan
It is clear that the assertions of General
Tojo that German and Japanese opera-
tions are being concerted are not empty
words. His statements that attacks in
China are a mere “punitive expedition”
belie themselves, especially when their
implications are read with those of the
Burmese border and the Pacific naval ad-
vances. The Japanese role apparently is
to keep as much Allied transport tied up
at as many widely different points as
possible, while holding all main forces in
reserve for the time when they are most
needed at their maximum strength.
No more than the Burmese operations
were those in China major in scale, but
with comparatively small forces the enemy
achieved major results and proved the
incapacity of the Chinese, unaided, to
thwart even a minor push.
At the end of the week the enemy had
admittedly penetrated Loyang, west of
Chengchow on the Sian railway, and
actually was threatening Sian itself by
the swiftness of his almost unresisted
drive. Sian is the hub of western Chinese
communications, a railhead within 400
miles (airline) of Chungking. The drive
already has cleared the Pekin-Canton
railway, giving the enemy an inland com-
munication route from north to south.
And any resistance in North China will
now be completely isolated from the
southern zones of defence.
It is a bad business, the worse because
it was so easily accomplished by the
enemy and because it seems to suggest
that in future the Japanese not merely
intend to prevent the Chinese from living
off the rice and wheat bowls but propose
to turn those regions to their own
account.
A great deal might be achieved by a
Russian stand on behalf of the U.S.S.R.’s
Chinese neighbors, the U.S.S.R. being the
only Allied Power from which China is
not cut off. But Russia has not lifted a
finger in the Far East for some time,
save to sign agreements with Japan and
to withdraw from the danger of contacts
with Oriental politics by the evacuation
of Sinkiang.
Sidelights on Burma.
“Ek Dum”: With the first patter of the
rains faffing on the Burmese frontier the
battle against the Japanese invader is
coming near its end in Manipur, with bad
results for the Japanese invader.
He is without mechanised transport on
any scale. His share of the communica-
tions consists of muddy tracks which slip
over more or less clear hillsides eastward
into dense jungle along the fringes of the
Chindwin country. This is fuff of sportive
leeches, snarling leopards, snakes, spiders
like land-crabs and various flora and
fauna which even in the dry season are
trials to the Oriental hide. In summer
the rain alone spells destruction. Heavily
equipped forces cannot be moved except
across the skyways or on made roads.
In the skyways the Allies have, as all
along, almost complete control. They
have all the roads worth a name in their
possession. And they have every vehicle
and gun capable of the limited mobility
which the climate permits.
In effect, loud bragging by the enemy
that he was on his way to Delhi with an
army of liberation has ended disastrously
on the Burmese frontier, with losses, in-
cluding those of Arakan, of at least
22,000 men in known dead alone in four
months.
The only chance the enemy has of re-
maining in Manipur during the rains is
to capture a large base, complete with
supplies, and then to stand siege against
whatever the British-Indians can bring
along their still workable communica-
tions.
Buckley’s chance was better. The foe,
already licked in Manipur, is there well
on the way to annihilation —those of him
who have not had the luck to retire to
the Chindwin area ahead of the mon-
soon’s breaking.
Baffled Calamity-howlers
Actually, no sober person in India
seems to have felt the qualms and jitters
which affected young men who supply
Australia and America with news of
Indian happenings. There was, appar-
ently, nobody in India who felt that
British prestige would be wrecked
throughout Asia by allowing the Japs
into a remote border State because it pre-
sented the best battleground. Though
Indian papers appear to be less restricted
in reporting military events than the
Australian, there is no sign in those
papers, printed at the height of the cam-
paign, that they felt it was time to sack
Lord Louis Mountbatten when he began
to draw in his outposts from the Chind-
win country as a preliminary to a very
fine operation in defence which was less
costly in life and health of troops than
the Owen Stanley campaign.
There was no tendency to advocate the
course which would have won the
approval of every boo-boo boy— i.e. r to
stop the enemy on the Burma side of the
terrible border ranges and fight him on his
own ground, with resulting casualties on
a Buna-Gona scale.
On the other hand, the press remained
still so free in India that while the mili-
tary crisis was reaching its height Indians
were still publicly airing their grievances
and heartily abusing the Government on
political issues, in the manner which
makes the outsider believe that the whole
political structure of the Empire is about
to crash. Those who know the Indian
agitator are aware that, in nine cases out
of ten, his proud aim is to air, not his
grievances so much as his English
vocabulary. Other Indians understand
this.
It was easy, of course, for the uniniti-
ated to panic before the spectacle of
British forces hurrying backward on Im-
phal and Kohima as the result of a
Japanese advance, because some com-
mentators, soaked in Left Book Club
pamphlets, always are ready to believe
that all soldiers, enemy and otherwise,
are superior to the British.
Actually, the speed and certainty with
which the patrols, sometimes large, were
brought back and concentrated on pre-
selected ground spelt efficiency, remark-
ably sound transport arrangements and
excellent training.
Thunder Peals in Italy.
You have drawn to Italy and mauled many
of the enemy’s best divisions, which were
badly needed to stem the advance of the Rus-
sians. Hitler has admitted that the defeats on
the Eastern front have been largely due to the
bitterness of the fighting and losses in Italy.
Blows are about to fall which will result
in the final destruction of the Nazis. To us
in Italy has been given the honor to strike the
first blow. —General Sir Harold Alexander to
his troops on the eve of the attack op the
Gustav Line, May 11, 1944.
“Ek Dum”: When General Alexander’s
Eighth and Fifth Armies struck on a 30-
mile front from the Gulf of Gaeta to
beyond Cassino, it was clear that the
first blow of the spring campaigns in
western Europe had begun to fall.
Great stress was laid by the com-
manders on the fact that this operation
was to be concerted with other and
greater operations. The Adjutant General,
Sir Robert Adam, remarked:
This will be no walkover, but we have
started well. We shall hear some news in a
day or two. We shall have other offen-
sives from this end and from Russia, and
we hope it is going to be finished this year.
Various German agencies, in varied
phrasing, dwelt on the fact that the Allied
“master plan” for the invasion of Europe
had begun to operate.
It was said in Berlin that Allied pre-
parations were far advanced for an in-
vasion of the Balkans. There was an
earnest that the enemy believed this
in his attacks with strong mobile forces
against the troops of Marshal Tito in
the Dalmatian region contiguous to the
Adriatic ports. These were the first
serious war-scale operations against Tito’s
men which have been reported from
Berlin.
Till now, despite romantic radio and
newspaper stuff, operations in Yugoslavia
have never been on greater than a patrol
scale. The division of territory has been
that the Partisans have occupied sections
of five isolated areas in the west of Yugo-
slavia, rough mountain or forest country
all of it. Each of these compartments
has been divided from the others by Ger-
man occupation. The enemy has held all
the railways, all the main roads, all the
great towns and all the principal ports.
The Partisans, when chance occurs,
cut the railways and roads and raid the
suburbs of the towns. This gives them
a real nuisance value which makes them
worth support. Now, in the northern part
of the area in Croatia, the Germans seem
to be making an attempt to clear the
coastal region so as not to have any
interference with their communications
when real attacks from outside begin;
also, so that there may be no friendly
footholds near the coast for troops arriv-
ing by glider or parachute. The Parti-
sans for the first time admit that they
are falling back.
The Battle in Italy
The Allied drive on the Gustav Line,
supported by rumblings from Nettuno-
Anzio, has as its object to break or turn
the flank of Marshal Kesselring’s main
southern defence, which runs across Italy
from the Roman side of the Garigliano
River to the region of Ortona.
The Fifth Army, which has borne the
brunt of the fighting on the Cassino sec-
tor, was slid westward to the Tyrrhenian
Sea, into the lines which the British
troops had earlier established by crossing
the Garigliano mouth and by making
fresh landings in support by sea. In this
area naval-gun support is possible.
The Eighth Army, which has been
rested, reorganised, reconstituted, re-
equipped until its own mother wouldn’t
know it, followed the Maoris who left
the Adriatic coast to fight the battle of
Cassino. The Eighth deployed along the
Rapido with a force and equipment with-
out parallel in this war. Its operation is
probably a laboratory for the main in-
vasion—a testing ground for new weapons
and for standard methods.
It had powerful air support, both as
an umbrella and for strategic attack on
the enemy rear communications. It had
the strongest assembly of artillery yet
seen on a front in the west, and prob-
ably anywhere in this war —as many guns
as on the great days at Messines and
Verdun, though of lesser average calibre
and on a longer front.
It had, in personnel, veteran British
divisions, veteran engineers and sappers,
veteran Indians —Gurkhas and hill Pun-
jabis—and Dominion troops—not speci-
fied, but probably Maorilanders and S.
Africans. Australia is the only British
Commonwealth country not represented
by ground troops—it is grandly repre-
sented in the air—in the western theatres,
where the preliminaries of the war with
Japan are being fought just as truly as
they are in the Pacific, and where the
results to us will be of greater moment
than anything at present happening on
this side of the world: German victory
would mean a challenge to the Allied
command of the sea and air the world
over.
The Poles Join
With the British and Indian troops
were the, fine Polish Corps, including the
troops who were with the A.I.F, in
Tobruk and who were made brothers of
the Australian formation by the award
to the Australians as a whole of a Polish
Cross of Valor.
The plan was simple; a reversal of
method back to the old tried schemes of
yore. The American conception of blast-
ing out the enemy by bombing and then
capturing the ruins and remains was
abandoned for last-war methods as used
against entrenched and fortified positions,
brought up to date to conform with the
new fire-power and weapons,
A withering preliminary bombardment
with everything available was unleashed.
The feature of the blast was concentra-
tion upon artillery posts and machine-
gun nests and bunkers, each position
being done over thoroughly—a scheme
which would have satisfied both Napoleon
and Foch. Then a creeping barrage and
solid sheets of m.-g. fire from ground and
air were let loose to make Fritz keep his
head down while engineers bridged the
Rapido, sappers cleaned up the mines
which had not been cleaned up by the
guns, and the slow advance of the Indians
began up the valley.
The Cassino attacks were the mam
attacks, but with greater forces and re-
sources and with the ground of the valley
floor dried up it was possible to give the
battle a wider front. The scheme
apparently was not so much to assault
the heights as to mask them while a
break-through pushed up the Liri Valley
along Rome rail and road and worked
through past the Cassino mountain posi-
tions. At the same time an outflanking
attack was made against the shoulders of
the hills further inland on the other side
of Cassino and Monastery Hill.
The drive, therefore, became frontal,
with a diversionary flank attack. The
bombardment —100,000 shells in the first
hour after the guns opened at 11.30 p.m.
on May 11—was fully on the scale of
1917, with a greater ingredient of rapid
heavy m.-g. fire in its later stages.
Bridgeheads Consolidated
Bridges across the Rapido were estab-
lished in set time, and the Indians as a
vanguard struck the first blow at the
centre. They made considerable ground ;
so did other troops forming, separately,
bridgeheads which eventually consoli-
dated. The consolidation was made pos-
sible after the capture of the village of
San Angelo, one of the keypoints of the
valley line. The enlarged bridgehead was
about one mile deep on May 14. Its
communications were established. Several
villages were held.
The battle had begun to pass through
the classic stages of all battles. The Ger-
mans had drawn back before the blow
so as not to receive its full force. They
now mustered in the valley every
resource of offence which could be
deployed, from the office cat upwards—
mortars, artillery, mobile guns, m.-gs..
tanks, but few aircraft. All these, with
shock troops, they flung into their first
counter-attack. When it had failed,
General Leese could count his first gains
temporarily established. The next normal
phase, the use of tanks to exploit the
break into enemy positions and harass
the rearrangements of the Germans on
the flanks of the Allied advances followed.
The battle is only in its initial stages.
To May 14 no gain had been made which
pointed to an immediate break-through
at Cassino. No dominating position in
the Cassino area had fallen.
French Gallantry
Meanwhile, the Fifth Army in the Tyr-
rhenian sector was working in unison with
the heavier attack. There were two sec-
tors —the French, inland, grasping the
flank of the Eighth Army with their right
hands, and linked with the Americans on
the left and seaward side.
Against the French, the enemy began
operations by a slight withdrawal to the
strong hill positions which ha held. But
the same superb French troops who did
so well in the hills of Cassino early in
the attacks upon it in February —would
that there were many more with their
dash and mountain experience!—swept
on behind their artillery support, broke
over the dominating Monte Faito, 2500 ft.
high, took 600 prisoners, and then flung
themselves successfully on the even more
dominating Monte Majo, which looks
down across the Garigliano Valley to the
sea.
The successes of these two assaults and
the failure of grim German counter-
attacks had far-reaching effects in the
coastal sector. In process of advancing,
the French cut a main road loop from
the coast up the Garigliano where it
passed through the valley village of
Damiano towards Cassino.
Their advance made the keypoint of
Castelforte, near the French-American
linkage, untenable. The enemy withdrew
from it.
The Americans met with stiff resistance
in the area nearer the coast. In posses-
sion of Minturno, they tried to break the
flank of the German retirement from the
French further inland, but met a power-
ful elastic defence, and, though they cap-
tured villages such as Ventosa and Tame
by advancing from Castelforte, they were
forced out again by the counter-attacks.
Gustav Line Strength
The Gustav Line is a compartmented
defence, mountain strongposts linked with
valley lines and hillside positions parallel
to the line of advance. It will not break
easily. It lends itself to shifting of troops
and actions of surprise by both sides. But
the advantage,is with the Allies, in that
even if they make no break-through they
know that they are holding in Italy a
force of Germans large enough to form
a reserve and perhaps turn the scale of
a major battle in France or Flanders or
on the Russian front.
The Germans are fully aware that they
are entering, in Italy, on one of the deci-
sive battles of the war. They showed it
by their shrinking in the east of the penin-
sula. There they drew back their Adriatic
front line to securer positions which
would permit of their releasing troops
more easily to the west-coast fronts in
case of urgent need and transferring them


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY GREER late of 43 Birrell Street Waver-
ley.—TAKE NOTICE that ALFREDA ELLEN KEEN
has filed her Petition No. 773 of 1944 for Divorce
from WILLIAM ERIC KEEN on the ground of his
adultery with you You may apply to the Court to
be allowed to defend A copy of the petition may
be obtained without charge from MESSRS. WALTER
DICKSON & CO. Solicitors 39 Martin Place Sydney.
—(li.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED ERNEST AYERST late of Wickham
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that WILHELMINA STEVEN AYERST has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 3248 of 1943 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Thirtieth
day of June 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. BRA YE GRAGG
COHEN & CHAPMAN Solicitors Bolton Street New-
castle or their Sydney Agents MESSRS. BRAYE &
MALCOMSON Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—•
(l.s) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
<7>
am
to the other side of the peninsula by the
most expeditious routes.
European Bridgeheads.
“Ek Dum”: The rumble of heavy
bombers has come daily closer to English
shores. It is only a matter of weeks since
a Briton who wished to hear the fearsome
explosion of an Allied four-tonner had
to journey at least 300 miles from home
—the new six-tonners were never even
tested in Britain, so widespread is the
range of their blast and suction and so
terrible their destructive potential. But
last week the chalk ran down Dover's
cliffs in little avalanches, houses shook,
doors burst open on their latches and
glass fell tinkling on southern English
floors under the impact of big bomb-
bursts across the 20-30-mile stretch of
water German geographies contemptu-
ously describe as Der Kanal.
To other “mysteries” were added late
in the week stories by pilots who told
that behind the ports of riorthern France
was a deserted wilderness covering the
whole of the Pas de Calais and Belgian
borderlands; a wilderness in which there
was no factory smoke, no traffic on roads
or railways, no military movement nor
any sign of life. Once, flak spouted here
in torrents, but now there was no
groundfire, no enemy fighter in the sky.
This, while Calais, Boulogne, Dunkirk
and Dieppe bristled with lethal effort.
There can be nothing unexpected to
the Allied Command in this inactivity. It
is merely a sign that the enemy has gone
to extremes in preparation: sowing mines,
shifting civil population, removing vul-
nerable facilities from the reach of short-
range air attack.
All this is the land which the first
blast of Armageddon might reasonably
be expected to wither. Whatever other
attacks are made, whether in Biscay, in
Brittany, from the Mediterranean or
against Denmark, a prudent defender
would look upon this land behind the
Channel and the North Sea coast as the
most likely for main assault from Britain.
The coast forms an acute angle at Gris
Nez. There, in sight of Dover, the French
chalk cliffs are highest. They sweep away
to the south, becoming lower as they
approach Boulogne, where landing would
be much easier. The coastline goes
directly southward or thereabouts to the
Somme mouth and turns west past
Dieppe, sloping thence slightly southward
again past St. Valefy en Caux, near where
the small remnants of the old 51st
Division were taken prisoner.
From Gris Nez, on the North Sea side,
the cliffs, diminishing in height, go
roughly north-eastward to Calais, then
dwindle away till, long before the coast
reaches Dunkirk, they have become a
sloping shore petering gradually into mile
upon mile of dunes.
Before Dunkirk is approached you spy
from the sea only lowland, with no hills
beyond.
Looked at from the sky, the land be-
tween Dunkirk and Boulogne presents
the spectacle of a triangle containing a
range of lowish hills which roughly follow
the contours of the coasts, behind Calais
and Boulogne. From Boulogne the rail-
way, which has come directly from
Calais away from the sea, streaks on to
the Somme mouth and Abbeville, along
the coast.
From Calais, one main railway runs
inward, with a road ballooning out
from it to the west. The eye would run
down these two main communications to
St. Omer, Hazebrouck, Lens and Arras.
Behind the Dykes
N.-east of Calais, past Gravelines, the
coast is so low that on a stormy day the
sea seems to tower over it. Beyond the
spume, all the signs of civilisation that
can be seen in grey weather are the
sturdy, square-set church steeples. Then,
past Dunkirk, which before this war was
still recognisable as to skyline from the
seventeenth - century prints of it in
Macaulay, comes the long, low dune
coast, 60 miles or so of it, all the way to
the wide mouth of the Scheldt. Upon it
are Nieuport, Ostend and Zeebrugge.
Immediately inland, the land is for miles
scarcely above sea level. The towns stand
out on it like mirages. Much is so low
that it is dyked to keep out the sea.
Canals link with the river systems—the
Yser and others.
So peaceful seemed the fringes of this
shore in normal times that it was almost
impossible to believe that inland from it,
within the extreme range of a heavy gun,
lay the battlegrounds of some of history’s
greatest engagements —Messines, Ypres,
Passchendaele and more.
The feature which distinguishes the
French part of the country is a tongue of
rising land which begins ten miles or
more inland from the coast at Nieuport,
east of Ypres canal, and south of Dix-
mude and the Handzeeme canal, which
runs along the railway towards Ghent
through swampy land, keeping pace with
the main road to Roulers.
At first this high land is imperceptibly
more elevated than the sea-level plain
around it. It used to be dotted with rich
farmsteads and great barns and toiling
peasant women in its fields.
It widens out and rises, narrows again
approaching Passchendaele before reach-
ing Zillebeke, east of Ypres. Here stood
the Allied defence lines of 1916, the
battlegrounds of 1917.
Below Ypres the hills sweep westward,
become more intermittent until they re-
solve themselves into the curious heights
which many an Old Digger must remem-
ber in his nightmares, and which, in
some lights and from some angles, have
the appearance of an Indian file of mon-
sters anything up to 600 ft. high
striding towards Boulogne—Kemmel, Mt.
Vidaigne, Le Mt. de Cats, Cassel.
This curving bit of highland in a flat
world lies between the rivers Yser and
Lys, which are 22 miles or so apart on
a line from Dunkirk to Lille. Here, at
Armentieres, the Lys, which rises near
Agincourt, is 30 miles from Dunkirk.
All round the hills, both on the sea
side and southward and eastward, are
many little rivers—only creeks by Austra-
lian standards —and many straight-cut
canals. Every one of these is of tactical
importance—a line of communication, a
barrier which will stop or delay guns or
tanks, or on which men may hold a
bridgehead.
The landscape is as well known to
the generals on each side as a chess-
board to world champions. Most of the
generals fought all over it in the last war.
Knowledge of it and its peculiarities
brought the B.E.F. securely out of it to
the only points whence there was a
chance of retirement to the sea without
being cut off.
It is about 100 miles cross country
along the base of the Gris Nez triangle
Abbeville to Ostend ; the sea sides are
formed of 60 miles or more of coast on
the south from Gris Nez to beyond the
wide Somme mouth, and of about the
same length from Gris Nez to Ostend.
The Prime Factors
It would be easy to picture great
paired assaults on each side of Gris
Nez, or a single assault on the Ostend-
Dunkirk side, aimed to cut the Gris Nez
triangle off and form it into a bridge-
head, for many good reasons:
(1) The nearest point in the area is 22
miles from Britain. Dunkirk is 45 miles,
Ostend 60 miles, Zeebrugge about 70 miles
from Dover. On the south side, Boulogne
is 26 miles from the Somme mouth, 70 miles
from Folkestone; Dieppe, further down,
is 67 miles from Newhaven. The deepest
part of the area from the nearest point on
the English coast on a line through Calais
is 80 miles from England. Therefore, this
is the easiest part of Europe to cover from
the British coast with fighter umbrellas.
(2) The ranges of small hills —that on the
south in the region of Agincourt and Crecy,
that on the north in the Ypres region—
form the best holding features for an ad-
jacent bridgehead, and there are hundreds
of British officers, and many more French
with the Allied forces, who know every
yard of the terrain, which is copiously served
with roads and railways.
(3) The nearness of the region means that
its invasion puts the minimum strain upon
shipping, transport aircraft and medical
services used for invasion. It is the part
of Europe in which alone the enemy can be
forced to stand close to British supply
centres. He may not retreat very far with
safety.
(4) From Dunkirk east is the longest
coast suitable for landing craft. Many
sandbanks forming channels provide shelter
for inshore craft in rough weather. Deep
channels run fairly close to the shore.
(5) The area from Dunkirk eastwards
provides the nearest approach to the main
German defence lines in Belgium, which run
generally with the Meuse, via Namur, to
Antwerp; the nearest approaches to Ger-
many itself ; the nearest also to the Scheldt
and Rhine mouths and to Antwerp and
Rotterdam, which are of great value
strategically and from a transport viewpoint.
(6) Assuming the Allies have air and
mechanised superiority, the country beyond
the Pas de Calais bridgehead best suits their
purposes for further advance, both in the
nature of the terrain and in versatility
of opportunity, whatever their plans, and
whatever the directions in which they desire
to advance.
Naturally, the enemy will try to offset
these factors of advance with the strong-
est defences possible.
There are, of course, many other plans
possible either as alternatives or as corol-
laries to an attack on the Continent in
this area.
But all speculation regarding them, or
regarding any plan, is little better than
guesswork, except to small groups of
commanders in London and Washington,
who have full knowledge of what Allied
transport power is, how many men they
have and how these are trained, what the
nature of their shipping is, what their
mechanised and artillery strength is likely
to be relatively to the enemy’s, what the
enemy’s strength is, what preparations he
has made and what reserves in men and
materials he has available. Also, what
liabilities they propose to undertake and
what burdens they hope to impose on him
on other fronts ; what the actual effect
of Allied bombing in Germany has been ;
what the state of the enemy’s morale is ;
what power of offence the Russians pos-
sess.
There is no newspaper critic —not even
on the Sunday or Communist press—who
can make more than a thin guess at many
of these factors. And anybody who pro-
fesses knowledge of the immediate future
course of the war without them is in
the clairvoyant class.
The attack is due at any time the
weather suits, wherever it falls ; but the
weather at May 14 was most unsuitable,
bleak, gusty and raining, as it often is
at mid-May.
Air Attacks.
“Ek Dum”: The Allied bombing of
Europe from Britain reached its 27th
continuous day on May 15, though opera-
tions at the week-end were hampered by
bad, bleak and gusty weather.
The main R.A.F. concentrations of
force during the week were against
great strategic communication centres and
points of aerial defence and military
assembly in France, Belgium and nearer
Germany. Towards the. week-end Ameri-
can onslaughts were pushed deeply across
the Reich to strike at fuel centres and
communication points affecting the Rus-
sian and Italian fronts.
In the last two raids of the week 2000
American aircraft were used. A May 12
strike at the Leipzig and Magdeburg
regions was directed mainly against oil
refineries and synthesising fuel plants.
There was strong fighter opposition; but
150 machines were claimed for a loss of
42 U.S. bombers and 10 fighters.
On the following day U.S. bombers,
with an especially strong fighter escort,
made a penetration right across the north
of Germany, taking in Osnabriick on the
way. Main targets were a synthetic oil
plant at Stettin and an aircraft assembly
plant at Til tow, slightly to the west. So
far did some of the fighters range that
they were actually in combat with the
enemy over Poland. The German fighter
screen was copious and its tactics aggres-
sive. Sixty-three enemy machines were
claimed, Allied losses being 12 bombers
and 10 fighters.
The Germans, it seems, may be failing
to meet air attack over France not be-
cause they cannot, but because it is more
important to them to have powerful re-
serves for the day of actual battle than
to prevent Allied operations, great as
the damage must be which those attacks
are doing.
Sevastopol Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The Germans in the
Crimea were isolated at the beginning
of November. Their grip on the penin-
sula was loosened very suddenly, and
they lost their greatest and last strong-
hold, Sevastopol, on May 9.
Previously Moscow announced that the
Russians had gone forward four miles
in two days, in the process breaking
enemy resistance on main defence lines,
capturing the heights and powerful de-
fence centres dominating Sevastopol. This,
of course, suggested that the enemy resist-
ance had only the status of a rearguard
action to cover embarkations.
Sevastopol is ringed with strong hill
positions. Its approaches are limited from
the directions from most of which the
Russians approached, thus precluding the
deployment of large assault forces. There
are obstacles which a small force of deter-
mined men, fairly well armed, could
defend for a week or so even against
overwhelming artillery attack and air
bombardment. But the Russians were
able in the two days, not merely to effect
a breach in the main line of outer defences,
but to “break the entire length of the
main fortifications,” consisting of a
“widely developed system of reinforced
concrete constructions behind a network
of trenches, barbed wire and minefields.”
In one area alone it was reported that
4000 Germans were killed.
After the decisive two days the Ger-
mans announced .that they had “ceased
opposition” and abandoned the port.
Berlin asserted that at the end there were
two divisions in Sevastopol, one German
and one Rumanian, and that they had
retreated to Cape Khersonese, prepara-
tory to embarkation. A little later Mos-
cow announced the taking of the port
by assault. And Saturday brought an
official summary of enemy losses: 111,587
between April 4 and May 12, of whom
more than 50,000 were killed, together
with great captures of war machines and
destruction of shipping—l 99 ships, of
which 69 were transports. Among the
prisoners a corps commander and a gen-
eral of division had been named in one
account.
The freeing of the Crimea has a great
sentimental and propaganda value. There
are high hopes that Sevastopol may be
used as a jumping-off place for a major
attack on the German rear. As things
are, the Russians do not possess shipping
enough in the Black Sea to stage such a
campaign of any size.
Mainland Fighting
That reported last week was mainly
for positional advantage against the
chances of future large-scale operations.
The enemy launched an exploratory
attack in the Stanislawow sector, losing
600 men according to the Russian account.
He staged a heavy assault on a Rus-
sian bridgehead about 100 miles from the
mouth of the Dniester, near Tyraspol,
which the Russians obviously intend to
use as a jumping-off place for one half
of a pincer attack on Kishinev. Moscow
announced on May 12 that the attack
had been defeated. The enemy’s claim
was that the bridgehead had been
“smashed” and that the Russians, employ-
ing seven rifle divisions, had lost “2600
prisoners and more than 600‘guns.” A
Rumanian communique, as printed in a
Sydney Sunday paper, alleged the taking
of “26,000” Russian prisoners, A nought
may have been added in transmission, or
perhaps Rumanians are disputing the
supremacy of Moscow correspondents.
Russian attacks further north, includ-
ing intermittent severe fighting south of
Lake Peipus, were mentioned by the
enemy.
German changes of command incident
to invasion in the west are now complete.
Marshals Mannstein and Von Kleist have
been transferred to the west. Transfers
of commanders on the Russian front in-
clude General Lindemann, though Linde-
mann can scarcely be in good shape.
Moscow correspondents had him shot
last January for his failure to stop the
Russian advance south of Lake Peipus.
“Again for another month [April] the extra-
ordinary fact continues that the number of
enemy submarines sunk exceeded the number of
Allied merchantmen sunk by submarines.” —
Churchill-Roosevelt report.
* * * *
In a naval action in which the R.N. attacked
a large patrol of small enemy vessels off the
Dutch coast early on May 11, an enemy armed
trawler was sunk and two others damaged.
Allied vessels suffered minor casualties and
superficial damage.
* * *
There were only seven survivors from the
U.S. destroyer Leopold, torpedoed by a U-boat
in the Atlantic in heavy weather. The captain
and all the deck officers were lost—the highest-
ranking survivor was the chief commissary
steward.
* * * *
A furphy that Allied supplies to Portugal had
been cut off by the little country’s ally of 700
years’ standing was given the lie when a cargo
of Welsh coal arrived at Lisbon. Britain neces-
sarily has first call on its own coal. Any drastic
action against Portugal after the yielding of the
Azores as an R.A.F. base would be unwise.
The occupation of the Azores put the finishing
touch to the Allied anti-U-boat campaign.


(CVS
m
tSr.
v
■
THE CLUE OP WE
MISSING- UPS
COAL TIPSI
Turn lights off
promptly. Use a
bowl, NOT the
rink, for washing
up. Don't FILL
your kettle to
make two or three
tups of tea. Keep
pots and sauce-
pans covered
they'll boil quicker.
If you see open saucepan* boiling, it’* « clue to
bad coal wastage. Lidles* saucepans take longer to
boil; use up more gas; eat up more coal. And
just look at that flame flaring up the side of the
saucepan. More coal being wasted! Be a detective
in your own home. Watch the lights, the hot
water, the bath water. Cut down on every form
of heat, light and power. Coal Is absolutely
VITAL to victory!
BE A FUEL WATCHER IN YOUR OWN
CUT DOWN ON GAS, CICCTRICITY AND HOT WATER
ƒ
Hf_
StSAVED)
Issued by the Commonwealth Coal Commission .
01. It-IT
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
Attendance and totalisator figures
dropped at Canterbury on Saturday.
Tote turnover, £54,112, was more than
£lOOO below the course record. Officials
again did not disclose the attendance, but
the crowd was not as dense as at previous
Canterbury meetings.
Nightbeam has developed a consistency
he lacked as a younger horse. Following
up his Moorefield success, he finished
brilliantly to win the Ashbury Handicap.
He would have been unlucky to lose.
Nearly last at the turn, he was forced
wide and lost considerable ground. The
surprising part of his win was his starting
price, 8 to 1, but backers always are
prone to discard winning form for street-
corner “information.” Omapo looked
to have the race won when he gained a
lead in the straight, but Phalaran and
Dick Whittington beat him for the minor
placings. Dick Whittington, lame when
he returned to scale, had appeared to
falter as he joined the leaders inside the
furlong.
Highgate landed big wagers when he
won the first Highweight division. He
had done his more recent racing at a mile
or further, and few backers were pre-
pared for a move for him at six furlongs.
Sprinting apparently is his game, for he
began smartly, easily held third place to
the turn and then comfortably beat Stead-
fast and Fine Art. Steadfast, the early
leader, was placed for the first time since
“D. M. Longson” paid a four-figure
amount for him nearly a year ago. He
is no champion, but he should win in
winter sprint company. Kimbell, the
favorite, again dropped too far back. He
finished f<jurth, but seems to be racing
out of his distance.
Hauteur would not have won the
second Highweight division but for a
rails run near the finish. She appeared
hopelessly blocked when Valoroi passed
High Flight, but the latter veered out
under pressure, and Hauteur forced
through a narrow opening. Although
Hauteur had beaten him in a similar race
at Canterbury a fortnight earlier, Noble-
man was preferred in betting. Noble-
man, however, raced without dash. With
his freshness dulled, probably he will do
better beyond six furlongs, with less
weight than the lOst. he carried on Satur-
day. Highweight runners worth remem-
bering were Sunfel and Nabinabah.
Neither has won a race, but both showed
enough speed to indicate early success in
moderate class.
A change of stables, with a consequent
change in training routine, apparently
has benefited Grand Prodige, who fought
on gamely to win the Flying Handicap
from John Halifax and Soho. Bangster,
who started favorite, had his chance when
two lengths clear into the straight, but
Grand Prodige caught him quickly. Both
John Halifax and Soho were unlucky.
John Halifax was checked twice after
beginning smartly, and Soho, after a slow
start, struck interference at the three fur-
longs and again in the straight. He will
do better at seven furlongs, but only when
the sting is out of the ground. Winni-
peg, too, will improve when he gets more
galloping space. He likes to see daylight,
but his rider kept forcing him along the
rails and Winnipeg would not gallop
freely.
Beau Timide won the Canterbury Han-
dicap from White Feather and Valiant
Garde after conceding a long start from
the half-mile. White Feather looked a
possible winner when he raced past the
early leader, Brazen Boy, at the straight
entrance, but Beau Timide stayed the
better. In taking the lead, Beau Timide
hampered White Feather, who came
again in the last 100 yards, but the inter-
ference was insufficient to warrant a pro-
test, A field of six was disappointing
for a £650 prize, but late autumn and
winter always is a bad time for stayers.
Race officials should not let a temporary
poor response from owners discourage
them from providing good prizes for
middle-distance handicaps.
Outstanding in appearance, Marl-
borough also was outstanding in pace in
the Nursery Handicap, for which he
started favorite. Cook held him along-
side Lancaster Pilot to the straight, then
shot away quickly to win from that horse
and Gay Lovat. Marlborough, who cost
800gns. as a yearling, will be kept in
training for winter racing. In weak off-
season fields he should win again. Gay
Lovat did not race as well as when he
won at Moorefield. He is not big, how-
ever, and probably his Bst. 71b. worried
him. Pell Mell (Double Remove-Isalon),
one of the many horses bought for the
Maharajah Gaekwar of Baroda, showed
enough pace to suggest an early return of
the 600gns. she cost at the 1943 yearling
sales in Sydney.
Early speed and the stronger riding of
his jockey, H. Hanley, helped Orderly
to beat Massena in the Trial Stakes. Re-
strained in previous races. Orderly was
allowed to run in front on Saturday, and
he gained a break at the turn which Mas-
sena just failed to bridge. Apprentice
G. Podmore, too, lacked the power to
lift Massena, but the lad has good hands
and seat and is worth encouraging. Russia
started favorite, but apparently is only
one-paced. He finished third without
ever looking a winner.
* * * »
One of Melbourne’s ugliest racecourse
demonstrations followed the judge’s de-
cision that Action (14 to 1) had defeated
Orteli (7 to 2) by half a head in the
Leicester Handicap at Mentone on Satur-
day. Demonstrators surged around the
official’s box clamoring for the num-
bers to be altered. The uproar lasted for
about 20 minutes. Most people who
watched the race from the lawn con-
sidered that Orteli had won comfortably ;
others on the opposite side of the judge’s
box thought that Action had just won.
The judge was emphatic that Action had
won. He stated that Orteli appeared the
winner 50 yards from home, but she
veered towards the centre of the course
and lost ground.
Cavallo won his first race for three
years when he defeated Keplerian and
Sir Locket in the Ascot Thousand.
Backed from 20 to 1 down to 10 to 1,
he hit the front about a furlong from
home, but would have been beaten in a
few more strides. Azores, 11-to-2 favor-
ite, who usually is ridden from behind,
ran his race back to front, and
weakened to finish fourth. A muddling
pace contributed to the defeat of Azores.
Trainer J. O’Dwyer landed a double
with Motion and Danfino. Motion, a
three-year-old gelding by Parenthesis-
Roulante, gave bookmakers a 20-to-l
result in the Ellesmere Handicap, but
Danfino started second favorite at 9 to 2
for the Tottenham Handicap,
Dukedom, one of the smartest juveniles
of his year in Adelaide, had his first Mel-
bourne win in the Seacombe Handicap
for four-year-olds. His success was a
welcome change of luck for trainer B.
Price.
After a slow start Kinder Chick
(Kinderscout - Gold Chick), 5-to-4-on
favorite, ran away with the Cranbrook
Handicap for two-year-olds. More should
be heard of him.
♦ * * *
S.A. racing stewards have made a local
record by carpeting a woman owner. It
is a marked sign of the times that they
had to sit on the case at night (most un-
usual), the lady being engaged all day
as a war-worker. The horse queried was
the former Sydney performer Linemond.
His last Sydney win was at Rosehill in
February, 1943. After unplaced runs in
Adelaide, he won a mile race with 8.12
at 5 to 2. He has been disqualified for
two years, with the owner and jockey;
trainer exonerated.
* * * *
At the head of those left in the Adel-
aide Cup (May 20) are the Melbourne
entries Saint Warden 9.5 and Chief
Watchman 8.10.
* * *
Four Freedoms, winner of a $29,350
stake at the last Miami (U.S.A.) meeting,
is a colt from Phar Lap’s sister Nea Lap.
The dam showed nothing out of the
ordinary when racing here before going to
America, but the son is evidently a fair
sort of colt. In the Miami race he was
passed half a furlong from the winning
post, but came again.
* * * *
Statistics reflect the drop in the general
riding standard in Sydney. Five jockeys
—Cook, Thompson, Bartle, Munro and
Shean —have won more than half the
races run this season. Four of them are
past their youth, and to keen observers
the outlook for post-war years is not
bright. Little is done to encourage the
apprentice. These days of huge betting,
owners of horses with good chances want
none but the best jockeys. Youngsters
usually either watch races from the stands
or ride no-hopers, from which they learn
little.
* * * *
Bookmakers hold five times as much
money as the totalisator, according to
figures released by the Treasury. In
N.S.W., for the nine months ended
March 31, tote turnover was £4,648,340,
bookmakers’ takings £22,773,200. Whether
those figures provide an accurate com-
parison may be doubted.
* * * *
Fearing a decline in riding after the
war, the Jockey Club in England recently
altered allowance conditions to encour-
age apprentices. Now it has amended
one of its new rules so that the winning
of races confined to apprentices will not
count in estimating the allowance to
which a lad is entitled. In Australia all
wins by an apprentice count.
* * « *
“Pilot” (J. F. Dexter) is making excel-
lent progress in hospital, and The Bulle-
tin hopes to have him back before long.
Miscellaneous
Having built-up Stan Wilkes, the Leich-
hardt people are trying to make an
attraction of Tommy Ward, a middle-
weight. Opposed to Jimmy Dundee, Ward
looked far from a champion, though he
is young yet, as the Welshman said when
somebody protested that Lloyd George
wasn’t the Almighty. The newcomer
stopped Dundee, who has made far better
showings, in six rounds.
Denny O’Dea threw decorum to the
winds when he met Joe Grant at Sydney
Stadium. He was thrice cautioned for
butting, and other rough work lost him
many points. It didn’t really matter:
Grant, an upstanding lightweight of the
straight-punching Jem Mace school, won
every round anyway. Far better matched
were featherweights Jackie Wilson and
Alby McCarthy, who had boxed a draw
at Melbourne the previous Saturday.
Again the referee could not separate
them.
♦ ♦ * *
Randwick v. Parramatta was Rugby
Union at its best. Parramatta unwound a
finishing burst to score two last-minute
tries and make a draw of it, 14-all. Rand-
wick is still on top, one point ahead of
Uni., West and North (equal second).
Other games: University 32, Drum-
rnoyoe 9 ; West 16, Manly 9 ; North 17,
East 12; St. George 16, Gordon 9.
* * * ♦
Nearly half the 70,000 who went to
V.F.L. matches on Saturday picked the
Richmond-North Melb. and Colling-
wood-Fitzroy matches as the most
promising. At Richmond North climbed
all over the Tigers till the last change,
when the Ts. bared their teeth and got
into it to win by 18.11 to 15.9, At Col-
lingwood the Magpies took a walloping,
’Roy scoring 19.17 to 11.17. St. Kilda
downed Footscray 12.17-10.14; Carlton,
18.16, made hacks of Hawthorn, 9.14;
Essendon beat Melbourne 17.18-16.4;
while “Sowth” invaded Geelong and won
11.18-9.11.
« * * «
East Perth kicked 41,30 to South Fre-
mantle’s 3.2 in their match on Saturday
—276 points to 20. Watts booted 16
goals.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
Novice Handicap: Commando,
1 ; Craigie, 2 ; Wansey, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap; Courier,
1; Good Idea, 2 ; Flying Step, 3.
Flying Handicap: Riverton, 1 ;
Grand Prodige, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Trial Stakes: Comacho, 1 ; Skip
Bomber, 2 ; Sir Francis, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Bon
Terre, 1 ; Boomanulla, 2; Lord
Valentine, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Aquatic,
1 ; Clarion Call, 2; Valoroi, 3.


Public Notices.
I, WALTER MAGNUS, of German nationality, born
at Dortmund and resident seven years in Australia,
now residing at 23 Manning Road, Double Bay,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I. CHAJA (HELEN) BRUKARZ, of Polish nation-
ality, born at Siedlce, Poland, and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 5 Pamelan, 194 Birrell
Street, Waverley, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney was the brighter last week-end
for the smiles of the sturdy, steadfast-
looking hundreds of American Wacs
who have arrived in Australia. The girls,
who came ashore with all their impedi-
menta hung about them —battle helmet
and everything—were full of the sights
they saw on the way from ship to their
quarters at Herne Bay. Just as well, for
they breakfasted at seven o’clock, and had
their evening meal at five, with, it is said,
no in-betweens. In this laughing band
are stenographers, clerks, transport-
drivers and so on. They get the same rate
of pay as the men, and will serve in opera-
tional areas. So far they like Sydney and
its people. Senior escort officer was
Major Hazel Miller. Meeting tljeir
countrywomen were Lieut.-Colonel Mary
Agnes Brown, U.S. Brigadier-General
Rilea and U.S. Consul-General Ely
Palmer, Major-General Plant, Major
Stella Swinney, of the A.W.A.S., and
Major Joyce Snelling, A.A.M.W.S., also
gave welcome.
Pilots Nancy Bird (Mrs. C. Walton) and
knight Donald Cameron will now be able
to wing their way (hypothetically) from
Vancouver to New York in the Red Cross
Air Race. At the musicale last Saturday
afternoon at Admiralty House Nancy
told how they had been stuck at Van-
couver waiting supplies. Almost 200
tickets at one guinea had been sold, and
as every shilling represents a mile in the
race the two pilots of the Red Cross
headquarters ’plane should not despair of
making first landing at Geneva. Then,
of course, the flight home must be
financed.
Noticeably fewer cars than usual
strained at the leash around the vice-
regal gates. The little footnote on the
cards about the time of ferries leaving
Circular Quay must have inspired many
to make the trip by water.
Lord and Lady Gowrie were among the
listeners who heard gifted young pianist
Joyce Greer; Sydney de Vries, who sang
a lovely group of Schumann among his
numbers ; and Eileen Boyd, whose Doni-
zetti aria from “Anna Bolena” was ad-
mired. Mrs. Isobel Wilshire, who was a
prisoner of war in Germany for 18
months, and before that was five months
an involuntary traveller in German
raiders after her ship had been torpedoed
by the Admiral Von Scheer, spoke to the
glory of the Red Cross. To round off
the afternoon Lord and Lady Gowrie
gave a tea party for all.
Last week’s good news for women was
that corsetry will again be in flower. For
a long time, since just after the war
began, corsets have been one of the
things, if not exactly queued up for, at
least an affair of making an appointment
a long, long way ahead. At last the
Government has seen the error of its
ways, and has decided, with the help of
the manufacturers, to put a girdle about
the women of Australia, England and
America are helping with materials, and
girls in country factories (part of
the decentralisation of clothing and
textiles scheme) are supplying the man-
power. Fred M, Burley, spokesman for
the manufacturers, made all this known
last week. Henceforward Australian
women will march forward to victory
moulded more closely* to the heart's
desire, and the cynic, even as in pre-war
days, will reflect that figures are not
always what they seem.
The baby and how (p give it a good
start in life are now actively exercising
the mind of every woman. This after-
noon at three o’clock Lady Wakehurst
declares open the fifth and sixth floors of
the King George V Memorial Hospital
for mothers and babies at Prince Alfred’s.
The Women’s Auxiliary of St, Vincent’s
is already getting together the money to
furnish the big maternity hospital planned
by the popular Darlinghurst establish-
ment. The land for this has already been
given. The building will contain 180 beds,
which means harborage for over 3000
babes in the year. To furnish the new
building wall cost a mere £lO,OOO, and
the women’s committee has pledged itself
for this amount.
Last week about £3O of this rolled in
from a tea party in Prince’s. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, who is the president, is not at all
daunted. Another afternoon music party,
a games night on the 24th of this month
at the Carlton and a fete at St. Vincent’s
in August are already on the programme.
Gertrude Concannon arranged the music
for last Wednesday, and sang operatic
numbers with sparkle and sweetness.
Once you pay your silver coin at the
doorway of David Jones’s auditorium,
time swings back a century or so, and
the Georgians and the Victorians press
in ghostly company around. For here
are the treasures of many a household —
the best Sevres, the soup tureen that tells
of a home blessed with a full quiverful.
On the glass top of a case through which
shines old English pierced silver are
graceful pieces of Moore Brothers china.
Only two shipments of this ever reached
Australia, and what happened to the
makers and their delicate wares nobody
at the display of treasures garnered to be
dispersed again in the interests of Red
Cross seems to know.
On a table neighbored by a cobweb
of Cafrickmacross lace and a biscuit-
colored tiny sunshade, heavy with fringe,
is a workbox of gold and black lacquer.
There it is complete to every detail.
Doesn’t the gentle wraith of its first
owner look with a startled amazement at
the gazing service women, so smart and
efficient in their uniforms? There are
slim decanters of Waterford and of
French glass, and there’s one with four
separate compartments (it gives a glim-
mering of how the magicians do that
trick with the vessel that will pour tea,
beer or whisky at will). A tiny faded pink
satin bodice, stiff with embroideries, is
said to have come from a Madonna in a
wrecked Spanish cathedral.
Very popular were the demonstrations
of the tiny bird with the satin smooth
plumage that popped out of a mother-of-
pearl and porcelain box, twittered alertly
to the north, south, east and west, and
then popped back into his nest, the lid
of which shut decisively. What a
offering to a Victorian wife! There are
carpets and rare books—Walter Swinson
was in charge gloating over a Tower of
London decorated by Cruikshank. There’s
even a painting of the Harbor by Con-
rad Martens. Members of the Red Cross
special appeals committee preside over
the display: the Alexander Gordon lady,
Mrs. Dundas Allen and Barbara Knox
among them. Lady Gowrie made open-
ing speech. On May 30 Max Lawson will
commence to auction the treasures.
Let genius not despair. Conservatorium
director Edgar Bainton has had his opera
“The Pearl Tree” at the bottom of a box
for 16 years. On Saturday night it will
be given to the world for the first time.
Therefore do not throw away the novel
or the poem written in youth and now
tucked away in some dark corner. One
hundred scores —orchestral and vocal —
have been printed, and musicians say the
opera is really a work of great beauty.
There is a double cast, as the season will
last for a week. Mary Thomas, of this
picture, will sing the part of Chandravali.
Mary sang the soprano in the “Passion
of St. Matthew” last Good Friday at
the Con. and is known as a radio per-
former.
There is no traveller from afar more
welcome to Australia than Dr. Thomas
Wood, the friendly author of Cobbers.
He is that rare visitor a man who tried
to discover and succeeded in finding out
what Australians were really like, instead
of telling us what we should be like. The
doctor, who is also a composer of re-
nown, is back with us once more, and on
Friday he will lunch with the members
of the Institute of Journalists.
The rooms of the Smilin’ Thru Club
are a whirl of excitement and hard work.
The Popular Girl Competition is in full
cry, and already arrangements are in
hand for the Advance Victory Ball,
which will be the final rocket of success.
This is dated for July 7, when the Town
Hall stage will glow with the costumes
and songs of every Allied nation. To
help the competition, by which president
Myra Dempsey hopes to make a clear
thousand pounds, there will be a June
Fair at Belhaven, Hugh Mclntosh’s old
Bellevue Hill home. This is now a home
for babies, and the club has taken on
the responsibility of one infant. One
of the small children from Dalwood
Home is also coming under the club s
adoption scheme. Ward 31 at the 113th
A.G.H. is another of the club’s special
interests. So it will be seen that it needs
the money.
From Melbourne
Week-end shopping is a headache now
that tradesmen no longer call. It lifts
the gloom a bit, however, to return from
such an errand with the knowledge that
a good cause has been helped in the
course of buying some of the freshest
eatables in the town. This is the result
of visiting the R.A.A.F. White Wings
Auxiliary’s Market, which is held all day
Friday and on Saturday morning in St.
John’s Hall, just behind Toorak village.
Vegetables are mostly grown in local
gardens, and cakes are homemade by
members of the auxiliary. Poultry is also
in plenty and sometimes an egg can be
found there.
The “Command Performance Celebrity
Concert” on the 27th looks like being
as bespangled with stars as its N.B.C.
namesake. In this case the coruscation
will come from Australian musicians.
Booked for the concert (which will help
A.C.F. funds through the “Mr. Mel-
bourne” contest) are Harold Williams, of
Sydney, Thea Philips, Mary Keirnan and
many other performers, together with
Reginald Bradley’s orchestra. Harry
Dearth will be compere. The show is
being arranged by toe Demobilised Ser-
vice Men’s Association in support of
president Somerville Smith’s “Mr. Mel-
bourne” candidature. Pictured here is
enthusiastic worker for show’s success
Mrs, E. Mitchell.
The R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries Committee is
asking would anyone like to start an-
other auxiliary. At the moment there
are only four of these groups, who, stal-
warts as they are, find they need some
assistance in the job of raising funds for
the committee’s work. This includes wel-
fare of airmen’s wives and children, which
is a very arduous undertaking in itself,
as no end of muddles and distress occur
when the head of the family is away on
service. The committee sends reading
matter (for which donations of maga-
zines, digests and the like are badly
needed) to R.A.A.F. personnel on isolated
northern stations. To these stations also
fresh eggs are sent when transport is pos-
sible. W.A.A.A.F. House Leave Hostel
and Welfare House for children of air-
men, when mothers are ill, are other
strings to the committee’s bow.
Points made by Mrs. Grenfell, British
Y.W.C.A. representative, in her talk to
the press last week were that Mrs.
Churchill was no mere rubber stamp as
president of the association’s war fund,
but an energetic worker; that there was
no longer any class distinction in dietary
in England, as everybody ate the same
things; that as an Englishwoman she
appreciated the tributes paid by Austra-
lians to the heroism of the English
people. She remarked that in some ways
Australian families had to suffer a burden
that most English ones were spared, that
of having most of their men fighting on
a faraway front.
Mrs. Grenfell’s itinerary involves flit-
ting from capital to capital, and seeing
quite a lot of the country in between,
by ’plane and train. In appearance she’s
the typical Englishwoman, with greying
hair done in short brushed-up waves.
She’s able to describe the English war-
time scene very adequately with touches
that go home to the feminine mind.
A lot of women felt a bit lighter of
heart last wqek when a batch of
messages to p.o.w. camps in Malaya was
sent off. They are to go through All-
India Radio. A fresh batch will be sent
each week, as naturally all names can-
not go at once. Covering messages have
“everything you’d say to him yourself,”
as one woman from a Service Welfare
organisation said, in their brief wording.
Babies are the really important people
on the home front. Wherever women
forgather, be it at Red Cross sewing
circle, factory lunchroom or in the dim
religious light of exclusive clubs, the
conversation flows along the lines of
what Mary’s baby looks like, and where
the best flannel petticoats can be un-
earthed. The discussions aren’t only be-
tween the young mothers either, as in
these days of no help on the domestic
front many grandmas are looking after
the very young.
The day when it was “cumeelfo” for
a young woman to belong to a literary
society, and when Browning Societies in
particular were as thick as peas, lies
half a century behind, but the love for
Dickens is still strong enough to gather
a crowd. The Dickens Fellowship of this
city has a packed hall at every meeting
(and frequently an overflow into the pas-
sages), and the throng includes young
people as well as those who belong to the
generation that idolised the novelist. The
society is putting its many hands to the
wheel at the moment to make a success
of the concert in aid of Red Cross and
the A.C.F. which will take place on Satur-
day at the New Theatre.
The most effective damper on using up
coupons towards the end of their cur-
rency is the fact that only “standard
cloth” is now to be found in the shops,
unless the shopper is lucky enough to
come on a pre-war hoard. With no
better material than this singularly hard
and rather thin stuff available for the
fashioning of a winter coat, the average
woman says “I’ll make my old one do,”
and shop assistants usually admit she’s
well justified.
The whiffs emanating from a scent bar
twitch feminine noses from afar. One
that proved actually to be in operation
last week brought women from every
corner of the department store. Sniffing
the air, they came rushing up, forming
quite a crowd in a few minutes. As soon
as small bottles were being filled for
customers the “spoor” became stronger
and appealed to an even wider audience.
Buyers included women who in normal
peace-time days wouldn’t have considered
buying such perfume from one year’s
end to the other.
The engagement of Barbara Burton and
Major Gavin Walkley, of Adelaide, is
announced. Barbara is a linguist of no
mean order. She graduated with honors
at Melbourne Uni. and then went to
Oxford. In transit she brushed up her
Italian by attending the University of
Padua for a time. On her travels she
collected a great variety of cooking lore,
and she is adept at turning out Con-
tinental delicacies.
Old-fashioned settings for imitation
stones are coming into fashion. The word
“imitation” no longer chills the spine of
ring-buyers, and dress rings are collected
for their charm rather than their intrinsic
value. Old settings are regarded as a de-
cided advantage, however, and very
attractive some of them are. An unusual
one displayed, by a city jeweller is in the
shape of a flower-pot and plant—the
plant in silver work dotted with colored
stones for flowers and the whole about
half an inch long.
The American conductor MacCarthur,
who is booked for two concerts with the
Symphony Orchestra, has returned to this
city. He made a great impression on
concertgoers last year, being regarded by
many as the most vital and forceful con-
ductor since Hamilton Harty. Mart Mac-
Leod will be soloist with the orchestra at
one of the concerts, which pleases the
conductor, who is a believer in giving
local musicians a chance to shine.
Mr. MacCarthur, in an interview, had
some words of praise for “Waltzing
Matilda.” He told of his experiences on a
concert tour of the camps of the “boys up
north.” On occasion he played an
accordion while his audience sang. He
was kind enough to say that he considers
Australian audiences (especially those in
Melbourne) are very knowledgable musi-
cally, and frequently request the perform-
ance of little-known works. He explains
this on the ground that musical Aus-
tralians are avid gramophone-record col-
lectors.


u
\'
f>.
7 'iyetS Tennis
Imagine yourself hclicoploring forth.
In the good days to come when we’ve finished up North,
To a nice game of tennis; then parking your kite
Aloft of the court upon which you alight!
That’s not so fantastic —for think what we do
Even now when a Masse is one of the crew
In those thumping big Fighting Force jobs which demand
Just the kick that this tiger for work can command.
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 4-12-43.
f f
Missing Friend.
JOHN GATTY. bom Fingal, Tasmania, sth Septem-
ber, 1888. Would he or his next of kin or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate with
BIDDULPH & SALENGER, Solicitors, 174 Phillip
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ?
u
•»
Only if every Australian puts forward the
utmost effort can the food lines that reach
from Australia to the Pacific, to the Medi-
terranean, and to the invasion Armies In
Britain be kept at full strength.
A breakdown in these food lines could be as
fatal as a breakdown in the munitions lines.
Our farms are producing for all they are
worth. Food processing plants are working
to capacity. But YOU, too, must give your support.
Grow your own vegetables. If possible keep
a few fowls. Preserve all the food you can.
Avoid waste. Plan meals to obtain the
maximum benefit from the food you eat.
Keep constantly in mind that—
1944 must be the Record
Food Production Yeur in Our History
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control
F,27*27
Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
ihen take a course of
rE OIBTBR£O TABLETS
Blood, Veins, Arteries. Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long" been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Blasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the Inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally: piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet —see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
that Elasto Is not a
drug - but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
f
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It Is this restoration ot
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now."
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers."
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured mj
eczema." .
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name ami
address to “Elasto” Box 1552 E
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto’ booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a 'wonderful
difference Elasto makes Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6. oao
month’s supply.
££aAtb- vhM Amm vxn//ndi /
SMOKE-OH!
“How can I rid a house of bats?”
—Newspaper corresponded.
Keep sober.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Impeccable tidiness is fascinating.”
—“New Idea.”
So are a few spots.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At the very moment that the invasion of
Europe by the Allies is launched, the prophesied
battle of Armageddon will have begun.”
—Church circular.
May we hope that it will be the precur-
sor to the last struggle: the battle of
Disarmageddon.
“Wanted, 200 women for canneries. Award
rates, bonus, 44 hours (overtime if wanted),
no restriction on consumption.”— Advt. in
Goulburn Valley (Vic.) newspaper.
Does this mean that they may eat
what they can?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Beating the Bores.
“There are various ways of discouraging
tedious people from wasting our time.”
—Psychology magazine.
One way is to keep yawning and after
each face-opening demand his pardon in
increasingly irritating tones. The irrita-
tion, becoming mutual, will terminate all
all-in intercourse. If you have an eccen-
tric sense of humor a bore can be easily
discouraged by opening a large penknife
and lovingly fingering its blade and in-
dulging in bursts of morbid soliloquy.
But bores can best be defeated at their
own game. Simply memorise a section
of Einstein’s Theory of Relativity and
recite slabs of it in a voice louder than
the bore’s ; if necessary, say it in reverse.
Nat.
“Wear a sweater two days in a row.”
— Woman's paper.
The tobacconist will recognise you
immediately.
“If the demands of the Vic. Cemetery
Workers’ Union are conceded by the employers,
a rise in burial charges is inevitable.”
— Undertakers’ Association.
Happily this will not entail any ad-
vance in the cost of living,
4* 4* 4* 4*
Seating Accommodation.
“A woman spreads anything from three to 13
inches when she sits down,” says an official
spokesman for the Australian Corset Manufac-
turers’ Association.
As official measurer and recorder to the
committee which examined this question, I
am able to add some technical notes.
Measuring some hundred women,
selected at random from cigarette queues,
and ranging from the sub-average to the
frankly extraordinary, was a task calling
for tact and resource. After several
casualties among our tape-measures and
slide rules, we finally settled on frames
of wet cement for the measuring. After
just passing the appropriate gauged turn-
stile, the ladies were sat in a mould,
allowed to spread for a few minutes, care-
fully removed and released. An initial
space problem in our Records Depart-
ment was neatly solved by hiring the
premises of a retired monumental mason.
We had some difficulty in keeping up
stocks of cement, as the ladies often
became so comfortable that they sat too
long, and took as much as a hundred-
weight at a time away, so to speak, in situ.
Some of those we investigated showed
no expansion at all, and after checking
their occupations we found that in every
case they were typists or contract-bridge
players. These appeared to be incapable
of further expansion, having acquired
what we scientific workers term a “per-
manent set.”
In an attempt to give the previously
underestimated female form a fair go,
we are now petitioning the tramway
authorities to alter the notices above
tram seats to read: “TO SEAT 5
(STANDING) or 4 (SITTING).”
Plum.
“Temperature' has much to do with the taste
of food.” — “World’s News.’’
The cold shoulder from the cook cer-
tainly leaves a nasty flavor in your mouth.
Bacchanalian Ballade.
“Week-end drinking parties which invade
small towns near Sydney are being forced to go
farther out by police action.”
Oh, come, my friend, and let us wander
Far from the city shrill ;
There is a fonder pleasaunce yonder
Where we may sip our fill.
But stay! The cops they bar our way,
And yet, old mate, I doubt
If they can say our tippling nay —
We shall move farther out ...
And if by train we can’t attain
To where no coppers lurk.
We’ll catch a ’plane, and drink again
Somewhere ’way back o’ Bourke.
P. M. LUSK.
Inquiry.
O radiant damsel, richly fair.
With shining eyes and thrilling hair.
And limbs to make a poet glad,
And lovely, silken skin—
Are you the mystic soul of love ?
A spirit from the realms above ?
Or is it merely that I’ve had
A litle too much gin ?
T. W. NATHAN
Very Modem Opera.
“War-time grand opera, although lacking
the gorgeous effects of the old days, will be
welcome, though there will be inevitable modern
trends. For instance, in England the Soldiers’
Chorus from ‘Faust’ has been dressed for the
first time in khaki. It is probably the first of
many such changes.”
Sweet Marguerite, who with her lover
wasn’t very firm, no longer sports a pair
of plaits, but carols in a perm. And
Faust, you’ll find, will scorn the aid of
Meph. to make him young —he just dis-
solves rejuvenation tablets on his tongue.
The valiant Samson’s hair-do doesn’t fall
down near his shins ; no, sir, it’s kept
in place with Binkle’s patent bobby pins.
A rose between her lips does not affect
fair Carmen’s screech ; for Yanks have
pushed the roses up around three shil-
lings each. Dinorah doesn’t do her
Shadow Dance these days as planned ;
her hot stuff is “exclusive” to A 1 Mapel-'
koffin’s Band,
Nor does the Sandman need to aid
Hansel and Gretel now —Crunchbix, “the
germ of oats,” sustains the babes be-
neath the bough. Maliella and Gennaro
have not of late embraced since she dis-
covered all that blessed jewelry was paste.
And Lucia, Bride of Lammermoor, once
sung to by Caruso, cannot get spliced
unless she pays black-market for her
trousseau.
The Barber of Seville’s been put by
Man-power weaving rushes; he had to
close the old saloon—no shaving-soap
or -brushes. Aida’s not as black as when
she caused a Gyppo shake-up ; for nowa-
days they find it hard to land her any
make-up. The Drinking Song’s been
dropped from “Traviata” for a year.
Alfredo’s out of luck—it’s “quota sold”
for wine and beer.
“Your Tiny Hand Is Frozen” now
to Mimi by her bloke is warbled, for
the miners are on strike —no coal or coke.
That wicked lad Don Giovanni chases
Donna Anna no longer, for his taxes
have left Don without a tanna. In “Vesti
la Giubba” Pagliacci sobs no more —he’s
queueing up for cigarettes, a silent Pag.
and sore.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4gd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Anti-child Party
Among factors contributing to the low
birthrate in Australia the anti-child
prejudice is of major importance. It is
evinced by such people as:
(a) The proprietor of fiats who is pre-
pared to treat until the prospective lessee
owns to having small children.
( b ) The train, tram and bus traveller who
assumes a pained and pitying expression
when the mother of three young children
moves into his compartment with her off-
spring asking questions about the landscape,
etc.
(c) The boarding-house or hotel pro-
prietor at the holiday resort who is loatli to
accommodate parents and their youngsters
because the latter might disturb the other
guests by toddling about, dragging after
them sand spade and bucket.
id) The neurotic who in a few years has
so aged as to lose all affiliation with child-
hood and just can’t stand kids.
(e) The humorist who ridicules large
families.
That list of members of the anti-
child party is by no means exhaustive,
but it is sufficient to illustrate the extent
to which the people of Australia have
allowed the position of the child in the
community to be undermined.
We have seen Bundles for Britain
Week, drives for salvage. Aid for Russia
Week, button days for Finland, China
Days and Greek Days, Health Weeks
(when we were urged to eat more apples
and drink more milk) and loan cam-
paigns, but so far there has not been a
single poster, minute of radio time or a
foot of film devoted to making the child
more popular and welcome in the com-
munity. And it will have to be a lot
surer of a welcome before we can
adequately populate—and defend —Aus-
tralia.—Win the Peace (A.1.F.),
Decline in Morals
Abroad on the face of the earth is
the plague of declining morals. Except
for a few persons the subject is treated
as something of a joke, a windmill for
tilting wowsers, but it is no joke that
financial magnates hamper efforts at
world peace with their greedy cartels and
young girls threaten the future of the next
generation for the sake of a few hours’
pleasure.
Someone who should know, J. Edgar
Hoover, Chief of the F. 8.1., speaking of
conditions in America, said: “1 am not
easily shocked or easily alarmed. But
today I am both shocked and alarmed,
like thousands of others... .This country
is in deadly peril. We can win this war
and lose our freedom for all in America,
for a creeping rot of moral disintegration
is eating into our nation.” As our daily
papers testify the same could be said of
Australia.
The remedy does not lie in any new
Charter, New Order or code of laws, but
is entirely with the individual. Just as
the cessation of hostilities does not instil
peace into the heart of a man, so neither
exhortations nor legislation will convert
a man from immoral ways. Sincere
religious faith alone can do that. —
R. S. H.-(N.S.W.).
Social Security in M.L.
I see the Commonwealth Government
proposes a Social Security scheme on
similar lines to that operating in M.L.,
except that it is to be financed out of
ordinary taxes.
We have had Social Security for over
three years, and it is costly. The recent
Budget estimates that some £3,800,000
will need to be transferred from the Con-
solidated Fund to meet the charge.
Apparently 99 per cent, of those who
suffer a small injury run straight to a
doctor or the hospital for treatment.
This, at 7s. '6d. a time, coupled with the
normal sickness and maternity benefits
soon aggregates.
The system has resulted in the evident
abandonment of individual thrift, which
the youth of today have rejected as being
old-fashioned, and the consensus of
opinion of those contacted on the matter
could be summed up in the phrase “What
is Social Security for but to provide for
us in our old age?”
Among the older generation there is
an increasing tendency to dissipate sav-
ings. One is permitted to have a home,
however pretentious, and £5OO, without
in any way detracting from the benefit,
with the result that many have renovated
their homes, replacing their furniture and
embarking on interior decorations and fit-
ments far in excess of their normal wont;
this all to bring them within the “Means
Test” to qualify for the benefit.
Still another aspect is that elderly folk
are tempted to divide their savings
amongst their family as they approach
the “benefit age” to circumvent the pay-
ment of gift and death duties.
As claims for benefits continue to
mount there are fears that the Social
Security tax of Is. in the £ of income
will have to be increased. Any increase
will be a definite charge on the thrifty
and enterprising for the benefit of the
thriftless and scheming.— Kiwi (M.L.).
Militiamen and A.I.F.
My sympathy goes to “M.” (B.
26/4/’44) and others like him. It is a
fact that many militia formations are
half-full and more of men who, techni-
cally speaking, are A.I.F. They applied
for transfer, were accepted and were
granted “X” numbers. Yet they have
never actually served as A.I.F. They
have been left in their old militia units,
and as such come under the general head-
ing of militiamen. It is most unfair to
them, and, besides giving the impression
that their voluntary transfer is unappre-
ciated, leads one to think that there is
an official desire to maintain the numeri-
cal strength of the militia and let the
A.I.F. units whistle for men ready and
waiting for a chance to join them. It is
“We got snags — wot'll you have ?”
unjust to the transferees and rank in-
gratitude to the overworked A.I.F.
As an outward mark, men who have
volunteered for the A.I.F. wear grey
backgrounds on their color patches. One
can hardly blame them, but it is not legal.
A soldier wears the color patch of the
unit in which he serves, and only A.I.F.
units are entitled to the grey background.
Let the vexed question (it is a red-hot
one in ml camps) be logically and finally
settled by drafting all “X” numbers from
militia to established A.I.F. units. —
Koitaki (A.1.F.).
The Africa Star
An ex-infantry sergeant invalided home
from the Middle East because of illness
and discharged late in 1942 sent in an
application for service ribbons. He
quoted every relevant fact, including
numbers, dates, places and units. He
received a reply from D.A.A.G. (P.S.),
N.S.W. L. of C. Area, in the form of a
mimeographed request for either his
discharge certificate or a statement of
service, together with a statutory declara-
tion containing service particulars. His
reaction to this communication —“They
can keep their blanky Africa Star!” —is
understandable.
I know there are various factors bear-
ing on the case, such as the possibility
of records being lost in action. Never-
theless, what are the enormous District
Records Offices in each L. of C. Area
(with their high proportion of n.c.os.)
for if they don’t even know whether a
man served in the Middle East or not?
In the case cited, as in thousands of
others, it would not be necessary to look
beyond the soldier’s paybook (withdrawn
on discharge) to see where he served, be-
cause, in the first two years of the war
at any rate, the place where a man re-
ceived his pay was specified.— Cal
(N.S.W.).
An Australian Anthem
On his arrival at Perth, Dr. Thomas
Wood, author of Cobbers, was asked for
his opinion of “Advance, Australia Fair”
as a national anthem. He replied; “A
national anthem must be in the spirit of
the country and so inevitable that no one
would think of asking whether it is good
or bad”—a tactful reply, yet damning in
its implication.
Can it be claimed that our national
anthem-by-regulation possesses the spirit
or inevitability necessary to accelerate the
Australian pulse? Years ago a naval and
military review was held on Hobart
Domain. The military personnel made a
poor showing as they gave “eyes right”
to the strains of some stereotyped lucu-
bration lacking local -or any other kind
of appeal. On the other hand the navy
made an unforgettable impression, helped
to no little extent by their band, which
played them past with “Waltzing
Matilda.”
France’s national anthem is (or was)
good enough for her fighting men ; and
what’s good enough for Australia’s fight-
ing men should be good enough for her
national anthem. Our anthem, perhaps,
is still waiting a composer, but when it
arrives it won’t need foisting by regula-
tion on unwilling listeners. — Obelist
(Tas.).
The Reconstructors
I read Frank Chamberlain’s defence of
professors (B. 26/4/’44) in which he
says “The Bulletin would like to see
Australia handed over to illiterate busi-
nessmen of the practical type, whose one
idea is to amass wealth and to hell with
the individual or national interest that
gets in the way.” As a worker I have
met a few such men myself, and have no
admiration for them, but the majority of
businessmen have Australia’s interests at
heart just as much as the professors, and
businessmen of all kinds have to go
through a test that the professor evades
to a great extent.
Businessmen have to stand up to the
acid test of public criticism, expressed in
terms of cash. If that criticism is ad-
verse they cease to be businessmen, and
so a certain standard of efficiency is kept
up. Professors with all sorts of ideas
find their way into the bureaus, where,
having persuaded the powers that be that
they, the professors, have the medicine
that the public requires, the public is
forced to take that medicine, even if it
kills them.
If a private capitalist concocts a medi-
cine for them they may have to pay for
it if they want it, but if they don’t want
it they can leave it alone. A lot of them
were not aware of the benefits attached
to this distinction until lately, but the
professors are teaching them. Out-
patient (Q.).
Planters and Missions
“New Britain Planter” (B. 19/4/’44)
accuses the Methodist Mission of “ex-
tracting” £BOOO from the natives of New
Guinea, with the suggestion that pressure
has been applied. That probably refers
to the year 1941, for since January, 1942,
we have not heard a word from our 17
missionaries who were captured by the
Japanese.
May I inform “New Britain Planter”
that this money is raised by the people
for their church and is used to pay the
salaries of native people engaged in
spiritual, medical and educational work.'
No European missionary receives one
farthing of this money. It is purely a
native church fund.
Our mission does not engage in trade,
and though it owns two small plantations
which were purchased for educational and
not for commercial purposes, any profit
derived from them is handed over to the
natives for the work of their church.
As for the “political exploitation” of
the natives by foreign missions 1 wish
to inform “New Britain Planter” that our
Methodist Mission is staffed entirely by
Australian men and women of whose
bona fdes there can be no question. —
John W. Burton, General Secretary,
Methodist Overseas Missions (N.S.W.).
Let me say a word in support of “New
Britain Planter.” Native loyalty in Bou-
gainville, the Admiralties and New
Guinea from Morobe to Wanimo is
attributable to respect for plain Austra-
lian residents, planters, miners and re-
cruiters. There is a diary near me now,
not my own, which contains entries about
ill-treatment of natives by missions.
But, abuses aside, there is little com-
plaint of decline from areas of complete
native contact with white men —not mis-
sionaries only, as in Africa, India, the
Philippines, Malaya and the Netherlands
East Indies. The Fijian is recovering. The
Maori is on the upgrade. Even the Tolai
tribe of Rabaul was increasing in 1941,
with full contact and economic stability
which ensured employment and self-
respect.
The native golgothas of the Pacific are
the segregated areas of exclusive mission
activity. Our own segregated abos. are
fading out much faster than the contact
abos. of Torres Strait, and, in America,
the free roving and trading Navahos
multiplied from a tribe of 6000 to a race
of 45,000 coincidentally with the pathetic
decline of reservation tribes.
The fact that many native tribes are
racially resistant to gonorrhoea and throw
it off ip a couple of weeks is an unanswer-
able reply to mission propaganda about
introduced V.D.
The fact that missions in receipt of free
Government medicines have an advantage
over planters who have to doctor their
own areas (for prestige as well as pity’s
sake) has raised no protest, save when
missions were caught red-handed charg-
ing natives two bob a nob for treat-
ment. Island Europeans know these
things. Australian residents don’t. —
Tripod (Q.).
Steinbeck and a Critic
“Curtain Raiser” (B. 22/ 3 / *44), reviews
“The Moon Is Down” thus: “Steinbeck
is fashionable, but I found the film almost
asdedioiis as that long monotonous report
on economic conditions in America’s dust
bowl. The Grapes of Wrath, another work
much acclaimed by Leftist critics.”
When I read The Grapes I was struck
by the resemblance of the plight of the
Judds to the lot of the Australian farmer.
A great many Australian farmers
have no equity in their land. Some
farmers, men of good repute normal 1, .
were compelled to steal their own whi..L
as a last desperate means to obtain for
their families a few essential needs dur-
ing the depression.
This attempt of Steinbeck’s to bring
home to the ignorant or indifferent the
seriousness of the farmers’ position
should be applauded.
Perhaps some day, freedom of speech
permitting, Australia will find her own
Steinbeck who will give her some thought-
ful moments such as America experi-
enced. It wouldn’t be a bad idea if
“C.R.” had a stab at picturing farm life,
although it might prove a little “tedious”
for him. If he would like to come over
to the West to get material for a novel
on the Australian wheatgrower 1 know
plenty of cockies who would be glad to
give him their reminiscences and experi-
ences of the last 30 years. And he might
discover a curtain well worth the raising.
—Donal’ Mcßeenong (W.A.).
Anti-Bmhfire Houses
The suggestion that galvanised-iron be
cut to serpentine pattern and fitted closely
in corrugations at back of spouting
(gutter) to lessen fire risk (B. 5/4/’44)
is sound. Iron cut that way is well
known to the building trade as scribed
bird-proofing. There is another somewhat
similar proofing known as gutter flashing.
These fitments in normal times are
available both 'in iron and asbestos
cement. Iron is the best for the bushfire
districts, as under sudden flame asbestos
cement may crack and let the flame
through. If by any chance nron is not
available, millboard (asbestos) sheets
should be. '
Such precautions may add a few shil-
lings to the initial cost of a home, but
it is worth while spending a few shillings
to save a house. — Fibro (N.S.W.).
A Grazier’s Grouch
Can anyone suggest a reason for re-
stricting transport as practised by some-
one in Sydney at the expense of the wool-
grower? Trucks arrive '(if you’re lucky)
with badly-needed sheep feed, but they
return to Sydney empty. The railway
won’t take wool down in those trucks, but
prefers to waste coal in dragging empty
ones.
The position during shearing two
months hence will be very unpleasant
unless some improvement is made.—
Stranded (N.S.W.).


3-
l .
y/
M
i A'
t
VM
i»i
d^-
/ /
/"". /V
#/■
w.
/
99
t
66
lIS
a
the Commandos radioed from
Red Beach at Dieppe
Quentin Reynolds, in "Dress
Rehearsal” (His book on the Dieppe
raid), tells how German machine
gunners discovered and started straf-
ing one of our Commando units on
the cliffs of Red Beach.
The boys radioed for fog cover.
Field Headquarters relayed the call
to the R.A.F. Headquarters in
England.
Two minutes later two Douglas
Bostons streaked across the sky and
dived over the cliffs. In a moment
that part of Dieppe’s bare cliffs was
swallowed up in a merciful fog. Our
boys were safe.
Two minutes ... only two minutes
from that little bit of coast to ship to
England and back again . . . and help
came on the instant. That is the
tempo of this war. And radio is
responsible for the tempo.
* * *
Australian industry is making wonderful
equipment for our defence — aeroplanes,
guns and ships. But what welds them all
together is radio. Radio makes the blitz
defence possible. When we think of our
self-defence we must think of the enter-
prise which made possible the building
of all such equipment in Australia.
And while such equipment comes from
Australia, we need never fear being cut
off from our sources of supply. —
Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
