

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3369
Wednesday, September 1944
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaoer,
MANCHESTER TOWN HALL.
WHERE Manchester now stands was once a five-acre Roman
fort known, according to some historians, as Mancunium,
guarding the military road between Chester and York. After five
centuries of obscurity, Manchester emerges as an early English or
Danish settlement, but it was not until the year 923 that its con-
nected history commenced. In 1838 Manchester received its
municipal charter. The Town Hall, ranking high among Man-
chester’s many fine buildings, was completed in 1877 from Gothic
designs by Alfred Waterhouse. Its principal tower, 286 feet high,
contains a peal of bells by Taylor of Loughborough, forming an
almost perfect chromatic scale of 21 bells. Its main hall has a
magnificent organ by Cavaille-Coll, of Paris, and is decorated by
12 panels, painted by Ford Madox Brown, illustrating the history
of the city. In 1927 new plans were passed for extentions to
Manchester’s municipal buildings, and the addition of a central
reference library. In the foreground is the memorial to Prince
Albert, who died in 1861.


Learn
Yrcdcflicc
Journals
at how:
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your ew ,,
Booklet explaining how to IVrite lor Profit,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
A BROADCAST PLAY.
A fire in the grate for a windy, wet,
cold night. Fed from the box of banksias
with their brush of bristles still on them,
the fire flares into flame that quarter-lights
the room, the backs of the books in the
tall case and the long open shelves, and
framed Phil May in his loud check suit
and high collar and (possibly) cardboard
shirt front and his fringed hair-do (like
Norman Lindsay’s) and his cigar and
cheerful bulldog’s head above his knee.
The maple table-top glows red and
fades, with Phil and the others and chairs
and books, into near nothing as the flame
sinks to a smoulder. Outside it is raining
heavily now ; and you would have shaved
and dressed and sloshed up the road and
trammed over the bridge and gone damp
and dripping up to the Royal dress-circle.
A few minutes to eight; dressed with
the comfort of a monk ; throw on three
or more banksias; poke down the switch ;
hear the wireless warm itself up buzzing ;
slowly rising music breaking through ; a
formal, detached, non-committal an-
nouncement, saying in words or effect
“You are about to hear a play by Doug-
las Stewart, ‘The Earthquake Shakes the
Land,’ and whether you like it or not, or
keep listening or switch off, is entirely at
your own discretion. All care, but no
responsibility.”
And so the play starts, with an explana-
tion that it deals with the Maori King
movement. Then the players’ voices* and
the first reaction to them: That when
you read the play it didn’t start like this
at all. They weren’t greatly excited, yet.
Kimo, it seemed then, was a powerful
young Maori, not a member of the Syd-
ney Stock Exchange.
This is so surprising that, while the ears
listen, thought goes about disengaged.
Reaches out in the hand to toss more
cones into the grate. Follows the flare
among the colors and letterings of the
books ; and thought says : All you have
to do is take down any one of them and
open it up, and there will be, in this sort,
this character or that standing up living
and speaking. What a host of them, all
wanting to get out! Or in that sort Jane
gossiping away, old Burton laughing to
and at himself in a variety of languages,
Lord Rosebery buttonholing you to tell
you the Derby and the Oaks were named
after the host and his house follow-
ing a wildly convivial few days’ party
in the neighborhood of Epsom, or that
other man making you wonder ridicu-
lously whether Mr. Dewey has improved
his churchgoing, since lack of this had
greatly threatened the late Mr. Taft’s
chances till his pastor publicly remem-
bered that the (duly successful) candidate
had once as a boy taken part in a church
festival, as a fairy.
The players in this second or two have
progressed a dozen lines. Their voices
are still up there near the ceiling on stilts.
They’ll be feeling the damp if they don’t
come down soon. The roof has let
through damp patches ever since the
artist who painted pictures of the harbor
had the top of the house flattened for that
purpose. The ceiling is peeling and get-
ting mottled with rusty spots, but what
do you expect from a ceiling with a war
on?
A lot better down here near the glow
of the grate—as they’ve suddenly de-
cided ; or as MacDonald, coming in, has
insisted on. You’re more tharf wglcome,
Mac. Good to see you. Like a good
chap, you’ll do something about Kimo?
Have a wee word in his white ear while
the lass takes a peep at your brown
Scotch bairn.
To be quite candid, Mr. MacDonald,
for your part you’re a better mon than
you were when read. To me you were,
as' all the others were, as all are when I
—and, I suspect, others —read plays, too
perfected, too final altogether. Your
better representer reminds that there is
something to be said for the idea that,
while it is pleasing enough, enjoyable
enough, satisfying enough to read plays,
there is the difficulty in this of smooth-
ness, of giving the characters a perfection
that idealises them above their true selves,
dehumanises them, makes book folk of
them.
A shattering thought, this, Mac—that if
all those people now seen again by the
glare were really to step forth, all those
familiar faces and familiar voices, they’d
be different from what they have been as
read. Henceforth to remember warts
and cackles. There’s something to be said
even for bad or indifferent actors —and
not meaning you, Mac. A play is for
players.
As far as friend Kimo goes, it’s just
that this upstanding young Maori isn’t
quite himself tonight. Or am I wrong
again? Did Kimo talk like this and seem
like this? The Maoris 1 knew were only
30 or 40, far from home. They were
lying with others between decks on a ship,
• bandaged over their wounds. One of
them had lost both his legs, high up, and
was only the big trunk of a brown man.
And months later on, the same lot of
them, in hospital blues, right across two
rows of stalls in a theatre, trunk among
them, thunderously laughing at a stage
farce.
I miss some of that laughter in you,
Kimo. As I had read you I fancied you
were laughing in a way, but perhaps that
was more of the perfection business, and
by some oversight Mr. Stewart himself
may have forgot the way the Maoris
laugh, as he didn’t in “The Golden
Lover.” But, after all, he knows Maoris
altogether better than I do, and for all I
know that might go for the player, too.
You are their affair, Kimo ; and what
right has anyone sitting back behind his
ears to regret it?
It seems to me, too —and this is un-
pardonable carping, what with the plea-
sure of your company, Mac, and you
providing your own whisky; and the
show free; and the players trampling
down with living feet the false, smooth
perfections of themselves as read ; and
what with a war on, and, as the play now
sharpens towards a point, War itself
shaping out, too —it seems that the terri-
tory of the play is more cramped than I
had thought it. It seems that Mac-
Donald’s farm —acquired from you,
Kimo (are you there?), for some sticks
of tobacco, some rum and blankets, since
smoked, drunk and worn so thin they
don’t even keep the fleas warm—so you
say, Kimo, without a laugh in your
voice!—it seems that, though the farm
seems small (which it probably isn’t), it
adjoins and leads into the pah, and that
somehow this connects on to Governor
Brown’s gubernatorial'address, and this
to the meeting-place where Grey and
Tamehana are trying to stop with words,
hobbled with reservations, the looming
war between Maori and pakeha, and this
again (all almost adjoining, or, at the
most, in very short steps) to the hill of
battle and the swamp below.
Perhaps here the listener may have
some of his conceit back from the
presenters and the players, since the terri-
tory as read had seemed expansive
enough to hold all these things at a dist-
ance from each other. Perhaps it is
necessary to radio production to hang up
oral directions about distances and dimen-
sions, as the old playwrights had to. do,
and did, to the lasting aid of play-readers,
if these days less necessary for playgoers
(if any). Maybe the fault is in the chanted
Maori choruses or the music sandwiched
in, welding all the parts together, with-
out intervals, because radio is still scared
stiff of silences.
. Or possibly—and it seems very likely
—the whole trouble is that the physical
frame of “The Earthquake Shakes the
Land” is something too big for an hour
and a half of radio. It is right that it
should be played fast, but haste is differ-
ent ; and the impression is that this is
being hastily done because Time is on
the job as usual in the studio armed with
a greenstone battleaxe—the one with
which you, Kimo (if that is you, Kimo)
have just killed you, Mac, as you were
destined to be bumped off from the
building of the first altar of stubborn
futility. You would let them take back
the woman of their race and the child
partly theirs, so that you held your land
in the grip of your ancestors; but for
you to think, MacDonald, that you knew
a woman because you had held her! A
woman of a dark, strange race! Her
bloodlusting outcry histrionically as
dramatically a wild peak of the play-
enough to crush you itself.
Again, I am grateful to you, Mac—as
I am sure Mr. Stewart the poet must be
too —for understanding and in your part
stating, what A.B.C. did not state and
may or may not have understood, that
this is neither a play nor yet a verse-play
but a poetic drama, as you, Miss Ngaere,
also well saw, and you Tamehana and
Sir George Chamberlain, I mean Grey,
saw too. It has its helpful contrasts —
Brown, for one, and Fox, for another,
are straight prose, well done, with the
sharp, immediate effectiveness of
dramatic prose at all times, and particu-
larly in such contrast. But the burden of
the whole play lies on its poetic body,
and the players must succeed or fail as
this is appreciated by them.
This, surely, is Kimo’s failure. By the
sound of him he is far from a bad actor.
In a technical consideration he would
compare more than favorably against the
rough crudities of some others of the
cast. On the other hand, the very crudi-
ties of one or two of the others are better
for the purpose, which is the animating
of the elemental theme and content of a
poetic drama, not merely conveying the
story of the play. The dark, barbaric
natural setting has to be, and from time
to time is, established by and through
them; and possibly the spread of it that
seems missing in the hearing would be
less noticeably so with the full vigor of
a young, rough, hot-blooded Hotspur of
a Maori, instead of his dramatically
poetic effectiveness coming only right at
the last, in the finale of his Maorilike
death on the Orakau hill.
As the setting, the whole poetic expres-
sion waits on expression. It involves the
majority of the characters, who sum up
to a version of humanity, and the brief
savage war between Maori and pakeha,
which is a version of War. About the
shelves, with some more cones to light
them, could be dug out quite a number
of versions of war, of one sort and
another. There are the versions by the
last-war disillusioned fiction writers and
jinglers—all of them mainly adding to
“ ‘Well that I cannot say,’ said he, ‘but
’twas a famous victory,’ ” a ballasting of
mud, blood and entrails. Or the big-
and-bright-fun versions, probably to be
debited not so much to any writers as
to artists who painted pretty Crimean and
Boer War and suchlike pictures. And
there are versions in the mood of Gren-
fell’s “Into Battle,” which is not exactly
Mr. Stewart’s mood, though he’s a great
deal nearer to it than to those others. On
the hill (“We will fight you for ever and
ever”) there is high courage as well as
stark death ; down through the swamp,
escape and the taste of defeat: “1 shall
taste that stagnant water,” you say, Rewi,
“for the rest of my life.” It is a taste
young Grenfell never knew, and many
another Kimo with him.
C. M.
Whalers All Alive.
The ballad “All Souls’ Eve” with which
Will Lawson concludes his Bill the
Whaler (Dymock’s, Ltd.) is an effective
summary of the book as a whole. The
balladist, in his role of a retired whaler,
is awake in bed, late at night. There is
a hammering on the door and he goes
down-stairs to greet the unrepentant and
surprisingly solid ghost of Bill the
Whaler.
Bill gripped my hand. “Look here!” he said,
We’ve got a party on —
There’s me and Horrigan and Ned
And Butcher and Long John
The party is at some mysterious pub
in space, a whalers’ Valhalla. To reach
it Bill and the balladist go flying off
among the comets,
Down endless pathways lit by stars
Where Roaring Forties blew,
By waters littered with ship’s spars
And figureheads we knew.
They reach the sublime pub. Firelight
and dance music stream out from its win-
dows among the stars.
And there were Molly, Sal and Rose
And Dot and Magdalene:
Warm as the wind from Tonga blows
Old comrades cheered us in.
In Ned and Horrigan and Long John,
Molly and Rose and Dot, we have met
the old whalers and their girls. Now
come the ships that will never sail the
waters of the earth again:
Bill led me to the window then
That overlooked a bay
Where ghosts of old ships lived again
And in their beauty lay.
The Albion that sailed before
Them all —Eb. Bunker’s ship;
The Runnymede and Marie Laure
That mutinied one trip.
The lovely Helen, last to sail,
The Prince that never paid;
The Derwent Hunter; at her rail
The beautiful old Maid.
The list continues. The balladist has
come to Emerald Island, Bill tells him —
that dream island of the Pacific which,
so an earlier ballad tells us, was charted
once but never could be found again, and
which serves Lawson as a convenient and
highly appropriate symbol for his Val-
halla.
This is the end of voyages,
This is the port for all
Brave men who live nor ever guess
What fate may them befall.
I gazed on all the ships out there,
I looked on men inside
Who once had found the sea so fair —
’Twas shameful they had died.
He touched my hand. I looked at Bill.
He gripped and held me fast.
“Welcome!” he said. “Old Barnacle,
“You’ve come to us at last'!”
“You’ve come to us at last” ... there’s
the pride of achievement in that line. It’s
not just Bill’s ghost welcoming the
balladist to the disreputable and gallant
company on Emerald Island; it’s the
author unconsciously affirming his own
work—he has done something really
good, he has “come home,” and he knows
it. Because he feels so deeply for the old
whalers and their ships, feels so strongly
that “ ’Twas shameful they had died,” he
has been able to recreate them. They
have not died; they live in these verses.
There are technical faults in this book:
an inability to complete a poem shown
sometimes in the repetition of the first
stanza for a conclusion ; surrenders to the
exigencies of rhyme (“Whose history was
queer”); some prosiness; some empty
verbiage when the thought always
happiest on the deck of a ship—climbs
into the rigging and takes off. But there
is also some balladry as good as any that
has ever been written.
At his best, as in “Bill the Moocher,”
“The Flying Dutchman” or “Old Mac,”
Will Lawson stands beside Kipling and
Masefield. That’s a statement not lightly
made. It must be tested by quotation and
comparison. The present commentator
believes that—-in ballad writing—the lone-
liness of the sea, its width and its depth
and its terror, have never been more
strongly conveyed than in the lament for
Old Mac, who wanted to be buried either
near his “dear New Zealand hills” or in
his native Scotland, but who was lowered
from the ship’s side into the Tonga Deep
—“And it’s six-mile deep down there.”
The tall seas looked like his hills of home
(If his eyes had not been dark),
Till along a ridge ran a line of foam
That slithered beneath the barque;
And t'he yelling wester screamed again
Till we dropped in the valley between;
And we buried Old Mac, that king of men,
Between those mountains green.
He said he would like, to sleep beside
The kirk where he was named
Ere he sailed away where the skies are wide
And there’s nothing between but wind and tide,
The sea no man has tamed.
But we buried him down in Tonga Deep
And the Old Man said this prayer,
“In the arms of God Old Mac will sleep!”
And it’s six-mile deep down there.
“The Flying Dutchman,” though sail-
ing for the most part the good, rough
earth-bound sea of balladry, mounts at
times into the air that Coleridge knew.
The ballad is never quite the same thing
as poetry; but this one, transcending
Kipling’s comparatively commonplace
world of men and action, comes at least
as close to poetry as do the macabre and
ghostly ballads of medieval times:
There had been death aboard us —
The Butcher and Mackay—
Their ghosts would often join us
Up on the royals high,
Where they had both been topmen.
They handed sail with us
But never spoke nor nothin’,
Nor groaned nor made no fuss;
Then down the yellin’ waters
The Flyin’ Dutchman came
With lofty canvas shinin’
An’ blazin’ bows aflame.
In the foreword to his book Will Law-
son tells how the Bill the Whaler verses
came to him out of memories of a Cap-
tain William McKillop, born in New
Zealand in 1862 and died in 1938. “These
verses were inspired—l had almost said
written —by him. As I wrote them, mostly
in the ‘middle watch’ of the night, I
seemed to feel his influence, guiding my
thoughts if not my hand. All I had to
do was scribble them down as fast as my
pencil would move.”
Before they were collected into book
form the poems came tumbling into The
Bulletin office three or four a week.
Whether or not Old Bill had anything
to do with them, they were certainly an
astonishing outburst of poetic energy. The
ballad is pretty well dead in Australia;
the whalers are certainly dead; but here
are ballads and whalers all unmistakably
alive. More certainly than anything he
has done before, the book will give Will
Lawson a permanent place in the history
of the Australian ballad; and if the
Oxford Book of Ballads is ever brought
up to date he will have to be considered
along with Masefield, Kipling and the
recognised Australian rhymers.
“Cauboy”: The “Swan Lake” of
Tschaikowsky is so delicate and lovely
that a good ballerina is required to pre-
vent an audience’s attention from being
diverted from the music to a story which
seems to be concerned with an attempt
of some huntsmen armed with crossbows
to infringe the Fisheries and Game Act
by shooting swans out of season. Edna
Busse, a personable young woman whose
legs aren’t the worst part about her, suc-
ceeded in keeping listeners looking and
lookers listening at Melbourne His
Majesty’s, which is all that can be ex-
pected. “Sea Legend,” to the music of
Melburnian Esther Rofe, another
pleasing item in the Borovansky co.’s
second programme.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service.
%
Dyed Military
Tunics
These Tunics are brand new
and have not been worn.
Dyed Navy, featuring four
large pockets, all wool, and
will stand up to hard wear.
Ideal for outdoor workers.
Sizes 30 in. to 35 in. waists.
Price 207-
Coupon Free
Sturdy Clothes
to Stand
4
Hard Wear
<sn
7)
Army Forage Caps
We have stocks of these Caps
which are ideal for outdoor
workers. They can be worn
as Balaclavas or as ordinary
Forage Caps. All sizes, 1/6
Coupon Free
Dyed Military
Breeches
These Military Breeches are
brand new and have not
been worn. Ideally suited
for outdoor workers. In a
Navy Blue, all wool, heavy
weight Riding Cloth. Sizes
30 inch, 32 inch and 34 inch
waists 107-
Coupon Free
m
m
-■
WORK TROUSERS for
Hard Wear
Fawn/Olive Cotton Ingot Twist
Trousers, full cut. Strongly made,
three pockets, belt loops, 30 in. to
46 in. waists 19/11
5 Coupons
All Wool Australian Tweed Trousers,
Medium and Dark Grey shades,
three pockets, belt loops, 30 in. to
46 in. waists 24/6
48 in. to 50 in. waists 25/6
5 Coupons
Strong Denim Trousers. Ideal for
hard, rough wear. Cloth made in
U.S.A. Two pockets, belt loops, cut
large and double stitched for
strength. 30 in. to 46 in. waists 13/5
48 in. waists 14/5
5 Coupons
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear
Natural All Wool Undershirts, round
neck, short sleeves, in a seasonable
light weight. Size 34 to 44 in. chest.
Price 10/6
5 Coupons
Natural All Wool "Jumbuk" Under-
pants, ankle length, in light weight.
Size 34 in. to 44 in. waist 12/-
6 Coupons
Men’s Half Hose
Serviceable Hall Hose in Two
Weights.
All Wool Cashmere Finish, Medium
Weight, in Grey, Blue Grey and
Black 3/9 pair
4 Coupons
All Wool Heavy Knitted. Grey, Navy,
Blue Grey, Black, Khaki. Size 10 to
lid ins 4/- pair.
2 Coupons
f
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (Day and Night) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE TRIAL OF FISHWIFE
By A. E. YARRA.
ONE bright morning
in the school holi-
days Tomalane Tre-
gear, a “Cousin
Tack” miner who had
worked for twenty years in the No.
1 Extended in Mountain City, down
in the valley a mile and a half away,
came to our little white cottage in the
gully to see Dad.
He seemed disappointed when he
learned from Mother that Dad was away
at the Thompson River after blackfish.
He was reluctant to state his business.
He was big, bearded and muscular, but
not overclever with his head. Dad said
he had been too long underground.
Encouraged by Mother, who guessed
there was something seriously wrong,
Tomalane respectfully but firmly charged
our mare Fishwife with murder. He
said she had deliberately enticed his mare
Blossom down to the Eureka Dam,
pushed her in and left her to drown.
Tomalane did not raise his voice or
show any other signs of anger. He simply
stated his accusation, claimed four pounds’
compensation, and gave it as his opinion
that Fishwife should be destroyed.
Mother was shocked —not at the
demand for money, though with Dad
having no Juck with his prospecting that
was bad enough ; but Fishwife was the
idol of the family. At a fast gallop
through the gullies and across the bridges,
beating everything she met for speed, she
used to carry four to six children, accord-
ing to their size, perched along her
smooth back from withers to tail. She
had been given to Dad by his brother
when she proved too slow to win races.
Blossom, a big coal-black, light-
draught mare, had been another idol of
the boys and girls of the private school
to which we were sent because the winters
were too bitter for the little ones to travel
to Mountain City. She, too, though slow
moving, was fond of a gallop, with her
back lined by kids like a bough loaded
with sparrows.
And now Tomalane was saying that
Fishwife had murdered Blossom, and that
we must pay for the crime with money
and she with her life.
Mother said that after tea she would
take Dad up to Tregear’s place on the top
of the ridge above the gully to talk it over.
Tomalane was satisfied, and after ex-
pressing his thanks respectfully admired
Mother’s rosebush and departed up the
narrow lane between his paddock and
our mineral lease, swinging his blue
enamel miner’s tea-billy and coughing
loudly with miner’s phthisis as he went.
THAT night we all trooped up to Tre-
gear’s, the little rocky mountain farm
where they grew corn and potatoes, and
cherries that were useless for marketing
because they were too “woody.”
Dad strode in the lead, tall, lean, con-
fident, long-legged and cheery. We
threaded the scrub skirting the track be-
tween Tomalane’s cowpasture and Dad’s
timber paddock. The moon flooded the
ridgetop as it neared the horizon. In
the ferntree gully on our right as we
started up the slope a mopoke sent forth
its ghostly note. Curlews screamed in
the Tiollow on our left. A gentle climb
brought us to Tomalane’s home paddock,
where we scrambled through the broken-
down wire fence among the quince- and
pear-trees which needed pruning so sadly.
Here the scent of the honeysuckle that
covered the Tregears’ verandahs struck us
like a breeze.
Mrs. Tregear met us at the door, holding
a wall-bracket kerosene lamp to light us.
We all trooped into the bark-roofed,
slab-and-log house, into the vast kitchen,
where the fireplace was made with a door
at each end so that a log could be drawn
into it by a horse with a drag chain.
Tomalane distributed us comfortably,
Dad and Mother in cowhide armchairs on
either side of the blazing fire ; Margaret
and me, with Tomalane’s two children, on
a possum-skin rug in a corner.
Tomalane and his wife were solemnly
courteous. Nobody would have sus-
pected that this was a courtroom where
our idol Fishwife was to be tried for the
crime of murder. Tomalane inquired
after Dad’s prospecting, his wife about
Mother’s one rosebush.
Nothing was said about Fishwife or
Blossom on either side until we had had
supper of pumpkin pie, doughnuts and
coffee. Then the court opened.
“Pretty thing, iddn’ i’?” suggested
Tomalane in a serious, punctiliously
polite tone. “Can’t see what’s gotten in
that there mare o’ yours, Murry.”
With this opening Tomalane began to
tear the character of Fishwife to shreds,
stopping now and again to interpolate,
“Pretty thing, iddn’ i’?”
As Tomalane saw it, Fishwife had
never been much good, but she had lately
gone from bad to worse. She had cost
Uncle Jack a pot of money to train and
had never won a race. Then, instead of
being content to settle down as a failure
and make some amends by becoming a
useful, quiet mountain hack in a time
and place where a miner’s life and pros-
perity depended to to very large extent on
a good horse or two for riding or pack-
ing, she had developed a taste for crime.
Back-sliding little by little, she had
earned a reputation for opening gates and
eating the contents of gardens, or tramp-
ling them in the dust. Then she had
gathered about her an organised gang of
no-account wasters, leading them into all
sorts of mischief—breaking down fences,
polluting the well in the gully.
She had conducted a campaign of
crashing gates and leaving them open for
stock to stray. She had become a flighty,
galloping, cabbage-eating gadabout, and
finally had enticed into her good-for-noth-
ing gang the apple of Tomalane Tregear’s
eye—Blossom, Blossom, the staid, fat,
glossy, industrious, reliable, children-
loving, hard-working Blossom.
Tomalane, whose manner of delivery
was that of a lay preacher holding a
church service in the home of one of
the parishioners, paused here for breath,
and produced from the clock which
adorned the rude mantleshelf —a clock
devoid of works but useful as a reposi-
tory for documents of household import-
ance —a soiled piece of writing-paper.
He handed it to Dad, who read “Come
and take your damned mare out of our
dam. Murry’s Fishwife has drowned her.”
The letter was from the owners of the
Eureka Dam.
Dad said there was no proof that this
was murder. It might have been an acci-
dent. Who had seen the crime com-,
mitted, he wanted to know.
Tomalane had the evidence. Six small
boys who had been fishing for yabbies
had described to Tomalane and the man-
ager of the battery exactly what they had
seen —six of them.
Tomalane drew out his indictment to
its conclusion with grave, considered
accuracy of detail. Then he sat back and
started to cut tobacco from a big black
plug, pausing while Dad assimilated the
charge that Fishwife had gone, like the
Kellys, from the small crimes of theft to
the big job of murder. It looked like a
verdict of guilty.
Dad was silent for a while, but he
refused to give up without a final attempt
for the defence. He proposed that Toma-
lane should accompany him to the scene
of the crime, interview the Eureka Dam
people and the six small boys, and if
the facts disclosed were consistent with
the case for the prosecution as outlined
by Tomalane he would pay the four
pounds’ compensation. He exhibited the
four notes as evidence of solvency.
“She has sinned and she must be pun-
ished,” Tomalane insisted, but Dad made
no reply.
NEXT day was Saturday, in the long
shift off, so we made a picnic of it.
Dad rode Fishwife, who had been run in
for the occasion. Tomalane bestrode the
late Blossom’s half-sister, a chestnut who
could trot with a full load of potatoes
and was as wide as a barn door.
“You’re riding her!” said Tomalane.
“She has committed murder!”
Dad said that hadn’t been proved yet,
and Tomalane and Blossom’s half-sister
looked reproachfully at him.
On the way, nevertheless, Dad and
Tomalane co-operated, as was their habit
at week-ends, in seeking out trees amongst
the tall bluegums and stringybarks suit-
able for posts and rails, shingles and slabs.
We inspected en route Dad’s tunnel in
Black Gully, where he had found “color,
and arrived at the Eureka Dam in time
to boil the billy for dinner.
While the blue smoke rose into the
sunshine and the dam glittered below us
and Fishwife —tethered to a stringybark
—cropped contentedly at the coarse grass,
it was hard to believe that murder had
been done in a place so lovely or that
even now the stern thoughts of justice
and revenge were passing through Toma-
lane’s mind. Blossom’s half-sister, tearing
at the grass as contentedly as Fishwife,
seemed to have forgotten that there was
a bereavement in the family.
“There they come,” said Tomalane.
“Now we will see.” -
It was McPhail representing the owners
of the dam, accompanied by tne six small
boys. Almost as if she recognised them,
Fishwife looked up with a startled air.
Then she resumed her lunch.
“She copped the black mare a dinny-
hazer, right in the belly.”
It was one of the small boys opening
the case for the prosecution. The others
excitedly confirmed this bit of evidence.
“A beaut! Copped her fair in the ribs.”
The story of the boys was that they had
watched a mob of seven horses coming
down the steep side of the mountain to
the dam at the foot. Fishwife was in the
lead. She was far more surefooted than
her mates, and was always a dozen yards
or more ahead, stopping and whinnying
to the others when they found the going
too steep and seemed about to turn back.
Time and again her companions had turned
aside, but Fishwife had called them on.
Balanced on the steep bank, their legs
trembling under them with the strain, they
stretched their necks down to the water
to drink.
It was the most dangerous piece of
water in the mountain for horses to drink,
and this spot was the worst in the dam.
The water was forty feet deep, and the
bank sloped down under the surface
almost as sheer as a wall.
The place was just below us. The
water still sparkled in the sun, but some-
how it looked sinister now.
Morgan’s mare was on one side of
Fishwife, Blossom on the other, the boys
continued. Blossom dipped her nose into
a clear spot in the water and was drink-
ing. Fishwife’s position was less advan-
tageous. She found some dry twigs float-
ing where her muzzle touched the surface
and promptly switched to Blossom’s posi-
tion, shouldering her out of the way.
Blossom snapped with her teeth at Fish-
wife’s withers and missed.
Fishwife laid her ears back, rolled the
whites of her eyes and planted two iron-
shod hooves with a double-barrelled re-
port fair on the underside of Blossom’s
large and rounded girth. There was a
flurry, a frightened squeal, and Blossom
fell into the dam with a mighty splash,
disappearing from view.
Startled, the other horses fled down the
gully.
The boys said they had shouted and
screamed, but the battery was too far
away for their voices to attract attention.
So Blossom floundered about, trying to
paw her way up the steep bank until,
exhausted, she rolled over, legs up, and
floated away downstream to fetch up
against the wall of the dam.
The boys were certain that it was a
vicious kick from Fishwife, intended to
drive Blossom away from the good posi-
tion she had picked out that toppled the
black mare into the dam.
McPhail clinched the
case for the prosecution:
“If it wasn’t murder it was
as good as manslaughter.”
he said. “Now get that
damned mare’s carcass out of this dam,
will you?”
Kyj cPHAIL lent us ropes, and we
IVI dragged Blossom out of the dam and
sat looking at the carcass. Swollen and
very wet, it was an impressive carcass.
Blossom had cost him Tour pounds in
cash, Tomalane gravely recalled.
Moreover, Blossom had earned her
oats in the plough and the spring cart;
she was good in harness and, except for
lack of speed, in the saddle. Blossom
was virtuous beyond doubt, until she was
seduced by bad companions, and Toma-
lane, increasingly suffering from phthisis,
had been looking forward to giving up
underground work and* retiring to his
farm. With Blossom he had had assurance
of loyal and efficient all-round service.
We looked at Blossom’s body with
ever-increasing respect. And then, appre-
hensively, we looked at Fishwife, up on
the ridge behind us, not cropping the
grass now, but gently flicking her tail to
keep the flies off Blossom’s half-sister’s
rump and apparently deep in conversa-
tion with her.
Blossom had fallen from grace before
she died, Tomalane went on. He was as
much pained by this as by the tragedy,
we felt. And who was responsible for
her fall? Who else but Fishwife?
Once Blossom fell to the temptation of
Fishwife she descended quickly to her
ruin—degenerating in no time into a
skittish mountain brumby who could
never be caught when there was plough-
ing or potato-carting to do, but who was
always on hand when there was extra
hand-out of fodder. No longer had
Blossom been proud to perform her home
duties as of old. She had deserted the
domestic sphere in which she had be?n
a shining light, to roam the mountains
and gullies with Fishwife and her gang,
like Ned Kelly and his companions, going
swiftly from small beginnings to worse,
until finally she had become a loafer and
a thief, against whom every man’s hand
was turned.
And now Blossom was dead.
We looked at Blossom. She was dead
all right.
And Fishwife—there stood Fishwife!
Tomalane pointed dramatically. Fish-
wife and Blossom’s half-sister stood out-
lined against the sky. The six small boys
looked scared. We were all a bit awed.
Tomalane was impressive, and Fishwife
had undoubtedly committed a murder.
She was bad. She was very bad. We felt
ashamed of her ; and ashamed of our-
selves, too, for she was one of the family.
Fishwife, Dad said suddenly, wasn’t as
bad as all that. There was a lot of good
in that mare. A lot of good, in her way.
She was the quietest, fastest, most sure-
footed hack on the mountain he urged.
She cost practically nothing to keep (at
this Tomalane coughed loudly), and she
was a godsend to the children as a bare-
back hack for messages, for fun or on
urgent business.
We began to feel happier about Fish-
wife. She was, after all, a noble animal.
She was gentle and quiet, Dad con-
tinued. Nobody had ever been kicked
or bitten by Fishwife.
Nobody, McPhail said drily, except
Blossom.
"TOMALANE recalled the time when
* Fishwife led Blossom into his garden
to eat his artichokes. He had expended
the love of a farmer and the sweat of his
brow on bringing those artichokes to
perfection, until they’ shone like stars
amongst the cabbages and cauliflowers
and marrows and pumpkins; and no
sooner was his back turned than Fishwife
and her gangsters struck. *
Fishwife had worked at the fastenings
of the gate until they fell off, and then
led the raiders to the slaughter, with
Blossom well in the van. What Fish-
wife’s gang left of the artichokes and
other vegetables in that garden was
mopped up by Jimmy Smith’s goats, who
followed the horses in.
“She’s a caution!” Dad said. ye
could see him trying to hide a grin.
“And then she goes and kicks Blossom
into the dam. Here, Tomalane, heres
your four pounds.”
Tomalane thanked him solemnly-
“ Pretty thing, iddn’ i’?” he said. “Cost-
ing you your good money now.
will ride her home again and then she
will pay the penalty?”
“It might be best,” Dad said, “to leave
it to her conscience.” He winked at us,
and somehow we began to feel secretl}
proud of Fishwife.
“Come on,” Dad said, “we’ll helo
Tomalane make a fire and get rid of
poor old Blossom.”
JOHN DONNES DEFIANCE .
(John Donne, poet, formerly libertine and latterly
Dean of St. Paul’s —1621 —a short time before his
death commissioned a portrait of himself in which
he was to be represented standing upon an urn and
wrapped in his own burial shroud.)
Now is the hour of the bell, now am I caught
Out of the war whose sullen stain I wear:
Yet must I first oppose the final malice
Of death to whom my wall’s a window inviting
His freezing stare on my enfeeblement.
My enemy has been a cloud confronting
The sun, has been a snake whose poison glittered
Over the environs of love, for in the midst
Of ecstasy , even has this dismal horn
Usurped the hour, so that my sweets dissolved,
Turning to bitter the leniency of love.
The sensual night in which my joys appeared
As stars was still the night, and this life heavy
With satisfactions was but death dispensing
The sly draught of destruction. My song was fed,
No less than my desire, my casual loves,
But when these blew away like petals, remained
Oracular death loading the time with judgment.
I would not be taken by death in sleep, nor
snatched
Out of an idle temper, but he must win
My body in battle, outwit the constant will:
Yet is the victory mine, for every blow
But makes that prison to perish wherein the King,
My soul, awaits the august deliverance.
t his room that reeks corruption, here have I laid
My strength away but not athletic hope;
And I have drawn the curtains of repentance,
So that no loves may pry and pierce with guilt
The man now altogether bled of passion.
Christ, my Anchor, will hold this ship against
The urgent tide, and out of this lane of sorrow
Will God the Father bring me to broad estate:
Therefore I summon death that he may see
The front of my faith, and know that the bell
For him out of this clear and calm event.
Bring then the urn that prates of dust and J
WiU stand upon it, setting my feet on fear,
And trampling stern pretences of the grave,
For He enables this pride Whose feet were iron
On the snake’s head, the tempter, sliming the
ages.
Now lightly on arm I bear my heavy shroud
That ye may bind my body, affixing knots
At head and foot like locks that cry forbiddance
To thought and life’s decorous liberty:
But let my face be seen that it's defiance
May arm the trembler dream,n g d.ssoiutton.
So do I make an end, my portrait shall be
A scorn of symbols advertising doom—
What a death is this life, and what a resurrection
This death, this fitful dark declaring light.
MX .
J. R. HERVEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3369.
Wednesday, September 6, 1944.
THE TOO-BLUE DANUBE.
“Schkipper, I haf to report dere’s nod a rat left in der schip.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ANNIVERSARY.
“No blows were struck at Australia when
Germany marched into Poland, but Australia
knew that in marching into Poland Germany
was marching into a strategic area which was
part of a considered plan ot world domination,
and that the attack on Poland was as much
Australia’s business as if the very port of Sydney
itself had been bombarded by the Nazis.” —
Mr. Curtin, at the Guildhall, London, 10\5\’44.
There is no mention in the “Times”
report of even restrained Guildhallian
applause greeting this weathercock state-
ment by the man who today (September
6) five years ago, on the historic occa-
sion of the first war debate in the Com-
monwealth House at Canberra, led the
Opposition outcry against the sending of
a solitary armed man from this country
to fight in the war then three days old.
And when Mr. Curtin went on to tell
his Guildhall audience “There was clear-
sightedness, I believe, in all the
Dominions as to the implications of the
conflict,” if anybody present muttered
“Humbug!” the “Times” overlooked it.
The “Hansard” report of the Canberra
debate is headed “War in Europe.” So
far from Mr. Curtin and his then Oppo-
sition followers having accepted the
march into Poland as “Australia’s busi-
ness,” their contributions to the debate
should be headed “War in the Moon.”
Instantly Mr. Menzies ended his Prime
Ministerial declaration (“We are together
[with Britain] in this struggle”), Mr.
Curtin rose to assert his party’s opposi-
tion to “conscription” (that is, the re-
introduction of compulsory national ser-
vice) and to “expeditionary forces” (that
is, to any new A.1.F.). The “clearsighted-
ness” on the conflict of which he spoke
at the Guildhall last May, Mr. Curtin on
September 6, 1939, revealed in his hope
that somehow, as early as possible, there
will intrude itself into the councils of the
countries at war those influences which
will persuade them to call a truce from war-
fare, so that they may, even now, while the
guns are blaring, sit down to discover
whether, after all, right cannot triumph
without being backed by might.
Mr. Curtin’s predecessor as leader of
the “clearsighted” party, Mr. Scullin
(P.M. in the Government which, in
Labor’s one brief reign of two years be-
tween the wars, suspended national ser-
vice and reduced the Defence vote to
barely £3,000,000), joined in to reveal the
heroic outlook which his party was sub-
sequently to adopt as its Government
policy and fall miserably short of in prac-
tice. “I believe,” said Mr. Scullin, “that
the Government will best contribute to
the cause by conserving our man-power
and contributing from our abundance of
foodstuffs and raw materials.”
Passing over such party speakers as
the late Mr. Blackburn (though far from
alone in opposing even “voluntary re-
cruiting as being the first step towards
compulsion”), Mr. Beasley’s revelation
of the universal “clearsightedness”:
I have heard it argued that' the guaran-
tee of the British Government to Poland
had had the effect of stiffening that country’s
attitude in the course of the negotiations.
I have also heard it suggested that the
Polish Government, for its part, was equally
determined to force matters its own way
to a conclusion.
That argument, Mr. Beasley dubiously
allowed, “seems to me to be discounted”
by the official document on the immediate
pre-war negotiations; but there was
further “clearsightedness” to be expressed
by Mr. Ward:
Evidently there are many men in this Par-
liament, as well as in Britain, who want to
defeat Hitler, not because of his policy,
but because Germany is a strong rival of
Britain in the commercial field.
By November 29 the party had had
about two months’ additional time for
improving its “clearsightedness.” To Mr.
Curtin it was then “rather early in
this struggle for Australia to contem-
plate a division fighting on the Western
Front” (it is still “rather early” when too
late). In effect, he wanted to be
assured that others were going to do their
bit: “No information has been divulged
to the House as to the extent of the forces
of other Dominions or of the United
Kingdom itself which are at present en-
gaged in the Western theatre of war.”
His party disliked, he said, “in principle
the obligation to serve in overseas theatres
of war.” “Clearsighted” Mr. Curtin,
realising that “the attack on Poland was
as much Australia’s business as if the
very port of Sydney itself had been bom-
barded by the Nazis,” thereupon put to
the House his motion seeking to block
“the dispatch of expeditionary forces.”
This was the pre-arranged signal for
the party to indulge in a grand orgy of
“clearsightedness,” recorded over a further
60-odd pages of “Hansard” (December
2, 1939, issue). Mr. Scullin’s heroic
breadbasket policy appealed most
strongly to Mr. Holloway: “supply
the Old Country with necessary com-
modities.” Mr. Holloway was prepared
to “oppose, even to the point of stretch-
ing the law to breaking point, any pro-
posal to send Australian soldiers to fight
on foreign battlefields.” Mr. Frost also
on the breadbasket idea, with something
gritty for J. Bull to go on with:
If we are able to sell our fruit, wool,
wheat, meat and other primary products
to Great Britain it is because the British
people need them; if they need them they
should be prepared to keep the trade routes
open.
Heroic clearsightedness at its clearest;
and, at its noblest, again Mr. Frost:
At a time like this, when transport by
sea is fraught with danger, to say the least
it is a risky undertaking to send troops
abroad before they are required.
Right from the start, too, there was
great “clearsightedness” in Mr. Beasley.
None saw clearer that this was “as much
Australia’s business,” etc. —or, appar-
ently, according to Mr. Beasley, not many
did. “So far as I am able to judge*,” said
Mr. Beasley, “there is no great enthusiasm
for the present war. Opposition members
who come in contact with the masses of
the people [that is, of course, Mr. Beasley
himself and others of his party] have yet
to find an atmosphere in favor of war.”
The responsible Minister having, in justi-
fication of Australia’s sending some
armed forces to help in the fight against
Germany, intimated that the forces of
the Allies were at that time possibly in-
ferior to those of the enemy, Mr. Beas-
ley vehemently decried this sort of
“propaganda,” used, Mr. Beasley insisted,
merely “as a justification for sending an
expeditionary force overseas.”
We should not allow this kind of propa-
ganda to succeed in luring away from the
Dominions the best of their man-power so
that they may, perhaps, be destroyed on
the high seas by German submarines or
mines....
A bit further on:
Mr. Makin: The Government and the
Country party would again gamble with the
lives of Australian soldiers in that way
[as on Gallipoli].
Mr. Archie Cameron: The Opposition
would gamble with the fate of the Empire.
“Clearsighted” Mr. Beasley proceeded,
soaring to the peaks of prophecy: “This
war may not be decided by shot and
shell, by rifle and bayonets.” It might,
Mr. Beasley believed, be all done by eco-
nomic blockade ; therefore, “Ensured de-
livery of primary products and raw
materials to Great Britain from Australia
is more important than 20,000 men.”
Australia had a great, a noble “part to
play,” worthy of its splendid Anzac tradi-
tion —“to ensure that Great Britain gets
the goods that it needs”!
The last words before the adjournment
of that November 29, 1939, debate were
spoken by Mr. Blain, now an A.I.F.
prisoner of war in the hands of the
Japs: “The people of Australia will never
forget the exhibition given by the mem-
bers of the Labor party in this House
today.” But, for once, the gallant mem-
ber was wrong. And if among those
listening to Mr. Curtin in the Guildhall
on May 10 were men mindful of what
was said on September 6, 1939, they
politely kept their thoughts to themselves
and let the visitor enjoy the Freedom of
London, preserved by clearsightedness
and stout hearts (over there) and the
heroic fighting of brave men, including
those of the three A.I.F. divisions who
were sent, and those of the R.A.A.F.,
still on the job, though in many cases
sorely in need of leave.
New Tacties Triumph.
Orote Peninsula secured, and the first
large-scale counter-attack against the
northern landing force beaten off, the
Japanese on Guam were never again
given the opportunity to organise either
for attack or for adequate defence of the
natural strongpoints in the north.
Twenty days after the original landing
there was issued a declaration that all
organised resistance was broken and that
the island was once more in American
hands: triumph of new tactics and of
fast-moving supply.
If the jeep had hitherto been the most
important single factor making for the
success of the American war in the
Pacific, that distinction was now assigned
to the bulldozer, which blazed the trails
for jeeps and trucks and tanks to follow.
The tactics depended entirely upon the
speed with which large bodies of troops
could be moved forward. They were
designed to keep the enemy off footing,
to break first his organisation, to push on
regardless of the many small pockets of
resistance which such methods neces-
sarily isolated behind the advance. The
theory of sweeping forward in line, comb-
ing the entire width of the island as the
push went on, was quickly abandoned.
Regiments were thrust forward in
column along the four parallel road sys-
tems. When in the late afternoon bivouac
areas were established the line fanned out
again. Connection was made and patrols
were radiated through the jungle, scouring
the areas which the day’s advance had so
quickly bypassed. The bulldozers slashed
forward to keep the columns moving.
. The new methods were eminently suc-
cessful. In all the 450 square miles of
Guam northward of Agana the Japanese
were nowhere enabled to lay a barrier
against the flood of the advance. The
thundering crash of an exploding artillery
barrage rolled on before the thrusting
bulldozers. It effectively discouraged
enemy concentration, broke his scattered
formations still further.
Marine Major-General Roy S. Geiger,
who had the Corps command, was present
at Tobruk in the role of an observer.
When in November, 1943, he took his
forces into Empress Augusta Bay on
Bougainville he said he had more artil-
lery than was available in the African
stronghold at any time during its long
siege. On Guam he had more artillery
than on Bougainville.
Daylong during the first week in
August the roar of its guns reverberated
dully above the noise of the motorised
supply columns. There was the rushing,
ever-present sound of a larger war than
that the South Pacific had seen. At night
the flash of batteries lit the cloud-dark
sky like lightning ; like thunder came the
rolling fire of the guns; the air vibrated
to the headlong, express-train rush of
hurtling shells.
In those last days before the “all-
organised - resistance - broken” announce-
ment on August 10 it became a difficult
matter to “find” the war. Troops who
in months of bitter campaigning had
driven the enemy northward through the
Solomons, wrestling with jungle and a
crafty, fierce-fighting adversary for every
hundred yards of swamp or coral ridge,
quickly discovered on the jungle-covered
plateau that is the northern tip of Guam
that this time the Japanese had no liking
for the jungle. They showed no disposi-
tion to build their defence there, but kept
to the trails and clearings, scattering into
the underbrush only when demoralised
and in search of a hiding place. Besides,
the problems of movement and of combat
in the Guam jungles proved to be of little
difficulty to men who had had their first
experiences of jungle fighting on the
rough and broken ridges of New Georgia
and the mountains of Bougainville.
On Guam they came soon to despise
the enemy. He stayed not to fight, but
wandered dazedly along the trails in
groups of two or six or twenty, seldom
more. Time and time again he turned
and ran and made no effort to shoot. He
was found without arms—though rifles,
ammunition, artillery even, were aban-
doned —and he was shot down in ones
and twos wherever found.
A B.A.R. (Browning Automatic Rifle)
man fired a burst into a group of 11
Japanese who were walking down a trail.
Three fell. Most of the others ran. One,
apparently unwounded, sat down and
held a grenade to his stomach. Nothing
unusual in those last days.
The count of Japanese dead rose
steadily. By August 10 it had reached
10,984, and there were thousands more
to be counted and buried. In the
island’s stockade there were 87 prisoners.
Not all had been disposed of. There
might be some hundreds of Japs still
skulking in caves and in the jungle. They
could constitute no possible threat to the
security of Guam, but it might be months
before the last of them could be winkled
out. It was still possible to come on a
Jap at any turn of those bulldozed roads,
and no jeep driver went out without a
rifle at his side.
Before a junction had been effected
between the forces that landed north and
south of the Orote Peninsula a Guard
Mail service was established along Old
Agat Road. The first jeep to make the
run drew sniper fire from half a dozen
points along the road. The second-
moved out through a fresh, green
countryside, practically untouched by
war.
That jeep carried the Officer Messenger,
a driver, a Marine with a carbine and a
passenger. It ploughed its way through
the thick mud that was now the road,
slipped off the crown into the truck ruts
and pushed out into a field to skirt shell-
craters. The country seemed deserted.
Farmhouses *fetood open, as though the
occupants had just walked out. There
was none of the wild disorder of furni-
ture, cases, papers that marks the passage
of souvenir hunters.
For a couple of miles it was surfaced
with macadam. There were concrete
bridges across the streams, undamaged.
Orderly rows of coconut palms and
kapok trees lined the roadway; huge,
spreading breadfruit trees gave shade in
the fields ; the cattle were gone. Where
there were thickets or where the trees
came down the slopes to the roadway the
jeep went faster. J
At the side of the road was a large re
inforced concrete building, an unfinished
power-house. The concrete mixer was
just as the workmen had left it. Beyond
were Japanese storehouses, open on one
side, the goods still on the shelves. There
was a large fuel dump with pumps
vehicle ramps and three abandoned oil
trucks apparently intact—the first sign
that the Japanese had motor transport
on Guam on any large scale. Road
notices were in Japanese, with here and
there, on the telephone poles or the watei
pipeline that ran along beside the road
a sign in English from the days before
the Japanese invasion. There were no
pillboxes, dugouts or road-blocks, no
evidence that the enemy had intended to
defend the area. Apparently he had just
walked out and left it.
There in a field at the roadside, un-
covered, was a dump of maybe a thou-
sand cases of liquor. A case was taken
aboard. It was Japanese cider, bubbly,
refreshing but unfortunately soft.
The road swept down a slope towards
the water and the old Piti naval yard,
and then it was rutted again and deep
in mud. The fields on either side were
pockmarked with foxholes and piled with
the rubble of houses. There came in
sight a continuous line of slow-moving
trucks and jeeps, bulldozers and amphi-
bious tractors, and the dirt and confusion
and noise of another beachhead, the
northern one.
JOHN BRENNAN.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Fifth Year Closes.
The fifth year of the German war
brought deep cause for gratitude to the
peoples of occupied countries, and for
pride as well to the nations engaged in
beating the baffled militarists back to their
homelands, which must this time be the
scene of their complete and final over-
throw. Throughout the star of hope burned
brighter. And when the year closed most
of France had been freed, the Americans
were in the Argonne again, the British
and Canadians were moving over the old
Somme battlefields and the Russians had
taken the Ploesti oilfields and Bucharest,
the Rumanians, like the Italians, having
changed sides.
Great days and majestic combined
movements, to which the army of Italy,
led by General Alexander, was making an
increasingly important contribution, as
yet unobtrusive. But though the splendid
dash of the Americans and the not-
unexpected developments in the Balkans
are rightly valued, the interest and
emotions of the peoples of the British
Commonwealth are centred in the superb
efforts of the Tommies and the Canadians
to cut off the Channel coast, from which
came the latest devilish invention of Hun-
nish frightfulness to scatter murder and
destruction among the English and try
their fortitude —in vain.
Australian soldiers would give their
ears to be going forward with their
British and Canadian comrades. On
August 8, 1918, the Australians of
Monash’s Corps had a lion’s share in
“one of the finest British victories of all
time” (, Encyclopaedia Britannica); “the
worst experience I had to go through ;
the black day of the German Army’
(Ludendorff). On August 31 -September
1, 1918, they took Mont St. Quentin, “a
feat of arms rightly judged one of the
finest in the war” ( Encyclopedia Britan-
nica). In these battles and in the engage-
ments in between all five divisions tool,
part. No amount of persuasive eloquence
could reconcile the surviving veterans to
the fact that when the proud anniver-
saries came round, coinciding with a stin
more urgent need, there was not a singl”
A.I.F. division in the line.
On August 31 these Old Diggers read
in the papers that 30,000 men were to
be released from the Army 15,000
from the Air Force “by June 30.” This
statement was made in the House by the
Prime Minister, deeply hurt by the defeat
of Labor’s war against the half of the
nation that doesn’t agree with it (much
more than half at the referendum) and
the failure of all his efforts to persuade
the N.S.W. miners to hew coal eno’-'S 11
for an uninterrupted war effort. R e_
adjustments,” he said, were discussed by
him with Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roose-
velt, and those decided upon were in
keeping with “an agreement reached as
to the lines our effort should take, in tne
shape of fighting forces, the economic
basis of the direct military effort, the con-
tribution to be made towards the mam-
tenance of forces in the Pacific and the
provision of food for Britain.”
The “readjustments” may be necessary,
but the announcement, which could have
been made before the Governmen
knocked off for the referendum, wa
the dead limit of bad timing.


Resurgent France.
One of the great facts of history is that
the French swiftly recover from their
wars, even when —as in 1814-15 and 1870
—they have been utterly defeated, and it
seems to have dawned on some of the
correspondents that Gallic recuperative
powers will be shown once more.
One, a New York “Herald Tribune”
man, referring to the current attempt to
arrive at a peace-enforcement formula,
included France among “the five big
Powers,” Britain, the United States,
Soviet Russia and China being the others.
For two years at least these others were
described in the world press as “the Big
Four.” It is to be hoped that the last has
been heard of this stupid and invidious
expression. Whether applied as in this
instance, or as at Versailles, or as at Can-
berra by the members of Mr. Curtin’s
“circus,” it has an unfortunate history.
And a Sydney “Herald” correspondent,
surveying Paris and comparing its face
with that of London, bomb-scourged
once more, wrote:
This city has been exceedingly fortunate.
It has been virtually untouched by war.
All the bombings have been against military
objectives such as railway junctions in the
outskirts.
The comparison might be extended to
the two countries. Though the story is
incomplete, and in any case cannot yet
be fully told, it seems probable that the
war will end with greater destruction and
damage wrought by bombing in Britain
—England, anyhow—than in France. No
British port has suffered so severely as
Toulon or Cherbourg, but none has
escaped.
Certainly Britain has still a magnificent
fleet in being, while France has only war-
ships. Moreover, the number of British
servicemen in German captivity, though
no light matter, is small compared with
the number of Frenchmen held as
prisoners of war or slaves or both. That
tragic fact has to be borne in mind when
considering France’s prospects of rapid
recovery.
For material and military reasons, as
well as for the sake of rich associations
and memories held in common, Austra-
lians will welcome the return of France
to its great place among the nations.
Before the war France was Australia’s
best foreign customer. In 1937-38 it
bought 7.29 per cent, and in 1938-39 7.65
per cent, of Australia’s: exports to foreign
countries, other than gold; values in
Australian currency, £10,322,346 out of
£44,364,046 and £9,378,782 out of
£37,428,618. France has colonies near
this continent and had possessions in the
part of Asia where a still-unavenged
disaster befell Australian and British-
Indian arms.
There is a great deal to be wiped off the
slate in lndo-China. On the visit to
Washington which, in the result, was so
unhappy for him, General Giraud
promised that when France was free from
German pollution it would throw all its
available forces into the war against
Japan. General de Gaulle has not been
so express, but it is inconceivable that
he will give the British Empire and the
United States any cause to regret the fall
of General Giraud.
Delayed Crusade.
Sydney “Sun,” which has spasms of
reforming zeal, has returned to the sub-
ject of the Sydney black market in booze.
It quotes a police officer as saying that
“many licensees are aiding black-
marketeers” by supplying them with the
stuff, and giving instances of bootleggers
being caught loading it in lorries and
cars. “There is no doubt that most of
the bootleg liquor is being supplied from
hotels,” the police officer said ; and no
person who has tried to buy a bottle of
beer, wine, whisky, gin or rum at a pub
will question it.
Just before the State election, Mr. J. L.
Geraghty, the Labor M.L.A. for North
Sydney, opened his heart to the “Sun’s”
Sunday issue. Himself a publican, he
said publicans were “treating the public
wickedly”; indeed “supplies for the
black-marketeers would be cut off if all
hotelkeepers sold their liquor quotas
legitimately.” Adulteration, too, was
rampant.
Like the late General Trochu, publican-
member Geraghty had a Plan:
Supplies could be policed from the
moment they left the brewery or other
sources until they reached the hotel. From
then on those suspected of illegal selling
should be kept under surveillance.
And “such offences should not be met by
fines, but by instant de-licensing."’
Publican-member Geraghty .vas re-
elected. No doubt he got votes on the
score of being a crusader against the
bottle racket, of commanding influence
in the councils of his party. But although
three months have passed, and Mr.
Geraghty’s Government has nearly 4000
police at its disposal, there is not only
no sign of a Geraghty crusade but the
black market is, if anything, blacker than
ever. What’s detaining Mr. Geraghty?
Community Forests.
Australia, badly in need of citizens with
ideas, ought to take notice of Jocelyn
Henderson, of Upper Wantagong station,
Holbrook (N.S.W.), a young woman who
not only has a good idea but is promoting
it for all she’s worth.
Miss Henderson is obsessed, as every
good Australian is obsessed, with the
nation’s lack of timber and the existing
and future problems associated with it.
An ornithologist and a forester, she is
pushing her idea before public organisa-
tions, politicians, local governments and
anybody else who will listen. She wants
community forests here on the lines of
those in the United States, which has
1500 of them.
Briefly, the idea is that every country
centre should have its own forest, as near
the town as possible, on land reserved in
perpetuity, to supply firewood and
commercial timber and also provide
recreational and picnic grounds. These
forests, where possible, are to be planted
along streams to halt erosion and restore
many of them, which have gone dry in
the memory of living men, to permanent
flow again.
Half the forest could be native timber,
half softwoods. Upkeep and management
would be the charge of the local com-
munity. Miss Henderson holds, and
rightly, that where trees grew before they
will grow again. On existing demands
Australia needs 24,500,000 acres of
mature forest. It has 19,500,000 acres of
forest reserve. Existing forests cover only
1 per cent, of the continental area.
Dwellers in Australian country towns,
who have to go miles and pay high prices
for firewood alone, who are frequently
smothered in dust in summer and sadly
contemplate the continued drying up of
rivers and creeks, don’t or shouldn’t need
convincing of the worth of Miss Hender-
son’s idea. The thing is to convince those
charged with the country’s destinies. The
lady has persuaded the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to amend its Local Government Act
to give councils power to institute and
control these forests, and she intends to
keep at it. More power to her elbow!
At Cross Purposes.
Little has been published in the Syd-
ney papers, and nothing in the Russia-
Is-Always-Right section, about compli-
cations which have attended Moscow’s
boycott of the heroes of Warsaw.
Trevor Smith has written an account
for Melbourne “Herald,” using the words
“appalling tragedy.” Some of his state-
ments (“the rising occurred prematurely ;
the Poles neither notified the Allies nor
attempted to co-ordinate their action”)
were denied in advance by the Polish
Government, which maintains, unanswer-
ably, that the Poles in Warsaw acted upon
a general Allied instruction to patriots in
all occupied countries to take up arms
as in the latest instance did “a Czech
underground organisation which receives
orders from the Benes Government.”
But it is true, as Trevor Smith said, that
they rose when “the Russians were on
the outskirts of the city and seemed about
to enter,” and that “the Russians suffered
a setback” prior to leaving the Poles flat.
They were not left alone, for the
R.A.F. “responded immediately, para-
chuting supplies into Warsaw at cruel
cost” to “British, South African and
Polish airmen” (Premier Mikolajczyk).
The Americans, for their part, offered “to
use long-range shuttle bombers returning
to Italy from Russia to drop supplies in
Warsaw.” But the Russians wouldn't
have it.
Returning good for evil, the R.A.F.
has lost heavily in bombing Konigsberg,
into which the Russians a few weeks ago
were said to be promenading. And re-
plying to German threats tb hang Poles
captured in Warsaw, the British and
American Governments have notified
Hitler that in that case stern vengeance
will be exacted, the threatened patriots
being part of a belligerent army recog-
nised by those Governments. Here again
Moscow has held aloof.
Says Trevor Smith: “It is most diffi-
cult to justify the Russian attitude, which
is causing considerable concern in Lon-
don and Washington.”
It is equally difficult to reconcile it with
the Brave New World in which every-
body is to live free from fear and want.
A London “Times” article, quoted in
the Melbourne “Herald,” refers to “the
unfortunate Red Army setback outside
Warsaw,” and denounces “the malicious
and unfounded rumor,” attributed to
some Turk or other, that “the Russians
were deliberately holding back in order to
allow a war of mutual extermination be-
tween the Poles and the Germans.” But
it states that “the gravity of the situation
extends beyond any local issue, and has
put the three major Powers among the
United Nations at cross-purposes” at a
time when “a rift is the one thing which
can now postpone victory and destroy
the world’s hopes for a lasting peace.”
COMMAND PERFORMANCE,


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Making
your will?
hi!
In!
mi
iii'!
Pf
On affeclS
time
iSSS
ssf^r
By
the
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE GO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies never had an easier brief than
w hen he challenged the Government that
doesn’t govern on its “failure to main-
tain adequate supplies of coal,” which
“impairs the war effort, seriously dislocates
employment, production and transport,
imposes unnecessary hardships upon the
community and deserves the censure of
this House.” All he had to do was to
quote Curtin’s production figures and
issues of forcible-feeble stuff, and this he
did, adding appropriate observations such
as “Nothing could be more pathetic than
to have this combination of strong words
and miserable impotence.” Then he
turned on Evatt:
The Attorney-General has briefed hordes
of King’s Counsel for proceedings against
private citizens and has pursued them to the
High Court. The butcher at Portland who
stood up for his unquestioned rights is to
have half his business filched from him as
a punishment. While there is one law for
the individual there is quite another for
those who combine against national inter-
ests.
The motion will be defeated, probably
today (Wednesday). Labor is not yet
ready to tear itself to pieces, but that will
come.
Always a prey to anguish when tackled
about coal, Curtin, trying to answer
Menzies, paid out distracted sentiments
which astonished his own side:
If I could find the requisite qualified
labor, outside the Miners’ Federation, to
produce the coal this country wants, I
would use that labor or I would cease to
be head of the Government.
I say to the union that if it allows indis-
cipline to continue it will be destroyed, and
the Government will be destroyed, too.
In effect, a despairing admission that you
can’t run a nation on “Labor principles.”
A butcher —“the butcher of Rouen,
poor Berold” —was the only person saved
in the wreck of the White Ship (1120).
In the tossing craft freighted with the
magnificoes of Canberra and their poli-
tical fortunes a stiffnecked butcher figures
unwillingly. When the rising storm is
overpast, as the poet puts it, the butcher
may be the sole survivor.
It was given out the other day that
telephones might be refused to “people
whose activities are not essential to the
war effort.” This, of course, doesn’t
apply to s.p. bookmakers and Com-
munists. The Sydney Corns, proudly
announce that they have five numbers at
Marx House, formerly the Green Coupon
building, and a sixth at another address.
When seemingly about to agree to
become United Democrats, the Sydney
Dems. and Lib. Dems. agreed to remain
disunited. Each party blames the other.
In the first fine careless rapture of nego-
tiation, Weaver announced that they had
arranged to “ride to heaven on the same
chariot,” but he is a daisy at falling out..
In any case, he is too old and crochety
to rally the forces opposed to Labor-
Socialism. White, an Old Digger to whom
Young Diggers are drawn, has the right
equipment and ideas.
Over a great part of Europe the guid-
ing “principle” of foreign policy when
war breaks out seems to be to join the
side that looks like winning, and if it
doesn’t win to go over to the other side.
No need to quote examples. They stick
out a mile.
Australia and American soldiers in
the north have refused to fight under
General MacArthur because he is rising
65. No, that’s not it; the miners in
Maitland Main (N.S.W.) refused to work
with a man four years younger than the
general because he wanted to go on
mining coal instead of vegetating on a
pension; and they had a three weeks’
strike. The pension was introduced by
the N.S.W. Labor Minister of Mines
when Jap invasion seemed a certainty,
and it became an immediate excuse for
strikes, the jobs of reluctant 60-year-olds
being perhaps wanted for s.p. book-
makers, greyhound trainers and the like.
Keith Murdoch, the newspaper knight,
wants another referendum on “a simple
bill asking for vital powers,” and assures
his public “it would go through.” From
a persistent rider of referendum-losers the
assurance is worthless. Why not get on
with the war?
Victoria’s Leg. Assembly discussed the
situation in the Mallee for two hours last
week, but it might just as well have given
the subject two minutes. Under Federal
dispensation there isn’t much that the
State Parliament can do about it. Not
that the State Parliament did anything
in particular about the Mallee situation
when it hadn’t the excuse of Federal
intervention.
Everybody in Victoria knows that
droughts occur in the Mallee with almost
clocklike precision. Although the Can-
“I think it proper here to pay tribute to the great part that Britain and the British leaders
have played in this amazing drama.” — Mr. Curtin, August 30.
“But, Prime Minister, I was only saying Mr. Curtin patted you on the back.”
berra Government, guilty on many other
scores, is guiltless of the drought, it made
no preparations for it. It appealed to
farmers to conserve and store meadow
hay during the green season, which was
an exceptionally lush one. But it pro-
vided neither man-power, nor transport,
nor silos. And there occurred the worst
grass fires in Victorian history, in which
dozens of people were burned to death.
Meadow hay sufficient to tide stock over
the present famine was destroyed, and
millions of pounds’ worth of damage was
done to property and fences. Even today
survivors haven’t got material for rebuild-
ing, and thousands of head of valuable
cattle are doomed to slow starvation
unless they are removed to southern dis-
tricts ; and there aren’t the facilities for
wholesale removal.
Spring has arrived in Melbourne after
the driest five months on record has made
half the State like a huge mass of tinder.
In 1939, Judge Stretton recommended in
his report on the bushfires of that year
that a State fire authority should be
appointed, free of control from any
public department or combination of de-
partments. Nothing was done about it,
and more disastrous fires followed, plus
another report from the same Judge
with much the same recommendations.
Nothing has been done about that, but
Premier Dunstan is reported to be pre-
paring a bill to provide one bushfire con-
trol in the country. He refuses to give
details and farmers are wondering
whether there isn’t a catch in it some-
where.
Defying a National Security order
issued by the P.M., the bosses of the Syd-
ney gasmen’s union held a stop-work meet-
ing which “decided to continue the strike’
—so far confined to drivers and garage
hands. Defying another, also issued by
the P.M., the S.A. members of the
A.R.U., egged on by the union bosses,
held up the Government railways for an-
other two days “as a protest against” the
Commissioner enforcing discipline, as he
is obliged to do under the Act prescrib-
ing his duties. There is the usual talk
of prosecutions from the Government
thus challenged. Meanwhile, at the bid-
ding of another union mob, it is going
on with the measures calculated to ruin
the Portland (N.S.W.) butcher who, with
no powers other than a good cause and
a stout heart, has done what this Gov-
ernment, with supreme powers and duties,
has never had the pluck to do —stood up
to larrikinism disguised as unionism, the
law of the push.
Because a member of the Queensland
Electrical Trades Union who had paid
dues for 23 years was alleged to have
“performed work covered by the Amal-
gamated Engineering Union,” the bosses
of the Electrical Trades cast him out.
He brought a Supreme Court case, and
Justice Philp, ruling he was still a mem-
ber, granted an injunction restraining the
union from denying him the rights and
privileges of membership, with costs
against the union. Said his Honor:
The union has never called upon this
man to resign nor has it asserted that he
lost his right to membership. Cessation
of membership or expulsion might mean
industrial death.
So there are still laws for the protection
of individual members of unions, as well
as upright and fearless Judges, though
the laws don’t go nearly far enough.
Curtin thinks no end of Bruce, who
was P.M. when Curtin entered the
House, and has renewed his term in the
London office for 12 months. Bruce has
already been High Commissioner much
longer than any of his predecessors Reid,
Fisher, Cook and Ryrie, none of
whom had such exacting duties to per-
form. Forde, the only Minister whose
majority was reduced at the general elec-
tion, is credited with London ambitions
and since Queensland, its servicemen and
Capricornia turned him down at the
referendum, they must have been
sharpened. But with the political situa-
tion so uncertain they are unrealisable.
Astonishing Washington communica-
tion from “S. M. Herald’s” A. D. Roth-
man, who usually writes with knowledge,
concerning the Japanese garrisons in New
Guinea and neighboring islands:
Some experts believe that the isolated
garrisons will ultimately disappear without
major campaigns. According to this view,
the Japanese will live off the land for a
time; some elements will disintegrate;
others will inter-marry with the native
populations in less accessible areas and
thus disappear by assimilation.
“Intermarry with the native populations!”
What a fate for Brown Brother, and what
possibilities of future trouble it would
breed, as well as a mixed progeny! Rather
than- accept the “view” of these “ex-
perts,” Australia should undertake the
whole duty of clearing the Japs out of
Australian mandated territory; and it is
a task well within Australia’s power.
It came as a surprise to new Queens-
land Ms.L.A. when Premier Cooper, re-
ferring to the death of ex-Premier Den-
ham, member for Oxley 1902-1915, men-
tioned that his colleague Jimmy Larcombe
sat with Denham. Desiring perhaps
to show that he had not lost the salt and
enthusiasm of youth, Jimmy went into
ecstasies over his crowd’s performances:
We are certainly a Government of action,
a Government that is definite, and a
Government that does things. If not, why
have the people returned us to power so
many times? Why did they do that in
1915, 1918, 1920, 1923, 1926, 1932, 1935,
1938, 1941 and 1944? It has been due to
the soundness of our policy and our
action. There can be no mistake with a
wonderful record like that, a record for
Australia and for the world.
Jimmy didn’t mention that during the
same period, with every vote having the
same value, “we” won only three* Senate
elections out of 10. Instead he plunged into
what Maher called “frenzied declama-
tion of demagogic sophism” about the
referendum, concluding with the assur-
ance that Queenslanders would “breathe
the spirit of national unity by casting an
overwhelming Yes vote.” They cast an
overwhelming No vote —not far short of
2 to 1.
Principally from the improvident Com-
monwealth, the Queensland Government
has received so much more revenue than
it requires for legitimate services that on
June 30 it had £2,700,000 invested in
Government securities, £5,050,000 at
fixed deposit and £751,341 in current
account, since transferred to what it
calls its Post-war Reconstruction and
Development Fund. And in interest
during the year it raked in £64,961. Which
shows how necessary it is for Canberra
to revise its distribution of income-tax
revenue, foolishly generous to Queens-
land and N. S. Wales, and demand a re-
duction of State service charges.
W. J. Bradley, K.C., the Quota Sold
Inquiry Commissioner, has presented his
report, with recommendations:
Prohibition of “quota sold” notices,
which were misleading, unauthorised, tor
the most part unjustified, and caused un-
necessary hardship; three months’ notice to
the public of expiry dates of clothing
coupons and a three months’ overlap for
expenditure of unused coupons; voluntary
panels of retailers, wholesalers, manufac-
turers and relevant Government depart-
ments to deal with and handle shortages,
rationing, etc.
He found these essential goods in short
supply: Footwear, corsets, baby needs,
men’s hats and shirts, feminine under-
wear of winterweight and large sizes,
suits, flannelette and bath towels. A
fair and exhaustive finding on the evi-
dence submitted, it does not exempt
Rationing, Supply, D.I.P. and Prices
authorities nor retailers from responsi-
bility for the “irritation, inconvenience
and hardship” caused to the public.


(yOtOtdo
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
There must be few Australian families
with the life-saving record of the Car-
stairs, fishermen, of Lakes Entrance
(Vic.). In 1910 the father, John, received
the Royal Humane Society’s award for
rescuing a man from drowning in the
Reeves River, and his three sons, Victor,
Alfred and David, all have Bronze Medals
for saving marooned families in floods.
Victor has just added a bar to his Bronze
Medal for helping, with three other fisher-
men, in the rescue of four R.A.A.F. air-
men adrift in a rubber boat off the
Ninety Mile Beach.
Faces like the one here drawn by Frith
have looked on the sea from English ships
for centuries. It belongs to Sir Frederick
French, Commodore Commander of
the P. and O. line, who has chosen
Australia in which to spend his retire-
ment. A Portsmouth native, he’s been all
his life in the merchant service and was
here earlier in the war as liaison officer
for the British Ministry of Transport
aboard the big ships that floated on
Sydney harbor. His first job on returning
a few months ago was to lend his aid, to
Sydney’s Mission to Seamen. He first saw
SIR FREDERICK FRENCH.
the Mission as an apprentice in sail in
1900, and still remembers the “tea, coffee
cakes, etc., which went down well, as we
lads considered ourselves half-starved on
board.” However, he lauds the sea as a
career for youths. He’s had 45 years of
it, and would still be afloat if the retiring
age hadn’t caught up with him. At sea
when this war was declared, he went
through the Mediterranean without escort
and was given one of the old H.M.A.S.
Sydney’s guns when his ship arrived here.
Later, for the British Ministry of Trans-
port, he did important work back and
forth across the Atlantic. Yet in two
wars he hasn’t seen a gun fired in anger,
a ship sunk or a collision at sea.
A third year term to Melbourne’s Lud
Mayor having evidently become inevi-
table, custom was observed with the re-
election of Thomas Sydney Nettlefold.
The director of many big cement interests
concerns himself actively with the city’s
culture. He is always ready to open an
art show and to expound his views on
the post-war beautification of Batman’s
village, and he’s proud of being the first
Lud Mayor to turn the Town Hall into
a gallery of pictures. Also, on the very
good ground that the Town Hall is a
beautiful building, he strongly objects to
its ever being removed to another quarter
and the site turned over to commerce.
An Apple Islander, Nettlefold was born
at Baden and educated at Gruncell’s
Private School, Hobart. He’s 65.
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor Nettlefold
defeated his lawyer opponent, Townsend,
by 11 votes. Since the first Lud Mayor,
Samuel Gillott —he was also Melbourne’s
last Mayor—there has not been a lawyer
elected first magistrate of the city. Gillott
held the job over 40 years ago. He was
solicitor to old David Syme, of the
“Age.”
Australians of the fighting variety
haven’t lost the habit of getting into all
sorts of odd places. A cable last week
told of one of them, signalman Edward
Smith, “safe and well and fighting with
the Polish patriots in Warsaw.” He just
wanted to let his family in Manly
(N.S.W.) know where he was.
Lieut.-Colonel Church, of the Salvation
Army in Maoriland, is retiring after
storming the citadel of Auld Clootie for
40 years, 14£ as editor of the “War Cry”
in M.L. Starting in Bermuda, where he
dropped the Royal Garrison Artillery for
the Army of the Lord, Church spent 17
years in the editorial department at
Toronto, Canada, and edited the “War
Cry” in west Canada, then in east
Canada before moving on to M.L. He
had charge for five years of the S’Army
Inquiry Bureau for tracing missing
persons.
Maoriland’s Chief Justice Michael
Myers has been elected Honorary
Bencher of the Inner Temple, London.
A native of Motueka, Nelson ( b . 1873),
he had rapid success at the Bar from the
date of his admission (1892) and he was
in great demand in big claims; one
against Portland Cement that he success-
fully defended involved £200,000. In
many of the big legal battles he was
associated with Charles Skerrett, whom
he succeeded as C.J. in 1929.
H. H. Marston, who becomes chief of
the C.S.I.R.’s division of bio-chemistry
and general nutrition at Adelaide Uni.,
just stays where he is, but with added
scope and dignity. His work has till now
been called animal nutrition; now it
takes in the human side, and especially
the military. Marston worked under the
late Professor Brailsford Robertson, the
first Director, and then under Charles
Martin during the latter’s year in Aus-
tralia. Since 1931 Marston has been
Director, with one year of intensive study
in a Cambridge laboratory, under Hop-
kins, president of the Royal Society.
“Ek Dum’s” revelation:
Since there are sure to be disputes as to who
invented the one-man torpedo, the pride of
the Royal Navy, let me reveal that patents
for the device were issued before the war
from The Bulletin office to its ingenious
artist Edward Scafe Scorfield, whose training
as a naval draftsman was obtained at Swan
Hunters of the Tyne, builders of many a fine
naval ship. The authorised specification draw-
ings, of which one is reproduced here by per-
mission, appeared in The Bulletin, 22/11/39.
The cat used in the preliminary experimental
test runs has not been identified. It was prob-
ably chased into the harbor by the patentee’s
dachshund, Otto, a late-lamented animal about
the length of a string of sausages, who provided
the Communists, in the days when they were
trying to prove that The Bulletin was the
“Voice of Tokyo,” with their sole bit of evidence
(apart from their victim’s strong Tyneside
accent) that Scorfield’s name was really Schor-
Scorfield’s patent's test run, 1939.
feldt, and that his military bearing was de-
veloped as an officer of the Death’s Head
Hussars. In that trying period not the
bravest among The Bulletin staff was game
to convey to its victim—even over its secret
radio —the news of this rumor, Scorfield being
a six-footer, with muscles like an old-fashioned
hemp hawser on a ship o’ the line, and train-
ing m aggression gained as an English Rugby
international and as a Royal Engineer in
Salonika and on the Peninsula, applied with
the high spirit derived from a long line of
Geordie shipbuilder and sailor ancestors.
Officially reported to have died in a
p.o.w. camp in Thailand, Lieut. George
Hamilton Lamb, M.L.A., one of the most
popular members of the Victorian State
Assembly. Born at Bendigo in 1900, he
was educated at Stawell High School and
Melbourne University, was headmaster of
Geelong Grammar Prep. School, lecturer
at the Gordon Institute of Technology at
Geelong, then principal of Kyneton Col-
lege until he entered Parliament as C.P.
member for Lowan in 1935. Joining up
as a private, he left with the Second
A.I.F. as a lieutenant, saw service in the
Middle East and Malaya and was cap-
tured in Java. He leaves three children.
His wife died during his imprisonment.
A. E. Archer, of South Melbourne, is
thinking of claiming that he has a
steady job. Starting at 17 with an engi-
neering firm, he has completed 57 years
with it, and at 74 is still going strong. He
has worked on some of the biggest con-
structional jobs in Melbourne.
Lieutnant-Commander Alan Villiers.
R.N.V.R., the Melbourne author and
navigator who went to sea at 15 and has
since sailed on, owned or commanded
almost everything in sail from four-masted
barques to Arab dhows, still has his share
of adventure. The most senior Australian
seagoing officer serving in combined
operations in the European war —he’s 41
—he commanded a squadron of R.N.
tank-landing craft throughout last year’s
Mediterranean operations. Villiers left a
Victorian State school to ship before the
mast in the Rothesay Bay, voyaged
in various windjammers and steamers,
joined Larsen’s whaling expedition to the
Ross Sea in 1923, took a shore job in Tas-
mania on the Hobart “Mercury,” went to
London as a cable correspondent and then
signed aboard the Finnish full-rigged
ship Grace Harwar, to make his fine
“Windjammer” film. In 1932 he helped
win the Australian grain race in the four-
master Palma, with a record passage of
103 days, and finally bought the Danish
training ship Georg Stage, renamed her
after his favorite author, Joseph Conrad,
and sailed 60,000 miles around the world.
A dozen seafaring books stand to his
credit. In between he has been a flier.
Wing-Commander “Tom” White’s epic
of the R.A.A.F. and R.A.F., Sky Saga,
will shortly be out in its second Austra-
lian edition. The English edition got a
strikingly appreciative critique from the
“Poetry Society’s Journal,” which has a
short way with versifying pretenders.
The author got a shock, however, when
he found that the first £lOO royalties paid
by the publishers in England had been
neatly halved by the tax collector, a
heavy impost considering that the entire
proceeds of White’s opus are going to the
R.A.F. Benevolent Fund and the
R.A.A.F. over there. Twice as many
copies could have been sold in Australia
if it weren’t for the paper shortage caused
by the tons of “literature” churned out
by Ministers and officials about their
referendum and their departments.
“L.F.”: Men-
tioned in a Bul-
letin listing of
Australians
in Normandy,
Captain Les Cole-
man has been re-
ported missing.
Educated at St.
Patrick’s College,
Ballarat, Col e-
man was so keen
on getting into
t h e R.A.A.F.
that, while still at
school, he spent
his Sundays in
the air. Because
of a physical
disability he
couldn’t make the
R.A.A.F., so he
set out on a medical course at Melbourne
University. He represented his college—
Newman —in football and rowing. After
numerous unsuccessful attempts to get
into the Air Force, he was selected for
a course at Duntroon (1938), and, always
anxious to be in the thick of things, he
had to cool his heels in Australia for five
years. He turned down a job in Wash-
ington for a job in the invasion, and
was last seen near Caen, not far from a
German barrage.
A Queenslander, Judge Norman
McGhie, of the N. S. Wales District
Court, was Chief Justice Sam Griffith’s
associate and a favorite with the old
statesman, who prophesied a great future
for him. Early in the last war, McGhie
JUDGE McGHIE.
enlisted as a private, was severely
wounded and returned to practice at the
Bar. In later years he suffered from con-
tinual ill-health, largely due his war ex-
perience, but he maintained his cheerful,
witty outlook on life and carried on his
work till the last. He appeared for The
Bulletin in a curious libel action which
he won hands down about 10 years ago.
Sixty at the end.
A. G. Whitlam, the A.I.F. lieutenant
who, after 28 years’ persistent endeavor
to prove his innocence, was recently exon-
erated in Melbourne from a court-martial
conviction, has received his war-service
medals, returned soldier’s badge and
gratuities. At 4 p.c. compound interest,
his gratuity principal of £125 now
amounts to £320.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 88, Barton John Hack, h
Railways man, and a link with S.A.’s very
earliest days. He lived from childhood with his
grandfather, Johh Barton Hack, one of the
State’s best-known pioneers.
On active service in France, Lieut .-Colonel
Allan Syme, son of the late Francis Syme
and grandson of the founder of the “Age.”
Educated at Brighton Grammar and Cambridge,
he fought with the Ist King Edward’s Horse in
the last war and was one of the first to take a
tank into action. He remained with the army
after the war, and after five years’ service in
India gained his majority in the Royal Tank
Corps. He was 50.
At 76, in Melbourne, Dr. John Fullarton
Mackeddie, vice-president" of the trustees of the
National Gallery since 1917, and for close on
half a century connected with the Alfred Hos-
pital, where he was honorary consulting phy-
sician. It’s told of him that, in his student days,
when he was going up for his medical finals,
he gave his entrance fee to a fellow student
who hadn’t the wherewithal to pay and himself
postponed sitting for the examination till the
next year.
In Sydney, suddenly, in his city studio, former
noted Gilbert and Sullivan singer Leo Darnton.
Fifty-four at the end, he had to retire from
the stage a year or two back because of heart
trouble. A son is in the R.A.A.F.
At Armidale (N.S.W.), Mrs. Penrose John-
ston, whose models of animals were last year
exhibited in Victoria, S.A. and is.s.W. to
benefit the Red Cross. Some of them are
in the Armidale City Council museum.
At Dunedin (M.L.), K. Knudsen, one of the
two surviving N.Z. members of the crew of the
four-masted barque Dundonald, which, sail-
ing from Sydney for Falmouth (Eng.) with a
load of grain, crashed on to the dins of Dis-
appointment Island, in the Auckland group, on
March 6, 1907. It was the survivors’ hard luck
that Disappointment was the only one of the
group that didn’t have a cache of clothing and
provisions for castaways, but the 13 of them
eventually reached the main island, where a
cache was found. There they did the Robinson
Crusoe act for nine months, till the Govern-
ment steamer Hinemoa, sunk the other day off
the N.Z. coast as having outlived its usefulness,
happened along.
In Melbourne, at 75, lawyer Robert Percy
Lewers, who in his younger days was a cross-
country runner and also played cricket for South
Africa, where he practised his profession for
a few years.
At Canberra, at 68, George Galbraith,
M.8.E., after 54 years’ continuous service, State
and Commonwealth. He started, as so many of
his fellow-officers did, as telegraph messenger,
stepping up through the higher grades until,
with the transfer of Parliament to Canberra,
he was chosen to represent the army, the navy
and the air force and defence central office
there. Due to retire in 1940, he carried on till
his, health compelled him to leave his office
chair for a hospital bed.
At 76, Frank Raleigh, “Frank” to genera-
tions of students of Ormond College, Mel-
bourne University. Beginning at Ormond
two years after its opening and associated with
the college for 60 years as porter and handy-
man, he willed his savings to found college
scholarships.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: The other day our homing peak-
hour train pulled in at Wynyard station.
In the usual lunatic scramble several old
ladies fell back from the fray with bruises
and ripped skirts as the men, with typical
Sydney gallantry, tore in with boots, fists
and elbows. Soon the aisles were full of
females who had paid the penalty of
being duds in the scrums. A large fellow
with a face like a greyhound trainer’s,
who had fought successfully for a
window seat, settled himself, lit up, pulled
a “Flappers’ Weekly” out of his Glad-
stone bag and soon became absorbed in
an article headed “The Modern Business
Girl Can Stand Up for Herself.” I
might as well confess all and explain
why I was able to see it so well. I sat
next to him.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Morse centenary,
which really occurred in May, is being
observed in a mild way by Sydney tele-
graphists. They have found that there
are 53 veterans, most of them called back
to fill war-vacated places, who were on
the key as far back as the ’eighties; one
old chap, who died this year, was doing
his bit at 84. Apart from the veterans,
the muster is distinguished, for* Arch-
bishop Gilroy, Army Minister Forde, the
N.S.W. Deputy Commissioner for Taxa-
tion and other eminent Australians have
handled the despatch of wires in the
G.P.O. The “others” include pressmen
like the Corbetts, theatrical notabilities
such as Phillip Lytton (who once had a
dozen companies travelling Australia)
and artists.
* * * *
“Clooter”: According to a Canberra
correspondent, Mr. Curtin was asked
whether he couldn’t do something more
to discipline the coal-miners than order
prosecutions for absenteeism, and replied
thus:
I can only enforce the law. No man
can do more. Even the King cannot now
extract any citizen’s teeth without that citi-
zen’s consent. There was once a monarch
who extracted teeth from merchants who
failed to pay taxes. That was long ago.
The King’s name was John. The King
called John left such a bad record that
there has never been another John. (Pause.)
But they waited a long time before they had
another Edward, either.
Then Mr. Curtin walked off and the cor-
respondent dabbled with the idea that the
Edward referred to Mr. Ward and that
John was Mr. Curtin’s own name. But
these cryptic utterances of the great take
a lot of fathoming.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: “Pawang” is right
(B. 26/8/’44) in saying that malaria may
show after nine months’ absence from the
malaria district. In fact there is no defi-
nitely known limit. A lot depends on
continuing the atebrin course after return-
ing home. The acquisition of malaria is
a gamble. In the 1914-18 war a man in
our ship, despite my lecturettes, took no
preventive quinine and got off scot free.
He had been kissed by many a mosquito
inhabiting the infected zone from the
Solomons to New Guinea. I know he
didn’t take any, because I’m sensitive to
quinine and have always dreaded the ear-
ache following even a small dose of the
ammonia ted tincture given as a house-
hold remedy for childhood colds.
* * * *
“Looby”: They’re replacing our
subbub’s hospital with a flash affair which
should tweak neighboring rentals up a
few more bob. A magnolia tree and
three jacarandas, as well as pepper, gum
and palms, will have to be heaved out to
make way for the bricks and mortar. In
the present phase of evolution, of course,
human life is more important than plant
life. But in a million years or so I can
envisage a couple of outsize lantana
bushes creeping forward and grunting
“We’d better encircle that building and
drag it out or we’ll have no room for our
new lantanas. The building? Oh, it
doesn’t count. It’s only a maternity hos-
pital.”
* * * *
“Matros” : As strong and as effective
a slang phrase as has showed up in this
war is the merchant seamen’s “She got
the hammer,” to describe the sinking of
a ship by enemy action. Anyone who
has felt a well-placed torpedo blast a ship
can appreciate the aptness of the expres-
sion.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: When the mummers shed
the staginess that branded them in former
days, even in the streets, they sacrificed
some of their technique. For one thing,
“It must be spring , ’Erbert."
the old-time actor’s stage stance, the
weight of the body resting always on the
foot furthest from the footlights. The
mummer of the old school always had a
thought for “the picture,” especially at
dramatic moments. When a player uses
the wrong foot and so gives his body a
forward inclination he must be out of
plumb to the audience in the circle and
gallery. An old actor pointed out to
me the wrong foot fault in Conway
Tearle, playing “Ben Hur” in the bad-
luck season which finished when Sydney’s
Her Majesty’s was burnt out. Since then
the wrong-footedness has annoyed me in
hundreds of shows, not even half of them
amateur performances; and probably
audiences have been likewise irritated,
without realising the cause, by slightly
marred “pictures.”
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: The fiesh-and-blood stage
or platform has it all over the films on
occasions of patriotic crisis. Marjorie
Lawrence was in the middle of one of
her programmes at the Melbourne Town
Hall when the news came through that
Paris had been freed. She made the
announcement and then gave a ringing
rendering of “The Marseillaise,” the
audience spontaneously rising and then
going off into transports of cheering. The
best the most enterprising cinema house
could do was to put the manager before
the screen to convey the happy intelli-
gence to the audience.
* * * *
“Rover”: Mention of Emden relics
(B. 23/8/’44) recalls that a monument
overlooking the harbor at Nankauri
Island, one of the Nicobar Group, en-
shrines the memory of Krishne, a native
girl, who unknowingly performed a ser-
vice indirectly resulting in the early de-
struction of the German raider. Nan-
kauri has one of the largest enclosed
natural harbors in the world ; in 1914 the
resident Governor was an Indian medico
whose custom it was to hoist the Union
Jack on a flagpole overlooking the harbor
whenever a British warship entered. One
day, during the doctor’s absence, Krishne,
a servant, saw a warship entering the
harbor; knowing the rules, she rushed
to the flagpole and hoisted the Union
Jack, whereupon the visitor turned and
dashed full speed out to sea. Later it
was revealed that the ship was the Emden,
whose master, seeing the flag flying and
knowing the custom, thought a British
cruiser was waiting to receive him.
Shortly afterwards the raider met her
fate at Cocos.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Permission to smoke in
Sydney’s Plaza theatre has aroused a
storm of controversy. The wowser ele-
ment which long ago inisted that hotels
should be closed at 6 p.m., caus-
ing Australia’s biggest city to resemble
a morgue after dark, dwells on the risk of
fire, the unpleasantness of inhaling smoke
and the distraction caused by people light-
ing up in the middle of the performance.
Well, smoking has been allbwed in
Queensland theatres for years, and
they don’t have more fires there
than anywhere else. One thing I
did notice about the innovation was
that only a small proportion of the audi-
ence —mostly women —takes advantage of
the new dispensation. But conditions are
pleasanter all round, because when
women are puffing a cigarette they don t
indulge in their usual “Isn’t Julius Lolly-
legs gorgeous?” and the what’s-going-to-
happen-next patter that makes men writhe
in their seats.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Frenchman who had
held official positions in an Australian
city lost his wife, and for some days re-
ceived letters and telegrams of con-
dolence. His thoughts were still on his
bereavement &hen one morning he
started opening his mail. The first tele-
gram he opened gave him a painful shock.
It contained the signature of an old friend
and the single word “Congratulations.”
Then he remembered that the previous
day Paris had been liberated.
* * * *
“Jem”: A mixed party of Dominion
fliers drawn from all quarters of the
Empire, we were crossing the Atlantic in a
troopship under command of a colonel
of the Duke of Wellington’s Regiment,
bound for an American port. On the
second day out the O.C. troops com-
plained to the officer commanding the
Aussie contingent that there was too
much gambling on board, and that he
had noticed the Aussies playing two-up.
The Aussie officer said he was aware of
that; “but don’t you know, sir, that two-
up is the Australian national game?” The
O.C. troops nodded affably, and next day
there appeared in ship’s orders: “No. 31,
Gambling: Two-up may be played by
A.I.F. and New Zealand troops only.”
* * * *
“Zake”: A Chicago medical research
man has found that listening to certain
types of music is beneficial to sufferers
from colds. As one who has sat through
barrages of coughs, barks, hawks, wheezes,
sneezes and snorts while trying to listen
to violin and piano virtuosi, orchestras
and vocal recitalists at the Town Hall,
I’m convinced that a big percentage of
Sydney’s concert-goers have for many
years been aware of this. Unfortunately,
the alleged remedy hasn’t done them
much good; I hope the U.S. doc. finds
that only boogie-woogie will effect a pul-
monary improvement.
* * * *
“Avon”: Unique is an adjective to be
used charily, but I think it can be applied
to a recently-erected memorial to Gordon
Coates, one-time Priminister of M.L. This
has taken the form of a granite signpost
on the main road north from Auckland
(North Auckland was Coates’s country)
where it forks to Dargaville in the west
and to Whangarei in the east. It is the
corner where Coates, journeying to his
farm at Matakohe, always used to say
“Now I’m home again,” though his place
was 18 miles along, in the direction of
Dargaville. The signpost is a “link of
Empire” in its way, for it is built of black
and white Channel Island granite that
came out of the piers of old Waterloo
Bridge. There are bronze inscriptions set-
ting forth Coates’s military and political
honors, and an epitaph in English
“Farmer, soldier and statesman, he was
indeed a man,” supplemented by one in
Maori signifying “Rest thou, O Father,
upon the great work you have done for
Maori and Pakeha alike.” Coates’s grave
is in the little churchyard at Matakohe,
near his birthplace and his former home.
* * *
“Caballer”: Sight of a chauffeur read-
ing a paper in a parked car reminded
me of the days when coachman and foot-
man, the one holding the reins and the
other with folded arms, would sit on the
box seat of a carriage staring straight in
front of them while they waited. Rain,
hail or snow, there was no sheltering.
The footman had to be there to open the
carriage door. A man who did that for
himself was regarded as a bloke or wbrse.
Other times, other manners ; but an atti-
tude maintained by the
Corinthians of the Regency
.days still holds good.
“Never chase your hat,”
one of them advised a
young companion who was
about to pursue his topper
which a gusty breeze had
taken. “Someone will
always bring it back and
be pleased to do it.” A
safe bet even in days when
“courtesy" in other forms
“grows chill.”
* * *
“A.J.K.”: The “box"
circulating libraries being
supplied by the R.A.A.F.
educational services are
proving a boon up north.
Biography, travel, philo-
sophy, current affairs and
good-class fiction are rep-
resented. The “box,” un-
packed, becomes a three-
shelf bookcase, each shelf
accommodating 20 - od d
books. It is a strongly-
made affair, with handles,
effectively waterproofed
against tropical rains, for
the libraries will do a lot
of travelling through kunai and swamp.
Operational units are given first prefer-
ence until further boxes are available.
Each unit has full use of the books for
two to three months, when they are
passed on, and another assortment is
made available.
IF ANY.
“Hotly denying a statement that bookmakers
sought bodyguards to see them home with their
takings, a Randwick ringman said that he and his
fellows could always see to the safe custody o£ their
winnings —if any.’’
Another of these sinister perversions
Of fact, implying bookies always go
Home from their lawful Saturday excursions
Laden with luckless punters’ surplus dough!
Scant wonder these malevolent aspersions
Arouse uneasiness in Iky Mo
Lest you should think the way he earns his
victuals
All beer and skittles.
It’s like enough he may have laid some losers
And skinned a lamb or two, as one might say,
But mark his warning ’gainst those yarn-diffusers
Who hint he regularly goes his way
Protected by a guard of hefty bruisers,
Lest he and all he holds should prove the prey
Of thugs who hang around in every city,
Straight-out banditti.
Such escorts may conceivably be suited
For timid Midases and portly gods
Of high finance, and messengers deputed
To hurry back from banks with bulky wads.
But among those who’ve cause to fear being
looted
You mustn’t rank the chaps who lay the odds;
To think they’re easy marks to part from boodle
Is sheer flapdoodle.
All day, in tones and accents far from gentle,
For monetary patronage they’ve bid,
And though they’ve ceased to sport the orna-
mental
Accessories their predecessors did,
I’ll venture ’twould be purely accidental
If fraud or force deprived them of a quid.
In short, they’ll carry home, I’ll bet a penny,
Their spoils—if any!
N.SW.
T. THE R.
THESE COCKSURE CRITICS.
Whenever I observe some captious human,
Some know-all critic, caustically smart,
Airing his own superior acumen
By cheapening another fellow’s art,
I find my thoughts incontinently straying
From stinging words and epithets that hiss
Back through the years to Pope’s historic saying:,
“Ten censure wrong for one that writes amiss.
It isn’t only writing. Savage strictures
Are like to be your lot at any time.
Whether you aim to witch the eye with picture'
Or captivate the heart with lilting rhyme.
Whatever realm of art it is you’d enter.
Hopeful of taking fortune at the flood,
You’re apt to find some self-appointed mentor
Morosely branding you a hopeless dud.
It’s sure a bitter pill for young musicians
Who public favor fondly hoped to win
By rendering immortal compositions
On the piano or the violin
To find their efforts labelled past endurance
By some soi-disant specialist in song.
But what’s it matter when we’ve Pope’s assur-
ance 9
It’s ten to one the hostile verdict s wrong.
Myself, I take no stock in terms uncivil
Or sour disparagements. Were I to lea™
That haughty highbrows thought my outp
drivel
’Twould not occasion me the least concern-
I’m all for Pope, so regularly quoted
For sound truths told with pithy emphasis,
Never on firmer ground than when he notea.,
“Ten censure wrong for one that writes anus •
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Musgrave”: I should like to have been
in at the relief of those French towns that
the Hun has been chased from. Back in
1918, on the evening after we had marched
into quite a big town in Belgium and the
wine had flowed like water, the proceed-
ings closed with an imposing ceremony.
No less a person than the quartermaster-
sergeant of B company conferred the
Freedom of Wagga on the Burgomaster.
The whole thing was taken dead seri-
ously with deep bows and flowery
speeches on both sides, and I’ve some-
times wondered who would have the
bigger shock, the citizens of Wagga or
the Burgomaster, if he turned up to enjoy
that freedom.
* * * »
* “Feng-Shui”: An issue that is bound
to crop' up with increasing frequency
when the war is over was raised when a
couple of Sydney parsons refused to
marry two Coogee sisters to two Celebes
seamen, though the girls’ parents were
willing. The Dutch, with several centuries
of experience of governing enormous
native populations, have dealt with the
problem in realistic fashion. No barriers
are put to inter-racial unions, and off-
spring are regarded as white and not dis-
criminated against in the matter of edu-
cation or social status. Before war came
some of the highest positions in the
N.E.I. were held by Eurasians, and the
civil service was mainly manned by them.
In British Malaya, on the other hand,
there were clubs for white men and clubs
for Eurasians and a tacit understanding
that there* must be no mixing. Firms
advertised for Eurasian clerks at lower
rates of pay and conditions than were
offered to white men, and the civil ser-
vice was exclusively recruited from
Englishmen who had never seen a Malay
but had passed examinations.
Hi Hi
“Spokeshave”: Sufferings df a, civilian
population in war-time? When the new
season’s strawberries arrived in Mel-
bourne a Collins-street fruiterer priced
his consignment of 150 boxes at
ss. to 7s. a punnet, which works out at
about twopence a strawberry. All were
sold by nightfall, some starving customers
buying half a dozen punnets.
* * * V
“King’s Pawn” on some Australian
chess developments:
N.S.W. Chess Association is organising a
“Correspondence Teams Competition” which
will enable the country-town chess clubs that
are springing up everywhere to compete with
those in the city. Correspondence chess is
common enough; the C.C. League has hun-
dreds of supporters who carry on prolonged
games through the post. Lieut. Koshnitsky
(“Kosh” to the craft) says he started one game
three years ago and it is still going. The C.A.
hopes that by a rule of reply, moves within
24 hours, a fairly long game can be played
in eight months, at the end of which time un-
finished games will be adjudicated. There are
other means besides the post and and telegraph
(used annually for a N.S.W. v. Vic. contest) for
conducting chess games at a distance. Lieut.
Raynor, who was playing a game with an
enthusiast on another vessel in Darwin harbor,
was just semaphoring his latest move when
the first bombs of the first Jap raid arrived.
Raynor, who was in the damaged hospital ship
Manunda, was wounded. His opponent was
killed.
* * * * .
“Benbow”: “Matros” (B. 16/8/’44)
asks if the crews in my old ships were
British or American. Five ships, regis-
tered in London, had all-British crews —
four of them Hong Kong Chinese ; the
other, Gilbert and Ellice Islanders. Any
British ship with a crew of Europeans
carries mixed races, even on Australian
registry. One of my 27 ships, a fine
modern motor vessel, registered in Aden,
is commanded by a Dane and manned
by 20 different nationalities. To sign
the articles of an American merchant-
man it used to be necessary to take out
“first papers” of U.S. citizenship. Tech-
nically Yanks, there were more seamen
of foreign birth than 100 p.c. Americans
under “Old Glory.” To settle the “in or
on” argument, would “Matros” prefer to
sail “in” or “on” a submarine?
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A Melbourne daily
has come out with a protest against the
growing practice of opening art shows,
however, insignificant, with addresses
from people who preface their remarks
by saying they know nothing about art
and then go on to say a lot about it.
Reminds me of a well-known Melbourne
artist who told a veteran of the brush
that he was going to ask a leading actress
to open his first exhibition. “What do
you want to do that for?” asked the old
man. “Do you want to make a hit or do
you want her to make a hit? If she opens
your show she will make the hit —not
you.” It turned out as expected. After
the leading actress had done her stuff she
departed. Nine-tenths of the art lovers
departed with her.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Florence, well inured to
civil war, has been having its latest
dose of it. In the city’s narrow, cobbled
streets Montague and Capulet, Guelph
and Gibelline, Amidei and Buondel-
monte, Visdomini and Überti once fought
out their bitter family quarrels. When I
visited Florence in 1920 Capital and
Labor were the contending parties, and
machine-guns were the weapons on the
one side and bottles on the other. Now
two more parties have come into the pic-
ture. Partisans and Fascists are reported
to have been waging war for weeks in
the stony streets, spattering one another
with macjjine-gun bullets, while an Allied
“Could 'a sworn it lobbed somewhere about 'ere, Alf!"
army camped on one side and a German
on the other kept the ringside, as it
were. This private war has now con-
cluded with the Allies in occupation, and
one of the loveliest cities in the world has,
by all accounts,' once again emerged very
little the worse, so far as outer appear-
ances go, for its stormy experiences.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: A.B.C. has been
getting kudos for having shown its appre-
ciation of high art by broadcasting two
Ormandy programmes .in their entirety
instead of in bits and pieces. I should
like to think that this argues a more en-
lightened attitude on the part of the
commission, which has not a single
musician on its board of directors, but I
doubt it. A.B.C. simply gave way to out-
side pressure, and will no doubt go back to
its swing and jazz now that the American
conductor has departed. I would judge
A.B.C. as Whistler judged alleged con-
noisseurs of pictures—pot by the best
paintings in their collections but by the
worst. The good ones might have got
there by accident but the bad couldn’t.
* H* *
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s city fathers are
in a dilemma over the rat problem. A
proposal to give bonuses for “stiffs”
has been rejected because it might en-
courage the unscrupulous to breed rats
or import them from other districts, and
because ratepayers should not be bribed
to carry out tire by-law which makes
"Oƒ course, Miss, we don't show these to everybody."
rat destruction the duty of every occupier
and owner of premises. I once occupied
an old house in the city proper in which
the rats became so audacious that the
sound of their scampering up and down
the stairs at night disturbed my slumbers.
I tried every known method of extermi-
nation, including the council’s team of
terriers and gas experts, who filled the
house with smoke and shrill barks and
failed utterly. Then a friend told me
there was a poison which (believe it or
not) had the endorsement of the League
of Nations on the bottle. The League
not having had much luck with ejections
I wasn’t much impressed, but I gave the
stuff a burl and after a couple of appli-
cations, to my amazement, the rats
cleared out —though possibly they just
went next door.
“Swann”: Rouen Cathedral contains
the “lion” heart of Richard I. When he
was killed by a bolt from a crossbow
while besieging the Castle of Chaluz in
Normandy in 1109 Richard’s body was
embalmed and buried in Fontevrault
Abbey. Before the body was embalmed
the heart was removed and enclosed in a
triple casket of silver, wood and lead ;
this was inserted into a stone slab bear-
ing a sculptured figure of the king, which
was placed in the nave of Rouen
Cathedral. The heart of England’s Henry
111 is preserved in a stone slab in
Fontevrault Abbey; his body lies in
Westminster Abbey.
“El Madjal” on S.’African war uni-
forms :
Tell “Rooibatje” (B. 16/8/’44) that not only
British regulars but the first Australians to
reach South Africa in the Boer War did not
arrive wearing khaki. In 1899 a squadron of
N.S.W. Lancers went to England to take part
in the annual military tournament at Islington,
and for training at Aldershot. On the outbreak
of war an application for permission to enlist
was'cabled to Australia and this was granted.
The squadron sailed to South Africa wearing
its uniform of drab with scarlet plastrons, and
only on arrival at Capetown was equipped with
service uniform and accoutrements. No doubt
the British got the slouch hat from the Lancers,
and Australian and other colonial contingents
conformed. Initial equipment of all units when
they left Australia were not similar, some having
brown and others khaki uniforms. All wore
puttees except the N.S.W. Citizens’ Bushmen
and the Third Bushmen’s Contingent, who had
leggings. “A” Battery R.A.A and the N.S.W.
Citizens’ Bushmen were issued with helmets in
lieu of hats, and most other units had F.S.
caps as well as the hats. Units could not main-
tain their individual equipment after a few
months’ campaigning, and replacement's were
obtained from the nearest depot or q.m. store,
irrespective of unit. A similar position arose in
Syria when the 6th Division went into winter
clothing in 1941. All sizes of Australian-patt'ern
clothing were not available, and deficiencies
were made up with Tommy uniforms.
“Craiser”: G, B. Shaw, at 88, can
interest himself in budding playwrights,
even as far away as Answer-
ing a letter from Beresford Fowler and
Sylvia Archer anent the possibilities of
production of their play “Sir Hector Mac-
donald,” G.B.S. retorted: “Forty charac-
ters, that is £3OO a week in salaries. Six
scenes, that is £lOOO in production ex-
penses. Forty costumes, that is ...” and
so on. In his opinion the play was eco-
nomically outed for the commercial
theatre. Replying to an objection to the
play made by Scottish reviewers, who
pointed out that as a matter of historical
fact Sir Hector had been exonerated of the
charges brought against him in the Ceylon
Courts, G.B.S. said: “If Sir Hector was
innocent, why did he shoot himself?”
After this analysis from Shaw, Beresford
Fowler ought to be encouraged to pro-
duce his own play. He is an able pro-
ducer and the play is worth doing. Shaw
found no fault with its style or construc-
tion, and it propounds an interesting
problem.
% * *
“Pip” on amusements of the troops:
Army versatility (B. 9/8/’44) is not confined
to trades and professions. Most units can put
on a concert or a stage play good enough to
make any metropolitan “home of vaudeville”
sit up and take notice. Often the audience is
as entertaining as the show it is watching. On
a sports afternoon innumerable competitions
are played and the standard in all games is
high. There are tennis (on the court we made
ourselves from crushed ant-bed), Rugby and
Australian Rules football, hockey, running,
swimming, boxing, wrestling, basket-ball, volley
ball, deck tennis and a-host of others. A tired
footballer will race over after his game to
take a place in the hockey team. A boxer
will appear with a tennis racket after having
gone ten rounds. Nearly every soldier is an
all-rounder by now, and plays any game reason-
ably well. The unit newspaper is another out-
let for talent. Irregular in its appearances, it
may be published daily for a couple of weeks
and then disappear for a month or so because
the editors are running the “swi” school and have
no spare time. These days it is devoted mainly
to domestic happenings, for “Table Tops,”
“Guinea Gold” and “Army News” cover the
outside world excellently. With the help of the
A.E.S. discussion groups and debating societies
have been formed in every show, and by now
' they have reached a standard which will make
their members speech-making lions at wed-
dings after-the war. Having been everything,
from cook to carpenter, at the whim of the
sar.-major over the past four years, the average
Digger has found he can do anything.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: V.C. winners are to get
free transport on Government-owned rail-
ways and tramways. This is putting them
on the same order of merit as politicians.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, after the 1914-18 war,
gave them passes to the Tivoli circuit,
where they could at least see a good leg
show.
■* * * #
> “Lond.”: Charles Graves, writer and
connoisseur of drinks with a stick in
them, thinks that “wines and spirits from
South Africa and Australia will have a
marvellous chance after the war” and
that Empire winegrowers have “a very
rosy future.” German stuff will be .un-
popular, and the French, their old stocks
destroyed, can provide only undistin-
guished wine for some years to come.
The only danger Graves sees is that Aus-
tralian shippers may “dump over here
wine of poor quality,” a mistake made
after the last war which had such an
effect on the reputation of Australian
wines, whatever their worth, that “it has
only been in the past four or five years
that the British public, with the best will
in the world, could bring themselves to
try them again.”
* * * *
“'Papyrus” explains what happens to
printing paper:
“Blue P.” (B. 9/8/’44) in his references to
the Government’s use of paper opens up a
controversial question. Practically all the paper
coming in is from U.S.A. or Canada, under
Lease-Lend or Mutual Aid respectively. Buying
of this paper is done by Department of Import
Procurement buyers on the spot, and not by
paper merchants, as in normal times. The
variety of paper is not large and an “end-
use” clause is tacked on to every consignment.
This determines the use to which the paper
shall be applied, and guarantees have to be given
by the buyers. The only papers suitable these
days for the printing of books are what are
known in the trade as “magazine printings.”
Such paper, under the “end-use” clause, can
be used only for “instructional booklets for
the military services and National Emergency
services, journals, including trade and techni-
cal, of any essential nature approved of by the
Commonwealth for distribution to the forces
and civilians, and educational text-books.”
Therefore none of this paper coming forward
can be released by the wholesale paper houses
to Australian publishers for general purposes.
The Westerns and other rubbish that smother
the bookstalls are printed on newsprint, which
hasn’t any “end-use” restrictions, and is
made available for this type of publishing
after quota allocations have been made to
newspaper publishers. Newsprint is unsuit-
able for book printing owing to the poor
quality and because it goes brown and brittle
after exposure to light for a while. Australian
publishers are also up against man-power. Some
of them have been lucky enough to get suitable
paper without “end-use” restrictions, and have
had their printing done, but are held up by
lack of trained man-power for assembly stitch-
ing, case-making and binding. As to whether
the flood of publications issuing from Govern-
ment departments is made up entirely of the
“instructional” or “essential” —well, that’s
matter for controversy.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”: Bill was dragging out his
next woolly as young Evans, several
yards down the line, straightened his back
and leaned groggily against the side of
the chute. “Feelin’ the pinch,” the old
shearer remarked to Scottie, nodding
over his shoulder. “The young ’uns can’t
take it nowadays. No guts. Chuck it
soon’s they strike a man-sized job.” Evans
pulled himself together, turned out a
couple more wethers and was again mak-
ing for the catching pen when suddenly
his knees buckled and down he went. A
rousie straightened him out, dashed a
mug of water over him, ‘produced
a flask and administered a pick-me-up.
“He’s crook,” he informed the small
audience curtly. “Been fighting it for
days an’ won’t give in because o’ the shed
bein’ short-handed already.” A few
minutes later the patient opened his eyes,
nodded his thanks, and once more made
for the catching pen. Bill caught Scottie s
eye. “What’d, I tell y’?” he growled, as
Evans pulled his machine in. “Won’t
even knock off when he’s half-croaked.
Of all the damn’ fools! ”
* * * *
“Kin”: Is there anything on four legs
or two that makes a straight track? Have
a look at cattle pads leading out from
water ; at those of sheep making to a cer-
tain favored place ; at ant pads; at the
tracks of birds —they all twist and weave
like the tortuous channel of a river. Even
man himself, whether improvising a track
from the house to the horseyard or the
rain gauge, will make a crooked one. A
peculiar thing, too, is that he is able to
keep on a twisting pad in the dark,
whereas from a straight, made path he is
liable to wander.
* * *
“Wippegong”: On perhaps the grand-
est island along the New Guinea coast,
and snuggled in behind a ledge upon
which two squadrons lived, is a beautiful
swimming pool, which will long be re-
membered by the airmen who used it.
Four colors stood out: the clear, pale
green of the pool, the white foam of the
falls which formed it, the bronzed men
on brown rocks round the sides, and the
solid wall of gloomy green jungle behind.
The rare gems which flashed and van-
ished —butterflies and parrots mainly—
only deepened the exotic theme; then
from high on the ridge behind burst a
babel of bird chatter straight from the
ti-tree clumps down south —starlings
going to roost. And it wasn’t merely a
resemblance ; it was a repetition ; for in
a tree leaning out into the gorge hung
30 or 40 nests of the shining starling,
tropical cousin of the rowdy pest we
knew at home. Handsome fowl in their
way, their dark iridescent plumage flash-
ing fire among the greens, and not so
wild as to prevent your watching close as
they feed in the scrub. But they’re star-
lings for all that, though whether they
extend the family’s southern traditions to
the point of nesting in Brown Brother’s
roof and dropping their lice on his bed
I don’t know.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: As we passed the Gov-
ernment station on the way into Coona-
barabran (N.S.W.), a couple of the blacks’
mongs joined us. Later, as we leaned
against the memorial clock in the middle
of the town, a policeman came along,
eyed us, our swags and the mongs.
“Them dogs registered?” he snapped.
“Dunno,” answered Mat. The policeman
waxed sarcastic about bagmen who didn’t
know whether their dogs were registered,
said he’d had enough trouble from our
sort and our sheep-killing dogs and would
show us, drew a revolver and shot at the
dogs. One bolted and the other writhed
and screamed with a broken off-hind leg.
The policeman, slightly taken aback at his
hastiness and its result, next found him-
self on the business end of Mat’s fist.
He picked himself up and was about to
rush Mat when the injured dog got its
teeth into his ankle. By that time a crowd
surrounded us and we grabbed our swags
and our chance. We were well up the
Baradine road before the noise died out.
That night, camped in the foothills of the
Warrumbungles, we had a visitor —the
other dog. Mat sighed. “Every dashed
John for miles around’ll be lookin’ for
two bagmen an’ one dawg. Either we
murder the evidence or jump the rattler,
leavin’ it behind.” We jumped the rattler.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Mullins bought a new cul-
tivator, and he had just put it away in
the machinery shed when Skinner rode
over to borrow it. Needing it himself a
fortnight later Mullins got it back and
did a week’s work, whereupon Skinner
borrowed it again. This went on for a
year, with the machine doing duty at
Skinner’s most of the time, so Mullins
decided it was up to Skinner to pay for
a half-interest in it. “Y’ paid sixty quid
f’r it, didn’t y’?” Skinner asked. “Well,
it’s second-hand now an’ not worth more
than forty. So that’s twenty apiece. Then
there’s the fiver I paid f’r tines an’ parts
—an’ it’s worth another fiver f’r the way
“I told you it Wasn't an aircraft-carrier!"
I kept it in order f’r y\ Look, I’ll give
y’ a tenner an’ we’ll call it on the shares.”
Mullins took the cultivator home ; since
then he always turns a deaf ear to any
mention of co-operative farming.
%
“Ringa”: That “brief history of black-
trackers” in the “Answers” column (B.
237 8/’44) ought to have mentioned those
two famous sleuths Mundi and Neigh-
bour. The former, who died at Cook-
town (N.Q.) a few years back at the age
of 90, was a tracker for 62 years —a
record length of service. He staged some
wonderful tracking feats, including a
2000-mile hunt through Cape York wilds
to get a gold thief. To the day of his
death he carried numerous scars of
spear-wounds received when tracking
down abo. fugitives. Neighbour achieved
fame 20 years ago. Arrested for cattle-
spearing, he was being taken overland to
Darwin by a trooper. Crossing flooded
Pine Creek the trooper was swept from
his horse, which kicked him in the head.
Although weighed down with heavy
chains on his arms and legs Neighbour
dived into the raging waters and dragged
the unconscious trooper to safety. For
this heroic deed King George V awarded
him the Albert Medal, his alleged sin was
forgiven and he was enlisted in the N.T.
police force as a tracker. He proved to
be one of the Territory’s best trackers,
and so far as I know he is still on the
payroll.
* * . * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When the truck
backed into the pole and brought down
a wire carrying 250 volts, the driver and
his offsider promptly vacated the cab and,
from a respectful distance, debated
whether it was “alive” or not. The wire
lay across the steel roof of the cab and
touched the ground. Amongst the crowd
that quickly gathered was a chap who
claimed a working knowledge of electri-
city, backing it up by lightly touching
the wire with the back of his hand. “Dead
as a doornail,” he pronounced, and
gained the admiration of the crowd by
boldly lifting the wire off the cab. Stimu-
lated by success he announced his inten-
tion of cutting the wire off well up the
pole to remove any possibility of danger,
and called for a box. In the absence of
pliers he grasped the wire firmly in both
hands and twisted it hither and yon,
until it broke. Then, maintaining a rigid
grip with uncontrollable fingers, he gave
a wonderful exhibition of jitterbugging
until the box slipped sideways and he
dropped to earth. To an impressed audi-
ence electricity had re-established its
claim to respect.
* * * * a
“Walkabout”: I’ve never seen a cod
landed with a stockwhip (B. 16/4/’44), but
I’ve watched abos. secure plain turkeys
with their whips. They ride quietly into
a patch of scrub near where turkeys are
feeding on the plain i when close enough
the boongs gallop out amongst the un-
suspecting birds, notoriously slow in get-
ting off the ground. Very rarely do they
miss with the stockwhip, the thong ot
which is coiled round the bird’s neck.
* * *. *
“Anthropo”: The aboriginal ot south-
west W.A. had two trap methods by
which he caught the kangaroo. Going to
and from water, passing up and down a
hillside, the ’roo gradually wears a deli-
nite path. At a likely spot in such a
path the abo. with his crude implements
would dig a pit, long and narrow and not
less than 4ft. deep, resembling a grave,
as indeed the early whites took such exca-
vations to be. Covered„in the orthodox
style with twigs and earth, such pits
trapped the hopping ’roo. And being
narrow the pit so hemmed the trapped
animal in, preventing it from taking the
slightest hop, that there it had to wait
for days perhaps until the hunter arrived.
Another method was the planting of
pointed spearwood at spots where the
’roos were accustomed to hop across
water, such as a creek. Planted well in
the ground, these stakes, about 4ft. long,
were inclined towards the edge of the
bank at an angle of abput 60 degrees.
The fire-hardened, needle-sharp points
were coated with melted blackboy gum
to give greater penetrating power. Four
or five on each bank, spaced about 18in.
apart, were deemed sufficient. This stake
trap, however, had to be watched morn-
ings and evenings, and was more efficient
if the ’roo could be startled and chased
so that it leaped blindly across the creek.
* * * *
“Sarina”: The common messmate,
which invariably crowns the poorest coas-
tal terrain in pole-forest form, is Churchil-
lian in its resistance to anything that
Nature can dish out. Other vegetables
succumb to parasites, starvation and
Anno domini, but nothing seems to level
the messmate. In age it acquires a waist
like the greatest English oak, and warts
and knots in a regular stairway to its
bottommost limbs. Lightning, the certain
killer of other trees, finds the messmate
relatively unsusceptible. Have seen ’em
ripped from trunk-top to base by the fiery
fluid and survive. And despite the
roasting one had when the dry strip up
its trunk caught fire furiously last
summer (holes were burned clean through
it here and there), it still shows a cheerful
head of foliage.
* * *
“W. 0.2”: Most interesting sea-creature
encountered by our patrol along the
shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria was a
little green crab that lives on clumps of
a peculiar seaweed. This weed resembles
the common prickly-pear, its branches
consisting of irregular flattened segments,
placed one upon another with a thin
connecting piece. The crab has a flat-
tened irregular body of exactly the same
shape and of exactly the same shade of
green as the segments of the weed. When
it is clinging to a weed, with its thin legs
tucked away beneath its body, the crus-
tacean is virtually impossible to detect.
* * * , *
“Golden Mile”: Back in the big days
of Boulder (W.A.), when it was the most-
pubbed town in the Commonwealth, there
was always a bucket or two of beer slops
going to waste at each hostelry. So as a
joke one morning Mick, the yardman at
the Commercial, offered the bucket of
beer-pump drains to one of Othel Sloss’s
big draughts, said draught being attached
to a heavy wagon. Without hesitation
the horse got the lot down. Next morn-
ing, since the driver always called for a
quick one with Mick, the dose was re-
peated. So the habit was formed, the
half-drunken horse always lasting till it
got to the stables before going to sleep.
This dissolute equine life went on until
a new driver took the job. Being a non-
drinker and knowing nothing of his
leader’s taste for hops, he was a bit non-
plussed when his team halted in front of
the Commercial, and no amount of whip
could get the leader to stir. Nor did
Mick appear with the customary
bucket, since, with nobody call-
ing in for the quick one, he was
a bit out of touch with the team.
It took a tarpaulin muster
among the shopkeepers to fill a
bucket that eventually got the
leader moving.
* * *
“Pat Ater”: Mostly the avian
belligerents in our coastal bush-
land are black-and-white coated,
but their technique varies. Wil-
liam Wagtail is the cavalier, but
the peewees are more circum-
spect ; they know when to break
off unprofitable combat. Bower-
birds, males, who don the shin-
ing blue-black coat when they
attain their majority, charge and
chase off currawongs, whom
they dislike and despise; the
younger satin-bird fry, in green,
ochre and fawn, only whirr and
chatter at their enemies; mag-
gies reserve energy for battle at
nesting-time; the big and blus-
tering currawongs usually pick
their mark. The dollar birds are
the larrikins of the treetops. But
it is the ordinary soldier-bird,
minah or “mickie” —call him
what you will—who is the real
tyrant of the air. This imp with
his unmusical squeak, awkward
flight and rapier-like beak will
swoop with fine impartiality on intruding
magpie, parrot, currawong or bower-bird,
not hesitating to call up reserves when
needed. I have never believed the widely-
held notion that the mickie’s ear-grinding
chorus is altruistically designed to warn
the other bird friends around of impend-
ing danger. The rowdies are merely con-
cerned for their own safety.
SH * * *
“Nor’-west”: Running into Fremantle
in heavy weather we picked up a disabled
30ft. launch. Its crew, being all out,
begged us to take them on board, leav-
ing their own craft empty. They soon
realised their mistake when we began
to move, the towed boat leaping and
plunging like a mad thing at every big
wave, threatening soon to capsize. So we
lost no time in putting a couple of her
crew back again, they taking the wheel
and doing their best to keep their craft
up to the course. Made a wonderful dif-
ference ; which is why I wonder at the
crewless Decoy (B. 9/8/’44) arriving safe
at Port Adelaide. The marvel is that she
didn’t founder.
* *
“E. 2”: Mackenzie didn’t have a dog-
proof fence on his run of hill country,
and when he put on a couple of hundred
sheep the wild dogs hopped in. On the
third day, when 11 ewes had been killed
and others maimed, Mac called in Robbie,
a likely cove with an old patched-up car
and an advanced knowledge of electricity-
Together they ran an extra strand of
barb wire along the netting fence of one
paddock where the culls of the flock were
mustered; then Robbie coupled up a
powerful charger to run off his car.
Before daylight next morning he started
up the engine and left it running, and
later he and Mac went to inspect the
catch. There were five canines of dingo
Strain trotting along the netting seeking
an exit; none tried to go over, evidence
of the hide-scorching qualities of Robbies
charger. Three were shot and the others
run down with horses and dogs. On the
way out the gate Mac’s mare lightly
brushed the wires, pulled back sharply,
dragged away from Mac and bolted.
They had to pull down half one side of
the fence to get her out of the paddock.
SOLDIER ON THE SHORE.
I think some soldier has stood thus before.
Girt not as I with such swift-killing gear,
But coat of mail, with halberd, mace or spear,
And other grim accoutrements of war;
Standing as I do, pensive on this shore,
Hearing the same sea-music thrill the ear,
Feeling the same emotion force a team;
Watching each wave, lest he should watch no
more;
Perceiving in each laughing face, a child
—A child who built his castles, crooned his
song:
Thus through forgotten ages shall he stand,
While God is God, and there are Right and
Wrong;
A soldier—feet set in the crumbling sand,
His seaward gaze tear-dimmed, his purpose
strong.
A.I.F.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


“Old-timer”: The little river town was
en fete to honor the wedding of “Green-
hide” Johnson and Amy, fairest of the
four McHalpin daughters and considered
a catch because she ran McHalpin’s store
and was tipped as the certain inheritor
of the business. Young “Greenhide” was
a handsome, if somewhat silent, youth
who inhabited various parts of the dis-
trict at various times, sometimes dis-
appearing for weeks into the scrub and
issuing therefrom with bales of rabbit-
skins, dingo scalps and other trophies
which he solemnly turned into cash at
the store, as solemnly depositing most of
it in the post-office savings bank. He
had the deputation of being a “deep sort
o’ bloke,” largely because of his still
tongue, and when not engaged in depriv-
ing animals of important adjuncts to
their existence, he took odd jobs on the
stations, mostly at contract rates. This
secured for him the further reputation
of being “worth a few bob.” His in-
tended bride, as fair as he was dark, was
as voluble as he was silent, but her man-
agement of the store accounts left no
doubt that her “nut was screwed on
right.” As the hour for the nuptials drew
near anxious eyes watched the west,
looking for the bridegroom. The wedding
hour came and went, but not “Green-
hide” Johnson. Messengers went forth.
Presently there came “Drover” Delaney.
“ ‘Greenhide,’ ” said he, “says y’ll hafta
wait a bit, maybe an hour or so. He’s in
the middle of breakin’ in a Flyaway filly
for ol’ Brayne. Started on her this
mornin’, but she’s bin a bit of a hand-
ful.” Time passed. The bride dispatched
“Drover” to the ’groom. Back came
“Drover.” “ ‘Greenhide’ says can’t y’
wait,” he reported, “an’ wants t’ know
how y’ think he can stop now f’r a flamin’
weddin’? He reckons he’s gotter break
that filly in, ’cos, he says, if he can’t get
that filly under howinell can he break in
a woman!” A piece of logic that stilled
all protests.
“The 0.D.”: In strictly impartial
mood, believe it or not, I rise to ask
whether other Aboliars regard, as I do,
the outback as the inland country, far
from the coast. “Zake” holds that the
corncob is a place-getter in the “Outback
Handy Stakes” (B. 23/8/’44), and since
the corncob is notably a coastal fruit it
makes me wonder whether outback is
really the inland or anywhere beyond the
city.
* * * * »
“Patrol Leader”: The sight that greeted
us when we landed just after sunrise one
April morning on Turtle Head Island, in
“I tell y ’ I got 'im first !”
Newcastle Bay, near the tip of Cape York
Peninsula, must have been similar to that
which in April, 1789, confronted Lieut.
Bligh, R.N., who gave the speck its name
“because of the immense number of
turtles we saw there.” It was towards
the end of the turtle-breeding season, but
the little beach where we landed was
dotted with more than 60 turtles, some
wandering aimlessly around, the majority
apparently dozing, waiting for the tide to
come in. They were the “green” variety
(Chelonia my das) of all ages and sizes,
The largest and obviously the oldest was
a sluggish beldame whose thick carapace,
a great scar across the centre, and
wrinkled flippers were covered with bar-
nacles and other forms of parasitic
marine life. A piece as big as a saucer
had been bitten out of one front flipper.
One of the lads, thinking she would make
a good mount, hopped on her back just
as she was about to enter the water.
Quick as lightning she swung her head
round and snapped, missing his leg by
inches. Although toothless, the tough
leathery jaws of the big amphibians can
inflict a nasty wound. The rising tide
brought a horde of sharks off the beach ;
they made no attempt to interfere with
the ladies, but took heavy toll of the
countless babies, which, as the tide rose,
scrambled from beneath the sand in all
directions and scuttled off into the sea.
Many also fell victims to a pair of big
sea-eagles that flew in from the south.
* * * *
“B. Yourself”: “B.4’s” sporting par. (B.
9/8/’44) on how he administered a heavy
cut with a stockwhip to a sleeping boong
should make us feel proud that such tough
specimens are still among us. A lesser
sport would have wakened the abo. first;
but not the doughty “8.4,” who must
deplore the fact that the blacks are dying
out and thus depriving him of such dan-
gerous hunting. But wouldn’t it be safer
to ply his whip on a sleeping gin?
* * * *
“Fancar”: Re “Hux’s” praise of the
pepperina as an apiarist’s tree (B.
16/ 8/ ’44), one persistent memory of a
Darling Downs (Q.) farm is mother’s
waking me before sunrise on hot, still
mornings and saying “We’ll hurry up
and get the best part of our work done
early today—its going to be terribly
hot: just listen to the bees in the old-
man pepperina!” Her prophecy was
always right, and the earlier and more
intense the hum in the pepperina the more
savage would be the heat of noon and
early afternoon. There were plenty of
box- and apple-trees in full bloom close
at hand, but the favorite bee tree was this
old-man pepperina, and it and not its
female neighbors was visited first daily.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “James W.’s” query (B.
2/8 / ’44) about poisoning magpies makes
one wonder if-he has used strychnine in
magpie country, for Maggie is one of the
easiest birds to poison. Dozens of times
after missing buried fox baits I’ve begun
a systematic search, only to find the body
of one of the feathered nuisances. And,
believe me, the black-and-white warbler
can be a nuisance. Many a crop of young
peas he has destroyed in a face, and
standing at the stacks I’ve counted over
150 magpies feeding on the ground in
one mob. If traps are set in the straw
for cockatoos, Maggie is always the first
to blunder into them, and the fluttering
of a trapped ’pie in no way interferes with
the depredations of the mob. Usually
the victim’s leg is badly smashed, but
the number of one-legged birds round
this place testifies to their easy adapt-
ability to the shortage.
# jj:
“S.G.”: I was training up in North
Queensland when one of the publicans
invited me to stay at his pub, promising
plenty of sparring partners. The first
time I began to skip and shadow-box
a crowd gathered, but an invitation
to spar got no takers. Then I overheard
Bung whispering to a tough-looking cus-
tomer to have a go, insinuating that I
was tired and would be easy meat. The
tough bloke peeled off. A bit mad, I
gave him a lacing. Later I sought to
have a bit of Bung, but he clapped me on
the shoulder, shoved a note in my hand
and said that by cleaning up the tough
bloke I’d removed a menace from the
premises and he could now hope to
regain some lost trade. You’ve got to
arise before time to get one over a
publican.
“Blime”: Young Joe was camped out-
back with Sandy, and when it was time
to make the trip in for supplies the old
bloke decided it would be better for Joe
to doss with Barney, the prospector
from downstream. “Be comp’ny for y\”
he explained. “So flamin’ wild round
’ere.” Joe agreed, and after dark pre-
sented himself at the prospector’s hut.
“Sure, come in,” wheezed Barney. “Y’ll
be safe with me.” He hustled Joe inside,
“Would you care to leave a forwarding address, Mr. Jones ?”
shut the door, slipped the bar into place ;
then, using a heavy log, he securely barri-
caded the door before turning to nail up
the window. “Didn’t see nobody as y’
come down?” he whispered presently.
“Cripes, no ; there ain’t nobody inside
forty miles,” Joe answered wonderingly.
Barney smiled mysteriously and, turn-
ing, pointed out a place for his visitor
to sleep. Joe doesn’t know how long
after it was that he woke suddenly and
in the dim light made out the figure of
the old prospector creeping slowly round
the hut. He carried a long-bladed knife,
and as Joe sat up he stiffened. “Hear
anything, kid?” “No, no. Why?” Old
Barney crept nearer. “Nuthin’,” he mur-
mured breathlessly; “on’y, y’ see, it was
a night jus’ like this that Bill ’n’ me wus
camped out miles frurft nowhere, ’n’ in
the morning well, Bill wus dead;
stone dead. Murder? I dunno. Might’ve
been them devils that’s alius slinkin’
round a man soon’s it’s dark that done
it, don’tcha think? But I’ll get ’em.
Sh-sh! I’ll wait ’gainst the door there.”
Joe chanced the safety of his own camp
after that.
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: I’ve carried the knot
in all sorts of Australian climates, and
I never had to build fires around myself
at night to keep warm (B. 23/8/’44). This
was because I always had a waterproof
sheet between me and the ground in
winter and another one on top. On really
cold nights I kept walking.
* % % ❖
“Herbie” writes from Upthecreek:
“I’m in a fix. I got that way through a bit
of heart trouble and that queer thing called
woman’s intuition you read about in Judy-
Jane magazines. We’ve got a snifter-looking
little Land Army skirt helping us up here and
she’s so friendly that I’ve got that way, too.
It’s remarkable how she’s got on to the lay
of things up here —woman’s intuition again, I
suppose. Anyhow, whatever it is, I’m helping
her to box some lemons and she’s extra sugary
to me. She gets talking about old Job and his
missus, tells me how they’re planning to retire
soon and reckons she knows that they are not
going to pass over my steadfast loyalty to them
without due reward. ‘As I see things here,’
she says, ‘you’re a willing, steady worker, Herb,
and this farm —well, it’s good, sweet and fer-
tile, with great cows, pigs and so on. With me
running the fowls, rearing the poddies and a
few other little things as well we could, after
a few years, profitably consider engaging a
share-farmer and his family. What do you say?’
she winds up sweetly. I stalled, of course, never
liking to be rushed. I’m wondering whether
to adopt Big Mat’s technique, slip a legrope
over a limb of the old bloodwood or go to
town and make arrangements with a parson.”
* # * *
“Dronestung”: Jn common with most
insects, bees forage mainly by sense of
smell. Flower fragrance on the breeze
guides them to the shopping centre for
the particular brand of pollen or nectar
they wish to gather; the flower petals
are the shop windows by which they dis-
tinguish delicatessen from confectionery.
No matter how artistic in form artificial
flowers may be they will not delude a bee.
Incidentally, the homing bee flies almost
unerringly to the hive opening and then
verifies her bearings by sight before
entering, perhaps after flying blind one or
two miles.
“Betcha”: On those rare mornings
when my mong doesn’t see me leave he
circles the house till he picks up the
scent; then, speeding across country, and
delayed very little by creek crossings,
sooner or later he turns up. He has put
up some fair performances too on
animals, and I’ve always plumped for
him as a trailer. Now I hand the ribbon
to old Mick’s yellow bobtail. Mick
buys skins as a sideline, and is usually
accompanied by his tripe-hound, but the
other day Bobs was out on an excursion
of his own and the truck had over an
hour’s start when he discovered it was
gone. With nose on the ground he gave
chase. From the turn-off into the main
highway where many cars had since
passed the little mong never hesitated.
Crossroads that old Mick usually trav-
elled were passed unswervingly, till twenty
miles further on the dog branched into
a locality he’d never visited before. An-
other five miles, and he turned into a
side-track where, tongue lolling, he can-
tered on, skirting strange houses disinter-
estedly. Arriving at last at the Martin
place he made straight for Mick’s old
skin truck parked behind the shed and
climbed jjn. About thirty miles of much
blurred tyre trail, without a break. Beat
that.
* * * Hs
“Zake”: When Lobbagibba and the
surrounding district were flooded Trem-
lett shifted his family to higher ground
and went back to try to get the stock away.
But the river kept rising and the flood
waters came down in greater strength,
forcing Tremlett to tale shelter in the
barn among the rafters. As he sat there
wet and miserable waiting for a rescuing
boat, there came bobbing along on the
muddy tide a keg. Tremlett raked it
towards him. There were no marks such
as could have been identified by Bung or
brewer. Knocking a hole in it, Tremlett
sniffed the contents, which gave off the
unmistakable aroma of whisky. He
had heard that someone up in the hills
had an illicit still; probably it had got
away from its moorings. Joyously he
took a mouthful and it confirmed his —er
—fears. An hour later the trooper cir-
cumnavigated the house in his boat and
shouted. Tremlett answered from the
barn. “Are you all right?” asked the
Lor. Tremlett waved gaily. “Ri’ as
rain!” he said thickly. “Thish ish the
besh ruddy flood I ever enjoyedsh!”
“M.U.R.”: In 90 or less years up and
down the Murray I’ve sat in, fished,
swum from, helped to build and generally
been associated with pram boats. I
always assumed they got their name from
the upsweeping prow that is like the gon-
dola-front of the ordinary perambulator.
Now “Nor-west” (B. 23/8/’44) writes of
whalers and a Scowegian who went out
in a “praam.” Is it then a Scowegian
word?
* * * *
“Pip” mixes botany with soldiering:
Orchids are in bloom in the mountains around
the camp and hunting them is the craze of the
moment. They grow in the most inaccessible
places, mostly on top of ridges touching the
sky, guarded by death adders and black snakes.
Rock-lily varieties, most highly prized, thrive
best in crevices of rotten rock on the edges
of precipices. Climbing down a rope is about
the only way to get at them. All the ground
orchids are small, but in some of the trees can
be found large, highly-scent'ed blooms. In an
afternoon it is possible to gather flowers worth
£lO to £2O in a city, but as we can’t sell them
we use them for tent embellishment. Some of
the fellows tried posting them south. They
wilted in transit.
LAMENT.
And he will never know these things again:
The swift, wild exultation of a flight;
The starry heavens on a silent night.
There will be winds to fret the seas, and rain
Will beat with slow insistence down the years
And he will never know. These things again—
The things he dreamed—will love ... the even-
ing’s stain
On distant hills, on sombre, tapering spears
Of Norfolk pines, and home where love has lain.
The things he dreamed! Ah, little dreams, curl
deep
Within his breast, give solace to his sleep.
He will not ever walk these ways again;
But go with valor and in splendor shod —
His wings emblazoned on the heart of God.
W.A.
M. TREACY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager lor Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
' SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. Tl>
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
All particulars from :
r
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. iime.
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35535, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Berth.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
Orders are now being booked for the
rams dropped in April, 1943, and shorn
in April, 1944.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
l
U.
>i: \
>HM
H. E. KATER & SON - - - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
The “VENUS” 7-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
Dynamically
Balanced
m
ammiS
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing To. Pty. Ltd.
BR'DGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd -- D( Cl ® re " c ?
St.. Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 2S Market
St., Melbourne; Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Save Our Soil.
“Karaji” on a national peril:
Until modern geography is taught in schools
erosion will go on. The voices of the few
skilled geographers who founded the N.S.W.
Geographic Society and Journal cannot be
heard in the general din. They, however,
continue to fight, and the University has
appointed a Chair of Geography.
Meanwhile the evil has become so great that
some properties cannot be regenerated. The
fertile Hunter, for instance, has been ravaged
from the Liverpool Range to below West
Maitland. On the rich slopes of the range is a
large area of decomposed basaltic tuff (one of
the richest of soils) which was cleared of timber
for £2 10s. an acre. Since then wind erosion
has decimated the humus and the owner cannot
reafforest at that price. A range of hills about
the middle of the Hunter has lost all the humus
from the crests, the timber is dead and every
storm is carrying away more humus. Some
of the barren subsoil is carried down on to
fertile flats, where it overlays the good soil
and reduces its fertility. This has occurred, too,
on the lower Snowy River, on the richest maize-
growing lands in Australia.
A tragic example on the lower Hunt'er is the
silting of a river up which vessels of 1200 tons
once steamed daily to Morpeth, and vessels of
smaller tonnage a further 20 miles to West
Maitland. Today there is but 30in. of water
at low tide where the vessels once berthed.
On the rich black flats around West Maitland
I have seen clouds of dust arising when a rotary
hoe was working and going oceanwards. No
instruments were available, and I don’t' know
where they are available to test the quantity
of soil thus lost, but in New Zealand a wind
count made when a red dust storm was blow-
ing from Australia showed that 50,000 tons of
soil were desposited in New Zealand.
Years before his death Professor David urged
a soil survey of N.S.W. but was apparently
ignored. There is no restriction on the cut-
ting of timber on land granted by the Crown,
though it is a prime necessity. Indiscriminate
timber cutting in the Victorian Mallee has ended
in the ruin of a once good district. There is
lack of co-ordination everywhere.
Recently it was estimated that the average
depth of humus in Australia is only four inches.
If that is correct the position is so serious that
we may have difficulty, even if no further de-
terioration occurred, in maintaining our present
population.
Much will have to be done. First and fore-
most the nation must be aroused to the peril
confronting it from erosion.
“W.J.S.” adds his bit:
,Thousands of N.S.W. coastwise acres are
practically denuded of their fertility because of
constant cropping or grazing, tree-destruction
and scouring by heavy surface run-off. Little
or no attempt is made to save the, soil. Few
farms in the Sydney milk district could keep
their herds on the produce from their own
land. ,
Steep hills are cleared, no strips are left to
catch heavy surface water, there is no con-
tour ploughing, pastures are grazed out, pasture
improvement non-existent. Much of the land
should be returned to timber. Few farmers can
say that when they leave a property it is better
than when they took it over; our lands are
so depleted of minerals that bone-chewing is
practised in many districts.
We need a system-of compulsory resting of
grazing land, strict rotation of crops, use of
cover crops, to be returned to the soil as green
manure. Ordure at present dumped into the sea
to pollute foreshores should be caught, de-
hydrated and returned to our depleted soils.
We dump into the sea anything up to
12,000,0001 b. of nitrogen, 4,000,0001 b. of potas-
sium, 3,0000,0001 b. of phosphorus per million
of population.
Our danger is sterility of soil, of crops, of
beasts, and, as a result, of ourselves. This
country stands in need of a vigorous campaign
to retain our existing soil and restore its fer-
tility.
“Te Aute,” from Maoriland:
Maorilanders are awakening rapidly to the
threat of erosion, almost as serious here as
in Australia. Main causes are clearing of forest
and burning of tussock grass on steep hills.
In the past two years we have appointed a
National Soil Conservation Board, provincial
catchment boards and provincial soil conserva-
tion committees. The only known function of
the committees is to stop the catchment boards
from doing anything, but no one can say we
are not trying.
General principles are that sawmillers must
take only mature trees, without burning oil
small stuff; that farmers must stop the crowd-
ing of bush areas with cattle to destroy under-
growth and allow easy mustering. South Island
high country presents the worst problem, for
no one knows how to reveget'ate mile-high
mountains of sliding shingle.
Heavier Bales.
“Murrawong”: “Sheepo” (B. 9/8/’44)
misread , the article. It draws attention to
the sharply increased strain that an extra
10-201 b. in a bale imposes on the press
and its component parts, particularly the
wire ropes which are so hard to replace
today, and it asked whether the saving
in packs and charges was worth while.
However, I don’t agree with “Sheepo’s”
theory that lighter bales will prevent dust
and sand penetrating the wool. Take the
backs out of red sandy fleeces in a
western clip, the staple, is red practically
from base to tip. Lightly-skirted fleeces
have a red tip, but when rolled and
stacked in the bins they appear bright and
white. Pressers have no trouble to get
5001 b. of these backs into a bale, yet in
comparison with bales of half the weight
on the show floor there is no visible dif-
ference, and both are appraised in the
same type at the same yield.
Fleeces that looked bright in shed bins
were pressed to about 3401 b. When
opened up they were uniformly red with
the sand that had permeated the entire
contents of the bale. This refers to fleece
lines yielding 20 p.c., better than the
backs. As a rule, bulky B.K.N. or necks
are naturally the lightest bales in a
western clip and bring within a penny
of the best fleece in spite of their burr
content.
Inland Irrigation.
“San Luis Rey”: There has been much
talk about diverting coastal rivers into
the interior to fill the Lake Eyre depres-
sion, but that would need a river as big
as the Yangtse.
What is wrong with giving seasonal
irrigation a go? The Barcoo-Thompson-
Cooper river system is flowing six to
nine months in the year, three years out
of five. It should be possible to irrigate,
say, for three or four months a year.
For instance, a paddock of 100 acres
would grow a heavy crop of saccaline or
some such gross-growing crop, which
could be put into silage. If done mr
three years it would yield enough to save
thousands of sheep
Flood or furrow irrigation could be
practised, and one flooding would pro-'
duce a heavy crop. If in time that patch
of land got tired there is plenty more
land to provide fresh patches. This form
of irrigation would be comparatively
cheap—far. cheaper than watching 75 p.c.
of a flock die.
There is a Government experiment
farm on the Alice at Barcaldine ; all it
has ever demonstrated is what any market
gardener on a western waterhole knows.
I suggest that the Government establish
an experiment farm on the Thompson
at Longreach for the following purposes:
(1) To see if fodder can be grown and
processed by silage or some more scien-
tific method on a commercial basis ; (2)
to find which crops can do it best; (3)
to experiment on the use of the water
seasonally. For instance, no irrigation
would be permitted until the river reached
a certain level, say, 10ft.
It would be necessary to find a man
who knew his job and give him full con-
trol. But if only 5000 acres could be irri-
gated this way it would save many thou-
sands of sheep. This is the old Egyptian
system, and it might be worth a trial.
Summer Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: This is the time to sow
beans, lettuce, carrots, parsnips, beet,
spinach, cucumbers, melons, pumpkins,
squash and marrows, tomatoes and sweet
corn. Potatoes and peas can be sown in
cooler, districts. It is getting late for
sowing peas, cabbages and turnips in mild
or humid areas, where aphis attacks
make summer cultivation too trying.
Where it can romp along over fences,
etc., and where ample moisture is avail-
able in late summer a choko vine is a
good proposition. Of late chokos have
been bringing high prices. Anyone who
has a vine or two producing freely finds
no trouble in disposing of a surplus to
shops or friends. There are only two
needs for chokos —an open, sunny aspect
and plenty of room to expand north-
wards from the root. Plant the seed on
a slant or diagonally in a saucerlike de-
pression a few inches deep. Both roots
and shoots emerge from the one end.
As growth progresses the hole can be
filled and the seed choko covered.
Seed-boxes or -beds will do for sow-
ing lettuce, beet, spinach and tomatoes.
The others in the list are sown direct into
rows in the prepared open ground. Light
soil, with a big proportion of sand to
allow free root run, is ideal. A small per-
centage of garden soil and old cool
manure gives necessary “body.”
Big root systems that help transplant-
ing are made in light and free soils. It
is a mistake to make a seedling bed too
rich. More roots are made in searching
round for food. Good drainage is essen-
tial. Soak the soil to settle it, and sow
seed on the level surface. Then just bury
it under a sand and sifted manure
“topping.” Keep the surface moist
always and sow in open sunlight.
Make your ground rich with animal
manure, lime dressing and blood fertiliser
for lettuces, spinach and sweet corn.
Substitute a balanced fertiliser (double
handful to the yard) for beans, tomatoes,
beet, pumpkins, cucumbers and other
cucurbits. Carrots and parsnips need
deeply dug and friable soil, without new
manure additions. Ground that recently
grew cabbages or cauliflowers will suit
them nicely, with fertiliser additions.
Sow beans 2in. deep, 3in.-4in. apart,
18in. between rows ; root crops, carrots
im.; parsnips, lin. deep, 18in. between
rows, sow thickly and firm the surface;
spinach, a foot apart and rows 18in.
when transplanting. Melons, pumpkins
and cucurbits are best sown in richly pre-
pared “circles,” three to a 3ft. diameter
circle. ' Allow Bft. between pumpkin and
water-melon groups; 6ft. between the
others. Sweet corn groups of three or
four seeds at 10-12 in. intervals (2ft. be-
tween rows) can be thinned to single
plants as they develop. Sweet corn rows
make good windbreaks for lower-growing
veges.
Hints for the Farm.'
“B-gar”: When using any arsenical
mixture for dipping sheep or for dress-
ing wounds, points to remember are:
(1) Allow sheep to cool down before dip-
ping. (2) Don’t dip sheep when thirsty
or some will get poisoned through drink-
ing the fluid. (3) Make sure all shear
cuts have healed, and if there are any
badly struck sheep draft them off until
the wounds have healed. Weak sheep
should be dipped separately. (4) Allow
the sheep to drain well before turning
them out of the yards. (5) Never dip
in wet weather.
“Marsh”: Symptoms of arsenical
poisoning show soon after the poison has
been taken. Affected sheep adopt a stag-
gering gait and invariably lose control of
their hindquarters. As the effects pro-
gress breathing becomes difficult and
there is a great deal of salivation. In bad
cases death takes place in a few hours,
but some sheep may live in agony for a
couple of days. In some cases treatment
by dosing with a suitable antidote might
effect a cure, but as sheep are generally
too far gone when noticed treatment is
of not much avail. The main thing to
remember is the avoidance of anything
likely to cause arsenical poisoning.
“Sarina”: A neighbor’s cane paddock
had been ratooned too long, and at
harvesting he had trouble finding the
cane among the 6ft. rattle pods that
covered the field. The rattle pods were
rolled flat and ploughed under, where-
upon a regrowth bobbed up from buried
seed. When this was 2ft. high it was also
ploughed under. The farmer was sur-
prised at the way that paddock, usually
difficult, came quickly into plantable
shape that year. It went short of arti-
ficial fertiliser, but gave a splendid crop
of plant next year, followed by a satis-
factory ratoon crop. The rattle pod is a
common Q. weed of the crotalaria
(Gambia pea) species.
“My”: For deciduous fruits apply 21b.
of nitrates per tree in the spring before
blossoming, followed by another 21b. a
month later. For citrus 21b. per tree in
September and 21b. per month for the
next three months, making 81b. in all.
Berry fruits require 2cwt. per acre in the
spring and another 2cwt. a month later.
Nitrates are excellent as a side dressing
for vegetable crops after the plants are
eight weeks old.
“Plane Creek”: For stump-swabbing
use a rag on the end of a pole and keep
it -well soaked with arsenic pentoxide.
Bruise the stump with the axe to assist
absorption of the poison. Use about lib.
pentoxide to lgal. water, and mix fregly.
Scrub trees may need stronger solutions.
For poisoning standing trees pour the
dope from a worn-out kettle.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The “Ladies from Hell.”
(From a N.Y. "Times” war correspondent’s
report .)
It was said four years ago that there
was not a cottage in the Highlands that
had not lost a husband, son or brother in
what, nortlkot the Tweed, was known as
“1 he Division” [the Fifty-fijrst] in the
campaign of May and June. But by late
that summer young men were coming in
to replace the dead who lay in unmarked
graves in Flanders and Normandy or who
stood behind the barbed wire of prison
camps.
Everything was in preparation for the
day of reckoning. Each new recruit to
the five Highland regiments—the Black
Watch, the Argyll and Sutherland High-
landers, the Gordon Highlanders, the
Camerons and Seaforths —had the name
of Saint Valery imprinted on his memory.
At Saint Valery on June 12, 1940,
when they heard the order to surrender,
the dirty, unutterably weary soldiers stood
silently for a moment and then marched
past their general in the rain while the
pipes wailed out the long sorrow of “The
Desperate Battle.”
A few of them got away here and
there. They reached the sea at Cherbourg
or Brest or Le Havre and went home to
Scotland to help train a new division.
At 10 o’clock on the morning of Octo-
ber 23, 1942, 27 months after the Fifty-
first had been “destroyed” in Normandy,
it struck the German lines at El Alamein.
Pipes played as the infantry went for-
ward, mauling the Germans badly, and
in the end driving the enemy out of their
positions. For 11 days the division fought
with great valor. By November 4 the
German Africa Corps was broken and
streaming eastward while the Scots
methodically wiped up the enemy rear-
guard as their own division had been
wiped up in France.
It would have been enough revenge for
most men, but the Scots of the Fifty-first
are different. They had to settle the score
on an old battlefield. So, although they
killed many Germans at Mareth, Wadi
Akarit and El Agheila in Africa, and at
Biancavilla and Castiglione in Sicily, the
men of the Fifty-first talked unceasingly
of France and the coming battle there
and their wish to be in it.
This is not difficult to understand. On
June 4, 1940, one brigade lost 20 officers
and 543 men in an hour and a half action
at Abbeville. Out of the 800 men of the
Seventh Argyll and Sutherland High-
landers only 300 were fighting fit on the
night of June 6. So they had a reason
to want to get back.
Today the Scots are back on the old
battlegrounds where they fought so well
n 1940.
The French still put flowers on the
graves in the “Wood of the Scots’’ at
Cambron, where the Black Watch stood
at bay until ali their ammunition was
gone and then surged forward in one last
mad bayonet charge against the German
front.
In view of all this, reports that the
Fifty-first is “fighting with great gal-
antry” are superfluous. In two wars it
has never done anything else.
Preview of Future War.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” supplement
article by the leading U.S. ’plane designer,
Major Alexander P. de Seversky.)
The advent of the airplane has already
wiped out the dividing line between the
fighting front and the home front. No
place in the world is safe, even now.
Only the failure to make full use of
already existing possibilities still gives
some areas a false feeling of remoteness
from the war. All of Europe and most
of Asia are “in the war” in the most ele-
mentary sense: every man, woman and
child is a potential casualty.
In the wars of the immediate future
entire populations will be directly men-
aced by instruments of demolition more
effective than any now in existence.
In less than four years—between the
Battle of Britain and the Battle of Ger-
many—average bombs grew from a ton
to six tons. Ten-ton block-busters are
already being developed. Land mines of
twice that size, geared to bury themselves
in the ground and explode with the
force of minor earthquakes, are being ex-
plored.
Not only the weight but the deadliness*
of explosive loads is growing. A ton will
do more damage tomorrow than today.
There is almost no limit to this growth,
or to the precision with which we will be
able to blast the very heart of the great
industrial and population centres.
Rocket power is certain to flourish in
aircraft of unprecedented speeds. It will
hurl projectiles more devastating than
those fired from the biggest guns yet in-
vented.
The rocket torpedo the Germans first
released last summer will expand in size
and effectiveness until aerial torpedoes
weighing many tons and cutting through
space at more than 2,000 feet a second
will crash through the sides of the largest
and strongest battleships.
The 75-mm. guns recently installed in
bombers and the 105-mm. cannon pro-
jected for other airplanes are crude fore-
runners of winged artillery, flying through
the skies with the speed of sound. The
terrifying reality is'that all the familiar
weapons on land # and sea —giant guns,
tanks, battleships—are sprouting wings.
Nothing on the surface of the earth will
be able to survive the punishment dealt
from the skies.
The destructive power of electronics,
the lethal resources of modern chemistry,
have scarcely been tapped. Within a
decade or less they will be ready to visit
horror on man in new and almost un-
imagined forms. The splitting of the
atom, already achieved in the laboratory,
will release colossal energy to further en-
hance wholesale annihilation.
War will become a gigantic clash of
mighty technological monsters, striking
from the heart of one nation directly at
the heart of another perhaps halfway
around the world, with a fury and des-
tructiveness that will make all past con-
flicts —including World War II —seem
trivial by contrast. The aim will be total
annihilation.
Nor can we console ourselves with the
idea that only “advanced” and “civi-
lised’ nations will be able to use the in-
calculable possibilities of annihilation.
The paradox of modern technology is
this: though the creation calls for brains
of a , high order, its operation does not.
The more complex a piece of machinery,
the more simple its use. The mechanics
of mass demolition, brought into being
by the most highly developed countries,
can readily be taken over by backward
peoples, with hundreds of millions of
robots at their disposal and no civilised
restraints to inhibit their use of the most
terrible engines of destruction. Let us
not forget that though Japan has con-
tributed nothing to the development of
technical equipment of modern war-
making, it has used that equipment with
immense effect.
War hereafter will hold the threat of
the end of civilisation. We need to
realise this in all its brutal nakedness.
Only then will mankind become aware
that it must put its moral forces in
balance with its technological forces.
A>t the same time, those who preach
moral responsibility must do so with full
knowledge of the technological facts of
life. Our moral leaders must not delude
themselves and their followers with fairy
tales about “defensive” weapons or phy-
sical “isolation.” No ocean barriers, no
defensive weapons are effective safeguards
against the destructive forces being used
at this very minute. They will be utterly
worthless against the annihilation that
will be loosed tomorrow.
Therefore we simply cannot afford to
be lazy or cynical about peace plans if
we want to survive—if we want our
children to survive.
This is no doctrine of pacifism. Until
humankind makes up its mind on this
crucial issue, those of us who are tech-
nicians of >var have no alternative but
to perfect the weapons and strategies of
war. While war is with us, we are deter-
mined to maintain supremacy. But our
first thought now should be to build a
world where .armament races are no
longer necessary.
Manoeuvres on the Left.
(From the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
The average American can hardly help
wondering these days what is happening
along the Left. He remembers that Harry
Bridges denounced the Montgomery
Ward strikers and that Earl Browder is
haunting our bigger industrialists and
telling them that the Communist Political
Association has “pot the slightest sug*
gestion of confiscation of wealth, not
even of the war-time proposals for a limi-
tation on the private incomes of the
wealthy classes.” Then, if he has time, he
reads reviews of Prof. Harold J. Laski’s
new book in which that representative of
British Communism explains that it was
Communism which caused the Russians
to stand fast at Stalingrad. The truth is,
of course, that the British, the Americans,
the Germans, the Czechs, the French and
the Chinese have given the world exhibi-
tions of incredible human courage, but
to hear Laski tell it you would think that
nobody had fought a lick war
except the survivors of what Mr. Laski
himself calls the “Byzantine” practices of
Stalin.
Ordinarily, we should predict that the
efforts of the Stalinist brethren to nobble
the American bourgeoisie would come to
nothing, but these are parlous and uncer-
tain times. Professor Laski is no idiot
when he associates Stalingrad with
Communism and expects the association
to stick. That is the kind of salesman-
ship we are accustomed to: breakfast
food associated with home-run-clouting
right fielders ; motor-cars associated with
Brahms concertos ; razor blades associ-
ated with heavyweight champions. It
could happen: “The Dictator Who
Stopped Hitler Can Stop That Depres-
sion.”
Also there are the businessmen who
used‘to praise Mussolini for making the
trains run on time, and Hitler for solving
the trade-union problem. If you listen
carefully you will hear some of these
optimists explaining that the Russians
have an “incentive-pay” system and that
the standard of living of a Russian execu-
tive is about as much better than the
standard of living of an iron puddler as
is the case in Pittsburgh. Already Mr.
Eric Johnston has been dazzling Ameri-
can industrialists with inventories of
things Russia expects to buy after the
war. It would be a mistake to assume
that the Stalin regime has nothing to offer
some of our more gullible exponents of
free enterprise.
Still and all, and on mature reflection,
we do not expect all this shenanigan to
get anywhere. Communists are gifted in
guile, intrigue and the art of pretending
to believe that the Battle of Stalingrad
sheds more credit on Communism than
the Battle of Britain sheds on Capital-
ism. But the brethren can usually be
counted on to overplay their guile and to
develop a slow leak in their intrigue.
There will be times when that average
American may seem to be heading
straight for the fold, but in the end he
won’t go in. In the end, unless we are
the victims of overconfidence, his gorge
will rise at the suggestion that any real
or imagined economic gain justifies the
surrender of his hard-won liberties.
Regulation of Unions.
[ln his “American Mercury” article Oswald
Garrison Villard, the “eminent American
liberal journalist and friend of Labor, points
to the handwriting on the wall” for U.S.
unions. Some of his points have a familiar
sound.]
At the annual meeting of the American
Civil Liberties Union on Lincoln’s birth-
day, 1944, James .B. Carey, secretary of
the C. 1.0., astounded a round-table group
by declaring that Labor faced Govern-
ment regulation and should be regulated.
At about the same time Geofge Q. Lynch,
president .of the International Union of
the A.F. of L., the Pattern Makers’
League, voiced the same sentiments:
Unless the responsible unions actively
support reasonable legal union regulations
in the public interest, then all unions will
feel the wrath of public reaction, and also
without reference to merits My sole
interest is to urge a basis of accommoda-
tion between free industry and free em-
ployees that will rid organised Labor of
usurped irresponsible leadership and render
innocuous the class hatred appeals of Com-
munists.
Both these statements were amazing
breaks in the normal attitude of Labor
leaders, which has been one of vehement
opposition to any regulation of the unions
whatsoever, and to all proposals of Gov-
ernment control. It means that two
leaders had the courage to say openly
what most of the honest Labor men must
know and feel: that legislative action is
inevitable and inexorable, and would have
come had there been no war and no war-
time strikes.
In 1943 six States—Arkansas, Colo-
rado, Idaho, Kansas, Texas and South
Dakota —passed laws restricting the acti-
vities of Labor unions or imposing con -
ditions upon them, and there are ample
signs that other States may follow suit,
There was the Smith-Connally law, passed
by Congress over the President’s veto,
forbidding strikes in time of war—a law
that was not enforced as it might have
been technically in the dispute between
John L. Lewis and the Administration
over the increase in the miners’ pay. Next
Came the tax law, again passed over the
President’s veto, which contains a pro-
vision that Labor unions must file finan-
cial statements accounting for their busi-
ness activities. All of these indicate the
legislative temper in and out of Washing-
ton, and that temper reflects merely the
public feeling throughout the country.
Whether justly or otherwise, Labor is
facing a day of reckoning. Nothing that
it can do can prevent the coming of that
showdown.
The mounting bitterness against Labor,
and especially against Labor leaders, has
not been due solely to the machinations
of employers. Nor is it due to West-
brook Pegler’s startling revelations of
Labor union tyranny, corruption and
criminality, and the readiness of promi-
nent Labor leaders to endure these condi-
tions without moving emphatically against
them. Nor is it due to incipient Fascism
nor to resentment at the power and in-
fluence of the Labor bloc upon Congress.
Most potent in forming a hostile public
opinion is the growing antagonism to
Labor issues. There are the farmers, for
example. Their hostility is due to their
belief that Labor is an arrogant, favored
ciass, far better off than they themselves
—as is usually true —and constantly seek-
ing to aggrandise itself. In the villages
and small towns there is an amazing bit-
terness which has impressed me more
than any of the other anti-union mani-
festations. It is to be found in the
lower-middle class, among shopkeepers
and small businessmen, independent
mechanics and unorganised workers.
The public increasingly resents union
methods, manners and corruption; the
high prices it has to pay for necessary
labor ; the restrictions upon entrance into
the union ; the uncalled-for union require-
ments after admission and the heavy
entrance fees imposed, as well as the
closed unions and the efforts to mono-
polise certain occupations.
This antagonism is the more dangerous
because it is not limited to any class but
permeates whole communities. That this
antagonism has been intensified by the
war strikes, or near-strikes, goes without
saying, and here, as well as in employer
circles, one finds sharp criticism of Presi-
dent Roosevelt on the ground that he has
put up with insolence and arrogance on
the part of Labor leaders, and that he
has played politics instead of dominat-
ing the situation to further the war effort.
It is precisely this opposition in smaller
communities which impresses Congress-
men most when they return to their con-
stituencies.
The public opposition has had a slow
growth but a steady one. It alone has
made the true friends of the Labor move-
ment recognise that, since almost every-
thing else in American life was regulated,
unions were bound to be. They under-
stand that the only question at issue is
how far regulation should go.
The worst aspect of it all has been, to
my mind, that millions of our soldiers
will return from overseas with distorted
ideas of what has actually happened in
the field of Labor during their absence,
and without adequate realisation of the
magnificent work done by the great mass
of our workers. Our soldiers will land
with an intense hostility. This is well
illustrated by a letter from a flier in
the Pacific, Lt. Edwards Park, quoted by
the “Atlantic Monthly.” Speaking of the
radio news of the coalminers’ strike, he
wrote at, the timec
That sort of thing makes us feel sick and
futile. The evening was spoiled for all of
us. Morale is a hard thing to define, but I
think I know what it feels like to lose it.
You hear about a half a million men stop-
ping work because their leader wants to
force the hands of his Government and
thus increase his own power. (Or have
we got it wrong out here?) Anyway, you
suddenly say, “What the hell is the use?”
and you don’t much care whether you win
your particular scrap or not for those
people.
I believe they did “have it wrong” out
there —like millions at home. But they
will return with their hearts full of rage.
Today the union worker is frequently
at the mercy of corrupt, tyrannical,
bureaucratic union officials, who not only
line their pockets but also the
lives of individual members, dictate their
rights and mulct them as they see fit. The
worker himself therefore needs regulation
of unions and millions of them will wel-
come it; the only question is how to do
it in such a way as not to constitute Gov-
ernment control. It will not be sufficient
merely to protect the public. Labor
should no more be plundered than the
employers who are compelled to put on
unneeded and often useless employees.
Nothing the leaders can do will prevent
anti-union legislation. The unions are
going to be regulated. They will be wise,
indeed, if they themselves present pro-
grammes that will meet the public
demand, end some of the hostility and
temper the anger of the misinformed men
overseas.
Move to Avert This War.
(From a N.Y. “ Journal-American” report.)
In a statement by the Swedish indus-
trialist Axel Wenner-Gren, made available
by the U.S. Justice Department, the full


Ruwolt
Rubber Calender. Approximate Weight 30 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of the many types
of machines designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Rubber
Industries in Australia.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
mm
m
Mp%:: --
■
# r */■ IV
55638
For Tour Throat’s Sake..
CRAVEN
A
10/or 1/1 .
20 for 2/2
The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
story of Wenner-Gren’s errand of peace
between Goring and British Prime Minis-
ter Chamberlain is revealed for the first
time.
It began with a meeting in Goring’s
home at Karin Hall near Berlin, in 1939,
where Goring told the Swedish magnate:
“If I could sit down and talk matters over
alone with Chamberlain, I feel sure a
basis could be found for an understand-
ing.”
Wenner-Gren promptly offered his ser-
vices as a mediator, which Goring
accepted.
In the conversations in London, Cham-
berlain was sceptical, but he asked
Wenner-Gren to convey to Goring that
he was “as interested in a peaceful settle-
ment as ever,” and that the points
Wenner-Gren had outlined might serve
as a basis for diplomatic discussions.
This encouraged the Swedish magnate-
to draw up a peace proclamation plan,
intended to intrigue Hitler into becom-
ing the “peace champion” of the world.
The plan never got as far as the Fiihrer,
and the whole effort collapsed.
Japan as an Air Target.
(Condensed from N.Y. “Times.”)
The primary fact in the geography of
Japan as an air target is that she utterly
lacks land defence in depth. The four
home islands cover almost as great a
length as the U.S. Atlantic coastline, but
hipy average no more than 120 miles in
?I ldth > 1 mat , lcr o£ mlnales ■" fl !™* tin?e-
spot ■" Japan is more than 70 miles
from the sea. She has 45 cities.of more
than 100,000 population. • All but three
are on the coast within range of 16-inch
naval guns, and all are open to ’plane
attack from the sea. She cannot gain
even temporary immunity, as Germany
did > hy transplanting population and fac-
t°ries to remote centres,
. Ja P an '. s slripyards, absolutely vital to
her survival are all-exposed. There are
strongly-built zones in some of her towns,
houses,
No prediction of the effect of mass
bombing on the Japanese people can be
more than a guess. They are obedient,
used to hardship and have been long
conditioned to expect bombing. But in
the past they have often proved subject to
panic under sudden catastrophe.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Mr. Roosevelt’s effort to associate himself
with leadership of the Pacific war and emphasis
upon experienced leadership in peace as well
as in war is the tip-off that the President sees
an early end to the German war. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
According to the Society for the Oversea
Settlement of British Women there has been a
marked increase in the emigration inquiries and
applications, and this society, which arranged
for the emigration of 18,346 women between
the wars, is hearing from members of the ser-
vices, teachers, nurses and land girls. Of the
‘4OOO applications to Ontario House Major Arm-
strong, Canada’s Agent-General, said a “fair
proportion” were from women, particularly from
single women in t'he services. Australia, how-
ever, still gets nearly all its numerous inquiries
frqm men.— Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
“Without in any way detracting- from the
magnificent accomplishments of our armies and
those of our allies, it is only true to say that
seapower must be the key to this victory.” —
U.S. Vice-Admiral Herbert F. Leary.
* * * *
Flying bombs are reviving the spirit of
mutual aid and elimination of class distinctions
which occurred during the blitz of 1940 and
1941. Rich and poor mingle in the shelters;
London evacuees are welcomed in the pro-
vinces. Provincial busmen and telephonists
have volunteered to help man London’s vehicles
and exchanges. Incidentally, telephoning in
southern England has its thrills. While talking
to a subscriber in the south the conversation
may be interrupted with the remark, “One
minute, here comes a doodle,” and, after a
pause, “All right, it’s gone over.” In another
minute the London subscriber may interject,
“Here it comes. One minute while I get away
from the window. Okay, it’s gone over.” It is
strange to be warned so casually of approach-
ing danger and death. — London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The Netherlands Government plans a
thorough investigation of the conduct of
officials jjnd a reorganisation of the police and
the judiciary as necessary preliminaries to the
restoration of the normal life of the com-
munity. Special provision has been needed
for the trial of traitors and Quislings. A code
with 29 articles has been drawn up to define
the different forms under which assistance has
been given to the enemy and to lay down
penalties. The death penalty, unknown to
Dutch law, is introduced. Special courts will
try these cases. The Court will include assessors
from the "district in which the accused lived
and the profession that he followed. There
will be a right of appeal and provision for re-
prieve. All the Ministers of Justice of the
occupied countries have agreed on the form
of an international extradition decree. — Man-
chester “Guardian.”
* * * *
“For the next fifty years Italy is to be faced
with the problem of survival: The subtleties
of party politics have no reality in face of the
overwhelming fact that Italy is going to be
dominated and prostrate and in danger of in-
ternal strife for two generations.”— Vittorio
Orlando, Premier of Italy in the 1914-18 War.
* i * * *
When Germany loses this war she will take
over the nightmare which has hovered over
France ever since 1870. Now it will be* her turn
to look to the East with fear and apprehension,
to look for invasion and destruction. With a
restless Poland and a grim Russia, her position
will not be enviable. It is the hour of retri-
bution, nay, years of retribution. In 1927 I
was in the border country, and during the
night’ I was awakened by screams. There was
a commotion in the house and in the street, and
in the morning my host told me of this inci-
dent: The borders are patrolled by a military
group, the Douaniers, or custom guards. It
is made up of former soldiers exclusively and
the tactics are military. On that night a large
detachment came down the mountain and went
through the village, and a lady who had lost
her father in 1870 and her two sons in the
World War, hearing the rhythmic marching, be-
came terrorised and screamed the warning:
“Les Prussiens sont la, les Prussiens sont la, les
Prussiens arrivent.” Now the Germans will
listen to the winds of the East. They will
listen for the screech of the Polish eagle and
for the song of the Cossacks. France will have
relegated her fears to her arch enemy. How the
Huns will clamor for an omnipotent League of
Nations!. — Henri F. Mouquin; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
American restaurant patrons will darkly
discuss “food shortage” (which means steak
and beef are off) as they plough through menus
that would have made tantalising newspaper
serials for most people in Europe at any time
in the past four years. Similarly, American
motorists brood upon gasoline shortage and
rubber restrictions as they bowl along roads
which give the newly-arrived Briton the impres-
sion of being black with eighty horsepower
motor-cars. Again, Sunday newspapers—-so
vast and weighty that no person could carry
home half a dozen of them without assistance
and which I defy any human being to read in
24 hours —solemnly warn readers that the
nation is in the midst of a newsprint famine
and urge all to redouble their salvage efforts.
Even laundries gravely call upon customers to
avoid waste while they themselves make it
impossible for client's to rescue each returned
garment from cocoons of cardboard, tissue
paper, colored-bands, pamphlets and pins with-
out festooning themselves from head to foot.
And, for my part, I must report that after
walking down Broadway by night to sample
what has been mysteriously called the “brown-
out” and is reputed to be a combined fuel-
saving and security measure, I continued to
see a miniature firework display before the
eyes long after I had sought sleep in a darkened
hotel bedroom. — ‘‘American Mercury v article
by the London “Daily Mail” Washington corre-
spondent.
* * * *
It is absurd to believe that when France
is free again General Charles de Gaulle, or
any other leader, will be capable of imposing
himself upon the French people against their
will. Any such attempt, whether supported
by foreign Governments or not, will in all likeli-
hood be met in the spirit of 1792 rather than
that of 1939. — Former U.S. Under-Secretary of
State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
Time was when a man who found his wife
had been unfaithful to him could shoot her
down like a dawg and be triumphantly acquitted
by any jury in the land. Today, according to a
committee of the American Bar Association in-
vestigating the subject, the U.S. Army and Navy
deduct dependency allotments from the pay of
soldiers whose wives have not been true. This
rewrite of the unwritten law may be in line with
the new morality, but we do think the third
party to the eternal triangle should contribute
too. — “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
There has obviously been a good deal of
complimentary cant in the inclusioh of China
among the “four great Powers” who are to
arrange the post-war affairs of the world.
China has man-powef, but she lacks the tools
to make man-power count, either on the field of
battle or in peaceful trade, and the natural re-
sources which form the basis of a modern in-
dustrial civilisation are not only undeveloped
in China, but, if they exist, largely undiscovered.
Furthermore, a large portion of such mineral
resources as have been discovered are located
in Manchuria, an area which Japan holds now
and Russia may covet. — Chicago “Tribune.”
* * # *
In Argentina, where the most retrograde and
repressive type of military dictatorship to be
found in the Americas is today installed, it is
far from improbable that the regime would
have long since been replaced had it not been
for the policy pursued by U.S. Department of
State. The organised civilian opposition of
the Argentine people can bring about the over-
throw of their dictatorship whenever they desire.
But they will be disinclined to take action so
long as they think their country is being bullied
or coerced by foreign Powers. — Former U.S.
Secretary of State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
From Stockholm, Madrid and Lisbon, since
the Germans started their campaign of robot
bombing, there have come whispers and rumors
of peace moves. But the people and Govern-
ment of Britain, far from being in any mood to
discuss peace terms with the enemy, are pre-
occupied with plans for the utter destruction
of Germany. Those who know him well report
that Prime Minister Churchill came back from
his inspection of Britain’s defences in a mood
to match frightfulness with ruthlessness.
There is not the slightest chance that he will
counsel a policy of compromise such as the
German propagandists suggested when they
said that, if the Allies would cease bombing
German cities, they would stop firing buzz
bombs at southern England. It is much more
likely that Mr. Churchill will give the green
light to the Allies’ air leaders, who are ready
to demonstrate to the German people that
Schrecklichkeit is a game that two can play at
in this war. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * *. *
The outstanding impression which I brought
back from Normandy is not the need for the
United States to recognise Gen. de Gaulle and
his committee, as that Gen. de Gaulle should
recognise the United States. The general and
his entourage should begin to “sell” America
and Britain to the sorely puzzled French. Mili-
tary necessity has required and will continue to
require heart-breaking measures if France is
to be set free, measures which the Allies are
loth to take. The French committee admits
that a certain amount of bitterness already
exists in certain badly battered areas. But it
should not be left to the British and Americans
to do the explaining; this is a job for the
French themselves and especially for Gen. de
Gaulle. For the past four years Berlin and
Vichy have been doing all the selling. The
French have been fed daily on vicious lies de-
signed to make them distrust their, old friends
and turn to Hitler. Anglo-American motives
have been twisted out of all semblance to the
truth. It is high time that trusted Frenchmen
should begin to undo this harm, and the obvious
man to sound the keynote is General de Gaulle
himself. Thus far he has not had much tp say
in America’s favor. — N.Y. “World-Telegram'
correspondent William Philip Simms.


a scrap of paper
.... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND GENERALINSURANCE CO LTD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R V. ■ PERKINS, General Manager.
Accountancy
THIS war has proved the vital
necessity for trained and qualified
accountants, both for business and
government departments. That neces-
sity will be even greater because of
the great problems of administration
and finance in all aspects of post-war
reconstruction.
NOW is the time to prepare, study
and to qualify in Accountancy-Secre-
taryship, and thus put yourself in the
way of securing a key position and
with it professional status and an
assured living. The success of your
training under H. & R. is certain,
because for 45 years H. & R. students
have consistently secured more honours
places in the Accountancy examinations
than secured by all other coaches
tombined.
Why not consult 11. & R.
about Your future career, and
the opportunities of the post-
war period?
Call, write or phone for full
particulars, .
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
IFossded and Ownad by Hnnuagway & Cobwtson Pry. UdJ
'Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Please send me FREE copy ot your
96 pp. ‘Guide to Careers in Business.’
Name Age
Address
Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION required as to the whereabouts of
FREDERICK ERNEST LEAVER, living in Victoria
or N.S.W. One time chemist of Parke Davis & Co.,
Burroughs Wellcome and Co. Please communicate
with his son, John Devereaux Leaver, 45 Powell
Street, Osborne Park, West Australia. The matter is
urgent.
CAMPBELL LUCY, late of Belmore, or anyone know-
ing whereabouts, please communicate PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE CO., LTD., 33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ESTATE OF ANNIE LUCRETIA PARKER
Deceased.
IF ALLAN REGINALD DAVY, formerly of New
Plymouth, New Zealand, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, will communicate with the undersigned,
who have been appointed by the Court to act for him,
•he will learn something to his advantage. Any com-
munication will be treated as strictly confidential. —
NICHOLSON, RIRBY & SHEAT, SOLICITORS, New
Plymouth, New Zealand.
Public Notices.
1, RUDOLF AUERBACH, Stateless, of German
nationality, born at Essen, Germany, and resident five
years in Australia, now residing at Cooper Road,
Regent’s Park, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, LUIGI GINO CASTELLAN, of Italian nationality,
born at Spilinbergo, Prov. of Udine, Italy, and resi-
dent 17 years in Australia, now residing at 6 Day
Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, FRANCESCO BARBUTO, of Italian nationality,
born at Malfa, Italy, and resident 18 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 148 Beamish Street, Campsie,
N.S.W., intend to apply* for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALFRED HARRADINE SHERRINGHAM late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET ESTHER
SHERRINGHAM has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
586 of 1944 on the grounds of adultery and desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the Twentieth day of October
One thousand nine hundred and forty-four at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors 39 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS ERNEST WATERS late of Newcastle.—
TAKE NOTICE that EMILY ELIZABETH WATERS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2489 of 1944
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and is seeking
the exercise of the Court’s discretion under Section
192 (2). You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist of November 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from J. K. DIXON
Esq. Solicitor of 115 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s )
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
FOR QUALITY!
RA
m
QVEB thirty years of experience in the
manufacture of Fur Hats in Australia is one
of the reasons why AKUBRAS are so popular
with men who care . . smartness of style and
long-wearing qualities, so essential at the
present time, also assist in maintaining the
demand for these value-tor-coupon Hats.
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
When Australia hitched
her waggon to a car
ft*
K'Viii'
& * n
>3* iVs?
*9 "O
Did you ever stop to consider
the coming of the automobile and
what it has meant to this limitless country of
ours . . . the new life and wealth it has brought to
thousands of small townships . . the richness of the
good earth which now pours into city markets,
because of the motor truck? Luxury theatres and
latest fashions came within the reach of the farmer ’s
wife, while many a weary office worker found
refreshment beneath the gums.
In this broader pattern
of life, no manufacturer
has played a greater role
than Ford. Back in the
days when a car was the
“rich man’s toy,” it was
Ford who set out to put
the world on wheels.
m
r
M'^4
Over creeks, through paddocks, along rough bush
tracks went the Model ‘T \ Priced so that all might
enjoy this new-found freedom. Joked about, hut
beloved. It gave place at last to the modern Ford V-8,
the thrifty Prefect and the luxurious Mercury—but
the original vision still remains.
To-day,, from factories built to serve a world at peace,
flow weapons of war. But the highways of freedom
will be open again. There will be other triumphs
of engineering to make motoring yet more enjoyable.
Australia will hitch
her waggon to new and
ever better Ford
vehicles.
Jbrd
Prefect 10 h.p. Cars
and Utilities . . .
Anglia 8 h.p.
F36.20.C
BACK YOUR COUNTRY WITH YOUR MONEY
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong. Vic.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Discharged service man wants position as
engine-driver in country. Fully qualified.
-3512.
To buy Caravan Building, published by
“Home Beautiful” magazine, or any other publi-
cation on this subject.—3slo.
To buy any of Rider Haggard’s novels.
3511.
Information Sought.
Value of the mulga-tree? Where is it found?
Occurs in the scrubs of western N.S.W. and
s.-w. Q’land, extending through the interior
of S.A. to W.A. In Central and far inland
Australia it grows on the sandhills, sandy plains
and stony hills. The leaves are used for fodder
during drought, and have been known to keep
cattle and sheep alive for three years, during
which no rain had fallen. The tree is now rare
in some districts where it was once plentiful,
chiefly through severe lopping and damage by
stock. It is now illegal to cut down a mulga-
tree, and even dead wood on the ground must
not be removed.
* * * *
What Federal estate duty is payable on estates
valued at £lO,OOO, £15,000 and £20,000 after
debts and State death duty have been de-
ducted ? v
On £lO,OOO if left to widow, children or
grandchildren of deceased, £264; if left to any
other class of beneficiary, other than exempt
institutions, £3OO. On £15,000 if left to any
class of beneficiary other than exempt institu-
tions, £675. On £20,000 if left to any class of
beneficiary other than exempt institutions,
£l2OO.
* * * *
Is a bookmaker operating under AJ.C. rules
entitled to limit the wager to any specified
amount ?
Any bookmaker betting in the principal rings
within a radius of 40 miles from the Sydney
G.P.O. offering odds against a horse must on
demand lay the same to not less than £5, with
the proviso that the bookmaker cannot be com-
pelled to risk more than £lOO.
* * * *
/ have been trying to preserve samples of
certain Australian timbers, with the bark on,
for ornament. Is there any way of preventing
the wood from cracking and the bark from
falling off?
Cracking may be reduced by slow seasoning;
t'he ends of the logs should be coated heavily
with grease, or painted. Burying the logs in
dry sawdust would also help. It is impossible
to prevent the bark from falling off, but if a
small piece is cut out of the bark once it has
come off (to allow for shrinkage) it may be
glued on again and still look very well.
* * * * *
How to prepare sea sponges for market?
Place in changes of either fresh or sea water
to macerate. During this process, squeeze and
pound by hand to release the jelly-like animal
matter. Any foreign shelly bodies are dealt
with by blows from a wooden mallet and after-
wards rinsed out of the fibres. After a final
wash in fresh water, bleach in the sun. Some
final bleaching and softening processes are
trade secret's.
* * * *
Is a license necessary for doing radio and
electrical repairs in N.S.W. ?
If electrical wiring is done a license must be
obtained. Apply to Electrical Contractors and
Electricians’ Licensing Committee, Local Gov-
ernment Department, Phillip-street, Sydney.
*** t *
Substitute for shellac as a varnish for polished
floors ?
Use raw linseed oil; apply sparingly with
fluffless rag, rub in and polish with clean pad.
* * * *
When and where did Don Bradman play in
his first Test match?
In November-December, 1928, at Brisbane.
Brief Answers.
R.H.: For particulars of State death duty,
apply to Commissioner of Stamp Duties,
Phillip-street, Sydney G.I.MacB.: Market
for pumice is very restricted. Value ranges
from £3 to £4 per ton. The Golden Cob Co.,
213 Darling-street, Balmain, will buy cuttlefish
bones at about 6d. per lb A.E.Y.: (1) The
next-of-kin. (2) None in Sydney F.G.McP.:
Considered very improbable W.P.C.: Would
be the existing property; there is no other of
that name thereabouts. Station was in existence
as far back as 1873... .J.M.P.: He is a well-
known author.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D. 8.: You can hear that wow approaching
a mile away J.E.: Too many words and
too few lions in that circus M.P.: Green-
grocer merely garrulous... .R.M.: True enough,
but it’s not a short story J.T.: Both unreal
and magazinish... .0.C.: Frothy... .T.F.:
Dialogue crude BJ.T.S.: Style archaic....
K.A.: Empty R.C.: Humor forced
M.J.W.: “Spear” is pointless M.OU The
husband who embezzles and then frames his
brother-in-law, then gasps out a confession on
the battlefield —Away! M.A.: Try a
woman’s paper G.D.: An anecdote rather
than a story D.A.C.: Ghostly conclusion is
trite and utterly unconvincing.


Tuberculosis is striking with swift deadliness at Australia’s national
life! Help stamp it out ! Give all you can to the Anti-T.B.
£50,000 Appeal to help build an up-to-date Clinic and provide
a Mobile Service for Country Districts. Send contributions to
the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The
Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
•t^6l
aaiiwn
‘aunf q*o£ uo ssauisnq jo aso|D sb 133 HS 3DNV3V9
SINVH IVNOIIVM QNVISN33fIt) 3HX
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-400,000 Shares at £5 per Share
Issued Capital—
-350,000 Shares at £5 per Share
' fully paid
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Funds
(Used in the business of the
Bank)
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss
Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock . . •• - • • ■
Deposits, Bills Payable and other
Inabilities, including Provisions
for Contingencies
Balances due to other Banks..
Note. —All assets and liabilities
are expressed in Australian
currency.
Contingent Liabilities
£2,000,000 0 0
£1,750,000 0 0
£1,750,000 0 0
860,000 0 0
43,750 0 0
22,824 7 2
2,676,574 7 2
2,963,441 2 5
17,617,620 8 7
8,442 19 11
£23,266,07€ 18 1
5" '
£346,185 0 0
(Under letters of credit, guarantees, etc.)
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Cheques and Bills of other Banks
Balances with and due from other
Banks
Money at Short Call —
(i) London
(ii) Elsewhere ..
Treasury Bills—-
Australian Government ..
Public Securities (excluding
Treasury Bills)
Australian Government Se-
curities (under cost or
face value)
Special War-time Deposit Account
with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting pro-
vision for debts considered bad
or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (at cost less amounts
written off) .. .. •
All other Assets (floating—under
cost or market value)
Contingent Assets (as per contra)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT in respect of the year ended 30 h June, 1944.
To expenses; Head Office, Branches
and agencies (including
Directors’ Fees, £2,941/6/4) £269,539 17 2
„ Income, Land and other Taxes 44,479 12 9
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down .. 81,849 19 11
£395,869 9 10
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income arter deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date and ap-
propriations to the credit of
Contingencies Accounts (out of
which Accounts provision for
all bad and doubtful debts has
been made)
£395,869 9 10
£395,869 9 10
By Net Balance brought forward. .
„ Net Profit for the year..
£22,7 24 7 3
81,849 19 11
£104,574 7 2
Insure with tine
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
AH classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHR DGE FTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated industries, Ltd.
f Dividends , Nominal
Net Pref. Re*
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
’34 129,602 15,750 9 p.c. = 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO .. 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,902 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ ~ 139,572 828,360 •
Surplus sale assets, £4,331,718 .. 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued, £2,558,814 .. 2,601,264
'>39 324,512 15,750 6.86 J p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 . . 3,104,226
’4l 410,777 15,750 8 p.c. = 320,003 8,179,250
May.
Share premiums, £49,847 .. .. 3,229,097
’42§ 427,864 15,750 7J p.c. = 318,273 3,322,938
Loss, sale of assets, £1869.. .. 3,321,069
’43 329,324 15,750 6} p.c. = 302,821 3,331,822
Loss, sale of assets, £295.. .. 3,331,527
’44 341,851 15,750 6J p.c. = 302,821 3,354,807
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,378,499).
+ Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
lOn enlarged capital. §l4 months.
This is one of Australia’s major indus-
trial undertakings. The humble glass
bottle is the acorn from which the oak,
planted under the protective conditions
which the war of 1914-18 provided, grew.
A tariff which gave a virtual monopoly
of some sections of the market provided
post-1918 opportunities ; shrewd, enter-
prising management and technical .effi-
ciency have done the rest. The name-
plate was changed from Australian Glass
Manufacturers to the present more de-
scriptive title in 1939, when the business
was split into a number of subsidiaries,
and £2,558,814 was capitalised (11 new
for every four old shares) from a surplus
of £4,331,718 which showed up on re-
valuation of assets. Shortly after (Sept.,
1939) £996,941 of new ord. capital, which
brought with it £249,235 of share pre-
miums, was gathered. That lifted paid
capital to its present figure in 4,486,233
ords. and 175,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
The organisation includes 28 factories
representing more than a score of dif-
ferent industries. Under the stimulus of
war demand the £1,246,176 put up by
the shareholders, and more besides, found
full and ready employment in the new
engineering, plastics, metal-stamping,
fibre-carton making and printing sections
of the group. Aggregate wages bill now
exceeds £2,402,000, and the number of
employees totals 7103, compared with over
£1,000,000 and 5000-odd respectively five
years ago.
The main difficulty underlying nearly
all production problems these days has
been shortage of labor, coal and
materials. This has meant postponement
of much development work, especially
in the glass section, where new activities
await the end of hostilities. Last term
production in the optical glass depart-
ment was on a diminishing scale, and
defence orders generally—they embrace
the making of gun components, ammuni-
tion and other war goods —tapered. But
the small-craft construction branch was
kept busy; it made and delivered three
75ft. ocean-going tugs, 27 80ft. cargo
barges and a number of 35ft. lighters.
Further progress was made by the engi-
neering and steel subsidiaries, which
turned out some automatic rotary presses
for the offshoot engaged in production
of plastics. This offshoot is “developing
satisfactorily.” Another one of the team,
the Silicates Co., operating in S. Aus.,
has bought a felspar deposit, and is
mining for outside as well as group in-
terests.
Despite the*labor problem and tapering
of defence orders —largely carried out
under annex conditions —which together
threw some furnaces out of CQmmission,
turnover for the group was a record. The
advance in costs was steadied by the
Governments stabilisation policy, and
combined net earnings sprang £12,527,
reaching £341,851. That was after deduct-
ing outside interests, allowing £305,097
(down £4679) for depreciation, something
for taxation, and including £l2/5 dropped
from somewhere into reserves. The
£341,851 of profit thus claimed was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
7.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against 6.9 p.c.
and 9.4 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The div. was kept at 6| p.c., worth a lot
more on capital as it stood before the
gift issue already referred to —subsequent
share premiums have taken only part of
the gilt off the gingerbread.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure of the organisation:
Consolidated Balance Sheet Figures.
1940. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . . £4,062,601 £4,661,233 £4,661,233
Outside interests* 38,117 43,406 43,7-
Sundry creditors! 509,706 1,214,601 1>346,771
Inter-co. balance* 202,669 359,764
Freehold .. .. 1,185,654 1,587,773 1,628,743
Plant, etc. .. 1,268,013 1,615,193 1,726,070
Shares, etc. .. 753,847 772,910 781,705
Stocks .. .. 1,454,793 1,796,451 1,821,826
Debtors .. .. 500,427 1,028,158 907,058
Consols and cash 167,870 422,204 687,293
Intangibles .. 2,377,385 2,378,499
Inter-.co. balance* 43,946 '
proportion resei'ves. t Including tax
provision, etc. t Due to differences in balance date.
Last term’s net addition of £40,970 to
freeholds, etc., £110,877 to plant and the
strengthening of consols and cash by
£265,089 reflect preparation for further
expansion of activities and the tapering
of defence contracts. Taking sharehold-
but not inter-co. balances into the
reckoning, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£2,851,111)
was £45,989.
Notwithstanding prattle about “full”
employment and “social” security, both
are now threatened by severe rationing of
coal, made necessary by the anti-social
conduct of the miners, which will slow up
activity of the A.I.C. group and others.
What needs to be realised is that not even
the Government can guarantee our econo-
mic security ; that we must create by our
own performances. The less fettered in-
dustry is the higher will be both the level
of employment and real wages. The
degree of success, or failure, achieved will
be governed largely by the level of costs
and the level of productivity.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 '
Provident fund, £5OOO 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO . .
1939.. 56,121 9 p.c. = 36,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO 13,121 695,9<0
Written off premises, £5OOO
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,000 )
Provident fund, £2OOO 15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO.
1941.. 61,454 9 p.c. = 36,000] _
Provident fund, £5OOO 15,454 726,769
W’ritten off premises, £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.e. = 36,000]
Provident fund, £7OOO 1 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO • 18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OOO
1944.. 64,558 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 17,558 778,104
Written off premises, £5OOO
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
The solidly-established Mercantile, which
has strong connections throughout the
Commonwealth, has always pursued a
cautious policy. Practically all overseas
risks have been reinsured since war
began. The co. has never put much vigor
into the hunt for business outside Aus-
tralia, and, apart from some recent plums
in the international marine pie, owing
to inflated war-time values, it hasn’t
missed much. It drew out of the then-
troublesome London marine market in
the early 1930’5, and earnings showed
marked improvement afterwards.
War brought a steady growth in insur-
able values, and therefore in premium
income, though there have been shifts in
the composition and nature of the busi-
ness. For reasons already stated, income
from marine business, now a Government
monopoly on the Australian coast, has
bounded along, while there have been
steady increases in the volume of fire,
workers’ compensation, personal accident
and “other” insurance. Premiums on
motor-vehicle cover have shrunk by
about one-third over the last five years.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the Mer-
cantile’s underwriting performances since
1930:
Net Ex- Loss • Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 JT3.B p.e. 43.5 p.c.
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3 „
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 ~ 45.1 „
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 ~
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 ~
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1944.. 355,367 160,963+152,689 45.3 ~ 43.0 „
t Includes lire brigade charges, previously treated as
exes.
The co. reinsures about half its business.
Last term the improvement in gross pre-
miums (£720,322) was £47,762, reinsur-
ances (£364,955) were up £27,807, leaving
the gain in net premiums at £19,955. The
sudden leap in the loss rate is due partly
to heavy bushfire claims in Victoria, but
mainly to inclusion of fire-brigade
charges, which have more than doubled
since 1939. These were previously charged
to exes., which also explains the sharp
drop in the expense rate. The under-
writing surplus (£41,715) was £3974
lighter or 10.4 p.c. on capital. Interest
and rents (£22,843 net) brought in an
extra £2866, or 5.7 p.c. on capital. Thus
the net return on capital from all sources
(£64,558, down £1108) was 16.1 p.c. as
against 16.4, 15.8, 15.4 and 14.6 p.c. back
to 1940. The div. was kept at 9 p.c.,
and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that it is likely to be
interrupted. After sending £5OOO to the
staff fund and writing a like amount off
premises, reserves were lifted to within
£21,896 of capital.
Surplus earnings were channelled
mainly into Government securities, up
£80,461 last term:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 215,000 255,721 279,743 336,004
Tax reserve .. 18,00 0 35,0 0 0 50,0 0 0 50,000
Freeholds, etc. 4 8 5,38 4 4 80,3 0 0 475,07 1 469,846
Mortgages .. 14,7 4 5 21,661 18,885 14,839
Public securities, _ _ „„„
deposits, etc. 364,149 441,859 527,299 60(,,0
Book debts .. 68,212 .76,323 52,860
Cash, etc. .. 23,479 42,457 32,973 47,800
When the books closed policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 219 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate. And
assets are well worth their book value.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & & &
1934.. 22,406 7 p.c. c= 20,920 1,486 135,90 S
Pref. Ord.
64 p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8”,613 20,920 732
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 i 3 ®’^
- 1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,011 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,840 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,09'3 10a, 122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
War set the north buzzing with activity,
which has meant much to the brewers.
Among others things, it gave rise to a
new and strong source of demand tor
beer in the shape of service requirement
Moreover, these requirements fall outside


RUPTURfc
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
. ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
rcts
LIKE THE HHIID
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lD), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
cM'ctel
FACING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a parlc . . . yet
it is merely "'round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
IHE WENTWORTH
Lit
ue
£ r
Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
f
mproußM/R
'//
ON/
Stimulate
its growth
and keep it
healthy with
McMahon's. Easy and eco-
nomical, quickly effective in
cases of falling hair, alopecia
patches, scalp dryness, dan-
druff and cradle cap.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale:
Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
5
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain C'oimnonweaith and foreign patents.— Auvt.
<••***
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydiauhc, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES A- COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could, your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost 1
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, ITD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'tkeet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
zm
%
1
SIN
mr
■fh d*
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now . Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
f 22D-7 44
the public rationing scheme. Although
the services’ demand is shared with
southern breweries, the northern cos. got
their full proportion of the trade —this
co. and Castlemaine Perkins are the prin-
cipal brewers in Queensland. And some
extra advantage was gained in meeting
the civilian demand, following the ban
on inter-State freighting of ale and stout.
Also the call for all kinds of war goods
stimulated industrial activity, and length-
ened civil pay-rolls which were further
swollen by wage lifts. At the same time
primary producers enjoyed the benefits
of satisfactory prices under Government
contracts. It is not surprising, therefore,
that the brewers should have gathered
more on the swings than they lost on the
roundabouts. Increases in excise, aggre-
gating 2s. lOd. per gallon since 1939, have
all been passed on. But the substantial
growth in taxation and other costs have
had to be absorbed by traders.
The sudden leap (£20,912) in last term’s
net earnings was due largely'to reduced
allowance for depreciation, £18,219 as
against £32,717 for the previous term,
when the figure included £15,340 struck
off the cost of air-raid shelters. This
also helps to explain the contraction in
the 1942 profit figure. There appears to
have been no check to expansion of turn-
over. Last term’s £114,809 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
9.9 p.c. on the £1,047,432 of ord. capital
as against 7.9, 6, 7 and 6.5 p.c. back to
1940. The div., from which a point was
chipped in 1942, reducing it to 6 p.c., was
lifted to 7 p.c. again.
Though it doesn’t exhibit quite the
stature or earning power of the rival
Castlemaine Perkins organisation, Queens-
land Brewery is sturdily entrenched in the
dairying south and pastoral west of the
State. In pre-war days there was
competition between the two camps for
control of hotel properties in order to tie
down the market for their products.
During the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1940, Queensland’s share-
holders put up £946,883 of fresh capital,
and since 1932 nearly half a million had
been gathered from outsiders as well.
War-time controls have tied the co.’s
hands in this respect:
Paid 1937. 1942. 1943. 1944.
capital £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 514,478 540,435 497,190 662,728
Fixed
assets 1,181,013 1,670,789 1,651,202 1,734,286
Stocks . . 104,567 143,960 152,487 155,117
Book debts 127,261 121,452 103,358 105,739
Cash, etc. 12,586 32,831 38,832 57,281
Last term £83,084 was added to the book
value of the brewery, etc., and the board
went outside for an extra £65,538 to do it
and strengthen cash, etc., by £18,449.
When the books closed liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £244,519,
up £42,078 over the twelvemonth.
Current trade activity appears to have
reached its zenith or thereabouts. But
the Government’s policy of full employ-
ment augurs well for beer consumption
post-war.
The hunt for large-scale deposits of
high-grade phosphate rock in Australia
continues without much success. Investi-
gation of the Holbourne Island (N.Q.)
deposit has disclosed a probable 30,000
tons to 40,000 tons of 20 p.c. P 205 rock
over an area of some five acres around
the open cut. Overburden varies from
nil to sft. 6in. TJie estimates, made by
Government geologist J. H. Reid, are
based on exposures in the open-cut and
near-by holes. Below this tonnage there
is the possibility of further reserves of
commercial grade rock, the quantity and
quality of which can only be proved by
deeper sinking. Holbourne Island con-
sists of a core of granite fringed with
raised coraline deposits which have been
phosphatised by guano leachings.
* * * *
After a lapse of many years chrome
ore has returned to the mineral produc-
tion list in Queensland. During the five
months to May last approximately 389
tons of chromite were consigned to New-
castle from Tungamull, Rockhampton
district, and prospects of further regular
consignments are promising.
* * * *
The Victory (old Piastre) and Royal
Victory mines, two small copper shows
near Netherdale (Q.), appear to have been
gouged out, and there is little prospect
of much, if any, further pay-ore being
met with.
* * * *
Another 3s. div. is to go out on Sep-
tember 15 from A 1 Consolidated, operat-
ing at Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.). This brings
distributions to 13s. a share since the
present run of rich ore was entered last
November. Altogether, some 3400 tons
was treated in the year ended August 31,
for average 4oz. yields, and though re-
turns have lately slackened a bit there
appears to be a lot more ounce-and-
better stuff waiting to be dug up. Yet the
official ceiling for the co.’s 7s. 6d.-paid
shares is 10s. —a glaring instance of the
anomalies which have arisen under the
Treasury’s share-pegging regulations. The
present figure was fixed during a period
when shareholders were obliged to fork
up a 6d. call because the ore supply had
cut out; but the lode —a peculiar struc-
ture —came back into the shaft with
further sinking, and the ore position now
appears robust.
* * * *
Although Kapunda (S. Aus.) copper
deposits have been practically worked
out, Government geologist Dickenson
recommends further drilling of the Hill-
side property in view of the possible
occurrence of further shallow orebodies. *
Estimated cost of this exploration is put
at about £lOOO. Satisfactory results here,
it is considered, would warrant extension
of the area of exploration to the East
Kapunda mine. The orebody at Hillside
is quite separate from the main Kapunda
zone of mineralisation. Only about 1000
tons have been taken out, and, though
workable-grade primary sulphides were
met with at 155 ft. vertical, no ore reserves
have been blocked. First reported dis-
covery of copper in South Australia was
made at Kapunda by Francis S. Dutton
and Charles Samuel Bagot in 1842. The
find was worked by the discoverers and
small local syndicates, and then London
and Scottish interests until 1879, after
which it became mainly a gouger’s
proposition. There is nothing to suggest
that a large body of pay-ore is now likely
to be discovered.
* * * #
Wiluna (W.A.) has survived another
operational year. However, despite a
Federal Government guarantee against
loss in the production of gold and arsenic
from low-grade ore, there is doubt as to
whether the co. will carry on mining
much longer. Should underground work
cease, attention is to be directed to a sur-
face pile of accumulated residues, which
it might pay to re-treat. Wiluna’s asso-
ciate and next-door neighbor, Moonlight
Wiluna (local operator for Gold Fields
Australian Development Co., London),
is reported to have had enough, and to
be getting ready to remove its plant to
the Mt. Charlotte Group, Kalgoorlie.
Both Wiluna and Moonlight Wiluna are
interested in the Mt. Charlotte Group,
where development work has been post-
poned until conditions become more
favorable.
* * * *
Blue Spec (W.A.) has asked share-
holders for another penny, making its 2s.
shares fully paid. It is the sixth levy
since the Federal Government, after in-
creasing its development and equipment
grant from £15,000 to £50,000, stipulated
that shareholders should contribute some-
thing. The management considers there
are good values in places in the co.’s re-
fractory ore deposit at Pilbara, but doubts
are expressed by local mining men about
the mine ever reaching the dividend stage.
* * * *
In U.S.A. record expenditure of
300,000,000 dollars is to be incurred this
year in putting down 5000 new boreholes
in search of oil to replace wells of dwind-
ling supply. It is not expected that more
than one or two in every ten bores will
be successful. Search will spread from
the big oil States of Texas and California,
which last year produced 58 p.c. of U.S.
total output, to Mississippi, Alabama,
Georgia and Florida, as well as to Utah
and Colorado, and one hole is to be put
down in New Jersey, almost within sight
of New York’s skyscrapers. The whole
programme is feeing undertaken to pro-
tect large sums already invested in re-
fineries and pipelines.


11l
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia ...
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
THE FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Austral id's National Wir el ess Organisation
PUT YOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
TY/'HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,’’ which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W* Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Waggft.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Labor’s Chickens Come Home
Before August 19 there was political
speculation as to why the Government
should have put such a 14-pointed mon-
strosity before the people at such a time.
Some said that the Government knew the
referendum would be defeated, and would
be able to use the defeat for the purpose
of throwing the onus of post-war eco-
nomic difficulties upon the voters. The
Government’s actual reasons for the
referendum and all the attendant propa-
ganda and extravagance are best known to
itself; but it is a fact that already one
Minister is blaming the people for the
post-war inflation which he sees ahead.
The Minister is Senator Keane, of the
Customs. Price-control is one of the
duties of a branch of his department.
Senator Keane said last week that infla-
tion in the post-war period would drive
prices “right through the roof,” and
people would then realise that they had
made a blunder in not approving the
Government’s referendum, which would
have given the Government f>ost-war con-
trol over “profiteering and prices.”
Senator Keane is, however, more of a
political campaigner than he is a con-
sistent economist, otherwise he would
long ago have done something about the
war-time profit-making of the Division
of Import Procurement, another section
of the Customs. In selling quantities of
the diverted and other cargo which have
come into the control of the D.1.P.,
prices excessive in relation to cost have
been charged. More regard has been
paid to what can be got from a hungry
market flush with money than to the prin-
ciples of price-control which have to be
observed by private traders. If the D.I.P.
practice was followed by the business
community Senator Keane would have
a word for such a practice.
The Ministry of which Senator Keane
is a prominent member has been the most
inflationary in its financial methods of all
the Empire Ministries. Australia was the
last country in the British Commonwealth
to impose peak war-time taxation rates
upon the lower (but great-in-aggregate)
incomes, and it has used bank credit to
excess. The inflation danger which Aus-
tralia faces is seen in the excess of money
banking up in the hands of many people
pending an opportunity to spend it. The
Government would have nothing to do
with post-war credits, though Canada and
Britain found them a convenient method
of obtaining borrowed money from a
flush body of wage-earners on a compul-
sory basis. In Australia, under the present
Government, the response to war loans
by the rank and file has been extraordi-
narily poor, and secondary investment of
sqvings-bank funds —a financial method
which is charged with potential inflation
- has been relied upon extensively to save
the situation.
Reported as saying “We have built up
a huge machine which has succeeded
beyond that in any other part of the world
in checking costs of living,” Senator
Keane is very wide of the mark. Canada
and New Zealand have a much better
record than Australia so far as controlled
living costs are concerned, and each has
adopted a more realistic war-time policy
than the Labor Government chose to
follow in the Commonwealth. There was
not the same weak-kneed political timidity
about taxing adequately the rising in-
comes of wage-earners—who are the great
spenders rather than investors —nor the
same gleeful distribution of political
spoils, such as the introduction of the 44-
hour-week to the shipping industry and
the increase of old-age pension rates in
war-time. Other countries, too, have not
seen the “working” of overtime develop
into such an inflationary racket, and no
country in this war-time world has seen
such a decay of effective effort as Aus-
tralia has suffered in coalmines and on
wharves since the Labor Government
took office.
Exercising a tyranny of weakness, the
present Government has overloaded and
overrestricted the investing and organis-
ing classes, while allowing all sorts of ex-
cesses to be practised by the strongly-
unionised voters. While Dargin at Port-
land stood up against dictation from the
mob, it crawfished, expostulated and
finally crawled to the mob with a license
for a new butcher’s shop. It has kept
unionists on the public payroll when there
has been no further needed work for them
to do, thus adding to the war debt and
war-time inflation, which will make things
difficult for us in the peace.
Prime Minister Curtin, far from being
a pillar of moral strength or sense in ad-
vising against inflationary practices,
before the last Federal election was all
for using bank credit in large doses after
the war ended. In view of what Senator
Keane is now saying about the danger of
inflation —after the war “the people will
have more money in their possession than
they have ever had” —the proposal of the
Prime Minister to inject still more exces-
sive spending power into the post-war
economy seems to 'have been absolutely
dotty. The post-war danger of inflation
arises from the fact that the money in the
hands and savings accounts of the people
is the greatest sum on record, in spite of
the cost of the war, and the true cost of
war is reflected only in the shortage of
goods and facilities available for purchase.
To blame the people’s rejection of the
referendum for the danger of post-war
inflation which the people will have to
face is gross impudence. The people will
“have to pay for their blunder through
their necks,” says Senator Keane. They
are paying, and will continue to pay, for
their blunder in ever putting this set of
reckless experimentalists into office. Our
Labor Government has treated the Aus-
tralian economy like a prize of political
victory Regardless of economic effects,
it has ladled out political spoils and
vote-chasing birdlime during the storm
and stress of war. When the dis-
astrous consequences of its policy
began to show up it glibly used
the ominous outlook as an excuse
for the introduction of something that
had been on the programme since the
party took office —that is, “control” over
private industry, which would eventually
lead to socialisation. It used the spec-
tacle of the mess it has made as an
inducement for the right to go ahead
and make a perfect hell of a mess. In
view of the reckless and extravagant way
in which the referendum campaign was
carried on by the Government there was
a very real danger that the Ministry might
have been given that right by a confused
people.
The trickery of the 14 points having
been rejected, some very clear thinking
should now be done about the co-opera-
tion between the Commonwealth and
State Governments and the people that
is really needed to enable this country
to pass successfully from war into peace.
The first essential —and this cannot be too
strongly stressed —is for the Common-
wealth Government to take the truth of
the situation more to its heart and drop
the political humbug which has been
paramount in its dealings from the time it
took office until it fought its recent dirty
referendum campaign. The people don’t
want socialism, but they want firm, com-
monsense control of the Australian
economy.
Let our Government acknowledge the
gross inflation that has occurred in the
Australian economy, and let it try to do a
straightforward job of correcting it. Ac-
cording to a “Daily Mirror” (Sydney)
report, Senator Keane said that “prices
will soar 100 p.c. after the war.” That
may sound an exaggerated view, on the
whole. But if there is this danger of infla-
tion, then let us awaken ourselves fully
to its causes. Apart from the inevitable
waste of war and the political rather than
practical methods adopted in paying for
that waste, there has been departmental,
bureaucratic and political waste, and
vote-catching expedients have played their
debilitating part, too. So long as there is
a low output in any industry in relation
to costs of production, the inflation
menace will continue to grow. The Labor
party policy of highei pay and smaller
output—as indicated only too often at
A.C.T.U. conferences and Six-Hour Day
proceedings—is a fertile source of infla-
tion, and the idea of using “central bank
credit” to pay for all manner of Govern-
ment commitments has not died with the
passing of Senator Darcey.
The States should co-operate to the
full with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in all matters of bona fide price-
control after the war. But the Common-
wealth might show its sincerity and
awareness in the matter now by starting
to remove the obvious cause of inflation
in the Auotralian economy, and by fumi-
gating the bureaucracy to rid it of its ex-
cessive numbers and its perversion of
authority. We have already had much
inflation, it is true ; but that is no excuse
for not attempting a halt now that the
strain of war should be easing. It has
been often said that the most difficult
thing about an inflationary spiral is to
control it and then stop it rising before
it simply crashes down out of control,
bringing unemployment and other dis-
orders. Certainly we shall never stop
it merely by price control and sub-
sidies. The causes of the disease have to
be eliminated. Provided the Government
gets conscientiously and speedily on to
the job of purging political waste and
mismanagement out of finance and indus-
try, if prices of food and clothing can
be restrained for 12 months after the ces-
sation of munitions production, then
there may be a reasonable chance of sup-
plies of these essentials being something
like equal to demand. An encouragement
to saving and investment would help to
restrain an excessive demand.
As The Bulletin has pointed out for
four years, the danger to this country
from war-time inflation has been second
only to the danger from the enemy itself.
But for Senator Keane to say that this
inflation danger has arisen from the
people’s rejection of the referendum is
simply an attempt to put a smokescreen
around the administrative failure of his
Government as the inevitable day of
reckoning approaches. There was a time
—lB months ago—when Mr. Lazzarini,
then Minister for Home Security, declared
that “the talk about inflation is all in-
sidious propaganda—an attempt to
stampede the Labor people against the
Government”! And nobody on the Gov-
ernment side rebuked Mr. Lazzarini. Mr.
Rosevear, in fact, even more recently has
appeared to agree with such sentiments.
Just before the referendum there was
considerable talk by Drs. Coombs and
Ross, of the Department of Post-war
Reconstruction, about the hard times
Australia suffered just before the present
war and the hard times we blight expect
at the conclusion of the war unless the
Government were granted greater powers
over the people. Here is an account from
another source;
You are to be in all things regulated and
governed by fact. We hope to have, be-
fore long, a board of fact, composed of
commissioners of fact, who will force the
people to be people of fact, and of no-
thing but fact. You must discard the
word Fancy altogether. You have nothing
to do with it. You are not to have, in any
object of use or ornament, what would be
a contradiction in fact. You don’t walk
upon flowers in fact; you cannot be allowed
to walk upon flowers in carpets. You don’t
find that foreign birds and butterflies
come and perch upon your crockery; you
cannot be permitted to paint foreign birds
and butterflies upon your crockery. You
never meet with quadrupeds going up and
down walls; you must not have quadrupeds
represented upon walls.
Doctor Coombs or his offsider Ross?
No. Well, surely a Dedman touch in the
r-r-rationalisation of designs on carpets,
crockery and wallpaper? No, no, no!
Just part of an address to schoolchildren
by “a Government officer” who “had it
in charge from high authority to bring
about the great public-office millennium,
when commissioners should reign upon
earth.” Taken from Hard Times, written
by Charles Dickens before any of Aus-
tralia’s would-be commissars were born.


Tenders.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of: The Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Company’s TIN DREDGING
CLAIMS at Battle Creek and Nettle Creek. North
Queensland, Australia. Full particulars may be ob-
tained and technical data examined by those inter-
ested at the Office of The Broken Hill Pty. Co.. Ltd.,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND STEEL LTD.,
422 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
R. G. NEWTON, Secretary.
■AJkr
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Where do we go
from here .. ?
5/- NATIONAL
SAVINGS STAMPS
available at every
Savings Bank and
Money Order Post
Office throughout
Australia. Only 8 required for
deposit on a £lO bond when the
Second Victory Loan opens
shortly.
WE look forward to Victory and Peace —
what then?
As the things we’ve done without so long become
available, we’ll want to buy them. We’ll need
money to do that, and there’s no better way to
save it than by investing in Victory Bonds to-day.
Victory Bonds buy the equipment and arms our
fighting forces need to win, and win quickly.
Then, when the war is over, the money invested
will still be ours to use for our personal needs, to
help buy a home, or furniture, or any other of
the fine products the post-war world will bring.
Don’t wait—use your savings now to make an
advance subscription to the Second Victory Loan.
Then save more to buy another Victory Bond
when the Loan opens soon.
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
Second, VktbUf imrv
2PV-7-I*
In order to handle the disposal of
£5OO-million worth of “Government
goods accumulated during the war,” a
Disposals Commission has been set up.
Mr. Beasley will be the Ministerial head,
and the chairman will be Mr. A. V.
Smith, who at present is secretary of the
Department of Supply. Other members
will be H. R. Richardson (managing
director of Cox Bros., chain-store cloth-
ing and furniture people), C. Godhard
(managing director of Sellers Pty., Ltd.,
manufacturers of aluminium utensils),
W. E. Dunk (Treasury representative) and
O. Schrieber (secretary of the Furniture
Trades Union). General manager of the
Commission will be G. A. Davis, a N. S.
Wales public servant, and the secretary,
W. Howie, is at present secretary of the
Allied Supply Council.
* * * *
It has been suggested in several
quarters that the incentive to work in
war-time has been dulled by the increas-
ing tax rates which must be paid on in-
creasing earnings. Where wages have
inflated to unaccustomed figures as a
result of the war the effect of tax rates
on the incentive to work full time is par-
ticularly severe. It does not require much
investigation to see that there are two
aspects to this problem, and that the re-
duction of taxation on high wages is not
really the solution. It would be far better
all round if wage rates themselves had
never inflated to the existing extent —an
extent which makes much of the present
apparent prosperity of some wage-
earners fictitious. If wage-earners had
been really made to feel the pinch of
war in their pay envelopes they would
have been keener to earn extra money,
even if the extra was subject to tax of up
to ss. in the £. The truth of the strike
and absentee problem is that many
unionists are getting far too much money
even after taxation has been deducted.
Put bluntly, they have been making money
out of the war and the country’s need for
extreme production.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank is at present
considering what system should be
adopted in post-war Australia to meet the
capital needs of small industries. “In
view of the fact that private enterprise
will have to play a very important part
in post-war reconstruction, the matter of
provision of capital for small industries
is of great importance,” says the central
bank board. It mentions the recent atten-
tion given to the matter; by large British
trading banks, and points out that
Canada, in order to meet the situation,
has formed a special subsidiary of the
central bank.
* * * *
Canadian Minister for Trade and
Commerce, Mr. MacKinnon, has in-
troduced a bill to incorporate the
Export Credit Insurance Corporation
“for the purpose of entering into
contracts of insurance with exporters
to insure against the risk of loss involved
in contracts for the export of Canadian-
produced goods.” The capital and capital
reserve of the corp., each amounting to
five million dollars, will be subscribed by
the Government, with provision also for
loans not to exceed in the aggregate an
amount equal to five times the paid-up
capital and reserves. The bill further
authorises the Minister of Finance during
the three years after the Act comes into
force to —
(а) guarantee the obligations of Govern-
ments of other countries to pay for Cana-
dian goods exported;
(б) make a loan to any such Government
to enable it to buy from an exporter and
to pay the cost of Canadian-produced
goods; or
(c) purchase, acquire or guarantee any
security issued by the other Government
or its agent to any person in Canada in
payment of the cost of Canadian-produced
goods exported or to be exported to the
other country, provided that the Govern-
ment of such other country requests the
Canadian Government to give such guaran-
tees, make such loans, etc.
The aggregate amount of such guaran-
tees outstanding at any time must not
exceed two hundred million dollars, and
the aggregate of the amount of loans
outstanding at any time, and the value of
securities purchased or acquired and held,
shall not exceed one hundred million
dollars.
* * * *
The Co-ordinator-General of Works,
knight Harry Brown, has confirmed what
many people have long believed: that up
to the present the various Australian Gov-
ernments are far behind with plans for
Australian rehabilitation after the war.
Vocally aggressive and jealous of private
enterprise, the bureaucrats have been din-
ning into the public mind the “necessity”
for the central planning of private indus-
try, whereas they have not been able even
to keep their own house in order. If
planning of national works was neglected
because the result of the referendum was
awaited, it simply goes to show how im-
practical is the outlook of the nation’s
planners. Some co-operative body repre-
sentative of Commonwealth and State
Governments and private industry should
get quickly on with the task of figuring
out what kinds of economic and indus-
trial activities should be given most
prominence and aid in making the attack
on our post-war problems.
* * * *
The directors of the Commonwealth
Bank draw attention to the big increase
in the Australian note issue—the holding
in the hands of the public rose £48.6 mil-
lion in the year to June 30 and £137.8
million since the outbreak of war. “Some
part of this increase,” say the directors,
“can be attributed to increased internal
activity; some notes are undoubtedly
being hoarded, while others are held for
black-market and tax-evasion purposes.
In addition, large amounts are now held
by the Allied military authorities and
individual military personnel. By arrange-
ment between the Governments con-
cerned, Australian currency is used exclu-
sively in Australia and in the Territories
for payment to members of the Allied
forces and for general purposes in the
Commonwealth. It is not possible to
place a figure on the amount of notes
used for these several purposes, but it is
to be expected that as the need for mili-
tary operations in Australian territories
diminishes there will be a contraction
in the volume of note circulation.”
* * * *
Finance Minister Ilsley, of Canada, says
that the Dominion’s drastic excess-profits
tax is entirely a war measure that had
been appropriate to a war-time economy.
“But in my opinion it would be en-
tirely inappropriate as normal peace-time
legislation. On the other hand, it would
be a great mistake to repeal the measure
until the conditions which it was designed
to meet have disappeared. We do not
know when the end of the war will come.
Whether it comes soon or late, we do
not know how closely the need for indus-
trial and commercial conversion and
expansion will coincide with the end of
the war. What we do know is that at
some time on fairly short notice it is
going to be necessary to say to business:
‘Now is the time to put into effect your
post-war plans’. However, it is impos-
sible and improper to announce what will
be recommended to Parliament in future
Budgets.”
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia has
12,379 shareholders, each having an aver-
age holding of £335 of capital. Average
dividend paid to each shareholder last
year was £17 —6.6 p.c. p.a. on ordinary
shares. Net profit in relation to share-
holders’ funds was 3.74 p.c.


THE MAN
Bougainville to Burma.
“Ek Dum”: For the first time' for
months, Australian troops have been en-
gaged—against troops of the rearguard
of the 18th Japanese Army in the Sepik-
Ramu-Keram swamp area.
It is one of the worst bits of coastal
country in New Guinea. On August 31
it was reported by G.IJ.Q. that a further
508 of the enemy had been killed and
112 captured.
The work of the R.A.A.F. squadrons
against the Japanese in the Wewak area
was specially praised in an order from
Allied G.H.Q. A Beaufort bomber squad-
ron celebrated 12 months’ continuous ser-
vice in N.G. by pounding fuel dumps.
Heavy raiding continues all over the
mid-Pacific. It extended round a 7000-
mile circle from New Guinea, via Palau,
Celebes and the Philippines, to Formosa
—which had its heaviest raids for months
—through the Volcano Islands and down
to Choiseul and Bougainville.
The Philippines attack was the great-
est since General Royce’s expedition from
Australia in 1942. Over 100 tons of
bombs were dropped on three aerodromes
in the Davao area, and 26 enemy fighters
and 11 bombers, on the ground, and nine
intercepting fighters were shot down,
apart from extensive ground damage.
Two Allied bombers were lost. Ack-ack
fire was severe.
On Palau objectives 207 tons of bombs
were dropped on August 31 and Sep-
tember 1. One ’plane was shot down.
Tokyo Radio reported that on Sep-
tember 1 warships shelled and aircraft
bombed Chichi (“Father”) Island, and
that aircraft attacked Haha (“Mother”)
and Iwo Islands in the Bonin and Vol-
cano groups.
In Burma
Both on the Chindwin and on the
Irrawaddy railway good progress has
been made. The mixed forces below
Mogaung are working steadily towards
Mandalay. There appear to be two British
divisions involved in this operation—the
36th and the 18th, which is the new ver-
sion of the old 18th captured at Singa-
pore.
The Japanese are resisting stubbornly,
and their real strength or weakness will
not be apparent till the rains are over
in a couple of months’ time.
But it is cold fact that the Allies hold
20,000 square miles of Burma, while this
time last year they held nothing, and that
the North Burma British force and the
British-Indian force on tjhe Chindwin
are only 80 miles apart.
Empire Casualties.
A list of service casualties released at
Canberra gave the total for the Empire to
September 3 as 874,238 —228,296 killed,
77,132 missing, 278,762 wounded, 290,048
p.o.w. British civilian casualties bring
the figure to upwards of a million.
In the last two years 95,000 British
service men have been killed; in five
years, 168,947, with 36,265 missing,
179,225 wounded and 154,960 p.o.w.
The Australian list:
To Sept., To Sept.,
1942. 1944.
Killed .. .. 6,192 16,691
Wounded .. .. 15,700 33,566
Missing . . .. 24,193 6,102
Prisoners .. .. 7,874 26,972
53,959 83,331
Mr. Curtin gave the total as 83,601.
Canada had 15,558 killed, 11,777
wounded and total casualties of 36,134.
India had 130,323 total casualties, in-
cluding 11,189 killed and 26,994
wounded. S. Africa’s total, 25,890, in-
cluded 4160 killed, 25,890 wounded.
In proportion to population little
Maoriland has made the heaviest sacri-
fices —7517 dead, 15,210 wounded, 1140
missing, 7155 prisoners of war; 31,022
in all.
Express to Belgium.
“Ek Dum”: After the capture of Paris
it only remained for the British Second
and Canadian Armies—the latter with
Poles, Belgians and Dutch attached —to
master the lower Seine and break through
in the north to allow a further general
advance.
The British, Canadians and Poles had
borne the brunt of the heavy fighting in
France. As General Eisenhower put it:
Germany made a great mistake irl adopt-
ing a .rigid defence system as soon as they
found they could not throw the Allies back
into the sea. Every foot of ground they
lost at Caen was like losing 10 miles else-
where, and they threw in every panzer
division they had.
Their method of approach to the battle
was not, however, purposeless. Strategi-
cally, the rough mountain country which
the British and Canadians assailed was
the pivot of German defence of the west.
A defeat of British troops under the
command of General Montgomery would
have established moral ascendancy which
the enemy badly wanted. It would have
set American and Dominion newspaper
critics squalling for his dismissal and per-
haps that of Mr. Churchill —in fact, re-
created the shameful atmosphere of
Malaya. It would have started every
Communist baying for somebody to
“send for Timoshenko.”
But the British and Canadians broke
through. They tore and ripped the pride
of the divisions of the German Seventh
Army to pieces, rolling over with them
to the Seine in a death grapple.
There they established bridgeheads—
at Mantes, Vernon, Louviers, Pont d’
l’Arche and Elbeuf—in bitter fighting
which was met with nowhere else in
France. The Americans, in their wide-
spread drives, met only casual pockets
which were prepared to fight, though they
took over 100,000 prisoners, largely work-
ing and communication troops, the great
bulk of whom surrendered with little or
no resistance.
By August 29 the British and Canadians
had fought their way out of their bridge-
heads on the Seine at Mantes, Louviers,
Pont d’ l’Arche and Elbeuf. The
Canadians in especially bitter fighting
had forced the enemy to bid farewell to
the deep Sotteville pocket in the Seine
bend, in which stand the suburbs of
Rouen, on the Norman side of the river,
and were fighting to cross the river be-
tween Rouen and the sea.
At about this stage it was announced
that 32,000 Germans had been killed by
the Allies and between 42,000 and 45,000
taken prisoner, making 92,000 prisoners
in north-western Europe between August
10 and August 25.
The bulk of the killed and wounded
were victims of the British and Canadian
Armies.
Between the British at Mantes and
Paris General Bradley’s troops of the
U.S. First Army cleaned up the Forest
of St. Germain and took the industrial
suburbs of Poissy and Longchamps race-
course and Le Bourget, the main com-
mercial aerodrome of Paris, which was
defended by only 350 Germans without
tanks, who fought until half their num-
ber were killed. Otherwise, there was little
to be done round Paris save some
cleaning up in the Forest of Meudon,
south-west of Sevres, on the western
approaches.
In the city Major-General Schulitz,
who had commanded the Eighty-fourth
Division in the Cherbourg Peninsula, and
11,000 Germans surrendered.
On the south-east side Americans had
taken Meaux and pushed their way to
their old battlefields of La Ferte and
Chateau Thierry, while the Canadians
were on their last stages into Roueq.
Rouen Falls
That day British tanks were romping
over the Seine in hundreds, followed by
tens of thousands of infantrymen in their
private “charabancs.” It must have
looked like the road from Wolverhamp-
ton to Nottingham on the day of a Test
match at Trent Bridge.
Somebody reported that this stage of
the advance was a “picnic.” But the omens
were all in favor of the chances of out-
flanking the flying-bomb sites of northern
France within a few days.
To this hope the enemy communique
of August 30 lent encouragement. It
said:
North-west of Paris the Wehrmacht has,
according to orders, disengaged to new
positions to the north-east and has evacu-
ated Rouen, after the destruction of the
harbor installations and other objectives
of military importance.
On to Belgium
Now the drives towards the Belgian
border and German frontiers began in
earnest.
It was something like the drives in
Russia must have been, though positions
in France were more tightly knit because
of the abundance of roads, and the pro-
ceedings were not enlivened by the pres-
ence of Cossacks with flashing swords,
graphically reported by Moscow corre-
spondents from Wigan or Dublin.
There was virtually no main resistance
on the main routes. Advance into
northern France means advance from
one layer of great cross roads to the next.
Great main roads link these regional
traffic centres on the way to the Belgian
and German borders. From each main
junction a cartwheel of other roads
runs out round the circle. Thus Amiens,
Laon, Cambrai, Rheims, Arras, all form
bottlenecks through which the main
traffic of the adjacent country passes. At
Amiens there are 18 of these roads con-
verging into the town area.
Canadians on the Coast
The lines of advance by the Allied
forces were roughly as follow:
The Canadians, with their associate
troops, took over the Channel coast sector
between the Abbeville-Rouen road and
the sea. The road is a nearly straight high-
way through Neuchatel, about 20 miles
from the shore. The Belgians and some
other forces made for Le Havre. When
last heard of at the week-end they were
meeting with strong opposition, but were
within 2\ miles of the port.
The Canadians themselves had to fight
German rearguards in Rouen. They then
pushed on 60-odd miles to take Dieppe
and hurry along the road to Treport, 14
miles further on. The Canadians had a
tryst to keep at Dieppe, for they had
lost 3350 men out of 5000 there on
August 20, 1942. And the Scotties had
another.
The 51st Division had, it was reported
on August 31, crossed the Seine with the
Canadians and Belgians below Rouen.
In a couple of days they were across
the base of the Le Havre Peninsula on a
cove opposite Beachy Head at St. Valery-
en-Caux. It was to this spot that the
Old 51st of 1940 fought its way the width
of France from the Saar front; there
that the surrender of the remnants of its
brigades plunged Scotland in mourning.
The new 51st virtually began to be
recruited the day the news arrived. It
had fought its way from Alamein for the
pleasure of being in St. Valery-en-Caux.
General Dempsey’s Race
On the Canadian flank the main ad-
vance of General Dempsey’s Second
British Army was developing. Cross road
after cross road fell, river after river. As
guns, tanks and lorries hurled themselves
up the broad, switchback roads of the
open, somewhat dreary north and north-
ern centre of France behind the bridging
parties, there was little to be seen of the
Germans.
There were pillboxes, sometimes in
good order, emplacements, enemy tanks
burnt out by Allied aircraft, villages un-
marked by the blast of war, churches and
cathedrals in which the memorials to
soldiers of the last war were intact; old
battlefields, more unkempt than before
1939, remembered by senior officers.
The British swept over the Amiens
sector —60 miles in 48 hours—across a
broad stretch of the road between Amiens
and Compiegne. They scarcely had time
to read the names strung along this road
and attendant highways and bypaths—
names which were the code words of the
German collapse on Der Schwarze Tag,
August 8, 1918 ; names associated with
great Australian and British deeds—
Villers Bret, Harbonnieres, Mareuil,
Corbie, Albert.
They rolled on to Arras —H.Q. in 1940
—the next main junction, almost touch-
ing the edge of the field of Mont St.
Quentin by Peronne on the anniversary
of the opening day of the great battle of
the last phase of 1918.
In a few more hours they had swept
to Douai, and on to Wahagnies, where
General Gort opened his command post
at the beginning of operations on May
10, 1940, as the German armies struck
their first blows. Thence past the
great city of Lille, in a French enclave
on the Belgian border, rolling over Vimy
Ridge and towards Bethune, Lens, La
Bassee and Armentieres, on a route which
leads into Belgium through districts which
in peace-times weave the coats of mil-
lions of Australian sheep—Roulers, Tour-
coing.
Brussels Falls
The Tommies were heading apparently
straight as an arrow to take Lille, cross
the Scheldt at Tournai and make for
Brussels and their old forward 1940 line
along the Dyle—Wavre to Louvain.
At the week-end it was reported
that they had taken Tournai and Brus-
sels, and were declared to be at Antwerp.
The British began the clearing of the area
along the Channel and the North Sea
coast, which they had outflanked.
This was most important to the com-
munications of all the armies involved. In
it were the flying-bomb sites. From these
up to the night of September 3 there had
not been discharged a single bomb in 52
hours —a record lull since June 15. Mean-
while, the 20-inch guns of Gris Nez and
Calais had been using up their shells
and barrels at a great rate, doing heavy
damage in the devoted towns on and near
the white cliffs, which, the Germans said,
included Dover, Ramsgate, Deal and
Sandgate.
In this area of France are the ports of
Boulogne, Calais and Dunkirk, already
out-flanked. And there were certainly
Germans trying to fight their way out of
the corridor, as they did out of that along
the Black Sea in Russia, holding the flank
wall inland and allowing their defences
to crumble from the far end—in this case
from the area near the coast along the
Somme Estuary. In the coastal zone the
width of the river estuaries and the grow-
ing hilliness of the countryside naturally
helped defence. 3
By September 3, however, Abbeville
was in Canadian hands—its capture in
1940 put the seal on the fall of northern
France; and the intrepid Poles had
found a way across the Somme near the
estuary, after which firm bridgeheads
were established on tha northern side of
the river.
At Abbeville, the Canadians were 50
miles from Boulogne by the main road;
90 miles from Dunkirk across the Pas de
Calais Peninsula. Lille is 45 miles from
Dunkirk.
Operations, particularly air operations,
were being hampered in the north on
September 3 by terrible weather
The American Advances
The general position of the American
armies at the week-end was somewhat as
follows:
General Bradley’s First Army had
pushed through Soissons, Laon and Com-
piegne, controlling a front of about 70
miles, stretching from somewhere on the
British flank towards the Belgian
approaches between Givet, near the end
of the “Little” Maginot Line—the gap
between Cambrai, on the Scheldt, and
Mezieres, on the Meuse, which is divided
down the centre by the Sambre. This
leads to the great road junctions of
Philippeville, Charleroi and Mons, round
which the French Ninth Army went to
pieces and the French First Army cracked
in 1940; and on to the crucial fortress
joint of Namur.
At the week-end, after some heavy
fighting in the wooded approaches to the
border, snearheads were supposed to have
taken Charleroi and Mons. Brussels is
only 35 miles from Charleroi.
Lrerman Radio reported on Monday
morning that Allied tanks had bypassed
Namur from Charleroi and were in Hol-
land, only a few miles from the great
German border post at Aachen (Aix la
Chapelle), 28 miles from Maastricht, be-
yond the Meuse Canal.
The Germans had been farewelling
Brussels all the week. Their radio was
silent. General Eisenhower on September
2 called the Belgian underground forces
to action.
Verdun Falls
General Patton’s Third Army was fan-
ning out over another 130 miles of front,
pushing towards the German border and
Luxembourg from the tip of Belgium,
near Montmedy, and Longwy to the
Toul-Nancy area.
He had begun with two main lines of
advance. The first was through Rheims
and across the flat Champagne through
Chalons, Attila’s battlefield, whence he
went:
(1) Towards Sedan, where he was said
to have entered the gap, which is on the
main road to Liege behind the Meuse and
the Namur defences —it was here that the
Germans broke through to create the
“Rethel Bomb,” a salient which they packed
with armor which exploded all over France
in 1940.
(2) To Montmedy and Longwy, which is
within a few miles of the German border,
just off the Luxembourg border, and on the
main road up the Moselle to Trier and
Coblenz on the Rhine Coblenz was
German H.Q. in the last war.
(3) To Verdun, which is on the main
road to Metz and Strasbourg, where there
is a main crossing to Kehl.
General Patton reached Verdun and
took it with only some desultory oppo-
sition from a few 88’s and the loss of a
few tanks and minor casualties.
Swiss reports declared on September 4
that tanks had reached Perl, the little
border town where the Verdun-Treves
highway up the Moselle Valley crosses the
German border.
“Via Metz” is also the direct route to
the Saar front; to Mannheim, across the
Palatinate; and to Frankfurt-on-Main
and to Karlsruhe and Stuttgart. The
Rhine is the main barrier, apart from
frontal defences.
The second main route taken ,by
General Patton from the Upper Seine
was via Troyes and Vitry to Nanc>
and Toul. This also is a direct route to
Strasbourg and the Rhine, and to Alkireh,
Mulhouse and the Upper Danube. But
the latter is a very hard road.
When last heard from, General Patton
had had 10 tons of maps dropped to him
from aircraft. If the writer’s experience
goes for anything he will need them. He
is entering a tangle of wooded, river-
scored country full of hills, road-bench
and cross roads, which take some sorting
out, even if the Maginot Line has been
dismantled as was officially reported.
It seems that everywhere that the
wooded border country has been reached,
from the Forest of Valenciennes south-
ward, German resistance has stiffened
and fighting has broken out on some
scale. ,
Hence, there was little news from the
U.S. armies after their first headlong


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WARES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN RICHARD BELL late of Sydney—TAKE
NOTICE that EDNA WINIFRED BELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2182 of 1944 on the grounds
that you have been guilty of desertion during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st of October
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. BARKELL & PEACOCK Soli-
citors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN JAMES STEPHENS late of Tuggerah.—
TAKE NOTICE that NELLIE LOUISE ADELINE
STEPHENS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2878
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist November 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from G. S. BILBIE ESQ.
Solicitor for Petitioner 72 Hunter Street Newcastle
or his Agents MESSRS. SHAW MCDONALD & CO.
Solicitors 11c Castlefeagh Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C.
K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
“runaway-train” rush across abandoned
central France. The Germans report
fierce fighting wherever American spear-
heads were on September 3.
Lyons Falls
In the south, General Patch’s forces
had pushed up to Lyons. Tours, Nice,
Narbonne, Beziers, Montpellier and
dozens of other towns had fallen like
ripe plums. Nearly all France west of
Alsace-Lorraine and south of the Channel
coast strip was back in Allied hands.
The southern army had about 45,000
prisoners. One of its spearheads was, on
September 3, 12 miles across the Italian
border from Ventimiglia.
About 250 miles separated General
Patch’s northern spearhead from General
Patton’s nearest forces.
“Not a Rout”
While boo-boo boys and A.B.C. were
letting themselves go (“German rabble
reeling across the border”) London
“Daily Mail” came out with a sober
summary which seemed pretty right:
It is no longer a campaign; it is a pur-
suit. It is not a rout because the Germans
have the retreat under control, but it is
a confession of complete inability to de-
fend the flying-bomb sites.
And that alone is an achievement
which thrilled the Empire.
The German version was given
“authoritatively” over the air. The High
Command, it was asserted, “had refused
to accept the Allied challenge to fight a
decisive battle in France in the present
phase of the war. The German com-
mand is fighting a mobile delaying
action.”
It was scarcely fighting an action at all.
But there was a warning to advocates
of the “fleeing rabble” theory in the fact
that the German retreat was almost as
fast and orderly as the Allied advance,
and that there was no evidence of lack
of transport or failure of communica-
tions. The Germans left behind little of
use north of the Seine.
Not yet to be despised was the enemy
who was holding on to the western ports
of France, of which the Allies when they
had crossed the Belgian border possessed
only Cherbourg, Nantes, Paris, Bordeaux,
Caen, Rouen and St. Malo. Even after
the defenders of St. Malo had been rooted
out a small German force controlled the
entrance to the harbor until this week.
A month after the Americans burst
through Brittany the enemy still held
Brest, St. Nazaire and Lorient, though
their reduction and the recapture of the
Channel Islands were only a matter of
time.
The Allied Command.
“Ek Dum”: It was officially stated
that General Omar Bradley’s elevation to
command of the new Twelfth Army
Group “in no way affected General
Montgomery’s position as overall com-
mander of the Allied ground forces under
General Eisenhower.”
But in the hour of General Mont-
gomery’s triumph a fortnight later, as he
completed the great Seine breakthrough,
General Eisenhower personally assumed
operative command, General Mont-
gomery being given the Twenty-first Army
Group under him and General Bradley
the Twelfth Army Group. Each group-
commander was accorded equal and in-
dependent status.
It seemed a poor climax to so great a
triumph, even allowing that the problems
of the two groups have become divergent
by reason of the varying types of country
in which they will have to fight and the
varying types of defensive obstacle which
they will meet.
General Eisenhower himself said that
those who inferred that General Mont-
gomery had been “demoted” were entirely
wrong. The time had come, when having
broken out from the bridgehead, General
Bradley had taken over the part originally
assigned to him.
General Montgomery is one of the
greatest soldiers of this or any other war.
General Montgomery had been chosen
as ground commander of the British
forces, and General Bradley of the
American forces Because the initial
bridgehead was constricted, General
Montgomery was put into tactical control
of the U.S. forces only until the Allies
reached areas where a general advance
could begin. That break-out had
occurred, and General Bradley was tak-
ing over the role assigned to him in the
original strategic plan.
There has been considerable American
agitation towards the change, as there was
for superseding Lord Louis Mountbatten
some time ago. But the British won’t
worry. Their generals, not excluding
Marlborough and Wellington, are used to
this kind of experience.
The King promoted General Mont-
gomery to be field-marshal.
The military correspondent of the
“Times” remarked that the “new orga-
nisation is not only rendered necessary by
American public opinion, but is also
strictly logical. The only reason it did
not occur earlier was General Mont-
gomery’s exceptional ability both as a
strategist and a tactician.”
Which, it seems, disqualifies him from
continuing in the role in which he used
it with so much success!
The Gothic Line Broken.
“Ek Dum”: September saw General
Alexander winning a glorious victory in
Italy. News of it was overshadowed
by the story of the German retreat in
France. Nevertheless, it was an event
almost comparable with the breakthrough
in the Liri Valley in May, since it brought
very near the liberation of northern Italy
and the establishment of bridgeheads at
the head of the Adriatic.
On August 31 it was announced that
Eighth Army troops had moved across
the Foglia River to attack the Gothic
Line on August 30. It is a mountainous
sector, inland, and the German defences
were strong, but General Leese suddenly
flung a powerful force of British, Cana-
dians and Poles against 20 miles of line
inland from the Adriatic, after a secret,
swift and heavy concentration which
began on August 26.
By the night of September 1 the whole
20-mile front had been broken to a depth
of 20 miles by British, Maoriland, Cana-
dian, S. African, Indian and Polish
troops.
The German front-line defence at
crucial points was strengthened by men
of the First (“Green Devil”) Parachute
Division, whom the Poles were delighted
to meet again—they had mauled them
badly at Cassino.
The results were conclusive. The Ger-
man 71st Infantry Division was nearly
wiped out.
On September 3 Canadians were
marching up the “Legions’ road to
Rimini,” only 10 miles from the historic
town, with the little hill republic of San
Marino on their left flank. They are on
the main eastern railway, about 35 miles
from Ravenna, and are within a few
miles of the absolutely straight road and
railway which shoot across the country
about 100 miles to Modena, via Forli,
Musso’s home town, then to Parma and
Milan. Once on this road there are no
more mountains till the Alps are reached.
At the other end of the line, on the
Ligurian Sea, the enemy abandoned Pisa
to the Fifth Army and began to retire
into their lines around Lucca. What-
ever happens, he is now bound to lose
the Gothic Line and the Etruscan Apen-
nines and retire 90 miles to the Po at
least.
The Eosfern Front.
“Ek Dum”: Finland at the week-end
was in process of getting out of the war,
having given the German divisions notice
to quit. A statement issued by the Fin-
nish Premier seemed to crystallise the
position of Germany as the Axis knows
it:
The military situation has become worse
for Germany. Many of the German forces
no longer believe in victory. Everyone
who has closely followed developments and
the atmosphere in German official circles
has observed that many well-informed
people no longer hope for victory, but are
striving for a political decision.
All the developments among the Axis
satellites may be reckoned as results of
the break-through of General Mont-
gomery’s armies in Normandy. Mont-
gomery’s success made it inevitable that
Paris would fall and that the way would
be open for a long Anglo-American ad-
vance towards Germany, leading to a
decisive struggle on the western front.
Though there have been the usual
claims that hundreds of thousands of
Germans have been killed and captured
during an advance made at the rate of
a couple of miles an hour (more in six
days than the number of killed, wounded
and prisoners accounted for in northern
France from June 6 to August 25, accord-
ing to General Eisenhower’s reckoning),
even Moscow correspondents have been
hard put to it to describe anything that
looked like a battle on the drive to
Rumania from Galatz.
The Gap would be highly defendable.
It could be held for some time against
armor, with 50,000 or 60,000 men. But
no attempt was made to hold it. The
Russian spearheads rolled on to Ploesti
and Bucharest, “at record-breaking
speed,” one correspondent said. In the
“record-breaking” it was represented that
23 German divisions were wiped out in
the 12 days, 210,000 being killed and
208,000 captured by the Russians and
50,000 captured by Rumanians.
King Michael’s break with Germany
could scarcely have been made if there
had been even a couple of well-equipped
German armored divisions in the neigh-
borhood of Bucharest.
Germany Marches Out
The true pointer to the Germans’ plans
was their abandonment not of Ploesti, but <
of the great port of Constanza, which
they never would have let go so easily
if they had intended to fight in the
eastern Balkans. Its sacrifice made it in-
evitable that within a few days the Rus-
sians would be down on the Bulgarian
border within seven or eight miles of
Varna, within 150 miles by crow-fly of
the Bosphorus, and less than' 100 miles
of the Instanbul-Sofia railway. The Rus-
sians made the 80-mile drive to the Bul-
garian border almost without opposition.
It seemed likely, so soon as this hap-
pened, Bulgaria must come out of the
Axis camp ; and since Germany allowed
Bulgaria to be threatened in this way
almost without a struggle worth the
name, it meant that German forces had
retired behind the Transylvanian Alps,
which are part of the Carpathian system.
These ranges run generally westward,
with a slight trend southward, for nearly
200 miles from Ploesti, until they reach
the Danube at the Iron Gates on the
Temisoara railway As the Russians
neared them in the south German resist-
ance stiffened.
The Carpathian mountain system from
the Orsova Gap below Cracow, right
round to Turnu Severin, on the Danube,
flings a fortress wall round Transylvania
and Inner Rumania and round Hungary.
The mountains of the Transylvanian
system on the Black Sea side are particu-
larly high and rugged, with difficult passes
between peaks up to ovfer 8000 feet.
Buda is only a few miles from the
Slovak border. So that if Transylvania
and Hungary were overrun it was fairly
certain that Slovakia at least would go
as well.
Reports from inside suggested that this
would happen. The Free Hungarian
Radio said on August 27 that there were
only 4000 Germans left in Hungary.
President Szgolay, who had formed a
new Ministry at the time of Rumania’s
defection from the Axis, dropped dead
after a new Ministry had been formed.
Whether he had any metal in or about
him when he dropped was not stated.
Slovakia, too, seemed to have been
stripped of Germans, since it was
announced that its Tisza Government
wished for an armistice, while Moscow
and “Czech Army H.Q.” stated that
Czech parachutists were already in con-
trol of the country in association with
local patriots.
Balkan War’s End
At the week-end, while Bulgarian dele-
gations were in Moscow and in Cairo, the
Bagrianov Government fell.
It was reported from Moscow that
Stalin was displeased with the Bulgarians,
who were supposed still to be giving port
and transit facilities to the Germans and
“fighting Stalin’s good friend Tito.”
This last was news. There had never
been any sign of Tito fighting Bulgarians.
A flow of the Allies into Bulgaria
would mean that the Balkan war would
be over. This would add greatly to the
perils of Germany while not leaving it
without a defendable frontier.
German Front Holding
There is no sign of a crack on the
German front in the east as yet (though
tht Russians are said to be massing for
an all-out offensive); only of retreat
in ,he southern sectors. After three
months’ fighting in the northern part
of the Baltic, where there was said
in June to be nothing left for the panic-
stricken enemy except flight, and where
the German 16th and 18th armies were
allegedly trapped, the Russians have not
so far been able to take the two great
railway junctions of the Valk and Jel-
gava. Valk was on their direct route to
Riga. To capture it at a time when they
were supposed to be in process of slaugh-
tering and capturing 500,000 Germans in
a month on adjacent fronts they merely
had to drive about 80 miles from their
original positions in Russia, and the whole
Baltic States German defences from
Narva to the Prussian border must have
gone to pieces, with main communications
strangled.
Actually, the Russians have so far been
unable to close the 15-mile gap along
the coast from Riga to East Prussia. A
matter of vital importance to the enemy
and to themselves.
They have been unable to break across
the E. Prussian border on the east or get
within artillery range of it in the south-
east or the vital south.
Their fourth attempt to pierce the In-
sterburg Gap failed, and the Warsaw
position shows that either the Germans
are very strong there or that the Rus-
sians have not been putting forth the
strength at their disposal.
The Battle for Warsaw
In the first week of August Russian
reports about the advance into Warsaw
suburbs were such that one of the greatest
American “news” magazines (August 7)
took a plunge on what it took to be in-
evitable in a few hours by the time its
issue was on sale. It told how “columns
flying the hammer and sickle drove into
Warsaw, the first Allied capital to fall
and the first to hear the artillery of a
liberating army.”
Warsaw has not fallen yet. The Rus-
sians on August 31 reported the capture
of a town 10 miles north-east of it. And
the fact that the ill-armed Poles are still
holding out, though very hard pressed,
does not suggest that the Germans are
over strong in the city, unless they are not
trying to wipe out the Poles, knowing
that their continued existence is breeding
differences among the Allies.
The position there certainly is peculiar.
The R.A.F. has been supplying the Polish
patriots inside the capital. The Russians,
though they have received millions of
tons of supplies from the British and
Americans, are within gunfire of the
gallant, isolated little band on the other
side of the Vistula, but no pleadings by
the British-American allies will induce
the Russians to help or co-operate with
General Bor.
With the generosity they have shown
throughout the war, the British have been
making the long journey from Britain
with heavy Lancaster squadrons, Austra-
lian squadrons included, to bomb
Konigsberg within 85 miles of the Rus-
sian Insterburg front and help the Rus-
sians in their battle. These supreme
efforts, together with the supplying of the
gallant fighters in Warsaw, have been
costly in men and machines.
On one raid last week the R.A.F. lost
41 out of 100 aircraft —which means 280
highly-trained men, and the law of aver-
ages cannot have been working if Aus-
tralians were not among them.
But Moscow’s attitude is uncompromis-
ing. It will not recognise General Bor’s
Polish fighters in Warsaw. It has even
hinted that they will be tried by the
puppet Polish Government when Warsaw
is taken. It refuses to allow the R.A.F.
machines taking supplies to General Bor
to land on Russian soil. They have to
carry extra petrol, thus taking lighter
loads of supplies, flying more slowly and
dangerously, and braving the double
journey through the flak instead of being
able to rest before flying back to base.
Moscow’s surly attitude must be cost-
ing R.A.F. as well as Polish lives. Ex-
tended to the U.S.A., whose shuttle-
bombers returning to Italy from Russia
have been refused facilities for dropping
supplies in Warsaw, it is apt to cost Mos-
cow the goodwill of the democratic world,
which rushed so eagerly to its aid when
Hitler attacked, forgetting all Moscow’s
hostilities of the past. Reaction in the
U.S.A. is widespread and outspoken, as
it has been in Britain.


Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
will be sufficient to keep your hair smart and healthy. And remember.
o
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
Don’t spend. Lend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
Free
CON C O
from A 1 k a
RD HARDWALL
or Lime
PLASTER
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and othor wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags,
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
ss
if
e*.
m
p&f
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDNEY. . MELBOURNE... BRISBANE. ..ADELAIDE. ..PERTH
Pl 4-44
HIS
Lset
PO
7.
V\'\' V
/V7>['\'\W'K\
MAKES THE SHINE
AND THE SHOES
LAST LONGER
THERE'S greater PERMANENCE in Nugget's brilliant shine greater
PROTECTION in its extra "body” . . . Nugget penetrates deeper into
the leather—keeps it extra supple stops "erows-feet" cracks. You
need less per shine, so every tin lasts longer. You save in every way
by using Nugget Shoe Polish.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Red Cross meeting at Randwick
was a pronounced success. There was
an attendance of 50,000, inclusive of
servicemen, and a tote turnover of
£152,491. It was a good day for backers,
the winners including three first and two
second favorites. Mrs. J. C. Bancks (Shin-
ing Night) presented the Spring Handicap
first money, £BO5, to the fund.
Racing was excellent throughout, and
a better finish than that between Flight
(Thompson) and Katanga for the War-
wick Stakes would have been impossible.
High Flight was first into the straight
from Flight, Tribal and Katanga. Flight
led commencing the final furlong, but
when Katanga then drew level with her
his success seemed certain. However, not-
withstanding that Katanga attempted to
savage her, Flight raised a final effort
and just won. It was a fine effort on
Flight’s part, but in giving the State’s
best mare 81b. and running her to a short
head, eight-year-old Katanga put up a
great performance. Tribal shaped well,
never being further back than third, and
at one part was squeezed between Flight
and Katanga in the straight.
Majesty, attended by Vermeil, made the
running in the Hobartville Stakes, but
from the leger Shannon (Munro) did not
leave the result in doubt, though Cold
Shower and Removal in the minor places
shaped well, the last-named finishing
strongly. Vermeil could not see it out,
nor could Bravo; Tea Rose never ran
worse, and neither Miss Sovereign nor
Victory Lad ever got in it. Melhero did
sufficiently well to make him worth keep-
ing in mind for a handicap, and Cold
Shower (Talking’s half-brother) is likely
to continue improving.
Versailles (Thompson) justified his
favoritism for the Campbelltown Handi-
cap. With Martheus and Triad, he led
into the straight, and over the last fur-
long was always a winner, though the way
Winnipeg closed on him just at the end
was not reassuring to his Epsom backers.
Fermanagh’s third, after meeting with
interference, said a lot for his chance of
winning a welter if he keeps sound, while
Magi did well to get fourth after being
last to the home turn. John Halifax and
D.S.O. ran fairly without being really
dangerous. Nothing was more disappoint-
ing that Mayfowl, and while Warlock’s
form was also a lot below expectations,
Kiaree was among the tail-enders practi-
cally throughout.
Shining Night’s finishing run in the
Spring Handicap was too much for
Boomanulla, who looked a winner when
leading half a furlong from home. He
lost ground through shifting out, but
the honors were entirely with the winner.
Mustang is likely to improve, as may
Craigie, but Orderly ran as if he tem-
porarily had had enough. Five furlongs
from home Bright Spot led by five
lengths, but tired into fifth place. Bartle
was on the winner.
After taking charge nearly a furlong
from home in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap Swan River (Johnson) ran away
from the remainder of the field, and it
was regrettable that he pulled up so lame
that he will have to miss the Canterbury
Guineas, and his preparation for the
Derby may be difficult. Silver Link in
second place made a promising showing
and is sure to win races for Payten’s
stable. Wheatland, a good third, was lame
after the race. No excuse was possible
for the failure of Good Idea and Acces-
sion, neither getting a place after being
well placed from the start. Perhaps
they were a little too forward. Beau
Monde is not so good as was thought
earlier in his career, and Flying Step was
a long way back throughout. Of the
unfancied runners Sylvan Brook (by Mid-
stream) and Right Royal (by Le Grand
Due) were seen to advantage.
Gauntlet (Thompson), a good welter
miler at his best, returned to form in the
Glenlee Handicap, in which he led early,
then dropped back to fourth, was second
to Haripur into the straight, and after
taking charge at the leger squeezed home
by a neck from Van Eyck, with the
strongly finishing Merrimba a close third.
Kimbell, Nightbeam and Falcon Knight
were close to the place-getters, and the
last-mentioned two are worth following.
His steadier of 10.12, in conjunction with
a bad run, completely disposed of Main
Topic. Some of the beaten division ran
so much below their best that reversal
of form within the next two or three
weeks is not improbable.
* * * *
Owner A. H. Griffiths was credited with
winning over £BOOO when Lawrence (9st.)
beat Amana (9.4) in the Memsie Stakes
at Caulfield on Saturday. It was a great
finish, there being only a half-head in it.
At one stage in the straight Lawrence
looked like winning comfortably, but
Amana hung on so gamely that Lawrence
was all out to beat him. About the best
price laid against Lawrence was 6 to 4,
and though he started at even money a
shade of odds was laid on him for some
large sums. Amana, who was disappoint-
ing in the autumn, is evidently back to
his best, and that means he is going to
play a prominent part in the Caulfield
Cup.
At Caulfield on Saturday the Brueghel
colt Silver Rocks attracted further atten-
tion to his Derby and two Cups’ prospects
by winning the first division of the War-
riston Handicap, for which he started at
6to 4 on. He gave his backers some
anxious moments when he was a long
way back halfway through the race, but
eventually scored comfortably. He has
6.7 in the Caulfield Cup and 6.10 in the
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Several horses strengthened their spring
prospects at Randwick on Saturday;
others were much below expectations. Of
the Derby colts Shannon and Swan River
impressed most, though unfortunately the
latter was lame after his race. Good
Idea and Vermeil were disappointing as
stayers, as was Tea Rose, and of those
Shannon beat Removal may be his most
troublesome opponent over a distance.
Flying Step scarcely reads like a danger,
but Cold Shower is an improver. Majesty
seemingly has no staying pretensions.
Versailles’ Camp bell town Handicap
win could have been more impressive, but
it must not be overlooked that it was his
first run since April. He has not de-
veloped to any marked extent, but
there is no doubt as to his pace. May-
fowl was a complete failure in the Camp-
belltown Handicap, and, as at the close
of autumn racing, staying and not sprint-
ing is likely to again be his forte. Kiaree
and Warlock look well, but will need to
improve on Saturday’s form to be Epsom
dangers. Castle Frontenac’s fourth in the
Warwick Stakes, with an allowance of
only 71b, was surprisingly good form.
Tribal still counts. He was meeting
Flight on level terms in the Warwick
Stakes, against the 121 b. the handicapper
put between them in the Epsom. Main
Topic’s showing in the Glenlee Handicap
with nearly list, was excusable. lie was
hampered in running, but it will not im-
prove his Epsom chance if he does further
racing under such a big weight. Shining
Night cannot be improved to any extent,
but if he retains his present condition his
Metropolitan chance with 111 b. less than
he carried last week is undeniable.
Boomanulla will be meeting him 81b.
worse, which seems to dispose of Booma-
nulla, and the latter’s stable companion,
Cumberoona, neither commenced smartly
nor finished well in the Glenlee Handi-
cap. As compared with Shining Night,
Mustang will be 61b. worse off in the
Metropolitan than last week, so figures
are against him, the only thing in his
favor being that he is the younger horse.
Modulation could not have looked much
brighter than last week, but his Campbell-
town Handicap run did not say much
for his Epsom chance.
* * * *
The Sydney Turf Club has decided
upon Rosehill and Canterbury as the
courses upon which it will start opera-
tions next year, but as it will be unable
to do much in the way of improvements
the public will not benefit by the change-
over from present control. Nor, for
that matter, can owners and trainers
expect too much in the way of increased
prize-money for some time. The club’s
initial expenses are likely to be heavy
and may stand in the way. Until the club
gets its own racecourse, with all the latest
in the way of world improvements it
will be difficult for it to better the present
position in any way.
* * *
“Sturt”: S.A. Grand National Hurdle
(Walcott) and Steeple (Commodio) have
both been won by sons of King Ingoda.
a Melbourne Cup winner. Both were
ridden by A. Wilson, who is having a
wonderful run. There have been only four
race meetings in Adelaide since the new
season opened, with seven jumping events.
Wilson rode in six of these and won
at them all.
* * * *
As owner and trainer were exonerated
by the A.J.C. committee from all blame
in connection with the running of Pan-
chio in the Flying Handicap at Randwick,
and left the disqualification on jockey
Hughes, presumably the club will go as
far as possible in locating the man who
caused the latter to depart from the
straight and narrow path. Jockeys do
not pull horses for the fun of the thing.
On the other hand, if the committee be-
lieved it was all the horse’s fault it should,
as a danger to jockeys’ reputations, be
barred from future racing.
Miscellaneous
Returned soldiers figured in main bouts
in Sydney last week. One Bobby Clarke,
son-in-law of old-time champion Tommy
Uren, defeated Tommy Colteaux, who
claims the middleweight championship, at
Leichhardt. Much lighter, but faster,
Clarke surprised by flooring the cham-
pion with a left hook in the fourth. At
“corners” Colteaux grimaced and shook
his right hand, as if it were very painful,
but he kept going until the eighth ended;
then he turned it up.
ln his first fight at Sydney Stadium
Tommy Burns, baptised Geoffrey Murphy,
demonstrated the superiority of Bris-
bane to Sydney form, Patrick excepted.
Burns’s opponent was Ron Heron, who in
June was knocked out in a couple of
rounds by Corteen, a Queensland welter,
who is not in Tommy’s class. Heron
tried to make the fight, but in the third
he was rocked by a right uppercut. Scent-
ing victory, Bums rushed out for the
fourth with a left hook that made Heron
sit down. Instead of retiring to a neutral
corner, Bums shattered precedent by
lifting up Heron before a count could
be commenced. Heron’s wits were still
wandering, and Burns found his chin
with a snappy right that knocked him
across the bottom rope, out for more
than 10 seconds. Burns is a fighter of
real class.
* * *
Whatever happens to Footscray in the
V.F.L. finals the team will be remem-
bered this year for the willing games it
has provided. Beaten two points by
Richmond, ’Scray had to defeat Carlton
to stay in “the four,” and did—by
one point. It was Carlton 8.4-6.9 at
half-time ; Footscray 10.11-10.9 at three-
quarter-time, and Footscray 12.17-13.10 at
the bell. Other disturbances: Essendon
17.24-6.8 v. South Melbourne, North Mel-
bourne 16.15-12.10 v. St. Kilda, Fitzroy
15.15-10.10 y. Geelong, Richmond 15.18-
10.8 v. Collingwood, Melbourne 14.27-
6.13 v. Hawthorn. So Richmond, Fitzroy,
Essendon, Footscray are “the four”; the
first semi-final will be played at St. Kilda
next Saturday.
In the Rugby Union semi-finals deter-
mined tackling by University’s inside
blacks jolted the Randwick fliers into
errors, Uni. having a 16-3 lead at half-
time. The ’Wicks rallied, and scored
three tries in the second spasm, but poor
goal-kicking left Uni. victors 16.14
Down 5-3 within ten minutes of the final
bell, East came with an irresistible rush
to score two tries and rout the bewildered
Westerners 16-5. East will now oppose
Randwick in the final, the winners to
meet Uni. in the “grand” final.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap: Insol-
vent, 1 ; Prince Galahad, 2;
Laudus, 3.
Flying Handicap: Winnipeg, 1;
Magi, 2 ; Hauteur, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: Flight, 1;
Katanga, 2 ; Cragsman, 3.
Canterbury Guineas: Shannon,
1 ; Removal, 2; Melhero or Liber-
ality, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Nita Lin-
ette, 1 ; Craigie, 2 ; Beau Timide, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Nightbeam,
1 ; Bon Terre, 2 ; Cockrow, 3.


Women's letters
From Sydney
On Sunday the sky burned bright blue
over Sydney, the spring flowers in the
gardens lifted exultant faces, in the
churches men and women and children
prayed, thanking God that peace with all
her blessings seemed to be drawing near
again to a world tortured for five long
years. The very air seemed to throb a
Te Deum. Nor in its thankfulness did
the city forget those whose bravery
and self-sacrifice have brought hap-
piness within man’s reach again. For
peace is what the Allied soldiers the
world over fight for. As the soldier in
Eric Linklater’s play, “Crisis in Heaven,”
says to Irene, the Goddess of Peace: “I
loved the very thought of you like a
schoolboy thinks of holidays. And my
mates who’ve died in every country of
the earth, they wanted you like a homing
pigeon wants its own loft.”
September is a pleasant month, and
Saturday was a blue feather in her cap. It
was just the right sort of atmosphere for
the Red Cross meeting at Randwick, and
just the temperature to lure spring hat
and frock into the open. Randwick
sparkled. Lord and Lady Wakehurst
went to the races, but, as State president
of the Red Cross, there was no seasonal
frippery for her. She was trim in khaki
uniform.
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks, owner of Shining
Night, winner of the Spring Handicap,
sported a snood in the hair. It was
yellow, in contrast to her pale-blue suit.
French daisies bloomed on Mrs. Keith
Martin’s hat, and on the lapel of her
green suit. Berry-red was the suit worn
by Mrs. G. A. Christmas. Blue seemed
the predominating shade, but Eve Play-
fair was tailored in crayon pink. Black
were Mrs. Alan Potter’s frock and hat,
black was Mrs. Dundas Allen’s color
scheme.
Marjorie Lawrence sitting in a big
window of the Australia, her blue eyes
glinting and her hair red-gold in the
September sun, was not unlike Keltis,
whom she had portrayed in “Vercinge-
torise.” In fact, Marjorie created the part
oi the young Irish goddess who arose
from the seas about Brittany’s rocky
shores ; so it is not strange that the singer,
steeped in the lore and the tradition of
northern France should have followed
every step of the invasion with an in-
terest at once intellectual and emotional.
Only an artist could describe as she does
the ceremony of blessing the fishing fleet
as the eager small ships set out for Ice-
land.
The Australian singer was trained in
France, where even up to the days just
previous to the war conversation was re-
garded as one of the great arts, and
Marjorie, with her Irish grandmother,
was naturally an apt pupil. In Paris
(her work being so much with the Paris
opera) she made her home in between
journeys to America to sing opera at
the Metropolitan. She had her own
little house on the hill, near Sacre
Coeur. Here she was surrounded by
neighbors who were painters, writers,
singers—the atmosphere that only Paris
still retained in 1939.
An S.O.S. comes from the Friends of
France Club, Endeavor House, Mac-
quarie-place, for handkerchiefs, man-
size. These need not be brand new—in
view of the coupon situation the club
wouldn’t ask for such. But almost any
man can spare one or two out of his
usable stock. These, with other com-
forts, will be sent off to a battalion of
French Marines. Seventy of these
men are badly wounded, and the cluo s
members intend to make up a special
parcel for each of them in addition to
big parcels for the use of all. Donations
can be sent to Mrs. Ivy Moore, Les Amis
de la France Club, Endeavor House.
Clouds of guests fluttered between St.
Mary’s Cathedral and the Hotel Aus-
tralia last Thursday afternoon, when slim
Pat Murray of the red-gold hair was
married to Lieut. Edwin Hamilton,
U.S.N.R. Pat’s frock was of ivory satin,
and her hair, caught by a knot of white
camellias, gleamed through a mesh of
tulle veil. Her three ’maids wore ground-
length frocks of white georgette, and coy
little hats made of blue hyacinths, arti-
ficial sisters to the garden-grown ones
they carried. Pat’s parents are the T. G.
Murrays, of Gladswood Gardens. The
’groom’s father and mother are the J. D.
Hamiltons, of Tacoma, Washington,
U.S.A.
Enith Clarke, following up her suc-
cessful piano recitals in Melbourne, gave
a comprehensive programme at the Con.
last Thursday night. Among the Bach and
Brahms and other items she paid Australia
the compliment of placing one of Roy
Agnew’s works. Enith and concert man-
ager Barbara Bennett had a grand time
down south. Many parties of varying
dimensions were given for them, and Mrs.
Bennett was at the passing-out ceremony
of the navy cadets, among whom was
stripling son John. Next week the pianist
(Mrs. Alexander Sverjensky) and Mrs.
Bennett take train for Brisbane, where
Enith will give more concerts.
So far there is no quota-sold sign for
engagement rings in this country. Eliza-
beth Stephens, an attractive Vaucluse girl,
is one of the well-knowns lately affianced.
She is a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. F.
G. N. Stephens, and she is engaged to
Captain Maurice Johnson, A.A.M.C., a
Queenslander. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Marjorie Lawrence in a black taffeta
frock with wide gold horizontal stripes,
the tiny nest of crisp black chiffon on
her head housing two red roses instead of
the pair of love birds that might have
been expected, sparkled at her Town Hall
reception. This was a four-thirtyish
onwards affair, and here and there
brought out the ankle-length frock and
the dashing hat of pre-war late afternoon.
Mayor Bartley and his wife are a friendly
host and hostess, and the party was a
success from the greeting to the parting
handshake.
The rooms were buzzing with concert-
goers—Mrs. Bertie Kelly (still marvelling
at the results of St. Vincent’s fair), the
Harry Twigdens, Gertrude Concannon,
Mrs. John Metcalfe, Mrs. Hope Gibson,
the Charles Moses couple and E. J. Tait
among them. Premier McKell came to
greet Marjorie. So did artist Dobell, and
got a commission out of it. The singer
wants a gum-tree or a corner of Aus-
tralian landscape to take away with her.
During his speech of welcome the Mayor
read a letter from the Mayor of Pasa-
dena thanking Sydney for its hospitality
to American boys and eulogising the
Australian soldier in America. The
singer’s husband, Dr. King, made a
pleasant speech of thanks, and all went as
blithe as the golden poppies massed on
the mantel.
Claire Simpson’s farewell concert in
the Conservatorium was a great success
both from point of view of the audience
(considering it had been rushed up in
about a week) and of the playing of this
gifted violinist. Bach and Cesar Franck
were the night’s composers. There was
a small string orchestra conducted by
Thomas Matthews, and Richard Farrell’s
piano-playing was another enrichment of
a night that must have been a very pride-
ful one for Claire’s mother and sisters,
who were in the audience.
There was a suggestion of a Burne-
Jones decoration about Claire’s black
velvet frock with its long bodice, sweep-
ing skirt and silver girdle.
The Alexander Gordon lady voiced a
stirring appeal for a fund to make the
young musician’s horizon untroubled by
thoughts of finance during her stay at the
Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. Before
the two leave for America, Claire and
younger Adelaide pianist Allison Nelson
will play together on a Fox Movietone
newsreel. It is hoped this will arrive in
U.S. ahead of the two scholarship holders
themselves.
It looks as though one Australian play-
wright in our times is going to scoop in
a few royalties. Max Afford, whose two
plays “Mischief In the Air” and “Lady
In Danger” have had successful five-week
runs (that’s the time limit) at the five-
thirty session of the Royal, is about to
have the pleasure of seeing his two thril-
lers on the road. J. C. Williamson is
sending the two on tour throughout Aus-
tralia. That is good news for this coun-
try’s writers. Max, as far as is known, is
the first Australian in over 20 years to
have this happen to his plays.
From Melbourne
Marjorie Lawrence’s last concert in Mel-
bourne was a veritable triumph, not only
for her, but for her accompanist and asso-
ciate musician, Raymond Lambert. For
this soncert the singer chose a chalk-white
slipper satin gown. A wide panel graduat-
ing in width from the waist to hemline
was formed of rhinestones, and the bril-
liant note was repeated on the neckline
of the tight-fitting bodice with its plain,
short sleeves. In a laughing speech, and
in answer to many requests, Marjorie Law-
rence introduced her husband, Dr. Thomas
King, to the vast audience. She also paid a
tribute to Raymond Lambert, linking him
with the most accomplished accompanists
she has had in Europe and America.
Born in Belgium, Raymond began his
musical studies at the age of seven. At
15 he graduated from the Brussels Con-
servatoire and in 1926 he and his father
came to Melbourne. In 1930 Raymond
went to Belgium to fulfil his military ser-
vice, and later gave recitals in Brussels.
He then returned to Melbourne. His
marriage on his return to Jill Ryan,
daughter of a former Premier of Queens-
land, pictured here by Athol Shmith, was
one of the weddings of the season. Jill,
one of the prettiest girls in this city, must
be one of the very few brides who have
walked alone to the altar. However, her
mother was on hand to give her over into
Raymond’s care. Now three sturdy child-
ren make merry in the home of the Ray-
mond Lamberts. John, the eldest, is
already showing musical promise. Gil-
lian, the only girl, is followed by the baby
boy of three.
Long before the doors of the Town
Hall had opened on the Fun Fair a crowd
of women had gathered, lured by the pro-
mise of coupon-free goods. When finally
admittance had been gained, a surge up-
wards and onwards brought these women
to their main objective—hats. They swept
down upon the stall and then the reason
for the bazaar’s name became apparent.
All day business was lively as, six deep,
women sought for and tried on hats,
sometimes becoming but, alas, too often
not their type. Mrs. Simon Fraser and
Mrs. “Mickey” Paxton were among the
obliging saleswomen who toiled valiantly
all through the day at this stall, ably sup-
ported by Henri Cabouret, who, inciden-
tally, had worked diligently for some
weeks smartening up four hundred nut-
covers that had been given for the good
cause.
At the end of the day, when the takings
were counted, the hats had netted a clear
£470. Marjorie Lawrence gave one of
her own hats, an original Lilly Dache
model, which at Dutch auction realised
almost £6O. Well into the evening Tivoli
performers gave their services. Walter
Lindrum made many pounds for the fund
as he demonstrated his prowess at the bil-
liard table, and the fun was hilarious
when Edwin Styles challenged the cham-
pion to a game. •
At night a dinner-dance was held in
the Lower Town Hall, and to it came
many well-known local lasses and their
escorts, the latter mostly in uniform.
Among them was Jean Wallace Mitchell,
out of her uniform as assistant-section
officer in the W.A.A.A.F. for the occasion.
Jill Dawson and Sylvia Green were
among the dancers, both in black, made
decorative with orchids. Sylvia has been
managing an Air Force canteen for many
months in a voluntary capacity, and has
been instrumental in raising a great deal
of money to carry on this service to Air
Force lads. Valerie Purves, another lass
always ready to help a good cause, wore
a stunning wine-red velvet frock.
With £4OOO in the “kitty,” the result
of the day’s work, Commandant Mabel
Brookes and Mrs. Eric Harrison wore
beaming smiles as they congratulated
each other and their many willing
workers. Two thousand pounds will go
to the R.A.A.F. Welfare Fund to provide
comforts for Air Force lads in forward
areas and also in helping their depen-
dants at home. The balance will go to
the Women’s Air Training Corps, most ol
it to be spent in providing a hostel for
the girls. If there is any over it
will form the nucleus of a fund to be
used later for girls as they leave the
W.A.A.A.F. to return to (jivil life.
Balletomaines are regretfully saying
good-bye to the co. which has entertained
them so well during the last five weeks.
Although proud of this ballet, composed
of young Australians, their fans have
been as ready to criticise as to praise,
though on the whole they are well satis-
fied. On the first night of the final week
Dorothy Stevenson scored a triumph in
“Giselle.” Perfect miming and artistry
of movement on her part and able sup-
port from the corps de ballet made this
ballet a memorable one. “Spectre of the
Rose” left much to be desired. The stage
decor was poor, and Martin Rubinstein
much too athletic for a spectre, although
his partner, Laurel Martyn, as the young
girl, was well in the picture.
Sitting among the enthusiasts were
Desmond Connor and his wife Joy.
Mrs. W. Thwaites, complete with gar-
denia, was receiving congratulations
on her 35th wedding anniversary. Edna
Taylor was celebrating the 12th year of
marriage and looking very young to be
the mother of Judith and Elizabeth.
The flowers that bloom in the spring
have made their appearance not only in
the gardens but in the shop windows,
which rival the gardens with their color-
ful display. Gayest of all are the bits
of nonsense women will wear as hats
this coming season. A piece of lacey
straw with a few wheat ears and vivid
poppies set about the brim, a handful
of bright-hued flowers and a wisp of
veil, a ribbon tied round the head and a
colored snood, and, presto! a hat. Clever
hands can fashion such affairs and also
create a name for individuality, but better
still, three coupons may be saved for
more important items. An individual-
ist seen recently wore a suit inspired by
the Scottish kilt. A tight-fitting grey
tweed jacket was worn over a pleated
skirt, a large silver safety pin decorating
the side of the skirt.
Mrs. Kay Oliver, First - Officer
W.R.N.S., who has married Commander
David Turquand Young, R.N.V.R., in
London, is well known in Melbourne. A
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. E. Jones, of
South Yarra, she made many appearances
on the stage in Australia and M.L., and
was for a time with the Vanbrugh-
Boucicault Co. Later in London she had
further success. As a guest of Lady
Hatfield Mrs. Oliver met Elizabeth Arden,
beauty specialist, who induced her to leave
the stage and enter the business. Mrs.
Oliver conducted a salon in Brussels,
where Queen Astrid was among her
clients, and later represented the Arden
business in Holland and Spain. Return-
ing to Australia she conducted Arden
beauty parlors in Sydney and Melbourne.
Colonel Kathleen A. L. Best has
assumed her new appointment with a
most imposing title. She has become
Assistant Director of the Re-establish-
ment Division in the Ministry of Post-
war Reconstruction. Only 34, Col. Best
has had wide experience in the nursing
profession. She was born in Yass (N.S.W.),
and her training was done at the
Western Suburbs Hospital, Sydney. Later
she went to the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital for a midwifery course, and then
joined the staff of the Rachel Forster
Hospital. In 1940 she enlisted in the Aus-
tralian Army Nursing Service. For her
courage and leadership in the evacuation
of Greece she was awarded the Royal
Red Cross —it has been claimed that she
was the first Australian to win this deco-
ration in the war.
When Col. Best returned to Australia
in 1942 she transferred from her unit to
become Controller of the Australian
Army Medical Women’s Service. She
says “the discipline and training women
have received in the services is going to
make them better citizens in the post-
war world. Service life is wonderful for
women, in that it makes them and keeps
them healthy and also teaches them the
art of co-operation. These are two fac-
tors which will help women when they
return to civil life.” Excited at the
thought of getting out of uniform after
four and a half years, Col. Best is busy
ordering hats and suits, and is still more
excited at the thought of wearing silk
stockings after army issue.. She will be
stationed at Canberra.


Public Notices.
I, ESSA MICHAEL CHAHOUD, of Syrian nationality,
born at Bourj-Safita and resident six years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at St. Michael’s Church, Welling-
ton Street, Waterloo, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1980.
BRANDAMR-S
fvt
r,**
ft
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BEAHDAWBK A OO- BIKMIKGHAM. ENG
Made by
FORD SHERINQTON
(fiH
l
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
For
Your Dog
BANCO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
BEATRICE
GRIMSHAW
NEW WRITERS
TAKE THE SHORT-CUT TO SUCCESS!
Successful writing is largely a matter of
technique, a trained imagination and a
thorough understanding of market re-
quirements. These can be acquired in a
few short months of fascinating tuition
by experts.
STUDY AT HOME
These celebrated authors, who have
become household names in Australia
and overseas, have pooled their accu-
mulated knowledge and experience in
a practical and highly specialised Home
Study Course. Never has such an up-
to-date and authoritative Course been
offered to ambitious people. Send the
coupon, with 63-d. postage, for a free
illustrated Prospectus supplying full
details. This is your opportunity.
SEND THIS COUPON
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM,
SO Swanston Street, Melbourne.
I enclose 6Jd. postage. Please forward your illustrated Prospectus
without cost or obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
D.O.
STATE
TODAY!
■
lan
jaggg
mmmm
MYRA MORRIS
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM,
80 SWANSTON STREET MELBOURNE
i
V
m
">Mli ■,
crusa
CLOTH
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SMOKE-OH!
TVA ' *
“Some people seem to think that the pace
can still be fast and furious, even after they
are married.” — “Woman.”
Usually when the wife is fast the hus-
band is furious.
*l* ,
The customer who once was always
right is now frequently left.
•F * ,*F. . , , ~
When it comes to claiming a husband s
screw some wives are as hard as nails.
*F * *F *F ...
“It was hard to believe that this dapper
dancer, dressed immaculately, was the pros-
pector she had seen working in the gully.”
— Woman’s paper.
The root of the change was “S.”
First, as a toiling man,
All pick and pan he looked to Bess —
Now he was spick and span.
P. P.
•I* *f*
Barter.
“Bobby-pins and cosmetics are mote impor-
tant than whisky, U.S. War Production Board
has decided.” —“Sunday Telegraph
If this War Production Board can toss
off casual decisions on vital matters like
that, I’ve got a few questions of my own
I’d like it to settle.
For instance, as the result of a small
favor I was able to do him in the cigar-
ette line, my publican has promised
me the choice of a dozen of beer or a
bottle of whisky some time in October.
I can swap the whisky for five gallons of
petrol. I have no car, but the bloke next
door will let me have a dozen films for
the petrol. They don’t fit my camera, but
a friend of my brother-in-law will give me a
dozen tins of sardines for them ; and the
owner of the secondhand shop, who used
to eat nothing else, is keeping a set of
crystal goblets for just such an emer-
gency. If I pass these over to the deli-
catessen proprietor round the corner I
am on a month’s supply of eggs, half a
dozen a week.
On the other hand, I can swap the beer
for a whole ham, for which our suburb’s
draper will give me a dozen pre-war
serviettes, and I can do a deal in serviettes
with the owner of a part-worn genuine
6-X-8 carpet which a farmer just out of
town is anxious to get in exchange for a
side of bacon.
Now, with a vision of bacon and eggs
dazzling my eyes, I’m trying to strike
some sort of an average.
Plum.
■j»
“The ’phone usually shrills when you are
outside or under the shower.” — Woman’s paper.
This seems to be automatic.
•1> -£• *l-
- found it most depressing to be con-
stantly coming in contact with these hungry-
looking people.” —Magazine story.
Well, why didn’t she leave the board-
ing-house?
•£>
“Women of Timor Laut Islands, East Indies,
are allowed to keep only one eye open in the
presence of men.” — “World’s News.”
But they keep half of it always on
them.
•i*
“If a girl has no counter-attractions”
—Weekly paper.
She makes few sales.
■ *|* •!*
“She claimed that her husband, a ladies’ hair-
dresser, was having love affairs with at least
nine of his customers.”— Divorce report.
He must have been a trimmer.
Corroborees Up to Date.
“A tribe of blacks in the far north has in-
corporated in a corroboree a dance which de-
scribes the action of a strafing ’plane and a
bulldozer.”
It used to be thought that the boong,
who has a fancy for pipeclay and ochre
and sticks to a diet of death adders,
witchetty grubs, pitcheri and stonefish,
would remain untouched by the white
man’s works. Actually, he has gone
further than the plane-and-bulldozer
motifs in his dances. The “speargrass
telegraph” has kept him abreast of white
pfeller affairs, and these have inspired
some of the tribal choreographers to
evolve suitable dances to illustrate them.
One of the highlights of the latest cor-
roborees of the Kulkadoon tribe is called
the “Big Gubmint Pfeller Crawl.”
A lone figure is discovered dozing
under a tree. On one side of him is a
sharp implement and on the other a flea-
bitten greyhound. On his head is a thing
to represent a cap to which is tied with
lawyer vine a lighted torch of sticks,
apparently for peering into dark places.
Into the circle, led by a dancer wear-
ing a rounded mass of clay on his head
that could be a crude imitation of a
bowler hat, come about a dozen other
dancers shuffling. At sight of the recum-
bent buck, they get down on their stom-
achs and crawl towards him. The recum-
bent one opens one eye and scowls,
whereupon the rest scurry back, bending
fear-stricken looks upon him. They all
yabber violently and start the belly-crawl
again. As he scowls once more they
retreat in disorder. Then more yabber,
and the leading dancer in the clay hat
steps forward, strikes an attitude, raising
his hand threateningly. At this the recunv
bent figure with the torched cap bursts
into uproarious laughter, which sends
clay-hat back in panic to the other bucks.
The dance ends with the clay-hatted one
wringing his hands and wailing loudly;
then the other bucks take it up. But the
torch-capped buck doesn’t hear. He’s
gone to sleep again. The greyhound is
still on one side, but the sharp implement
has been tossed away.
Another dance, now one of the most
popular in the Myalls’ Corroboree, is
known as the Portland Pirouette.
It opens with an abo. standing at a
tree stump, on which is piled kangaroo
meat, sharpening a spear on a piece of
fencing wire. As he dances he goes
through the actions of cutting steaks of
the meat. Then all the bucks come hop-
ping in, and as they hand to the spear-
wielder little pieces of paper bark they
each take a junk of ’roo steak and go
out. More ’roo meat is brought in, and
again the dancer goes through the
motions of cutting, but this time the
bucks don’t appear.
Following much yabbering off the cor-
roboree ground, two other bucks come
in and dance around an empty stump.
They go through the actions of sharpen-
ing a spear. These two dancers then cast
eyes at the lone dancer beside his stump
of ’roo meat and concertedly let out a
roar. Immediately the fattest buck in the
tribe comes in carrying a boomer ’roo
and puts it on the duo’s stump. Then he
stands up on a smaller stump near by and
makes much yabber, moving his hands
about expressively. A rough translation
from the Myall language of the end of
his yabber is “Hee, hee, boss Co-op., can
I hold your horse, sir?” Then, with
much bowing and scraping, he backs out
as all the other bucks rush in waving and
shouting. The lone buck who first sharp-
ened his spear brings the dance to a close
by saying, in the Myall dialect, “No
doubt, he’s as hot as mustard!”
BO.
Electoral Tactics.
“For the 1944 elections in America, both
parties have bolstered up their team of candi-
dates with glamorous and beautiful women.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.’
When party favorites run hot
You’ll find, more frequently than not,
A pretty warby-looking lot
Invades the hustings with its clamor.
Electors, therefore, will concede
Intending legislators need
To brighten up their homely breed,
An unaccustomed touch of glamor.
Though if among the fair parade
Prospective voters gazed upon
A politician who displayed
A paunch abundant and commodious,
The consequent comparison
Would be, to put it bluntly, odious.
P. M. LUSK.
Precaution.
That thing that we locked in the cup-
board,
With its tentacles pawing the air,
And the cabbages red growing out of its
head,
Could never have really been there.
It must have been only a fancy :
Without any shadow of doubt,
Such a monster, l feel, simply couldn t
be real —
But, for heaven’s sake, don’t let it out!
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 21d. per line.
Trade-unions
The history of the trade-union move
ment discloses no outstanding contribu
tion to national progress, econom
or cultural, nor towards the solutio
of industrial problems. In fact, th
one and only ideal of trade-unions —if i'
can be so called—is “more pay and les
work,” which calls for some form of magi
if pay is to mean buying power. Stalin
reply to a deputation that brought t
him a request for a more liberal distr
bution of essential commodities was
“To ask me to give more without tellin
me how to produce more is futile.”
Many of the improvements in wage
obtained by Australian trade-unions hav
cost them dearly as consumers. For al
the good-money contributions and hare
sacrifices, the only possession most o:
their unions appear to have is a littl
, office furniture for the use of their secre
tarial staffs. Miners don’t own a skip
wharfies a hand truck nor seamen a punt
and all the machinery that the whol
category of ironworkers may call thei
own wouldn’t make a ton of scrap iron.
If, instead of becoming engrossed
politics and putting themselves in pawr
to a party, trade-unionists had directed
their efforts and capital to the establish
ment of co-operative enterprises of
general character, and to the practica
application of the principle of co-partner
ship and profit-sharing in industry, they
would today hold a higher place in public
favor, and with their families enjoy fulle
and more interesting lives.
Morale would be higher, efficiency
raised and class-consciousness revealec
for the stupid and ungodly thing that i
is, while in its stead would be born
livelier sense of responsibility for the
general uplift.—O. W. (N.S.W.).
Employing the Disabled
The greatest fear in the mind of a re-
lumed soldier is of failure to get a job
and the effects of that failure upon his
wife and family. A war pension for dis-
ablement is usually only a fraction
of the normal living wage, and to live
on it means poor diet, shabby clothes
lost pride and a feeling of injustice which
makes life a nightmare.
Would not the outlook be happier if
the pension could be used to subsidise
employment ? If the judgments of a
medical authority, the relevant trade-
union and pensions office were co-ordi-
nated and the amount of disability fixed,
then, with the union’s consent, a disabled
man could be employed at a percentage
reduction of wage, this percentage being
made up by the Government. This would
secure for the man employment and a
living wage.—Old Digger (S.A.).
Servicemen and Loan Investment
It is a wonder to me that the powers
that be have never suggested the idea
of inviting the service personnel to fund
some of their deferred pay—on a volun-
tary basis, of course. I think such a
suggestion would be welcomed rather
than resented.
Receipts for Victory Loan bonds not
immediately negotiable, as a sort of
security would give a man something, as
they say, “in the hand.”
From the country’s point of view the
situation would be better in so far that
what is at present a liability, the settling
day for which is uncertain and indefin-
able, would become a set amount with a
fixed day for payment, for which pro-
vision must be made anyhow.
This would be a much better state of
affairs than at the moment, when the
soldier knows how much he is owed, but
does not know when he will get it, and
he Government knows how much is owed
but does not know when it will have to
be paid.—P. G. (A.1.F.).
A Waaaf’s Life.
Amidst much hilarity I read “Oenone’s”
letter (B. 16/8/’44) aloud to my fellow
Waaafs. We were sitting on our camp-
stretchers in our “palatial quarters” (an
iron hut) trying, with rugs and woollen
gloves, to keep warm.
There are 25 of us, and we read and
think in an atmosphere of noise. We
uave meals on a long, bare table,
drink out of enamel mugs and eat off
enamel plates, which we wash immediately
a !ter meals. Sometimes our meals are
good; sometimes not. Each of us takes
a turn in washing the hut bathrooms, etc.,
and, of course, we do all our own wash-
ing, ironing and mending.
We work six days and have two even-
ings off. Naturally, we like to spend these
away from barracks, and we are very
thankful indeed for the hostels. If we
were not granted reduced rates we could
not stay at these on our enormous salary
of 4s. lOd. per day. We receive only the
bare necessities in the way of clothes,
and are not issued slippers, pyjamas and
other jsuchlittle accessories a woman needs.
Most of us are not working in our
home State, and if there is an occasional
free concert for the services it is only a
poor substitute for home life or an even-
ing spent with friends in their family
circle.
Some Waaafs may live in “palatial
residences,” but not 18- or 19-year-old
A.C.Ws. Still, we are not complaining.
We offer our sympathies to “Oenone”
in the tough time she is having as a typiste
in the Civil Service. —A. C. W.
A Plea for the Lance-sergeant
The lance-corporal, for long the under-
dog of army n.c.os., needs pity no longer.
He’s well looked after now with an extra
bob to his credit—6d. for his rank and
6d. proficiency pay. Some lance-corporals
got nice bonuses, for when the order was
promulgated on 10/9/’43 it was back-
dated to l/7/’43.
But what about the poor unpaid
lance-sergeant? He still draws only a
corporal’s pay, but gets the full responsi-
“I lost my coupon book, darling, so I used yours.”
bility of a ser geant, a senior n.c.0.,
though anyone can remind him that he’s
really nothing more than a glorified
corporal. The privilege of dining in the
sergeants’ mess is a doubtful one, as he
bas pay mess fees and is out of pocket,
if he’s got an extra job to do surely he’s
entitled to a little extra pay.— Lance-
sergeant (A.1.F.).
——
Books and Reading
We service men read anything we can
get our hands on ; my mates read twice
as much as they did in civil life—but
what stuff! There is veiy little interest
in literature or learning beyond a vague
desire to keep abreast of the news,
Reading for most is merely a means of
escape from boredom and surroundings,
often an escape into doubtful intellectual
company.
In civil life today there seems to be a
greater demand for reading matter, but I
figure this phase will pass with the end
of petrol and travel restrictions and the
return of many today missing from the
family circle. Here, again, reading is
merely an escape from the dull daily
round or heart-hunger rather than a
genuine interest in books.
The remedy lies not so much in the
provision of more and better libraries—
good books are still often passed over in
service libraries for junk—but in a
changed attitude towards reading. That
attitude is more or less determined by
the age at which one leaves school. If
we want a race which will show an in-
terest in literature at least equal to that
shown by Britons and Americans we
have got to analyse our teaching methods,
For my part high school left me with
very little interest in cultural reading, and
it is only in recent years that I have re-
turned to it. Even now I am doing well
if I read two books a year, but that is
lack of time rather than lack of interest.
—The Tatler (R.A.A.F.).
Injustice to Queensland
Unless prompt action is taken by
Meat Controller Tonkin and Prices Com-
missioner Copland to make the ceiling
prices for beef as between N. S. Wales
and Queensland more equitable, Queens-
land cattlemen can foresee a serious
shortage.
In normal times, Queensland breeders
look to N. S. Wales fatteners to take
a lot of their store cattle. When meat
was sold on the open market fatteners
on the Darling Downs competed briskly
against buyers from N. S. Wales. With
the fixing of wholesale ceiling prices for
beef, accompanied by cheaper cost of
treatment at the border works, high ceil-
ing prices for beef in Sydney, and higher
appraisement prices for hides in N. S.
Wales, N. S. Wales buyers have been able
to outbid Queensland fatteners.
Recently representatives of the border
meatworks have been paying record
prices in southern and western Queens-
land for fat cattle —£17 a head for bul-
locks and £lO 17s. 6d. for cows, on trucks
Quilpie, for example: quite beyond the
capacity of Queensland wholesale meat
traders to pay with a ceiling price for this
class of cattle of 41s. Bd. per 1001 b.
The cost of treatment at the Brisbane
abattoirs for cattle slaughtered for the
inter-State trade or shipment to Sydney
is 16s. to 17s. per head dearer than
the cost of treatment at the privately-
owned meatworks along the border, and
appraised prices for hides in N. S. Wales
are about 4s. per hide higher than in
Queensland. The wholesale ceiling price
for a 6001 b. ox or heifer in Sydney is
475. lid. per 1001 b., against 41s. Bd. per
1001 b. in Brisbane. If meat killed in
N. S. Wales is railed to Sydney it is ac-
corded a special freight reduction of id.
a pound.
Killing of cattle in Brisbane for ship-
ment to Sydney has been prohibited for
some time, ostensibly to save transport,
but if stock may be walked across the
border and killed there for shipment to
Sydney actually very little transport is
saved. The Queensland Railway Depart-
ment charges a larger freight rate for a
comparatively short journey from Bris-
bane to the border; the tapering rate
does not commence until after the border
has been crossed.
The position deserves consideration
with a view to enabling Queensland
wholesale operators to compete for the
cattle available on a fair and equitable
basis in the spirit of the inter-State free-
trade section of the Constitution.—Out-
back (Q.).
# —•—
Price Control and Inflation
To retain economic controls means the
retention too of costly unproductive de-
partments to administer and police them
and the perpetuation of a vast organised
black market, quite uncontrollable and
potentially dangerous. Remember Ameri-
can experience in trying to enforce prohi-
bition.
Price regulation means a great deal
more than just fixing retail prices. It
means controlling all the costs of manu-
facture and distribution, including profits
and wages. Only men fantastically
ignorant of its complexities would dream
of undertaking such a task.
The alternative adopted up to the
present has been to subsidise industry, to
compensate for losses on the fixed prices
but this means going ever deeper into
debt. Paying the subsidies from taxation
is futile, because in the last resort in-
dustry itself is the source of all tax
revenue. A subsidy plan would start an
inflationary cycle far more serious than
the probable price rise in an open market.
Such a price rise, by its strong stimu-
lus to enterprise, would do much to
correct itself were enterprise and com-
petition unfettered. A scientific taxation
policy would give more control over
profiteering than arbitrary fixing of
prices. It would be far better to give
individual help to people who may be
involved in real hardship through price
rises than to saddle the country with a
semi-permanent control scheme, ineffec-
tive and alien to the genius of the race. —
G. H. Ayliffe (S.A.).
Wages for Wives
“Harap” (B. 23 /8 / ’44) may be an A 1
arithmetician, but he’s C 3 on humor and
domestic experience.
My argument was an attempt to show
the absurdity of Assessing a wife’s services
on a cash basis; to offer wives a “wage”
of 30 bob or so a week for performing
a task which the vast majority perform
for love is to ignore the human equation
and is mildly insulting.
Concerning “Harap’s” arithmetic, does
he realise that all but genuine domestic
“treasures” strongly resent being asked to
help in any but their own spheres,
whether their job fills their whole time
or not, and that even before the war they
all had one whole day off per week, plus,
in most cases, week-end afternoons and
evenings and every afternoon from 2 to
4 p.m.? As to morning and afternoon
tea —they have it in factories. —P. V. H.
(N.S.W.).
Mechanising the Cow
“E. 2” (B. 9/ 8/ ’44) opposes my indict-
ment of mechanisation as a contributory
cause of diseases of degeneration in the
modern cow on the grounds that infor-
mation to the contrary may be found in
a “good book on the ailments of stock”
and that “dairymen in Victoria take
veterinary care seriously.”
He is wrong on both counts. No
authoritative textbook on diseases of
cows has been published in the last six
years. Arrangements for veterinary
attendance to dairy cows in Victoria are
inadequate, and primitive compared with
similar arrangements in Britain, the
U.S.A., M.L. and even Tasmania.
In Britain, for instance, about 8000
stockowners have joined a national
scheme whereby nearly 1000 veterinary
practitioners are engaged in daily attend-
ance for a retaining fee of 12 shillings
per cow per annum. In M.L. a somewhat
similar scheme exists in the form of
farmers’ veterinary clubs, and in Tas.
adequate attendance is ensured by means
of a veterinary nationalisation scheme.
It is only by means of such abundant
and properly organised means for clini-
cal observation that facts about diseases
of degeneration are being brought to
light, and it was upon such actual experi-
ence that I based my indictment. The
absence of any equivalent opportunities
for trained experience in Victoria no
doubt partly explains the optimism of
“E.2.”—J. W. R. (Tas.).
The Informationists
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” has come out
with a hearty approval of the proposed
substantial increase in the annual vote
for the Department of Information, pro-
vided the money is devoted to Australia’s
overseas information service. Countries
nowadays are publicised no less strenu-
ously, it says, than commercial products,
and a country that is niggardly in this
direction falls behind competing nations.
Does it? How much have the bright
lads sent to America to boost this country
focused Americans’ attention on it?
Americans are interested in this country
because of certain happenings in Malaya,
Singapore, Java, New Guinea and other
places which touch them nearly, and be-
cause American troops have come here.
not because of anything Government
press-agents have written or vamped up.
Before the brilliant idea of Depart-
ments of Information was confected Aus-
tralia was fairly well known in England
but the propagandists had no official
status and didn’t even know they were
propagandists. Among them might be
mentioned Melba, the Digger and Don
Bradman. As for the U.S.A., the average
Australian knew more about downtown
New York and the “Wild West” than he
did about Woolloomooloo and Algebuc-
kina long before America had a Depart-
ment of Information. He got the know-
ledge more or less pleasantly at the
fillums.
We have more than enough official
informationists already. Lord Luvus
(Vic.).


!s>
I
\ \ A
o»!\
n
« a
:
\
A
I
r\
II
r -
y
v
*
«
/p
: ■
9
3
tJ
fit
m.
>'■ '* ‘
n
m
N
V
I $ 7,
if!
M V
W
\
U/
A
A
KM
v- ■
■ i
A ,
\. \
iisi^
/
II
■
ir-
./
i
VJ ' :
|
1381
1
/
!
1
lilt 4\
f, > i
...... ...a
\
V J
i . J
,W
\
O/L ON
TROUBLED WATERS
ALTHOUGH the financial seas may be stormy and treacherous,
and dangerous shoals may await the unwary, Life Assurance is like
oil on the troubled waters. It smoothes the way to Port of Security.
Piloted by men with vision and experience at the helm, the
Metropolitan sails steadily ahead, and offers a sound, stable and
reliable investment that is untouched by changing conditions.
OUR ASSETS ARE ON ACTIVE SERVICE
Metropolitan Policyholders are directly assisting the war effort
because the bulk of the Company’s assets are invested in Com-
monwealth Loans. . We are proud to be thus associated, and are
contributing to the utmost in the
SECOND VICTORY LOAN
N
A
L
A
5
A
ASSURANCI COMPANY IT'D
HUNTER. AND BLIG-ti STREETS.SYDNEY,
W. A. H. ALLWORTH (Chairman)
DIRECTORS:
COL. ALFRED SPAIN D. F. STEWART J. A. HENDERSON
Inc. 1895
Queensland’
General Manager: J. A. HENDERSON.
Actuary: W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
Asst. General Manager: E. W. ROBINSON.
Secretary: GEORGE LESLIE,, A.A.I.S.
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. S. JOHNSTON (Manager).
QUEENSLAND:
The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
J. L. RICHTER (Manager).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
22 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
A. B. BOLTON (Manager).
Vs
