

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3341.
Wednesday, February 23, 1944.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
“ROYAL SCOTS GREYS.”
KEEN SPORTSMEN AND DAUNTLESS WARRIORS.
\l/ HEN this war’s history is written, a glorious chapter will justly
pay tribute to tlrb part played by this regiment of the British
Army. In peaceful years, among the trophy-winners for their
horsemanship and their skill in the arts of war, the Greys have a
history that goes back to 1678. They fought under William of
Orange in Flanders, as the Royal Regiment of Dragoons, and, under
Marlborough, won their great fame. Since those days, by reason
of their grey horses, they have been known as the Scots Greys.
Their charge at Waterloo, when the grey horses dashed down the
slope, with the Gordons at the stirrups shouting “Scotland for ever,”
is famous as the subject of Lady Butler’s well-known picture.
In the Crimean War, in the Boer War and the Great War, this
regiment has unfailingly distinguished itself, truly evidence that its
prowess on the sports field has laid sound foundation for its renown
on the Empire's battlegrounds. In the first World War', the Regi-
ment’s Battle Honours selected to be borne on Colours or Appoint-
ments are “Retreat from Mons” ; “Marne, 1914” ; “Aisnc, 1914” ;
“Arras, 1917”; “Amiens”; “.Somme, 1918”; “Hindenburg Line”;
“Pursuit to Mons” and “France and Flanders, 1914-18.”


fi»-SSSf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, «
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. HI AGE
The Red Page
LLEWELYN POWYS.
The Letters of Llewelyn Powys (Bodle
Head; Angus and Robertson) is th
finest piece of reading that has come th
Page’s way for many months. Thoug]
lacking the wild vigor of John Cowpe
Powys and the rare, constructive imagina
tion of the “hermit” brother —Theodor
who wrote Mr. Weston’s Good Wine
Llewelyn’s writings with their quie
sunny pantheism were always the mos
likeable productions of the family geniu
and in his letters his personality expressec
itself with the most charming naturalnes
The selection has been edited wit
imagination and an excellent discrimina
tion by Louis Wilkinson. To open th
book with letters written by Powys to hi
mother when he was a schoolboy wa
not merely an amusing “stunt”; it make
the book an autobiography in letters
painting the whole life from childhooc
to death. There is the schoolboy in 1898
Time is going I suppose for their is only
3 more weeks and two days which I hope
will go fairly quick dont you- and then
my wish will be granted My report usial
is horriable bad I can’t help it the more I
try the worse it gets. I can’t do any better
It seems to take all hope out of you to see
a report like that when you have been
trying but still it cant be helpt now Dear
dear Mother How 1 wish their were no
lessons and that my poor head would hold
more but he wont.
There are the days on an African farm
stories of lions and monkeys, hatred o:
the uncivilised country growing in a man
who was not born to be a pioneer:—,
How we are separated you and I! God!
not much entwining of our lives —though
the affectional link still remains and will
forever—the affectional link! What a
country it is and sometimes how I hate it—
how untamed, how savage and how lacking
in human association. 1 don’t think I care
for the earth in its ruder aspects—the sun
is here but it seems to carry no import in
its rising and setting. There is no pathetic
fallacy here, no temptation to indulge in
it—the earth, mountains, lakes, beasts and
birds, the soul not here yet. Pan never
strayed as far as British East Africa, only
officials and dilapidated Indians and cor-
rugated iron and sardine tins have made
that journey.
There are visits to the United States,
bear-hunting in the Rocky Mountains
Then in Austria in 1926 he sees the ruins
of the castle where Richard Cceur de
Lion was imprisoned;
We went up the Danube and stayed at
Durnstein where Richard I was imprisoned,
a very pleasing little village clustering
about the jagged ruins of the castle, and
with the river sweeping past, carrying
blocks of ice through God knows ‘what
landscapes down to the Black Sea! One
could not help thinking how alien the
country must have appeared to the eyes
of the king more used to looking out on
the Dorset downs from the turrets of his
brother’s castle at Corfe than at these devil-
ish foreign mountains pointed and peaked
like the rocks behind the Mona Lisa.
In 1928, Greece and the Acropolis:
It was as though the old Greeks had
left but a few years ago.
In 1933 there is a dramatic and terrible
description of the progress of the con-
sumption which had ravaged him all his
life ; in 1933, curious instructions for the
disposal of his body—“lf he refuses, let
them go to Barnaby Duke, of Dorchester,
with whom I was at school, and ask him
to allow me so much ground in his Hol-
worth Farm as he would allow for the
burying of a hog. I do not mind how
obscure the ditch —any chalk pit would
do, or nettle patch” ; in 1939 there is the
last letter from Switzerland:
I believe with you that the present deso-
lations will pass and you and your children
will live in a better age with simplicity and
gaiety. Dust is soft, secret and silent. I
am not so well, but have had a happy life
for half a century in sunshine.
Simply as the record of a life, this book
is fascinating; the whole man is here,
without any secrets. It is interesting as
a travel book. From one aspect it is
the case-history of a consumptive, the
desire for death precariously balanced
against the love of life. But primarily
it is the book of a man who loved the
earth, the chalk hills and green valleys
of Dorset or foreign places that reminded
him of Dorset:
What did we see today that would have
interested you? (1) A bullock being shod,
imprisoned in a blacksmith’s shop with a
band round its belly to prevent it from lying
down. They put a shoe on each cloven
hoof, pressing them by turning over the
iron round the front. (2) A beautiful white
owl blinking at us from under, a rafter of
an old ruined castle and then flying over
our heads like a great white dove. (3) Miss
Gertrude Stein scratching her head like
a schoolboy in the middle of Belley Square.
It’s significant that Gertrude Stein is
placed third, after the bullock and the
owl. Literature, politics and philosophy
ranked second to a beetle on a leaf in
Llewelyn Powys’s mind. “Your confes-
sions are too subjective,” he wrote to
John Cowper Powys; “and one comes
with relief on the words lichen and sea-
shell and upon the description of that
moss-grown path in the Middlecot
garden.”
Yet that is a good criticism of J. C.
Powys’s writings as well as an expressio
of a personal preference for lichens anc
sea-shells over metaphysical speculation
When Llewelyn Powys writes aboui
authors or books, he always writes we]
Another statement on J. C. Powys:
John’s net is very wide and its mesh care-
lessly woven but amongst the weeds and silt
and dead matter —see what baskets of
shining silver fish!
A note on Longman, the publisher;
Longman is an Etonian but’ utterly free
of any of the social failings that belong
to such an upbringing.
A pen-picture of Thomas Hardy:
1 went to see Thomas Hardy one day, I
had an idea I would get inspiration from
him. What do I find?—a very old, dapper
country gentleman moving about quickly,
jerkily, like a sparrow or Tom Tit, unaware
that 1 had ever seen him before or was
in any way connected with literature.
A criticism of Hemingway:
I shall never be able to understand the
prevailing cult for this man’s work. He
seems to me to have an essentially com-
monplace mind and a commonplace sensi-
bility. I cannot admire his facility for
exhibiting his rude facetious reactions.
He seems to me an utterly valueless writer—
an ephemeral and unpleasant projection out
of the waste land of the modern cocktail
party world! His half-ironical, blatant
way of addressing the reader strikes me as
silly and impertinent. God, I think he is
a crude chap, a conceited, cocksure, hard-
boiled, regular b .
And a comment on his own essayist’s
art;
My writing is only a kind of chorus to
life.
One letter is a powerful summary of
his philosophy;
And where is God to be found? He is in
every manifestation of the perpetual flux.
God is concerned only in keeping the
great highway of existence open that good
may proceed and evil may proceed.
His politics are epitomised in a letter
describing Roosevelt as “a lion-hearted
liberal,” his moral code for literature and
life in the paragraphs:
This propensity for being shocked is to
me extremely discouraging. It is the pre-
rogative of a truly civilised person to have
an open mind on every question. There
should be no subjects unworthy of discus-
sion.
and
He [John Cowper Powys] belongs to the
age of the cat-headed men and me to the
age beyond the twilight of the gods, where
no value is recognised to be of more im-
portance than an impassioned contemplation
of the poetry of existence as it sweeps by
like a terrible Carthaginian procession. Be-
cause we know well that philosophically
nothing matters it by no means follows
that we shall not fight with swords of grass
against stupidity, injustice and cruelty—
though with no good reason to explain why
we should be so perversely active except
as a matter, of personal preference, of
personal taste.
No subject was unworthy of discus-
sion ; and there was no subject he dis-
cussed unworthily. Literature, philo-
sophy, travel, politics, ethics, the struggle
of the consumptive, they all have their
place in these letters; but the essential
Llewelyn Powys was the boy who wrote
“Mr. Blake cort a cucu which had been
in a robins nest they let us see it and let
it go,” and the man who, in his last illness,
hoped to “wag my ears above ground
with foxglove flowers”: “a privileged
but at the same time a rather rural spec-
tator.”
Stories of Animals.
Up till 1938, when she was killed by a
kick from her own hack, the short stories
of E. Mary Gurney—mainly about
animals—used to appear regularly in The
Bulletin. A selection has now been
published under th§ title Pageant from
the Foothills (Oswald-Sealy, Ltd., Auck-
land). Though the binding, front cover
and title page are severe, making it look
like a school textbook, the book is
nicely printed and has an attractive dust-
jacket by the author’s artist-sister, Lynn
Gurney.
Mary Gurney'had her limitations as a
writer. She was not happy when she
dealt with human characters, and when
attempting to dramatise the life of the
New Zealand backblocks often fell into
a type of writing perilously close to the
cowboy melodrama of Zane Grey and
his followers. Though always partly
redeemed by her love of animals and the
landscape, such stories as “The Beasts
of God” (about a flock of sheep tramp-
ling a man to death) and “Blood Royal”
(a mare revenging herself on another
villain) are magazine fiction.
Another fault—which arose out of her
greatest merit, her love for nature ; and
which later discipline could easily have
remedied was sentimental overwriting.
Light never falls on water but invariably
‘ kisses” it; frost “kisses” the poplars in
autumn. There are too many of the
cliches of romanticism, vague and worn ;
too many adjectives: “The hills loomed
darkly, threatening and yet fraught with
the nameless peace that is the heritage
of things eternal.”
Yet, behind all the faults, there was an
original, creative and strongly poetic
vision. If, instead of there being a score
of short stories about horses, dogs, bulls,
cows and sheep, there had been one long
story of the quality of “The Secret Pil-
grim” (about a cow that went bush) it
might well have ranked with Man-Shy.
A story called “Consummation,” a
study of motherhood, attains an inten-
sity of drama very rare in animal stories.
Pokaka, the old Maori mare turned loose
into the bush to roam with the wild
horses, has lost her foal; she steals a foal
from a renegade Shetland mare to re-
place her own, loses it to its mother
again and begins a nightmarish pursuit
to recapture it:
Puriri fled headlong with his mother, no
less fearful, at his side. Over the next
hill they rejoined the herd which, sensing
the approach of something unusual, stood
grouped about the waterhole, prick-eared
and uneasy.
The mare and foal raced in among them
and Pokaka, exhaused but terrible, lum-
bered after. Before her the herd parted
like chaff before the wind, but, in spite of
their unease, they did not leave their accus-
tomed bedding-down place.
Leaden-footed, but with deadly, unre-
lenting purpose, Pokaka followed the pony
mare and her foal. No matter how they
dodged and ran, she gave them no rest.
It is a curious scene, ridiculous and
tragic. What lifts any work of art from
the commonplace to the sublime is the
intensity with which it presents its
images ; and Pokaka, in her odd way, is
an extraordinarily intense image of de-
mented motherhood. In this story, as
everywhere, there are the cliches of
romanticism—“ Night was a sudden bene-
diction, crowned with a diadem of stars”
—yet so vivid v is the picture of the wild
horses, so strong the emotional content,
so rich and so much alive the landscape
that the faults disappear. “Consumma-
tion” should find a place in any anthology
of New Zealand short stories.
The Exclamatory 'Nineties.
Not the least of the charms of Sey-
mour Hicks’s very charming Vintage
Years (Cassell; Angus and Robertson) is
the author’s generosity with the exclama-
tion mark. One for a mild joke—so !
Two for Mrs. Patrick Campbell saying
(surely platitudinously) of a sister-actress
that if she had a few more brains she’d
be half-witted—so'! ! And for a real
rip-snorter—three ! ! !
Some of the sentences are as odd as
the punctuation.
When the quill pen so beloved by the city
clerk as an ornament for his ear which, if
not particularly ornate, conveyed to his
employer the often erroneous impression
that he possessed a servant so loyal that
he even worked for him in his sleep, ceased
to be, the means of setting on paper the
wishes of gentlemen making their “wills
and won’ts” was discovered in the shape
of a steel nib which took its place, much
to the delight of many a shivering goose
and gander.
The publishers might well have at-
tended to these little matters.
Yet it’s true that the oddities of style
add to the charm of the book and help
to give the flavor of the period. Vintage
Years is a collection of haphazard remi-
niscences of London in the ’nineties —the
stage, the clubs and night clubs, the
fashionable world, the practical jokers.
There is a story of Irving commenting
on the explorer Nansen (who he
thought was receiving too much publi-
city), ‘’Oh, yes, he’s the gentleman who
stands the cold so well” ; there is a de-
scription of Lord Ripon shootin’ a thou-
sand brace of grouse at Blubherhouses
in Yorkshire for a wager of £5OOO ; there
is the elderly and eccentric Lord Mark
who, greeted by Queen Victoria at a
garden party. Said “Thank you, but you
must excuse me ; I seem to know your
face very well, but I cannot remember
your name” ; there is Hicks recording of
himself, “Two thousand times has the
writer played the part of Scrooge, and
two thousand times have those words
[“Oh, my little child, my little, little
child! ”] left him almost incapable of
speech” ; there’s the woman who invested
£5OO in “Charley’s Aunt” and made
£40,000 ; there’s Melba making the first
record for H.M.V. for a thousand pounds
and so (a total of eight exclamation
marks for the anecdote) bringing the
gramophone to the notice of the world.
Some of the stories are the classics of
the period, hardly worth retelling: the
baccarat scandal, for instance, and the
Jack the Ripper murders. Yet even these
are necessary, perhaps, to set the period
correctly. The book succeeds in its pur-
pose, and the author’s personality is so
likeable that there is no reason why he
shouldn’t have an exclamation mark all
to himself —so !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Cauboy : I fail to see the justification
of a policy of revivals which could brir
the grey-haired “Katinka” back to d
Majesty’s, Melbourne. As a vehicle fO-
- Moncrieff’s acting “Katinka” lack
the romantic flavor that endeared tha ;
lady to the public in her heyday. Mk
Moncrieff has become an Australian
institution, and she only has to do a fev :
steps of dancing to bring the house down
no doubt to the surprise of non-Aifr
tralians who are not privy to the lorn
fight she made against an accident which
would have crippled less strong-hearted
women. But if there is anything more
nonsensical than the innocuous doings in
the harem of old Stamboul, it is the
innocuous doings that go on in Knopfs
Cafe in Paris. The music of Rudolph
Friml is said to be catchy, but 1
am glad it never caught me. And to see
Don Nicol, Herbert Browne, Alan Eddy
Frank Bradley, Marie La Varre anti
others, in extraordinary make-up, devot-
ing their talents to the purposes of Otto
Harbach’s opus makes me wonder why
there isn’t a Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Seasoned Actors. A strong
posse of dancers, including Shirley
Mason, Nicholas Ivangine, Martin Rubin-
stein and Karinski, gives the aged bromide
a vitality beyond its merits.
Melbourne art shows include those o
Jeff Smart, a young Adelaide painter, a
Kozminsky’s, Mrs. Carrick Fox at the
Athenaeum and Bertram Bryning at the
Velasquez. Jeff Smart wields his brush
broadly, and, if his observation is some-
times cursory, it isn’t petty. Bertram
Bryning is somewhat literal in his large
landscapes, though some of his small
ones are pleasant. Mrs. Fox has mixed
her work with large gallery pieces from
the stock of her husband, the late Phillips
Fox. Her own landscapes sold like hot
cakes.
Ihctures which catch the eye at a very
mixed “show of fives” at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, are Robert Campbell’s
“Storm Clearing,” James Cook’s Spanish
sketch, Muriel Medworth’s “Roses,”
Lorna Nimmo’s “Farm Below the Hill,”
Douglas Dundas’s cleverly-caught “Morn-
ing Sun,” Ronald Steuart’s rain study,
Roland Wakelin’s “Old Mill” and draw-
ings by Thea Proctor and Rupert Bunny.
“Mac Hoots”: It is doubtless desirable
for all of us who can have a baby to do
so. Consequently, when I go along to
Sydney St. James to see “White Cargo”
I have no objections to the sentiments of
the propaganda short inflicted on me in
the first part of the programme. Nor, on
the whole, though I am not very keen on
Mr. Curtin’s civil servants using the Lon-
don blitz to shame me out of criticising
what I may be quite entitled to criticise,
do I object to the sentiments of the other
propaganda short inflicted on me during
the same programme, telling me not to
grumble about meat rationing. In fact,
I found some innocent amusement watch-
ing well-known Sydney actors and
actresses doing their stuff as patriotic
barmen, wicked society ladies and long-
suffering Londoners. But, by cripes!
though I may not object to the senti-
ments, I object to being shown the darn
things when I am attending The Drama,
even such drama as Hollywood pro-
vides. When I consider that one
of our greatest objections to the
Germans is their tame submission to
propaganda, and when I look around
me at the theatre and isee how
Australians are learning to sit quietly
and be propaganded at, I do not rejoice.
I suppose that, even though they
it is abject propaganda for the Soviet,
notoriously inaccurate and—in its criti-
cism of British appeasement at a time
‘when America was isolationist and the
Soviet on the point of signing a pact with
Hitler—-ridiculous, the crowds will still
line up morning, noon and night at Syd-
ney Tatler for “Mission to Moscow,"
swallowing this sort of propaganda with
the same submissiveness as they do the
more amiable stuff about not grumbling
and having more babies. What we badly
need—but not to be put across at the
theatres —is some anti-propaganda propa-
ganda.


ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
"Achk
f
aaerggnas
%
X
k
%
Over a period of many years our Fine Art
Gallery has built up for itself a considerable
reputation. It has sold antiques, paintings,
etchings, framed pictures, colour prints, old
china, old glass, old silver, Sheffield plate and
many other delightful abjets d’art et de vertu.
Its activities include the purchase and sale of
more MODERN GOODS, if of high class, and
in good order and condition, such as the
following :—-
CHINA AND GLASSWARE
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS AND
OTHER TIMEPIECES
ELECTROPLATE AND CUTLERY
PICTURES
BRIC-A-BRAC
STANDARD AND TABLE LAMPS
ORIENTAL AND VALUABLE
CARPETS, RUGS AND
OTHER ARTICLES
WL
f
-vr-
I i .
V >
«
k
mj
m
I (
MOM
3
r<v<v<v Y
_Vs-'
L_
if.
■< ■ t
.
c
--f
t
FINE ART GALLERY-
FOURTH FLOOR
HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Listen in to Station
2GB at 3.45 p.m.
every Sunday to
“Tales of a Connois-
seur.” Sponsored by
our Fine Art
Gallery.


ONCE A FISHERMAN
By “STANDBY.”
THE little vessel lay hidden by the
protecting branches of the man-
groves fringing the bay.
All day long she had waited there,
her crew dozing in the steamy shade,
waiting for the cover of darkness to allow
them to slip out and return to the com-
parative safety of their home port.
Towards sundown the cook, who com-
bined the duties of cook with those of
deckhand, assistant gunner and some-
times assistant engineer, advised all hands
to “come and get it,”
“All hands” consisted of a skipper,
engineer, one deckhand and that man of
many parts who was officially listed as
“cook deckhand.” The “uniform” of
every man from skipper to cook con-
sisted of a pair of ragged khaki shorts.
They slept together, ate together and to-
gether they argued amiably about the best
course to take or the identity of a certain
cape or island.
“Hey, Steve,” said Curly, the deckhand,
to the skipper as they sat to their meal,
“what about pushin’ off a bit early
tonight and havin’ a go at some mackerel
off the point on the way ’ome?”
Steve thought it was an excellent sug-
gestion and said so. He’d always held
that there should be a ton of mackerel to
be picked up off the end of that reef
round about sunrise or sunset. The engi-
neer further advanced the idea by telling
Steve he’d better hop into the dinghy
and go and tell the navy blokes he was
pushing off.
While Steve was rowing himself ashore
the- others washed the tea dishes over-
side and got the lines ready. Once a
fisherman always a fisherman, and these
men, working now on tiny supply ships
but fisherman before the war, saw
nothing out of place in going a mile or
two out of their way to trail their
mackerel lines in some likely spot. They
would have considered it wasteful to miss
any such opportunity.
The young naval lieutenant who filled
the office of port director grinned when
he saw Steve’s tanned, half-naked figure
approaching.
“Ready to sail as soon as it’s dark,
Skipper?” he asked.
“Well,” said Steve, “we were thinkin’
of pullin’ out a bit early tonight. I
reckoned we might cut in by that point
and have a go at trailin’ off the end of
the reef before it gets too dark.”
The port director was sympathetic.
Fresh mackerel was a welcome change
from the everlasting bully beef and tinned
M. and Vs. and Steve rarely came ashore
without bringing “one for the flamin’
navy.”
The sun was just setting when the little
Mary Ellen chug-chugged past the Naval
Control Station and headed for the point.
The naval signal rating on duty saw them
go and logged the ship’s name and time
of departure. No use wasting time and
temper trying to call them up with the
Aldis lamp. He knew the Mary Elleh
and he knew her crew. His only previous
attempt at Morse communication with
them had ended in dismal failure and his
subsequent bad humor had nearly bought
him a fight in the mess when he came off
duty. He watched till the Mary Ellen
became a tiny speck passing the point,
turning and repassing as she trolled for
fish.
The signal rating sighed. “Lucky cows.
What a life! ” he thought. “Why couldn’t
I be with that outfit instead of being
stuck here in the ruddy navy?”
JUST when he’d made up his mind
thkt it was getting too dark to watch
the Mary Ellen any longer the air-raid
alert sounded from the ack-ack battery
on the hill behind him. Almost simul-
taneously his eye caught the tiny red
spurts of flame coming from the speck
off the point.
The Mary Ellen’s single ack-ack gun
was firing rapidly..
The signaller could neither see nor
hear the ’plane, but he saw spurts of
flame high up where the Mary Ellen’s
tracers were fading. “Gripes,” he mut-
tered, “she’s coppin’ it.”
Grabbing his field glasses, he was able
to see the whole drama in two sections.
First the dim outline of the Mary Ellen
with her fiercely spitting little ack-ack
gun and, swinging his glasses upward,
the enemy ’plane diving to the attack,
her guns also blazing.
Vivid yellow flashes followed by huge
columns of water shot up all around the
point, and a couple of seconds later an-
other bigger flash that glowed red for a
moment or two before dying away alto-
gether. Feverishly he searched with his
binoculars, but nothing was visible but
the fast-dying red glow,
“Oh, Gawd,” he groaned, “copped it
f a j r> The poor COW s.”
B now he could hear ths drone o£
sev( f ral , lanes and was beginn i ng to
wonder 4 the ack , ack didl) . t flre
when hj r * Ue£ showed
ttTa , . ~ c 5, „
, Es our own g
the relief informed him. T e a
hf P asBe d the , word ;. ,° rders not fir f ’
The Old Man’s waitin’ for you Wan
° f e you straight away. What was all
0186 down off the: pomt. 5j
P oor bloody little Mary Ellen,
the answer One of them dive-
h°mbers got er. Strafed er and bombed
Jf r anc | Bh ® got the lot. I could see er
b urm n before she sunk. Well, I d better
op ott and report. .
The young port director questioned him
thoroughly, but the signaller was sure of
his facts: he had seen the hombs strike
a ” d afterwards seen her burning,
The port director thought the story a bit
highly colored, but it looked as if the
chances of anyone escaping were very
srnah indeed. Nevertheless there was
always a chance and he must do what he
c °nld to find any survivors,
E e ordered the small and very unre-
hable navy launch to be got ready, found
a . strong flashlight and decided to go
with the launch himself as soon as he got
the all-clear signal. j
Six hours later a very dispirited search
P returned to their camp. In the
hght of a rising moon they had searched
everywhere from the point to a chain of
small islands several miles further down
the coast. They had flashed their torch
along the beaches and used it every now
and again to give the usual Morse c.hal-
lenge, stopping their noisy little engine
ea ch time to listen. But no answering
shout came to the ears of the anxious
searchers, nor had they found anything
m the way of wreckage except a forty-
gallon oildrum less than half-full of
diesel oil and, strangely enough, a rather
battered saucepan floating almost awash.
The port director came to the conclu-
sion that the Mary Ellen had been lost
with all hands “due to enemy action.”
Regretfully he instructed that a signal
to that effect be dispatched to base the
following day.
~. . ,
| T was during the third turn around the
1 reef, which had yielded three fine mac-
kerel not one of which was under thirty
pounds, that Curly spotted the plane,
“ ’Ere he comes,” he yelled, dropping
his line and jumping to the gun.
Quick as he was, the cook was ahead
of him, pulling off the canvas cover in
one frantic jerk. Curly seized the hand-
grips, swung .the gun round on its mount
and began firing before he fully realised
what he was doing The engineer was
frantically kicking himself free from a
tangle of lines, and endeavoring to reach
the spare ammunition. In this light it was
impossible to make out the identity of the
’plane, but there was no doubt in any-
one’s mind. In forward areas no friendly
’planes flew straight for a ship. It just
wasn’t done. And this ’plane was not
only flying straight for them. He was
diving.
Things happened so quickly that no
one remembered clearly what order they
happened in.
Gripping the wheel in the tiny wheel-
house, Steve could see nothing of what
was going on, nor was he concerned with
anything except clearing the end of the
reef and heading for the nearest stretch
of beach. If it came to swimming he
meant to get the Mary Ellen as close to
that beach as possible before she sank.
He was aware that bullets were whipping
up the water ahead and on both sides of
him, and then alpove the racket of Curly’s
gun he heard the falling bombs. Instinc-
tively he ducked.
“Gripes,” he thought, “this is it.”
The water all around the craft seemed
to lift bodily in a blinding sheet of flame
and the Mary Ellen was tossed about like
a child’s rubber ball. Water poured
down on her deck, flooding everything
and almost washing the crew overside.
But one picture stood out clearly in
Steve’s mind. Something like an express
train hurtled close overhead, and through
the shattered glass windows of the wheel-
house he saw the ’plane strike the water
and burst into flames that glowed red for
a moment or two —then died as the heavy
machine sank.
Gradually it dawned on the crew that
they were not dead, and that the Mary
Ellen was still afloat and, miraculously,
her engine was still running. Steve spun
the steering wheel and was surprised to
find that she still answered her helm. The
engineer dropped down the hatchway to
see why his engine was making such
queer noises. Curly began reloading his
gun, and for some reason known only
to himself the cook was methodically
hauling in the trolling lines.
A few minutes later they were all
gathered round Steve in the wheelhouse.
The Mary Ellen had a hell of a lot of
water in her, and her engine was running
badly. The mainland offered little pro-
tection. Of the string of small islands,
the first, being rocky and steep-to, offered
none, but the second had a small sandy
cove on the lee side where the trees almost
overhung the water’s edge.
All hands voted for the cove. By
taking turns at the hand pump they might
keep the water down till they could beach
her.
HALF an hour later they felt her take
the bottom with her nose only a
few feet from the protecting trees. Curly
jumped overboard and made two stout
lines fast ashore, and returned to find the
others settling down to the inevitable
mug of hot tea that cures all Australian
ills. Now that they were no longer in
danger of sinking they could discuss the
situation and their recent experiences
calmly.
Undoubtedly the Mary Ellen was dam-
aged. Just how badly they couldn’t say
till they got the water out of her and
made a thorough inspection in daylight,
and the engineer refused to discuss the
condition of the engine till he’d checked
her over in the morning.
They heard the drone of our fighters
overhead and mistook them for Japs still
looking for them.
“To flamin’ well finish us off,” as Steve
put it. “Anyhow,” he concluded, “let ’em
look. So long as we don’t show a light
they’ll never find us here.”
It was during the discussion that the
rest of the crew first heard of the destruc-
tion of the bomber that had so nearly
sunk them.
“Gawdstruth,” said Curly when Steve
informed him of the facts, “is that din-
kum? Do y’ mean to say I shot the
cow down?”
“Aw, don’t start skiting about it,” in-
terrupted the engineer. “It’s the biggest
fluke you ever done.”
Having talked themselves out and dis-
covered that the tide, was falling, they
decided to turn in till daylight, making
themselves as comfortable as possible on
deck. Characteristically, no one thought
of keeping watch.
Steve was sleeping peacefully when the
cook shook him roughly and whispered:
“Listen! There’s some sort of a boat
muckin’ round over there. We heard her
engine and seen her signalling. Look!
There goes her light again. Wonder what
she’s sayin’.”
The engineer was of the opinion that
it was someone sent out by the port
director to look for them, and was all
for showing a light, but the others quickly
squashed that idea.
“Who the hell would be looking for
us?” Steve asked, “No one knows we’re
in trouble except the Japs, and they might
have one of their patrol boats to
look for us or that ’plane we shot down.”
In this opinion he was backed by the
rest of the crew.
As Curly put it, “We’re all right ’ere.
No use askin’ for more trouble. I’ve ’ad
enough for one night.”
The extent of the damage revealed
when daylight came would have disheart-
ened most men, but the Mary Ellen’s
crew set to work. At sundown the engi-
neer announced himself satisfied, and
decided to give the engine a kick oyer.
After a few minor adjustments his assist-
ant gave his opinion that she was “run-
nin’ a damn’ sight better than she’d been
for years,” and went off to prepare the
evening meal.
All hands were tired and hungry, and
although Steve and Curly declared that
the Mary Ellen was again seaworthy they
decided to have their evening meal and
turn in for the night. Tomorrow they
could finish off some minor repairs and
have a general clean up. After all, one\
more day’s delay wouldn’t hurt anyone.
BACK in the Mary Ellen’s home port
a very harassed officer of supply lines
stood in front of the shipping board. He
had a devil of a lot of stuff to go for-
ward, and his shipping space was limited
enough even before the reported loss or
the Mary Ellen. It was two days since
he’d received the fatal signal, and he’d
waited hoping against hope that by some
miracle she’d turn up.
Reluctantly he wiped the name “Mary
Ellen” off the board and sat down to a
pile of papers.
“Rotten luck,” he mused. “A good
crew.”
He’d miss Steve, too —Steve with his
cheerful grin and total lack of respect
for Authority. Damnation! He must
stop being sentimental and get on with
the work in front of him. He was half-
way through the job when a familiar
voice said:
“Any mail for the Mary Ellen?”
“Steve! Good Lord! Where have
you come from? Where’s the Mar}
Ellen?”
“Tied up down at the jetty, o’ course.
Where else would she be?”
“But we heard you were killed, sunk,
burned. Heard it officially. What hap-
pened?” ,
Steve deliberately lit a cigarette ana
grinned mischievously.
“Aw, that,” he said. “One of them
dive-bombers did have a crack at us bu
we fixed ’im.”
VARIOUS VERSE.
Bora Ring.
The song is gone: the dance
is secret with the dancers in the earth,
the ritual useless, and the tribal story
lost in an alien tale.
Only the grass stands up
to mark the dancing-ring; the apple-gums
posture and mime a past corroboree,
murmur a broken chant.
The hunter is gone: the spear
is splintered underground; the pairited bodies
a dream the world breathed sleeping and forgot.
The nomad feet are still.
Only the rider’s heart
halts at a sightless shadow, an unsaid word
that fastens in the blood the ancient' curse,
the fear as old as Cain.
N.S.W.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Anteater.
The termites raise their towers red and brown,
But you, lordlier than they, their cities raze—
Bastion and gallery to dust come down
Beneath that ravening snout, those monstrous
claws.
Your brain is small, anteater, quiet there,
Dappled as shade of gums upon a hill,
Your hortibeak slanted ready as you stare
Bluntly on broken light the trees let fall.
You do not know that I, running to see,
Stick poking feebly at each thrusting spike,
Am powerless before your armory—
And no black man with waddy swift to strike.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
The Parrots.
These were peculiar preachers, wise-spoken birds
Who recognised our poetry of words.
In bird store, zoo cage, or in specimen case
They saucily stared you out' of countenance;
Left ornithologists to put in place
Their tribe; impressed you with their strange
romance.
They proved for you there were such places as
the Aztecs,
Parrot-feathered, once inhabited. Scarlet necks,
Leaf-oaped, and helmets beaked, arrow swift
and fierce:
One winked an eye, and you perceived a new
Exposure of your ignorance; assumed mind’s
tierce,
Then thrust at each a finger, preening through
A sulphur-crested cockatoo’s proud crest: heard
speak
A “king.” A “greenie” bit your finger—stoic
jest!
How the blood clot matched the lorikeet’s red
beak!
The macaw ... galaxy of pets ... “blue-moun-
tain’s” chest
Of royal hue .. . the pink galah .. . rosella .. .
why?
You wondered if life fixed their dye
Flying through a bright rainbow. So, quaint,
bizarre,
The parrots fought and filled the air like leaves
Of jungle* sheen; then fluttered down to dare
Anotfier look. Though nothing gaudy long de-
ceives ;
And having watched the parrots, people won-
dered
Whether the Artist triumphed, or in them
blundered.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3341.
Wednesday, February 23, 1944.
THE NEW SHRINE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’
Directors;
H. K. Prior * J. E, Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
JESSIE'S DREAM.
Mrs. Jessie Street, the unsuccessful
“Labor” candidate for Wentworth
(N.S.W.), is at it again. Obviously the
“Sheepskins for Russia” lottery business
has ceased to take up much of her time,
and perhaps she feels that she has to
give an unsolicited lead to the nation or
decompose ; anyway, the lady has come
out as a champion of political Zionism,
against which Isaac Isaacs has been con-
tending with immense energy and spirit
as a patriotic Australian of the Jewish
faith.
Presumably the “Sheepskins for Russia”
lottery business slumped when, butts hav-
ing been found on vacant land, a woman
“with a record going back to 1917” con-
fessed to a magistrate that she had sold
tickets which did not have a chance in the
lottery, and stolen the proceeds. It came
out that the “Sheepskins for Russia” out-
fit had “an inside staff of eight persons
and three outside agents, all salaried.”
Mrs. Street is (or was) “chairman.” “I
ask the public not to believe any sugges-
tion that anything dishonest or unusual
has taken place,” she said in a newspaper
statement; and if the reactions of lottery
punters were hostile there can be no
cause for wonder.
Mrs. Jessie Street’s championship of
political Zionism concerns not merely the
hopeful band of lottery punters but
Australians in general. Her attitude
was communicated to the “Hebrew
Standard,” which has published all the
Isaacs articles; and the “Standard’s”
headlines are subjoined:
Immediate Admission of 8000 Jewish
Refugees to Australia Sought.
Jessie Street’s Recommendations.
The “recommendations,” boiled down,
follow:
We urge the Commonwealth Govern-
ment without further delay to resume im-
plementation of the undertaking, made in
1938, to give asylum to 15,000 Jewish refu-
gees, and ask that immediate arrangement
be made for the admission of the balance
of 8000 Jewish refugees.
In view of the great volume of transport
now available, we urge the Commonwealth
Government to make representations to the
British and United States Governments to
make available the maximum shipping space
possible for the evacuation of European
Jews to those countries prepared to give
them asylum.
It was implied that Australia is or should
be one of “those countries.” There was
something about “educating Australian
public opinion” (another job assigned to
the Commonwealth Government) regard-
ing “the enforced movements and
persecution of whole populations in
other parts of the world so that Aus-
tralia may not fail in her duties and obli-
gations in a most, important part of post-
war reconstruction.” Nor do the “duties
and obligations” end there;
We request the Commonwealth Govern-
ment' to make urgent representations to the
British Government to open immediately
the doors of Palestine to as many Euro-
pean Jewish refugees as are able to escape
to that country.
And to the devil with the terms of the
Palestine Mandate, the British White Paper,
the military situation, the Arabs in Pales-
tine, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Trans-Jordan,
Saudi Arabia and Iraq, and the non-
Arab Moslems in Africa, India, Malaya
and the East Indies. Nothing matters
except the politics of Mrs. Jessie Street
and her friends, Zionists and others.
Among the others are the United Asso-
ciations of Women (Mrs. Jessie Street is
president), the British Empire Union, the
Christian Social Order Movement, the
Australian United Nations Assembly, the
New Education Fellowship, “the State.
Labor party and Communist party of
Australia” (now one, if they were ever
anything else), the Fellowship of Austra-
lian Writers and the Council for Women
in War Work.
The Australian Government has agreed
to admit 150 Jewish children from
France, via Switzerland. To this there is
no objection on humanitarian or other
grounds ; indeed, in recognition of the
good Australianism of Isaacs, Monash
and many other patriotic Jews who have
served the nation well in war and peace,
the project might be extended. Always
provided (and it should be made a strict
condition) that the children are placed in
homes where they will be brought up as
Australians of the Jewish faith, and not
as brooding exiles, part of a dissatisfied
minority to which a Jewish-controlled
Palestine is “the National Home.” But,
in the present temper of public opinion,
to.admit 8000 foreign Jews, diverting for
the purpose shipping from the war effort
—which, Mrs. Jessie Street and her
friends notwithstanding, still needs and
will continue to need every ship in com-
mission and to be commissioned —would
be an act of madness. The rumpus which
attended the arrival of Maltese during
the last war was nothing to what would
happen if shiploads of European Jews
were landed during this greater war.
The agitation of which the insolent
direction to the Australian Government
is a development has been branded by
the former Chief Justice and Governor-
General as not only mischievous but dan-
gerous. In the United States, as he has
shown, it has taken an ugly anti-
British turn. In Australia the Zionist
cry, first raised at a Zionist Conference
in May, 1943, is that “Palestine, the land
of our past, the land of our tradition,
must become the land of our future; after
the war we demand the establishment of
a Jewish Commonwealth within the
framework of the British Common-
wealth.” The peoples of Britain and the
Dominions would have something to say
about that. In point of fact, as the
former Chief Justice and Governor-
General has pointed out, Britain is ex-
pressly excluded by the terms of the
Mandate from handing Palestine over to
the Jews as “a Jewish State.” Neither is
it any part of the American Zionist pro-
gramme that Palestine should become a
British Dominion, In the American Zion-
ist view it isMo be an independent Jewish
State for as long as it could maintain itself
as such —which wouldn’t be long.
A Sydney “Herald” writer, Colin Bing-
ham, has been studying the Palestine
problem at first hand. He can scarcely
have had any opportunity of reading any
of the Isaacs articles, but on some points
he has reached practically the same con-
clusions as the great old Victorian, and
his warnings read as if they were penned
by the one hand. From Jerusalem he
wrote on February 10 that “an atmo-
sphere of suspense prevails in this Holy
Land of three faiths, for it is commonly
believed that between 60,000 and 100,000
Jews are armed, and that at least one in
every four Arabs has a rifle.”
Jews have been found practising “in for-
mation” on sand dunes near their coastal
stronghold, and they possess machine-guns,
tommy-guns and mortars, as well as rifles,
This mood is the measure of their realisa-
tion that trends in the Middle East are
against the attainment of a Jewish State.
They are making a desperate propaganda
effort to stem these trends, and a survey of
the Hebrew press for several months reveals
in the extreme journals rather sinister hints
of “bold and courageous” action that will
carry Zionism to its great objective. This
can mean only one thing—some desperate
step centring world attention on the ques-
tion of “a national home.”
With great courage Isaac Isaacs has
argued that the Zionist claims, as now
advanced, concede part of Hitler’s case
against the Jews. “It is a slander and
devoid of truth,” he wrote, to allege,
as Hitler did in Mein Kampf, that “the
Jews of every land segregate themselves,
not merely as a distinct religious com-
munity but as a distinct nationality apart
from their fellow-citizens,” and Isaacs
himself is a living and convincing refuta-
tion of the slander.
But when Hitler adds “A section of the
Jews avows itself quite openly as an alien
people,” referring as he does expressly to
the political Zionists, and when I read the
truly pestilent doctrines preached to our
Jewish youth, and when I find also stress
laid on the distinct “nationality” of Jews
all over the world as justifying a separate
“State” apart from all Gentile States, I
see considerable force in what he says about
the political Zionists.
For this the doyen of Australian Jews
has been attacked with extraordinary
vehemence, in particular by Professor
Julius Stone, who has been in Australia
for a very short time, having been
appointed, very unnecessarily, to the
Sydney Law School as the result of an
agitation worked up by Mr, Abram
Landa, M.L.A. To Professor Stone, now
a lieut.-colonel, presumably on legal ser-
vice (in itself evidence that the Law
School appointment was unnecessary),
Isaac Isaacs is “an extreme spokesman
for a minute minority.” Curiously
enough, Bingham notes that “some
[Palestine] Jews use Hitlerian coercive
methods—sometimes bludgeon, revolver
and bomb—to ensure adherence to the
party line,” there being a “disturbing con-
tradiction between the political be-
havior in some Jewish quarters in Pales-
tine and the Jewish aim to find relief
from persecution.”
This apparently has arisen from a belief
that the Arabs got a great deal of appease-
ment out of the British Government by
playing up and that the Jews might now
very well try the same methods. Indeed,
some non-Jewish circles think that the Jews
have already succeeded in creating a Gov--
ernment appeasement policy. It is asked:
“If this is not so, why are so many Jews
allowed to arm illegally?” *
In the Hebrew press it is difficult to find
generous recognition of Anglo-Saxon hospi-
tality to Jewish refugees, but statement's are
published implying that the blood of count-
less slaughtered Jews is on the hands of the
British Government, which allegedly could
have provided the means of escape.
When the British searched a Jewish settle-
ment for arms and a fracas resulted from
the settlers’ resistance, the whole Hebrew
press reported the incident in terms more
appropriate to the Mafor Mezi outrage
against the Jews, and the names of the two
Jews sentenced to imprisonment in a recent
arms case have now been recorded in the
Jewish Golden Book.
This was the gun-running case in which
two British soldiers, as well as the two
Jews, were sentenced to long terms of
imprisonment. For publishing the facts
the proprietor of the New York “Times,”
himself a Jew, was furiously • denounced
by American Zionists,
A prominent citizen who has been in
Jerusalem from the beginning of the Mandate
told me that the Zionists [of the Jewish
Agency] made a great mistake in not send-
ing more British Jews to Palestine as Agency
officials —men who understood the British
character and idiosyncrasies and who would
have helped to correct the Continental
Jews’ intolerance of the British outlook.
If, to oblige Mrs, Jessie Street and her
oddly-assorted friends, masses of Conti-
nental Jews are admitted to this country,
correction of their “intolerance of the
British outlook” will be a pleasure
reserved for Australians. Forward, Bondi
and Bellevue Hill!
Aid to Russia.
“There has been a widely shared opinion in
Australia and other countries that certain of the
United Nations tend to try to withhold their
strength, and to retain it and build it up, while
allowing the Soviet to bleed itself white, so that
when the conflict ends they will be the strongest
Powers in Europe, and therefore wield the
greatest influence at the peace conference.”
—Minister Ward.
So it seems to need a little emphasising
that neither Britain nor the United States
had anything to do with Russia’s becom-
ing involved in the present war. This
was, without question, immediately ad-
vantageous to Britain —then holding, the
fort alone —and subsequently advan-
tageous to America also. But neither of
these benefiting parties can preen itself
on super-diplomacy or super-magic in
bringing it about. The oracle was worked
by Germany, attacking without a declara-
tion of war in violation of the first of
the Friendship Pacts concluded by Russia
with separate members of the Axis; the
Pact which freed Germany to start war
in the first place. The other Friendship
Pact —the one with Japan —stands. It
means that, whereas Britain and America
have to wage two wars, Russia is engaged
in one.
Fighting desperately in self-defence,
the Russians at first looked like being
overwhelmed; another for the list of
victims who had pinned their faith on a
paper contract that promised to hold
them secure. Weaknesses developed.
Whole divisions surrendered, and casual-
ties otherwise were frightful. Thus
menaced with the total conquest of their
homeland, the Russians rallied and
fought back, with stirring success. They
were aided by a resurgence of national
spirit which had not up to then been wit-
nessed in overrun Europe, and which
cannot be said to be approached in any
country where strikes seriously hamper the
war effort without changing either public
complacency or Government weakness.
Compared with other overrun European
countries, the Russians were aided also
by their country’s vast distances and
climate; and, as it happened, the winter
of 1941-42 was exceptionally long and
severe. They were aided as well by the
enormous quantities of war weapons and
materials that Britain and America
rushed to their aid ; and, finally, by the
great British-American victories in Africa,
the Mediterranean and Italy, and by their
joint bombing onslaught on Germany.
Though a vast sentimentality has been
allowed to become attached to it, the
British-American assistance to Russia,
given immediately and continued without
stint, was a plain military step, the only
alternative to which was to see Russia
knocked out and Germany, as a conse-
quence, unbeatable. On Britain’s part
it was begun with a generosity which his-
torians may pronounce quixotic. Tear-
ing up the mutual Friendship Pact, the
Germans attacked the Russians on June
22, 1941. Inside a little over a month,
in August, the first British convoy sailed
for Russia. Britain at that time was still
painfully recovering from Dunkirk, from
the Battle of Britain, from the years of
sentimentally neglected defences, and it
was fighting a crippling Battle of the
Atlantic. In the previous three months,
moreover, it had suffered “great disasters
in the Balkans” and in Crete, and “a
vexatious and damaging defeat in
Libya” (the words are Mr. Churchill’s),
with the result that the Axis, though held
at Tobruk, was invading Egypt, Britain
nevertheless sent its first convoy to Russia
as soon as one could possibly be mus-
tered ; it has continued to send convoys
there ever since. To the end of June,
1943, Britain had shipped to Russia muni-
tions and fighting materials valued at
£187,000,000, all free of cost to the Rus-
sians. The rate has not slackened.
Mere round figures of this kind un-
fortunately convey only the vaguest idea
(to the all-for-Russia elements, who have
a way of being the most violent anti-
British elements, no figures at all mean
anything except the astronomical, ones
served up to them by Moscow corre-
spondents), But the British aid to Russia
up to the time Japan—party with Russia
to the Friendship Pact still existing—came
into the war had its all-but disastrous
meaning for Australia. This has been
summed up in a sentence by Sir George
Sansom, explaining, in American
“Foreign Affairs,” the fall of Singapore;
“The plain truth is that when the Japa-
nese attack was delivered there were not
enough men or machines to meet it, be-
cause everything which Great Britain
could spare had been sent to the Middle
East and to Russia.”
A result of that strategy of prior aid
to Russia, carried by Britain to the point
of losing important parts of its Empire
to the Japs and seriously endangering
such other parts of the Empire as Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, was that “there
were in the whole of Malaya not many
more than 100 front-line aircraft, most
of which were of an obsolete type—
Brewster-Buffaloes, Wirraways, Wilde-
beestes, a few Blenheim bombers; no
Hurricanes or Spitfires”—to meet the Jap
air onslaught. Meet this, the brave fel-
lows flying their obsolete ’planes did, and
almost to a man they were sacrifices.
The round figure for Britain’s aid to
Russia up to the end of June does not
include the convoying costs, nor the food,
clothing and other sueh supplies sent by
Britain alone, inckfmng more than 4000
tons of medical and surgical supplies,
packed away among over “4690 complete
aircraft, with appropriate supplies of
spares” {that was to the end of May),
3000 tanks, 30,000 lorries and miscel-
laneous cargo weighing nearly 940,000
tons. And to these figures must be added
the American figures of a size to impress
even a Moscow correspondent. Under
lend-lease the United States had sent to
Russia up to last September war goods
to the total value of $3,287,047,000
6500 ’planes, 3000 tanks, 125,000 sub-
machine guns, 145,000 trucks, 25,000
jeeps, 200,000 field telephones, 700,000
miles of telephone wire. The rate has
been accelerated.
Such figures, of course, mean noth-
ing to all-for-Russia cranks sneering at
Britain and America ; but to all others
it must be obvious that this enormous
war-winning aid could .never have been
sent without a corresponding weakening
of the war-waging strength of both the
lavish helpers. Though it would evidently
have been bad strategy to withhold these
war-waging materials from Russia,
Britain and America would be an incom-
parably more formidable combination to-
day if they still held what they passed
on. How many British and American
lives, and ships and ’planes, have been
lost in taking the war-winning materials
to Russia are withheld for security
reasons ; but it has been officially given
out that “since the first convoy sailed for
North Russia in August, 1941, 750 offi-
cers and men of the two navies have
been decorated for valor, gallantry and
endurance not easily surpassed eyen in
this tremendous age.”
Additional to all this reckoning—
though the protected sneerers would seem
to have never heard of it —is the terrific
British-American air onslaught on Ger-
many and on German production in the
occupied countries. The general effect of
this onslaught on beating Germany can-
not yet be even roughly estimated; but,
apart from the photographed destruction,
there have direct results for the
Russian ground fighting troops. “These
raids,” Mr. Hanson Baldwin has learned,
“became so serious that Germany had
to withdraw the bulk of her fighter ’planes
from the eastern front. In consequence
our bombers in their raids over Europe
in the latter half of 1943 faced two to
three times as many German fighters as
the Red Army encountered on the entire
Russian front.” As well, the British-
American Mediterranean invasion has led
to still more of the Luftwaffe being
shifted there, with the result that the Rus-
sians have been able to achieve the vital
factor to their recent successes, air
superiority —this made possible also, of
course, by the 12,000-odd ’planes sup-
plied to Russia in these past two and a
half years by Britain and America.
When such facts as these are balanced
against sneers based on hearsay utter-
ances of halfwits there is not much more
left to be said on the score of aid to
Russia. Except always this —that Russia
all through has had to fight only one
war, while the aiders on this vast scale
are both of them fighting two wars: one
against the enemy which turned dog on
its Friendship Pact with Russia; the
other against the enemy which respects
and evidently values not only its Friend-
ship Pact with Russia but the Russo-
Japanese fisheries agreements which
assure it of immense supplies of food.


PLAIN ENGLISH
He "Didn't Mean It."
On the second anniversary of the evil
day on which the Eighth A.I.F. Division
was overborne on Singapore Island, to-
gether with its gallant British and Indian
companions, 5000 N.S.W. coalminers
refused duty on one or more of the
thousand excuses for N.S.W. coal strikes
during the war with Japan. For 3500
N.S.W. South Coast miners it was the
second day of a strike which lasted all
the week and continued into the next.
By a merciful provision—perhaps
the only one that has fallen to their
lot since February 15, 1942—the officers
and men who have survived battle,
disease and the rigors of captivity were
spared the knowledge of this betrayal,
unless, as is possible, their jailers taunted
them with it. They were spared also the
knowledge of the Prime Minister’s com-
ment on the betrayal: “The miners just
won’t work, and that’s all there is to it.”
Yet it was within his power to freeze the
bank accounts of the guilty union, lodges
and individual strikers.
The surviving officers and men of the
Eighth were also, it may be, spared the
knowledge of the shameful proceed-
ings in the House of Representatives
which followed Minister Ward’s Sydney-
larrikin attack on British administration
in Malaya, the conduct of British officers
in thpt country when it was about to fall
and British-American policy towards
Russia, which has been generous to a
fault, though to the Sydney larrikin-poli-
tician it has been designed to “bleed
Russia white;”
With characteristic effrontery Mr.
Ward informed the Prime Minister by
letter that he was “surprised that anyone
has misconstrued the meaning intended
to be conveyed by me” and that “it was
not my intention to reflect adversely in
any way whatever upon the Governments
of Great Britain or any other Allied
country.” And Mr. Curtin, who, as an
editor, wouldr not have dared to publish
a libel on a private individual with the
worse-than-worthless insinuation that it
was what many people were saying,
accepted the “assurance.”
This was too much for even Mr. Coles
and Mr. Wilson. With a passionate
protestation of admiration for the Eng-
lish in their agony, of which he was a
personal witness, Mp. Coles denounced
the Minister as “traitorous to his leader,
his country and our Allies” and as
“wittingly or unwittingly a tool of the
German propaganda machine.” Mr.
Curtin, for his part, had the face to de-
clare that he regarded the Ward letter
as “having made it quite clear that Mr.
Ward never at any time had any inten-
tion of adversely reflecting upon Aus-
tralia’s allies and chiefly upon Britain.”
Obviously with the intention of pre-
venting the larrikin-politician from re-
peating his slanders, with such additions
as his cancerous hatred of Britain might
have suggested, the Prime Minister con-
trived to make the affair a censure de-
bate, and when Mr. Menzies, Mr. Coles
and he himself had spoken he moved
that the question be now put. In effect,
he applied the gag, and the Menzies
motion was defeated by 44 votes to 24.
So Mr. Ward, the slanderer of Britain,
British officers and colonial administra-
tors and the United States, remains
Minister of Transport and External
Territories —it would be a profanation to
let him visit any of them.
The Army.
In a very effective speech on the war
situation Dr. Earle Page praised “the
military organisation which carried
Britain through that year when Britain
stood alone,” and “which has enabled
Britain to carry on the world war on
many fronts, spearhead and directing
force of the whole undertaking.”
This organisation consist's of the War
Cabinet, the Secretary for War and the Army
Council under the chairmanship of the Chief
of the General Staff. The Army Council
controls the C.-in-C. Home Forces
and the Cs.-in-C. Overseas Forces. Before
the war with Japan our Australian system
was similarly handled. After Japan came
info the war the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and the Minister for the Army handed
all power to the G.O.C.
The G.O.C. is General Blarney, and to
him was given “an impossible task,
beyond the capacity of any man ade-
quately to fulfil.”
He controlled the New Guinea forces, the
First Army and the Second Army. Mem-
bers of the Military Board, became principal
staff officers to the G.0.C., and all the
various corps and forces came directly
under his control. The G.O.C. became
personally responsible for the promotion
of every officer above the rank of captain.
At present our C.-in-C. has to maintain
relations with the C.-in-C. Allied forces,
the Minister of Defence in Australia (Mr.
Curtin) and the Minister for the Army,
and also to control all matters, from bridge-
heads in New Guinea to bootlaces-for the
V.D.C. He maintains his own secretariat
(in uniform) in addition to the army secre-
tariat —a costly duplication and a waste 91
man-power. Hence tremendous delays in
minor decisions and changes in strategy
which had a very big influence on the de-
mands for extra reinforcements, because or
the number of killed and wounded and
disabled by tropical disease.
' “The place of the C.-in-C.” Dr. Page
proceeded, “is with the army in the field,
as it was in the Middle East —roughly
the same distance from Whitehall as the
New Guinea campaign is from Mel-
bourne. Our political and tactical con-
trol should be in as close contact with
our fighting troops. The farther the
battle is from Australia the more neces-
sary this becomes.”
The Minister for the Army has stated that
86 per cent, of the ground forces are in the
A.1.F., and that the bulk of the A.M.F.
• are boys of 18 or 19. Soldiers of this age
are not sent on overseas service. If these
lads are the only soldiers left in the
A.M.F. the amalgamation of the two army
administrations on the mainland should be
very easy to accomplish. This would
abolish duplication of staff, ensure the rais-
ing of the standard of organisation and
training and facilitate the inspection of
services so as to reduce waste of material
and improper diversion of personnel.
In short the setup should be;
(1) The Minister of Defence, controlling
policy and broad strategy. . n.
(2) The Department of the Army, consist-
ing of the Minister, Secretariat and Military
Board. This should decide matters of
policy, personnel, equipment, supplies,
medical necessities —prophylactic and thera-
peutic policy—and issue directions to —
(а) the C.-in-C. of the army in the field
of operations or to the Cs.-in-C. of armies
in various theatres of war; and to
(б) the C.-in-C. of the army or armies on
the mainland, who should be responsible
for the land defences, organisation and
training (including the provision of trained
and equipped reinforcements for the army
in the field); also
(c) regarding requirements from the
Ministry of Supply, Shipping and Muni-
tions; and, further, to
{cl) the clothing and other factories and
technical services operating directly under
the Department of the. Army.
Dr. Page also gave a very frank account
of the Owen Stanley Range and Buna-
Gona operations. But that is another story.
Victoria's Third Calamity.
Premier Dunstan was soon required to
put into effect his regulation banning gas
producers in bushfire areas during times
of danger. The necessity arose on Mon-
day of last week, but Tuesday was a
worse day.
With a 50 m.p.h. northerly and high
temperatures everywhere, fires broke out
from Morwell to Yallourn, where the
opencut was soon ablaze for a length oi
two miles and to a depth of 300 feet,
and the model township was threatened
with destruction. There were more out-
breaks from Frankston to Yarrum, and
along the railway from Warragul to Rose-
dale and through South Gippsland. There
were isolated outbreaks again in the
Western District, and there, it may be, a
change of wind and a shower of rain pre-
vented a worse disaster than that of a
month back.
As it was, the State was again hard hit
for the third time this summer. Thirteen
more poor people were added to the
number of the dead, and many more had
to receive hospital treatment. And an-
other grim chapter was added to the
story of disaster to householders, stock,
farm buildings, machinery, feed and Gov-
ernment property. The war effort itself
suffered a check because of the damage
done at Yallourn. Munition factories and
other industrial concerns were held up,
domestic supplies of electricity were re-
stricted and transport services were so
curtailed that for once “sports” had to
go without their Saturday racing.
Given the necessary conditions, the set-
ting alight of the opencut was a fore-
gone conclusion. The vast quarry of
, brown coal, whose bottom is so far away
that the trucks and sheds on it look like
parts of a toy model, stands in a clearing
in the Haunted Hills, and that pic-
turesquely-named range is one of the
most densely-wooded in Gippsland. The
trees come right up to Yallourn’s door-
step. A Government which is continu-
ally warning settlers against leaving
bracken and rubbish round their holdings
might have been expected to set an
example by making a firebreak round
Yallourn at least a mile wide. Instead,
after four years, it has commissioned
Judge Stretton to hold another inquiry.
Meanwhile Mr. Scully gave the House
a “preliminary estimate” of losses, other
than human, in the January fires—“soo
houses, a million sheep, 50,000 cattle,
1000 horses, 1000 pigs, 200,000 poultry
and thousands of miles of fencing.” No
one asked him what his colleague Lazza-
rini, the Minister for Home Security, had
done and was doing in the matter, if
anything, and why prevention and fight-
ing of bushfires, indisputably a national
matter, were excluded from the Lazzarini
list of duties, if any.
ASSURANCE ACCEPTED.
“You didn’t throw mud at the gentlemen, Eddie? I unhesitatingly accept your statement; but don’t throw any more."


*sst
C. S.R. HABDWAII PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PL
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - ™ TH
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
ft
IB
o
.••••■;.
HR
G
POLITICAL POINTS
As a sequel to the latest Ward affair,
Menzies and Hughes resigned from the
Advisory War Council, withdrawal having
been decided upon at a U.A.P. meeting.
Spender, who perhaps intends to set up
a Federal “Democratic” party consisting
of himself, did not resign, nor did Fadden
and McEwen. The Agrarian idea, Curtin
being apparently willing, is that Page
should rejoin the pair and that the three
should develop their ideas about army
control and rural man-power. Both
groups should have pulled out of the
Advisory War Council when Curtin at-
tacked their home-defence plan during
two years of the war against Germany
as “defeatist in outlook and in prepara-
tion,” and remained out till the deadly
insult was withdrawn and apologised for.
Socialism, it seems, is the New Order
demanded by Ward in his hectoring Syd-
ney larrikin-politician style. It means
Queues. Queues for everything, and very
little of anything. It means also an un-
checked exercise of the power claimed
by the Man-power gentleman when Ward
was Minister of Labor and National Sei-
vice; “I could send you to Bourke if 1
liked”!
A fantastic so-called Unemployment
and Sickness Benefits Bill has failed of a
majority in the Senate, but will be rein-
troduced after June 30, when Caucus will
have the numbers. The proposed benefits
are lavish, qualifying for them is to be
as easy as finding a starting-price book-
maker, and everything is to be charged
up to the taxpayer. In short, a typical
measure of the kind foreseen by Herbert
Spencer when he wrote The Man and the
State.
The tradition that a Cavendish, if avail-
able, should be member for West Derby
was rudely shattered last week when the
Marquess of Hartington, son of the Duke
of Devonshire, was badly beaten at a
by-election. He was the Coalition can-
didate, and Churchill strove mightily for
him, but an Independent Labor man, an
alderman, beat him by 16,336 to 11,775.
Though a terrible facer for the Coalition
the result is held to have no military
significance. However, some of these
dissatisfied Labor gentlemen have been
energetically propagating the notion that,
if Hitler is whipped first, Britain’s part
in the land war against Japan should be
carried on by regulars and volunteers.
Referring to post-war civil aviation,
Drakeford said Federal Labor is not
going to “allow individuals to skim all
the sweet, leaving the taxpayer to swallow
the sour in subsidies to non-paying air
routes.” So Federal Labor really does
consider the taxpayer, even if he dourly
refuses to admit it.
At the height of the latest series of
bushfires it was bruited abroad that hun-
dreds of koalas had perished at the sanc-
tuary on Phillip Island. Actually only
five suffered. Koalas are slow-moving
creatures, but at least their protection
from bushfires isn’t under the control of
Government departments.
“S. M. Herald” cah be very interest-
ing politically when it struggles out of
the Mr.-Curtin-is-our-leader state of mind.
Witness its fling at the pay-as-you-earn
committee’s plan: Pay More As You
Earn. The cold truth packed into a
headline.
County Court Judge Stretton has been
given a commission to inquire into and
report on the Yailourn fire. Dunstan
said the terms of reference would be
drawn up that very day, and the inquiry
would begin within a week; in fact,
everything would be done with the utmost
dispatch. Judge Stretton received a com-
mission from Dunstan to inquire into
the 1939 bushfires, and his report was
declared by experts to be a masterpiece
of reasoning, deduction and recommenda-
tion. It was attacked in the House by
a Dunstan Minister, and little more was
heard about it and little done. It would
be an advantage if Dunstan were as
quick at carrying out recommendations
as at appointing inquirers.
“THE SHOW MUST GO ON.”
Mr. Spender and Mr. Fadden have decided not to withdraw from the
Advisory War Council.
The fire at Yailourn which semi-para-,
lysed Melbourne ought to teach the poli-
ticians the danger of putting all their eggs
in one basket. When the scheme was first
mooted farseeing individuals pleaded for
the retention of subsidiary services, to no
avail: private and public electrical enter-
prises were enthusiastically closed down.
And successive Governments have pro-
crastinated over the question of develop-
ing hydro-electric schemes in other dis-
tricts.
Queensland’s Peepul’s party, which has
Brisbane Lud Mayor Chandler, M.L.A.,
as its head, is having its ups and downs.
It announced joyfully the acquisition of
Massey, M.L.A. for Toowong; then
testily 'that he was no longer Q.P.P.
However, it has been joined by Bruce
Pie, who held Hamilton as an Indepen-
dent and gave it up (Chandler won it) to
contest Federal Brisbane. Pie, the tenth
Q.P.P. man “endorsed,” is after Windsor.
Polling-day is April 15.
The letters “A.1.F.” are to go up again
over Digger graves in New Guinea.
According to Forde they were removed
and “A.M.F.” substituted for “security
reasons” which exist no longer. When
The Bulletin inquired about the sub-
stitution a totally different “explanation”
was given. Perhaps it was withheld from
Forde as part of a general withholding
policy.
Referring to the campaigns in Papua
and New Guinea, Earle Page has made the
astonishing statement that from August,
1942, to February, 1943, inclusive, “dis-
ease caused 25,000 cases of disability as
against 6000-odd battle casualties.” And
he asserted that “casualties from malaria,
dysentery and scrub typhus, amounting
to over 15,000, could have been largely
averted if the original strategy had been
pursued and Japanese supplies cut off
by air and naval action.” In a forth-
right comment on the removal of fighting
generals from the army, he demanded to
know why “General Rowell, one of the
two men whose staff work chiefly helped
the escape of the bulk of the A.I.F. from
Greece, was sent down from the Moresby
command" and relegated to Cairo to fill
a posit.on as liaison officer which could
have been filled by a much junior man,
process of time to be “placed by
Gen P eral Eisenhower in the highly-impor-
Studi£ P Western European Invasion
Headquarters, with the rank of major-
gener?,»
With the Commonwealth Government
a& their best customerj railway manage-
merds j n three States* continue to pile up
profits and in tW( > States a large propor-
tion ls being socked away for post-war
spending. The three Governments con-
cerned are not even being called upon
to pay the equivalent of income tax in
reduction of their best customers im-
mense war deficit. In the U.S.A., accord-
ing to the New York “World-Telegram,”
“the railroads have paid the Government
two billions a year in taxes, and have done
a far better job than in the last war,
carrying much heavier traffic with greater
expedition, though equipped with fewer
locomotives and fewer cars.” They are
all company-owned.
Not long before El Alamein young
Mr. Aldridge wrote that, whereas “you
can expect impossibilities of the Rus-
sians,” the Tommy was failing because
he hadn’t been and wasn’t being “taught
to hate Fascism.” After El Alamein
young Mr. Aldridge wasn’t on hand to
receive the congratulations of the
Tommy, having gone to distant parts.
He has recently bobbed up again as a
war expert, and his first article was a
slaughtering attack on the Finns, about
whom he used to be quite sentimental.
He warned mediators to keep their hands
off, “because the Soviet and the Finnish
rulers are irreconcilable: the destruction
of the Finnish White Army and the White
Guard Hierarchy is the least the Soviet
would demand.” This when Washington
was, very properly, trying to manoeuvre
the Finns out of the war.
Only one paper, the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” reported the foulest part of Ward’s
attack on the English—the English this
Sydney larrikin-politician hates so much.
He made it fouler by throwing in a “we”
and an “our.”
One of our great disadvantages in this
war has been that the native people over
whom we have control were not so enthusi-
astically pro-British as one would imagine
after experiencing many years of the
alleged benefits of British colonial adminis-
tration. In Malaya troops had to be with-
drawn from the firing line to discharge
ships because native laborers at Singapore
deserted. The natives had no reason to be
enthusiastic in defending the form of gov-
ernment which had kept them in a state
of illiteracy and semi-starvation.
Is it not a fact that cocktail parties were
continued even when the enemy was dan-
gerously close to Singapore? The military
caste in that theatre spent the bulk of their
time at such parties and were in a semi-
drunken state whep they should have been
attending to their military duties.
This exhibition of muddy lying rivals
anything that has appeared* in Commu-
nist prints. It is “cheer-chasing” of the
sort that “Balance Sheet” Thornton must
recognise to the point of restoring Ward
to favor.
One of the surprises of the Westralian
Assembly elections was the defeat of
“Iggy” Boyle, C.P. member for Avon.
Before stumping his electorate Boyle pro-
tested that the rolls were in a horrible
state, and was successful in getting the
names of many C.C.C. men, all strangers,
he averred, struck off. He is now appeal-
ing on many grounds, such as that un-
qualified persons voted and unauthorised
methods were used. Boyle cut some
figure in the Assembly, and was marked
out for office if the Opposition won.
To the number of Sydney lotteries
there seems to be no end. A poster
attracts attention to the latest “Easter
Egg Art Union ; £2OOO for Is.” It’s only
when the trusting citizen gets his ticket
that he finds he’s “invested” in another
“Sheepskins for Russia” gamble; and
then he may wonder whether the butt
from which his ticket was pulled will or
won’t be found on vacant land.
The Apple and Pear Board, with the
•approval of the Sydney Labor Council,
is trying to unload 30-carton lots of
apples in 'factories and workshops at
2s. 6d. a carton, the idea being for some
person to act as agent at 2d. a carton.
The cartons contain about 101 b. of apples,
which means that the board gets a little
over a pound. Freight, cartage,
handling, packing and other charges have
to come out of this, so what the grower
gets is a problem.


PRE-WAR
STRENGTH
Pure Grape Brandy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Victorian Attorney-General lan Mac-
farlan must have been a prey to conflict-
ing emotions when he congratulated
Chief Justice Edmund Herring. The new
C.J. fought Macfarlan for his seat, and
indicated his intention of having another
try. If he hadn’t mounted the Bench the
mana he has meanwhile acquired as an
A.I.F. leader would have made him a
much more formidable rival for Mac-
farlan.
Squadron-Leader David Campbell’s
ambitions are two: to get back on to the
land as soon as the war is over and not
to be called a poet, if a poe| means a
long-haired gentleman living in a garret
with a geranium. The Bulletin first
learned of his existence a couple of years
ago when a series of lyrics of remark-
able quality began to arrive at this office,
the best of them, “Harry Pearce,” as
Australian as a “Banjo” Paterson ballad
SQUADRON-LEADER CAMPBELL,
D.F.C.
but as finely turned as a song by McCrae.
“Men in Green” was evidence that he had
been flying the wounded out of New
Guinea, and “Morse at Midnight” made
it clear that he was that excellent com-
bination a man-of-action and a genuine
literary craftsman. George Johnston’s
New Guinea Diary described how Camp-
bell got his D.F.C. on a reconnaissance
over Rabaul; and then Campbell com-
pleted the picture by turning up at The
Bulletin office a dial Frith de-
scribed as a mixture of Georges Carpen-
tier and Jack Hulbert. Campbell was
born at Ellerslie station, Adelong
(N.S.W), in 1915, played Rugby for
King’s School, Parramatta, and for Cam-
bridge. At the latter august institution
he studied English literature —because, he
said, he wanted to go on the land. He
was jackerooing when the war broke
out.
Blackburn, ex-M.H.R., whose defiance
of the A.L.P, over his feelings about
Soviet Russia lost him his seat, and
Slater, M.L.A., who was Australian
Minister at Moscow, but couldn’t stand
the climate, can jointly claim a record
for Victoria, and probably it hasn’t been
equalled anywhere. Solicitors in partner-
ship together some years back, each of
them became a Speaker. Both held that
post in the Victorian House.
Remove A 2 class at Melbourne Gram-
mar in 1905-7 was described at the time
by teachers as a “very ordinary lot of
schoolboys.” It contained two future
Lud Mayors of Melbourne, Gengoult
Smith and Harold Luxton ; four more
future knights, Clive Baillieu, Robert
Knox, Edmund Herring (Victoria’s new
C.J.) and Dalziel Kelly; four potential
generals, Sturdee, Smart, Hoad and
Morris, besides Herring; four incipient
diplomats, R. G. Casey, W. A. Leeper,
A. F. Yencken and Keith Officer, of
Chungking; two air vice-marshals, W. J.
Y. Guilfoyle and Adrian T. Cole. Also,
Air Commodore W. H. Anderson, Joynt,
V.C., and tefinis players O’Hara Wood
and the late Rupert Wertheim, as well as
Dr. Kellaway, principal of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, now director
of the Wellcome Laboratories in
England, and Dr. H. C. Colville, past
president of the B.M.A. Of the class’s
masters, two are still teaching at Mel-
bourne Grammar—Charles J. Brown and
Eliot Giles, the South Australian who in
pre-war days made a remarkable yatcht-
ing cruise in. the Pacific.
“Q.”; Monsignor Michael Potter has
passed on at Warwick (Q.), at 87. Born
in the very centre of Ireland, he came to
Warwick as curate over half a century
ago. Affectionately known as “Mons,”
he was apt to forget the passing of time
in his later days in the pulpit, and the
spectacle of members of the flock slip-
ping quietly out of the church became
known in Warwick as “The Retreat from
Mons.” Having no fancy for motor cars,
the Monsignor got around on foot or per
bike, but never failed every year to drive
an authentic Irish jaunting car in the St.
Pat’s procession. The beautiful new St.
Mary’s Church is a memorial to his fine
work in Warwick.
Gold is still being won from the M.L.
West Coast, and Frank Bird, of Grey-
mouth, retiring after 42 years with the
Justice Department, believes there’s still
£25,000,000 worth of it waiting there for
dredges. Bird’s experience of outsize
nuggets in the course of his 38 years as
Clerk of Court and Mining Registrar in-
cludes a whopper found by a couple of
old-timers within a day or two after
returning to their old M.L. claim from a
luckless shot at Klondyke. They found
the big lump only a couple of feet from
where they’d knocked off working two
years before. s
Another native-born Maorilander has
become an R.C. bishop, Monsignor
Ormond, of Auckland, filling the vacancy
in Christchurch caused by the death of
Bishop Brodie, Bom at Westport 62
years ago, Monsignor Ormond went to
Thurles College in Ireland, thence to
Rome, where he was ordained in 1908.
When Apostolic Delegate Ceretti arrived
in Sydney in 1914 Monsignor Ormond
was appointed secretary, resigning in
1921 and returning to Auckland.
A.B.C. bagged a good soldier as well
as a good musician and conductor when
it induced Stephen Yorke to come to
Australia 10 years ago. With the British
Regulars Yorke fought at Mons, Ypres
and in most major battles of 1914-18,
winning the D.C.M. at First Ypres. After
that war he entered the Royal Military
School of Music (Kneller Hall), and was
subsequently bandmaster with a rifle
brigade in India, on the African frontier
and at Gibraltar. Transferring to the
Gloucester, he was *With this regiment in,
among other parts of the globe, Egypt
and Singapore and finally India again.
He was rehearsing the Gloucester’ band
under an enormous tree in India when
a native handed him the cable from
A.B.C. ihviting him to come to Australia,
a complete surprise to him.
Air Commodore M. W. Buckley,
M.8.E., appointed to command the
R.N.Z.A.F. in the South Pacific, has
flapped wings for many a year. Bom in
Otago 50 year ago, he finished his edu-
cation at Timaru High, and served in the
last war with the Royal Naval Air Force
and with the R.A.F. He was sub-
sequently in civil aviation in N.Z. till
1926, when he was appointed instructor
to N.Z.’s airmen. Early in this war he
commanded No. 75 (N.Z.) Bomber
Squadron in Britain, and later was in
command of an air station in Britain
from which two squadrons worked, one
being his N.Z. team.
Getting on for 90, Arthur Peck, archi-
tect and doyen of Victorian yachtsmen,
has decided to sell his yacht Maysie,
nearly as old as himself and best known
of small craft in Port Phillip waters.
Built in Sydney, she was for years the
show craft of Port Jackson. Then she
spent ten years gracing the Derwent,
whence Peck bought her. She was the
craft with which Peck proposed to start
an annual race across the Tasman be-
tween Australians and Maorilanders, but
the scheme fell through, and Peck had
to content himself with open races across
Bass Strait.
Perth’s new Commissioner of Public
Health, Dr. Charles Leslie Park, was
director of the Eastern Bureau of the
League of Nations at Singapore from
1931 to the fall. He got clear of the
invaders, and until recently was Acting
Senior M.O. of Tasmanian Department
of Public Health and chairman of the
Tasmanian T.B, Board, A Victorian, he
graduated from Melbourne Uni. in 1907
as M. 8., 8.5., and in 1918 took his M.D.
and Dip. Public Health. He’s 57,
B.H.P.’s head, Essington Lewis, con-
tinues to be a case to the point that men
being without honor in their own country
are more the exception than the rule. The
full story of his work as Director-
General of Munitions and Director of
Aircraft Production can’t yet be told, but
when it is it will be realised how useful
it is to have thorough experts about the
place in time of need. Government
showed appreciation of this when Essing-
ton Lewis was given a C.H. a few months
back. Now Melbourne University has
marked its appreciation by handing him
the 1943 award, which, in memory of
former Professor W. C. Kernot, is made
on the recommendation of assessors
nominated by the Faculty of Engineering,
these on this occasion including knight
George Julius and H. R. Harper, both
of whom received the award in previous
years. Dean of the Faculty of Engineer-
ing Professor J. Neill Greenwood was
the other assessor.
Charles Norman MacKenzie, LL.B.,
F.R.S.A., combines two unusual positions
—he’s Consul for Peru in Melbourne
and president of Melbourne Scots. His
father came from Dingwall, Scotland,
and on St. Andrew’s Day, when the haggis
is piped in at Scott’s Hotel and toast-
glasses are ceremoniously broken —or
were in the pre-austerity era —the Mac-
Kenzie dons the kilts, and then his mas-
sive but athletic figure looks as if it might
have stepped out of a Raeburn portrait.
The Scottish saint’s day is claimed to be
celebrated in Melbourne in a more spec-
MACKENZIE, OF MELBOURNE
SCOTS.
tacular fashion than in any other city
in the Empire. Also, the wit is said to be
as good as the whusky, so much so that
it once inspired one of Victoria’s most
unbending Governors to a sally: “On
behalf of the Australian glass manu-
facturers, I thank you.” MacKenzie was
born at Mt. Gambier (S.A.) in 1888,
was educated at St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide, where he was Vansittart Scholar,
was called to the S.A. Bar, served
overseas in the last war, returned to be
mayor of his native town, moved to
a practice in Melbourne, and has been
the general president of the local Scots
since 1934. Hfe won the Stawell Gift in
IQAC
The Tasmanian man of the sea here
depicted, Emile Verlaine Deschaineux,
certainly began 1944 in good style—on
the first day of it he was promoted to the
rank of captain; navy, that is. Born in
Uie /vppie iaie in ne ucciueu young
CAPTAIN E. V. DESCHAINEUX .
D.S.C.
for the sea, entering the Royal Australian
Naval College at Jervis Bay in 1916.
Later be proceeded to the R.N. for
courses and selected torpedo as his
specialty. He had a distinguished career
with both R.N. and R.A.N., going up to
the rank of commander in 1936, and he
had command of a destroyer at the Dun-
kirk evacuation. Decorated with the
D.S.C. whilst in command of H.M.S.
Eglinton, he returned to serve for a while
on the staff of Navy Office.
Diggers get a proved champion of
their interests to represent them with the
appointment of Col. A. W. Hyman as
chairman of the No. 2 Assessment Tri-
bunal for Repat. As R.S.L. president in
N.S.W, he’s been for years one of the
hardest battlers for Digger betterment.
With the new job, which covers Victoria,
S.A. and W.A., he’s resigning the League
presidency.
Lieut. K. N. Brennan, R.A.N.V.R.,
who has won the D.S.C. for gallantry and
distinguished service at the capture of
Termoli (Italy), is a South Australian
who joined the Navy in W.A. as a sub.-
lieut. in 1941. He’s 37.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 71, Walter Page Devereux,
who came from England in 1908 as wool and
produce manager for Australian Mercantile
Land and Finance and since then had been one
of Australia’s leading wool men. Common-
wealth Governments looked to him as one of
their chief advisers on wool.
At Melbourne, Miss Jessie Stobo Watson
Webb, doyen of Melbourne University’s woman
academics. Joining in 1898, she was one of
its most brilliant products and won numerous
scholarships and exhibitions. A specialist in
ancient history, she was in Athens twice work-
ing with the British School of Archeology, and
in 1923 she was Australia’s alternate delegate
to the League of Nations. Miss Webb helped to
establish the Lyceum Club and the University
Women’s College, and was acting Professor of
History at the finish.
At 78, at Wellington (MX.), Rev. T. R.
Richards, former president of the Methodist
Conference. Bom at Chiltern (Vic.), he was
educated at Queen’s College, Melbourne, and
crossed to MX. in 1894. Four sons—a captain,
a sergeant, a corporal and a pilot-officer—are
serving overseas.
In Adelaide, at 77, Wallace Packer, who
learned music under Barnsby in England, and
was in the Chapel Royal choir at Windsor in
Queen Victoria’s time, but had been in Adelaide
since 1888 as a church organist and teacher.
Did good work for the W.E.A., too.
In Melbourne, at 76, Frank Lionel Potter,
who, hailing from India, joined the Victorian
C. 1.8. and became a world authority on finger-
printing.
In. Melbourne, at 87, August Eichorn, a snake
expert of the Upper Murray who spent a life-
time of research into snakebite - remedies.
Bitten over 500 times, his end came from a
scratch from barbed wire which Jed to blood
poisoning.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: An Australian flag, put out in
honor of a visit by a State Governor’s
lady, was noticed by passers-by to be
flying upside down. That recalls a neat
crack launched by Fougasse, “Punch’s”
art editor, against the tribe Kipling called
“yellow-bellied flag-flappers.” An old
chap rose from his seat in a crowded hall
and asked the candidate to explain why
the Union Jack on the wall behind him
was upside down. Pompously the candi-
date replied: “I can only suppose that it
is because the person who (ahem) erected
the bannah was so lacking in love for
ouah flag and in respect for our glorious
Empiah as to be ignorant of the correct
position.” “Is that so?” barked the in-
quirer ; “well, let me tell you it isn’t
upside down.”
* * * *
“Serjeant Buzfuz”: If y’j; Honor
pleases, the plaintiff, Chifley, alleges
that in 1915 we, being indebted for a
year’s rent to the parent firm he represents,
didn’t pay it, and that in respect of firms
now merged with his there was a neglect
to pay rent for one year at the very in-
ception of the lease. He offers no evi-
dence on these claims. I am in-
formed, y’r Honor, that the authori-
ties he has consulted are against him
—nor does my learned friend sug-
gest to the Court how he can evade
the Statute of Limitations. Neither does
“I eke out my ration from my stock of pre-war whisky .”
he satisfactorily explain why this dubious
claim is resurrected at this very late date
in the history of the transactions. How-
ever, my clients are not disposed to
quibble. The plaintiff says he will accept
a quarter of the rent he says is unpaid
and we are prepared to compound on
that basis. But not, of course, on last
year’s scale. We tender payment at the
scale subsisting at the date of the alleged
non-payment. I find that in the case of
the N. S. Wales firm only a small minority
of tenants were liable at all —those with
incomes in excess of £lOOO a year, who
paid 6d. in the £. As to the parent firm,
we find that an average payment of about
£3 10s. will meet the case (Left
sitting.)
“Ad”: One of Adelaide’s leading
chemical cos. has had to face a batch
of claims for a powder sold as liquorice
which wasn’t, and which produced un-
pleasant effects. The co. apologised for
a “pure mistake due to shortage of staff,”
and did (the Court said) “all it could to
reduce the effects of the accidents and do
what was right in the matter.” The
severest sufferer has had damages
assessed —the co. leaving it to the Court
to decide —at £364.
« * * *
“Taniwha”: A friendly controversy
has been kindled in M.L. by the claim
of a party of trampers that they had come
upon the site of the legendary lost lake
of the Tararuas, Hopua Korari. It was
a sacred place to the Maoris centuries
before the arrival of the pakeha, and was
supposed to be one of the resting places
of a great migratory flying bird, as big
as the wingless moa, which the Maoris
named Hokioi. The lake was “lost” be-
fore the white men came, and the pakehas
considered lake and bird to be figments
of Maori imagination till two things
happened—the site of the lost lake
(drained of water possibly as the result
of some seismic disturbance) was dis-
covered, surrounded by the grove of
ancient rimu trees insisted on by old
chroniclers, and Julius von Haast recon-
structed the hokioi from fossil remains,
giving it the scientific moniker of Harpa-
gornis Moorei —Moore being Maoriland’s
principal updredger of ornithological
relics. Confidence in Maori recollections
has been strengthened in these days of
aviation by the rediscovery among
labyrinthine mountain ranges of various
“lost” topographical features. The current
controversy over Hopua Korari arises
from redundance—two sites of the lake
have been discovered, many miles apart.
# * * *
“Looby”: The bus was ripping along
to Collaroy when the woman in the front
seat disentangled an umbrella from a heap
of parcels, stood up and said deter-
minedly “That bee that got in at Dee
Why. Who’s going to put him out?”
The man who had boarded the bus at
Dee Why stood up, surprised and indig-
nant. But the umbrella-brandisher’s
companion calmly pointed to a bee which
was crawling on the inside of the half-
open window. The rescuing lady wangled
it on to the tip of her brolly and put it
back into the open air. A sigh of relief
—or was it disappointment?—arose from
the passengers.
* * * *
“Zake”: The long-vexed question as
to who would prevail in an open go be-
tween boxer and wrestler has been settled
to every white’s complete satisfaction. It
occurs in the film “Behind the Rising
Sun,” based on James Young’s novel,
Samurai honor apparently being satisfied
by proxy, a Jap officer nominates as his
representative in a duel a gigantic Nip-
ponese jiu-jitsu exponent, his Yankee
opponent being a rangy, fast-footed
boxer, wearing gloves. The scrap pro-
vides as thrilling a ten minutes as the
screen has given, with the Jap depending
mostly on chopping with hand edges,
backslamming and kicking, the Ameri-
can pinning his faith to a long-range
wallop and footwork which is beautiful
to behold. The Jap has his moments,
such as when he gets a neckhold and
the boxer unlooses a barrage of short
rips to his assailant’s unprotected midriff.
Follow a few backslants, and the Yankee
gets up a bit groggy, to fall victim to a
hug. And what saves him? Why, the
despised rabbit-killer! That loosens the
grip, and as the Nip’s head* momentarily
sags a staggering uppercut lifts him clean
off his feet and knocks him cold. My
knuckles are still bruised—why don’t they
pad the backs of theatre seats?
* * * *
“Ek D.” on a mangled monastery;—
Whatever ghosts haunt the surroundings of
the Benedictine Abbey on Monte Cassino will
be less troubled about the strife which has
wrecked the gloomy walls than many a corre-
spondent. The monastery was founded some-
where early in the sixth century, when St. Bene-
dictme, havmg inaugurated his order among the
ruins of Nero’s old palace at Subiaco, fled to
Cassino from a rival with some of his disciples
and picked the rugged hill with its tortuous
approach as a fine strategic position for de-
fence. But the Lombards sacked the place half
a century on and the black monks fled to
Rome, where they attached themselves to a
monastery in the Lateran The move was a
good one, since Gregory the Great, becoming
a monk, took them under his wing, housed
them in his palace on the Cachan, and sent
one of them to found Christianity in Britain
lineage to Cassino’s elevated monastery, which
in later years has been a training college under
a now nonagenarian, abbot. The monastery has
been wrecked several times before—most of
the existing building belongs to comparatively
recent centuries.
* * * *
“N.X.”; O’Toole and friends had been
visiting another unit in Egypt. Entertain-
“What Were you doing in New Guinea?"
“Aw, just a little prospectin’ .”
ment had been on a lavish scale, and
the merry company, "returning to camp
aboard a Tommy lorry on which they
had hitchhiked a ride, inquired of the
world at large what, if anything, was
wrong with the A.I.F. The Tommy driver
was ready for an argument. He asserted
that, though Aussies had a right to be
proud of their fighting prowess, they
were lacking in the knightly qualities of
civility and chivalry. This so impressed
O’Toole and his colleagues that on alight-
ing they thanked the Tommy profusely
for the lift, and backed away bowing
from the waist at each step and salaaming
deeply. The show was most impressive
until the party disappeared into a ditch,
relic of some army “doover.”
* * * *
“Petermac”: That unit’s library filled
with dull Victorian literature (B.
16/2 / ’44) recalls the response to an
appeal for books in Liverpool camp in
’39. We got books all right—thousands
of ’em! In addition to schoolgirl annuals
and history books there were dozens of
tomes on geology, economic theories,
spiritualism and several other isms. There
were also books on betting systems,
mothercraft, stamp collecting and how
to make your hair grow. Novels were
mainly by writers nobody ever heard of.
Obviously the donors had seized the
opportunity, of getting rid of the books
they had no use for.
* * *
“Blue P.”: You can’t read a Sydney
paper’s reference to the war in Russia
without finding that a hundred thousand
or a million Germans have been
“trapped” in some river bend or pocket;
that some Russian general is’ about to
spring a “trap,” or that some Germans
are fighting desperately, feverishly, fran-
tically, frenziedly to escape a “trap.” This
sort of thing spreads ; thus the headline
of a story of how a Sydney suburban
train was delayed in a city tunnel for a
few minutes ran “800 Trapped in Rail-
way Tunnel.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Mrs. Napier Waller, wife of
the artist who decorated the walls of the
new Town Hall in Melbourne, has de-
signed and seen erected the first stained-
glass window with a martial subject in
a church in Melbourne. It is in St.
Mark’s Church, Camberwell, and depicts,
in all his flying paraphernalia. Pilot-
Officer Andrew Seton Campbell, killed in
March, 1943, when his Boston bomber
crashed near Labrador. It stands beside
a stained-glass window of St. Andrew the
Apostle and Martyr. St. Andrew, accord-
j n „ to t i, e strirv lpav : no . r n |, n
l ° me StOl A att f r .leaving John to
join Jesus, preached in Scythia and,
martyred at Patrae in A.D. 70, became the
pa tron saint of Russia as well as of Scot-
■ , , , ~
a ? association symbolised by the
Muscovite naval ensign in Czanst times,
* * * *
«r> ». r i n -A
. P;McM. . Little is heard of the part
printing craftsmen have played in this
war, although both Britain and America
have used mobile printing units at the
. . • * , ° , • ..
front for turning out maps, navigation
charts, aerial photographs and propa-
ganda leaflets. During the African cam-
P. aigrl a i° b that wou ' d norn ? al >y take
SIX months was urgently required. An
American linotype section was asked if
it could get it done in 35 days. “Give
q f PW Pn ts and nffintv nf black nnfiW ”
us a tew cots and plenty ot black cottee,
said the technicians, and we II do better
than that.” They delivered the goods in
27 days, and General Eisenhower sent
them a special message of appreciation.
“Wilks”: Without doubting that “Strict
Veg.’s” aged friends are as “active as
brumbies” (B. 9/2/’44), I’m not con-
vinced that either alcohol or riboflavin
has anything to do with their sprightli-
ness, Certainly Dr. Drummond has an-
nounced that riboflavin (or vitamin B 2
or G, as it is variously known) is present
in appreciable quantities in malt brewage,
but other authorities consider beer’s vita-
min content to be negligible. For in-
stance, Prof. Borsook, in his recent com-
prehensive work on vitamins, says that
nine or ten gallons of beer daily would
be required to supply a man’s needs of
vitamin B. And Prof. Borsook says
there is no riboflavin in beer.
POETIC PLEASURES AND PAINS.
“There is a pleasure in poetic pains
Which only poets know,” one of ’em sings.
A statement calling for some “please explains,”
Like numerous imaginative things
You’re apt to happen on in lyric strains
When sons of bright Apollo sweep the strings.
Who was the author, do I hear you ask?
I fancy it was Cowper in “The Task.”
Pleasure in pain sounds like a paradox,
An oxymoron, as professors say,
Something that’s righteously unorthodox.
Still we have wireless wires, 'tis true, today,
And quite a lot of other verbal shocks.
Yet here’s a pleasure, should it come my way,
It surely follows that I shouldn’t know it,
Not being what you’d designate a poet.
Poetic pains assail me every time
I take my pen in hand. I fume and fret
When up Parnassus’ lowest slopes I climb
And find how hot and bothered one can get
Pursuing the perversely flying rhyme
And chasing the elusive epithet,
But not a shadow of a thrill or throb
Comes to enliven my laborious job.
“There is a pleasure in poetic pains.”
Maybe, but hope of such you may discard
Unless you’ve won a place in the domains
Where none may enter but the genuine bard.
To there alone such pleasure appertains,
Though chaps like us may well account it hard
To feel the suffering and yet forgo
The recompense that “only poets know.”
Pains in poetic pleasures, too, you’ll note,
May lurk, occasioning distress enough,
When metres from all canons seem remote
And rhymes are riotously harsh and rough,
Distinct afflictions —not for those who wrote
But for poor souls who try to read the stuff,
And seek some clue, the limping lines between.
To what the blithering blazes it may mean.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
UP AGAINST IT.
“I wish there was somebody in this country who
could tell me how to get more coal.”
—Prime Minister Cufttn.
Brave words and soft I’ve tried. From bounce
and blow
I’ve turned, and almost piteously pleaded.
And seen each method of persuasion go
Alike unheeded.
I’ve rumbled like the thunder from above,
But what availed my threats? Men soon
forgot ’em. „
Then “roared as gently as a sucking dove,
The same as Bottom.
I’ve blustered and I’ve smoodged alternately,
Veering from sourly grim to sweetly gracious,
And found, alas! both poses equally
Inefficacious.
Now, while I wring my hands in anguish sore,
With every strike the outlook grows more
rotten.
Can nobody enlighten me how more
Coal can be gotten?
All silent? Is there none to me?
Then let me own, however I regret it,
That all I’ve learned so far appears to be
How not to get it.
N.S.W.
PIPARUS.


“Pip”: Latest arrival in the wet North
is Drippy, much less intelligent than the
average soldier, and therefore definitely a
galah. His legendary misadventures in-
clude climbing on the roof to see how
many drinks were on the house and tak-
ing off his kneecap to see if there was
any beer in the joint. That night he
slept with his head on the kerb to keep
his mind tfut of the gutter. In camp,
however, he is a model soldier, and has
been seen saluting the refrigerator marked
“General Electric” and the reception
camp with its “General Details” sign.
His latest parcel from home contained
three socks —he’d written to tell his
mother he’d grown an extra foot. Covet-
ing a job in the office, he wanted to chop
off his fingers to write shorthand. He
thought he ought to amputate his arms
to wear his sleeveless pullover. He volun-
teered for a batman’s job because he
likes playing cricket. He’s in the mortars
now so that he can make things go with
a bang. Of a night he takes hay to bed
to feed his nightmares. His best effort
was getting C.B. for arriving late on
parade and mistaking it for a New Year’s
honor.
“A.J.K.”: A few service monikers to
add to “Pip’s” list (B. 8/12/’43): “Pop'
(he’s getting on in years), “Goldy” (auri-
ferous of tooth), “Pull-through” (needs
feeding) and “Baldy.” “Twenty-eight
days,” “Tich,” “Goog,” “Spike” and
“Gaffer” I can’t explain, though the
last-named suggests a yokel. For no
apparent reason, I was tabbed “Harem.”
“Cock” for a chap named Roach illus-
trates the use of the associative prefix.
A gem in this class is the ecclesiastical
“Come-all-ye” sported by a certain
Private Faithful.
* * * =H
“Tinopai”: M.L. is celebrating the
centenary of St. Mary’s Church, New
Plymouth, one of Bishop Selwyn’s favor-
ites. Its churchyard is rich in history,
but few can today find the most historic
grave. It was in June, 1842, that Charles
Armitage Brown was buried on Marsh-
land Hill, behind the church. When the
hill was fortified later, in the Maori Wars,
the grave was obscured. Brown was a
great friend of Keats, with whom he
toured Scotland on the journey during
which the poet contracted the illness from
which he never recovered. Together they
worked on the unsuccessful “Otho the
Great.” Through Brown, Keats met
Fanny Brawne. For many years after
the poet’s death Brown worked on Keats’s
unfinished MSS. Suddenly deciding to
go to M.L. he turned the work over to
Monckton Milnes.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: In the days of Dutch rule
over Java there was a pleasant tradition
that when an official retired or a planter
died and left dependants the whole
community should roll up to the auction
of his effects and bid briskly for them.
Anybody who expected bargains was apt
to be disappointed. Shilling bottles of
hair oil went for the equivalent of several
guineas and matchboxes for as many
shillings as there were matches in them.
The object was to send the departing citi-
zen off with handsome parting gifts, and
as everybody had a chance of coming in
for this largesse in his turn nobody
objected. Dutch airmen have imported
this custom to Australia, and when a
member of a unit loses his life in action
they bid for his belongings in the same
way. At a recent auction somewhere up
north hundreds of pounds were bid for
the not-very-luxurious kit of a dead pilot.
sfe % * * *
“Whiskers”: I wear a beard —a full-
fledged affair that needs no trimming and
can be left to its own resources. Now
that it is greying my friends tell me it
should be removed, but I demur, remem-
bering the experience of a oqce-beavery
manager of a country store. After he
applied the razor he was a vastly changed
man. In came a cocky with the greeting:
“I suppose you’re the new manager.”
Getting “Yes,” he added “Me and you
will get on all right. As soon as I sets
eyes on a man I can tell if I can take to
him. I could never stand that old twister
with the whiskers.”
* * jfc ak
“D.E.”: In its complete break with the
past “S. M. Herald” is dropping into the
queer jargon of “Time” and the scores
of imitation sheets and supplements
which have shot up in Australia and else-
where. In a review of an “anti-Fascist”
book which has had some vogue in the
U.S.A., a “Herald” young man served up
a heap of “Time”-like expressions and
illustrations. “A Sensational Double-
Cross” is one headline, and there is a
“candid photograph” of “America’s
native fiihrer, Joseph McWilliams, known
as ‘Handsome Joe McNazi’: he had a
prize retinue of cutthroats.” The sub-
ject of another photograph is “the bow-
legged, bull-necked Bundesfuhrer Fritz
Kuhn,” but as only the Kuhn bust is
shown the bow legs have to be taken for
granted. The author of the volume ex-
tolled is an Armenian who, admits to
several aliases. One of his aversions is
a nephew of Henry and William James,
who is alleged to have said in the
Armenian’s hearing that “the only thing
we can hope for from now is for America
to lose this war —the only way to save
America is for Hitler and Japan to smash
us.” One should require better evidence
than that of an Armenian who takes
any name that suits his immediate
purpose before condemning a member
of an illustrious family as a traitor.
“L.H*B.”: Tell “Zake” (B. 2/2/’44)
“no good to Gundy” is dinkum Aussie.
Gundy, a little N. S. Wales township 11
miles out from Scone, on the Belltrees
road, at one time consisted of four pubs,
a store, a post office and a couple of
houses, and depended, mainly on travel-
lers and doing-in their cheques.
During the prohibition campaign of
1905 a temperance lecturer arrived there.
After a good half hour of his eloquence
a very deaf old inhabitant, who had been
listening intently with hand cupped to his
ear, got the drift of his speech and, rising
indignantly to his feet, asked the spruiker
if he advocated the closing of pubs. “I
do, sir, most strongly,” answered the
speaker. “Well, that’s no good to
Gundy,” quoth the ancient and stumped
indignantly from the meeting.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I also had an experience
of journalistic exaggeration similar to
that of the Australian artist in Paris (B.
9/2/’44) who was advised not to go back
“It’s my birthday, sir. Do you mind if I fire a broadside ?”
to his homeland because the bushfires
made it too dangerous. In Shanghai
during the upheavals that followed Sun
Yat-sen’s announcement of the republic,
I received a cable from my family in-
quiring if I were safe. Being in normally
good health I was puzzled at their solici-
tude. I learnt afterwards that they had
been reading reports of bomb outrages
in Peking, shootings in Hankow, risings
of rebels in Canton and chasings of mis-
sionaries in Honan. There are hundreds
of miles between these places, but tele-
scoped together in the morning paper
they must have presented a terrifying
picture.
sic * * *
“Friday Island”: The suggestion of a
Bulletin contributor that Spanish Fe
taught in Australia should be tried out
first on the Firm’s Gilsullivan co. Ivan
Menzies is referred to as the Duke of
“Plahtza Toro,” instead of the correct
euphonious Spanish “Platha Toro. The
libretto makes it clear that the Duke was
merely a visitor to Venice. Why then
the Italian.“aza”?
¥ sf * *
“Scientia”; A speculation conveyed,
perhaps a little incautiously, to the press
by Ernest Fisk (B. 16/2/’44) as a radio
technician —he supposed a wavelength on
which communication with spirits of the
departed might be possible —-has served
to define the difference between the theo-
logical and the scientific approach to
these matters. Physicists took up the
attitude: “We are eager to investigate
any evidence the head of A.W.A. has
to offer.” Theologians laughed the
Fiskian belief away as an absurdity, in-
forming the author of the theory that
his materialistic world can at ho point
impinge upon or overlap the spiritual
region which they represent and interpret.
In my youth I listened to many a sermon
on Paleyesque lines intended to buttress
revealed religion with scientific data, but
that avenue seems to be now but seldom
pursued. I have an idea Madame Blavat-
sky had something to do with it when
she informed a sceptical world that the
reason mahatmas and yogis play such
puerile pranks on investigators of the
occult is that they have a supreme con-
tempt for the uninitiated and wish to
discourage their attempts to gain know-
ledge. That’s a sound defence against
any artillery the materialists can wheel
up—almost but not quite as sound as
the proposition that the material world
stands outside the spiritual and never the
twain shall meet.
* * * *
“Bon Accord”: Touching the passion
of the Scot for accuracy, I always
recall with relish the instance of that de-
votion given by Bailie Pinkerton, of
Glasgow, After many years spent in
charities and other good works for his
city he was knighted in recognition. As
he slowly and painfully bent the knee to
receive the accolade, kindly old Queen
Victoria said with sympathy “Rheu-
matism, Mr. Pinkerton?” Nae, yirr
Majestic, a wudden leg,” responded the
new knight.
*** • * ■
“Quid Tails” on an educational insti-
tution :
Now that the two-uppers have all been taken
down with two-headed pennies hr have proved
their inability to play without Britannia sitting
on her wheel to turn the heads or tails the right
way with her spear as they are falling, let them
come to my university. No need to bring food,
as a buffet supper is available, but there’s no
bar. Come in with a bottle and the doorkeeper
will take if into custody until you leave. In-
deed, if you have had more than one or two
you will be turned back to walk the streets
for an hour or so to cool off. In the cloisters
of our university no boozing or squabbles are
allowed. Two-headed pennies or flat spins
are impossible, because tails are crossed from
perimeter to perimeter with white enamel
lines an eighth of an inch wide and this
mark can be seen in the twirl and fall
of the pennies 20ft. or 30ft. t away. Two
consecutive falls one way entitle anyone round
the ring to command “dice ’em,” and this
compels the ringmaster to seize the kip pennies
used. At least 10 others similarly marked
are tossed by him (the only keeper of the kip
pennies) into the ring from which the kip holder
must make his selection. If a player finds it
difficult to get all-night leave from the wife or
girl, under a gentleman’s agreement there is a
college a few yards away which plays under the
same rules until 10.30 p.m., when it doses and
the university opens. And we don’t call our
doorkeeper a “nitkeeper” —he is a respectable
financial member of a registered trade-union,
fully conscious of his duties and responsibilities.
The police know how admirably our college
and university 'are conducted and —but I’ve told
you enough already.
* * * *
“Eck”: As to the origin of “sirloin,”
I visited Hoghton (pronounced Hawton)
Towers a few years ago and heard all
about it from the caretaker, James I
came with a large retinue to the place
and, judging by the menu (a copy hangs
on the'wall), was well entertained by Sir
Edward Hoghton. There were more than
20 meat dishes on the long table by the
wall in the dining-room, all ready for
dinner. Someone asked “Where is the
loin?” The answer was “Four of the
King’s gentlemen have taken it off.” The
king, seated near by, said “They must
bring it back. It is ‘the Sir’s’ loin.” Some
jester twisted this to “Sir Loin,” and the
king, in merry mood, was easily induced
to stage a mock knighting. The four
came back with the loin and knelt with
it before the king, who gave it the acco-
lade. There is a picture of the incident
hanging on the castle wall. Hoghton
Towers lies between Preston and Black-
burn, in Lancashire.
# * * »
“F.S.”: on a mission to bring Art to
the People:
Lud Mayor Nettlefold’s dream of making
Melbourne the cultural centre of the. Southern
Hemisphere will have a modest beginning with
the opttdng on March 24 of a show of
pictures claimed to be some of the finest
examples of Australian painting. The Cen-
tenary exhibition was announced in similar
terms, but it contained some awfnl duds. The
only exhibition at the Town Hall which got a
good press was the “modernist” one collected
in Europe by* Basil Burdett (since killed in
Singapore) and sponsored by Melbourne
“Herald.” It was launched with all the adver-
tising art of that paper. Trams were hung with
legends, there were columns of biographical
matter printed about the romantic Bohemian-
tinged careers of the artists and a band of en-
thusiastic spruikers well up in the jargon told
the people through loudspeakers what to think
before they were well into the building. A
newspaper controversy broke out, one side,
including a gallery director, stigmatising the
show as revolting, artistically immoral and de-
grading and the other making claims that' would
have been excessive if the works had been
painted by Velasquez, Rembrandt, Rubens and
Michelangelo all boiled into one. The result
was merely a success of sensation, maybe, but
it was a first attempt t'o interest Australians in
art, and Burdett deserves to be gratefully re-
membered for it. If Lud Mayor Nettlefold is
responsible for a parallel achievement he will
do a service.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Louis McCubbin, Director
of Adelaide National Gallery, in a con-
tribution to tjhe Archibald Prize discus-
sion calls to the aid of the pro-Dobelfites
El Greco, who in the time of Velasquez
made a great name (according to McCub-
bin) because he “broke away from the
purely conventional portrait and em-
phasised individual characteristics to
some extent resorted to caricature
distorted the human form for the sake
of effect.” Other authorities, of course,
strenuously deny that El Greco or any
other great portraitist of old played such
fantastic tricks with anatomy as now
please grave judges.
* * * *
“Spoke”: An example of the power of
mind over matter, cited in psycho-
logical textbooks, concerns the ability
certain Swiss mountain people have of
wishing warts on to their bodies. A case
of the reverse sort has occurred in Mel-
bourne. A girl with her hands covered
with the unsightly excrescences consulted
a Collins-street specialist. He told her
to return next day to have them burned
off. When she looked at her hands next
morning she discovered that Dr. Fright
had performed the operation without fee.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The picture ends, and
from up in a tree a floodlight leaps
through the dark. Gleaming wet ground-
sheets rise as one, then ripple downhill,
converging on the muddy black track
that Winds away through the kunai. For
a hundred yards the crowd moves easily,
the rumbling running commentary on
the show punctuated suitably here and
there where Bill has slid into a puddle or
Bluey tripped over a rock, until they
reach the clearing where the transport is
parked. Then there’s a wild scramble to
fill your own bus and beat the other chap
on to the road. Engines roar, and the
first dozen are away. The flood-torn track
forces everything into low gear ; every-
thing is four-wheel drive and capable of
fierce acceleration. A truck loses a few
yards through a slow gear change and a
jeep scoots into the momentary gap in
front of itanother truck stops for some
more of its fellows and a command car
whips round one side, a jeep round the
other, and they dead-heat for the space ;
but the car has the weight, so the mechani-
cal ant pulls over to the grass muttering
and waiting its chance. The truck moves
off but gets too far to one side and down
go the starboard wheels into a rain-
ripped gutter; its engine whines and five
wheels claw at the bank, but half a dozen
vehicles have already spurted past it,
their occupants shouting florid advice
to the tight-packed cargo with the alarm-
ing list. By now those who are still
walking have divided into two streams,
filling the space between cars and kunai
on both sides, and between them the pro-
cession bumps along, each pair of head-
lights full in the faces of the load a
few feet ahead—good, open, rugged,
brown faces, especially our own chaps.
The track forks, the traffic branches, the
pace quickens; down a dip a shrewd
driver shouts “No brakes! No brakes!”
and the pedestrians in front part like
sheep as on he pounds up the next pinch.
You swing into your own camp, and
note that Tiny has the billy on. He
asks what the show was like, and you tell
him it was rotten but perhaps he’d better
see it. So next night he does, and comes
away in another rumbling crowd, squelch-
ing through the mud or hanging on to
some bounding chariot by all fours and
his teeth.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”: I ran along to see Robbie
and found him dogging a paddock near
the road. At my toot he whistled the
pack, his hand went up and I caught a
muffled order. Every dog sat down.
Turning, Robbie strode down to the road,
where we yarned for about half an hour
and I explained the matter of the divid-
ing fence. Then, to illustrate my point,
we drove on a quarter of a mile, spent
ten minutes or so at the fence in ques-
tion, and came back to find the pack still
in position. As we left the car and walked
towards them I called to several of the
mongs I knew, but the only result was a
few tail thumps and a grin from Robbie.
Presently he whistled. “Behind! ” he
ordered, and the tripe-hounds dropped
into place obediently. Several times be-
fore we reached the next paddock I
turned to note each mong following in
the same order in which he had “fallen
in,” nor did they break till a whistle from
their C.O. sent them forward to hunt
eagerly in all directions. And that’s what
I call training.
* * * *
“Kai-kai”: Our tent was 40 yards
from the creek, and loud thumpings in
the near-by scrub got six of us out of bed
armed with sticks, torches and rifles.
Although a search revealed nothing, the
thumpings went on all night, and, in view
of Bill’s lurid tales of crocs, that tramp
through the undergrowth in search of
New Guinea boongs, nobody slept much.
Walking through the scrub next morning
Nobby spun round as there came a crash
behind him. Lying at his feet was a wild
mango which had fallen from a 40ft. tree
overhead. Bill hasn’t been game to men-
tion crocodiles sin;e, but the troop is
very grateful for a regular diet of fresh
fruit.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Recently examined portion
of an old wombat skull, the teeth of
which, four double and one incisor to
each side, were worn to within a quarter
of an inch of their bony sockets. In the
sockets they extended upwards and across
in a semicircle about an inch and a half
across to almost meet those of the other
side under the nosei Dental surgery to
remove one complete from a live animal
would probably necessitate chopping half
the structure of the head away.
* * * ♦
“Billy See”; Tell “the 0.D.” (B.
12/1/’44) that Mick’s 400-gallon black-
iron fish tank had a 15in. manhole which,
left open, admitted just that right degree
of light and shade acceptable to a fresh-
water fish. As for the water being air-
less and decomposing, Mick simply
dropped the nozzle of the garden hose
over the edge of the manhole and drew
off a corresponding amount of fluid from
a valve at the bottom; so the water was
both renewed and aerated. Given to
the pumpkins and tomatoes it made
excellent fertiliser. As for using a drum-
net in a lake, Mick’s fish-trap consisted
of a cylinder of chicken-gauge wire-
netting sft. by 3ft., with a long funnd
entrance at one end, baited with a lump
of tough, well-sweetened dough and a
piece of raw liver. Carp found their
way up the funnel to get at the dough,
perch and other finny epicures to get at
the liver. And once inside the cage they
had the same difficulty in finding their
way out along the funnel as does a fly
or any other creature trapped by the
same simple device. “The 0.D.” evidently
had his mind fixed on the drum-net of
the Murray, with its wide wing nets to
guide the fish into the funnel as they
came along the river current.
* ♦ * «
“Old-timer”: Don’t tell me ants can’t
think or that different species of ’em can't
do it together when they’re on some-
thing good. Had a tin of bush honey,
and to preserve it from the little pests
cut a bottle in half, inverted it, ran a
wire hook through the cork, filled the
half-bottle with water and hung the out-
fit to a rafter in the hut. Next morning
two ants were drowned in the honey ;
no other ants in sight. The following
morning there was one casualty. This
went on for a week, and the level of the
honey fell noticeably, so we set a watch
one night. When everything was quiet
a, thumping great bull-ant came along the
underside of the rafter, reconnoitred care-
fully, then travelled down the wire till
he was just above the water. There he
peered about, saw no movement, and
appeared to wave one front leg. Promptly
a thick line of black, red and blue ants
came along the rafter and down the wire,
where the big bully, taking a firm grip,
began lifting them one by one to the side
of the bottle, whence they travelled down
to the honey. They came back on the
opposite side, where, working alternately,
his nibs lifted them back with their gobs
of honey. By cripes, it was something to
see that bull-ant stop every now and then,
wipe the sweat off his brow, have a
breather and then call on the next in
“Good night, Charlie—thanks for comin'!"
line. Swipe him? No fear, we gave him
the flaming honey.
Jk 4s * *
“Nor’-west”: Drinking sea-water is all
right when one has an adequate supply
of fresh water somewhere in the offing.
The trouble begins when the castaway in
the open boat takes just one sip. It leads
always to maddening pain, and sometimes
to suicide. Occasionally I went fishing
with a longshore skipper who never took
a drop of water, expecting always to be
in with the sea breeze of early afternoon.
But sometimes the sea breeze failed, and
we did a full day’s perish under the tropic
sun. At those times I marvelled that
castaways could resist the impulse to dip
over for just one sip of the cool, alluring
sea.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re camped on Bur-
rinjuck Dam one summer and strikes
a cove fishing in the dam with trout
tackle. “Gripes,” said Mat; “y’ can’t hold
big cod on that bit o’ cotton.” The cove
eyed Mat off, looks me over carefully,
then invites us both into his camp, which
is well fitted up, with lashings of good
tucker and liquid refreshment. “Lemme
tell you,” he says after we’re settled
down to the doings, “that this bit o’
cotton, as you call it, will hold more’n
a hundred times its own weight-, pro-
vided the man using it knows his work.
It’s all in the art of playing ’em.” We
look interested, and he goes on: “Look,
I was fishing in the Burdekin estuary
once with this outfit and got laughed at,
too, by the local wiseheads. One day I
hooked a ten-foot crocodile through the
eye membrane, played him 17 hours and
landed him. Think that over! ” “Garn,”
said Mat. The cove starts to argue. “Tell
y’ what,” says Mat, “Fm a strong
swimmer an’ as heavy as a ten-foot croc.
See if y’ can land me.” He gets into
swimming trunks, the fisherman hooks his
fly-hook into Mat’s belt and Mat hops
into the dam. Well, they fight each for
an hour —Mat can’t break the line and
the cove can’t land him. On and off
for three days they kept at it, and then
I get Mat aside and say “What are y’
kiddin’ about? I’m sick of this skite.
Why don’t y’ break his line or drag him
in or somethin’ an’ finish it?” Mat eyed
me. “Wake up,” he says; “there’s still
tucker an’ beer here for another two
days.”
* * * ♦
“Gumsucker”; I wonder if any Mur-
ray fisherman these days ever uses a
“hashmagandy” bag. First you got hold
of one of those old-fashioned open-wove
potato sacks. Then from any handy boil-
ing-down works a couple of bucketfuls
of cooked-to-rags mutton ; or, failing that,
you cooked a similar quantity and
quality of rabbit. Hung over the stern
of the moored flattie such a bag, given an
occasional shake, discharged a stream of
tasty meat particles which, travelling
down the sluggish current, coaxed the
otherwise unenterprising cod to follow up
with the idea of locating the source of
supply. The modern angler would prob-
ably call it “burley,” but present-day mix-
tures of bran and pollard and soaked
bread can never come near the old “hash-
magandy” as a fish-enticer.
at: # * *
“The 0.D.”: “Naturala” (B. 16/2/’44)
must have found a unique kind of dove
building nests in that Fremantle street
if they were carrying grass and old
feathers to the job. I’ll admit I haven’t
met ’em all, but the pigeons and doves I
have met, in city and bush, are the worst
nest-builders in the country. A few sticks
laid in a fork, more like a platform than
a nest, is all that holds their eggs. They
never bother with grass or feathers.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: They had both imbibed
but were affected differently. The big,
tough-looking fellow was in the maudlin-
melodious stage; all he asked of life was
the right to sing about his “muvver’s”
silver hair and his own worthlessness.
His eight-stone cobber was in the fight-
ing phase ; nothing but mortal combat
could fittingly round off his day. “C’mon,
we’ll ’ave a fight,” he commanded the
singer. “Can’t fight, ’n’ don’t wanter
fight,” declared the big ’un. “ ’Course y’
can fight! Didn’t y’ clean up that big
joker outshide the pub at Bet-Beth-Beth-
ungra?” “He wash drunk.”- “Warrer
about the bloke y’ nearly shlaughtered
in Pocka-Pockataroo?” “I wash drunk.”
“Well, y’re drunk now, sho put ’em up.”
Still protesting, the big bloke removed
his coat, sparred up and was instantly
caught in a fistic willy-willy. When it
subsided the heavyweight, from a sitting
position on the ground, declared trium-
phantly “Told y’ sho! Never could
fight!” “Git up,” commanded the ban-
tam. “Y’re big enough t’ eat me ; it’s
jist y’re a slow starter.” Three times the
big fellow went down, and each time his
opponent persuaded him to continue the
scrap. In the melee of the fourth round
a blind haymaker picked up the little
fire-eater and deposited him on his back.
From the prone he regarded his big mate
owlishly. “Y’know,” he said solemnly, “me
trouble is I’m too inspirin’ a norrator! ”
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: It’s to be hoped nobody
takes seriously that statement anent bush-
fire prevention (B. 16/2/’44) that “the
logical place to burn breaks is along the
tops of ridges, these to be kept free of
timber.” If that’s done in Victoria’s lush
hill country, with its heavy rainfall,
erosion will soon eliminate the ridges
altogether, which, of course, might stop
fires, but would stop a lot of other things
as well. A proper system of breaks
through the fire country, controlled by a
proper authority irrespective of the sel-
fish objections of some landholders,
mightn’t stop fires but would considerably
reduce the area of devastation.
“Tinopai”: The Maoris did not share
the Incas’ dread of homes (RP
13/10/’43). When the first horse came
ashore the Maoris ticked it off as a new
sort of devil ( taniwha ), but before the
day was out they owned it,- and by the
end of the second day they had ridden
the thing to death. That cost them a
shipload of flax and pigs. But the ever-
obliging pakeha soon provided others at
the same price. Today not even the
second-hand car has ousted the horse
from Maori settlements.
* * * *
“Wafkabout”: . When floodwaters
transform the arid claypans of Queens-
land’s south-west corner into a veritable
inland sea the wild ducks, which predomi-
nate in number, are usually first to arrive.
Practically every species is represented,
from the small grey teal to the majestic-
waddling, dull-blue wood duck. Tiny
dabchicks and gross-looking shags work
overtime diving amongst the weeds,
whilst cranes and herons wade amongst
the shallows. White and black swans and
mobs of pelicans are also on the job, and
in and out of the lignum edging the water
red-legged waterhens race amongst the
clumps, their little cocked tails adding to
their quaintness. The stately native com-
panions perform their unique dancing
manoeuvres on the grassy flats; amongst
the timber brilliantly plumaged parrots,
snow-white corellas and cockatoos shake
the welkin with their barsh shrieks, and
the pink-breasted galahs are everywhere.
And well it is this great natural aviary is
off the beaten track of the so-called
sportsman with the gun.
* * * *
“P. Ater”: It doesn’t matter if the
country in which they grow be hot or cold,
so long as it’s damp there will be scent
in the native flowers, and usually in the
least brilliant of them. Up in the tropics
the cloying scents of jasmine, frangi-
panni and stephanotis haunt you—all
white-flowered and small. The desert pea,
the desert rose and the everlastings lack
fragrance. So do the large native hibiscus,
gleaming waratah and giant lily of the
coast. Even on the coastline the few
really scented blossoms, the vanilla
flowers, boronias and, soberest of wattles,
the Acacia suaveoleons, are small and
demure. So, too, most us our best bird
songsters keep to the rainbelts —warblers,
rufus whistlers, bush canary, thrushes
and larks. A few splendid carollers,
notably the magpies, butchers and the in-
comparable crested bellbird, make an
exception by thriving in the dry inland.
4! *C ♦
“Lower Tops’!”: In Port Phillip Bay
a week or two back countless thousands
of mutton-birds were to be seen skim-
ming the waters most of the 28 miles
from the Heads to the Gellibrand. While
odd black fliers sometimes frequent the
south channel, a mass influx such as
this has never been known in the memory
of bay fishermen, even allowing Bass
Strait near by is the home and nursery
of these birds. In those waters, less than
three years ago, either because of a
strange disease or lack of food, mutton-
birds were washed up dead by the hun-
dred on coastal beaches, and as a con-
sequence the many rookeries on the
islands in the strait were somewhat
depleted in numbers. One hopes that
this strange visitation to Port Phillip is
not a telltale of another disaster about
to befall these ocean-feeding birds.
“Herbie”; “I’m swingin’ me old black
billy over the crooked crossin’ on the
Bend road,” said Steve, “when I
strike the thin bloke. He’d been splittin
posts, he tells me, for a couple he labels
as the hungriest spreaders of sorrer in
the country. He’d dumped the maul be-
cause, after surrenderin’ his meat, sugar
and tea coupons, his stomach ached after
breakfastin’ on faith, lunchin’ on hope
and suppin’ on charity, the trinity con-
sistin’ o’ salt cracker cow, damper with
drippin’ and separated milk colored t
resemble coffee with burnt crusts off the
Sunday loaf o’ baker’s bread, I feel it
won’t hurt me t’ spill a drop of the milk
of human kindness, which I does at the
Bend pub. I’m in the store after some
grub when I see the ’ you-answer-the-
description of the lean feller s boss
shovin’ loose coupons over f’r tea anu
sugar, and a bit later I see some more
snipped chits goin’ the butcher s way •
the victuals t’ be picked up later. The
thin feller’s able to attend to the pick-up
on account of him havin’ been sent in to
tick up the wedges f’r his splittin jo •
Three hours later we’re fryin’ rump steak
and brewin’ tea at The Fork, where the
mail contractor drops us.”
THE MYSTIC MISSION.
From the beaches and the marshes,
Still lagoons and surges white.
Homeward head the gulls at sunset.
Home the black swans head* at night.
Feeding-grounds, far-scattered, quitting,
Through the trackless air they speed,
Fof within them, swan and seabird,
Stirs an urge that they must heed.
Kin of theirs and camps remembered,
Home they hie, an eager host,
Seen by strayers in the moonlight
Or by watchers on the coast.
Seen are they, but never visioned,
Never heard by day or night,
Is another host that homeward
Ever speeds in urgent flight.
Taking off from scenes of peril, ,
Scenes of war and wounds they quest,
Some to hearth fires, some to campfires,
There in peace awhile to rest.
Mountain heights they top unhalted,
Over seas and deserts press,
While to them upon their mission
Time and space are meaningless.
Thus through midnight, thus through
noontide,
Thus through twilight, without stay,
Home they wing unseen; for know ye
Hopes and fears and prayers are they.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”; Aggressiveness and wowserism
seemed to work quite well with Brophy
until his daughter Millie got to the age
when the lads of Devlin’s Bend began to
take an interest. Brophy, to whom milk
was the elixir of life, regarded Millie as
an asset 1 who would be entirely wasted if
romance and its culmination were to take
hold of her mind; wherefore he dis-
couraged suitors by the strength of his
right arm, which was considerable. Then
young Sutton, from across the river, put
his physical powers to the test when his
persuasive ones had failed, and bit the
dust. After that he rode the ten miles to
Whipstick, where his cobber, once known
to Stadium fans as “Body-rip Bob,” ran
a small timber mill. The next Saturday
Robert, walking past the blacksmith’s
shop in Devlin’s Bend, chanced to bump
a large, stern-faced slab of a man, and
on receiving a glare said a very rude
word ; whereupon the Brophy aggressive-
ness arose. The battle was terminated
two minutes after its commencement
when Brophy lost sight of a battering
uppercut. As he lay prone a good
Samaritan went in to the pub, got half
a pint of brandy and kept on administer-
ing it in innumerable sips to the van-
quished. An hour later the g.S., after
parading a maudlin, singing Brophy
along the main street, escorted him home
and deposited him with his family, who
duly thanked Sutton for his thoughtful-
ness. This story should end with Sut-
ton marrying the girl. Instead he got the
father and mother of a hiding from
Brophy, after which he lost interest in the
Brophy menage permanently.
“Hey, Sarge—remember you said somethin about synchronisn' our
Watches ?”
“Bumpkin”: Meat rationing has turned
the Port Phillip (Vic.) seals from a tourist
attraction to a menace. They have had
a chequered history. They are the lineal
descendants of the shoals which were so
vast and valuable for their oil that they
led to the establishment of a thriving
if nondescript community settling on Vic-
toria’s shores 37 years before Batman.
The first sealing ground in Australasia
was opened in. 1798 at Cape Barren
Island. Four years later the population
was estimated to be over 200, mainly
sailors and escaped convicts. A Sydney
firm found the industry sufficiently im-
portant to set up a depot, and the
schooner Martha regularly carried
catches from King Island to Port Jack-
son. The local sealers were enterprising
men, and they built extremely handy,
double-ended surfboats out of the timbers
of John Company’s ship Sydney Cove,
wrecked at Preservation Island in 1797,
thus establishing the first shipbuilding
industry in Victoria. Within 20 years
the grounds had been fished out, and
piracy, which had always been a side-
line, became the major industry, but with
little to keep it going. The human popu-
lation disappeared with the seals, and it
wasn’t until the beginning of this cen-
tury that the seals began to reappear.
They have multiplied of late years into
a worse pest to the fisherman than the
wild dog to the farmer. Moreover, they
have the team spirit well developed, and
a dozen or so will keep a shoal of fish
“’ Arry's comm ’ ome . and he ses ‘ Enclosin' two pounds to put a five-
gallon on the lay-by .'”
together while each in turn abandons
sentry-go for slaughter and mastication.
* * * *
“R. Ney”; That interesting theory (B.
16/2/’44) that birds crash into overhead
wires in daylight and won’t go through a
hole in a wall because their vision isn’t
stereoscopic solves one of my problems.
Now I know why jumbucks won’t go
through gates or cross bridges—the silly
brutes aren’t stereoscopic. I’m thinking
of calling tenders to have mine fitted with
bifocal spectacles,
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of the
flesh of ti-tree-dwelling ringtails being
free from the usual possum odor (B.
26/1/ ’44) recalls that the taste of these
marsupials is affected by diet. In South
Gippsland we noticed that once the silver-
greys began dining in township orchards
and gardens they abandoned their native
food for all dime. As youths there we
sampled all native game from crow to
goanna; those garden-feeding possums
ate better than any baby beef. But
tackle a specimen back in the gum-clad
ranges or one of those Murray Valley
box-eating tree-climbers, and it was like
devouring gum-leaf pie. These are an
acquired taste, though ; and Binghi knew
a thing or two when he chose roast pos-
sum as a relished dish. I know no tucker
like it for fattening dogs or for feeding
to working tykes.
* * * *
“B.”: The disease that attacked horses
in the Grafton (N.S.W.) district (B.
9/2/’44) was not caused by whitewood.
Max Henry, Chief, Animal Division of
Industry, who personally investigated,
says the tree is not found in that area.
The mystery is still unsolved. There are
at least five whitewoods in N.S.W. The
tree suspected {Atalaya hemiglaucd),
known also as cattlebush, is indigenous to
the western part of the State. “Milton’
was right; stock generally flourish on it,
but it’s poisonous to horses ; effects don’t
show up for weeks, even months. Rose-
wood or Boonery (Heterodendron olece-
folium) is also called whitewood. Its
foliage contains a prussic acid content
that’s at its highest in late summer or
becomes dangerous when the leaves are
wet with dew or rain. Paddock-resting
sheep are unaffected, hut when starving
animals are fed quantities of it losses
are heavy. The whitewood of the State’s
southern subdivision {Pittosporum bi-
color) is not rated as good for fodder.
Little whitewood (Pittosporum philly-
rteoides) or butterbush —they call it
Berrigan on the Lachlan —not only pro-
vides good fodder but splendid wind-
breaks. Another species of whitewood
{Elceocarpus longifolius ) is a native of
the brush forests on the high coastal
mountains of both N.S.W. and Queens-
land. Its timber is useful; I’ve never
heard of its being used for fodder.
* * * »
“S.T.”: We had lost two saddle mares,
and after cutting them out from the
brumbies we eventually found them run-
ning with my mate and I made camp. We
caught fish and ducks by the abo. method
of pulling ’em under, had plenty of flour
and sugar but nary a skerrick of tea, for
which we craved. Then we met an old-
timer. He hauled out a bit of damper
burnt black, tied it in a cloth and put it
in the quart-pot of boiling water for ten
minutes. It was the best substitute for
tea I’ve tasted.
* * * *
“Dr. Mac.” reveals the origin of a
belief still current among New Guinea’s
mountain people:— '
Centuries ago, at the meeting-ground for* the
whole tribe when the great Feast of the Pig
takes place, there lived a strange man named
Paranonganui. , _
Well liked and perhaps a little feared, Para-
nonganui was unlike any other man who has
been of their tribe before, or since, for he had
neither eyes, ears nor mouth. In place of a
mouth he had a hole in the top of his head.
This hole went straight down to his belly. He
was very fond of pork, and often he would kill
a pig- ...
One day a man and a woman were wim
their small son by the river just downstream
from the strange one’s place. The mother
pointed to offal floating past and said: ‘‘Para-
nonganui has killed another pig. Go and take
some. He can’t see you.” The boy went and
returned with a hind quarter.
Paranonganui knew portion of his pig had
been stolen, and around the fire in which he
cooked his pigs he dug a deep circular trench.
Therein he placed a net, covering the trap
with leaves of the breadfruit-free. When he
killed his next pig the couple told their son to
steal some more. ■ He went but didn’t return.
After a long wait the mother, going to see
what had happened, found her son tied up m a
net which was hanging from a tree.
She watched while Paranonganui cooked the
pig. As he commenced tearing pieces from it
and dropping them down the hole in the top
of his head she ran to the river, got a smooth,
round stone and dropped it in his fire. When
it was white-hot she picked it up between two
sticks, carried it to where Paranonganui was
seated and dropped it down the hole in his
head. The stone fell down to his stomach and
burnt out his vitals. The mother was then able
to release her son. With the death of Para-
nonganui swine increased in such numbers that
the Great Feast of the Pig could be held at
shorter intervals.
* * * *
“Aperist”: At times a hive in an apiary
will gradually dwindle to a thousand
or so, or even a few hundred. This
shrinkage is noted by scouts from
other hives, and the day comes when a
robber band sets out, usually from the
strongest of all the hives. Battle is joined.
The garrison routed, the raid begins. As
the pilfering thousands fill themselves
with the stolen honey and take off again,
they raise a collective roar that might be
likened to that of a human crowd being
treated to free beer.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Always thought a ’roo was
a vegetarian, but civilisation has made
this homestead pet omnivorous. Having
grown up with the dogs, he plays with
them, shares their meals, will follow them
anywhere, and at night curls up in the
kennels. For dinner a pollard mash,
hunk of cooked mutton or a leg of raw
rabb’it is accepted with equal impartiality,
while grass, fruit-tree shoots or the old
chap’s prized cabbages make up the in-
between snacks. Even cake and fruit are
accepted eagerly enough, and the baker
with his offering of a bun or piece of
bread is patiently awaited bi-weekly.
Recently the big hopper charged down
as usual to meet the bread wagon, only to
find there was a new bloke on the rounds.
One look and greeting was enough, then
offerings and assurances were repeated in
vain as Kang streaked for the horizon and
safety.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Respect or fear always
inspired the aboriginal in his first contacts
with horned beasts. Swan River Settle-
ment was not five years old when reports
drifted in of herds grazing on the lush
pastures of the upper Murray. Cattle
were there, strays that had wandered 50
miles from Fremantle beach, where,
through the first 12 months, goods,
furniture and livestock were dumped
from ships’ boats to take their chance
on the unfenced sands. Busselton owes
its beginnings to the same bovine urge
to wander. Originally W.A.’s most south-
westerly settlement was Augusta, close
to Cape Leeuwin. There the Bussell family
took up a grant, but met with scant suc-
cess, their cattle strayihg from lack of
pastures. Travelling north in search of
better country John Bussell, 80 miles out,
came to the Vasse River ; and there on
its lush grassy fiats were the long-lost
cows. So they called the place “Cattle
Chosen.” Although these wandering beasts
must many times have been seen by the
blacks, they were not molested. Later the
mere sophisticated abo. was to take heavy
toll of the white man’s herds.
THE OLD-MAN TROUT.
I’ve an old and tattered Stetson like a rainbow
to the eyes,
For here and there a spinner hangs with ntty
colored flies.
Yet one I prized is missing from its old accus-
tomed place — . ..
It’s a little golden spinner with a little silver
trace.
I was camped below the snowline, where the
snow-leases begin,
In the midst of great blue ranges where the
air is clear and thin.
While the billy bubbled gently and I filled a
steaming cup,
I could hear the river’s thunder in the gorges
further up.
The powerful owls and curlews held communion
with the dead.
And the noisy possums squabbled in the she-
oaks overhead.
When the air was crisp with coolness and the
mountains old and grey
Dismissed their eerie shadows and the ghosts
of yesterday.
When the vagrant shafts of sunlight lit the dew-
drops on the grass
Like a myriad magic lanterns made of multi-
colored glass,
I rigged the old rod quickly in a little open
space
With the tiny golden spinner and the little
silver trace.
I set out for the gorges where the river nar-
rowed down
To a sullen booming thunder where all other
sound would drown;
I travelled far and slowly, using every bit ot
care, .. .
For a solid wall of water seemed to split the
very air;
Then I swung the greenheart backwards at a
steady practised pace,
And the little spinner flickered in the foaming
water’s race.
I felt the current tugging and I let the line go
out
Hoping, ever hoping, for the father of all trout.
I was ready when he took it with a rushing,
savage grace.
And I struck and caught him squarely as he
hit upon the trace.
The rod-tip bent and quivered as the greenheart
took the strain
And the reel was fairly singing and I took up
the refrain.
He flung the water from him like a shattered
sheet of glass,
And the splash he made in landing seemed to
echo in the pass.
All of Lightning Ridge’s opals, all the gems of
New South Wales,
They were pale beside the glory of his iri-
Up and down the stream I fought him till his
last despairing run *
When t'he fight was nearly finished and the old
man all but done.
It was then the river whispered, and I’m sure
he got the trend,
“Old friend, have you 'forgotten your birthplace
in the bend,
Where the she-oak roots are knotted and the
slate is sharp and keen?
Old man, you’ve got him beaten if you take
it in between.”
And so it was 1 lost him, for he lit out for the
bend
To tear the trace to pieces and to leave me with
the end.
The river speaks a language—you can’t learn
it in a day,
It took me half a lifetime to learn what it
would say—
But when the river’s calling and I know I cannot
go
The heartstrings throb an answer like a fiddle
to a bow.
So when this war is over I shall go to meet a
friend,
That is harboring another, in its bosom, at the
bend.
N.S.W.
CONTRACTOR.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES F£R NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
OUlCKand DEADLY
-KILL THOSE RABBITS
SAVE
MANPOWER
with
k
(Regd.)
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 712 P, Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box'7sBK, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Breeding.
“Jumbuck”: As “Bungaree” says (B.
26/1 /’44), many breeders in Australia will
disagree with the conclusions of Dr. P.
R. McMahon, of New Zealand, who
said that the chief factor in flock im-
provement lies in the ram and that cull-
ing ewes is not nearly as important as
has been believed. No one will deny
Dr. McMahon’s statement about the im-
portance of the ram, but his conclusions
anent culling don’t agree with results ob-
tained in Australia from rigorous culling
of the ewes. Nor do Dr. McMahon’s
ideas agree with those of Ellman, Coke,
Webb and Ellis, those master sheep-
breeders of England who had such re-
markable success in flock improvement
over 100 years ago.
Those old masters laid it down that
a ram could be regarded as only half
the flock, though they did agree that the
ram influenced numbers of the progeny,
whereas a ewe could stamp her qualities
only on three or four at the most. They
also stressed the necessity for ruthless
culling of ewes. Said Ellman, “The only
way to build up a high-class flock is to
retain the best ewes and then to cull rigor-
ously every year.” Coke maintained that
“it was better to cull too heavily than
to keep one ewe in the flock that does
not measure up to the standard.” Many
breeders in Australia have proved this
logic to be sound.
In sheep-breeding, as in all else, you
can’t defy the laws of nature. .The old
axiom “Like begets like” is never truer
than when applied to sheep. No matter
what rams are used or how wise the selec-
tion, there will always be nondescript
lambs unless culling of the ewes is done
thoroughly and regularly. For flock im-
provement it’s essential to cull, cull, cull
and cull again.
Health of Dogs.
“Hux”: A dog in good health will
survive meat rationing. Most dogs have
worms and need treatment for them.
They need plenty of clear drinking water.
Half a teaspoon of Epsom salts in a
large bowl keeps the blood pure.
If possible don’t chain a dog. He can
then do better for himself for shelter.
Chained to a hot spot, vitality is sapped,
mange is induced and flea attacks hard
to combat. Chained to wet or windy
spots in winter, health quickly falls below
par and rheumatism sets in. Any dog’s
worth a leak-proof, draught-proof kennel
that can be placed in a cool position in
summer and in a shed in winter.
When grass seeds are bad don’t let the
hair become matted with them. They can
turn a dog deaf or blind or make him
bad tempered by their irritation. Watch
for bindi-eyes inland, ticks in coastal
areas.
Keep dogs off small bones, which
pierce the intestines or cause impaction.
Middle-aged dogs with bad teeth but
otherwise in good trim should not be
given hard biscuits in ope piece. Mash
them up and soften with gravy or milk.
Keep all dogs off infected meat. A
thrashed dog is never as well or willing
as one patiently trained. Irritable masters
make nervy dogs.
Poultry Feed.
“Molecule”: Poultry farmers should
not too hastily replace the old and tried
feeds with other ingredients simply be-
cause the latter are easier to obtain.
One local mash manufacturer claims
that present-day mash, in which no bran
or pollard is used, has giverf slightly better
results in a public egg-laying competition
than did the mash based on bran and pol-
lard used in former years. Much would
depend on what substitutes were used.
At a South African experiment station
noted for its accurate trials, maize and
maize by-products and lucerne meal were
tried as substitutes for bran and pollard,
both for growing stock and for egg-pro-
duction. Young stock growth was satis-
factory, though toe-picking, cannibalism
and perosis were unduly high. For egg-
production results were unsatisfactory—
egg- and feather-eating were severe and
hatchability reduced. Tests are advisable
"No time f'r window-shoppin' -We leave in ’arf an hour.”
before replacing bran and pollard with
ground grains, etc., both in poultry and
other rations.
Time for Onions.
“Pat Ater”: Use a seedbox or nursery
bed for seedlings, and be sure the soil
is free and porous. Black bush sand
With a modicum of garden soil and very
old manure is suitable. It must come
apart after being squeezed when moist.
Fill the boxes to within iin. of rims.
Soak the soil and make an even surface.
Spread seed evenly and cover with a
topping of sand and sifted old manure.
Raise seedlings in the open to make
them hardy, but don’t neglect watering.
Thin out to at least apart each way.
Turn over the bed a couple of times
and break it finely and deeply to sprout
weeds, which can then be killed. After
planting out there’ll be need for con-
tinual vigilance and cultivation. Secret of
success with onions is regular tillage.
Add No. 5 fertiliser. Get it in and down
to sin. or 6in. deep. Spread it in 3in.
wide bands along the rows where plants
are to grow—at a handful to the yard.
Mix it well. Add lime as well —a gener-
ous dressing. Onions like lime.
Freshly-added manure may be the
cause of long necks or foliage instead of
bulbs. That goes for an oversupply of
nitrogen of any sort. So be careful. Nip-
ping the tops off seedlings before plant-
ing out and bending over the necks to
help bulb-setting at maturity are good
practices—but not essentials.
Follow the sowing of early white (Bar-
letta) in coastal and other warm belts
with the medium (odorless) White Pearl
and the later Prizetaker, and then the
long-keeping Brown Spanish. That pro-
gramme takes you into March and April.
In the cooler and highland areas early
Hunter River (brown or white) is splen-
did. Sow in February.
Burning Off.
“8.A.”: My advice to those who con-
template using gelignite in burning off
is “Don’t!” Newly-felled ironbark, pine
and the various kinds of box burn fairly
well in open stacks, but green messmate,
turpentine, stringybark, peppermint,
mountain ash, blackbutt, mountain gum,
bloodwood and swamp gum burn so
badly that they must be given constant
attention day and night until they are
ashes. Green or solid dry timber would
need to be thoroughly shattered to make
it burn freely, but with gelignite costing
about a shilling a plug (when procurable)
its use shouldn’t receive a moment’s
consideration.
Too much stress cannot be laid on the
fact that gelignite is very dangerous for
amateurs to use. The cheapest, safest
and most effective method of destroying
large stumps is by “stoving” (B.
20/l/’43). Strip the soil for a width of
' about 2ft. around the base of the stump,
exposing the upper surface of the roots.
Pack all round with solid junks of tim-
ber and start the fire ; when it gets a
good hold cover tip with sods. Very little
root running is required where a stump
has been “stoved” out. Green stumps
may be burned out in the same way, but
the bark and sapwood must be chipped
off the base of the stump and the
exposed parts of the roots before firing.
Burn heavy green timber in a con-
venient-sized pit about 6ft. deep. The
wood is cut in handy lengths and hauled
to the pit. Dry logs and dead wood are
laid on the bottom of the pit and set on
fire, and when the fire is going well the
green logs are rolled in. Once fairly
going the fire requires no further atten-
tion. Upper logs drop down as the lower
are consumed ; all that is necessary is to
maintain a constant supply of fuel. When
the fire is allowed to die out the ashes
should be removed- and stored under
cover for use as a fertiliser.
Oats in Queensland.
‘Sarina”: Very fair crops can be
grown on average soils, but best results
come when they’re sown on naturally
rich land that has been built up with
super, at the rate of lewt. or more to the
acre. They may be sown in drills or
broadcast, and the amount of seed to Be
sown depends on variety, climate and
quality of soil. It is not sensible to aim
too high when trying a strange crop for
the first time uifless that crop has been a
marked success in your district. If broad-
casting, from 1-1- to two bushels of seed
per acre is a good average ; if drilling,
about a bushel.
For inland grazing Fulghum is worth
trying ; rust plays havoc with it on the
coast. Mulga is excellent for both coast
and inland grazing, being very palatable
and nutritious. It yields splendid hay
and is one of the hardiest oats. Rust-
resistant Buddah comes in early and
yields heavy crops of grain. Belar is
affected by heat, though a good grower
on the coast and fairly early. Algerian
is a vigorous stooler, and its strong roots
anchor it firmly. Grazing stock cannot
pull out Algerian, and'it stands up to
trampling by a large herd. Sunrise,
ideal for coastal grazing, does not grow
as thickly as Algerian, but is more
resistant to rust.
Fence off the stands and graze small
areas in turn. If desired, remove the
stock from the stands in early spring and
go for a hay crop. Oats like moisture,
but they can stand up to drought, par-
ticularly Algerian.
Hints for the Farm.
“Curlew”: For mastitis I use tur-
pentine mixed with olive oil or
vaseline, about one of turps to five
or more of oil. This is gently rubbed
on the udder, using a fair amount
of massaging. But I had no success with
a neighbor’s cow —probably the trouble
was too far advanced —so we let the calf
go with her. Recently she calved again
and is perfectly sound. A calf butting
at an udder would help to expel any
ropy milk, so giving the udder regular
massaging. Recently I read where an
English farmer at once puts the calf on
a mastitis cow and always the trouble
is quickly cleared up.
“H.C.”: Following lush spring food
cows sometimes show signs of mineral
deficiency. The animals may walk
lame, become arched in the back or
show a wasting of the rump muscles.
Make up a lick of 50 parts of bonemeal or
bone char, 50 parts salt and 15 parts limo-
nite. Healing will depend Upon the ex-
tent and duration of the deficiency effect.
“Myrrhee”; To avoid losses from heat
apoplexy and to maintain high egg pro-
duction in hot weather, spray ground
litter, walls and birds with water fre-
quently during the hottest part of the
day. Allow ample room in the laying
houses. A house 20ft. square, Bft. high
in front and 6ft. high at the back, with
a 6in. opening along the back under the
roof, will provide good ventilation and
enough room for 100 birds. Plenty of
well-ventilated nests are essential. Never
allow birds access to unclean or decom-
.posing foods, and keep up a continuous
daily supply of greenstuff and fresh, clean
water.
“E. 2”: Stern measures are needed for
blackberries. “Pruning” them occasionally
with a slasher does no more than keep
them in healthy growth. Large clumps
should be cut and cleared so that the
mower can keep down the young growth.
Ploughing over and grubbing break up
the heavy roots, and later growth is soft.
Further cutting whenever growth appears
will soon bleed the life out of the plants.
Where tangled masses are out of control
cut swathes around and among them with
the slasher during winter and follow up
with a flame-thrower. Cost of flame-
thrower and fuel is negligible in compari-
son with time taken by the old laborious
methods.
“Steve”: With everything in an inflam-
mable state, a dry thunderstorm is a good
bet for fire. Haystacks are mostly held
secure from being blown about by wires
stretched the full length of the stack and
across as well. These wires are weighted
with logs, etc. The wires are liable to
attract the lightning, yet with a minimum
of trouble the farmer can ensure the
stack’s immunity from such a fire.
Ground all wires and insulate the stack.


IND UST RIBS S ERV ED
by WERNER
... . . REFRIGERATION
,u\ -s. 1
r)
( >/\ -.pV
ve*
y / w*
rJ \ L **\
\ce
C<
t «*
ove'
X s
V\o
,te’
\c»
VV^
a ‘
s© s *
VV° 4p '
t*\ s
" rhP
GO®’
t'L — fr rj-
fruit
Sto'
r»S eS \
Gr® 1
cef*
fis BM&
V
Dairies, Fishmon|ers
01 A
*
7®a// i
£
//
at ‘oiW
■ft
rtj
■
•t.
J&
*c t/o
'V
/< v v n
' C 0
% 0 . '
' C '/.
Hi P
***■
A
Somewhere
Here is )hu»
Here Is a representative group of the many
industries being served by Werner electric
refrigeration —much of it special war-time equip-
ment that is giving Werner engineers added
experience, which must result in better refrigera-
tion for YOU and YOUR INDUSTRY.
Keep your mind on WERNER when you consider
YOUR future refrigeration problems. It will
serve you well as it has served Australia’s war
effort.
»
m
5<1.27.
R. WERNER PTY.LTD
BURNLEY STREET. RICHMOND.
REFRIGERATION for INDUSTRY
INTERSTATE AGENTS— N.S.W.; STUART, WALKER & CO. PTY. LTD., 174 Clarence St., SYDNEY; S.A.:W. J. WHITE, 30 Grots
St., ADELAIDE; W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH; QLD.: G. A. ROCHE PTY. LTD., Cr. Ipswich Rd. and Reis
St., Woolloongabba, STH. BRISBANE; TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART; 59 George St., LAUNCESTON
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
i
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
Is in £lO National Savings Bonds
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A.I.F. in New Guinea.
[ln case anyone should have gained tfte im-
pression that the A.I.F. hasn’t been fighting in
New Guinea, this (condensed) report by an
English correspondent of the Manchester
“Guardian” seems well worth repeating.]
The feelings of those who have shared
with the Australian Imperial Force in
New Guinea some of the toils both of
the Papuan campaign and of the recent
operations cannot be better expressed
than in the words of the tribute paid to
them by General MacArthur: “Magni-
ficent troops, unsurpassed in the world.”
Their appearance is different from what
it was in the Middle East. They are clad
uniformly in green. No shorts are per-
mitted because of the mosquitoes, and
short canvas gaiters keep their trousers
tucked in above strong leather boots.
The steel helmet is sometimes worn, but
after some time in the forward area
troops tend to exchange it for the old
brown slouch hat, which is lighter and
more comfortable, affords better protec-
tion from the sun, and does not make a
noise if it falls in the jungle.
The myth about the indiscipline of the
Australian soldier was exploded very
early in this war. His behavior when on
leave occasionally errs on the side of
exuberance, relations between him and
his officers are perhaps less formal than
in the British Army, but his battle dis-
cipline could not be better.
The A.I.F. in New Guinea is not a par-
ticularly young army. Combat troops
are usually fairly young—only young men
could stand up to the physical strain.
More than one battalion commander is
still in his twenties. But in all the rear
areas, even those just behind the front
line, there is a surprisingly high percen-
tage of middle-aged and oldish men.
Some fought in the first Anzac Corps and
have sons in this second expedition.
Nor in jungle warfare are the rear
areas much safer than the front line.
Both at Lae and Finschhafen men work-
ing in rear areas had almost the same
proportion of casualties as the forward
troops. >
Especially noticeable to an English cor-
respondent is the interest these Austra-
lian troops have always shown in the
doings of the Eighth Army, in which
the Division fought at El Alamein,
their affectionate reminiscences of the
British Tommy in the Middle East, es-
pecially of the Scots of the 51st Highland
Division.
It is customary to attribute a high
degree of fatalism to the Japanese sol-
dier, but no one could be more fatalistic
than the Australian. His attitude towards
death is simple. If one’s number is up,
well, it is up, and there is nothing to be
done about it. This is the only possible
attitude for men who have seen a lot of
death.
There are many more things one would
like to say about the A.I.F. in New
Guinea —the devotion of the stretcher-
bearers, who are often older men, or the
excellent work done by the Y.M.C.A.
and Salvation Army workers. The Sal-
vation Army men will always be found
right up forward dispensing tea from old
tin cans to weary men, supplying paper
and envelopes, and helping to look after
the men’s correspondence. But the
vision which will always recur to your
correspondent when he thinks of the
A.I.F. in New Guinea is that of the in-
fantrymen in the forward areas. Some-
times they have been in action not for
days but for weeks. They have been
broiled by a hot sun, soaked by torren-
tial downpours, chilled by the cold night
wind, and pestered by insects which
sores and itches.
Added to these hardships is the con-
stant danger of fighting a cunning and
stubborn foe and the subconscious ten-
sion engendered by not knowing exactly
where he is. But the spirit of these men
is an ever-recurring miracle. A wonder-
ful offensive elan, a hardness and tough-
ness, a capacity to endure hardship and
to be patient under suffering, a never-
failing helpfulness and cheerfulness —
these qualities they have to the full. They
are guardians of the true spirit of Aus-
tralia.
Headaches Since Tehran.
(Condensed from a “Wall-street Journal”
article by Felix Morley.)
The elimination of differences among
the “Big Three” allies is an essential pre-
requisite to the establishment of a post-
war order having any of the characteris-
tics of stability. But it would be folly to
deny either that important differences
exist in the outlook of Russia, Great
Britain and the United States or that sig-
nificant concessions will somewhere have
to be made to reconcile them.
At Tehran it does not seem to have
been Stalin who was conciliatory.
The treatment to be accorded a de-
feated Germany was clearly not the out-
standing issue at Tehran. A more com-
plicated and pressing problem than the
future of Germany is the political ad-
justment of that huge belt of territory to
its east and south which Germany at
present dominates.
As to its plans for a large part of this
territory —much of Finland, the Baltic
States, eastern Poland, northern Bukovina
and Bessarabia —Moscow has made no
secret. In this area the Russian frontier
agreed to by Germany in 1939 is to be
reconstituted, with such modifications as
may seem appropriate to Stalin’s military
advisers. Puppet Governments for these
future Soviet republics already exist in
skeletonised form, and will be ready to
take over as soon as the Russian armies
can achieve the necessary advances.
It is in south-eastern Europe, in the
Danubian Basin, that there has been
more uncertainty as to Russian ambitions.
Here it has been both the British and
the American hope that an economically
well-integrated and politically stable
federation might be established ; restor-
ing that balance which the Austro-
Hungarian Empire once afforded and for
which British diplomacy will continue to
make valiant effort.
Accumulating evidence indicates that
at the Tehran Conference the Russian
claim to special interest in south-eastern
Europe was voiced assertively by Stalin,
and that Winston Churchill was com-
pelled reluctantly to accept the Russian
ruler’s viewpoint.
Nothing more, for instance, is now


HONALDSDN-TIPPETT
For Victory—huy War Savings Bonds, Certificates and Stamps.
npHIS is a Full Automatic Lighting Plant which comprises
two units each featuring a twin-cylinder radiator-cooled
vertical diesel engine direct-coupled to a 9 K.V.A. generator
complete with one switchboard.
Many of these sets built in our works are serving in the
forward areas and in strategic zones. All of them are
operating under extremely hard conditions and with great
success. They provide lighting and they furnish power to
keep vrtal radio telegraphic and telephonic communications
going from Port Moresby to Tasmania. Their operation is
such that, if one plant ceases to operate, the other
automatically starts up and carries on.
The responsibility of these Plants is great. Thanks to the
skill which goes into their making they can be trusted never
to let our Forces down.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALI.AKAT, Victoria.
N.S.W. Distributors: Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Tty., Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYOMEf,
Q’land Distributors: Konaldson Tippett (Old.) Tty., Btd.,
Farbury House, 137 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
mSM
V. • < <•. ’'- X - s s£..y.-...........
SHATTERPROOF GLASS FROM OIL
WSS
:?•
~.-. • .■: •:•; ? .
w
:;:>.;i< ;; v ' ''\ ' ' ' :
SSS
‘ - •. / Js&n
ii
iliili
Mobiloil
Plastics-a general term we will become
more familiar with after the war now-
a-days, a name for the petroleum resins
from which the transparent non-shatter-
able nose and turret tops of our fighter
and bomber planes are made. Such
plastics, derived from oil, are playing a
big part in the Allied War Effort. Metal,
once used in planes, cars, transports, etc.,
is being replaced by these lighter fabri-
cated materials. Petroleum plastics will
also play an important part in our post
war development. The super cars of
to-morrow will, no doubt, have petroleum
plastic bodies.
Our Civil Ambulances already are using
dark, non-shatterable glass side panels
made from petroleum plastics. The
Petroleum Industry busy these days-
working for war and peace —producing
such essentials as Butadiene \ the chief con-
stituent of synthetic rubber; Toluol,
for T.N.T.; staggering quantities of im-
proved 100 octane aviation gasoline; as
well as motor soirit and lubricants, etc.
Serving the Nation on Land Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY Em
V| - 46 I INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
heard of the projected invasion of -the
Balkans, for which the British long argued
as the preferable alternative to the costly
cross-Channel attack. For more positive
evidence we have, since Tehran, the sign-
ing of that unpublished but obviously far-
reaching Russian-Czech alliance which
for some time the British were able to
postpone.
The steady growth of Soviet authority
and influence gives additional point to
the very notable speech made in London
by General Smuts at the end of
November, in which this great imperialist
warned against “the danger of oversim-
plification” of war issues. He illustrated
his point by asking the British to visualise
more clearly the dominating position of
Russia, “the new colossus that bestrides
this continent” and is already beginning
to assume “a position which no country
has ever occupied in the history of
Europe.”
According to Marshal Smuts’s diag-
nosis Russian ambitions, as evidenced by
the intention to displace German influ-
ence throughout the Danube Basin, are
fast becoming a headache for Great
Britain.
It appears that Winston Churchill, who
was 69 at Tehran, has released for
anxious domestic consideration problems
strangely similar to those brought home
from Munich by Neville Chamberlain,
who was also 69 at that conference.
Tehran may yet prove a weight as dis-
turbing as was Munich to the Balance of
Power system. From the viewpoint of
that disintegrating system there will be a
distinction without a difference if the fat
Danubian Basin has merely been shifted
from the fire of German to the frying-
pan of Russian hegemony.
De Gaulle Worries.
(From a report by the Scripps-Howard
correspondent at Algiers.)
Whether De Gaulle’s group would have
been all right if the Anglo-American
policy-makers in Washington and London
had trusted De Gaulle, nobody knows.
But, untrusted, he has become unpredict-
able, and now America and Great Britain
alike are stuck with a man who feels he
owes them nothing, and yetwvho can pro-
duce nothing good without their support.
De Gaulle seems to become more pom-
pous and difficult every day. When our
leaders try to put him in Jiis place—wher-
ever that is—he flares with resentment
and embarks suddenly upon some such
adventure into French nationalism as the
Lebanon affair.
Immediately a rivulet of dispute be-
comes a flood of controversy. Invariably
there is a big pow-wow at Allied head-
quarters or in De Gaulle’s palace, with
De Gaulle asking full recognition and
lots of other things.
Meanwhile the underground elements
now coming here [Algiers] from France
in increasing numbers are proclaiming
all over town that De Gaulle is just a
plain opportunist, and that Giraud must
be succeeded by the recently-escaped
General Jean de Lattre de Tassigney.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.')
French resistance is real, whereas the much-
boosted underground movement in Germany is
a fiction upheld by spurious reports emanating
from interested parties. It has never, existed
in any effective form. It has nothing to show.
—Lord Vansitlart; London “Sunday Dispatch.”
* * * *
Despite the attempt of U.S. Labor leaders
to convince the public that they have faithfully
observed their no-strike pledge with true patriot-
ism and great sacrifice, records made available
by the United States Department of Labor re-
veal that more men walked out on strike last
year than in any of the 15 years preceding
Pearl Harbor. The pledge has been violated
nearly 7000 times since it was solemnly* given
to the President in the White House conference
following the disastrous attack on America's
Gibraltar of the Pacific.-— N. Y. “Sun."
♦ * ifi *
The record of Communist casuistry, com-
bined with well-nigh incredible effrontery,
during the last few years in particular, has
stripped" the local comrades of every shred of
intellectual integrity. They have been puppets
for so long—and rather awkward puppets —
that it is hard to believe them capable of an
original thought. One may hope that, with the
pipeline to Moscow severed, the Communist
party is dying of sheer inanition —but it is still
well to keep fingers crossed and eyes open.—
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
[Written before the successful U.S. attack on
the Marshalls.] If the Japanese cannot find the
air forces to defend the Marshalls, then we
may assume that their air power is definitely
on the wane. They will never give up such
valuable bases and what they regard as actually
Japanese territory if they Have the power to
defend them. — Major George Fielding Eliot;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
» * * *
Last year American shipyards delivered 1856
new merchant ships aggregating 19,238,000
deadweight tons. Almost two-thirds of these
vessels were Liberty ships, but 167 new ships
of the variolas C-types of the Maritime Commis-
sion’s long-term programme were delivered,
along with 167 new large tankers. This year
the emphasis is to be on quality rather than
quantity, on faster and more efficient ships,
and on the delivery of special types of vessels
needed by the Army and Navy. The Liberty
ship will be subordinated to the faster Vic-
tory ship. On all counts, therefore, it is likely
that on the basis of tonnage delivered Ameri-
can shipyards will not match the 1943 record.
The victory in the Battle of the Atlantic makes
mere numbers of ships of less importance. The
U.S. shipbuilding industry in the one year
1943 delivered the equivalent of one-fifth of the
merchant shipping affoat in the world in 1939.
—N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Despite the great weight of the Allied aerial
offensive in 1943, in which the Royal Air Force
operating from British and Mediterranean bases
pounded enemy targets with more than 250,01KJ
tons of bombs, the Germans have reinforced
the Luftwaile’s first-line fighter strength by
1000 aircraft during the year, according to an
R.A.F. commentator. Probably 75 per cent, ot
these fighters have been assigned to north-
west Europe to serve first as an interceptor
force against attacks by Allied heavy bombers
on targets that the enemy considers vital, and
secondly to form the backbone of an air de-
fence against invasion. The force is being
used with great discretion. The Germans are
not using it in any strength against repeated
attacks oy British and American medium
bombers in the Pas-de-Calais, and other
areas. — London correspondent N.Y. “Times.
* * * *
On one" point Russia definitely has an edge.
When it comes to reparations to be .ex-
acted from Germany after this war, Russian
experts suggest this: U.S.-Britam to take Ge-
many’s $1,300,000,000 in foreign investments.
Russia to take (1) $4,500,000,000 in goods from
Germany’s current output each year for an un-
specified number of years; (2) enough German
locomotives and machinery and other capital
equipment to get Russian industry going again,
(3) from 1,0007000 to 5,000,000 German workers
to work in Russia repairing damage. It is Ger-
many’s hard luck that Russia’s socialistic setup
enables her to import unlimited quantities oi
German goods, regardless of m<x or of no
price, without worrying about competition with
domestic industry. U.S.-Britain cannot do that.
Thev can’t put Germany to work for them
wffhouf bringing complaint from their own
businessmen, who have trouble distnb g
all they can produce. Reparations tn WorW
War 1 broke down when the Allies baulkM
at taking German goods; when reparations be-
came a purely financial matter. Russia intends
that Germany this time will devote the equivalen
of her pre-war armament effort to the output
of goods for use by Russia, free of all charge,
until damage is repaired no
reparations plan shaped for Japan.
States News.”


Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear *on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor,
The Muse aroused:
Anon:
Misgoverned by students of disruption and mess.
Driven mad by bureaucrats and basses and liars —•
What kind of inspiration is this to our fliers ?
D.B.: Frail and elderly M. 8.: Pardon-
able if you are very young... .C.D.: Beware
of the easy four-line stanza... .J.A.C.: Turgid.
M.B.M.: Twelve swaggies are already
dying in the w.p.b J.S.: Emaciated....
E.A.F.W.: Tut W.H.8.: “Air Borne” is
about as dashing as a .balloon... .F.L.W. : You
need more than a rhyming dictionary....
G. : “The cow I’ll try now to describe.”
You’ve done it. It’s a perfect cow... .A.E.C.:
You’d starve on “Rations”... .E.W.H.: Mildly
facetious G.D.C.: “The germ of it came to
me while pushing the garden lawn-mower.”
Keep a goat... .J.D.M.: No hope....
H. Too light for us M.N.T.: It’s
more like a window-box than a garden
P.M.: Drop those dashes and exclamation
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DONALD FORREIST late of Orange in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN
AMELIA FORREST has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 89 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may" enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney before the Third day of May 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from W. O.
CURRIE Esq. Solicitor of 11c Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
Public Notices.
I, WALTER LUXTO.N, formerly known as WALTER
GLUCKSTEIN, of German nationality, born at Berlin,
Germany, and resident six years in Australia, now
residing at 11 Ferngrove Road, Canley Vale, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
MANY NEVER SUSPECT CAUSES OF COMMON
WAR-TIME ILLS
THIS PROVEN TREATMENT
BRINGS HAPPY RELIEF
Many people suffering from
rheumatism, lumbago,
sciatica, kidney troubles
and the like do not realise
that most of such disorders
owe their origin to faulty
elimination, these days
often .accentuated by irre-
gular hours and meals, as
well as war-time worries.
But many more have found
a simple, safe solution by
taking R.U.R. regularly for
a while.
R.UR. gently nudges kid-
neys and liver, and gets
them on the job again.
It aids in reducing uric
acid accumulations, and
keeps bile flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions
are restored, and glowing
health is a speedy result.
Pain and discomfort dis-
appear.
Yes, take R.U.R. regularly
for a while, and lethargy
disappears, to be replaced
by fitness and vigor.
Your chemist or store sells
R.U.R., so if you are “down
to it” —if you are suffering
from rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis, kidney
troubles, sluggish liver, con-
stipation—get R.U.R. right
away. If you can’t get
R.U.R. locally, send 4/- for
the smaller size, or 7/6 for
the money-back guaranteed
full treatment to R.U.R., 841
George Street, Sydney.
d
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
WINNING A VICTORY
ON THE
f/M
00
Ifm
To
and Allied fighting
provision our own aim /*mcu ub uuu b
services and to meet the colossal food needs of
our civilian population, speed and large scale
production are urgently required.
# While all new “Caterpillar” Tractors are reserved for
fighting and other essential services, hundreds of others,
bearing this world famous name, are setting new
records on the food front.
With sure, track-type tread . . . they are tilling, sowing
and harvesting hundreds of thousands of acres at a
miserly fuel and maintenance cost. . . . Some of them
have thousands of working hours to their credit.
Wherever there is fighting to be done or food to be
grown, “Caterpillar” maintains a round - the - clock
schedule whatever the weather.
" Caterpillar ” D 2 Diesel hauling 12-furrow heavyweight
disc plough breaking up new wheatland in the Western
district of N.S.W.
CT 1-33-43
• wi " ‘ LiVji: «'• J - A ' Mf D. McDo w". * S Ra„ki» S<,
•"!'' SSLt- fori Mccfl"""* ? ■ 'Pfcone-JHM. f'ft
JSZSST' m «=• W U 4
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Grey Gladiator, by G. H. Johnson.
3428
Words of Kipling’s “If” and “The Green
of the Little Yellow God.” 3429.
Information Sought.
Why is it that residents of Canberra have
no vote ?
They live in a Federal territory. There is no
constitutional impediment to their having a
member or delegate in the House with the ngnt
to speak on all matters and vote on A-C.i.
matters, but the A.C.T., has not been included
in any of the electoral divisions of the people
of the Commonwealth.” The Senators for eac
State must be chosen by “the people ot tne
State”; since the A.C.T. is not a State, resi-
dents have no vote for either the Senate 01
any State electoral division.
♦ * * *
What are the educational requirements foi
an officer of the N.S.W. Soil Conservation Set*
vice? Are there any vacancies?
Officers are recruited from amongst uni-
sity graduates in agricultural science, pure
science and forestry. Trainees are appointed
from time to time from amongst applicants wno •
have obtained good passes in the leaving cer-
tificate examination. It is expected that, witn
a probable expansion of the service, there will
be a number of openings; application should
be made to the Public Service Board.
* * * *
The blossoms of my Lisbon lemon-trees fall
off a few days after they come out. Foliage
is clear and free from scale. Remedy ?
Trouble is caused by prolonged coolness and
damp; stimulate the trees by generous manuring.
Jfc * * *
1 understand that sulphaguanidine has been
successfully used for treatment of calf scours.
Is this correct, and, if so, where can the drug
be obtained?
A very limited amount of experimental work
has been carried out in the U.S. with sulpha-
guanidine. It gave beneficial results against
certain types of bacterial scours, but more
experimental work is required before the drug s
exact value in veterinary medicine is known.
Supplies are expensive and so limited that the
drug is not available for veterinary purposes.
* * * *
Some information about the Africa Star?
This decoration was granted for service in N.
Africa from June 10, 1940, to May 12, 1943
(dates of Italy’s entry into the war and cessa-
tion of hostilities in North Africa), inclusive.
The ribbon is pale buff in color, with a central
vertical red stripe and two other narrower stripes,
one dark blue and the other light blue. Back-
ground is intended as a symbol of the desert,
the central red stripe for the armies, the dark
blue stripe for the naval forces and the mer-
chant navy, and the light blue stripe for the air
forces. The ribbon is to be worn with the dark-
blue stripe furthest from the left shoulder.
* * * *
Directions for dehydrating beans at home?
Cannot be done at home as effectively as
machinery. Dry beans in warm, open oven or
in the sun; turn continually and guard from
sweating. When dry store in dry jars and soak
in water when needed. Beans can also be pre-
served with salt, layer for layer, in jars.
Brief Answers.
J.L.H.: Get in touch with Naval Recruiting
Office, Alice-street, Brisbane... .L.A.: Your
coin is an English copper penny piece of 1797;
worth Is. in good condition G.C.: The
Man-power Directorate has control over any
person resident in Australia, with such exceptions
as Consuls, aliens, diplomatic representatives,
members of the forces, and suchlike P.S.:
Parties need not produce birth certificates, but
rfiust make a declaration that they are not
minors or produce the required consents
W.C.P.: Books are not obtainable at leading
Sydney bookshops... .M.M.: (1) The N.S.W.
Bookstall Library, Rowlandson House, Casl'le-
reagh-street, Sydney, will accept new country
subscribers. Your other questions will be
answered latef.
marks L.C.P.: Not badly put; but the bird
doesn’t really care, you know... .S.L.H.: “Is
it courage I need?” No, but much practice.
S.D.:‘Pretty, but faded J.F.; “Act” is
colorless and “denizen” bizarre... .L.W.: Syn-
thetic 8.C.R.: Promising, if you’re young....
A.G.: “If only the blessed rain would come
to the rescue of their treasured farm” —out!
... .M.A.L.: Another drought... .G.A.: A
par., perhaps G.A.W.: No wow endings.
. ...M.M.: Sentimental... .A.M.M.: Very
slight sketches and curiously unreal... .V.C.L.:
Indistinguishable from other triangles
G.L.K.: Pleasing, but just a trifle A.C.W.:
Try a daily M.R.F.: This is no place for
dressmaking hints... .J.A.S.: Same old pros-
pecting yarn... .R.C.L.: Good material spoilt
by archaic style.... R.T.: “Sheer Dirt” is not
inspiring.... .G.J.G.: “All original ideas, should
they occur, are copyright..” They don’t....
A.S.: Illegible... .8.F.: “Wouldn’t It?”
would J.C.G.: Swagman with Oxford
accents are shot on sight.... 8.V.5.: Feather-
weights 8.P., M.A.8.: For a woman’s
paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.H.D.: The puns grated horribly on the ear,
and the drawings were painful to the naked eye.
. ...T.L.8.: No cheers for the elephant whose
tail is thicker than his trunk and the
tamer who is thicker than the 1i0n... .P. 8.:
Except that you’ve made Churchill look a
consumptive, given Roosevelt side levers and
have got Joe with a bowler hat resting on his
ears, your conception of the Big Three is
strikingly lifelike... .R.M.D.: What is the cloud
doing floating past the gravedigger’s head?


f
d
fd
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
Ws
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST-
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, tVb0,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coitnan, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
fd
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE. %
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
, -Divs. , Towards
Net Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.f
£ £ £ £ £
1937. . 54,894 2400 10 p.c. 21,410 In. ooc oq car
Underwriting exes., £6799 .. j 24,2,85 2^,505
Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. .. 40,459
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 .. 37,158
Unexplained addition, £1419 .. .. 35,739
1938.. 60,370 2400 10 p.c. = 47,464 10,512 25,227
Added goodwill, £1205 .. .. .. 26,432
Net additions Reserves, £6616 .. .. 19,816
• Reserves.!
1939 94,184 5983 10 pc. = 57,899 7 23 m 8 ,606
Share-issue exes., £6981 .. j ’
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. .. 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 .. .. 9,444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2157 .. 7,287
1940. .140,153 14,400 10 p.c.= 61,058 64,695 71,982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 51,845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 .. .. 59,515
1941. .116,674 14,400 10 p.e.= 74,723 67,551 87,066
Share premiums, £117,984 .. ..205,050
Unexplained additions, £13,524 ..218,574
Share-issue exes., £5899 .. ..212,675
Goodwill added, £39,879 .. .. 172,796
Debits new subsidiaries, £10,025 .. 162,771
1942. .193,861 14,400 10 p.c.=109,743 69,718 232,489
Goodwill added £3302 .. ..229,187
Unexplained reduction, £10,751 ..218,436
1943. . 186,208 14,400 10 p.c.=117,984 53,824 «72,260
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
f After deducting goodwill, etc., now £266,351.
With associates and subsidiaries scat-
tered throughout the Commonwealth,
Maoriland and S. Africa, this organisa-
tion is a self-supporting, complementary
industrial group engaged in manufacture
of felt piece-goods, carpets, footwear and
wool tops and yarns, and it scours and
combs the fibre, too.
Most interesting development last term
was formation of a new subsidiary, Felt
and Textiles (South Africa) Pty., Ltd.,
to manufacture woollen felt goods in the
Union and take over the hair-felt and
absorbent cotton-wool factories from
local subsidiaries. Capital is being put
up partly by Industrial Development
Corp. and partly by local subsidiaries.
Of the board of four directors, the Cor-
poration will provide one and the su-
sidiaries the other three.
The chairman says “if the form of our
agreement is typical, it would appear that
the objective in view is, once the industry
gets on its feet, to reduce the Corpora-
tion’s financial interest to quite small pro-
portions.” A Government concern, the
Corp. has a capital of £5,000,000 ; its
main object is to encourage establishment
of new and extension of existing indus-
tries able to absorb S. African primary
products. This compromise between the
two extremes of Government having no
direct interest in business or having the
lot promises a more equitable and satis-
factory solution of many post-war prob-
lems, including industrial efficiency and
the standard of living, and is more in
keeping with the spirit of the Atlantic
Charter than elaborate Government
“planning” and interference in the details
of business. Amalgamated Wireless, in
which the Federal Government owns a
controlling interest, is an Australian ex-
ample which has yielded good results.
Aggregate turnover of the group last
term was £6,719,037. The next table
shows where the money went:
Materials used .. .. £4,091,450 60.9 p.c.
Wages and salaries .. 1,351,493 20.1 „
Manufacturing exes. .. 396,258 5.9 „
Selling exes., etc. . . 237,424 3.5 ~
Administrative exes. .. 186,261 2.8 ~
Income taxes . . .. 269,943 4.0 ~
Net profit .. .. 186,208 2.8 „
Total £6,719,037 100.0 p.c.
Thus Government took in income tax
alone nearly half as much again as was
earned for shareholders, who shoulder
all the risks. Chief raw material used
was wool. In Australia, some lines
turned out have replaced imported
articles, and a clothing factory has been
set up in Victoria to meet Department of
Supply demands. Orders from the British
and Russian Governments are keeping
the new wool-scouring and carbonising
plant in Maoriland busy, and the co.’s
tannery there is producing woolly sheep-
skins not previously available in the
Dominion.
After allowing £92,137 (up £6454) for
depreciation and setting aside £269,943
(up £32,897) for taxation, aggregate net
earnings were £7653 lighter at £186,208
last term. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing an unexplained reduction of £10,751
in reserves and addition of £3302 to in-
tangibles (£266,351), not treated as an
asset herein. The profit was enough to
pay pref. divs. and show 14.4 p.c. on the
£1,179,839 of ord. capital as against 16.3,
13.6, 20.6, 15.2 and 15.2 p.c, back to
1938. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
though ex-Australian profits remained
with the subsidiaries concerned. •
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the undertaking:
1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £1,183,786 £1,419,839 £1,419,839
Outside interests .. 250
Overdraft . . . . 970,609 1,158,529 1,323,704
Sundry creditors, etc. 343,484 476,916 498,527
Tax provision . : 146,650 260,237 300,917
Inter-co. balance . . 4,127 6,314
Freeholds . . 351,136 460,035 463,298
Plant . . . , 573,219 700,155 768,934
Shares other cos.. . 25,882 26,832 26,832
Stock .. ~ 1,313,211 1,792,451 1,845,222
Debtors .. .. 534,123 619,954 743,573
Cash, etc 25,445 18,735 28,059
Inter-eo. balance . . 4,320
To carry an extra £123,619 of stocks, add
£52,771 to the book value of share-
holdings and spend £72,042 more on fixed
assets than was written off the co. went
to its bankers for an extra £165,175 and
increased the amount coming to trade
creditors by £21,611. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£817,410) was £123,423.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £.£,£,
1933.. 10,640 8 p.c. = 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9 „ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
- 1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 ~ „ 7000 7,258 97,013
1940.. 14,366 10 „ „ 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO . . 99,379
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 70001
Staff fund, £lOOO .. f- 810 108,543
To tax reserve, £3OOO J
1943.. 15,965 10 p.c. = 7000 ) „
Staff fund, £2000.. | 6,966 115,508
Last year the Australian General lost
its founder and managing director, knight
Kelso King, who also had been chief
executive officer of the solidly-established
Mercantile Mutual since its inception in
1878. In each case the vacant chair has
been filled by Selwyn King, a nephew,
who has been long and closely associated
with the sound development of each busi-
ness.
During the first half of its 36 years
the co. was engaged largely in reinsuring
some of the Mercantile’s risks. During
the second half the business spread
throughout the Commonwealth; and
when the books last closed the £70,000
of paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of £115,508 of reserves. The net
return from investments last term was
£6970 (up £686), equal to 3.7 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 9.9 p.c. on capital alone.
That makes the 10 p.c. div. look as com-
fortable as anything of the kind can
look at the moment.
Here is the investment portfolio, etc.,
as published accounts show it:
1989. 1941. ,1942! 1943.
Paid capital ..£70,000 £70,009 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities ~ 28,936 31,120 31,960 38,874
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 41,738 38,469 34,741 82,252
Debentures .. 9,009 7,700 6,900 6,000
Public securities 91,988 119,488 139,988 157,988
Book debts . . 8,869 8,888 7,418 8,794
Cash, etc. . . 58,854 50,807 46,956 51,848
At the end of Dec. last public securities
(up £18,000) represented 60 p.c. of total
assets, and policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 190 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
Despite the Federal Government’s
monopoly of marine risks on the Aus-
tralian coast, competition from the re-
cently-established Government insurance
office in N. S. Wales, slackness in build-
ing and shrinkage in motor-car insurance,
the co v gathered an extra £2479 of net
premiums last term;
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*9.2 41 4
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50 1
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 • 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
1941.. 99,469 * 44,213 47,934 44.4 48.1
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51.2
1943.. 97,652 42,101 46,556 43,1 47.6
Another pleasing feature is that the
larger business was written at approx.
£3 12s. p.c. less costs. Claims gobbled
only an extra 4s. p.c. That left the under-
writing surplus £3469 stronger at £8995,
equal to approx. 12.9 p.c. on capital,
making net return from all sources 22.8
p.c. on capital. After paying the div. and
sending £2OOO to the staff fund, most of
the underwriting surplus was available to
swell investments and returns therefrom.
It is a sound policy, which spells promise
for shareholders and protection • for
policy-holders.
Sellers of the pound shares paid to 7s.
each, and covered by 18s. 6d. in net tan-
gibles, are hard to find. The “ceiling”
price of the scrip is 17s.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1933.. 11,875 2Jp.c.= 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 2i „ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 2i „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 897 51,210
1937.. 29,515 6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 „ „ 19,649 1,642 52,883
1939.. 34,685 7 „ „ 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ „ 34,386 52,678
>1941.. 33,261 7 ~ „ 34,386 51,553
' 1942. . 35,033 7 „ ~ 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 84,821 7 „ ~34,386 435 53;635
Australia’s role as supply base for the
S.-w. Pacific has transformed the imme-
diate outlook for beef and other primary
products. During the early stages of the
war Britain took most of our exportable
meat surplus at prices above pre-war
levels. Then shortage of shipping, the
kindness of Nature and the price incen-
tive threatened to bring about an embar-
rassing position in the export section of
the trade. From the beginning of 1939
to the end of March, 1943, Queensland’s
cattle herds increased by over 6 p.c.
(reaching 6.46 million head) and sheep
flocks by over 10 p.c. (reaching 25.6 mil-
lion head).
But demands of the Allied forces
altered the outlook, and the Fed-
eral Government stepped in and bought
at fixed prices graded export lamb,
canned mutton and pig meats. Later
frozen beef was added to the list, and
more beef was diverted to the canneries.
As additional space became available
more meat was sent to Britain, and the
problem locally, aggravated by the forays
of slaughtermen, became one of main-
taining killings for all purposes. So from
the beginning of 1944 the Government
set about to control the industry from
grazier to consumer.
War gave net earnings a lift, and they
Jiave remained on a fairly even keel
around 7 p.c. since 1938. But was
struck off for depreciation last term,
whereas no allowance was made for this
purpose in the two previous years. Since
1939 £106,869 more has been spent on
plant than has been written off, and the
outside debt, etc. —the etcetera includes
something for taxation and other contin-
gencies—has been lowered by £12,703.
Still, a large part of the works is getting
old, and will need replacing after the
war.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* .. 319,459 233,358 284,347 306,756
Fixed assets,
etc. . . 329,155 422,178 444,614 436,024
Stock.. .. 283,079 35,752 37,904 18,516
Stores . . 18,992 39,639 31,319 36,004
Debtors .. 65,143 50,801 85,165 97,574
Cash, etc. . , 201,900 220,000 195,000 226,600
Shares subsid. 40,000 50,000 50,000
Advances subsid. 2,161 18,163 20,391
* Including .provision for contingencies.
Excluding shares in the local canmaking
subsidiary, the improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£73,713) was
£28,413 last term, which suggests that all
the £22,409 added to creditors, etc., might
not be coming to outsiders. Lumped with
fixed assets jn the published accounts is
a holding in Singapore Cold Storage,
which remains at book value —reserves
are considered sufficient to meet contin-
gencies in this respect.
What will happen after war contracts
run out remains to be seen. Much will
depend upon the efficiency of plant and
the level of costs generally, which will
partly govern ability to compete with the
Argentine.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of p\ widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a' policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
y)tr/u/ia/f
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . . . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
f
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of.
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2 P). 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose* Co-Pty-Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
DUPLICATOR
I bos all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing* Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
✓ v,,fc ' AGENTS
£l7/10/- Si-5*
Bn,t, .nn'r.ly in Aunrnli, by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
BRANDAIM”S
$
FPENIS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAXDACBt * 00, XM. BXRMtROHAIt. KNO
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
★
LEATHER
BELT I N G
•
PULL E Y a
COUPLI NGS
SHAFTING
GEARS A HANGERS
Public Notice.
I RUDOLF JOSSEK, Lance-Corporal in A.M.F.,
of German nationality, born at Breslau and resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 44 Clan-
william Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
A
IT
wm musu
nOBIt M
P
LUD 0 Wl C IS
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LUDOWICI’S
VfiUUfV
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
STATE EXPRESS
a£umyspieaie t
sw-
a&
?S**s
It's your fight your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
y
19590*11 4f
Revival of Dominion interest in Com-
monwealth industrial issues has been a
marked feature of the trans-Tasman share-
markets in Auckland and Wellington since
the beginning of 1944. One of the high-
lights is Colonial Sugar at £60 —three
times par value and easily the highest
figure touched since the last big bonus
issue (£5,850,000) in 1934. Other stocks
in keen demand are Bank N.S.W., £34
7s. 6d.; 8.H.P., 465, 6d.; Electrolytic
Zinc, 565. 6d.; A.C.1., 565. 6d.; Tooths
575,; W. R. Carpenter, 405.; G. J. Coles,
655. 6d.; Woolworths, 19s. 6d. Farther,
inquiry has been made for lines such as
Mark Foys, Marcus Clark and Malleys,
which rarely hit the sales list in either
Auckland or Wellington. Investors are
revising their ideas about the futurje
of interest rates and returns from invest-
ment stocks, owing to continued pres-
sure of savings and possible effects of
Government controls upon post-war
earnings of traders. At current prices in
the Dominion sound industrial stocks are
returning around the 3 p.c. mark, or
about the same as Government securities.
* * * *
For the three months to the beginning
of Feb., 1944, Pato Consolidated’s five
dredges, operating in Colombia (S.
America), turned over 2,588,000 c.y. of
dirt for 13,7880 z. fine gold, and a farther
3080 oz. fine gold was recovered from the
five sluicing plants, the lot being valued
at 590,380 U.S. dollars. Dredge recoveries
averaged 18.6 cents per c.y. Check-drill-
ing established Pato’s gravel reserves „al
the end of April, 1942, as follows:
Value,
C.y. U.S. Cents.
Closely drilled and fully de-
veloped 372,511,000 15.5
Scout-drilled and partially
developed .. .. 174,243,000 12.8
Total estimated reserves .. 546,754,000 14.6
Prospecting of untested areas was still in
progress. Recent over-all operating costs
were 9.9 U.S. cents per c.y. That in-
cluded the Colombian Government’s tax
on sale of gold, etc., and exes, outside
Colombia, but not allowance for deple-
tion and depreciation. Of Pato’s
3.200.000 dollar shares. Placer holds
1.150.000 and Oroville and its associate,
Pato Mines (Colombia), Ltd., both of
London, the other 1,150,000.
* * * •
For the three months to Feb. 1, 1944,
Asnazu Gold Dredging’s two dredges
on the Upper Cauca River, Colombia, S.
America, together turned over 1,623,800
c.y. of gravel for 10,2510 z. fine gold,
worth 356,785 U.S. dollars, an average of
21.9 cents per c.y. At the end of April,
1941, measured reserves were No. 1
dredge 26,819,000 c.y. averaging 31.25
cents, and No. 2 dredge 69,000,000 c.y.
averaging 13.3 cents. Placer owns 615,000
of the 1,500,000 f.p. dollar shares.
» * * *
Revenue from “booze,” plus office and
shop rentals, enabled Hannans Land Co.
(London), owner of the Palace Hotel and
Chambers, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), to show a
profit of £2165 (stg.) last year. That was
after providing £8493 for taxation. A
4 p.c. div. took £lBOO. There are few
shareholders, controlling interest being
held by .the estate of the late E. Prothero
Jones, well-known Kalgoorlie mining man
and director of two Golden Mile cos.
at the time of his death.
H< * * *■
Yukon Consolidated, a London-con-
trolled Canadian concern whose share-
holders include Australian investors, has
issued an encouraging report about its
Klondyke alluvial gold claims. One or
two distributions have already been made,
and there is talk of regular dividends
some day. The holdings cover most of
the old workings on the Klondyke field,
and yielded £ome £ 15,000,000 (stg.) worth
of gold within five years of first discovery.
At the end of 1940 92,626,000-odd c.y. of
ground, averaging 42.2 cents, was meas-
ured up, and, there was reckoned to be
some 4.2 million dollars’ worth of pay
dirt on Bonanza Creek. But Arctic tem-
peratures permit active operations only
for about five months in each year.
* * * *
From London: Sierra Leone reports the
discovery of a 530-carat diamond of gem
quality. It is the eighth-largest thing of its
kind yet found in the world. The stone
is about the same size as the egg-shaped
one known as the Star of Africa cut from
the Cullinan, Another large diamond was
found in the same Sierra Leone deposits
last March.
* * * *
From Jo’burg: S. African Government
has appointed a committee (chairman,
knight Robert Kotze) to inquire into
deep-level mining. The cost of deep-
level shaft systems, ventilation and air-
cooling is virtually insuperable without
Government assistance, say Rand mine-
owners. At around 8500 ft. on this field
temperature of the rock face is about
105 degrees Fahrenheit. Also share-
holders are penalised by the special 22\
p.c. levy on gross profits, which hits
low-grade producers hardest. Allowing
also for rising costs and labor difficulties,
the outlook appears to be as disturbing
for the Government as for shareholders
—the industry is the Union’s major
revenue producer


1
d
... 9 et
t , V ch W ‘
ď
If your wartime manufacturing pro-
gramme calls for the use of any type
of Steel Sheets, ARMCO can supply
your wants. Whether in Stainless
Steel, in sheets for all types of Elec-
trical Work, Deep-drawing Sheet
Steel for all types of pressings. Bright
Steel Strips, or Black Sheets, you'll
find all your needs well catered for
by Armco. Just 'phone your nearest
Armco office, for full information and
specifications.
STAINLESS
ELECTRICAL
STEEL
STEEL
DEEP-DRAWING STEEL
FOR ALL TYPES OF PRESSINGS
RRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK SHEETS
f
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY . . . . MELBOURNE
BRISBANE . . . . ADELAIDE
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'iolders* Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Pay As You Earn”
Canada, early in the field with post-
war credits, was the first Allied country
to adopt “pay-as-you-owe” taxation.
Presenting the 1943-44 Budget Finance
Minister Ilsley said:
'file pay-as-we-earn method of assessing
tax enables us to avoid the lag in payment
under our present system —a lag which now
amounts to about eight months, a problem
to those suffering or expecting to suffer
a reduction in income. The difficulties in
the present system are most' serious in the
case of those whose incomes cease or decline
severely because they enter the armed forces,
lose their jobs, retire or die. Pay-as-we-earn
will make it possible in future to adjust
our income-tax rates and collections more
promptly when changes in economic or
other circumstances make such adjustments
desirable. In this way it will make the
income tax a better instrument of fiscal
policy in helping to maintain full employ-
ment.
The Canadian Government adopted the
plan deliberately—in fact, it was chiefly
sponsored by Mr. Ilsley, who occupies a
position equivalent to our Mr. Chifley’s.
Mr. Ilsley has had a great deal to do with
the high proportion of Canada’s war
expenditure being paid out of revenue
and a minimum out of loans.
The United States was next in the field
with pay-as-you-earn. The Ruml plan
had been under discussion for many
months, and twice a modified presenta-
tion had come within a few votes of
adoption. Eventually a compromise ver-
sion was approved. It provided for the
wiping out of 75 p.c. of the 1942 tax bill
or $5O, whichever was the larger. , But
if the 1942 tax bill was higher than 1943
the cancellation was made apply to the
later year. The 25 p.c. left uncancelled
has to be paid at least half by March 15
this year and the rest by March 15 next
year. A2O p.c. withholding tax came
into operation as from July, 1943, to take
care of those people who had never paid
tax before and imagined they would have
none to pay iiow. Complicated by
“bright ideas” of Congressmen, loaded
with Treasury qualifications, the plan was
described by a New York correspondent
as “if not altogether incomprehensible
to the man in the street, coming little
short of being so. A patchwork, a hodge-
podge, of compromise, it satisfies nobody
really.”
Part of the Fadden platform during
the August Federal election was pay-as-
you-earn taxation for this country, and
previous agitation had extended over a
year or more; but the result of the elec-
tion is easily remembered. About that
time the British Government decided to
introduce the pay-as-you-earn system to
all persons who received wages by the
week. Its plan was described as “both
ingenious and simple,” being automati-
cally adjustable to any rise or fall in
wages, “at the same time relating the
deductions to the final liability on the
aggregate wages for the whole year.” It
let off manual workers from the liability
for 10 months’ 1943-44 tax and other
weekly wage-earners from seven months 5 .
No immediate loss to the Exchequer was
involved ; on the other hand, “the Ex-
chequer will gain both from immediate
payment of tax in the case of new em-
ployments and from the earlier payments
of tax on rising earnings.”
At first to apply only to those earning
less than £6OO a year, the British plan
now embraces everyone in civilian em-
ployment as from April 5. As in the
case of both the United States and
Canada, there is no break in the collec-
tion of revenue. The advantage to the
taxpayer is when a decline or cessation
of income happens. But, in contrast to
the position in the U.S.A., the Govern-
ment did not go out of its way to im-
pose a loading of 25 p.c. or any other
amount.
In Australia it is held on good
authority that no lag year exists, but
taxation departments have always col-
lected tax from deceased estates on the
assessable income of the year prior to
death, even though tax was paid in that
year. In connection with the “lag year”
Mr. Chifley took the stand in the House
that he would not “enter into any dispu-
tation on the subject”—not even to con-
sider the opinion of the Solicitor-General
on the matter.
Now a Parliamentary Committee has
presented a report on pay-as-you-go tax-
ation. It recommends that, as the depart-
ment has already decreed that wage- and
salary-earners must pay their taxation
assessed on 1942-43 incomes by March
31 next, the additional payments between
April 1 and June 30 be taken by the
Government, but that taxation paid by
individuals in 1944-45 and subsequent
years be treated as applicable to the year
of payment. The effect of the recommen-
dation is to give the Government 25 p.c.
more taxation than it would be otherwise
entitled to immediately, but to free tax-
payers from any liability for tax (except
adjustments) in the year after their in-
come ceases. It is a sort of let-off of
75 p.c. of a lag year that has never in
fact existed.
Non-employee taxpayers, hiving no
weekly deductions made in anticipation of
tax, are not being allowed to escape the
25 p.c. levy. They will be required to
pay an additional 8| p.c. tax in the three
financial years 1944-45, 1945-46 and
1946-47. For pay-as-you-eam purposes
they will be issued with a provisional
assessment based on the preceding year.
Companies will not come under pay-as-
you-earn at all, the committee taking the.
view that such concerns usually make
provision for tax in the year of income,
and that the assessment eventually re-
ceived is neither a surprise nor a hard-
ship. Whatever such opinion is worth,
it evades entirely the equity of the issue,
which is that there is no lag year, legally
or morally. Even where provision has
been made for war-time taxes, companies,
the most heavily taxed “persons” in the
community, will feel the weight of the
“lag” when the war ends.
The committee says that the delay in
paying total tax when incomes rise or
concessional allowances decrease cannot
be avoided. The reverse circumstances,
involving temporary overpayment, are
also inevitable, it believes. In Britain
both difficulties have been overcome by
laying it down that the factor governing
deductions is the liability on the aggregate
earnings to date, which may be termed
the “cumulative tax.” Any refunds neces-
sary will be made immediately by the
employer, who can recoup himself from
other tax collections in his hands, or
from Inland Revenue.
It has been quite plain for many
months that the Federal Government in-
tended to sweat an extra 25 p.c. tax out
of weekly-income-earners this financial
year, even though specified deductions
were based on 52 weekly payments in-
instead of 39. This has been so in spite of
an early reluctance on the part of the Gov-
ernment to tax the lower income grades
adequately and openly, in spite of its
shying-away from post-war credits, and
in spite of its assurance prior to the
last election that taxation rates ‘had
reached their ceding. During the finan-
cial year now current, by reason of this
25 p.c. surcharge, which was entirely a
departmental ruling, receiving no dis-
cussion in Parliament, Australian income
tax in nearly every grade will be the
heaviest in the Allied world. In the
middle and higher income groups it will
be outstandingly so. Even before the
25 p.c. slug was introduced it was em-
phasised here that the higher incomes
were being taxed savagely, even if the
under-£B-a-weekers were getting off too
lightly for a long period.
Because of an excessively costly war
effort, because of early reluctance to tax
the voting majority openly and fairly,
because of the demoralisation caused by
too-easy money paid to many and their
refusal to support voluntary war loans,
and because of the obstacle which State
taxation represents to the Common-
wealth’s getting a maximum of levied
taxation revenue, the Commonwealth war
finances have shown large, inflationary
deficits. In contrast with this Federal
financial dilemma we see State Govern-
ments embarrassed with revenue surpluses
and wage-earners with swollen savings-
bank accounts. There has never been so
much badly-distributed money about in
the history of the Commonwealth. But
Canberra has done little by straight-
forward means to bring the national
economics into a better balance.
The Curtin Government instead has
earned a reputation for political
manoeuvring and trickery, and even many
of those who voted it back to office
appear to have small faith in it and offer
it little in the way of loyalty that involves
inconvenience to themselves.
The recommendations of the Parlia-
mentary Committee on pay-as-you-earn
are influenced to some extent by the fact
that the principle of paying 1943-44 tax
in nine months is already in force with
the approval of the Government if not
of Parliament. The trickery of the thing
is likely to have its own repercussions.
Whether we can see the end of the war
or whether we can’t, Australia’s war ex-
penditure is still rising. But unless further
stunts are resorted to next year, or unless
tax rates are raised openly, there will be
20 p.c. less tax revenue (subject to a rise
in incomes) from wage-earners than in
1943-44. That is something which can
be expected to put Canberra jugglers on
their mettle.


For Australia, at War . . ■
o
o
D
D
2
TO'^
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
★
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
df
What a
Trustee Company
Will Do
In the whole realm of human affairs no responsibility presses so heavily as
trusteeship for others. That is why the Union Trustee Company was formed
in 1885 to provide security and the requisite experience to those with family
obligatioiis. Under special Acts of Parliament passed in Victoria, N.b.W.
and Queensland, the Union Trustee Company:
Will act as Executor of your estate,
either permanently or temporarily.
Will act as Trustee by direct
appointment, or in place of a trustee
who desires, for health or other
reasons, to relinquish his trust.
Will act as Administrator of a will
where an executor declines, or, by
consent of next-of-kin, will act as
Administrator where there is no will.
Will act as Attorney or Agent for
the management of property.
Will act as Manager of the estate
of an insane or incapable person, or
as Guardian of the estate of infant
children.
Will act as Trustee for the holders
of debentures.
In all these cases the Union Trustee Company, with many years of proved
capacity behind it, will at small cost relieve the individual of onerous duties
and exacting responsibilities.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States-New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE :
Hon Sir Henry Braddon. k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A.E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens
SCIMOa SONIA VS IVMOLLVM AflH IH3XVI QN3dS MON QN33
BUY YOUR VICTORY BONO
THROUGH THIS
SIMPLE SAVINGS PLAN!
Everyone can participate in this simple plan to save more, and thus
prepare to invest in the First Victory Loan, opening soon.
Here is a 5/- National Sav-
ings Stamp, available at
every Money Order Post
Office and Savings Bank
throughout Australia. Every
time you are able to save
5/-, buy a National
Savings
Stamp.
Paste these stamps as you
buy them into this National
Savings Stamp Book which
will be given you free.
There are 5 pages, each with
room for 8 stamps, or £2
worth. This is enough to
pay a deposit on a £lO Bond
when the Loan is open, or to
pay an instalment on a' Bond
at any time.
A full book has space for 40
stamps, or £lO worth. Use
these to pay for a £lO Bond
as soon as you have collected
them. If your book is com-
plete before the Loan is
open, subscribe to the Vic-
tory Loan in advance.
d
fd
SAYING MEANS SELF-DENIAL
But this self-denial is a light sacrifice
compared to that made by our front-
line troops, so work, save and lend
all you can.
GET READ
FOR THE^<o>'
CTORY LOAN
Make an advance subscription now, or buy 5/- National Savings Stamps,
PV.13.19
Under the Coal Bill presented in Can-
berra last week the Commissioner may
take control of a mine, and in that event
any profits in excess of the average earned
during the preceding year ordinarily
must be applied towards “the advance-
ment of the coalmining industry, includ-
ing social-welfare schemes for employees
in the industry.” The Commissioner
“may otherwise direct” the treatment of
these “excess profits,” and in those three
words rests the hope of mines which have
just been struggling along over the past
year not being robbed of dny forth-
coming recovery to which they may be
rightly entitled.
* * * *
According to Prime Minister Curtin,
coal production in 1943 was 800,000 tons
less than in 1942, when output had been
“greater than in any previous year.”
There were great demands for our coal
from the United Kingdom, the United
States and New Zealand Governments.
Mr. Curtin said we needed 2,000,000 tons
a year more coal than we were now get-
ting.
# * *
Over the six months to Dec. 31, 1943,
Australian war expenditure ran to £281.7
million, of which £69 million was met
out of revenue and £212.7 million out of
loan money. The spending represents an
increase of £28.6 million over that for
the same six months of 1942-43, and is
£16.7, million above the estimate for the
period—the estimate having been distri-
buted over the two halves of the year in
accordance with the tendencies of the
four preceding years.
* * * *
Following a meeting between Dr. Evatt
and a deputation of Westralian Parlia-
mentarians a change in the new alu-
minium industry programme is under
consideration. Instead of using Tas-
manian bauxite, the residue from the
production of Westralian potash may be
shipped to the Tasmanian plant instead.
The deputation claimed that the residue
contained a high percentage of alumina,
and that it was more uniform in quality
than bauxite.
* * * *
R. M. Ansett, who is at least a person
of vigor, and who is never stuck for a
word, has lodged with the Federal Gov-
ernment a plan for the post-war opera-
tion by Ansett Airways of 10,000 miles
of internal air routes, extending from
Brisbane to Perth-. He has applied for
licenses to operate such a network as
soon as ’planes become available. He
aims to provide a sleeper service on the
route from Broken Hill to Perth, and to
supply a service between Canberra and
Perth involving a maximum “elapsed
time” of 13 hours 40 minutes. Mr. Ansett
has lately been vehement in his opposi-
tion to Government ownership of Austra-
lian airlines in whole or in part. He ad-
vocates competitive aerial enterprise by
private concerns, licenses to operate speci-
fied routes to be for a period of not less
than five years, Government aid to take
the form of payment for services ren-
dered rather than subsidy, and petrol
used by airlines to be tax-free. Ansett
Airways, Ltd., which leads a strenuous
existence under the control of its presi-
dent, reports satisfactory revenue and
trading for the six months to Dec. 31
from airlines, manufacturing and main-
tenance. Because of taxation interim div.
has been dropped from 4 p.c. to 3 p.c.
The co. had been experiencing a need for
cash as a result of its heavy early trading
losses and subsequent expansion. It put
£68,000 of ord. capital on the market a
year ago. The business has been earning
money since the outbreak of war,
rising to 17 p.c, on average capital in
1942-43. It overhauls aircraft engines
and manufactures components as well as
running airline services that have been
stimulated by war-time demands.
* * * *
Australian farmers, according to War
Organisation Minister Dedman, have re-
duced their debts by £6O million since
war began. He tendered this as evidence
of the well-being of the rural industries
under Labor Government. Under any
other kind of Government it would have
been tendered by Labor as a “disastrous
policy of deflation.”
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government’s
housing proposals offer little more hope
of being satisfactory than its war-time
standardisation and rationalisation in
other industries. Faced with the problem
of saving yarn, it gave orders that civi-
lians would have to be content with
woollens made from single-weft thread —
cloth which for the most part is not worth
tailoring, and which gives less wear for
the labor involved than the cloths which
Australians were in the habit of getting
pre-war. The proposed housing benefits
tipped for the post-war period are of the
usual kind—financial manipulation, sub-
sidies to renters of Government houses,
and political frills which have nothing to
do with economic or attractive housing.
The principal Canberra idea is to make
Government dependants of home-owners
even if the dependants have to pay
through the nose for it in taxation. It is
expected that at the end of 10 years the
cost of rent subsidies will be £5 million.
“Social security” is expected to cost at
least £3O million a year, and there are
subsidies galore now operating which,
taken in with the two foregoing items,
amount to at least five times more than
all the Federal income tax levied in
1938-39. In that last pre-war year income
tax amounted to £ll.B million. In the
current year it is expected to rise to
£l6O million on Commonwealth account.
All Commonwealth taxation has risen
from £76 million in 1938-39 to an esti-
mate of £282 million for 1943-44. After
playing with such huge sums of tax-
payers’ money during years of national
emergency the Government does not
appear to be worrying about the conse-
quences of keeping taxation excessively
and obstructively high in the post-war
period merely for the purpose of satisfy-
ing political ambitions. The more Aus-
tralians become enmeshed in the net of
Government “benefits” the greater be-
comes the danger of their being pushed
around by bureaucrats for the rest of
their lives,
* * * *
There have been N.Z. sales of Whaka-
tane Paper ords. at 7s. 9d. and Bs., with
the prefs. changing hands at 235. and
235. 3d. The* latter are entitled to sub-
stantial div. arrears when profits start to
flow out to shareholders. Sales of N.Z.
Forest Products ords. range from Bs. to
Bs. 3d. In Australia sellers have been
offering the scrip at 9s.
* * * *
The number of women in employment
in Australia is 845,000, compared with
644.000 at the outbreak of war. The in-
crease has been most marked in Govern-
ment munition factories and annexes,
other Government activities and in banks
and insurance cos. Total employees in
Government munition factories fell from
132.000 in May, 1943, to 125,000 in Sep-
tember, This is the result of a tapering-
off of production of various munitions,
reserves of which have become adequate,
and of transferring munition workers to
other essential undertakings.


THE SERVICE MAN
Truk-Rabaul-Kavieng.
“Ek Dum”: The war in the South
Pacific moves on steadily towards the
crisis—still a long way off.
The New Guinea-Solomons area seems
to be given up as a forlorn hope by the
enemy, who must realise that the power-
ful fleet operating outside the General
MacArthur zone, under Admiral Nimitz’s
direction, is the dominating factor to be
dealt with, and that it is now threaten-
ing all his southward communications.
The bulk of Uncle Sam’s great fleet is
in the Pacific.
It seems unlikely that the enemy will
yet risk his main fleet in combat with
Admiral Nimitz’s forces; he would be a
fool if he did.
Cheering as it is to see the enemy
threat receding from Australia, there is
a strong likeness between the Japanese
proceedings in the Pacific and those of
the Germans in Russia, There is the
same series of evacuations from bases
when attack is thrown against them
(though in Japan’s case the retreat has
not yet developed very far), and the same
ability to take punishment without re-
prisal.
Truk and Eniwetok
Truk is an atoll, not so far developed
geologically as the Marshall atolls; a
lagoon about 40 miles long north and
south and 40 miles wide on its southern
base. The atoll is an irregular triangle
with its apex on the west, surrounded
by the usual low coral reef.
Inside the lagoon are two groups of
islands. In the eastern group, clustered
about the main entrance, are Mora, to the
north; then Dublon, actually facing the
entrance, Fetun and Uman, which stand
high above the water. These form a
semicircle facing east. The enemy has
linked them with breakwaters to make a
sheltered harbor ; possibly they are the
main U-boat nest.
West is another group across the south-
western entrance. These islands are
named after the days of the week —the
largest is Thursday Island, which is pene-
trated by a number of fiords,
The U.S. Navy Department announced
on February 20 that the initial approach
to Truk was not detected, and that a
partial settlement of the debt incurred
at Pearl Harbor had been made at a cost
of only 17 out of hundreds of aircraft
sent up from the U.S. carriers.
The attacks were made on February 16
and 17. On the second day there was no
air opposition—understandable, for the
enemy had suffered the loss of 201
’planes, 127 of which were shot down in
coffibat. Two light cruisers, three de-
stroyers, an ammunition ship, a seaplane
tender, two gunboats and some small fry,
with eight cargo ships, were sunk, a total
of 19. Probably sunk were a cruiser or
large destroyer, two oilers and four cargo
ships. And the principal island base, not
named, with its aerodromes and installa-
tions, was thoroughly bombed and
strafed.
In effect, Truk did not put up the resist-
ance to be expected from a main base.
There was no landing.
A Truk landing would be more difficult
than the Marshalls and Gilberts landings.
External reefs like false doors lie across
most of the Truk entrances. What foot-
holds there are on the outer circle of the
atoll are far away from the main island
.bases within the lagoon. The entrances
through the main reef are under cover of
every kind of gun, down to field guns.
The attempt would not be possible until
the place had been thoroughly pulverised.
Moreover, in view of the fact that the
main island bases inside the lagoon are
in still water, it is likely that the whole
lagoon is extensively mined.
It seemed scarcely likely that capital
ships would remain in the trap of Truk
Harbor, its anchorages subject to exter-
nal bombardment from heavy ships and
aircraft, knowing that there was a power-
ful enemy force in the Marshalls. It
seemed less likely after the bombard-
ment from the air of Ponape was re-
ported, along with the attack on
Eniwetok. Ponape is another embryo
atoll dominated by a 900 ft. peak with
a harbor which held big ships even
before 1914 —the SchamKorst and
Gneisenau were there when the First
World War broke out. It is 454 miles
from Truk. Wake Island is within land-
based bomber range of Eniwetok and
the northern Marshalls.
At Eniwetok the Marines, after the
usual preparations, made their landing
on Engebi, one of the two islands in the
far north of the roughly circular atoll.
They met some resistance, but, suffering
only light casualties, seized the airfield
within 24 hours. They captured others
of the seven main islands round the
lagoon, of which the leading one is the
name-island of Eniwetok, which forms
the eastern side of the lagoon mouth on
the extreme south of the atoll.
The assault forces were under the com-
mand of Rear-Admiral Turner; the am-
phibious forces under Rear-Admiral Hill;
the landing forces —22nd Marines and part
of the 102nd,. Infantry—under Brigadier
Watson. Thb force attacking Truk was
under Admiral Spruance, recently pro-
moted for his splendid work at Kwajalein.
New Guinea Bases Bombed
The whole of the attacks on the
Bismarcks seemed to be welded into a
single concerted operation. Till towards
the week-end they consisted in the main
of a tremendous “milk-run” bombing
of a circle of bases right round the Bis-
marck main group—Wewak, on the New
Guinea north coast; Momote, in the
Admiralties ; Kavieng, at the northern tip
of New Ireland, and Rabaul.
The weight of bombs, directed mainly
against airfields, was considerable —well
on to 1000 tons in helpings of from 90
to 179 tons. On the sidelines the enemy’s
south Bougainville and Buka bases were
battered, vagrant cargo ships and barges
were put out of action or blown up. In
support of the Ramu force of Australians
advancing still through the western part
of the Finisterres and the Saidor forces
advancing up the Maclay coast and in
contact with the enemy at the River Mot,
Airacobras blasted enemy strongpoints
and R.A.A.F. dive-bombers made their
heaviest attacks on Madang and its en-
viron islands. Madang seemed deserted.
It made no sign' of resistance. At the
other bases interception and ack-ack fire
was generally feeble by comparison with
the past. The enemy lost more than a
round dozen score of machines in com-
bat and nearly another score on the
ground, but Allied losses were in single
figures for seven days.
A Convoy Disappears
Three events broke the monotony of
the “milk-run” attacks: the destruction
of a large convoy hurrying to the Bis-
marcks under a ridiculously light escort,
the occupation of the Nissan (Green)
atoll and the first naval bombardments
of Rabaul and Kavieng, which seemed
to presage more direct action in the very
near future.
The convoy was discovered about 8
a.m. on Feb. 15, 25 miles off Mussau Is.
in the far north-east. It was dogged from
the skies by medium and heavy bombers
till the last of it was reported beached or
sunk by mast-high attacks —12 merchant
ships of 36,500 tons, a destroyer and two
corvettes, according to the official report.
Though within easy reach of land during
48 hours of attack at least, no attempt
apparently was made to give it land-
based help.
Maorilanders Take Nissan
On Feb. 16 General MacArthur an-
nounced that Maoriland and American
forces* had occupied the Green Island
atoll, otherwise known as the Nissan or
Sir Charles Hardy group. The elliptical
atoll has three main islands—Nissan,
Barahun and Sirot. It is about 10 miles
long by five miles wide. The islands are
low, small and swampy, but the lagoon
is a fine harbor, with the little island of
Han like a dot in the centre of it. Nor-
mally the group supports round 1400-
1500 natives.
The Green Islands are about 135 miles
from Rabaul, but the enemy had taken
no trouble to establish even an air strip
upon them. Their only use has been as
a staging place for barges which sheltered
in the lagoon in daylight, en route to the
Solomons.
General MacArthur’s opinion of the
strategic value of the islands, which lie
about 100 miles off the direct route from
Buin and Kieta to Rabaul, follows:
For all strategic military purposes [his
H.Q. wrote] this occupation completes the
campaign in the Solomons. It is the culmi-
nation of a successful series of flank move-
ments, commencing in the New Georgia
group, which has enveloped all enemy
forces in the Solomons. These forces,
estimated at 22,000 strong, dispersed
through Choiseul, Shortlands, Bougainville
and Buka, are now isolated from their
source of supply at Rabaul. Starvation
and disease, certain to ensue from military
blockade, render their position hopeless.
With their airfields destroyed and their
barge traffic paralysed the relief of these
scattered garrisons is no longer practicable
and their ultimate fate is sealed.
The landing, made under the usual air
and naval cover, met negligible ground
resistance and the enemy’s “air reaction
was. weak.”
Actually the Maorilanders, who had
fought their way up from Vella Lavella
via the Treasuries, met no initial resist-
ance when they came ashore early on
Tuesday morning, Feb. 15, under Major-
General Barrowclough, and thus became
the nearest Allied troops to Rabaul by
at least 150 miles.
Some of them had seen Green Island
before when a preliminary raiding party
a fortnight previously suffered greater
opposition from 70 of the enemy, who
put up a fight and killed two Maori-
landers and wounded seven. In the main
attack light air attacks high above the
landing craft and naval escort were the
only enemy manifestations. The com-
munique of Feb. 18 mentioned attacks
by enemy dive-bombers on Allied ships
near the islands in which six enemy air-
craft were shot down without Allied loss.
Empress Augusta Bay also suffered attack
with only minor damage.
Rabaul and Kavieng Bombarded
The attacks by sea on Rabaul and
Kavieng were made by light naval forces
in the early morning of Feb. 18. They
were described from G.H.Q. as sorties,
and probably were tests of resistance.
At Kavieng a destroyer flotilla came
close inshore to shell ships and installa-
tions, which are in very open positions,
for 50 minutes. Only one aircraft came
out to attack, and the bombardment went
on for some time before shore batteries
opened fire. They, however, fired only a
few rounds before they were silenced.
Having blown up a tanker of between
5000 and 6000 tons, wrecked a number
of small ships and fired shore installa-
tions, the destroyers turned for home
unharmed.
As a preliminary to the naval bom-
bardment Rabaul was heavily attacked
by dive-bombers and torpedo bombers,
which hit 12 vessels and 20 barges, “pos-
sibly” sank four medium cargo vessels
and damaged a tanker, two destroyers
and a patrol vessel. Eight aircraft out
of 50 defenders were shot down, four
Allied machines being lost.
The naval units followed, and from
behind a smokescreen bombarded Simp-
sonhafen. Along the Namanula side the
neck of land separating the harbor from
the sea is very narrow, though screened
by the razorback from which spring the
volcanic peaks known as the Mother and
Daughters, which tower over Rabaul.
Shore batteries were put out of action
and fires were started. Catalinas reported
that about a dozen enemy ships received
damage from shellfire.
A single enemy destroyer nosed out,
but a few shells induced her to nose in
again with celerity. The only other
vessels seen were noticed scurrying hur-
riedly out of harbor for safety.
There was enough naval force to spare
to bombard the enemy bivouac areas
round the Pulie River mouth east of
Arawe and positions near Madang.
The U.S. forces at Cape Gloucester
made further advances along the north
New Britain coast. On Feb. 18 their
spearhead was 21 miles from the original
landing point at Cape Gloucester.
False Alarm at Anzio.
“Ek Dum”: After Berlin Radio had
gloatingly retailed the nonsense written
by irresponsible Allied critics of the
operations in Italy General Alexander
had a “heart-to-heart talk” with corre-
spondents and told them that the Anzio
bridgehead was “no Dunkirk.” He
“banged the table” and urged them to
“face reality; we have not lost a battle
since Alamein and we shall certainly not
lose this one.” He quoted his opponent,
Marshal Kesselring: “Battles are lost
when a beachhead cannot be driven into
the sea.”
The truth about the bridgehead battle
and that of Cassino was obviously that
at the height of the struggle the atmo-
sphere was, to use Mr. Roosevelt’s word,
“tense.” So it is at the crisis of every
major engagement between foes worth
their salt.
Supplies and the Navy
It was clear that two factors were the
determinants in the battle. One was the
dreadful weather —heavy gales,'snow, mud
—which inhibited British-American com-
munications for a time. And this was
something which needs stressing in view
of the great amphibious operations ahead
—operational commanders in charge of
the establishment of beachheads served by
long sea communications and so concen-
trated that absolute air protection is
needed are invariably at the mercy of
the weather. In the Anzio case: there was
the overriding factor that while the
weather was favorable a sufficient surplus
of supplies and armapient had been piled
into the beachhead to provide for just
such emergencies as developed. This bit
of organisation saved the situation.
And the Air Force, faced with a special
effort by the Luftwaffe and German
mobile artillery, rose to the occasion,
smashed into the source of artillery
strength in the Rome marshalling yards
and into the artillery itself, while the
R.N. rolled up in the gale to provide a
counterblast and land reinforcements.
Allies Attack
At the week-end the second phase
of the Anzio battle mentioned by Gen-
eral Alexander was over and the Allies
had broken the German drive and swung
into a counter-attack.
Even before that, when the “experts”
were still wailing, the first objective, the
beachhead, was certainly established and
the crisis past. A February 14 report
of “S. M. Herald’s” Roderick Macdonald,
a son of the manse, was express:
The beachhead is secured I think
that after several days the Germans must
have realised that they had lost their big
chance —if they had the strength to follow
up their limited successes in the first serious
attacks Our forces could even withdraw
in various sectors without endangering the
security of the beachhead proper.
At Cassino the great Benedictine
monastery on the 1700 ft. hill above the
town was bombed to pieces after it had
been established that the Germans were
using it as a fortress, and ebb-and-flow
fighting of the fiercest character was con-
tinued from street to street in the flaming
town.
In America it was reported that Maori-
landers and Indians from the Eighth
Army had been brought to the Cassino
front.
Estimates of German troops on the
Anzio and Pescara and«Cassino fronts
now vary from 15 to 17 divisions.
Seventeen divisions mean about
200,000 men, with a further ration
st?ength of communication, supply, anti-
aircraft and construction personnel of
probably another 600,000, plus Luftwaffe
personnel running into thousands. The
Italian front from home bases to front
line will be engaging not far from a mil-
lion Germans and cramming the German
railways with tens of thousands of tons
of war freight each week.
British casualties on the Italian main-
land to February 12, stated by Mr.
Churchill:
Killed 7,635
Wounded ~. .. 23,283
Missing 5,708
Considering the size of the enemy
forces, his advantages of prepared forti-
fications and communications and the
dreadful Italian winter weather, there
never seems to have been room for
anxiety about the Anzio battle beyond
what is normal in such ventures.
Burma Front Success.
Tokyo Radio told wild tales of whole
British-Indian divisions “encircled” and
“annihilated” on the tiny Arakan front
in Burma —tales on a par with the claim
that 1065 Allied ’planes had been de-
stroyed over Rabaul in six weeks instead
of the 30 to 40 admitted by Colonel
Knox. The fact seemed to be that the
14th Allied Army had matters well in
hand and had secured control of forward
positions for advances against both sides
of the Mayu River along the routes of
last season.
On February 19 the S.-e. Asia Com-
mand reported that the main enemy for-
mations on the front showed signs of
becoming “unco-ordinated” in the face
of continuous, determined and growing
Allied pressure.
The enemy raiding force of several
hundred which menaced Allied commu-
nications north of Maungdaw was routed
after bitter fighting on February 19 and
left many dead behind.
Raids and Counter-raids.
“Ek Dum”: From February 13 to
February 20 inclusive the main weight
of R.A.F. bombing was against Berlin
and Leipzig. The capital suffered a raid
in which 2500 tons of high explosives
and incendiaries were dropped by the
biggest Lancaster force ever to leave
England. In the attack on Leipzig the
R.A.F. had its biggest toll of losses m
any night’s operation. Numbers of Aus-
tralians took part in both raids.
Berlin on February 15 must have
seemed like one large explosion for the
20 minutes of the raid, for bombs came
down at the rate of 125 tons a minute.
Decoy forces had gone to Frankfort on
the Oder, beyond Berlin, to draw oft
fighters, and Mosquitoes raided West Ger-
many and Holland. From all operations
42 British machines did not return.
The Leipzig attack was made mainly
by Halifaxes. It was carried out in ter-
rible weather down a corridor of 500
miles or so of enemy fighters, and 2301
tons of bombs were dropped.
It is evidence of the truthfulness which
the R.A.F. observes in its communiques


Divorce Notice,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CECIL GEORGE COLLETT late of Slimmer Hill
Hotel Summer Hill. —TAKE NOTICE that SHEILA
VERONICA COLLETT of 20 Griffith Street Manlj
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3607 of 1913 on
the grcmnd of desertion without just cause or excuse
for thrde years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Offlc<
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 2nd Maj
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from GOULD & SHAW 72 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.;
0. K. BODY, Registrar.
G)
am
th&t while at 11 p.m. (Sydney time) on
Sunday, one and a half days after the
raid, the Germans declared that the
raiders had not reached their objectives,
and that “56 enemy aircraft” had been
reported as “shot down up till now,” the
R.A.F. admitted the loss of 79 aircraft.
There were raids on England, with
peculiar features of the reporting on the
other side of the North Sea. One was
a conflict of statement between Goeb-
bels’s department and the High Com-
mand about an attack on London oa
February 11. The Goebbels version sug-
gested that about all that remained of
London afterwards was shouts of horror
and indignation.. The High Command
treated if as a fairly large-size nuisance
raid, and its semi-official commentators
seemed dazed a?t the great news from the
Goebbels front.
However, it appeared that enemy air-
craft penetrated the heart of London,
since it was reported that Westminster
Hall and Parliament House were in
danger from incendiaries.
On February 18 the enemy made his
greatest incendiary raid on London since
May, 1941. It was carried out at great
speed, and all sorts of projectiles were
dropped, including time bombs.
The raiders found a different London
from the city attacked three years ago ;
a 1944 London ringed by a thunderous
barrage and with a smooth-working, well-
equipped A.R.P, service. Nevertheless,
a central shopping centre, churches,
houses and schools and a hospital over
wide areas were damaged, and many
people killed and injured.
Eight raiders were shot down, three
over London. The small loss points the
enemy’s advantage in being able to oper-
ate from bases only 25 minutes’ flying
from London', which greatly minimises
his losses. British raiders bound for Ber-
lin are over enemy territory for hours.
Berlin asserted that several hundred
bombers took part, but this was strongly
discounted in London. Berlin Radio de-
clared that Germany’s policy had been
to stake everything on having a strong
Luftwaffe in 1944 which could inflict
punishment on Britain for the raids which
Germany had suffered in 1943 without
reprisal. It added “powerful raids against
England have once more begun.”
It has to be acknowledged that the
Luftwaffe in the last month has shown
greater strength on the battlefronts.
A Long Way to Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: With the thaw the Ger-
mans in Russia are entering on the main
phases of their retreat, converging to-
wards the great funnel-necks through
which they poured into Russia.
By the same routes as they came —
age-pld strategic routes governed by the
terrain —the invaders are going, the
Russians hard on their heels.
All the enemy forces which attacked
northern and southern Central Russia
north of the Pripet Marshes and south
of the Gulf of Finland came out of East
Prussia ; all to the south of the Pripet
Marshes, from the Carpathian and
Silesian regions.
The two areas which are hinged on the
German external defence line form great
claws round the Polish Salient, which
pivots on Warsaw, a city which has the
best star of offensive and defence rail-
ways in the eastern war zone, Moscow
excepted.
The main German defence line runs
down the Vistula from Danzig to Thorn,
thence to Posen, outside Germany proper,
140 miles from Berlin, and south-east to
near Cracow, where it hinges with the
Carpathian area. The only German move
from Warsaw at the opening of the Rus-
sian war was a pincer movement which
scooped in 300,000 Russians caught
against the marshes at Bialystok. The
other half of the pincer came from East
Prussia. To take the direct route
across Poland via Warsaw, any force
travelling from Russia may pass north
of the Pripet Marshes through an
80-mile-wide corridor between the
mass of lakes which form East
Prussia, and round which a magnificent
system of defences and communications
has been built by the enemy—served by
the great ports of Danzig, Kdnigsberg and
Memel—and the north-western corner of
the Pripet Marshes.
The approach on the south is through
a bottleneck between the Carpathians, and
the marshes. These approaches the Rus-
sians have reason to fear, since in the
early days of the war, when their armies
were jammed alternately against each
end of these swamps, which are 150 miles
wide and 300 miles long, west to east,
from within 80 miles of Warsaw to the
Dnieper region, they lost 1,000,000 men,
mostly taken prisoner.
To reach Germany the Russian armies
must first smash one of the claws which
grip the Polish Salient —either East
Prussia, where the Russian steamroller
came to grief in the last war, or the Car-
pathian claw, and then break through the
main German defence lines 250 to
300 miles further west from the point
where attack on the claws begins.
The Russians have a long way to go ;
but so have the Germans. It is conceiv-
able that German power to resist might
be broken by battles in forward areas.
There is no sign of it as yet.
To Leningrad and Back
The most northerly drive of the Ger- .
mans in 1941, aimed at the; Leningrad
area, passed out of East Prussia to Kovno
and then towards Vilna, to the east*of
which it turned northwards and threw
out four main branches —one searing
through northern Estonia, via Perau and
Narva between the Finland Gulf and
Lake Peipus. It then travelled along the
Baltic coast to Leningrad.
On this line the Germans have now
retreated from Leningrad to Narva,
where heavy fighting is reported for the
30-mile gap between the lake and the
Baltic. At Narva the Russians are about
350 miles from the East Prussian border
by the normal military route ; 600 miles
from the main external German defence
line at Danzig and another 40 miles
from the German border proper —750
miles from the nearest big city of
strategic importance in Germany proper,
Stettin.
The Lake Ilmen Sector
Another German offshoot drive from
Kovno went north through Ostrov and
Pskov, just south-east of the Peipus group
of lakes, thence on to Novgorod and
Chudovo ; also to the Staraya Russa sec-
tor, which was abandoned on February 18.
Here, following the recent German
retreat from the Luga, the Russians
announced on February 15 that they were
within 25 miles of Pskov. The Germans
the previous night declared that they
were making a rapid retreat to new posi-
tions, “followed at some distance by the
Soviet troops, who are finding difficulty
in maintaining contact.”
In this area the Russians are approach-
ing a terrain broken up by many lakes.
In their present position the Russians
are following the main military route
down the Leningrad-Dvinsk-Vilna rail-
way, and they are 180 miles from Dyinsk,
where the great river Dvina lies across
their path, another 100 miles or so by
the military route from Kovno, where
they must cross the Niemen, and another
60 miles from the East Prussian border
at Stallupdnen—a name which gave one
German general nightmares early in the
last war, along with Gumbinnen.
The main military routes from here
run through the whole core of the East
Prussian system to the Thorn-Bromberg
fortress area of the German external
defence line at the bend of the Vistula.
At 25 miles from Pskov the Russians
are 500 miles from the German external
line at Thorn by air and nearly 650
miles by the main military ground routes,
via Dvinsk and Kovno.
The Nevel-Sokalniki Area
The third main branch of the enemy’s
far-northern drive went through Kovno
and turned sharply east before reaching
Dvinsk and Polotsk, on the Leningrad-
Warsaw railway. It hit the Leningrad
Kiev line at Nevel, pressing on to the
adjacent' junction of the line with the
Riga-Moscow railway at Novo Sokol-
niki.
In the past three months the Russians
have made several aggressive thrusts in
attempts to open this route. They hold
Sokolniki and Nevel. They are 285 miles
via Dvinsk from the East Prussian
border at Stallupdnen, 400 miles or so
by military route and over 600 miles by
military route from the German external
lines at Thorn, which is 70 miles from
the German border proper.
The Moscow Sector
The main enemy drive to Central Russia
followed that to the far north down the
Pregel River from Kdnigsberg via Gum-
binnen and Stallupdnen, but instead of
turning north before reaching Vilna il
passed through Vilna and broke into
three spearheads, which struck the Mos-
cow-Warsaw main road:
(a) At Vitebsk —and thence to Smolensk
—along the main route of Napoleon. At
Vitebsk for months the Russians have been
trying to break through because-this is the
main and most vital route out of northern
Russia to East Prussia.
Over the past five weeks the Germans
have referred to incessant large-scale activity
on both sides of the city. Time and again
they have reported Red Army infiltrations
and the closing of them; but the Russians
have had little to say about these actions.
On February 15 Berlin reported that tne
Russian effort was reaching a climax ana
that 58 Russian divisions were in use in tne
sector; but Vitebsk has not fallen, l ne
Russians here are about 300 miles from the
East Prussian border; 500 miles from the
main German external defence lines on tne
Vistula. ~ _
(b) At Borisov, 80 miles inside the Rus-
sian border on the wide, muddy-banked
Beresina, one of Napoleon’s crossing
places. The Russians are no nearer Borisov
today than some 10 miles east of Orsha,
about 80 miles to the north-east on the
Moscow road, the junction on the Dnieper
where the Leningrad-Kiev railway crosses
the Moscow-Warsaw route. Since October
the Russians have several times attempted
to cross the Dnieper and take Orsha to
open this route, so far without success.
(c) At Minsk, 20 miles inside the White
Russian border, the biggest Russian city
west of the Dnieper, and npw the head-
quarters of the German armies in Russia.
The Russians are about 150 miles on the
wrong side of Minsk, east of Mogilev.
The Beresina Front
Another main German drive out of
East Prussia in 1941 struck across the
Moscow-Warsaw road diagonally at
Baranovichi, 200 miles from Warsaw,
and skirted along the northern edge of
the Pripet Marshes to where the Beresina
emerges from them on the Russian side,
the locality in which, the towns of
Bobruisk, Rogachev and Jlobin were
grouped.
In this area the Russians have made
little headway since the fall of Gomel.
Some recent mention has been made of
the sector by Moscow correspondents.
The Germans reported on February 15
that a terrible battle had raged for three
weeks in the marsh edges there and in
flooded country practically uninhabited
as the Russians tried to break through
to Jlobin and Bobruisk, and had just
concluded.
They claimed that the Russians used
30 divisions, and that they had been
driven back with losses of 16,000 dead
and 244 tanks, and total casualties of
possibly 50,000 men. Moscow had noth-
ing to say abdut this supposed operation.
The original enemy drive in this area
in 1941 was made to link with another
special drive south of the Pripet Marshes
from Silesia. This movement aimed to
repeat the Bialystok encirclement of Rus-
sian armies, but by jamming them against
the east of the marshes.
It succeeded in late September, 1941,
after the fall of Gomel and Kiev opened
the way for the claws to close. The Ger-
mans claimed 665,000 prisoners.
In the Ukraine
The first main step in the German
advance south of the Pripet Marshes was
to rip a line across the middle of the
Dnieper Bend area and establish a sort
of barrier route which ran via Lemberg,
Kamenetz Podolsk, Vinnitsa, Uman and
Krivoi Rog, above the Bug railway
system. South of this line troops came
in from the Carpathians and Rumania at
several points of entry.
The Germans have reversed the pro-
cess in their retreat. They hold the Lem-
berg-Krivoi Rog barrier line while their
troops recede out of the Dnieper Bend
south of it—they can get out via Akker-
man, at the mouth of the Dniester, to
Galatz, via Chisinau and Jassy, via
Byeletsi, via Cernauti.
Once behind the Carpathians the
enemy has a rampart in front of him
highly defendable by any reasonable
large army in good order.
So far, south of the Pripet, the Rus-
sians have crossed the borders only in
the edges of the marshes to Lutsk; but
they have taken Shepetkovka, 35 miles
inside the Russian border, south of the
marshes. This town, though over 150
miles from Lemberg and about 400
miles from the German Silesian border,
is important militarily.
The Kanev Affair
There was no sign at the end of last
week that the Krivoi Rog-Lemberg line
was breaking up. Moscow correspon-
dents were mostly concerned , with the
fate of the “ten German divisions” which,
for some obscure reason, had parked
themselves in the area of forest and wild
country called the Kanev pocket and be-
come locked up in an area which at first
was supposed to have a perimeter of 140
miles —it should have leaked like a
sieve every night, even if 500,000 Rus-
sians had been disposed round it.
While the correspondents were hard at
it, one allowing the “trapped” enemy one
meal a day, partly horse, partly dog,
Paris Radio, professing to quote Berlin
Radio, denied that there was any trap.
But Marshal Stalin on February 18
reported that 52,000 Germans had been
killed in the pocket and 11,000 taken
prisoner, plus 20,000 killed in rescue
forces, which were said to have got to
within 15 miles of the pocket. A later
communique stated that 55,000 Germans
were killed, among them General Wil-
helm von Stemmerman, the commander,
and 18,000 captured.
A London cable published in b. M.
Herald” said cryptically “Enemy sources
continue to maintain that the Germans
escaped from the pocket and that the
freed German divisions, together with the
bulk of Field-Marshal von Mannstem s
forces, have relieved the position on the
southern front.”
Enemy Allegations
Berlin at 1 p.m. Central European
time (11 p.m. Sydney) on February A)
mentioned the Kanev pocket in some
detail after merely speaking for several
days of heavy fighting in'the Cherkassy
area. It admitted officially that troops
had been encircled, but declared that
“80 per cent.” of them had “joined hands
with their main forces, more were being
relieved and it was expected that the re-
mainder would be extricated to the last
man.
It was admitted by the enemy that the
fighting had been bitter. A German
.reporter was quoted to the effect that on
February 14 the troops in the enclave
had been separated from the main Ger-
man armies by eight kilometres. In bitter
cold just before midnight on February
16 the Russian ring had been made to
snap, but the next day the Russians once
more cut communications. The final
German break-through had followed on
February 18. Then came the most pic-
turesque allegation—an official order
published in Moscow announced the
deposition of Marshal Vatutin and the
dismissal of General InVanov, who had
“failed in the Kanev operation.”
The German communique further
claimed that the second phase of the
battle for Vitebsk had ended, with the
Russians in the same places which they
had occupied at its beginning. It asserted
that the Russians in this phase had used
“over 50 infantry divisions,” comprising
“six armies,” and that they had lost ap-
proximately 50,000 in killed, and in the
whole offensive 1560 tanks ; in the second
phase, 424 guns and 102 aircraft.
On February 18 the Germans declared
that it was snowing heavily along the
whole Russian front in a temperature of
16 degrees centigrade below zero, with
heavy rain in the Crimea.
This news was confirmed from Rus-
sian sources. Nevertheless, the enemy
mentioned strong attacks by Soviet forces
in the Krivoi Rog area, designed to break
through and cut off the eastern Dnieper
Bend. He admitted “small penetrations,”
declaring that they had been “sealed.”
Three U-boats seeking to penetrate the Gib-
raltar Strait have been sunk. While the battle
was on, several large Allied convoys passed un-
harmed through the strait.
* * * *
About 1000 American lives were lost when
an Allied troopship was sunk by the enemy m
European waters on Feb. 17. Another 1000
were rescued. Berlin declared that the ship was
blown up between Brindisi and Taranto.
* * * *
It has been officially admitted that the 21,500-
ton Canadian liner Empress of Canada was tor-
pedoed off Freetown (Sierra Leone) last year,
400 lives being lost. The Italians, claimed to
have torpedoed the Empress on March 15, 1943.
*** . *
British Air Minister Sinclair told the
Commons that 2369 R.A.F. and 997 U.S.
bombers were lost over Germany and Northern
Europe in 1943. January losses were 319 and
178 respectively. The scale of raids was indi-
cated the same day by figures issued by the
Air Ministry—so men on the ground for every
bomber in the air. In last week’s raid on Berlin
7000 flying men were briefed, over 1,000,000
gallons of petrol were used, 750,000 rounds of
ammunition fitted to the aircraft. It took 4000
men to load the bombs into their racks.
*'* * *
Marshal Stalin’s citations with decorations
for General Eisenhower and British officers are
slaps in the eye for mean critics who claim that
the Russians believe their allies are doing
“nothing.” General Eisenhower’s Order of
Suvorov—the highest military honor the
U.SS.R. can offer —is for “outstanding suc-
cesses” against the common enemy in Africa
and Italy; those of General Alexander, Air
Marshal Harris and Sir John Tovey, R.N.,
formerly C.-in-C. Home Fleet, for “outstanding
military operations and distinguished leader-
ship.” Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser received his
Suvorov Order for the sinking of the Scharn-
horst. "...


For Blood, Veins, and Arteries
blcts
ya
£D
sects
Take It—And Stop Limping!
sufferer should test this wonderful new Biomedical treatment,
which brings quick relief from pain and weariness and creates within
the system a new health force, overcoming sluggish, unhealthy con-
cations and arousing to full activity the inherent healing powers of
the body. No ailment resulting from poor or sluggish circulation of
tne blood can resist the action of “Eiasto.” Varicose veins are restored
to a healthy condition, the arteries become supple, skin troubles clear
“P’ ai ? d leg wounds heal naturally. There is quick relief from piles
,rheumatism in all its forms. This is not magic. It is the natural
9, revitalised blood and improved circulation brought about by
Juiasto — the tiny tablet with wonderful healing powers.
Everybody is asking—what is “Eiasto**?
Question is fully answered in an Interesting booklet, which ex-
., 9 la v? s 111 simp l e language this amazing method of revitalising the
?^, c ? py I s Pre ?’ ® ee °£ er below - Sufflce lt to say here that
a f dru l’. but a vital cell-food. It restores to the blood
n? P « wbicb combine with the blood albumin to form
e^aS j lc lssue and thus enables Nature to restore elasticity to
to e rpk«tahi"ie£ wn and , Revitalised fabric of veins and arteries, and so
rl r £‘ff nO SS?i-. Wealthy circulation, without which there can be
IS BAD CIRC&LATICW 71^8 ODT ° F TEN THE REAL TROUBLE
What Users of “Elasto” say:
*Wo sign of varicose veins now."
• Completely healed my varicose
ulcers.”
m ßelieved my Rheumatism and
Neuritis.”
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured mg
eczema."
"My doctor marvelled at my quick
recovery from phlebitis”
Send for FREE Booklet
everywhere Price 7/6. one month’s supply.’ ° btainable from chemists and stores
tUiAto anil Aai*e tfcu fictuuCl /
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON i CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
For its meeting on Saturday the
Moorefield Club tried the lure of a
Moorefield Thousand, a handicap over
one mile for that amount of prize-money,
with a £lO acceptors-sweepstakes added.
The aim was apparently the ambitious
one of attracting a good field of class per-
formers at an in-between stage of the
season when the second-best normally
earn their keep, or try to.
In that, it was not a success. Of the
28 entered, only eight started, and the
quality can be gauged by the fact that
the topweight was the welter performer
Glendower. But the meeting drew a
crowd of 22,000, and the tote turnover
of £46,727 was a record for the track.
Winning form proved particularly
sound, the Thousand being one of four
events of the seven to go to last-start
winners. It was won by Silverelda, in
a close finish with Davinia and Enthuse,
in that order. Ridden by Watterson,
Silverelda, a five-year-old, again demon-
strated either that she has now become
capable of a bit of distance or else that
the Moorefield “hard mile” is not so hard
as reputed. Until she won over this
mile a week earlier the longest distance
she had won at was seven furlongs on a
saucer track. Her time, 1.42, was a
second slower than on the previous Satur-
day ; but she had gone up 101 b. for that
win, and an early-morning downpour
made the going a shade heavy.
As well as Silverelda, both runners-
up in the Thousand were last-start win-
ners, but whereas Enthuse, who had won
over the Randwick mile with 9st. in
three-year-old company, was down 221 b.
on that performance, the lightly-built
Davinia, for winning over seven furlongs
at Rosehill, was raised 141 b. Despite
being thus rather severely handicapped,
and, as well, having to go wide to get a
run at the turn, Davinia failed by barely
a neck to overhaul Silverelda, who led
throughout the last half-mile. On the
other hand, Glendower, raised only 61b.
for his Rosehill win in welter company,
was rated a no-hoper in the betting ring,
and ran accordingly.
••••••
Of his five mounts on the day, W. Cook
rode three winners—Prince Hua, Beau
Timide and D.S.O. —and a third
(Enthuse). Despite a considerable rise
in weight—lslb.—Prince Hua beat the
other three-year-olds even more con-
vincingly than on the previous Saturday.
Sir Francis made the running, but fin-
ished a distant second, Cockcrow an even
more distant third. Once more there was
support for Yaralla’s sister Kardinia, but
she’s no miler. However, she battled
with Sir Francis in the lead for far enough
to suggest that she should soon win at
six furlongs. Ridden by an apprentice,
Denton ran his first bad race.
After the Flying Handicap there was
a decidedly noisy “demonstration,” and
the stewards reprimanded Webster for
his handling of Trimmer (third). So did
Trimmer’s owner-trainer, F. Russell. On
the face of it, there was justification for
these happenings. A noted front-runner.
Trimmer, two starts back, had won the
Carrington Stakes, carrying 8.10 and beat-
ing a good field of sprinters. At his next
run Yaralla had to give one of his best
performances to overhaul him and beat
him three-quarters of a length. Also,
weighted at 11.6, Trimmer had earlier
carried 10.13 and an apprentice, and yet
led to win easily by two lengths at Rand-
wick. In the Moorefield six-furlongs
event he was easily first of the six starters
from the barrier, but immediately fell
back, and thereafter, though finishing a
moderate third, never looked to have a
hope.
A heavily-backed favorite, Trimmer
would nevertheless have had to put up
a sterling performance to win. Carrying
9.13, he was giving the next in the
weights, Lagoon (second), Ist. 61b., and
the winner, Mannerheim, 2st. 31b. Also,
it was a holding track. Finally, the race
was run in only quarter of a second worse
than the course record, which has stood
for 14 years. It represented a remarkable
improvement in form on Mannerheim’s
part. In a similar race on the track a
week earlier he had faded out to finish
only eleventh to Lagoon after moving
up to fourth place making the turn.
Though unplaced, both General Smuts
and Bangster showed glimpses of im-
proving form.
If the crowd felt justified in roar-
ing after the Flying, it had reason
to be still cheering Bruce Wood’s win in
the first division of the San Souci Welter.
Only a pony, aged at that, and top-
weighted with the burden of 9.8, he came
from a bad tenth at the turn —ordinarily
an utterly hopeless position on this track
—to beat the field of 21 other runners,
from whom Bronze Orchid (second) had
a lead of five or six lengths into the
straight. Always a game little horse—
oii one occasion he won a double on the
one day—Bruce Wood never showed
gamer. He is an entire, now getting near
the end of his racing days. A close third,
finishing on, was Bruegmah’s best run
to date.
Punters learned that following even the
most successful jockey has its pitfalls
when they made Cook’s mount, San
Sebastian, favorite to beat Bruce Wood.
It paid, however, in the second division
of the San Souci Welter, though D.S.O.’s
Randwick win at his last start justified his
short favoritism in any case, which could
hardly be said of San Sebastian. D.S.O.
beat the outsiders High Stepper and
Aquatic very easily.
Cook’s other winner for the day, Beau
Timide, in the Moorefield Handicap, won
just as easily from Beau Rasade, though
Feltpal (third) finished best, and should
soon do better still on a track he likes.
I. Thompson, who, a week earlier, failed
in his attempt to lead all the way over
the Moorefield mile and a quarter on
Peter’s Pence, repeated the tactics on the
topweight, Tel Asur. This now ageing
bay gelding never looked better, but that
job was, not surprisingly, beyond him.
He weakened after leading into the
straight.
Thompson’s attempt to win the five-
furlongs Juvenile Handicap all the way
on Twice Royal was, of course, quite
another matter. However, Twice Royal
had stopped after leading at Rosehill and
did so again, though four lengths clear
at the turn. Like Twice Royal (second),
the winner, King Step, a bay gelding, is
by Royal Step. Giving F. Williams his
first winning ride. King Step paid £26 2s.
(win) and £3 19s. 6d. (place) on the tote.
With the books he was 33 to 1, so the
tote returned 70 to 1 better odds. King
Step finished like the makings of a fair
sprinter, at least; but best of the place-
getters, with a tried jockey up, might be
Pax, a brown filly by Le Grand Duc-
Eurydice. Slowly away on the rails.
Pax had the job ahead of her all the way
and ran a good race to be third, finish-
ing strongly.
* * * ♦
Postponement of the second day of the
V.A.T.C, autumn meeting, set down for
last Saturday, upset plans of many
trainers of leading autumn candidates.
Epsom T.C. agreed to forgo its meeting
next Saturday in favor of the V.A.T.C.,
but at time of writing it was not known
whether electric transport, curtailed
drastically because of the Yallourn fire,
would be available. No racing next
Saturday might prejudipe the chances of
several Newmarket and Cup horses need-
ing a run to fit them.
Declaration of Newmarket and Aus-
tralian Cup handicaps has not lessened
the chances of the respective pre-weights
favorites Burberry and Claudette. Bur-
berry’s 9.10 represents a rise of 61b. for
his Oakleigh Plate win, but he meets
Phildoll and Valeena, place-getters in that
race, only 51b. and 31b. worse. Burberry
was never in better form, is a particularly
good weight-carrier and is certain to
run well. His backers would not mind
cancellation of the Futurity Handicap.
Success in that race probably would
result in his being rehandicapped out of
the Newmarket. Pharisee, Phoines and
Amana may be the principal dangers to
Burberry.
Claudette’s Australian Cup weight of
8.6 is a rise of 151 b. on her Melbourne
Cup third and 141 b. on her Williamstown
Cup win. Trainer D. Mcßae thinks she
has her share, but expects her to be hard
to beat. She has had two races to fit her,
and it is improbable the best has been
seen of her. Counsel, on the other hand,
has not raced since he separated Dark
Felt and Claudette in dfie Melbourne
Cup. He looks well, however, and will
meet Claudette on Melbourne Cup terms.
Valour and Peter, both of whom are in
good form, may be best of the others.
* * # •
H. Bastian, a leading S.A. jockey be-
fore the Playford ban on racing, has been
content latterly with being an owner,
but has now applied to S.A. Jockey Club
for a license to ride again.
* * * *
Apprentices can now claim allowances
in handicaps in Sydney up to £6OO in
added money. Looking over winning
averages for the current season it appears
as if a number of licensed jockeys could
do with allowances.
* * * *
In Maoriland the trotting authorities
propose to set a limit to the age of
drivers and riders. If this idea is carried
out it will mean the retirement of some
well-known older drivers. It will be in-
teresting to learn the retiring age. In
England there are no limits for galloping
rfces, and in Sydney we have at least two
jockeys who ride as well as 20 years ago.
* * ♦ *
In racing optimism is a great asset,
but some owners and trainers are rather
overburdened with it. Followers of racing
will find it difficult to give a chance to
some of the older and well-tried entrants
for the Doncaster or Sydney Cup, no
matter how leniently the handicapper
may treat them.
* * * *
Drastic reductions in horses permitted
to race in England this year have been
ordered by the Jockey Club, categories
comprising (a) seven-year-olds and up-
wards of 1944 ; ( b ) five- and six-year-
olds of 1944 which have not won since
two-year-olds or which have not been
jHaced second or third in a race of one
mile or over in 1943 ; (c) four-year-olds
of 1944 which have never been placed;
( d) four-year-olds and upwards of 1944
which were not in training with a
licensed trainer in 1943. Horses ruled
out in one or another of the categories
include Linklater, champion sprinter of
1943 ; the Newmarket Cesarewitch win-
ner Germanicus; the Newmarket Cam-
bridgeshire winner Quartier-Maitre and
the Aga Khan’s Hyderabad, who made a
record war-time price for a yearling of
8200 guineas.
Miscellaneous
At rare intervals George Elliott shapes
like a really good middleweight. He was
at his best against Ken Petersen at Leich-
hardt, and was declared the winner in
the fifth, the police having intervened.
Petersen was down twice.
Matched with Narvo at the Stadium,
Stanton, a heavyweight from Victoria,
reached Sydney many hours late.
For one thing, he had to give up his seat
in a ’plane to a Government employee,
the pug’s priority being lower than that
of the bureaucrat. Then Stanton was
rushed to St. Vincent’s for an X-ray
before the Stadium medico would declare
him fit to fight. A bundle of nerves, the
Victorian did pretty well for a time, but
had fought himself to a standstill half-
way through the sixth, and the slaughter
was stopped.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
Two-year-old Handicap (colts
and geldings); Cold Shower, 1 ;
Recka Oka, 2 ; Colophon, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Chantilly, 1 ; Twice Royal, 2;
Pax, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Alertful, 1 ;
Prince Buzzard, 2 ; Marquis, 3.
Kingsford Smith Flying: John
Halifax, 1; Bruce Wood, 2 ; D. 5.0.,
3.
Ascot Turf Club Handicap:
Feltpal, 1 ; Etching, 2; Neta
Linette, 3,
Bunnerong Three-year-old Han-
dicap : Versailles, 1; Fine Art, 2 ;
Prince Hua, 3.
Welter Handicap: Pall Mall, 1 ;
John Dory, 2 ; General Smuts, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Last Friday was Merchant Navy Day,
and it must be owned that Martin-place
had an air of distinction. Set on floats,
green lifeboats with red sails swelling to
the slight breeze were brave against the '
bright blue of the day. At every display
of mechanism somebody was stationed
who could explain clearly how it worked.
Can it be that “Princess Ida” was the
forerunner of the American college boy
and girl movie? There is certainly a
good deal of up-and-coming fun among
the three young blades, Hilarion, Cyril
and Florian, projected into the high-
grade ladies’ college run by the Princess
Ida and Lady Blanche. True, there was
nothing of the co-ed about Castle
Adamant, which seemed to combine
essays into the higher education with the
strictness of a nunnery. Its students had
to forswear men, and no man was ad-
mitted within its walls. Even chessmen
were barred. The three young men dis-
guised in academic robes have a glorious
morning among the girls. Then one of
them gets tipsy and merrily carols a song
about kisses and maids’ lips, with a nasty
sneer on the side about the girl who
talks well, and talks too much. Coltish,
that’s the word to describe “Princess Ida.”
The dressing of the opening scene was
radiant. Plum blues, violet, peacock
blues, rose and hyacinth pinks, skyey
greens and blues. In true Tennysonian
fashion the setting was a pavilion. And,
incidentally, if royalty always wore kingly
garb as did King Hildebrand (Richard
Watson) no monarch would ever have
been dethroned. Strella Wilson brought t
good looks as well as voice to the part
of the Princess. Anthony Strange, Max-
well Oldaker and Gregory Stroud were
the three gay college invaders.
All the well-known library faces were
seen at the opening of America’s library
of information. The space that looks so
large when uninhabited looked like an
overpopulated area by the time the last
invitee was seated. As a matter of fact
many of them were not seated at all, but
stood “at ease” while the speeches were
being made, U.S. Minister Nelson John-
son declared this little literary blood
bank of America open. It is to be hoped
that transfusions from its arteries to Aus-
tralia’s veins and transfusions from Aus-
tralia’s library of information in New
York will make the two countries more
akin than ever.
It was Archibald MacLeish, of the
Congress Library in Washington, who
gave the happiest touch in his telegram
of congratulation. He said “Among the
English-speaking worlds, the book is still
the greatest ambassador.” There were five
telegrams in all, with the exception of
Archibald’s all on conventional lines. Two
came from Canberra, from Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Calwell. There was one from
the Library Association of America and
one from 'Mrs. Roosevelt. In number
the books are few, but they are compre-
hensive and fulfil the hope of Mr. John-
son’s speech: “We want you to know us
as human beings. You have met our
young men and women in uniform. We
want you to see us at home, organised
for life, in drawing-room and in overalls,
in Hollywood and on a farm.”
Minister for Education Clive Evatt,
representing the N. S. Wales Premier, was
a speaker. From all, Miss Root and her
group of clever women librarians received
much praise, and it is safe to say of them
they deserved even more than they got.
Mrs. Johnson, wife of America’s Minister,
was there, very cool and crisp-looking in
grey and white. Wife of Attorney-
General Evatt was distinctive in black.
Mrs. Gwen Spencer’s raspberry»red hat
caused the blink of attention. All the
movements were represented. Mr.
Cousins brought the compliments of
Angus and Robertson.
A wedding panned for the end of last
week —February 19 to be exact —was that
of Mona Smith to Percival Claude Bird.
It had a setting with so many early Aus-
tralian links as to create something of a
record. St. Andrew’s C. of E., Carring-
ton, Karuah, was the church chosen for
the ceremony, and its grey stone was
quarried and fashioned by convicts in
1844. The last wedding celebrated there
was that of Lily White to William Cullen,
and he later became knight William
Cullen, Chief Justice and Lieutenant-
Governor of N.S.W. At that wedding
Dean Cowper, of Sydney, an uncle of
the bride, officiated. The present bride’s
people have lived at Carrington for 100
years, and her father is a cousin of Lord
Carrington, who was Governor of N.S.W.
in the ’nineties. Nor do the historic
touches end here. The reception was held
at Tahlee, built in 1828 by the Australian
Agricultural Co. (a grant of spreading
acres went with that), which was the
co.’s first headquarters in this State.
Tahlee is now the property of A. B. S.
White, of Sydney, who lent it for the
wedding. The old home is furnished
with gracious seventeenth-century furni-
ture, and the mellowness of old days and
old ways still clings to it. Tahlee and
Carrington are on the western shores of
Port Stephens.
This is a picture of the very blonde
and pretty Mrs. J. F. R. Burgess, who
occupies her days as an honorary secre-
tary in the branch department of Red
Cross House. Mrs. Burgess, an English
girl, came to Australia with her husband,
Wing-Commander Burgess, who is on
loan to the R.A.A.F. They have been
here two years, and Mrs. Burgess de-
clares she has enjoyed every minute of
it. She loves our scenery and our Aus-
tralian way of life, and feels as though
she is really one of us. Mrs. Burgess is
an .experienced secretary, and in the early
days of the war in England was a mem-
ber of London’s Fire Figntmg Auxiliary,
a blood donor and a canteen worker.
Now, if she and her husband aren’t doing
their bit towards victory, who is? Photo-
graph is from G. Foster, of Gloucester.
Women, and men, too, will, it appears,
soon be able to claim that their clothes
(if not themselves) are the glass of
fashion. Attorney-General Eyatt’s wife
carried with her to the opening of the
American Library of Information last
week a delicately woven and flexible-as-
silk bookmarker. It was made of glass.
That particular strip of woven glass had
come from America. But previous to the
war spun glass was being woven into
many fabrics. From France came at
least one pair of dancing slippers said to
be of glass. They made the story of
Cinderella take on added significance.
The new glass, so Mrs. Evatt was saying,
may prove of great value in house-
building after the war. Great things are
claimed for it as a wail padding. It is a
non-conductor, is non-verminous and has
great durability.
Sydney friends send sympathy to Mrs.
Albert Stillwell, who was Sydney singer
Nellie Leach. Her husband died recently
in New York, hi£ passing being very
sudden and, it would appear from the
widow’s letter, quite unexpected. Nellie
did a big job in America on behalf of
“Bundles for Britain.” • She raised over
half a million dollars, spoke to more
than 1,800,000 people, and travelled in
21 States to do it. Nellie is now back
in London, though getting passage back
meant five months of trying. Finally she
got a chance to travel in a troopship. She
finds the people in England full of confi-
dence in the outcome of the war.
Midway through March there is to be
a grand reunion of the wives, mothers,
sisters and friends of Air Force men at
330 George-street. This is a party after-
noon, and it is' hoped that all who pos-
sibly can will come along, and if they
will let the organisers know beforehand
(because of catering problems) the cour-
tesy will be appreciated. B 4455 is the
telephone number. The afternoon is
being arranged by the Ladies’ Auxiliary
of the Australian Flying Corps and Royal
Australian Air Force. Their hope is to
recruit new helpers and welcome back
many who have formerly done good
work at the George-street canteen.
People on the north side of the harbor
have no quarrel with the change of ad-
dress of the proposed opera season.
Transport being what it is these nights,
the fact that the Conservatorium and not
the Minerva will house the great under-
taking means not such a hectic rush
for last ferries. May, generally a
pleasant month, is chosen for the
three weeks’ session. “Faust,” CavaT
leria” and “Pagliacci” are the operas so
far decided on. The A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra will play its part in the scheme.
Sydney de Vries will produce the operas,
Curt Prerauer will be the chorus master
and Henry Krips the musical director.
From Melbourne
Bad news has come from Gipps-
land, where the bushfires seemed to
cover the land. The fire in Yallourn
opencut on the top of other coal disrup-
tions made everyone realise just how
much the amenities of civilisation depend
on steady fuel supplies. The cutting off
of electricity by day wasn’t so much of
a bother in the home, but the curtailment
of tram services, which meant that such
trams as did run were packed like herring
barrels, meant a lot of discomfort. There
was a silver lining, though, even to that
cloud, the conductor being so tightly
wedged between travellers that he
couldn’t do much ticket-selling.
In spite of fires a lot of harvesting will
have to be done during the next few
weeks, and young women will have to
play a big part in it. A near-at-hand
job for Melbourne girls looms up
in the Mornington Peninsula, where
apples are ripening fast. The Land Army
is organising the onslaught, and has
already established two hostels for girls
going a-picking. There’s a need, too, for
lasses with a few hours to spare during
the week, or, better still, at week-ends,
to lend a hand at city canneries, where
so much of the fruit is going.
Money-box shakers who have been
getting the cold shoulder from many
citizens on monthly appeal days got the
surprise of their experience on Friday,
button day for the blinded service men.
This time people simply rushed collec-
tors. Town Hall organisers were jubi-
lant, particularly as the bushfires appeal
had already made inroads into most
pockets. The usual wheels and raffles
were a feature of the day, and odd sights
were a very woolly sheep waiting to be
someone’s lucky number in Collins-street
and an enormous popeyed doll going off
in the arms of an Allied service man.
In the A.I.F. Women’s Association’s
cake competition, run in conjunction with
the Market Fair, for the stocking of the
cake stall, a special feature is being made
of cakes minus those ingredients usually
regarded as the foundation-stones of
cake-making. Some of the recipes given
by the organisers of the competition suc-
cessfully surmount the lack of butter and
eggs.
A Melbourne girl as well known m
Sydney as in her home town is Ida
Osbourne, now home for a few weeks’
holiday from her A.B.C. job, and bring-
ing with her quite the most perfect be-
•flowered headwear to be seen about these
parts. As “Elizabeth” of the children’s
sessions, she has an Australia-wide audi-
ence. She claims that her sessions, by
training the child mind to accept music
and other arts in small doses, prepare
it for symphony concerts and Shakspeare.
Junk shops are becoming as thick \as
flies in summer. Wherever another shop
goes out of . business an “antiques” sign
goes up, in city or in suburbs. The
strange thing about the business is the
way in which public taste has veered.
Victorian table furnishings such as
crockery-handled salad servers, plates
with stag-at-bay designs on ’em and the
like that would have made the pre-war
bride shudder and would have been
banished to the lumber-room find en-
thusiastic buyers in spite of the fancifully
high prices asked for them.
The Red Cross shop beseeches the
kind-hearted to part with Aunt Jane’s old
silver teapot or the jewelled necklace
that’s really a bit on the tight side. The
shop stands in sore need of fresh stock,
though its windows are still full of quaint
and charming things. Jewellery, real or
imitation, finds the readiest buyers and
brings in most profit. The shop looks
kindly on any contributions, however
strange, and appears to have no diffi-
culty in selling oddities. It found a buyer
for the helmet of a long-dead Irish
guardsman. This week it offers a cutlass
that looks as if it might have belonged
to Morgan or Kidd.
C.W.A.’s new gen. sec., Marjorie
Strong, has a reputation among her col-
leagues for great energy and organising
ability. As secretary to the Handicrafts
and Home Industries Committee of the
C.W.A. she toured country districts lec-
turing and demonstrating, as well as
organising exhibitions of handwork in
the city. She is a B.A. of Melbourne
Uni., where she specialised ■in modern
languages, and her school in pre-Uni.
days was Clyde, Woodend.
The British Music Society proposes to
start its children’s concerts again, with
the same ingredients, plus a few minor
changes that experience has shown to be
desirable. Among these is the scheme of
publishing details of concert programmes
a little beforehand so that music teachers
can give their young pupils a preliminary
hearing of some of the items to be
played. Another is the decision to ex-
clude children under six. This time, too,
seats will cost sixpence instead of nix
and will be bookable ahead.
The play from the German, “Children
in Uniform,” will be put on by the
Un-named Players group in March as
part of their 1944 programme. Early in
the year they intend to do “Parnell”
again, as it was so popular when played
a few months ago. At the end of this
month the group will stage A. A. Milne’s
adaptation of Kenneth Grahame’s Wind
in the Willows « “Toad of Toad Hall.”
The Harold Elvins. Memorial Fund will
benefit. The group work for many good
causes, mostly by the “sponsor” system,
meaning that an organisation assumes
responsibility for the business side of the
production and takes all proceeds. Profits
are usually very tidy amounts. The
Opportunity Club is a frequent sponsor.
The Lady Huntingfield Memorial
Scholarship winner, Rachel McLaren,
has some unusual qualifications for social-
service work (on the course for which
the scholarship enables her to embark).
She spent some years with her parents in
Korea, so she has a knowledge of con-
ditions in more than one country. Her
last three years have been spent in study
at Melbourne Uni., where she graduated
B.A. with Honors in the School of
Philosophy. She is the daughter of Dr.
Charles McLaren, who returned to Mel-
bourne some time after the war with
Japan broke out, and Mrs. McLaren,
who has many links with the Presbyterian
Church in Australia.
The women’s services are agog with the
news of popular Jo Greenfield’s transfer
to Canberra for special duties at Federal
Government House, Jo being a flight-
sergeant in the W.A.A.A.F. and a fine-
looking lass to boot.
Social-service training has become one
of the most popular University courses,
and this year, consequently, the number
of qualified graduates available to fill
the many jobs the war has created is
much larger than usual. Service-welfare
organisations particularly are making a
point of employing students so equipped.
The death of Miss Jessie Webb, of the
University, was a great sorrow to her
many friends and to those who remem-
bered her as students in her history
classes. She joined the University staff
soon after graduating in 1900. Ancient
history was her special interest, and she
had travelled widely to increase and
revivify her knowledge by archaeological
research. On two occasions, the last
while Professor Crawford was in Russia
recently, she was acting-Professor of
History.
The announcement at the week-end of
the marriage of Alison Adams, elder
daughter of Mr. Parker Adams, of Gil-
gai, Nagambie, to Captain David Hay has
brought congratulations to the bride
from all her town and country friends.
They would be congratulating the bride-
groom, too, but he is on service with the
A.I.F, The wedding took place in
Queensland, when the ’groom’s leave
allowed. One of our good-looking
country girls, Alison enrolled in the
Women’s Air Training Corps, but found
that she could give better service at Gil-
gai, which is an important sector of our
food front. *
Trinity College chapel was the spot
chosen by Kate Frewin for her marriage
to Lieut. James Thursby, U.S. Army.
The choir stalls were decked with gum-
blossom posies and the bride wore tradi-
tional white satin and tulle and carried
water-lilies. Her younger sister Ruth was
bridesmaid. The ceremonial sword with
which an officer’s bride cut the wedding
cake in times gone by has no place in
War kit, but an American hunting knife
which had been the bridegroom’s com-
panion on holiday expeditions in peace-
time days was made to serve.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary s report see '‘Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S’thebt, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. Gborge’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
HVBOVT
'AIN
easy way
In cases which do
not quickly respond
to lodex treatment
see your Doctor 1 .
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
IN CASES OF
STIFFand SWOLLEN
JOINTS. SPRAINS.
RHEUMATIC TWINGES
AND STRAINED MUSCLES
lODEX gives
Quick Relief.
The value of lodex has been proved in
thousands of cases. Owing its potency
to its great penetrating power, lodex,
gently massaged into the affected part,
goes right to the seat of the trouble,
reducing inflammation, congestion, and
quickly easing pain.
NO-STAIN lODINE
i
m
mm
the Royal Australian Air Force expanded so too did the Nation’s
demands for Lysaght's Galvanized Corrugated Iron. Chosen tor its
great strength, its economy, its ability to give complete protection
against fire and the elements—and finally the speed with which it could
be erected—this famous building sheet proved itself caoable of meeting
every emergency. This popularity among those responsible for the
construction of giant defence works has
naturally meant a severe limitation of
supplies for civilian use but the farmer.
the builder and the plumber are asked to
remember Jthat the value of Lysaght's
Corrugated Iron to the community is an
indication of its value to the fighting
forces and until victory has been won
national needs must come first.
LYSAGHTS
GALVANIZED IRON
LYSAGHTS
ZINCANNEAL
LYSAGHTS
BLACK IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TQ LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health —over 2200 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd. Telephone 81052.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including Sales Tax,
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
SMOKE-OH!
“Swimming Sheep: Ram That Likes Its
Dip.”— “D.T.” heading.
It probably regards itself as a sub-
merino. y
4* 4« 4* 4*
“Make your best stockings last by keeping
'em in a glass jar.”— “Women’s Weekly.’’’
Thus entirely obviating wear and tear.
•I*
“Dr. Bird was hastily summonsed.”— “Sun.”
And, of course, he brought his bill
along with him.
•J*
“Close your eyes and doze for a minute or
two in ’bus or tram.” — Woman’s paper.
Especially when the conductor gets to
your compartment and sings out: Fez-
plis.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Fire Away!
“Four hours to London by rocket.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
’Tis etiquette that, when a friend goes
off by sea, we always send him onward
with some pleasant phrase, such as “Bon
Voyage!” In the maze of farewell gush
we all agree to hope he strikes “a placid
sea.” Or, if he’s going off by ’plane, it’s
“Happy Landing!” We refrain from
anything that might sound “rude.” But
now we’ve ample cause to brood. For
just before the rocket soars into the blue
you’ll hear the roars of fond farewellers
on the spot: “Good luck! And hope
you get well shot!”
Looby.
Diplomacy.
I consider that I have been most for-
bearing towards that person upstairs. At
least three times a week he comes home
in a shocking condition after midnight
and knocks over all the'furniture, while
those nerve-racking parties he throws
have several times kept me awake until
after daylight. And yet I haven’t even
hinted at a complaint. Anyone else
would have gone straight to the land-
lord. Especially now that he’s taken up
boot-repairing as a hobby and hammers
all Sunday morning, just when I want to
rest in. But I’m determined to maintain
the peace; I still turn the other cheek,
as it were.
After all, I haven't got much choice.
He’s the only cow that can get me
bottled beer.
T. W. N.
“Red cheeks are not a sign of health.”
— “World’s News.”
In fact, any girl with them is definitely
off color.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Good mauve evening frock and slip, no
coup.”— Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Perhaps not even a bargain.
“Lost Saturday, half Pomeranian Pup,
child’s pet.”—' '‘Great Northern.”
Meanwhile the kiddie is managing as
well as he can with the remaining half.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Meat offered for flat.” — ‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
Just swapping one joint for another.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Once, when Bing was singing ‘Home on the
Range,’ Beau Rasade neighed and whinnied so
loudly that Mrs. McMahon had to leave the
house and pacify him.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
That’s real horsesense for you.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some men go into Parliament for the
rest of their lives.
Escape.
“Radio science will soon solve the problem
of communication with the dead.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
When, having warmed both hands before
Life’s failing radiator, I
Intone a quavering good-bye
To rations, liquor queues and war,
I shall not grieve unduly, for
It will be very nice to lie.
With other silent sleepers nigh.
Untroubled even by a snore.
But what’s the use ? The calm, superb
Surcease from mortal tribulation
That used to follow inhumation
Quiz kids, war commentators’ blurb.
Crooning and swing will soon disturb . . .
On second thoughts, I’ll try cremation.
P. M. L.
Incorrigible.
Time was when worry made me sick
And nearly drove me to despair.
And then I learned the happy trick
Of laughing in the face of care.
Now, fretting is a thing abstract ;
I find no trouble : flurries me
Excepting this disturbing fact:
That I don’t worry worries me!
P. O. M. C.
Embarrassing.
“Who Owns the Trousers?”
—“S. M. Herald.”
I do. And when they need a patch
My better-half repairs ’em.
But here’s a question I attach'
More point to : having met my match
I’m dubious who wears ’em!
PERCIVAL.
Bewilderment.
What is this thing called love, this
mystic fire.
This strange desire ?
Soon as I gazed on dazzling Isobel
I straightway fell!
Why did I fall so 7 What assumed
control
Of heart and soul ?
And tell me how, though Isabel’s my
queen,
I still love Jean ?
NAT.
Exception.
“It would be exhilarating to see some modern
workers who didn’t want to strike.”
—Correspondent in daily.
To exhortations to go and strike
The men, it seemed, were deaf.
They went on teetering round, and then
“No contest!” said the ref.
O’HELL.
Quite Confidentially.
“It pays to take your hairdresser into your
confidence.” — Woman s paper.
There’s no reason why a man shouldn’t
try it, too, I thought, so when I hopped
in to get my thatch pruned I altered my
tactics. Instead of sinking into my usual
coma, as soon as Trimmer led off with
“The weather keeps dry”—preamble to a
meteorological monologue that usually
lasts until he hangs the clippers up—l
slipped in with:
“It suits me. Wet weather plays hell
with my ‘screws.’ ” I then launched con-
fidentially into a recital of associated ills
with which various remote relatives were
afflicted, stressing particularly the chalky
rheumatism suffered by my great-uncle
Herb.
A gldnce in the mirror showed that
Trimmer was getting restive. At last he
could stand it no longer, and burst in
with; “What do you think of”
“Unfortunately,” I cut in, “I find it of
late increasingly difficult to think, at least
clearly. Somehow I seem to have lost
the power of concentration. I badly need
a tonic. Do you know,” I said in a burst
of intimacy, “my blood pressure is only
74, and. it should be around 145. I sup-
pose it’s because I don’t worry enough.
My wife always says she worries enough
for the two of us.” Then I gave him some
confidential details of our home life
which should have kept him interested.
Instead, I could see by the savage way he
backed at a few obstinate hairs abaft the
left lug that all my confidences were, in the
words of Chaucer, getting on his quince.
“I see,” he broke in as I took a breath
to blow some clipped hair off my nose,
“that those trapped Germans are eating
dogs and”
“Purely in confidence,” I interjected
smartly, “I’ve always wanted to eat a do«
—a greyhound particularly because I dis-
like the breed intensely; though, mind
you, I think the idea of baking one’s pet
foxie is revolting”—and I kept up a talk
on the culinary possibilities of cocker
spaniels and Manx cats until he reached
the oil-splashing stage. As he wielded
the brushes with what I thought rather
unnecessary force I regaled him with
some harrowing revelations regarding the
mounting list of unpaid bills and my re-
quirement of a winner at long odds to
nourish a wad rendered sickly by the
Ned Kelly tactics of an iron-hard
Treasurer.
In fact, I asked him bluntly for a
good thing.
I thought he wore a rather churl-
ish look as he snapped something about
giving me the office and finished up
“That’ll be one and six.”
On the Monday morning when I called
in with a razor for setting Trimmer said,
with the ghost of a malicious smile, “I’m
sorry I gave you a loser Saturday—The
Office was pocketed at the turn, but he
did well to run fifth.”
“But you did give me a winner—two, in
fact,” I replied. “You said about the
office being one and six. I backed the
first horse in the sixth race and the sixth
horse in the first race. One came home
at sixes and the other at fifteens. Thanks
a lot.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Staggered” Elections
One of the problems of democracy is
to find a way whereby the people can
exercise continuous control over their
Government. At present they have a
say every three years or so. Between
general elections a party which has a
good majority dan do as it pleases. If
the people find that the Government’s
measures turn out differently from what
they expected, or that its doctrines no
longer suit a changed situation, they have
still to put up with the men they have
chosen for the full term of Parliament.
Devices suggested to overcome this
difficulty, such as the Initiative, Referen-
dum and Recall, have failed to appeal to
peoples or to Governments. What I pro-
pose is to abolish general elections alto-
gether and substitute a system of con-
tinuous by-elections.
There are 75 members of the House of
Representatives, who sit for approxi-
-150 weeks. “Stagger” their terms so that
one seat falls vacant every fortnight. In
this way the policy of the Government
will be at all times under review by some
section of the electors. Unpopular legis-
lation will quickly produce danger sig-
nals, and persistence by the Government
in a disliked policy will threaten its life.
Thus, a majority of any number can be
extinguished in as many weeks, because
every seat lost will decrease the majority
by two.
The political consciousness of the
whole nation would be raised by such a
system, and without the unhealthy excite-
ment and dislocation now caused by
general elections.
At the start a sort of roster for the
vacating-of seats would have to be drawn
up, perhaps by lot or by considering the
majorities last obtained by each member.
But, however set up, this roster would
thenceforth work quite smoothly, for it
need be disturbed only by deaths or resig-
nations. — Arc (N.S.W.).
Pay-as-you-go Taxation
I can’t see the force of this argument
about pay-as-you-go tax. Hardship is
quoted in the case of the member who
lost his seat and must pay his previous
year’s tax, though minus salary*. Surely
this man wasn’t so utterly feckless as to
spend all his income, relying, with fatu-
ous assurance, on the following year to
bring forth the wherewithal—a Parlia-
mentarian, too, with elections looming!
Any sane man arranges to lay aside
enough cash during the course of the
year, out of his income, to meet the tax
bill when it falls due.
I’m certainly not “close” where money
is concerned and haven’t saved a cracker,
beyond insurance, in my life, but I
am genuinely amazed to learn that,
apparently, the bulk of the population
rely on the next year’s income to pay
last year’s tax! I must be one of the
few real pessimists in a nation of super-
optimists.—Prepare for the Worst,
(W.A.).
Miners’ Strikes
How about all mines being taken over
as a section of the fighting forces as one
of the ground (or underground) depart-
ments? Men would then be enrolled as
personnel in the usual way (there could
be classification' of titles and ranks as
with other maintenance sections of the
service), and service rules and discipline
would control operations.
Absenteeism would be treated as
A.W.L. and dealt with accordingly—by
a touch of C. 8., with pay docked for a
day. Should a miner not pay proper
respect to superior ranks he’d be likewise
for it. He’d be required to stand to
attention and salute when receiving his
pay and perform other actions in the
course of his job which make for good
discipline; "and he’d never be quite sure
when he was going to get leave.
All this the service mineworker would
soon get used to, although it might be a
strong contrast to his previous freedom
of action and independent outlook. I
commend this to Mr. Curtin as an idea
for securing the discipline which he seems
unable to impose now. — Padre (Tas.).
As the job of hewing coal appears to
be too strenuous for N. S. Wales miners
I suggest they should all be pensioned-off
for ten years or so, when the war is
over, and the coal needed imported for a
decade from South Africa. The miners
could go fishing or to the races or the
dogs every day, unless, of course, they
boycotted the bait-gatherers or organised
a strike against the bookmakers because
the odds,were not long enough.
Under my plan not only would Aus-
tralia obtain very good coal but the
difference in the cost of the expensive
N. S. Wales article and the landed price
of Natal coal probably would be suffi-
cient to pay all the pensions apd the
upkeep of the mines.— Mining Engi-
neer (Vic.).
“Wet” Sheep
If Mr. Curtin promulgated regulations
whereby those engaged in industry were
severely dealt with in the event of go-
slow methods, there would be fewer
requests for man-power, in the wool
industry at any rate.
I have just seen a team of shearers vote
sheep wet from three points of rain on
Sunday night and lay off till Friday morn-
ing, only resuming then on a majority of
one vote. The sheep had to be yarded,
drafted and voted on every day, with
consequent waste of labor and time and
deterioration of wool from dust. Some
15 men were either idle or engaged in
non-productive work for the period. This
is only one of many such cases. — Wool
(Q-).
“They tell me it's terrible here in the Wet season !”
Disabled Soldiers’ Appeal
“Casma” (B. 2/2/’44) is not con-
versant with the facts of the Appeal
of the Totally and Permanently Dis-
abled Soldiers’ Association in S. Aus.
It was made clear in every possible
avenue of publicity that the funds were
for the establishment of a club and means
of recreation for the disabled men. The
1914-18 men are trying to have a well-
equipped and soundly-financed associa-
tion and club to hand on to the younger
men of this war who will become mem-
bers.
These men, permanently unemployable,
will need some place to meet where they
can have recreation and companionship
to while away the tedious hours. Being
military pensioners, it is not possible for
them to provide these necessities for
themselves. Because of the' fact that they
suffer from internal injuries or. are medi-
cal cases, most have no outward physical
disabilities such as arouse sympathy.—
W. C. Barrett, Hon. Sec., P.D.S.A.
(S.A.).
The Liquor Trade
If there is any industry that should be
removed from private control, and in
which the profit incentive should have no
part, it is surely the manufacture and
sale of beers, wines and spirits. The
trade as now conducted (especially on
the retail side) is a menace to society, a
blot on our boasted civilisation and a
serious reflection on the morality and
intelligence of our people.
The industry, from the brewery and
distillery to the retailing hotel and wine-
shop, should be controlled absolutely by
the community, all sections of which
should be represented on the controlling
body. The governance of the industry
should truly be “by the people for the
people,” and the prime—indeed the only
—aim should be to provide drinks that,
because of a low alcoholic content,
would be harmless but palatable, refresh-
ing and really thirst-quenching not
beverages more or less “doctored” to viti-
ate the palate and stimulate thirst to a
degree that results in hog-swilling, bar
and street brawling, vomiting and other
nauseating phenomena.
All retail selling and drinking should
be open to the public gaze, not behind
what amounts in most cases to closed
doors. To effect this, hotels and wine-
shops should be remodelled on the prin-
ciple of milk bars. Secret and bestial
drinking would thus be checked.
Under community control the men and
women employed in the making and
selling of liquor, from the heads down,
would be persons of proven probity, with
no money-making axes to grind, con-
cerned in preserving all branches of
the industry from reproach.
Any employee found guilty of violat-
ing the trust reposed in him or her would
be immediately dismissed and prohibited
from being thereafter engaged in the
industry, and severe penalties would be
enforced against any person or persons
caught illicitly making, adulterating or
disposing of liquor.
If the Labor party were truly animated
by the principles it professes, such a revo-
lutionary change in the purpose and con-
trol of the liquor trade would have
almost first priority in that party’s pro-
gramme of social reform. Avoca
(N.S.W.).
Rationing
Is my household the only one in Aus-
tralia which has never yet, despite ration-
ing, been short of tea, sugar, butter or
meat? Even if the ration for these items
were trebled we would not buy more of
these commodities, because we don’t need
even as much as the ration allows on the
present scale.
We live in the country, but, apart from
the few eggs, all our food is bought at
shops and coupons surrendered where
necessary. As far as we are concerned
rationing is unnecessary and absurd.
But perhaps if the ration system were
abolished many a civil servant would
be transferred to another department,
maybe the C.C.C. — Wigwag (S.A.).
The Future of Wool
Australia must wake up. She can’t
afford to rest complacently on the war-
time wool-purchasing scheme. Overseas
interests aren’t resting; they’re busy on
first-class advertising to show the world
fancy worsteds, cottons, rayons and many
other up-to-the-minute productions, made
in many cases from wool substitutes,
waiting for customers.
An angle of our problem not suffi-
ciently studied is the fact that our Com-
monwealth is situated in a temperate
climate, which helps the production of a
fine-textured wool, but this does not mean
that we should wear only clothes made
of wool and more wool; our climate per-
mits wearing much lighter clothing than
that in which we repeatedly swelter.
But millions in colder countries have
no woollen clothes at all, probably be-
cause our better-class wools are beyond
their purses. But what of oar lower-
grade wools, which comprise one-sixth of
our wool clip, crutchings, belly wools,
skirtings, head and leg trimmings, stained
pieces, locks, mill wastes, clothing-factory
and tailors’ clippings, discarded and
degenerated woollen clothing, rags and
shoddy? This would probably amount to
the equivalent of 300,000 bales of wool,
and a ready market awaits this lesser-
priced wool overseas. If they could get
it many millions would be able to wear
some wool who previously wore none at
all. Australians, who enjoy much better
living conditions than many overseas
people, could buy clothing made from a
much better cloth, more suitable to our
climatic conditions, which would give
better wear and be more economic.
With regard to substitute yarns, of
which there are many, good results can
be obtained by weaving some of them with
wool into a union cloth which would be
attractive, durable and certainly cooler
for summer wear. These yarns will un-
doubtedly find a market on merit. Why
not use them as a carrier of our wool to
an expanded market?
As a beginning, why not wipe out the
export duty of 25 p.c. and export the
whole of these low-grade wools either in
manufactured form or as wool and wool
wastes? — Ex-Grazier (N.S.W.).
The New Education
Those correspondents who want the
education system revised so as to equip
citizens to make sound political and
social judgments should take a glance
- at the regulations coming into operation
this year for the secondary school inter-
mediate and leaving examinations in
Victoria. Physical development, wood-
work, metalwork, social studies, civics
and musical appreciation form part of
the syllabus for the intermediate certifi-
cate, together with a new subject, English
expression, the aim of which is to make
young Australians more careful and
adept in speaking and writing their own
language.
At the leaving certificate standard
there is a section for English students
called “thinking and expression.” In it
students analyse advertisements, political
speeches and articles in newspapers and
magazines, the purpose being to lay bare
propaganda, both political and com-
mercial, and to make the student take an
interest in what goes on about him.
Current books, newspapers and political
ideas are discussed and criticised.
In this way it is hoped to make the
post-war generation of Australians con-
scious of their responsibilities, cautious in
their acceptance of opinions foisted upon
them by newspapers and fair-minded in
their judgment of other sects and classes.
— Nairda (Vic.).
Westralia and Secesh
“Lomond” (B. l/12/’43) says “Seces-
sion in W.A. is not dead.” Did it ever
really live? True at one time it got a
good vote, but it never became an ideal
to be worked for by the majority.
One would think that we in W.A. were
going around in sackcloth because of the
depredations of some Big Bad Wolf of
the east. A lot of my time has been spent
in the outback, where we had postal and
telegraph facilities which our State can
be proud of.
Of course, we haven’t many munition
factories enjoying Government contracts.
But neither have we the skilled labor to
operate them. How would “Lomond”
like to pay for setting up uneconomic
industries so that W.A.’s ego may be satis-
fied? Personally, I haven’t seen any
suffering in W.A. because we lack these
things. •
The men of W.A. have gone to fight in
every theatre of war. To fight for Aus-
tralia. These men didn’t think in terms
of States; they think and act as mem-
bers of the Commonwealth.
If “Lomond” and his kind would set
about showing wherein W.A. is great in-
stead of howling that it is the goat, they
would be doing their State a service.—
WX Sarge (W.A.).
The Unknown North
Why is N. Queensland a terra incognita
to Southerners? A story or article deal-
ing with any phase of N. Queensland
history and development is frowned
upon by Big City editors, except when the
material submitted is by some well-
known author.
We had our purple spots —the early
goldmining days and the exploits of our
northern pioneers—but we are told they
are of “only local interest.” Yet all Aus-
tralians are expected to be interested in
the Victorian gold-digging days, the
Eureka Stockade and other happenings of
that time and place, wherever they live
in Australia.
There is plenty of untouched material
concerning the N. Queensland early
days—explorations, battles with blacks,
massacres, record gold finds and fevered
rushes, happenings not remembered today
outside restricted areas. Scarcely anyone
south of Townsville has even ever heard
of the Palmer gold rush—an alluvial gold
find second only to Ballarat, with a his-
tory written in the blood of those brave
men and women who fell by the spears of
cannibal aborigines. Why are not our
writers encouraged to explore this rich
vein? —Gip (N.Q.).


X
x
8
X
A
\
3C
XT,
, V-
/ //
The Airman
who turned shepherd
In his book, "War in the Air,” David
Garnet tells the story of a most versatile
Hurricane pilot.
Returning home from a desert recon-
naissance flight this airman observed a
large body of Italians retreating to the
west. He instantly dived, firing warning
shots in front of them. Repeating his
tactics again and again as they tried
to break away, he eventually had an
orderly body of prisoners marching
towards the east.
He then radioed British Field Head-
quarters to send troops to take over his
flock.
Surely the strangest single-handed
capture of this war.
And another classic example of the
perfect co - ordination between the
services.
*
A co-ordination speeded jup and sim-
plified by radio.
It is radio which sets the tempo for
this war.
He * *
More Australian - built aeroplanes, ships,
guns and radio are rolling off factory
assembly lines than ever before. Munitions
for our own defence! Welded into one
powerful striking force by radio.
Australians are not forgetful of the great
enterprise which made possible the building
of all such equipment in Australia.
Whilst Australia continues to turn out
such equipment, she is laying a founda-
tion for a great industrial to-morrow. —
Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
