

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3345
Wednesday, March 22, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
Seppelts
THE TROSSACHS, SCOTLAND.
“p HE romantic lake region of Scotland is one of the most attractive
1 parts of Europe, not only from its natural beauty, but because
of the charm which Sir Walter Scott’s poems and “Waverley”
novels have given there to mountains, lochs, rivers and castles.
The scenery is not Alpine in its grandeur, nor like that of Norway
m sublimity; but it is exceedingly picturesque and beautiful, while
itc* c ,,.v . , , , r ,
ns variety of rugged mountains, limpid lakes, soft sylvan scenery
. .■ . f . ’
ana wooded islands renders,a tour through this country one of rare
delight. Moreover, the region is of limited extent. If pressed for
time, the tourist may go from Glasgow to Edinburgh and see the
roost conspicuous features of the Trossachs in a single day. If the
weather be fine, the pictures which unfold themselves at every turn
in this poetic and historic country will hang for ever in the
gallery of the traveller's memory ; for everywhere he there beholds
“Crags, knolls and mounds confusedly hurled, The fragments of
an earlier world” and “Mountains that like giants stand, To sentinel
enchanted land!” Yet frequently, to offset this graqdeur, we see
a tranquil stream or ivied bridg e, a peaceful valley or a ruined
„ , • . .. . . r , , AA . .
castle, which give to this delightful scenery an added charm. Moro-
c ... , , . „ -
over, the greater part of. this district ot the Scottish lakes (so
. . . ... , . ...
s P arse, y “ 11 Popufated) seems like a pleasure-park reserved lor
tounsts - For the old Hrghland Chiefs have long smce dtsappeared.
and the fc " wealthy landowners spend often only three or four
weeks here on their vast estates to entertain their guests or shoot
the game upon their hills.


Learn
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Bo6kiet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised tn the Sydney •‘Bulletin.”
it;/ Name
My Address
SB. 144 AGE
The Red Page
Thunder from Hunter-street.
“Lord bless my soul, Mr. Gallagher,”
said Mr. Shean, “have you seen the Syd-
ney ‘Morning Herald’ this morning?”
“Really,” said Mr. Gallagher, “one
should not become exclamatory over the
popular press.”
“But have you se?n it?” persisted Mr.
Shean,
“I never read the ‘Herald,’” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Except, of course, Mr.
Lower’s articles.”
“But Lower doesn’t write for the
‘Herald,’ ” said Mr. Shean
“No?” said Mr. Gallagher. “Then
who does write Granny’s art criticism?”
“I prefer not to know who writes it,”
said Mr. Shean. “It is Granny herself
we are concerned with. And it is on that
very matter of art criticism”
“What has the old she-wolf been up
to now?” asked* Mr. Gallagher.
“Reforming the art gallery again,”
said Mr. Shean. “I refer to a long article
in the issue of March the eighth. Insofar
as I am able to translate it, the first part
6f the article, comparing prices that have
been paid by the gallery for European
paintings with prices at London auctions,
suggests that the trustees have been
squandering public money.”
“And have the trustees been squander-
ing public money?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“In her delightfully spontaneous
phraseology,” said Mr. Shean, “Granny
claims that her figures prove that ‘bar-
gains can be obtained,’ ”
“With all due respect to everybody,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “the use of the word
bargain’ in connection with art fills me
with a strange distaste.”
“I do not myself think that the trustees
of the National Gallery of New South
Wales should be a bunch of bargain-
hunters,” said Mr. Shean. “However,
since Granny herself admits that the low
prices that have been paid at London
auctions were probably for ‘poor ex-
amples,’ and since she does not demand
that the trustees buy up all the ‘poor
examples’ they can find at bargain prices,
1 don’t think she has any point at all to
make.”
“Then from the first half of this long
article no sense whatever can be
‘obtained’?” asked Mr. Gallagher. “1
am less surprised than you might
imagine.”
“But,” said Mr. Shean, “after this
amiable exercise in the art of English
prose, Granny returns to her attack upon
Australian art, declaring bitterly that the
gallery possesses 40 Heysens and ‘even
more Norman Lindsays.’ ”
“I thought,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
somebody had already told the old shrimp
that of the 54 Norman Lindsays in the
gallery only 30 had actually been pur-
chased. Eighteen of these works were
presented by Mr. Howard Hinton ; five
by Mrs. Lindsay; and one by Angus and
Robertson. If Granny must keep on
making herself absurd over this matter
let her at least be accurate.”
“Four galleries in London and one in
Cambridge possess more than 20,000
paintings and drawings by Turner,” said
Mr. Shean. “An average, you observe,
of 4000 Turners each. Most of these, ad-
mittedly, were a bequest; but does not the
‘Herald’ object to the 24 Lindsays that
have been donated as well as to the 30
that have been bought? Compared with
the average of 4000 Turners the 42 Hey-
sens and the whole 54 Lindsays hardly
seem excessive.”
“We appear to have come halfway
down the column without discovering
anything even remotely sensible,” said
Mr. Gallagher.
“Granny proceeds,” said Mr. Shean,
“to complain that the gallery has bought
none of the ‘fine Provencal landscapes’
by Rupert Bunny—‘the best of Australian
painters.’ ”
“If it is desirable for Australian artists
to paint foreign parts,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “and if it is desirable that the
gallery should possess the resulting
masterpieces, the ‘Herald’ could always
present 18 or five or one to the nation.
Have we come here to the real point of
the article —that there should be more
paintings of Provence in the New South
Wales National Gallery?”
“Partly,” said Mr. Shean. “What
Granny is really driving at is that the new
director to be appointed to the gallery
should have all power of administration
and buying. At present the trustees buy
and the director merely advises. Granny
wants the system reversed, though she
will allow to the trustees the right of
veto.”
“I don’t altogether see what the differ-
ence would be,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“In some galleries the director buys and
the trustees have the right of veto. In Syd-
ney the trustees buy and the director—■
though without a vote —advises. I am
informed that the advice of the retiring
director in Sydney was always followed.
Consequently, both systems come to much
the same thing; co-operation between the
director and the trustees. I can see one
advantage in the New South Wales sys-
tem —that it protects art from being at
the mercy of one man, who might be
interested in the works of only one of the
many schools.”
“That,” said Mr. Shean, “is the point.
If the director is made dictator, and he
is a man of goodwill, all may be well.
But supposing you had a director nomi-
nated and dominated by the ‘Herald’?”
“That, too, might be well enough,”
saidtMr. Gallagher, “if we had any con-
fidence in the ‘Herald.’ But have we not
just demonstrated that Granny’s policy in
the arts is alternately unintelligible and
anti-Australian ? ’ ’
“She says,” observed Mr. Shean, “that
all power of administration and buying
‘must’ be vested in the new director;
and that director ‘must’ have two com-
missioned buyers abroad —looking for
bargains, presumably; and that there
‘must’ be system in the buying; and that
the reorganisation of the gallery ‘must’
be thorough—‘even ruthless.’ If the new
director is a ‘Herald’ nominee he will not
be allowed any doubts about what he
‘must’ do. For a start, most of the paint-
ings now in the gallery ‘must’ be sold
or stored out of sight.”
“Who has complained about the
present pictures in the gallery?” asked
Mr. Gallagher.
“Granny has,” said Mr. Shean. “They
make her miserable. ‘lt is better and
cheaper to cut. our losses now than to
prolong this misery.’ ”
“Of course,” said Mr. Gallagher, “if
Granny is miserable there is no more to
be said about it. Unless, indeed, she
herself were to be thoroughly-—even ruth-
lessly—stored out of sight.”
In Defence of Arnold Wall .
In the current issue of Brisbane “Mean-
jin Papers” (notable for a vast improve-
ment in the reviews and criticism) there
is an article by Allen Curnow on “Aspects
of New Zealand Poetry.” Within its
limits, as a survey of the work of D’Arcy
Cresswell, R. A. K. Mason and A. R. D.
Fairburn, it is a good article ; but in its
exclusion of Arnold Wall, it is misleading.
Misleading, because Curnow is speci-
fically interested in poets in whose work
New Zealand is made articulate ; poets
who, in contrast to the early versifiers,
accept the New Zealand scene as their
natural environment, using with equal
ease the images of the imported and the
native trees and birds, speaking as New
Zealanders for New Zealand: and nobody
has ever been more at home in New Zea-
land than Arnold Wall.
Wall has a new book out, About Our
Birds (Whitcombe and Tombs), and
surely these pieces about tuis and black-
birds, starlings and bellbirds, keas and
sparrows are exactly what Curnow likes
to find in New Zealand poetry, “the
strange new speech of a poetry coming
to be her own and already contributing
to her self-awareness.” Here are “rocks,
great peaks, icefields and everlasting
snows” where the kea, if he chose, could
move in “the vastest orbit of all created
things” ; here is the tui disapproving of
“pakeha birds” ; here is the sea:
And the gulls like foam flying,
Hungrily crying,
Their snovyy wings
Reflecting the green light of the wave
In the underside;
and the city:
On the fringe of the city
The warbler, hark,
Loiters in gardens, threads the shrubberies,
Haunts the park;
Through the roaring of trams,
And newsboys’ calls,
His sweet, sad, semi-toned sibilance
Rises and falls;
and the bush where the bellbird learned
his song:
Where could he learn if, where could it be
found?
Where waters drip from the ferny rocks, we
wonder,
Into a shadowy pool, with a pearly sound,
An airy bubble of music bursting asunder;
and, in the most successful of all these
bird-pieces, “All Before Them” (reprinted
from The Bulletin), something gay and
free and shining that evokes all the charm
of the settled country, perhaps an Auck-
land suburb, perhaps a country road with
the telegraph wires over the boxthorn
and a field of dry thistles somewhere
handy:—
I’ve just seen them,
And paused to admire —
Three goldfinches,
Mr., Mrs. and Friend,
Perching on a wire
With a couple of inches
Or so between them,
In the dawn grey and cold,
Gossiping away
In their scarlet and gold
Uniforms brave and gay.
And itching to spend
Their new day;
By-and-bye,
Scared of me,
In a flash off they fly
Down the wind, careless and free,
And they don’t know
Where they’ll go
Or what they’ll do,
And neither do I,
Nor do you.
Arnold Wall should not be taken
lightly because he writes lightly. Nor
should it be considered somehow im-
proper for a poet to have a sense of
humor.
On the surface the goldfinch poem is a
pretty little trifle about birds. But, also,
it is obviously a poem about the joy of
being alive, a laughing defiance of fate.
Why shouldn’t it Fe taken as symptomatic
of the spirit of New Zealand? New Zea-
land doesn’t know where it is going, this
poem says ; Wall doesn’t know ; nobody
knows; but how splendid to be (New
Zealand and to be going gaily into the
future. One could say just that in a
thousand lines, learned lines, earnest
lines, gloomy lines or dramatic lines, and
it is important that long poems should be
written; but the goldfinch, the lyrical
spark of light, has its own importance.
And particularly is the lyric important
when, as in Wall’s case, it is not a solitary
flight but one of many, a bird in a whole
sky of birds: for Wall’s output of short
poems is prodigious. Taken as a body
they may well amount to the most im-
portant poetic statement yet made in New
Zealand.
Only three or four of the pieces in
About Our Birds —“ All Before Them,”
“Conflict of Laws,” “The Antique
World”—have much individual merit as
poetry; the rest is pleasant light verse
—pleasant verse, considered in isolation
in this book, but something more than
that when it is related to the whole body
of Wall’s poetry: part of the statement
of a rare personality, part of an import-
ant picture of the New Zealand scene, of
New Zealand life and of the New Zea-
land spirit.
The centennial Letters and Art in New
Zealand ignored Arnold Wall completely.
Curnow follows M. H. Holcroft’s The
Waiting Hills in choosing to be “silent in
thqse pages about the gnomic verse of
Arnold Wall.” Because Holcroft has
tagged the label “gnomic” on to Wall’s
poetry, Allen Curnow is able to exclude
him from consideration. Possibly that
is justifiable within the limits of his essay :
but every New Zealand critic seems to
find some justification for evading con-
sideration of this writer, who has at least
arguable claims to the title of chief of
New Zealand poets.
If it were not for the fact that Wall’s
is distinctively and strongly New Zea-
land poetry, this evasion of his impact
because he is “gnomic” would be rather
like an Australian evasion of Hugh
McCrae’s work because it is “roman-
tic,” “lyrical” or not specifically Austra-
lian in imagery. But Wall’s work is
distinctively New Zealand in color and
spirit. He is simply a “gnomic” New
Zealander. It cannot even be said that
he is not in accord with those writers
who are, sensibly, making a cult of New
Zealand imagery. Does he not make a
point of writing about “our” birds?
Why, then, does New Zealand criti-
cism choose to be silent about him?
There seem to be two reasons: his style
is not specifically “contemporary” and
he has a sense of humor—“the ship’s cat”
he called it once, knowing well that seri-
ous poetic ships are not supposed to carry
anything so undignified or so much alive
as a cat.
Neither of these excuses for disregard-
ing him is valid.. His style is neither
in the modern fashion nor in the Vic-
torian ; though possibly not capable of
the greatest heights, it is individual, time-
less, a true style as distinct from the false
style of fashion. He should be honored
for it, not disregarded. And as for the
ship’s cat —laughter really is the most
sensible and serious comment anybody
can make on life; and it has not yet be-
come an indictable offence for a cat to
look at a king.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The crowded house for the opening of
Max Afford’s “Lady in Danger,” running
in the afternoons at Sydney Royal, may
be an indication that Australians have
been waiting for Australian plays. But
it s hard to become elated over a com-
pletely unsophisticated Fifth Column
melodrama set in London. Had it been
of the standard, say, of “Rope” at the
Minerva, and had it been set in Aus-
tralia, one might have said that, offering
the first Australian play for 20 years, the
Firm had made a promising start. Surely,
m a country which has offered suchFtems
as the Shark Arm and Pyjama Girl mys-
teries, Mr. Afford has no need to go to
London for his material,
A wild outbreak of art in Melbourne
shows an extraordinary diversity of in-
terests and an equally wide variety of
treatment. At Riddell’s Vassiliefi
attempts to cast the innocent eye of child-
hood at a Commonwealth ordnance fac-
tory where men, women and machinery
are all inextricably mixed, with no more
characterisation in the human beings
than in the machinery ; at the Athenaeum
Len Annois is adroit in a conventional
sort of way, but strikes a deeper note in
No. 47, “Court House”; and at Sedon’s
Sergeant Lindsay Edward, A.1.F., depicts
the New Guinea landscape. At the
Velasquez another service man, James
Farrell, depicts the stark contours and
raw colors of Australia’s Nor’-west, and
sees them much as does the abo. artist
Albert Namatjira. H. B. Minchin, at
Kozmipsky’s, is a more serious student
of: Nature, and, to emphasise the point,
two loan paintings of Max Meldrum look
benevolently down on her exhibition.
The National Gallery joins in with an
exhibition of 50 water-color drawings by
Hans Heysen.
“Cauboy”: With all the flamboyancy
and self-assertion of the publicity agent's
art “America Marches” at the Myer
Mural Hall, Melbourne. The show con-
sists of immense photos, with emphatic
slogans giving a potted description of
American development from the Red
Indian days through the agricultural and
industrial eras to the flare-up of the
present Armageddon. The show ends in
a grand finale of crashing bombs, flam-
ing shells, sinking ships and cities being
pounded into rubble, with the Statue of
Liberty giving a melodramatic fulistop to
the sanguinary postscript. If this sort of
thing has to be done—and every country
does it —it couldn’t be better done than
in this photographic record.
At the talkies:-
Apart from the impression given that the crew
of one American tank, with some slight and
graciously acknowledged assistance from the
Eighth Army, made a hash of part of Rommel's
force between the fall of Tobruk and El Ala-
mein, “Sahara” (Sydney Lyceum) is an ex-
cellently contrived film. There are splendid
desert scenes, including a dramatic sandstorm,
and the diversified characters, both American
and British, and headed by the tough Humphrey
Bogart as the sergeant in charge of the
marooned party, are capably interpreted; in
particular, a British Sudanese sergeant, an ex-
pert on well location, does a hne job of work.
Ranking with the discovery of the sulpha
group of drugs, the killing of the Irish senti-
mental song has been this century’s greatest boon
to suffering humanity. An attempt has been made
to revive it in “The Rose of Tralee” (Victory).
The story’s feeble and the singing commonplace.
Helen Maclnnes’s light touch in her spy
novels has been transferred to the film version
of “Above Suspicion” (St. James). The story ot
two honeymooners given a job by the Fotetgn
Office to contact an agent in pre-war Germany,
it is laced with some good comedy.
Edward G. Robinson is just the right hard-
boiled type for the boatswain’s mate in "De-
stroyer” (Empire). Sea photography is some-
thing out of the bag, and the story’s feasible.
“Curtain Raiser”: I can’t agree with
the current estimate of Leftist critics
that the film of John Steinbeck s The
Moon Is Down is a great work of art.
It seems to me that it is just like the
average propaganda film which producers
are churning out in vast quantities
days, and pretty commonplace at that.
The only exception is the Nazi colone,
done admirably by Sir Cedric Hardwicke.
He is something like a human being,
which the other characters arent. me
Norwegians depicted seem to me not
so much like Norwegians as w , VT
propagandists would like to think °
wegians are like. Steinbeck is fashio
able, but I found the film almost a
tedious as that long, monotonous report
on economic conditions in America
dustbowl The Gropes of WratK anothe
work much acclaimed by, the Letti-
critics.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE"
Remedies
Home
r
$
WM%
11
«Vv
Tra
jijjsTJSf' **<* '**^5^"'^
s :
:
*»m» SIA „ " U0N
<::z- '••"■>
a£fcS
a
7 ?
4ftaAa/utuA*J*&/ <l * u 4 *y
I ALLEN £ HAN0URY5 LTD
LONDON E 1
mm
mm
■:»*;
8
„ o' v
***:•
>&*>*
a' v
*$•* .
m't'-j:
m
IliitlilP
t -, '.;
mwmm
I
.
BYNIN AMARA. A powerful tonic
and digestive. It is of special
value in Influenza. A valuable
safeguard against infection. An
Allen & Hanburys product ... 6/-
BYNO PHOSPHATES. A suitable tonic for children. It
is excellent for growing and cranky children. In
Dyspepsia it is very beneficial. An Allen & Hanburys
product 6/3
BYNO HYPOPHOSPHATES. Suitable where a general
tonic is indicated. In conditions where improvement
of the blood is a feature. Those who need an added
amount of building material, specially Calcium and
Phosphorus, it is of great service. Allen & Hanburys'
product 6/9
HALIBORANGE. The easiest way of taking Halibut
Liver Oil. The Halibut Liver Oil is blended with pure
orange juice which is rich in Vitamins A, C, and D.
Suitable for old and young alike. An Allen & Hanburys
product 5/6 and 8/6
GLYCURRANT. Allen & Hanburys' cele-
brated cough linctus ’ for all coughs.
Gives speedy relief to the most stubborn
cough. In two sizes 3/3 and 6/3
• Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
&
\C
o
V
o
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A CUP OF TEA
By G.G.
MRS. MILLER pulled the red
jumper over her green dress, put
on her hat with the red buckle
and surveyed herself in the
mirror with satisfaction. Then, taking
her gloves and bag, she stepped on to the
verandah, where her husband was reading,
“Where are you makin’, missus?”
“Just going over to have a cup of tea
with Mrs. McDoolan.”
“A bit gay, ain’t y’?”
“Well, they’ll be expecting something
seein’ I’ve been away so long.” They
owned the farm; but Joe, fearing
droughts, had leased it for five years,
and now after two and a half years was
back looking over the books. “I suppose it
will be qlose on sundown when I get back.”
She let herself out the gate and
breathed the warm spring air. A few
milkers were cropping the long grass by
the roadside, and she paused awhile en-
• joying the familiar bovine smell.
Around the bend stood Mrs. Mc-
Doolan’s long, low, rambling old house.
At the kitchen end was a window and
door combined ; today the top part was
open, and Mrs. Miller kept her eyes on
it. A dog sighted her and barked. A
head was thrust out the window but in-
stantly withdrawn.
Mrs. Miller slowed her steps. She had
seen the time when she would have hiy-
ried to catch Mrs. McDoolan in her
untidiness, but the gentle lapping of the
waves had done much for Mrs. Miller.
She paused and counted a mob of
turkeys; plucked a bloom from the
flowering trees.
As she neared the door it was thrown
open and Mrs. McDoolan in a floral
overall of many colors —a little older,
a little more stooped —was kissing her
and shaking her hand.
“Mrs. Miller, dear! How I’ve missed
y’. Come in. How well you look.”
“You look lovely yourself, Mrs.
McDoolan. So nicely dressed. You must
be expectin’ visitors,”
“Oh, no.” Mrs. McDoolan smoothed
the gay folds of her dress, “Mrs. Casey
did say she might take a run over, but
you can’t believe a word out of her head.
Now sit down while I make y’ a cup of
tea.” The dog barked again. Mrs.
McDoolan bustled to the door.
“Well, if it ain’t old Ferris! The old
redhead fool —did you hear? But you
wouldn’t, of course, bein’ away. Well,
he’s breakin’ his neck now after old Mrs.
Harrigan. And his wife—that he starved
—not twelve months in her grave. But”
—lowering her voice—“he’ll be at the
gate now.”
She walked to the door.
“Good evenin’, Johnnie. No, I couldn’t
tell y’. My boss has taken the dray to
town for loadin’ and won’t be home till
late. You’d better come in and have a
cup of tea. There’s someone here that
you haven’t seen for a bit.”
“He’s cornin’ in,” she said to Mrs. Miller.
“He wanted the loan of the bay mare.”
“Why, if it ain’t Mrs. Miller, and she’s
got the stamp of the city on her.” Old
Jack Ferris spread his thin legs and
blinked at her out of red-rimmed eyes.
“We’ll have to take a trip, old woman,
and see what’ll it do for us.”
“I’m right as I am,” Mrs. McDoolan
said shortly. “But what I can hear about
you, y’ll soon be goin’ to get y’r weddin’
togs. And”—she added with meaning—
“it’s a wonder some people don’t turn
in their graves.”
“Who turn in whose graves?”
MRS. McDOOLAN threw a startled
look at the doorway, where Mrs.
Harrigan a buxom woman with a
small head and a handkerchief pinned
round her neck by a large brooch—stood
grimly facing them.
“If it ain’t Mrs. Harrigan! Come in,
come right in and have a cup of tea.
We’re just goin’ to sit down.”
“No, thank y’,” said Mrs. Harrigan.
Fixing Ferris with her eyes, she added,
“I’m goin’ down to see Mrs. Flannigan’s
sick child ; I haven’t got time to go titi-
vating myself up and drinkin’ tea.”
Jack Ferris rose instantly. “I’ll be
goin’ your way, missus,” he said, “so I
won’t wait for tea either. Good evenin’
to youse.”
Mrs. MbDoolan walked to the door
and stood watching them to the gate.
“Did y’ hear that, Mrs. Miller?” she
demanded, “Titivatin’! Throwin’ off.
Insultin’ me in me own house. For two
pins I’d call ’em back. The old man-
eater. And see the go of him tryin’ to
keep up with her, the old galoot. We’re
well rid of ’em. And now we’ll enjoy
our cup of tea without ’em.”
She bustled about, putting little glass
dishes on the table ; then, taking a china
teapot from the shelf, she went to the
door to rinse it. She straightened.
“It can’t be! Come here, Mrs. Miller.
But, of course, you wouldn’t know her.
She moved in the week after you left.
But it’s her all right. Just as sure as I’m
standin’ here that’s Bridget O’Shannessy.”
“I’ve never met her,” Mrs. Miller said.
“What is she like?”
“What is she like!” Mrs. McDoolan
walked over to Mrs. Miller and said in
a low, ominous voice: “It’s a lucky day
for me that you are here, and that Mrs.
Harrigan is with old Jack Ferris, for if
she’d have come and caught Jack and
me here together my name wouldn’t be
worth the snuff of a candle. That’s the
sort she is ; no one is safe, neither man,
woman nor child. The lies she tells! If
my boss was here he’d walk to that door
and turn the key in it, that’s what my
boss thinks of her. I’m ashamed to think
she’d call while you are here.”
“She might go past,” Mfs. Miller said
meekly.
<< FD AST!” Mrs. McDoolan hurried to
i the door. “Oh, no,” she said in a
relieved voice. “She’s cornin’ sure
enough. Hurryin’, too. I could tell y’
things that would make y’r hair stand.”
She drew the back of her hand across
her mouth. “Good evenin’, Mrs. O’Shan-,
nessy,” she said, and kissed her loudly.
“Mrs. McDoolan, how nice to see you.
And who did you say?—Mrs, Miller.
How nice to have friends to call on you.
I said to Tim this morning T must go
and see Mrs. McDoolan.’ ”
“Why?” asked Mrs. McDoolan
cautiously.
“Haven’t you heard what happened at
the meeting?”
“Not a word.”
“Oh, dear, it was awful. We were all
there —and you know that Flanmgan
girl?”
“Who doesn’t?”
“Well, Mrs. Harrigan told Mrs. Flan-
nigan that I said I saw her daughter sit-
ting in the car with Pat Hogan.”
“Was his wife with him?”
“I don’t think so. Anyhow, I never
told a soul about seeing them, and I said
so. And Mrs. Harrigan stood up and
right before them all called me a liar.”
Mrs. McDoolan leaned across the
table. “A liar,” she said. “A liar.”
Mrs, O’Shannessy produced her hand-
kerchief, “Yes,” she said in a choked
voice; “and she said she had a good
mind to slap my face.”
All the injustice of it swelled in Mrs.
McDoolan’s breast. She lifted her hand
and struck the table. “Let me see her
do it! Let me see her touch a hair of
y’r head! It’s well that.y’ come to me —
me that’s known y’ for two and a half
years. I was just sayin’ to Mrs, Miller ‘Here
comes Mrs. O’Shannessy, a little body
that wouldn’t hurt a hair of y-T head.’ ”
“Yes, they’ll be no one dare to lay a
finger on y’ while y’ve got Susan Mc-
Doolan at y’r back. Now sit up while
I pour the tea.”
_„ „ j v,oif on
‘ I h^ter sat refilTed and r=
freshed, “I suppose you both couldn’t
come a piece of the way with me?"
„ And n^,, c . whats st ?p AA S ‘
Come on, Mrs. OShannessy, said Mrs.
McDoolan heartily.
The setting sun threw long shadows
across the grass The three women
walked in the perfection of the evening.
“Well, I’ll turn back now. I’ve got to
get tea ready for my boss,” said Mrs.
McDoolan at last “Good-bve Mrs.
Miller, dear.” She'kissed the departing
visitor. “I’ll be glad to see y’ back for
goo d, and the best of luck go with y’.”
Mrs. Miller swallowed the lump in her
throat and, stooping, kindly kissed the
pinched face of Mrs. O’Shannessy, and
there was perfect friendliness, peace and
goodwill on the three homely faces,
Mrs. Miller walked twenty yards, then
turned and waved, and the others waved
back; went another twenty yards and
turned, but Mrs. O’Shannessy was facing
Mrs. McDoolan, her feet apart, and Mrs.
McDoolan was standing in a listening
attitude, while every now and then she
punched the air as if felling an invisible
foe.
Mrs. Miller walked on. The house
was in shadow as she opened the gate,
her husband smoking on the steps,
“Ah,” he said, “how did you enjoy
the cup of tea?”
“It was nice, she said Nice to be
back with the people you know.
THE VINE-DWELLER
By LES ROBINSON
FROM the Investigator of Occur-
rences and Conduct Peculiar or
Unusual, Dept. X, to the Inspector
of Nuisances, Tanglehurst:
Dear Sir, —I enclose herewith copy of
report from an observer in an aeroplane,
on a reconnaissance flight over your ter-
rain, received by me yesterday :
While flying in a northerly direction over
Tanglehurst on the 18th inst. at an altitude
of 1000 ft., the visibility being excellent, we
sighted at 11 a.m. Eastern Standard Time
what appeared to be a raft floating in a sea
of greenery. As washing was hanging in
the rigging >we concluded that the raft had
an occupant. The absence of distress signals
indicated, we assumed, that all was well on
board.
Please forward explanation of this
extraordinary discovery at your earliest
convenience.
WHILE walking the other morning
along a path deep down on the
bottom, as it were, of the sea of greenery,
I met the occupant and owner of the
“raft.” He crawled ashore, as perhaps it
would be permissible to say, through a
tunnel under the expanse of green. Wear-
ing boots and what resembled overalls
of exactly the same color, he looked more
like a large grasshopper than anything else.
“We are neighbors,” he said. “I have
been observing you for some little time.
I often see you when you don’t see me.
In fact, you have never, in all probability,
seen me before.”
“Oh, yes, I have,” I replied. “But only
once. I caught sight of you whilst up a
tree breaking some dead branches off for
firewood. You were sitting on what
appeared to me to be a spring mattress,
double-bed size, resting on top of all
that tangle and riot of creepers. If I
was not mistaken, you were mending a
pair of trousers.”
“There must have been a very high
tide then,” he grunted rather sourly, “for,
as the Inspector of Nuisances, who has
been round here da/after day lately peer-
ing in' every direction through field-
glasses, has, I should think, discovered, I
am a very hard man to find.”
“A very high tide?” I said in wonder-
ment.
“Yes,” he answered. “This sea of
creepers rises at times and, at others,
falls. The moon has nothing at all to
do with it, the weather everything. After
rain always it rises. Heat, especially, if
prolonged and unrelieved, causes it to
sag, so much so that, every now and then,
I find myself nearing the ground.”
“What put the idea into yoyr head, if
you wouldn’t mind my asking? Was it
the housing shortage?”
“Well, no ; it wasn’t. When I first
came here to live —I don’t own the allot-
ment, thank goodness—l began the way
most people begin when they occupy
a block or tract of ground covered thickly
as this one is with a tangle of under-
growth both riotous and exuberant.
“I started, that is to say, with a brush-
hook and a sickle to slash and hack it
down; my idea, which I must admit was
most ordinary and mundane, being to
plant vegetables when all the wild ver-
dure had been slain.
“Yes, I was utterly ruthless. I attacked
it furiously, slaughtered it as though it
were poisonous or had endeavored to
bite me. But I had not been doing so'
long, I am pleased to say, before I began
to question the rectitude of such savagery,
“Was it patriotic, I asked myself, for,
after all, these creepers are indigenous
and have been here for generations,
which surely gives them more right to
occupy and even to monopolise the soil
than the French, the Lima and Mada-
gascar beans, the Brussels sprouts, the
Jerusalem artichokes, the Lebanon let-
tuces, the Swede turnips and other vege-
tables with an alien origin I had thought
of planting.
“Even weeds, many of them—Scotch
thistles, buttercups, clover, hawthorn,
gorse and blackberry, just to mention a
few—having found their way into this
country from other lands, are far less
entitled to right of occupancy than the
intertwined, ever-thickening festoons and
masses of sub-tropical vegetation I was
intent upon destroying.
“So I desisted ; which, as I cannot claim
to be by any means energetic really, could
scarcely be regarded as a deprivation.
“How then, without destroying any
more of these robust and splendid vines,”
he continued, “was I to erect a habitation
of some kind?
“Why erect one at all? Why incur the
fatigue? Why not, I asked myself after
much cogitation, let the creepers sus-
tain you? They’re thick and strong
enough. Live then in suspension among
them ; float, in perpetuity, on this deep,
green, heaveless sea.
i i D UT to derive the greatest benefit
from the project, and at the same
time minimise the possibility of interfer-
ence, it would be most necessary, I real-
ised, as, of course, »the other and multi-
tudinous inhabitants of all such wilder-
nesses do, to merge to the uttermost into
one’s environment, to match it or har-
monise so closely with it that, save to the
practised eye, one would be invisible.
“It can, of course, be done quite easily,”
he added. “All one needs is a pot of
paint the color of one’s surroundings and
clothing of the selfsame hue.”
“By the way,” I said, “is your floating
home, as I surmised, a spring-mattress,
double-bed size?”
“Yes,” he replied.
“I could think of nothing more suit-
able. It has, in fact, satisfied me so com-
pletely that I have sent the maker, whose
name is on it, a testimonial in which I
stated that it is unequalled for the purpose.
“The tarpaulin I use in wet weather,
he went on, “is, I need scarcely mention,
painted the same shade of green as the
mattress. My overalls, boots, hat and
socks, as no doubt you have noticed, are
of locust color, too.” ,
“What about insects?” I asked, Aren t
they a nuisance to you?”
“No,” he answered. “They don’t trouble
me in the least. I have tamed several
that are formidable, you see. They never
leave me, are very watchful and hurl all
insects that reach the mattress, either out
of idle curiosity or with the intention of
molesting me, off it at once. If they
don’t like these intruders very much they
maim or kill them, as a rule, before doing
so,” he added.
“But what do you live on?” I asked.
“Fish, birds’ eggs, fledglings, berries—
wild ones that are edible can be gathered
by the hatful about here, in the autumn
especially—certain weeds for salad pur-
poses, and snails, which are delicious and
nearly always plentiful,” he replied,
“You mentioned fish, of which I myself
am fond,” I said. “Is there then a river
or creek about here?”
“No,” he replied; “‘but under the
greenery—only some few of my feathered
friends and I know exactly where it is
to be found—there is a deep pool, fed
by a spring. Even in the hottest weather
it is cool, and there are fish and eels, as
yet unsophisticated and therefore easily
caught, in it.”
“You know,” I said, “I have often
heard at night sounds in the greenery
that are extraordinary; sounds that I
can’t bring myself to believe are made
by birds, animals or insects of any kind - ,
sounds that are almost yet not quite
human and most eerie. At first I used
to think I only dreamt I heard them, and
then, while lying awake when all was
still, I would hear them again. I may
merely be imaginative but I can’t help
thinking”
“No, no! Please don’t tell me! I’d
rather you didn’t!” he exclaimed, turn-
ing a little pale, I thought, and with a
tremor in his voice. “I know,” he mur-
mured hurriedly and seeming uneasy,
“but must refrain from saying anything
at all about them.”
.
117 ROM the Inspector ot Nuisances,,
* Tanglehurst, to the Investigator o
Occurrences and Conduct Peculiar or
Unusual, Dept. X:
Dear Sir, —
In reply to yours of the - 4tn w«wa,
/ beg to inform you that I subjected t ie
surface of the sea of greenery mentioned
by observer in aeroplane to the closest
scrutiny for several weeks, but could find
no trace of a raft or anything resemb mg
one.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3345.
Wednesday, March 22, 1944.
THE UNEXPECTED BEDFELLOWS.
“To the surprise of the British and American Governments and the consternation of English-speaking Communists, bishops, professors and other Parlor Pinks, Moscow has
recognised the Badoglio regime.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westraua: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TEHRAN AND AFTER.
In the House of Commons debate on Mr.
Eden’s review of the missions to Tehran
and Cairo, ex-Minister Greenwood stated
that the declaration issued from the Per-
sian city ranked with the Atlantic
Charter ; “indeed, it is a continuation of
the Atlantic Charter.” Since Mr. Churchill
announced his Government’s acceptance
of the Russian claims against Poland,
Poles, Estonians, Lithuanians and Latvians
probably “rank” both documents with
the Fourteen Points —Dr. Wilson’s, not
Dr. Evatt’s; they have been increased
to eighteen.
In the relevant clauses of the Atlantic
Charter the President and the Prime Min-
ister registered their “desire to see no
territorial changes that do not accord
with the freely expressed wishes of the
peoples concerned” and “to see sovereign
rights and self-government restored to
those who have been forcibly deprived of
them.” Said Mr. Churchill (February 22),
premising that he had “always held the
opinion,” expressed by Mr. Hull to Con-
gress after his mission to Moscow, that
“questions of territorial settlement should
stand over till the end of the war”:
Russia has the right of reassurance against
future attacks from the West, and we are
going all the way with her to see that she
gets it.
Moscow has made it harshly clear that
it is not going to let “questions of terri-
torial settlement” in Poland and the Baltic
States stand over until the end of the war.
And how going “all the way” with Mos-
cow can be squared with Britain’s com-
mitments to Poland as laid down in the
Agreement of Mutual Assistance, repeated
by Mr. Eden when the Russo-Polish Pact
of July, 1941, with its statement that “the
Russo-German treaties of 1939 regard-
ing territorial changes in Poland have
lost their validity,” was signed under his
auspices {he said “his Majesty’s Govern-
ment does not recognise” said “changes”),
and with the engagements of the British
Commonwealth under the League, to
which all its members are still subscrib-
ing, no fellow unversed in the new diplo-
macy can understand.
Many Americans were not so exuberant
about Tehran as Mr. Greenwood. In one
of his last dispatches Raymond Clapper,
killed in the Marshalls, wrote that the
proceedings and trappings, “the atmo-
sphere of Oriental vanity and arrogance,
the barbed-wire barricades and bayonets
against the press” and the appearance of
“civilian heads of States in military uni-
forms” left him with “a strange, inexplic-
able feeling of disquiet.” Had he lived
this feeling would have been deepened by
the series of Anglo-American concessions
to the Moscow viewpoint and by the
performances of Moscow
from the attack on Mr. Wendell Willkie
to those on Britain. That country has
been accused not only of liberating Ger-
man prisoners of war alleged to have
since fought against the Russians, but in
the “Pravda” charge, based on “trust-
worthy Greek and Yugoslav” informa-
tion, of having sent unnamed officials
to a secret meeting with Ribbentrop in
Spain, there to make “some progress”
towards a separate Anglo-German peace.
While the military position has im-
proved since Tehran, the political posi-
tion has very obviously declined. In the
first flush of enthusiasm it was asserted
that Tehran had completely removed
Turkey’s fears and mistrust of Russia,
and that the Turks would be in the war
by the European spring. Instead, they
have moved so far away from the Allies
that military supplies to them have been
cut off, and they have retaliated by sup-
pressing a pro-British newspaper. In
effect, the position in the extremities of
Europe is that the Turks refuse to come
into the war and the Finns to come out.
And, in contempt of Mr. Roosevelt’s
good-neighbor policy, there have been
nasty movements and demonstrations in
Argentina, Bolivia and Peru. It is fashion-
able to attribute them to Axis intrigue,
but another explanation may be that
Catholic parties in South America dislike
what is going on in Europe, fear the
strength that will accrue to the indigenous
Communist parties from Russian suprem-
acy on that continent, and are deter-
mined to get in first.
Mr. Roosevelt’s own position has been
weakened by these developments, and
others, among them his unfortunate
quarrel with Congress. He is assured of
the Democratic nomination, but his re-
election may depend on the invasion of
Europe being so successful that Hitler
will be reeling and ripe for the knock-
out when the people go to the polls
in November. Foreign groups generally
vote the Democratic ticket, and the Polish
vote, more compact than the Italian vote,
though not as numerous, can itself
swing several States. In any case it
is fairly certain that the Republicans will
predominate in the House, and they may
also get a majority in the Senate.
Italy may be the acid test of the Mos-
cow agreement and the Tehran declara-
tion.
Boy-reporters and remote editors and
professors have condemned General
Alexander’s strategy and General Clark’s
tactics, but it is the political events that
are “strange,” if not inexplicable. Fascism
lurks still, even behind the Allied lines;
a band of intriguers, headed by a univer-
sity student, was rounded up in Sicily
itself, and on the mainland two young
Fascists had to be court-martialled and
shot. And as soon as the Allies were
established in Naples several other parties
shot up, with leaders as diverse as an
aged professor, a pre-Fascist Minister
many years exiled in the U.S.A. —each
scarcely known to the present generation
of politicals—an anti-Communist Socialist
and an anti-Socialist but all
willing to “unite” long enough to form
a Government. Of these worthies Mr.
Churchill said “They, of course, have no
electoral authority and no Constitutional
authority until the King either abdicates
or a successor invites them to take office ;
and it is by no means certain that they
would have any effective authority over
the Italian armed forces now fighting with
us.” So “we are working at present with
the Government of King Victor and
General Badoglio,” a policy “agreed
upon provisionally with the Government
of the United States” until we “win the
battle for Rome.”
To this arrangement Communists all
the world over violently objected from
the moment Badoglio received his com-
mission from the King, Australian Com-
munists being especially furious. Bad-
oglio, the comrades roared, was a Fascist
and his Ministers and associated generals
were Fascists; the King and his family were
patrons and creatures of Fascists—away
with the whole Fascist gang and let “the
people” rule! Encouraged by these
foreign demonstrations, the several parties
and the unions which have been organ-
ised during the occupation arranged a
protest strike. This was prohibited by the
Allied authorities, but after an interval
a mass meeting at Naples was permitted.
At. this there flowed torrents of Latin
oratory, stilled only when Britain and the
United States were mentioned, the sullen
silence on these occasions being broken
by wild cheers for Russia. The cheers
were renewed every time the speakers de-
manded the immediate substitution of a
republic for the corrupt Fascist adminis-
tration, and the demonstrators went home
well pleased—only to learn, with shatter-
ing suddenness, that Moscow had recog-
nised the Badoglio regime and the King
as “the legal Government of Italy,” and
would exchange ambassadors forthwith.
Not since the beginning of September,
1939, when English-speaking Communists
were self-betrayed into “arguing” that
the German attack on Poland was an
infraction of the Molotov-Ribbentrop
agreement and bespeaking in Australia
armed support for the Poles, has the
brotherhood suffered such a shock. But
other people who have never made them-
selves figures of fun were taken aback
at what was, in effect, the culmination of
a fortnight of surprises, Mr. Roosevelt
sprang the first by announcing to the
newspapermen who gather daily at the
White House that it had been agreed in
principle to transfer a third of the Italian
fleet or the equivalent to Russia, and that
some of the ships might be manned by
Italians. “It’s news to me,” said Naval
Secretary Knox, as quoted by a radio
reporter, when apprised of the announce-
ment, and it soon transpired that it was
news to King Victor and General Bad-
oglio, who protested, through an official
medium, that they had not been con-
sulted.
It could not have been news to
Mr. Churchill, but the Prime Minister
must have been worried at the effect of
the disclosure on world opinion and at
the probable swift downfall of the King
and Badoglio if their last rag of pres-
tige were stripped from them. Threats
that the Italian King’s Navee would scuttle
its ships rather than hand them over to
the Russians must have added to his
worries. He was silent for six days; then
he said, very cautiously, that “the ques-
tion of the future employment and dis-
posal of the Italian fleet has been the
subject of some discussions,” particular
consideration having been given to “the
immediate reinforcement of the Soviet
Navy from British, American or Italian
resources.
“I have no statement to make on these
discussions other than to say that no change
is at present contemplated in the arrange-
ments under which Italian ships and their
crews will participate in the common
struggle against the enemy in the theatres
where they now operate.
“It may well be found that the general
question of enemy or ex-enemy fleet dis-
posal should best be left over to the end
of the war against Germany and Japan,
when the victorious Allies can survey the
entire situation and decide what is right
and just to be done.”
This statement of the position Mr.
Roosevelt certified as correct, his own
statement having, he said, been misunder-
stood. His opponents were doubtless pre-
paring to fall on him in a body when
Moscow sprang its surprise, and so
effected a diversion. London “Times,”
which the Government still takes into its
confidence, bluntly declared that Moscow
had acted “without consultation with the
British and American Governments or the
Mediterranean Commission,” on which
it has a representative, and that '‘the
procedure” was “open to serious draw-
backs,” proclaiming, as it did, to the
world a “lack of that full co-ordination
of policy which is desirable between
Allies.” As for the establishment of full
diplomatic relations with an enemy Gov-
ernment before the acceptance of peace
terms, it was “anomalous” to say the
least,
“Anomalous” is certainly the mildest
way of putting it. “What’s Pal Joey Up
To?” has become almost a standing head-
line in some American newspapers, and,
except in Russia-is-always-right quarters,
where there exists servility so complete
that it is proof against any shift or eccen-
tricity of Soviet policy, however embar-
rassing, the query has gone round the
world. It may be that the clash of old
animosities and ambitions with new
necessities has had a temporarily demoral-
ising effect at Moscow. It is remotely
possible that the lone-hand recognition of
the Badoglio regime was prompted by
a desire to please Britain and America, in
part by placing them in a position to
laugh their Communist parties out of
existence. Be that as it may, the frank
and full co-operation pledged at Moscow
and Tehran will be required if Russia is
to win its war and its peace. “Without
American production,” Stalin said at
Tehran, “the United Nations could not
have won the war” ; and American pro-
duction will be necessary to his desolated
country after the war.
Very Different Fronts.
Though not dealing directly with the
bad features of the home front Dr. Earle
Page, when he carpe out again with his
startling equally figures for the fighting
in the north, made far the best con-
tribution towards awakening a sense of
sorely-needed realism.
The wiping out of a single tankless
Japanese division, cut off from its sup-
plies in an area under Allied air domina-
tion, Dr. Page said, had involved Aus-
tralian battle casualties which were more
than twice those suffered from the time
the Ninth Division was taken out of
Palestine to help stem the Axis offensive
till it was withdrawn from the battle-line
victorious and brought home. In the
savage El Alamein battle Australian
casualties were about 2700. The joint
Australian-American losses in the “suc-
cessful operation” on our northern front,
apart from non-fatal cases of sickness,
were nearly 10,000.
In the north, from August, 1942, to
February, 1943, there had been added to
the 6212 battle casualties 25,000 cases
of disease-caused disabilities.
The enemy was blocked at sea and
blocked-in from the air; we were told so
repeatedly. Yet it seems that in formations
weary from the dreadful march over the
mountains, ill-equipped, and ill-prepared
against malaria, which caused more than
three times the number of casualties caused
in battle, our men were driven on straight
into battle.
In Dr. Page’s view—that of a medical
man with military experience—“our
allies, malaria, dysentery and hunger,”
should have been left the main job of
finishing off the Japs. Instead, he de-
clared, “we gave these allies into the
enemy’s hands as his most potent weapons
against us.” Perhaps it would need one
with Dr. Page’s combined medical and
military experience to dispute this par-
ticular finding; and perhaps no one not
possessing all the information that Dr.
Page apparently possesses could say
whether he was right or wrong in assail-
ing the strategy employed. Both the
Prime Minister and the Minister for the
Army warmly defended General Blarney,
and Mr. Curtin, at least, made out a
reasonable defence.
Prime Minister and Minister, how-
ever, produced not a single figure to re-
fute or offset those set on record by
their Advisory War Council colleague.
Whatever may be right about Dr. Page’s
findings, at least his undisputed figures
enforced some awareness of the condi-
tions, the suffering, the casualties that
had been the lot of a comparatively small
section of Australians. These, it was at
least made clear, had overcome the con-
ditions, endured the suffering, paid the
price. What of those who should have
been their supporters on the home front?
The answer was not to be found in
newspaper columns adjoining those re-
porting Dr. Page’s tragic figures. Here,
along with other indications of the state
of the home front —the rampant black
marketing; the shameful and nationally
humiliating fleecing of Allied service men
by criminal profiteers ; the revival every-
where of the carnival outlook that
General Blarney once bitterly attacked
—Australians could read the pitiful
pleas to strikers made on behalf of
a Government become desperate,
apparently as much because of the con-
fessed threat to its own existence as on
any other account. Dr. Evatt, though
the general line of his appeal to the strik-
ing miners was most remarkable for its
avoidance of any plea to their loyalty—
except loyalty to unionism, to the present
Government and to their own personal
interests —at least rose above it when he
declared that “any slackening of Aus-
tralia’s war effort now will mean pro-
longation of the war in the Pacific; one
day’s unnecessary prolongation means the
death or maiming of Australian service
men.”
This argument, or appeal, was not new.
It had been used months before, much
more directly, by U.S. Chief of Staff
General Marshall. Moreover, General
Marshall did not stop at mere sweeping
generality. Asserting that a current threat
to stop war production constituted the
“damnedest crime,” he revealed that there
had been a chance of an explosion in the
Balkans, and said if that had come
“many hundreds of thousands of lives of
American and British boys might have
been spared.” General Marshall’s infor-
mation —the best anywhere in the world
—was that the chance of an explosion
in the Balkans had failed directly be-
cause of the threatened stoppage of
American war production. Now all those
lives that might have been saved would
have to be “sacrificed,” because “the war
will be prolonged.”
The Government may perhaps be con-
gratulating itself on having induced most
of the striking miners to go back to work
before they and their sympathisers suc-
ceeded in bringing war production to a
standstill. On the other hand, it might
have the grace to admit, if only to itself,
that it has some- responsibility for Aus-
tralian public opinion having lain dor-
mant right up to the point at which the
coal strikes threatened to bring about tire
calamity acknowledged in a penitential
strain by the Prime Minister. It
was lulled into that condition by
the lavish, utterly misleading false
optimism put out by politicians under the
necessity of winning an election. The
realities of the strike threat, with Dr.
Page's timely explosion indirectly helping,
stirred it awake, but the odds are that it
will now lapse into coma again unless
the Government, as a result of its own
recent scare, is prepared to take Dr.
Page’s lead and be frank.
What, then, is the Government’s con-
sidered opinion on the possible duration
of the war in the Pacific? It no doubt
has information not shared by the pub-
lic: how long a war, roughly, does that
information indicate? Does it still looK
to be only a “football match,” with the
Jap as the ball? Or has that and the
other rosy pre-election optimism been
somewhat amended? Are such victories
as those of the Americans in the Mar-
shalls to be taken at their apparent face
value as an indication of an easy road
ahead, or is there a truer indication in
such figures as those given out by Dr.
Page concerning a quarter where the Japs
fought to the death, or Tarawa, another
such quarter, where American casualties
were officially reckoned at upwards ot W
per cent.? How does the Government
regard the undisputed fact that the Japs
huge army is still as good as intact, anu
the warning of General MacArthur, sup
ported by other eminent authorities, that
it will need to be defeated in Asia itse.t .
An honest answer to just the one ques-
tion, How long does the povernmen
think the Pacific War will last?, my*
have a very beneficial effect in
further to stabilise a home front whicn
has been seriously endangered and is stn
rocky in parts. Failing such authon
guidance, the public at large has
to go on but the joyous whoops
press boys, much too reminiscent ot P
reporting on the Japs. _


PLAIN ENGLISH
Chifley, Noun and Verb.
Because of wireless, the talkies, dinner-
dances, two-up and other diversions, and
also the strong-arm methods employed
at Labor and Communist gatherings and
weakly permitted by the authorities,
public meetings to discuss public griev-
ances almost became extinct in Sydney.
There was a healthy revival when, at the
invitation of that useful body the Tax-
payers’ Association, a couple of thou-
sand people thronged the Town Hall to
express their opinion of the 25 per cent,
surcharge which Mr. Chifley has tacked
on to what he is pleased to call his pay-
as-you-earn scheme (it is conceded that
the last word is appropriate). The prin-
cipal speakers were the president of the
Taxpayers’ Association and other gentle-
men who have made the study of taxation
their business. They condemned the 25
per cent, surcharge in good Set terms, and
not a voice or a hand was raised against
a condemnatory motion.
The “scheme” is now before Parlia-
ment, the controllers of which are in a
great and unnecessary hurry to get a very
small programme of legislation put
through by militant-majority methods,
and if Mr. Chifley has his way a worse
mess will be made of pay-as-you-eari
than was made of uniform income tax,
also necessary but spoilt because a fool-
ishly generous distribution of largesse was
made, to the N.S.W. and Queensland
Governments in particular. In Britain,
where these things are done properly, an
intelligible and equitable pay-as-you-earn
plan applicable to all wage- and salary-
earners will come into force next month.
In Australia there will be traps as well
as slugs for taxpayers unless the sensible
British precedent is followed ; and for
this there is still ample time.
The Treasurer has been notably shy
of quoting legal authority for his claim
that there is a year’s tax lag. There is
legal authority that he is wrong—that of
South Australia’s able Crown Solicitor
Hannan, whose opinion follows:
There is really no lag, either from the
point of view of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment or from the point of view of the
taxpayer. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment receives an income tax for each finan-
cial year. That income tax is the aggregate
of all the income tax paid by individual
taxpayers in that year. If the Common-
wealth Government is to be paid by each
taxpayer 25 p.c. additional tax, either for
the purpose of paying for the so-called
lag or any other purpose, then the Com-
monwealth Government is receiving the
proceeds of two income taxes in one year.
So in the case of the individual taxpayer,
if he pays 25 p.c. extra taxation in any
financial year, either under the name of
paying up the lag or under any other rep-
resentation, he is paying his tax for that
year at a substantially higher rate than
Parliament originally intended. In some
cases he will be paying more than 20s. in
the £. Thus the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will get 25 p‘.c. more revenue for the
one taxation year than Parliament originally
provided.
Unanswerable ; and Mr. Chifley did not
attempt an answer.
A few weeks ago it was cautiously
admitted by one of those official spokes-
men that there is no lag in the cases of
people who have paid Commonwealth
income tax from the beginning. There
are still a good many of them about, and
they will make things interesting for the
Government if it tries to Chifley the
25 p.c. surcharge from them.
Forde Fixes the Blame.
On February 2 The Bulletin came out
with an article protesting against the offi-
cial secrecy in which the valiant deeds
of Australian officers and men, fighting
on their own territory, had been veiled
as to essentials for months when the
names of American formations, generals
and colonels operating in the same region
were given to the world —as was said,
very properly. On February 9 it pub-
lished a cartoon showing Mr, Forde
taking the salute from Australian fighting
commanders, their heads in sacks.
After that the strange veil was lifted
sufficiently to admit of the nation learn-
ing something about the units doing the
marvellous work against the enemy in
horrible campaigning country and the
names of some of their leaders.
Objections to the concealment business
and to the relegation of fighting com-
manders to distant non-fighting jobs were
heard in Parliament. Some of the news-
papers worked up a belated indignation on
the Diggers’ score, doubtless to the grim
amusement of the Diggers. They know
very well that it has been newspaper
practice—not general, but widespread- -
to give more space to the Russian war
than to Australia’s own war, which
Russians are not attending, even with
Australian war correspondents’ dispatches
—nearly always good and often excel-
lent —added to the daily reports. In Syd-
ney it is not rare to see the romantic
mush of Moscow correspondents given
pride of place on the cable page and
served up under four-column headlines
while the war in the Pacific is dismissed
in half a column on the turnover page.
Last week Mr. Forde added his voice
to the chorus of complaints. Repeating
his familiar story that “86 per cent, of
the medically fit men in the Australian
Army” had “volunteered for service in
any part of the world” (he never men-
tions the proportion that has been in
action), he had the gall to say, quoting
some wqrds from the Chicago “Tribune,”
that the “American public” was being
“very indifferently informed by sections
of the American press about the part that
Australian ground troops have played
and are playing in the war in the South-
west Pacific.” A paper which swelled the
chorus, and whose Sunday supplement
reads like a Sydney edition of “Izvestia,”
reported him this way:
A.I.F. FORGOTTEN MEN, SAYS
FORDE.
Canberra, Wednesday. The Minister for
the Army (Mr. Forde) today confirmed the
belief that the Australian soldier is the
“forgotten man” of the war.
Who tried to take the color-patches and
Australia badges from Middle East
veterans transferred to the militia? Who
sanctioned the removal of the letters
“A.1.F,” from the crosses above Diggers’
graves, not in New Guinea alone but in
Australian cemeteries? Who approved
of the letters “A.1.F.,” the word “Dig-
gers” and the naming of each of the three
great A.I.F. divisions which have done
nearly all the fighting and suffered nearly
all the cifuel losses, and the identity of
which must have been known to the
enemy every time they met, being for-
bidden in reports? Who was responsible
for Lavarack, Morshead, Mackay,
Rowell, Clowes, Wootten, Vasey, Motcn
and the rest being enveloped in an
official fog for months? Mr. Forde.
He did not originate this policy, being
incapable of originating anything in the
military line, but he must have acquiesced
in it. *
The English have built up Montgomery
as a national hero. This may not be just
to Alexander, but it satisfies a deep
human instinct, and nothing could be
better for morale. In fact, it is a
return to a practice which has worked
famously in Britain’s wars; Nelson him-
self was built up in his day. And we see
the Americans keeping up the spirit and
confidence of the people by making the
most, in the publicity department, of
Eisenhower, MacArthur, Marshall and
Mark Clark, nor have the New
Zealanders neglected Freyberg
and his band of brothers. But no
Australian general has been built
up. The fact that the Diggers
have had leaders worthy of them
has been left by Mr. Forde and
his Government for the people
to discover for themselves, if they
are interested.
Mackay, general of the
Sixth Division when Graziani’s
army was broken; Lavarack,
the corps commander in the
Syrian campaign; Morshead,
leader of the defence of Tobruk
(one of the great heroic episodes
of the war), in command of
the Ninth at El Alamein when it
made the great break-through
possible and a personality (“Ali
Baba”) to the enemy himself—
these men and their companions,
returning to their own country,
were by deliberate “policy” con-
signed to obscurity—by Mr. Forde.
And the “policy” has been
followed in Mr. Drakeford’s de-
partment. An Australian, Ed-
wards, is the most-decorated man
in the R.A.F., and British news-
papers eagerly record his progress
from one daring deed to another,
and his reception by the King as
an honored guest. Had all Ed-
wards’s fighting been done in Aus-
tralian skies, his countrymen
would have known nothing about
it between decorations. And it
wasn’t until The Bulletin pro-
tested that the public began to
learn something of what the Aus-
tralian-made Beauforts, flown and
serviced by Australians, were
doing in the north.
It is no use blaming American
reporters. The Bulletin reads
the published dispatches of all the
American correspondents in these
parts, and has found no depreciation of
the work of Australians engaged in
the common effort —far from it. An
admirable account of the attack on
Shaggy Ridge, in which full marks
were given to the Diggers and “the
Australian Boomerang fighter ’planes,”
appeared in the Chicago “Tribune”
itself. But American correspondents
wishing to extol Australians are subject
to the checks imposed on Australian cor-
respondents and newspapers, the effect in
their case being the almost complete loss
of news value. And even the Chicago
“Tribune,” though it has said nasty things
in a nasty way, is critical only on the
score of hundreds of thousands of Aus-
tralian soldiers being kept idle (to their
bitter disappointment, as we know), while
American and New Zealand ground
troops fight the enemy in Australian man-
dated territory. Other American news-
papers must think this strange, but they
are very polite about it.
Mr. Scully Uses Figures.
Mr. Scully, broadcasting to the nation:
“In recent months there has been loose
and unjustified criticism. Many people
have been wilfully knocking the fine job
the food front is doing.” Then he made
these “points”:
Australia must slaughter 4,000,000 cattle
and 35,000,000 sheep and lambs fo meet its
meat requirements for 1944-45. Meat pro-
duction last year was only 7000 tons short
of the pre-war record. Total production
was 1,045,000 tons, which exceeded the
target figure.
Dairying excepted, all food industries
this season show an increase.
Australia is growing twice as many vege-
tables as before. The potato harvest for
next season is planned at 750,000 tons.
Milk production has been static since the
war began. Cheese production is higher,
butter output lower.
Pigmeats are expected to exceed the
record target of 143,000 tons, or 40,000 tons
more than before the war.
At least 20,000,000 dozen more eggs are
produced now than before the war.
Measured against known facts and the
statements of people engaged in the food
industries, some of them his own officers,
and against Commonwealth Year-Book
figures, it sounds like the ravings of
political dementia.
Whom will Mr. Scully get to kill his
4,000,000 cattle and 35,000,000 sheep,
provided he has the cattle and sheep?
His potato harvest of 750,000 tons is
more than twice the 10-year average yield
for the country before the war, so he
must get more than twice the pre-war
acreage under spuds. From whom?
Milk production is not static ; it is fall-
ing. Dairy herds are being sold to
THE UNFORGOTTEN MAN.
butchers, dairy-farmers are turning the
game up, Sydney is to have its milk
ration cut.
The highest pre-war production of pig-
meats, according to the Commonwealth
Year-Book, 1940, was 38,827 short tons,
Measure that against Mr. Scully’s
“target,” remembering that dairy pro-
duction is declining. As for eggs, an
accepted authority in N. S. Wales is
“S. M. Herald’s” J. Hadlington; and
here is Mr. Hadlington:
Though. N.S.W. Egg Board figure for
1942-43 was 42,646,672 eggs, as against
38,535,067 for 1941-42, it doesn’t mean an
increase in production —simply that Egg
Board control was extended over a larger
area. Before the Egg Board, 800 layers
gave a living to a man and his family.
Now if takes 1000. Which is some explana-
tion of Australia’s failure, by millions of
dozens, to reach the season’s target.
Mr. Scully, admittedly a first-class
greyhound-racing judge, is a woeful
failure as Minister in charge of food pro-
duction. All the same, he could find
more meat and butter for the British in
their sore need if the matter were squarely
put to Australians who find the rations
overgenerous—as so many do —and if
slaughtermen were compelled to do a
fair week’s work.
Not Anti-American.
“0.D.”: While Australian and Madriland
Ministers were parleying at Canberra
it was considered necessary to let it be
known that ihe conference was not anti-
American. It was, however, pro-British ;
and, as far as Australia is concerned,
that might be mildly surprising to many
Americans not at all anti-British,
When it was announced that the Duke
of Gloucester had been appointed next
Governor-General here the “Christian
Science Monitor” dug up a two-year-old
speech by Mr. Curtin “which many inter-
preted as indicating a shift of Australia
away from the British political orbit to-
ward that of the United States.” A better
interpretation was that there was an
epidemic of the jitters about, which
affected surprising victims.
The “Monitor” interpreted the Duke’s
appointment as reflecting “a strengthening
of the ties of sentiment between Aus-
tralians and their British comrades where
some had imagined a very different de-
velopment might be looked for.” To any
such the Canberra Conference should
have been further enlightening. But,
though the old ties have been drawn a
little tighter, this is not to say that there
has been anything but satisfaction with
the close and cordial relations between
these parts and the U.S.A. which have
grown up these last two years. Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders are neither
so ungrateful nor so dumb as all that,
What the bulk of them want to see is an
even greater improvement in relations
between* themselves and Uncle Sam,
while not for a moment forgetting the
Old Man.


**•* u)
mi
] . 'f
V :
..j^v
viF>miaa* • ***» * *£&&£
C. S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
« :■ i.
HI
■
m
m
a'S i M i
■ 4
1 I
M
&
H
■
k.J
X.
*1
POLITICAL POINTS
The Constitution Alteration Bill was
shoved through the House in a way which
destroyed all hope of its having united
Parliamentary support at the referendum.
In the course of proceedings to which the
oldest member could find no parallel in
the history of referendum measures, Mc-
Ewen was named, Corser suspended (all
the other Opposition members except
Spender, Rankin and McDonald left with
him) and the Votes and Proceedings
paper challenged. “I have never seen
sudi an exhibition of contempt for the
rights of a minority,” commented Men-
zies; and then he put everything he had
into a thrust at the bill’s artificer and
pilot:
It must be the supreme irony of political
history that, so soon as the Opposition had
made the only protest available to it by
walking out, the Attorney-General pro-
ceeded to move amendments to the Con-
stitution designed (save the mark!) to guar-
antee freedom of speech and expression.
“Insolent and offensive,” replied Evatt,
adding that Bob’s absence was character-
istic of Bob’s methods. But it would have
been much better if he had exercised his
talent for diplomacy instead of trying to
score points.
At Canberra on Friday night General
MacArthur was the guest of a Parlia-
ment which had declared an armistice
by common consent, and one part of his
short speech must have drawn comments
from every paper in the U.S.A.;
Two years ago, when I landed on your
soil, 1 said to the people of the Philip-
pines, whence I came, “I shall return.”
Tonight I repeat those words “I shall re-
turn.” Nothing is more certain than our
ultimate reconquest and liberation from the
enemy of those and adjacent lands.
That doesn’t suggest that the general will
be a candidate for the Presidency, though
not couched in such terms as to discour-
age his supporters altogether. He has
been running a good third to Dewey and
Willkie in all the Gallup polls and getting
a greater proportion of feminine votes
than anyone on either side, the President
included.
Scullin, “arguing” for the pay-as-you-
squirm scheme, of which he is part-
author :
Let the Senate throw it out and we will
throw their investment bosses out of the
scheme.
A threat unworthy of a man who has
been Prime Minister, but worthy of the
scheme. And who made Scullin an
authority on taxation?
During his hectic period as P.M.
Scullin visited De Valera, seeking in
Dublin surcease from the worry of send-
ing cabled remonstrances, all ending with
the words “Brennan and Moloney con-
cur,” to the boys who were smashing the
party into shards. Doubtless knowing
that Scullin is now Curtin’s closest
adviser, and having perhaps formed false
impressions on other grounds, “Dev”
asked Curtin to help him in averting the
wrath of Washington and Whitehall.
Similar invitations were sent to Peter
Fraser and Mackenzie King. All were
promptly rejected. Smuts, as he noted
grimly, didn’t get one.
Archbishop Mannix, defending De
Valera at a St. Patrick’s Day concert in
Melbourne, and inviting support for “a
message of congratulation in the name of
the gathering” (it was forthcoming, as
was also a resolution condemning the
bombing of Vatican City on March 1 and
of Rome);
However desirous Germany might be of
closing the British and U.S.A. Legations
in Dublin, she had the good sense never
to make any demand or request that they
should be closed.
Come, come, archbishop! Much worthier
of consideration was the statement of the
Eire Minister at Washington that the
Germans in Dublin “have no diplomatic
pouch or couriers, no telephone com-
munication with Europe and no wireless
transmitter” (there is ground for incre-
dulity on that point); “they can com-
municate by cable only, and the cable
passes through London.”
In a High Court case in Dublin (Jan.
13), to decide whether a ward might be
sent by his grandfather to Eton or be kept
by his mother in Eire, Justice Gavan
Duffy, member of a family which has
given Australia a Premier, a Postmaster-
General, a Chief Justice of the High
Court and a Supreme Court Justice, said;
“This Court should leave the High Court
in England in no doubt as to our readi-
ness to acknowledge its undoubted
jurisdiction.” That may possibly have
influenced the course of recent events.
As one of the four As, Amour went to
the Senate from the Bankstown Council,
and the surpassing merits of that insti-
tution, foully defamed by capitalists, and
the delights of the suburb, which
strangers find rather seedy, were the*
theme of most of his speeches until other
Senators implored him to give Bankstown
a rest. Now he will have an oppor-
tunity of returning to his favorite sub-
ject, for Bankstown and its council have
again been aspersed, this time by
Morgan, the Labor member for Reid,
who alleged in the House on Thursday
that unwarranted concessions, impudently
abused, had been given to a local con-
tractor. Contractor and council deny the
impeachment, but presumably Morgan
will press for an inquiry.
Morgan dragged Dedman’s department
into the affair of the Bankstown con-
tractor, and after a sotto-voce exchange
on the benches he complained to the
Speaker that Deddy had insulted him.
Deddy denied it, adding that “anything
I said was pairsonal to the hon. member.”
It made the House forget all its Referen-
dum Bill wrangles and burst into a wild
roar of non-party laughter.
That ghastly word “unilateral” is hav-
ing an airing again. In one issue of a
Great Daily the “Times” was quoted
as having condemned the Russian and
British “lapses into unilateral action” ;
the G.D. itself told Stalin that “the real
criticism of” his “action” in Italy “is
less that it is precipitate than that it is
unilateral” ; and Senator McLeay, flay-
ing the Australia-N.Z. agreement, was
reported to have found “no justification
for unilateral agreements.” Since it takes
at least two parties to agree there can be
no such thing as a unilateral agreement.
The Westralian farmers have snubbed
Scully by putting J. S. Teasdale back
on the Australian Wheat Board. Scully
removed him and appointed one J. M.
Steele, who was one of five candidates
when representation of growers was put
to the vote. Teasdale got an absolute
majority.
Arguing against the war-time referen-
dum, and declaring himself “far from
satisfied that the possibility has been
exhausted of achieving the result desired
by negotiation with the States,” Archie
Cameron gave a personal experience.
When it was proposed to give the Com-
monwealth control over aviation I spoke
in favor of it throughout my electorate.
But Barker turned it down absolutely.
Yet a few months later I was returned by
the biggest majority that any candidate has
received since Federation. I do not believe
that the people will vote on party lines on
the present proposals either.
Neither does Hughes nor Page, the only
two members who have had Constitu-
tional alterations put to the vote. *
Ward, in the speech that wasn’t cen-
sored :
I have always been in favor of a whole-
hearted war effort.
It’s a wonder his tongue didn’t cleave to
the roof of his mouth. As it was, he went
on till he ran out of words, whereupon
McEwen mordantly quoted a “whole-
hearted” Ward utterance on defence.
It is amusing to hear people say we shall
not give up New Guinea. To these people I
would say that if it should become neces-
sary to defend our Mandated territory they
should defend it themselves.
And in September, 1939, with the full
support of his party, he tried his darnedest
to get the Defence Act altered so that
they should “defend it themselves.”
The suggestion was made in Melbourne
last week that the desperate housing
shortage might be relieved somewhat if
all buildings taken over for use by the
services should be returned and hutted
or tented accommodation made available
for their present occupiers. It is difficult
to know what some of these detachments
do in the ornate surroundings of Toorak
gardens. It is certain that some of the
people most severely hit by the lack of
decent dwellings are discharged soldiers.
Sydney papers never report Lang now,
but they shouldn’t have left it to
“Hansard” to record his Reid-election
charges. One was that his nomination
as a Labor candidate had been refused ;
“when my nomination came out it was
as an Independent.” Others were more
serious; “after the ballot closed people
came along with ballot papers and stood
in the gutter”; “as postal votes came in
they were scattered all over the room,”
and a protest that they should be secured
in a ballot-box brought the reply that
this was not required under the Common-
wealth law. Another assertion was that
“an army sergeant from New Guinea
told me he had voted 14 days after the
ballot was declared,” If the Legislative
Assembly is not interested the House of
Representatives should be, if only in fair-
ness to the returning officer, who is for-
bidden by departmental custom to reply.
Beasley, back on the job at Canberra,
but still a bit shaky, was the subject of a
flattering article in that eminent Labor
paper the “S. M. Herald,” which votes
him no end of a diplomat as well
as an administrative marvel. He is
going to the International Labor
Office conference in the U.S.A. It
will be awkward if he finds Finns
there. Still a member of the League,
though Russia is not, Finland can
claim representation at 1.L.0. con-
ferences, and it is not at war with the
U.S.A, In a merry canvas of the position
in American newspapers, it was agreed
that transport is the only obstacle.
Anti-Menzies Sydney dailies whose per-
formances at two elections have helped
Curtin’s party turned savagely on the
Opposition when they failed to get a
censorship committee to their liking,
accusing the Opposition (23 members) of
being yellow. Archie Cameron is a mem-
ber of the committee, and there is no
yellow in his composition. Before the
papers had cooled off they tackled Cal-
well’s Department of Information on the
score of its publicity and photographic
services. The department is vulnerable,
but Calwell came back with a spirited
offensive-defensive; and that argument,
too, had to be dropped.
From “Moscow News” (July 31), crates
of which are among the unnecessary
imports;
The new Government formed by Marshal
Badoglio is by no means an anti-Fascist
Administration There is no doubt that
the Italian Fascists are trying to save what-
ever they can from the wreckage of their
regime and prolong its existence contrary
to the will of the people.
Last week, without consulting the British
Foreign Office or the U.S. State Depart-
ment, Moscow recognised the “by no
means anti-Fascist Administration” and
English-speaking Corns, got into their
tumbling rig again.
There was no mention of any Aus-
tralian fighting commander being among
the guests at the MacArthur dinner.
That, of course, would be in keeping
with Forde’s “policy.”
From one of Keith Murdoch’s young
men, who had a bird’s-eye view of the
bombing of Truk;
The Japs’ great mystery stronghold, their
chief naval, air and staging base in the
Central Pacific, built up over 30 years and
hidden from the white man for a decade,
has proved an astonishing fizzle.
But who proclaimed it a “great mystery
stronghold”? Who but the roving re-
porters that told us also that the Jap
air force was a pushover, its machines
ridiculous, its pilots half-blind, rotten
marksmen and at their worst at great
heights?
Remarking that socialisa'ion will prob-
ably be used by Queensland Labor in
its State-election campaign, Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” reminded Queenslanders
that they’ve had more experience of
socialisation in the Government-owner-
ship form than any other group of Aus-
tralians. And what a bitter experience it
was! State meat shops, pubs, cattle sta-
tions, mines, treatment works and other
things, all gone into the discard, leaving
only smells and losses still unmet.
From “the official organ. Central Com-
mittee Australian Communist party,”
January 27:
The fact that our landings behind the
enemy lines near Rome were unopposed
proves what many have been saying for
months —that the enemy hasn’t enough re-
serves even to patrol the coastline of “fort-
ress” Europe Dozens of similar land-
ings could be made from Norway to Greece
without a man being lost.
The landing referred to was on the Anzio
beachhead, where within a week or two
the Allied Army was fighting for its life,
and where the Germans have now a mini-
mum of ten divisions. It shows how
much Second-Frontets know about the
“fortress” Europe from which they take
such care to keep away.
From Senator Crawford:
A statement was made.(B. 8/3/’44) that I
would be drawing £lOOO a year as a Senator for
the next three years. That, of course, is the
Parliamentary allowance of every member. In
my case the whole of the amount drawn will
be absorbed in taxation and the personal ex-
penses inseparable from the position of a
Senator. There is much to commend the sub-
stitution of payment per sitting in place of a
fixed payment per year. Regarding my age,
I am still mentally and physically fit, and have
never suffered any infirmity or illness requiring
medical or surgical treatment. Even my circu-
lation is sound.
So is The Bulletin’s, as sound as a bell;
but circulations are not in question.
Attendances are. Senator Crawford’s are
so bad that retirement or a change to
payment at so much a sitting would be
a public benefit.


(yOttrtdo
PRE-WAR STRENGTH
Pure Grape Brandy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Had the honoring of General Mac-
Arthur for his two years of successful
leadership as Commander-in-Chief in
the South-west Pacific Area taken place
in Canada instead of at Canberra a
special Canadian decoration could have
been, and no doubt would have been,
presented. That Dominion last year in-
stituted its own Canada Medal, to be
awarded as “an acknowledgment of meri-
torious service not only by Canadians
but also by the citizens of other countries
whom Canada desires to honor.” Aus-
tralia did its best with a dinner and
some appropriately laudatory speechi-
fying, in the course of which Fadden re-
ferred to the general as “Sir Douglas”
and James reiterated his earlier ebullient
“Good on y’, Doug!”
Thus lacking anything of its own more
appropriate than the corrugated-iron or
stringy bark plaques hung round the
necks of some goodpfeller blackpfeller
King Billies, Australia had perforce to
leave the suitable honoring to J. Bull, who,
at any rate, did the thing handsomely,
appointing General MacArthur “a mem-
ber of the Military Division of the First
Class or Knight Grand Cross of the
Most Honorable Order of the Bath in
recognition of gallant and distinguished
service.” General MacArthur responded
on the Governor-General’s balcony at
Canberra in the grand manner that has
all along made him, with scarcely a rival
except Montgomery, just about the most
vivid personality of this war. “I regard
it,” he said, “as a symbol of the magni-
ficent valor of the soldiers whom it was
my signal fortune to command in the
vital Papuan campaign. I shall wear it
in their honor.”
The most decorated U.S. officer,
General MacArthur has heading his long
list the Congressional Medal of Honor,
awarded by the President for his “leader-
ship and his disregard for personal
danger” in the Philippines. He had
given signal proof of both those quali-
ties in 1917-18, when he was twice
wounded, and when, at 38, he became
a brigadier-general. His decorations in-
clude also the Army Distinguished Ser-
vice Cross, the second most important
U.S. Army decoration, instituted jn 1918
for “extraordinary heroism in connec-
tion with military operations against an
armed enemy.” Another worn by
General MacArthur is the Army Distin-
guished Service Medal, also established
in 1918, and awarded for “exceptionally
meritorious service in a duty of great re-
sponsibility.” Next in his rows is the
Silver Star, for “gallantry and intre-
pidity in action,” outranked only in U.S.
rating by the Medal of Honor, Navy
Cross and D.S.C. After that, General
MacArthur wears the Purple Heart,
America’s oldest decoration. Originally
issued in Washington in 1782 —57 years
after George I established the Order of
the Bath, supposedly in revival of an
order started by Henry IV in 1399,
though this was apparently pure fiction
—the Purple Heart was allowed to lapse
from the end of the Revolutionary War
right up to 1932, when it was revived as
an award to those wounded in action
against the enemy.
Governor of the Apple Isle for 11
years, with his term four times renewed,
Sir Ernest Clark is due for an eightieth
birthday next month. Educated as a soli-
citor, he became an economist and a
director of London’s Underground, Har-
land and Wolff’s, Martin’s Bank and
other concerns. Terms as assistant
Under-Secretary of Ireland and Secretary
to the Treasury of Northern Ireland
paved the way to his appointment to the
Big Four mission which came to Aus-
tralia to look into Governmental finance
when the depression was on. In 1933 Sir
Ernest became Governor of the Speck,
which included occupancy of one of the
finest old homes in Hobart.
J. M. Cullity, who’s been appearing
with Shand, K.C., in the Woolcott
Forbes case in Sydney, is well known as
a criminal pleader in Melbourne. Cullity
doesn’t indulge in forensic fireworks and
doesn’t draw a gallery, but he’s had a
remarkable run of success in the last few
years, particularly in obtaining the quash-
ing of convictions in the lower courts.
The solicitor mainly responsible for start-
ing him on his successful career as a
criminal advocate was the late N. H.
Sonenberg, the Jewish lawyer who had
almost a monopoly of this type of work.
Since the establishment of responsible
government in Victoria close on a cen-
tury ago, that State has had only seven
Chief Justices —a’Beckett, Stawell, Higin-
botham, Madden, Irvine, Mann and
Herring. In its slightly over 40 years the
Commonwealth judiciary has had five
occupants of the high office —Griffith,
Knox, Isaacs, Duffy and Latham.
Wing-Commander (temporary Air
Commodore) Arthur Henry Cobby, of
Brighton (Vic.), who lately had the
George Medal added to his D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and two bars, was one of Aus-
tralia’s outstanding aces in the last war.
He won his latest decoration when a
Catalina crashed on returning from
Dutch New Guinea.
Cobby extricated
himself from the
wreck, in which a
depth charge had ex-
ploded, and climbed
back into the sub-
merged hull three
times to drag his
staff out.
After the usual
tortuous manoeuvres
that seem insepar-
able from Victorian
Government appoint-
ments, Thomas
Fleming Cooke,
assistant librarian at
Melbourne Public
Library, takes the
place of the late
E. R. Pitt as Chief
Librarian. With the
library since 1900.
Cooke made a
specialty of ensuring
that the lending sec-
tion should be avail-
able to book-hungry
settlers in the back-
blocks. He has two
publications to his
own credit —a classi-
fied catalogue of
Australiana and a
jubilee history of the
Carlton Cricket
Club.
The immense expansion of the Salva-
tion Army since General Booth first
banged the drum in London is indicated
by the travels in the last ten years of its
international auditor, Colonel J. Siebrits,
who has lately been in Melbourne. He
has inspected the S’Army’s ledgers in
Korea, Manchukuo, Shanghai, Peiping,
Manila, Java, the Belgian Congo,
Rhodesia and Tanganyika, and he hasn’t
finished by a long chalk. He left Japan
just before the Japanese began to over-
flow into Southern Asia, S’African by
birth, he started on his career in the
Army’s audit branch in London.
His notable researches have now
brought Dr. Oscar Werner Tiegs, Asso-
ciate Professor of Zoology at Melbourne
University, a Fellowship of the Royal
Society of London. Born in Brisbane in
1897, he took his M.Sc. at the University
there. He put in three years at Adelaide
Uni. and became a lecturer under Pro-
fessor Agar in Melbourne in 1925.
After 29 years of it, Professor Thomas
Howell Laby has resigned the Professor-
ship of Natural Philosophy at Melbourne
University. During that time he has
made himself known at home and abroad
as a leading physicist; he was paid a
high honor by the 1937 French Govern-
ment for his work in designing one of
the first anti-gas respirators used in the
last war. Students to pass through his
hands include two Rhodes scholars, two
Aitchison scholars, two Rockefeller Fel-
lows, five who became professors, three
Fellows of the Royal Society of London
and 15 Exhibition of 1851 scholars. Laby
has been working in hospital on a life
of Lord Rutherford, an old friend.
William Goodman, knight, head of
Adelaide’s Tramways Trust, is lent at
the moment to Dunedin, to report on that
M.L. city’s transport requirements. Fair
enough, because it was from Dunedin
that he moved to Adelaide in 1907, to
convert Adelaide’s old horse-trams to
electric.
“El Verdugo” sums up 25 years’
acquaintance:
Earle Page has changed little in the 25 years
since I first saw him in a blue suit and a new
soldiers’ badge at Parliament House, Brisbane.
He is still broad. He still interlards his sen-
tences with “Y’see, y’see,” and he still —de-
spite membership of the Privy Council and a
G.C.M.G. —longs for the day when he can re-
tire to a farm and play godfather to a dis-
trict. He has two farms —one on the Clarence
and one near Gympie (Q.).
The outstanding quality of Earle Page is
his tenacity. He is still plugging away at ideas
which he expounded 30 years ago. He is solid
in friendship and determined in his feuds. His
first feud with W. M. Hughes resulted swiftly
in the Little Digger’s discomfiture. His last
one with R. G. Menzies had more emotion in
it, because behind it lurked the implications of
his strong and curious friendship for Lyons.
That fight was called off before it had reached
(Modelled by Frith.)
PAGE: “Y’SEE, Y’SEE!"
its natural conclusion, but only Archie Cameron,
who officiated at the joining of hands, can tell
how it happened.
Page’s first and most enduring friendship in
politics was with S. M. Bruce. A stranger pair
never walked the boards, but their operations
in London during the difficult period when the
Curtin Government was refusing to send an
. A.I.F. division to see Alexander’s weary men
out of Burma proved that they are still an
ideal combination. Bruce’s diagnosis of Page
was: “It is no use dissenting from him. You
can tell him his ideas are iniquitous and his
proposals impractical and all he does is to
murmur ‘Y’see, y’see, I knew you’d agree
with me.’ ” . '
The most characteristic thing about Earle Page
in political technique is his method ofrtnaking
a statement. It is usually long and rambling
and tedious. Nobody is sure what it is all
about, but everybody caves in as does the
slave under the bastinado. Thus did he per-
suade the Government and help to persuade
the country into the formation of the Loan
Council, which was a first step towards the
undermining of the States’ power and the con-
solidation of Commonwealth national authority;
thus, too, did he gradually revolutionise over-
sea marketing plans; thus did he create rural
hydro-electric schemes and various other changes
of great import in rural life. On the other
hand, when he likes he can make an incisive
speech or talk to a Government concisely on
some issue in a way which makes the Govern-
ment squirm. He was concise early in the war
about holding A.I.F. divisions in the Middle
East, where they would be available in case of
urgent need. And he has lately been concise
enough in his biting analysis of New Guinea
casualties. His reputation is bigger in London
than at home.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide, John
Beare, who had been a policeman at Ply-
mouth (Devon) before coming to Aus-
tralia in 1877 to spend 45 years in the
Force in S.A., mainly as detective. As
a youngster he was sent to Morgan on
the Murray “to watch the boats during the
Kelly gang scare.” Later he had a trip
to England to bring back an embezzler,
and he kept a special official eye on all
ships passing through Port Adelaide
during the Kalgoorlie gold boom.
Some years back James Ralph Darling,
headmaster of Geelong (Vic.) Grammar
School, by way of introducing new ideas
into the curriculum, started his boys on
craftwork, carpentering, bricklaying and
all other house-building jobs. Since the
bushfires they have done yeoman ser-
vice. Recently 35 of them, under the
foremanship of the bursar, journeyed to
a burnt-out holding near Mount Duneed
and re-erected the farm buildings. The
next job was building a separator-room,
engine-room, washroom and four-bail
milking shed for another bushfire victim.
Some of the boys took part in the con-
struction of an engineering and car-
pentry workshop, a dormitory, classroom
and a new masters’ residence at the
Grammar School last year. Darling,
born in England and educated at Oxford,
served as an artillery lieutenant in the
last war. He directed a tour of English
schoolboys to Maoriland in 1929 and
came to his present post shortly after.
In one respect Fremantle Benefit Build-
ing and Investment Society has probably
no parallel throughout Australia —three
members of the board of directors are
over 80. William Hooper (84) is a re-
tired watchmaker and jeweller (his son,
recently elected to the Building Society's
directorate, now conducts the business).
John Cooke (83) was a grocer when he
was Mayor of Fremantle, 1924-26 ; he’s
still a member of Fremantle Tramway
Board and a St. John Ambulance Assoc,
vice-president. His upright guardsman's
carriage is the envy of men half his age.
G. F. Payne (82) was manager at Elder
Smith’s Fremantle office. On retiring
he took over the hon. secretaryship of
the Flying Angel Missions to Seamen.
Victorian cricket enthusiast and hous-
ing expert Dr. Ramsay Mailer, who
passed on last December, left the residue
of his £46,000 estate to provide a home
for boys and girls living in Melbourne
and suburbs. Last October he executed
a deed of settlement for £lO,OOO for a
similar object. ,
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, Mary Constance Curlewis, of
one of Victoria’s oldest pioneering families and
last of her generation. Judge Herbert Curlewis,
of Sydney, and Justice Curlewis, president of
the Supreme Court of South Africa, were
cousins.
At 61, H. Rutherford Purnell, head of Adel-
aide Public Library. He was struck down by
illness in Sydney last November while attending
a librarians’ conference. An Oxford citizen, he
was engaged in the famous Bodleian, and then
was at Croydon, one of London’s most pro-
gressive libraries, before coming to Australia in
1913, shortly afterwards entering on four or
five years’ war service with the artillery and as
a lieutenant in the army’s education branch.
Latterly he engineered for Adelaide a research
service which puts munition-makers on to all
the latest technical books and magazines in
their line, and a country lending service which
sends books all over the State.
In London, at 87, Dr. Harmer, who was
Bishop of Adelaide (the third) for 10 years from
1895, and then of Rochester (Eng.) for 25 years.
He did much towards getting the Anglican
cathedral of Adelaide enlarged and towered.
Also he made one episcopal record for S.A.
by arriving a bachelor, marrying a local lady
and having a child born in Bishop’s Court
during his occupation of it.
In Melbourne, at 72, Anthony Monish, one
of the survivors of the Mt. Lyell disaster of
1912. He spent five days on the 100 ft. level
with 50 others.
At 83, in Melbourne, Lieutenant-General
Henry Gallant, who carried the Salvation Army
banner in every State and Maoriland and was
the first principal of the first Army Training
Home in Australia —in Pune-road, South Yarra.
At 85, H. M. S. Cox, “the Squire” of Dayles-
ford (Vic.), last of the pioneers of Poseidon
Goldfields, Tarnagulla (Vic.). His co-pioneers
were Dr. John Tremearne, P. B. Hoadley, Wm.
Ham and W. H. Quick, of Melbourne ’Change.
They had immense faith in the field and found
the cash among them to bore the whole area,
covering many square miles. They floated the
New Nick o’ Time, the Great Poseidon, Posei-
don King and many other companies on the
field. In spite of their large holdings as
vendors they all took up big parcels of con-
tributing shares, all of which they declined to
sell during the Poseidon boom of over 30 years
ago. Water and drift eventually beat them,
with a consequent loss of many thousands of
pounds.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: The cables for (approx.) the
seventh time record the demise of Vir-
ginio Gayda. As editor of Mussolini’s
own “Giornale D’ltalia,” bible of the
Fascisti, he used to be a very tall poppy
in |he land of the Seven Million
Bayonets. When Virginio thundered in
the “Giornale” all the great nations were
expected to tremble. % With the coming
of the war that was to revive the martial
glories of Imperial Rome he erupted a
fine storm of thrasonical utterances. And
by the time the seven million bayonets
were sheathed after having performed
their most useful function as toasting
forks at campfires Virginio had been
referred to 27,349 times in our popular
press as “Mussolini’s mouthpiece” (Syd-
ney “D.T.” called him that four times
in one issue). He has, according to the
newspapers, been stabbed to death, fatally
shot, hanged and assassinated in divers
other ways from time to time, and just
lately is reported to have kept a tryst with
an Allied bomb. Nevertheless, it will not
be surprising to hear next Thursday fort-
night that he has been skewered by his
Adam’s apple to the door of a Florentine
spaghetti foundry.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The American soldier artist
who won first prize at the Yank Down
Under exhibition in Brisbane for a por-
trait of an “Australian Swagman,” which
turned out to have been inspired by
a newspaper photograph of a British
commando fighter in Burma, had prece-
dent to go on. There was scandalised
surprise at a pre-war Royal Academy
show when an architectural subject was
proved to have been actually painted over
a photographic enlargement, but there is
no aesthetic objection to such aids. Shak-
speare was accused of lifting whole pas-
sages in “Julius Caesar” from Plutarch’s
Lives. It is not the borrowing that
matters, but the use the borrowing is put
to. The judges of the Archibald Prize
competition probably don’t know that
the portrait they gave the award to one
bygone year was partly painted from a
photograph; after a few sessions the
artist got sick of his loquacious sitter.
And one of the best of Longstaff’s
portraits was that of Alfred Felton,
in the Victorian National Gallery, painted
when that art benefactor had been dead
for several decades.
* * * *
“Zake”: The film censor, nigh to
swooning at the sound of a brace of
“bloodys” in the British merchant navy
film “San Demetrio, London,” has
ordered the deletion of the naughty adjec-
tives —or else. But the crew of the
Sunderland in “Coastal Command” were
allowed to give vent to the gory expletive
at least three times, with a liberal sprink-
ling of “hells” and “damns” for good
measure. “In Which We Serve,” the best
naval film yet done, not only were
blankys allowed whenever they were
called for, but one of the men clinging to
a Carley float while a Stuka made strafing
passes was permitted to remark “Here’s
the bastards coomin’ back again!” As
merchant navy men are not prone to the
use of adjectives such as “beastleigh” and
“caddish” the producer of the latest sea
epic doubtless thought the Great Aus-
tralian Adjective would be permissibly
realistic. Ever since Dion Boucicault put
it over with such telling effect in the
second-last line of “Aren’t We All?” the
British stage and screen have enjoyed
“bloody,” as witness the relishing recep-
tion accorded to a lady’s use of the word
in “Pygmalion.” The Hays censorship
in the U.S.A. still boggles at it.
» * * *
“A.J.K.”; The United States Navy
Department is experimenting with a new
typewriter keyboard, claimed to be faster
and more efficient than the present
standard model. No fewer than 640 key-
board combinations were tested for the
operators’ muscular control, fatigue and
minimum hand movement. But what’s
the matter with Qwertyuiop? It also was
the result of long experiment. I have
been a touch typist for many years,
capable of speeds up to 80-odd w.p.m.,
and have never been conscious of any
defects in the arrangement, which, once
mastered, lends itself to swift, sure
manipulation. A good point is that the
lighter and smaller signs, such as punc-
tuation marks and brackets, fall under
the weak fourth finger of the right hand,
assuring an even resultant impression.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide Police Court
has disregarded the old legal idea that
betting affairs are outside the considera-
tion of the Law. A man accepted £4 to
put on two horses “each way” at Mor-
phettville, but instead put the money on
others and lost it. Ten-pound fine for
“converting” it.
* * * *
“Trailing Cloud”; I see Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” has put on a special reporter
to get some heart throbs out of what
the paper calls “child delinquency,” and
publishes an account of some cases,
selected as typical, in which girls and
boys have gone astray, winding up with
a page of sage advice to the nation as
to how young people can be constrained
to behave themselves. O. Henry con-
sidered the same subject 40 years ago and
presented his conclusions in “The Guilty
Party.” He pins the blame on the old
man ; a celestial Court, discharging the
case against a “bad” girl who stabbed
her rival and then committed suicide,
adjures the heavenly cop to search for
the young lady’s pa, an unshaven old
man in carpet slippers, too lazy to take
any interest in his kids, who had their
upbringing in the streets. Yes, I know
all about parsons’ sons who kick over
the traces, but nine times out of ten O.
Henry’s diagnosis hits the target. And
“D.T.’s” cases offer him strong cor-
roboration.
* * * »
From London: A newspaper develop-
ment that makes history is the decision
of London “Daily Mail” to publish a
Transatlantic Edition in New York, the
intention, in Lord Rothermere’s words,
being to contribute “towards the closer
understanding of the British and Ameri-
can peoples.” The London office pre-
pares, sets up and prints each Wednes-
day one copy of a brightly-illustrated 12-
page journal digesting the news (and the
editorials) of the week. This is photo-
graphed on a piece of micro film about
the size of a dollar bill, which is flown
across the Atlantic. On arrival a photo-
graphic process produces a reproduction
with pages by 11 in., and on the day
of production in London the “Digest” is
in the mail of its American subscribers.
First number, published on January 5
last, contains no reference whatever to
Australia. Indeed the only overseas por-
tion of the Empire mentioned is India.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Death of Captain Roy
Brown, the Canadian airman officially
credited with bringing down the German
ace Richthofen in World War I, brings
to mind a long-continued controversy
among the Allies as to who got him.
The accepted story is that it was
Brown who crippled Richthofen’s
machine in a dogfight and forced him
down low over the Allied lines, where an
A.I.F, machine-gun crew administered
the* coup de grace.
* * * «
“Alex.”: The “N.Z. Law Journal” has
been looking into the question of the
nation ality of a
Maoriland girl who
marries an Ameri-
can service man.
After a survey of
relevant authorities
it finds she does not
by reason of mar-
riage lose her British
nationality, but after
residence in the
U.S.A. for a pre-
scribed period she
may, if she is eligible
for citizenship and
applies voluntarily,
be granted natural-
isat i o n. By the
Nationality Ac t,
1940, persons eligible
for citizenship are
“descendants of races
indigenous to the
Western Hemi-
sphere,” “white per-
sons” and “persons
of African nativity
and descent.” As
the hemispheres are
bounded by the 20th
and 160th meridians,
Maoris, indigenous
to a country well in
the western half, are eligible; so are
Greenlanders, Polynesians, Hawaiians
and Aleutian Islanders.
* * * *
“Ahger”; Brisbane shares with Vic-
toria various place-names (B. 8/ 3 / ’44),
among them Ascot, Bald Hills, Bays-
water, Belmont, Brighton, Carlton (Hill),
Clifton Hill, Eildon (Hill), Everton
(Park), Fairfield, Glenlyon, Hamilton,
Hawthorn(e), Hill End, Newstead, Oxley,
Red Hill, Salisbury, Spring Hill, Stratton,
Swan Hill, Tennyson, Toorak (Hill),
Tower Hill and Windsor, Paddington
and Balmoral are shared with Sydney,
and Grange with Adelaide. Brisbane
and Adelaide share Salisbury. Brisbane’s
Manly and Scarborough have namesakes
in Sydney and Perth respectively.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Melbourne had electricity
officially forced upon it on March
8, 1894, when Mrs. Snowden, then
Mayoress, pulled the switch that gave
the city the illumination of arc lights.
They spluttered somewhat, but were a
source of delight and wonder to citizens
after the poor radiance of the old gas
lamps. At a Town Hall celebration of
the jubilee of this event the original
switch was ceremoniously presented to
the council. Ex-Mayor Beaurepaire was
describing how the capital invested in the
business had grown in 50 years from
£125,000 to £5,000,000 when the lights
went out. Birds, unimpressed with the
importance of the occasion, had alighted
on the wires near the Richmond terminal,
got electrocuted and established a short
circuit. So the celebrants had to walk
back to their offices through a city tem-
porarily rendered lightless and tramless.
* * * «
“Cauboy”: The death at 67 of Nerino
Maggia in Melbourne breaks a link with
the southern city’s nearest approach to a
literary and artistic Bohemia. It was
populated by figures like Phil May, who
described its habitues with his pencil;
Norman Lindsay, who depicted it in his
Curate in Bohemia; Randolph Bedford
and Alek Sass; the ebullient Clement
Wragge the most individual meteorologist
Australia has had ; singer Walter Kirby,
the protege of Melba ; J. L. Purves, Q.C.;
Theodore Fink; sculptor Bertram Mac-
kennal and a regiment of musicians,
including Marshall Hall and Alberto
Zelman. Their meeting place was Fasoli’s
cafe in King-street. Maggia, an engineer
who had worked for the Rumanian Gov-
ernment and subsequently came to Aus-
tralia and helped to build the Bendigo
and Ballarat railways, married Katherine
Fasoli, daughter of Vincent Fasoli, a lead-
ing cafe proprietor of the period. Mrs.
Maggia, a robust woman and a magnifi-
cent cook, opened Fasoli’s in 1907. Her
Sunday evenings, when there were im-
promptu performances round the piano
and the singing and the music were often
of no mean order, made her eating-house
a rendezvous for Melbourne’s intelli-
gentsia. She died in 1929 and the place
was taken over by her sister.
“Well, speak up, Sergeant! How did I go?"
QUITE PARLIAMENTARY.
Mr. McEwen, quoting from a newspaper article:
“The writer of this says ‘lt is well known in the
lobbies.’ ”
Mr. Menzies: “Does he say that he was ‘re-
liably informed’ ?”
Suppose, when political foes you attack
And party opponents asperse,
There’s something you’ve said you’re unable to
back
By citing the chapter and verse;
When you feel that discretion you now must
display
How perfectly easy the job is
To assert in an airy, impersonal way:
“It was quite common talk in the lobbies.”
Another and equally popular course
Is to mention that what you depose
Has come from a “highly reliable source”
That you hardly feel free to disclose.
Which leaves the impression, where framing our
laws
Goes on—’twill take long to remove it —
A chap can say just what he chooses, because
He’ll never be called on to prove it.
It wouldn’t, I’ll say, cut much ice in the courts
When a culprit on trial is put
For spreading malicious, mendacious reports
And setting gross slanders afoot,
The defence that the charge which against him
is brought
And the words he is there to reply on
Came from somebody somewhere that some-
how he thought
It was perfectly safe to rely on.
There are phrases and terms, as you must be
aware,
Which, bellowed with feeling and force,
Are like to occasion rebukes from the Chair
As crudely offensive and coarse.
But lying and slander, politely conveyed,
May still into “Hansard” gain entry.
There’s room for a doubt if they’ll ever be made
Explicitly unparliament’ry.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
SAUSAGE AND PIE.
“Following a complaint in the Assembly, the
N.S.W. Minister for Health threatens severe penalties
lor persons who slaughter horses to provide material
for sausages and pies.”
Sausage, which on my breakfast plate I see
Inevitably once or twice a week,
Done to a turn —and likewise coupon-free —
Pleasingly plump and picturesquely sleek,
I’ve wondered oft what hidden mystery
You might disclose if you could only speak
Touching the sort of meat you may have been
Before they minced you up in a machine.
A homely theme, you think, whereon to build
A ballad or a ringing rhyme essay?
Still, when you’re with poetic ardor filled,
You catch at anything that comes your way.
“Spade, with which Wilkinson his land has
tilled,”
A famous Laureate once began a lay.
With such a precedent, why shouldn’t I
Apostrophise a sausage or a pie?
Pie, toothsome fare in wheaten cells conveyed,
Solace of many a midnight reveller
Wholly oblivious of what you’re made,
Whether you came from hide or fleece or fur,
Something that mooed or mewed or baa’d or
neighed,
Bent to the yoke or quickened to the spur,
Your early origins perforce remain
Beyond jour customers to ascertain.
Best so, perhaps. What eyes may not perceive
Or ears accept as more than idle chat
Is scarce a thing o’er which the heart need
grieve,
The stomach, either, for the matter o’ that.
It isn’t necessary to believe
When anybody says he smells a rat
Or hints he hears it “brewing in the air”
The animal is actually there.
Sausage and pie, whether you fatten or no,
It’s surely past contesting that you fill.
I have a certain liking for you, though
I sometimes speculate what beans you’d spill
Had you the gift of speech the gaff to blow
About your shadowy antecedents. Still,
For your own sake as well as mine I grant,
All things considered, it’s as well you can’t.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


‘Mana Boleh”: An outbreak of
jitterbugging in Sydney, bringing with
it complaints of barbarity, recalls an epi-
sode in Malaya many years ago. For an
entertainment at one of the clubs a pro-
fessional dancing girl had been engaged.
The locale was a lawn fringed with sway-
ing palm-trees, their leaves dabbed with
silver by the full moon. The dancer, a
young Chinese lass, was draped in a stiff
organdie robe, buttoned with yellow
sovereigns and hanging to withi# six
inches of the ground. Tiny bare feet wore
gold-thread-embroidered sandals. A chain
of white, sweet-scented flowerbuds held
by gold pins encircled her indigo-black
hair. A brooch with multicolored stones
winked at her throat, and the sparkle of
several rings on her fingers drew fiery
circles in the night. Anyone wanting a
dance would face her a few feet in front
and match his steps to the rhythm of her
shuffling feet. Bear-hugging and I-like-
your-cheek poses were unthinkable. Two
Malay violinists and an old greyhead at
the drum provided a sonorous background
to the “kronchongs” she sang. That was
“barbarous” dancing. What would the
Malays think of jitterbugs?
“Tuart”: I see where one of the writ-
ing boys referred to the Churchill birth-
day dinner at Tehran as “the most spec-
tacular meal since the Last Supper.”
Writing boys are apt to let themselves go
like that when the blue pencil is lightly
held. There is an old Fleet-street story
of a lad who, when Queen Victoria was
gathered to her ancestors, started a leader
with the words “The greatest personage
since Jesus Christ is dead.” Editors were
stern in those days, and it didn’t go in.
* * He *
“Hamer”: It is about time the Histori-
cal Society or the Government clapped
a brass plate on “Henry Lawson’s cot-
tage” in Sydney’s jPhillip-street. It is a
relic of an older age, with its stone steps
abutting on the pavement, and was the
home of the poet in the days when he
ran his first verses down to The Bulle-
tin. In it his mother produced “Dawn”
(Henry working the hand-press), so it
may be said to be the birthplace of the
Australian womanhood suffrage move-
ment, of which that journal was the
mouthpiece. The cottage will have to
go when the war is over. It would not
cost much to transfer it to some spot
where it would be a memorial of three
things—the poet, the feminist movement
and the well-built homes of early citizens.
% He H* *
“C.Q.”: Citizens who take their way
through the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne,
occasionally see falling from one of the
trees in the majestic avenue of elms an
enormous limb. Though the avenue was
planted 80 years ago by Charles French,
who fetched them from a Richmond nur-
sery in a wheelbarrow, it isn’t old age
that makes them do it. It is just the
cussedness of the “coffin-wood” species.
In «the Long Walk at Windsor Castle,
notices warn passers-by to keep from
under the 300-year-old giants lest ill
befall them.
*** * *
“Caballer”: The letter-opening, tele-
phone-tapping Bumble has raised his
head in the Empire before now. Just
a Imndred years ago Home Secretary Sir
James Graham exercised what he con-
ceived to be his official privilege by open-
ing private correspondence, and when
caught out put up a plea of public in-
terest. The British public, unused to such
didos, gave Graham a lively time.
“Punch” John Leech designed
an envelope, tastefully decorated with
steaming kettles, Paul Prys, snakes in the
grass and other tactful reminders to the
official mind that espionage is odious. It
has taken a hundred years for Bumble
to whip up sufficient effrontery to try
another run on the Graham tack.
He He H« He
“Lao-dah”: One of the oddest rever-
sals of opinion in history had the spot-
light thrown upon it the other day when
Federal agents arrested 20 leaders of a
“Fundamentalist” sect at Salt Lake City
on charges of violating the Mann (White
Slave) Act and the Lindbergh kidnapping
law and of mailing obscene literary
matter. The “Fundamentalists,” num-
oering 2000, have been expelled from
the Mormon Church for practising poly-
gamy to the extent of having up to five
wives and 33 children, modest figures
compared with what the original Mor-
mons achieved. Joseph Smith, founder
of the Mormon Church, was lynched in
1844, soon after he had declared
polygamy lawful, for the Saints. In
those days the sect was the butt
of the U.S.A., and a humorist wrote a
story about a Mormon who eloped with
a young ladies’ college. Under the direc-
tion of ‘Brigham Young, who succeeded
Smith, the Mormons migrated from
Illinois to what was to become Salt Lake
City, a rather wonderful achievement in
the pioneering line. Missionaries from-
(Salt Lake City, very solemn young men
professing a horror of polygamy, used
to try to beat up converts in Australia,
but I haven’t seen any of them since the
other war. .
* * * *
“Uramao”: An “Otago Daily Times”
reprint from an old file had reference to
experiments in television made in Mel-
bourne in October 31, 1882, by a
“Dr. Gnidrah.” It stated that some
40 scientists and prominent men in
a darkened room saw projected on
a disc of white, burnished metal
the racecourse at Flemington with its
great attendance. Looking at the spec-
tacle through binocular glasses the audi-
ence imagined themselves among the
throng, so lifelike was the scene. The in-
strument invented by Dr. Gnidrah was
called the Electroscope ; the man who
recounted the facts was a Rev. Gilbert,
lecturing in Christchurch. The affair
bears all the hallmarks of a hoax.
“Gnidrah” is “Harding” backwards, and
no experimenter with even a smattering
of scientific knowledge would call his
appliance an “electroscope.” That was
invented by William Gilbert in 1600, and
is mentioned on the first page of every
primer on electricity and magnetism.
* 4= * *
“Melbn”: A case that came before a
Geelong Court recently concerned a
funeral which was alleged to gone
awry. On the way to the cenWery the
hearse took a wrong turn and parted
company with the mourning coach and
the rest of the cortege, the head making
for one burial ground and the tail for
another. Recalls an ancient incident in
Adelaide. A journalist of convivial habits
“This club's no good—throw my spoon up!"
was* being carried to his last resting place,
and in the long procession was a horse
cab filled with fellow-voyagers on the
Inky Way. The day was hot, the foute
long, and one Inky Wayman suggested
that the deceased wouldn’t mind —in fact,
he would certainly be delighted—if they
dropped out and made a detour to a
pub he knew to pour a libation to the
departed member. Having gradually
worked to the rear of the procession
they turned up a side street and reached
their objective. One ceremonial glass fol-
lowed another, until somebody looked at
his watch and was astounded to find
they had been in the hostelry for 20
minutes. Piling into the cab they dashed
off, and just reached the cemetery gates as
the rest of the funeral party was leaving.
cs * 4c *
“Keel Row”: “Snoz,” an outback
dairy-herder, had been with us only a
few hours. It was early 1942, with race-
course and showground camps at their
peak. Our platoon sweltered in giggle
suits on the bull ring under the stern eyes
of our sar-major. “Looks like more
questions on the rifle,” I moaned. “Yeah,”
grunted Bart —“all because of these ding-
blast recruities cornin’ in late. We’ve
’ad rifles for breakfast, rifles for dinner
and rifles for tea three weeks solid, and
he” —he glared venomously at the new-
chum —“gets us stuff we finished weeks
ago,” “Righto, you,” interrupted Sarge,
his beetling eyebrows drawn in a scowl;
“I’ll do the talkin’ ” ; and with that he
slid off the bolt of his .303 and, pointing to
“Weary,” my dreamy tent-mate, barked:
“Name the main parts.” “Weary,” fortu-
nately, managed to struggle through the
list. The sar-major grunted, hardly ex-
pecting a satisfactory answer, and glared
at “Snoz,” who was quivering, half-
hidden, in the rear. “What’s the weight
of a pull-through?” Poor old “Snoz
squinted, coughed, scratched his head
and at length ventured meekly: “Two
ounces.” “Wrong!” “Half an ounce.
“Guess again.” Five or six of us failed
to satisfy him, and with a note of triumph
in his voice he roared: “An extra hour’s
drill, the whole bang lot of you. The
weight of a pull-through’s the brass fer-
rule at the end.” *
4c * * *
“Alex.”: An instance of the risks run
by newspapers under libel laws which
make them the target for damages if they
report political speeches that contain any
personal reflection is to be found in the
recent M.L. case, Langstone v. “Even-
ing Post.” Plaintiff had resigned as High
Commissioner in Canada. An opponent
during the election campaign was reported
by the “Post” to have said:
Mr. Langstone was very annoyed at being
recalled from Canada. I happen to know
why he was recalled, and if I were to tell,
you the facts you would agree with me that
this was the proper thing to do. Even the
Labor Government could not do otherwise.
Langstone sent a vigorous contradiction
both to the speaker and the newspaper.
The speaker retracted and apologised (of
course pleading that he wasn’t fully re-
ported). The “Post” made its amends as
follows:
The statement was printed by the “Post”
without perception of the error in the use
of the word “recall.” The fact that Mr.
Langstone resigned was published in the
“Post” at the time and has been frequently
repeated in reports of debates on the ques-
tion. We regret, nevertheless, that publicity
should have been given to any statement
conveying a different impression.
Plaintiff took the line that this correc-
tion was inadequate, and claimed £2OOO
damages. The jury awarded him £2OO.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The Archibald Prize contro-
versy continues to have repercussions.
An art exhibition at Mornington (Vic.)
was astoundingly successful. Over 3000
people from all over the country visited
the collection, schools sent their pupils to
be lectured at, Sir Winston Dugan and his
lady attended and Army Minister Forde
put in an appearance. Metropolitan art
critics, inclined to be sniffy about pro-
vincial happenings, journeyed down to the
seaside town and wrote extended notices,
and the shire has decided to make the
show a regular fixture.
* * * *
“Pip”: The original of the film con-
test between a boxer and a jiu-jitsu
expert (B. 23/2/’44) took place at
the Tokyo Military Academy in 1923.
Contestants were Captain (now Colonel)
Warren Clear, U.S.A., and Captain Kita-
mura, jiu-jitsu champion of the Imperial
Japanese Army, The Minister for
War, General Ugaki, arranged the
fight, to which about 400 Nip officers
turned up, including the Prince Regent,
today Emperor Hirohito. It was to be a
fight to the finish, in five-minute rounds.
There was no ring, and all the appoint-
ments were in favor of the Jap. The rules
were not made known to Clear until just
before the contest; he was given
the impression that it would be a bout
to demonstrate boxing. The
American at 1851 b. conceded over a stone
to his opponent. John E. Tynan, of the
American Embassy, seconded Clear, and
was his only supporter. Both fighters
started very cautiously, and the first round
produced only a bleeding nose for the
Jap and a bruised forehead for the
American. Kitamura took the offensive
in the second, kicking in the groin and
using the hardened edges of his hands.
Clear employed the straight left and the
right cross, but the Jap grasped the
principle of the system, feinted, then
hurled Clear unconscious to the ground.
The bell cut into the count-out, and
Tynan brought Clear round in # time for
the third round. Confidently the Jap
attacked again. Clear feinted with the
left. The Jap fell for the trap; a
right cross took him hard in the face,
and another right laid him out cold. What
became of Kitamura is not known, but
Clear has fought in this war at Bataan
and Corregidor.
* # * *
“Sixenate”: The Captain Kettle of Cut-
liffe Hyne, recently dead, looked like
one of those fictional characters that
might attain immortality. But he suffers
fiom a fatal defect in his setting. Three
boys to whom I passed in turn a Kettle
collection failed to be impressed. “Why
didn’t they wireless?” (in reply to a ques-
tion about how one particular thrill had
appealed) explained the general reaction.
Without a clear indication of the times and
the lack of means of communication now
commonplace, the yarns fall rather flat.
It is because Marryat painstakingly estab-
lished the period in which his characters
moved and described its sea methods
that his books maintain a strong appeal.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Those apprenticeship in-
dentures of yesterday (B. 8/3/’44) cer-
tainly were archaic in their wording. To
prevent budding Jack Shepherds aping
the gallants of The Mall the master was
called upon to curb any tendency to
“Dice, game or wench.” Smoking was,
of course, interdicted. As late as the
early years of Victoria, Dickens, pictur-
ing a profligate, described him as “a
young man who smoked in the streets.”
But the world looked with a lenient eye
on master or apprentice when, to use
their own expression, they came home
“foxed.” With gin so cheap that its
sellers’ slogan was “Drunk for a penny,
dead drunk for twopence,” even an
apprentice’s pittance could stand an
occasional spree.
* * He H*
“X.S.”: The number of indigenous
Victorians who arrived in the State last
year was 39,117 —a record. The previous
highest figure was in 1891, when births
totalled 38,505. But the population then
was 1,140,000; it is now about 800,000
more.
He < ❖
“Lao-dah”: I see that in Java male
teachers have been ordered by the Jap-
anese overlords to stop wearing sarongs
and to encase their nether extremities in
shorts or trousers. The Japs may be
involving themselves in complications.
I was a member of a British mess in
Batavia, and one night we had a Dutch
doctor to dinner. He told us late in the
evening that our native “boys,” out-
wardly intensely respectful to the white
tuans, were inflicting a particularly subtle |
insult on us every time they entered our
presence. Native sumptuary custom
ordained that servants should wear
pants and sarongs, but that the sarongs
should be lifted and twisted round the
waist and the pants exposed in the Cau-
casian presence, the sarong to be dropped
only when the wearer was out of
sight of his lords and masters. For years
our “boys” had been flaunting dropped
sarongs before the ignorant British.
* * * *
“Sox”: Being interested in this theory
that the riboflavin in beer preserves its
devotees to a ripe old age, I asked our
village nonagenarian, not averse to hops,
if he thought beer had helped him to
live so long. He pondered the matter
a bit and then said “Yes. That and them
not havin’ found out who killed Herb
Johnston at Spring Gully in 1872.”
# * * *
“Nakhoda”: The soldier who claimed
in Sydney that he went A.W.L. because
he was a bleeder and was afraid he might
meet with injury in the army is in august
company. Haemophilia has been a curse
in many a royal family. A conspicuous
victim was the last Cesarevitch. It was
his knowledge of this fact which is
said to have enabled the monk Ras-
putin to gain ascendancy over the
Czar and Czarina; Rasputin claimed
to be able to stop the bleeding
through his close association with the
Almighty. In its incidence haemophilia
follows Mendel’s law. It occurs ex-
clusively in males, but females, can trans-
mit it. The sons of a male bleeder are
free of the complaint, but half his
daughters are transmitters. Half the sons
of these daughters are bleeders, the other
half are normal, and so are their descen-
dants unless they have the misfortune to
marry female transmitters.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; The long youth with the
mournful look came into town making
urgent inquiries as to whether anyone
had seen Lefty Norton. “He’d be with
a tabby, old Sailor’s daughter,” he added
morosely. Then it dawned on somebody,
who said “Hey, I thought you was keep-
in’ company with that tabby?” The long
youth kicked the dust bitterly with one
boot and said “So I was. But that bloke
Norton come t’ the place pitchin’ tales
and dressin’ flash an’ got round her an’
kidded her inter clearin’ out with him.”
The mob licked its lips, foreseeing enter-
tainment if the long youth and the be-
trayer could be brought together. But
Misery Mick interposed. “Look,” he
said, “y' don’t wanter go pickin’ fights
over wimmen, long ’un, or y’ll always be
in trouble. They ain’t worth it, see!
Bet y’ what y’ like the tabby had as much
t’ do with it as he did. Besides, they tell
me that Norton bloke’s pretty handy with
his docks.” The long youth stared
grimly into the sunset. “It ain’t that,” he
said. “But the cow borried me new blue
shirt an’ tie when he went t’ her place
this mornin’, an’ it don’t look as though
he’s goin’ t’ bring ’em back.”
*■« * *
“Sarina”: My two foxies were insepar-
able mates until the smaller one suffered
damage to a forepaw under a falling
chunk of timber one night. The injured
one kept his mouth shut about his hurt,
but the other hound warned me of some-
thing wrong by forcing his way into my
bedroom and whining disconsolately by
Tmy bedside. Next day Stumpy was very
sympathetic towards his lame pal until
he found that the injured,dog was getting
the choicest titbits. Thereafter Paddy’s
every movement was greeted by a vicious
oath from his onetime cobber. Now
both dogs roar curses whenever they
come withiq 50 yards of each other.
“E.P.”: The dog which has to have
a note tied to its collar is a rank ama-
teur at message-delivery compared with
a nondescript known as Red. Red owns
a married couple who came to me about
two years ago. During those first few
months I thought of him only as large,
gentle and willing, and, when working
sheep with Jim, was often surprised at
his knowledge of semaphore, whereas my
own dogs have an unprintable working
vocabulary of about three dozen words
shouted at full blast. Then one day,
doing a rush job, I decided not to waste
time going back to the homestead for
dinner, but told Jim to push off home and
grab a bite. Jim looked at what remained
to be done, said “Aw, we’ll have it
here,” and whistled up Red. “Go and tell
Mary to bring dinner up here. Go on,
git goin’!” The dog vamoosed immedi-
ately in the general direction of the house,
which was well out of sight behind a
timbered rise. In a little under an hour
Red was back, grinning from ear to ear
as if he knew how I felt when I looked
up and saw Jim’s wife coming out of the
timber with a lunch-basket on her arm.
* * * *
“The Pixie”; “Physician’s” remarks
concerning the use of “pidgin” in the
islands (B. 8/ 3/’44) need a little correc-
tion. To begin with, pidgin was seldom
used in Papua, the lingua franca for
trading purposes among the natives being
a simplified form of Motuan, the dialect
spoken by the Moresby natives. Officers
of the Papuan civil service had it laid
down in their circular instructions that
English would be used in addressing
native Crown servants, police, etc., and
all orders were to be given in English. It
was part of the native policy of that
grand old administrator Hubert Murray
that wherever possible the natives should
be encouraged to speak English. It is
amusing to read that “Physician” “could
quite easily make himself understood in
normal English.” Not only are the
Trobriand islanders the most intelligent
natives in Papua, but under Anglican and
other missions and their own trained
native teachers they’ve been learning
English for over 40 years. Pidgin was
used, taught and even “printed” in New
Guinea, but practically anywhere in the
coastal regions of Papua and adjacent
islands it has for years past been far
easier to make oneself understood by
speaking English than pidgin. Inciden-
tally, before any mission school in Papua
received the Government subsidy it was
necessary to give a formal guarantee that
English would be taught.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’m makin’ fer a place I’ve
been tole is a good campin’ spot,” related
Dan, “but haven’t reached it when dark
comes on, t’gether with drizzlin’ rain.
Soon I spots a lighted winder some
distance off. I make fer it an’ find it’s
in a hut just off the road. The winder
ain’t even got a bag over it, an’ I take a
glimpse in. One was enough fer me. The
kipsy’s comfortable lookin’, with a fire
goin’ at the far end an’ fitted with a
coupla bunks an’ a table. But what
made me sheer off in a hurry is a big
rough-loqkin’ bloke, stripped to his sing-
“Any opposition, old boy ?”
let an’ pants, whalin’ into someone he’s
got jammed up in a corner. Fcan’t see
the other bloke, but he’s gettin’ it good
an’ proper, an’ not handin’ anythin’ back,
either. It’s beginnin’t’ come down heavy,
so I sneak off, an’ am lucky t’ find a
partly burnt-out tree standin’ about 50
yards away, into which I crawl. It’s
bright an’ fine next mornin’, an’ as I
crawl outa me bedroom the hut door
opens an’ the bloke I’d seen the night
before comes out an’ starts swingin’ his
arms about: He spots me an’ strolls
over. ‘Mornin’, he ses, affable ; ‘camp
here pdl night?’ I tell him yes. ‘Lumme!’
he ses, ‘why didn’t y’ come over to my
hut?’ ‘No thanks,’ I ses ; T seen enough
of y’ last night, beltin’ hell outa some
poor coot!’ With that he chucks his
head back an’ laughs. ‘Come on, an’ I’ll
show y’, he ses, grabbin’ me arm an’
takin’ me along to the hut. ‘There he
is,’ he ses, pointin’ t’ a sack of corn
standin’ on a bench in the corner, ‘me
sparrin’ partner. I’m trainin’ t’ have a
go at the heavyweight in the boxin’ booth
at Tallaboola show next week.’ ”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: We once owned a horse
too finicky to eat bread at all (B. 1 /3 / ’44).
Dad, happening to remark on the pecu-
liarity at work one day, a new chap
promptly put in “I’ll guarantee he’d eat
wholemeal bread; horses have more
sense than their masters.” He arose,
lunch in hand, and walked to the horse
that grazed around the sulky. The moke
eagerly accepted the wholemeal sandwich.
Turning to give a triumphant smirk, the
dietitian sacrificed nearly half his lunch
in order to drive the moral home. “Well,”
he said as he strolled back, “convinced?”
“No,” replied Dad calmly. The demon-
strator looked a trifle nettled. “Why, •
what better proof could I give?” he de-
manded. “Well,” the old chap drawled,
“you might try it on my horse —the one
tethered in the shade there. That other
moke pinched my lunch yesterday, and
white bread.”
“Chuck”: Horses do eat maize easily
enough, also fruit, crusts or linseed nuts,
and no doubt odd ones might crunch
prune stones. Even shrubs and trees that
in ordinary circumstances stock would
scorn they will devour greedily over a
garden fence, blast ’em. A diet of pota-
toes is common enough, too, for nags
will often take to them when other feed
is scarce. Had a bumper crop of onions
one time, and as there was no sale for
them old Ned collected dozens of bags
and fed them to his working bullocks.
The ballys not only ate them readily, but
thrived on them. Further, there was no
need to keep track of team days. With
the wind from their direction one knew
when the team was on its way even be-
fore Ned’s long-range language adver-
tised the fact,
* # *
“C.E.”: There was a flash of lightning,
and ten minutes later old Billy gaped at
the fire creeping rapidly down the ridge
behind the house. He rushed to the
’phone. “Fire?” drawled the voice
of offidaldom 40 miles away, “Fif-
teen beyond Seldom Seen?
Er —just a minute and I’ll tell you where
it is.” With one eye on the fire Billy
bellowed protests while the officer turned
pages and mumbled over maps. “Here
we are,” he announced at -last. “Bush
country—er—yes, it’ll be on Mount
Baldy.” “It’s on Lightning Ridge, I tell
y’,” roared Billy, “an’ well need men fast
as we c’n get ’em.” “H’m—yes. Can’t do
much damage in the Baldy section,”
mused the voice, “but I’ll—er —send a
gang out to take charge.” Three hours
later, Billy, with every available local,
was figllting madly to hold the fire when
a laden truck sped along the road. As
it disappeared round the bend another
appeared in the distance. “Fire gang,”
gasped someone. “Missed the place.
Stop ’em, Billy.” Billy jumped a nag,
spurred madly across country and pulled
up in the narrow roadway. There was
a squeak of brakes. “Whasamatter?”
shouted a voice. Billy gestulated towards
the ridge. “Well, we got no time t’ stop,”
came the reply. “We been sent out to a
big fire on Mount Baldy. Out o’ the way,
quick. Good gosh, man, d’ y’ want t’ get
burnt out?”
* * H= *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were up against
it. We hadn’t sighted a job or a bit of
silver for 100 miles, the track had been
well battled ahead of us, and the hand-
outs were scarcely enough to keep a
sparrow fat. “Well,” said Mat, “there’s
only one thing left: I’ll raise a deener
somewhere an’ wire me ol’ man for the
fare home. That ought t’ carry uS on f’r a
bit.” He got the deener from a sympa-
thetic publican, and, after much thought,
we concocted this message: “Prepare for
shock. Am coming home. Wire fare.
Mat.” We sent it, then hung round the
town waiting for the reply, seeing visions
of a happy future to burst upon us when
the money arrived. On the fourth visit
to the post office Mat was handed a tele-
gram. “What are y’ grinnin’ at?” he
asked the boy behind the counter. Then
he opened the wire and found out: “Pre-
pare for shock yourself. You’re not com-
ing home unless you walk.” Slowly and
thoughtfully we drifted down to . our
hungry camp.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Wilson, who runs a 400-acre
block out from Warrigal Crossing, was
a bushman who all his adult life had
nourished superstitions regarding the
moon. He would never leave saws ex-
posed to its rays, holding that they de-
stroyed the temper in the* steel. He
never felled a tree near the full of
the moon, being certain that if he
did the timber would quickly decay.
He would no more think of eat-
ing a yellowbelly caught during moon-
he would have tossed off a
prussic-acid cocktail. And when the
moon rode high he slept with a dark
blind drawn right down, for hadn’t he
heard of moon blindness among outdoor
sleepers who had turned their faces to the
burnt-out planet? And those who had
gone batty as a result of such reckless
disregard of this natural law were, he
knew, legion. Then Wilson was elected
a shire councillor. At the third meeting
he moved that shire council meetings be
held on the Tuesday nearest to the full
moon. “I know it goes against me grain,”
he said to his brother-councillors after
they, who knew his views on things
lunar, had recovered from their shocked
surprise, “but after tryin’ to get home
from the last two council meetin’s at 12
o’clock over the blasted roads we’ve got
around here I prefer a busted belief to
a busted neck! ”
* * * »
.“Plane Creek”: Mackay (N.Q.) is the
centre of a vast grasshopper invasion,
and after two months the pests show no
sign of leavjng. When they were operat-
ing on the cane farms outside the city it
didn’t matter, but the despairing wail
that went up from the townspeople when
pavements vanished under a browny-
yellow tide was some consolation to
harassed canegrowers who’d heard the
town-dwellers fervently hoping that the
’hoppers would remain on the farms.
Now the visitation is a horrible calamity.
Why, some people haVe lost their lawns,
the bowling green has been stripped of
grass and mosquito nets and window cur-
tains have been holed and eaten by house-
invading ’hoppers! The havoc in the
canefields is conveniently overlooked.
Well, farmers are born grumblers any-
way, and never take life philosophically
like the enlightened folk of the towns!
# * $ *
“Thistlebrook”: The recovery of
“Eley’s” cat without recourse to medicine
or surgery (B. 1/ 3 / ’44) calls to mind
the case of a neighbor’s recently-spayed
cow, heavily fly-struck. “She’ll be all
right,” was the reply to my warning that
the cow wouldn’t live unless treated im-
mediately. “The flies’ll clean her out,
you see.” A week later the wound had
healed and Strawberry was 'contentedly
going about her business.
* * * *
“Naturala”; When he asked why the
Tasmanian tiger has such an unwieldy
tail “Horseless Horseman” (B. 9/2/’44)
gives the explanation in the term “mar-
supial quadruped.” On continental Aus-
tralia most of the marsupials have over-
developed tails of considerable utility
among bipeds. However, had the abori-
ginal and the dingo been absent, so that
the kangaroo might have developed into
vaster numbers, thus bringing about a
struggle for food that would have forced
some types to become carnivorous, we
would have had marsupial quadrupeds
on the mainland. So the Tassie tiger
probably evolved. And it retains much
of the tail that once was so useful
to its ancestors, much as man still retains
his appendix. For Nature never discards
a limb or an organ, no matter how use-
less it may have become, until such limb
or organ becomes perilous to that species
in the never-ending struggle for exist-
ence. Had the tiger been brought into
competition with other sizable carnivores
its tail would either have altered or
passed out of existence. For in pursuit
or in flight or in combat such an encum-
brance would have been a handicap,
though any tiger with a smaller tail would
have stood a chance of survival.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: I was in a small hamlet in
the western Queensland black-soil country
when a party of four prospective brides
and ’grooms arrived from outlying
stations, only to find that the Bush
Brother was absent on a visit some 300
miles out. Abject disappointment was
relieved by the suggestion that the Clerk
of Petty Sessions do the honors, and when
it became known that the legal fees would
total £1 as against the 12 to 20 quid they
expected the legal tying to cost the
quartet of happy ’grooms decided to
recompense the official for his trouble
with a posh celebration at the pub. A good
time was had by all, and next morning a
bleary-eyed C.P.S. fined four *drunks-
and-disorderlies ten bob apiece. The
celebration quickly got under way again.
It was at this stage that the four
neglected brides shanghaied their beery
swains into the car to take them back to
mulga and marital cares.
POWDER
Old Powder was a stockman bold, black as
unshriven sin.
But worth his weight in solid gold to bring the
scrubbers in ;
The humor in his single eye was brilliant as a
spark, , -
For Powder lost the other eye “moonlightin’
in the dark.”
On a wild night of pounding hoofs and clash
of dew-drenched horn.
When danger was a joy to him and terror was
his scorn.
Old Powder brought the scrubbers in in head-
. long, furious chase
—And then the grey mare fouled a rock, a low
bough met his face.
Down to the ground and up again, the marc
unmastered yet,
Old Powder vaulted saddleward, his sore
wounds to forget;
And ’twixt the scrubbers and the scrub, right
at the shadows’ edge,
He drove the grey mare racing through as
splitter drives a wedge!
The baffled leaders swung away; hard in their
tracks his mates
Ran them toward the hidden wings and barred
the sliprail gates.
Such was the simple tale of life, the humor grim
and stark,
That lay behind old Powder’s jest, “moonlightin’
in the dark.”
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Cood morning. General —travelling incognito?”
“Tasma Jun.”: “I never realised the
gratitude there can be in animals,” said
Joe Sawyer, “until Mick, that big, grey
tomcat of mine, lost a front leg in a
rabbit-trap. When he came draggin’
himself in and lookin’ up at me pitiful-
like I cleaned up the stump ; then I set to
work and made him a wooden leg, a
bonser little thing with a round foot on
the end of it. Mick didn’t take long in
getting used to it, either. One night,
though. I’m lyin’ in bed with everythin’
quiet and I hear a dull sort ,of thud in
the next room. I hear it again a bit
later on, and then I goes to sleep. But
when I go out next mornin’, what do
you think I see? The old cat has six big
rats, as mutton, lined up on the
floor for me to look at, right alongside
a rat hole! When I examined ’em I
found they’d all got their scones stove in.
Then I wakes up to how he did it —
waited close by their hole, and as they
come out he donged them with his
wooden leg!”
* * * *
“Wacko”: “Y’ got to go north to see
reel lightnin’,” said “Barcoo” Bill. “One
time I’m cane-cuttin’ at Connawackeroo.
As it’s contract, I bach to get an early
start. I used to get up at daylight, be on
the job about six an’ cool off at midday.
One momin’ I hops out as usual, has
breakfast an’ was all set for work when
it suddenly goes dark. I can’t make it
out, so I lights the lamp an’ looks at
me watch. Gripes, it was only three
o’clock! It had me puzzled; so I tells
the other cutters. They just look at me
as if I’m a dope, an’ one of ’em says
“’Struth! Can’t you tell the difference
between lightnin’ an’ daylight yet?”
* * * *
“J.McD.”: I have never shaken a hoof
at a Rabbit Trappers’ Ball, but I attended
the Navvies’ Ball which Flaherty’s con-
struction gang held at Porcupine Creek.
Its success was jeopardised somewhat
when at the last minute the women
of the township refused to attend,
but “Claw-bar” Joe, self-appointed M.C.,
retrieved the situation with a suggestion
that the sprightlier navvies act as partners
for the evening. Thereafter the function
progressed smoothly until the potency
of the rum from McSquiggle’s sly-grog
joint became apparent. Anticipating
trouble, “Claw-bar” armed himself with,
a pick-handle, and swore in two deputies
to help maintain order. Trouble came
halfway through the mazurka when, loud
above the rasping of hobnails on hard-
wood, sounded the voice of “Boko” Bill s
partner. “Keep orf me toes!” “she” bel-
lowed ; “y’ dance like a broken-legged
emu.” Followed angry cries of “Shame! ”
as “Boko” landed a left hook on the
“lady’s” nose. Instantly a few of the
more chivalrous navvies rushed at
“Boko,” whose supporters as promptly
rallied to his defence. Followed by his
deputies, “Claw-bar” dived into the fray.
So energetically did he wield his pick-
handle that, when he paused for breath,
only he and the musician remained up-
right. As evidence of his complete im-
partiality, even the deputies were casual-
ties. Exchanging a glance of mutual
understanding, the two survivors stag-
gered from the hall and headed for Mc-
Squiggle’s.
* * * *
“Korongah”: Smithy, caught in the
police net for the first time when the pub
was raided after hours, was moaning
about the disgrace he’d be in when the
facts were made public. “Garn!” said
Dan the pest-splitter, who had six
“priors” for being on licensed premises
after hours. “You’ll be a nine-days’
wonder for a couple o’ weeks ; by that
time the war correspondents’ll have
trapped another milliqn Germans in Rus-
sia an’ then you’ll be forgotten.”
* « *
“B.”: East of Bourke (N.S.W.) where
winds are fierce and rainfall low, many a
man has found he couldn’t raise wilgas
or carobs from seed. They just wouldn’t
germinate. Maybe this is one of the
reasons why some of the State’s west has
remained so barren. Now a good Aus-
tralian method may help revolutionise
things. A bright lad noticed that seeds
made no fuss about sprouting from the
droppings of cattle. So he mixed the wilga
and carob-bean seeds in with the mash
and fed ’em to the semi-tame emus, col-
lected the droppings and planted them
in seedbeds. Losses were reduced to
the minimum. Wilgas sprang up and
carobs got busy germinating within three
days. Attuned to the climate, they’re *stil I
growing into sturdy Australians. This
record with the carob should make many
a tree-man green with envy. You don’t
often get them shooting out frail green
fingers under two weeks. So the last bit
of the old mystery as to why droppings
of birds into tree stumps was responsible
for sturdy trees miles away from main
woodlots of their species is now ex-
plained. Heat of the bird’s body, together
with the action of certain digestive juices,
not only aids germination but results in
healthier trees.
« * * *
“Okey”: “Worst fright 1 ever got,”
said Joe, “was when I started at Doolan’s
place on the Paroo. I’m crossin’ a pad-
dock when an old Jersey bull starts to-
wards me. I don’t take much notice
’cause I think he’s quiet. But as he keeps
cornin’ I gets a bit puzzled an’ stops to
watch what he’d do. He don’t change
his course, so I looks for a tree, but
there ain’t any an’ the fence is 300 yards
away. As I can’t run for it I decides to
stand still an’ take pot luck. It wasn’t
no picnic, either, watchin’ him close in
on me. He gradually edges up with a
kind of what-are-you-doin’-here &ir.
When he sfiJps he’s two feet in front of
me, an’ I can feel his hot breath on me
face. He screws me off for a jiff, then
starts to paw the ground, an’ just as I
begin to think it’s all up blow me if he
don’t walk up to me an’ start rubbin’
his hide on me shoulder, dead friendly
like. While he goes easy it ain’t too bad,
but when he puts the weight oh—well,
it’s either I move or go down. I de-
cides to move. As I shifts he flops down
in a heap, an’ I don’t mind tellin’ you
that before he had time to get up I’m
well an’ truly over that flamin’ fence.”
sfs T * *
“K.L.H.”: The pestilent kunai grass,
sometimes 9ft. high over large areas but
averaging about 6ft., is the source of
much of the disease in New Guinea. Be-
sides being infested with umpteen indi-
genous crawlies it harbors innumerable
rats. At night they munch everything, from
soap to the brim of a hat. If we are awake
beside a lighted lamp they wait and stare,
expectant and hideous. But we have
more than the usual reasons to curse
them. In the kunai they become blood
hosts for the mocca, and supply this
yellow mite with whatever he needs to
become infectious with the dread scrub
typhus. The kunai also hides mosquito-
breeding water from the most vigilant
anti-malarial squad.
* 4s 4s *
“Stultus”: I recall a much later sur-
vival of the Binghi fear of homed animals
than that mentioned by “Anthropo” (B.
23/2/’44). An enterprising Torres Strait
island white settler imported a cow, which
was tethered at the outskirts of the vil-
lage. Two bucks, during whose absence
“Since we can't catch flathead wot about 'aoin' a go for flounder?"
on Jap trochus luggers the cow had
arrived, returned to their home village
without learning of its presence. Serenely
confident in their own magnificence as
induced by the vermilion-hued lava-lavas
they had bought at Thursday Island, they
strutted as only a conceited island buck
can strut till they came to the village
clearing. For a shocked second they
remained immobile at the ghastly spec-
tacle, then with an awed “Dogai!” (devil)
they shed their magnificent loincloths and
bolted naked for the scrub. It was days
before they dared approach to survey
the expdctedly annihilated village, and it
w r as years before they lived down the jeers
of the villagers, whom they had planned
to owerawe with their own sophisti-
cation. *
* * * *
“Propalong”: To the man from the
mulga country there is something un-
speakabty mean about farming. Around
here the cockies scratch a living from
400- to 500-acre holdings. The conse-
quence is that every non-utilitarian vege-
table has been annihilated, and even the
very gibbers have been carted off the
smooth, pocket-handkerchief paddocks.
A couple of forsaken acacias by the road-
side, a few despondent gums on the very
brink of a creek, a thin clump of cold
and windy sugar-gums by a farmhouse,
and the rest is baldness. And, as if in
revenge, Nature has instituted a host of
pests we never knew in the bush:
toxaemia, fluke, foot-rot, worms and lice
all conspire to make life interesting for
those who can see in land nothing but
a dividend-producing machine.
* * * *
“Blime”: Those linesmen who left the
railway engine marooned on a few
lengths of rail had nothing on a bridge
builder in these East Gippsland parts. The
new construction was to span a river
gorge in bush country, most of the
timber to be obtained from surround-
ing gullies. Returning to the job after a
morning spent selecting logs, the boss
spotted a cross beam standing out a
couple of feet further than the others.
“Hey, Joe,” he yelled, “better saw that
middle log off level while we haul an-
other load.” Joe nodded, and grabbing
up a saw crawled out along the offend-
ing beam. Strenuously he labored at one
side, then shifting his position sawed
from the opposite angle. “Look out, you
silly cow,” I warned from the opposite
bank, “you’re doing it wrong.” The
workman waved his free arm contemptu-
ously as the cuts came rapidly together.
Presently there was a loud crack, and
still straddling the butt-end Joe dropped
the 20 feet into midstream.
* * * *
“Lob”: Did someone mention the
Darling pea? Listen. In the pinnacle
country on the fringe of the Pilliga Scrub
there were rabbits in millions and pea
bushes in about equal proportions. It
being difficult to get at those rabbits,
which preferred other fodder, the old
man netting-fenced the most thickly-
populated of the pinnacles, putting in a
couple of dozen funnels which led into
the enclosed hill. When his fence was
finished we kids were turned out to stam-
pede the rabbits. They went straight
through the funnels into the enclosure,
which had no water but lashings of Dar-
ling pea. After about a fortnight the
old man reckoned things should be about
right, so he invited all the neighbors to
a grand picnic and rabbit hunt. . After
lunch men and dogs set out for thf Great
Extermination Act. Dad posted the guns
in strategic positions round the fence,
and the dogs were sent in. Most of the
peas had been eaten downt, and I could
see thousands of rabbits moving from
rock to rock and keeping ahead of the
eager dogs as they worked uphill. Soon
it became evident that the top of the hill
wouldn’t hold the rabbits. They started
running round in circles, and hundreds
of them climbed trees. And then they
turned on the dogs, and the dogs, after a
horrified moment of indecision, turned and
ran. They tore down that pinnacle, thou-
sands of rabbits, foaming at the mouth
and stark staring mad, tearing after them,
Many of the smaller, weaker dogs were
pulled down, but a wave of kangaroo
dogs, kelpies, wall-eyed cattle-dogs and
assorted mongs poured over the fence
in a terrified wave, bowling over the guns
in all directions before they had time to
fire a shot in their own defence. By the
time the dust had settled, the rabbits had
returned behind the rocks. The old man
reckoned that if they could have
washed the pea down with a swig of
o.p. even the men in the Pillaga country
wouldn't be safe.
JOB WELL DONE.
’Way back in nineteen twenty-two
Meself an’ Otto Rees
We started on a drovin’ trip
With twice a thousan’ bees.
We mustered ’em one sunny morn
An’ counted through the race,
Then Otto turned the leaders north
An’ struck a steady pace.
The feed was good the first three weeks,
The box was all in flower;
We pushed ’em steady down the road
An’ spelled ’em every hour.
There was lueerne on the river flats
An’ wattle in between,
The workers, full o’ life an’ zest',
All dronin’ round the queen.
One night we camped ’em near the bridge
Hard by Avoca town —
By cripes, it’s tough, when drovin’ ’em,
T’ bed the buzzers down —
All was dark an" peaceful then
Around our restin’ bees,
When a scent o’ wild clematis bloom
Comes floatin’ on the breeze.
I’m night-guard when I catch that smell
An’, quick, I starts t’ croon,
Fearful, as I see ’em stir
Beneath the risin’ moon.
A youngster gives a nervous snort,
There comes a moment’s hush,
Next thing they’re up, their wings aquake,
An’ off the blankards rush.
I hear poor Otto’s sudden shriek,
But shriekin’ ain’t no use
When bees go rushin’, mad with lust,
F’r wil-d clematis juice. *
With starin’ eyes an’ beatin’ wings,
An’ foam upon their lips,
They charge an’ blunder through the bush
Like scrubbers under whips.
Next morn we found ’em feedin’ where
The starlike creepers blaze;
They was happy on the flowers, so
We let the beggars graze.
Me left eye it was in a sling,
An’ Otto wore a frown
Because he had t’ stand or lie,
Unable t’ sit down. #
We mustered ’em at dawn next day
An’ headed north again,
Close checkin’ by their earmarks as
They trotted o’er.the plain.
We kept two bee-dogs on the wings
An’ held the lead in hand,
Pushin ,; *along the ti-tree slopes
An’ steady on the sand.
We’d trouble down at Hattah Creek
With bogged ones, mostly drones.
Too flamin’ tired t’ lift their feet
When water lapped the stones.
An’ when we struck the desert stretch
The heat was at its height;
We got ’em through by camping days
And drivin’ hard at night.
An’ when we reached the Murray side
An’ camped at Robinvale,
The whole damn’ town they eyed our herd
An’ listened to our tale.
Then, when we had ’em counted in,
We two went on the spree,
For we’d droved that herd across the State
An’ never lost a bee.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
QUICKand DEADLY
KILL
RABBITS
CVanogaS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum or
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
AIL particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
pb
Box 4058, Melbourne.
Box 712 F, Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebus for the North.
“Molecule’': The C.S.I.R. asks beef-
breeders to face up to the fact that British
breeds are not suitable for the tropics and
should not be further persevered with as
pure breeds, and that zebus, being fitted
by Nature to stand up to high tempera-
tures, ticks, etc., should be systematically
crossed with existing herds so as to get
the desirable points of both.
Herefords, Shorthorns, etc., deteriorate
in the tropics for several reasons, chief
being their constitutional inability to
maintain body temperature at proper
level, owing to density of coat, tightness
of skin and the fact that they have lost
the faculty of sweating. Zebus are loose-
skinned and short-haired and sweat
freely ; they can and do graze in the open
in the hottest part of the day when
standard breeds seek shade.
Total numbers of crossbreds descended
from the 19 zebus imported by the
C.S.I.R. 10 years ago now run into some
thousands ; hundreds have been marketed
and the carcasses graded a much better
percentage of “firsts” than those of stand-
ard breeds from the same properties. As
a general rule, the zebu crosses were
marketable a year earlier than the other
breeds —even so, the carcasses were 501 b.
to 1501 b. heavier.
Pure zebus are completely immune
from ticks, and inoculation with virulent
tick-fever serum has little or no effect.
In the crossbreds, infestation is in direct
proportion to the amount of zebu blood
—half-breeds are seldom infested, whilst
animals with one-quarter to three-eighths
zebu blood, though sometimes “ticky,”
are seldom comparable in this respect
with standard breeds.
Chief objection to the zebu is intract-
ability, but there is much evidence that
it is more imaginary than real. True, the
zebu is a faster mover, and the cows
object to the manhandling of their calves.
But they respond quickly to intelligent
handling: Experienced stockmen are
emphatic that quarter-breds are little dif-
ferent from any other cattle, whilst half-
breds, properly handled, are little worse
than “lively;”
Just as the Australian merino has been
evolved from somewhat nondescript pro-
genitors, so can an Australian beef breed
be built up from the promising material
to hand. But a final warning by the
C.S.I.R. is emphasised; the zebu crosses
now in this country are all descended
from 19 importations, and the importa-
tion of further blood is a sine qua non
of further progress.
“Steely” Wool.
“Jumbuck”: Investigations by the
C.S.I.R. in S.A. during the past three
years suggest that it will disappear to a
big extent. Lack of crimp, or “steeli-
ness,” of the»fibres in a lot of S.A. wools
is due to sheep grazing on country defi-
cient in copper. The C.S.I.R. hopes to
restore crimp by providing the deficient
copper to sheep either by lick or in the
pastures.
Crimpiness, which is closely related to
character, is invariably an indication of
breeding, but the advent of “steely” wool
has. presented graziers with a new prob-
lem in copper-deficient districts. “Steely”
wool is appraised at least 2d. per pound
below similar types of wool showing nor-
mal crimp ; thus there’ll be a saving if
the experiments result in its eradication.
Indications are that results of supplying
the deficient copper will be far-reaching
throughout the Commonwealth.
In furtherance of the experiments 60
fleeces, half from merino and half from
crossbred sheep, have been selected and
are to be forwarded to the Torrington
laboratory, Leeds (Eng.), where research
will determine how the wool from sheep
given copper artificially reacts from a
manufacturing point of view.
Weeding Carrots.
“Karma”: The advice to “keep down
weeds” when growing carrots (B.
1/3/*44) is sound, but rather a tall order
“Still think' y're puttin' too much baking powder in them dampers , Ma."
except on virgin or old pasture land.
Power kerosene gives spectacular results
when applied to the young carrots be-
tween the second and fourth true-leaf
stage, killing most weeds outright and
leaving the carrots unaffected. If done
at the correct stage complete control of
the weeds may be achieved with the ope
application, and no hand-weeding is re-
quired, though inter-row cultivation is, of
course, necessary.
Knapsack or power; pumps may be
used, but a'special nozzle plate with a
very fine aperture is needed, as the kero,
is applied neat. A nozzle plate with a
.031 in. aperture and designed to throw a
flat, fan-shaped spray is best. From 30gal.
to 70gal. per acre will be needed, de-
pending on row spacing and density of
the weed.
Results are quick, and in very weedy
stands the carrot rows will show out
clearly about one hour after spraying.
One acre can easily be sprayed in a day
with a knapsack pump, whereas hanch
weeding would take weeks, and then only
do half as good a job. Apart from the
speed and economy of the spray method,
there is the decided advantage that the
rootlets are not disturbed as id hand-
weeding, and no setback occurs.
Growth after spraying is immediate and
rapid, and the crop soon gets far enough
ahead to become self-weeding by
smothering the small weeds which ger-
minate later. Excessive application of
kero, must be avoided, and carrots
should not be sprayed after four true or
“fern” leaves have developed, as there
is then a possibility of tainting the roots.
About 70 days at least should elapse after
spraying before the roots are harvested.
Whilst carrots have been the crop prin-
cipally concerned, evidence indicates that
the method may be used successfully on
closely-related crops like parsnip and
celery. Wash out pump and hose well
with warm soda solution after spraying,
as rubber hose and pump plungers soon
perish if neglected.
Try Sorghum.
“Sarina”: For silage-making the sor-
ghums come a close second to maize. The
stored forage must be sweet with sugars,
and Saccaline and Imphee are Queens-
land favorites for silage-making. They
are, naturally, very good for green feed,
but are short on protein, though well
provided with carbohydrates. The
Queensland practice is to have crops of
cowpeas handy for auxiliary feeding.
Legumes, including lucerne, contain
ample protein. Imphee and Saccaline are
excellent growers, averaging a dozen
feet high, the stalks being succulent and
sappy.
Sudan grass is good. Not as spec-
tacular as Imphee and its mate in height,
it’s the most active of growers, with
quick, sure ratooning qualities. Grow-
ing to a modest 6ft. (Bft. under excellent
conditions) it is not spoiled by summer
deluges on the coast. Soil doesn’t matter,
but the sorghums are invariably most at
home in nitrogen-rich soil. If the nitro-
gen comes from ploughed-in refuse or
animal manure all the better. They’re
also keen on phosphates, and a pre-seed-
ing dressing of super, puts the soil into
good shape for ’em.
Seed may be broadcast or drilled. Best
to drill in weedy land to enable the stand
to be cultivated until weed growth no
longer has a chance. If a slender-
stemmed hay crop is wanted sow Sudan
broadcast.
Nobody who keeps poultry or pigs
should neglect Kaffir corn and Seterita.
Their grain makes excellent feed for
stock, and the plants are as rich in carbo-
hydrates as any. Kaffir and Seterita are
tall growers, 10ft. to 12ft. high in light,
deep soil; comparatively new dwarf
varieties are Kalo, W. Milo and Brown
Yolo. Average height of these is 3ft.
They are tougher than maize and mature
quicker. The seed is very cheap.
Succession plantings of sorghums
through the sowing season mean the
finest winter feed. It seems hardly neces-
sary to add that feeding cattle on im-
mature sorghums may mean hydrocyanic
acid poisoning. There is no danger
when the sorghums are in flower or seed.
Sow in summer and autumn.
Swede Turnips,
“Enveen”: Maybe , swede turnips arc
not as good a bet as “Ager” (B. 2/2/’44)
seems to believe. If your ground is clean
enough to broadcast on and if the white
butterfly or blight or drought (anything'
less than 25in. is risky for this crop)
doesn't interfere you get somewhere. But
“Ager’s” 1400 sheep to 50 acres for three
weeks won’t make anybody rich.
With seed around 10s. for two pounds,
fertiliser about the same if you want a
good yield, another 10s. for ploughing
and cultivating, and another 10s. for
hoeing and thinning you’ve laid out £2
per acre without allowing anything for
land and fenfces. So your 50 acres cost
£lOO,- and for this sum you feed 1400
head for three weeks. It’s about 6d. a
head per week.
The other figures (2000 head on 70
acres for eight weeks and 720 head on
nine acres for five weeks) are better, but
serve only to show that the difficulty in
working out costs of growing sheep feed
is in arriving at the average carrying
capacity. Opinions differ on the carrying
capacity, for instance, of oats sown for
feed. It seems that on a fair crop you
can fatten two to three per acre in the
autumn and lamb two ewes in the spring.
This, of course, shows a profit; but that's
on one good year. I can’t find anybody
who has kept books on cropping for feed»
over a number of years, good, bad and
indifferent. The man who figures these
things out carefully is rare. It’s easy to
dismiss the cost of an acre of oats by
setting it down as 14s. for seed and ferti-
liser, but that’s like the chap who reckons
the cost of running his car is merely the
cost of the petrol.
Hints for the Farm.
“Green Ink”; Growers often brand
bales with their initials over the name of
the town. Neighbors do the
same, and you have several lots carrying
initials with a close resemblance and the
same town name underneath. The brand
gets smeared and dusty, often causing
much confusion and correspondence
with the owner if his wool gets mixed
with others. It is far better to# give the
homestead name, such as XY, Upson
Downs, Hay.
“Flock Ram”; When selecting a ram
go for a strong face with width between
the eyes, plenty of depth and good horn
development. Disqualify the ram that
has 100 many black spots on lips and
nose or too thick wool and an under-eye
fold. A jaw out of alignment is a bad
fault; so is an unsound mouth. The body
should have even conformation on both
sides and ample girth. A good ram will
show good neck growth and will not fall
away behind the shoulders. Inspect the
ram’s hooves ; they should be nt for use
on the type of country you are going to
run him.*
“Sheepo”: Paddock handling is un-
satisfactory, too many §truck sheep being
missed, whilst a lot of time is lost look-
ing for and in running down sheep. If
a yard is not available a temporary one
should be erected ; a netting brake on a
fence will serve the purpose. One in
every paddock will soon pay for itself
by the numbers - of sheep saved during
the blowfly season.
“L.C.”: Autumn trashing on banana
plantations reduces black end and an-
thracnose and stimulates sucker growth.
Where growth’s been slow and plants are
carrying their first bunches, a dressing
of l|lb. super, 11b. sulphate of Ammonia
and from jflb, to lib. muriate of potash
should be dug in around each stool.
Apply in March. Heavy fertilising of
old plantations doesn’t pay.
“Recco”: That wheat is a hardy plant
is proved by E. P. King, Caloma,
Narromine (N.S.W.), whose, 104 acres
stripped 5028 bushels, an average of 48)
bushels to the acre. Bencubbin was
sown in May with 601 b. of seed and 451 b.
of super, per acre, and from sowing to
harvest the total rainfall was only 438
points. The sample tested at 641 b. to the
bushel.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
In the announcements of the Pelman Institute so far no elaboration of the service it renders to Members of the
Forces has been made. Now, after four and a half years of war, we desire to emphasise what the Melbourne
Branch of the Pelman Institute has done, and is doing, for Members of the Forces. And so we publish the follow-
ing extracts of letters written recently. We could multiply them one hundredfold. The only special care ta en
in selecting the letters has been to show as clearly as possible the different beneficial effects that the Pelman
Course produces according to the pupil’s individual needs.
Many civilians will read these letters with interest.
September 15, 1943.
The main benefit is that the Course in the first place forced
me to think *out my major aim in life afresh; it has acted as an
incessant goad to greater efforts of observation and concentration v
it has given a useful technique for tackling problems; it has given
very many valuable little tips that lead to greater mental efficiency,
it has inspired the taking up of two new subjects which 1 previously
wished to understand but had not the enthusiasm to grapple with,
viz., maths, and radio. —FLIGHT-LIEUTENANT, R.A.A.F.
September 4, 1943'.
Undoubtedly, self-confidence is the benefit most noticeably
derived from Pelmanism. Other benefits of major importance are.
I have learnt how to use my time to the best' advantage; I can
now gather facts together and classify them into their correct
relations; I have learnt the value of controlhng feehng thought
and will; my memory is also much improved. — CORPORAL,
R.A.A.F.
September 6, 1943.
I have now been appointed to commissioned rank. This is a
great step towards my final aim. It will in my
proposed career. I thank Pelmanism again. LIEU FENANI.
August 25, 1943.
I find it easier to settle down to the less interesting tasks
and complete them without further procrastination. LIEU-
TENANT-COLONEL.
August 28, 1943.
I have clearer aims and purposes. My senses are quickened and
observation better. I have now systematic woiking hours, and
have eliminated bad habits. -Have formed regular sleeping hours.
Personality is developed; and .1 have.compdcd a serics of observa-
tion exercises for my profession.—LlEUTENAN 1, N.Z.b.P.i.t.
same full service is given to them with similar results.
, August 23, 1943.
Not only have 1 developed mental and physical ability through
this Course, but I am growing more confident in the knowledge
that 1 can do whatever I set out to do. I am also now studying
Mathematics and Soil Management through the A.E.S.—
SIGNALLER. A t _ tQA .
August 16, 1943.
As you can see by my address, I have been promoted to
Corporal and I can say that the Course contributed largely to my
first step of success—CORPORAL.
August 31, 1943.
practically all those tests mentioned in Lesson 8, Section
49 (a very illuminating section). The point is, directly anyone starts
conversing with me 1 subconsciously am working out right away
the question “What is he leading up to?” This helps me to be
able to converse more easily and be more readily able to combat
or treat criticism in the appropriate manner. —GUNNER.
These letters emphasise clearly'the value and import-
ance of the revisional service through which the
Student is in touch with the Institute from the
beginning of his training to the end and by means
of which very full consideration is given to the
particular circumstances and needs of each student.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market &.), Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” describ-
ing the Pelman Course are sent post free.
All correspondence is confidential. We
have no outside representatives.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
JVlelbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’’
Name
Address
163
as*
MTS
LYS
JS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m.
m - ■
*4 jd£
■ l ■!',
<f ««"
m
m
m
■■;-,!
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPEC
FY "LYS AGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Close-ups of Jap Fighters.
(Extracts from a “Collier’s” article by Ira
Wolfert.)
On Guadalcanal and New Georgia the
Japs made frontal assaults on our
machine-guns. It was very fancy stuff.
An officer would come up out of the
ground, wearing white gloves and carry-
ing a sword. Sometimes his boots would
be polished so brightly that they shone
even in the murky jungle. He was
dressed for a trip to heaven.
The officer would wave his sword and
advance, running. The little brown men
would go running after him, stooped over
and scurrying., like brown bush rats.
They’d all,be screaming: “Blood for the
Emperor!” “Banzai!” “Mawheeney
[Marines], you die!”
The little -bits of men bounce up and
down in rage ; they click their teeth in
rage ; they knock their grenades or knife
handles against their helmets in rage.
While they do that, our men are cutting
them down.
Never yet where 1 have been have the
Japs closed with the bayonet. They have
never come all the way over to our lines
on a bayonet attack, and have never
stood up to one of our bayonet attacks.
When we hold our ground, the Jap
bayonet attack breaks short. When we
push within bayonet range of the Japs
they stop making faces and screaming,
and they run away.
The New England boys with whom I
went into New Georgia last July were
up against a famous Jap regiment—the
229th. The 229th fought like tigers, but
I heard them squeal, too. They had
thought up something new in pillboxes.
They dug a deep pit at the bottom and
put a wide ledge around it. When our
men threw grenades or blocks of T.N.T.
into the pillboxes, the explosive dropped
into the pits and blew up there. It hurt
some of the Japs on the ledge, but not
all, and the rest kept on fighting. Clean-
ing out these pillboxes was slow work.
In the lulls, you could hear the Japs
whimpering in their pillboxes.
One of our men shouted down into
the hole, demanding a surrender. Only
whimpers answered him. Ironically, if
the .crybaby killers in the hole get some-
thing further to shoot at, crying or not,
they shoot.
At first meeting that’s a very puzzling
point about the Japs as killers. Terrified
as they are they don’t surrender. Our
soldiers are likely to ascribe the Jap’s fan-
tastic tenacity in a fight to religious
fanaticism. But our Intelligence officers
on the field are accumulating evidence
indicating that the Japs are not more
religious than we are. So it must be
something besides religion that makes
the Jap fight so fanatically. Our Intelli-
gence officers have concluded that it’s the
Japanese social system that does this—
a Fascist feudalism that compels with a
fear so great it can overcome the normal
instincts of self-preservation. On the
battlefield the Jap officer is the visible
evidence of the ruling force of that social
system.
The Jap sailor goes into battle without
a life preserver. He is not expected to
survive his ship. The Jap knows that if
he is disgraced in battle and yet manages
to survive, he cannot return to Japan as
long as he lives. On New Georgia I
asked a wounded Jap what the men’s
families thought of this. Up to then he
had been as cheerful as his wound would
permit.
All the cheerfulness went out of his
face when I asked, this question, and he
looked at me stolidly for a long time.
Then he lowered his eyes. “I don’t
know,” he said. “I never heard of any-
body coming back. 1 never heard of any-
body being taken prisoner.”
The point seems to be that the Jap
soldier still does not believe Japan can
Jose this war. So, when the Jap knows
he must die or surrender, his mind be-
comes a battleground between survival
and lifelong disgrace. Not many Japs
are strong enough in their minds to win
this terrible battle and come to a clear-
cut decision one way or the other. Some
of them kill themselves, but more of
them just lie quaking in their holes until
they are'killed.
All the Japanese prisoners I have met
paid lip service to a notion of theirs that
we mutilate prisoners and then execute
them. I don’t believe they are entirely
convinced about this, but they say they
are.
Many Japanese prisoners, when taken,
ask as a favor to be killed quickly. We
think they tell one another that Ameri-
cans kill prisoners only to keep them-
selves firm in battle. I have asked several
Japs where they got such a notion, and
they all said they did not know. They
said officers do not discuss what happens
to prisoners. The officers do not con-
cede that Japanese soldiers can be made
prisoners. So this idea is just something
the men think up to brace themselves.
The redoubtable Colonel Tchiki com-
manded the attack during which the Japs
tried to cross the Tenaru River on Guadal-
canal. They were slaughtered. Late in
the day when the colonel saw the attack
had failed, he gathered what was left of
his staff about him—two officers junior
to him and a warrant officer—and made
a bonfire of the regimental flag. The
men watched the fire consume the flag.
Then they lined up to commit suicide.
Each of the Japs donned fresh white
gloves. Each took out his' pistol.
The colonel, as the ranking officer
present, had the prerogative of ascending
to his eternal reward first. The others
followed in order of rank. When it came
to the warrant officer’s turn, he looked
around and saw there were no commis-
sioned officers left. He put his pistol
back into its holster and walked sensibly
into oifr lines.
Our men do not fight out of fear. They
fight, more than anything else, for self-
respect. They have been given a job to
do and they have too much self-respect
to shirk it or to take a licking from any-
body while doing it. When their officers
are killed, they keep on fighting. When
nobody’s looking, they’re still fighting.
Whatever happens in this war, they _ will
still fight. Defeat in a battle or in a
series of battles does not injure the self-
respect of our men.
It is plain that the Jap, on the other
hand, needs a sense of victory very much.
When he loses it, he is just another fright-
ened Son of Nippon.
Polish Government Make-up.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
In discussions of the Polish border
problem the accusation frequently crops
up that the present Government-in-exile,
with headquarters in London, is “reac-
tionary,” or unrepresentative, or lacking
in real authority.
It is true that the Government of
Premier Stanislaw Mikolajczyk cannot
claim to derive its powers directly from
the people of Poland, but it is probably


“It was a
good day for us
when we bought
Felt ex
\\
k
7
•V
. . . now We’re free to buy
Commonwealth Warßonds’
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of FELTEX Floor Coverings
F. 1.30.16
hJ\
fl'l
M
m
cs
I
■
M
w
m
r \m
: /M
I/;
i -
i
%
VfRNON
LORiMER
4
m
WITH WHICH
WE SERVE...
Every penny saved is a direct contribution to the
war effort.
We do help the war effort if we place our money in a
Savings Bank account, or if we buy 5/- National Sav-
ings Stamps, thus avoiding unnecessary spending.
One page of a National Savings Stamp book will
contain enough stamps (£2) for use as a deposit or
instalment on a War Bond, while the full book will
purchase a £lO Bond outright. Single pages of
stamps (£2) will be accepted as a deposit to a Sav-
ings Bank account if required.
Get your free book and purchase your 5/- National
Savings Stamps from any Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office and put your savings on service to
speed the victory.
commonuiEOLTH
* SflUinCS BOOK ®
OF AUSTRALIA
C. 8.8
as close to being representative of them
as it is possible for a Government-in-
exile to be under war-time conditions.
It is a coalition Government in which
all the major Polish political parties are
represented and in which representatives
of the Socialists and Peasants, who com-
prise more than 80 p.c. of the popula-
tion, hold a majority. Moreover, it main-
tains close and regular contact with the
leaders of the underground resistance to
the Nazi forces of occupation.
There are three political groups outside
the Government. One of these is the
“Sanacja,” which consists largely of the
followers of the discredited pre-war
regime of Colonel Beck. Another is the
National Revolutionary group, which is
tinged with Fascist ideas. The third
group is the Communist .minority, eager
to use the present crisis for its own pur-
poses.
Russia Likes Gold.
(“Wall-street Journal” comment.)
Highly interesting are the remarks of
the Soviet journal “War and the Work-
ing Class” concerning—of all things!—
gold. It opines that “if Soviet trade with
other countries could be conducted in
gold currency, undoubtedly this circum-
stance would facilitate trade operations.”
Coming whence it does come, at the
time that it comes, it seems to carry im-
plications of a somewhat far-reaching
character concerning the general policj
of Soviet Russia towards other nations
in Europe and the rest of the world.
T . . r
It suggests that this policy is far re-
moved from that of promoting the world
stable* and”pro”permit world
trad?freehand
it for what it needs in the building up_of
Russ a’s SSo J 8 m eXChange for
T , p oducts *
ln short it smells far more of Peter
rea , of Marx or Lenin, and
adds another to the many indications that
Marshal Stalin is little troubled with
ideologies and is very much concerned
with what we commonly call realities.
That Soviet Russia chooses this time to
declare its faith in gold when we and
other nations are toying with elaborate
blueprints of “bancor” and “unitas” cur-
rencies has somehow the effect on the
imagination of opening a window of an
overheated room and letting in some fresh
air. It lends support to the growing belief
that the Russian leadership’s economic
plans for the development of the country
contain no threat to the world’s economic
order, and that, while Russia’s internal
economy may take a form different from
that of other countries in many respects,
in its foreign relations this order will
dovetail smoothly into other orders.
Decline of Hitler.
(From a London “Contemporary Review”
article by George Glasgow .) .
It has long been known, inside Ger-
many and outside, that Hitler has ceased
to count as a directing force. What is
not yet known, and cannot yet be intelli-
gently guessed, is why Hitler is still main-
tained as a sort of figurehead or mouth-
piece of what others now decide ; nor
who exactly those others are.
In his latest broadcast statement Hitler
seemed to make no attempt to conceal
the fact that he had become a sort of
quisling or puppet, doing what he was
ordered to do by his masters. He read
his script in an unintelligent manner, as
if he did not even understand what he
read, racing through it in a colorless
voice, fumbling over pronunciation and
misplacing emphasis. To a people who
for some ten years had been accustomed
to Hitler’s impassioned oratory, the new
experience must have come as a shock
had it not been that most people in Ger-
many were already aware of Hitler’s fall
from power.
But why did Hitler allow himself to
be exposed in such a way; and why did
the successors to Hitler in power think
it expedient to any of their own designs
thus to make Hitler publicly ridiculous?
There seems to be little doubt at the
present time that Hitler is being deli-
berately made to look ridiculous; per-
haps in order that the remaining roots of
Hitler-worship shall be torn up before
the Putsch (whatever it may be) is
launched.
For instance, it is hard to escape the
impression that a pantomime with a
purpose is being played when Hitler
and Mussolini are presented as twin
puppets to bemuse the German people.
Why did the High Command think
it worth while to capture Musso-
lini, if not because they wanted to
bracket him with Hitler before the Ger-
man people? Both of them- were brought
to the microphone in -farcical circum-
stances, and they were represented as
personal friends as well as the old-time
twin dictators: one of whom had already
fallen, and the other . . . ?
But whose are these new minds thus
bent upon making Hitler ridiculous as
the prelude (one must suppose) to their
own bid for open power? The evidence
so far available suggests that the battle
is on between the generals on the one
side and the non-Hitler party leaders
on the other, the generals placing
their hope in the patriotism of the
German people and the Nazi leaders
relying upon the party ideologies
which have taken firm root in so many
German minds, especially among the
young.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The original State Department policy of per-
mitting the peoples of liberated countries to
decide their own future after the enemy has
been expelled seems to make more sense than
ever. Of course, if occupying forces or political
groups in temporary ascendancy are allowed, aS
Tito is now doing, to carry out bloody purges
in advance to assure the “proper” outcome in
any plebiscites the whole procedure will become
a mockery. To prevent the “fixing” of plebi-
scites through preliminary terror is perhaps
the greatest single political task facing the vic-
torious Allies. Americans, far from the scene
and inundated by pro-Tito propaganda, should
not be too hasty in discounting the Serbs, their
Chetniks and the Chetnik leaders —those, that
is, who have consistently fought by our side
and co-ordinated their policies with the larger
policies of the Allies—in favor of Tito’s hand-
tooled “Provisional Government.” — Leon Den-
nen; “American Mercury.”
, * * * *
Trade-union disputes in British industries
were more numerous last year than in any
previous year since the outbreak of war, in-
volving the loss of 1,810,000 working days
against 1,530,000 the previous year. Most wofk
stoppages involved only small numbers of
workers, however. There was no one dispute
of outstanding importance, and the hours lost
were equivalent to only a small fraction of one
working day per wage-earner. Nearly one-half
of the disputes occurred in coalmining.' Com-
pared with the fourth year of the last war, when
5,900,000 working days were lost, this war is
making a creditable showing. This is especially
true in view of the greater strains involved in
working long hours under bombings and black-
outs with drastic restrictions on holidays and
travel, coupled with severe rationing—all likely
to cause cumulative irritability.— London corre-
spondent “Wall-street Journal:”
* * Jjs %
Stories from Sweden picturing desperate con-
ditions and low morale in Germany are being
taken with a grain of salt in informed quarters
here in Washington, where it is pointed out that
stones from Sweden relayed to Germany picture
almost equally bad conditions of morale in
the United States and Great Britain.— “ United
States News.”
* * * «
Whenever 1 hear civilian strategists discuss
the war, whether they are on the air, writing
for newspapers or talking around the table
after dinner, I involuntarily wince. I suppose
this is because, as an ambulance driver in
North Africa, I was constantly trying to comfort
those men over whose mangled bodies victory
was won. Public fanfare over a current success
rouses in me the guilty realisation that the men
who did the fighting are hunched, chin on chest,
beside their foxholes, unenthusiastically opening
a tin of cold rations, scratching at* their flea-
bites, waiting for the night bombers to begin
their attack, and thinking only of tomorrow’s
battles. Blatant optimism makes, me shudder,
because I have seen tired fighting men throw
down a magazine in disgust or turn off a radio
in embarrassment. Premature applause turns
their stomachs.— Edgar L. Jones, returned U.S.
service man, in the “Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
Diplomats say privately that the recent Rus-
sian attack upon the Vatican represented the
opening gun in what will be a duel between
Stalin and the Vatican to influence peace settle-
ments in many of Europe’s countries. The Rus-
sian move is to try to tie the church to dis-
credited and soon-to-be-defeated Fascist re-
gimes.—'“United States News.”
* * * *
Some part of the “cost of war” represents
actual and irremediable destruction —ships sunk,
factories and dwelling houses annihilated, rail-
ways torn up. Some part, such as the military
airplanes which are built instead of the automo-
biles which would otherwise have beep pro-
duced, represents a definite substitution of
socially useless for socially useful expenditure.
But by far the greater part of the “cost” is
not really a cost at all; it represents new values
evoked by the war itself—food which would
not otherwise have been grown, iron which
would not otherwise have been torn from the
earth, industrial plant which would not have
been built, productive energies which would
not have been mobilised. This is not a de-
struction but a creation of wealth. Peoples
have been richer, not poorer, after wars. They
would have been a whole lot more rich if all
the war energies had gone into peace-time pro-
duction ; but, since that does not happen, the
one real problem is to conserve the maximum
of the war-created values in order to apply
them to the arts of peace. Because of the war,
we shall never be as rich as we might have
been. But with some wisdom we shall still be
richer than we otherwise would have been. —
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’ 1 ’


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO CYRIL LONdr late of Midgel Flats, 338 Bondi
Road Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE that JOHN CARTER
NOONAN has filed a Petition for Divorce Number
117 of 1944 alleging that you the said CYRIL
LONG have been guilty of adultery with the Respon-
dent MARSINA FIELD NOONAN between the
Twenty-second day of July and the Fifth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and forty-three at
Midgel Flats 338 Bondi Road Bondi and during the
months of September and October 1943 at Balgowlah
Road Balgowlah. If you desire to defend the suit
you must enter an appearance by the Eighth day
of May One thousand nine, hundred and forty-four
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from JOHN CHARLES PAYNTER Solicitor of St.
James Buildings 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney New
South Wales. DATED this tenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-four.— (l.s.) C. K.
BOYD, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, ANDREA GERARDIS, of Italian nationality,
born at Oppido, Reggio Calabria, and resident six
vears in Australia, now residing at 415 Crown Street,
Surry Hills, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
1, RUDOLPH JOSEPH KOLBE, soldier in the A.M.F.,
S’tateless, born at Vienna, Austria, and resident four
years eight months in Australia, now residing at
“Gungartan,” Tara Avenue, Albury, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
“FOOD IS A WEAPON..
a most powerful weapon”
m
“The way we manage pur food supply will have a lot to do
with how soon we win this war. Food is a weapon a most
powerful weapon. And the food we consume here at home
is just as much a material of war as the food we send abroad
to our soldiers and our fighting allies, says Claude R •
Wickard, U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
We, in Australia are facing food problems
similar to those of America, and can meet them
in the same way if we use our initiative.
“Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors, hauling the very latest in farm machin-
ery, can till the soil, sow, and harvest in record time, working a 24-hour
schedule where necessary to keep faith on the food front.
The safe “Caterpillar” Track-type tread means that work can proceed
whether the going is wet or dry. While other equipment is waiting
for paddocks to dry “Caterpillar” is earning its keep. And, on big
scale operations, there is no comparison with “Caterpillar tuei
economy or low maintenance cost.
“ Caterpillar ” pulling six row lettuce cultivator
on an 1800 acre lettuce farm in California,
' w $ |»1
>V Ji* JH
iiiiwil
■H
par
&■■■&£»-* ....
i
MW
» ■ *■_ ~ - n 'P/&S&L
BP*
, ype ~ACTORS W '‘“ ewSorffcW escn<lQ““"^i M , TE o
Distributors o _ pIJfIOW nP dah. 'Phone —^
waugh & JO*SSmi. s^;Ss s Gr® w. m;. r- Tw ' e '
hJStTtj Sfe"? ass* «xj
•sr* h m«
equate* C nu {h Brisoa"*- - c
i
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HU! SPECIALLY TO
PRETEST SERE THROATS
A
Carreras Ltd.— ls 4 Years’ Refutation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
50 6 6 &
* L J.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy H. G. Wells’s Short History of the
World and Outline of History. —343s.
To buy G. A. Brown’s Sheep Breeding
(Bruni), published in 1880. —3436.
To buy India paper edition of My Utmost
for His Highest, by Oswald Chambers. —3437.
Middle-aged lady wants to spend 17th to
30th April on station where there are abo-
rigines. Can pay board or teach typing and
sewing.—3439.
Information Sought.
' Names and dates of publication of “Banjo”
Paterson f s prose books ?
Australia for the Australians (a political
pamphlet), Sydney, 1889; Three Elephant
Power, and Other Stories, Sydney, Angus and
Robertson, 1917; The Shearer’s Colt, Sydney,
Angus and Robertson, 1936.
How many persons are employed in (a) rail-
way work and (b) coalmines in each State
of the Commonwealth ?
Railways, including construction (in thou-
sands): N.S.W., 46.7; Vic., 30.5; Q’land,
23.2; S.A., 15.6; W.A., 9.4; Tas., 3.1; N.T.,
0.5; total, 129. Coalmines (in thousands):
N.S.W., 17.8; Vic., 1.4; Q’land, 3; S.A., nil;
W.A., 1; Tas., 0.3; total, 23.5.
If I bought a property at present leased to
another man, what would be my position in
regard to improvements erected by the lessee
and not mentioned in the lease?
At expiration of the lease the lessee could
remove all improvements erected by him except
such as are fixtures.
Any information on the origin of the Basque
race and language?
Origin of race is uncertain; they have been
termed Iberians, connected with a fair-skinned
African people, or with the remnants of a tribe
who escaped from a now lost American land.
However, they mainly resemble Mediterraneans
in type. Their language has no certain affinities
with any other tongue. It has been suggested
that it is a survival of that of the Cro-Magnon
peoples.
Information on success of winter tomato
culture in Victoria?
In S. Victoria the high cost of production
in artificially heated houses did not permit
competition from other States, and those pro-
duced in July, with little competition, were in
poor demand. In N. Victoria, unheated houses
are increasing owing to low upkeep costs, and
tomatoes are marketed from them commencing
in September. A book dealing with the subject
{Tomato Culture HT Victoria) is obtainable from
the Victorian Department of Agriculture, Is.
Who had the longer reach, Jack Johnson or
Tommy Burns?
Burns had the longer, Johnson’s being 72|in.,
Burns’s 73^in..
Brief Answers.
H.L.: “Please Take Care of Little May” was
sung in “The Orchid” at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney, in 1906 R.D.8.: Electric light avail-
able only in certain parts. (2) Pig-breeding is
permitted. For further information write to the
secretary of the Bargo Progress Association.
F.F.: “Australasian,” 365 Elizabeth-
sheet, Melbourne; “Australian Journal,” 350
Swan-street, Melbourne... .H.S.; G. B. Shaw
was musical critic to London “Star” and
“World” A.8.H.: Tank holds approximately
155 quart's H.P.McI.: Exchange could not
be avoided P.M.: The Bulletin did review
The Moon Is Down A. 8.: Depends on how
the skins have been treated... .8.M.J.: An
official Russian force equipped by the Soviet
Government was engaged, in the Spanish Civil
War.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.B. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should he addressed to
the Editor.
D.G.: You’d never have used “heather” if
you hadn’t wanted a rhyme for “together”
V.T.V.: Much closer A.K.W.; “O ye girls,
if ye knew Australia, the land of the kangaroo,
Ye’d love to come to Australia where the skies
are always blue.” Oye gods! L.O S.. Yo ~
a long way to go L.E.L.: Found little
admire except the courage which could rhyn
“sponsors” with “monsters P.OS.: Keau
a lot more !md write a lot before you look foi
a market W.G.: Meandering.. . .D. 0.: No-
thing that hasn’t been better said betore....
A.V.M.: Item reproving your critics would
have been more telling if you hadn t rhymed
“verse” with “worst”... .J.M.P. : The couplet
“Was something rent asunder, Did a mammoth
mammal blow?” has the charm of the very very
bad M.W.: You credit the willows with an
impossible perspicacity B.O’B.; Prosy....
D.L.8.: Album verse S.C.: They have their
moments, but the form’s elementary DH.t
String of rhetorical questions... .E.K..P.: Not
a hope J.E.D.: Try elsewhere B.B.:
Does nothing to refresh a worn theme
L.R.8.: A glimmer of originality in a conven-
tional setting W.A.8.: Sheep nearly strayed
in A.E.; “Tho’, boundless sea, Pacific be
thy name.” O bounded bard, such stuff is trite
and tame.


WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
/-MY FAMILY ?-n.
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges
are fixed and moderate. Con-
sult your solicitor or write for
Free Booklet.
§
8
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLONS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.:
G. S, Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes,
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
m
W Hi
‘i t H i
«
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp banene ,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, eve ““*. 8
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and access
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD,, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Ue- Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 284,448 6 p.c. = 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,600 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6„ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 268,371 7,454 45,373
1938.. 281,553 6 „ „ 269,846 11,707 57,080
1939.. 232.825 6 „ „ 287,629 1,776
1940.. 218,774 44 „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4" „ „ 194,400 7,700 9,550
1942.. 195,970 4 „ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 4i „ „ 218,700 5,623 16,743
* Balance date changed ; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
Shabby treatment, following Government
control, has been the experience of this
big public-utility undertaking—fifth big-
gest thing of its kind in the Empire. The
industry was placed under control of a
commission by the N.S.W. Gas Act of
1932. According to the Act, the idea
was to regulate the selling price of gas,
so as to bring down the standard rate
of div. from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c. That after
allowing not more than 3 p.c. of capital
outlay on buildings and plant for special
purposes and depreciation. If the 3 p.c.
proves inadequate for the purpose, both
the public and shareholders will suffer in
the long run.
Rising costs, beyond management con-
trol, forced the div. back to 4 p.c. So,
in accord with the spirit and letter of
the Act, the co. asked for a lift in the
selling price of gas,-and the commission
agreed. But Cabipet refused to grant
the request —that was at the end of 1939
—and has since turned a deaf ear to re-
newed appeals, and maintained a silent
tongue as well. So the co. turned to
the Federal Prices Commissioner, asking
that the industry be “declared,” and that
the selling price of gas be raised or sub-
sidy granted. The commissioner replied
he was unable to act without authority
of the State Government.
Other industries, paying more than 4|
p.c., were allowed to lift selling prices
to offset cost rises outside management
control. The Queensland Government
considers 2 p.c. above the return from
long-dated Government securities a fair
thing for electric-supply undertakings to
pay. Long-dated paper in last Federal
loan was issued at 3i p.c. A.G.L.’s de-
benture capital (£2,500,000), which stands
in front of shareholders, is costing the co.
from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., average £4 6s. 6d.
p.c, Its £6-paid shares fetch £5 15s.
Capital will be needed for further
expansion of this gas undertaking after
the war. Since-new scrip cannot be issued
at a premium, appearances are that
the co. will have to borrow on debenture
or otherwise. Thus the Government is
undermining the interests of shareholders
by failing to grant the business the little
relief it deserves. What Government needs
to realise is that social-minded activity
should not be pursued regardless of eco-
nomic cost, any more than profit-minded
enterprise should be to become
anti-social. ■ V
Expanding industrial and domestic
demand brought a 10 p.c. increase in gas
sales last year. Shortage of labor and
materials hampered extension of produc-
tion plant, and the co. was forced to buy
gas from the North Shore undertaking.
Extension of No. 6 retort and erection
of a benzol plant are to be pushed ahead
as soon as circumstances and Govern-
ment permit. Coal has been a problem,
of course. Stock has shrunk to 22,000
tons —about 20 days’ supply—compared
with 116,800 tons three years back. Pur-
chase of methane gas from Natural Gas
and Oil Corp. will be reconsidered when
work required has been carried. out by
the Gorp.
Here is an analysis of the co.’s revenue
and expenditure figures:
f 1942 r- ——1943
Per 1000 Per 1000
Sales:— units. . , units.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Gas . . 2,3(87,504 35 9 2,610,341 35 81
Residuals . . 272,701 4 11 326,800 4 &§
Meter rents,
etc. .. 38,686 7 41,621 6f
Totdl* £2,078,891 40 5i £2,978,762 40 81
Manufac. and
dis. exes.. .1,575,270 23 9 1,776,957 24 31
Other
charges . . 517,602 7 91 588,672 8 Of
Interest .1 124,080 1 104 .121,480 1 8'
Depreciation,
etc. ~ 265,973 4 0 267,331 3 71-
Total .
outgo £2,482,925 37 5 £2,754,440 37 7i
Bigger demand explains the growth of
£299,871 in revenue. Increased coal and
labor costs were mainly responsible for the
lift in exes. The net result (up £28,353)
was 4.6 p.c. on the £4,860,000 of share
capital. That was after taking into ac-
count £57,697 of unread gas sales to
offset extension of intervals between
meter readings, thus bringing into the
period a full year’s gas sales. Half a
point was added to the div., making it
4i p.c.
When the books closed, there was
£675,412 coming to outsiders. Cash and
debtors’ balances totalled £980,344, stocks
£246,989, leasehold, plant and mains, etc.,
£7,518,412, freehold £172,625.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 1
Staff bonus, £1720 . . 1 2400 11,13 u
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c. = 6,300 1 „„„
Staff bonus, £1559 .. J IUUU 1 - J,ldo
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 | 3076 l r >20(!
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. f
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 15,3 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 1
Staff bonus, £lO2l .. | 15,3j9
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c. = 7,350 f ' . . ...
Staff bonus, £3OOO . . J 14,026
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .. 15,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. = 2,625 12,993
Unexplained redaction, £5OO .. 12,493
Profit. ,
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. t= 3,150 332 12,825
This 00. operates in the* now regulation-
frozen real-estate market. And here is
what has happened to Sydney’s property
sales since the mid-1920’s boom:
'City. Suburbs. City. Suburbs.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
1926.. £7,000 £3,750 | 1938.. £1,185 £5,083
1928.. 2,750 4,816 1939.. 575 4,925
1931.. 364 484 1940... 326 6,176
1933.. 78-6 794 1941.. 1,739 6,509
1930.. 1,238 2,339 1912.. 187 1.933
1936.. 1,174 2,994 1943.. 422 2,294
1937.. 887 4,368
The 1941 figures were inflated by wind-
fall city deals aggregating £1,400,000-odd,
handled by R. and W. The improvement
last year is i effected in a growth of
£3697 in the co.’s gross earnings
(£22,812). The net result, which benefited
by all but £132 of the increase, Was
6.6 p.c. on capital as against a loss of 17.1,
10.9, 11.2, 21.6 and 16.8 p.c. back to
1937. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained reduction of £5OO in
reserves. The div. was lifted from 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c.
Interest now centres mainly in what
the fufure of real estate will be. Present
rigid controls, aimed at strangling specu-
lation and canalising available funds into
war loans, have produced inequities call-
ing for immediate remedy, as well as a
situation that will call for remedial
Government action when the war is over.
The condition that a purchaser must
buy Government bonds to a specified
proportion of the purchase price virtually
amounts to a compulsory loan not im-
posed upon other people. The almost
complete stoppage of property sales that
has resulted operates harshly against
needy beneficiaries and others. What
makes the bond-purchase condition diffi-
cult to understand is that all such trans-
actions must receive Treasury sanction
before completion. If more is needed to
check speculation the public is entitled to
know why.
The shortage of homes is now so ficute
that some measure of post-war Govern-
ment financial assistance will be neces-
sary for satisfactory solution of the prob-
lem. R. and W.’s chairman, Ei Telford
Simpson, sees rocks ahead:
If any restrictions are maintained on the
sale of land, and the Government goes in
as a purchaser, the vendor is definitely
placed in a bad position, because the Gov-
ernment resumes the land it wants, it does
not negotiate, and then will only pay the
vendor the value he could have got for
the land in the restricted market.
History of the N.S.W. Government
housing scheme at Daceyville raises
further fears. Here buyers signed pur-
chase contracts before the houses were
built. The places cost more than was
reckoned, and buyers had to meet the
increase, because the contract protected
the Government. When the unfortunate
purchasers sought redress, the answer was
a lift in the estimated value of the proper-
ties for rating purposes made by the
Government Valuer-General. It is a sorry
advertisement for Government planning
and control, which should end with
policy and the policing of it, leaving exe-
cution and the details associated with it
to those trained in the business.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances:
1939. 1911. 1912: 1913.
Capital .. . . £52,500 £62,500£52,500 £52,500
Liabilities. . . . 10,720 27,911 16,396 28,862
, Advances . . . . 27,861 21,130 23,411 22,822
Shares in other cos. - 2,966 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc 19,221 69,268 53,718 61,047
Commission,
suspense, etc. . . 2,869 9,660 3,369 4,984
Sundry debtors . . 4,388 4,242 4,156 5,246
When the books closed, cash, etc.,
alone more than twice covered outside
liabilities. The year’s growth of £12,466
in the debt was in respect of deposits on
sales, etc.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
* To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1933.. 26,575 7 p.c. ;= 24,796 1,779 68^048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ ~ 33,300 6,182 80.490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ ~37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c. - 39,178 8,512 104.642
1938. . 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £30,429 .. 82,088
1939. . 59,891 12j p.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
1940.. 56,173 12 „ ~ 48,000 8,173 100,152
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
1941.. 55,348* 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ ~48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ ~40,000 14,552 159,283
Emphasis in our war economy has now
shifted from production of war equip-
ment to food production. And this co.’s
brace of efficient factories in Victoria,
another pair in N.S.W., a fifth in South
Australia and a sixth in Tasmania, all
turning out high-grade canned fruits,
jams, condiments and other tinned foods,
are hard pressed to keep abreast of de-
mands placed upon theiff.
The profitable export trade the
management had built up with southern
and eastern Asia was cut off by the Jap
invasion. But demand from our own
and Allied forces and British require-
ments soon called for severe curtailment
of both volume and variety of local
civilian packs. A year ago 80 p.c. of the
co.’s output was on Government account,
and more has been asked for from the
same source since, with consequent
further curtailment of distribution
through ordinary trade channels. Short-
age of labor, particularly female, has
complicated management problems. Also,
the co.’s executives and an army of clerks
are busy collecting data, filling in statisti-
cal forms and making requests for com-
modities and services in the prescribed
manner to - appropriate departments and
boards.
Altogether, overlapping bureaucratic
control has brought confusion and
waste where none existed previously.
Still, under war conditions, special im-
port, shipping, production, distribution
and other problems are there; and the
Government must deal with them. The
exasperating feature is that Government
control has hindered the development of
maximum production and increased costs,
thus putting a break on industrial effi-
ciency and all that goes with it, including
an increasing standard of living. Further-
more, bureaucratic interpretation of
policy in some cases has been not only
negative but punitive. It is the wrong
approach to progress economic or
social.
Though visibly gross earnings (£230,474)
fell away £96,544 last term, there was an
obliging contraction of £98,678 in £ xes.
(£175,678), which suggests alteration in
the detailed structure of the published
accounts. The net result was £832 better
at 13.6 p.c. on capital as against 13.4,
13.9, 14.1, 14.2, 12.9 and 12.1 p.c. back
to 1937; The cautious management


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and, Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
» * ♦ ♦
IDEAS.—Owners of patents or smart ideas, useful
in the Indoor Game, Toy, Novelties, Building or
Plastic Industries, please write Box 38G4T, G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
♦ ♦ * ♦
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There Is no better way of p\ widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C,
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M, 0. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2 R), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
fg
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
AU STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
Built «nn>«ly In Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ' ~
BRANDAUER3
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAXSXVBB * 00, IMU BIXMDtOHAU. ENO
'far
w# 1
■z.'w
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. _ Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd..
Sydney.
CUA **
HAIR RESTORER
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY,
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend of
Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Friday, the
21st day of April, 1944.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will
close at 5.30 p.m. on Friday, the 24th day of
March, 1944, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Monday,
the 27th day of March, 1944, and shareholders
registered on Saturday, the 25th day of March,
1944, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Registered Office; 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, 14th March, 1944.
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
irl
'a/**
>
©
Leather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Be a rings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY . 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
aiivayspbadet
STATE EXPRESS
Ke-
lt's, your fight your money is
needed now. Buy War
Savings Certificates
V and 5/~ National >
Stamp
2a9D-11.4*
chipped a couple of points off the div.,
reducing it to 10 p.c.
Government contracts dominate bal-
ance-sheet movements:
, Consolidated
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital .. £400,009 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 49,678 +177,266 +161,385 +241,164
Property \ 191 f 186,305 186,946 186,733
Plant, etc. j 1 \ 54,421 50,289 47,032
Stock.. .. 286,925 364,59'4 244,642 485,487
Debtors .. 89,384 84,346 109,053 90,470
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,767 44,150 132,725 234
* Including goodwill, etc. f Including tax reserve.
To carry an extra £240,825 of stocks and
reduce the amount coming to trade
creditors (£113,878) by £47,507, the co.
had gone to its bankers for £127,286 and
drawn upon cash, etc., for £132,491 when
the books closed. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£335,027) was £9992.
As for post-war prospects, the co. is
well-equipped to take advantage of what-
ever opportunities offer. The Government
might assist by providing export credit
facilities, especially in connection with
Asiatic trade—financial considerations
are likely to force China, Thailand and
others to buy on best-credit rather than
best-price basis.
King Island Scheelitt.
War-time demand for tungsten, the
steel-toughening and aluminium-harden-
ing agent, has enhanced prospects for
this co.’s King Island property. A
new 20,000-ton-per-month concentrat-
ing mill is being erected to handle
some of the million tons of pay-
ore recently disclosed by the drill.
The stuff is expected to average 0.7 p.c.
WO3, as against 0.7 p.c. ore recently
handled. Estimate cost of the mill, etc.,
is now put at £260,000, of which the co.
is to find £45,000. The other £215,000,
plus additional cost, if any, is to be ad-
vanced on loan at 4 p.c. p.a. by the
Commonwealth Government, which will
also buy output of scheelite concentrates
for the duration and six months there-
after, subject to the co.’s existing arrange-
ments with B.H.P. The co. also has a
contract of similar duration with the
British Government for purchase of tung-
sten ore. When this runs out, profits are
to be divided between the co. and the
Federal Government pro rata to the
amount of capital and loan money in-
volved respectively. Meanwhile the co.
is allowed to retain a maximum net profit
of £20,000 p.a. The new mill is not
expected to come into operation before
the end of next May. Expenditure on the
project totalled £53,092, of which the
Government had advanced £8092, at the
end of October last.
During the year to Octl 31, 1943, 69,879
tons (up 3725 tons) overburden was re-
moved, and 29,740 tons (down 2440 tons)
of crudes was extracted, plus 4195 tons
of waste rock. A wet winter and man-
power were the trouble. The mill
handled 29,710 tons (down 2490 tons) of
harder-than-usual crudes for 187 tons
18cwt. scheelite, an average of 14.11 b.
per ton as against 16.81 b. per ton for the
previous term. The net result, £29,241
(down £21,795), was equal to 28d. per
share, but only 6d. (£6250) was distri-
buted, and £20,500 was set aside for new
plant and development.
When the books closed, the mine stood
at £33,205, plant £24,630, stores £9397.
War loan, debtors, etc., totalled £34,022.
There was £12,851 coming to the bank
and sundry creditors, and £8092 to the
Government. The £63,041 of capital is
in 250,000 ss. shares, of which 50,000 are
f.p. and the balance paid to 4s. each.
Phoenix Gold Mines, domiciled in Adel-
aide, will pay a div. of 3s. a share on
March 28. Chief asset is 300,000 Central
Norseman shares, taken some years ago
in exchange for the old Mararoa mine,
Norseman (W.A.).
* * ♦ •
Burbidge Gold Mines, which gave up
production near Southern Cross (W.A.)
because of shortage of labor and mining
requisites, shows a loss of £2233 for year
to June 30, 1943, reducing credit balance
to £2843. Co. has £4132 cash and £5OOO
worth of Government bonds.
$ * * *
Westralian gold production has de-
clined by more than two-thirds since war
began. February’s output was little
more than one mine—Lake View-
yielded in a month when the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile was at its peak. Shortage
of man-power is the trouble.
« * * *
William Walker, manager and attorney
of North Kalgurli (W.A.), is retiring,
and general manager F. G. Brinsden
and assistant manager A. Paton, of South
Kalgurli, are going to temporarily boss
the North in addition to doing their
own jobs. Brinsden, who has been con-
suiting engineer to the North for many
years, succeeded the late Dick Hamilton
as president of the Westralian Chamber
of Mines.


“jet propulsion
British technicians have made the longest stride for-
ward since the first frail heavier-than-air machine
lurched a few feet above the ground. “Evening News,” 7/1/44.
We are on the threshold of a new era of power.
G, Geoffrey Smith, Aviation expert.
The Air Age will follow hard on the heels of Victory. Jet
propulsion will play a revolutionary part in the science of.
Air Transportation. British designers are perfecting still
further principles to place world aviation on a new level of
efficiency.
EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Townsville.
J
QANTAS
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
VY7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
w satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background o ®*'
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself tnat y
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the juag
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large cap
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsiDiu y.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
Playfair, M.L.C.; E. B. Knox;
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. .
H. Norman Pope; Allen O. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.. „
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director, Cureto , * '
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees a >
Administrator, etc. wmnnn
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £6o,ouo,uuo.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverlna District Representative: C. E Cowdery
Western District Representative: II A. Shaw, 140 Loids I lace. 0 g •
Business, Rollery, etc.
Plans Wanted
Although the Prime Minister before the
last election laid great emphasis on the
use which he proposed to make of
central-bank credit after the war in order
to maintain employment and attract
population, citizens who are really in-
terested in the welfare and progress of
Australia will do well to receive Mr.
Curtin’s enthusiasm for bank credit with
a grain of salt. It was when the
P.M. was so passionately attached
to the bank-credit idea that long-
suffering knight Claude Reading, chair-
man of the Commonwealth Bank Board,
first broke his silence and warned of the
danger that the excessive use of bank
credit could bring to the entire Australian
economy.
The fact that we have had recourse
to too much bank credit during this
war does not mean that we can con-
tinue having recourse to it without ill
effects and possibly frustration in the
ultimate production objects we are aiming
at. Abused, the credit factor that may
have served us surprisingly well may be
the very thing that will later let us down
badly. Only the ignorant and those who
put votes above everything else can fail
to acknowledge that the Australian
economy has already been weakened by
overuse of bank credit and that we could
never have carried on even as we have
done without much of the regimentation,
the necessary regulations and economic
policing that have accompanied the war.
We do not want totalitarianism or eco-
nomic martial law to accompany us very
far into the peace. When the war is
definitely over the people will want to
say “good-bye to all that.”
The essential thing in the post-war
period will be planning. Like “credit,”
“planning” is a term much overused and
abused by politicians and their hired
mouthpieces. It has come to have too
many associations of a Governmental or
local-governmental character —to mean
something inseparable from highfalutin
economic jargon, red-tape “projects,”
“equations” of this and that with
the other thing and gentlemen who
have long had a grouch against
the “social order” but who have
now fluked highly-paid jobs, wear their
hats in striking shapes and at a striking
angle and can frequently be found
amongst “the boys” at the most
stylish hotel in their particular town or
city.
In reality planning need have none of
these associations. A farmer who is
wondering whether he had better grow
potatoes or tomatoes next year in order
to meet .with a demand for his output
instead of a glutted market is doing
essential planning. It is such planning
that is necessary to all credit expansion.
Credit can be safely expanded at most
times when successful production is
assured of a profitable market. But it
requires investigation as much as plan-
ning to be sure that production will be
economic and that there will be a demand
for the output that will remunerate the
producer and protect the credit that has
been advanced to him.
Beat around the subject as one may,
“credit” in essence is “time to pay.” ,The
idea of “costless credit” is a fantasy—
someone always has to pay if credit is
expended in a wasteful manner. There-
fore the basis of credit-expansion of a
kind that will do a country the most good
must be industry planned to offer desir-
able production to a people able to buy
that output.
In peace-time we have seen hundreds
of company promotions in which the first
object of the promoters was to sell some-
thing to the newly-formed co., the second
to get a job under contract at a good
salary, and the third to make money for
the promoters as well as the shareholders
by way of profits. No. 3 motive, of
course, should always be placed first when
credit is asked for —and subscriptions by
way of share capital are a form of credit.
So many company flotations are a matter
of convenience to the promoter and/or
of optimism rather than planning that it is
little wonder that nine-tenths of such new
ventures are failures. In many cases the
shareholder loses his money, and the
expenditure by the co. on plant, etc.,
ts a national economic waste, because it
may never be put to a productive use.
The case of new company flotations
is but an incident compared with
what happens in the case of misjudged,
expensive public “works” and advances
to existing industries that are uneconomic,
Where the company promoter deals in
thousands of pounds. Governments deal
in tens of millions. And the public rarely
has very much say in matters of Govern-
ment credit-expansion, whereas it can
always refuse to put money into specu-
lative company floats.
The prime necessity of post-war em-
ployment and prosperity schemes is not
the issue of national or central-bank credit
on a lavish scale. The plans, the men,
the materials and the markets have to be
ih prospect before the spending of money
and the equipment of new industries
begins. The misdirected or too-early use
of credit means waste, discouragement,
unnecessary taxation and loss of con-
fidence.
Where the people are confident that
the establishment of new industries
or the expansion of old ones is
basically sound they will be found
ready to invest freely. Where their re-
sources are inadequate the Government
will be quite within its rights in “staking”
new industries until they are capable of
replacing Government loans with private
capital or debentures. And where the
planning of these new industries was wise
and accurate there will be no difficulty in
any provider of credit—whether share-
minf’ banke \ central bank or Govern-
1118 * hlS f credlt ° Ut l l by act “ al
Tht y r .. -0 L transfer, when he wants to.
This negotiability of credit is an mdica-
b ° nlts t successful use. Where shares
S P be f r f fall , b g ow P ar u m P n ?e,
lu biank o verdraftcan u o t be i s ep m d )
and where a Government finds that the
has to . an mdustr y haA ?
th ~ f rozen ’. then it is clear enough
that the enterprise was ill-judged or that
something went wrong during its estab-
JF nt ° r deveJ °P ment *
Where a private person makes an in-
vestment m or a loan to a concern that
is a partial or total failure he is likely
o lose some or all of his money. A Gov-
eminent which uses the national credit”
ot a central bank is in no different posi-
tion. Credit made available by a central
ank is again merely time to pay,” and
where such credit is misapplied or wasted
the Government bank finds itself "up”
tor the loss. If a million dr two is lost it
may almost escape notice in the huge
na lonal exchequer. But the cumulative
enect of tens of millions wasted or
misdirected year after year cannot for
eve . r disguised.
At tne present time the Commonwealth
Government is using central-bank credit
on a wide scale for the payment of war
expenditure. This is almost all dead
oss, and as the Government is not
endeavoring to recover the cost of
this loss directly from the people we
see that indirect and inequitable tax
knownas inflation creeping into our daily
!. . be lull effect of this inflation is
disguised to a large extent by price con-
trol, subsidies and other arbitrary but
temporary measures. Eventually the
effect of an excessive issue of credit will
be evident in our costs of production and
our cost of living. Possibly increased
mechanisation land mass-production
methods that have accompanied the war
will partly offset such inflation in costs
and prices. But this will not alter the
basic facts of credit application, or the
essential truth that if credit inflation is
carried far enough (without observing
the fundamental necessity for credit to
be ultimately repayable) the currency will
in the end become valueless.
We can with profit cast our minds back
to the situation which we saw soon after
the present war began. The Menzies
Government was reluctant to spend
money wholesale ahead of actual produc-
tion plans and possibilities. The
Sydney “Sun” attacked Treasurer Spender
almost daily upon his reluctance to
spend in the manner that makes
glad the heart of the retail trade,
A hired financial expert was given his
head. “It is deflation to such an extent
that credit is not being expanded, loan
money not spent, cash balances are piling
up, taxation is pouring in ahead of esti-
mates—and apparently the Government
is contemplating a further turn of the
screw next year.” The “expert” was per-
turbed that we were paying too much for
war put of taxation and*not enough out
°f “credit expansion.” The comment
here was that “When the scene is all set
for action spending can go ahead as fast
as the action. But to try to push spend-
iog ahead of the action means only one
thing—we pay through the nose, and quite
unnecessarily, for the action.”
It was pointed out that the real prob-
Icnis of munition-making then (April,
1940) were (1) to find out what defence
ec l u fP men t we really wanted, (2) decide
cotdd make it in Australia,
(3) find the men who were capable of
ma ; an S tb ® equipment, (4) find the
w) find the (6) join
men .’ ™ atenal r s f. nd mone y together with
a minimum of dislocation to other indus-
*, post-war period we shall have
to d f , wh ff reconstruction we
wantand tackle lt m the same way Mere
?P °f . 1S aot tbe solemn,
Pre mature and badly-planned spending
can frustrate our post-war aims.
During the Woo lcott Forbes trial
last week Eric McConnell, formerly
Forbes’s secretary, said Forbes had been
wort h £lOO,OOO from 1935 to 1937, but
by the en d of 1938 his surplus of assets
had disappeared. A letter from Forbes
(then in Perth) to McConnell, dated
January 2, 1939, said “It will take me all
my time to arrive in London with £3OO
English Try and keep everything as
quiet as you can for me , Mac, and I will
write you further on board ship ” The
land for Forbes’s home at Gordon (Syd-
ney North Shore Line) cost from £lB,OOO
to £20,000 in August, 1936, said McCon-
nell. xhe new home, erected in 1937, was
estimated to cost a similar amount, and
furnishings £6OOO. A first mortgage was
arranged with Fellow in 1937 for £20,000,
and a second with Higgs for £BOOO.
From the dock, Forbes said: “I am
not guilty of these charges. I did not
forge or falsify any Producers’ and
General Finance Corporation certificates
or borrow money on them. I had no
need to do so. I did not receive a penny
piece from them, I lost all my money,
and I lost my faith in men I had trusted.”
The g rst intimation he had of the for-
geries was in October or November,
1937, when, in Melbourne, he received a
telephone call from the board in Sydney,
Bush, secretary of P. and G., met him
at Strathfield on the trip back, and, said
Forbes, told him that he had used two
certificates from the missing scrip-book
to raise funds so as to get out of financial
difficulties caused by losses on the race-
course. Because of past services Forbes
said he decided to stand by Bush. But
later on more than two certificates from
the missing book turned up.
......
Forbes said he was not guilty of the
charges to which he had pleaded guilty
in America. He had simply been illegally
in the United States. Shand, K.C., for the
defence, in his address, said Forbes was
willing to go into the witness-box if the
Crown desired to cross-examine him.
Forbes had had a salary of £5OOO a year
from P. and G., and was well-to-do at
the time of the alleged forgeries. “No
man in his senses would have gone to
the incredible length of forging scrip
under these circumstances,” said Mr.
Shand. And there the case stood at the
week-end.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD. •
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free on request.
Directors.
A. E. BOND (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUOKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
FULLY GUABANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITABY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITABY BATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
i
the Underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOBS.
Approved by the Board of Health —over 2200 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
Seven years’ guarantee against corrosion affecting efficiency or longevity.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd. Telephone 81032.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including: 12i% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
PIRST
mil
£/s 4oa
m
m
m.
: i :■-;X
iliii
m
m
mm
ililiil
HH
i''„ * ,
)//c7v/?y
V>' >
iliiUeations are Now
„_jed at all Banks,
Banks and Stockbrokers
EARLY AHD . - .
; >
>££P me
PV.29.19
The 25 p.c. Tax Slug
A really unsavory atmosphere has de-
veloped around the matter of the 25 p.c.
tax slug that has been slipped in with
the pay-as-you-earn legislation. There
seems to be a great official reluctance to
tell the plain truth, and in a case like
this, where a couple of million pockets
are being hit, the effect on “morale” is
not good. Mr. Chifley has declared that
there will be no additional 25 p.c. tax
to be paid—and this notwithstanding the
recommendations of the committee which
deliberated on the subject. Mr. Mc-
Kellar White has asked him to say so in
so many words in his tax bill, but Mr.
Chifley, to the time of writing, had not
effectively responded. Mr. Chifley had
previously said that Mr. McKellar White
had become “very daring” in saying that
there was to be a 25 p.c. surcharge, while
at the public meeting in Sydney Mr.
White said that if Mr. Chifley persisted
with his 25 p.c. surcharge “he will ruin
his own credit in Australia, and go down
in history as the perpetrator of one of
the worst confidence tricks in the Com-
monwealth’s history.”
The shuffling of Mr. Chifley is only
too apparent. He has refused to enter
into “any disputation” on the question
of whether, legally, there is a lag year.
It is commonly believed that the advice
of the Solicitor-General was sought by
the Treasury, but what he said has never
been made public. There has been men-
tion of a High Court case decided in
favor of the Taxation Department on the
matter, but public opinion remains un-
satisfied. Caucus has also been told that
wage- and salary-earners cleared their tax
slate in nine months in 1942-43, and that
payments from April 1, 1943, until June
30 of that year will look after the pro-
posed surcharge. The Bulletin has not
found it necessary to go outside its own
office to disprove this. The due date for
most assessments made on Bulletin em-
ployees was June 3 —not March 31 —last
year. This year many employees have
had to pay inflated weekly instalments
to meet their tax bill by March 31. Jimmy
Scullin to the contrary, March, 1943, and
March, 1944, are different dates.
In the United States a 25 p.c. sur-
charge was made when the change-over
was enacted. Beardsley Ruml disowned
the ultimate U.S. plan. But, even so, the
incidence of the U.S. surcharge was much
lighter than it will be if enforced in this
country. At the time the U.S. charge was
made war taxation in that country had
not got into top gear, and it is still not in
top, as Roosevelt has recently protested.
In the Commonwealth we have been sub-
ject to what has been officially described
as “saturation” income-tax rates for nearly
a year. Though there is still scope, by
comparison with other parts of the Em-
pire, for some tax or post-war-credit
revenue from incomes of under £4OO a
year, in other scales our tax rates are the
highest in the world. A 25 p.c. increase
will mean an additional levy of about
£35 million on individuals. That is
slightly more than the total reimburse-
ment of income-tax revenue to the States
for 1943-44.
If Mr. Chifley is urgently in need of
a sum of revenue such as the 25 p.c.
surcharge would bring in, let him con-
sider applying a post-war-credit scheme
to the valleys which do exist in his
steeply-ascending taxation scale. And let
him tackle the States in a determined
way about their excessive collections of
revenue, made appear all the more bloated
by the fattening of State utilities on Com-
monwealth war-time custom. It is clear
that Commonwealth revenue for defence
purposes is short of the mark, but the
position is hardly to be put right by
slugging 25 p.c. harder all those who are
already slugged hard. The whole waste-
ful and politically-founded system of
Labor war finance and economic control
needs to be overhauled, and State finance
with it.
A Commonwealth department official
recently rushed round the trade seeking
manufacturers of an item with a No. 1
priority. One maker turned out a few
hundred, asked the official price, got an
oral reply and sent the lot to a factory
carrying out the finishing stage of the
job, later invoicing the goods at the figure
mentioned by the Government man. The
maker has now been told he broke the
law —should have written to Canberra
for a price and got a written reply. He
has written now, but weeks have elapsed,
with no reply. Result? No further manu-
facture of item of No. 1 war-time im-
portance until the position is cleared up.
Meantime other manufacturers are cool-
ing their heels waiting for this essential
part of a finished job. The whole vital
production job is held up. And who in
Canberra seems to care?
* * * #
Interim div. of Yarra Falls, largest
Commonwealth wool - spinner and
-weaver, is being raised to 4j p.c. In
the preceding year an interim of 3| p.c.
was paid, with a final of 5 p.c. In that
term trading results were poorer than in
the preceding year, but smaller provision
for depreciation and taxation resulted in
a slightly higher net profit for the co.
and subsidiaries. During the current year
man-power troubles have continued, but,
from the nature of the interim div.,
earnings seemingly have been maintained.
The co. enjoys high popularity for its
scrip, which is sought after at 455. Over
the six years to 1942 the 10 p.c. div. was
unbroken, and the lowest distribution
during the depression was 5 p.c. Other
sought-after textile-co. scrip is Bradford
Cotton (425, 6d., 10 p.c. div.), H. B.
Dickie (405., 8 p.c.). Felt and Textiles
(40s. 6d., 10 p.c.) and Davies, Coop (365.,
7 p.c.). All these cos. have had labor
difficulties, and taxation and price con-
trol have taken away the attractions
usually attending expanded turnover, but
there are hopes of benefits after the war.
* * * *
There are inadequate medical and hos-
pital facilities available to C.C.C. men
in certain parts of the north, and one
man sick enough to be discharged on his
arrival in Sydney had to take pot luck
in train transport home. He was denied
’plane transport even at his own
expense, and was kept up north inexplic-
ably long in view of the fact that he had
collapsed from the heat.


THE SERVICE MAN
Closing Phases in N.G.
“Ek Dum”: The New Guinea cam-
paign is reaching its climax, and soon
nothing will remain to be done in the
South-west Pacific eastern area beyond
the occupation of Rabaul, Madang,
Wewak and Kavieng, which, according
to the Command, have been pounded
into impotence and ruin.
Wewak has been the most thoroughly
battered target of the week. Resistance,
though sharp, was ineffective. On
March 16 it was reported that 73 enemy
machines had been shot down over the
Wewak area in four days.
On March 16 the historic announcement
was made that, on the N.G. mainland, the
Australians who had made the crossing of
the Ramu headwaters and the Finisterre
ranges from the Markham Valley had
reached Daumoina, 19 miles along
the motor road from Bogadjim, which
was the first German capital of New
Guinea, and 55 miles from Madang.
Enemy patrols were encountered in the
outskirts of Daumoina, but they were
not in strength. The Australians from
Finschhafen and the Americans from
Saidor along the coast were now in the
same area with their brothers of the
Finisterre.
Australians had from One direction or
another tramped right round the Fluon
Peninsula, fighting more than half the
way and prepared to fight every yard of
it, if necessary. The total distance along
the encircling perimeter is about 400
miles.
A great part of the routes was perpen-
dicular and greased with mud like the
original greasy pole; and a great deal
more along the coast was as sloping as
a mansard roof, with Japs perched on
the rooftree.
The Seventh Division, the first to be-
come completely air-borne, the heroes of
Kaiapit and Shaggy Ridge, will receive a
warm welcome when their detachments
march through all Australian capital
cities from late in this month onward.
In the Solomons, the Japanese con-
tinued their curiously belated attacks on
the American positions at Empress
Augusta Bay. For a time they made some
ground. But American counter-attacks,
backed by tanks and artillery, restored
the original positions to their rightful
owners. Mr. Stimson on March 16 an-
nounced the losses as 123 Americans and
1173 of the enemy.
Meanwhile, by successive landings in
the Admiralties the Americans subdued
Los Negros, formed their air bases and
crossed the Lonai Channel and Sea Eagle
Harbor to attack Lorengau with a force
which, in the beginning, numbered about
1000 m«n. By this time the Japanese,
through Tokyo Radio, admitted that their
force on Los Negros had been reduced
by 50 per cent., but declared that it was
still holding the initiative and inflicting
heavy losses.
An observer who arrived from Los
Negros late in the week reported that the
enemy seemed to be fighting the battle
as a forlorn hope, and that many of his
detachments were being found dead in
horrible suicide groups which had
mangled themselves en masse with
grenades rather than surrender.
On March 19, with reinforcements and
additional tanks, Americans were fight-
ing for Lorengau station —it is not a
town. They had captured the aerodrome
on March 16 and then had dug in to
bring up more forces. On March 20 the
Americans had captured Lorengau, in
which they found several hundred dead.
Round the whole Pacific Japanese
bases were being bombed from the
Kuriles to Truk, which now was being
hit by land-based Liberators; from
Nauru to the Netherlands East Indian
base of Sourabaya. All these things are
an earnest of favors to come.
General MacArthur, honored at dinner
by the Commonwealth Parliament in
Canberra on the second anniversary of
his arrival in Australia, said that, for the
ultimate reconquest and liberation from
the enemy of the Philippines and ad-
jacent lands, “one of the great offensives
of the war will be at the appropriate
time launched,” which should be decisive
“not only of redemption, but of Japanese
isolation from southern conquests and
of Chinese restoration of Pacific Ocean
communication.”
This statement follows the lines of
those by Messrs. Churchill, Roosevelt,
Stimson and Knox. The offensive out-
side the Australian zone is already in the
main stages of its preparation. Both
Admiral Nimitz and Admiral Lord Louis
Mountbatten are stepping on to the door-
mat of Japan’s South-east Asia Co-pros-
perity estate.
No doubt when the time comes to
correlate a movement from the south
with the great drives from the east and
west, Australia will have some share at
least in the offensive. But the Philippines,
it should be noted, are beyond the area
to which called-up men may be sent under
Mr. Curtin’s Militia Hopscotch Bill.
Big Moves in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: The position in Burma
shows signs of developing in a way little
short of amazing. Since the Arakan vic-
tory of General Christison’s sector of the
Fourteenth Anglo-Indian Army, backed
by U.S., R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. air
power, in February-March, proceedings
have all been in favor of the Allies,
The operations of the Fourteenth Army
have been pushed quickly towards
Akyab, down the coast by a fresh out-
flanking landing and inland from
Maungdaw, the pivot town just inside
the Burmese border.
On March 13 it was reported that fight-
ing was in progress five miles east of
Maungdaw, and that 40 miles inland in
the valley of the Kaladan, one of the
three rivers which divide the Akyab
region between the coast and the range
of the Arakan Yoma into strips, fighting
was going on. Next the town of Buthi-
daung, 15 miles east from Maungdaw,
but no longer a key point, fell, and the
enemy was cleared from the high ground
between the two towns nearer to Akyab
and to the Mayu River mouth. The
enemy suffered “comparatively heavy
casualties.”
On the North Front
It was disclosed that Admiral Lord
Louis Mountbatten, C.-in-C, had visited
the H.Q. of General Stilwell in northern
Burma, where a push by American and
Chinese troops on a limited scale had
been in progress in the Hukawng Valley,
through the great rain forests of
the Patkai and the Naga Hills from the
Brahmaputra Valley and the railway be-
tween Calcutta and Sadiya,
The Allied H.Q. in this region is at
Ledo, on a little branch line, where
Burma is separated from India by a
narrow belt of mountain forest and grass-
land which soon merges, on the eastern
slopes, into an intruding belt of hills
overgrown with great evergreen tropical
forest. Here, 150 miles from the
northern tip of Burma, on the fringes of
the giant mountains falling down from
Tibet, 200 miles from the nearest point
in China and over 500 miles from the
fighting at Maungdaw, the new northern
route to China comes in.
It was cabled that amazing progress
had been made in this area, the Ameri-
cans using their remarkable and enor-
mous mechanical equipment, including
tanks and armored bulldozers, to great
advantage. This made possible in magical
time the building of a road to join the
old road to the south into the heart of
Burma. It was said on March 14 that on
this route the Allies had penetrated 100
miles from “the main base in Assam” in
a direct line. If this is so the advancing
troops were halfway to the Myitkina
railway, which runs through Burma like
a core to Rangoon.
It was now announced that Allied
columns had crossed the Upper Chindwin
at several places north of Tamanthi, while
the same day Tokyo Radio spoke of
10,000 British and Indian soldiers who
had been repelled (“their fate is com-
pletely sealed”) round Tiddim, which is
far to the south of Tamanthi and much
further south of Ledo.
Tamanthi is about 40 miles inside the
Burmese border on the Chindwin ; about
90 miles from Hopin on the Rangoon-
Myitkina railway. It sounds as if a
further invasion of Burma had started
through the Tuzu Gap, the second great
pass of the northern border. And the
presence of the troops mentioned by the
Japanese far to the south must, if they
were real, have been the product of an
invasion by the main central route from
the Manipur Hills—enemy bombing of
the Silchar region in Assam, through
which the main track used to run into
Burma, via Imphal, was reported on
March 13. These movements were timed
with the appointment of General Stilwell,
who, apart from his operations in Assam,
is General Chiang Kai-shek’s C. 0.5.,
Deputy Commander-in-Chief in East
Asia.
This seemed to mark the beginning of
a concerted move at all possible points of
access to Burma along the 600-mile
border —there are five —the particular
targets being the Mogaung region, down
past the jade mines of Lokin and south-
west of Myitkina, in the north and Akyab
in the far south.
The Eagles Pounce
All other operations were suddenly
put in the shade by the announcement
that a fortnight ago, when boo-boo boys
were engaged in their favorite pastime
of proving how inept the British and
Americans are at war beside the Russians
and Tito’s always-victorious guerrillas,
the British and Americans were establish-
ing in the northern heart of Burma the
largest air invasion in history at a point
in the very centre of Japan’s Burmese
communications.
British and Indian troops were being
flown in thousands to a base south-east
of Myitkina, This bold stroke, carried
out mainly by clouds of gliders, is a
move which marks an epoch.
Burma is a peculiar country. It is
bound in by mountain, forest and great
river boundaries as by fortress walls.
Upon those walls the monsoon rains pour
for months in distressing deluges which
make large-scale land movement almost
impossible from June to November.
But the great Irrawaddy runs through
a central dry kernel of the country in
which the landscape is open, not unlike
parts of Australia in the transition lands
between the coast and the west, and the
rainfall is under 40 inches. The new base
seems to have been established not so far
to the north-east of this dry centre.
In effect, the British forces have been
leapfrogged over those advancing down
the Hukawng Valley, 100 miles behind
the advanced Japanese western posts,
and somewhere close to Mogaung, to
the Myitkina railway and to the Irra-
waddy, of which they seem to be on the
Chinese side. It is only another 70 miles
to the Chinese border. Bhamo is only
70 miles away, Lashio, on the Burma
Road, is within 150 miles or so.
The Burma railways, the Chindwin
and Irrawaddy right down to Mandalay,
the rail communication from Mandalay
to Lashio and the Indaw oilfields are
within roughly 200 miles or less, and thus
within easy stroke of two-way bombing.
Much of the heart of Burma is within
easy single-engine fighter strafing distance
of the new base. Mandalay is already
within 200 miles or a bit more of the
Allies in the south across the Arakan
tracts.
It is the first major move. It is about
six weeks to the breaking of the monsoon.
If, by that time, bases can be established
in the dry centre of Burma and control
of the Burma Road communications can
be obtained, a very different complexion
will have been put on the Burmese war,
particularly as the operations of the north
are taking place in an area as far from
the Equator as Brisbane; with a climate
as moderate.
The evidence all points to the fact that
the base has been established. Two air-
strips have been laid down. Men and
armament flow in continuously. The
enemy has obligingly provided proof that
the position is defendable even now, and
it will become safer every day. The
enemy, attacking by air and land several
times, was driven back with heavy casual-
ties and routed out of strong positions.
The Japanese general counter to all
the Allied Burma moves was an offensive
•(announced by Delhi on March 18) along
the Chindwin, which marches roughly
with the Burma-Assam border. This is
apparently a major operation in which
several crossings of the river are in-
volved. But in the Chin Hills General
Tojo’s emissaries have been split up into
groups.
The main Japanese effort, however,
appears to be further north in the Homa-
lin area towards the Tuzu Gap, which
is one of the most dangerous avenues of
approach from the Japanese viewpoint.
Mars Scents the Spring.
“Ek Dum”: The second week of
March, 1944, may be remembered in
history. The spring began to clear away
the snow banks in Europe and to raise
the bomber ceiling, though the weather
was still bitter ; wet and inclement.
On March 15 the first real blows in
the Allies’ western European offensive
were struck at Cassino and in the Anzio
beachhead in Italy # The Anzio blow was
merely a manoeuvre to keep the Germans
there from rushing to the help of their
sorely-tried comrades in the Gustav Line,
70 miles to the south, but it was power-
ful enough to hint to the enemy what was
in store for him when the time came to
dovetail operations into full-scale attacks
concerted with those of the Fifth and
Eighth Armies in the Liri-Saccd Valley
and the Adriatic zone.
The attack at Cassino opened with a
tremendous bombing and artillery blast
—tremendous at least by the standards
of this war, though the weight of metal
and explosive thrown did not compare
with, say, the 20,000 tons of shells pumped
into 11 miles of enemy positions on the
first day of Messines in the last war.
It, however, showed the intensity which
aerial artillery-fire is attaining and
the development in air-borne artillery
which has taken place in the past year.
During the whole Tunisian campaign
the Allied air forces dropped only 10,000
tons of bombs. In the battle of the
break-through before Medjez-el-Bab on
May 5 last year General Alexander’s
concentration of aircraft achieved a
bombing record when it planted 500 tons
of bombs along a path four miles long
and 1000 yards wide, and almost literally
blasted a path for his infantry.
At Cassino the bomb-load delivered in
considerably less time was near 2500 tons,
—l4OO tons on a square mile at the outset
—or a quarter of the whole used in the
Tunisian war. There was little or no air
retaliation or defence by the enemy.
Enemy Takes Shelter
The Germans in the meantime had
learnt the necessity for the troglodyte
habits of the last war when heavy
artillery opens from land and air. It is
still the only means of self-preservation,
except flight.
Mountain caves and tunnels, with which
all Italian mountains round monasteries
and towns were honeycombed through the
many cgnturies in which a quick getaway
was an almost annual necessity for some-
body, are now linked in all the German
defences with portable armored turrets
with six- or seven-inch armored faces,
and “all mod. cons.” for a determined
gun crew.
The shaggy heights of Monte Cassino,
with its Benedictine-monastery ruins,
1700 feet above the town, and the tumb-
ling mount of the castle rock which over-
hangs the streets provided natural shelter.
Cassino itself mostly lies athwart the
narrow Rapido River on the edges of the
marshy valley. The coastal road to the
Tyrrhenian Sea swings southward across
the railway passing over the main Naples-
Rome road and railway, which come in
from the south-east. Focusing on Cas-
sino from the Naples road coastal sector
are three avenues of approach* striking
at the heart of the town, two to the west
of the river, the one from Mignano and
Naples across it.
North of the town the road runs up the
Rapido Valley, forking under the shadow
of Mt. Belvedere, where the Secco tribu-
tary comes down from Atina on the
Rome side. This tributary stream makes
a right-angle in its course. It rises in the
foothills of the 6000-feet Mt. Cairo
directly behind Cassino, near Terella. It
was up the Secco Valley slopes that the
French troops made their way under
most difficult conditions early in the
long battle for Cassino, with the Ameri-
cans moving with them on the flank
nearer the main mouth of the Liri Valley.
Maorxlanders First
In the more recent battle the place of
honor was held by the Maoriland troops,
in the Naples-road sector. Their Maori
spearhead, by its raid on the railway
station (B. 15/3/ ’44), had already made
itself familiar with the ground at the
crossing of the Rapido. The Indians
had similarly felt their way on the heights
to the west covering the routes from
the Liri Valley proper and the Tyrrhe-
nian coast. They had been in action
on the night the Maoris made their tenta-
tive drive across the Rapido.
The N.Z. troops now found themselves
faced with a division of picked German
parachute companies who seemed never
to have heard the word surrender.
The Maorilanders found, too, when
they made their advance under the leader-
ship of their corps commander. General
Freyberg, V.C., that no more than in the
last war had intensive blasting of posi-
tions reduced enemy guns to impotence.
His artillery posts resisted fiercely,
sprayed the marshy approaches of the
flattened town with mortar and machine-
gun fire, the mortar fire being of the
heaviest and most concentrated type.
He then flung in the paratroops. By the
time the Kiwis had fought their way
through the town to the south-west i.e.,
to the foothill approaches to the road to
the monastery, which is the key position
up a winding highway on its 1700 ft.
height (the journey is much like that up
One-tree Hill in Brisbane or Kurrajong
Heights out of Sydney) —tanks were re-
ported coming down the Sacco-Lin
Valley on the Rome road and the Maori
left flank. The Allied heavy guns were
reaching out for them.
It took the Kiwis 48 hours to gam
their first-stage objectives in the toot-
hills. Their position was then eased by
the arrival of a few tanks. They had done
and were still doing a glorious job, , m
keeping with their grand record on Mt.


Public Notice.
I, ZONIE DRBLYE YELASKA, of Yugoslavian
nationality, born at Spalato, Dalmatia, and resident
nine years in Australia, now residing at 85 Floss
Street, Hurlstone Park, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY DIXON.—TAKE NOTICE that
NOREEN CAVILL YATES has filed a Petition in
Divorce No. 2980 of 1943 on the grounds of the
adultery of her husband WILLIAM JAMES Y r ATES
with you If you wish to you may apply to the
Court for leave to defend the charge and you may
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MR. F. T. HERLIHY Solicitor 39 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
Olympus, at El Alamein, at the Mareth
Line, Enfidaville and the Ortona front.
The difficulties of both sides were
added to by the weather, which alternated
between sleet, snow and heavy rain at
night and the cold, pallid sunshine which
marks the early dawn of the European
spring. By the time most of the town
was in Allied hands all the surroundings
were a slough, from the American sector
to the Garigliano (Liri) nearer the coast,
to which the battle was rapidly extend-
ing as the Germans opened their counter-
attacks.
At the week-end the Gurkhas held hill
positions commanding Cassino Monastery
positions. The Allies below still advanced
but German resistance was not broken.
And the Allied casualties, like the Ger-
man, will not be light.
Bombing in Europe.
“Ek Dum”; When weather permits
bombing of Europe continues on a mas-
sive scale. Last week Marshal von Rund-
stedt, with his commanders along the
Atlantic Wall, must have had a good view
of the clouds of Allied fighters and
bombers crossing the Channel.
Early in the week the tendency of the
attacks on occupied territory in France
was still toward the Biscay area —Le
Mans was again heavily blasted by R.A.F.
XJq 11 fo VP C
On March 15 about 1000 R.A.F.
machines dropped a record load of 3000
tons of bombs, mainly on Stuttgart. Ac-
curate observation of results was not pos-
sible. Munich and targets in north-west
Germany were bombed, along with rail-
way marshalling yards at Amiens. The
Air Ministry reported 40 R.A.F. bombers
missing. The same day U.S. heavies
attacked Brunswick in daylight, and met
the first enemy fighter resistance for
several days. Three U.S. bombers and
five fighters were reported lost and 38
enemy fighters shot down. The day’s
attacks across the Channel lasted seven
hours without a break.
On March 16 the enemy lost 117
fighters in an attempt to prevent a large
force of American bombers and Allied
fighters driving deep into southern Ger-
many. The Allies lost 22 bombers and
12 fighters under a defence in which
“Messerschmitts were stacked up three
abreast, armed with rocket guns and
cannon.” The main objectives were
Friedrichshafen, once home of the Zep-
pelin, and Ulm, which is the crossing
place on the Danube of the main road
and rail to Munich and Vienna. Ulm is
noted for its tall and lovely spire, about
the tallest in Europe, and its Town Hall
with oil paintings on the outside.
At the week-end there was a continual
procession of heavy squadrons to enemy
objectives as a daylight fleet of nearly
2000 U.S. aircraft scoured their way to
half a dozen large targets, linked with the
eastern and Mediterranean fronts and in-
cluding Vienna (its aircraft factories were
blasted without any air retaliation),
Friedrichshafen, Lpndsberg—in whose
fortress Hitler had his first taste of jail
—Augsburg &nd other towns in its dis-
trict.
Some of the American heavies which
attacked Friedrichshafen, which is just
across Lake Constance from the Swiss
border, found themselves over Swiss terri-
tory, and the Swiss forced 13 to land.
Three others crashed over Swiss territory
and their crews were interned. U.S.
losses for the day were 43 bombers and
10 fighters, and the R.A.F. lost 22
bombers ; 82 enemy fighters were claimed.
London had some alerts and one sharp
raid, in which “a church famous for its.
fashionable weddings was destroyed” and
a bomb was dropped “in front of a well-
known building”—St. Margaret’s and
Parliament House is as good a guess as
St. George’s, Hanover Square and the Air
Ministry. Otherwise, there were sad
though not heavy casualties, and damage
in the heart of London.
The bombing by the R.A.F. and
U.S.A.F. presaged a considerable step-
ping up of operations when the weather
clears, with the new improved Lancas-
ters, which have the Rolls-Royce 28
engine—it gives the single-seater Mus-
tang a top speed of 425 m.p.h.—and the
new B29’s which are due.
What “stepping up” means may be
judged from the fact that the R.A.F.
Bomber Command between May 1, 1940,
and Dec. 31, 1943, had dropped 246,425
tons of bombs on Germany, Italy and
occupied Europe, and 203,000 tons on
Germany alone.
The issue since brings Germany's
helping from the R.A.F. —apart from
that of the U.S.A.F. —to an equivalent
of nearly one ton of bombs to every
square mile of the Reich proper.
Retreat Continued.
“Ek Dum”; The German retreat on
the southern Russian front continued
last week along the same lines as in the
previous week.
The armies of Marshal von Mannstcin
are still partly in the sewer formed by
the Tarnopol-Vinnitsa-Krivoi Rog de-
fence wall on the north and the Black
Sea on the south. As they crawl out
of part of the farther —or eastern —part
of the sewer, they ruthlessly wreck the
part behind them for which they have
no use.
Thus fared the towns which fell in order
from east to west in the north —Nikopol,
then Krivoi Rog, then Uman —then those
in the soutH along the Black Sea, begin-
ning with Kherson, which was described
by the official Russian correspondents —
no others being allowed within hundreds
of miles of the front —as the worst-
damaged German-evacuated city they had
seen. It was claimed that another “Kanev
pocket” of Germans had been cut off
and annihilated between Kherson and
Nikolaev ; the Sixth Army, part or whole.
The original Sixth was the army
destroyed at Stalingrad. A few weeks
ago it, or a portion of it, was reported in
Italy. Also, it was claimed that Marshal
Tito was beating it hollow —a versatile
force and a whale for taking punishment.
The usual turgid nonsense emanated
from unofficial Moscow correspondents,
two in particular, it being implied that
the invaders were on the brink of complete
disaster. The essential facts were that the
Russians, though, as always, fighting with
great spirit, had not been able to break
the German defences at the key point of
Vinnitsa, midway along the escape
“sewer,” until the German armies to the
east were out, or at Gaivoron or Tarnor
pol, even though their approach to the
last town was supposed to be a headlong
pursuit of frightened and fleeing rem-
nants. Later the Germans, following on
previous successive breaks in order from
east to west, began to retire in the Yam-
pol-Vinnitsa sector, and presently it was
reported that the Russians were across
the Dniester on a 30-mile stretch, in the
Yampol area, south-east of Mogilev
Podolsk.
The Retreat Organised
The retreat was organised. The enemy
has so far had reserves both of men and
material to fling in forces wherever needed
to hold the Russian drives at appropriate
stages. But it is a perilous, even pre-
carious, business for him.
The nature of his strength is shown
by the fact that he is achieving regular
blockages of Red Army advances —at
Narva, at Pskov, at Vitebsk, on the
Smolensk-Orsha main road to Warsaw,
on the Beresina and in the Dnieper cor-
ridor, with four-fifths of German fighter
strength in the west and with at least 60
divisions in the south of France, Italy
and the Balkans, six or seven divisions in
Finland (apart from Finnish divisions),
12 known to be in Norway, several in
Denmark, a supposed 70 in their Central
German defence areas and 30 in Northern
France, Belgium and Holland.
The enemy’s gloom, expressed through
General Dittmar or Dietmar and his
satellites, is a weapon dragged out of the
cupboard so often in the past year to
delude the Allied press that all the bristles
have been worn off it. Any experienced
watcher of the war can prophesy accu-
rately the stage in any Russian advance
when this German calamity propaganda
will begin and what its purport will be.
A Russian break-through on the line
west of the tail of the German retreat
out of the Dnieper Bend would be worth
1000 admissions by General Dietmar or
10,000 wails from the mysterious Captain
Sertorius —or is it Stertorius? A batch
of 50,000 authenticated prisoners would
be worth a year’s dispatches from
Reuter’s young man in Moscow. How-
ever, in the “annihilation” of the Sixth
Army 13,859 prisoners were claimed.
The apparent fright of the Rumanians
and of the Finns can be evaluated oniy
when those small peoples translate their
shout for peace into actions. And the
example of Italy has shown terribly that
the enemy can prepare even for the col-
lapse of his Allies.
The Burden on Germany
According to a world-wide Communist
campaign now in progress, the enemy in
Italy is standing up not merely to the
Anglo-Amferican forces, which have com-
plete domination of the seas and the most
powerful bombing force ever known at
their disposal, but to “300,000 guerrillas
[an army greater than Tito’s] in northern
Italy,” plus 500,000 “guerrillas” m
France. # .
This the enemy is doing in spite of bis
losses in Russia. Marshal Stalin said on
November 6 last that in 1942 the enemy
had in Russia 249 divisions, of which 179
were German. He declared that during
the year the enemy had lost —on the Rus-
sian front alone —“4,000,000 officers and
men, of whom 1,800,000 were killed.
These staggering totals are equal to about
300 divisions—sl divisions more than the
total strength of the Axis armies on the
front when 1943 began. And the killed
were equivalent to 130 divisions.
When, in July, 1918, the Germans
found themselves faced with the prob-
lem of finding 500,000 reinforcements,
after having lost on all fronts in 3| years
half the force which they are supposed
to have lost on the eastern front in this
war in 2\ years, they collapsed igno-
miniously.
But in 1943 they not merely brought
forward new men equal to ten years’ con-
scriptive call-up of normal age classes,
but they have since been reported by
Moscow to have lost further hundreds of
thousands. And they have provided a
million men for fighting fronts and com-
munications of Italy and the Balkans and
consolidated their western defences to
the tune *of hundreds of thousands of
men without breaking.
Mr. Churchill said a few weeks ago
that they still had 300 divisions.
Where Will It End?
German threats that there will be sen-
sational events on the Eastern Front
within the next six weeks, together with
hints at a return to trench warfare, have
been renewed. There is no indication how
far the retreat is likely to go before an
attempt at a stand is made. In the south
there are the alternatives of a line
anchored at the sea end to Odessa—from
which Russians are about 80 miles at
nearest beyond Nikolaev —or some posi-
tions further east along the Pruth
anchored on the Beskiden ranges in the
Carpathians among the well-worn battle-
grounds of the last war.
It was suggested here (10/2/’43), when
the German line was still 300 to 400 miles
east of its present positions, that the
obviously organised retreat from the
Volga showed signs of not ending till it
had passed west into Poland, beyond the
Marshes in the south and north, in the
territory in which Schlieffen and Falken-
hayn planned their Russian defences. The
yielding up of Dubno, in the “Luck
triangle” on the edge of the Pripet
Marshes, and of Kowel strongly favor this
theory. Younger German officers in the
last war even favored drawing the Rus-
sians back on to German soil in Silesia ;
but Hindenburg refused to face the poli-
tical implications of such strategy.
It was suggested also (B. 29/9/’43),
when the later stages of the retreat from
beyond the Dnieper had set in, that the
Leningrad sector might be pulled back
into Estonia to the Dvina and Riga, a
move which seems to be in progress.
General Dietmar six months ago de-
clared that there must be a limit to the
retreat, but that he did not know where
the High Command planned that it should
be drawn.
“Disengaging” Movements
The one indication, a faint one cer-
tainly, is to be found in the phrasing
of German communiques. It has been
noticeable that whenever the German
High Command has stated that it is in-
volved in a “disengaging movement,”
as it has done in respect of the
Dnieper-front operation, it is coming
to a stage at which it proposes
to make the most stubborn resistance.
On previous such occasions, its forces
seemed to have been followed almost at
a run for 20, 30 or more miles a day by
the Red Army. Then there is a sudden,
hard turning at bay.
This disengaging manoeuvre was men-
tioned before the enemy turned round
and recaptured Kharkov, after the retreat
from the Volga early last year, again in
the drive on the Beresina, on Bobruisk
and Jlobin, where the Russians have in-
cessantly tried to break through since
December 1, and again on the central
sector across the Moscow road, of which
the key positions are Mogilev, Orsha,
Borisov and Vitebsk.
Central Sector Resistance
The position of this sector is as signi-
ficant as the happenings in the Crimea
and in Finland. After the retreat from
Smolensk the enemy reported a “dis-
engaging” move here. The Russian ad-
vance, which was declared (unofficially)
to be surging on and about to engulf
Mogilev, Orsha and particularly Vitebsk,
then stopped abruptly. Little has been
said about the events in this sector, since
Moscow correspondents have no dealings
with aught save victory. But the fact
remains that since December 13 Rus-
sian armies, usually as large as those in
the southern Dnieper Bend sectors, some-
times larger and running up to 40 divi-
sions, have hurled themselves against the
approaches to the key points of the cen-
tral sector, and particularly Vitebsk, with-
out coming within gunfire of any of them.
When the story of these battles comes to
be written it is almost certain that they
will be accounted some of the greatest of
the Russian war, overshadowing many of
those which have sent sub-editors scream-
ing for black type.
The central sector covers the main
routes into Russia; but as the Germans
here crossed the Russian border first, so
they are leaving last in accordance with
the rotation which they have established
everywhere else in the retreat; that is, if
they intend to leave at all without being
forced by dire disaster.
Behind the Mogilev-Vitebsk sector
front, 130 miles nearer the Polish border
than Orsha, is Minsk, the enemy’s central
administrative and communication centre
in Russia. Here is his main army radio
station.
With the thaw duly arrived, a break-
through in the central area becomes
vitally important to the Russians.
Pushing across the black-muddy Bere-
sina, south of Mogilev, in the terrible,
little inhabited country towards Bobruisk,
they are literally between the devil on
the north and the sea of unfrozen Pripet
Marshes on the south. It is an ugly
corner, with many difficult rivers fanning
out through a slough in the Russian rear
—Pripet and its tributaries, Beresina,
Dnieper,.Sozh and others.
All progress by the Red Army in the
important sectors immediately north of
the Pripet Marshes depends on a break-
through in the Minsk sector, either at
Vitebsk or further south.
Bombing Ranges
One factor which certainly will affect
plans of the German High Command is
the air. The enemy will do his best to
implement his main defence before he
reaches a line from which the eastern
German industrial regions can be bombed
under fighter cover—unless, of course, he
believes that Russia’s air force is im-
plicitly tied to tactical operations on the
battle line.
The Russians have done remarkably
little bombing of German cities. Their
few raids on Berlin and Konigsberg in
1941, which were described as “syste-
matic” bombing, were made with two or
three squadrons per raid.
The safety limit is now being reached.
Tarnopol is about as close to Breslau as
Hamburg to London —about 400 miles ;
Brno in Bohemia —home town of the
Bren gun—about the same. The central
German positions east of Orsha are about
400 miles from Konigsberg in East Prus-
sia. At their nearest point the Russians
are as close to Berlin as the British-
American armies in Italy—about 700
miles.
The Admiralty reports that sloops escorting
an Allied convoy in the North Atlantic de-
stroyed six U-boats in 20 days. The convoy
lost no ships. Certainly one of the great
achievements of the sea war.
* * * *
R.A.F. air activity has compelled the Japanese
to discontinue the use of submarine mother-
ships in the Indian Ocean. R.A.F. squadrons
now operate the whole depth of the command
from the Persian Gulf down the length of the
East African coast.
* « * *
German U-boats, as well as Jap submarines,
are in the Indian Ocean.
* * * *
H.M.S. Mahratta, a Tribal-class flotilla-
leader, completed since the outbreak of war,
is reported lost. Also the U.S. submarines
Capelin and Sculpin.


*
*
*
m
m
m
/MVN
*
i
m
m
Production Is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty In
obtaining- Gillette blades.
Gillette is called up. No more exemptions for
the Blue Gillette or 7 o’clock blades. As stocks run
out they must get into battledress as Gillette
“Standard” Blades. But they’ll still give you the
finest shave you can buy.
Gillette
in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
m
wmfnerAMi
mp mm...
Get Quick, Soothing
Relief From lodex
When long hours, unaccustomed activity and hard, hot pavements
cause excruciating foot ailments, thousands find comfort with
lodex. DIRECTIONS : Soak feet in hot, soapy water for 10 minutes
and dry thoroughly. Then gently massage
lodex into the inflamed and tender parts,
giving particular attention to the skin
between the toes.
From your Chemist, Price 2/-
NOSTAIN lODINE
gdfg
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Forty-five thousand attended the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday, when, though fields
were large for most races, backers were
wide of the mark in only one —Salivant’s
Cup. The tote turnover was £129,272.
After Flight’s win owner B. Crowley gave
200gns. to the Fund, which, it is antici-
pated, will benefit to the extent of quite
£22,000.
The most that can be said of the
Quality Handicap is that Hall Stand
paced it with Flight (Thompson) for a
couple of furlongs, and after that the
latter always had the race won. Young
Valais, Hauteur, Hall Stand, Tahmoor
and Mayfowl were Flight’s nearest fol-
lowers turning for home, and in run-
ning second after dropping back near-
ing the turn Hall Stand showed some of
his earlier form. Warlock was fourth,
and with a little more luck would have
got third. The belief that Katanga’s
freshness would give him a chance found
him backing, but he did no better than
could be expected in a good sprint han-
dicap field.
Salivant (Gollogly) completely upset
backers’ calculations in the Comforts
Fund Cup. Gauntlet was the early
leader, but Salivant was not far away
from him at the six furlongs, and had
him beaten soon after entering the
straight. Cream Puff then made a late
run, but though it carried her into second
place she was unequal to troubling the
leader. In running fourth Prince drew
attention to his chance of picking up a
race in the near future, and Tidal Wave’s
form proved that the handicapper had
not erred in treating him leniently. Two’s
Company never raised her backers’ hopes.
It seems as if our handicappers will
have to revise their ideas as to the merits
of some horses now carrying top weights
in the two-year-old races. Omitting
Scaurfel, who was left at the post, and
Shannon, who failed to get through in
the straight, nothing carrying over 8.3
had anything to do with the finish of the
Services Handicap. If nearly as good as
previously supposed Cragsman had suffi-
cient lead from Britannic (Cook), Beau
Monde and Liberality at the turn to have
given him the race, but he stopped
after entering the straight, „and as soon
as Britannic put in his claim the race
was over. Invictus again finished strongly
to get second from Prince Verity, while
Felcorn’s fourth makes him worth fol-
lowing. A shapely colt by Golden
Sovereign from Modiste II (dam of
Royal Chief, Beau Repaire and Mac-
Arthur), Britannic cost 1500gns. as a
yearling, and even at that figure promises
to prove a most satisfactory purchase.
Britannic’s half-brother, by Marconi-
gram, is catalogued for the coming year-
ling sales.
Severus (by Pantheon) displayed a lot
of pace in the Automatic Totalisators
Handicap, but when the straight was
entered was quickly settled by Versailles.
Then Falcon Knight (Darke), who made
a good run from the turn, joined in. He
looked as if he were going to win com-
fortably, but Versailles stuck to his work
so gamely that it was by only a head
the chestnut defeated him. Cordale,
who was a close third, will be improved
by his run, as will Haddon Hall. Even
allowing that he did not get a smooth
passage from the turn All Scot made an
indifferent showing.
Always possessor of a good reputation
as a track galloper Mustang (Knox) had
not shown form in public until he dead-
heated Cumberoona (Munro) for the
Diggers’ Encourage Handicap, in which
he finished so fast that he would have
won outright in another stride or two.
Both dead-heaters were a long way back
at one stage, while Rufus, who hung on
well to run a close third, had a lead of
several lengths at the three furlongs. Wee
Laddie and Marquis, who started from
outside positions, did best of the unplaced
lot. There was strong support for
Bright Spot, but he was never dangerous,
nor was Chief Man, who was also in the
betting.
Gold Head (Thompson) did all that
was expected of him in the Bookmakers’
High weight Handicap. Nicely placed
throughout, he had Babillard’s measure a
furlong from home, and then in turn wa»
able to stall off Glendower and Thrax.
Apart from Guild Hall, who was promi-
nent at the straight entrance, but then
dropped out, nothing outside those
mentioned showed form of any account.
He * * *
Lilette (8 to 1) compensated for her
Newmarket second by winning the £l5OO
Alister Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley
last Saturday. Always well placed, she
won narrowly from the faster-finishing
Nagation, with Millais third. Lilette is
not a very robust mare, and her trainer,
H. Wolters, considers she might have won
the Newmarket had that race been de-
layed a week He is of opinion that she
needs a fortnight to recover from a race.
Tranquil Star, favorite at 7 to 4, finished
ninth after a slow start and running wide
on the turn.
Two “fields” raced in opposite direc-
tions in an extraordinary face for the
Travancore Steeple. Six horses fell or
lost their riders early, doubled in their
tracks and momentarily threatened to
crash into the runners racing in the right
direction. Distracted by an official, they
turned round and pulled up in a heap
immediately before the last fence. R.
Watts, rider of the winner. Solecism, had
to make a detour to avoid an accident.
The riderless horses, together with Blue-
beard, who fell at the last jump when
seemingly sure of a place, finished the
course as if they were actual runners.
* * « «
There was only one performance of
special merit at Randwick on Saturday—
that of Flight in the Quality Handicap.
The way she ran the last furlong was
most impressive. Her penalty makes her
Doncaster task harder, but of those be-
hind her last week Hall Stand seems
most likely to be a danger. Mayfowl
may be better suited by the Sydney Cup,
and Warlock’s fourth scarcely made his
Doncaster chance a winning one. My
early* choice, Kiaree, made a poor show-
ing, but as he behaved similarly in a
seven-furlong handicap three weeks prior
to winning the Epsom there may still be
hope for him.
Why Tribal continues prominent in the
betting is a puzzle. On his run of last
week a win for him is almost out of
the question, but seemingly some backers
have reason for thinking it possible. How-
ever, improvement of many pounds on
his last two runs will be necessary to
make Tribal a Doncaster winner. The
distance is likely to trouble Triad.
Turning to other horses that ran well
on Saturday Versailles’s display with 9.2
was excellent, but there is a wide margin
between an average three-year-old handi-
cap and a Doncaster. Prince ran well in
the Comforts Fund Handicap, and, with
only a pound more than when second in
the last Epsom, is nicely treated, but the
trouble with him is that he is not a really
smart beginner.
Stable-companions War Eagle and
Chinook are among those yet to be seen
out, and though the betting market
favors the former it will not be surpris-
ing if Chinook is eventually given prefer-
ence. He shaped very attractively in a
short spin with War Eagle at the last
Rosehill meeting. On last week’s form,
however. Flight, Hall Stand and Prince
appear to have a pull over the other
Doncaster horses seen out.
Whether Falcon Knight’s success last
Saturday greatly enhanced his Sydney
Cup chance is a matter of opinion. To
me it seemed as if he took a little too
long to beat Versailles, who was giving
him 121 b., to make his Cup chance out-
standing. He may be the stayer his sup-
porters believe, but there is nothing really
solid upon which to base that idea, his
best distance effort being when he ran
well, though unplaced, in the Colin
Stephen Stakes last spring. Cream Puff
made as attractive a showing as any of
the Cup candidates seen out on Saturday.
It looked as, if a little more use had been
made of her earlier and she had avoided
coming from near the rails to the outside
in the straight, she might have won.
Although Mayfowl did so well in the
Quality Handicap, the Cup may give him
a better chance than the Doncaster. Moon-
darewa, Shining Night, Abspear, Two’s
Company and Grand Fils did nothing
to bring them into the limelight for the
AJ.C.’s two-miler, and Tidal Wave will
have to make rapid improvement in order
to play a prominent part in the decision
of that race. So far he is a long way
from the form he displayed when, with
8.2, he dead-heated Velocity (7.7) for
third in Saul’s Australian Cup. Cum-
beroona and Mustang may stay, but it
will take a run in open company to give
a better idea as to their prospects.
* * * *
Flight has been penalised 51b. for the
Doncaster, making her weight 9st., but
remains at Bst. in the Sydney Cup.
♦ * ♦ *
At £l5OO a year applications for the
Sydney Turf Club’s secretaryship are
bound to be numerous. Many well-
credentialled men arc sure to try their
luck, and the club should be sure of
something more than a capable clerk.
The services of some of the present secre-
taries of clubs must necessarily be dis-
pensed with when the the S.T.C. takes
oyer, but they will be fairly compensated
with a month’s pay for each year they
have been associated with the club from
which they are retiring.
* * * *
The Sydney T.C. will shortly have to
give thought to the courses it purposes
taking over. June 30 of this year is set
down for the club’s decision, though
the Governor may extend the time to
September 30. The resumption or pur-
chase of courses must take place not later
than January 1, 1946. Everyone would
like to see the S.T.C. with a modernly
designed course of its own, but without
Government financial backing that seems
something in the distant future.
• ♦ * *
“O for a Helis! ” might well be the wish
of breeders who are sending in year-
lings for the coming sales at Randwick.
Helis was America’s sensational buyer of
last year. He commenced this year with
over 30 two-year-olds. Several were
bought privately as yearlings at high
prices, these including three by Mah-
moud, but the ten he bought as yearlings
at auction at the Keeneland and Meadow
Brook sales cost him $158,100 (some-
thing over £A48,000).
* * * ♦
Kooba Stud (F. W. Hughes Pty.)
bought freely at last week’s sales in Mel-
bourne. In addition to giving 1500gns,
for Skipton it purchased Regular Bache-
lor (1936 Futurity Stakes and New-
market winner) for 230gns. and five
brood mares. Kooba’s expenditure was
2200gns.
Miscellaneous
Stan Wilkes added to his unbroken
string of victories at Leichhardt by skit-
tling Jim Fraser in the fourth round.
Although obviously overmatched, Fraser
carried'the fight to Wilkes until he was
downed twice in the second, the bell
coming to his rescue at “six.” He was
floored three times in the fourth, and on
the third occasion the referee, Les Pear-
son, did not trouble to count.
Nine or ten pounds heavier, though
not so well off for condition, the Ameri-
can Carl Dell made a gallant effort to
whip Vic Patrick at the Sydney Stadium;
indeed he looked a winner at the end of
six rousing rounds. But with his nerves
and intelligence unshaken, Patrick bided
his time, and with solid lefts he weakened
Dell in the seventh. One to the solar
plexus made the Yank gasp for breath.
When the eighth began Vic sailed in, and
a left downstairs made Dell lower his
chin defence. Another left felled him for
the full count. Cheers followed him to
his dressing-room.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Trial Handicap: Mustang, 1 ;
High Stepper, 2; Marquis or Wee
Laddie, 3.
MacArthur Stakes: Prince Verity,
1; King Step, 2; Invictus, 3.
Rawson Stakes (in the absence of
Flight): Moorland, 1 ; Mayfowl,
2 ; Katanga, 3.
Railway Handicap: Hall Stand,
1 ; Warlock, 2 ; Chinook, 3.
Autumn Handicap: Prince, 1 ;
Night Parade, 2 ; Wellesley, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Cor-
dale, 1; Van Eyck, 2 ; First Water,
3.
Parramatta Handicap: Grand
Prodige, 1 ; Dick Whittington, 2;
Haripur, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
There was an effervescence about Aus-
tralian Comforts Day which made buy-
ing a button a pleasure and the casting
of a threepenny bit into the coin-catcher’s
net a “hang-the-expense” gesture. Cakes
have never been more luscious than those
sold in Martin-place ; the flowers, too,
were radiant. All day there were music
and high, bright cries and the clink of
money floating in through the win-
dows overlooking the chief collection
block. Here the Mayoress’s stall was a
great lure, and here, too, China’s stall
was as flint to steel to the housewife.
Linen tablecloths and napkins were to
be had coupon free. Lord Wakehurst did
an early round. With him was Peter
Lubbock. During the afternoon the final-
ists in the Sports Girl Quest visited the
fair.
In Hyde Park, to the right of the
Archibald Fountain, was pitched a vast
white tent —nothing military about it,
though. It screened a well sprung and
polished dancing floor from the gusty
day. Here from noon onwards dancers
stepped and turned, while the band told
of bluebirds flying over the white cliffs
of Dover, and suchlike. All day the
flaps of the tent were four and five deep
in lookers-on. City workers and flocks
of pigeons turned a pleased ear to the
sounds while sharing lunches. But by
evening the dance area was too popular.
Hundreds outside wanted a share in what
the hundreds inside were enjoying, and
chairman of the fair committee Sam
Walder asked the police to ring down
the curtain. The tent is the knight’s prop-
erty. So it was lights out at 8.30 instead
of midnight as planned.
All navy lovers are expected to dress
the ship next Saturday afternoon at the
R.S.Y.S. at Kirribilli. The side lawn,
the borders of which are already gay with
flowers, will go all Palm Beachish with
gaudy umbrellas, and the awninged stalls
will be piled with the useful and the
ornamental. Bring a gift and buy a gift
and help the comfort of the men at sea.
Mrs. E. K. Marriott is president of the
women’s auxiliary organising the flutter.
In five weeks the Sports Girl Quest
unearthed almost £34,000 for the A.C.F.
Schoolgirl Eve Soper, winner of the
metropolitan division, lives at Vaucluse,
and is a pupil of Girls’ High. Contest
winner was Betty Single. Pat Lynch, of
Waverley, had the largest score —£5000
backed her nomination. The 15 finalists
were given Town Hall receptions and
lunches, they were taken on tours, were
invited to the theatres, and even had a
fanfare of trumpets blown in their honor.
That was when they visited the Anzac
Buffet. At the A.C.F. race meeting on
Saturday they were the guests of the
A.J.C. and were duly presented to the
vice-regals. The meeting was a cheery
affair. A.J.C. chairman George Main
and Mrs. Main entertained. Mayor and
Mayoress Bartley were, of course, among
the guests. Wasn’t it their special fund
day? Lord and Lady Wakehurst, the
Hon. Henrietta Loder and Peter Lub-
bock supplied the G.H. aura.
N.B. —Marie Baker, young and gifted,
has booked the Conservatorium for
Thursday night. Bach, Beethoven,
Brahms, Chopin, Debussy, Ravel will be
the composers featured by the pianist.
Lady Wakehurst and a crowd of citi-
zens had a grand night out last week at
the preview of the Stage Door Can-
teen. The Governor’s wife did the open-
ing in her happy manner, and thereafter
sat back laughing at and applauding a
programme that was as artful as it was
spontaneous. Babe Scott, in pale-blue,
prattled about a verbal encounter with
the gentleman at the weighing machine
at the air port: “He said to me ‘What’s
your name?’ and I said ‘Babe,’ and he
said ‘Babe what? Babe Ruth?’ ” Kitty
Bluett, blonde hair cascading between
cinnamon-brown hat and suit, proved
the bright little comedian that would be
expected from one carrying on the Bluett
tradition.
The tiny stage, on which the oddest
looking collection of first - nighters
(painted) gazed from their shrimp-pink
boxes, glittered with talent. There was
Peter Dawson singing like the great bari-
tone he is of tall trees, and golden wattle
(that was part of a Henry Lawson poem),
then later of changing the guard at Buck-
ingham Palace and, of course, launching
into the tragically despairing “Boots.”
One of the highlights of his group was
Harald Bowden’s “Spirit of England,” to
which Peter has written the music.
Ernest Lashmar, good neighbor to both
of them, as indeed the Lashmars are to
everybody, played the accompaniments.
Strella Wilson and Marie Burke, both
in black, and a great advertisement for
the Australian climate, sang like prima
donnas. The overflowing soprano of the
mural representing opera probably turned
green with envy of their figures. Bill
Constable, Lesbia Thorpe, Amie King-
ston and Beryl Hartland are responsible
for the clever bits of nonsense on the
walls. A young man from Adelaide,
Teddy Howard, who melted every
woman’s heart with his singing of “The
Rose in Her Hair,” can’t be forgotten.
Nor can John Fuller’s bit of playacting
when Marie Burke sang and made eyes
at him from the stage.
The place was stiff with radio and stage
actors and actresses, and a small army of
talent did an act that need not shame
Chaplin, carrying trays shoulder high in
an eye-blinking whirl of spaghetti and
coffee. After that was mopped up, and
the Government House party had gone,
Jimmy Bancks and Maurice Samuels got
busy and extracted another £505 from the
guests.
Mary Kiernan is a young Australian
travelling the country with the honor-
able intention of decentralising music.
She is taking her considerable gifts as a
pianist into the big and not so big cities
of the Commonwealth. She has already
given concerts in Melbourne, Ballarat,
Bendigo. After Sydney Mary intends to
visit Newcastle and thereby allow that
fastness of old King Coal to help the
funds of the Red Cross as the other
centres have done. , All this young
musician’s concerts are given to aid the
Red Cross. Vincent Wallace, composer of
“Maritana,” was a kinsman. The pianist
hersetf has already written much music.
Her Sydney recital will be given in the
Conservatorium on March 28. Broothorn
photo.
Soldiers lately returned to Australia
from German prison camps were the
speakers at the R.A.A.F. welfare centre
in George-street last Thursday afternoon.
Standing on the small dais with the warm
sunshine streaming on their backs, and
looking down at the vases where delicate
fronds of maidenhair fern mingled with
creamy frangipanni, those years must
have seemed to them like a bad dream
from which they were now gladly awak-
ened. Not that any told of undue hard-
ship. But it was significant that they were
still counting over the blessings of the
food parcels sent to them from home
through the Red Cross. One told how
the Australians would, when opportunity
could be contrived, pass on cigarettes to
Russian p.o.w. in a near-by camp.
President Mrs. Robbins welcomed the
guests. They were many—all mothers,
wives, sisters or best girls of airmen. She
told of the need for volunteers to help
the work of the canteen so that this club,
founded after World War I (by men of
the Australian Flying Corps), might con-
tinue its good work of lending a hand
(they call it “rehabilitation” now) to
returned airmen of World War 11. There
was music. Nora Mack, Florence Taylor,
Jessica Page and Mrs. Neville sang and
played, pleasing their listeners with ever-
green favorites. Nora Mack chose old
English, Jessica Page old Scots songs,
while Florence Taylor included “Roses
of Picardy.”
Another of Sydney’s pretty girls is to
become an American by marriage. She
is Patricia Murray, daughter of the Tom
Murrays, of Gladswood Gardens. Pat-
ricia, who was one of the group of well-
knowns who did a finishing course with
the Ladies of the Grail in Melbourne,
has been since her recent student days
busy helping the war effort. Her affianced
is Lieut. Edwin T. Hamilton, U.S.N.R.
He is the only son of the John Hamiltons,
of Tacoma, Washington, U.S.A.
From Melbourne
Inquiries about the lot of British ser-
vice men who’ve been visitors to this city
made among the many hospitality and
welfare organisations dotted about the
city reveals that quite a few pop in from
time to time. Most of them, however,
seem to make firm friends of local fami-
lies very quickly, and thereafter don t
have to look for other hospitality. The
blue-grey British Air Force uniform
(which catches lasses’ eyes) is well known
to the R.A.A.F. Sister Susie Bureau,
where a lot of the lads come to have
mending or darning done. The bureau
still cherishes memory of the occasion
when an R.A.F. officer looked in to have
his newly-awarded D.F.C. ribbon sewn on.
“Now is the time for sowing tulips,”
to misconstrue the Latin bard, and the
garden-minded are lining seedsmen’s
counters to ponder the conflicting claims
of Clara Butt (pale pink), Rev. Ewbank
(deep purple) and other varieties. The
fact that last year’s tulip bulbs didn’t
flower or got eaten by wire-worms
doesn’t dim this year’s hopes. It’s said
that tulips do best in the slimiest and
most highly-smelling mud that can be
found, but fear of swamp fever or
typhoid discourages research along that
line.
When the fox-terrier comes home with
the tail feathers of a rooster between his
teeth it is as well to reflect before yielding
to a cowardly instinct and hiding the cul-
prit and the plumes in the darkest re-
cesses of the woodshed. Feathers’ are on
the rationed list, and very hard to come
by. Hat-shops guard their small supplies
with their lives, and think four times be-
fore mounting them on anyone’s head-
gear. They’re only allowed to have a
certain number each month from whole-
sale featherers, or whatever the suppliers
call themselves.
Fair words from knight Harry Lawson
opened Pat Heffernan’s show at the
Velasquez Galleries yesterday. It is the
artist’s first show for a very long time,
as he has been too busy with his war-
time job to turn out enough brushwork
for a one-man show ere this. Many
pictures have a war motif, including some
made at Victorian R.A.A.F. stations. One
such is a portrait of Wing-Commander
Alan Rawlinson, D.F.C., who is brother-
in-law of Pat’s sister Hilda, who is Mrs.
Bill Rawlinson. Bill has been assistant
to Dr. Charles Kellaway at the Eliza Hall
laboratories (he is continuing in the post
under newly-appointed Dr. Burnett), so
the portrait of Dr. Kellaway in Pat’s
.exhibition is another link with the family’s
doings.
Most interested spectator at the show’s
opening was the artist’s decorative wife,
Diane Heffernan, who is in the historic
tradition of painters’ wives in being often
the subject of her husband’s canvases.
She isn’t figuring on the walls at this
show, but a new portrait of her is in
the making, ordered by the artist’s mother
(professionally Dr. Hilda Greenshields).
The pair have two small sons. The young-
est, aged three, showing the paternal
talent for painting already, has requested
his parents to “submit my paintings for
the Archibald Prize” ; so the great con-
troversy has reached even the nursery.
Spencer Sheir made the picture of Diane.
Prophecy is well within the bailiwick
of the dominie (“Mark my words, this
boy will one day be Prime Minister”), so
Hetty Gilbert, president of the Victorian
Teachers’ Union (a chalk-wielder of long
standing), was not presumptuous in pre-
dicting a great and glorious future for
Disney cartoon characters as vehicles of
educational propaganda through films.
This she did in a speech at the annual
meeting of the Children’s Cinema Coun-
cil. She holds that the personalised
animal is an especially good vehicle for
propaganda, aimed at teaching everyone
to grow better and better. The idea, of
course, isn’t new (grandma had it when
she pointed the moral from Aisop’s
fables), but old ideas have to be restated
every now and then. Hetty gives the
British films a pat on the back for using
realistic backgrounds, whereas many
Hollywood scenes are divorced from
reality.
The Children’s Cinema Council, by the
way, isn’t by any means a mushroom
institution. It has passed its 14th birth-
day. One of its most energetic supporters
in the past has been its just-retired secre-
tary, Mrs. P. Kloot, who has been forced
to leave the more active side of the work
because of ill-health. The council’s pur-
pose is to encourage the presentation of
films suitable for the child mind. The
council aims eventually to organise a
bureau from which films of value in
schools could be circulated.
A birthday this month is that of
R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries Committee’s Wel-
fare House. There won’t be much cele-
bration though, because the house organ-
isers are doing a 24-hours-a-day job
with their guests (children of R.A.A.F.
men stay at the house whilst mother is
in hospital or out of action for some
other reason —mothers sometimes stay,’
too). Those who like taking children for
walks in the park (there’s a park just
across the road) are welcomed by the
committee, if only for an hour or two
each week. Reading story-books is
another job that calls for volunteers. Wel-
fare House, 87 Alma-road, St. Kilda, and
R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries Committee head-
quarters, 7th Floor, Howey Court, are
addresses where offers of help will be
welcomed.
The photographic show “America
Marches” received a boost from Mrs.
J. D. G. Medley, who with Mrs. Wesley
Ince hostessed a party of Melbourne
women engaged in war work and Ameri-
can women stationed here. The Vice-
Chancellor’s wife has a nice choice of
words, and made a good speech on blood-
is-thicker-than-water lines. Mrs. Clarence
Spiker, who also had gazed at the camera
pictures, told the gathering how, when
coming south with Consular husband, she
was shown a map of Australia upside
down by a Digger who asked her what
place it was. She thought it was the
U.S.A. The party ended with the ritual
that never is forgotten— tea.
A damsel who knows her coffee swears
the best brew in Melbourne is to be
found at the A.C.F. curiosity shop in the
Manchester Unity—and that’s not propa-
ganda for a good cause, either. Coffee
and cookies (which means, for those not
up in Americana, nice little home-made
biscuits —the American biscuit is a
scone) are dispensed at sixpence a go at
the shop. There are comfy little stools
to sit on and a table to rest the elbows
on if you want to tell the story of your
life.
A wedding date as changeable as this
city’s weather has been afflicting Alison
Hamer, who has had to change plans a
couple of times in the last
because her betrothed, Lieut. Finlay
Patrick (A.1.F.), has been unable to get
leave at the appointed time. At the
moment next Saturday seems likely to
be the day, and white satin and pearls
are being given an airing. Husband-to-
be is a law graduate of the same vintage
as Major Dick Hamer, so the family
fondness for the law is coming out in
the second generation.
From over the border:
Are ideas of feminine attractiveness chang-
ing? A competition for the best “bathing
beauty” jn Adelaide brought to the front the
usual batch of petite figures, but the winner
was a stalwart six-footer, towering by a head
above the rest. However, the voting was by
weight of money, “Miss Kelvinator” first,
“Miss General Motors-Holden” second. Penny
votes brought £3400 for the F.F.C.F.
The efforts of local Australia-China
friendship groups to engender an appreci-
ation of Chinese art, though frequent
and enthusiastic, aren’t so effective as the
examples of the practical application of
these artistic principles in the dressing of
the many Chinese lasses now living here.
Many came over as students before the
fall of Malaya, some as evacuees after
that debacle. What strikes Australian
women most forcibly is the beautiful
patterns of the materials of which their
frocks are made.
Tackled on the subject, those who know
the drapery trade from inside explain
that the superiority of Oriental designs
isn’t only accounted for by the sense of
“line” which is so deeply rooted in the
Chinese nation, but is also one of the
results of small-craftsman production as
against the mass-produced article of the
Western world. Cloth manufacturers and
shops prefer hackneyed, conventionalised
designs because these can be sold to
thousands of women, whereas a distinc-
tive design, however beautiful, catches
the eye. “That woman’s wearing the
same frock as me” then becomes a factor.


STOP*> w Rupture
Worries/
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
I
Mark ® loeaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
For Quality!
//CAREFUL BUYING was always sensible.
But now, in these Coupon Days, it is
more than sensible —it is vital.
You must get full value for money, and you
may be sure that every Akubra will give
you that. All these famous Australian Hats
are Pure Fur Felt.
100 K YOU B v 8 EST lit AN AKUBBA
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
T he Case for Cold Cathode
CAREFUL INVESTIGATORS ARE UNANIMOUS
IN THEIR FINDING —THAT "CLAUDE”
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING HAS MANY
ADVANTAGES over ordinary light sources . .
among the IMPORTANT facts NOTED WERE
Pictorial graph indicating comparative wattage required, using
incandescent and cold cathode light sources delivering the same
light output.
DIFFUSED INCAfIDESCEm INSTALLATIONS
E
a
300-. V
yi
mmt
&
0-€
450
1400 *
WATTS
1
"V
JOOW
300 W
Yx
'J
V
350
1100
WATTS>
WATTS
°Mr
2.
ZOOW
1.. 7
-isowS 200 V
235
750
WATT
Artsy 1
2ss.
One wiring point s&F"
for a CONTINUOUS line
of DIFFUSED LIGHT
up to 64 feet in length.
400
(VATTfi
125
WATT Sj
FI
30OW
mow
WATTS
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
“Brighter in the long run!’ 9
INSTALLATIONS on CASH or RENTAL BASIS.
Obtain EXPERT ADVICE without obligation. RING NOW.
CLAUDE NEON LIMITED
2 ALISON ROAD, RANDWICK,
UNO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH,
SYDNEY
and HOBART
SMOKE-OH!
“There are few actors left now. The race
has been allowed to die out. How are we going
to build up our theatrical art again?”— “D.T.”
By stages, of course.
+ + 4* 4*
“When a gentleman is travelling with a lady,
he lets her enter the bus or train first.”
— Woman’s mag.
Provided he can see at least two seats.
*1* *{•
“Keep your raincoat on a coat-hanger in a
dark, cool, dry place.”— Woman’s paper.
It will thus last you indefinitely.
“Younger men tend to choose more topical
subjects for their paintings, whereas older men
are inclined to dredge the past .’’—Sunday paper.
But they don't produce such muck all
the same.
Reason Enough.
“What is your opinion about young girls
smoking?”— Woman’s paper.
Nothing is more revolting. I don’t
think young girls realise, also, how they
injure their health. Not only does it make
their complexion muddy, but it ruins the
nerves, adversely affects the lungs, im-
pairs vision and intelligence and shortens
life. I wish I could make them realise,
too, how the action of sucking at fags
leads to sagging face muscles, which in
turn gives them a hard expression and a
prematurely aged look. Also, if they
would only give up smoking the cigarette
queue I get into on Tuesday mornings
would be shortened by at least ten yards.
O’Hell.
“Alcohol is responsible for the present loose-
ness in morality.”— Temperance lecturer.
So it doesn’t make people tight!
*l* 'l*
“There are no plain girls today.”— “Woman.”
The flapper press made them all beau-
tiful long ago.
4* 4* 4*
“Some faces are like the blank pages of a
book.” — Woman’s paper.
Others have a few lines on them.
*!• 4* 4*
“Do You Drink Enough?”
—Heading in weekly paper. '
We have no local option.
-*• 4* *
“It was thought that Thorn had been killed.
But here he was prosperous-looking and stout.”
—“ D.T.”
A Thorn in the flesh.
“Service men blamed the Railways Department
for missing the first two races at Rosehill.”
—“Telegraph
That’s unjust. Some of the staff had to
stay behind and run the trains.
Psychosis.
Infinite possibilities of chance
Opposing new vicissitudes of life
Beyond the scope of gory circumstance
May fructify the seed of social strife ;
And yet Philosophy may look askance
From hills of destiny where toil is rife :
Which factors all combine to make it plain
That I am spouting drivel once again.
T. W. NATHAN.
In Kind.
“Income tax is to be paid by Eskimos to the
Canadian Government, but it will be collected
in furs, not cash.” — “World’s News.’’’
The Canuck tax commissioner
Is tossing on his bunk.
He dreams he got a batch of furs
And all were labelled “Skunk.”
LOOBY.
Excess.
To gild refin-ed gold, to paint the lily,
As someone somewhere sings, is simply
silly.
And yet the Man-power boss —that
watchful lurker —
Still keeps on collaring the collared
worker.
BRIAN BUREAU.
A Matter of Tuition.
“A marriage school has been established in.
London by the Marriage Guidance Council.”
A school such as the one of which I
was principal, which caters for pupils at
all stages and from all angles of the
married state, confers a great boon
on the community. More especially if
the teacher, as I was, is conscientious in
his work.
I divided my school into various classes.
To young married men I gave special
tuition on the hanging of waistcoats at night
by putting them in such a position that as
soon as they woke after sleeping on the
side they favored their eyes would be on
the garment; naturally sleeping light was
taught in conjunction. Also the tactics
of keeping a ha’penny and some nails in
the trousers pocket while the bulk of their
cash was kept in a perfectly safe place,
such as the Jmndle of socks waiting to
K be darned, was part of the curriculum.
An innate chivalry which has ever been
strong within me forced me, naturally
enough, to devote most time to my class
of “problem” brides —taken one at a time
in my study, of course. Tears are so
often the lot of the not-so-long-married
girl when, ten minutes before her lord is
due to leave for the 8.12, he snaps “There
isn’t a damn’ button on this shirt!” In-
stead of their ruining the early-morning
paintwork, I gave them a range of snappy
comebacks, from “Well, there’s a needle
and cotton—have you got paralysis?” to
“You can go in your singlet for all /
care!” thus letting the cad know where
he stands right from the start.
Similarly, instead of a bride rushing
home and sobbing on the maternal bosom
when Cedric petulantly barks “Haven’t
you ever heard of anything else but fried
sausages?” she quickly learned, under my
tuition, to come back with “If you don't
like it, ape, there are plenty of cafes in
town.”
But it was in the field of reconciliation
that I modestly claim my best work was
done. And, regarding this, the claim by
the coalminers that theirs is a dangerous
occupation makes me laugh.
One day I was demonstrating to a
likely-looking, shapely redhead the art of
the Wheedling Approach. I instanced
the case where she had started on a new
shade of “bottled” stockings, and natu-
rally needed a new hat, gloves, frock, shoes
and bag to match. I was just showing
her (using myself as a model for her hus-
band) how to slink up to him, run her
fingers through his hair and begin a long,
clinging kiss when the door was pushed
open and a bulky, brutal-looking fellow
strode in.
He grabbed the redhead and said to me
“Are you the professor of this school?”
I said I was.
“Well, cop this diploma!”
Fortunately, in those days one didn’t
need coupons to get beefsteak.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Bushfire Fighters
From the platform of one isolated ex-
perience, “Nairb” (B. 1/ 3 / ’44) condemns
unworthy local residents who, doing little
to check and nothing to prevent bushfires,
“deserve no help from service men.” A
lifetime of first-hand knowledge re-
assures me. As a general rule no one
works harder to prevent and check fires
than the man of the district who fights
for life and home.
“Nairb” described a fire. Here’s an-
other —the usual one:
Word reached a southern Victorian
township that the fire over the range from
the cleared long-grass country had
broken away. Fighters were needed ur-
gently, and several localities were warned
to stand by for any emergency. The
people of the v district did what they have
done many times before and will do
again. Leaving the already understaffed
farms to the women they rushed to the
fire area from a radius of 40 miles round,
walking the last nine miles when the track
petered out.
Day and night for over a week they
slaved and sweated in some of the rough-
est country Nature ever made. Across
precipitous gorges and dangerous shale
slopes they hacked and raked the dense
scrub in a fourteen-mile break; they
burnt trails and snatched a drink when
the water joey walked the steep three-
mile return trip from the creek below.
Black and exhausted, they slept in turn
on the trail until the position was reason-
ably under control.
Two days later the fire again roared
over the line and the work began afresh.
There were no service men, no officials,
no outside assistants and no fuss. That
fire never reached the news. Bushfires
seldom do. Only when the local people
are unsuccessful does the city hear of
an outbreak, but every season the bush
folk fight to preserve what they have
built up, and a few more fires are added
to the long-forgotten list of victories.—
A Veteran (Vic.).
Symptoms
Here are some symptoms of a sicken-
ing democracy:
(1) The proceedings of our national
Parliament are a veritable travesty of
Parliamentary procedure. Bills are sub-
mitted not on their merits, but rather to
be rushed through either House, almost
with guilty haste, as the opportunity for
an easy passage occurs. It becomes neces-
sary to restrict the ancient practice of
free debate.
(2) Bureaucratic control is extended as
a cloak over weakness in formulation and
execution of Government policy, bring-
ing in its train all the evasions of the
‘‘black market.” The people are becom-
ing servants of the Government instead
of the Government being the servant of
the people.
(3) Progressive deterioration in the
moral fibre of the people finds its ex-
pression in lack, of industrial discipline
and contempt for lawful procedure.
Our “new order” certainly shall not
spring from promises of an Elysium with
higher wages, shorter hours and plenty
of everything without having to work for
it, because such promises, far from rous-
ing the people to fresh endeavor and a
rebirth of national vigor, are merely con-
cessions to the noisy clamor for easy
living.
Not until we realise that the war must
be paid for, that therefore work comes
before play, responsibilities before privi-
leges, service to the nation before service
to self, can we hope to build a structure
worthy of our nationhood and the sacri-
fices of our fighting men.
I was one of them for more than three
years.—S. J. (S.A.).
Coalminers
The trouble on the coalfields in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere is the first bitter
fruit of a war waged publicly to destroy
Fascism abfoad and privately to destroy
capitalism at home.
Coalminers are doing dangerous, dirty
work for no reward but money at a time
when money cannot buy (or buy enough)
of the recognised consolations for drud-
gery.
Deprived of these general anaesthetics
the miners turn naturally to politics as
an outlet for their sense of grievance.
Power politics being the fashion, the
miners turn to power politics of their
own, and, egged on by Communists, de-
mand an earnest of their share of the
spoils of victory. We have been warned.
—J. W. R. (Tas.).
Back to Magna Charta
It is appropriate upon the second
anniversary of the arrest of I*6 men in
connection with the Australia First
Movement in N.S.W. and their detention
without charge, interrogation or trial for
periods ranging from six months to 23
months, that Fraser, M.H.R., should pro-
pose the appointment of an official whose
work would be the safeguarding of civil
liberties.
Being vitally concerned in such
matters I arrived at the same conclusion
as Mr, Fraser as long ago as July 9 last.
Further reflection led to the conviction
that a College of Guardians (I think that
term is a better one than that used by
Mr. Fraser) was necessary so as to cover
"What's the name of that,boat we're leaving on tomorrow, sir?"
all aspects of personal and national life.
These Guardians, I suggest, should
be entitled as follows: Cultural and
Religious Liberties, Living Standards,
Working Standards (or Conditions), Soil
and Natural Resources, Morals and
Ethics, and Biological (Racial) Standards,
Such functionaries would need to have
a status equivalent to that of High Court
Judges, with all the privileges pertaining
thereto. Finally, they should not be eli-
gible to occupy any other public office
or position on retiring or resigning from
office; thus there would be no incentive
for them to abuse their office in any way.
—One of the Sixteen (N.S.W.).
The C.R.T. Programme
The recently promulgated plans of the
Commonwealth Reconstruction Training
Committee assure the futures of demobi-
lised service folk. All service men and
women honorably discharged after six
months’ service are eligible for benefits.
Full-time training in industry or a
fession will be given to those who showed
mental promise while in the army, to
those whose war-caused incapacity pre-
vents return to their old job, to all who
enlisted under the age of 21 and to
people requiring a short refresher or
whose pre-war occupation is already
overcrowded. Part-time training will be
provided for personnel who began a
course while in the army or who, it is
considered, would benefit by further edu-
cation.
Allowances for students are liberal.
On the -full-time scale a single man will
receive £3 ss. a week, a married man
£4 16s. a week and a married man with
children £5 ss. a week. Women will re-
ceive £2, or £2 15s. a week with depen-
dants ; part-time allowance will be £6O
p.a. to men and women. War widows
may participate on the same basis.
This training scheme is worth more
than all the Returned Soldier Preference
Acts in the world, — Pip (A.1.F.).
The Birthrate
Have contraceptives as much to do
with the low birthrate as most people
assume? An inquiry in the U.S.A. a few
years ago seemed to show that it is
normal for the average couple to have
children at much wider intervals than is
generally supposed, and that there is a
disturbingly high proportion of perma-
nent or temporary infertility in one or
other of marriage partners.
Here is some evidence from my per-
sonal observation: Three childless
couples all eager to have children —one
couple eventually adopted a child, A
pair who had a baby of their own five
years after they had given up hope and
adopted a child. A woman still unable
to conceive a second child five years after
her first, though pathetically anxious for
another. Two other women who
have been warned by their doctors not
to have more babies —one after her first,
the other after a stillborn second baby.
Childbirth is notoriously more difficult
for the white woman than for the primi-
tive mother. Is it not likely that as we
become more civilised we are gradually
losing much of the ability to propagate
ourselves, just as some of the more highly
developed hybrid plants have lost their
power to produce seeds? — Ajax (S.A.).
Allergic to Mothers
I hate to discourage “Cherub 103”
(B. 1/ 3 / ’44) further, but mothers 'are the
most unpopular set of people in the
public eye today. I know, because I’ve
been one for 14 years.
After having clinic babies which were
duly unbounced, undressed, unbreathed
on, etc., I found that doctors and dentists
hate mothers because they are convinced
that their little patiepts play up more in
their mothers’ presence. It’s the same in
hospitals; nurses groan loudly when
mother appears. Psychologists are quoted
to prove that there’s no hope for
any child left with its mother after the
age of two’ ;,,some sects think likewise.
Schoolteachers just can’t bear mothers
to appear on the horizon —they are so
unsettling to little Freddie or Effie. And
mothers are out of favor with their off-
spring for objecting to the what’s cookin’-
good-lookin’ type of conversation and
other modern developments.
For every criminal tendency shown by
the children the mother is blamed, espe-
cially by the father.
It’s no use trying to be a mother-in-
law either. Think of the tradition behind
her\ — Mrs. Bobbie (N.S.W.).
Settling the North
“Wingella” asks (B. 16/2/’44) “What’s
wrong with giving Aussies a chance to
open up and develop the North?” Noth-
ing. Who’s stopping ’em?
From my window as I write I can see
thousands of acres of land that we know
is good dairy land because pinpricks in
it are good dairy farms. There’s “the
chance for the Aussie to prove himself
the finest settler of all.”
Will he? Not he! He’s done all the
settling he intends to do, and when he
did it he wasn’t an Aussie —he was a
Pom. His kids reckon they have more
sense. — Hamlet (W.A.).
Breathes There a Man?
What’s wrong with the mentality of a
big section of Australians? Everywhere
one hears laudatory remarks about any-
thing Russian, usually by people who
have no factual knowledge of Russia or
the Russians. The same people appar-
ently have no pride in their own country
or in the doings of their own superb
A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and R.A.N.
This same peculiar mental kink abhors
all signs of success or authority (whether
it be deserved or not) in others, but at
the same time sees nothing incongruous
in wishing for that same success or
authority, irrespective of the fact that in
most cases the possessor of the kink is
not prepared to work for advancement. —
Edward W. Cowen (Q.).
Slums?
A point that is apt to be overlooked
in the crusade against so-called slums,
especially in Melbourne, is that the houses
are often as well built as modern gimcrack
villas in the poshier suburbs —in fact,
often better built. They were built in an
age of good architecture and honest
builders, when the material was solid
stone. In many cases their rooms are
loftier, their mouldings nicer and their
doors and windows better, both in looks
and quality, than their skimpy, ugly,
modern successors.
I lived for years at a nominal rent in
a “slum” which was spared from the
wreckers only because of the housing
shortage. Now its fine Georgian facade
of bluestone has gone to make break-
waters or road fillings. Nobody wanted
it because, in terms-of modem styles, it
was as old-fashioned as a crinoline or
a poke bonnet. But I will eat my hat if
Melbourne architects have done any
better or as well with their poky little
flats and their packing-case modern build-
ings, even from the point of view of com-
fort. 1 once showed a builder over this
vanished old mansion, and he regretfully
remarked “We can’t build houses like this
nowadays.”
There is no need for the authorities to
wipe the slate clean and knock these
houses down. All they need to do in
many cases is to modernise the sanita-
tion and equipment, as the Ministry of
Fine Arts did with the slums of Paris.
All good architecture has grown out of
the past; it has never made a clean sweep
and tried to be unique and original in
the modern manner.—F, S. (Vic.),
The Price of Booze
Under National Security Regulations
prices of spirituous liquors are fixed, but
in most Queensland towns different prices
are charged, even for measured nips
served at different hotels in individual
towns. Recent court prosecutions show
that the fixed price for a bottle of Aus-
tralian gin is 145., but on the basis of
21 measured nips to a bottle hotelkeepers
are raking in 265. 3d. per bottle, charging
Is. 3d. per nip. Soda water or cbrdial
is supplied at this price, but there is no
reduction when water is added.
Australian whisky, price fixed at 14s.
9d. a bottle, sells over the bar at any-
thing from Is. Id. to Is. 6d. a nip, indi-
vidual publicans in most towns appar-
ently fixing their own prices. If one is
lucky enough to induce some hotel-
keeper to sell a bottle of Australian
gin, whisky or brandy the racket be-
comes more apparent —the price is never
less than 30s. per bottle. — Hop Beer (Q.).
Bureaucracy in Being
A friend with a farm a few miles from
Melbourne took a day off (he could ill
spare it) to go into the city to push for-
ward negotiations which had lasted for
weeks by ’phone and letter —he wanted
a permit for a truck tyre, so that he could
get his vehicle back on the road. He
found the officials, face to face, cour-
teous, helpful and expeditious, and he got
what he wanted.
In the queue was a farmer from King-
lake, another from Wangaratta and an-
other from Swan Hill, on the Murray.
They had travelled a total of several hun-
dreds of miles on the same errand.
The cost of this sort of thing must be
colossal. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
That Income-tax “Lag”
If there is a lag in payment of income
tax perhaps some taxation official will
enlighten me in regard to the following
case.
I have a son who became liable
for payment of taxation for the first time
in the current financial year. Tax pay-
ments were deducted from his weekly
wages immediately. If that youth should
die at the close of the financial year we
are led to believe that there still exists
a liability for payment of the previous
year’s tax. But as he has already paid
this the law must be aimed at making
him pay twice on one year’s income.
If there is a lag no income tax should
be deducted from the income earned by
any individual in his or her first year of
employment. As each wage- or salary-
earner, on the contrary, has tax deducted
by employer on behalf of the department
from the first week in which earnings are
sufficient to incur the liability, where does
the lag come in?— Navvy (Tas.).


Cl
3
ft
w\ A
V
\ x v
¥ V-
m/
■ 3
:v>
, S?.
-
*»=S7i*sfc-
*
S¥.
3955
•'
/Z
i
♦ 'H.
The British
code of the sea...
Here is a story of chivalry. A story
as impudent as it is human. As daring
as it is chivalrous.
Phillip Graves in his "Record of
the War” (Fifth Quarter) tells of
this incident in the war at sea in the
Mediterranean.
Making sudden contact with a large
Italian destroyer, the 'Artigliere’,
crippled in a previous engagement,
British cruisers gave her crew half an
hour to abandon ship before blowing
her up. Rafts were-dropped to help
the survivors.
A message was then radioed on the
Italian commercial wave length, giv-
ing the position of the Artigliere’s
boats and rafts. This, despite the
fact it would compromise the position
of the British naval forces.
It did. An unchivalrous enemy sent
a horde of bombers which attacked
the British fleet for four hours.
A story to remember for the human
part radio plays in this war of
machines.
* * *
Australia is producing her own fighting equip-
ment to-day aeroplanes, ships, guns, and
radio. But it is radio that welds them into one
complete smooth-tv or king attacking force. It
is radio which sets the tempo of the attack.
When tve think of our self-defence we must
think of the enterprise which made possible
the building of all such equipment in Australia.
And whilst Australia continues to produce
such equipment, we need never fear being cut
off from our sources of supply. Or what the
future may hold. Amalgamated Wireless
(A/asia ) Ltd.
