

w
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 65—No. 3376
Wednesday, October 25, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
CRYSTAL PALACE.
DRIOR to its destruction by fire in recent years Crystal Palace was
1 one of the Empire’s most famous public buildings. A huge struc-
ture of glass and iron, Crystal Palace was designed by Sir Joseph
Paxton to house the great Exhibition of 1851, in Hyde Park, in almost
the same location as that in which the Albert Memorial now stands.
Instead of being dismantled when the 1851 Exhibition closed, Crystal
Palace was removed to the outer London district of Sydenham,
where the building was re-opened in 1854, in grounds covering some
300 acres.
Sir George Grove, first director of the Royal College of Music, and
Sir August Manns, a generous patron of British composers, held many
recitals at Crystal Palace fostering the interests of good music, and
here, too, was held the Handel Triennial Festival. Just before the
first World War the final tie for the Football Association Cup was
played in the Crystal Palace grounds.
In 1914 the building was taken over by the Admiralty as a recruiting
and training centre for Royal Naval Volunteers and some 125,000
naval personnel were here trained.


SWXI Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.*’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 214 AGE
The Red Page
PORTRAIT OF A PEER.
A chronicle of 12 years of his visiting
of various lands*; his brief, but intense,
bursts of writing ; his lecturing on the
drama in America ; his chess playing ;
his shooting—above all,, his shooting—
Lord Dunsany’s While the Sirens Slept
(Jarrolds ; Angus and Robertson) is about
as different from, say, The Chronicles of
Rodriguez as one pen could make two
things.
It is a different kind of writing ; direct,
factual, though with enough of the
imaginative—flashes of poetic and drama-
tic observation and occasional quotings
of his own verse —to help round out the
view of his varied personality. It adds
up to a portrait of an interesting aristo-
crat —a portrait not so much in the
literary as in the painter’s sense, com-
plete as far as it goes, but restricted to a
portion of time.
The aristocrat a British peer, with a
sporting gun in one hand and a pen—
or rather a quill—in the other ; the walls
of his fine house hung with the heads of
big game shot, in Africa and India and
deer stalked in Scotland ; on a table a
heap of snipe shot on neighboring Irish
or over on English estates ; and add a
set of chessmen, some exquisitely carved
in ivory, and one of the “well-bound
books” with “good paper,” in which he
likes to do his writing.
The portrait is yet incomplete. Add to
it that this is an aristocrat in letters as in
life ; not only poet, dramatist, novelist,
essayist and short-story writer set up in
one, but in one of a particular kind —the
aristocratic kind. In all his kinds of writ-
ing—there is a good deal of it altogether
—he is a poet, and a most unearthy, a
spiritual, an ethereal poet at that, though
if this were a consideration of his whole
work it might have to be added that his
verse is perhaps the least of his poetry.
Yet, as to this, read one example, called
“The Enchanted People,” which he here
records actually came to him as a vision ;
that is, like the one Coleridge had in the
same way, and thus unlike other writing,
which is, above all, hard work;
It came, it came again in the scented garden,
The call that they would not heed,
A clear wild note far up on the hills above them,
Blown on an elfin reed.
From the heath in the hidden dells of a moor-
land people
It came so crystal clear
That they could not help a moment’s pause on
their pathways.
They could not choose but hear.
The very blackbird, perched on the wall by
cherries
Ripe at the end of June,
Made never a stir through all of his glossy
body,
Learning that unknown tune.
They needs must hear as they walked in their
valley garden.
Surely they needs must heed
That it came from a folk as magical and en-
chanted
As ever blew upon reed.
Surely they must arise in the heavy valley,
Sleepy with years of night.
And go to the old immortal things out of fable
That danced young on the height.
But the moss was black and old on the paths
about them,
And the weeds were old and deep,
And they could not remember who were high
on the uplands;
And they needed sleep.
And they thought that a day might come when
someone would call them
With a song more loud and plain.
And the call rang past like birds going over a
desert,
And it never came again.
To the portrait must still be added
other qualities—an expected refinement
of manner; the same “natural simplicity
with which he regarded his genius” that
he likes in Elgar, and which may be put
as that complete assurance and confidence
in his own work which might not neces-
sarily establish anyone who has it as a
genius, but without which none ever was
one; and add also a particularly keen
humor, and the general outline of the
portrait is passably complete.
It is a portrait made up of striking
contrasts, conforming to a Dunsany defi-
nition: “All art is made perhaps more
by contrast than by any one other thing.”
One of the contrasts —though somebody
may arise and impute it to Shelley or
Keats or Yeats —the item of chess ; not
as played by dabblers, but as known to
a mind capable of contributing the chess
problems of the “Times” ; a mind, by
the way, also capable of thinking up such
as how to build a square house
with its walls all facing south. This,
however; not merely a recreational aspect
of a singular mind. He writes of his Jor-
kens stories:
I used one method in all these' tales,
which was to choose an event which was as
impossible as I was able to imagine, and
then to expend all my ingenuity in making
it plausible and, if I could, credible. - Any-
body, I rather felt, could make a reader
believe that he saw a rabbit; but it re-
quired some little skill, and was worth
working for, to make him believe that
Jorkens married a mermaid in Aden.
“In the theatre, and indeed in all kinds
of work,” Lord Dunsany has found his
title “of the greatest disadvantage” (which
. may, perhaps, not be as true as he believes
touching at least his lecturing successes
in America), but in one chess tournament
the title was a decided and a decisive
asset: —
At' this time peers were pretty generally
supposed to be of a very low mental
standard; and, as I had played no chess
in Ireland, the chess players now assembled
in Dublin had only this supposition to guide
them. Anything they may have found out
later was discovered too late.
When Capablanca, • “perhaps the
greatest chessplayer the world has ever
known,” engaged some 21 of England’s
best in London together, Dunsany played
for Kent (if that sounds reminiscent, he
dops play cricket, too, though not quite
for Kent); and, though Capablanca lost
to none, Dunsany drew with him. Capa-
blanca was then Champion of the World ;
in India Dunsany played, and also drew
with, one styled Master of the Universe.
It is not outside the portrait that Dun-
sany, walking off with the laurels of the
draw, quietly allows it to be inferred
that the Indian may really have been
nothing less than that.
It should not be omitted from the por-
trait, either, that in the Indian palace
where he drew with the Master of the
Universe—and from which, of course,
he went out and shot a tiger—Dunsany,
unsuccessfully pumped by the maharajah
for some delicate gossip about a British
statesman or two, was lightly chided by
old host, “JUax* are very
discreet.” No doubt this goes for his
piece of autobiography; but there are
such inclusions aS'this surely tremendous”
portrayal: — . *
I One day when we were about to leave
| [a hotel in Prague] I went into Wells’s
j room and saw him on (his knees cfn'the
* floor leaning over a portttiantfeqiu; and thorf- *
! he explairicd to the something ofoiir social" 1
-• system as he saw it. T here are students
in all countries of Wells’s social system,
and many of"tfieim‘ffiay TofT'
got it wrong, but to some my words may
come as a contribution to the subject, cer-
tainly minute, and yet perhaps quite new
to them. His views, I gathered, were upon
these lines; there was a class of highly
educated men, trained in the best univer-
sities for the better kind of activities; such
men could not be required to do menial
tasks like packing, nor even be expected
to know how to do it ;* men of a humbler
caste and less highly trained should do
this for them. That, if I got it right, was
part of his social philosophy; and, having
given his son a very fine education, he was
now packing his clothes for him.
A glimpse of another of the contem-
porary great builds on the quality of
humor in the self-portrait. Blasco Ibanez
“was being exhibited” —that is, was also
on lecture tour in America —at the same
time as Dunsany, “and, just as in the
circus, when the day’s work is over, the
man in charge of the bear will talk over
and compare his difficulties with the one
who looks after the elephant,” Dunsany’s
American manager had gone round to
have a talk with the man in charge of
Ibanez. Having “listened in wonder to
what the real artistic temperament could
do,” the manager came back delighted
at having on his hands one who only, on
a very hot occasion, lifted the lecturer’s
glass of water and, instead of drinking
it, poured it over his head. It appeared
that Ibanez whenever in the least an-
noyed used actually to hurl his hat to
the ground and then jump on it;
This was especially the case when some-
one unwisely told him the story of two New
Yorkers looking in at a shop-window,
where copies of Mare Nostrum were dis-
played, the successor to the famous book
The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse;
and one of them had said to the other;
“That dago has written another horse
book.”
As a contrast to that rich quality in
Dunsany, it must be added that he can be
as peevish as any of the writing tribe
about the comments of some critic or
other whose remarks do not matter two
hoots; and this despite awareness of that
antidote with which they all, quite justly,
lave their seared skins: “But the real
consolation is that it is the work that
matters, and that in the end it can
assuredly look after itself.” There is
more substance in his natural annoyance
at the failure of Britain to appreciate him
as a dramatist with the fullness of the
American appreciation, and at non-inclu-
sion in an unnamed of English
prose—going on publication dates and the
notion that Dunsany’s artistic assurance
would not have been ruffled by anything
of lesser standing, that would be The
Oxford Book of English Prose.
One other feature in the self-portrait
of the peer as poet remains—the obses-
sion for shooting ; not merely occasional,
but the frequent and regular shooting of
birds and game in what seem almost in-
credible numbers. His hauls of snipe
compare with the Israelites’ bag of quail.
“I got about 570 snipe in the winter in
which I finished The Charwoman's
Shadow,” and those were only some of
the birds he got that year. Another year
it is 600 snipe, or it is woodcock or
rabbits, or deer, lions, tigers and others
hunted for their heads. It is the massed
scale of it, having Dunsany’s unearthy
kind of writing in mind. He tells a story
related by his present-war soldier son —
Dunsany himself is a last-war soldier—
of how a Pathan catches a hyena in the
hills:
He goes, my son told me, to a cave in
which the hyena is known do be, and
spreads a net across it, saying all the while
that he does so: “There is no hyena here.
There is no hyena.” A good deal probably
depends upon the tone of voice in which
this is said, for the point of the story is
that the hyena believes the Pathan, and
thinks he is really hot there when the
Pathan says so. The language in which the
Pathan speaks is pushtu, the language with
which the hyena would be supposed to be
quite familiar. And when the net is quite
ready the Pathan shouts: “There is a
hyena!” The hyena, now realising for the
first time that he is really there, rushes
out and is caught in the net.
The mind that can draw at chess with
the Master of the Universe; the mono-
lithic heap of killed birds and animals ;
the liking for the wilds ; the humor; the
whole character of the man ; and the
nature of his writing—the Pathan might
pass for Dunsany catching poetry. It
might, perhaps, be added, too: That
was a fine pet Dunsany used. He caught
the mist in it.
C. M.
Escape from the Japs .
A yarn from Gwen Priestwood’s
Through Japanese Barbed Wire (Harrap):
! Some of the police cadets and young
Hongkong society girls [in the concentration
camp] used to play a mild sort of soft-
ball. One afternoon three or four Japanese
officers watched the game and then indicated
they wanted to play, too. The white men
didn’t care much for this, but they sub-
mitted gracefully. A Jap went in to bat.
He lifted the ball high and a young
English girl managed to catch it. “Out!”
she sang triumphantly. The Jap stayed in,
grinning. Other players ran over to him
yelling “You’re out —out —out!”
The officer collected his wits. “Not out
—no,” he said in broken English. “Singa-
pore broken —not out.”
He swung his bat again. There was
nothing to do but humor him. Most of
the afternoon was spent pitching to him
and catching his drives.
Through Japanese Barbed Wire is Miss
Priestwood’s account of the fall of Hong-
kong, her internment, and her escape to
Chungking. It is, of course, an exciting
story—particularly when, on the first day
of her escape, she is hiding in the alcove
of a deserted house a few feet away from
a visiting party of Jap soldiers—and it is
told straightforwardly and with humor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“While the Sun Shines” at Sydney
Minerva is as pleasant a light comedy as
would be expected from Terence Rattigan
—the man who wrote “French Without
Tears.” Chiefly concerned with an
American bombardier in England who
stays with an earl and falls in love with
his fiancee, it bubbles along like a Pinero
farce, easily, lightly, merrily and without
the frenzy of slapstick and wisecracks
that has made the recent American
comedies at the Minerva seem forced and
brittle. Peter Finch gets his laughs in
the principal role, but is much more like
a sturdy Australian sailor than the sort
of Englishman who, though a peer of
the realm, has failed for three years in
all his attempts to rise above the rank
of ordinary seaman. Roger Barry, Ron
Randell, Joanna Wills, Osmund Wenban
and Pat McDonald carry the show along
cheerfully, and Leslie Victor, as the
elderly, impoverished and unscrupulous
Duke of Ayr and Stirling, makes an
excellent job of Rattigan’s neatest bit of
characterisation.
A few moths flew protestingly out of
the venerable “Viktoria and Her Hussar”
at Sydney Royal when Don Nicol
sprayed it with topicalities, but for the
rest it remains stereotyped mid-European
stuff, according to the book of Harry
Graham. Fred Murray puts his lons
c f s to S ood . u se, and the singins of
Gladys Moncneff and Herbert Browne
joinfs eqUate ’ ‘ R ° manCe creaks
At the talkies:
<trP ne C n ase y Robinson wrote the crrmt
Whiskeroft. Ballerina Tamara Toumanova',
idea of acting is that by invariably starine
round-eyed she is registering fear, hope! love
hate and a dozen other emotions. Gregory
e , ,' s a . s the distinguished Broadway
actor, but he is pinned down by the crush-
ing weight of lugubriousness.
“The Yellow Canary” (Civic) is a cleverly-
constructed thriller, with the British Naval In-
telligence against a Nazi spy ring attempting
to explode an ammunition ship in Halifax
Harbor. The characters look and act British
with Anna Neagle and Richard Greene handlint
the leads capably. 6
Much of the spontaneity which makes “And
the Angels Sing” (Empire) a rollicking good
comedy is due to Betty Hutton, whose haywire
singing and irrepressible gaiety 'are allied to
amazing energy and a first-rate comedy sense
The film is based on a Claude Binyon story of
four girls who try to establish their widowed
father on a farm through their chosen “careers”
at which they all prove duds.
There is nothing niggardly about “It's
Foolish but It’s Fun,” at Melbourne Tiv.
Between the opening ballet, “A Venetian
Folly,” to the closing item, a complete
musical comedy compressed into ten
minutes by the versatile Jack O’Hagan,
there is a mass of matter in constant
motion, in which can occasionally be
discerned compere Dick Bentley, Eroni
and Lavinia, elegantly described as the
Crazy Gobs, an ingenious gent, who gets
everything but music out of an organ,
the eminent Stan Foley and Rebla, bitterly
complaining as he juggles tennis balls.
The number of pictures coming off the
production belts in Melbourne has
reached a colossal figure, and the variety
is tremendous. They range, from the un-
pretentious watercolors of W. L. Slack
at the Park Galleries to the highly sophis-
ticated art of Nornie Gude and Laurence
Pendlebury at the Velasquez. Sergeant
Pendlebury’s oils, largely painted in New
Guinea under active service conditions,
are 1 the last word in school technique
applied to brigadiers, lieutenant-colonels,
native villages and Jap barges. The high-
light of James Flett’s exhibition at
Hogan’s Gallery, Malvern, is “Rabbit
Trappers.” The group of small boys and
a dog engaged in rooting out a bunny
from a fallen gum-tree has the devastat-
ing immediacy of a photo in technicolor.
Maorilander Roland Wakelin, whose
latest work is on view at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, was one of the earliest
painters in these parts to accept the gospel
according to Cezanne. It was a matter
of genuine conviction, not a fad for a
fashion, and Wakelin has stood to his
guns bravely for so many years that his
work commands respect and considera-
tion. There is nothing obscure, eccentric
or irrational about either his aims or his
performances ;,he has no desire to teach
Mother Nature anything. His “Brook-
vale Landscape,” biggest canvas in the
present show, has depth and atmosphere,
its values are right and the impression
conveyed is the impression received by
the artist. The dramatic value of a
cumulus cloud, to which Wakelin has
always been strongly attracted, has been
strikingly exploited in No. 8, “Cloud
Drama” (bought by the Queensland Gal-
lery), and adds piquancy and beauty to
No. 13, “Sydney Harbor.” No. 4,
“Summer Day,” and No. 6, “Black
Mountain,” are also good impressionism.
Two portraits please by their directness
and sympathetic feeling.
“Cauboy”: Artisbadand music very, very
good in Melbourne at the moment. Beet-
hoven’s great Mass in D was performed
at the Town Hall and, for weeks before,
halls about the city resounded with the
din of the symphony orchestra and the
Philharmonics rehearsing under Bernard
Heinze’s baton. A lot of artists would
have benefited by witnessing one of these
rehearsals. It never entered the trom-
bone player’s head to demand the right,
of self-expression, and everybody would
have been amazed if he had ; and if the
drummer had evinced a desire to conduct
a few experiments of his own on the big
drum he would doubtless have had his
instrument taken from him. If a singer
had sung as flat as most modern painters
paint and had excused himself by saying
that freshness and sincerity must take
precedence over the acquisition of tech-
nical skill, he would have been pohtel)
asked to seek an engagement elsewhere.
Few of these devoted people will expect
to see themselves get an individual men-
tion in the papers from the critics. But.
as one musician said to me coming from
a rehearsal, “We chaps have had such
drilling and a drubbing from all the
different conductors in the last few year
that I don’t think there’s anything noi
we can’t play.”


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
Tnr. SENIOR STORE 1
ANTHONY HORDERNS
121 Years of Service
W&llifx, i /
\ : :
WSIKiiM
rrro
fS
m
m
1
H
n
s«s
’■-■V
I®
»
ill! P «
*i
3
IS jfi: :
",'A
■ I
o'?
.'.A.._ •
fJ
Si
Si9i^ : ■■
;■ ■ ..
; .■ -■•
V /v
•• -v ••/•'
S 3
I
A;;.'
S3K
Hi
■k*
as
jg/l/KsS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Dyed ready-made Curtains of a hessian-like material. 1 o tide
you over a period of shortage of furnishing fabrics. Pleated
at the top with a rod pocket. In Green, Brown, Blue, Rust, and
Burgundy. 36 inches wide 21/-
72 inches wide 35/6
Fitted Bedspreads in attractive designs of monotone print. In
Green/Cream, Burgundy/Cream, Rose/Cream, Blue/Cream.
Finished with rolled edge and two pillow covers to match.
Price £6/6/
Striped Cottage Weave Cushions with padded or pleated edge.
Filled with new, garnetted cotton. Stripings of Green, Orange,
Brown, and Blue 15/6 each
21 in. x 21 in. padded edge felt cushions. In Brown, Rust,
Burgundy, and Green 35/-
White Shower Curtains made from substitute waterproof sheet-
ing. Eyeletted at top to hook on to rod. 36 inches wide, 25/-
72 inches wide 47/6
Cream Perambulator Lining available in small quantities only
for repair work. 50 inches wide 7/9 yard
ALL ABOVE GOODS ARE COUPON FREE \
• Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
Freight extra on these items, except Bedspreads, which are freight free in
N.S.W. The difference between N.S.W. Postage Rates and Interstate Rates
will be charged on Bedspreads.
LONE:
M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
A3NCTAS “O’d’D '0 Z\LZ XO3


.-. •'•: •. •’, ; ■' -V • ~■
* • ,
Wffl&tiiirrJ::'- ; • .'.••••.-•• . • .
. . » . • v •*.
; > •
r«:
*I.V.
7>nt
jJV.H•
, «•
• v
Yrg i* :*.*•.
•*v
3SB
1
vs'
Vf
*. •
•*sa
m
...V
•• :
V ...
. • -■■•*'
v..
*’V
.•: ‘
v-r*
m
•• :*:
• % *s%
V*
SH/
I A V*
v »s\
i.
ft
*•:
V.t
v •
V-vV
-<? . •
V"f
*5
: -
•, #►
/ * r — y •*« • * % •
and other Famous Products
including:
CREME de MENTHE
ADVOCAAT
CURACAO
GILBEDENE -
CHERRY BRANDY
ORANGE & WHITE
CREME de CACAO
ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY - RUM - GIN SLING
BRONX & MARTINI COCKTAIL - SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH & GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & A. CILBEY LTD
Distilleries at
Moorabbin .. Victoria Toronto . . . Canada
London .... England Cincinnati . . . U.S.A.
Address all enquiries to: W. & A. GILBEY LTD., 33 ROSSLYN STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams and Cables: "Silbeys” Melbourne
or 109 Regent Street, Sydney Telegrams and Cables: "Gilbeys" Sydney


The Bulletin
Vol. 65 —N<>. 3376,
Wednesday, October 25, 1944.
“WE WILL REMEMBER THEM”—OR WILL WE?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
xr Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
NEW YORK TO SYDNEY.
There died in New York on October 4
the Empire City’s most popular native
son, and, until his light was dimmed by
the greater glory of Mr. Roosevelt, the
State’s most representative public man,
Alfred Emanuel (Al) Smith. Member
of the New York Assembly for 12 years,
1903 - 15, part of the time Demo-
cratic leader and then Speaker, he was
afterwards State Governor for six years,
being four times elected. While still
Governor he was nominated as Demo-
cratic candidate for the Presidency, the
only Catholic ever to be so distinguished.
The people gave him 15,066,443 votes,
only 708,573 fewer than Coolidge had got
in 1924. But the old sectarian prejudice
prevailed, even in parts of the country
that were traditionally Democratic, such
as North Carolina and Virginia, and Mr.
Smith was defeated by Mr, Hoover, the
only tenant of the White House who has
ever been a resident of Australia.
At the next Presidential election Mr.
Smith’s support was a tower of strength
to Mr. Roosevelt. But he was no New
Dealer, and by 1936, while remaining in
the party, he had become a critic of the
Administration, though it was not in his
nature to be acrimonious. When it was
suggested that alarm at the New Deal’s
prodigal paternalism would bring Mr.
Roosevelt down it was Al Smith who
said “Nobody shoots Santa Claus” ; and,
relishing his wit as well as their oppor-
tunity to requite favors received, the elec-
tors gave Santa Claus the greatest major-
ities of all time.
Vainly opposing a third-term nomi-
nation, the former Governor took up the
position of the Democratic chieftain who
was not carried away in 1896 by Mr.
Bryan’s “Cross of Gold” speech and said
“I am a Democrat still —very still.” But
he remained a national figure, held in
high esteem everywhere, and to the end
of his days he was regarded as the head
of the Irish-American interest in Demo-
cratic politics.
Al Smith’s mantle seems likely to de-
scend to another New Yorker, Mr. James
Aloysius (Jim) Farley. As chairman of
the Democratic National Committee, Mr.
Farley had a great deal to do with Mr.
Roosevelt’s nomination in 1932, and with
his election that year and in 1936. By all
accounts, what Jim Farley doesn’t know
about the organisational side of politics
is not worth knowing. He was Post-
master-General in the Cabinet at Wash-
ington for seven years, as well as national
party chairman for eight years. He gave
up both posts when Mr. Roosevelt elected
to run for a third term, having carried
his protest to the length of standing for
the nomination himself, though he could
scarcely have expected that he would be
chosen.
Mr. Farley himself was never a New
Dealer. He and Mr, Smith stood four-
square for the old American beliefs and
ways: for government of the people as
guaranteed and safeguarded in the Con-
stitutions of the Union and the 48 States ;
for eight-year Presidents at most, since
extension of the prescriptive limit might
conceivably enthrone a dynasty, and in
any case would dangerously disturb the
nice balance between the functions of
the executive and the legislature and the
judiciary; and, in the economic field, for
free enterprise, with a square deal and a
full opportunity for every American. It
was the policy of neither to side with
Labor against Capital or with Capital
against Labor, it being their custom in-
stead to try to bring Labor and Capital
together when a dispute arose in their
bailiwicks and friendly intervention from
the sidelines seemed called for. Welcom-
ing the delegates to the Dumbarton Oaks
conference, Mr. Roosevelt referred admir-
ingly to Al Smith’s methods in these cases
and insistence on the conciliatory influ-
ence of good cigars. And both these
eminent Irish-American politicians de-
tested compulsory collectivism in every
shape and form, communism above all.
Also a New Yorker, though with fewer
friends and many more enemies, is Mr.
Edward J, Flynn ; and Mr. Flynn is once
more chairman of the State Democratic
organisation. His tenure of this office
was interrupted after January, 1943, when
Mr. Roosevelt appointed him to succeed
that able servant of the U.S.A. and good
friend to Australia Mr. Nelson T. John-
ston, with the difference that Mr. Flynn
was to have the title of Ambassador and
Personal Representative of the President
as Minister Plenipotentiary.
On the circumstances which pre-
vented Mr. Flynn from coming to
the Commonwealth it is unnecessary
to dwell. But there is a lingering
impression that he was chosen for the
high-sounding job, not only because he
had earned a reward (for his services
as a boss, the Republicans angrily pro-
claimed), but because it was thought that
he would meet congenial spirits among
Ministers and members, sprung from the
same race and perhaps other, if minor,
Smiths and Farleys, likewise devoted
to free enterprise and the principle
that careers should be open to talents and
hostile to every description of social-
ism. If so, Mr. Flynn’s reports would
have been a succession of shocks.
The Personal Representative and Min-
ister Plenipotentiary would have arrived
just when the Communist party and
organisations, their legality newly re-
stored, were throwing their weight about
and boasting that they had got the Aus-
tralia Firsters, among them returned-
soldier casualties of the last war, put
behind bars. He would have been a bit
too late to witness Sydney’s welcome to
two Labor-liberated communists, con-
victed in the Menzies Government’s time
of having, among other things, been con-
cerned in beating up recruits for “a
guerrilla movement to undermine the
war-effort propaganda... .until prepara-
tion is made for something big,” and kept
in detention for refusal to give pledges
of good behavior; but he would have been
told that it far exceeded anything given
to any pair of A.I.F. generals or V.Cs.
And it would have been borne in on
his mind that the communists, already in
control of big trade-unions and federa-
tions—with strikes and other ugly conse-
quences familiar in his own country —
were capturing others and A.L.P.
branches as well, and were spending from
undisclosed sources huge sums on propa-
ganda and city property and newspapers
and plant. And, as a shrewd American
of the hardboiled variety, he would have
noted that the communists’ best propa-
ganda was dirt-cheap, being taken bodily
from “capitalist” newspaper war reports
and comments in which the Russians, un-
like effete British and clumsy Americans,
never lost a fight or a gun, it being dead-
easy to point the moral—they were
supermen and had super-equipment
thanks to the Soviet system.
In August, 1943, Mr. Flynn would
have been a witness to Federal Labor’s
sweeping triumph at the polls, giving it
49 of the 74 voting members in the
House and (after June 30, 1944) 22 of
the 36 Senators, all pledged “to actively
support and advocate at all times the
socialisation of industry, production, dis-
tribution and exchange,” and increasing
the already large proportion of sons and
grandsons of Irish immigrants in the
Ministry as well as the party. In Aug-
ust, 1944, he would have seen Laborites
and communists, their unacknowledged
allies at the election, join forces at a
nation-dividing referendum designed to
give the Labor Government far greater
powers than the Roosevelt Administra-
tion possesses and is satisfied with ; seen
Labor Ministers mount communist plat-
form and march in communist-arranged
and -marshalled processions.
And if in Sydney in October, 1944, Mr.
Flynn would have been without the regu-
lar daily and Sunday papers for a fort-
night, consequence of a strike for a 40-
hour week and four weeks’ annual holi-
days (in war-time!) and carried on in
spite of a State Industrial Court decision
that it was not only unwarranted but un-
lawful. No doubt he would have read
copies of a daily sheet issued from a
communist printery the communists,
very curiously, had everything in readi-
ness, offices, type-setting machines, news-
print (stacks of it, and damn the Ration-
ing Commission!), printing press and
general organisation, as if it had all been
arranged long before. He would have
read also the self-described experiences
of the oldest Sydney daily, which, like
its associates in the struggle against the
latest outbreak of industrial anarchy, had
been very kind to Labor, and to Russia
in its war reporting, when “it decided to
issue a skeleton newspaper.”
The McKell Government remained silent
when the [Government] railway authorities,
under threats from the railway unions
[all Government employees], refused to
carry the papers. Commonwealth and State
Ministers refused to see representatives of
the “Herald” or to make available, to them
routine news handed out to the strikers’
newspaper and the broadcasting stations.
The State Labor Caucus ordered the Speaker
to exclude “Herald” reporters from the
Press-Gallery, and one was excluded. An
endeavor was made to prove that we were
issuing a newspaper for which we had no
license and that, in consequence of National
Security Regulations, newsprint should be
withheld from us. Agents of the Govern-
ment hammered at our door —from the
Prices Commissioner asking stupid ques-
tions about our authority to change our
prices when there had been no change;
from the Liquid Fuel Board seeking
to deny us the use of petrol to deliver
our papers. There was also a threat that if
the strike continued our power would be
cut off, and we should be deprived of other
public services. Simultaneously the broad-
casting stations which come under ultimate
Ministerial control sent out one-sided re-
ports.
All these things were done in the name
of Government, while Ministers sat smug
and silent in their offices. Not a word
of condemnation of strikers who quite
illegally had disrupted newspaper produc-
tion was uttered by any Minister. On
the contrary, two Commonwealth Ministers,
Messrs. Ward and Calwell, encouraged the
strikers to remain out in the belief that the
Government would withdraw licenses from
the newspapers and take control of one
or more newspapers itself.
And, as Mr. Flynn would also have read,
when a settlement was arrived at, on
terms wliich the strikers could have had
without a holdup, Mr. Ward declared
that “the demands” pronounced “illegal
and without justification” by the Indus-
trial Court (one of the three Judges was
a Labor M.L.A. and another, the chair-
man, a Labor candidate) “were obviously
so reasonable that they should have been
acceded to without delay,” and that he
would use all his influence to get a license
for and “continued daily production” of
the communist sheet.
Mr. Roosevelt, succeeding Mr. Smith,
was Governor of New York, and so were
Grover Cleveland and Theodore Roose-
velt. Mr. Dewey has been Governor of
New York for just on two years. The
position, while no exact counterpart, may
be fairly likened to that of the Premier
of New South Wales; but occupancy of
that office is no passport to the Prime
Ministership—this though Sydney has
one-fifth and N. S. Wales two-fifths of
the national population, whereas the New
York City and State percentages are one-
nineteenth and one-tenth. It amounts
rather to a disqualification.
Mr. Lang, who led three N. S. Wales
Ministries, was defeated for a Federal
electorate when he stood last year. His
successor Stevens was obliterated in
another when he came out in 1940, a
year after his completion of a seven
years’ term as Premier. Except for Dr.
Page’s few days as a stopgap, there has
not been a Prime Minister from N. S.
Wales since May 5, 1917, when Mr.
Hughes, having found West Sydney too
hot to hold, bolted to Bendigo. His re-
turn to a Sydney electorate (North Syd-
ney) in December, 1922, coincided with
the rout of his Government; and neither
he nor any other politician from Strike-
land on either side of the House has
since had the ghost of a chance of form-
ing another.
It was in 1917 that Mr. Hughes, as
leader of the lesser of two Labor groups,
induced the Liberal party to give up its
commanding position and prospects and
be swallowed up in a so-called National-
ist party. In no long time, from one
cause and another, it had lost its best
men, and the others were too dazzled by
Mr. Hughes to object to his methods of
government, his weak or shifty com-
promises, his socialistic experiments, with
the Government shipping line as the
worst example, his reluctance to enforce
industrial law against his old pals and
his cultivation of votes in the Labor
style. One party being very like the
other, and both being set on economy at
the expense of defence —it was the only
form of economy practised or even
thought of —politics ceased to become
contests of principles and elections be-
came vast bribery competitions. And the
decline in the quality of the representa-
tion and in the authority of Government,
particularly as employer, went on.
Now, after 27 years, the Liberal party
has been formed again, name and all. It
lacks Mr, Hughes’s blessing, and need
not expect his co-operation, but he is
powerless to harm it, though he turn
against it as, in 1929, he turned against
his successor, who was Treasurer in his
own Government. If it lives up to
the principles laid down by Mr.
Menzies, taking its stand for “free
thought, free speech and free associa-
tion,” for “thrift and independence,” for
“the revival of private enterprise,” and
for sound money and “honor and secu-
rity for all who have risked their lives in
the nation’s service,” with “Parliament
controlling the executive and the law
controlling all,” it will get powerful sup-
port in the five States to which Strikeland
has become a nightmare, and within
N. S. Wales itself. It is a necessary out-
come of the crazy doctrines preached
and the wild excesses practised in N. S.
Wales, from communism and repudiation
and the Lazzarini proposal that trading-
bank cheques should be declared counter-
feit to the chronic and wicked striking
and loafing in essential industries, which
is the old Sydney larrikinism in a new
form and field and calls for the appli-
cation of modern equivalents of the vic-
torious police baton—deregistration, dis-
franchisement and the freezing of union
and private funds. And it offers at
least a prospect of relief from the
sinister threat of inflation and from the
industrial anarchy which has brought
loss, suffering and disgrace upon the
country and of which Labor politicians
are either brazen champions or servile
instruments.
New Party. Older Pact.
Among the political planks tentatively set
up for the new Liberal party platform
is one that it will be interesting to hear
more about—arrangements for the future
safeguarding of this country. That will
include the country’s national interests ;
hence more than its mere map boundaries
In his introductory speech to the dele-
gates Mr. Menzies laid it down that
national defence is a matter of universal
duty” ; and that was as much as he could
fairly be expected to say on such an
occasion.
As a preliminary step towards ensuring
the future safeguarding of the partners
in the Anzac Pact, there was a statement
of mutual interest in island-defence
advance posts and in the neighboring
Pacific holdings of European nations—
about the most statesmanlike feature.
But the Anzac Pact was not palatable
to the most vocal of America’s new im-
perialists. Their case, briefly, is that
America is fighting the Pacific War (alone,
the most vocal specimens assert, choosing
to ignore General MacArthur’s commu-
niques) ; that victorious America will be
in a position to dictate the ultimate
ownership of every island and atoll in
it; that the nature of war has so changed
that America must have strong bases far
from its shores (especially in the Pacific);
that, therefore, America must take over
all that it thinks it needs.
Nobody can very well dispute that the
American imperialists have a strong case.
Already American forces—enlisted in the
main on the democratic principle of citi-
zen obligation to serve anywhere—have
done a great part of the bloodiest Pacific
War fighting, and are still doing it. The
Diggers have fought splendidly in Papua
and in New Guinea, the Tommies in
Burma and the. Kiwis in the Solomons—
necessarily on a smaller scale —and British,
Australian and N.Z. sea and air forces
have also fought grandly and suffered.
But, taken by and large, the Pacific
War has so far been mainly an Ameri-
can war.
Hence the second item in the American
imperialists’ claim is also sound at
present, and if this end of the war goes
really well, as can be reasonably expected,
it will leave America in a position to dic-
tate to all comers.
The final item in the case —the defence
necessities imposed by the changed nature
of war —is also sound. These U.S. im-
perialists see now that national self-pro-
tection, unlike charity, should sensibly
begin away from home. In this, at least,
they are not alone in their owh country.
For the present, at any rate, there is as
good as complete national agreement
there on the need for protective bastions
away from the home shores.
It seems highly improbable that Ameri-
cans generally share the mood of the
new imperialists to go roughshod over
everybody’s interests to make sure of
their own. But it is as good 3s certain
that a vote now would favor the claiming
and establishing of such distant bases as
American defence authorities considered
necessary to keep any future war off the
American mainland. There is more than
mere rabid imperialist support there for
ultimately claiming the mandates the Japs
held in the Pacific. All to the good if it
is carried through ; and other adjustments
could be made as well that would have
the support of the Anzac Pact nations.
Apart from that there is a simple point
at issue which Australians will need to
face. It involves acceptance of the pro-
position that our two nations are in fact
a joint Pacific Power.
There are responsibilities in this that
have to be shouldered, above all the
continued safeguarding of the whole area
in which the Pact nations can claim to
have a special interest. There is nothing
in its past history or war practice to sug-
gest that Australian Labor, placed in a
position to concentrate on its “policy” of
giving everything to everyone except “the
capitalist,” would put this country on a
defence-preparation basis adequate to
what the Pact implies. ■ , .
For all the noise that the rabid im-
perialists might make, Americans in the
main, with the commonsense that always
appeals to them, will no doubt assist
these Pacific countries to take over what
they regard as their direct, defensively
necessary outpost responsibilities, as
relieving America of trouble and expense.
But they will need more than the
Anzac Pact to assure them that here, at
any rate, will be one part of the Pacific
where the people are prepared to do their
utmost in upholding the general security
and their own. They will need the sort m
concrete proof that can well be given b}
a party truly representing Australia as a
nation, aware of this nation’s
one of a joint Pacific Power, and with the
confidence to set about establishing ail
that that must require.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Adjournment Carried.
“I move that this House stand adjourned
for fifty million crimson years.”
—Distracted reporter.
With the newspaper strike still on, and a
transport strike arranged, and a new turn
given to the chronic meat strike, and
ghastly cruelty to stock proceeding at the
Government slaughteryards, and “people
clamoring for food,” Mr. McKell, titular
Premier of N. S. Wales, coolly proposed
that the Assembly should adjourn until
November 1.
Though protests could not avail against
numbers, protests came from the Oppo-
sition. Its leader, presenting a motion
censuring the Government on its craven
subservience to strikers, to their union
sympathisers who refused to carry par-
cels of newspapers on Government trams
and trains, and to Caucus, which decreed
that representatives of the boycotted
journals be refused routine information
by Ministers and admission to the gallery
by the Speaker, was denied the ordinary
courtesy of having the censure motion
treated as urgent.
The Premier asserted that the adjourn-
ment was required to enable members to
engage in war-loan advocacy, and that
it would mean merely that they would
absent themselves for one week —“one
week in 52.”
“One week in 52! ” The natural infer-
ence is that this Assembly deliberates in
its fashion all the year round. Actually,
except for a lightning sitting on April 13,
ending at 3.30 p.m. (it was a Randwick
race-day), it knocked off at the end of
March for the general election on May
27. The new Parliament began and ended
its first session on June 22. The second
session commenced on September 20, the
debates being mainly on the address-in-
reply, and the disqualification of a jockey
naturally came in for impassioned pro-
tests. Housing and maintenance of food
supplies interest this Labor “party” little,
and industrial-law enforcement not at all,
but racing it regards as of the first import-
ance.
In an incautious moment Mr. McKell
admitted, in reply to a question, that
there had been “a lowering of morale in
the community , during recent months.”
Realising immediately that this might get
him “in bad” with “the boys,” he turned
on the questioner, Mr. Turner, the mem-
ber for Gordon, and said something
about the question being “stupid and in-
sulting.” Mr. Turner is a returned sol-
dier of this war, whose front-line service
has obviously taken a toll. Two other
members of the tiny Opposition have
been granted a renewal of leave from
their Parliamentary duties to enable them
to go on fighting the enemy. No N.S.W.
Labor member, and there are 105 at Syd-
ney and Canberra, has seen front-line ser-
vice in this war. A few had honorable.
and in one case distinguished, service in
the last war, though only one, Minister
Dunn, was in politics then.
The value of the war-loan advocacy of
90-odd N.S.W. politicians without the
badge of service or of R.S.L. member-
ship on the left lapel may be questioned.
Certainly it would be of little avail ad-
dressed to housewives *who have to get
along somehow without meat. And it
would never do for the gentlemen to
arrive in a body, because of some defect
in the arrangements, at a Digger or an
R.A.A.F. camp up north.
How Parer Died.
Written by John Brennan:
Damien Parer was something more than a
good photographer. He was a sincere artist,
with the artist’s absorbing interest in his work.
Beyond that he was a deeply-religious man, a
fine and engaging companion, a lovable friend.
And he loved Australia and Australians,
above all the brave. A name being mentioned
he would say “He’s a real Australian; —he has
the V.C.” There was no higher praise Parer
could give. He spoke of such men often and
in all kinds of company, and in his memory
of them there was great pride of country.
He had a tremendous nostalgia for the A.I.F.
Though, after his break with the Department
of Information, his work for Paramount News
had taken him away from Australia,; he still
hoped to see action with A.I.F. units again
before the war was ended, and he spoke con-
stantly of the necessity to return to Australia
after the war and work to make the real Aus-
tralian better known to Australians. He had
himself the same high courage he admired most
in others.
Though youthful in appearance and manner,
a veteran of the campaigns in North Africa,
Greece and New Guinea, he knew and under-
stood war. What in others would have
seemed foolhardiness was to him the normal
risk of his occupation. He. had an infantryman’s
sense of the use of cover, and it enabled him
to advance with the front-line troops. He
minded not what risks he ran if he believed
he would thus get “good pictures.”
He had come to the decision that newsreel
coverage of the war had hitherto stressed too
much the spectacular, without sufficient em-
phasis on the human factor-Hhe emotions,
reactions and living conditions of the men
involved. He believed that he could best show
those things to the world by concentrating on
tlose-up shots of men in action, catching their
varied expressions in the few seconds when all
their being was actually intent on the combat.
With that idea in mind during the fighting
for the reconquest of Guam, he spent some
days on Orote Peninsula, advancing with
squads of infantry immediately behind the tanks,
taking part in the actual assault on pillboxes
and strongpoints. His pictures were hailed in
America as among the finest combat pictures
that had come out of the Central Pacific area.
Damien Parer was killed on the island of
Peleliu, in the Palau group, on the afternoon
of September 17. We had landed together two
days previously, a couple of hours after the
assault waves, and had been together since.
On the Sunday we went to witness an attack
across a narrow isthmus, towards where
Japanese in large numbers were cornered on a
small promontory at the extreme southern end
of the island.
The first attack behind one tank was driven
back. We waited during the rest of the day for
more tanks to be brought up.
Parer was pleased at the prospect of the
pictures he hoped to get, but showed a
pitying interest in the cases of prostration
caused among the troops by the extreme heat.
Himself more inured to extremes of climate,
he was indefatigable, working all day. When
the tanks and two fresh companies came up
we realised that we should most probably be
separated when the attack fanned out on the
far side of the isthmus and arranged to meet
“when the light failed,” to return to the beach
for the night. ...
Parer went in with the squad behind the
first tank. I followed with the next. I saw him
halfway across the isthmus —for the last time.
The attackers pushed on. In the late after-
noon I returned to the neck of the crossing.
Damien did not come, but that gave no cause
for worry; I knew that if he had been getting
good pictures he would stay for the night I re-
mained there the night. Next morning I went
in to look for him. . .
No one remembered seeing him since the
attack started the previous afternoon. He was
not on the beach.
His body was found later when the promon-
tory was “secure.” It lay a little ahead of a
pillbox not a hundred yards from where I had
last seen him. He had been caught in a burst
of machine-gun fire, and obviously had been
killed instantly. .
He died as, if it had been necessary, he
would have wished to die. In his death Aus-
tralia lost a man whose feeling for his country
and fine talents and character would, had he
been spared, have helped to increase its stature
among the nations. __
Warning to a City.
In mid-afternoon on October 16 Sydney
had to switch its lights on, a dense pall
of dust having arrived on a westerly wind.
There was a cloud-layer from a banking
thunderstorm, and the combination of
dust and vapor put the city in semi-gloom
for half an hour. Then lightning flashed,
thunder roared, there was a shower of
rain, and presently the dust had gone.
Sydney people commented variously
and briefly on the phenomenon. Then
those not involved in any of the current
strikes went about their business, un-
aware that thousands of tons of their
country’s top-soil had been blown into
the sea.
That dust cloud came from dry fallows
and drought-stricken pasture lands be-
yond the Blue Mountains. There was
deadly significance in the fact that it
had crossed those mountains, for though
Melbourne and Adelaide frequently see
such signs of the ruin of Australia’s soil,
Sydney, by its geographical position, is
unused to them. It ought, however, to
heed the warning in the grim notice
served upon it. Sydney’s 1,400,000 in-
habitants depend in the main on the
country beyond the mountains for their
existence. That country is being ruined
by wind tnd water erosion—so rapidly
that within a generation or two inland
N. S. Wales, Tike northern Victoria and
northern S.A., may become deserts of
stony flats and drifting sand dunes, un-
able to support life —as bare of it as the
Sahara.
Yet the enormous yearly loss of soil
in Australia can be stopped. Much of
the denuded land can be restored. But
the loss will not be checked nor will
restoration begin until the nation realises
what is going on and corrective action is
undertaken on a national scale.
In Troubled France.
General de Gaulle remains “difficult.”
In a broadcast speech on the state of
France nearly seven weeks after his entry
into Paris he said: “Our ports, except
Bordeaux, are out of commission, our
transport systems are practically para-
lysed, our factories are without coal or
electricity, our agricultural equipment is
worn out and our stocks of fuel and raw
material are completely exhausted” ; and
that was not all:
Our Allies are each pursuing their own
interests and making their own policies
while fighting the same enemy. Many
Frenchmen may well be amazed at the
neglect with which other great Powers are
treating France.
Perhaps these other great Powers# have
been waiting for the De Gaulle Govern-
ment to assert its authority over the
French Forces of the Interior. There
may be a change suitable to the general
now that it has been arranged to fuse the
F.F.I. with the French Army, though it is
not exactly reassuring to read that the
F.F.I. general staff will be maintained
and incorporated in the Army general
staff.
There is a school of writers, chiefly
American, who hold that revolution is on
the march in Europe, arid that the armies
of Eisenhower and Maitland Wilson
should be placed at its service. Non-
political correspondents who saw the be-
ginnings of the “revolution” in Paris were
not favorably impressed. Writing on
August 28 “the pool correspondent
assigned to represent the combined
American press at General Eisenhower’s
advanced headquarters” noted that “the
Allied Supreme Commander was con-
spicuously absent from yesterday’s
parade” in the city and proceeded in a
very critical strain.
Today, some 72 hours after Paris was
liberated, the city is still in an uproar.
Wild-eyed youths, waving rifles and
machine-guns in one hand and driving
careening automobiles with the other, still
roam the streets, which present no sem-
blance of order. There still are sporadic
outbursts of rifle fire and fist fights among
the French themselves. “Paris was not like
this, even with the Germans,” the city’s old
inhabitants say; and with a shudder they
assure one another that Paris was bad
enough under the Germans. Paris wants
the disorderly elements of the Maquis and
the F.F.I. kept in check. The Allies are
determined that General de Gaulle must
solve the problem.
Correspondents entering Marseilles
found the papers with banner headlines
like these:
Marseilles, Conquered by F.F.1., Is Entered
by Allied Troops.
F.F.I. Frees Paris from Yoke of Invader.
In Marseilles also there was a great
deal of shooting, not of Germans but of
(Continued on page 8.)
JUST MARRIED.


PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—-
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts, or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Full particulars at Personal Loam Dept.,
4th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Practical Bocks for Technical Men
Everybody’s Radio Manual. How to Build and
Repair Radio Receivers. 256 pages. Illus. 9/-,
post 6d.
Eortunes in Formulas. For Home, Farm and
Workshop. 10,000 Recipes and Trade Pro-
cesses. 861 pages. 12/6, post 1/-.
The Handyman’s Complete Self-Instructor.
Engineering, Radio, Woodwork, Electricity,
Building, Decorating, Boot Repairing, Metal-
work, etc. 576 pages. 600 illustrations. 10/-,
post 6d.
A.Ii.C.’S of Diesel Engines. A practical manual
of theory and practice. 333 pages. Illustrated.
12/6, post 6d.
Practical Mathematics for All. A simplified but
complete course of Arithmetic, Algebra, etc.
With examples and exercises. By Herbert
McKay. 416 pages. 10/6, post 6d.
General Plastics. By R. Cherry. What plastics
are, how to work them, what tools are needed,
how to finish them and how to make dozens of
useful objects out of them. 128 pages, more
than 150 photographs, diagrams, etc. 11/6,
post 4d.
Tinkering with Tools. By H. Saylor. A prac-
tical book for the home-owner. How to do
wood joinery, painting and varnishing, plumb-
ing, electric wiring, etc. 260 pages, fully
illustrated. 7/6, post 6d.
The Young Craftsman. What to Make—How
to Make It. Descriptions of over 450 craft pro-
jects reprinted from “Popular Mechanics”
Magazine. 1100 illustrations, drawings and
diagrams. 224 pages. 7/6, post 6d.
Radio for the Millions. Prepared by the edi-
torial staff of “Popular Science” Monthly. A
remarkably complete book for everyone inter-
ested in radio. 192 pages, more than 100 wir-
ing diagrams and 450 illus. 12/6, post 6d.
The Standard Mechanics’ Encyclopedia. A
practical outline of Mechanical Trades. Edited
by William L. Schaaf, Ph.D. 954 pages, with
over 700 diagrams. 30/-, post 9d.
Auto Owner’s Home Service Manual. A ready-
reference manual of money-saving ideas for
the the man w'ho w f ants to get the most out of
his car. 247 pages, with more than 500 illus-
trations, diagrams and charts. 17/6, post 6d.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day's work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you hare suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe-it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience, ''hen
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay In the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet ana
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes ana
(excess uric acid. „ .
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and hi -
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the sy-tem
of harmful wastes and acid Poisons. Let
pOAN’S BACKACHE jaBNEY fILBS to-day.
Frenchmen: “the hatred between French-
men and Frenchmen is infinitely greater
than that between the French and the
Germans.” Many “collaborationists,” real
or alleged, were seen in custody. A gen-
darme said “They will soon be kaput.
Do you want to see the bodies of the ones
we executed this morning?”
“Don’t you give them a trial?” we asked.
“Yes,” another gendarme answered. “We
try them and then we shoot them.”
The lack of ammunition and, above all,
of machine-guns has been a constant com-
plaint. To judge from the amount of
shooting going on, one could not wonder
that the ammunition kept running out. The
streets were continually swarming with the
cars of patriots dashing madly in all direc-
tions, with flags flying in the breeze and
guns bristling on all four sides. _ Trigger-
fingers are very light. Most significant
was the special welcome to us because we
were Americans. The French who have
come from Africa received no such wel-
come.
General de Gaulle and most of the
members of his Government came from
Africa. They have a job ahead of them
that will tax all their strength, and,
though it is no time for petulant criti-
cism, they may fairly ask for a generous
measure of Allied support.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ranting, scolding and apologising, as
is nowadays his wont, Curtin revealed
in a speech at Perth that, with only a
fortnight to go, there were a mere 130,000
subscribers to the Second Victory Loan.
Labor has heavily taxed and put all sorts
of restraints on the old investing class,
but it has failed to create a substitute
among the new rich. The thrifty prefer
savings banks; the thriftless gamble.
Theodore, who since early 1942 has
been an Uncle from Fiji to Australia as
Director-General of the Allied Works
Council, is reverting to his normal
occupation of being an Uncle from
Fiji to his mining and newspaper
shareholders. In a “review” of the
“success of the work during the
past two years” he said his show had
spent £140,000,000. A more enduring
memorial than the “review” is graven
in rock in the very centre of the Con-
tinent at Simpson’s Gap: “Never was so
little done by so many for so much.”
Loder, chairman of the Vic. Country
Roads board, succeeds Theodore. He is a
good man, but the taxpayers will not fail
to notice thus early a war-time depart-
ment, never regarded as anything but tem-
porary, is to be made a fixture. And
the performances of heads of other war-
time departments leave no doubt in any-
body’s mind as to their faith in the per-
manency of their appointments.
Six convalescent Diggers, helping in
Brisbane’s loan campaign, were so dis-
gusted by the “apathy and insults” they
received from factory, office, meat, dock
and wharf hands that they called on the
“Courier-Mail” to register their indig-
nation. The response to their appeals
was infinitesimal, except among a shift of
Chinese workers, every one of whom
subscribed. About the same time Ashley
was saying in Perjh that he was “shocked
at the lag in loan subscriptions,” and
Forde was finding it “surprising and
tragic” that “fifty million has still to be
found and only a week to go.” These
wallers never go into causes.
When gangs of larrikins (“the pushes”)
preyed on Sydney a Government with
guts gave the police their orders and “the
pushes” were batoned so thoroughly that
they ceased to infest the streets. But
when larrikinism disguised as unionism
preys op Sydney, robbing it of food sup-
plies and transport, with frequent threats
to rob it of other essentials, neither the
Labor “Government” at Canberra nor
the Labor “Government” at Sydney is
heard from. Plainly, “the pushes” lived
too soon, or slipped in not getting “push”-
flatterers into Parliament and on the
Treasury benches.
The Sydney “Government” has an-
nounced that it expects to get Common-
wealth approval for the spending of “at
least £100,000,000 on post-war develop-
ment.” Its “plans,” it asserts, “aim at
the rapid development of the State so
that it will carry a greatly increased popu-
lation within a few years after the war.”
“State” means Sydney, and if the present
reign of lawlessness goes on the spend-
ing of more than £100,000,000 will be
required to enable Sydney to keep its
nearly 50 p.c. of the State population.
When the assistant manager’s job at
the Board of Works farm at Werribee
(Vic.) fell vacant and an appointment was
made the watchful R.S.L. at once pro-
tested that the appointee was not a re-
turned man, and that returned-soldier
applicants hadn’t been given a fair go.
The Board of Works referred the ap-
pointment back to the farm committee.
Whether or not the original appointment
was justified, it shows what can happen.
There has been a great old rumpus in
the Victorian Assembly about redistribu-
tion of seats, but unanimity is about to
be achieved. Members are “moving to
have their salaries increased.”
In the N.S.W. “Parliament” on Thurs-
day Badly was heard from, not on his
usual subjects, dawgs and coalminers’
pensions, but on that of stock callously
left unkilled by won’t-work Government
slaughtermen; —•
Conditions were brought to my notice
last night. I asked the executive of the
slaughtermen and butchers generally to
talk the matter over with me. I told them
there were about 80,000 head and they were
likely to die. They said they would
examine the matter in the morning. They
agreed to resume work, but something hap-
pened later. I have been in touch with the
men today, and I expect to confer with
them tonight. I have been in touch with
the Federal Minister of Labor, Mr. Hollo-
way.
Badly about to begin to commence to do
something in a matter that has sickened
all lovers and defenders of animals is not
an inspiring sight.
The Sydney strike paper issued from
Communist G.H.Q. had in its final issue
a page headed “Inside Politics, by Guido
Fox.” Dealing with the resignation of
S.A. Senator “Uphill,” Guido tipped his
successor;—
And though rejected at the common
general election after six years in the
Senate, solicitor K. C. Wilson is present
favorite for the selection.
That was on 20/10/’44, about ten days
after E. W. Mattner got the selection.
Still that wouldn’t worry Guido, since
it gave him an opportunity for a typical
bit of “sliming” of Wilson, who has worn
the A.I.F. uniform in two wars.
Last week a committee accompanied
by Archie Cameron, who is acting M.P.
for the Northern Territory till A. M.
Blain comes back from his enemy
prison camp, set out to try to square up
the awful mess which the Supply Depart-
ment and the A.W.C. have made of the
mica and wolfram industries of the
Centre. The Government has sung very
soft about the matter, as well it might.
The Auditor-General showed that to
November 30, 1943, the gentlemen who
want to socialise Australia to improve its
industry spent £369,000 at Hatches
Creek to recover £29,000 worth of wol-
fram, leaving behind mountains of rotting
machinery, paddocks floored with con-
crete and shafts fallen in and unwork-
able.
“Lea”: “What additional measures
are being taken or are contemplated in
consequence of the alarming spread of
buffalo-fly in certain of our cattle areas?”
The question was asked in Queensland
Parliament. In 1944? No, in 1930, and
the questioner was Frank Bulcock, then
of the Labor Opposition. Two years
later Bulcock became Minister of Agu-
culture and Stock, and such he remained
until he resigned to become Curtin's
Director of Agriculture. In the 14 years
the buffalo-fly has travelled from west of
the Gulf country to south of Bowen, and
is expected to spread further south.
Suddenly returning to the spirit of the
“old” Melbourne “Argus,” the “new”
Melbourne “Argus” gave its blessing to
“the non-Labor unity which would appear
to have been achieved at Canberra,” add-
ing that “Mr, Menzies deserves the whole-
hearted congratulations of the non-Labor
electorate” on “objectives such as any pro-
gressive-minded Australian can accept.”
It was so long since a representative
Australian daily had said anything nice
about Menzies that Bob must have been
momentarily overwhelmed. The “Argus”
suggested that the party should take the
name identified with the Cecils and
Churchill, and in Canada with a long
line of leaders from John Macdonald to
Bennett. It didn’t have this on its own:
ac least one public man whose opinion
is valued recommended the adoption of
the title “Conservative” ; but weight of
opinion was against him. So after 27
years the Liberal party was born again.
Dipping into history, the “Argus”
wrote that “the Conservative party in
Britain,” after “about 114 years” (is it that
old?), “is still honored and supported by
a large portion of the electorate ; on the
other hand, the Liberal party is now of
negligible proportions.” True, but it looks
like growing again when the by-election
truce which keeps it “negligible” is re-
moved. As it is, Beveridge has become
a Liberal member, and if Montgomery
becomes a Liberal candidate at the post-
war election he is certain to carry a lot
of young servicemen in with him. And
it is taken for granted that Monty will
be a candidate, though a statement that
he made submission of the platform
a condition precedent was denied by
Liberal headquarters.
Apropos of “the ever-popular Eddie
Ward” being in “his usual seat at the
ringside” (official N.S.W. Labor organ,
October 12), two more N.S.W. pugs, one
accompanied by his trainer, performed in
Melbourne on the ensuing Saturday night
and one in Brisbane. No “action was
taken to have an officer of the Common-
wealth Transport Department to police
the arrival of trains to intercept any of
the boys who might be journeying inter-
state without the required authority,” as
was said by the ever-popular one in the
case of the Geelong Grammar boys.
Neither has it been explained how it
comes to pass that these pugs and many
others, like the Minister, though with
different weapons, fight Australians only.
Consider the citizen of Sydney. Wheq
he goes to bed he doesn’t know what the
morning will bring, or rather what it will
not bring, for he may find himself with-
out bread or meat or newspapers or fuel
or transport to his job. He has a Labor
Government in Sydney and another in
Canberra, each with a thundering major-
ity. On neither can he depend to see
that even the ordinary essentials are sup-
plied to him. The people of other cities
don’t know what blessings they enjoy.
A party of Miners’ Federation bosses
went by car to Canberra for the ninety-
ninth conference with the “Government.”
Told by Forde (Curtin was on the other
side of the continent) that the coal posi-
tion was so unutterably bad that their
section of the “Labor” party might not
be allowed to knock off for ten “work-
ing” days at Christmas, they went away
saying that their section of the “Labor”
party would take the holidays, and if the
“Government” didn’t like it the “Govern-
ment” could lump it, On the way back
their caravan capsized, and “passengers
in a following car worked for an hour to
release the imprisoned men.” Two were
“knocked unconscious” but “escaped
with minor injuries.” Lucky for them
they landed on their heads.
Remarks of counsel at the Australia
First inquiry, continued in Melbourne:
Mr. Dovey: My attention has been drawn
to an article which appeared in The Bulletin
last week, in which it was stated that The
Bulletin expected that mud would be thrown
at it, and perhaps more was to come, and it
had a pretty good idea of the source. I desire
to say, your Honor, as counsel assisting the
Commission, that at no time has there been any
reflection made upon the integrity or loyalty
of the directors or editors of The Bulletin
by anybody appearing before the Commission,
nor has any attempt been made in any
way to impugn the loyalty of the directors or
the editors of that newspaper. It would seem
that whoever wrote the article had not paid
attention to the proceedings before this Com-
mission, or failed completely to understand
what took place there.
Mr. Shand: I certainly did not make any
reflection, and I do not think anyone in Court
did.
Writing in the New York “Times” on
August 29, and mentioning that “it
would not be surprising if the American
flag were again hoisted over the Philip-
pines in the fall, Hanson Baldwin set
himself against a current impression par-
ticularly prevalent at Canberra and voiced
recently by an A.B.C. man, though
Baldwin, oddly, used the past tense:
It used to be said that we could safelv
by-pass many of these Japanese island
bases neutralise them by bombing and
shell-fire and leave their garrisons to starve
The first two judgments are sound, but the
third is not. The Japanese garrisons left
xar in the rear of the conquests are still
holding out and are not starving. Herein
may be the seed of a future problem.
The Bulletin has repeatedly expressed
the same opinion.
S.A. has had more nominee Senators
than any other State. On its list are the
names of two ex-Premiers, Barwell and
Verran, Kneebone, A. J. McLachlan,
Mcßride, A. W. Robinson, O’Loghlin,
Shannon and E. C. Vardon. On the
record in most cases are the words “de-
feated at subsequent general election.”
While Churchill and Eden were in
Moscow it came out that a Russian Mis-
sion, “prompted by a desire for the con-
solidation of political, economic and cul-
tural ties,” had been in Iran, late Persia
(or Persia, late Iran), seeking oil conces-
sions, and had been put off “until after
the war.” Omar’s country already accom-
modates the Anglo-Iranian Co., whose
annual production is round 10,000,000
tons, though it doubtless increased during
the war. A very uneasy neighbor of the
U.S.S.R., it plaintively asked the Big
Three not long ago to withdraw their
forces, pointing out that the Germans
W'ere rolling back to Naziland; but the
request was —very politely, no doubt-
ignored.
From the 1944 Statesman’s Year-Book:
Soviet scientists believe that the U.S.S.R.
contains 20 p.c. of the world’s coal de-
posits, 58 p.c. of its oil, 53 p.c. of its iron
ore, and 20 p.c. of its timber-land... .Out-
put of oil (in barrels): 1937, 202,856,661;
1938, 206,125,000; (in tons) 1940,
34,200,000; 1941 (estimate), 38,000,000 tons.
And with the vast military help of the
British Empire and the U.S.A. on land, on
sea and in the air, plus the provision and
carriage of immense supplies of materials
for the armies and the civil population,
the Socialist Sixth of the World has got
them all back. Yet it has already annexed
territories from two countries and is de-
manding more from other countries;
and it is after foreign oil. And no doubt
the Dean of Canterbury will write an-
other book, and Bishop' Burgmann will
put out another lot of speeches and news-
paper articles, praising its moderation.


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
mmm a n i
99
aas
s
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
McGlashan College, Dunedin (M.L.),
which contributed Colin Gilray to Scots
College, Sydney, and J. A. Dunning to
Scots College, Warwick (Q.), has a new
head—Lieut,-Col. Conolly, D. 5.0., 36,
son of a late Judge of the Supreme Court.
A noted athlete and scholar, he tried to get
away as soon as war started, but was
held back till the Maorilanders went over-
seas in 1940. He then took part in the
campaigns in Libya, Tripoli, Tunisia and
Italy.
Colonel Deneys Reitz, briefly reported
in cables to have died in London at 62,
was an outstanding South African, as
was his father, Francois Willem Reitz,
who was called to the English Bar and
subsequently practised as a barrister at
the Cape till he became Chief Justice
and then President of the Orange Free
State. The father remained an irrecon- \
cilable Boer, but the son,
having fought as a young-
ster on the Boer side, en-
listed in the British Army
for 1914-18 and com-
manded a Scottish bat-
talion. Col. Reitz, South
African High Commissioner
in London since 1943, had
been in South African Cabi-
nets as Minister of Lands,
of Agriculture and Forests,
of Mines and of Native
Affairs, and, from 1939 till
his London appointment,
Deputy Prime Minister.
Also he was author of
books on South African
life, including Commando
and Trekking On.
Leader of a big march in Melbourne
the other day. Brigadier C. R. V. Edgar,
D. 5.0., is of staunch Victorian fighting
stock. His father lost an arm in the Boot
War, two brothers were in the last show
and his young brother is a Staff Corps
colonel. He himself left Australia with
the first convoy as a company com-
mander with the 2/2nd Battalion, and
later forced his way over the Owen Stan-
leys as C. 0., collecting the D.S.O. on the
way. Taking over the 4th Brigade in
May, 1943, Brig. Edgar was with his old
chief, George Wootten, when fighting
their way up the coast from Lae. Away
from soldiering Edgar works in the Com-
monwealth Bank, Sydney.
“El V,” reports a medical appoint-
ment :
Australia shortly will lose another of the
brilliant brains which it seems constitutionally
unable to keep—Dr. Rupert Willis, noted cancer
research specialist, pathologist at the Alfred
Hospital, Melbourne, is leaving to take the
Collins Professorship of Human and Compara-
tive Pathology at the Royal College of Sur-
geons, London. The appointment of a
Dominion student to such a position, the duties
of which include the supervision of the Hun-
terian Collection of the College, was described
by Professor MacCallum, who occupies the
Pathology chair at Melbourne University, as
“unique.” The Melbourne University Medical
School, he added, was very proud that one of its
students had been chosen. It would be a
matter for even greater pride if We could keep
our Floreys, Gillieses, Braggs and Willises and
all the rest of the host of Australians whose
achievements have added to the glory of British
medical and other science. Occasionally one
does remain. The other day the world’s press
trumpeted the achievement of two Soviet
scientists who were supposed to be restoring
life after clinical death —the cessation of breath-
ing and heart beats —had taken place. That
kind of wonder was pioneered in Launceston
(Tasmania) General Hospital in 1906 by the
Scottish-bom John Ramsay, also a Melbourne
University graduate, who may still be, seen at
72 going his unassuming way in Launceston.
Maitland (N.S.W.) Masons have
honored John Goulston, initiated there
50 years ago. An exceedingly competent
general secretary, Goulston went through
all the offices in Masonry till, in 1928, he
succeeded Lord Stonehaven as Grand
Master. He has been the Big Executive
in Masonry for nearly 40 years.
Another Jewish barrister, the second in
a few months, has been added to the list
of Victorian Ks.C. —Percy Joske, who
has been practising at the Melbourne Bar
since 1917. Joske, senior, deceased, was
for very many years Registrar of the
Dental Board of the State, and the new
K.C. took over the job when his father
died. He’s responsible for several impor-
tant legal textbooks.
Roper. J., who in Sydney this week has
on his hands what’s generally referred to
as the Dobell Art Case, is a New South
Welshman, educated at Armidale and
North Sydney High Schools and Sydney
Uni., graduating in 1925, and subsequently
making equity his long suit. In 1937
appointed Judge of the Land and Valua-
tion Court, he became a Supreme Court
ROPER, J.
Judge the same year, and was the
youngest Judge to be appointed. As
stated in B. 18/10/’44, he’s a cousin of
the Evatts and a son of a former
N.S.W. Under-Secretary of Lands.
The voice that has sounded over the
air from Vatican City for the past couple
of years, retailing the news generally and
the names of prisoners of war, belongs
to a Maorilander, Father Owen Snedden.
Born in Auckland, and now 26, he was
educated at the Sacred Heart College
there and at the Seminary in Mosgiel,
Otago. Seven years ago he went to Rome
to pursue studies, and was caught there
when Musso. threw his hat into the ring.
Father Snedden visited prisoner-of-war
camps in Italy, and also broadcast mes-
sages from Italians to their war-prisoner
relations held in Australia.
Exit the Desert Fox:
When Field Marshal Erwin Eugen Johannes
Rommel was at the top of his form, leading
the Afrikakorps over the desert to the gates
of Alexandria and threatening to win the war
for the Axis by that route, Goebbels, who had
kept him in the spotlight of his propaganda,
must have been delighted at the assistance freely
rendered to the same end by newspapers and
the like on the Allied side. It was all the more
extraordinary in coinciding with a readiness to
question the ability of British and other Allied
leaders, and even the courage of their men.
In view of all that, the reporting of Rommel’s
reported death has been curiously played down,
as if it was suspected that the Desert Fox might
yet turn up one night in Montgomery’s tent
and challenge Monty to a duel. In the desert war
Montgomery kept a photo, of Rommel hung
over his bunk; made a close study of his an-
tagonist; decided that Rommel’s weakness was
a habit of repeating himself; and so, by
greater generalship and the splendid fighting
quality of his men, had the victory. Rommel
was reported sick and taken back to Germany
before the final debacle, and in Germany his
fame* was as high as ever. He was appointed
Inspector-General for the Defence of Europe;
was reported wounded shortly after the in-
vasion; then, finally, it came out rather vaguely
that he was dead. Rommel was born at Heiden-
heim, Wiirtemberg, in 1891, his father an out-
standing lecturer in maths, at Munich Uni-
versity. Joining the German Army in 1910,
Rommel was a lieutenant when the 1914-18
war started and a captain when it ended.
Omitted from the group of 4000 crack officers
taken over by the new German Republican
Army, he joined up with Hitler, and even be-
fore Hitler came to power was instructor for
infantry tactics in German military academies,
his two books, Infantry Attack and Tasks for
Platoon and Company, revealing him as a sound
military authority. At the start of the present
war he was a Major-General commanding a
mixed S.S. and Death’s Head division which
guarded Hitler’s field headquarters in Poland,
and in June, 1942, when he had driven across
into Egypt, Hitler handed him his field-marshal s
baton. Characteristic of the legend that sprang
up about him as the tough desert leader was
his reported greeting to a new young aide-de-
camp: “I congratulate you on your appoint-
ment. four predecessors were killed in
action.
Sgt. Norman S. Maclntyre, who en-
listed in the A:I.F. from Parramatta
(N.S.W.), where he was running a service
station, has been awarded the Russian
Order of the Patriotic War First Class
for good and courageous work in Greece
and Crete. On Crete, as a private in his
battalion intelligence section, he saved
a complete company from capture by re-
maining on his job under fire long after
others of the section had embarked. The
Russian award entitles him to travel free
at all times on Russian trams, to travel
free once a year on Russian trains and
ships, freedom of taxation if his income
doesn t exceed 6000 roubles a year, dis-
count of 10 to 15 p.c. on rent dues and
20 roubles a month for five years —he s
thinking of sending the bit about taxation
to Canberra, Sgt. Maclntyre was in the
first convoy to sail from Sydney m this
war. He has a brother a p-o.w m M a
and another brother with the R.A.A.F.
“H.W.M.”: Eyan Gwynne Bona, who
has passed on at 65, was the Melbourne
solicitor who with others formed a com-
pany to freeze a goldmining shaft at
Poseidon (Vic.) because of water diffi-
culties. They froze the ground to a depth
of over 300 ft., but the water in the drives
beat them. This is believed o be the on Y
Si!'"! a was ha asso b fn
launched in the last war to sell a grenade
in the form of a boomerang, some of the
shares changing hands up to £1250. Just
as the British War Office accepted it and
was about to place a mammoth order the
war came to a sudden end. So did the
pnmmnv
p y *
A.M.P.’s new manager for South Aus-
tralia, Cecil Vernon Wickens, is a native
of that State, born 55 years ago. He
started with A.M.P. at 16 as a junior
clerk, and for the past nine years has
been with the W.A. branch. Fitting in
with the way they like to have things in
S.A., judging by a string of other recent
appointments there, he’s an Old Digger,
on Gallipoli as a sergeant-major with the
Third Light Horse and later in France
to the finish as an artillery officer. A
top-notch footballer in his day, he roved
for Sturt and represented S.A. when it
had a team that was too good for Vic-
toria. These days it’s bowls, with A-
grade skippering, and in 1941 the pairs
C. V. WICKENS.
championship in W.A. A son, Flight-
Lieut, lan Wickens, of the R.A.A.F., has
done fine work round about Timor.
Lieut.-Commander G. H. Gill is to
write the naval volumes of the Australian
Official History for this war. He should
do a capital job. He was in the merchant
navy in 1914-18, since 1940 has been in
the naval intelligence division, where he’s
in charge of the historical records, and
has written stacks of tip-top fiction
and articles about the sea and its ships
and men. He’ll bring to the job, too, a
quality not always noted in historians —
a jolly sense of humor. Better known,
perhaps, to readers (including Bulletin
readers) as G. Hermon Gill, he also made
a name in Melbourne as a broadcaster.
He was formerly on the “Argus” staff.
His wife is artist Esther Patterson,
Lloyd Dumas, editor of the “Advertiser,”
is the new member appointed by the Play-
ford Government in place of the late
Alex. Melrose on the board of the
National Gallery of Adelaide. Edward
Morgan moves up into Melrose’s seat as
chairman; the other members are artists
Hans Heysen and Goodchild, and lawyer
Ronald Finlayson. Heysen has presented
several landscapes of his own, and direc-
tor Louis McCubbin has announced an
almost startling bequest of Hilders and
Streetons to come from the Melrose
estate.
This year’s Rennie Memorial Medal
has been awarded by the Australian
Chemical Institute to D. T. C. Gillespie,
M.Sc., chief chemist of Beckers, of
South Aus. The medal is awarded for the
most outstanding contribution towards
development of some branch of chemical
science by candidates under 30 years old,
the judging based on research work pub-
lished over the past 10 years. Gillespie’s
winning work has been on alcohols, alde-
hydes and ketones —two of which most
people would reckon themselves entitled
to a medal for knowing what they meant.
Called it a day to take a well-earned
rest in the English country, where he has
a bungalow and a garden and can fish in
a neighboring stream, William Finnegan,
after 36 years in the Australian Govern-
ment service, first as a messenger at the
office in Victoria-street, London, and
latterly as Australia House caretaker.
As an Irish Guardsman he was on duty
at Queen Victoria’s funeral and Edward
VIPs coronation and had been on guard
at all the palaces. He was George Reid’s
valet for a couple of weeks at Balmoral
Castle.
Lindsay Webb, back to Sydney as
manager of the Bathurst-street branch of
the Bank of N.S.W., has been in Fre-
mantle for the past four years, giving his
spare time away from the bank to the
Citizen’s Reception Council, which has
done a great job at the port entertaining,
housing and feeding visiting troops. Fre-
mantle bank managers have done fine
patriotic work during this war. Jack Jay
(Bank of Adelaide), who has been
elected Chamber of Commerce president,
has been secretary of the Citizens’ Re-
ception Council. George Hankin (E.S.
and A.) takes over Lindsay Webb’s
treasurer job on the C.R.C. Claude
Secombe (Commercial) is an enthusiastic
V.D.C. regular, and Athol Norrie (Aus-
tralasia) acted as head warden for the
A.R.P. during the hectic* months when
Fremantle expected blitzes.
E. J. Picket, retiring after 30 years
(25 of them as manager) from the Ade-
laide Cement Co., learned his job in M.L.
with the Milburn Co., of Dunedin. The
Adelaide Co. found him there and took
him over to build up a big business.
A bronze plate expressing gratitude to
N. F. Spielvogel, a Bulletin contributor
over many years, for “valuable services
in the interests of the city” has been
placed in the Ballarat Historical Museum,
Spielvogel’s Bulletin par. specialties
were natural-history subjects and gold-
fields history, but he has written on all
sorts of topics. A schoolmaster, he was
a pioneer of nature studies in the schools ;
during vacations he went bush-wandering,
opening up many interesting parts of Vic-
toria and N.S.W., and he maintains
his hobbies. He is president of the Bal-
larat Synagogue, and has been for years.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 77, Jeremiah Hassett, who
was briefed as counsel for the Pope over im-
portant litigation concerning the Catholic Church
in Australia. He was regarded as one of Sel-
borne Chambers’s soundest counsel.
In Sydney, at 83, John Morris Bowen,
mining pioneer of the early Kalgoorlie days.
A Welshman, he came to Australia in his
twenties for health reasons, became part-owner
and manager of the Montana mine at Zeehan
(Tasmania), and subsequently managed the
Hands Across the Sea mine at Coolgardie. His
son, John Bowen, has been in the wool trade
for many years, and is on the Victorian State
Wool Committee.


Wlmu
ni
zmt®
m
m
{frusader
m
II
■\yM
s»
iii*
■ IBS
•m m sm
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
THAT- =
-r
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—Jamas Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY
LIMITED
7 BRIDGE
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Uncertain and Unfair
The Australian industrial and commer-
cial world faces the future with far more
uncertainty in its outlook than should
fairly be the case.
In ordinary pre-war days the basis of
new enterprise and investment, as well as
the expansion of older industries, was
confidence that capital outlay would yield
a reasonably certain and profitable return.
Nowadays not only is the future of
prices and costs most uncertain in Aus-
tralia ; the whole outlook for economic
law and order has become nebulous.
Prior to the present war there was
an expanding home demand for Aus-
tralian production, even though war pros-
pects and the influence of the New Deal
in the U.S.A. made overseas markets for
our land products temperamental. Many
new industries were being set up in the
Commonwealth, there was a steady flow
of savings into expanding and new enter-
prises, and, although the sharemarket,
partly by reason of excessive speculation,
was unduly sensitive to conditions on the
New York and London Stock Exchanges,
Australian manufacturing industries were
highly regarded by investors.
There were many indications in 1938-
39 that existing tariff protection was
generally thought adequate for profit-
able production, and this in turn showed
that there was a fair degree of confidence
that the relationship between costs of
production and selling prices in this
country was not likely to be violently
upset. There was an excess of importing,
but most of the excess related to goods
not produced in the Commonwealth.
An unjustifiable rise in costs, however,
was repeatedly stressed in these pages as
the most imminent pre-war danger to the
Australian economy. Not nearly enough
attention was paid to internal factors in
the years immediately preceding the war.
There had been a “prosperity” loading
to the basic wage in 1937 on the advice
of an imported economist named Redda-
way; it caused more cost inflation than
increase in living standards. But while
the trend just before the war was for in-
creasing costs to become a danger to the
export trades and to industry manufac-
turing for the home market, it was pos-
sible to build a house as cheaply in 1939
as it was in 1937 —and that was excep-
tionally cheaply.
Unemployment was being steadily re-
duced. The lowest pre-war figure was
8 p.c., in the March quarter of 1938. In
spite of one or two stoppages of moment,
coal production was increasing each year.
Industrial strife, on the whole, was notice-
ably absent. Actual prosperity of the
nation was probably never greater. There
was a general keenness to “do business”
and give service. People were striving
for a better living standard through their
own enterprise, though the seeds of social-
ism were alread y being sown m some
“Tnd'm this atmosphere, as said before,
investment was free and new industries
Brf)ken Hm p roprie tary, in spite of
demands for its nationalisation by Mr.
Ford showed almost continuo us expan-
sfon of output _ a key to the activity of
o j der heavy industries. Small businesses
multiplied as the larger ones spread,
Despite the proS pects of war and the
disturbing growth in some internal costs,
the outlook was one in which an unusual
number of people were prepared to take
those business risks which are the essence
of a free enterprise. During the previous
depression there had been a shunning of
investment in industries and a putting of
savings into fixed deposits and the like.
As “recovery” went on, until the outbreak
G f war, the population generally preferred
to put its money, proportionately, to more
active use.
The outlook for Australia at the out-
break of wjir was that, when peace re-
turned, it should be found expanding
industrially at a greater rate than any
other country.
J n contrast with pre-war conditions, it
i s almost unnecessary to say that at the
present time the future looks so confused
that instinct rather than reason has to
guide the businessman in his planning,
Enterprise, where it is permitted by the
Government, depends more upon a stout
heart than upon ordinary confidence,
The war itself was bound to upset the
standards and prospects that we knew in
1939. There was bound to be a large
increase in taxation, in the national debt
and in the cost of Government generally.
Industry had to be turned over from the
jobs of peace to the jobs of war, and in
the period of its war-time operations
many new manufacturing developments
have occurred. New methods have laid
the foundations of new industries and per-
haps rung the death-knell of some old
ones. The war was certain to bring dis-
turbance to social standards and to the
outlook of Labor for the duration of the
war at least.
But the disturbance which the Austra-
lian economy has undergone, considering
that no invasion of the continent has oc-
curred, has been far beyond reasonable
expectations. The Government professes
little or no desire to return to the con-
ditions of 1939, either politically or in-
dustrially. It has a mania for controls,
and socialisation of many industries
is freely advocated by some Min-
isters and departmental heads. As a
whole, the Government certainly does not
profess to aim at a complete and sym-
pathetic rehabilitation of private industry.
Concessions to militant Labor have been
out of all reason. There is a mere show
of industrial-law enforcement.
The effect of the abuses which have
been suffered by productive Australia
during the war is hardly likely to dis-
appear afterwards like a hailstone on a
summer’s day. “Standards” and unrest
which have sprung up during the war will
set a problem to be met very early under
competitive commercial conditions when
the war ends.
A matter which does not seem to be
likely of settlement during the term of
office of the present Federal Ministry is
whether the affairs of this country
are to be basically “free enterprise”
or basically socialistic. After the defeat
of the referendum it was noticeable
how attempts were quickly made to put
various essential functions on a socialistic
basis piecemeal. Banking, for instance,
is at present being discussed by the Labor
party in Canberra; it is proposed
in some quarters to continue war-time
controls in peace-time.
It appears to worry the Government
very little that an economy which may
be left basically “free” may also be over-
loaded with semi-socialised services which
conflict with vigorous and beneficial de-
velopment of free enterprise. Though the
thin edge of a socialistic wedge may
simply prevent the best results being
obtained from free enterprise, the Gov-
ernment view (politics being its chief
business) seems to be that the ultimate
end justifies the means. An intrusion of
revolutionary politics such as this into
the workings of our economic system is
one of the most unsettling problems
which Australian industry has in pros-
pect now that the end of the war appears
to be in sight.
Where a Government is prepared to
buy votes at prices which seem to have
no ceiling (prices being paid by the
nation) industrial undertakings can
have little confidence in the future.
High-pressure vote-buying implies high
taxation on industry, and, generally,
aji expensive system of robbing Peter
to pay Paul. The Curtin Govern-
ment seems determined to hang on to
its income from war-time taxation as long
as it can for political rather than eco-
nomic reasons. A policy of excessive
taxation is most discouraging to indus-
try and to employment-giving; among
other things, it raises the possibility of
virtual socialisation through taxation.
There is no certainty about how Aus-
tralia’s credit will measure up under post-
war conditions—no certainly about costs
and prices influenced by war-time infla-
tion, about future Government financial
methods, or about the trend of interest
rates when war-time controls are removed
or when such controls cease to be effec-
tive. The Government is not at all clear
about its attitude towards the use of
bank credit, but the general indication is
that “if bank credit is necessary to get
us votes we will use it,” The effects of
bank-credit inflation are a great source
of industrial indecision and frustration
and of unemployment.
Inflation, and ultimately gross infla-
tion, seem to be the inevitable result of
Labor government as we now know it.
While there can, indeed, be no cer-
tainty in any case about the reception our
exports will receive in the markets of the
world after the war, unless costs of pro-
duction can be kept reasonably in line
with those of other countries we may be
sure that excessive cost rises will handi-
cap us. And unless our export trade is
sufficiently vigorous and profitable to
allow us to establish adequate overseas
funds, we shall find ourselves unable to
import many things necessary to a rising
living standard.
All the uncertainties here set down as
facing the Australian industrialist are
emphasised because they are a real ob-
struction to confident planning and pre-
paration for the future, and because re-
cognition has to come before anything
can be done to remove them. Free enter-
prise has its own well-recognised rules,
warnings and danger signals. For the
present these signals are mostly blacked-
out in a total-war economy. But the
dangers are increasing in the absence of
the signals.
We must return to a state in which
there is respect for, and enforcement of,
the law, and a due regard for financial
fact. Otherwise industrial confidence will
become a wreck and financial conditions
chaotic. In such chaos only one thing
flourishes —communism, which is no
form of government and no basis of liv-
ing standards for any British people.
Up to last week-end only 168,000 appli-
cations had been made to the Second
Victory loan. It is nowhere near equal
to the number of men and women in the
fighting services. A great responsibility
rests on Australian civilians during the
next few days. Though great, the respon-
sibility is not unduly heavy in proportion
to the money in the hands, hiding-places
and bank accounts of the people.
* * * *
The British wool-purchase agreement
with Australia has been extended until
one clip after the conclusion of the war
with Japan has been disposed of, if that
event occurs after the end of the war in
Europe. In B. 13/9/’44 it was pointed
out that the contract, prior to the recent
amendment, expired a year after Ger-
many is defeated. In view of the piling-
up of wool stocks, the present extension
of the contract should be appreciated by
woolgrowers. There has been one increase
(of 15 p.c.) in the price since September,
1939.
* * * *
A protest has come from Adelaide
against any change in the form of
control of the Commonwealth Bank
board. Meantime, Senator Cameron has
indicated that the Federal Government is
stewing up something in the curry line
for the “banking system,” to be served
as soon as all Labor hands and the cook
can again present a show of unity in
Parliament. Dedman, who has had
something to do with the banks officially
during the war, is strangely silent by con-
trast with Senator Cameron and H. P.
Lazzarini,
* * * *
The blood of quite a number of Syd-
ney citizens, without newspapers, meat
and with the prospect of further trans-
port trouble staring them in the face,
went to a high temperature last week
when a large khaki-painted lorry, be-
decked with flags and emitting a big
volume of loud-speaker noise, surged past
them in the street advertising a “fillum” at
some city picture house. Even the mildest
taxpayers seeing this unseasonable mon-
strosity were inclined to ask “Has this
city gone entirely off its head?”
* * * *
Mr. Ward announces a rubber pro-
duction of 1621 tons in Australian terri-
tories during the year to June 30. The
output is 275 tons above the highest pre-
war figure, the increase being largely due
to the early or excessive tapping of
rubber trees in view of the urgent demand
for rubber. The year’s rubber production
came mainly from Papua, and did not
include any from plantations still in
“operational areas.”


ẅ
FOR YOUR POST-WAR PUNNING &
C 3
dJ>
CHEMICAL PLANTS
a
[F |f
SHOP FRONTS
w
HOSPITALS
r
d
DAIRY PRODUCTS
When the war ends, Australian industry will turn to new fields—
to new products, new materials.
Now —before that day comes —is the time to plan your produc-
tion and processes; to consider, among other, things, the almost
unlimited possibilities of Comsteel Stainless Steels.
In aircraft and ships, in hospitals and surgical equipment; in
chemical and explosives plants, textile and food-factories; in
scores of other wartime applications, these steels have proved
their quality in actual service.
They can be used to equip the modern hospital, or a home kitchen;
in architecture, engineering, food-packing, chemical processes,
restaurants, transport, in hotels, shops and offices; the list is
almost endless. So are the opportunities.
Our knowledge of all that Comsteel Stainless-Steels can do is at
your disposal. We suggest, that you avail yourself of it note —
disettss these steels and stainless steel products with our Technical
Staff— so that both you and we are ready when the time comes.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS AND
HEAT-RESISTING STEELS
FOB ALL MANUFACTURING. CONSTRUCTIONAL ENGINEERING
REQUIREMENTS
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY UNITED - - - HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: WARATAH. H.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane - Adelaide Perth
SSA.
The Great Stupidity
An Englishman resident in Australia,
on hearing of the latest N. S. Wales
strike, remarked the other day, Isn t it
a damn’ shame, considering the decent
people that there are in Australia, that
the country should be judged abroad by
the behavior of organised troublemakers
who have risen to disproportionate pro-
minence?”
It is true that an organised mob, how-
ever small, is much more prominent than
a far larger body of people pursuing their
peaceful, individual occupations. AI
Capone was not representative of the
Chicago populace—he couldn’t have been
—but he got a huge burst of publicity,
and he did exercise a great sway in certain
“business” affairs.
When a particularly unjustifiable strike
occurs in the Commonwealth there are
usually comments to the effect that the
strike is not a true reflection of the atti-
tude of the union concerned, and that a
well-organised few, perverting established
traditions and principles of unionism have
really been responsible for the strike.
It may be perfectly true that such
strikes are engineered by militant
minorities. At . the same time it is not
possible to absolve all other strikers from
blame. They have a voice in the set-up
which has established the machinery that
makes union “solidarity” possible. Unions
represent a powerful force. Where force
is unaccompanied by discretion and re-
sponsibility it becomes a danger to
democracy. In Australia today a few
powerful unions have become a danger
to democracy. They flout the law and en-
courage economic chaos. This danger is
most evident in the State of N. S. Wales,
where Communism, advocating a form
of Government which denies the prin-
ciples on which the British Empire is
founded, has its strongest roots.
N. S. Wales has had a long run of
strikes that have the flimsiest basis of
excuse. The “reasons” for strikes on the
coalfields and at the abattoirs have been
mostly ridiculous. In the majority of
cases they have risen from plain, incon-
siderate selfishness on the part of the
militants and a weak indifference on the
part of too many of the others.
Very often these strikes have been a
defiance of the National Security Act,
which is the same law which makes black-
marketing an offence and under which
a number of offenders have been sent
to jail (for black-marketinjg). But while
illegal strikes on the coalfields have done
far more damage to the war effort than
all the black-marketing operations (how-
ever damnable some of these offences
have been) put together, the punishment
awarded has been negligible. The Fed-
eral Government has rarely shown that
it is really out of sympathy with strikers.
The attitude over the Portland affair was
disgraceful.
There is a war on that embraces the
greater part of the world, with much
bloodshed an imminent possibility on the
western front in Europe. Although the
behavior of the Federal Labor Govern-
ment sometimes makes one wonder, Aus-
tralia really has very large commitments
in the war. It has lost heavily in man-
power through casualties on the battle-
field and through tropical disease. It has
hundreds of thousands of men under
arms who have been absent from their
jobs and homes for two or three years at
least. It has to feed many thousands more
Allied and Empire troops, and it has pro-
duction obligations, especially so far as
food is concerned, to Great Britain and
other countries.
There is a large percentage of the Aus-
tralian population which takes this war
very seriously. There are many whpse
brothers, sons or husbands are in the
fighting line, and frequently these people
stint themselves to make up parcels of
comforts, often involving the cutting-into
of their own food ration, to s.end to fight-
ing men. These same people are usually
the ones who subscribe to war loans and,
with the knowledge of what the fighting
services have to go through, put up with
the difficulties of the period in a spirit
of willingness.
There are, on the other hand, organ-
ised bodies of men who have made every
use of the man-power shortage and the
extreme need for maximum war-time
production to extort extra pay from their
embarrassed country.
Although the inter-State merchant
marine is run on behalf of the
Government now, after the war with
Japan started the 44-hour week was
introduced to the industry by National
Security Regulations. Under war-time
conditions the pay of seamen has soared.
Other unions (not all) have pressed for
“improved conditions,” notwithstanding
the distressed circumstances of the
country generally. In spite of huge over-
time earnings in a number of industries
and the general plenitude of money
among wage-earners, support to war loans
has been far less than the decent thing.
Mr. Chifley and the governor and the
chairman of the Commonwealth Bank
have all commented on this position. It
is the rank and file which has principally
failed to support war loans.
Sometimes the upsetting of production
by strikes and job control, the overload-
ing of the war expenses bill with demands
for higher pay, and the unsettling of the
economic system by failure to support
war loans adequately is not a matter of
straightout selfishness. Often it is a
matter of ignorance. There are many
people in Australia who seem to think
that a war can be paid for without paying
for it, or, that if it has to be paid for,
the “boss” can do it. Not many people
really grasp the fact that incomes of
£8 a week and under represent more than
two-thirds the aggregate incomes earned
in the Commonwealth, and that, if a
man earning up to £8 a week is a ‘'small
man,” then the small man has a very big
financial part to play in this war.
- In N. S. Wales particularly there has
been a drift from commonsense, from
respect for the law, from respect for the
truth, and from respect for one’s obli-
gations to his immediate economic fel-
lows and to his country. The Labor
party, which holds the Federal reins of
Government, has preached financial fal-
lacy and class distrust for so long that
it now finds itself almost unable to
govern because of the opposition of its
own “principles” to any orderly form of
government. Irresponsible (or “indivi-
dual”) Ministers like Ward, Calwell and
Lazzarini are permitted to make a variety
of inflammatory and confusing statements.
The Labor propaganda machine is always
on the watch to blow up into a “class”
matter any conflict of interests.
Australia is a country where wealth
and incomes are distributed more evenly
than in any country (bar, perhaps, New
Zealand) in the world. Yet few nations,
with the notable exception of France
before the fall, have in this century had
so much synthetic class friction. The
Great Stupidity overhanging us like
a stormcloud is the apparent belief —
a manifestation, anyway, implied in
nearly every industrial trouble since war
began—that standards of living can be
raised and “social security” assured by
each unionist producing less.
The “boss” is by no means always per-
fect, but the unions have never been in
a stronger position to press just claims
and to assume a responsible and dignified
place in the nation’s affairs. With their
greater strength, however, has come an
almost complete loss of responsibility.
Each day some union sows the seed of
economic and social disaster for the
future.
Results of war loans have not been
made clear. The number of applications
and the amount subscribed are all that we
are told these days; the bank-credit and
other “help” behind the scenes is not fully
disclosed even when questions are asked
in Parliament. In Canada there was a
high Government regard for the plain
truth, even when disasters like Hong
Kong and Dieppe befel the Dominion.
An equal frankness is noticeable in giv-
ing particulars of the magnificently suc-
cessful Canadian Victory loans. Here are
the sources from which the Sixth Victory
Loan was filled:
Individuals .. .. $668,100,000
Banks .. .. .. Nil
Savings banks .. 5,300,000
Government accounts 80,600,000
Insurance cos., etc. .. 194,700,000
Companies, trusts, etc. 458,900,000
$1,407,600,000
The number of applications from busi-
nesses was 6522, while that from indi-
viduals was no less than 3,070,601. And
the loan was oversubscribed by
$207,600,000! It may possibly be that in
a country where such oversubscriptions
occur the people have a justifiable respect
for their Government.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: A suggestion has been made
that Sydney pubs revert to the old prac-
tice, still in force in some of the small
country groggefies, of putting sawdust
on bar floors. Whether this sugges-
tion emanated from a barman or a
drinker I don’t know, but it would cer-
tainly be beneficial to both. Barmen
reaped a rich harvest when dredging the
sawdust after closing hours, for dropped
coins landed noiselessly and quickly sank
to the bottom; on the other hand,
drinkers who battle six-deep at 5.50 p.m.
have the spillings from passed pots up
over their boot tops before they’ve had
time to soak, up axouple of slowies, and
sawdust would save them from sitting
in wet socks and catching' colds on the
way home. Of course, soggy sawdust
clinging to shoes would be an easy put-
away for those who don’t wish to adver-
tise their bar efforts to their spouses. I
recall an old-time temperance reformer
who in a letter to the press said that he
could thus always pick one who was
bound for perdition. It brought a hot
reply from a teetotal fretwork addict.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Touching the ways of the
English, so incomprehensible to foreigners
(B. H/107’44). When the flying-bomb
blitz was at its worst Wisden appeared
with, as its principal feature, an article
by Sir Stanley Jackson, the cricketer who
turned politician. Describing him “as the
greatest Yorkshireman,” which seems
effusive, the “Times” gently took him to
task for denying the old story that Ernie
Jones bowled one of his loose ones
through W. G. Grace’s beard. The
“Thunderer” said the thing rested on
unassailable authority, and detailed pic-
turesque features: ‘“Steady, Jonah,’ said
Harry Trott, the captain” [then South
Melbourne’s pride]; “W.G. strode menac-
ingly down the pitch” ; “ ‘Sorry, Doctor,
she slipped,’ was Jones’s celebrated
utterance.” And correspondent after
correspondent testified to having seen
the ball enter and emerge from the
Beard. Even in Australia memories of
matches are not preserved with anything
like that touching fidelity; and Jones is
only a name to the present generation.
So is Charlie Turner, of whom Jackson
wrote in Wisden that he was “the best
medium-pace bowler I ever batted
against.”
*** * ,
“Visitor”: Adelaide has had a murder
mystery that might have come straight
out of a “thriller” novel. A Chinaman,
reported by his captain as having de-
serted from his ship at the port, was not
found for nearly a month ; and then he
was in the river, long dead, with a triangle
of three great nails hammered into his
head, which suggests some secret-society
ritual of killing. The ship had meanwhile
sailed for Asiatic ports. Two arrests have
been made; one (of a Chinese seaman) in
Sydney and another in “an overseas
port.”
* * * *
“R.8.F.”: It is true that Sherlock
Holmes’s success was a gradual and pro-
gressive affair (B. 11/10/’44). Doyle’s first
Sherlock Holmes story, A Study in Scar-
let, was bought for £25, and was a flop
when it appeared in “Beeton’s Christmas
Annual” for 1887. The next S.H. tale, The
Sign of Four, first appeared in “Lippiu-
cott’s” (American) in 1890 and was pub-
lished in London a year later. It was an
immediate success on both sides of the
water. The greatest commercial success
in the annals of detective fiction was The
Mystery of a Hansom Cab, written by
Fergus Hume, then a very young lawyer
from M.L., in Melbourne, where the
scene of the book was laid. After an
issue in Melbourne it was published in
London in 1887, and before its author
died half a million copies had been sold.
* * * ♦
“Thugine”; Mysteries are easily solved
if all is known. There is the story the
proprietress of my pet caf 6 used to tell
of a customer who ordered a large
plate of oysters, then, while she was in
the next room, disappeared, leaving the
oysters untouched. I know why, for he
told me. After serving the man with
oysters the woman left to answer the
’phone. She spoke loudly and indig-
nantly, and the customer heard: “For
goodness’ sake, send me some fresh
oysters. This last lot were stale when
“Take your time, gents ; the beer won't be on for half an hour!”
you brought them, and it has taken me
three weeks to get rid of them.”
* • * •
“Metallician”: One of Sydney’s
commo. “newspapers” has come out with
a chunk of sporting information which has
been causing bookies in this less-favored
land to lick their lips. It appears that in
Soviet Russia the odds are still laid, but
the punter, to collect, “must pick both
first and second.” The prize-money
goes to the trainer —of course there are
no owners —and he, not the horse, is
decked with a floral horseshoe.
* * * ♦
“Mac Fergus”: The Bratach Sith, or
“fairy flag” of the McLeods, which
hangs on the wall of the drawing-room at
Dunvegan Castle, Isle of Skye, has been
an object of interest to many an Aussie
airman who has had occasion to visit
Charlie’s Isle. Many legends attach to
this tattered piece of faded brown silk.
Recent expert examination has pro-
nounced it to be of Oriental origin (prob-
ably from Syria or Rhodes), so the story
that it was souvenired by a McLeod when
crusading in the Holy Land may have
some basis in fact. But it is strange that
Boswell, who visited the castle in 1773,
makes no mention of it.
>: * * ♦ •
“A.J.K.” One of the most important
aids to military hygiene in tropical areas
has been the flash burner. A 45-
gallon drum is provided with a central
gridded partition and erected in a hori-
zontal position. Two one-gallon con-
tainers, one of diesel oil and the other of
water, are mounted above, and a quarter-
inch copper pipe leads from each to a
central point in the lower, or burner,
portion of the large drum. Refuse is
tipped on the grids, which have been
prepared with dry reeds beforehand to
more readily accommodate the moist
mass. A piece of oily rag is ignited and
placed in the burner under the rubbish
and the oil and water taps are regulated
to provide a steady drip. The white-hot
flames reduce a capacity load to ashes
within' 30 minutes. The stove uses a
gallon of oil an hour.
* * * *
“WX Digger”; Diggers who were in
Blighty in 1940 heard all sorts of rumors
of an abortive invasion attempt by Jerry
after the fall of France. Most persistent
was the yarn, just recently revived, that
drums of oil had been placed in the
Channel, and when the invasion craft
entered the “oiled” area our bombers set
fire to the oil, which, spreading across the
sea, killed thousands of Germans. There’s
a reference to the matter in an English
“Hansard” of a few months ago. Major
Vyvyan Adams asked: “Did the enemy,
during the summer or autumn of 1940,
set in motion the apparatus of a sea-borne
invasion?” Churchill replied: “‘Set in
motion’ in the sense of crossing the
Channel, no. In the sense of making
very heavy shipping and troop concentra-
tions to cross the Channel, yes.” Pressed
further, the P.M. said that not to his belief
had any of the shipping emerged from
the Channel ports. “A great deal of it
was smashed in the ports, and then they
changed their minds.”
* * * *
“A Major”: I suppose that today, even
in the loftiest-browed musical circles,
there could be found few to dispute
“Mid-Channel’s” dictum (B. 11/10/’44)
that Gilbert “created Sullivan.” But it
was not the opinion of the partnership’s
musical contemporaries. Sir George
Grove, in 1883, ju'St before “Mikado”
and “Gondoliers” had set the coping-
stone on Gilsullivan success, wrote of his
old friend (they were associated in a mis-
sion to Vienna to search for Schubert
MSS. as far back as 1867):
May we not fairly ask whether the ability
so conspicuous in these operettas (the G.
and S. series) is always to be employed
on works which from their very nature
must be even more fugitive than comedy in
general? Surely the time has come when so
able and experienced a master of voice,
orchestra and stage effect —master, too, of
so much genuine sentiment —may apply his
gifts to the production of a serious opera
on some subject of abiding human or
national interest?
Grove let that pious aspiration stand in
the 1898 edition of his Dictionary, which
came out seven years after Sullivan’s
second serious opera “Ivanhoe” (his first
was “The Sapphire Necklace,” in 1864)
had flopped. The works which were to
be “even more fugitive than comedy in
general” are still going strong, 60 years
after Grove’s disparagement of them.
♦ ♦ * *
“Balmain Bob”: Along Sydney’s
George-street on almost any morning may
be met a middle-aged bloke wearing long
hair, a beard and a saintly expression,
who walks along with a finger uplifted
either in admonishment or blessing. He
waves the finger from side to side and
gives.a slight smile. The other morning
a youngster in jungle greens, sighting the
evangelist or prophet or whatever he is,
studied him a moment, then hurried after
him, tapped him on a shoulder and with
his own finger pointed upward and
assumed a warning expression. The ac-
costed one was so astonished that he
gazed into the sky anxiously, then, realis-
ing that irreverence was abroad, he
assumed a most unsaintly look and stalked
away.
* * * *
“Toolburra”: “Tiki’s” acorn-planting
admiral (B. 13/9/ ’44) seems to have in-
spired Allan Cunningham, discoverer
of the Darling Downs. During his many
journeys into the Australian bush he
sowed various kinds of seeds brought
from England, Brazil and S. Africa,
choosing localities where he believed the
plants would best germinate and thrive.
This possibly accounts for an Agave
americano growing at the foot of the hill
whereon stands the old church of the
Holy Trinity at Kelso (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“F.S.”; An American war correspon-
dent says he has located most of the
well-known impressionist and “modern-
ist” artists who remained in occupied
France after the debacle of 1940. Matisse
is at Grasse, the Riviera perfumery
centre, suffering from cancer but still
painting. Georges Braque is working in
Paris ; at 77 Pierre Bonnard is still busy
with brush and palette, and Roualt, the
Customs House officer who started the
fashion of painting like Effie aged four,
is mainly occupied with lawsuits. Raoul
Dufy, uncompromisingly anti - Nazi,
retreated to the Alps, where he is nursing
arthritis. Picasso, a white-headed old
man now, was found in a small village
making a drawing for presentation to De
Gaulle. In view of Hitler’s hatred for the
sort of “art” these practitioners deal in,
they seem to have been pretty lucky.
* * * ♦
“P.McM..”: W. Boyd, alias Hopalong
Cassidy, seems to have discovered the
secret of eternal youth. As a small boy I
exulted in his short way with Injuns and
rustlers. Twenty summers and more have
rolled by since then, but Bill’s solemn
features and shining marcel show little
sign of wear, and he’s as slender and as
agile as ever. C. E, Mulford’s theory that
Cassidy was christened “Hopalong” be-
cause he limped never had the slightest
countenance from Hollywood.
* * * ♦
“E.J.M.” remembers Sydney’s music
60 years ago :
Main concert hall was the Exhibition Build-
ing in Prince Alfred Park. There we first
heard Melba —Nellie Mitchell as was—who was
sponsored by Charlie Huenerbein, then and
during a subsequent country tour her manager
and accompanist. The principal pianoforte
virtuoso to visit Australia at that period was
Henri Ketten, Jong forgotten, though a very
popular composer in his day. When the Town
Hall organ was installed it was first played by
an eminent English organist and composer,
W. T. Best, who gave a series of recitals. Next
we heard the Belgian organist Weigand; then
another fine English player, Arthur Mason, and
finally a link with the present day, Ernest Tru-
man. Truman, Jimmy Sykes and Nick Gehde
were our leading accompanists. A great event
of those times was the Australian Musical
Association’s Eisteddfod. Weigand, Horace
Ponsard and Madame Charbonnet Kellermann
were among the adjudicators. Cyril Monk won
a medal for a violin solo, to the delight of his
teacher, Sam Chudleigh. We had our dance
bands, too, the most popular being led by pianist
Lew de Groen —it was always engaged for Gov-
ernment House balls.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
What’s in a name? Buf little to provide
Material for an essay or a sermon.
A German, howsoever classified,
Remains, it’s incontestable, a German.
Still there’s an interest in certain ways
Attaching to his various sobriquets.
“Hun” always strikes me as a trifle rough
On Attila. Though “Fritz” is obvious, very,
I’ve never come on evidence enough
To indicate the genesis of “Jerry.”
I’d give my vote for “Max,” I must confess,
As holding somewhat more appropriateness.
“Kraut” is the term our Yankee friends find fit
For the fell race with which we twice have
battled,
Quite self-explanatory, I admit,
But “Heinie” leaves me badly beat and
rattled.
Whence comes the word to which I lack the
key?
Will no philologist enlighten me?
Well, well, till Doomsday comes, we’ll doubtless
have
As many sorts of men as kinds of monkeys.
The Gaul, the Roman and the far-flung Slav
(Colloquially “Froggies,” “Wops” and
“Hunkies”)
Being in my opinion the three
Sub-titled with the most felicity.
What’s in a name? Conceivably a lot’
In any, drawn from history or fiction,
Which, whether used despitefully or not.
Helps to enrich contemporary diction.
I wonder if the Teutons ever fuss
About a pungent moniker for us?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HEADING ’EM.
“Fining 70 men for playing two-up, a Sydney
magistrate asked why they didn’t go to the races,
where they could bet legitimately.”
They might have chosen brighter scenes
For playing up their surplus beans,
Well-tended paths and flower-fringed greens.
With dainty figures treading ’em.
They might have done their bit indeed
To help improve the equine breed,
But they preferred, one must concede.
The lawless thrills of heading ’em.
They might, beneath the open sky,
Have backed their fancies openly.
And seen the stern John Hops go by
With not a thought of dreading ’em.
They might have taken odds from Mo.
Or in the tote have planked their dough
For all the world to see. But no,
Their penchant was ’em.
They might have known the glee intense
Which dead-game sports experience
When jovial pencillers dispense
Bank notes in bundles, shedding ’em
Like trees their leaves when summer’s through;
Yet they were readier chance to woo
Within some dingy rendezvous
And take a hand at heading ’em.
But stay! One reads such constant jeers
At crooked deals in racing spheres.
Such dismal tales of ramps one hears,
Indignant voices spreading ’em.
That sturdy souls who coppers spin_
May well maintain there lies therein
A better hope to show a win,
Despite the risks of heading ’em.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Spare Corp”: Thinking over heroic
words heard during World War I,
I recalled a speech that vibrated with the
spirit of high endeavor. It ran: “Boys,
you are going to face the toughest fight
you’ve ever had. The other side is strong,
and your backs may be against the wall,
but we know you realise what it means to
us, and we look to you to fight as long as
fighting is possible. Whatever the odds
against you, keep on fighting. Other
duties hold me for a time ; but before the
day is done, if you are hanging on still, I
will be with you. God bless you, boys —
do your best for the honor of the bat-
talion.” Small wonder that after hearing
such an appeal from the camp C.O. our
cricket team won the final of the training
battalions’ competition by one run
“Hold it till We get back, Prendergast. Remember our prestige. "
An old Australian church:
St. Thomas’s, Port Macquarie, N.S.W., con-
secrated more than 120 years ago, has some
unusual features. Its original organ, still in
good condition though now not used, is a
curiosity. Made of Australian cedar in Eng-
land, it has an attachment somewhat on the
principle of the pianola. A handle turns a large
wooden cylinder covered with pegs which
impinge upon the keys. Several psalms and
hymns can be played by this device, which was
used when no organist was available. The
church is divided into many high-walled family
pews by cedar partitions. In the early days
the occupants of each pew had to provide their
own candles for evening services. Courting
couples were apt to be unlucky with their
candles.
And the oldest schoolhouse:
Close to the Parramatta River and within a
hundred yards or so of Elizabeth Farm House,
the oldest house in Australia, stands the little
brick building in which John Macarthur’s
children received their early schooling. Mac-
arthur built it as a schoolroom for the tutor
he imported, Huon de Kerillion, a member of
the old nobility of France. He fled to England
during the Revolution and came to Australia as
a member of the N.S.W. Corps; Macarthur
wangled his discharge and built for the emigre
a fine home, which still stands. In the grounds
of the historic Macarthur home, Fairholm,
there still stands the oldest cork tree in the
country and an oak which was planted by
Macarthur in celebration of Waterloo.
* * * *
“Dedza”: New Guinea once boasted
a king from Ireland: Terence O’Connell,
born in County Kerry. O’Connell was
a soldier who deserted and became a
highwayman. Transported to Botany
Bay, he escaped, with eleven companions,
and made his way to New Guinea. His
companions perished of famine and
fatigue, and he became slave to the Hara-
forus, who, later on, elected him their
king. There were many forays between
the Haraforus and the Papuans. Under
O’Connell’s direction the Haraforus were
more than a match for the Papuans,
for O’Connell could assemble a thou-
sand armed warriors, trained by a
man who knew the rudiments of war-
fare and loved fighting. Offered the
chance of returning to civilisation O’Con-
nell refused —he preferred a kingship
over savages to life as a convict.
* * * *
“T.P.”: It has been mentioned in The
Bulletin that Peter Lalor, dead in this
war, was a son of Captain J. P. Lalor
(A.1.F.), killed at Gallipoli landing, and
that J.P. was a grandson of that Peter
Lalor who led the first “diggers” at
Eureka and became Speaker of the
Victorian Parliament. 1 remember my
father, a digger mate of Duncan Gillies,
taking me to the talking shop, top of
Bourke-street, to see Mr. Speaker Lalor,
minus an arm, do his job. Mem-
bers dozed while an orator with a squeaky
voice spoke on high finance, but at
the words “What this colony wants,
Mr. Speakah,” a farmer member woke
up to interject “Coupla inches rain and
less talk!” The grizzled, grim old
Speaker remarked “Out of the mouth of
babes and sucklings cometh wisdom.”
“You have seen and heard him. We’ll
go,” said my parent; and, leaving, he told
me that once Lalor’s ruling annoyed a
member, who protested “John Stuart
Mill disagrees with you. Is there any
higher authority?” Peter tapped his chest
with his only hand and snapped “In this
House, sir, I!” I am glad I saw him.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: When Edison viewed
Wilbur Wright’s aeroplane he said he
himself was too old to take on research
work on the new science, but he could
foresee the day when the flying machine,
abandoning so poor an explosive as ben-
zine, would travel right round the globe
on a few pints of, say, liquid nitro-
glycerine. The opinion met with deri-
sion despite its author’s eminence. But
already we have the jet-propelled ’plane,
which depends for motive power on the
recoil from an explosion, on the same
principle as the kick of a gun. Could
it be fed constantly into the explosion
tube, ordinary gunpowder would drive
such a machine, and so could nitro-
glycerine, introduced drop by drop,
could the danger of the bulk-supply tank
exploding be overcome. Undoubtedly,
sooner or later some safe explosive liquid
will be found, and Edison’s vision will
be realised. My bet is that the pronellent
will be made synthetically as readily as
nitro-glycerine is, and will push petrol
right off the stage as aeroplane fuel.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: The British drive from the
Eindhoven-Nijmegen axis towards the
Meuse, following the south side of the
Boxtel-Gennep railway, reminds me that
there the British private is on his baptis-
mal ground. It was at Boxtel, in Septem-
ber, 1794, as Arthur Wellesley’s Thirty-
third was retreating with Ralph Aber-
cromby’s brigade before overwhelming
French attack, that an old swaddy of 20
years’ service, the leading man of a
Grenadier company, was left dying,
wounded by bullet and bayonet. Wellesley
—it was his first campaign—spoke to him.
“It’s all right, zur... all in the day’s
work, zur,” gasped the veteran. Fifty
years later, on the ramparts of Walmer,
the Duke of Wellington, asked to suggest
a name which would typify the British
soldier, to be used in a specimen docu-
ment relating to soldiers’ pay, went be-
yond Waterloo, the Peninsula and the
Deccan to immortalise the “first-class
name” of Private Thomas Atkins, dead
at Boxtel in the army of the grand old
Duke of York.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: During Sydney’s much-
too early heat-wave those who tried
cooling themselves off by surfing com-
plained of the intense coldness of the
briny. Actually, the temperature of the
water varies not more than about ten
degrees in a year. The sea heats up very
slowly, and summer came to coastal N. S.
Wales with a bang this year.
* V * *
“1066” Almost every commentator
since Caen came into the war news has
acclaimed it as the embarkation point of
William of Normandy’s invasion of Eng-
land. But was it? As a child I often
visited the little port of St. Valery-sur-
Somme, with streets of cobble stones and
tiny little balconied shops full of shell
curios and other trinkets. Close to the
canal, high up in one of the buildings,
was a tablet setting forth that
“Guillaume le Conquereur” sailed thence
“pour la conquete cle /’ Angle ter re.” This
statement was a bone of contention
between the English schoolboys in our
party and the boys of the village, and
many black eyes and bleeding noses re-
sulted. The local boys rarely made good.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland has been cele-
brating a religious centenary. The tenets
of John Wesley were first preached in
the colony at New Plymouth in 1844,
when Rev. Robert Ward established the
first Primitive Methodist Church. As a.
memorial to the hundred years’ birthday
totara-trees were planted on a site at
Spotswood, where it is proposed to erect
a Maori Girls’ College. A cross of South
Canterbury sandstone was dedicated to
the memory of Parson Ward, whose
family made the gift, as well as a com-
munion table and pulpit.
* * ♦ *
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne artist happened
to mention that he thought of going to
a spot he knew of old to do a landscape,
and a friend laughed. “Things have
changed now,” he said. “That bit is now
covered with buildings, and is a pro-
hibited area. If you set up an easel there
you would be run in inside live minutes.”
“Would I?” said the artist. “But if I
didn’t take an easel but walked through
the place on legitimate business would
I be arrested?” “No, of course you
wouldn’t.” “Well,” said the artist, “the
people who made that rule need to know
a bit more about the activity of the
painter. An artist who has properly de-
veloped his eye doesn’t need a paintbox
and canvas to get an impression. Every
impression comes to the eye in an invari-
able order, and it is the artist’s job to
understand that order. If he has done
so he can put it down on canvas a day
o'- even a week after, just as a philosopher
can remember an argument he has once
understood.” This is a fact. A Mel-
bourne woman painter, now dead, painted
scores of the pictures she hung in exhibi-
tions in precisely that way. Some of her
loveliest and most accurate landscapes
were momentary glimpses of the Yarra
which she got as she was speeded home
in the train to her suburb. Color, tone
and form “clicked” so completely that
whenever I look at the scenes she painted
20 years ago the first thing I think of
are her pictures.
* * * *
“Avon”: In addition to a cross-roads
memorial to Gordon Coates, for a while
Maoriland’s P.M., a church, replacing the
one at Matakohe where Coates wor-
shipped and in whose graveyard his body
lies, is to be erected at public expense;
non-sectarian, of course. The design
is Of the English village-church type
—mottled brick walls, high-pitched open-
raftered roof and a tower which, as the
building is to be set on rising ground,
will be a district landmark. Announcing
the Government’s intention in Parlia-
ment, Priminister Fraser (who was asso-
ciated with Coates in the 1940 War
Cabinet) referred to the project as “a
beautiful and fitting memorial to one
whose services to New Zealand in peace
and war will ever be remembered.”
* * * *
Last words of more or less eminent
military authorities:
“El Madjal”: Tell “Lucretia” (B. 11/10/’44)
that he should have checked up on the history of
the regiment he was “associated” with, and also
on the topography of Spain, before proceeding
to tear me to pieces with opinions based on
“probably fortuitous” and “likely” occurrences.
I don’t know a thing about English volunteers
in the ’nineties, but I do know that in France
during World War I and in the Middle East
in this war I have seen n.c.os. of regular bat-
talions of the Rifle Brigade wearing green
“Young man, are you aware of the time?”
“ That's orright—I'm not due back till Sat'dee!”
chevrons (not black mohair). The Royal Ameri-
cans (60th Rifles) were never Loyalist Colonial
auxiliaries, but were a regular regiment from
their birthday, Christmas Day, 1755 (long be-
fore the “War of Liberation”), that being the
date of Lord Loudon’s commission as Colonel-
in-Chief. Their tunics were red, but as the regi-
ment was to be employed in bush warfare they
were made without lace. In 1798, when the
regiment was still red-coated and armed with
the musket, a Fifth Battalion, equipped with
the rifle and dressed in green, was formed.
This color, for camouflage purposes, became-
the standard uniform for all future rifle bat-
talions in the British service. In general, the
centre of Spain is mountainous, interspersed
with fertile valleys; Talavera is on a plain
covered with cork and olive trees, Barossa on a
ridge overlooking a plain covered with shrubs,
and Busaco is a wooded hilltop. Anyway, Wel-
lington did not take root in the centre of Spain;
he crossed the Pyrenees and carried the cam-
paign to Toulouse, in France.
And tell “Schnorrer” (B. 11/10/’44)
the Cameronians, or Scottish Rifles, are a
Lowland regiment and wear the trews; it is the
Cameron Highlanders who are kilted.
“Ulster”: Let me correct “El Madjal” (B,
27/9 1 ’44). The 51 st Highland Division comprises
both Regular and Territorial battalions, as all
British Line regiments have two Regular bat-
talions, first and second, and a varying number
of “Terrier” formations —and so in the 51st will
be found the 2nd Black Watch, 4fh Camerons
and sth Seaforths. Southern Ireland did have
“Terrier” units prior to separation in 1922;
for example, the South Irish Horse and West
Cork Volunteers. The S.I.H. retained its
identity, but the infantry units became battalions
of the Dublins and Munsters on the outbreak
of World War I, and formed the 16th Irish
Div., which, with the 36th Ulster Div., earned
undying fame on “Ireland’s Black Day” at the
first Battle* of the Somme, July 1, 1916.
Ulster’s “Terriers” have always been maintained,
and one unit in particular, the North Irish
Horse (converted to tanks in 1938), earned the
comment “pretty tough fighters,” from “Monty.”
Ulster’s two Regular cavalry regiments, the
Inniskilling Dragoons and the Bth Royal Irish
Hussars, have been in action in armor since
the outbreak of the present war, while her
infantry units, the Royal Ulster Rifles, Royal
Inniskilling Fusiliers and Royal Irish Fusiliers,
have been in every scrap from Dunkirk to
Burma. The disbanding of the old Southern
Irish regiments (Dublins, Munsters, Connaught'
Rangers) broke 200 years of service, as these
old units were originally raised by the East
India Company and always recruited in Ire-
land. So today bhoys from Skibbereen or Gal-
way cross the border and join the Ulster regi-
ments, the R.A.F. or the R.N. Finally, “El
Madjal” seems to have a Black Watch complex
—he even closes with their name. It’s to be
hoped he doesn’t voice it too loudly in the
presence of a Gay Gordon or an Argyll Wild-
cat. They wouldna like it, at a’, at a’.
* * * *
“Lucretia”; “E.M.” (B. 27/9/’44) refers to
the use of the rifle by the Royal Americans in
the American revolutionary war and, later, in
Wellington’s Peninsular campaigns. Vanwyck
Mason, in his comparatively recent historical
novel Three Harbors, also refers to the use of
weapons with rifled barrels, manufactured evi-
dently by skilled Colonial American gunsmiths
and prized for their accuracy and long range
by the few who possessed them. He states that
some of these were used by the insurgents at the
Battle of Breed’s Hill (passed into history
erroneously as Bunker’s Hill) in 1775. This
rifle apparently was no easier Ip charge than
the clumsy long muzzle-loaders with which most
of the combatants on both sides were armed.
It is more than probable that some of the
Colonial American gunsmiths were Loyalists
and built rifles for the Royal Americans, which
were later copied, and possibly improved on,
for use by the Rifle regiments in the Penin-
sular War. The progenitor of the rifle of to-
day first made its appearance in history during
the Franco-Prussian War of 1870.
“Sapper”: Here’s my version of the history
of the “slouch” felt hat as part of a military
uniform: In the early ’eighties the Victorian
Mounted Rifles and the Victorian Rangers were
formed. While the type of uniform was under
discussion the wife of a senior officer, whose
father had been a Confederate general, sug-
gested the felt hat. This was adopted looped
up on the right side. The other colpmes, in-
cluding M.L., followed suit, especially for
mounted units; most of them made the turn-up
on the left side. Cape and Natal regiments
were next, and during the South African war
the C.I.V. and Yeomanry units from Great
Britain and irregular corps raised in S. Africa
wore the felt hat. The Germans in S.-W.
Africa adopted it. The Dutch felt hat derived
from the Volunteers or Civic Guard of the Low
Countries. The feathers worn by Australians
were: N.S.W., cock’s feathers; Q. and W.A.,
emu. After the 1914-18 war all mounted units
wore emu plumes.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: A blazing day at Euston,
on the Murray. Except for the inevitable
hound stretched under the pub pepper
tree, there wasn’t a sign of life. At the
foot of the short side street, supine under
a gum, lay Anderson. He’d shed every-
thing except his trousers and shirt, and
from one bare great toe a cod line ran
down into the river, Anderson was lean
and brown and very, very dry, and his
dusty swag and two-day growth testified
to his financial condition. Down the
Balranald road whirled a car. It stopped
at the pub, and a man, woman and small
boy got out and vanished into the cool
parlor. Anderson, visualising that parlor,
licked his lips. The hound under the pep-
perina got up, inspected the car, sighed
wearily and lay down again. Time drifted
by. A sound aroused Anderson, and he
idly watched the small boy throwing
clods into the river. Then Anderson’s
optics gleamed, he got quietly to his feet
and rushed at that innocent lad and
heaved him into the river. Then he
jumped in after him, making a great
splashing and crying. The kid yelled,
Anderson yelled, the stray dog woke up
and yelled. Three men and a white-faced
woman rushed from pub to river and
hauled Anderson and his victim out.
“Poor little bloke,” panted Anderson,
“lucky I saw him fall in. He might’ve
bin drownded, missus.” Then that child’s
mother gave him a belting for wandering
away and getting his nice clothes wet, and
the father handed Anderson a ten-bob
note. After which peace descended on
old Euston, only the stray hound being
left to conjecture on what had passed.
“Dronestung”: “Aperist” (B. 4/10/’44)
forgot to mention that bees recognise
their queen by her odor, which is dis-
tinct from the particular hive odor of a
colony of bees. When the queen is with-
drawn or lost from a swarm scouts
immediately go out on a search, and the
concerted rush to settle with her follows
soon after she is located. But isn’t “A”
understating about the “10,000” bees in
a swarm? A colony in top condition will
put off swarms up to 101 b. live weight,
about 45,000 bees.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Michaelmas Island
(N.Q.) first appeared over the horizon
as a short, black streak above a thin,
dazzling-white line. As we drew nearer
the black streak became a cloud, continu-
ally moving and changing shape, that
floated above the glistening-white coral
beach of the little island. The cloud was
a wheeling, soaring mass of birds —mil-
lions of sooty terns, whose cries, first heard
as a shrill murmur, became deafening as we
anchored a stone’s-throw from the beach.
Flocks of them came out to meet us,
creating a terrific din as they flew low
and steadily around the boat, some hover-
ing over the deck, others perching in the
rigging. Rowing ashore we were accom-
panied by a screeching, screaming horde
of the “wideawakes,” and as we walked
about the island, which is nothing
than a flatfish mound of sand, roughly
circular in shape and dotted witn
patches of coarse grass and stunted
bushes, the fluttering wings of our noisy
bodyguard ceaselessly fanned our faces.
It was spring, the sooty terns’ breeding
season. These handsome black-and-white
birds build no nests, 'and the sand was
dotted with blotchy stony-grey eggs so
closely resembling their surroundings that
they were difficult to see. Almost in-
visible baby birds, like tiny balls of
speckled down, lay motionless on the
sand, rising on unsteady legs as their
parents, returning from-the sea with lull
crops, flopped down alongside them and
quickly disgorged part of their catch.
Battalions of the master divers and fishers
soared and dipped over the surrounding
waters. All around the surface of the sea
was dotted with splashes as birds, with
shut wings and with their rapier-like bills
pointed io the water, plopped straight
down —living projectiles that disappeared
in spray.
* * * *
“Billy See”; The many proffered ex-
planations of the first item on John the
Baptist’s menu remind me of my boyhood
Sunday-school teacher. Unable to recon-
cile himself to the idea of so holy a man
nourishing himself on so obscene a crea-
ture as a grasshopper, Samuel for years
nibbled at many explanations, but with-
out conviction. Then one day in the
small town’s leading greengrocery he
found a new fruit, the loquat. Obviously
it was a misspelling on the part of the
translators of the Bible, #so ever after my
preceptor devoted himself to preaching
that the correct version was “loquats and
wild honey.”
“Don't it remind you of home, Dave?"
“M.U.R.”: Fishing in the Murray isn’t
as tame as a lot of people imagine. I’d
been trying along the bend for hours one
still, hot day, but couldn’t raise a nibble,
though I varied the bait from white grubs
to frogs, rabbit meat and shrimps. I’d
about abandoned hope after sitting on
the mussel bank for nearly an hour when
a sudden black cloud rushed up from the
south-west, the air cooled and a quick
little breeze ruffled the water. At once a
big perch struck, and in 15 minutes I had
two good cod and another perch. Then
the cloud passed, the river went smooth
and I got no more bites.
$ 1 » * *
“Wang”: “Trampin’ along the road
one time with an elderly chap I’d
chummed up with a few days before,”
related Dan, “we came across an ole
coot sittin’ on his swag be the side of the
road, singin’ at the top of his wind a song
pop’lar in them days, ‘Sweetheart May.’
It wus about two kids who’d made it up
t’ get spliced t’ each other when they
grew up. The ole coot grins at us when
he finished the song an’ ses, ‘No, I ain’t
mad, like y’re thinkin’, but I alwus sing
that song on the annivers’ry of me
weddin’ day what wasn’t, t’ celebrate
the narrerest escape any man ever had.
Y’ see, in me young days I knew a girl
called May. We wus kids t’gether, an’
we planned things like the song ses, an’
found the parson. Whether it wus nervous-
ness or not I dunno, but when the parson
asked her if she’d take me fer her ole
man she starts stutterin’ awful an’ pullin'
faces. The parson wus a fussy ole coot,
an’ sed he wasn’t goin’ to have the biz-
ness made a joke of. Then Sweetheart
May got roused up prop’ly. She tole the
ole bloke orf in front of the crowd an’
wanted me t’ land him a couple. When
I wouldn’t she tore the fancy trappin’s
off her head an’ twisted ’em round my
neck, an’ after givin’ me a couple t’ go
on with flounced outer the church. Six
munce later she married me best man,
Joe. I ain’t ever seen either ot em
since, but I heard she led him a hell or
a life, poor cow.’ Then me mate spoke
up. ‘Y’ wus damn lucky, Sam,’ he said.
The other ole bloke give a gasp an ses
‘How d’ you know me name is Sam.
Me mate gives a silly sorter grin an ses
Tm Joe.’ ”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Mick Bogan had cleared up the
farm a bit and put on a small herd of
dairy cows. He soon tired of the
monotony of milking morning and night,
and was thinking out ways of making a
living off the place with less work. Think
I’ll switch over t’ sheep,” he said, angling
for my opinion. “Stud, wool or fats? 1
asked, wondering how he could make a
go of it on his few blackberry-infested
acres. “Aw, I dunno,” said Mick vaguely.
“Usual thing they keep ’em for, I s’pose.
* * * *
“P. Ater”; If poppa bul-bul’s specu-
lation over his gauche offspring the
cuckoo babe (B. 11/9/ ’44) led him to
doubt his spouse’s fidelity, it was not sur-
prising. The crested Indian chanter and
floral wrecker makes it a point during
building operations to insert a long piece
of bright rag or similar geegaw into the
nest fabric. This projects over the ledge,
and is either a warning to intruders or
can be used to screen the eggs when the
couple are absent. That’s ma’s duty.
Cuckoos, being basely resourceful, scorn
such fustian. They readily descend to
any mean trick to gain their ends. Saw a
little fantail lured away from the nest
he’d been so obviously guarding by two
wily bronze cuckoos. When one con-
spirator approached the game little
featherweight sailed in, to be drawn off
on a long chase by that artful nest-
snatcher. Then the bronze lady calmly
walked in to do the dirty transfer job.
* * * * ■
“Law Jik”: I rise to protest against
the loose use of alleged Irish brogue. The
only words “S.G.” (B. 27/9/’44) repro-
duced correctly were “iver” and “vaga-
bone.” Irishmen don’t say “pi” for the
long sound of “i” —Australians do that.
The common —but not universal —pro-
nunciation is best represented by “ui.”
“Yez” is the equivalent of the Australian
“yous” and is never used for “you’re.”
Also, Irishmen, contrary to the common
notion, have no difficulty with the vowel
“e.” In fact, they can pronounce it in
three ways: long, short and nasal.
No Irishman ever asked for “bear” when
he wanted beer. Irishmen associate ideas
closely and hence the sergeant would
never have called the swaggie a thief —
much less a “thafe”—because there was
no call. What O’Dunn might have said
was: “YTe a bluddy luiar, yeh tinker’s
get of a vagabone yeh. Divil a swag
anny O’Dunn ever carried.” In this in-
stance there is a philological reason why
he would not have said “iver” for “ever.”
Kuindly ax Misther “S.G.” to quit thry-
ing t’ imitate the brogue, e’ yeh plaze.
It’ll be a kuindness to the crayther for he
makes a hames of it.
* * * *
“Dahbi”: Don’t tell me that “Zimple
Zimon’s” sheep (B. 4/10/’44) needed any
promptings of instincts inherited from
Spanish or Saxon ancestors to make them
leap over imaginary double-gate stops.
As supercargo, gate-opener and general
wood-and-water joey to numbers of Bush
Brothers in N.S.W. sheep country, from
Tottenham to Hesel, from Bourke to
Coonamble, and around Merren Creek,
Yerrawin, Tarcoon, Quantambone,
Muckeraweh, Angledool, Biree, Merry-
winebone and Weilmoringle, I’ve opened
thousands of double gates, complete
with centre stop, and that not so many
years ago, either.
* * * *
“D.A.”: After an inconclusive scuffle
on the bank of the dam a five-foot red-
bellied black snake took to the water,
and memory seemed to tell me that Abo.
authorities long ago decided that once
Joe Blake dives in you had better forget
about him —that he’ll be secretly breath-
ing alongside a water-lily leaf and laugh-
ing at you while you wait for hours on
the bank. In this case Joe quickly made
his reappearance—on the other side of
the dam. I ran round to meet him. He
stopped a few feet offshore and looked
me over, poked his tongue at me, then
dived. About five minutes later he re-
appeared in the middle of the dam and
proceeded to take in air. I lobbed a clod
of earth on his head and, with a couple
of spirited loops, he dived again. When
he came up after a longer interval I
repeated the bombardment. He then
made for the shallow end of the
dam, and flattened out on top abou.
five feet from the bank. He stayed
still long enough for me, reaching out
from the edge, to bring my stick down
on his neck. I then fished him out.
There wasn’t a wriggle left in Joe. He
was in the dam for over half an hour. It
was mid-October in N. S. Wales, and
the water may have been comparatively
cold.
* * * *
“Bo”; Bill Gorton had never learned
to read or write, and comment by out-
siders on the defect in the old
man’s education was resented.
One night the Gortons turned up
in force to a “grand con-
cert” in the Mechanics’ Hall at
Blowfly Bend, held in conjunc-
tion with the district’s loan rally.
Just before a spot of commu-
nity singing started slips of
paper on which the words of the
songs were roneoed were passed
around the audience. After the
first song finished a callow youth
leaned over, and with a grin
said “Y’re holdin’ yer page up-
side down, Mr. Gorton.” Where-
upon Bill’s eldest son Tim
heaved his 180 pounds up, thrust
his face savagely into the
youth’s and roared: “An’ what
the hell’s it got to do with you
if the old man happens to be
color-blind?”
* * *
“S.G.”:' The road-gang had
been appealed to for help for
the hospital, so it was decided
to hold a race-meeting on the
main road. Permission was
sought from the council by
letter, and I was deputed to post
it, receiving careful instructions
about the time of posting. We
held the meeting and raised
£2OO. Three days afterwards
came the reply from the council inform-
ing us that in no circumstances could we
be permitted to hold races on the road.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped near
the Barham (N.S.W.) bridge, and had just
begun to think about bunk when a cov-
ered van pulled into the bend. We saw
movement' and heard sounds in the dusk,
but couldn’t see details and supposed it
wasi some hawker or drover. Two dogs
came, investigated us and departed. Then
a whiskered cove appeared and invited
us over for “a yarn and a game of
cyards.” An acceptance was trembling
on my lips when a burst of girlish laugh-
ter came from the direction of the van.
“Them women adults?tasked Mat. “All
’cept Margie,” was the reply. “How
many y’ got?” “Four, countin’ the
missus.’ ? Mat took off his boots. “Reckon
y’ll hafta do without us, mate. We don’t
associate with adult domesticated female
travellers.” It took me all I knew to
convince the visitor that his womenfolk
hadn’t been insulted.
* * *
“ZakeT: Once saw an old hatter-cwn-
evangelist in the N.S.W. northern coal-
fields area pushing his kqot round in a
wheelbarrow; another swaggie in the
Pilliqa Scrub country around Baradine
used the base of a rocking-horse outfit
to pull his knot around. But the queerest
I struck was a cove near MuswellbrooK
who used an oil drum. Right through
the centre, from end to end, ran a long
rod, threaded at both ends, the nuts hold-
ing in place both ends of a chain, with
which the owner by pulling rolled i
along the roads. A wag’s suggestion to
him that he was doing the shire’s road
gang out of a job by doing road-rolling
himself for nothing cost the suggester a
couple of black eyes, followed by a
threat of an action for slander “against
me good name.”
THE HIGHWAY.
In a house beside a creek
Running through a mountain hollow
He was born, and spent his youth
With no luring star to follow.
Just where Fate had set him down,
In a scene horizoned narrow.
Mindful of the season’s needs,
Plied he scythe and hoe and harrow.
For a score and more of years,
Born to keep to footworn byways,
Under sun and moon he trudged,
Heedless of life’s shining highways.
Mind intent upon his tasks,
Knowing neither praise nor censure,
Thus he spent his youthful days,
Caring not for bright adventure.
So he lived, and so he toiled,
Till dire forces, willing evil.
Caught and tossed him in the swirl
Of a mighty world-upheaval.
Then, as all he knew and loved
Seemed to him in pieces falling,
Through the mountain walls he heard
Bright adventure’s bugle calling.
Now I know not where he fares.
Having quitted home and byway,
But, for sure, his feet are set^
On some far-off shining highway.
Though that highway wander through
Jungle green or desert parching,
In the red morn, there I feel
Bravely fellowed he is marching.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“B. A. Ker”: Just a little inconsequen-
tial thing I read by accident, but it took
me back 20 years—to old Never-mind-his-
name, who, with his three daughters, ran
a tiny mixed farm and orchard —or
rather, the old chap ran the farm and the
girls ran him. Slacks were unheard of in
those days ; the girls shocked the district’s
spinsters by working in blue dungaree
overalls and, if the weather demanded it,
blucher boots. Yet when the two younger
girls turned out in their gladrags for the
monthly dance they never decorated the
wall seats, in spite of the boy-shortage.
Thoughts of the eldest sister recall a
scene: clad in overalls, an old felt hat
and hobnailed boots, she is trudging
behind a plough, while carrying on, by
the instalment plan, a conversation with
a woman who, milk-billy in hand, rests
arms and chin on the split-rail fence. As
the light-draught plods closer her voice
floats over: “Yes, I saw Milly’s baby
(Giddap, Nigger!) yesterday. She’s a nice
little thing ; small, but (Nigger! gid ap!).”
Her voice fades away down the furrow.
Presently she heads back, carefully judges
the range and resumes: “Elsie’s is a hie
baby (Giddap, Nigger L), but I always said
it wasn’t a firm baby (Nigger, etc).” What
started this train of thought? Some-
body deploring in the columns of a
woman’s paper that Land Army girls and
farm workeresses are liable to lose their
femininity.
* * *
“Billy See”; When battling with a rat
plague try this. Half fill a kerosene-tin
with bran. Place it where the rats can
have easy access; provide a climbing
board or a bridge so that they may reach
the rim and then jump down. For a couple
of nights they will revel in the free ban-
quet. Then remove the bran and replace
with water to the same level, sprinkling
on it a thick layer of bran so as to present
apparently the same solid surface as pre-
viously. You will collect at least half a
dozen before the others wake up to what’s
happening. But it won’t work two nights
running. Give it a rest for a few days,
then start again. And be sure to use a
tin shiny on the inside, for if there’s the
least rustiness the rats will claw their
way out.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: In Australia’s younger
days it was a common trick to run a grass
straw up a pi{se stem and apply
to the tongue of a snake or a lizard,
just to illustrate how poisonous nicotine
really was. So although nicotine, accord-
ing to “Abi Tonus” (B. 20/9/’44), is a
deadlier poison than strychnine, I would
not recommend anyone going around
with a pipe-stem full of the extract of
nux vomica. “A.T.” also states that the
action of strychnine on the heart is
negligible, then concludes with “the heart
contrives to beat after death.” Only an
overstimulated heart could do that. Also,
though medical practice may be different
nowadays, when I did a spot of nursing
in early Coolgardie an overworked doctor
more than once left me a thermometer
and a hypodermic needle with a shot of
strychnine and digitalis, sufficient to pull
the pneumonia patient up the hill again
when the thermometer and his pulse
“It’s the Old Man's idea—he reckons we get an extra five knots out of her
this way.”
showed that he was dropping to that zero
from which there could be no unassisted
rally. Finally, strychnine convulsions in-
variably start within 15 minutes of the
lethal dose being swallowed, not one
hour. Nor is consciousness always re-
tained to the last. In the classic words
of my favorite murderer: “They go
out to it; then they come round and look
at you just as if they were asking you
why you did it; then they go out to it
again, and so on till they finish.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: The questing meat-ant had
approached a toiling mass of small ants
dragging a caterpillar along. Desire
mastering discretion, she rushed in and,
heaving the caterpillar overhead, cascaded
a black shower on her chassis. In a
flash six ants had each secured a toehold,
while two climbed aboard, one of them
converting himself into a necktie, what
time his mate clung and hung to the belly-
wire. That meat-ant soon became a tor-
tured whirlwind, rolling and twisting
about until, gripping an assailant in her
formidable mandibles, she severed him
and also her tarsus, to which the little
demon clung in a death-grip. Repetitions
of these manoeuvres at last relieved her of
toe trouble, and she sat down and
managed to nip the stern-ender off. As
she could not remove her necktie, I helped
with the pliers and carried Boadicea to
her nest, where she was immediately
assailed by her clan, while others nipped
and routed me.
“Sometimes I think we make too much of a pet of Dais.”
“Hakim”: We had been visited by a
plague of blowflies, . and had erected
several patent traps on the old man’s
enthusiastic advice. Each morning he
would report more and more hair-raising
figures of dead and prisoners, until they
almost read like a Moscow correspon-
dent’s despatch. Then the director of
combined operations took sick, so I did
his fly-traps for him. When I reported to
him he said: “Did y’ put the water in
’em’?’ I nodded. “What about the
dope?” I told him I’d put that in as
well. There was silence for the space of
a blowfly’s buzz; then “Aw well,” he
said with the air of one who has con-
sidered the subject fairly and impartially ;
“aw well, y’ might catch a few.”
* * * *
“Nor.’-west”: I liked “Kinka’s”
account of the Queensland coastal abos.
cooking a dugong (B. 27/9/’44), but am
a bit puzzled about their leaving the car-
cass in the oven for 24 hours. Seeing
that the sea-pig is not found lower than
latitude 26 south, and mostly above
latitude 22, all pretty hot country, I
should expect that after so lengthy a
sojourn in the heat the sea pork would
become pretty putrid. Also, those abos.
must be of a totally different kind from
any I have ever met. Left to their own
devices to hunt tucker for themselves,
few abo. families are ever above semi-
starvation. So when the hunt returns a
sizeable carcass —kangaroo, emu, dugong
or turtle —it may be placed in the earthen
oven, but is hardly likely to stay there
above an hour. Just as soon as the meat
becomes sufficiently warmed to become
tearable out it comes, to be devoured at
once. That the inside of a jo.nt may be
practically raw doesn’t trouble the abo.
diner in the least; and it gives the gins
a chance, too, to obtain a bite, for they
seldom get anything but the bones, and
an underbone bone will have more shreds
of meat hanging to it than one cooked
to a turn. The dogs, too, appreciate
underdoneness, for a dog does better at
chewing and swallowing a raw bone than
one cooked to flinty hardness. So, taken
all round, there is much to be said in
favor of not allowing the meat to stay
in the oven too long,
» * * *
“Dinkum”: Sorry, “Long TJn,” but
you miss the target a mile in claiming
(B. 27 /9 / ’44) that a dog won’t kill a blue-
tongue. Countless times I’ve seen mongs
kill them and enjoy doing it. In fact,
for one kelpie cross I owned the old
sleepy had a particular fascination. The
trouble I had with that mong! He had
only to get wind of one of the fat crawlers
and it was the end of the job on hand.
My frenzied bellowings fell on deaf ears,
and the stock we’d so painstakingly col-
lected were left to scatter while he hunted
for the lizard. After he’d captured the
thing he’d cart it along for an hour or
more till either I look possession or he
was side-tracked by the scent of a fresh
victim. His enthusiasm didn’t extend to
other reptiles, however, for the day we
came on a snake Nigger dropped his tail
and bolted.
* * * *
“Pip” on a hobby of the troops:
Making articles from pearlshell is the popu-
lar pastime among Diggers in Pacific islands
these days. Although no diving has taken
place officially since the war began the colored
boys are always willing to do shallow work,
and there is an abundance of shell available.
Much of it is affected by worms, but a lot can
be fashioned into ornaments. Some of the
shells are a foot across and absolutely flawless.
The true colors lie beneath the rough outer
surface, and this is removed by soaking in
water, then using a file and emery wheel to wear
it down. A transfer is pasted on the exposed
surface and the rough outline cut out with a
fretsaw. Smoothing is done with sandpaper and
a fine file, and a pin is soldered on the back
for affixing to a frock. Dogs and birds are
popular motifs. Recently butterflies have come
into their own, the feelers being made from
threepenny bits hammered flat and trimmed into
shape with scissors. The " articles are suitable
for gifts and letch from 10s. to £3. Many an
expert in their manufacture has not drawn pay
for months.
* * * *
“P.1.C.”: Sam boasted he knew a trick
or two with horses, so when he bought a
prad that turned out to be a jib he har-
nessed it to the springcart, to the front
of which he fixed a crosscut saw. Then
with a grim look Sam climbed aboard.
A few days later I noticed something dif-
ferent about Sam’s cartshed. “Cure that
jib?” I asked. “Yair, cured her right
enough,” he said. “Trouble is now I
can’t make her back.” He’d had to knock
the back out of his shed so that he could
drive straight in, unharness, and let the
horse go out the other end.
* H= # #
“Betcha”: Just been reading some of
those indignant pars in defence of our
“noble birds.” One writer even acclaimed
the virtue of a crow. Yes, a crow ! And
all because some bloke shot a wedge-
tail. Eagles, I learned, should be pro-
tected. Feeding only on rabbits or car-
rion, they are an asset to the country,
and anyone destroying one should be
fined £5O. Yair? Which would mean
I’ll be down a hundred quid first time I
get close enough with a rifle to a certain
murderous pair. Kill lambs? I’ve come
on this pair feeding from a full-grown
live ewe in fairly strong condition, and
recently I witnessed the whole procedure.
Swooping on the fleeing sheep, the eagle
landed on its back, whereupon, from the
weight, a trip or plain fright, the ewe
collapsed. Still perched on top, the bird
immediately commenced to burrow into
the hollow behind the ribs, and by the
time I arrived the entrails of the still live
animal were strewn in all directions. An-
other time I was riding the back pad-
dock and came on an old wedgetail’s nest
in the head of a gorge. The bits of skin
and lamb bones on the ground beneath
would have filled several sacks.
H* # % %
“Rover”: While queer things do occa-
sionally come out of the Northern Terri-
tory (B. 4/10/ ’44), one secret the N.T.
still hides is the whereabouts of 7500 z.
of gold lost 65 years ago by four of the
Territory’s pioneer miners—Harry Hous-
childt, Henry Roberts, Fred Starke and
Johannes Noltenius, They took over the
Extended Union, south of Brock’s
Creek, in 1879, and stowed the crush-
ing in a saddle pack, on a trusty
steed and prepared for a trip to
Darwin, but before leaving decided
to celebrate. While the festivities
were proceeding the horse with the
gold snapped its bridle and galloped
away. Despite a wide search lasting
months, neither horse nor gold was ever
seen again. After that disaster the men’s
luck deserted them ; the Extended yielded
no more gold and they tried various other
fields without success. They were mas-
sacred by abos, on the Daly River in
1883.
♦ * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Islands populated ex-
clusively by dogs have been known in
several parts of the world. Eclipse Island,
just out from King George’s Sound, W.A.,
was one, the time being the late twenties
of last century. But those canines were
not friendly. Men landing did so at con-
siderable risk, for some of the big dogs
were of boarhound breed, and only the
sight of a gun deterred them from attack.
It was supposed that they originated!
from a mated couple that got ashore
from the wreck of some Sydney-bound
vessel, or perhaps were marooned by
some passing whaler, such as even then
occasionally visited that coast. With
plenty of seals and ground-nesting birds
available they had increased rapidly.
But in time food diminished, the birds
nesting elsewhere and the seals becom-
ing wary. So in the off-seal season
numbers of dogs were to be seen roving
the sea’s edge seeking any trifle that
might have been cast up by the waves.
By then famine had brought them to the
very uncanine practice of devouring their
own dead. By 1833 they had disappeared.
GOING HOME.
My port is packed and labelled, I’ve bought my
“brief” to go ,
To Walgett by the rattler, then the coach to
Which is out’beyond Culgoa, on the road to
Tilbooroo;
And there I’ll pick up Maynard and his dusty
droving crew. , ,
I feel a sort of tightness, like a pleasant kind or
pain,
And my feet are sort of aching for the stirrup-
bars again. ,
My eyes are tired of glaring lights, they re
yearning for the sun;
And I’ve got a job with drovers on a western
Queensland run.
I can hear the engine panting like a prisoner
in pain:
By morning she’ll be racing out across the
blacksoil plain.
I’ve been in town since Christmas, doing odd
jobs here and there,
Spending much, and much too freely, which
don't get you anywhere;
The picture-shows have tired me; I’m sick ot
crowds at fights;
And though the streets are full of life they re
lonely in the nights.
There’ll be fires on the stock-route when the
day-long stretch is done,
And I’ll do my trick of night-work on a
western Queensland run.
1 wonder how the stock are where the muster
will begin;
1 always like an easy mob to break my muscles
in. .
I must, of course, be pretty soft from living in
this place,
But I’ll bet I’ll foot it with ’em when the
heelers set the pace.
I can hear the yearlings bawling as we start
’em on the road,
And the stockwhip cracks are ringing, though
they’ll scarcely need a goad.
I'll bet my horses know me, both the chestnut
and the dun,
And be glad to take me droving on a western
Queensland run.
It’s grand on sunny mornings, when the young
stock take the lead,
And a lithe, young sunburned stockman rides
in front to hold the speed.
On the wing you’ll find me singing, sitting easy
in my seat, . .
While we keep them moving lively in the rising
morning heat.
We'll spell ’em in the noonday and the cook will
have the tea,
Piping hot and thick with sugar, in a camp be-
neath a tree.
I'll bet —good Lord, the whistle, and my journey
has begun:
I’m off to join the drovers on a western Queens-
land run.
N.S.W.
OLDTIMER.


■ •••
m
‘Cfl
■«s\'V'
'-s'Vo'''? : -VV->.'; ;V -
' ; VVo'' '-' 'V v ' '
CROSS-ROADS OF THE WORLD
Post-war aviation development, with airlines
radiating to the four corners of the globe, will
see Australia a geographical cross-roads of the
world's air traffic.
Australian National Airways has built, without
Government subsidy, the world's largest internal
airway system —a logical foundation for Aus-
tralia's vital international dir communications
of the future. Meanwhile, A.N.A. is serving
Australia well with fast, dependable transpor-
ation for passengers, mail and freight.
f//M
m"
INVEST ALL YOB CAN IN VICTORY BONDS
USTRALI AN
tional Airways
FIRST IN PEACE .
pty. ltd.
FIRST IN WAR . .
. . FIRST IN FUTURE
%
vJift
Hero ... without medals
JIM SMITH, the dairy farmer, is a hero. He
doesn’t wear a medal, but he does a job that
is highly important in the strategy of the United
Nations, and he does it faithfully and well. By
working longer and harder, by sticking to it in
the face of drought and other heartbreaking but
unavoidable difficulties, he and his fellow dairy
farmers produced, during the last 12 motiths, the
splendid total of more than 1,000 million gallons
of milk.
But even this does not solve the problem of
providing enough milk, cheese and butter for
our own people and, at the same time, meeting
our obligations to the Australian, British and
Allied fighting forces and the United ]\ations.
Only still greater milk production can do that.
We’ve put it straight to Jim Smith and his
fellow dairy farmers, and no one doubts they
will produce the extra milk Australia needs.
IN THE SUPPLY OF OTHER FOODS, too, Australia
has to meet obligations which demand not only the
utmost efforts of large-scale food producers, hut the co-
operation of every citizen. When you accept war-time
difficulties cheerfully; when you grow your own vege-
tables and keep a few fowls; when you conserve food
in every possible way, you are helping the producers to
help Australia play her expected part in the victory
programme of the United Nations.
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control,
F. 51,26
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Touching on Coms.
(From comment by Westbrook Pegler in N.Y.
“ World-Telegram.")
Reporters in France tell of the execu-
tion of French women and men who were
deemed to have collaborated with the
Nazis and of women shorn as a mark of
disgrace. The trials must have been in-
formal and emotional, and there runs
through the dispatches a strong sugges-
tion that the Communists of France now
are sitting as judges of patriotism to a
country which they themselves betrayed
in the days of the “phony war” and on
down to the fall.
That the Communists in France, as
here, fight desperately for Communism
no man will deny. Like the Nazis, they
are political fanatics and as cruel, wanton,
devious and treacherous. They have so
much in common that not long before
the war some American writers who had
studied history in process in Germany
were calling the Nazis Brown Bolsheviks.
It is a fact that Communists were traitors
to France and would have opened the gates
from the inside to let the Nazis in with-
out a fight, just as the Communists in
the United States did all they could to
keep this country unarmed and helpless
until June, 1941. President Roosevelt
himself flatly accused the American Com-
munists of this when he sent a regiment
of the regular army to Inglewood, Cal.,
to drive their terrorists from the gates of
one of the most important airplane fac-
tories so that the Americans could get
to their jobs.
The Communists in France were worse
than useless in the French Army facing
the Germans. They not only wouldn’t
fight the Nazis, but they made more
ghastly the desperate position of those
Frenchmeh who did fight and many of
whom died. They were saboteurs in the
factories and ports and collaborationists
in far more deadly and tragic ways while
there was still a chance of survival than
those who, during the long dark night
since the fall, lost hope of rescue and
simply submitted.
Down to the collapse the Communists
were active, aggressive traitors, who
stabbed their own country in the back
i ust as surel y as Mussolini did; and only
after the foul deed was done and the
Nazis were in suddenly turned patriots
because R uss i aj their spiritual homeland,
was j n danger Their purpose was not
rescue France but to help Russia by
harassing the Nazis in prance.
That such people should now be able
tQ bound and condemn and execute
o t b ers, eV en though some of the accused
ac j ua Uy were traitors, is a hideous irony
anc j an j n j ust j ce t 0 tbe American and
British fighters who drove the Germans
out For these American and British
soldl . ers ’ to °’ were betrayed by the Com-
mumsts and now find French Com-
mun j sts exploiting their victory.
w jji not be so, apparently, but surely
these traitorS} to 0) should be called to
tr ial. instead, we find them participating
j n tbe con trol of the nation they helped
the Nazis to humiliate and torture beyond
p rospec t of recovery within that term
wb i cb president Roosevelt calls the fore-
seeab i e future.
Vandegrift on Pacific War.
[Leader of the U.S. Marines in their great
Pacific War fighting, and now promoted to
overall command of the Marine Corps, Lieut.-
General Alexander A. Vandegrift, in the article
here condensed from N.Y. “Times” weekly
supplement, gives first-hand information on the
amphibious campaign against the Japs from
Guadalcanal till now.J
Just two years ago we undertook on a
shoestring an amphibious operation
against an enemy who, on the record, was
the world’s amphibious master of the
day. Guadalcanal was a gamble, and
no one knew it better than those of us
who went in. But the gamble has swelled
into the sure thing at Normandy and
Guam. From our do-or-die beginning
we have developed a great amphibious
machine, the power of which has amazed
the warring world.
The Japanese commanders knew our
covering fleet at Guadalcanal was rela-
tively meagre, but they did not know it
was so sparse that after the battles off
Guadalcanal in November,l942, Admiral
Halsey had only one aircraft-carrier
(which had been hit), one battleship, one
cruiser and some destroyers. The
Japanese knew that we lacked sufficient
carrier-based and land-based ’planes to
hold a continuous cover over ground
operations, and in the early stages they
made vicious use of that advantage. But
in other Pacific operations our naval and
air forces maintained complete domina-
tion over the battle areas and were
seriously challenged at sea only once in
20 months—at Saipan.
At Saipan a great supporting fleet
boldly stood gua f d off tb e island for
more than daring the enemy
navy t 0 attempt to interfere. Even though
the fleet was 1200 miles from its nearest
base and 3250 miles from Pearl Harbor,
carrier-based aircraft held an ironclad
umbiella o ye r the invasion .throughout
t be month of hostilities. Obviously, the
number of aircraft-carriers taking part
was large. It has been announced that
we bave at least one hundred carriers
operating in the Pacific And in Novem-
b er 194 2 Admiral Halsey was defend-
in j’ with one damaged car-
•£.
T ' hn ,, n _ wbn watcbe d the ore-
: nva sion sb elline and bombine of Guadal-
thoimh we were seeing a de luxe
canal mougni we were seeing a ae luxe
show of fireworks, but actually we were
seeing onlv a samnle of the mightv bom-
b ardments to come The relentless 17-dav
oaromems to come, i ne reienuess i / y
softening-up applied to Guam was beyond
compare in the books of amphibious
attack- We had ships and planes and
shells and bombs in such quantities as
the Japanese never believed possible
There are many who seem to think it
the duty of a pre-invasion bombardment
to knock out all defending personnel,
guns and emplacements so completely
that the invading troops need only walk
in and run up the flag. I will say that
never once in the Pacific war to date has
a pre-landing bombardment failed to do
all that the Marine commanders expected
it to do. But we have never yet taken
the objective without a ground fight
when there were troops there to defend it.
Bombardments will take out the large
gun positions; but, no matter how long
or intense, they will not take out all
machine-gun positions and mortars. They
cannot. It is the same m a wholly ground
operation. You have heard of artillery
being lined up hub to hub and fired until
the enemy lines seemed pulverised, yet
when the infantry went forward they
were invariably met by machine-gun fire.
Writers and commentators clam-
antly urge the use of Allied power
in various countries to back one
party as against another on behalf
of democracy. They are quite cer-
tain that they know which of half
a dozen Italian, or Greek, or Yugo-
slav, or Polish, or Indian, or Pales-
tinian parties are truly democratic
and represent the people. This easy
assurance of complete knowledge
of the popular standing of parties
in foreign countries is aston-
ishing. If you were to ask
any one of these same British or
American commentators which
party in his own country will be
revealed at the next election as most
truly representing the wishes of the
people (among whom he lives) he
could not possibly tell you with any
real assurance. He is only certain
about what the people want if they
live thousands of miles away, and
speak a language he cannot under-
stand. Sir Nor man A ngell ;
“Reader’s Digest.”
Th found of their enemy had sur .
yived &nd had come Qut of their holes>
shaken but very much alive, ready to
man th j s y
0b ■ , t landing operations
°bviou s ly no two landing operations
are exactly alike. It you are ab to hit
where the coast is not heavily toititied
and set yourself up before the defenders
can get reserves into position, your initial
losses will not be unduly heavy In the
South and South-west Pacific the jungle,
although causing much grief after the
fighting has moved inland, has been of
more than a little help in masking


OHM
VICTORY
LOAN BONOS
The 99 Second Victory Loan 99 closes
Oct. 31
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
MutnOwln 1
RB/44
DO YOU KNOW?
First Government
Dentist. In 1400,
tooth-drawer Matthew
Flint of London was
paid 6d. daily at the
Exchequer “that he
should do what per-
tains to his art to
any poor lieges of
the King who may
need it, without re-
ceiving payment from
them”.
m
■ ■
Wi
SB
r X-Xx
M
a»
|H M 'yt -i
l r',lu lk\
■' <! fi
mi
warn
i
m
K S
Cleopatra was the most
famous glamour girl of
her time yet her only
husband was her own
brother. Thorough cleans-
ing twice daily with Koly-
nos Dental Cream makes
teeth sparkle, gives new
brilliance to any smile.
Because it makes them
cleaner Kolynos makes
teeth whiter.
Sioux Indians believe white men have
poor teeth because of the lies which pass
over them. Do you know that dental
caries attack first the spots which are
hardest to clean? Between the teeth, for
instance, and in the indentations of the
grinding surfaces. Kolynos removes those
dangerous food deposits which harbour
decay germs.
s
f
JJ
m
as
I
&
, v 'i J
A Scotsman cut
three sets of teeth.
He lived to be 110. Note
for those with Scotch in-
stincts Kolynos is the
dental cream that goes
further. Half an inch
on a dry brush is plenty.
Gunpowder to clean
teeth! In the early
nineteenth century,
gunpowder was a
popular dentifrice.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT." 3s. 6d., POST FREE. “BULLETIN" OFFICE.
landings and preventing the enemy from
firing on the incoming troops.
The atoll, on the other hand, is very
small. The possessors are able to con-
centrate their whole defending force with
the sole purpose of beating off the in-
coming troops at the beach. The inva-
sion, therefore, generates into what is
purely and simply assault. By assault we
mean the last stages of an attack. The
operation becomes assault from beginning
to end.
The atoll is barren —no jungle to screen
you. You come in, and your foe is right
there. He meets you with all his fire-
power ; there are no lapses. He cannot
withdraw to new positions ; he must stop
you there or never. The fighting is much
more severe from the outset and casual-
ties may be relatively heavy.
At Guadalcanal we knew that if we
succeeded we would have a foothold from
which we could push up through the
Solomons toward the goal of tearing
loose the enemy’s grip on the South and
South-west Pacific. But if we failed the
Japanese would be in a better position
than ever to extend their advance through
the New Hebrides and New Caledonia,
thereby doing much to deprive us of sea
lanes to our indispensable bases in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Moreover,
coupled with the enemy positions on New
Guinea, this advance would lay Australia
and New Zealand open to actual invasion.
From Guadalcanal we were able to
carry out our plans to move up through
the door of the Solomons toward the
major lines of Japanese defence. At
about that time we began to hear great
moans emanating from many quarters.
“Island-hopping” became a phrase to
view with alarm. Our line of battle from
Hawaii to Australia, it was said, was
separated from Japan by some 10,000
islands. Guadalcanal was taken in six
months, but, even granting that we could
move at the rate of one island a month,
it was reasoned, we would be 10,000
months, or 833 years, in the process of
reaching Japan.
We were fortunate in that even while
the deploring of “island-hopping” was in
full swing a strategy of island-manoeuvr-
ing was being devised which would com-
mit us only to the capture of a relatively*
few key island bases.
Airfields on Bougainville, linked with
the seizure; of the southern portion of
New Britain Island, the Admiralties, the
Green Islands and others in the Bismarck
Sea, effectively sealed off the big base at
Rabaul and other hostile centres in the
south Pacific and left the way open for
our forces to drive northward along New
Guinea and westward through, the central
Pacific toward our main objective.
After Tarawa and Makin, when our
repeated aerial bombings hinted that we
might have designs on the Marshalls, the
Japanese logically could have expected
us to hop our way up from our bases in
the Gilberts through the nearest Marshall
atolls—Mille, Maleolap, Wotje and Jaluit.
Those atolls were heavily and expectantly
defended.
But confidence in our experience and
accumulating power asserted itself in the
conception of a strategy which by-passed
those strong points and carried us straight
to the heart of the Marshalls chain, to
smash successfully at the Kwajalein
group. Now blockaded, suffering air raids
almost daily, starved and out of physical
contact with their homeland or advanced
bases, the remaining Japanese in the Mar-
shalls face certain extermination.
Today, because of our amphibious
superiority in the Pacific, the forces of
the United Nations dominate the Solo-
mons, the Bismarck Sea, New Guinea
and the islands immediately beyond, and
the central Pacific to a point within 1000
miles of Japan itself. Strongholds not
seized have been neutralised by blockade
and attrition.
There can be no doubt that amphibious
operations in the Pacific will continue
until the day of final Japanese collapse.
The Secretary of the Navy has openly
acknowledged that our main objectives
now are the Philippines, the China coast
and the Japanese home islands. It must
be remembered that our amphibious ad-
vances are in reality part of one great
Asiatic-Pacific pincers operation, in
which the Allies will converge on the
main targets from all practicable direc-
tions.
In each succeeding ship-to-shore opera-
tion to date we have thrown more physi-
cal weight against the enemy’s fortifica-
tions than before. There is no reason
to believe this will not continue to be the
rule.
If he is unable to stop us now what
can he expect to do as our ever-increasing
power drives his fleets from the seas, his
armies from the land and his ’planes from
the skies?
Japan’s warlords expected to win the
war in the Pacific by amphibious
supremacy. Today —two swift years after
Guadalcanal —seaborne Allied forces are
striking straight for the vitals of Japan.
This is the amphibious miracle of our
time.
Britain in the Pacific.
[No doubt the frequent and often very nasty
sniping at Britain in America just now can be
put down to election heat. Still, it goes on,
largely on the theme that J. Bull has left the
Pacific War fighting to Uncle Sam and, apart
from “token assistance,” will continue to do
so. No number of statements by Mr. Churchill
nor anybody else appears to have the slightest
effect. Hence the following comments by N.Y.
“Times” apply to more than some Congress-
men over there.]
Mr. Churchill has said many times that
Britain intends to throw her full power
into the war against Japan after Ger-
many has been beaten. But, if the debates
in Congress are any guide, there is still
a residue of scepticism on this point
among those Americans who always find
it easy to suspect British purposes, even
though they admire British courage. In
these quarters the theory is held that
Britain will give no more than “token”
assistance in the East, and that we shall
be left to fight the war against Japan
largely on our own resources.
On what evidence does this theory rest?
Three principal arguments are made for
it. To each of them there is a good
answer.
First, it is pointed out that it is our
Navy that has been doing the fighting
in the Pacific, and that the main British
Any expectation that the fana-
tical Japanese will accept occupa-
tion of their “land of the gods” by
the “barbarians” without a last-
ditch fight is not a basis on which
to build military plans. And neither
Admiral Nimitz nor any other
American commander is doing so.
— N.Y. “Times.”
fleet has been conspicuous by its absence.
But this is a war of many fronts. With
the full agreement of our own High Com-
mand, the British Navy has been used
primarily in the European zone of the
war, near its home bases. It has not been
idle. It has fought the German Navy,
fought the Italian Navy, opened the
Mediterranean to Allied shipping, guarded
convoys in the Atlantic, covered the Nor-
mandy invasion and shelled German
strongpoints all along the coasts of
France and Italy. Its many-sided job in
Europe now nears its end. When that
end is reached it can —and will —be used
against Japan.
Second, it is pointed out that our land
forces in the Pacific greatly exceed in
size those of the British Dominions in
that area, Australia and New Zealand.
Any criticism on this ground overlooks
our vastly greater population and the
fact that Australia and New Zealand
troops, like American, have been divided
between Europe and the Pacific. [Not
quite accurate as far as Australia is. con-
cerned, except for the airmen, though
there was Africa.]
Finally, the sceptics like to point out
that just about a year ago Admiral Lord
Louis Mountbatten received a spectacu-
lar command in south-east Asia and that
nothing very much has ever come of it.
Why, after all this time, hasn’t Mount-
batten invaded Burma? But Mountbatten
himself has reported that shortly after
landing ships and other craft were given
to him for the invasion of Burma they
were taken away from him and used for
the Anzio beachhead and the French
invasion. He will get his landing ships
again. And he will use them.
Quite aside from British good faith
and British honor, every consideration
of British self-interest—her vast hold-
ings and investments, the safety of her
eastern Commonwealths, the length of
her lines of communication, the integ-
rity of her Empire—commits her to an
all-out war in the Pacific. If the over-
whelming defeat of Japan is a matter of
life or death for the United States, if is
also a matter of life or death for Britain.
Warsaw’s Valor.
( Condensed from London “Observer.”)
The fifth anniversary of Hitler’s attack
on Poland was celebrated by the insur-
gents of Warsaw on the barricades amid
fire and ruin. The small help that could
be dispatched to Warsaw from the West
was received by the insurgents with grati-
tude. But in the fifth week of their fight the
Warsaw Poles learnt that the Russians
had refused permission for Allied rescue
’planes to land on Soviet fields. In the
burning capital the news must have
seemed the sentence of death.
While this pitiful tale was proceeding
the leaders of the Polish Underground
were endorsing M. Mikolacjzyk’s new
scheme for agreement between Poland


QUICK RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATION
FOB UP TO 2 YEABS FBOM '
CATARRH
INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, ANTRUM. & SINUS TROUBLES
gj-lo
g >Lr
These distressing complaints are ail
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent 1 physician. Upon
absorption into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisons*
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Type)
for Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica,
Myositis. Fibrositis. Lumbago and
Spondylitis.
Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples.
Carbuncles. Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
matitis. Eczema, Impetigo. Septic
Sores and most Skin Infections
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 ex ’s), 6 weeks’
treatment for Chronic Cases ..
21'-
Medium size (15 c.c.’s), 3 weeks’]
treatment for Acute Cases . J
12'6
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to:—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St.. Melb.. Cl
VAXOS N 9 l
ORAL VACCINE
ŵ
For fastrtempo drama keep tuned to-.
PETER CHEYNErs
9 p.m. every Mon. Tues. and
Wed. from 2CH,' 2KO and all Major Network Stations.
m
h
THEY’LL BE WITH YOU AGAIN
We are not making these famous
golf balls now because the materials
usually used in their manufacture are doing a
war job. We share your disappointment but
assure you that as soon as possible after Victory
is won we shall have supplies of your first priority
ball . . .
DUNLOP
65
THE PREMIER GOLF BALL
91
and Russia. In the context of burning
and dying Warsaw the details of that
scheme are hardly relevant. Important
and necessary though such practical poli-
tical and diplomatic arrangements un-
doubtedly are, it is not these that in the
long run shape the relations between
nations, and especially between nations
like the Russians and the Poles, who
have long memories of mutual wrongs,
grievances and suspicions. What counts
is the amount of goodwill and ordinary
human understanding shown in crucial
and tragic moments of history.
There may be weeks or days or even
hours that become embedded in a nation s
memory, to remain there, for good or ill,
for decades. Such were the dates of the
partitions of Poland by Russia, Prussia
and Austria in the eighteenth century ;
such was the “slaughter of Praga” during
Suvrov’s triumphant march into Warsaw
in 1794 ; such was the day of Pilsudski’s
crazy march into Kiev in 1920. Such,
once again, in these weeks of August and
September, 1944, are the days of War-
saw’s resistance.
Perhaps never before has the chance
of genuine friendship between Russia and
Poland been as great as it has been dur-
ing this war. Yet, perhaps, never before
has so much been done to prevent every
chance of friendship and to perpetuate
hostilities.
The makers of Russian policy no doubt
genuinely desire Poland’s friendship.
Is it not the case that a few, only a few,
Russian aircraft over embattled Warsaw
could have done incomparably more for
that friendship than a whole sequence of
Soviet statements about a “strong and
independent Poland”? The mere know-
ledge among Poles that American ’planes
coming to Warsaw’s aid could land and
refuel on Soviet-held territory would have
done more to reassure the Poles about
their country’s future. than a dozen
promises, however sincere. Just a little
more patience and forbearance on the
part of the Russians, and willingness to
make even slight concessions in the boun-
dary dispute, would have created a far
stronger feeling for Russia in Polish poli-
tics than any gift of German territory in
the west.
Friendship between nations and
peoples, as between individuals, is a state
of mind ; it can be developed only gradu-
ally and by conscious effort. It cannot
be created by threats to court-martial the
leaders of a rising, like that in Warsaw,
however “premature.” (The leaders of
Russia might well look back into the
more glorious “premature risings” in their
own past record, for which they have been
honored. Such was the Russian revolu-
tion of 1905.) Nor can arrests and depor-
tations, now reported from Poland, be
possibly regarded as means to bring to-
gether two nations, or attempts to decide
the fate of Poland behind the backs of
popular Polish movements lead to any
just or lasting settlement between Poland
and Russia.
In Liberated Paris.
[With so much present war reporting mere
vague generalities or, worse, the personal
(often ideological) views of correspondents or
their papers, his direct descriptions from actual
observation have put U.S. war correspondent
Ernie Pyle out in a class by himself. Here
condensed is a description Pyle wrote looking
back some time later on Liberation Day in
Paris. It is from N.Y. “World-Telegram.’']
From two o’clock in the afternoon until
darkness around ten in Paris on that first
day we were kissed and hauled and
mauled by friendly mobs until we hardly
knew where we were. Everybody kissed
you —little children, old women, grown-
up men, beautiful girls. They jumped
and squealed and pushed in a literal
frenzy.
As you drove along gigantic masses of
waving and screaming humanity clapped
their hands as though applauding a fine
performance in a theatre. We in the
jeeps smiled back until we had set grins
on our faces. We waved until our arms
gave out, and then we just waggled our
fingers. We shook hands until our hands
were bruised and scratched. If the jeep
stopped we were swamped instantly.
Those who couldn’t reach you threw
kisses at you, and we threw kisses back.
They sang songs. They sang wonder-
ful French songs we had never heard.
And they sang “Tipperary” and “Made-
Ion” and “Over There” and “The Mar-
seilles.”
French policemen saluted formally but
smilingly as we passed. The French tanks
that went in ahead of us pulled over to
the sidewalks and were immediately
swarmed over.
And then some weird cell in the mystic
human make-up caused people to start
wanting autographs. It began the first
evening, and by the next day had grown
to unbelievable proportions. They shoved
notebooks and papers at you to sign. It
was just like Hollywood. One woman,
on the second day, had a stack of neat
little white slips, surely 300 of them, for
people to sign.
The weather was marvellous for libera-
tion day, and for the next day, too. For
two days previously it had been gloomy
and raining. But on the big day the sky
was pure blue, the sun was bright and
warm—a perfect day for a perfect occa-
sion.
Paris seems to have .all the beautiful
girls we have always heard it had. The
women have an art of getting themselves
up fascinatingly. Their hair is done
crazily, their clothes are worn imagina-
tively. They dress in riotous colors in
this lovely warm season, and when the
flag-draped holiday streets are packed
with Parisians the color makes everything
else in the world seem grey.
There was one funny little old woman,
so short she couldn’t reach up to kiss
men in military vehicles, who appeared
on the second day carrying a stepladder.
Whenever a car stopped she would climb
her stepladder and let the boys have it
with hugs, laughs and kisses.
The second day was a little different
from the first. You could sense that
during those first few hours of liberation
the people were almost animal-like in
General Charles de Gaulle is
the titular head of the Provisional
Government of France. Yet his
political future is by no means cer-
tain. There has been one attempt
on his life, which probably has very
little significance politically, but
what has significance is the appa-
rent apathy of the great mass of
people toward him and the deep-
seated feeling among many of the
leaders of the underground that
there is a cleavage between them
and those who fought for France
beyond her frontiers. Many of
these feel a sense of gratitude
towards General de Gaulle and his
followers in Algiers for keeping the
cause of French liberty before the
world, hut they are inclined to feel
that his usefulness is over. They
fought the Germans on their own
soil and they feel now that they
should continue to lead the country
that they helped to liberate. — N.Y.
“Times” Paris correspondent Ray-
mond Daniel.
their panic of joy and relief and gratitude.
They were actually crying as they kissed
you and screamed “Thank you, oh, thank
you for coming! ”
But on the second day it was a deli-
berate holiday. It was a festival pre-
pared for and gone into on purpose. You
could tell that the women had prettied up
especially. The old men had on their old
medals, and the children were scrubbed
and Sunday-dressed until they hurt.
And then everybody came down town.
By two in the afternoon the kissing and
shouting and autographing and applaud-
ing were almost deafening. The pande-
monium of a free and lovable Paris
reigned again. It was wonderful to be
here.
World Police Force Doubts.
(Condensed from a London “Contemporary
Review” article by George Glasgow.)
Field-Marshal Smuts is not alone in
the assumption that “force,” by which is
understood the organised and armed
domination of the victors over the
vanquished, will be needed to tide the
world over the immediate post-war
dangers. That assumption is common to
all the Allied leaders. It implies a con-
tinued coherence, if “unity” be too strong
a word, among the chief members of the
United Nations ; and it implies a belief in
the expediency and efficacy of an interna-
tional police force.
That belief represents perhaps the
clearest as well as the most remarkable
trend in Allied diplomatic thought at the
present time. ■lt was hinted at in the
Atlantic Charter and was formulated in
the Moscow declaration, signed by the
United States, the United Kingdom, the
U.S.S.R. and China.
But there was a fly in that ointment.
The full hypothesis would obviously have
been, first, the achievement of victory by
the United Nations over the actual
aggressors, and then the imposition of a
police force over the potential aggressors
of the future. The actual aggressors,
however, in the outlook of three of the
signatory Governments, were Germany
and Japan ; while Russia, the fourth sig-
natory, was at peace, or had no quarre,
with Japan. The Moscow formula,
therefore, had to be subjected to a re-
markable contortion. It had to affirm th
determination of the signatories as being
“to continue hostilities against those Axis
Powers with which they respectively are
at war until such Powers have laid do\*n


BUY -WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
*
ft
A
£
/
R a MC P 24
BUY WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
m
%
mr
m
■
mmm
f ves
HARMONY OF DECORATION
IN THE MODERN HOME
Streamlined furniture needs the distinctfve
smoothness of Feltex floor-covering to com-
pletely set it off.
Though, at present, the Feltex colour range is
necessarily restricted, there are many soft, warm
shades still available. Your furnishing house
should he able to show you a toning just made
to “go with” your home-decoration scheme.
Product of
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
INVEST IN THE SECOND VICTORY LOAN
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
their arms on the basis of unconditional
surrender”; and in the first article ot the
specific pledge that followed had to
prescribe “that their united action,
pledged for the prosecution of thewar
against their respective enemies, will be
continued for the organisation and main-
tenance of peace and security.”
At the climax now reached of the
present war it is no longer possible to
shut one’s eyes to the facts. In the con-
duct of the actual war the United States
has had to be denied the use of Russian
bases in the Pacific which would have
been of paramount value against Japan.
In the contemplated post-war police force
the Russian policeman will presumably
co-operate with the other policemen in
disarming and restraining the German
but not the Japanese aggressor, for in
the Russian view the Japanese are not
aggressors at all, actual or potential. It
happens that this tactic of an interna-
tional police force has been propounded
as the very spearhead of Allied ideas
about the post-war period ; yet its realisa-
tion, on the present basis of the allied
association, seems difficult; and the criti-
cal occasion for the experiment may be
near at hand. A police force connotes a
unified purpose and a unified authority.
How can the four so-called United
Nations police the world if one of them
regards as sacrosanct the very offender
who to the other three is a criminal-in-
chief?
Failure a quarter of a century ago
was due mainly to the lack of unity
among the so-called Allied and Asso-
ciated Powers, though they started
with a greater actual unity than now dis-
tinguishes the so-called United Nations.
The relevant present question, therefore,
surely is: can we now claim any greater
title to prospective unity among the Allies
than we could claim in 1918? Mr,
Sumner Welles, while in office, tried to
warn American opinion of the present
danger; both Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Roosevelt have publicly hinted at it; but
no great attempt is made to educate pub-
lic opinion about its implications. The
present situation is that of the two essen-
tials to a successful post-war policing of
the world by the Allies, namely, unity of
motive and adequate physical strength,
only the latter receives much public cul-
tivation.
The Allied appeal on paper, and
according to the Tehran phraseology, is
that the nations of the world shall join
“a world family of democratic nations.”
Can we be surprised if neutral opinion,
concerned about the unity of the
United Nations, asks the question: Does
Russia, then, propose herself to become
a democratic nation? The question is
asked, and must be asked, because no
one knows the answer. Will Russia take
part, with Britain and America and
China, in an international police force?
Again no one knows the answer; and
the answer must be known before serious
people can take the matter seriously.
After five years of war it is a matter
for reasonable curiosity to wonder what
the fighting is to produce. This much is
clear: that the British and United States
Governments want to abolish “tyranny”
(as manifested by Nazi dictatorship); that
the Russian Government, though itself
a dictatorship, also wants to abolish the
German dictatorship. About Japan noth-
ing is clear. Atout Communism and the
world revolution, we do not know whether
the Russian Government that will emerge
victorious from the war will have aban-
doned its former declared purpose in that
sense or not.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Many of our Leftists insist that the purpose
of this war should be to proclaim democracy
throughout the world. Yet what do we mean
by democracy? That the people as a whole
shall have the right, through press and assembly,
to criticise their Government, to replace it by
another springing from organised political
opposition? Every child, almost, knows that
these conditions of democracy do not exist
in Russia or in China, and are not likely to
in any calculable period. This does not neces-
sarily mean that the majority of the Russians
or Chinese greatly resent the powers which
their Governments exercise. It may be that in
the conditions which the rulers of Russia and
China face no other method of stable govern-
ment, and so of successful warfare, would be
possible. Doubtless, the two dictators who are
our allies are honestly convinced of this. But
in that case it makes it vastly dangerous for
us to insist that we are waging war to in-
augurate democracy throughout the world. For
does anyone believe that our dictator allies
would tolerate for a moment any dictation, or
even suggestion, from us as to what is and is
not “democratic”? —Sir Norman Angell;
"Reader’s Digest.”
* * * *
Speculation as to who will be named co-ordi-
nating commander-in-ehief of the forces in the
Pacific war areas, holding a post similar to
that of Dwight D. Eisenhower’s in Europe, has
led to the formation of a fairly general opinion
that whoever is chosen will be an American ■
and a sailor. — N.Y. “Times.” [Other sources
have named the U.S. Navy chief Admiral Kmg.J
* * * *
Japanese propagandists, not as subtle as their
German counterparts, can outdo the Nazis when
it comes to horror stories. To show that
Americans are barbarians, they told civilians
on Tinian and Saipan that recruits accepted
for enlistment in the Marines had to prove
they had murdered one of their parents. — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
I have before me figures which show that
in the annual average for 1936-38 British re-
ceipts from imports amounted to £950,000,000 :
while receipts from exports, investments, ship-
ping and banking commissions for that period
produced £906,000,000— leaving a deficit of
£44,000,000. These figures indicate that m any
immediate post-war period deficit will
approximate £200,000,000. Meanwhile Great
Britain has altogether lost her position as a
creditor nation and has become a debtor. A
country with that kind of a balance sheet needs
friends everywhere.— George E. Sokol sky; N.Y
'“Sun.”
* * * *
The question of the trials of the war criminals
will soon occupy public attention. The civilised
world will, of course, grant full protection tc
the defendants —that is, accord them the pre-
sumption of innocence and impose on the prose-
cutors the duty of establishing guilt beyond
a reasonable doubt. With the exception ot
a handful of top criminals, that will mean that
the overwhelming majority of war criminals
will not be indicted and that a large per-
centage of those indicted will have to be
acquitted because of lack of proof. Witnesses
will have disappeared or will have been mur-
dered and documentary evidence destroyed.
One may safely predict that the outcome ot
these proceedings will be a grave disappoint-
ment to the victims of German and Italian
brutality and their relatives and friends. As a
deterrent to future aggression one cannot but
expect that these trials will be a _ complete
failure. — Correspondent in N.Y. “Times.
* * * *
It has often been said by critics of Allied
policy that our terms are so severe that there
is no inducement to Germans to play a part
in overthrowing Nazism. What inducement
could we offer the Germans which was so
attractive that they would take risks, like those
of the F.F.I. in France, against being mas-
sacred by the Gestapo? The only inducement
which will make men take such risks must
come from patriotism and the love of liberty.
When and if Germans fight for German liberty
with some part of the fanaticism with which
they have fought to enslave others they will
have begun to earn their freedom, and they
will begin the restoration, in the only way m
which it can begin, of Germany among the
nations. — Walter Lippmann; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune /'
* * * *
Feeling is rising in some quarters in Wash-
ington that Russia may get into the Pacific war
even before the Germans are licked in Europe.
Stalin, one informed Congressman thinks, may
announce Russian-Jap break before year ends.
— Scripps-Howard Washington staff.
sj: H* H* Hi
Count Carlo Sforza [the Italian leader back
in Italy after long exile] in a speech on foreign
affairs suggested turning Fiume into a League
of Nations port and making Trieste a free port
under Italian direction without changing the
frontier. He expressed Italy’s willingness to gave
up the Dodecanese Islands and other colonies,
but not Trieste. This is one point on which
Italians are unanimous. While they would have
to yield to superior force if Trieste were taken
from them now, anyone who knows Italy could
confidently predict that it would be a cause for
future irredentism that would be certain to
disturb the peace of Europe. — N.Y. “Times
Rome correspondent, commenting on a report
that Marshal Tito had “demanded” Istria Trieste
and the entire Dalmatian coast for the new
Yugoslavia.
* * * *
After speaking to many French sailors and
civilians who had left France after the Geiman
occupation, I am inclined to think that the
American attitude toward Marshal Petam is
entirely at variance with the opinion held of
him by many Frenchmen. Laval is damned
unqualifiedly, but Petain is regarded as a true
patriot who stood by his guns and did tne
best he could for France. These Frenchmen
point out that Petain could have escaped or
gone into dignified retirement, but, on the con-
trary, he stayed to face the enemy and assume
tremendous burdens for a man of 85. Iney
reason that Petain, who took control mter
France lay prostrate, could have ordered the
war continued from Africa. If he had done
this, they tell me, the Germans would immedi-
ately have overrun all of France, destroyed all
possibility of France’s interior opposition, would
have had ample time to prepare defences in
the South of France, and, most
all, would have occupied all of North Africa.
The Petain followers, with considerable reason,
praise the old warrior because, by temporis-
ing and compromising with the Germans, he
saved France from complete annihilation.
They claim that by so doing he kept the Ger-
mans out of Africa and off the decks of the
French Fleet until the Allies were strong
enough to take over Africa with French co-
operation, after a token defence required by
the Anglo-German armistice.— Correspondent
in N.Y. “Times."’
* * * *
We [Americans] are supposed now to be “all
convinced that there is no safety in isolation.
But timid whispers are heard again in the halls
of Congress and elsewhere. Oh, yes, by all
means let us have a new association of nations.
And by all means let the United States take
cart in it. But not too much of a part, of
course? Again we begin to hear; “There are
still those oceans on both sides of us. Let us
be very, very careful about how far we go
in committing ourselves to responsibility for
what happens on the other side ot them.
N.Y. “Tunes.” # * * .
When Stalin signed up with Germany British
and French diplomats were in Moscow trying
to induce him to join the “peace front against
the Nazis. But in return Stalin is said to have
demanded a free hand in eastern Europe. The
French and British balked; they said they could
not bargain away what was not theirs to bar-
gain Today, after five years of war, Marshal
Stalin appears about to win his point. What
the Western Powers refused to yield in 1939
when it might have staved off the war, for
Hitler would not have dared strike then had he
known he would have to fight Russia, too
they seem to be ceding now.— Washington
correspondent N.Y. “World-Telegram.”


■
*
tvn.
»»»*
**
i
SI
*
Don’t wait years for a sewerage system. Plan your new home NOW. No matter
where you wish to build the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR will provide all the
conveniences of city sewerage.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a COMPLETELY SELF-CONTAINED sanitary
system. All sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. Any handyman can instal. No water supply necessary. Spare
yourself the embarrassments of emptying flies unwholesome odors and the
dangers of disease. Thousands are installed in homes, offices, hospitals throughout
Australia.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FRF.E illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address
8TW.2.44
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Listen to ...
HU VTOURETTES
Every Sunday at 12.30 p.m.
2GB
LfAt
PERRINS
r
4
mil I '
m
St PERRlN-
sauce. .
The ECONOMY SAUCE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Country Appraisement.
“J.R.D.”: Decentralisation appeals to
most men on the land, but the erection
of 30 to 40 wool stores in rural N.S.W.
for the appraisement of local wools is
unjustified. Each centre, with an area of
20 to 50 miles radius to draw on for sup-
plies, would, no doubt, be expected to
support a permanent staff all the year
round. But when shearing is done and all
the wool in who is going to carry the cost
of buildings which will be empty for the
greater part of the year, and the staffs
necessary to run a wool-appraisement
centre for 12 months when only about
two months’ work could be provided?
At present most appraisements are
done on the seaboard. Wool goes from
shed to siding, and then direct to the
broker’s store. In ordinary times it is
appraised, repacked if necessary, dumped
and shipped with the minimum of
handling. These stores receive wool from
every part of the State, which means a
fairly steady flow of wool for the greater
part of the year; hence permanent staffs
can be maintained. If the old system of
wool selling by auction returns country
appraisement centres will be purely specu-
lators’ markets, as buyers will not have
the staffs to attend the numerous appraise-
ments of small catalogues, and wool at
such centres will be at the mercy of
dealers and others, who will be all there
to make a profit.
Country appraisement centres are now
being built by the Government in
defiance of the opinions of woolgrowers.
The growers will be forced to pay for
them directly, and the Australian tax-
payer will have to pay indirectly. Desir-
able as decentralisation is, there are some
things to which it cannot be applied, and
wool appraisement, under present condi-
tions, is one of them.
Licks for Stock.
“Hux”: Licks supply calcium, phos-
phorous and salt. Dry conditions make
them necessary even on 'the richest
country. Sheep on sandy, granite or light
basalt soils need them in normal seasons,
but pastures on black or heavy basalt
soils usually supply ample minerals.
Breeders and youngsters need calcium
and phosphorous. The first contributes
to muscle firmness, digestion of fat and
control of actions of other minerals on
the body; the second builds up body
tissues. Deficiencies of either mean
stunted growth, poor carcase, low produc-
tion and weak constitution.
Sterilised bonemeal or dicalcic phos-
phate form the best basis for licks and
supply the right minerals. There’s no
hard and fast rule regarding the propor-
tion of salt to be mixed with them, though
four parts of salt to one of bonemeal or
dicalcic phosphate are usually sufficient.
A good drought lick composed of one
part bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate, four
parts of stock salt and from 10 to 20 per
cent, of Glauber salts will forestall im-
paction. A small quantity of molasses
makes it more palatable. Epsom salts
hinder assimilation of the calcium in lick
or feed. On mineral deficient country,
cows in calf require 240 z. of bonemeal
per week.
Provision of licks reduces bone-chew-
ing, botulism and forage poisoning.
South African experiments have proved
that 3oz. of bonemeal per day stopped
bone chewing, and at the end of seven
months resulted in a weight increase of
671 b. over animals which received no
minerals.
Australian Horses.
“B-gar”: There is one way to improve
them—the British way. When the British
light-horse breeding scheme was initiated
arrangements were made by the Ministry
of Agriculture to examine free of charge
all stallions submitted for inspection. In
1920 the Horse Breeding Act came into
operation, by which the owner or person
in charge of an unlicensed stallion was
liable to a fine if he travelled or exhibited
for service. No unsound entire was regis-
tered. The improvement in British horses
was apparent at once.
A similar scheme, under Common-
wealth control, would work here. But
it would have to apply to mares, too,
which must be proved sound as dams if
we are to see the old Waler types return.
In 1930 I met an Indian horse buyer
at Emerald (C.Q.) just after he had com-
pleted a tour of the Peak Downs country
and the central west, from which districts
so many of the mounts for the Light
Horse regiments were obtained 16 years
previously. “Twenty years ago,” he said,
“I could have bought any number up to
1500 head of good horses out here. I
couldn’t buy 20 now.” And having seen,
and had to suffer riding, some of the
horses in the same districts during the
next two years I believe him. A mule is
a good hack compared with mongrels
bred on stations that once produced real
horses.
Save Our Soil.
“C.S.”: The Victorian State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission, which is
faced with the problem of keeping its
water channels through the Mallee free
of drift sand, has completed its fourth
soil-drift control competition. Though
there were 33 entries, representing about
40,000 acres, and ranging from Woome-
lang up to the Murray and from Mil-
dura to Swan Hill, Harold Hanslow, the
S.R. and W.S. Commissioner who
judged them, is still trying desperately
to awaken the nation to the creeping
menace of the sand.
“Soil,” said Hanslow in his latest
report, “is being blown from Mallee
farms at an alarming rate. It is common
to see sub-soil and even limestone exposed
on the fallows on land which was virgin
soil 20 years ago. At this rate of de-
terioration, what will the next 20 years
show?” Other parts of the report answer
the question;
This year at Murrayville a farmer, wish-
ing to remove a large accumulation of
sand against one of his fences on the wind-
ward side of a fallowed paddock, worked
the strip very finely. This soil blew over
the fallow for 20 chains and then went
other 10 chains to a grass paddock. A'
handful of the soil was taken back to where
it came from. It was darker and finer than
the sand left behind....ln effect, the land
had been winnowed and the best soil blown
away.
That last sentence epitomises the
tragedy of the Mallee. Hanslow added a
report from one of his water officers on
the difficulty of supplying settlers along
34 miles of channel “on which the esti-
mated cost of cleaning out the sand alone
is £2200.”
The work....has increased to such an
extent that it will be extremely difficult
to maintain a stream of water along some
sections The trouble is not confined to
areas close to the channel, where restrictive
measures over the channel easement would
avail little A Werrimul farmer in April,
1943, accepted compensation and left his
block. There was a fallow paddock adjoin-
ing a two-chain road. By April, 1944, the
fallow I had drifted for half a mile and
covered the fence to within a foot of the
top. It had also covered the two-chain
road and the fence on the other side of
the road to within a foot of the top, and
had gone into the next paddock for a
couple of chains. The fences, worth £BO a
mile, and the road are now useless. The
paddock has been denuded of top soil esti-
mated at 150,000 cubic yards.
During his tour Hanslow saw where
some careless farmers had allowed drift
to bury their neighbors’ fences, block
gateways, fill cattle pits, cover crops,
railways, roads, dams and channels. He
points out that a Canadian Soil-drift Act
throws the liability for such damage on
ihc offending farmer, and suggests •
similar law for Victoria Bgests 4
Lessons for Malle* farmers learned
from the competitions:— u
Don’t burn stubble; don’t wm-v a
land; don’t fallow the tops of SJihflb
nor land adjacent to dweUinss ’
channels and dams. Don’t sow seed n! rfa
land; leave .the fallow rklh S aJS,
till seedmg-time; roughen up or ridge the
land after ram; travel slowly when usSe
the disc. Don’t overstock-this is the worn
mistake of all; don’t be afraid to have too
many dams or have them too big- sow
ryecorn for two chains around a dam to
prevent sod and manure blowing into it
from near-by sheep camps.
Rape for Green Feed.
“Plane Creek”: Where possible, put in
a crop of rape this spring. October plant-
ings are helped by storms and often yield
from 15 to 30 tons of palatable foliage
and roots to the acre. It is easily grown
and the feed will come in during summer
and autumn. Summer plantings give
winter feed. It makes good silage.
Damp soils promote speedy growth.
Weeds hold back the crop. Allow 21b. of
rape seed per acre when drilling, or
broadcast double the quantity. Sow 21b.
white mustard with the rape, for rape
causes bloat. Don’t graze very young
rape very severely or it will be ruined
To obtain a heavy fodder yield, it is essen-
tial that the rape field should not be over-
grazed. Rain- or dew-drenched rape is
dangerous, and hungry stock should be
grazed on it for short periods only.
The Giant Kangaroo rape has many
friends in Queensland, for it grows more
strongly than Dwarf Essex, and can thus
carry more stock to the acre than the
other. It is a succulent-stalked rape with
great resistance to drought. But both
varieties are good and are greedily eaten
by stock. Rape is as palatable to poultry
as silver beet, and is grown for green
feed by many poultry farmers.
Thinning Fruit Trees.
“B.”: Few growers thin fruit trees
heavily enough. Peaches, apricots and
plums set more fruit than the trees can
manage. Reducing by 75 p.c. isn’t too
much when the set promises a bumper
crop. There’s no set rule as to how much
to take off or leave on. Strong, healthy
trees can carry more fruit; smaller varie-
ties can produce heavier crops. Situation
in the orchard should be taken into con-
sideration.
For a general working basis, spacings
should be: canning peaches, 2in. to Sin.;
dessert peaches, 3in. to 6in.; earlier varie-
ties like Watts and King Edward VII
closer spaced than Blackburn and J. H.
Hall. Plums, to 4in.; earlier
croppers, as Wilson’s and Angelina, closer
spaced than Narrabeen, Wickson and the
like. Apricots, Hin. to 2in. Regulation
pruning, fertilising or irrigation won’t
eliminate the need of thinning.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Bohe-chewing is due to
mineral deficiency in the diet and occurs
mostly in a dry season. First make sure
that a balanced ration is being fed, par-
ticularly to cows in milk or in calf, and
then provide a mineral mixture of di-
calcic phosphate (unprecipitated) two
parts and salt one part. Mix thoroughly


ẁ
| ST"
A
■z
JUHGIB
FIGHTERS
V:
V*
✓ <
I
In the story of the re-conquest of the South-West Pacific, right up to when Tokio
takes the final count. Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment will
find an honoured place.
When the call goes up—“ Bring on the Tractors”, with tusks of steel and with more
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria. Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
power than a herd of elephants, Cater-
pillar Diesels move in. With broad,
deep-grousered tracks, providing a firm
foothold, they drive their bulldozers
forward with mighty thrusts—toppling
trees, uprooting stumps, sweeping them
aside with brush and rocks. The in-
fantry, guns and tanks go through.
Giant Trail-builders and Scrapers, pow-
ered with Caterpillar diesel engines, go
to work to make the trail into a road in
record time or build an airport to drive
the Nips back to final destruction. And
so it will go on until Victory comes.
CATERPILLAR DfESSC
Ota, U.». PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING
Distributors for New South kKo/es and Queensland:
EQUIPMENT
aaxmn ‘Aid Nostidasor « Honv/w
ẃ
Unwin's Bridge Rd., Si. Refers, Sydney. ‘Phone — LA332l. Marquis Si., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedab 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rafhbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
•phone Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. ‘Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin Sf„ Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
ẅ
LYSA£HrrS
u
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
i
mrm&t
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Qbtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
and put out as a lick for young and dry
stock. For hand-fed cows give 2oz, of
the mixture twice a day in damped feed
throughout the dry period.
“Farmer Bill”; Dig a hole near the
sties, stalls or where animals congregate,
bank the excavated earth around the pit
to form a run off and make a covering of
old palings or sheets of iron. Manure
stored in this way doesn’t lose its fer-
tilising value and forms a good reserve
stock. If the droppings in large paddocks
are broken up and scattered stock
trample them into the soil and it benefits.
“Portergaff”: The practice of keeping
ointments, vaseline, etc., lying around on
ledges exposed to dirt and germs is
responsible for the spreading of many
cases of mastitis, teat sores, cowpox and
other infections. Install a suitable first-
aid box, clean, strong and wide shelves.
Wash collection of bottles and tins, fix
labels securely to avoid confusion. When
treating cases of mastitis wash hands
thoroughly before using ointment. Infec-
tion often persists for some time in con-
taminated ointment. Destroy it at once.
“Jock”: If annoyed by a crowing
rooster, arrange the perches so that he
must roost very near the roof. When he
raises his head to crow he knocks it
against the roof, and at once lowers it
again, forgetting about crowing.
“Myrrhee”: Apply the calyx spray
against codlin moth to pears at petal fall.
Wet each tree thoroughly. Use a lead
arsenate white oil mixture: lead arsenate
paste 51b. or powder plus four pints
of white oil emulsion in 80 gallons of
water. Follow the calyx spray with the
first and second cover sprays. Banding
is a help, but the bands should be in
place not later than the end of Novem-
ber and examined every ten days.
“V.G.L.”: Spray for red mite with a
pump strong enough to force the liquid
into all corners and crevices. Dissolve
Tib. soft soap or . finely-cut household
soap in a gallon of boiling water, and
then slowly add a gallon of kerosene.
Stir briskly for about five minutes. Add
this stock solution to eight gallons of soft,
slightly-warmed water. Stir the mixture
occasionally while it is being sprayed. In
heavy infestations spray the outside as
well as the inside of the houses and re-
peat the sprayings in five to seven days,
“Gip”: For the small plot of beans,
peas and tomatoes dig a shallow depres-
sion to a depth of about nine inches and
put two thicknesses of old newspaper
therein. Cover with decayed grass and
heap the soil thickly on top. The seed-
lings grow like wildfire, even in hot
summer weather, as the paper takes ages
to rot and holds the moisture, keeping
the plants cool.
“E. 2”: Peas revel in new ground to
which a dressing of lime has been added.
If green manure is turned under two or
three months ahead and the surface kept
worked, all the better. A light application
of super, three weeks before sowing helps
vigorous growth. Greenfeast, 4in. apart
in the rows, is the best variety through-
out the year in cool to moderate districts.
“P.A.”: One way to produce good beet
with big soft roots is by putting a dessert-
spoonful of blood and bone just under
where each plant is to grow. Leave the
fertiliser in a pocket, lin. under the sur-
face, and mix it round a Sin. diameter.
Sow a couple of seeds over each pocket
along the rows, spacing them 4in. to sin.
apart. About 4in. of soft soil covering
will do, and moisture is required regu-
larly till germination. Beet seed is best
soaked in hot water overnight to soften
that corky covering, which often contains
two to three seeds.
“Portergaff”: Cabbages, cauliflowers,
silver-beet, lettuce, etc., need plenty of
nitrogen. Broadcast nitrate of soda evenly
before ploughing in green manure crops ;
it is readily soluble under rainfall or
irrigation, and penetrates deep into the
soil. Plants up to eight weeks are im-
proved by side dressings. Single appli-
cations should not exceed 2cwt. per acre.
“P.R.A.N.”: To get at weeds in odd
corners here is a cheap spray that won’t
affect stock: Water 10 gallons, sulphate
of iron 51b., commercial sulphuric acid
16oz. by measure. Dissolve the sulphate
in the water, then add the sulphuric acid.
When acid from cream testing is avail-
able it can replace the commercial article
if 75 p.c. more is used. That is 28oz.
in place of 16oz. This weed killer has
little or no effect on grasses, but settles
bindweed, charlock, etc., in cereal crops.
On the leaves of grasses or cereals the
liquid forms into globules and runs off,
while on those of most weeds it spreads
and remains.
Wool Classing.
The new edition of Wool Classing and
Shed Management , by J. J. Hardie, re-
tains all the useful information of the
first edition on the preparation of the clip
for market, and, in addition, has been
revised to give the very latest informa-
tion on the subject under appraisement
conditions. This book was written par-
ticularly for the benefit of those growers
whose clip is too small to obtain the
services of a professional woolclasser. It
covers every phase of shed work, the
preparation of merino and crossbred
fleece and skirtings and shed accounts.
There is an up-to-date chapter on shear-
ing machinery. Every woolgrower should
have a copy. Price 3s, 6d. post free.


MOTOR & AVIATION SPIRIT
ClilEX
KEROSENE
cmmmEx
mm
LUBRICATING OILS
cmmmEx
mm
The long history of
pioneering, embrac-
ing every major de-
velopment in the
Petroleum Industry
is climaxed by the
high-grade Caltex
products available to
every user of Mech-
anical Transport.
IF YOU WOULD MAKE SURE
INSIST ON
CALTEX PRODUCTS
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION ~K
IN ALL ITS PHASES
~^r
V
N/
Q. *ff)o
n
u-
B lA&£
Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Posted for General Service. —To save man-
power, Gillette “Standard” Blades now replace
Gillette, and the 7 o’clock. But you will find these
“Standard” Blades are still the best shave you
can buy —so when you get them, make them last.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SMOKE-OH!
“The Canadian force well concealed from
the attackers, held their fie until the last
moment.” — Composite paper.
Then they allowed themselves some
“tut-tuts.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every woman these days is hair conscious.”
— Magazine.
Particularly of those on her legs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I ran into a friend the other day and was I
amazed at the change in her figure! ”
— “Women’s weekly.”
Knocked her completely flat?
Extenuation.
“Asked if he knew anything in defendant’s
favor, the detective-sergeant said the man
abstained from alcohol and was attached to his
mother.”
At his trial on charges of breaking and
entering, assault causing actual bodily
harm and being in possession of firearms
without a licence, “Basher” Bloggs found
an unexpected ally in Detective-Sergeant
Snoop.
Pleading for leniency, the detective-
sergeant claimed that Bloggs had shown
definite evidence of kind-heartedness by
wrapping a sock around the* piece of
piping with which he laid out the depart-
ment-store watchman. The watchman
had thus escaped with a fractured skull,
whereas, but for accused’s forethought,
his injuries might have been fatal. Bloggs
also spent ten minutes trussing up the
watchman, thus sparing him the necessity
of struggling to raise the alarm if he
should come to.
Accused also had a great fondness for
animals, witness continued. For this
reason he always carried the sawn-off
shotgun, having once been able to put a
badly-injured dog out of its misery.
Bloggs’s deep attachment to his wife,
another of his fine traits, was really the
cause of his crime. Her insatiable craving
for such (to her) bare necessities of life
as fur coats, diamonds and Rolls-Royces
had led him to attempt nobly to provide
them.
“Kind hearts are more than coronets,”
said his Honor. “Five years on each
charge—cumulative.”
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Refrigeration.
“Nora managed to inveigle John into
marriage, but she was far too plain and un-
attractive to hold him.” — Magazine story.
When Nora chose the wedded lot
She strove her husband’s love to hold.
But, seeing she was not so hot.
She naturally left him cold.
Nat.
■4* 4* *4*
“Continuing her evidence, Mrs. Case said that
her husband never gave her any money.”
A hard Case.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Make the most of your years.”
— Woman’s mag.
Total less than thirty,
4 1 4* 4* 4^
Funny the way gold-diggers have a
tendency to be brazen.
4* 4* 4 1
On the Air.
All this talk about frequency modu-
lation leads me to divulge some of my
much better radio inventions:
Announcers’ Selector: This simple de-
vice attached to any ordinary set auto-
matically cuts out all pseudo-Oxford
accents. The delicate adjustment is also
tuned to exclude advertising blurb from
commercial stations, the effect being
almost equal to taking the taste out of
castor oil.
Shostakovich Discriminator: This
appliance, which can be incorporated in
the above, ensures a complete cut-out of
all noise attributed to the above com-
poser, thereby giving instant relief.
Portland Back-snap : This extraordinary
device, so simple and yet effective, is
separate from the other two. By earthing
the condenser and by pressing a switch
during a political broadcast speech a
sound known as a Bronx Cheer Rasp-
berry is thrown back into the broadcast-
ing studio.
Production on all these inventions will
be started any year now on obtaining per-
mission from W. 0.1., D.1.P., etc., etc.
Nick Timmens.
Shade of Difference.
“When a boy is in the habit of doing some-
thing his girl doesn’t like she comforts herself
by resolving that, after they are married, she
will cure him of the habit.” — “Woman.”
She’s apt to think (when they are wed)
She’ll change his ways and halter him.
But, to her awe. she learns instead
The altar doesn’t alter him !
Percy.
•j*
“When cooking in a casserole on fop of the
stove be sure to stand the casserole on an
asbestos mat.” — Woman’s paper.
Then your feet won’t get quite so hot.
+ + 4*
Contemporary Art.
Of “modernist” painters I’ll state in com-
plaint
That their pictures are puzzles to me;
If they’re normal of sight and can see
what they paint
Then it’s clear they can’t paint what
they see.
Brian Bureau.
•i* 4* 4*
“The testator left £lOOO to be expended on
his tomb.”
Some rest beneath a slab of stone,
Some ’neath a cross of wood;
A thousand, though, should raise the
tone
And make one’s marble good.
F. M.
4* + 4* 4*
Crown v. Snork.
“After argument by both sides in a Sydney
Court, a sausage was ruled as being meat within
the National Security (Prices) Regulations.”
The case will, of course, go to appeal,
and on appeal it may be argued that a
sausage could be anything from a winch-
handle to a shoehorn, with the forensic
diversions going something like this:
Mr. Magoalott, K.C.: “I submit,
yeronner, that under common law,
Habeas Corpus and Fi Fo Fum a sausage
cannot possibly be classified as meat. Has
one ever seen a single sausage hanging
up in a butcher’s shop? Definitely not.
Invariably there is a plurality of them,
forming a chain. A chain is unquestion-
ably hardware. Would a shipwright think
of buying from a slaughterhouse the
article which holds an anchor in posi-
tion?”
Mr. Pointer, K.C.: “My learned
friend is hoist,with his own petard. He
admits that a snork —beg pardon, yer-
onner, sausage—is a chain. Has he not
heard of a daisy chain? Daisy is the
commonest name given to a cow. On his
reasoning a chain might be cut from
the flesh of one of those animals re-
ferred to by the poet as the lowing kine,
on the lacteal secretion from which the
well-being of the infant so much depends.
The meat might actually come, not
from Daisy but from a masculine bovine
relative, but that by no means vitiates the
argument. In short, it becomes a meat
chain, and, therefore, one might say a
meat sausage.”
Mr. M.: “My learned friend is oblique
and subtle, but he forgets there are chains
other than those formed by female
juveniles with diminutive flowers. What
of a bicycle chain? Would he suggest
th . . ',, , c "" UIU 11C suggest
t ] at ln at to the point
edibility in company with fried eggs,
an y that a diner might masticate such an
object under the pardonable misapprehen-
sion that it was composed of something
that once gambolled in verdant spaces
under a protecting cover of hair or fur?”
Mr p . « May it , vernnner
*•. r -; . iVld y «• ptease yeronner,
the disquisition we have just enjoyed
from my learned friend actually antici-
pates our establishing the very thing
which he has sought to dissipate by ironic
reference. Any chain, we submit, must
consist of links, be it made of sausages,
daisies or drop-forged steel. Outside of
this Court I have met my learned friend
golf bag in hand, off, he said, to ‘the
paint , inks> . which is a gol£ course , what golfer
has not boasted of his ‘full-blooded meaty
drives,’ or deplored his tendency to ‘hook’
or slice’ his ball into the rough? Doesn’t
a butcher use a hook for hanging up meat,
which he slices? We think that we have
established tjeyond question the affinity
between a bike chain and a sausage.”
Mr. Justice Horsehair: “Please ex-
plain to the Court what a ‘bike’ is, Mr.
Pointer. I don’t think I have heard the
term. I trust it is not a sample of that
undignified language to which there is in
this Court lately a deplorable addiction.”
iu R p . a vprnnnpr that k
—er—a bicycle ” § ’ Y ttiat 1S
Mr Justice H . <Thank yOUi Mr
p 0 j nter you may proceed, Mr. Magga-
j QtJ . „ Sb
' .
, . M.. The sausage is referred to,
by common usage among consumers as
® ™ ag - A snag ’ * e su b mit . can also
a trap, an under-water obstacle, a
h‘, atus - meaning something to be avoided,
■ , TT ttTT . TT . ,
Mr. Justice H.: Ha. Ha. That
certainly fits some sausages Ive had.
\ La ushter.)
, Mr. P.; “Almost as closely as their
skins, yeronner.” ( More laughter.)
Mr. M.: “Is not a trap a two-wheeled
vehicle? In Tort v. Biggleswop it was
ruled that a vehicle was a wheeled con-
veyance capable of being moved across
terra firma by various methods of
propulsion. I now arrive at my
salient point. The word sausage comes
from the Vulgar Latin Salsicia, which
in turn derives from the pure Latin
Salsus, meaning salted. We have all
heard of the phrase ‘Ye are the salt of
the earth,’ from Matthew, v. 13, in the
New Testament. We submit that this
establishes the connection between the
salt of the sausage and the earth of the
vehicle, or trap or snag or sausage, and
that therefore the sausage, being a vehicle,
should be dealt with under the Road
Transport Act rather than the National
Security Act! ”
80.
Meat Shortage.
Judged purely on his fighting powers.
We always said our cat was tough;
And we were right, for sure enough
We had to stew the brute for hours.
Our parrot, when it ceased to lay,
Turned poultry, though the taste was
vile ;
We mourned poor Towser’s passing
while
Mum cooked the roast last Saturday.
And now that we’ve run out of mice
The woman in the place next door
Makes sure the kids are in before
It’s dark; what’s more, she counts them
twice.
P. M. LUSK.
Fortunate.
“Some girls are liable to swoon as soon as
they hear their favorite crooners commence a
number.” — Movie magazine.
Those girls who swoon
When crooners croon
Are lucky dames without a doubt.
I don’t condemn
But envy them —
You can’t hear crooning when you’re
“out.”
NAT.


Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.W.T.: Too much geometry in the last line.
....K.A.R.: Try it on the charmer with the
ringlets brown W.C.: Train practically
Missing Friend.
ANY person having any information as to the present
address of MRS. JESSIE SMART, formerly of 8
Myrtle Street, North Perth, Widow of Albert Smart,
deceased, is requested to communicate with NEWMAN
AND WINGROVE, Solicitors, 100 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Public Notices.
I, MAX WEISS, of Stateless nationality, born at
Pottendorf, Austria, and resident 5 years and 10
months in Australia, now residing at 10 Bellevue
Gardens, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, GEORGE NANDOR, of Hungarian nationality, bom
at Budapest, Hungary, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 170 Phillip Street, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, WALTER SKUPINSKI, of German nationality,
born at Breslau, Germany, and resident six. years
and eight months in Australia, now residing at 42
Windsor Road, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
wt wp.ISSi
y
*■■<*«<&>
I, f
■//" •
Did your money
help to pay for it?
HERB is one rubber raft —made by Aus-
tralian girls from the rubber that didn’t
go into your hot-water bags this winter.
Rafts like this have saved as many as eight
good men’s lives. Many of them are needed to
equip the planes and ships that Australia is
building for the great push North. Your money
Is needed to buy them, and all the other equip-
ment which our men will need.
ii
m
AIR FORCE PATROL BOAT: This is one of the
super-highspeed, air-sea rescue craft. They’re big—
they’re fast. Developed specially during this war, they
are equipped with wireless and all necessary rescue and
medical equipment. They can range 200 miles out to
sea, and their cost of £20,000 each has surely been
repaid over and over!
m.
m
PARACHUTE:
The airman’s “life-saver." No
one can begrudge the hundreds
of square feet of silk which
goes into the making of each
of these wonderful “um-
brellas,’’ which have saved
thousands of our gallant fliers.
They are to the airman what
the rifle is to the soldier; and
nothing is more cared-for,
handled and packed. Special
coloured, ’chutes are used to
drop food and equipment to
ground forces. A parachute
and harness cost £75.
m:
m
ssm
m
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT: Wounded and injured air-
men saved from the sea scores of miles from land can’t
wait long hours. Every R.A.A.F. rescue craft is
elaborately fitted out with equipment and personnel to
render immediate, life-saving, medical attention.
OTHER COSTS OF AIRCRAFT WARFARE:
Uniform and Flying Clothing
(per man) £lOl 0 0
A Boomerang Interceptor-fighter 20,000 0 0
Searchlights—9ocm. A.A. type.. 130 0 0
Bife-Jacket 1 1 0
.303 Ammunition (per 1,000
rounds) 10 0 0
20 mm. Aircraft Cannon Ammuni-
tion (250 rounds) 187 0 0
Aircraft Reconnaissance Flare .. 15 0 0
Smoke Float (complete) 8 10 0
Sea Marker 2 10 0
Aircraft Navigation Flame Float 4 0 0
Illuminating Cartridge 0 10 0
put Mcfay fjSST
INVEST IN THE Second VICTORY LOAN
2V-6-16
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN "A"
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
:• .
'v-' • ••
mm
'■-. -i
ms*
m
m
m
a
Yl
m
55628
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Charles Barrett’s Koonwarra. —3527.
To buy The Battle Below, by H. N. Wrigley.
-3528.
Information Sought.
Are any books on eucalyptus-trees available
in Australia ? Where can seeds be obtained ?
A Key to the Eucalypts, by W. F. Blakely
(10s. 6d., Dymock’s, Sydney); Eucalypts and
Their Essential Oils, by R. T. Baker (10s., Gov-
ernment Printer, Sydney); Hardwoods of Aus-
tralia, by R. T. Baker (10s., Technological
Museum, Sydney); and J. H. Maiden’s Critical
Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus (in 70 parts
at various prices, approx. 3s. 6d. per part,
at the Government Printer’s Office, Sydney) are
available. Mr. Murphy, Grandview, Woy Woy,
N.S.W. can supply seeds.
* * * *
What is the flying-boat record for the Indian
Ocean crossing?
A Qantas-operated Catalina flew from Ceylon
to Australia on August 26 last with a buoy-to-
buoy time of 23 hours. Average ground speed
was 139 knots, and time in the air was 22hr.
46min.
* * * «
Particulars of “H” Class ( Victorian ) and
“C 38” Class (N.S.W.) railway locomotives?
“H” Class. “C 38” Class.
Length 92ft. s fin. 76ft. 4|in.
Height 14ft. 14ft.
Weight of engine
(empty) .. .. 146.5 tons 112.2 tons.
Weight of tender
(empty) .. .. 113.55 tons 89 tons.
Coal capacity . . 9 tons 14 tons.
Water capacity . . 14,000 gals. 8100 gals.
Working pressure
of boiler .. .. 2201 b. per sq. 2451 b. per sq.
inch inch.
No., diameter and
stroke of cylind’s 3/21Jin. x 2/21Jin. x
2Sin. 26in.
. No. and diam. of
driving wheels.. 8/67in. 6/69in.
Tractive effort .. 55,0001 b. 36,2001 b.
* * * *
How to rid a weatherboard house of bugs ?
Fumigation is the only effective means. If
this is impossible, spray the bugs’ haunts with
kerosene and insect spray and sprinkle py-
rethrum powder in drawers and wardrobes.
Take up carpets and wash floors with hot water
in which is dissolved two teaspoons alum and
two teaspoons borax to each pint of water.
* * * $
Method of cleaning a Burberry overcoat with-
out destroying waterproofing ?
Sponge gently with vyarm, soapy water and
rinse well.
* * * *
Directions for making a floor of manure?
Equal parts of fresh cow manure and pure
clay, mixed to pug and laid down like con-
crete, make a hard and durable floor. Lime
may be added but is not absolutely necessary.
Brief Answers.
R.G.M.: Light Aircraft, Ltd., Floor 7,
Grace Bros.’ Store, Broadway, Sydney J.H.:
Easter will fall on April 9 next year W.A.:
Nothing known... .L.H.: Operation would be
impossible without specialised equipment
G.G.: Forward fuller particulars W.H.R.
and L.: Write to Dunlop Rubber Co., 27
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney J.M.W.: Look
in pink pages of Brisbane Telephone Directory
for firms that will do job. Articles should be
polished before plating... .H.A.: Income tax
is not payable on share of corpus of estate
G.A.8.: (1) From “The Storm That Is to
Come.” (2) From Col. Kenneth Mackay’s
“The Song That Men Should Sing.”
stationary T.G.W.; “Or that I could an-
other shuffle make.” Another shuffle make,
then, and avoid the inversion T.H.: Why
the nigger minstrel effects?... ,P.G.: Don’t use
cliches such as “Love’s old refrain” F.A.:
In thought, admirable; in execution, lament-
able D. 8.: “Oh, magic moon, e’en as you
rise triumphantly to light our darkness, so will
I rise, henceforth, to lend a helping hand.”
Rise, then, and go D.H.R.: “Populace”
and “evidenced” are dreadful... .H.C.P. : In-
dignant but inelegant... .F.D’A.; A grin
E.T.: What about walking to your tiny rose-
covered cottage by the bay instead of “wend-
ing your way” to it?.... S.P.: It’s hardly kind
to greet them with a rhyme as unpleasant as
“shores” and “cause”... .M.A.L.: Both light-
weights 0.C.M.: What it’s all about, ex-
cept that there’s a snake in a basket, eludes us.
W.C.McC.: “Heed not the cruel myopic
pests Who • dose their lids and beat their
breasts.” Heed not what ?... .L.P.; Might
suit a woman’s paper... .A.A.R.: At least you
tried hard C.S.: Come again... .H.M.C.:
“Yet such is Human Nature, such is Life! ”
Yes, and such is it's measure of originality
A.L.H.: “The Haunted House” made the
office boy shudder... .8.F.: Too much moral-
ising and too little gum-tree C.T.: A good
subject harrowingly treated.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
The following letters are indicative of the service the Pelman Institute
has rendered to members of the Forces during 4\ years of war. The only
special care taken in selecting the letters from many hundreds has been to show
clearly the different beneficial effects that the Pelman Course produces accord-
ing to the pupil’s individual needs. The same service is rendered to civilians.
September 15, 1943.
The Course in the first place forced me to
think out my major aim in life afresh; it has
acted as an incessant goad to greater efforts of
observation and concentration; it has given a
useful technique for tackling problems; it has
given very many valuable little tips that lead to
greater mental efficiency; it has inspired the
taking up of two new subjects which I previously
wished to understand but had not the enthusiasm
to grapple with, viz., Maths, and Radio. —
FLIGHT-LIEUTENANT, R.A.A.F.
September 4, 1943.
I have learnt how to use my time to the best
advantage; I can now gather facts together and
classify them into their correct relations; I have
learnt the value of controlling feeling, thought
and will; my memory is also much improved.
—CORPORAL.
September 6, 1943.
I have now been appointed to commissioned
rank. This is a great step towards my final
aim. I thank Pelmanism again.—LIEUTENANT.
These letters emphasise clearly
the value and importance of
the revisional service through
which the Student is in touch
with the _ Institute from the
beginning of his training to
the end and by means of
which very full consideration
is given to the particular cir-
cumstances and needs of each
Student.
August 25, 1943.
I find it easier to settle down to the less inter-
esting tasks and complete them without further
procrastination.—LlEUTENANT-COLONEL.
August 28, 1943.
I have clearer aims and purposes. My senses
are quickened and observation better. I have
now systematic working hours, and have formed
regular sleeping hours. —LIEUTENANT,
N.Z.E.F.I.P.
August 23, 1943.
I am growing more confident in the knowledge
that I can do whatever I set out to do. I am
also now studying Mathematics and Soil Man-
agement through the A.E.S.—SIGNALLER.
August 16, 1943.
I have been promoted to Corporal, and I
can say that the Course contributed largely
to my first step of success. —CORPORAL.
August 31, 1943.
The point is, directly anyone starts conversing
with me I subconsciously ask, “What is he
leading up to?” This helps me to converse
more easily and to combat or treat criticism in
the appropriate manner.—GUNNER.
w
Copies of
“THE EFFICIENT MIND”
sent Post Free on request.
Headquarters: London.
Established in Melbourne
36 years.
To the PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.’'
NAME ..
ADDRESS
162
PUNCH AND LIGHTNING
By BRIAN JAMES.
IF these- names are suggestive of fierce
dynamic energy it must be stated at
once that Punch and Lightning had
long since given up most of what
their names might imply. Nowadays
they pulled a one-furrow at an unexcit-
ing speed that allowed ample opportunity
for themselves and Sammy Bowen to re-
flect upon many things. Sammy refused,
with a gentle stubbornness, to use a two-
furrow as unfair to his team ; and he
could not entertain the thought of com-
plicating their way of life by the addition
of a third horse. Sammy had a proper
way towards his horses, and they appre-
ciated it.
Sammy’s Long Paddock fronted on the
white road to Summerlea. It sloped up
from the heavy black soil of the
Cookabundy Flats to the lighter red soil
of the Tralgan Hill. From the top of
the headland one looked right across the
Flats, richly green in lucerne and maize,
past the red gums, willows and Lom-
bardy poplars to the distant roofs of
Summerlea, where the two spires dreamed
in their timelessness. Beyond was the
circling range, high and purple, and the
very end of the world.
Sammy found this view soothing and
good, and his horses liked him to con-
template it, what time they drooped and
drowsed in the shade of the big kurra-
jong in the corner, and brushed flies off
themselves in an effortless sort of way,
and made occasional changes of legs.
Then might one learn, for the twenti-
eth time maybe, that “that there Punch
from Bardoo—got him as a three-
year-old.” That ’in itself conveyed a
complete tale of all the virtues, but
Punch’s genesis had to be sifted through:
“By Biltong out of one of the Bardoo
mares” (she had no particularly remem-
bered name). A long pause to allow this
to soak in and give him time to gaze on
Punch.
All this greatness had been thrust upon
Punch, as it were, by Providence (aided
by the manager of Bardoo station in his
judicious selection of Punch’s parentage).
Both were given due credit. But after
that the manager did two very foolish
things—he didn’t preserve Punch for
siredom, and he sold Punch.
“Mind you,” Sammy would say, “I’m
glad he made the mistake of selling him.
But what a sire he’d have made! Look
at his neck and shoulders—even now!”
Lightning, “good little horse” as he
was, suffered by comparison. Bred hv old
Cornelius Flynn (Esquire and J.P.), of
Tipperary, Lightning had little but whim-
sicality to look back upon in his first
beginnings, Cornelius had a horse he
called, rrom some curiously twisted sense
of humor, Barney’s Bull, a name as un-
fair to his progeny as it was out of keep-
ing with the high dignity of Esquire and
J.F. And Barney’s Bull was Lightnings
father, though Sammy never dwelt long
on such a painful circumstance. At all
times he preferred to speak of Punch.
“Would you believe it now?” and
Sammy would hitch his belt, that was
always slipping below his navel, to a posi-
tion more equatorially situated; “Would
you believe it now?” Then for the tenth
time—or the twentieth —Sammy launched
into the story of how Punch had saved a
desperate situation.
GREEN, the undertaker, had lost one
of his blacks, and there was old
Surtees to be buried, and the funeral timed
for two o’clock and devil a mate could
Green get for the other black to make a
pair—fit for old Surtees, anyway. “Biggest
funeral ever, you may remember hear-
ing. And Green comes to my missus and
says, ‘Where’s Sam, Mrs. Bowen?’ and
the missus says ‘ln the Long Paddock, Mr.
Green!’ And here I was all right, and
them two horses under that kurrajong,
just as they are now, while I’m having a
word with young Alec Dawson. Green
comes up and doesn’t waste no words.
‘Sam,’ he says, ‘l’m stuck over that
funeral for Mr. Surtees —me off-side
black died las’ night. I thought Punch
might do, if you’d lend ’im.’
“ ‘Bit heavy,’ says I.
“ ‘Not a bit of it,’ says Green. ‘A
horse like Punch carries himself in such
a way he doesn’t show his size. Won-
derful for a light draught. But now I
come to look at him, that white streak
on his forehead wouldn’t do —not for Mr.
Surtees.’
“ ‘Mr. Green,’ says I, ‘that blaze
needn’t worry you. I can fix that.’
“I says no more, but just took the two
of them out of the plough and down to
the stable. ‘Maudie!’ I called. ‘Bring
me the raven oil and a turkey’s feather.’
“In twenty minutes Punch was as black
as the ace of spades, and his legs trimmed
and a real shine on his coat. And was
Green pleased!”
It seems that the funeral was highly
successful in every way. It all went to
show what sort of horse Punch was,
Sammy said.
In local estimation Sammy was a poor
farmer —not even the bootlace of a
farmer, some people said. They would
illustrate this harsh designation by refer-
ence to Sammy’s lucerne: full of foxtails ;
never cut till too far gone in the bloom ;
always left out till the leaf fell from it;
so that Sammy gathered in only material
for “magpies’ nests.”
They spoke sadly of all this, but they
got a satisfaction out of it, too. Sammy’s
corn, they’d say, was always planted too
late, and would never have been half a
crop, even if the cows hadn’t got into it.
“And look at his fences! And his hay-
shed! And his mower and rake lying
under an apple-tree one year’s end to the
other. How he lives at all beats me.”
But Sammy did manage to live, and
once he put in a crop of beans —at the
wrong time, of course. It turned out a
wonderful crop. “The idea just come
into me head,” Sammy used to explain.
And since no one could really say
whether those beans were very late —and
so belonged to last season —or very early
—and so belonged to next season —
several conflicting theories grew up,
based largely on religious views. One
side could see the hand of Providence in
Sammy’s beans; the other as firmly held
that the Devil had a finger in them.
However that might be, the frost held
off wonderfully that year, and Sammy got
fifteen bob a bushel for those beans—
trucked them all to Sydney and made a
“pot of money.” Sammy often used to
say that he never looked back after that,
though there was nothing boastful in the
statement.
Another time when Sammy put in
brown onions—acres of them —feelings
ran to mirth, or to pity. Sammy had
got hold of two Chinamen from some-
where, and they planted out the onions
in long and horribly crooked rows,
chipped eternally between the rows, and
jabbered all day long. It was a fine crop,
some unheard-of number of tons to the
acre, and it was just one of those seasons
when onions were scarce. Sammy made
another “pot of money”—and, of course,
continued in not looking back. But these
two successes were the highlights in
Sammy’s career, just as the funeral of
old Surtees was for Punch.
OF all the work about the farm Sammy
liked that in the Long Paddock best,
and here ploughing was the favorite task.
In fact, one could hardly call it a task at
all, so much of real pleasure did it give.
That went for Punch and Lightning, too.
It is not to be inferred that Sammy was
a champion ploughman. Far from it.
Those who took the finer points of
ploughing seriously were shocked at
many features of Sammy’s ploughing,
though the philosophically inclined would
view Sammy and his team creeping along
the red furrow' of the upper slope and
see something symbolical in the picture
—the Farmer Down the Ages, or some-
thing like that.
Sammy’s furrows were very crooked,
but no one was ’ess worried about that
than Sammy and his team. Ploughing
in the Long Paddock meant adjacency
to the main road, and the headland ran
parallel to that road; It is good for man
and horse to work near a road —that is,
for man and horse with proper feelings
for their fellow mortals.
Especially such a road as that white
road that led from Summerlea to every-
where, Sammy knew that that road was
historic, as are all roads: they reach
back to the very beginnings of things
and stretch out to ends beyond one’s
vision.
And Summerlea’s white road had more
history than most. A great explorer had
gone along it—before it was there at all,
if you understand. Convicts and assigned
servants had trudged along it. Squatters,
gold-diggers, bushrangers had travelled
by it. Two archbishops, a famous Eng-
lish author, at least two princes, many
swaggies, cattle duffers, wise men and
clowns, farmers, thieves, drunks and Puri-
tans and a State Governor or two had
used it in their time. And many others,
too, nameless, undistinguished, had passed
by it. It wove into itself a broad pattern
of humanity, mostly a cheerful pattern,
too ; and when all was done at last all
Summerlea went very slowly up the
Tralgan Hill to the cemetery on the
gentle northern slope. Old Surtees did
not have that journey to himself, rich as
he was.
Whenever Sammy reached the head-
land Punch and Lightning looked up the
Tralgan Hill for people going to town
and down the slope for people going to
anywhere. If anyone was in sight, and
there mostly was, Punch and Lightning
stopped, which showed how considerate
they were towards Sammy. And Sammy
was pleased, for he would often have
missed some interesting feature of road
life but for the alertness of his team.
Even strangers often stopped to talk
and exchange views on many things, and
Sammy would say “That’s right—No
doubt about that What I always said
only last night I was saying...."
And he would hear of the doings of
people in distant places, of the state of
the country far off, and so on and on.
When the voices were familiar ones
Punch and Lightning just moved on, drag-
ging the plough on its side to the shade of
the kurrajong. And Sammy would fol-
low, if his friend was going up the hill-
There was a deviation from the quartz-
metalled crown to the shade of the kurra-
jong, and it had a long history in itself.
Sammy would give the necessary and
customary hitch to his belt, place a
blucher on the bottom rail and lean on
the top one. On a really good day only
a dozen furrows or so would get them-
selves done; and those whose lives were
wrapped in a soured and calculating effi-
ciency would wonder how old Sammy
managed to live, and pass comment on
Sammy’s generous girth, which they con-
sidered quite inordinate for any farmer.
But even these grinned, too, as they went
by—a thin sort of grin, with little warmtn
in it, nothing of which was lost on
Sammy.


SAVE RUBBER!
Waiutm Comet
% re 'Prossw
m.
i
VLt’
4 tyres run at correct inflation pressures will
last as long as 6h tyres run at 45% under
correct pressure.
Correct inflation,
no waste.
!n 1!
Hi i!
in !'
under inflation,
tyres wasted.
15% under inflation,
2 tyre wasted.
iij m«i
nHi Si 9
wi H m
45% under inflation,
2i tyres wasted.
t*
COt*V
}ICT?* y
Don’t neglect pressures tyres are precious.
Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
m
/
„«v® v V W®
v\v®
V»v,
«'V at V «vrt . vC° 6®°^V' 1 ' ° v
T,l ee \ |
<; tJe>t> V f* “ 1
<t*K* v^-<>Vt> v
t^Vv c
c° v o li <A
. ** :^ e
'tv® 1 '; V'" V C^' <cC t' - V C^
**% ts>t> v *> e j* r
- C
C\c£ A*V* k *c
V° V 6V w® v^ 6
aV cV >° cte^ v
**, »*% 6 < t VW® VO 51
* • •,">°" X^ C B
A®
V* _ n° tf M M C* «
ŵ
- V\^
„
ClB-44
THEN there were the special occasions
—those sporadic outbreaks of shock-
ing scandals which Sammy, in common
with all good citizens, savored and chewed
and enjoyed. He realised more than most
how necessary were the big and spectacu-
lar sins to make the rest of society set a
proper value on its virtues, and to give
it a real interest in living.
So when a bank manager ran off with the
wife of a solicitor Sammy was genuinely
sorry for the children and husband and
wife who were deserted, but he knew
what a tonic the crime was for everyone
else: though the old town might rock
on its foundations it got much stimulation
from the movement. When the accoun-
tant at Reardon’s absconded with “a
cool thousand” he dimned the wicked
glory of the bank manager and the soli-
citor’s wife, and added much lustre to
his sin by being brought back from San
Francisco to stand his trial. And got five
years’ hard labor —a widely favored ver-
dict. But he, was in turn eclipsed by the
squatter who wounded his wife and
“winged” the jackeroo (“Serve them both
right!”).
In times like these Punch and Lightning
might drowse through the golden hours
and dream of the dear dead days at
Bardoo and Tipperary. Perhaps the ideal
crime was that of Long Jack Broshan,
the drover. He cleared out with Kitty
Skinner. This remarkable pair held up
the ploughing of the Long Paddock by
nearly a fortnight, for Sammy had wit-
nessed their flight (if such a romantic
term might be employed), though at the
lime he had no positive notion that Mrs.
Jack and her six children were being left.
Still, the crime was ideal in that there
was a deal of the ludicrous in it that
leavened the inevitable ribaldry with
humor. Mrs. Jack hardly viewed the
event as tragedy at all, saying to every-
ohe, without any attempt at being clever,
that it was “a blessing in disgrace.” On
the other hand, Kitty’s family seemed to
consider that the rape of Lucrece had
been very sadly outdone.
This Kitty Skinner.was well on in her
thirties and had never once been ad-
dressed in accents of love. Apart from
temper and malicious disposition, she
had, so it was said, that lack of sym-
metry peculiar to a “chaffbag filled with
turnips.” She disguised herself as a man
for the great venture, and Sammy, on a
evening of early darkness, saw the pair
riding up the Tralgan Hill with a pack-
horse. Even as a man Kitty was “hid-
geous,” So Sammy said. People went
far out of their way to interview Sammy
with his first-hand information, and to
weigh up the moral, financial, amatory
and eugenic considerations of the case.
And inevitably reached the stage of very
sooty risibility.
Sammy always tried to work the Long
Paddock during elections. There were
elections every so often, sometimes State,
sometimes Federal, sometimes shire;
occasionally a referendum. Sammy
liked them all; and Punch and Light-
ning must often have ruminated over the
blessings of living under a truly demo-
cratic form of government. It can’t be
said that Sammy was fanatically partisan,
though he had “his views.” He enjoyed
the human spectacle and excitement. The
baring of feelings was full of interest, and
there was a deep human satisfaction in
hating people—and having a real justi-
fication for hating. Like the Criisadcs,
you fought for the Cross and had the
solid comfort of heaven’s blessing for the
blood you enjoyed spilling.
Not that Sammy ever rose to these
heights, or sank to such depths. In fact,
he made no real enemies over his poli-
tics and was always conciliatory—seeing
much in both sides. But he enjoyed hear-
ing of violent outbursts and seeing
passions working like yeast and dyna-
mite. “I believe J. B. Long and Ford
Wyndham came to blows last night,” he
might say to Monty Law, of Two Rocks.
And Monty would say “Too bloody right,
they did! I was there ”
Monty would cock his leg over the
saddle, Sammy would fill his pipe and
the Long and Wyndham episode would
give a pleasant hour at least. From fact
(and pardonable exaggeration) the review
ran to motives—a study of the brawl
from every angle. And, of course, to
reminiscences of past elections and tough
and ugly incidents associated with them.
And so on and on, with one conclusion
crystallising out of it all —politicians were
no chop, though you couldn’t very well
get along without them.
“What,” Sammy would say in total
agreement with someone, “do they care
about us? No one cares about the farmer
who feeds them all. And they let us
work from daylight to dark —seven days
a week! What do they care about us /”
It was safe to bet that the last furrow in
the Long Paddock wasn’t ploughed till
the election was over, or maybe the corn'
hasn’t pulled, or the oats weren’t cut.
With the shire election there was even
greater scope for neighborly hate and
jealousy, though the demarcations of
party counted for little —most of the can-
didates belong to the one party, anyway.
But it allowed for greater concentration
on character, honesty and antecedents,
j IMMIGRATION, politically and person-
I ally considered, was a really sore point
with Sammy. Sammy’s antipathy was
firmly based on his one experience with “a
Choom.” It was an old story, but Sammy
kept it, and the grievance arising out of
it, perpetually green. Choom, it tran-
spired, was engaged “that time I ricked
me back on the hay press.” Choom had
said he was born among horses and farm
work. He was put on to run the harrows
over the five-acre, and he tried, purely
from a sense of duty, to get greater speed
out of Punch and Lightning by flicking
them with the reins—a treatment not
understood and much resented. Bad
relations having been firmly established,
Choom heaved a big hard clod at Punch,
taking him at or near the butt of the tail.
With becoming modesty Punch jammed
his tail down tight. A second clod simi-
larly placed on Lightning led to mutiny
and flight. “I sacked him then and there,
sick as I was,” said Sammy. No doubt
Choom deserved it.
And so the years passed on —as they
must do even in Summerlea. But they
treated Sammy and his team kindly. Cer -
tainly Sammy grew stouter and found
the belt more inclined to slip off the
equator, and Punch and Lightning grew
a little slower. But all three grew more
philosophical, and more convinced that
life was good.
And so, as the dusk gathered in and
the high ranges melted into the sky,
someone would call out “You’re at it late
tonight, Sam! ” And Sammy, with Punch
and Lightning plodding behind him, all
a-jingle with trace-chains, would answer
“No end ofworkforthe man on the land.”


Making or
Altering your Will
The truly provident man will see to it that those dependent on him receive
the full benefit of his estate, be it large or small. That is his first duty, but
because "all men think all men mortal but themselves," the temptation to
postpone the making of a will is great.
The Ideal Trustee-
See that your will is correctly drawn,
and be sure your Executors are com-
petent and worthy of your trust.
The ideal Trustee possesses adequate
legal knowledge, is experienced in
regard to investments, is impartial,
and is always at your disposal. Such
a combination is represented by the
Union Trustee Company, established
nearly 60 years ago to meet this need.
What is a Codicil ?
And remember —if after having
made your will you wish to take
advantage of Union Trustee service,
all that is necessary is to add a short
codicil.
A codicil is a supplement to a will,
containing anything which’ the
testator may desire to add to the
original document, or any alteration
he may wish to make.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larntt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD ; #
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.I.C.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, ojb.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.K.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
SOUTH AFRICA your post-war EXPORT MARKET
KEENE & COMPANY
(Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias.
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly- invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY —or write direct.
W This Single Burner Stove gives an
Intense Bine Flame for 6 hours
on one pint of ordinary lighting
kerosene.
Although supplies are limited, you can
still obtain a genuine “Thermit” Stove
through your local storekeeper. Ask
him about other “Thermit” Appliances.
tames
m
BLUE
FUME
COOKING APPLIANCES
"'•Hi*
"'"tint
NO Piiiihw.
M
Pu MPh g
........
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends v
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
’ £ £ £ £ £
’36 194,702 —10 i 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,136
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 .. 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 p.c.=165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1,027 .. 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 p.C.=162,000 35,487 489,877
War provided the co. with fresh oppor-
tunities, which the management was ready
and quick to grasp. After much research
it was decided a few years before the war
to make from Australian timbers the pulp
the co. had previously imported. A new
mill was erected for the purpose at Mary-
vale (Vic,), and fast-running machines to
turn out high-grade wrapping papers,
container board and a variety of related
products were set up alongside. To meet
outlay in this and other directions
£1,970,000 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £lOB,OOO of share premiums, was
gathered over the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1941. Additions have
since been made to all the co.’s mills —
Maryvale, Melbourne, Fairfield and
Bradford (Vic.) and Botany (N.S.W.) —
and defence annexes have been erected,
too.
Supplies of some essential long-fibre
pulps continue to be received under lend-
lease, and the co.’s products, prices of
which are fixed by the Government, are
distributed according to the requirements
of D.1.P., which means that civilian
needs have been curtailed in order to
meet defence demands. Output of paper
and paper board from all mills stepped
up from 89,000 tons in 1939 to a peak of
128,776 tons in 1942. It fell away 5154
tons last term, when the figure was
117,259 tons, less overtime being worked.
After setting aside £370,656 (up £41,071)
for depreciation of fixed assets and amor-
tisation of war equipment, the year’s
gross earnings (£674,388) were £21,311
better. Exes. (£416,901, including
£235,629 for taxation) took all but £3418
of the increase. The £257,487 of profit
claimed covered the pref. div. and 8.9 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 8.8 p.c. and
8.3 p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div., eased from 7.5 p.c. to 7.2 p.c. The
lower figure was enough to enable the
holding cos. to pay their pref. divs. and
show 6.2 p.c. on their combined ord.
capital.
Australasian Paper and Pulp and Cum-
berland Board Mills, which own 77.6 p.c.
and 22.4 p.c. of the operating co.’s ords.
respectively, have maintained their ord.
divs. at 6 p.c. A scheme for distribu-
tion of the operating co’s ords. among
those on the holding cos.’ register, which
was under consideration when war broke
out, .was shelved for the duration.
During the year the co.’s research de-
partment piloted successful production
of high-grade alpha cellulose board, for
which the management considers there
are promising post-war possibilities.
Progress was also made in improving the
quality and extending the uses of eucalyp-
tus pulps, in which an export market is
expected to be developed after the war.
Plans for the switch-over from war to-
peace-time production have been com-
pleted, and a committee of the co. s
own experts is constantly on the watch
for opportunities to make technical
advances and to improve technique as a
result of the co.’s own experience and
research and of developments overseas.
If post-war plans now being made by
the Government are to have a reason-
able chance of successful achievement
production of consumer goods and
civilian trade activity generally will have
to be stepped up. The Government alone
cannot guarantee the people economic
and social security; the people will first
have to earn these things by their own
achievements. To date the Government
has given far too much attention to the
manner in which the national income is
to be divided up and dangerously in-
sufficient attention to the means by
which it can be earned. An urgent post-
war need will be development of markets
outside Australia. One way the Govern-
ment can assist is by providing export
credit facilities.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances;
Paid capital— 1941. 1943. 1944.
Pref .. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Mortgages.. .. 16,319 12,832 13,253
Loans, etc. .. 152,984 30,850 10,024
Other creditors .. 427,717 285,443 320,599
Tax reserve, etc. .. 200,000 300,000 343,000
Freeholds and plant 2,943,973 2,575,310 2,382,340
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,240 25,373
Stock . . . . 1,002,012 1,038,488 1,161,808
Book debts . . 544,305 680,777 695,615
Cash, etc 45,727 80,199 222,616
Last term’s allowance for depreciation,
etc,, together with £35,156 added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
enabled cash, etc., to be strengthened by
£142,417, and stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances to be increased by £123,320 and
£14,838 respectively. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,148,536) was £224,957.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
71 p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) „, Q
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. )
8J p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) o 7n nos
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ ..j
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 90 , r ., n .
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. ]
1939. 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) ono
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. 1
10 p.c*
1940. . 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) „, Q a oi
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J • j4y > sai
85 p.c.
1941.. 110,044 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) Q o Q
To staff fund. £5OOO .. ..j
7i p.c.
1942.. 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..5
1943.. 92,718 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) ~-771
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J
85 p.c.
1944.. 100,389 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) Ifin
To staff funds, £5OOO .. ..{ 4db,iou
* Including lj p.c. centenary bonus.
For the five disturbed war-years to end
July last net earnings averaged £101,719,
compared with an average of £96,188
for the preceding quinquennium. The
improvement has been due to temporary
and exceptional circumstances, concern-
ing which the chairman says:
Much of the profit earned today is due
to the ruthless and, in many respects,
dangerous, reduction in the expenditure side
of business. Drastic curtailment in staff,
due to man-power requirements; inability
to carry out urgent and necessary mainten-
ance; lack of the competitive element
which requires the healthy stimulus of adver-
tising and the more attractive presentation
of goods; the cessation of the development
of new varieties of merchandise; the reduc-
tion of service in the form of deliveries
to which people are entitled in a modern
community, all result in reduction of ex-
penses and assist in diverting the maximum
power to the war effort The leeway in-
evitably has to be made up, and it is not
too much to say that every pound saved in
this way must be one day expended again
to re-establish the business in its former
satisfactory position.
Last term turnover shrank a little,
owing to rationing and shortage of sup-
plies. But exes., apart from taxation,
were pulled back enough to show a net
gain of £7671. The £101,389 of profit
claimed covered the full contract rates
for the prefs. and 15.1 p.c. on the
£400,000 of ord. capital as against 13.1,
13.2, 17.5 and 18.5 p.c. back to 1940. The
cautious board lifted the div. from 74 p.c.
to 8i p.c., and the usual £5OOO was sent
to the staff fund, leaving £20,389 to
strengthen the prop (now £436,160) for
capital.
Now that war production has passed
its peak, the big retailers and other traders
are beginning to plan for the time when
a buyer’s market—it means keen com-
petition and restoration of service—will
develop again. Meanwhile the position
will be governed by war needs, of course.
Still, the time is approaching, if it has not
already arrived, when the Government
needs to give sympathetic and broad-
minded consideration to the vital ques-
tion of relaxation of controls, which will
need to be progressive and orderly if
confusion, or worse, is to be avoided in
the long run. Since there appears little
prospect of shortage of consumer goods
becoming more acute, the question arises
whether production of standardised cloth-
ing and materials, for which the public
has no taste, continues to serve any useful
purpose.
Public inquiry recently disclosed un-
necessary delays by emergency Govern-
ment departments in releasing, distribut-
ing and pricing urgently needed goods,
as well as the fact that one department
or office had to prod another about get-
ting material made up or released. The
danger lies in growth of a vested interest
in administration of emergency restric-
tions. For this and other reasons over-
haul of the Government machine prepa-
ratory to reduction of activity, and then
removal, of departments, directorates,
boards and committees which have or will
soon become obsolete is a rationalisation
measure that should not be long de-
layed.
The following comparison of Farmer’s
balance-sheet figures suggests that the
board is making preparation for what it
expects to be a highly competitive
future: —
1939. 1941. 194 3. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 500,000 480,000 450,000 400,000
Creditors*.. 206,902 311,469 317,371 366,480
Freehold and
plant .. 1,467,511 1,406,829 1,300,615 1,250,5i0
Stock . . 3 7 3.64 4 4 7 3,93 0 4 21,81 7 417,845
Book debts 184,0 4 8 2 7 0,09 1 90,935 71,297
Cash and in-
vestments 29,263 40,557 389,775 487,923
* Including contingencies.
The feature that catches the eye is the
pile of cash and investments. Last term
£83,148 was added to the cash holding
(£395,885) and £15,000 to Government
securities (£82,000). Shares in sub-


ẁ
(HAIMS
Circular Charts Jew al) types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O LD.
Rupture
Worries/
Mark 0 Locahon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do bard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney,
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ẃ
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hasset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* » ♦ *
DAVIES k COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
OF SECRETARIES
(Incorporated in Victoria; Founded 19SZ )
Designation of Members; Fellows, F.I.C.S.
Associates, A.I.C.S. Licentiates, L.I.C.S.
Write for full particulars:
H. C. BRIERLEY, F.1.C.5.,
10 O’Connell St., Sydney. Phone: 8W7295
Position Vacant.
MARINE BOARD OF LAUNCESTON,
TASMANIA.
Applications are invited for the position of Harbor
and Works Engineer to the above Board for a mini-
mum period of five (5) years.
Applicant to have thorough knowledge of Harbor
development and maintenance, concrete and wooden
wharves, training walls, and hydrographic surveys,
etc., and must furnish particulars of qualifications
and’ previous experience, together with age, and
military service if any. . .
Salary at the rate of £lOOO per annum, rising by
yearly increments of £5O to £l2OO per annum.
Applications addressed to the Secretary, and en-
dorsed “Harbor Engineer” must reach the Board’s
office, Esplanade, Launceston, Tasmania, not later
than’noon on the 15th February, 1945.
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Secretary.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ALEXANDER NEVILLE DUFF-GORDON, for-
merly of Pt. Nepean Road,. Cheltenham, in the State
of Victoria and later a member of the A.I.F. but
now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife BARBARA HARLAND DUFF-GORDON has
instituted proceedings for a divorce against you on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne Victoria on or before the 21st
day of November 1944 the suit may proceed in your
absence If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on or
before the Ist day of December 1944 AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy
petition and citation in this suit may be inspected
at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitors, BOOTHBY
& BOOTHBY, 408 Collins Street, Melbourne afore-
said.
MISSING BENEFICIARIES.
HIGGOTT, MISS IDA FRANCES. —Will the above-
named, who left New Zealand for Australia about the
year 1900, or any person having information as to
her marriage, death, or present whereabouts, please
communicate with THE DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
To JAMES ARTHUR HENDERSON formerly of 1
Meredith Street Elwood Victoria and formerly VX39512
of 2/4 Australian Field Workshops.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife SADIE MARIAN HENDERSON has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of three years desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the 21st
day of November *1944 and file an answer in the
said office on or before the Ist day of December 1944
the case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. BRAHAM & PIRANI, 383
Little Flinders Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LON
ER-LASTING
-ioMe
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
TRAVEL
CASE S
WAR
nuyK
SERIES
ROIIALDSONTIPPETT
War Savings Certificates
and Stamps offer you an
easy way to help the
war effort. Buy all you
can —for Victory in 1944.
rpHIS Automatic Skid Deader is a great time and
labour-saver for the armed forces. It is useful
wherever large numbers of heavy drums, etc., have to
be loaded, or unloaded, either on to loading platforms,
or lorries or waggons.
Under actual working conditions, four (4) 45 gal.
drums per minute may be loaded on to a vehicle, with
one man operating the loading platform and one
stacking on the lorry or waggon.
This Skid Doedor Is equipped with a Ronaldson-Tippett
3 h.p. type “N” totally - enclosed, vertical, hopper-
cooled petrol engine, thus the power provided is such
that Important supplies are kept moving and delivery
schedules are met with time to spare.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourk© Street, MELBOURNE
N.B.W, Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
. Farbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
sidiaries, etc., remained unaltered at
£10,038. The co. is thus in a position to
take immediate advantage of best-price
markets as soon as war and other con-
ditions permit; and that ought to mean
much so far as variety and quality ot
merchandise and earnings are concerned.
Stocks (down £3972) are still well ahead
of pre-war level. Book value of fixed
assets was reduced by £50,040, debtors
balances by £19,638, and £50,000 was
clipped off the mortgage and £49,109
added to the amount coming to trade
creditors, which includes something for
contingencies. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£210,585) was
£75,429.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net t Dividends ———> To Re- Re-
Julv, Profit. , —Pref.— N Ord. Total, serv.es, serves.
& £ £ £
1934.. 21,078 9% 7% 7% = 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10% 8% 8% 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18,052 2,727 43.787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18,052 1,663 45.449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18.052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,359 10 „ ‘B,, 8,, 20,502 2,857 57,381
1942.. 27,580 10 „ 8,, 8,, 20,502 7,078 64,459
1943.. 33,268 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 12,766 77,225
1944.. 19,4 5 8 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,406 78,631
* Excluding depreciation reserves, £253,532.
This is the only cement manufacturer in
the northern State. Formed in 1914, the
co. has £245,061 of capital to feed in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second 6
p.c. cum, prefs. and 18,000 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital, and advance with the ords.
beyond 6 p.c. Owing to interruption of
World War 1, production didn’t begin
until 1918, and it was 1927 before the
ords. got into the picture. They have re-
mained there since, despite slump and
keen competition from southern pro-
ducers and from imported cement, and
have had an average of 7.1 p.c. for the 18
years to the close of last accounts.
The policy has been to keep plant
capacity a little ahead of advancing de-
mand, and at the same time make an
assault upon costs by technical and other
improvements, thus permitting reduction
of selling price and strengthening of the
co.’s competitive power. Achievements
in this direction were also assisted
by use of cheap shell-lime from the co.’s
leases in Moreton Bay. Just before the
outbreak of war plant was modernised
and a new rotary kiln and other equip-
ment installed; then another cement
mill (No. 3) went into operation about
the end of 1941. So not only is the co.
now physically able to cater for the whole
of the requirements of its home State, but
its costs are established on a basis that
might make it difficult for southern com-
petitors—Goliath was the chief before
transport strictures —to again re-establish
themselves in northern markets.
Although war brought State public
works and private building, etc., almost
to a standstill, it created new stra-
tegic needs for cement which more than
offset the old demands. Not only did
expanding turnover, which reached its
peak in 1943, offset advances in taxation,
wages and other costs, but it also enabled
the co. to further reduce the selling price
of its products.
Last term there was a contraction in
defence demand, which still takes practi-
cally the whole of the co.’s output, and
costs continued to climb. After paying
the tax bill on the previous year’s record
earnings and allowing £24,000 (down
£6000) for depreciation, net profit was
£13,810 lighter at £19,458, the lowest fop
over a decade. It was enough to pay
minimum pref. requirements and 6 p.c. to
the ords., and then show 1.5 p.c. on the
whole capital as against 7.2, 4.8 and 3.2
p.c. for the three preceding terms. So a
point was chipped off the div. all round,
reducing it to 9 p.c. first prefs. and 7 p.c.
seconds and ords.
In addition to the lay-by shown in the
table there is a depreciation reserve of
£307,533. In this class of business, how-
ever, it is the efficiency of plant that
means most. There is nothing to worry
about in the finances;
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Creditors* .. 46,520 71,286 83,824 51,372
Freehold, etc. 20,976 20,975 20,976 21,115
Plant, etc. . . 401,309 446,965 456,529 471,048
Stocks . . 53,167 87,257 96,632 115,931
Book debts . . 40,111 54,030 54,456 30,027
Cash, etc. .. 49,346 47,613 84,551 66,528
* Including provision for- taxation.
Last term £32,452 was lopped off the
amount coming to outsiders, etc, the
etcetera is an unspecified provision for
taxation —£14,519 was added to plant and
£19,299 to stocks. To meet the outlay
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £18,023
and debtors’ balances reduced by £24,429.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus £161,114) was £9299.
The vigorous public works programme
now being planned and revival of private
building promise to keep plant busy dur-
ing the reconstruction period post-war.
Barrytown Gold Dredging
The co.’s performances have not lived
up to original expectations. Formed as
an offshoot of Alluvial Gold in 1934 —
before control of last-named passed to
English interests —to work gold-bearing
black sands about 19 miles north of
Greymouth (M.L.), the co, has thus far
paid only one div., 6d. a share in 1941.
Boring disclosed 22,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing lOd. per yard, with gold at £6 per
ounce, and a 2,500,000 c.y. p.a. dredge
was installed. The recovery problem—
the gold occurs in an extremely fine state
—and buried timber in the overburden
upset original estimates. Then shortage
of skilled labor, and lifts in wages and
prices for stores and working parts,
bumped up costs.
Operating results over the last half-
dozen years compare as follow: —
Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs,
Mar., o.y. ’ oz. c.y. c.y. Profit.
1940.'.' 2,’055'000 10,402 2.'43 teid. 53,982
1941.. 6,264 i.i2 2.93 d. 17,645
i942 t- 2 226’000 6.M8 ill s.eiTd. Infill
1943.. 2,123,000 6,087 i. 39 4.iod. 12,129
1944.. 2,580.000 7,531 1.40 3 35d. 24,793
t Four months. + Workingj profit.
Last term work was confined to the
southern end of the property, where con-
ditions were easier. Also, the dredge
worked 79.2 p.c. of possible time as
against 72.5 p.c. and 69.5 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. Hence the improvement
in yardage and operating costs, which
were mainly responsible for the doubling
of profit (£24,793, equal to 2s. ssd. per
share) No div. was paid.
‘ . . \ , , , - • Ko riixr
The original bucket band k badly
worn, but is cspoc e . ,
of al March la°sl rtout 4,600,000 cy. re-
mained to be treated, or approx, two
years’ work for the dredge. Fixed assets
figure at £188,162, of which the dredge
accounts for £124,166. More or less
liquids totalled £86,680, and there was
£2595 coming to outsiders, leaving a
liquid surplus of £84,085. Paid capital is
£128,750 in 125,000 £1 ords. and 75,000
Is. deferreds, which rank equally with the
ords. for dividends and surplus assets.
Commenting on the Westralian min-
ing industry, the Commonwealth Grants
Commission, in its eleventh and latest
report, points out that withdrawal of
labor reduced gold-mining employment
from 15,000 in 1938-39 to about 4500
last year. The men withdrawn were
diverted to defence works and to a small
extent to the mining of strategic war
minerals. But the closing of some mines,
the inability of many others to undertake
development, the depletion of high-grade
ore reserves, and the impressment of
some machinery and equipment might
affect the recuperative power of the in-
dustry. The Federal Government has
attempted to meet this problem by pro-
viding £100(000 to maintain approved
mines in a condition favorable for early
resumption of activity. Production of
strategic minerals had been on a limited
scale and, except for blue asbestos, potash
and sulphur, appears unlikely to be sig-
nificant after the war. Coal output has
been well maintained and, with State
assistance for mechanisation, it is ex-
pected that Collie coal will be capable of
meeting all local requirements for which
it is suitable. Contraction of mining
activity was largely responsible for the fall
m the net value of all primary produc-
tjon from £ 2 3,800,000 in 1941-42 tO
/zr\c\ aaa * io a*j
*22.600,000 m 1942-43.
* , * . * . * ,
Some good gold yields have been ob-
tamed lately from prospectors’ shows in
the West. The latest, and best for some
time, is 46302. of bullion from 34 tons
reported by the holders of the Boome-
ran 8 mine at Burtville. In the Kal-
goodie boom days Burtville, which is
north of Laverton on the East Mt. Mar-
garet field, was one of the richest pro-
*ucers jn back country A nul £ ber
of diggers there made small fortunes, and
the nearest P ubs S ot ,heir full share-
* * * *
From Joburg: South-West Africa Co.
a nd Anglo American Corp. have formed
a new co., the Koakoveld, to prospect
for diamonds m territory 40,000 square
miles in extent in the north-west of South-
west Africa. Subject to certain royalty
payments, De Beers Co has secured a
pre-emptive right to all diamond dis-
covenes within the area, and has agreed
to contribute substantially to prospecting
expenditure. The area is said to be pleas-
ing to the eye of the diamond searcher.
*** * ,
From London: Frank Plachy in A
Memorandum on Soviet Monetary
Affairs says the Soviet Union is strong
for gold, despite contemptuous remarks
by some of its former leaders about
economic significance of the metal,
And well it might be, seeing that it
is now the world’s second-largest pro-
ducer of the yellow metal. British mining
men who have had experience in Russia
believe the Soviet’s present gold produc-
tion, valued at £8 Bs. an oz., is worth
over £100,000,000 stg. annually. Thus,
regardless of loans or the export of other
commodities, the Soviet ought to be in a
position to finance a very large volume
of post-war external trade.


Fine Precision Tools
Australian-made for War and Industry
ẅ
With a background of 25 years of Precision Engineering, and with the war years
devoted to the exacting manufacture of fine Lathes, Millers, Shapers, Planers and other
Machine Tools for the Essential Services, “MARS” offers its skilled staff and precision equipment to
meet the industrial needs of a nation at war.
We manufacture Better Machine Tools to proved stricter standards of accuracy than were
usual before the war.
SPECIAL LATHES, PLANERS or OTHER MACHINE TOOLS BUILT TO ORDER
mi
The “MARS” HIGHSPEED DYNAMICALLY BALANCED ENGINE LATHE
The “MARS” 9%" Lathe (above)
is a Master Tool at a moderate price.
All necessary revolving parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED (an
exclusive feature); Precision is guaran-
teed to Dr. SCHLESINGER TEST
STANDARDS and a Test Results
Chart attached to each machine-; All
Essential Surfaces, including Bed, are
GROUND FINISHED.
The “Mercury” (at right) has all
the refinements and facilities of a large
lathe, plus guaranteed accuracies to
Dr. SCHLESINGER TEST STAND-
ARDS. All the other exclusive features
set out in the description of the “Mars”
Lathe, above, belong to the
“Mercury” too.
All Tools are offered subject to
release by Ministry of
Munitions
m
“MARS"
also manufacture
8 in., 7 in. and 6 in t
Lathes
The “MERCURY” % in. LATHE.
B
Ji
f
A 48-inch "MARS”
Guillotine is in pro-
cess of manufacture
also.
w
The “MARS” 42in. High Speed
HEAVY DUTY GUILLOTINE
Sturdy in build and fast in operation, the “MARS” 42"
Heavy Duty Ppwer Guillotine has all the efficient features of
late imported machines. The Ball-Bearing Flywheel and al
necessary revolving parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED (an
exclusive feature), thus eliminating vibration and maintaining
accuracy. All necessary surfaces are GROUND FINISHtU
The Lubrication method is modern and ample.
The “MARS” is precision built by us to the same exacting
standards of our fine Lathes, Planers, Millers and other Precision
Machine Tools.
The “MARS” is competitive in price with Imported Guillo-
tines. Orders filled strictly in rotation. Get full details non
MARS Machine Tool SjSSfS?
Bridge St., Valley, BRISBANE
Manufacturers of Lathes ( 9|”, 8\ 7", 6 , sizes). Shapers, Millers, Planers, Boring Mills :: Marine Engineers
Sole Distributing Agents: NEW SOUTH WADES, Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney; VICTORIA, Thompson
& Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne; NEW ZEALAND, A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christcmucn.
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Go. Pty, Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney
j. & O‘S. Ad"'


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Back in the Philippines.
“Ek Dum”: The continuing attacks on
Japanese shipping and aerodromes over
thousands of square miles of sea and land
had, by the middle of October, advertised
to all those who knew of the extent of
preparations in New Guinea and in the
Central Pacific that a major attack was
about to begin on shore somewhere in tire
Philippines-Formosa area.
The Japanese immediately nominated
the Philippines after the first blow had
been struck by Admiral Nimitz. Their
perturbation showed that they believed it
would be a capital attack ; their exag-
gerations how much they feared to lose
“face” through possible defeat, and how
much they had been weakened by the
continual efforts of the Third and Fifth
American Fleets, by air power and by the
forces of Lord Louis Mountbatten.
And they had good reason, on the basis
of the statements of Mr. Forrestal, who
announced that between June 6 and
October 16 the Allied Third and Fifth
Fleets had sunk 356 enemy vessels and
probably sunk and certainly damaged 549
more, while the fleet air squadrons had
shot down 1827 aircraft and destroyed
1253 more on the ground.
This statement was made by the U.S.
Naval Secretary on October 18, after an
announcement that during the previous
seven days U.S. carrier aircraft had
smashed up 915 Japanese aeroplanes in
the Formosa, Ryukyu (Luchu) and
Philippine areas, apart from the damage
done by General MacArthur’s land-based
squadrons—269 in the vicinity of targets,
256 near the U.S. Fleet and the balance
on the ground.
For days past Tokyo had been report-
ing the progress of a “great naval battle.”
In this, according to its culminating state-
ment, American and British naval power
had been smashed in a disaster which
transcended that of Pearl Harbor; the
Japanese had sent 57 Allied ships to the
bottom, including the flower of the
American aircraft-carrier force and
several battleships, and had turned nearly
1200 U.S. aircraft into “puffs of smoke
and flame, amid which the pilots knew
not what happened to them.” The actual
U.S. losses amounted to perhaps 100
aircraft and two warships—apparently
cruisers—were damaged.
Mr. Forrestal was engaged quietly in
telling the enemy (and Asia in general)
how foolish were those fairy tales, since
either the Fifth or the Third Pacific Fleet
was alone capable of dealing with the
whole Japanese Navy. This distinction
Mr. Alexander, First Lord of the Admir-
alty, claimed for the British squadrons
already in the Pacific and Indian Oceans
under Admiral Bruce Fraser’s command,
now moving to the battle area.
If the Japanese fleet had come out in
force, it had not shown even its stern to
the Allied squadrons. Its units, as Mr.
Forrestal disclosed, between October 9
and 15 came within air reconnaissance
of American sea forces, but its com-
manders “evidently had decided that the
time to fight had not yet come,” even
though they could operate under land-
based air cover, while the American ships
were bound to their limited carrier cover
in any battle which they might fight as
yet.
The Fight Round Formosa
The veil was now lifted from the details
of the widespread battle which had been
fought with such devastating losses to the
enemy in ships, men and material. Its
range and variety were staggering and a
terrible omen for the Japanese.
The action had begun on October 8, as
a squadron of battleships, with the usual
escorts, bombarded Marcus Island, far
out in the ocean, just above the Tropic
of Cancer, and about 2000 miles due east
from Formosa. But this was only a little
target practice by a reserve force flexing
its muscles while not otherwise occupied.
Tha main body of ships to which this
sportive squadron belongs was meanwhile
steaming into position to attack the
Japanese communications through the
Luchu (Ryukyu) chain of islands to For-
mosa and the Philippines, and all points
south. Along this route Japanese ships
sail, many of them sampans and small
barges, under cover of air bases on the
Luchus, and fighting aircraft, incapable
of really long flights, are routed down
through this chain of islands to the south.
The plan was to hit this communication
line, isolating Formosa as much as
possible for operations to begin on
October 10.
Thus on October 9 the bases and ships
in the Luchus, to the north-east of For-
mosa, were battered. Next day the forces
had moved well south, and hit at the
north part of Luzon, the main island of
the Philippines. There was no air opposi-
tion there.
The blow may have been a feint. But
the attack on Formosa next day was no
feint, as the enemy learnt while U.S.
aircraft raged up and down the west of
the island, tearing its installations,
shipping and air defence to pieces.
It took a full 24 hours before the
enemy was able to muster even a feeble
series of night-fighting defence groups,
which almost might as well not have
been there for all the damage they did,
according to the U.S. accounts.
The defence became stronger on the
night of October 12, after intensified
strafing of the Takao naval area of For-
mosa and of the Pescadores group of
islands to the west —in the Fukien Strait,
between Formosa and the China coast.
All the damage done to date was due
to the Third Fleet, which had now placed
the enemy in the position of having either
to accept defeat and complete domination
of the air and sea routes down the China
coast in the Formosa-Philippines area or
to make a decisive stand.
Jap Fleet “Comes Out.”
It was at this stage that Tokyo
announced grandiloquently that the
fleet was “out.” Seemingly, from Mr.
Forrestal’s statement it was, but it be-
came clear later that its role was not that
of the lion but that of the jackal.
Its functions were dependent upon the
result of more definite Japanese air mea-
sures, which, contrary to the practice
hitherto adopted, were now to take place
in daylight. If these air attacks suc-
ceeded, then the Jap Fleet would arrive
and clean up the debris, dispose
of limping Allied ships and perhaps
wreck a mort of aircraft. The
enemy was apparently encouraged m
his plans by the fact that the Americans
were cutting their swathe from north to
south, and that there seemed some hope
that whatever attack was made might be
upon the receding tails of what Tokyo
designated “the headlong retreat of the
enemy.”
The Japanese air attack which took
place on the afternoon of October 13
seems to have been scarcely worth the
ammunition involved. U.S. ships received
a little minor damage, but the 24 air-
craft carriers, the battleships, the cruisers
and destroyers which Tokyo Radio
claimed to have sunk remained buoyantly
afloat, and the 21,000 U.S. seamen who
were supposed to be food for the fishes
continued hale and hearty enough to
enjoy a good laugh at the broadcast.
Japanese admirals decided, after one
glimpse at the results, to go home and
await developments. This, however, was
not cowardice but prudence—the right
strategy for the much inferior party.
Philippines in the Picture
Immediately the issue was decided and
the phase ended Tokyo suddenly an-
nounced two more Allied encroachments
—one on Ngulu, a little atoll in the far
west of the Carolines, beyond Yap ; the
next on Suluan, a tiny islet which guards
the entrance to the Gulf of Leyte, be-
tween the two large islands of Luzon, in
the north, on which is Manila, and Min-
danao, on the south. This is a stopper in
the passage between the islands of
Leyte and Samar, which are among the
stepping-stones between Luzon and Min-
danao. The former islands also form a
gate closing off thp Sulu Sea, which lies
inside the Philippines main islands on
the east, the long Palawan on the west
and north Borneo and the Sulu chain of
islands on the south.
Command of the passage to the Sulu
Sea is important in every way. It would
be obtainable through capture of the
islands of Leyte, Boho, Cebu and Negros,
along its northern side: all narrow
splinter isles, none more than 4000 sq.
miles in area.
Entry into the Sulu Sea would mean,
as the Japanese well knew, control of the
southern Philippines and very shortly of
Borneo, and a firm beachhead on any of
the islands would bring Allied air-power
within easy reach of Manila on the north
and the main base of Davao, on the
south —already much battered by air
attacks from the Moluccas area.
The news came simultaneously with
that of an attack by 270 carrier aircraft
in four waves on Clark Field, north of
Manila, near the Lingayen Gulf, where
the original Japanese landings were made
in December, 1941. Leyte itself was
attacked, with Negros and Panay, in the
central group of islands. Soon it became
evident that the invading forces were
merely taking Suluan in their stride.
The enemy reported that the Leyte
coast was under bombardment, while
fighting proceeded on the smaller island,
a flat piece of earth rising only 100 feet
or so above sea level. Then came the
report of a landing on Leyte itself at
Leyte Bay on the north.
MacArthur Returns
Out of this admission from Tokyo,
which declared uncertainly that “our
navy and army in this sector are facing
an overwhelming force with undaunted
resolution,” came the news that General
MacArthur had kept his promise and had
returned to the Philippines with a force
which the enemy seems to have no chance
of resisting.
Preparations for this operation had
been in progress all over the Pacific for
months past. Ships have teemed on the
main ocean routes from the Pacific coast
of America and Honolulu, carrying men
and material for it.
New Guinea bays were turned into
great bases from which to throw out
N.G. resources against the conquered
areas of the north. Admiral Nimitz’s
main bases hummed with activity, while
Admiral Fraser in Indian waters was pre-
paring to co-ordinate operations against
the approaches to Malaya with the at-
tacks further to the east. He struck his
first blow at Car Nicobar as the Ameri-
cans were moving towards the Philippines.
The first official Allied news of the
extent of the operations came from Gen-
eral MacArthur himself in a special com-
munique on October 20. The gallant
old general had himself gone in personal
command of the huge expedition and had
waded ashore knee-deep to keep his pro-
mise to return to the islands:
In a major amphibious operation we have
seized the eastern coast of Leyte Island, in
the Philippines, 600 miles north of Moro-
tai, and 2500 miles from Milne Bay, whence
our offensive started nearly 16 months ago.
This point of entry in the Visayas is mid-
way between Luzon and Mindanao, and at
one stroke splits the two Japanese lorces
in the Philippines.
The enemy’s anticipation of an attack in
Mindanao caused him to be caught unawares
in Leyte, and beachheads in the Tacloban
area were secured with small casualties.
The landing was preceded by very heavy
naval and air bombardments, which were
devastating in effect. *
Our ground troops are rapidly extending
their positions, and supplies and heavy
equipment are already flowing inshore in
great volume.
The troops comprise elements of the
Sixth U.S. Army, to which are attached
units from the Central Pacific, with sup-
porting elements. The naval forces consist
of the Seventh U.S. Fleet, the Australian
squadron [including the Australia and
Shropshire, and the two indefatigable Tribals,
Arunta and Warramunga] and supporting
elements of the Third U.S. Fleet. Air sup-
port was given by Navy carrier forces, the
Far East Air Force and the R.A.A.F.
General MacArthur said that the
enemy’s forces, estimated at 225,000, in-
cluded the 14th Army Group, under the
command of Field - Marshal Count
Terauchi, of which seven divisions, the
16th, 26th, 30th, 100th, 102nd, 103rd
and 105th, already had been identified.
The Strategy
He outlined what he considered to be
the strategy of the situation:
The strategic result of the"* capturing of
the Philippines will be decisive. The enemy’s
so-called Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere will be cut in two; his conquered
empire to the south, comprising the Dutch
East Indies and the British possessions of
Borneo, Malaya and Burma, will be severed
from Japan proper; the great flow of trans-
portation and supply upon which Japan’s
vital war industry depends will be cut', as
will be the counter-supply of its forces to the
south; half a million men will be cut off
without hope of support, and ultimate de-
struction at the leisure of the Allies a cer-
tainty.
He felt, he said, that capture of the
islands would permit “envelopment to the
south and to the north —either flank will
be vulnerable and can be rolled up at
will.”
Many strategists will disagree with this
conception, remembering that the main
Japanese blows were struck further west
and east, that Singapore and Burma were
the enemy’s first main targets, and the
Philippines an area which he by-
passed on both sides, and which did not
fall until he had taken almost every other
main objective in the southern area, in-
cluding Malaya, Burma, the Dutch East
Indies and key positions in New Guinea.
In any case, the proposition is one
which can only be proved by the occu-
pation of the Philippines, and this has
only begun, though on a scale which
promises success.
At present, however, no islands are
so important as a base as the tremendous
fleets of the Allies which, with their
supply trains and their air power, have
brought back the wide-flung mobility of
the navies of Nelson’s day and restored
the prestige and supremacy of a type of
force at which military critics of the days
of Singapore were sneering as outmoded.
Until the Chinese coast is breached and
sufficient forces are established there or
on the Japanese mainland, all land
forces in the Pacific must remain the ser-
vants of naval strategy, in which the
Philippines landing is only one phase.
Associated in the landing operation
with General MacArthur: Vice-Admiral
Thomas Kincaid (Seventh U.S. Fleet);
Admiral William Halsey (Third Fleet);
Vice-Admiral Mark Mitscher (Third
Carrier Force); Rear-Admirals Daniel
Bardley and Theodore Wilkinson (Am-
phibious Command); Commodore John
Collins (R.A.N. Squadron); Lieut.-
General Walter Krueger, commanding the
forces ashore and Lieut.-General George
Kenney (Far Eastern Air Force and
R.A.A.F.). Don Sergio Osmena, the
Philippines President, went ashore with
the C.-in-C.
Beachheads Secured
When General MacArthur issued his
communique the developments on Leyte
were passing out of the phase of a great
naval operation, in which the whole 6f
the Philippine area had been screened
off from aid in the north by Admiral
Nimitz’s fleets, and 250,000 men, with
all their needs, had been carried across
thousands of miles of ocean into the
realm of land operations. The landing
parties were being covered by a tremen-
dous curtain of naval fire and aerial
bombardment.
Four beachheads were being developed
along the east coast to threaten the main
aerodromes and the port of Tacloban
(facing the San Jaunico Strait, which
divides the island from Samar on the
north); Dulag and San Jose, just to the
north of it, near the south-eastern mouth
of the Strait; Abuyog, halfway down the
island, and Poanan, on the extreme south.
At some points the landing parties were
met with heavy artillery and mortar fire,
resistance being bitter. It was esti-
mated at first that only a division
or so of the 225,000 men whom
General MacArthur believes to be in the
Philippines are defending Leyte, the area
of which is about 2789 sq. miles (total
area of the Philippines is 114,000 sq.
miles) and the population 730,000 (total
13,000,000).
By October 22 Tacloban, the chief
town, and its aerodrome, which has
6000 ft. runways, was in the hands of the
X Corps, with considerable stores, at a
cost of less than a dozen U.S. lives. And
Dulag airfield was later captured by the
XXIV Corps, which pushed on towards
San Pablo, in the Leyte Valley.
All beachheads had become penetrations
up to four miles deep, along paths blasted
by naval guns and heavy artillery, which
battered strong pillbox positions to the
point where infiltration was possible.
Enemy air activity had been limited to
dawn and dusk raids by small groups of
aircraft. A few enemy bombers were
destroyed. One Allied ship sustained
some damage and casualties.
The carrier-borne craft of Admiral
Nimitz’s Fleet meanwhile continued their
attacks on shipping in the Philippines,
and the South-west Pacific air forces kept
up an incessant blasting of main objec-
tives from the Solomons to Mindanao.
Japanese aircraft losses for the week
were well over 100 in outlying areas away
from the main landing positions, and the
enemy suffered also substantial losses of
shipping.
Japanese Versions
The Japanese do not deny the estab-
lishment of the landing forces on Leyte,


ŵ
When it comes to the really iough jobs
what can take the place of Lysaghts
Galvanized Corrugated Iron? In army
camps, in forward areas, in industry—in
fact wherever buildings have to be
erected quickly the first choice is always
this steel-strong building sheet that has
proved its ability to stand up to any
kind of wear and weather. Defence
requirements have naturally taken pre-
cedence over civilian needs at the present time, but the day is
far distant when full supplies of this economical roofing and wa
materia! will be available to aIL
LYSAGHT'S
GALVANIZED IBON
LYSAGHTS
ZINCANNEAL
LYSAGHT'S
BLACK IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
jgTflTf MELBOURNE BRISBANE IDEI I I 3 E PERTH'
LI 09-3534
ENUSTEO
Services*
as
a
;
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 10.
AGA
«ESD., TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
£st. 1852 (tnc. in N. 1.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaida.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G, Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
<?ld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
l Sg)
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
but dwell on the alleged cost. They
claimed that in Leyte Gulf two aircraft-
carriers and two battleships had been sunk
on October 19 and 20. Later they in-
creased their tally of Allied losses to six
battleships and six aircraft-carriers.
Their version of the operations is worth
repeating only for its humor. Tokyo
declared that in order to cover up the
humiliating defeat of the fleets of Admiral
Nimitz, the forces of General MacArthur
and “all available remnants of the beaten
fleets” to the north had attacked Leyte
under cover of “a vast expenditure” of
shells. But it was said that a counter-
blow was beingjjrepared on Leyte which
would show the Americans that the
Japanese forces in the Philippines were
not so small as they appeared to imagine.
British Fleet in Action
While the Philippines operations went
forward at sea a squadron of Lord Louis
Mountbatten’s powerful fleet, under Vice-
Admiral Sir John Power, and including
Australian destroyers, on October 17
visited Car Nicobar, one of a shielding
group of islands off the Malayan coast,
and 100 miles off the mouth of the
Malacca Strait, apd fired 2000 shells of
all calibres into it.
The squadron steamed up and down
the coast for a couple of hours, plaster-
ing everything ashore that looked like a
target, while carrier aircraft sent their
’planes ranging widely. The bombard-
ment was continued in the evening.
Little opposition seemed possible to the
enemy, but when the squadron paid a
second visit on October 19 there was
better aerial defence. The Navy lost a
bomber and three fighters, but ships suf-
fered no damage ; and the enemy had
eight fighters shot down.
He had a bitter foretaste of what is in
store when the “vast British fleet with
its mighty attendant train” comes fully
into action.
Americans Leave Us
One consequence of the moving on of
the war is also the moving on of the
Americans from Australia. Their H.Q.
left silently months ago. Their establish-
ments have melted gradually until no
main U.S. forces remain within the Com-
monwealth, only a few bodies of supply
troops. Even leave centres have been
transferred from southern capitals.
All Australians will regret that military
exigencies made it impossible for the
Commonwealth to farewell officially these
good friends who became part of the war-
time life of the country, though the
chance will come later on.
It also is a matter for regret that no
Australian ground force is attached to
the Philippines invasion force, outside
liaison officers and naval and air units.
The policy adopted by the British Gov-
ernment of brigading friendly troops with
their own in expeditionary forces is a
good one, and it would have been to the
taste of every Australian fighting man if
a body of picked men, including senior
officers, had been sent with General Mac-
Arthur to gain fresh experience of cam-
paigning with new weapons and to lend
a hand in a job which needs doing as part
of the measure to rescue Australian
prisoners in Japanese hands.
But perhaps all our available forces will
be needed in the north, and to mop up
the 140,000 Japanese who have sup-
posedly been left behind the battlefront
in New Guinea, cut off by the navies
from their main bases. They may not
be the starveling and helpless scarecrows
they are supposed to be.
It is unreasonable to believe that wide
seas can be closed altogether against sub-
marine supply routes and sneak convoys,
or that in some parts of the area the
enemy cannot feed himself. Fish is one
of his staple foods, and there is no lack
of fish off the .coasts of those parts, and
agricultural land is plentiful.
On October 14 a Madrid correspondent
reported that the Japanese had agreed
to evacuate Portuguese Timor, but there
was no suggestion that they intended to
abandon the Dutch portion of the island
which holds their aerodromes and most
of their defensive positions, Timor, how-
ever, never has been very firmly held, as
the A.I.F. “Sparrow Force” and its
rescuers proved.
Prisoners Rescued.
The British War Office on October 16
announced that, from a Jap transport tor-
pedoed in the Pacific last month, 81 A.I.F.
and four R.A.N, and one R.A.A.F. men
were rescued, along with 58 British, but
it was feared that a number of prisoners
may have been lost, though lists are not
yet available.
It now appears that another ship carry-
ing American prisoners from Davao was
sunk near the Philippines by a U.S. sub-
marine. It was reported that Japanese
guards fired on prisoners trying to escape
from the holds while the ship was sink-
ing and that many went down with the
ship, while others were shot as they
sought to swim ashore.
However, 83 officers and men were
rescued and are now safe in New Guinea.
Aachen Falls.
Ek Dum ’: Operations in the Nether-
lands and along the main German fronts
were only minor during the Week l
mopping up here, a push forward there
~ lent local fiBhti " B viS
South of the Schelde the Canadians
oor, of f °R rWa t ‘° the sea a " d tookT
port of Breskens, on the estuary. North
of Antwerp they made a 10-mile advance
though the Germans declared that it had
been stopped with considerable loss of
Allied tanks. At any rate, they made pro-
gress in the Turnhout region, but their
spearhead had not reached the main Ger-
man defences.
Further north, at the week-end, the
British had begun a new drive towards
Hertogenbusch (Bois-le-Duc) and the com-
munications line leading into the fortress
of Holland and Amsterdam and Rotter-
dam. S.-east of this their operations were
directed to the extension southward of
their grip on the left bank of the Meuse
in the swampy Peel, below Venrai, which
was in their hands still under enemy shell-
fire. They held groupd all along the left
bank of the river, facing the German
border north of Venrai.
At 3.20 p.m. on October 21 Aachen
surrendered, after a fortnight of gruelling
bombardment. It proved to be a com-
plete ruin, with few defenders left. To
midnight on Saturday 1500 prisoners had
been counted and 15,000 German dead
had been buried.
A London “Daily Mail” correspondent,
however, said that the spirit of the people
had led some Allied commanders to re-
vise their opinions as to how soon the
,war would end. There seemed to be
none of the discontent with German
leadership which is supposed to be tear-
ing Germany asunder.
The same correspondent declared that
between the Americans, who on October
22 were reported in heavy fighting in the
wooded hill lands four miles north of
Aachen, and the Rhine there are anything
from 200,000 to 400,000 German troops
and the greatest concentration of artillery
yet assembled against the Allies.
The Allied commanders obviously are
piling up supplies for a major attack
under weeping skies, which affect their
great air superiority in the battle-line,
and over countrysides which are becom-
ing winter-stricken sloughs. Much will
depend on the weather, which is a com-
manding factor.
Further attacks about 18 miles north-
east of Nancy were reported by both
sides on October 22, and the Germans
admitted some withdrawals in the region.
Basle spoke of heavy gunfire in the Bel-
fort Gap region.
The greatest operations of the week
were the continued blast by thousands of
Allied aircraft against German war indus-
tries. The raids ranged from Czechoslo-
vakia all the way to Cologne and took
in factories, dams, canals and most of the
great Westphalian marshalling yards.
But flying-bombs are still falling in
London, though at much wider intervals
than formerly. They appear to be
launched from aircraft, and heavy bar-
rages and strong fighter defence take care
of numbers of them.
In the Mediterranean.
“Ek Dum”: Fighting on the Italian
front continues hard and difficult eight
or nine miles from Bologna, on the moun-
tain edges reached by the Fifth Army,
which is now faced by a concentration ot
several German divisions —one authority
says ten —which have been assembled
for the defence of the city.
There was more movement on the
Eighth Army front, where the advances
on the anniversary of Alamein are in
two directions —on the inland side toward
Forli, on the Bologna road, and along
the coast towards Ravenna.
Spearheads are well across the Bologna
road to the north, and are moving up it
from Rimini. Having taken Cesena and
crossed the Savio River just beyond it,
they were within seven miles of Forli on
October 22, with only one small river
across their path en route for the town.
North of the road, along the Savio,
the force has pushed four miles on.
threatening enemy forces along the coas
below Ravenna.
In Greece the roads are being mopped
up on the tail of the German retreat as
far as Lamia, 100 miles north of Athens,
and the Aegean islands are falling into
British hands like ripe plums.
On October 16 a powerful fleet ot
veteran British cruisers, well known to
the /Egean of yore, were reported in the
Piraeus —Orion, Ajax, Aurora and Blac'
Prince —and penetration of the sea ngh
up to the Dardanelles began.
At the week-end Lemnos and Macros,
its chief town, so well remembered b\
the A.I.F. of the last war, were in the
R.N.’s hands, 400 prisoners being taken
and many more drowned as they tried to
escape. The destroyers Termagant an
Tuscan drove ashore and wrecked


MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
_____ Public Notice. __
I, HELMUT FINK, Stateless, born at Posen, Ger-
many, and resident five years in Australia, now re-
siding at Springfield House, Springfield Avenue,
Potts Point, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tioa under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
fix.
m
Vi-
o
D=3
[MI
o*o
c=g
fe=£
[k/l
i»V
r '•
rwr
i
a*"
WHETHER YOU’RE IN FOOD-
PACKING, TEXTILES, ENGINEER-
ING OR OTHER ESSENTIAL WORK
You Should Instal
FLUORESCENT lamps
FOR MAXIMUM LIGHTING EFFICIENCY
AND IMPROVED PRODUCTION ....
That lighting is recognised as one of the major factors in industry
is emphasised by the amount of time and research devoted to
it by industrial scientists. The history of lighting has been one
of steady progress and evolution, reaching its zenith in fluorescent
lighting.
Condor Fluorescent Lighting has achieved all the desirable objec-
tives ; elimination of glare and shadows ; cool tubes —no danger
of burning if touched —no additional heat in summer; greater
light output at present costs ; low installation cost —Condor
Fluorescent Lamps operate on normal voltage ; flexibility—lines
of lighting may be installed to conform to layout of your plant.
It is as logical today to change to Condor Fluorescent Lighting
as it was to change from rush light to oil lamp—from oil lamp
to electric filament lamp. No industry—food, textile, engineer-
ing or any other —can function with 100% efficiency without
this lighting advance.
Installations at present may only be made—-with rare excep-
tions —in protected industries.
For fuller particulars, installation costs, etc., consult your
Condor Dealer.
CONDOR FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY.
George Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Keg Rose & Co. Pty., Ltd.
T. F. Stewart & Co., Pty., Ltd.
National Theatre Supply Co.
(A/sia) Pty., LtlJ.
Sun Electrical Co. Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Sun Electrical Co. Pty., Ltd.
A. J. Veall Pty., Ltd.
Howard Electrical & Radio Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
R. C. Wollard.
BRISBANE.
Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd.
CONDOR LAMPS (A'SIA) PTY., LTD., 35 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
German destroyer at the western side of
the Salonika Gulf.
With the enemy on the mainland on his
way past Olympus the fate of Salonika
itself will be settled before long.
A Main Russian Offensive.
“Ek Dum”: It was suggested from
London on October 13 that 7,000,000
Russians, with a “fantastic array of gun
power, tank power and air power” was
massed for a great assault against Ger-
many’s eastern borders.
It was said that the Red Army could
bring to bear 250 to 300 divisions “for
the final march to Berlin which Mr.
Churchill and Marshal Stalin are now dis-
cussing.” There was much about what
“experts stress” and “military experts
believe.” But nothing to explain why it
was necessary for Moscow to assemble
this vast force against armies which were
supposed to have been completely shat-
tered 12 months ago.
On October 24 last year the London
“Observer” declared that the plight of
the German armies in southern Russia
was “more desperate than that of the
British armies in France in May, 1940,
but the Germans could have no Dun-
kirk.” And the “Sunday Pic.” opined
that the Russians may not care any more
about a second front, and may regard all
our threats and promises with sublime
indifference.
In the year that has intervened the Rus-
sians have, according to Moscow’s ac-
counts, been compelled to kill, wound
and take prisoner another 5,000,000-odd
Germans, of whom 2,000,000 are dead ;
and these losses are apart from the mil-
lion or more casualties inflicted on the
western fronts.
The German retreat has gone on for
hundreds of miles, often seemingly out of
contact with the pursuing Russians ex-
cept in the imaginations of Moscow cor-
respondents.
The Germans in the east have lost
Rumania and much of Poland, and nearly
all the Baltic States and large sections of
Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia,
while Bulgaria has turned dog on the
Axis and Greece is largely saved. But
they have still not been driven back on to
their main eastern defence lines except
on a small section of the East Prussian
frontier.
The enemy is at an advantage in com-
munication channels. He is fighting on
both sides of his country near industrial-
production areas, while the Russians are
2000 miles at least from their main
centres of supply, and winter is closing
fast. If the season is normal it will strike
central Russia in about a week’s time,
slowing up communications over the long
stretch between the Urals and Moscow
and Moscow and the Vistula, which the
Russians obviously expected to cross at
the end of July.
The next three months will show the
test of the view held in high quarters
at the middle of September that Ger-
many was then completely beaten
strategically ; in the opinion of some of
the very highest authorities, worse off
strategically than in November, 1918, and
merely capable of the last savage on-
slaughts of a dying beast
Four Battles
On the eastern front during the past
three weeks four distinct battles have
been in course of decision.
In one, the Russians, having captured
Petsamo in northern Finland, and pre-
pared to take over the Canadian owned
mines, for which they have promised
compensation, reported having reached
the Norwegian border.
The next was the battle for the Baltic
States. In shape this was merely another
German withdrawal, with resistance only
at those points which had to be held to
ensure evacuation. This retreat, having
reached the region of the East Prussian
frontier, turned into a stiff resistance.
The Russian advance was halted before
Memel and along the Niemen Line.
But further south the Russians began
a new main drive against the Insterburg
Gap defences. This was hailed by the
press as something new and great, and
the capture of the little village of
Eydtkau, across the border, following the
advance through Vilkaviskis and Vir-
ballen, as breaking fresh ground and im-
porting the smashing of the German
lines.
It is actually a repetition of what
already has happened. This is the third
time the Russians have pushed into East
Prussia within the past two months.
They rolled over Eydtkau early in
August, but were rolled back again. They
pushed through the outer skin of Ger-
man outpost defences facing the Romin-
ten forest, further south, but failed to
hold on. These penetrations, which they
have repeated, and which the enemy
at first asserted he had again “sealed off,”
though he later admitted that a few
Russian patrol tanks were 13 to 15 miles
inside East Prussia, had pot at the week-
end reached the proving ground of the
East Prussian defences.
Great Forces
Whether the Russians can roll past the
Angerapp River and the lakes remains to
be seen. Both Berlin and German H.Q.
military commentators declared over the
week-end that a main mass battle for
the Gap now was developing. One Ger-
man expositor said that the Russians were
using an unheard-of superiority of man-
power to develop such a battle as had
scarcely ever been seen on the eastern
front, losing men “recklessly”.in the face
of German rocket-fire and of the electric
machine-gun—first mentioned by the
enemy at Stalingrad, since, apparently,
out of use. It is reputed to have a fire-
rate equal to 3000 shots per minute.
When Gumbinnen, Goldap, bombed by
the Russians during the week, and
Angerburg have been taken it can be
said that the German defence lines are
being penetrated, but not till then. Mean-
time the enemy has admitted that his
forces on “both sides of Tilsit” “detached
themselves in fierce fighting.”
In Hungary
The third operation was the linked
German retreat from the Carpathians
along a 170-mile front, and the battle of
Debrezcen, on the central Hungarian
plains. The Germans had announced
their withdrawal from the eastern Car-
pathians—from the whole of the Car-
pathian line one of their commen-
tators said. Five days afterwards
Moscow announced that the armies of
the Fourth Ukranian front had forced
their way through seven passes in the
mountains and penetrated into Ruthenia
as much as 35 miles.
Moscow correspondents described this
drive as one of the greatest feats of the
Russians during the war. It seemed from
the pace at which the Russians moved
that it was another following-up opera-
tion, very much unlike the great battle
which had been raging on the plains for
Debrezcen.
It was difficult at first to understand
why the Germans should have chosen
this particular area for a stand; but it
became obvious when they announced
their Carpathians withdrawal. They were
covering the flanks of their retiring troops
at any cost, and giving them time to make
new dispositions along the ranges. Those
ranges push down from the West Beski-
den and High Tatra regions covering the
Vienna Gap and the approaches to indus-
trial south-east Germany and the more
populated Czechoslovak regions.
The fall of Debrezcen was announced
on October 20. Moscow reported that in
the Debrezcen battle the Germans had
lost 1528 tanks and huge numbers of
men. There seem to have been few
prisoners.
The Russians in this region, and that
further south to the Jugoslav border,
claimed 11,000 prisoners after a week’s
fighting. The enemy alleged that the Rus-
sians had suffered “huge” casualties in
man-power and armor.
Later the Russians announced the cap-
ture of another railway town 30 miles
north of Debrezcen.
The Hungarian political position is
obscure, but the Germans and their
friends appear temporarily in control,
and Admiral Horthy is reported to have
joined the band of rulers held in duress
j n Germany, though the German News
Agency says that he went to Germany
at own re q Ues t for protection.
Belgrade Taken
j n y U g 0 slavia Belgrade fell. The fight
£ or j£ W as only a mopping-up operation,
an( j it yielded only 5700 prisoners in the
final captures in the high country just
south-east of the city. Inside another
3000 appear to have been taken,
At the same time Yugoslavs were re-
ported to have freed the poi P /
nik jas already w 11
coast and were be?
sieging Zagre | (Agram), ’ 200-odd miles
. north-west of Belgrade and 150
*°j.'s south of Vienna
It obvious tbat ab Yugoslavia is in
cess of abandonment by the enemy,
it is not a i rea d y abandoned, and that
tfae SQUth he is calling i n fiis troops
Qn the sout h- ea st, behind the wall of the
Austrian A 1 before winter breaks.
Winter in this region makes the moun-
£ajns impassable for any heavy traffic,
when General Montgomery broke
through in Normandy and smashed the
Caen joint Goebbels was reported to
have stated to Balkans diplomats that
the German High Command had decided
to withdraw all German armies within
the limits of Fortress Germany. Goeb-
bels is an artistic liar when it suits him
to lie, but here he seems to have been
fairly accurate. The “withdrawal,” of
course, was not voluntary.


/m
/a
The woman behind the
man on the land
Have city folk to-day forgotten the country
woman? . . . the great part she’s played
through years of war!
Believe us, we haven’t ... at Eveready.
“Then,” you ask, “why can’t we at all times
buy batteries, and share with city people favour-
ite radio programmes . . . hear the daily news
broadcasts that always kept us in touch?”
A simple question, you think, demanding a
simple answer. But it isn’t as simple as that.
For a long time now we’ve been trying to
keep level with war orders. But it hasn’t been
easy and despite our best efforts some country
folk have gone short.
Here’s news you’ve been waiting for
At last we’re picking up on
civilian requirements. But
that doesn’t mean we’re let-
ting up. Because we know
that the most urgently needed
civilian battery is the radio
battery for country homes,
we’re continuing all out to
catch up with present - day
demands. Radio Batteries for
civilian use will leave our
factory as fast as we can
make them. But keep in
mind there may be other
transport delays over which
we have no control.
eVEREAdy
TRADE-MARK
EVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY CUP DAY
Saturday, 4th November. Saturday, 1 Ith November.
£7500 ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP and
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR Y. KEWNEY, Secretary.
P
P
\C
y
/j
p
p_
gp
\
/
VG 14
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A record crowd of 86,000 saw Counsel
defeat Lawrence and Huntingdale in the
Caulfield Cup last Saturday. Counsel
started equal favorite at 8 to 1 with Law-
rence and Claudette, and won a thrilling
race by a neck. A gift horse, he is the
first horse raced by Mrs. D. Fraser Smith.
Her father, P. Grant Hay, bred and
at one time raced Counsel, but he pre-
sented the gelding to his daughter when
her husband, a flying-officer, left for
England.
Counsel’s success was a bad result for
pre-post operators. Thinking the Mel-
bourne Cup was his spring mission, they
were caught unawares when plans were
switched and he was backed straight out
at 14 to 1 for the Caulfield Cup. He
was also coupled in doubles with every
fancied Melbourne Cup candidate, prin-
cipal doubles being the two Counsels for
approximately £60,000, Counsel-Law-
rence for £lOO,OOO and Counsel-Claud-
ette for £lOO,OOO.
Lou Robertson, trainer of the runner-
up, Lawrence, must have watched the finish
with mixed feelings. He trained Counsel
when that horse was beaten by Dark
Felt in the Melbourne Cup last year, but
was unable to find room for him when
the time came for Counsel to begin a
preparation this spring. It was the irony
of fate that R. Webster, a provincial
trainer, should have trained Dark Felt
last year and be the present trainer of
Counsel. Robertson took his defeat
philosophically, remarking that, although
he was unable to take Counsel this spring,
he informed connections of the gelding
that he considered him one of the best
horses in Australia.
Lawrence’s second was one of the most
impressive Melbourne Cup trials seen this
spring. He appeared to be doing better
than Counsel right on the post, and now
is outright favorite for the Melbourne
Cup. He drops 21b. from the weight
he carried on Saturday, whereas Counsel
has been penalised 61b. Claudette dis-
appointed by finishing only ninth, but,
acco rding to her rider, J. O’Brien, she
was hemmed in most of the way. O’Brien
decided that he liked the way she came
home, and Claudette holds her position
j n t he Melbourne Cup market. Bootle
wea kened into fourth position, but, un-
]ess his hard race affects him, the per-
formance was a good trial for the Vic-
torja Derby.
■ • • * * *
Hartnell won on protest from Kinder
Chick after the latter had led him by a
head at the finish of the Burwood Handi-
cap. He was carried wide in the straight,
and the fate of the objection was reflected
in the fact that bookmakers demanded
odds of 6 to 4 about Hartnell. Both
horses started at 20 to 1, connections of
Hartnell allowing him to run for the
prize, Hartnell has troublesome knees,
is massaged four times daily and swum
four times weekly. Trainer H. Wolters
opines that if he were sound he would
be the best three-year-old in Victoria.
He is hopeful of getting the colt to the
post for the Victoria Derby, Heather
having been engaged to ride him in that
race.
ifs Hi * *
Sixty thousand witnessed the conclud-
ing day’s racing at the A.J.C. spring meet-
ing, and the tote turnover was £165,290,
the second-best for any day at Rand-
wick.
The Metropolitan was a good race
without being really sensational, and, to
the satisfaction of the double-layers, the
winner turned up in the aged New
Zealand-bred gelding Nightbeam, to
whom scarcely anyone gave a thought
until after his second to Royal Peer in
the Sydney Handicap on Epsom Day. A
few days before the opening of the meet-
ing there was no difficulty in getting 700
to 1 Modulation and Nightbeam—up to
1000 to 1 with some bookmakers. How-
ever, early last week F. W. Hughes’s
horse was well backed, and on the
course shortened from 16 to 10 to
1. Mayfowl closing favorite at 4
to 1. The latter seemed to be going
easily in third place behind Orderly and
Flight at the half-mile, but collapsed com-
pletely rounding the turn. When Flight
headed Orderly a furlong from home the
race looked over, but then Nightbeam
(McGrowdie), who was in the middle of
the field most of the way, suddenly
appeared on the scene, and, with his 7.2,
was too good for Flight, who ran her
usual game race.
Kiaree, in third was hampered
in the straight, but though some of his
backers thought that if he had escaped
trouble he might have scored, Night-
beam won too decisively for excuses
for any of the beaten division to be of
much account. There was little between
Kiaree, Orderly and Cream Puff for third,
the last-named being a long way back for
the first mile, and then moving up smartlv
at the turn. However, she could not
sustain her effort, nor could Veiled
Threat, who also shot up on the outside
at the bend. Falcon Knight was sixth
but again proved himself somewhat over-
rated. Craigie was prominent to the turn
but nothing favorable can be said of any
of the others. Bought in Maoriland by-
Hughes for £l2OO and a £7OO con-
tingency with the idea of winning the
1940 A.J.C. Derby, various troubles
caused Nightbeam to deteriorate after
coming to Australia, and until last week
it seemed unlikely he would rise superior
to ordinary welter levels. He is trained
by W. McCurley. He is in the Mel-
bourne Cup with 7.11, being rehandi-
capped 51b.
The Chester Handicap further demon-
strated that Star Gold (Duncan) is an
exceptional galloper. Third to Lagoon
and Bangster at the turn, he ran up to
them at the top of the straight, and then
went on to easily beat Winnipeg and
Hauteur, who had only a head between
them. John Halifax was running on at
the finish, and, apart from those men-
tioned, nothing else shaped respectably.
Both two-year-old races were won in
easy fashion. Tactician (Swinton), a
stylish colt by Titan, led from Heart of
Oak, Ramu, Tamaroa and Departure
after going a furlong in the Canonbury
Stakes, and ran away from them in the
MOONEE VALLEY CUP SELECTIONS
(Before acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Spearmain 1
Huntingdale 2
Simmering 3
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Ack Emma,
1 ; Cabaret Boy, 2; Western
Monarch, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Tactician,
1 ; Tamaroa, 2; Huamight or
Vilna, 3.
Denman Stakes: Strathdarr, 1;
Brazier, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
City Tattersall’s Cup: Orderly,
1 ; Gauntlet, 2 ; Removal or Craigie,
3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Wheat-
land, 1 ; Prince Galahad, 2;
Liberality, 3.
Club Welter: Streamford, 1;
Gold Edifice, 2; Cockcrow, 3.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD ALBERT RAY formerly of Gatton,
Queensland—TAKE NOTICE that ATHERLY ROMA
RAY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2801 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 22nd November 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from CHARLES
M. CRANITCH Solicitor 297 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
• —(l.s.) c. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER LEONARD IRBY. —TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET’ IRBY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2503 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 13th day of November 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from CRAIG
& MILNE Petitioner’s Solicitors 4 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO GEORGE REGINALD WALWYN DAVIS late
of Sydney and Cooma.—TAKE NOTICE that ELVA
DAVIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3649 of
1944 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before 20th December 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from DUDLEY WESTGARTH
& CO Solicitors 369 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EVA BLANCHE JACKSON late of Moree and
to TIMOTHY SMITH late of “The Yarraman” via
Moree New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH EDWIN JACKSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 257 of 1944 on the grounds of your
adultery with one another If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney New South Wales
on or before the Fourth day of December 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
~(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
111
}{ iiiii
HUH 111 111
in
v f
\ If l
Modern high-clp'ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 fines)
86363 (4 fines)
plies
available of
TOP DOG
MENS WEAR
it
BRIKS TROUSERS
★
SOVEREIGN
HATS
*dl
V-
w# 5
Top Dog Men’s Wear is worth looking for, and when
you obtain it see that you give it the care that means
long wear! In fabric, cut, and every detail of finish,
Top Dog Men’s Wear is thoroughly sound. That is why
it keeps its shape, always looks smart, and gives such
long wear. It returns full value for every shilling of
its cost.
So speed the day of unlimited civilian supplies by invest-
ing in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
EKS TROUSERS AND SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
straight. The minor places went to
Departure and Ramu, though they mig
have been a trifle lucky to beat Tamaroa,
after whom came Huamight (who struck
trouble) and Streatfield. The favorite,
Don Giovanni, did not run nearly as welt
as in the Breeders’ Plate. Tactician was
bred by his owner, F. W. Hughes, who
imported Titan (Hyperion-Pnscilla, by
Phalaris), Titan started four times m
England for a first and a second.
Vilna, on the strength of track work,
was a hot favorite for the Widden Handi-
cap, but though fairly placed a furlong
and a half from home had nothing to
do with the finish. It was a one-horse
race from the time Genista (Foley) headed
Belle Femme and Flowers at -the turn.
Bell Femme and Flowers hung on well to
gain the minor places, followed by Gay
talk and Questing. The last-named did
not commence smartly, and it was only in
the final furlong she got in it. Gay
Senorita, though backed, was never
troublesome. The time was the same as
that recorded by Tactician in the Canon-
bury Stakes. Trained by F. W. Kennedy
for Mrs. D. M. Meehan, Genista is by
I. R. Smith from Muscovadia by Heroic.
Genista was a 250gns, yearling.
In the Members’ Handicap Silent (Tom-
linson) seemed slightly unbalanced for a
few strides half a furlong from home,
but though Accession (Cook) headed him
his rider quickly got him going again,
and made a dead-heat right on the post.
Melhero, who did well under his big
weight, was a good third, and Laudus
was as disappointing as on a couple of
previous occasions. The much-boomed
Eagle Hawk was another failure, and
Beau Monde ran as if he would be all
the better for a let-up. On the other
hand, Murray Stream both looked and
ran better than in the Derby.
Soho’s recent form did not particularly
recommend him for the Final Handicap,
and he started at 15 to 1 with the books.
His tote return was at the rate of 19 to 1.
Slow to commence, it was only at the turn
he had worked into a forward position,
and then settled Versailles in the run
home. Rylstone, Omapo and Bahtheon
were next, the last-named playing a
prominent part right into the straight. In
the run home Soho lugged in on Ver-
sailles, and as Mulley (rider of Soho) was
subsequently suspended for three months
for not making an attempt to keep his
mount from interfering with Versailles,
it is reasonable to suppose a protest on
behalf of the latter would have been
upheld. Sportsmanlike, perhaps, not to
object, but rough on the public, who
made Versailles favorite. Prince, ridden
by Munro, was well in the betting, but
as he was one of the tail-enders all the
way his Epsom effort must have knocked
him out. Last Bowl and Brughelier led
into the straight.
* * * *
Bootle was unequal to getting a place
in the Caulfield Guineas, but he was a
very close fourth. He was similarly
placed in the Caulfield Cup, and that
effort was sufficiently good to put him a
long way in the Victoria Derby. On
form Silver Rocks reads like the winner
of that race, but he has to quite recover
from the injury he received in the
Guineas. Bootle appears to be racing
better at each start. Prating, who pre-
viously received mention for the Derby,
has gone out of favor since he failed in
the Burwood Handicap at Caulfield on
Saturday.
The Geelong R.C. and Geelong St,
Patrick’s R.C. have decided that in future
the minimum weight in all handicaps at
their meetings shall be 7.7.
* # * *
During the coming year Sydney may
have an influx of Brisbane trainers.
Anderson has done so well that it may
influence other northerners in trying their
luck down south, and they are sure of
support from some disappointed owners.
Brisbane jockeys have also shown they
have little to learn from Sydney’s best,
and they may be in even greater demand
than at present. It is easy to praise suc-
cess, but the poor winning percentage of
most Sydney jockeys upholds the idea
that we are suffering from a lack of riding
talent.
* * * *
Money for betting cannot be as plenti-
ful in Melbourne as in Sydney. The
attendance at Caulfield on Saturday was
86.000, and the tote turnover £162,296
for seven races. Randwick figures were
66.000, and £165,290 for six races.
At thfe time of writing Mayfowl’s trip
to Melbourne is said to be assured,
though his Metropolitan run with 9.2
said little for his chance of success in the
Melbourne Cup with only 21b. less.
Lawrence, with 9.3, was beaten a neck
in the Caulfield Cup, and that form puts
him well ahead of Mayfowl, to whom he
is conceding 11b.
Miscellaneous
There was no trace of the Indian sign
on Stan Wilkes when he met Hockey
Bennell for the second time at Leichhardt.
He floored Bennell for “seven” in the
second round. However, derisive sounds
came from the gallery when Bennell
reeled around the ring as if groggy in the
next two rounds, and again when, re-
covering remarkably, Bennell shot left
hooks to the head. That was the way of
it thereafter, and not a hoot was heard
when the referee, Pearson, declared
Bennell the winner. Unusual for Leich-
hardt, especially when Bennell is one of
the performers.
Alan Hall made a gallant attempt to
wrest the Australian featherweight cham-
pionship from Tommy Chapman at Syd-
ney Stadium. Taller, and longer in the
reach, Hall attacked immediately they
were let loose, and left leads to head or
body earned him an edge in each of six
rounds. ' Halfway through the seventh,
however, a Chapman left hook crashed on
Hall’s chin. Down he went for “eight,”
and though he battled on gamely Chap-
man had his measure in the ninth. After
another knock-down punch Joe Wallis
crowned Chapman without bothering to
count.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
War-time conditions, the absence of a
vice-regal party and clothes- rationing
conspired to depress the 1944 Caulfield
Cup meeting. Dressing featured no new
styles, indicating mostly the use of clothes
already in the wardrobe, with a novel
touch here and there to brighten them.
Two tones in the one frock is popular,
so that with a black frock may be seen
a panel of parma violet or lime green.
A very smart racegoer, with greying hair,
chose an attractive aqua-blue frock and
long coat. With it she wore a pancake
felt hat in the same tone, and highlighted
the ensemble with burgundy accessories.
The tailored suit so well loved by Mel-
bourne women was greatly in evidence.
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, one of the few
women racehorse owners, chose a grey
suiting with a lighter pencil stripe. With
it was worn a simple grey felt hat. The
weather, of course, was uncertain, and
those women who wore light summer
frocks were freezing by the end of the
day. Most of the interest in the dressing
centred in ths hats, which were of all
shapes, sizes and colors. With a plain
black frock was worn a leghorn bonnet
trimmed with one pink rose, while
another hat which created much interest
was a high swathed turban of cerise and
purple, matching the orchid worn in the
black frock. Mary Ward, who is to play
the part of “Mrs. Darling” in “Peter
Pan,” which will be presented at the
Tivoli at the end of the year, chose a
smart black suit, and with it wore a
brilliant red straw hat. Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas paraded a small black straw hat,
the crown covered completely by small
primrose-yellow flowers and featuring a
forward tilt over the eyes. With a suit
of tiny blue and white checks, Sylvia
Green wore a cerise blouse and matching
straw hat.
Many women racegoers went hatless,
but pinned real flowers in their hair.
Snoods are the mode, and a lass in a
smart blue linen suit wore a tiny skull
cap crocheted in thick blue wool. A
large black cartwheel straw hat was
decorated with fine lace, which fell over
the face of the wearer and almost to the
waist at the back. Flowers were every-
where. If not on the head they were
pinned into frocks and suits. The fragile
lily-of-the-valley had a day out, and
slipper orchids were in abundance. In
the midst of this prismatic galaxy women
in uniform, smartly tailored, stood out.
Among them was Col. Sage, Matron-in-
Chief of the A.A.N.S., wearing a grey
uniform of that service. She was accom-
panied by Lieut.-Colonel Bowes, also of
the A.A.N.S.
The spring racing carnival brought
with it new impetus to war organisations.
Recently the president of the Silver Wings
R.A.A.F. War Funds Committee, Mrs.
Barry Thomson, 0.8. E., sponsored a
dinner dance in the Rainbow Room for
the purpose of gathering in money which
will be spent in making life a little more
bearable for the men who go forward to
pioneer new airfields. Mrs. Thomson
was helped by Mrs. Boris Kosky, who,
as treasurer, was in the forefront of the
night’s doings. Air Vice-Marshal G.
Tones and Mrs. Jones were the guests of
Mrs. McEwen, who is patroness of the
Silver Wings and the wife of a former
Air Minister. Many well-known Mel-
bourne folk came to the party after the
races, and were in happy mood.
Dr. Bill McDermott was with wife
Anne, who looked stunning in a white
crepe frock heavily embroided in gold.
With them were Squadron-Leader Guest,
and Mrs. Guest in a tailored black satin
gown. Mrs. “Toddy” Hotchkiss, wearing
a grey dinner-gown heavily encrusted with
silver, was there with her husband,
happily celebrating her birthday. A
large party of guests included Mrs, W.
Horsfall, who wore a beautiful flame
georgette gown, the long bodice em-
broidered with matching bugle beads
allied to a full pleated skirt, and Mrs. S.
Thompkins, who covered her flamingo-
pink gown with an ermine bolero. During
the evening tickets for many articles were
sold, and the president and committee
were happy at the amount of money
which had been gathered in for so worthy
a cause.
Sylvia Swan pinned two black velvet
bows in her auburn locks and donned a
new black gown when she hostessed a
late-afternoon welcome-home party for
husband Wing-Commander (“Andy”)
Swan. Andy has been on service for the
R.A.A.F. in England for many months,
and the Swan home was busy with the
comings and goings of many friends eager
to welcome him home. Son of the house,
Adrian, was busy helping attend to the
wants of guests, and Ethel King and
Dulcie Fraser were also doing a spot of
hostessing. The Air Force was well
represented by Wing-Commander and
Mrs. Bazely, Squadron-Leader W. Heath
and his wife and Squadron-Leader and
Mrs. Newton. Other guests included the
blonde and stately Olive Sloss, who was
with husband Howard.
Attractive Hazel Ratf wore a beaded
black frock and an off-the-face black
hat. Mrs. Haub, who was with husband
Ottq, was another guest who chose a
black outfit. Wing-Commander Swan,
who has many ribbons on his tunic, had
interesting experiences to relate. He is
enjoying a spot of leave before he again
settles down to his job.
William Winter, American radio com-
mentator, blew into this city in the teeth
of a 50-mile-an-hour gale, which gave
him an opportunity to tell a funny story
comparing the climates of Melbourne and
the Harbor City at the late-afternoon
party given for him by Lud Mayor
Nettlefold. Representatives of the Gov-
ernment, the broadcasting world and the
Law spoke, and masses of spring flowers
decorated the reception-room and the
tables. The colored frocks of women
guests made an attractive picture.
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, Mayoress, was,
as usual, a gracious hostess. Snatching
a few minutes off from the American
Library and Information Bureau were
Director Mrs. Helen Wessells and Miss
Hazel A. Brown, Co-Director, bpth of
Washington, D.C. A catch-as-catch-can
snapshot of Miss Brown-adorns this para-
graph. Col. Baldwin, U.S.A., was present.
Lady Cross, wife of the British High
Commissioner in Australia, was another
smartly-garbed guest. She chose a deep
lime-green, worn with a small brown
hat and sables. Jill Lambert, in a deep
rich-red outfit, was with her mamma,
Mrs. T. J. Ryan.
Even those who were too highbrow
to attend Marjorie Lawrence’s earlier con-
certs turned up in full force to hear her
sing with the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra under the baton of Prof. Ber-
nard Heinze. They were glad they came,
for never has the diva’s glorious voice
been heard in such perfection. Salome’s
outburst after seeing the head of John
the Baptist at her feet took the audience
in spirit to the Court of Herod. As
Brunnehilde in the Immolation Scene
from “Gotterdamerung,” the singer also
made a great impression. For this concert
Miss Lawrence wore the gown created for
her by Omar, the Hollywood designer, a
white tulle patterned with feathery sprays
and sprinkled lavishly with green, petal
pink and gold sequins, A white osprey
in her hair completed an eye-taking
picture.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes was accom-
panied by her daughter Jessie; Peggy,
daughter of the Fraser lady, was an at-
tractive figure in black with a small black
hat sprouting pale-pink ostrich feathers
atop her curls. Two attractive and well-
known Melbournites were together and
made a piquant color contrast —Mrs.
Rupert Downes, in deep wine velvet with
pink tiger lilies pinned in her coat and
wearing a small wine-toned hat on her
silver hair, and Mrs. Tom Fogarty in a
cyclamen outfit with small matching hat.
Mrs. M. L. Baillieu wore black with a
silver fox cape and pinned a gardenia in
her hair, while another who chose black
with white relief at neck and sleeves was
Mrs. Clarence Weber, former M.L.A.
“Eden End,” J. B. Priestley’s play, was
successfully produced by Irene Mitchell
at the Little Theatre recently. Jean
Campbell, an Australian authoress of
note, was excellent as the old family
nurse, and Nancy Summers, who is often
heard over the air, portrayed the frus-
trated Lilian Kirby. The 1912 atmosphere
is cleverly sustained all through by these
modern players.
From Sydney
On the lawns of Government House in
the sunshine of Saturday afternoon
strolled or sat and gossiped groups of
women, courageous if not care-free. They
were the women who had left homes and
husbands in Singapore, Hong Kong,
Malaya, the Dutch East Indies ; in short,
in every corner of what is know as the
Far East. The Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst were host and hostess, and the
Francis Anderson lady and Miss M. D.
Kidd (both consistent workers for the
Far East Welfare Auxiliary) helped to
receive the guests.
There w r ere not so many at this party
as at those given in the early days of
the Jap menace. But that was explained
by a little Englishwoman, who said a
trifle wistfully that “so many had gone
back home.” Home with her meant
England. Questioned, these involuntary
visitors will tell of life in Singapore, in
Hong Kong, with its racecourse and its
cemetery, both sharing “Happy Valley.”
They do not speak of the hurried depar-
ture, of the leaving of husbands of whose
fate some wives are still in doubt. They
all viewed with interest the small com-
pany of men of the British Maritime
Royal Artillery who were sharing the
breeze and the view and the roses.
Printed silks and sandals, half hats and
full-size ones, linen suits and black the
perennial gathered in their hundreds,
butcher meat or no butcher meat for their
wearers, to make yet another Randwick
holiday last Saturday. The last day of
the spring meeting was frocked with a
care-free air, but the women and girls
looked just as smart as ever. Mrs. Lyn
Vickery and Mrs.. Strath Playfair were
among those who wore black in hat and
suit. Mrs. Ernest Watt’s wooden-soled
sandals attracted attention. Mrs. Sam
Hordern’s aqua-blue suit was among the
admired.
Patricia Mewton (pictured here) is
one of the city’s young pianists who
believe in de-centralising music. Fol-
lowing her successful recital in the
Mosman Town Hall last Monday night,
Patricia intends to go south and
give a concert in Melbourne. Later
cities up north will hear her. The musi-
cian’s talent is handed down from both
father and mother. Her father is remem-
bered as organist at St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral, and her mother is widely known as
a violinist.
What Lord Woolton is to England’s
food supply Sir Oliver Goonertilleke is
to Ceylon’s. He is that island’s Civil
Defence and Food Commissioner, and
how the people of Ceylon have met
their problems is an engrossing story as
told by the knight. He is visiting Aus-
tralia to secure foods, principally milk.
He will also seek cereals, since his land
is now getting no grain from India, and,
of course, there is no rice from Burma,
also vegetables and fruits are almost un-
known. The visitor is proud that it was
Ceylon that gave the first check to Japan
at the Easter of 1942, He is also proud
of the co-operative consumer stores, serv-
ing four to six million people. These
were formed by the Food Commissioner
(he is a Cambridge graduate) early in the
war as a check to black marketing.
In Ceylon no adult these days,
except expectant and nursing mothers,
tastes milk. Every mother and every
child is given a quarter of a pint
a day. This is distributed through 2000
centres, staffed by voluntary women
helpers. In two weeks the roster of eager
assistants was over 20,000. Sir Oliver
is keen on racing, is steward of every
race club in -Ceylon and owns a string
of racehorses among which are two from
Australia, The Cork and Manaos.
Knight Thomas Gordon gave a lunch
in the visitor's honor last week, and Sir
Oliver gave one to his Sydney friends.
He went to the second day of the spring
meeting at Randwick, and owns that he
louna the blistering heat of that dav
very trying. With the H. J. Bradys he
went to the opening night of the Minerva
show, While the Sun Shines.” This
bubble of nonsense floats so blithely that
he said: “For two hours my mind has
strayed from the poor, shrivelled little
babies of my country.”
4!P ong the newl Y engaged is Sigrid
Phillips, formerly of the A.A.M.W.S.
The soldier of her choice is Sergeant Bill
Goddard, of Chatswood, A.1.F., attached
U.S.A.F. Sigrid is the second daughter
of Mrs. Phillips and the late J. A. Phillip,
of Clifton Gardens.
Remember the fete at Graythwaite
Home for Disabled Soldiers at Edward-
street. North Sydney, on Saturday.
About two o’clock last Wednesdax
little groups of erect elderly men began
to gather at the Lyceum Club. They
were members of the Veterans’ Associa-
tion, and they were being entertained by-
Mrs. I. L. Marden and a group of friends.
Every month Mrs. Marden arranges one
of these parties, and every month the
guests, with great enthusiasm, roll up.
First there is a programme of music at
which top-line radio and concert artists
sing and play. They could never receive
warmer applause than comes from this
audience, that is never less than 80 and
sometimes 100 strong.
The veterans range in age from 72 to
99. Their battle memories go back over
half a century. They enjoy these parties.
It is a grand chance to get together and
talk of their world of yesterday. After
the concert there is tea and chat. Mrs.
Marden and her friends have been hos-
tesses to the veterans for three years.
They enjoy the functions as much as the
guests do. Last Wednesday there were
lads who had been in the 1939-1944 cam-
paign scattered among the old soldiers.
There is talk when Anzac House is built
of a room being set aside for the veterans.
Ruby Board and Mrs. John Metcalfe
have been busy to the point of being pink
about the ears for weeks past arrang-
ing the Australian National Council of
Women’s conference. This opens at
Federation House, Phillip-street, at 9.30
a.m. on October 28, and is open to mem-
bers of all women’s organisations. The
Home and Youth are the two great sub-
jects. Saturday morning will be devoted
to the Home and its Problems, Post-war
Housing, Laws Affecting Women in the
Home and other topics. In the afternoon
“Youth and its Opportunities” will be
considered, and the special speakers will
be Mrs. Walter Elliot and Miss K.
Gordon.
From all over the State delegates
have travelled to Sydney to take
part in the Legion of Catholic
Women’s conference. This will be
opened and the speakers welcomed
by Archbishop Gilroy tonight at a con-
versazione in the Town Hall. The papers
to be discussed touch on every aspect of
family life. The education of the child
will also be a subject of grave attention.
Mrs. W. Chandler and Mrs. Greg Mc-
Girr start the ball rolling on Thursday
morning. Among the speakers will be
Mrs. F. G. Barber, Mrs. A, P. Mackerras
and Phyllis Shewcroft. The big diversion,
after the conclave, will be a water picnic
in the Showboat —an afternoon Harbor
excursion.
There was no parade-ground stiffness
about the graceful and generous speech
Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett made
when he opened the show of water-color
drawings by Hal Sergeant and James
Wieneke. Both artists are soldiers. Hal
who was an Anzac, has been doing his
bit somewhere up north in the present
upheaval. He was at the opening, but
his partner in art, James Wieneke,
is away in some battle area. Aus-
tralian ingenuity has again lived up
to its reputation. When water-colors
weren’t on hand the artists made their
own pigments from the bark of trees,
even from clay.
Deputy-Leader of the Federal Oppo-
sition E. J. Harrison entered into matri-
mony again last week. His bride was
Mrs. Yardley, of Roseville. Kmgnt
Frederick Stewart was best man, and Mrs.
Jean Sugden, of Maoriland, matron-of-
honor. The ’groom’s daughters, Shirk).
Joan and Helen and Mrs. Harrisons
daughter Judith Yardley were all at the
wedding. Reception was at Usher s.
Sydney’s belles and beaus of the
’eighties, no doubt, strolled about t e
green sward of Hyde Park in the fans'
air of last Wednesday. To them it must
have seemed as though the old-time gion
of the colony’s first racecourse was ban,
restored. Here again were fine horsey-
jockeys in their bright silks, bookmakers
under gaudy sun umbrellas. The dme.-
ence was that the bookies weren t filing
the odds. They were selling Victor)
Loan bonds.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
ẃ
Teaching Australian History
In Queensland history is presented to
children in the form of large slabs of
time, dry and indigestible. Australian
history begins in fourth grade with sundry
explorers, who are finished off in fifth
arade —McDouall Stuart, John Forrest
and the like. In sixth grade these wraiths
have disappeared, and our continent is
inhabited by convicts and colonists.
Separate colonies are formed. In seventh
grade Australia federates.
Sandwiched between chapters are bio-
graphies of various imposing and copi-
ously bearded worthies who “assisted
progress.” Children swallow sufficient
crumbs from these dehydrated hunks to
pass their examinations, and then forget
all about it. They never realise that Aus-
tralian history is the story of the growth
and birth of their own nation,
I cannot see why it is necessary to chop
history up into sections like this. Why
not simply give the children a series of
books which tell the story of Australia
from the beginning to the present day?
The first book would give a very broad
outline. As the children advanced their
books would contain more detail. In this
way they would come to think of their
history as a whole, not as bits and pieces.
Under the present method all that most
people retain from their history lessons
seems to be a firmly-held theory that
Captain Cook discovered Australia, and,
more hazily, that it happened in 1770.
They could scarcely know less. —Nibs
CQ.). ______
“No-hopers”
“C.R.” (B. 11/10/’44) deplores the
number of “no-hopers” in the Australian
Army. He “cannot suggest a remedy ;
he can only report facts.” I, too, have
had five years’ service in the ranks and
as an officer, and I cannot challenge his
facts. But I suggest that there is a
remedy—and always has been—for most
of these chaps.
Our army is culled from every walk of
life. There are as many men from in-
dustrial parts as from “better-class”
suburbs. Whatever their veneer, basically
they are all the same at heart; they are
fighting for the same reason, they are
searching (sometimes unconsciously) for
the same ideals, and, in most cases, will
respond to the same handling.
Men born to a life which, as they view
it, offers nothing but kicks and hard-
ships become suspicious of anything
which even vaguely suggests authority.
These men join the army and find
that authority there is far more rigid
than in civil life. Automatically they
range themselves up against it—usually
very early in their service. Asa rule
they come off second-best, which proves
to them (this is their argument) that
authority is indeed their enemy.
Officers represent that authority. It is
in their power to break a troublesome
soldier in very quick time. They can
also make him if they have the patience
and understanding to smash down the
barriers between them.
Asa life, the army has some very good
points. Perhaps the finest of these is the
comradeship to be found between a man
and his cobber and a good officer and his
men. If an officer cultivates the trust and
friendship of those under him he will
find little difficulty in controlling them.
They will nearly all soldier on —the bloke
who has done a few “stretches,” as well
as the exemplary character.
Suspicion is the first thing to be broken
down. Then a personal interest must be
taken in each soldier. This, of course,
cannot be taught textbook fashion. Each
man is an individual, and should be
respected and treated as such. Every
“np-hoper” will resent, at first, interest
being taken in him, but, in the long run,
nearly all of them will respond.
, This can be done —and is being done,
m thousands of cases. If it were done
throughout the army not only would
the detention barracks be practically
emptied, but many men would return to
eivil life much better citizens than they
left it. —B. W. (A.1.F.).
“For Political Reasons”
“C.R.” (B. 11/10/’44), writing of the
misfits and leadswingers who go A.W.L.
repeatedly until the Army gives them up
as hopeless and discharges, says “For
political reasons their discharge paper is
w
“Top button undone !”
only to tune in to one of the many Ameri-
can short-wave stations to notice the
difference. The U.S. stations present
live artist shows in which famous
performers appear. Every programme
offers first-class entertainment of the type
most enjoyed by men in the north.
If A.B.C. cannot satisfy servicemen’s
needs I suggest that a combination of
commercial station representatives be per-
mitted the use of a short-wave trans-
mitter to broadcast a “Forces” pro-
gramme with live artist entertainment and
popular music—a programme prepared
for 16 hours’ daily broadcasting time,
not 30 minutes.— Furbath (R.A.A.F.).
School for Seamen
The Company of Master Mariners of
Australia heartily endorses all that
“M.N,” (B. 20/9/’44) says about the
necessity for training seamen. It is
lamentable that Australian authorities
have done nothing towards the training
of personnel for an Australian merchant
fleet, whereas in countries with far less
need of a strong merchant fleet nautical
academies and training schools have been
established by their Governments.
Australian shipbuilding and shipping
industries have taken on new life in war-
time, and this Company has made strong
representations to the Minister for Supply
and Shipping as to the necessity for en-
couraging recruits to seafaring. —P. B.
Godfrey, Hon. Sec., C.M.M.A. (Q.).
Britain’s War Effort
Your splendid tribute to Britain’s stand
against overwhelming odds (B. 20/9/’44)
is worthy of the widest publicity to
counter the influence of disloyal parasites
who under our protective laws enjoy free-
dom and tolerance found nowhere else.
As an exponent of the basic principles
of Western civilisation Britain has mani-
fested the value of her regime. Her people
in their “tight little island,” backed up by
her kith and kin of the Dominions, have
made final victory possible.
There still remain powerful enemies to
be finished off, but the United Nations’
personnel will see the thing through. Even
now, while in the throes of conflict,
Britain is leading the world in planning
the most liberal measures of social ser-
vices ever devised. —J. N. W. (Q.).
Need for Social Study
For two years I studied at an Aus-
tralian university, training, to quote the
speaker at a Commemoration this year,
“to contribute my mite to world know-
ledge, or play a part in the guidance of
world destinies.” In those two years I
reached a high standard of scholastic
proficiency, but what did I learn of the
community whose destinies I was to
guide? Nothing. It took some months
of living on a navy mess-deck with a
body of men whose civilian occupations
ranged from truck-drivers to school-
teachers to gain for me even an inkling
of the ideals and opinions of the Aus-
tralian people. And, to say the least, they
were not what my two years had led me
to expect.
At the Commemoration I have men-
tioned I spoke to undergraduates of
1944, and found them living in the same
distinct little world as I had —a distinc-
tion, not of wealth or class (as was
thought on the mess-decks), but of intel-
lectual snobbishness. With little or no ex-
perience of. the difficulties the average
man finds in making a living under
modern conditions, they live in sheltered
and almost arrogant seclusion.
Solutions are not so easy to find as
faults, but these are suggestions: First,
compulsory social study lectures in the
syllabus for both cultural and technical
courses. Second, for both men and
women, at least 12 months’ compulsory
labor or military service—preferably the
latter, since, besides giving an oppor-
tunity to meet and understand all sorts
of people, it would induce a code of dis-
cipline, both of self and others. Finally,
and possibly most important, greater use
by universities of radio and the press to
secure more encouragement, understand-
ing and tolerance from the great majority,
who have not had the benefits of higher
education. — Sub-Looey (R.A.N.).
Education and Citizenship
Some teachers seem to imagine that a
boy with a smattering of both Latin and
Greek must make a better man than the
lad who has Latin only ; but authorities
in some countries are beginning to
realise that, no matter what the academic
standard may be, true education should
aim primarily at producing a good
citizen.
In Scotland the Advisory Council of
Education has produced a report which,
for a country which has always prized
pure scholarship so highly, is really
revolutionary. The report sets forth that
the four main aims of education should
be to train young people (1) to be-
come good husbands, wives, fathers,
mothers; (2) to develop the spirit of
responsibility and of tolerant co-opera-
tion with their fellows in work or leisure
activities ; (3) to take an intelligent and
independent part in the affairs of the
community, both local and national; (4)
to have a sense of membership of the
world community. The main recommen-
dation of the report is that the next five
years be devoted to experiment and de-
liberate striving towards a theory and
practice in training for citizenship.
Among the methods which it is sug-
gested should be used are the abolition
of slum homes; close and continuous
contact between parents and teachers; a
monitor or prefect system to teach accept-
ance of responsibility; local history and
tradition ; sex education; classes limited
to 30 pupils ; but, above all, that scholars
be imbued with the idea that they form
a community within a larger community
which they will one day control. It is
also suggested that there be continuous
liaison between the Education Depart-
ment and the Ministry of Labor so that
scholastic training may be varied to meet
changing conditions in industry.
This new approach to education is
symptomatic of the manner in which both
England and America are looking to-
wards a post-war world. Both countries
are planning constructively, whilst we in
Australia seem to be still in the “Vote
for Bloggs and the Millennium” stage.
Isn’t it time we woke up? — Harap (Vic.).
Country Town-planning
Queensland country towns maintain that
they have been completely disregarded
by Government post-war planners. Per-
haps they have, but the answer to their
problem is largely in their own hands.
They can achieve all they desire through
such agencies as co-operative building
societies and co-operative community
centres.
In N.S.W. the co-operative building
society movement, inaugurated in 1937,
has proved a boon to the home-maker.
In that State it is now proposed to start
“Community Advancement Societies,”
the objects of which are to provide clinics,
health centres, kindergarten, libraries, play
areas, rest centres, civilian first aid, etc.
Queensland can do the same. It com-
prises some of the finest country Australia
commands, a wide variety of natural and
cultivated resources, and its people have
the same qualities of “rugged indi-
viduality” as the rest of Australia,
An outstanding example of the worth
of the co-operative trading movement in
Queensland is the Poultry Farmers’ Co-
operative Society, Ltd. Why not extend
the co-operative system of trading, finance
and administration to other spheres of
life? — Harry Wallis (Q.).
Victory Loan Psychology
A development that deserves to be
copied throughout Australia is the deci-
sion of Bunbury (W.A.) not to partici-
pate in “stunts” to induce people to in-
vest in the second Victory Loan.
In that town on this occasion there is
a complete absence of stands of honor,
comedians, orating politicians and all
those things which in the past have been
forced upon the population as a means
of inducing them to lend their money.
The war-loan organisers rely merely on
the personal honor of the people, and
have made a straight-out appeal to each
citizen in a letter from the Mayor.
This new and sensible method of gain-
ing support is having the required effect,
and Bunbury is expected to oversubscribe
its quota, as it has done on all past occa-
sions.—Laurence R. Turner (W.A.).
Newspapers
The Sydney newspaper strike, involv-
ing a switch of four large newspapers to
one small conglomerate publication,
caused less dislocation than almost any
other act to deprive the community of a
service would have done.
This demonstrates of how little use as
a source of information or useful influ-
ence the modem daily newspaper has
become.
It is doubtful if a single citizen is one
whit more ignorant because of the reduc-
tion in the daily newspaper area that he
had to gaze upon.
Surely this will teach newspaper
people that they must bring their stand-
ards higher; not so much display of
speculative headlines over the scatter-
brained, slipshod type of news so fre-
quently purveyed. —2MC (R.A.A.F.).
Red Discipline
The New Order of the Day of the com-
munist general staff has spoiled an amus-
ing and informative game some of us
used to play in a rural part of the Speck.
Two or more could participate, and the
opening gambit was a letter to the local
newspaper questioning in some respect
the omniscience of the Kremlin or the
morality of the Communist party.
Nothing would be heard from the local
cell for at least ten days, and then would
come a long and learned reply in poly-
syllabic Marxese, signed, but obviously
not composed, by a local comrade.
A critical rejoinder by us, and after
another long interval back would come a
longer and even more technical reply,
full of the jargon of the Red intellectual.
In rural Tasmania no*secrets are hid, and
it was easy to discover that the local cell
referred our profanities to higher politi-
cal authority in Melbourne or Sydney for
information and necessary action. Hence
the delay and hence the erudition.
But since Earl Browder, on behalf of
Moscow, proclaimed an armistice wisi
the bourgeoisie, nothing we can say will
provoke a reply from the comrades here.
-J. W. R. (Tas,).


i*iW
Wl
:
r K. ;*
- S
' ■-'4
A
4
L
&
\
l/>»
V^Uw / <^fc
///
.
*}
\
vs
•V so. I
>♦
rv:
*p
i
7>
A
tfl
x&
I
k
3$
Nr
WE
v' ' i
s.
M
u
tWS 5
>■
...
s>
X
V
/
vsr'
>=■
/
■
■*NF
r
4> K
y
m
NITION
aM^ U
SCS*'
i
S
'
ITS UP TO YOU
TO SUPPLY
THE
AMMUNITION
BUY
2-VICTORY
BONDS
Inserted by William Arnott Pty., Limited, Homebush
