

RAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.-No. 3351
Wecjjaesday, May 3, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
BLARNEY CASTLE, IRELAND.
THE "Emerald Isle” abounds in lovely bits of scenery, of which
some ivy-mantled abbey or historic castle forms a charming
feature. One of the most renowned of ""the T' * ains is Blarney
Castle, not far from Cork. On the hig ■ ■ no the north-east
angle of the tower is a stone be<' nj ate of 1703,
and held in position by two iron bars. In 1825 Sir Waiter
Scott, while on tour through Ireland, kissed this Blarney
Stone,” as thousands of tourists do every year. The effect which
this act has upon the eloquence of anyone who thus salutes it
is told in verse;
a stone there
oever kisses
7 never misses
/ ,> o eloquent,
he nay clamber
y's chamber
c ; ne a member
< ment.
A clever spouter
He'll sure turn out, or
An out-and-outer
To be left alone.
Don't hope to hinder him;
Or to bewilder him;
Sure's he’s a pilgrim
From the Blarney Stone,


df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised the Sydney “Bulletin,’'
My Name ..
My Address
SB. 144 AGE
The Red Page
STRIKING PLAY .
Very long ago a Chinaman used to burn
down his house to roast a pig because he
could not see a simpler way. We laugh at
him. Yet we have burned down all Europe
to roast a few rogues.
Taken from a speech by the poet Mark
in Vivian Connell’s The Nineteenth Hole
of Europe (Seeker and Warburg ; Angus
and Robertson) the quotation illustrates
the chief of the play’s many merits —its
outstandingly vigorous dialogue, •
Connell can think as well as write. At
the end of the play Mark escapes from a
ruined and plague-stricken Europe to a
new world, but he does not imagine that
it is going to be much better than the old
or that “a few rogues” can really be
blamed for the errors and distresses of
humanity:-
I suppose nothing will be changed. Man
always seems to be going back around this
globe to his beginning like a circus dog on
a ball. He is moving and getting nowhere.
It will all be the same. Today is the
parrot of Yesterday, and Tomorrow the
parrot of Today. Man does not change.
He dies, and resumes himself in his son,
and leaves him the Corsican oath of
blood for blood. The child is bom
with a sword already in his hand. No,
man does not change, nor sweeten as
he grows old. He thunders war even out of
his grey beard. And when he roars he
thinks he is a veritable lion. The young
Hamlet is the old Lear. So let us go and
see the play.
Although it is justified ip a simile —
the dive where the survivors of European
catastrophe console themselves with bad
liquor being the “Nineteenth Hole” —
Connell’s title is not worthy of his play.
It sounds cheap, catchpenny, and the
drama is anything but that. Imagir g
what could be symbolically if a a.- e
actually the state of Euro*- it war of
destruction were earned jgical
conclusion, Conne 1 ’ mils tion
utterly broker com-
merce ?. destroyed,
the p ; , v. s mining even to
me g ui the gangster the
Plague uas cut off the Conti-
uom the rest of the world; the
.nror of the bomb has been succeeded by
the terror of the rat; and life is return-
ing to the sea it came from;
In the end, we all come down to the sea.
When we fled all the cities of Europe from
the plague, and burned them out, we came
down to the earth, back to the earth to live.
And when we had eaten every beast, and
every dog, and every root', and every child
that died, we had to come down to the sea.
For when there is no food on the land, there
are fish in the sea.... We came down to the
sea for we felt the fish stirring in our empty
bellies. And perhaps we also came down'
because there is a hunger in our souls for
some land at the other side of the sea,
where we cannot go We can set a sail
and voyage out, but there is nowhere we
can land, for the plague is our cargo
Now we have only one frontier in Europe,
the frontier of death. We are here, in the
Black Utopia, and there we stay, until the
last bone is picked by the crabs on the
shore.
The play is set in an arcade at the edge
of this most desolate of seas. “The pave-
ment is worn and coated , with a mildew,
and where it slopes down to the quay
the stones are slopped by the green mire
of the sea.” One is reminded of T. S.
Eliot, musing behind the gashouse on
“the king my brother’s death,” and also
of the sombre archway where the gang-
sters of Maxwell Anderson’s Winterset
lie in wait for their victim.
Even a play about the collapse of a
civilisation has to be entertaining, just
as “Macbeth” has to have its Drunken
Porter. Connell’s play is given the neces-
sary warmth and color by the setting of
the second act in the liquor shop with
sceneswit once murderous and Rabelaisian,
and by the richness and humor of his
characterisation.
There are reminiscences of Winterset
again in the naming of the characters—
Jude, Bony, Bott, Spiel, Jane, Flo—and
in the love story of Mark and Nada
which holds the play together. Maxwell
Anderson chose his names Trock,
Garth, Esdras—in attempt to revive the’
spirit of the Elizabethan drama, and
Connell, if he did not learn directly from
Anderson, is trying to do the same thing.
Bony, his broken-down king, plays with
a skull throughout the action, and
although it is named Charley, one expects
every moment to hear him address it with
“Alas, poor Yorick.” But the play is
strongly his own; it is to his credit
rather than otherwise that he has learned
his trade in high places.
The action of the play is somewhat
disappointing. The love story of Mark
and Nada is not enough to make a strong
central drama. Mark the poet and Nada
—a child of the post-war years who has
never known civilised life, yearns for it
but hardly believes it has ever been
possible—go off together courageously, if
pessimistically, into the future, represen-
tatives of the new world. All that can
be done with the representatives of the
old world, the king, the queen, the
bishop, the soldier, the prostitute and the
gangster, is to kill them off or leave them
to disintegration. There might have been
a stronger drama if more had been made
of the killing of the bootlegger by the
pacifist Mark—civilised man ridding the
world of the gangster—but Connell has
not made enough of Mark’s reactions to
his lapse or development into violence.
The virtues of the play are in its imagi-
nation, its incidents, and its richness of
character and dialogue.
It is far the best “end-of-the-world”
play the present commentator has read.
Warnings about what may happen to our
civilisation if it goes on tearing itself to
pieces are common enough ; but there is
nothing common about writing such as
this:
And I thought: Is that Life, the flame in
the eye and the smoke in the nose and the
bell in the ear and the silk in the hand and
the grape in the mouth? Has if no other
medium, and is what remains upon the
wind ash only? Is life only a construction
of bone and flesh and blood and nerve
and sense in man or tiger? Good God,
his life is a thousand years behind his
thought! Is he anchored by that stump
of a tail on his rump to Darwin’s chair?
Must the last Ape die before he can get out
of the Zoo of his civilisation?
The Art of R. W. Sickert, R.A.
Richard Walter Sickert, who died a
couple of years ago at the ripe old age
of 82, occupies in British “arty” circles
a position analagous to that accorded
by the Scottish people to the hero of one
of Gilbert’s best-appreciated ballads:
An air fra’ the bagpipes—beat that if ye can!
Hurrah for Clonglocketty Angus McClan!
Coaxed thereto by Orpen, liaison officer
between all the mansions in the House
of Art —was he not the first Englishman
to rave over Monet? —Sickert assumed an
A.R.A. toga in 1924, exchanging it for
the imperial purple of R.A. in 1934. To
crown all, he shook the dust of the
Academy off his sandals a year later
because the ruling P.R.A, wouldn’t cham-
pion Epstein. It was as if an archbishop
had joined the Rationalist Association.
For an account of Sickert’s life and
work students heretofore have had to rely
mainly on Dr. Robert Emmons’s scarcely
critical eulogy. Now that Faber and
Faber have published Sickert, a set of
reproductions of the artist’s principal
works (87 plates, two in color) with an
excellent brief life by Lillian Browse and
a discussion of Sickert’s art —not at ail
in rhapsodical terms —by R. H. Wilenski,
it is possible to analyse the Sickert Legend
and put it into, some sort of proportion.
Like Cezanne, Sickert had to wait a
long while for fame. As Mr. Wilenski
puts it: “He was a late —an astonishingly
late starter.” He came of a family
artistic traditions of a sort, but
until 1881, when he was 21, the
youngster was an actor. He then mar-
ried money—Ellen Cobden, daughter of
Freetrade Richard, who, although he
ran through more than one fortune, was
always provided with another by his ad-
mirers when the SOS signal was flown.
Now young Sickert was free to follow
his bent. He attended classes at the Slade
School in London and struck up an ac-
quaintance with Whistler, who was never
averse to a properly reverential acolyte.
Sickert was allowed to operate the etching
press; was taught (so far as it was com-
municable) the Whistlerian theory of
painting, and was encouraged to visit
Paris, with a letter of introduction to
Degas,
The environment in these formative
years was not a very propitious one for
a prospective post-impressionist deity.
Jimmy knew the work of Cezanne and
some of his impressionist contemporaries,
but he had quarrelled with all of them
and derided their efforts —his “gentle art
of making enemies” had rather more
exercise than his brush. In the circle was
George Moore, who made fun of Seurat
and other lewd fellows who jeered at
Renoir and Pissarro. In the end, inevit-
ably, Whistler parted brass rags with
Sickert, dismissing his erstwhile disciple
as “an insignificant and irresponsible
person.”
Until 1900, or, in other words, until the
arrival of the post-impressionist fashion,
Sickert had no very eminent position in
the British art world. In Wilenski's
words, he imitated Whistler on Mondays
and Degas on Tuesdays. He was a mem-
ber of the New English Art Club, where
he rubbed shoulders with Wilson Steer
and Augustus John; was a mildly-
esteemed exhibitor at the club’s shows,
and occasionally got a reproduction of one
of his paintings into the “Yellow Book.”
He had a liking for dark interiors
(Whistler’s “color shot with darkness”)
and struck out a new line with pictures
of old music-halls at night, dingy bed-
room scenes and the like. Some of his
portraits attracted attention, but mainly
because of the sitters —such men as
Bradlaugh and George Moore. It was
broadly impressionistic stuff, but, as
Wilenski testifies, in it there was “no
trace of exhibitionism, irresponsibility,
leg-pulling, seeking for applause in
his work all was quiet and unaffected.”
But just at the dawn of the century,
when the 50-years-hidden genius of
Cezanne began to be trumpeted, Sickert
met (the phrase and the italics are his
own) “some very able dealers in Paris”
and had something of the same sort of
revelation as came to Paul on the road
to Damascus —he suddenly “discovered
what Cezanne was about” (a thing that
old gentleman never succeeded in doing
on his own account).
Sickert had already a fuzzy style,
and w r as soon drawing worse, obscur-
ing his intention more impenetrably
and maltreating paint more muddily than
any contemporary exponents of what
Blomfield calls “Modernismus.”
The reproductions in the volume under
review speak for themselves regarding the
twentieth-century development in Sickert’s
style. A characteristic potful of paint in
the public’s face is “The Raising of
Lazarus,” and a portrait of Sir Nigel
Playfair with his right leg dislocated and
clothes that fit him nowhere seems to
have been intended to make people sit up.
Wilenski, summing up Sickert’s art,
argues that the painter justified himself
by producing “something new.” It is a
modest claim, but what was there new
about his work? Its eulogists speak with
bated breath of Sickert’s genius as a color-
ist, but of genius or of newness there is
no impressive evidence in the two colored
plates of the Faber volume. “La
Guiseppina”—a woman’s head with a
Japanesy hair-do—strikes a color-chord
familiar to the monks who painted
missals, and “Sirens Aboard,” a recollec-
tion of the crinolined ladies of the ’seven-
ties, painted in 1936 (it is a copy of a
design by an illustrative artist), shows no
more originality in color than in drawing.
A. W.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Albert Namatjira’s water-colors at
Myer’s Mural Hall, Melbourne, are con-
cerned with the spectral ghost gums of
the Mac Donnell Ranges, the red sand and
purple ranges and naked contours of
Ullumbaura. Rex Battarbee was the
aboriginal artist’s teacher. The break
with tradition is underlined by some
shields, boomerangs and other objects
from the collection of S. Mitchell.
Namatjira’s style is said to be spreading
amongst the Arunta tribe, of which he is
a member.
Hal Missingham, a collection of whose
water-colors at present occupies the walls
of the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is
another victim of the current English
water-color fashion, in which a few stand-
ardised symbols are used to represent
any sort of landscape. Mr. Missingham
has a tree symbol, a sky symbol and two
or three sorts of earth symbols, and these
are combined and permuted to represent
various topographical aspects of the
River Murray and adjoining country. Oc-
casionally a sketch is devoted to an indi-
vidual feature of the landscape such as a
dead tree, but again without more feeling
than a map-maker exhibits in defining the
location of Bogaduck Junction. A figure
study, “Firefighters Resting,” shows
humor and sympathy and outweighs all
the rest of the show in the ratio of one
ton to half an ounce.
“Mac Hoots”: Extract from “S. M.
Herald’s” review of Hal Missingham's
show:
All his best works are placed in a key
of quiet melancholy... .Fine works include
“Edge of the Billabong,” “Evening Land-
scape,” “Mitta Mitta Below Eskdale” and
“Privy Amongst the Willows.”
Comment would be a profanation.
“Cauboy” on the Singing Barber:
When a few weeks ago Joseph Schepsi, the
large and handsome barber of Prahran,
announced that as an unknown tenor he pro-
posed to test Australian musical appreciation
by hiring the Town Hall for a concert and
charging four guineas a seat, the same as his
hair-dos, musical Melbourne was staggered. If
he succeeded in filling the Town Hall, Schepsi
added, he would give further concerts; if he
failed he would retire gracefully from the lime-
light, having proved something or other. He
succeeded in nearly filling the Town Hall, and,
presuming all the seats were paid for, except
those announced as having been presented to
Allied service men and service women, the
takings would amount to approximately
£12,000, an Australian record unapproached by
any singer, from Crooks to Tauber, since Melba
drew a fee of £4OOO from a wealthy Sydney
patron for singing two songs at a private party.
Evidently the spectacle of his good fortune
overwhelmed Schepsi, for in some numbers he
produced a voice that would cause delight if
it came from a child at a school break-up but
only pained surprise if it came from a dis-
tinguished singer. It may have been an attack
of nerves which caused successive attacks on
certain top notes to fall short of their objec-
tives, Still, great singers have made worse errors.
His enterprise certainly gave Mr. Schepsi’s
patrons a pleasant evening of light music,
purveyed by the Melbourne Modern Symphonic
Orchestra, plus that fine trumpet-player John
Robertson. Outside the hall a crowd which
had turned up to see how many people were
prepared to back their fancy to the extent of
four guineas held up the traffic.
Old-timer though it is, Ivor Novello’s
“Fresh Fields” still seems fresh in the
afternoons at Sydney Royal. Good-
humoredly satirising an Australian family
in England (and, incidentally, the Eng-
lish family who entertain them) it
caused something of a rumpus when it
was first written; but the present-day
audience seems, sensibly, delighted to see
itself caricatured on the stage. The play
is remarkably well acted —in particular
by Kevin Brennan, who has previously
been known, only in radio work or at
May Hollinworth’s S.U.D.S. productions.
With a rich and strong speaking voice,
a sure sense for character and the “per-
sonality” that takes command of a stage
and an audience, Brennan should go a
long way. Lesley Pope plays a young
girl charmingly, and Aileen Britton gives
one of her very best performances as the
willowy Lady Lilian. Enid Lorimer and
Ethel Bashford are convincing as the
matron of England and the matron of
Australia.
Dymphna Cusack’s “Red Sky at Morn-
ing” has had a week’s run at the National
Theatre in Melbourne, and the novelty
of seeing Australian history in an Aus-
tralian setting instead of in a textbook
drew large houses to Eastern Hill, where
a group of enthusiasts dreams of estab-
lishing a home for the indigenous drama.
The piece was handsomely staged, and
Sydney Conabere, Verna Treloar, Alfred
Davidson, Muriel Heame, Nancy Gregory
and Jack Lonergan acted with feeling the
simple theme of the convict who makes
off with the officer’s wife.
For the first time since she and her
violinist husband arrived in Australia,
the A.B.C. invited The Bulletin’s musi-
cal critic to listen to pianist Eileen Ralph,
the occasion being her appearance in
Rachmaninoff’s Second Concerto. This
work, though not such an effective piece
of showmanship as the famous First,
makes heavy demands upon the soloist.
Miss Ralph proved herself easily equal
to these demands. She has a quite mas-
culine touch, keen musical intelligence
and a capacity for enjoying her own play-
ing that increases the pleasure of her
hearers. The Rachmaninoff Second,
“honey on jam, eaten with sobs,” as
Huneker described it, was better served
than it deserved, though not by the
orchestra, which seemed to be struggling
against too strong a tide.
At the talkies:
Classical ballet on ice is presented by Sonja
Henie in “Wintertime” (Sydney Empire). To
Tschaikowsky’s “Dance of the Flowers” the
dainty Sonja and her partner waltz with much
grace, and in succeeding numbers the corps de
ballet whizzes spectacularly. Later the
“ballerina” does some solo work, her white
costume against black ice giving a beautiful
effect. The trifling story is bolstered with some
fair comedy work by Jack Oakie and Cesar
Romero.
Despite the wild improbabilities of the story,
which as bellowdrammer lacks only the tradi-
tional villain who twirls his moustachios and
walks like a crab, while uttering fierce asides
in a stage whisper, “Desperate Journey” (Tatler)
is chock-full of excitement, and drives along at
a terrific bat from fade-in to Errol Flynn’s
triumphant exit after having confounded
Gestapo men from Poland to Holland. The
dependable Raymond Massey makes a good bad
Nazi and Ronald Reagan does the strong-arm
stuff with biceps bulging.
“True to Life,” at Sydney’s Prince Edward,
isn’t, but it’s snappy and amusing, with an
impossible plot of two radio writers, Franchot
Tone and Dick Powell, barging into Mary
Martin’s family and putting it on the air to
advertise somebody’s soap. It’s lucky in having
a good cast of “bit” players.
In “Hi-di-hi,” Melbourne Tiv.’s latest
distribution of artistic nourishment,
George Wallace bulks large, both physi-
cally and artistically. Unlike some of
his hard-working comrades, the well-
covered comedian only has to stand about
the stage to raise explosive titters. In
this occupation he is ably aided and
abetted by Jenny Howard, who is pre-
pared to torture and distort her face and
figure to any extent demanded by the
public. A feature of the current pro-
gramme is the local talent, notably the
brothers Weate and Bob Murray, who
juggles for a living. Page and Nona, who
do things on the wire the present com '
mentator couldn’t do on his mattress, and
the Lazanders have been seen before but
are as remarkable as ever. The staging
has a rationed appearance.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE”
V 7 '
-/ /-d
N
2/rr 1
IK
I
&
I >
«
)
FOR THE MECHANIC
Greases, fats, oils, as well as other dirt,
will be entirely removed and all bacteria
killed. Unlike most germicides, the
pleasant fragrance of tea-tree oil used in
Palace Antiseptic Liquid Soap vanishes
so quickly that any article of personal
use may be used immediately and will
be completely disinfected too.
a
\7
C-l
v--
/X)-'
• v/'
\
r
rTi
FOR THE HOUSEWIFE
This soap is of great value to the
housewife in her general duties. It
does not affect woollens or delicate
fabrics. Its fragrance and lather
will delight you. It perfectly deodor-
ises all garments and destroys all
germs. Cleanses perfectly all crock-
ery, cutlery, etc. Its fragrance van-
ishes immediately and no odour re-
mains about the utensils. For this
reason it may be used safely in
cafes, milk bars, etc. It is also a
protection against mouth infections.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT-
GROUND FLOOR
'Tee-
PALACE
ANTISEPTIC
LIQUID
SOAP
- V'
The ideal general cleaner made up from the
finest and purest ingredients. A non-poison-
dus deodorant and non-irritating cleanser.
Free from caustics and has a superior emul-
sifying and absorbing quality.
PALACE LIQUID SOAP incorporates the most
powerful disinfectant oil, distilled from
selected leaf of the finest species of Aus-
tralian Tea-Tree. Its antiseptic, germicidal
and healing properties are unsurpassable.
Sizes: 2f gallons, 21/-; 5-gallon drums, 37/6
Pk <
r i
9
ft
V
rn ci
FOR THE DOCTOR OR DENTIST
In the Surgery, alhinstruments, uniforms and fowels
must be kept sterile. Palace Antiseptic Soap is the
germicide for this purpose. Its powerful antiseptic
properties are superior to other disinfectants. Used
as a mouth wash in dental surgeries it has healing
and purifying properties.
s:
FOR THE NURSE
Invaluable to the nurse for cleaning hospital
floors, lockers, uniforms and personal
articles. As articles used in hospitals have
to be sterile, Palace Antiseptic Soap comes
to the fore because of the germ-killing
properties it possesses.
If
mm, r
v
5^
si
/Mm
7s
\
if'i#
A
\
FOR THE FARMER
In the great out-of-doors, farmers find
this antiseptic liquid soap invalu-
able. Animals must be treated with
a disinfectant and germicide when
they have diseases or sores, and so
this soap will kill all bacteria and
germs that are in the infections. Milk
cans and dairy sheds can be
cleaned and kept fresh and sweet
with this soap.
SPEED THE VICTORY!
SUPPORT THE
FIRST VICTORY LOAN,
CLOSING 9th MAY
ONY HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
famous low Friges
Telegraphic Address: Hordernia, Sydney
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


MY SENTIMENTAL AUNT
By GENE DOWELL.
HUMPY JOE lived with us when we
lived at Dandenup. At least, he
didn’t exactly live with us. He
lived in an old iron tank which
stood right up against the house just out-
side the fence.
The tank was an old, square iron one
lying on its side, so that the hole in the
top made an entrance. Humpy Joe was
small and humpbacked, with a yellowed
moustache fringing his mouth. His eyes
were dark and shy like the eyes of a
wallaby, and his face was wrinkled with
age and exposure to the weather. He
liked being in the bush more than he
liked being anywhere else, but he did
not like to work, and therefore it seemed
a logical thing for him to sleep in the
tank, which provided a weatherproof
shelter at nights without the cost of up-
keep or rent.
No one in the district minded very
much because Humpy Joe slept in the
tank. They said it was a disgrace, but
they left it at that. Even my grand-
mother, who slept the light sleep of the
old, and who might have had good cause
to complain at being awakened by the
metallic thump which accompanied
Humpy’s going to bed, said nothing
about it. Only Aunt Amy objected, and
this was on humanitarian grounds.
. That was always the way with my Aunt
Amy. Everyone said she ought to worry
more about herself instead of wearing
herself out the way she did, worrying
about everyone else. They said she was
too soft-hearted. She reached out for
the sorrows of life, and, clasping them
to her bosom, wept over them as though
they were her own. Of Humpy Joe she
painted such a picture of lonely old age,
poverty and misery that even I, shelter-
ing beneath the callousness of early
youth, was forced to drop a few grudging
tears of pity. It seemed suddenly that a
tank was a heartbreaking, unhappy
home for Humpy Joe, and my sympa-
thies were all with Aunt Amy when she
brought her monologue to a close by
suggesting that we should make room for
him in our house.
My grandmother, however, being made
of sterner and more practical stuff,
flattened this proposal by asking briskly
where Humpy Joe would sleep, as we had
only two rooms as it was, not counting
the kitchen, which was made of flattened
kerosene-tins halfway up and sugar-
bags the rest of the way. She said, also,
that if it wasn’t for the way some people
went to extremes in their sympathy for
animals we might have had a bathroom,
too, but there it was.
This was meant as a reflection on Aunt
Amy, and went back to the time my
grandmother and I spent a lot of time
unpicking sugar-bags and stitching them
together again and nailing them on the
uprights where we had decided to have a
bathroom. My grandmother had been
very pleased and said that once it had a
coat of whitewash it would be the mak-
ings of the place. So we went off to
borrow some whitewash from Mr.
Bennett, who lived a mile or so down
the road, and who had promised to let us
have some as soon as the work was
ready. While we were gone Aunt Amy’s
soft heart was touched to pity by the
bleating of the goat chained in the scrub
outside, and she let it off the chain. The
goat got through our fence and ate the
bathroom as far as it could reach. Some-
how we never had the heart to do it
again, so we went on having our baths in
a tub in the kitchen.
ALTHOUGH Humpy Joe lived with
us in a manner of speaking, our
social intercourse with him was very
slight. Sometimes, if he borrowed Mr.
Bennett’s gun and went out shooting, he
would bring us back rabbits or kangaroo
tails and shyly leave them on our back
verandah. Once, when he met me running
from the thickest part of the bush in
fright because the birds were not singing
there and the gums were so tall that they
rustled up against the sky—a faraway,
unfriendly noise—he took me back again
to show me that there was nothing there
to fear. He showed me the little heaps
of rocks where the natives were buried
with their woomeras and boomerangs
and spears, and the deep pits where the
convicts sawed logs in the early days,
and succeeded in so peopling the bush
that I never walked there again without
a prickling of the skin and panic thump-
ing at my ribs.
Sometimes Humpy Joe slept out in
the bush, and for nights on end we would
not hear the familiar thump in the tank
which told of his return. When he was
about the place we gave him some of
what we had to eat, but he would never
eat in the house, preferring to take his
plate into the open if it were fine or into
the tank if it were not. He was bashful
and did not care for females very much,
although he liked my grandmother in a
silent way.
Aunt Amy always looked sorrowful
when she dished out Humpy’s food, and
she said “Poor old soul! All on his own
like that. It’s enough to break your
heart! ”
This aggravated my grandmother, for
she felt that so much sentimentality was
a sign of mental instability, although she
did not phrase it in exactly that way.
Aunt Amy’s softheartedness was a
source of constant annoyance to my
grandmother and the cause of a great
deal of bickering between them.
Aunt Amy was not only sentimental
about Humpy Joe and the goat, but
about everything else as well, including
the fowls. She had a pet fowl, a big
Black Orpington called Hettie, who used
to get out of the pen and eat the Cape
gooseberries from the bush in the front
yard. When Hettie died Aunt Amy cried
and buried her under the gooseberry
bush, because she said she would like
to be there more than anywhere else. My
grandmother put up a little tombstone on
the grave, thinking that this would be
construed as sarcasm and make Aunt
Amy wild, but Aunt Amy was so pleased
she cried a lot more and said she didn’t
know my grandmother had it in her.
But even my grandmother was upset
when Humpy Joe had to leave us.
IT began with some people coming in
* a car and talking to my grandmother,
and looking in Humpy Joe’s tank.
After they had gone my grandmother told
me Humpy Joe would have to go
and live at the Old Men’s Home unless
he had some visible means of support.
However, she looked on the bright side
of things, and said at least there was
one thing about it, and that was the
people at the Home would see that
Humpy had a bath regularly. After
thinking this over, though, she admitted
there were no statistics to prove that
people were any happier when they were
clean than when they were dirty.
That night, for the last time, I heard
Humpy Joe thump into his tank, and
wondered if he knew about having to
leave us. My grandmother must have
told him, because next morning he had
all his belongings out in the sun, and
was looking them over to see what he
would take with him. Besides some dirty
old rugs and a few clothes, he had a
skinning knife, an empty cartridge case,
a raw kangaroo hide and a silver tea-
spoon with an emu engraved on the
handle. When the people came with the
car to take him away he gave me the
silver teaspoon to keep in remembrance
of him.
We all stood and waved good-bye to
him as he went off, and Aunt Amy cried
and said that she was sure Humpy Joe
would break his heart if he had to live
away from the bush. I jumped up and
down and felt solemnly pleased about
the teaspoon, because it had occurred
to me that it was an heirloom. When
the car had gone, and Aunt Amy had
rushed away to cry on her own, my
grandmother said “I can do with that
teaspoon. We’re running short of them.
And stop jigging about and go and hoe
the beans.” She whisked the teaspoon
out of my hand and made off.
I went to hoe the beans, but in the
middle of a row began to cry, because
I was disturbed at being robbed of my
heirloom, and Aunt Amy came and
found me crying and was very sympa-
thetic, thinking that I was crying about
Humpy Joe.
Several nights later I was awakened
by Aunt Amy. She was shaking me and
saying “Hist!” When she saw that I was
awake she said “Humpy Joe’s back. 1
heard him get in the tank.” I looked at
her, half-asleep, and with my mind sud-
denly filled with a vision of Humpy
escaping from the Home and coming
secretly at night, back along the white
road, where the gums leaned over and
made black bars across the moonlight.
Looked at like that, as I came up from
sleep, it made a mysterious and frighten- -
ing picture, and I shivered as I climbed
quietly from bed so as not to awaken
my grandmother, I padded after Aunt
Amy into the yard, and we went and
looked in Humpy Joe’s tank, but there
was nothing there, not even a possum
or a rat. Aunt Amy looked at me, and
in the moonlight her eyes were big and
dark as purple plums.
“It must have been a ghost,” she whis-
pered, and I turned and made for the
house, as though spectral fingers were
plucking at my nightgown. When we got
back my grandmother was sitting up in
bed, and when she heard Aunt Amy’s
story she was annoyed. She said “You
probably heard a possum, and you had
no business taking the child out on a wild-
goose chase, catching her death of cold.”
She and Aunt Amy argued about it till
all hours.
Next morning Aunt Amy told Mrs.
Bennett about it when she called. “It’s
my belief Humpy Joe is dead of a broken
heart and that was his ghost,” she said.
In no time the news of Humpy Joe’s
death had spread over the district, and
people dropped in casually to hear my
Aunt Amy telling about the thump in the
tank. My grandmother said it was a lot
of nonsense, but people seemed to be
more interested in Aunt Amy’s version,
Aunt Amy always cried when she told
people about Humpy Joe’s spirit coming
back to the tank, and everyone said Aunt
Amy couldn’t have been more fond of
old Humpy if he’d been her own kith
and kin.
After a time the excitement died down,
but for a long time Aunt Amy used to
cry a little when she thought about
Humpy Joe, and whenever she washed
up she would look at the silver teaspoon
with the emu engraved on it and shake
her head and say “Poor old soul!”
A FTER Humpy Joe had been gone a
** year he came back one day. No one
knew why he had left the Old Men’s
Home or if he had stayed there at all.
Humpy didn’t explain. He got work
down at Pirey’s place doing odd jobs,
and whenever he had a day off he dis-
appeared into the bush. His reappear-
ance was a great shock to some people,
but others said they had been expecting
it all the time, and you couldn’t fool
them with any ghost stories. He came
up sometimes to have a yam with my
grandmother, but Aunt Amy didn’t seem
to care for him so much. She said he
was a dirty, dilapidated old ruin, and she
didn’t see what my grandmother could
see in him.
YOUR MOTHER IS A
WOMAN, SON
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
i < I' """\OMEN,” my dad says, “are like
\A / tbe outs^ders a Melbourne
VV Cup—you never know what
they’ll do next or why. And
because they are what they are one of
the things he always tells me is never to
let a woman get anything on “A
man is dead mutton, he says, if a
woman gets something on him.
I believe him, too, because my mum
has something on my dad, and he should
know.
It seems my dad has a beast in him
somewhere, and he made the mistake of
letting my mum find out about it. If
he does anything now that doesn’t please
her she puckers her lips up tight like dry
leather and says, in a sweet voice that
somehow gives the opposite effect “I know
you can’t help it, William. It’s just the
beast in you” Or when we have visitors
, ~ * „„„ . a _ . „
she just says What sin must come out,
and I tell you the way she says it makes
my dad feel pretty ashamed.
The beast in my dad came out one
Saturday morning when my mum got
busy and boiled his pipe. It was a good
strong pipe that my mum said you could
detect a mile away with the breeze in the
right direction, and I think there must
have been a fair bit of phenyle in the
boiling water, because the pipe came out
smelling like a freshly scrubbed lavatory,
My dad took one whiff and looked at my
mum in a slow, dangerous' way I’d never
seen before. “A man, Henrietta,” he said
sort of quietly and carefully, “can stand
just so much.” Then he knocked her
down.
My mum didn’t say anything, but just
lay floundering on the kitchen floor get-
ting red as a cock’s comb from the neck
up and blowing hard through her nose,
I was a bit scared, and I told my dad
I thought he’d better clear out for a
\vhile. My dad pushed his hat back on
his head and wiped his forehead with
his shirtsleeve. He looked scared like me
and bewildered and a bit surprised, too,
and he kept saying over and over to him-
self “I’ve winded her. She can’t talk,
I’ve winded the old girl.”
Then my mum started making noises
like a chaffcutter, and he left. He didn’t
stop to fasten the wire door, and I
watched him getting off towards the
stables with the hammer in the hip pocket
of his tight working pants jumping up
and down briskly like it always does
when he’s in a hurry.
He didn’t turn up to tea that night,
er j ea m y mum sat in front of thc
g re w ith a patient, suffering look on her
f ace an d her hands folded quietly in her
lap< j fiddle d about doing things, pre-
tending there was nothing unusual hap-
pening, and all the time my heart was in
m y mouth listening for my dad’s foot-
steps They came at last, his long clumsy
steps and the click of the wire door open-
ing. Then I heard him start to whistle,
and it sounded like the way I whistle
when I’ve been sent to the headmaster
and I don t want the rest of the kids to
know I m scared.
When he came in my mum didn’t look
at bbn ’ but J us t sighed and eased herself
P amfuU Y out of her chair, although I
know she wasnt hurt, and said in a holy
sort of way “Ask your father if he would
ljke his fca now
been
same ever since. She
doesn’t speak to him at all except to
sa y “j y OU can ’t help it, William.,
if s the beast in you,” or something like
that, or to ask if there is anything he
wants, and then she only asks through
me. We’ll all be sitting at the table, and
she’ll say to me very politely “Ask your
father if he would like another cup of
tea.” I feel silly and don’t know what to
do, and my dad keeps his eyes on his
plate and pushes his cup across the table
in a miserable sort of way that makes me
feel hot all over.
The one thing I can’t make out is why
my mum is so good to him all of a
sudden. She waits on him and cooks
things he likes and doesn’t put starch in
his Sunday collar, and all the time she’s
a $ mad as a stirred-up ants’ nest, you
can tell. You can tell, even though her
face looks sort of soft and floppy and
injured like my dad’s cocker bitch when
he locks her in the barn. And it’s
a funny thing, but somehow I know
it makes my dad feel worse than if she’d
blow up, as she used to.
My dad and I don’t talk about it, but
sometimes we look at each other puzzled,.
and his look says “Don’t try to work it
out, son. Your mother is a woman, and my
look says “I know, like an outsider
in a Melbourne Cup.” Then we smile
at each other friendly, and I feel sad in
a nice sort of way, thinking about what
my dad and I have to put up with.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3351.
Wednesday, May 3, 1944.
LIKE STOUT CORTEZ
(When with eagle eyes he stared at the Pacific).
“It is too early in the piece yet to say that Mr. Curtin has conquered America....But....”— The adoring Melbourne “Argus."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
. London, E.C.4.
WHO’S "TEPID"?
In these days of nervous tension extra-
ordinary things get into the papers —or
some papers. For example, a London
“Daily Mail” assertion, quoted by the
New York “World-Telegram,” that a
British business and Parliamentary group,
composed for the most part of “sentimen-
talists brought up in Japan, nervous die-
hards and Far Eastern merchants,” is
working for a compromise peace with
Japan. The “World-Telegram” found this
“disturbing,” but not so “disturbing” as
the “charge,” also attributed to the
“Daily Mail,” that English people view
the war in the Pacific with “a tepid eye,”
and that the Churchill Government is
making no effort to “arouse either self-
interest or idealism.”
The New York paper published some
mischievous stuff on its own account.
“From the beginning,” it declared,
“American opinion has been supersensi-
tive regarding British policy in the Far
East.” It accused the British Govern-
ment of having “broken its pledge to
Washington to apply joint sanctions
against Japan for the rape of Man-
churia,” though pledge there was none
nor did any specific proposal for “joint
sanctions” come from Washington, and of
having been the cause of “friction during
the Allied war against Jap aggression”—
Friction over Churchill’s successful insis-
tence for two years that the Pacific remain
a secondary front, over Britain’s refusal to
use Chinese troops to save [!] Burma in
1942, over Britain’s refusal to permit Ameri- ,
can good offices in her India dispute, over
Churchill’s announcement last year that
there would be large-scale British demobili-
sation after Hitler’s defeat [no reference to
the later “announcement,” which should
have cleared away all false impressions, or
to the solemn pledge given to Chiang Kai-
shek at Cairo] and over the current Mount-
batten-Stilwell dispute on British delays in
the south-east Asia campaign.
At last the British Government is aware
that this Far East friction is not helping
Anglo-American relations... .But words
won’t lick Japan. And Churchill pledges
will not produce full public support after
European victory unless the British people,
who will be war-weary when European
peace comes, understand the issue.
All this, like the “Daily Mail” article,
is nonsense, and dangerous nonsense.
Britain, like the U.S.A., has never been
without pacifists, crackpots or worse, but
even if the alleged pro-Japan group is
not merely a figment of the “Daily Mail’s”
often-excited imagination, it is no more
likely to influence British policy than
the Peace Now movement is likely to
influence United States policy. War-
weary or not, the English and the
people of the Dominions will be
in the war in the Pacific till the
end. The English realise fully that unless
Japan is defeated their Asian empire will
be lost, and, as Sir John Anderson made
it clear in his Budget speech, their finan-
cial measures will go hand in hand
with their military measures. So do
the southern Dominions realise that
unless Japan is defeated —and Mr. Curtin,
accepting the MacArthur-Nimitz strategy,
said in Washington that the defeat of
Japan must be consummated in Asia itself
—their existence as free self-governing
communities will be clouded, if not
extinguished.
Reports of “differences” between the
India and South-east Asia commands,
specifically between General Auchinleck
and Admiral Mountbatten, have been
explicitly and emphatically denied by the
Secretary of State for India. The “World-
Telegram’s” reference to “the current
Mountbatten-Stilwell dispute” may be just
as ill-founded. In any case, the “World-
Telegram” has no reason to worry about
British policy in the Far East. Russian
policy in the Far East is another matter.
It gives real cause for concern, especially
to Marshal Chiang Kai-shek, who was at
Cairo with Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill but not at Tehran with the
Anglo-American leaders and Marshal
Stalin, and to his sorely-tried people.
The Russia-Is-Always-Right gentry had
the gall to claim the new series of Russo-
Japanese agreements, which cover Sak-
halin coal and oil as well as the Kam-
chatka and other fisheries, and are all
within the scope of the Molotov-Mat-
suoka Neutrality Pact, as “a diplomatic
victory for the U.S.S.R.” One clause
of the Sakhalin part of the agreement
makes nonsense of this characteristically
one-eyed and servile interpretation. It
provides that Japan is to get 50,000 tons
of Sakhalin oil for five years “after the
present war.” The only war in which
Russia is engaged and the only one men-
tioned in even the Anglo-Russian treaty
of alliance is “the war against Hitlerite
Germany and its satellites.”
A Chungking interpretation of the
agreement was that it set the Japs free to
concentrate against the Chinese in the
Honan province. Not the Communist
Chinese, who, though greatly admired by
the Leftist press, being “masters of mobile
warfare over a shifting front,” are not
recorded to have done any fighting or
shifting for a very long time, but the
troops of Chiang Kai-shek. There are no
Communists among the Chinese soldiers
fighting alongside Americans in the north
of Burma under gallant old Stilwell’s
command.
Chungking had another reason for per-
turbation in a Tass Agency allegation
(denied) that Chinese troops from Sin-
kiang had invaded Outer Mongolia,
known at Moscow as the Mongolian
People’s Republic, and in “a firm con-
viction” attributed by the Tass Agency
“to leading Government circles in the
Mongolian People’s Republic”:
In the event of further similar violations
the Soviet Government, in virtue of its
treaty of mutual assistance with the Mon-
golian People’s Republic, will be compelled
to protect its territorial security.
There is a chapter on Outer Mongolia
in a Royal Institute of International
Affairs publication, a third edition of
which was issued from the Oxford Uni-
versity Press in October, 1941. It is there
stated that, “although the U.S.S.R. pro-
fesses to recognise China’s sovereignty
over Outer Mongolia, the latter is to all
intents and purposes a Soviet protec-
torate.”
The Japs, pushing into Manchukuo,
“succeeded in outflanking considerably
more than half of the Outer Mongolia
frontier,” and “throughout the spring of
1936 there was continuous border fight-
ing in which both Japanese and Soviet
forces took part.” In 1936 an American
newspaper proprietor cast up in Moscow,
and to this gentleman in March, 1936, “M.
Stalin made an important statement: if
Japan attempted to destroy Outer Mon-
golia’s independence the U.S.S.R. would
come to Outer Mongolia’s assistance ‘in
the same way as we helped in 1921.’ ” In
the same month the Japanese Foreign
Office was informed that on March 12
the U.S.S.R. and Outer Mongolia had
signed a protocol by which the former
undertook to assist Outer Mongolia.
The text, which was published on April 8,
revealed the existence since November, 1934,
of a Gentleman’s Agreement between the
two Powers, to have effect for ten years. It
provided that, in the event of a menace of
attack upon the territory of either party by
a third State, the two Governments would
immediately consult together and take “all
measures necessary for the protection and
security of their territories.” In the event
of military attack they would render each
other every assistance, including military
assistance.
Though the Japs are stated to have re-
sented this agreement they lodged no
diplomatic objection. China, however,
protested that the thing was a violation
of a Sino-Soviet treaty (May, 1924) recog-
nising Chinese suzerainty over Outer
Mongolia. M. Litvinov denied that it
implied any infringement of Chinese
sovereignty or any territorial claims, and
reaffirmed the validity of the 1924 treaty.
In 1939 there was “fighting between
Soviet-Mongolian and Japanese-Manchu-
kuo forces which assumed the dimensions
of a small war.” An armistice was
arranged on September 15, after the
Japanese had suffered “a serious defeat,”
and “an agreement on the'demarcation
of the frontier between Manchukuo and
Outer Mongolia was reached on June 10,
1940.”
There followed on April 13, 1941, the
signing at Moscow of the Neutrality Pact,
which is good for five years, and, “unless
previously denounced, shall then be auto-
matically regarded as renewed for a fur-
ther five years.” There was also a joint
broadcast statement in which Japan
pledged itself to respect “the territorial
integrity and inviolability of the People’s
Republic of Mongolia,” and the U.S.S.R.
pledged itself to respect “the territorial
integrity and inviolability of the Empire
of Manchukuo.” Chiang Kai-shek’s
Foreign Minister promptly stated that
“the Soviet-Japanese declaration has no
binding force whatsoever on China,”
which claims all Manchukuo and Mon-
golia, Inner and Outer.
Chinese fears of a Japanese drive in
Honan proved only too well founded. The
enemy invaded Honan with greater
forces than he had previously employed
there, crossed the Yellow River for the
first time since 1938 and got astride an
important railway, “Washington ob-
servers” sized up his offensive as “the
long-expected big-scale gamble to knock
Free China out of the war and prevent
U.S. air forces from establishing bases
threatening the Japanese mainland.”
Other “observers” reported that the
enemy had captured the railway junction
of Cheng or Chengchow, was smashing
his wav westward and might be aiming
at Chungking, 400-odd miles to the south-
west. Friday brought the news that “the
offensive has already overrun 1800 square
miles of the heart of the wheatgrowing
area, where a record crop was expected,”
sequel—familiar in Australia —to a crop
failure. That will doubtless mean that
many more poor people will die of
famine and famine-bred disease.
What is going on in Honan is really
more important to Australia than
what is going on in Bessarabia or on the
Estonian border. But perhaps if Free
China is demonstrably in danger of being
knocked out or starved out, or if the
Outer Mongolia treaty is invoked against
it, Australian Communists will stage a
wharf strike at Port Kembla or some-
where, “to help our Chinese comrades in
the fight against Fascism.”
Latest Anzac Day.
As celebrated in Sydney last week, 1944’s
Anzac Day was in some ways the most
remarkable to date. A higher note of
enthusiasm than ever before. All of it
more animated, on a livelier key. And
this goes for the marching Diggers as
well as for the crowds.
The whole city’s people seemed to have
massed themselves along the route. They
didn’t merely line the street barricades
the thin, silent, drab grey lines of some
previous years, watching a procession of
men whose purpose and reason for being
there, moving along in a tide of silence
to an unseen destination, seemed their
own secret, something that had been lost
in transit or was in the way of being
lost. Now the citizen crowds, with some
uniforms among them, massed from the
barricades back to the walls.
There wasn’t a window that hadn’t a
face at it. They appeared in rows along
the edges of roofs. They hung high on
hoardings that swayed with their weight.
They hung in bunches in trees. But the
great bulk of them stood in dense masses
on each side, so that the marchers, in
broad ranks, went forward through
canyons of people.
The crowds, as well as being huge,
weren’t quiet. They weren’t boisterous or
hard to manage. None ever less so. But
they shook echoes out of buildings that
aren’t used to doing that sort of thing.
A big increase of yelling youngsters.
Maybe there are more of them about
now with war relationships, so to speak.
At their shrillest when the New Diggers
hove into sight, they made themselves
heard all along the way. They may have
infected their elders. However this was,
the adult crowds, too, were quite aston-
ishingly vocal for Sydney crowds, which
mostly take processions of all sorts a
shade dourly, not to say glumly. This
time they used their lungs, and, what was
oddest of all, the noises that came out
of them were happy noises. They were
gay. Sydney was gay. It stayed gay in
patches all day.
They were all glad about something.
It couldn’t be that, because these men
marching were all men who’d been to
war and were here back again, all hands
had suddenly become mesmerised into
believing, for the moment, that war was
over! It might, perhaps, have been that
the marching men, because they were
men returned from war, did demonstrate
that wars do end sometime for some,
and so symbolise the ending of this
present war one day for all.
All a bit puzzling, it was also para-
doxical. Hitherto the Day had not been
a complete city holiday—a complete
national holiday, for that matter—as it
was this time. Hitherto the marching
men had their reunions in the afternoon
to look forward to —for many of them
the one occasion of the year they looked
forward to ; with something to help make
the getting together convivial; with
arrangements made on the side with the
wife and whatnot that so things should
be on this one Day, if on no other.
Not so in this Year of the Wars 1944.
This year all that was officially taboo.
That some managed to run down a pass-
able ration before the day was out is
not to the point. Authority was no doubt
resigned to that probability, anyway —
perhaps knowing a bit itself about the
art of scrounging. The point is that
Authority proclaimed that this year the
Day should be a close holiday, with the
intention that it should be profoundly
solemn.
The idea may have been sound or
otherwise. Digger opinion varied. Some
described “the Government” as “lousy,”
with colorful addenda. Some held that
in view of the mixed forces in Sydney
this year it was a good thing. Some held
that at least Authority might have come
to light with a rum issue. The fact stood,
that, sound or otherwise, the intention
was to make this Anzac Day as solemn
as possible—to have it, in fact, an addi-
tional church day, with the solemnity
intensified.
That was the idea. And here was the
Day—the march part of it, that is—almost
turned to carnival! Perish the thought
that no deep-seated reason relating to
war need be sought for this—that it was
merely that all Sydney had been given
a holiday, and that all Sydney likes a holi-
day. Perhaps it showed that Australians
generally have the collective tail up.
Right or wrong, one feeling running
high was that the war is going well. On
the very morning of the Day the papers
had come out with exciting stories of
great new landings up along New Guinea.
The Jap was getting his issue up there,
as the Germans were getting theirs from
the unimaginable bombings, with the in-
vasion armies poised to go over.
This feeling things in the war are
going better —was widespread among the
Diggers. They didn’t see it ending over-
night, but they saw it as greatly improved
since they’d last been together for an
Anzac Day. And that did them, many
of them having their own sons there.
Considering how long ago it all hap-
pened—so long ago that Anzac is now an
almost completely faded vision, while a
Day only most dimly related to it has
taken its place—these marching Diggers
were in amazingly strong force. Their
collective view on what practically
amounted to a veto against using this
Day —their own day—for their reunions
and unit jollifications might be worth
having if it could be got; but the veto
made no difference to the roll-up. Some
of the real hardheads might have been
noted as missing in groups powwowing in
the Domain before the march, but when
the march got going it seemed as if
there’d be no end to the Old Diggers, as
they went out from the palms of the
“Dom.” and up Macquarie-street twelve
abreast!
Most emphatically a matter of con-
venience before elegance, this brand of
marching, whoever invented it. Troops
at their top, in full training and trained
for it, can make something of it; but
certainly not men who over the years
have been transforming back into civi-
lians again. Jnstructor-sergeantsi and the
like are advised to get into the march
by all means; never stand on the side-
lines looking on. It induces apoplexy
or an urge to rush to the nearest, which,
of course, was shut.
Still, in lesser numbers abreast, this
Day’s Diggers might be passing yet. Any-
way, the crowd didn’t seem to mind ;
and at least the school bands, the Scottie
bands, the air-aspirant youngsters’ bands,
the Salvation Army bands and the rest,
fitted in between units and lifting their
feet for them with an astounding variety
of musical sounds, all looked the march-
ing part. Also, the Old Diggers, who
went ahead, had no great cause to feel
self-conscious on account of the possible
marching of the New Diggers, coming
along as a rearguard.
Did these New chaps get a hoy! They
carried new banners, with new names
aloft, such as Libya, Greece, Crete,
Malaya (this did things to the crowd!),
and at least one Dig. holding aloft a pole
topped with a strange device, a lean rat,
lettered, of course, “Tobruk.”
There was not such a whole lot of
difference between the Old and the New.
The New, naturally, were a lot younger,
but a fair proportion of them marched
in civvies, and, as well, some of these
were no chickens; looked, in fact, as if
they’d been caught up with on the score
of slightly misstated age. It may have
been merely a nice form of deference that
the authentic youngsters, spick and span
in field service, with the belts and gaiters,
also didn’t make parade marching of it.
Anyhow, in column or lump or what
have you, the lot of them went past. The
First, Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth
Divvies and then the New chaps. The
New were massed along a side of Mac-
quarie-street, so that the Old had to swing
past them. Holding their colors aloft,
the New Digs., as the Old similar colors
came past, broke into cheering.
Another thing preventing any very
wide contrast between Old and New was
that there probably wasn’t a single unit
of the Old, down to the very smallest-
some of them are getting mighty small;
maybe greater in a way for it —that didn t
have some of its number in uniform ot
this present war. The number to have
worn the uniform in both wars, though
many have now shed it, would be aston-
ishing if it could be added up. Some of
those entitled on that account to march
with both crowds marched with the New,
a hard matter to decide, one way or the
other.
Yet one other thing acted against very
striking contrast. The Qld Digs, looked
better than they did a little while back.
Many of them were then hit hard and
looked it. The new war, the new jobs—
whatever the cause, they looked better
now; sprucer, and, on this particular
Day, more animated, brighter, lik e the
crowds lining the route. A matter of in-
fection, but which way? The crowds infect-
ing the marchers, or the other way about?
Or, possibly, there wasn t anything
else whatever to the striking change
all round on this 1944 Anzac Day except
merely the sort of day it was when the
march got going. Sydney’s autumn morn-
ing sunshine fairly Sparkled everywhere.
Hence, so did everybody.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No-flag Day.
On Red Army Day, one of several annual
events on the “Australian” Communist
calendar, flags were flown on Sydney
public buildings by express direction of
the Commonwealth and State Labor Gov-
ernments. A concession flattering to the
Communists, whose principal “news-
paper” has had on its front page a cut of
the hammer-and-sickle flag and no other,
and very useful to them in their efforts to
gain electoral support (ominously success-
ful in Queensland) and capture the A.L.P.
organisation, but invidious.
Even if intended solely as a compli-
ment to the U.S.S.R., it reminded critics
that Australia is not a party to the Anglo-
Russian alliance, an instrument with no
application to nor even mention of the
war against Japan, and that no such com-
pliment has been paid to the British
Army, the Royal Navy or the R.A.F. or
the United States Navy or Army. In
the circumstances very strange omissions,
but not so strange as the absence of flags
from Sydney public buildings when Prin-
cess Elizabeth reached the age at which
her great - great - grandmother became
Queen, and at which she herself could
ascend the throne, with full royal rights,
if Death laid his icy hand on her honored
father.
In that lamentable case the young lady
would become, among other things,
Queen of Australia. The exact wording
of the Commonwealth Constitution,
necessarily altered since the death of
Queen Victoria, would be reverted to,
and each Senator and member of the
House would have to “swear” or
“solemnly and sincerely affirm and de-
clare” that he “will be faithful and bear
true allegiance to her Majesty Queen
Elizabeth, her heirs and successors ac-
cording to law.” The command-in-
chief of the naval and military forces of
the Commonwealth would be “vested in
the Governor-General as the Queen’s
representative,” by the Queen appointed,
by her entrusted with the exercise of
“such powers and functions of the Queen
as her Majesty may be pleased to assign
to him,” and by her paid “out of the
Consolidated Revenue fund of the Com-
monwealth.” The “executive power of
the Commonwealth” would be “vested in
the Queen.” Vested in her also would be
the power to annul legislation, though
this has never been exercised.
Section 58. When a proposed law
passed tpr both Houses is presented to the
Governor-General for the Queen’s assent
he shall declare, according to his discre-
tion, but subject to this Constitution, that
he assents in the Queen’s name or that he
withholds assent or that he reserves the
law for the Queen’s pleasure.
59. The Queen may disallow any
law within one year from the Governor-
General’s assent, and such disallowance,
on being made known by the Governor-
General by speech or message to each
of the Houses or by Proclamation, shall
annul the law from the day when the dis-
allowance is so made known.
60. A proposed law reserved for the
Queen’s pleasure shall not have any force
unless and until, within two years from the
day on which it was presented to the
Governor-General for the Queen’s assent,
the Governor-General makes known, by
speech or message to each of the Houses
or by Proclamation, that it has received
the Queen’s assent.
Flags for a foreign army whose con-
nection with Australia is faint and re-
mote. No flags for the princess in whom
all Australians are interested, and who,
become Queen, will have a part in all
their lives!
Enterprise in N.G.
If Mr. Ward runs true to form —and his
public utterances on the subject so far
indicate it, as also do those of Mr.
Beasley—he’ll come back from his
New Guinea tour full of strange notions
about “exploitation” and giving the
natives a new order of Government con-
trol of everything from tourist trips to
oil prospecting.
Before he’s allowed to do that he should
be persuaded or pressed or skulldragged
or something into seeing what one private
company—Bulolo Gold Dredging, a con-
cern incorporated in Canada —had
achieved before the Jap fell on the place.
In the Bulolo valley that co. established a
town, helped pioneer air freightage inN.G.,
provided its European and native staffs
with adequate facilities for rest and play
and generally built up a thriving com-
munity in what had been primitive jungle.
Before the war Bulolo was a pretty town,
with electric light and power, modern
buildings, hospitals, swimming pools.
What it looks like now only ANGAU
knows, and the anxiety of the company
to get back can be well understood.
What private enterprise achieved in this
one spot in ten years can be duplicated
in other parts of N.G., provided Gov-
ernments give private enterprise a fair go,
exercising only the enterprise necessary to
preserve law, health and native rights—
rights nobly safeguarded by Hubert
Murray and his men and their fellows in
the Mandated Territory, with noble re-
sults in this war.
Invasion Problems.
“S. M. Herald” has some very fine corre-
spondents, and a young member of the
corps, Roderick Macdonald, a son of the
M.L.A. for Mosman, has written of Euro-
pean invasion problems with insight,
imagination and courage.
Discussing the bombing of “ancient
and beautiful” works of man, and sym-
pathising with commanders in the stern
men-or-monuments decisions they have
to take —though such an issue, he points
out, can be “oversimplified” —-Macdonald
pronounces the bombing of the Cassino
monastery a blunder.
The same High Command which decided
that - the capture of the Cassino position could
be achieved without attacking the monas-
tery reversed its decision and considered, that
the position could be captured if the mon-
astery was bombed. The Command was
wrong in both cases. Bombing has now
converted the monastery into a definite
strongpoint for the guardians of German
kultur.
Bombers have express orders to keep
clear of historical places “unless it is
absolutely vital,” and in Italy when the
troops go forward there are “special offi-
cers to ensure the safety of artistic and
cultural things.” But it has been proved
in Rome, Schaffhausen and other places
that “precision” bombing can be tragically
wide of the mark. And an unfortunate
effect of the increasingly great American
part in the aerial war is that “the name of
America to many suppressed European
peoples is becoming more synonymous
with personal misery than with the idea
of a New World.”
In Europe, America once suggested es-
cape from ancient miseries. It still means
that for those who can migrate there; but
for those who are enduring repeated attacks
by massed American bomber fleets, or who
have seen something of the inevitable re-
sults of the occupation of Italy, it means
the beginnings of violent reactions.
In Britain bishops and members of
Parliament, among others, have protested
against the bombing of non-military tar-
gets, To a similar protest by American
clergymen, the suggestion in both cases
being that bombing should be called off,
the President replied that the Allies could
not agree to forgo the use of a weapon
that is “shortening the war.” He could
rightly say, as did President Wilson, quot-
ing Luther, on another occasion, “I can
do no other.”
The cruel fact is that the liberation of
oppressed countries has no longer any
color of romance. When the Allies
go into bombed districts in the Low
Countries and northern France they are
less likely to march through cheering
crowds, with girls throwing kisses and
flowers, than to be greeted by half-
starved, half-crazed wretches who, when
their scattered senses return to them, will
sullenly wonder whether civil war will
not make their wretchedness complete.
But the responsibility for their sufferings.
and for the fate of Europe, large parts
of which may never rise from their ruins,
will rest on the men of blood who started
the wicked business, and whose vain hope
is that the Allies will weaken out of con-
sideration for the victims of frightful-
ness, to which the men of blood are add-
ing every devilish device that their per-
verted invention can suggest.
"Knockers," Is It?
Commonwealth Food Control has found
it necessary to buy space in the news-
papers to advertise its own failure. It
doesn’t admit that its advertisements are
a confession of failure, but they are, for
when an organisation of the kind has to
try to laud itself by public advertisement
it can mean nothing else.
C.F.C. says “you help increase pro-
duction if you”
Grow your own vegetables. Produce
eggs in your own backyard. Preserve all
the food you can. Conserve the nation s
food supplies by avoiding waste. Plan
your meals to get the maximum benefit
from the food you eat.
Nobody will disagree with that. But
C.F.C. also says “you discourage pro-
duction if you”
Object to more food being provided for
the services and for Britain. Grumble
about less varied diet. Expect all the
sacrifices to be made by armed forces.
Join the ranks of the “knockers” by mak-
ing wild allegations about failures on the
food front.
Which is a horse of another color.
Nobody “objects,” “grumbles” or “ex-
pects”—nobody, that is, worth worrying
about. But the allegations about failures
“on the food front” are far from wild,
nor can they be refuted by advertisements
of this kind.
All the same, it would be unfair to
blame C.F.C. entirely. The C.F.C. can’t
be held responsible for the fact that coal
strikes have reduced gas and electricity as
fuel for cooking, preserving and process-
ing foodstuffs, nor is it to blame for the
stripping of man-power from food indus-
tries. It is true nevertheless that Aus-
tralia’s greatest city has had its milk
supply “rationed” for the umpteenth
time, that many egg and dairy farmers
have abandoned their farms, and that
every time a commodity is brought under
control it either disappears or becomes
a “black-market” item.
Advertisements can’t explain these
things away or correct them. Nor can
they explain or correct the big drop in
food exports to Britain. “Controls”
appear to be responsible to nobody, not
even for .money spent on useless adver-
tising.
READY FOR ANY TEST.
“Hitler and Mussolini have had another meeting. According to the German News Agency ‘the Duce inspected Italian divisions and satisfied himself as to the state of
their training and equipment.'”


cM~otel
FACING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
LU
ne
S r
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
1
fr
OV
N
y-y
3e ■
r'ii
<>&*■
7
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less m
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential JP HLb
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
SV D N E / . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
LTD. (Building Materials Division)
, . . ADELAIDE . . - PERTH
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee,
POLITICAL POINTS
With six Federal Ministers assisting,
S.A. Labor failed horribly at the State
election. It had 14 members in the last
Assembly, and may have 16 in the next,
but there are 39 seats. Playford held
Gumeracha comfortably, and will remain
in office, perhaps with the aid of Inde-
pendents whom his party did not oppose
(Labor did), but he may still have a party
majority if Angas declares for his Gov-
ernment —the Angas contest had to be
postponed because the Liberal Country
League candidate, Schultz, a Tanunda
storekeeper, died alter nomination day.
The Digger Premier’s achievement is re-
markable, seeing that the other side has
been out of office since May, 1933, and
that Federal Labor nearly made a clean
sweep of the S.A. seats last August;
but the Sydney dailies don’t seem a bit
pleased.
Prodded by Australian papers to “de-
clare himself,” the papers in question
being daisies at minding other people’s
business. General MacArthur has defi-
nitely declined offers of the Republican
nomination for the Presidency—“l do not
covet it nor would I accept it.” That
should make Dewey a certainty for it.
There are 225 candidates for 74 seats
in the N.S.W. Assembly, Eight Labor
Ministers (Heffron, Baddeley, Tully,
Knight, Lazzarini, O’Sullivan, Martin and
Cahill), five Labor members (Davies,
Sheahan, Seiffert, Horsington and Booth)
and three Oppositionists (Young Diggers
Robson and Chaffey and Wingfield) were
returned opposed. Lang Labor is con-
testing 21 seats. If the Opposition groups
don’t repeat their Federal-election tom-
foolery, when they put official Laborites
ahead of Lang and Maurice Blackburn,
some of the Lang men will help to reduce
the ridiculous McKell majority.
At the Commonwealth elections Fed-
eral Labor won 49 seats in the House
(75) and all the Senate seats contested
(19), When it decided on a Constitu-
tional referendum it calculated on Com-
monwealth voting being repeated. At
the State elections held since favorable
electoral boundaries and other advantages
enabled the Labor Governments to get
back in Westralia and Queensland, but
voting in the constituencies was against
Labor in Queensland and South Aus-
tralia, and only a few thousands in its
favor in the West. Two months ago it
was here written, apropos of the refer-
endum, that the Government hadn’t a
dog’s chance of getting the requisite
majorities in four States and the Com-
monwealth. Even Dr. Evatt should realise
it now.
After the August landslide a lot of
people, politicians and pressmen, wrote
off subsequent war elections as a dead
loss to parties opposed to Labor. Play-
ford was* of a different opinion, and events
have justified the Old Digger, who gave
his party and State what is very rare
nowadays—leadership. He asked for
no help from Opposition worthies at Can-
berra, but had steady support from the
Adelaide “Advertiser.” With the same
sort of backing the N.S.W. Opposition
parties could give McKell Labor a run
for its money, but Sydney dailies are
still dazzled by the gentlemen they are
pleased to call the Big Four.
Neither Russians nor Finns were at the
International Labor Office show at Phila-
delphia. Beasley was there, throwing his
weight about as he did at Geneva in 1926.
As reported by the admiring “S. M.
Herald,” he “appealed for speedy investi-
gation to raise living standards in the
colonies,” and “a workers’ delegate from
India” asked for “a permanent 1.L.0.
committee to inspect working conditions
in various countries.” A delegate from
Whitehall objected that his Government
was fully occupied with matters of greater
moment.
Beasley: I must protest against the timi-
dity expressed.
British delegate: Timidity is a word that
we in Britain dislike. Britain is not afraid
to deal with problems.
Afterwards the gentleman “protested
against any implication that the British
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“Who’s timid, Mr. Beasley?”
“I’m not Beasley — I’m Honest John Curtin."
Government was afraid to consider a
better living standard for the colonies,
and read a long statement.”
Beasley: I am delighted at the British
Government’s changed attitude. Now let’s
proceed to real business.
These impertinences did not shake “S.
M. Herald” faith in him. To that extra-
ordinary paper he is a living marvel —
the most dynamic member of the Big
Four, blah blah.
One reason why Canada has shown
such financial strength in this war is that
it has never had a provincial borrowing
boom. On December 31, 1942, the
debts of the nine provinces totalled
$1,892,400,400. Those of the Australian
States, with nearly 4? million fewer
people, had reached £898,838,700 on
June 30, 1943.
As recently as three years ago no
Labor politician was without (1) a
line of invective against Big Business
and the finanshul institooshuns, and (2) a
glozing account of the miracles that could
be wrought with bank credit. In the
course of a few April days Forde, chid-
ing the New Rich, pointed out thjit the
“bulk of money subscribed to the First
Victory Loan” had “come from commer-
cial, industrial and financial institutions,”
and Dedman told them that if the Gov-
ernment financed war expenditure by
further use of bank credit “it would be
the worst thing that ever happened to the
workers.”
It would lead to inflation, and their sav-
ings in the post-war period would be very
nearly valueless.
So even Labor politicians can learn
something from harsh experience, though
whether the knowledge will stick is an-
other matter.
In Adelaide three days before the State
election a man was hanged for murder.
Very unusual these times, though not
where Americans have the ordering of
things, and there was a feature without
precedent—a Communist agitation for a
reprieve. Communists, it now appears,
are so high-minded that the idea of tak-
ing life, even the life of a cold-blooded
killer, as the Adelaide fellow was, fills
them with virtuous indignation,
Some awkward questions were fired at
Curtin by p re s Sm en who gathered about
. Washin otnn one cnnrprnino the
establishment of that Jewish cololy in
the K imberleys and another relating to
tbe yy b i te Australia policy though it
wasn’t so named. He fenced them with
no mea n skill. Were John an ambitious
youth instead of an elderly politician,
he would be a perfect candidate for one
of those diplomatic cadetships which col-
league Evatt is handing out, having all
the natural endowments
It came out last week that N.S.W. coal
output for the first quarter of 1944 was
down 330,000 tons and 574,000 tons com-
pared with the corresponding periods of
1943 and 1942. The revelation was made
by the mineowners’ associations, the un-
pleasant subject having been shelved by
Canberra and dropped altogether by the
N.S.W. Labor Government, though the
N.S.W. Labor Government runs a most
expensive Mines Department with an ex-
coalminer in control. That gentleman’s
experience and influence were expected
to have some effect when he took office in
May, 1941. They have counted for less
than nothing.
People who give high taxation and H.C.L.
as an excuse for not lending their money
to the nation ought to compare their lot
with that of the British taxpayer. In his
Budget speech the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer pointed out that personal in-
comes in 1943 were about £600,000,000
more than in 1942, but more than half
was paid in additional taxes.
Still kind to Labor, though its kind-
ness has been ill-requited, “S. M. Herald”
held that McKell “can fairly plead that
he has best served the State and the
nation by going along quietly.” Then it
made nonsense of its own verdict by in-
stancing “Ministerial weakness in dealing
with industrial holdups—particularly the
bread strike and the continuing scandal
at the Homebush abattoirs” —a Govern-
ment “enterprise.” “Going along quietly ’
has meant, among other things, that ships
have had to leave without urgently-needed
supplies of meat and coal, and that,
though the licensing laws are State
matters, the public has had to look to the
Commonwealth Government for the little
protection it has had against robbers and
poisoners in the booze business. The
least the McKell Government could have
done was to tackle ruffianism in the
booze business with all the forces at its
command. It preferred “to go along
quietly.”
“Norther”: As I write, Hanson (Lab.),
is declared to be “safe” for the Buranda
(Q.) seat. He has 5551 votes, his oppo-
nent (Roberts) 5398. This means, simply,
that 5398 electors out of 10,949, almost
half, have to accept a member they
didn’t want, though under a fair redistri-
bution of seats they might have got a
member they wanted. It means, too,
that they’ll have no say in any conten-
tious legislation introduced by the
Queensland Government. That, my
brothers, is called Parliamentary repre-
sentation.
During his New Guinea tour Ward
announced that he had been greatly im-
pressed by the natives. What Australia
will have to worry about is whether the
natives have been greatly impressed by
Ward.
Though Australians were informed that
the earnest representations of the able
General Marshall had scotched a
posed U.S. Senate resolution denouncing
British policy in Palestine, and demand-
ing that Palestine should be presented to
the Jews, Arab reactions were not men-
tioned in the cables. The Iraqi Parlia-
ment protested that the resolution
amounted to “a request to the United
States to declare war on the Arabs in
Palestine.” Messages almost equally
strong came ifrom Egypt and Trans-
Jordan. In America itself, an angry argu-
ment was in progress, the Zionists being
especially furious (they specialise in full-
page newspaper advertisements very
anti-British), when Harold Ickes, the
Petroleum Administrator, revealed that
his Government was interested in a
$135,000,000 pipeline project in Saudi
Arabia. It is natural for our friends
across the Pacific, worried about home
supplies, to look for replenishment
abroad, but they can’t have Arabian oil
and a Jewish “Commonwealth,” too.


(ydajnd»
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
U.S. Secretary of the Navy Colonel
Frank Knox was one of five members
of Roosevelt’s Cabinet of 10 aged 70
or more. The Cabinet’s average age is
64. Secretary of State Hull is over 72,
Secretary of War Stimson over 76. Sec-
retary of Agriculture Wickard (50) is a
baby of the bunch. The President himself
was 62 on January 30, two years younger
than General MacArthur, who turned
64 on Australia’s birthday, January 26.
Knox, 70 at the end, was a typical Ameri-
can self-made man. From having once
delivered papers he went up to the con-
trol of all Hearst publications at the use-
ful screw of £30,000 a year, later him-
self owning Chicago “Daily News.” He
saw two lots of active war service—with
Theodore Roosevelt’s Rough Riders in
Cuba and as a U.S. colonel in the last
World War.
If any brother naval officer should
happen to get his eye on the same objec-
tive as Captain R. R. Dowling, R.A.N.,
he’ll need to be lively off the mark to
beat him to it. Captain Dowling—and
perhaps it should be said in parenthesis
for the benefit of landlubbers that a cap-
tain of the Navy is a far, far bigger gun
CAPTAIN R. R. DOWLING, R.A.N.
than any other brand of captaii\ what-
ever—still holds the R.A.N. College
record for 440 yards, which he put up in
1918, after training there for it and for
gunnery for the previous three years. He
was Squadron Gunnery Officer on
H.M.A.S. Canberra in 1935-36, was then
raised to Commander and commanded
H.M.S. Naiad in the Mediterranean,
under one of the great heroic figures of
the R.N., Rear-Admiral Sir Phillip Vian.
Back in Australia, as Acting Captain
Dowling, he was Deputy Chief of Naval
Staff. He’s a Queenslander; born, 1901.
Two Old Diggers move up with the
retirement, through ill-health, of J. L.
Leal from the chair of Adelaide Tram-
ways. Ronald Oswin Pitcher, of the S.A.
Treasury, who has been a member of
the Trust since 1933, steps into Leal’s
place, and S. H. Watson, general traffic
manager of the S.A. Railways, succeeds
Pitcher as Government rep. on the Trust.
Watson helds the D.S.O. and M.C.
Some of these old warriors are tough,
if you can really call them “old,” what-
ever their age. England has a Wing-
Commander Lionel Cohen who, as an
observer and air-gunner of 68 summers,
has had the D.F.C. added to his D.S.O.
and M.C., having served in four wars!
A young trooper in the Matabele cam-
paign, he fought also in the Boer War,
was a captain in the 1914-18 scrap, and
in the present fight has flown 45 opera-
tional sorties with the R.A.F., which
usually grounds the best of them at 39.
To the same tough old-warrior class
can be added Sergeant Arthur Laurence
Carson, who, as a Digger stretcher-
bearer with the old Second Batt., had the
hard luck to miss a V.C. at Bullecourt
on technical grounds but was awarded
the D.C.M., and now, in the New Guinea
scrapping, has won the M.M. He was 51
yesterday (Tuesday). Official Historian
Bean put it on record that Carson thor-
oughly earned the V.C. for his heroism
in bringing in wounded from no-man s-
land, but apparently didn’t get it because
it had been laid down that saving life was
not to constitute a ground for winning
the highest decoration, and some author-
ity interpreted that with singular literal-
ness. Others were different: Martin
O’Meara, a Westralian (16th Batt.*)
stretcher-bearer, got the V.C. for grand
work at Pozieres. Carson won his latest
decoration also for bravery in getting
wounded away.
Don Bradman, with a young family
and a busy sharebroking connection to
look after, is gradually entering public
life in Adelaide. He is the local secre-
tary of the Gowrie Scholarship appeal,
and has just accepted the president’s chair
of the local Commonwealth Club, where
his first duty was to entertain Dame Enid
Lyons at lunch.
Retiring from the post of G.O.C. Third
Australian Corps, Lieut-Gen. H. Gordon
Bennett, who commanded the Eighth in
Malaya but made his escape a few hours
after the fall of Singapore, said “I don’t
want to remain here in a purely adminis-
trative post, carrying out work of reduced
importance, but would like instead another
operational role. However, as it is clear
that an operational appointment will not
come my way, I would rather retire.”
A lieut.-colonel in command of the old
6th Batt. in 1914-15, Bennett next year
commanded the Third Infantry Brigade,
He ended that war with a C. 8., C.M.G.
and D. 5.0., and subsequently had the
Second Div. A.M.F., going up to major-
gen. in 1930. In civvy life an accountant,
he was at different times between the
wars assistant actuary to the Common-
wealth Bank, Commissioner of the City
of Sydney and president of the Chamber
of Manufactures (first for N.S.W., then
for Australia).
Taking Lieut.-Gen. Bennett’s place,
Major-Gen. H. C. H. Robertson is a 1914
Duntroon graduate who saw last-war ser-
vice with the Light Horse on Gallip. and
in Palestine, becoming a major at 21.
This war he commanded the Nineteenth
Brigade, which took Tobruk and made
the fast drive to beyond Benghazi. He
was brought back to help keep out the
Jap.
Leader of the naval men in the Anzac
march in Melbourne, Commander Frank
Gillespie Cresswell, R.A.N., is said to be
the only sailor in the British Empire with
the rank of Electrical Commander, A
pioneer of radio in the Silent Service,
Cresswell was born at Camberwell (Vic.)
in 1880, and started out as a draughts-
man in the electrical engineer’s office at
Melbourne G.P.O. From 1912 to 1915
he was Fleet Wireless Officer in the
R.A.N., and then till 1921 directed the
Commonwealth’s radio services. Later
he was appointed Electrical Commander,
Director of Signals and Communications
for the R.A.N. As far back as 1907 he
originated the syntonic vibratory hypo-
thesis of electricity and magnetism in a
paper read before the Victorian Electrical
Association.
“M.G.”: Only one other Anglican
bishop—Bishop Smythe, in Ehgland —
tops the episcopal record of Bishop
Arthur Vincent Green, who on May 1
completed 50 years of consecrated office
(B. 26/4/’44). Born in Surrey in the
Indian Mutiny year, Bishop Green was
the son of a parson and has a parson
son. Ordained after passing brilliantly
through Melbourne University, he was at
St. Andrew’s, Maldon and Geelong, be-
came Bishop of Grafton and Armidale,
then Bishop of Ballarat. Ned Kelly was
sticking up coaches in the vicinity of
Euroa when the now 87-year-old cleric
was saving souls there.
Since Lieut.-Col J. R. Broadbent’s rise
to his present rank came through the cita-
tion for the D.S.O. he won in New
Guinea has been published. At Lae he
“led his troops in a hard and rapid march
through most difficult country,” and at
Finschhafen he did possibly even better
work in the Scarlet Beach scrapping. He
showed, says the citation, “great energy
and determined leadership.” Now 29,
Broadbent was born at Manly (N.S.W.)
and educated at Melbourne Grammar
and Sydney Uni, In the Uni. Regiment
LT.-COL. BROADBENT, D.S.O.
for eight years, he yent overseas with the
2/17th, and was at Tobruk, among other
hot spots, before coming back to go on
to New Guinea.
Present MX. Labor Government Min-,
isters aren’t a particularly striking lot
as orators, but there’s one incisive debater
and vigorous speaker among them —Min-
ister of Health A. H. Nordmeyer, member
for Oamaru. Young as Ministers of
the Crown go (he is 43), he was born
at Dunedin and was educated at Waitaki
High and Otago Uni. (where he col-
lected his 8.A.). Before winning the
Oamaru seat in 1935 he filled a pulpit
at Kurow for ten years.
Since the present war got going the
chief training physical fitness instructor
at the “tough tactics school” through
which more than 4000 officers and n.c.os,
have passed has been Major W. J. (Bill)
Dickens, M.C., himself one of the tough-
est of last-war Diggers, which is saying
something. Though 50, he looks as tough
and fit as when he was a bayonet-fighter
second to none, for which he’s specially
remembered by men of the old 27th Batt.
One of the first Australians wounded in
France, he there collected a commission
and his decoration in 1916. After the
Armistice he was with the British Army
“TOUGH TACTICS ” MAJOR
DICKENS, M.C.
instructing in bayonet fighting; then,
back in Australia, he was instructor at
the Central School of Army Physical
Training. Before 1914 he was on the
land, and he took to it again in 1931, A
daughter is a Waaaf.
S, J. Brassington, the Labor member
for Fortitude Valley, who is being
groomed for the Speakership in the new
Bananaland Parliament, was born at
Augathella, worked about the bush as
a lad, became A.W.U. sec. in Charleville
and at 21 was Mayor. Two years later
he was member for Balonne, and when
the seat was abolished in 1932 was
elected for Fortitude Valley. J. H. Mann,
who succeeds Brassington as Chairman
of Committees, is Chieftain of the Bris-
bane Caledonian Society and Burns Club.
He was a builder’s laborer before taking
to politics. D. Farrell, the party Whip,
was a winding engineer at Howard col-
liery before winning the Maryborough
seat in 1938, was a union secretary for
25 years and president of the State branch
of the Federated Enginedrivers and Fire-
men.
As recorded here a couple of weeks
back, the Air Training Corps in Aus-
tralia has supplied over 7000 capital
young airmen to the R.A.A.F., and now
the first of them to win a decoration has
been announced —Flying-Officer F, H.
Bunce, 19, of Vaucluse, Sydney, whose
’plane was shot down in the Bay of Bis-
cay after a fight with 10 Junkers. He
gets the D.F.C. Incidentally, Air Mar-
shal Sir Leslie Gossage, Director-General
of the A.T.C. in England, said in Feb-
ruary that approximately 100,000 A.T.C.
boys over there had graduated into the
R.A.F., Fleet Air Arm or other fighting
services, one winning the V.C. “Many
people,” he added, “have been gratified
to hear that the corps is to be maintained
after the war.”
Recalled several times to give evidence
on the anatomical peculiarities of the
Pyjama Girl at the inquest in Melbourne,
Professor Sidney Sunderland, M. 8., 8.5.,
is one of the most brilliant pupils of a
brilliant teacher. A Professor Wood
Jones product, he was demonstrator in
anatomy at Oxford at 28. When Wood
Jones resigned his post at Melbourne
University, after expressing rather frank
views about that institution, Sunderland
was sent for to take his place, and has
been Professor of Anatomy and His-
tology there since 1939.
Rev. George Alfred Judkins, of the
Methodist Church in Victoria —he has
just retired —fought a 47-years’ war on
two fronts —against the Demon Dr-r-rink
and Communism. Out of the one came
his chief publication. Red Raiders —the
Ruthless Attack of Communism on Civil-
isation, and the other gave a word, if
not to the language, at least to the local
patois, “a Judkins” threatening to oust
“wowser” from the vernacular at one
time. Born at Glendarnel in 1871, he was
educated at Queen’s College, where he
graduated with final honors in philosophy
and logic. He’s an ex-sec. of the Federal
Council of Churches and former Presi-
dent of the Methodist Conference.
The Victorian estate of the late wife
of Melbourne chocolate knight Macpher-
son Robertson cut up for £109,778.
After certain legacies have been paid
the residue goes to her two sons, Nor-
man Napoleon Robertson and Eric
Francis Robertson.
Into the silence:
Marguerite Ouida Veenman, known to many
last-war Diggers as Matron of No. 4 General
Hospital and H.M.A.H.S. Karoola. She died
in her uniform —as her numerous Digger ex-
patients put it, “with her boots on.”
At 84, Archpriest Howell, of Colac (Vic.),
one who helped thousands of lame dogs of all
denominations over stiles during a selfless
career. Known to his own flock, as well as
others, as “The Dean,” he came south from
Ireland 55 years ago, and filled various charges
for many years in the Wimmera. Hospitals
and relief organisations were his long suit.
At Ivanhoe (Vic.) Commandant (Mrs,) Par-
sons, of the Salvation Army, a connection of
Robert Burns. Her hymns and musical com-
positions were sung wherever the S. Army
banner floated. An elegy she wrote on General
William Booth came in for much laudation.
At 85, at Tallangatta (Vic.), James John Law,
doyen of the State’s newspaper men. Bom at
Richmond (Vic.) he started out on the Inky
Way at 15 and the voyage lasted 70 years.
Part of the time he was editor and proprietor
of the “Upper Murray and Mitta Herald.”
In Sydney, Dr. Norman Dawson Royle, over
a long stretch of years one of Australia’s and
of the world’s outstanding orthopedic sur-
geons. Demonstrator in anatomy at Sydney
University and specialist consultant at leading
Sydney hospitals, he was associated with the
late Professor Hunter in research which opened
new fields in surgical procedure. In the words
of Sydney Uni. Professor of Anatomy Burkitt,
“Dr. Royle's death is a great loss to the
nation.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; Nobody charged with the milk
of compassion can regard the case of a
Cliftonvale (Q.) cane-farmer without
dropping a tear at the spectacle of a noble
mind defeated by a heartless world.
Arraigned for failing to furnish his
income-tax return, the cocky explained
that, according to the Book of Revela-
tions, the world was about to be de-
stroyed. Now, how could a man, vouch-
safed such a cataclysmic revelation,
be expected to descend to making out
tax returns? Of course there are doubters
who will ask why he went on eating,
despite its obvious futility ; why he went
on accepting cheques for his produce,
knowing that he was fated never to enjoy
spending the money. But such objections
are trivial. This devout soul has discovered
that the wearing of trousers by women is
a sign that the world is hurriedly plung-
ing to its doom. After seeing some of
the bulges that get around in slacks who
would doubt the dire significance of such
portents? Shame, indeed, that a heart-
less Beak should have set the prophet
back two quid!
* * * *
“Hamer”: At a time when the world
had become railway-minded Australia
was best known to denizens of the
British Isles by reason of its Zigzag rail-
way, the device by which the early engi-
neers had taken rails down a sheer preci-
“Whether We like it or not. Captain, we're known as Shiny —er — Seats!"
pice from the range top at Clarence
Siding to Lithgow. This was regarded as
the outstanding wonder of railway engi-
neering, with the loop at Darjeeling
(India) next and Maoriland’s rack-railway
over the Rimutakas running neck-and-
neck with the vast distances featured in
the C.P.R. project. The zigzag route
was discarded over 30 years ago when a
method of grading a way down on a
long sweep was discovered, but the old
arched ways can still be seen. English
newspapers used to thrill their readers
with a theory that the Zigzag was built
by “convict labor,” though transportation
of convicts had ceased decades before
the ways were built. But it was true
enough that prison labor —all long-sen-
tence men —was lent to the contractor.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; Lud Mayor Nettle-
fold, of Melbourne, likes the idea of the
Sydney Juvenile Orchestra, with its 27
performers aged eight (conductors) to 12,
and wants a similar band in Melbourne
as a means of raising funds for charitable
purposes. If he succeeds I hope I won't
have to listen to results. Melbourne has
had a succession of child prodigies of the
piano and the fiddle. It is not what they
do but the fact that they can do it at all
which arouses the enthusiasm of the
public, and the interests of musical art
are lost in the shuffle.
V V * *
“Norther”: Time was when a bowling
green was an inviolable sanctuary, and
even in these times it was regarded as
one of the few havens safe from bureau-
cratic invasion. This explains why several
elderly gentlemen became apoplectic when
Man-power officials “raided” Boorooda-
bin (Q.) Bowling Club and “interviewed
all the players except members of the
fighting services.” It has been ominously
announced by Man-power that the law
Says neither employee nor employer
may absent himself from work without
lawful excuse, and “with a view to a cer-
tain course being taken” the presence of
members at the green is to be further
investigated. It raises a nice point or
two, such as what the boss is supposed
to do if all hands go on strike and
whether I’m liable for working out cross-
word puzzles during spare moments at the
office. The other aspect is that, if it is
necessary for Man-power to raid bowling
greens, it may be equally necessary for
somebody else to raid Man-power.
* * * *
“Dutigalla”: Engineers at Grand
Coulee Dam (U.S.) were faced with a
little problem—how to string a cable
through a 25in. winding drainpipe 500 ft.
in length. Some genius provided a simple
solution. A string was tied to a cat, and,
encouraged by a blast of air from a
strong fan, the cat pulled a string, the
string pulled a rope and the rope pulled
the cable.
sH X H* *
“S.T.S.”: The judgment of M.L.
Supreme Court that a soldier’s letter-
card to the Public Trustee, “I leave every-
thing I possess to Miss ,” was a
sound will recalls some nice points raised
in World War No. 1, when I made over
4000 brief but formal wills for men in
camp. Later, the friend of a boy re-
ported killed in France brought me a
6d. will form, signed and dated by the
soldier but otherwise quite blank, and
calmly asked me to fill it in as he would
have wished. When I warmly declined
to do forgery, the friend argued “But
when he signed it he said to us ‘Mum’s
dead and Dad would only drink it all.
If I don’t come back I want my little
sister to have what there is.’ ” Of course,
the will had to stand as it was, but on
this evidence, duly sworn to, with the
otherwise futile printed form to’ show that
will-making was in the soldier’s mind, the
wish was admitted to probate. Later
still came an absolute borderline case, a
casual shout from troopship to wharf
just at sailing time ; but even that got
through. Once enlisted, a man is reck-
oned to be “on active service,” and has
all the privilege of the battlefield.
* l * * ■ *
“Hamer”; When Granny “Herald”
banished the “Summary of Today’s
News” from her new front window she
reckoned without her readers. Even rival
papers mentioned the feature’s passing
with regret, and protesting letters ava-
lanched on the Hunter-street journal.
So the old column came back again.
Even now some of its champions are not
satisfied. They have been used to seeing
it in the top left-hand corner of the page
for 40 or 50 years, and they grumble
daily to find it down in the south-east.
“ Hey, Sarge, you told me that if I greased these new boots they'd keep
the water out."
“Adelaide”: The burglar who carries
his savings about with him is a new
development in S.A. An eccentric of over
70, who lives alone in a lonely spot in
the Adelaide hills, has been in trouble
for burgling a store. The Law frowned
also oh a loaded revolver which he was
carrying. It accepted his explanation that
he always has on him his life’s savings,
over £3OO, and has to protect them,
though it wondered why in that case he
had to steal his groceries. Finally, it gave
him nine months for burglary and fined
him £2O for having no gun license.
“Avon”: Wellington (M.L.) had the
thrill of a short-lived mystery lately. A
couple of cricketers (chosen to represent
the Services against All New Zealand)
were in the dressing-room at Basin Re-
serve when there was a frightful bang
and a tinkle of glass. The service men
found the window broken and developed
a general theory that some enemy of the
realm or of cricket had taken a pot-
shot. The police, however, after a very
thorough investigation, established that
the scientific zeal of two small boys (who
just happened to be there and had no
animus against anybody) was responsible.
These youngsters had discovered that wax
vesta heads, if accumulated in sufficient
quantity and treated in a certain way
(no, boys, you don’t get the recipe!) can
be made into a fairly powerful explosive.
They had prepared a mess of the stuff,
bound it ‘between. the ends of two heavy
iron bolts and thrown it into the air to
see if it would detonate on hitting the
ground. It did, and how! The boys
were scared out of their lives, and never
stopped running till they reached home.
* * * 9
“Ologist”: What incongruities get into
print by the failure of writers and printers
to recognise the importance of adding “es”
to make the plural of proper nouns end-
ing in “s” or “es” and an “s” after the
apostrophe to make the singular posses-
sive of such nouns! In David Cornel
Dejong’s Day of the Trumpet, a story
dealing with the tragic days immediately
before and after the Nazi attack on Hol-
land, the characters include an old Jewish
couple named Abrahams, and in the Aus-
tralian-printed edition anyway a poor little
apostrophe, abandoned by its natural
allies, has to serve the triple but incom-
patible purpose of representing the singu-
lar possessive, the plural possessive and
the plural of Abrahams. Here is an
example of each: Singular possessive,
“That woman had spat in old Vrouw
Abrahams’ face because she was a Jew,”
instead of “Vrouw Abrahams’s face”;
plural possessive, “....he felt utterly
exhausted by the time he reached the
Abrahams’ house,” instead of “the Abra-
hamses’ house” ; plural, “Both
sat close inside their dark tents of grief,
instead of “Both Abrahamses.” That-man-
of-all-work apostrophe deserves the
highest award at the disposal of writers
and printers for its gallant but futile
effort!
:{c jfc
“Zake”: The pother about Britain’s
action in cancelling diplomatic privileges,
including travel, for “security
petered out with Sweden talking vaguely
about lodging a “formal protest.” The
Swedes themselves once found it conveni-
ent to take similar measures. In 1792
Gustav, JII, whose ingenuity in inventing
new methods of tax extortion has put so
many evil ideas into the minds of State
Treasurers, stopped a bellyful of rusty
nails fired at him by one John Jacob
Ankarstrom. As Gus lay wounded on the
stage of the Stockholm Opera House,
where he had been attending a masked
revel, he gave orders for the gates of
the city to be closed for three days.
“During that time,” he said to the Prus-
sian ambassador, who was standing near
him, “you will not be able to correspond
with your Court, but your intelligence,
when it goes, will be more certain, since
by then it should be known whether I
can survive.” Gus didn’t survive; and
his assassin suffered the three days of
slow torture then prescribed for regi-
cides before being dismembered.
#«» % %
“Curtain Raiser”; Dr. Malcolm Sar-
gent abhors Britain’s separation of culture
and the common man’s pleasure and wants
music while you drink. Excellent idea,
but not for war-time. In Melbourne
nowadays most men drink between half-
past five and six in the evening, and the
battle to get to the bar is so fierce and
the prospect of being told that the beer
has gone off so immediate and terrifying
that I fear the drinkers would have little
attention to spare for a Brahms symphony
or a Beethoven concerto, even if there
were an orchestra in every bar in the
city. Still, there is a display of the de-
pictive art at Young and Jackson’s which
has survived for years the onslaughts of
fanatics.
NO USE TRYING.
To seek to rob a woman of her lover.
Whatever means you may employ, is not
A thing that —should you try it, you'll discover —•
Will ever be forgiven or forgot,
lo try to part a lioness from her litter
Would certainly create unpleasantness.
He’s due for an awakening as bitter
Who thinks to clap a muzzle on the press.
To poke your hand into a hornets’ nesting
Place or a hive of hurt and angry bees
Would leave you, one may venture, manifesting
Extreme regret for your temerities.
But deadlier reprisals he’s defying,
St'ings to occasion more acute distress,
Who, on some brief authority relying,
Aspires to bounce and bullyrag the press.
Who plants his carcass down in careless fashion
Upon some claim pegged by the bull-ant clan
Is apt to rise, a subject for compassion,
At once a wiser and a sorrier man.
And would-be despots shouldn’t be oblivious
There wait antagonists as merciless,
Aggressive, pertinacious and multivious
For anyone who’s out to gag the press.
Freedom of speech! How often those who
bellow
The loudest for it in their platform skite
Are likeliest to deny the other fellow
_ What for themselves they hold a sacred right.
How many a jack-in-office, staunch and steady
This priceless British heritage to bless.
Is, when it suits another case, as ready
To howl his maledictions at the press!
One’s known some public men to make incur-
sions
Into the courts demanding something “wot”
Would muzzle their particular aversions,
But what if someone seeks to gag the lot?
Brothers, there’s not the slightest need to worrit,
His cake will soon or late be dough, I guess;
In terse and simple Digger phrase he’s “for it,”
The chap who pulls a pistol at the press.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
OYSTERS!
“At their annual banquet 70 N.S.W. oyster-farmers
consumed 3600 bivalves by way of a start.”
They gave their wares, you’ll note, an adven-
titious
Boost ere they fell upon more solid fare,
Whetting their appetites with a judicious
Method of propaganda, as it were.
To demonstrate their own appreciation
Of those commodities in which they dealt
Each of them stowed, by simple computation,
Fifty beneath his belt.
How rarely do you see a Bung or brewer
Tackle a tankard, foaming to the brim,
To show the world that what’s a certain lure
For you has just as much appeal to him!
Granting, as parsons tell us, that example
Is far superior to precept, then
Where would you happen on a better sample
Than this —by oystermen?
Before their blitz, by many a pleasant plateful,
The succulent and luscious molluscs fell,
As appetising (Roughley says) and grateful
As those of Colchester or Whitstable.
How dimly he around the town who roisters
O’ nights and things like saveloys devours
Grasps that no land has fatter, finer oysters
In all the world than ours!
They fed, and after all the shells and barrels
Had gone, with other symbols of the feast,
A certain haunting poem of Lewis Carroll’s
Must have occurred —to some of them at
least —
“The Walrus and the Carpenter” its title.
How feelingly, one thinks, it might have slid
From someone’s ready lips as a recital —
And possibly it did.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“W.P.T.”: Oswald Barnett’s idea of
one church in each community, to be
used by denominations in rotation, was
adopted in a hamlet I knew. “How does
it work out?” I asked the caretaker.
“Splendid,” he said ; “everybody is satis-
fied.” “No arguments?” “None. The
Catholics have it on Sundays, the
Anglicans on Mondays, the Metho-
dists on Tuesdays, the Presbyterians
on Wednesdays, the Congregationalisms
on Thursdays, the Baptists on Fri-
days and the Seventh Day Adventists
on Saturdays.” “What about the Jews?”
I asked. “There is only one Jew in the
district,” was the reply, “and he holds
the mortgage on the church. He says
he’s satisfied too.”
* * * *
“Camsa”: The only Australian warrant
officer to win the Military Cross in this
war finds it a constant source of embar-
rassment. While he was visiting a ser-
geants’ mess in a mainland camp there
were 13 telephone calls about this “sol-
dier” wearing an M.C. ribbon, and the
C.O. sent an officer to interrogate the
wearer. Military police pull him up, un-
aware that W.Os. are eligible for this
award. The W.O. is now at an officers’
school, and hopes to get his pips soon.
They will save him a lot of bother. Two
Australian W.Os. won the M.C. in the
other war.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: From the vast masses of
space devoted by the Sydney dailies to
their dispute with the censorship (one had
two photos, of its g.m. on the same page)
there was a disappointing omission. Not
a single agitated journal likened its prin-
cipal proprietor or editor to some famous
historical character holding the fort
against oppression. We members of a
Sunday-paper staff, young fellows then,
weren’t so remiss when our editor was
deprived of his liberty by an offended
Labor Government for fracturing the
Dignity of Parliament. There being no
convenient dungeon or attic in Parlia-
ment House, he had to be accommodated
in the stone jug, but a warder’s quarters,
very comfortable, were fitted up for him,
with pens, ink and paper, also cigars and
whisky, laid on and visitors allowed at all
hours. Meanwhile the staff collaborated
in a beautiful article calling him the Aus-
tralian John Hampden, John Wilkes
being rejected after animated discussion,
and this the prisoner supplemented with
a copious output of editorials, pars, and
jingles in a highly emotional strain (one
pome had the refrain “Which is why I
twang the harp today in jail”), but all
giving the Government hell. After a
fortnight the Administration retaliated
by cutting off supplies of pens, ink, paper,
cigars, whisky and visitors; and these
deprivations had an immediate effetct.
The Australian John Hampden’s spirits
began to sink. At work on another John
Hampden article, we were interrupted by
a message from our hero, conveyed by a
friendly copper: “For God’s sake ask
McFoozle [the Scotch boss] to get, me
out of this.” Learning that it would cost
him nothing, McFoozle sought out the
Premier, but that worthy took so long
to cool down and get the Parliamentary
machinery in motion that another fort-
night elapsed before the editor was freed.
And there had to be an interval for re-
covery before he could take up anew the
task eternal and the burden and the
lesson, pioneers, O pioneers, and give the
Government hell.
* H* *
“Lord Luvus”: Victorian educationists
who have been laboring the necessity for
adult education were given a bit of their
own back by an “Age” correspondent:
Having been a backward child myself, I
remember only too well the humiliations
of the classroom. It is surprising to me how
women and men can mop up knowledge
to become salaried teachers, yet lack the
gift of imparting that knowledge to others.
Cheer up, all you little backward scholars!
The dunderheads and chumps of a genera-
tion ago are now helping to keep industry
going while their country is at war.
Some of them are leaders in art, literature
and science. When I was at school the
biggest dunderhead in class was a child
who is now one of the leading physicists
in the Empire. Two veteran masters of
Melbourne Grammar have testified that
the class of 30 they presided over in
1890, and considered “just an average lot
of schoolboys,” contained some of the
most distinguished names in present-day
Australia.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”; I should like to
commiserate with “Lingo” (B. 19/4/’44),
whose enthusiasm for Basic English has
impelled him to write a par. in that re-
stricted language. It must have been
torture for him to censor every word
that didn’t happen to be in the sacred
vocabulary. The declared ayu of Basic
English is to make English easy of acquire-
ment for other races, with the object of
facilitating business—it couldn’t possibly
facilitate understanding. Personally I
don’t care tuppence whether foreigners
speak the language or whether business
is facilitated thereby, but I do care when
I see an attempt to denature a magnifi-
cent language by cutting out its associa-
tional value.
* * * *
“Musicopal” on a picturesque charac-
ter: —
I yarned with John Prosper Ralston, men-
tioned by “Exile” (B. 12/4/’44) as now at
Montreal, sitting on his bed at the Grand
Hotel, Broken Hill, seven or eight years ago.
He was on his way to White Cliffs to buy more
opals, and from his cuttings book, which I
helped to fill, there should be a few thousand
more Australians who know him. Jack men-
tioned his opal-studded harp, and why it was
so studded. He saw music as colors, and with
only sufficient light in the hall or room to glint
his opals he read from them his music. He
was so pleased to be understood when I said
that only that afternoon I had heard a piano
note which distinctly brought up a vision of
blue, and that some notes and chords fre-
quently brought into vision blues, yellows and
gold, that he passed to me his case of stones,
cut ready for setting, to make a selection. I
have today the stone I chose. I saw Ralston’s
black opal Pandora, a large, beautiful jet-black
stone with only one thin direction-changing
arterial blood-stream running through it. That
he still holds that stone shows his sincerity.
Good luck to him and his opal music scores!
* * * *
“Ad Rem”; A Melbourne manufactur-
ing firm applied for a permit to lay in
a supply of sodium chloride, stating in
the “Exact Purpose” column of the form
that the stuff was for refilling fire extin-
guishers. Came the reply. Application
received, but before it could be dealt with
it would be necessary for the applicant to
indicate the exact purpose for 1 which the
extinguishers were to be used.
* * * *
“Cheeser”: The changing of Jim
Gordon’s name to Grahame (B. 19/4/’44)
was Henry Lawson’s work, I agree, but
the christening was done in a Sydney pub
with suitable honors. Jim was on one of
his rare visits, and enlisted Lawson’s help
with a sheaf of MS. Lawson suggested
Songs of a Sundowner as the title. This
“Quiet, Ivan , or dadda wont takeums out any more!”
was agreed on. He then wrote “by Jim
Gordon,” but on consideration it was
agreed there were too many poets of that
name already, so Grahame was substi-
tuted. The original draft of the titlepage
is on the walls of the Bread and Cheese
Club’s rooms in Melbourne, It is a con-
stant reminder of Henry’s poor spelling.
In a pencilled note in his writing at the
foot of the page he spells equals “equels.”
It was not until years after (1940) that
Jim’s first book, The Call of the Bush,
was published by the Bread and Cheese
Club, of which he is a member.
0 * * * *
“P. Pawnticket” goes mountaineering:
Of course I knew that there were mountains
higher than Everest before an American spilt
the news of the discovery of a peak which
must be 31,000 feet. I climbed one of them
recently. The excitement began when I woke,
shuddering, to find that 1 had camped on a ledge
which had become narrower during the night
by the huge breakaway into the gulf tens of
thousands of feet below. It was obvious that*
1 must scale the heights quickly and get to the
better safety of the other side while my strength
lasted. Without thought of my gear I began
the %dmost perpendicular ascent, grasping at
rocks that crumbled in my grasp, slipping occa-
sionally with my heart in my mouth and fear-
fully hanging on to fresh support, with the
horror of the almost bottomless abyss into
which I might fall ever in my mind. After
climbing 3000 feet like this, I found myself still
far below the summit and safety. But by
crawling over a razorback with an almost knife
edge I might reach an easier ascent. I crossed
it—no need to describe its honors —and then
up a slope that seemed easier and safer in spite
of the crumbling snow, until I suddenly fell
into a crevasse. I slid down in an avalanche
of snow thinking it the end. Then suddenly the
mad descent stopped. Heart beating wildly and
by sheer will power throwing off the weakness
that seemed to be stealing over me, I began
again to ascend. Painfully up a thousand
feet, two thousand. Just as hope was dawning
a new terror came. The ground quivered be-
neath me. I clung hard to the earth, realising
that an earthquake was shaking the mountain.
And then my wife said: “If you want to get
to the other side of the bed why don’t you
get out of bed and go round instead of waking
me up in the middle of the night?”
* # * *
“Saaedi”: It is suggested by “Nakh”
(B. 19/4/’44) that there is some intellec-
tual disadvantage in being born a
twin, triplet, quad or quin. “Nakh”
declares that he does not know of any
genius who has appeared on this earth in
company. But let’s be reasonable. The
odds against any woman bearing twins
are great; the odds against her giv-
ing birth to a genius are terrific.
The odds against the two coinciding, as
it were, must be so immense as to excite
generosity in the heart of a Randwick
bookie.
“Tasser”: Somebody ought to bring
under Stanley Crick’s notice a query that
is agitating Tasmanians at the moment
and has achieved double-column publi-
city in the “Mercury.” Crick was
Lord Mayor of Sydney when the cruiser
bearing the city’s name was lost. Mr.
Crick launched a “new Sydney” fund, and
set quotas for his own and other States.
He was optimist enough to declare that
the necessary £2,000,000 would be forth-
coming so quickly as to present the
R.A.N. with it as a New Year gift for
1942. Instead, the fund closed about
75 p.c. short of the set total. Tasmania,
which put in £14,414, wants to know
what’s to be done with the money, now
in the hands of the Federal Treasurer,
acting as trustee. The F.T. can’t spend
it any other way than in the buy-
ing of a cruiser, unless authorised by
Act of Parliament. The “Mercury” in-
sists that the Commonwealth be forced
to do something about the fund. It ought
to insist that Lord Mayors be requested
to confine their activities to purely civic
affairs.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Undergrads’ pranks, is
it (B. 19/4/’44)? On an occasion when
the heats for the Head of the River were
being decided on the Yarra a crowd of
many thousands lined the banks, and
there were the usual yells, screams, cat-
calls and boos and hoots as two crews
came into sight, straining at their oars and
making the spray fly. Scotch flashed past
the post a length ahead of Wesley, the
judge’s gun was fired and Scotch was
officially declared the winner. Again two
crews appeared, and once more Scotch
and Wesley flashed past the post, but
this time with Wesley a length and a
quarter ahead of its rival. The crowd
was as bewildered as the judges until it
leaked out that University students from
Queen’s College and Ormond, whose
colors are the counterparts of the respec-
tive schools, had staged a hoax by start-
ing off half a mile ahead of the legitimate
contestants.
* * * *
“William Lackspere”: Great artists
may have got recognition in early
life (B. 19/4/’44); great writers certainly
didn’t. The “Saturday Review” said
that Dickens was a dangerous dema-
gogue and his Tale of Two Cities mere
“puppy pie and stewed cat.” “Calm,
settled, imperturbable, drivelling idiocy”
was “Blackwood’s” polite opinion of
Keats’s “Endymion,” and it advised its
author to go back to his chemist’s shop.
William Blake was “an unfortunate luna-
tic whose personal inoffensiveness secures
him from confinement,” according to the
“Examiner” ; and of Byron the “Satirist
said “If the noble lord had not published
his ‘Hours of Idleness’ no human being
would have guessed the quantity of time
he spent in doing nothing.” “Alter” may
be right in regarding the works of the
early French post-impressionists as evi-
dences of “degeneration and dementia,”
but there is no indubitable evidence that
any book, painting, piece of architecture
or sculpture is beautiful, whereas it is
common knowledge that opinions on such
works differ.
* * * *
“Billy See”: As to names of Victorian
gold towns, I recall the Lucky Woman.
Its founder was the wife of a digger down
on his luck; in fact, he had bottomed
his latest “duffer.” But on the morning he
and his spouse were due to move the
lady emerged from the connubial 6-X-8
to find, just a step or so from the tent door,
a yellow point of gold where some water
casually poured had uncovered it. Lifted
with the pick, it turned the scale at a few
hundred ounces. So the Lucky Woman
rush started—though the first diggers
didn’t exactly call it that name.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: Minister of Customs
Keane, raising objections to tobacco-
rationing, asks how a 'smoker can be
recognised. How can anyone recognise
a butter-eater or a tea-drinker?
* * * *
“Pip” reports a sporting event:
The beer-night keg was on its last legs when
the subject of long-distance running came up,
with both Donk and Dasher claiming unheard-of
times for themselves. So it came about that
a race was arranged into the nearest no-horse
town and back, a total of eight miles. The
contest started at 10.30 p.m. Donk wore under-
pants and singlet; Dasher appeared in a pair
of khaki shorts, but after a couple of miles they
chafed him, so he tucked them under his arm
and continued in the raw (no houses within
miles). On the return lap Donk was stopped by
a colonel in a jeep. “I say, old man,” asked
the amazed big-shot, “are you all right?
“Don’t stop me,” panted Donk, “I’m in a
race ” and he plodded on, leaving the colonel
open-mouthed. 'I he naked Dasher shuffling past
a few minutes later caused the brasshat to emit
weird, stifled sounds. Half a mile from the
finish’Donk was skittled by a dispatch rider on
a motor-bike. Picking himself up and finding
no bones broken he limped on to win by 300
yards. Time, 2hr. smin.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: “Nevertire” Ned was negotiat-
ing his team of 14 bullocks across the
river ford wherf the near rear wheel of
the log-laden jinker slid over a sloping
stone and went down to the hub in the
sand. He accompanied the plying whip
with some of his choicest flights of
profane fancy, but the energy created
by cunningly-imitated straining necks
wouldn’t have pulled the dummy off a
baby’s bottle. Again “Nevertire” plied
his trusty whip, what time he called upon
several superior powers to witness that
it was impossible that any other poor
human could be cursed with such a bunch
of jelly-legged, stringy-necked, obstinate,
adjectival so-and-sos. The result of his
combined vocal and physical efforts was
an outbreak of nonchalant cud-chewing
by the steadily-standing team. Then Ned
hurled his whip to the ground, looked up
at a magpie that was staring at him from
the branch of an ironbark that leaned
over the river and roared; “I could do
wot I liked with this blanky team once,
but ever since they heard about them
slaughtermen alwiz goin’ on strike the
blankards have got dead cocky. This is
wot comes of readin’ aloud when they’re
around!”
* * * *
“Sarina”: Horses have a sixth sense.
Was riding home on a stormy evening
when, without warning, my nag and the
nags grazing by the road suddenly bolted.
A moment later a tall bloodwood by the
track copped a flash of lightning and
1 was roughly shaken by the explosion.
A neighbor’s wife was driving a sulky
that same day. The horse stuck her up
in a gully which was flooding fast, but
abruptly hauled the vehicle out and up
the sloping bank at a canter. They’d
scarcely made the level ground when
down sizzled the lightning and demol-
ished the timber in the gully crossing!
“8.A.”: Camped near the head of the
Rose River (Vic,), one of my packers, a
two-year-old filly, went missing. After
several days’ vain search I concluded that
she had either met with an accident or
gone with brumbies. Four and a half
years later I was crossing the divide from
the head of the Howqua to the Wonnon-
gatta and near Mt. Howitt sighted a mob
of brumbies. They made a break for
the scrub, leaving one, a big bay mare,
intently regarding us. Then, instead of
making off after the mob, she trotted
down and joined the string behind the
bell-mare —attracted by the bell she had
been accustomed to follow years before,
* * * *
“Kai Kai”: The land crabs in New
Guinea make uncomfortable bedfellows.
How they manage to climb the smooth
leg of a stretcher carrying their heavy
shell and why is a mystery, but a shake-
out of the blankets each evening un-
covers a crop of them. Newcomers, un-
used to their habits, are liable to leap
out of bed in alarm when one of them
makes its presence felt. They leave a
brown, gelatinous substance in their wake
which ruins and stains blankets and
clothes. It is easier to stop a tank than a
land crab in search of bed and breakfast.
* * * *
“Blime”; Bert tapped the wedges from
the log as I rode up. “Sixty,” he re-
marked, gazing round at the pile of dry
box posts. “Tough splittin’. Think I’ll
call it a day.” “See where the C.C.C.’s
been splitting, too,” I volunteered. “Aver-
aged four posts a day each.” “Wh-a-a-t! ”
Bert dropped the end of the saw on his
foot. “An’ us sloggin’ away t’ keep them
blokes on big money. Well, if that ain’t
the limit!” His fists clenched. “Hey,
there’s a bunch o’ them construction
blokes in town, ain’t there?” He grabbed
his hat and started off, and for the next
ten minutes I walked beside him arguing
volubly till at last he agreed to sleep on
it before belting the daylights out of the
gang in a one-man cleanup. The fol-
lowing morning I was pulling out of
town when Bert appeared, grim deter-
mination on his dial. He pretended not
to hear when I hailed. “Now, look here,
Bert,” I reasoned, catching him up, “I
told you to look at this thing from all
angles, and think it well out.” “I did,”
he answered shortly. “I’m joinin’ the
C.C.C.”
# * * *
“Esk D.”: It happens when the ranges
have been swept by bushfires and the
blackened slopes are without their deep,
protective covering of scrub. At the
“Uncle Charlie's gone to stay with the angels , darling."
“Ah! But will the Man-power let ’ im ?”
end of a long dry spell clouds roll
up unhurriedly into a clear sky and
thunder growls, the sky darkens and
rain comes down in sheets. High
in the catchment of a dry gully the
fury of the storm concentrates. Sounds
of thunder and wind are subdued
in the muffled roar of cloudburst, which
in turn gives way to the rushing boom of
water in the gully. The first wave carries
all before it, wrenching out trees as if
by a giant hand ; boulders weighing tons
are rolled and bounced about like
marbles. Deposits of centuries are
gouged out to bedrock in the gully and
flung in great piles below, and high, suc-
cessive waves of inky-black water go
swirling down the creeks. In one in-
stance a 20-acre paddock of rich allu-
vial flat was submerged under huge
boulders, trees and gravel in as many
minutes and 10 chains of the netting
fence where it came through has not
been seen since. A mile away it was still
possible to raise a dust.
* * * *
“Caballer”: As one to whom the gates
of Sheol have been opened by the sting-
ing-tree of N.Q. I can’t understand its
absence from the reports of patrol activity
in N.G. It is plentiful enough around
Madang. Bad as the sting of the
northern N.S.W. variety is it cannot com-
pare with that of the North. It gets pro-
gressively worse as you near the Equator,
and round about Cairns and the Daintree
River being scourged with scorpions
would seem like gentle massage compared
with the searing touch of this hellish
vegetable. I know of no cure. Searing the
place with a lighted newspaper, if done
immediately, helps a bit. Plunging the
affected part in cold water' will give faint
relief for half an hour or so. The effect
of the cold water for the first 30 seconds
or so is such that it is charitable to warn
neighbors in order that they may not be
demoralised by your scream. The pain
lasts about 24 hours, and you will feel it
for months afterwards when mornings
are cold or when cold water touches the
sting cold contracts the skin and
squeezes the small bulbs holding the
poison. Apart from the sting there is a
dust on the leaves that causes people
near it to sneeze until their noses bleed.
It’s a form of hay-fever, and the Queens-
land Forestry Department had to issue
gas masks to men working in the foot-
hills of Bartle Frere because of it. The
abos. won’t cut the stinging-tree when
brushing scrub. Standing, they can see it,
but on the ground it catches their bare
feet. Dogs won’t enter scrub where it
is ; horses once stung can’t be got near a
bush. It is the white man, civilised and
of superior intellect, who persists in walk-
ing in jungle whose stalks appear to be
venomous serpents, whose leaves white-
hot metal and the whole charged with
40,000,000 volts or so of electricity.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Can’t agree with “Bunyip”
(B. 19/4/’44) that a cocked pea rifle is
safer than an uncocked one when getting
through a wire fence. It is doubtful
whether wire pressure would force the
flanges back far enough to cause an ex-
plosion when they were released ; but, if
it did, why wouldn’t it force them right
back, i.e., cock the rifle and so (if “Bun-
yip” is correct) render it practically safe?
“B.” contends that the trigger-guard
“makes cocked guns practically immune
from explosion under these conditions.”
Why, then, do hammerless guns go off
accidentally? A projecting piece of wire
or something carried or worn by the
bearer may catch the trigger despite the
guard ; and, in any case, a cocked weapon
—especially if the spring is a bit weak or
the catch worn —will frequently go off as
the result of a shake or a jar. A youth
in our district was walking along a
narrow bush pad carrying a cocked pea
rifle on his shoulder. His mate, follow-
ing close behind, was shot dead when a
twig brushed against the trigger. With
an uncocked rifle that couldn’t have
happened.
* * * #
“Betcha”: What is the life span of an
emu? Seventeen years ago a big one
wandered through a break in the back
fence and was still there when the fence
was repaired. Unable to retire, he has
lived contentedly in his new quarters ever
since, camping at night in a small shel-
tered gully behind the hut. Though no
attempt has been made to tame him, he
now has no objection to my working in
the vicinity, and allows me to approach
within a few yards. Should a stranger
visit the hut the hissing protests of the
emu are plainly heard throughout the
night, and if someone stirs the sound
rises indignantly. During daylight hours
he keeps himself strictly at the far end
of the paddock, there to await uneasily
tile departure of disturbing outsiders.
$ * * *
“C.E.”: When Billy came home on
leave his old dog Bruiser was first to
greet him and stuck to him like a burr,
running as far as he could to bid him
good-bye when Billy left. On his last
home visit Billy delighted Bruiser by col-
lecting a couple of cobbers and driving
out to the morass on a shooting trip. At
the first shot Bruiser plunged into the bog,
retrieved the quarry and was halfway
back when he was taken with a heart
attack. Billy carried him out, and 15
minutes later the old dog regained con-
sciousness, got to his feet, remembered,
and, staggering once more into the water,
came out proudly carrying the prize.
That night Bruiser died. Next day Billy
collected his cobbers and they drove to
the morass. On the site of Bruiser’s last
triumph they buried him. Billy returned
to his unit. And there are people who
will assert that bushmen and Diggers
aren’t sentimental.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: “Old Camp” (B. 29/3/’44)
says normal human beings “see almost
as well in the open night as the day” ;
but anyone taking on a sentry’s job, with
the opposition fairly close, will see bushes
only a few yards away taking on the
most fantastic shapes. Stationary objects
such as stumps will move around in a
way they never do in daylight, while
four or five feet of stout rope lying on
a bush track (even though there’s a bit
of moonlight) will wrinkle in the most
aggressive manner. Of course, “Old
Camp” may be right; but, if so, why
do they put headlights on motor-cars?
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: With all due
regard to “No Go’s” burlesque recipe
for cooking cockatoo (B. 29/3/’44), the
sulphur-crested species can eat better
than any game bird. On Tammit (mid-
Murray) during the 1929 drought these
white fliers, after the wheat across the
river was harvested, dined en masse on a
wheaten haystack by the woolshed, eat-
ing the cover and biting through the net-
ting roof. Nothing short of an armed
sentry could keep those birds off the
stack till we took to setting rabbit-traps
on the top. We caught hundreds, and
as the flesh looked white like poultry we
tried a couple. They ate better than
chicken, and, with stock unkillable, we
relished those cockatoos, young and old,
baked, stewed and fricasseed, for weeks
afterwards. But it’s largely a question of
diet. The next year, with no wheat about,
those birds didn’t taste nearly so good.
* * 9 * ♦
“B. A. Ker”; Our neighbor, Big George
Foyle, who dealt in horses and always
had a dozen or more in his paddocks,
often declared that somebody “sweated”
one of his mokes every dance night, but
nobody ever took him seriously. Then
the annual ball came off, drawing its
usual bumper crowd. In the midst of
the shivoo a wild-eyed giant burst through
the doorway, charged into the middle of
the floor and roared for silence. “Listen! ”
Big George thundered when the music
ceased; “fer months I’ve known some
coot ’as been sweatin’ my ’orses. Well,
jist now I found one of ’em tethered in
the scrub about a quarter of a mile from
’ere. The low-down cow that owns the
saddle and bridle can ’ave ’em by cornin’
and askin’ me fer ’em.” Nobody owned
the harness, either then or during the two
hours that massive figure stood leaning
against the door jamb. Next morning
there was consternation at Foyle’s.
The trooper was summoned and a search
for the four stolen horses organised. Even-
tually they were found —saddled and
bridled and tethered at various spots
within a quarter of a mile of the dance-
hall. That was my one solace as I
bathed my blistered feet: four other fel-
lows had lost their saddles and bridles,
and they’d walked 15 miles when they
needn’t have. In those days the term
“joyriding” hadn’t been coined, but the
motor-car didn’t start the craze.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Despite “Zake” (B.
26/4/’44), I still doubt that the rabbit
gives two hoots about the safety of the
other rabbit when danger appears, which
was “Naturala’s” argument in favor of
his theory that rabbits’ white tails are
given them to use as danger signals and
to guide younger rabbits to safety in the
dusk. When Bunny thumps the ground
in alarm, as he does, he’s a buck, and
he’s sounding a general warning, just as
the ram whistles or the stallion blows.
But where the ram or the stallion will
put himself between the females and the
danger, the buck rabbit breaks evens for
home and doesn’t wait to see who is left
behind. This could be due to warren
morals; since free love rules therein and
any buck may dally where he chooses,
why should he worry what does take the
knock?—there’ll be plenty more. All
rabbits make for their own particular
portal in an alarm, only diving into an-
other hole or log if the danger is very
pressing. Often you can walk on to a
warren after the inmates have gone to
ground and be startled to see one pop
from a hole and dart to another under
your nose, possibly hoofed out by the
indignant holders of the fitst possy.
SHENANDOAH.
“You’ve heard o’ the Ark an’ you’ve heard o
Noah,”
The old deckwalloper said one day,
“But you never heard o’ the Shenandoah
And the fuss she made round here, 111 Jay.
“The Shenandoah was a British ship (
That put to sea as the barque Sea King.
{The chanty rolls, so let it rip
Till the voices roar an’ the echoes ring.)
“But they changed her into a privateer
Out on the North Atlantic seas —
Letters of marque or buccaneer,
Pirate or what you damn’ well please.
“They stuck the Southern flag aloft —
When North fought South, due south
come .
Where the lights are pale and the mists are sou
An’ the loaded whaleships staggered home:
Rolling home with their oil-rooms full
An’ chanties ringing to homely stars,
Singing to make the stout sheets pull
The old ships back to the old home bars.
“Nantucket, Salem, New Bedford Bay,
Martha’s Vineyard by old Cape Cod,
The whalers sailed in the whalers’ way
By the smell of the wind and the grace of
God. ,
Till out o’ the mists comes the Shenandoah
‘Ahoy! an’ heave her to,’ she said,
‘By the beard of Moses and ancient Noah
An’ Davy Jones an’ his dipsy-lead.’
“She sailed the south and she sunk
Northern ships with their loads of oil.”
{The roaring chanty rolls and rips
Till the winds are deaf and the echoes boil!)
“One by one she sent them down.
But those that ran sent word around
From Bay of Islands to Hobart Town,
‘Let your anchors lay on British ground.’
“Now you’ve heard o’ the Ark an’ you've heard
o’ Noah,”
The deckwalloper said to me,
“An’ that’s the tale o’ the Shenandoah,
The pirate ship o’ the Southern Sea.”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


"It's not often I'm late for a parade, sir , is it, sir?"
“S.G.”: Between drinks the talk
swung round to personal accomplish-
ment with musical instruments. “Y’
wanter hear me on the violin,” said the
little stout cove. “By cripes, when I play
it y’ don’t have t’ know the words, I can
make the flamin’ thing speak.” After a
thoughtful silence the long, thin bloke
with the mobile lips lifted his pot, paused
with it halfway to his mouth and said
“Well, gimme a cornet an’ y’ can have
y’r violin. That’s where I shine. I’ve
shook blokes t’ their boot soles with ‘The
Rosary* ” ; he drained his pot and added
“an’ once they got me t’ sound ‘The
Last Post’ at a concert. Blime, every-
body got up an’ rushed out, stickin’ stamps
on letters they’d forgot t’ post. That’s
how real it was.”
*' * * *
“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch, their
swags up, dodged about the Dubbo
(N.S.W.) railway yards, keeping to the
shadows, until they located a goods train
being made up and saw by the trucks
that it was for Peak Hill, Alectown and
Parkes. Then they planted their swags
in a handy spot, slipped across to the
nearest pub and bought a dollar’s worth
of house rum, for ’twas autumn on the
plains, and these wise travellers knew
that rum-warmed sleep was the best way
to pass the time on a night journey such
as lay ahead of them. Presently they,
their swags and the rum were snug under
the tarpaulin of a truck of timber. Where-
upon an engine attached itself to that
train and jerked it around and stopped
and panted and shrieked and jerked it
some more. Bluey and Dutch nudged
each other, finished the rum, snuggled
down and slept. Came the dawn and
the travellers, finding no movement,
cautiously poked their heads forth and
surveyed the landscape. Then a burst
of profanity smote the glowing autumn
morn, for that truck had been kicked off
and lay on a dead-end in the Dubbo
railway yards.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The New Guinea kooka-
burra has far more blue on his wings
than any of the Australian species. He
hunts in the same way, diving into the
grass to fly up again with a struggling
mouse or lizard held in his beak, and he
softens his tucker as does his mainland
brother —by whacking it on a tree limb.
When his tummy’s full he perches on a
limb and drowses away the hours in the
old familiar way until the next meal-
time comes around. At intervals he
throws back his head and opens his beak
—but, alas! no throaty chuckles or loud
peals of laughter follow. All he can do
is make a gasping, grunting sound which
grates on the ear, though sometimes he
gives two gasps which make you think
that he is on the verge of laughing. Kelly
the Crow is just the same old cunning.
thieving eater of eggs and carrion as he
is in Australia. Often at daybreak you
hear the familiar “Car, cawrr, cawrr”
overhead and if you’re not properly
awake you imagine that you’re back in
Aussie again, listening for the accom-
panying sounds of sheep bleating and
magpies carolling. But all you hear is
the growl and rumble of the surf out on
the reef, the rattle of the coconut palms
as the sou’-easter whips their leaves, and
the droning of our fighter ’planes as they
go out on the dawn patrol.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Caballer” (B. 12/4/’44)
will be interested to learn that leeches can
abstract sufficient blood at pne “sitting”
to last a whole season. Moreover, they
attack animals as well as humans. They
introduce a substance (hirudinin) which
prevents coagulation, thus ensuring a free
flow of blood. The land forms, such a
pest in N.Q. jungles, climb from damp
earth to the tops of shrubs, ferns and tall
grasses, so “Caballer’s” method of saturat-
ing his sock-tops in brine would scarcely
be effective in badly infested areas. Even
if the grasses, etc., were only boot-high the
little parasites can find their way through
the eyelet holes of boots or leggings. They
may even gain access via water to mouth,
nostril, larynx and trachea, and may re-
main several weeks until they reach full
growth. In such cases the best method of
removal is by touching with strong co-
caine. Diggers in N.G. know only too
well how hard it is to keep them out.
* * # *
“Mat’s Mate”: We came in from the
scrub to find the town crowded. Hunt-
ing accommodation, we saw a sign
“Good board, 10s. a day,” held a con-
ference with the landlady and sealed a
treaty. In the night Mat arose, growling,
rolled back his mattress and found the
broken spring supported by a 3ft. plank.
After his natural merriment died down
he went outside, retrieved that notice,
worked on it awhile and restored it. Next
morning it told an astonished world
“Good board, very best hardwood, 10s.
a day.”
* * * *
“Moyhu”; Australian-born and -bred,
the swamp mouse has been strangely
ignored by natural-history writers. Dis-
tinguished from other varieties of native
mice by its color, a deep-brown
spattered with a motley of whitish
blotches, the tiny creature possesses a
rootlike extension attached to the heel of
each foot. In periods of surface-fodder
scarcity the swamp mouse propels its roots
into the soil, deriving sustenance after the
manner of a plant. Along the swampy
depressions of the middle Murray this
mouse may be seen occasionally, but its
habit of rooting itself to the soil makes
it easy prey, and unless sanctuary is found
for it early extinction is inevitable.
* * * *
“Dropit”: I can quote another branch
railway which has only aboriginal names
—that from Dalby to Tara, in s.-w.
Queensland. Dalby was named after Sir
Arthur Dalby, who made a mark in early
Queensland politics. J. T. Bell, M.P.
for Dalby when the line to Tara (52
miles) was built, took with him along the
route an intelligent local aborigine to
give names suitable to the localities
selected as sidings. The result is Natcha,
Kupunn, Nandi, Ducklo, Gulera, Kum-
barilla, Weranga and Goranba. It was
only when an extra siding was put in
later to serve a Government sleeper saw-
mill that the imported name of Perthton
was used, thus spoiling the sequence.
* * *
“K.D.S.”: Homicidal elm- and gum-
trees (B. 12/4/’44)! Johnson, half-abo.,
as good a bushman and hunter as could
be found about the Darling, was fishing
from a boat one perfectly still day on
that river. A gum limb fell, disabling
him and pinning him by its weight while
Ihe stove-in boat took him under. He
was killed and drowned all together, as
1 * Ut 1 ‘
“B-gar”: How dexterous sheep are
when footrot takes toll of their feet! I
have seen sheep limping along with only a
near-front and a near-hind foot on the
ground, also on the two hind feet; but
a jumbuck has to turn it in when only
the two front feet are fit for locomotion.
However, I have seen a goat with both
hindquarters out of action moving along
with a semi-crawling movement by use
of its two front feet.
**‘ * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Tell “The
0.D.” (B. 8/ 3 / ’44) that the pet bobtailed
lizard had naturally to have a fresh green-
paint make-up after hibernation. In
summer bobtails are so common about
the garden eating dandelions, fruit and
grass that Lizzie had to be distinguish-
able from her ilk. This year, during a
walkabout, the branded lizard got off
the stock route and went the way of most
bobtails. She was found dead with her
head stuck through one side of a netting
fence and her green body on the other.
* * * *
“Caballer”; Who thought of the spring-
board for felling timber? It probably
began with boys using horseshoes on
boards, but it’s a long way from a toy
such as that to a toe that, bolted to a real
board, could be relied on to carry the
weight of a 14st. man. The flanged trees
of the scrub can be felled in half the time
with a board as, besides being smaller
where the flanges die out, the wood at
that height chips better. The axeman
is not jarred by the axe when on a board
and has also a level surface to work on.
In the Atherton scrub we used she-beech.
as it was nearly as light as cedar, and
when used with sprigged boots cut up
into a surface like a coir mat. The
N.S.W. Northern Rivers timber was
felled with springboards, and I believe
they were used around the Shoalhaven
district They were certainly used in
the Taranaki country of N.Z. 40 years
ago. Yet I have seen recent photographs
of “Australian timber-getters” with a
pathetic and cumbersome contrivance of
saplings built around a tree.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”; In his yarn about the
gold find at St. Arnaud “Mat’s Mate” (B.
29/4/’44) demonstrated that he has yet
to learn the difference between mullock
and slag. Neither St. Arnaud nor any
other Victorian mine ever had any re-
fractory ore, so never had a smelter,
which is the only plant that turns out slag.
And if it had been smelter slag from
gold ore it might have stayed there until
“Wot won the Flyin' ’ Andicap?”
“ Postponed .”
“Good. I ’ad a deener on ’im!”
it was as old as the Pyramids before
even one blade of grass grew on it. More,
there wouldn’t be any specks of gold in
it, since properly conducted smelting
yields a 99.75 p.c. extraction.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Rats being a pest around
the feed-house, I took to treating them
to a very effective phosphorus mixture.
Then t’other day 1 was aroused by the
chap next door bewailing the sudden
death of his cat. Holding a post-mortem
we discovered traces of phosphorus. Ob-
viously the feline had killed and eaten a
small rodent that had just partaken of
a snack of phosphorus-spread bread.
Which recalls that in the bad poison-
weed days of Westralia there flourished
a legume, Burtonia, very toxic to grazing
. animals when in shoots and blossom,
though when the dry seeds fell from
the pods they were eaten freely by
wild pigeons without harm. Yet should
a dog catch such a pigeon and in eating
it swallow also its pea-filled crop the
dog died. Much the same applied to
the flesh of sheep poisoned by the green
legume. Eaten raw it poisoned the dog,
yet when cooked it could be eaten by
humans with impunity.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Warrup was 18 years of
age when in May, 1839, he accompanied
the relief party sent from Perth to search
for the remnants of Lieut. Grey’s second
expedition, scattered and lost some 100
miles up the coast towards what is now
Geraldton. Outstripping his white com-
panions, he was the first to discover thd
body of Fredrick Srfiith: he shot the sea-
hawk that was perched on the dead
youth’s face. He wept, too, when with
Captain John S. Roe they buried the lost
white boy in the grave that they dug with
their hands in the beach sand. Returned
to Perth with his reputation enhanced,
Warrup took service as houseboy to a
young official in the Colonial Secretary’s
office. Dressed in a white suit he made
an excellent waiter and valet. But there
were times when his master found the
suit discarded and Warrup gone. A fort-
night or so later he would creep back,
lean, scarred and dirty, to take the neces-
sary bath and resume the white suit.
None reproached him for his inability to
resist this aboriginal urge. Then the Rev.
Smithers, Wesleyan pastor of the church
just recently built, undertook his baptism.
So he became John Warrup. In Perth
he met Mary Dwoyup, reared from in-
fancy in the household of the Surveyor-
General. Later the pair were married, and
Governor John Hutt presented .them with
four acres of the best river-flat land, com-
plete with cottage, and they were taught
the art of cultivation. But the best inten-
tions may fail before the usages of ten
thousand years. In the forest still lived
Warrup’s relatives. Primitive commu-
nists, they watched the growth of John’s
first crop, then came and ate it. So
Warrup sweated for little, and at night
slept behind locked doors lest his
brethren should carry off the .very bed
coverings. He fell ill with what Dr.
Crighton diagnosed as influenza. His
kinsfolk, talking it over around the coun-
cil fire, decided that what Warrup was
suffering from was “too much white man’s
house.” So one night they came along
and carried him to a glade, where they
hoped that the fresh air and the balm
of the trees would restore him to health.
They had never heard of pneumonia. So
died John Warrup, Westralia’s first experi-
ment in the civilising of the abo.
ASSAULT BOAT.
Steel-grey in the grey dawn,
To the dim beach gliding;
Pale stars in the first light
On the dark waves riding.
Crouch low in the steel box,
See the tracer burning
Glow red like the hot beats
Of the heart’s wild yearning.
Hide fear; let the hate-surge
Make the numb hands stronger,,
Make the legs move, make the blood leap
In the fierce life-hunger.
Steel-grey in the half-light,
And the waves pursuing;
Spindrift and a white wake
And the white gulls mewing.
Cold sand and the green bush.
And death’s tongue speaking
Old words to the new day
On the cold sea breaking.
A.I.F.
T. HUNGERFORD.


FOR BLOOD, VEINS.
ARTERIES. ETC.
What is BLASTO? . . . What can it do for me?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of c'y onic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed t ..
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Ellasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Ehisto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let — see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E.
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
d
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
;T7u
Sterilised
r
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of anv other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
... All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, VSSK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Tender Wool.
“Murrawong”: Investigations in West
Australia, chiefly in agricultural areas,
show that the chief cause is insufficient
protein in feed during summer and
autumn. If additional protein could be
supplied the result would be an increase
in wool weight, improved tensile strength
and uniformity of the fibres from tip to
base and higher price for the fleece.
Recommendations are for the feeding
of ilb. of wheat or more per sheep per
day for dry sheep and at least lib. per day.
for ewes in lamb or with lambs at foot.
This is required for energy, but in addi-
tion at least 3oz. of protein per head per
day is necessary to maintain wool
growth.
If the country strikes a big drought
and hand-feeding becomes necessary
there is little hope of saving most of the
sheep. The demand today is for meat,
and the woolgrower can expect no assist-
ance either by way of additional labor or,
if it becomes necessary to supplement the
shortage of natural pasture, in procuring
protein concentrates necessary to main-
tain wool growth.
The most widely-used pptein concen-
trate is meatmeal, which is now denied
to wool men as it is being conserved for
pigs and poultry. Why there should be
a shortage of meatmeal has never been
explained, as killings now are as great as in
pre-war years or even greater—slaughter-
men permitting. Woolgrowers should be
asking about this shortage of meatmeal;
it will be too late when drought feeding
has to be done.
Drought Feeding.
“Sheepo”: Hand-feeding should begin
as soon as the natural feed shows a de-
cline. Once the pastures become deficient
in protein and minerals stock begin to
lose condition and weaken very quickly,
especially breeders.
Buying fodder never did and never
will pay, nor can much be said for scrub
feeding, although it may be cheaper than
buying fodder. The only safeguard
against drought losses is fodder conser-
vation. It should be standard practice
in this country. Although sufficient can-
not be conserved to feed all a big station’s
stock throughout a drought, enough
could be held to permit of feeding early
so as to assist stock in maintaining their
condition. All the talk of depending on
Government? to start big fodder schemes
is plain drivel. Start one yourself.
Bacon Curing.
“Myrrhee”: For a good scald use two
parts boiling water to one of cold in a
trough deep and long enough to cover
the carcass. Keep the carcass under
water with a board, which can be used
as a scraper to test the effectiveness of
the scald. The process should not take
more than a minute. Add several buckets
of cold water, when most of the cleaning
can be done without removing the pig
from the water. Finishing touches can
be given before dressing.
Hang the carcass overnight, and in the
morning saw down the centre of the
backbone, making two even sides. Re-
move the head and inside fat and cut into
pieces to suit requirements. A handy way
is to cut each side into three pieces—
ham, middle, shoulder. Take out back-
bone and ribs. Rub salt over the whole
meat surface and cover with a layer of
dry salt, leaving for 48 hours.
To make the brine dissolve l£lb. salt,
ilb. sugar, |oz. each of saltpetre and
washing soda to each gallon of hot water.
Allow to become cold before pouring on
the meat. For pickling use a cement
trough or wooden barrel; on no account
a metal container. Brush all salt from
the meat before placing in the brine,
which should be sufficient to cover all the
meat. Weight the meat down with bricks
and leave in the brine for about three
weeks for a pig weighing about 1001 b.
to 1201 b. dressed ; a week longer for pigs
up to 1501 b. Hams need another week.
After removal from brine soak the
bacon in cold water for 24 hours to take
out the surplus salt. Hang to dry in a
cool, airy place. Storing in a cellar at
this stage will encourage mould. When
thoroughly dry, usually in from six to ten
days, the bacon is ready for smoking.
This can be done by using a packing-case
as a smoke-box.
Renovating Old Land.
“Plane Creek”: Nothing renovates old,
long-cropped land more than a good rest
under grass. Grazed, it gets the benefit
of animal manures. Best dodge is to
plough the land roughly and sow a legu-
minous cover crop. When this is at the
flowering stage, turn under, allow to rot
and sow a grass crop on the levelled
surface. Where good, quick-growing
native grasses exist, and erosion isn’t
likely, no grasses need be sown. Nature
will provide.
It doesn’t pay to allow couch grasses' to
cover fallow paddocks. Despite grazing
they gain an unbreakable hold on reason-
ably good country, and, once well estab-
lished, are hard to eradicate. When
sowing grass sow only types that may be
easily destroyed by ploughing.
Watch fallow paddocks for dung-
dumps and rake the manure evenly over
the land where necessary. Growing grass
is a profuse yielder of humus, which may
be seen as a dark, loamy material spread
through the surface soil. The longer
paddocks are fallowed the better. After
ploughing the grass under, the growing
of a second crop of green manure pays.
Besides further enriching the soil it is
also effective in smothering out any re-
growth of grass, which otherwise would
prove a nuisance on the newly-cropped
land.
Production and Research.
“Molecule”: It cannot be too often
repeated that potential production is de-
termined by breeding ; actual production
depends on feeding, environment and
skill. In all cases the minimum potential
production is nil. So dairy-farmers
struggle along with cows yielding 1001 b.
of butterfat per annum when,
proper stock, the potential is more than
10 times greater.
Some time ago the U.S. Department
of Agriculture sent questionnaires to
agricultural colleges, experiment stations,
extension centres, etc., throughout the
country asking what subjects, in the
realm of animal husbandry, were con-
sidered to call most urgently for solu-
tion. Though it did not form part of
the questionnaire, a surprising number of
replies expressed the view that the most
urgent problem was not the acquisition
of further knowledge but the more
general application of the vast store of
existing knowledge. Here, the Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science estimates
a lag of 10 to 15 years between the work
of the scientist and its practical appli-
cation.
There will be wholesale demands for
research in connection with post-war
schemes, some legitimate, a few fantastic,
many unnecessary and even undesirable
while we still retain the 1001 b. cow, the
100-egg hen and the 10-bushel wheat
crop as evidence of our indifference to
the lessons of research.
A Hut Heater.
“Agro”; For a hut without a fireplace
get a petrol drum and in the top cut
one round hole 2in. or Sin. in dialneter
and another 7in. in diameter. Over
the smaller hole place a pipe to
act as a flue, which should go
through the roof. Next make a cone-
shaped funnel out of tin, about 15in.
long, tapering from 6fin. at the top to
4fin. at the bottom. Bend about half an
inch of the top edge outwards to form a
flange. Then drop the funnel, small end
down, in the seven-inch hole of the drum,
where it will be held in position by the
flange.
Drop small clumps of wood through
this on to the fire; it also makes
a down draught to keep the fire burning
well. No door or ashtray is required.
If the draught through the flue does not
carry away all the ashes they can be
lifted out occasionally through the open-
ing on top by means of a small tin
attached to a stiff handle.
This heater, which gives off a glowing
warmth, can be stood on a wooden floor
so long as it is separated from the timber
by a slab of concrete or several bricks
placed together.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Wash a mangy dog in
soap and water and dry, then wash in a
solution of an ounce of potassium sul-
phurate to a gallon of water. Repeat at
weekly intervals until the itching ceases
and the sores heal. An old-fashioned
remedy is equal amounts of olive oil,
kerosene and black sulphur mixed into a
semi-liquid paste and applied sparingly
to the affected parts once daily.
“J.D.D.”: Now that frosty mornings
are with us take no chances, warm all
steel wedges and chisels before using.
Keep the heads clean and grind any
ragged edges. There is always a danger
that cold wedges will snap or fly.
“H.C.H.”: Leaking roof gutters may
be repaired with plastic cement if the
iron around the fracture is thoroughly
scraped clean before plugging the cement
into and around the hole. As fractures
in gutters or the thin straps holding them
are often caused by heavy ladders being
dropped against them, the gutters may
be strengthened by tin straps cut from
20-gauge galvanised iron. The straps,
Hin. wide, should be cut long enough
to run from the nail holding the roof iron
down through a hole punched with an
old chisel in the top edge of the spout
and back to the beginning where both
ends are nailed to the roof.
“B.”: Don’t prepare a seedbed in a
hurry. Do the ploughing two months
ahead of sowing. Leaving the area fal-
low for a month benefits the soil. After-
wards disc, harrow and roll again before
the seed’s sown. Discing breaks down the
clods and gives a good tilth, harrows
level the surface, rolling gives firmness.
Thorough preparation before sowing can
mean the difference between 20 tons and
80 tons in a mangold crop, 15 and 50 in
green maize, 30 bushels and 80 bushels
in maize for grain. Poor cultivation’s
often the outcome of too large areas.
Cut the area to give it the right prepara-
tion and it returns more than double
“Green Ink”: Burning the broken
axe-handle out will not spoil the temper
if you bury the head up to the eye in
damp soil and light a small fire around
it. No heat then gets to the edge.
“H.C.”; When planting trees for
shade choose types that will stand lopping
and stage quick comebacks. All the
eucalypts lop well; so do the kurra-
jong, supplejack and tamarisk. Shade
cast from lopped trees is denser and they
make a better windbreak.
“E 2”: Saving seed from your own
vegetables is good policy, provided that
careful selection of parent stock is made.
Fresh seed germinates earlier and more
reliably, and a quick start with vegetables
shows up to advantage in later growth.
Root crops should be dug and roots
chosen for uniformity and size, then
replanted, Brassicas (the cabbage family)
need to be of good type, well hearted
and of vigorous growth. The best types
for tomato and potato stocks are those
giving a heavy, even crop of moderate
size. Peas and beans can be saved from
the heavy croppers. Don’t save seed
from or allow cross-pollination with
weak or stunted crops.


■■
\V
V A
/ /
f "
m
'\y
MOSQUITO
Fastest Aircraft in
Service in the World
de Havilland Aircraft
Engines and Propellers
Components Accessories
Light Alloy Engineering
Flying Training and
Technical Education
DE HAVILLAND
The de Havilland Aircraft Company, Limited, England.
D.H.12
135-
WAR LOAN
War-time creates shortages.
Take care of your Feltex
and invest in
Commonwealth War Loans.
Felt and Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Floor Coverings
F.l.gg.tg
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Carriers for Pacific War.
(From N.Y. "Herald Tribune.”)
At the beginning of this year America
possessed three old carriers, the Saratoga,
Enterprise and Ranger; six new carriers
of the large Essex type, 25,000 tons and
up; nine new carriers of the Indepen-
dence converted light-cruiser type, and
50 escort carriers, prefabricated and
quantity-produced at the rate of 10 ships
monthly.
What are we building all these carriers
for if not to carry the war across the
Pacific to the home islands of the war
lords who asked for it when they used
their carriers to bomb Pearl Harbor? The
decline of the submarine menace in the
Atlantic is releasing more and more
escort carriers to the Pacific. Likewise
the ouster of the Axis from the Mediter-
ranean has made it possible for the British
to send some of their carriers out
through the Indian Ocean toward the
Pacific.
Pretty soon we shall have a surplus of
carrier riches. Obviously we are getting
in a position to strike at Japan at home
where it hurts the most.
Our large carriers of the Saratoga-
Essex types hold more than 80 ’planes
each. Our small Jeep-Woolworth carriers
handle one-third as many. Put them all
together and they spell Nemesis for
Nippon.
What is most important to realise is
that, as we pick up momentum in the
third year of the Pacific war, we have
built up our sea power, our air power
and our man power to the stage where all
that is past is prologue, and the real
drama of the Pacific is about to begin.
The whole Navy personnel, and especially
our carrier people, believe that 1944 will
be a year of great battles and great
decisions.
How the Allies Differ.
(Condensed from “United States News.”
The issues that have grown among the
Allies and the moves being made to meet
those issues disclose how the weight of
one ally is shifted first to the side of a
second ally and then away from the
second ally to the side of a third ally to
influence decisions and to create what
appears to be today’s diplomatic tangle.
On some issues the line-up appears to
be Roosevelt and Churchill v. Stalin. But
on others it is Churchill and Stalin v.
Roosevelt. And on one or two it is
Roosevelt and Stalin v. Churchill.
Military strategy is the outstanding case
in which Churchill has fpund himself a
minority of one. Originally Churchill
favored a U.S.-British offensive in the
Balkans, but Roosevelt and Stalin insisted
on a grand smash in the west. In that
argument Churchill lost. So the western
front invasion plans have gone ahead, and
it is Russia that is fighting in the Balkans.
When it comes to actual military ac-
tivity the co-operation between Churchill
and Roosevelt is very close. Here it is
Stalin who keeps aloof. He still declines
to let the U.S.-British military leaders
know full details of what is happening on
the German-Russian front. He also de-
clines to let U.S. and British ’planes
bomb Germany from Russian bases.
The line-up with regard to Italy
changes from week to week. On the dis-
posal of the Italian fleet it seemed to be
Roosevelt and Stalin v. Churchill. But
this line-up changed when Stalin sud-
denly granted Badoglio’s request for dip-
lomatic recognition. Neither the U.S. nor
British Government had gone as far as
this, and outwardly the line-up then
appeared to be Stalin v. Roosevelt and
Churchill. However, Churchill openly
has expressed his preference for keeping
King Victor Emmanuel and Premier
Badoglio in power while the decision in
Italy hangs in the balance, while U.S.
officials have veered more and more
strongly to the idea of sidetracking the
King and Badoglio in favor of a more
democratic regime. Therefore, Stalin’s
action in Italy shows that the real line-up
is Churchill and Stalin v. Roosevelt.
Regarding France the line-up again
seems to be Churchill and Stalin v. Roose-
velt. Both Stalin and Churchill are show-
ing a friendly interest in General de
Gaulle, but Roosevelt is not so friendly.
Roosevelt has not been impressed by
General de Gaulle as a personality. The
President is inclined to the view that no
one individual should be recognised as
leader of the French until the French
themselves again can make their choice.
He would let General Eisenhower decide
on local rule as the Germans are driven
out of various parts of France.
There is a different grouping in the
case of Spain—Roosevelt and Churchill
v. Stalin. All along Stalin has urged his
allies to break with Franco, whom he
considers an Axis puppet. Roosevelt and
Churchill have exerted mild pressure on
Franco to withdraw Spanish troops
from the Russian front and to reduce
shipments of v/ar materials to Germany.
But they have avoided an actual break.
The line-up on Poland might be called
Roosevelt v. Churchill v. Stalin. Each
of the three leaders takes a different
position. Stalin insists on making the so-
called Curzon Line the eastern boundary
of Poland and refuses to deal with the
Polish Government-in-exile in London.
Churchill indicates his willingness to
accept the Curzon Line, but the British
Government continues to act as host to
the Polish regime to which Stalin ob-
jects. Roosevelt has taken no stand in
the dispute beyond offering to mediate,
which has not been accepted by Stalin.
In Yugoslavia and Turkey a common
front apparently has been achieved by the
three leaders. In Yugoslavia all three
now are supporting the guerrilla forces
of Marshal Tito rather than those of
General Mihailovich. As to Turkey,
all three are pressing the Turkish Govern-
ment to enter the war against the Axis —
thus far without success.
Another case of a common front is the
policy toward Eire. Both Roosevelt and
Churchill are urging Prime Minister de
Valera to throw out the Axis diplomat-
spies—again without success. This com-
mon front includes only Roosevelt and
Churchill, however, for Stalin is not
directly concerned.
The polipy toward Finland finds the
line-up Churchill and Stalin v. Roose-
velt. Both Britain and Russia are at war
with Finland. The U.S. is not. Roose-
velt is urging the Finns to break their
“hateful partnership” with Hitler. Thus
far they have refused, but the U.S. main-
tains relations with them,
Whether the Big Three will be together
in their policy toward Germany is not
yet clear. Last summer Stalin appeared
to be playing a lone hand by sponsoring
the Free Germany Committee in Mos-
cow - Little has been heard of this or
L” l6, , A . .
. With regard to the treatment ot Argen-
N r“vK a ?F e v rS Sde Ws
£ Churchill, withStalm on side-lines
Roosevelt would like to be Arm with the
Argcntineregime Farrell «u
Jf. fl ". ds * at ~ he ® rmsh
£ ,s . time ,*° JO ’ n “fS
< hat *. ould oft Bntams supply oI
Al "gentine Deer.
„J n Chma the Imc-up seems to be
£hurchi and Sdd «? v. Roosevelt. Neither
Churchill nor Stalin has any great en-
thusiasm for building up a strong China
a cardinal plank in U.S foreign policy.
len Churchill and Roosevelt met
Lhiang Kai-shek at Cairo they promised
China substantial military help. Later on
Churchill found that Britain could not
dc ' v ? r cr s^ar f a j soon as .
ad * 3een ex P. ec j ed - This is said to have
™ ade a painful impression on the
jP a ", this manoeuvring over military
a ” d
are engaged in a game of power politics.
Q n tlle sur f ace the decisions of the three
J°u leaders appear to be the result ot
the interaction of their personalities,
ActuaUy each is motivated by the self-
interest of his own country.
Apathy in Italy.
( From a report by Scripps-Howard war cor-
respondent Henry J. Taylor.)
For the people of Southern Italy the
war is over and they make it annoyingly
clear that they do not care who fights
who from here on. That fact strikes you
on all sides.
As you drive north toward the front
through village after village, so bomb-
shattered and artillery-blasted that their


Made htj
FORD SHERI NOTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
Western Electric
HEARING AIDS
In the conquest of hearing impairment,
the new Western Electric Audiphone
represents the greatest step forward in
the history of hearing aids. Designed
by Bell Telephone Laboratories and
produced by Western Electric, it repre-
sents the aggregate result of first quality
materials, peerless craftsmanship and
long experience in the production of
precision instruments designed for
effective scientific sound transmission.
Defective hearing is too important for
experiment. You owe it to yourself
to have the very best hearing aid, the
new Ortho-Tronic Audiphone, which
gives you the closest approach to
natural hearing yet achieved in a
wearable hearing aid.
Arrange now for a free Audiometric
Test and Demonstration.
THE AUDIPHONE COMPANY
M.L.C. Building, 44 Martin Place, SYDNEY (Phone; 8W7387), and at 110 Collins
Street, MELBOURNE (Phone: Central 4195); also
Trevor Henderson, Grice Building, 90-92 Queen Street, BRISBANE. L. G. Stone, 66 Gawler
Place, ADELAIDE. Messrs. Finlav Pty., Ltd., 98 Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON, and Elizabeth
Street, HOBART. Messrs. Sainken & Sainken, 633 Hay Street, PERTH.
t
I
si
m
■■•■■■.
■■■«
a**?
...fAe Bedroom of 194 X
—Masonite, of course!
When Masonite is ‘demobilised’ . . • when Victory per-
mits building . . . your home can include the bedroom
you yearn for; a bedroom with walls of Masonite bevelled
and grooved in soothing symmetry and, perhaps, tinted
to match the Tempered Presdwood furniture. The floor
will be of silk-smooth, steel-strong Tempered Presdwood,
also. Your home-dreams can be interpreted more easily
in Masonite—“ The Wonder Board of 1,000 Uses”—
than in any other material. Start saving and planning
NOW for your post-war home.
*
MAI 6-44
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD..JEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Invest Your Savings in VICTORY LOAN BONDS for Post-war Use
Insure with tlie
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G, BROWN, General Manager.
CERTAIN DEATH
CYanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
SAVES
MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
close-packed stone houses are a mass of
rocky ruins, this disconcerting apathy of
the Italian people still shows itself.
Yet the fight is fresh in their own back-
yards. Every mile I covered—through
Aversa, Caserta, Capua and beyond the
fork through Teano and Carinola—was
prepared for defence by the Germans
long ago. Roman masonry bridges, aque-
ducts, walls and bastions, undisturbed for
2000 years, were made into German
strongpoints, against which Americans
fought their way forward yard by yard.
Bloodiest and most strategically vital
was the crossing of the Volturno. There
the high, arched Roman bridge is in
ruins, its back broken and lying in the
stream. Beside the bases of the Roman
arches, our engineers built a pontoon
bridge, where you’d think no men could
build anything and still live under the
fire of the fixed German guns.
Yet right at this spot, along the banks,
the Italians already are ploughing with
oxen, furrowing through the fresh tank
tracks in the blood-enriched earth. They
also are selling their oranges, walnuts and
brandy to Americans on the march.
These things no longer are being done
happily, as when we first landed in Sicily ;
and also not sadly; but in apathy—a
complete apathy which goes down to the
roots of post-war Italy today.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The men who are flying and fighting our air-
craft in the round-the-clock onslaught on Nazi
Europe are not making the mistake of under-
rating the enemy. They are frank in praising
the skill which some of the pilots of the Luft-
waffe display in handling their Focke-Wulf 190’s
and Messerschmitt 109’s.— N. Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The proper lines of censorship ana suppres-
sion are never easy to draw in war or in
diplomacy, and probably will never be drawn
perfectly. Admittedly, a long experience has
shown that “open covenants” simply cannot be
always “openly arrived at,” that premature
publication has frequently done more harm than
good and that in the great crises of international
life there are valid political as well as military
reasons for secrecy. But there are too many
invalid reasons for political censorship as well,
too ready a tendency in officialdom to mistake
what is merely irritating to the officials for
what is dangerous to the conduct of inter-
national relations. — “N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * $
Churchill and Stalin, in shaping their course,
are aware of these things: Roosevelt cannot
commit the U.S.A. to policing Germany for
five or ten years. He cannot promise that this
country will guarantee security in Europe. He
can’t say whether the U.S.A. will or will not
cancel lend-lease debt. It is not within his
power to promise big new loans to Europe.
He cannot say that the U.S.A. surely will join
a world political organisation. He cannot
guarantee that U.S. markets will be opened wide
to foreign goods in post-war; that trade barriers
will come down. So Stalin and Churchill find
White House views interesting, but not neces-
sarily decisive in shaping long-range U.S. policy.
They incline to make their own arrangements,
to look after the specific interests of their own
nations. — “United States News.”
* * * JC
Oswiecim concentration camp, officially
Ausschwitz, has for two years now symbolised
the sinister reality of Polish life under German
occupation. According to verified information
125,000 persons passed through the camp up to
July, 1942, while throughout the camp’s exist-
ence barely 7000 persons have been released.
This figure includes 12 persons who escaped or
were transferred to other camps. Twenty-four
thousand men and women remained alive in
July, 1943—that is, 94,000 people have perished
in Oswiecim. — “Free World,” U.S.A.
• * * •
One of the chief answers to why. the second
front was not launched last year, Washington
military observers believe, is to be found in the
report on lend-lease shipments to the Soviet
Union. Had the munitions and other materials
of war sent to bolster the desperate and heroic
fight of the Red Army been applied to building
up the American and British armies the chances
are good that the invasion of Europe from the
west would have been possible long ago.
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The giant U.S. war machine will be demobi-
lised over a two- or three-year period so that
slow transition to peace production will “greatly
ease re-employment difficulties,” the Brookings
Institution states. Industrial reconversion and
re-employment “are even now under way.
They will be accelerated after the close of the
European hostilities, and from 6,000,000 to
7,000,000 service men and war workers may be
demobilised before the end of the Asiatic con-
flict. It is assufhed that Germany will be de-
feated by the end of 1944 and Japan a year
later. Approximately 17,800,000 persons may
face demobilisation during the first two and
one half years after the end of the European war
—9,500,000 from the armed forces, 1,400,000
from war agencies and 6,900,000 from muni-
tions industries.— “ Christian Science Monitor.’’
* * * *
International air lines after the war would all
be operated by “World Airways, Ltd.” if the
British Labor party has its way. Such an
organisation would have its own ’planes, air-
fields and personnel. The nations would grant
extraterritorial rights to it. This was the plan
expounded in the Commons by spokesmen ol
the party who are convinced that international-
isation of post-war aviation is necessary to avert
another war as well as a repetition of the cut-
throat air competition that went on between the
wars. The British Labor party even dreams
eventually of a world authority for all inter-
national communications by sea, air or land.
Such a plan admittedly is unlikely to meet with
favor either in the United States or in Russia,
but the Labor party points out that the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Governments already
have expressed themselves in favor of such a
move. It also holds that if the Empire took
the lead other nations would fall in step. The
British Government’s own aspirations do not
extend beyond a scheme for international co-
operation and regulation within which Govern-
ment or private companies might operate. Dis-
cussions with Dominions and the United States
have not yet gone beyond the exploratory stage.
—London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.’’
* * * *
U.S. War Department heads are proud of the
way Japanese-American soldiers responded in
the army. Enlisting American-born Japanese
was an experiment. Many officers were sceptical.
Under-Secretary of War Patterson and Assistant
Secretary Jack McCloy insisted they be given a
chance. Their performance in battle justified
this confidence. Reports from Italy pay tribute
to the bravery of one Jap-American battalion
under heavy tire. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.’’
* * * *
Japan will not fold as Fascist Italy did under
the mere threat of invasion. Her industry and
shipping will have to be systematically shat-
tered before her armies crumble. Neither Jap-
anese shipping nor industry will survive the
bombing in store for her.— From an official
report by U.S. General Arnold.
* * * *
The American Army emerges as the force
that must win the war. If this new fighting
machine shows superior striking power, then the
end in Europe will come quickly. Otherwise,
the fight will drag on to an uncertain outcome.
—“United States News.”
* * * *
This will be a sobering year—the most so,
perhaps, in American history. The most sober-
ing fore-fact of 1944 is death. This is the last
year on earth for a lot of American young men.
Our battle losses for World War II are now
approximately 130,000, and yet we have
scarcely begun to fight. What with the global
character of the war, and what with the fact
that we have now mustered 8,000,000 men into
the army, and what with the sophomoric enthu-
siasms of some newspaper headline writers,
most Americans have the impression that we are
fighting on a gigantic scale. But this is far
from the truth. Whereas the Germans support
between ,250 and 300 combat divisions, and the
Russians considerably more, the U.S. will have
at peak only about 100; and of these not more
than 15 have been announced as having seen
action, and not more than six or eight have
been in action at any one time. So far as the
number of ground troops engaged in battle is
concerned, our contribution to our side is less
than that made to the Axis by Rumania. —
“Life.”
* * *
Every day last year aircraft of British Over-
seas Airways Corporation flew the equivalent
of one and a third times around the world.
Mileage totalled 12,500,000, equivalent to 500
times round the world, which was 25 p.c. more
than in 1942. Passengers carried were 65,667,
an increase of 31 p.c. on previous year. The
corporation is operating 50,000 miles of routes.
—London “Daily Mail.”


Public Notices.
I, ARNE EGILi JENSEN, of Norwegian nationality,
born at Oslo, Norway, and resident five years in
Australia, now serving with the A.1.F., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act,
1920-1930.
I, BERTY GESSNER, of German nationality, born
at Darmstadt, Germany, and resident over five years
in Australia, now residing at 20 Kent-road, Rose
Bay, N. S. Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
I, SIMON SZEKELY, now of the R.A.A.F., 444895,
of Polish nationality, bora at Jablonka, Poland, and
resident six years in Australia, now residing at 140
Coogee Bay-road. Coogee, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Aet, 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NEVILLE JOHN FREDERICK COLLINS, late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MAY
COLLINS has filed a petition for divorce No. 124
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without reason-
able cause or excuse for three years and upwards
and that during three years and upwards you have
been an habitual drunkard and left your wife with-
out the means of support and have been guilty of
cruelty towards hen You may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney before June 12 1944 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from CLIVE DAVIES &
SHARPE Solicitors 14 Martin-place Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
SPEED THE VICTORY Buy First Victory Bonds
.
zJ
L
mysl
neat
V 7 ict J
«AI/
JSSS** w
V. 308.19
Make Your Subscription at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
Always fresh • •
Always smooth
Hl**
i
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 O
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Mrs. IS. Dixon’s The Human Situa-
tion and H. L. Mencken’s In Defence of
Women. —34s6.
Words of poem “Blimey, Give Me the
Ground! ”—3457.
To buy Behind the Spitfires. —3458.
To buy a good d.b. 20-bore shotgun.—3459.
Information Sought.
(1) On what date was the Pole, Serwerin
Mursczhavitz, murdered at Dora? (2) Was the
killer caught?
(1) May 2, 1891. (2) Two aborigines named
Jack and Willie were later arrested in Queens-
land, found guilty of the crime, and sentenced
to death at the Albury Circuit Court on April
9, 1894.
* * * *
How to rid a house of bats ?
Cover all entrances through eaves, ventilators,
etc., with bird-netting. Then get in between
roof and ceiling and destroy all the bats trapped.
* * * *
What is the nature of the agreement between
Russia and Japan?
There are a treaty of non-aggression and
friendship, fisheries agreements and a recent
arrangement relating to Sakhalin oil and coal.
* * * *
Recipe for an arrowroot paste?
Take one part arrowroot or cornflour to 10
parts water. Mix flour with a little water, boil
the rest of the water and mix. Heat till it
thickens and add loz. alum and five drops oil
of cloves as a preservative.
* 4= * *
What is the official number of ’planes shot
down by each of the following aces: Ball,
Bishop, Mannock, McCudden and Richthofen ?
Ball, 43; Bishop, 72; Mannock, 73; Mc-
Cudden, 58; Richthofen, 80.
* * * *
(1) Some information on olive-tree culture
for oil production in N.S.W. ? (2) How much
olive oil way imported into Australia in 1939,
and what was the duty on it?
(1) A few small areas of several acres are
planted in N.S.W.; the largest about three
acres. There is practically no commercial pro-
duction of olive oil in N.S.W. now, and no
single area planted is of sufficient acreage to
warrant the installation of machinery for oil
extraction. The most suitable districts for the
trees are the drier inland parts where irrigation
is available, such as the Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Aiea. Trees bear about six years after
planting, and two or three years later for com-
mercial production. There are two main diffi-
culties associated with olive growing: (a) the
fruit is susceptible to frost damage (a tempera-
ture of five degrees of frost is likely to injure
it), and (b) under high rainfall conditions
the control of the brown olive scale is likely
to prove expensive. (2) In 1939 imports of
358,810 gallons of olive oil were valued at
£89,887. Import duty and primage on this
amounted to approximately 2s. 6d. per gallon.
Brief Answers.
W.K.: Principal characteristic is the coat,
which should be compact small curls from the
occiput to the end of the tail. There is no
registered stud book in Australia, and no books
on the breed are obtainable J.K.: An
article on the building of pise (mud) houses
appeared in the August, ’37, issue of the
“Queensland Agricultural Journal”; apply to
the Qld. Dept, of Agriculture and Stock for a
copy... .S.C.: System of Modern Shorthand
(7s. 6d.), from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
J.H.: Under the Administration of Estates
Act, 1925, the mother would be entitled to the
whole estate 0.F.; “Cooee” (to return) or
“Wirepi” (come back) should do J.M.: (1)
They would be rateable. (2) Means “in the
same place” Kiwi: Anything that will sink
from the surface of the sea will keep on sink-
ing till it reaches the bottom F.A.W.T.:
Probably comes from “raff,” meaning the dregs
of society... .J.S.: The old heading last ap-
peared in B. 14/1/’42 E.M.W.: Cannot
answer without seeing articles of association;
usually it is provided that shares may be for-
feited for non-payment of calls. Where a
person has ceased to be a member of a co.,
the co. cannot reinstate him unless he consents.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
D.D.:
This existence of ours is a puzzle
And makes one oft-times think
Why some are down to degradation
And others on the highest brink.
A.H.:
Turning then, she vanished;
Andi I was left to reflect
That, since the abortive settlement
Of the last Great World Conflict,
All premature peace proposals
Must ever be suspect.
. ...R.J.K.: If you mean “grass” don’t talk
about “velvet verdure” PJ.C.: Real feeling
marred by cliches. Maybe you’d do better in
prose... .J.S.R.: Might suit a daily.... Ali
Baba: “Poetic effort's” is the exact description.
. ...H.C.: “Our Bush” is far too spindly
G.1.H.: Indistinguishable from other sunrises.
D.E.; For a start, the bird is sentimental.
E.F.D.: “Like flashing swords of serried,
armed might the burnished blades of Seamy
Sol were shed.” Presume you mean it was a
fine day... .M.E.F.: Leave it to the airmen....
D. : “I stood awhile, felt startled I
entertain a dread.” You won’t make anyone’s
flesh creep that way Inky: Murky
E. : Not far off G.R.H.: Alas, its
limpid splendors are inadequate E.V.C.:
Elementary satire... .H.W.: Try a daily....
J.L.: Curiously unreal... .W.M.; Trite and
bald A.G.F.: Some feeling in it, but the
bird’s incredible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.P.M.: The trombone player’s right arm
must be 15ft. long W.H.; Penwork too
timid A.C.G.: If you can’t draw a beer
glass how do you expect to draw a navvy?


AS YOUR
Executor and
Trustee
THE COMPANY, FOUNDED IN 1878
1. Experienced Administration
by personnel specialising in trust work.
2. Continuity of Management
Individual Trustees may die but the Company is a
permanent Corporation.
3. Constant Availability
The Company is accessible every business day.
/
4. Economical Service
Charges are fixed and moderate.
5. Security
Capital ( paid and uncalled) and Reserves £960,645
The Trustees Executors
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading,
K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
N. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
PROVIDES
and
Agency
Limited
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
f
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture m eig
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-condmoning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
forced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY., LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES; LA5034-5-6
Established 1890. Agents and Service Mechanics in all States ol the Commonwea _
d
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755.616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 66,797 2,812,413
1937. . 386,732 294,378 104,072) . 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 .. .. 2,802,326
1038.. 389,295 327.166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund, £8439 2,769,718
1939.. 389,796 350,183 106,460 2,702,865
194'0.. 387,682 377,818 105,130 ■— 2,607,599
1941.. 375,083 340,345 108,125 2,534,212
j 942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472,755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,576
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1934,
£8926; 1935, £9OOO ; 1930-40, £4500; 1941,
£9000; 1942, £4500 ; 1943, £9OOO. {lncluding
loss on King-street property, £4994.
Although the co. is in its thirty-second
year, what needs to be remembered is
that in many respects it is worse off than
if it had set up only 15 years ago. That
was when the new board set to work
to hack a shocking lot of deadwood oat
of the accounts, pverhaul the organisa-
tion, make savings in the cost of conduct-
ing the business, and so strengthen the
position of both policyholders and
shareholders. Besides the deadwood,
difficulties to be wrestled with included
a crop of short-dated endowments against
which adequate policy reserves of tan-
gible revenue-producing assets had not
been accumulated, troublesome mort-
gages aggravated by moratorium legis-
lation, rising costs, falling interest rates,
investment control which now diverts
annual surpluses into low-interest-bearing
Government securities and the strain of
war mortality.
Since the co.’s chief business is sale of
assurance contracts, the board very rightly
placed the interests of policyholders
foremost. Actuarial reserves have been
strengthened from a lenient 4 p.c. Sprague
basis, in force in 1927, to the present
stringent 2| p.c. net premium basis, thus
giving policyholders a lot more protec-
tion and bringing the business more into
line with some of its big competitors. And
annual bonuses ranged from a satisfac-
tory 30s, to 60s. p.c. on whole-life par-
ticipating policies according to age before
the war. They have been reduced since,
owing to the incidence of war conditions
—an experience common to all life offices.
The wisdom of the board’s policy has
been made abundantly plain by develop-
ments over the last four years, and by
the outlook especially for interest rates,
from which the co. used to score heaviest.
Certainly dividends to shareholders have
averaged only i\ p.c. over the last dozen
years. But 15 years ago no less than
£262,764 of the capital was not repre-
sented by tangible assets, whereas the
whole of the capital (£360,000) and
£117,156 besides were so represented at
the close of last accounts. And last year's
experience was encouraging.
The shrinkage in amount of new busi-
ness put on the books was £84,428, which
isn’t surprising considering the effect of
war upon insurance generally and upon
field staffs in particular:
Ordinary Department.
Sum 1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
assured £1,049,692 £1,057,556 £1,031,564 £947,136
First
premiums 31,412 81,433 29,359 30,080
Renewals 203,405 204,768 212,960 224,446
Interest, ffl
etc. . . 119,369 104,987 101,263 102,428
Claims .. 333,333 324,572 322,813 264.028
Exes. . . 88,612 85,997 81,041 77,683
Outstanding feature last term was the
contraction of £58,285 in claims —pay-
ments on war and other account are not
separated. The suggestion there is that
the strain of the short-term endowments
might have passed its peak. The co. itself is
silent on this point, and it alone can say
definitely. Combined figures of Ordinary
and Accident departments show a surplus
of income over outgo, after allow-
ance for depreciation, of £20,821 last year,
as against excess outgoings of £56,951
for the preceding 12 months. The £20,821
surplus, together with £28,000 from
general reserves, enabled £12,668 to be
added to the life fund to cover growth
in policy liabilities resulting from a reduc-
tion from 3 p.c. to 2| p.c. in the basis of
valuation, £24,700 (up £7805) to be
handed to policyholders in rever-
sionary bonuses, £ll9O to be sent to the
Accident reserve for unexpired risks, and
£9OOO (up £4500) to be passed to share-
holders in a 2\ p.c. div. The £1263 that
remained, plus £7724 left over at the
previous balance, makes £8987 to carry
forward.
Including depreciation but not taxa-
tion (£6639, down £2444), exes, in the
Ordinary department made off with 27.6
p.c. of the net premiums as against 29.9
p.c. for the previous year. After deduct-
ing income tax, etc., the net interest
return was 3.89 p.c. compared with 3.79
p.c. for 1942, though the figure might
yet recede a trifle before it advances
again.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1936. 1939. 1942. 1943.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 1,412,297 1,273,452 1,082,573 1,103 585
Mortgages, . 603,935 517,449 463,515 : ’446’,198
Loans on
policies, etc. 137,562 119,389 89,062 72 844
Book debts,
cash, etc... 88,420 97,365 104,631 105,344
Equipment 10,463 16,088 7,929 5907
Properties.. 726,389 814,462 818,785 SOfi’oiS
Shares .. 321,313 385,321 416,750 428,592
T a ngibles 3,300,379 3,223,526 2,983,245 2,972,108
Creditors .. 119,812 151,218 142,061 115,464
Net tangibles 3,180,567 3,072,308 2,841,184 2,856 644
Assur. fund* 2,758,352 2,629,684 2,341,030 2,379,’488
Paid capita] 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £lB 441
1936; £15,000, 1989 ; £21,850. 1941 ; £2LOOO
1942; £17,190, 1943.
The year’s improvement in the net tan-
gible position amounted to £15,460,
whereas reduction in the basis of valua-
tion and the bonus distribution, etc.,
called for addition of £38,549 to the
assurance fund (£2,362,398) and reserve
for unexpired accident risks (£17,190)
combined. Thus from the shareholder’s
point of view the slip was £22,998. But
the whole of the share capital and
£117,156 besides remained intact, as
already pointed out.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
, -Dividends Nominal
r —Pref.—, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£> £> £ £ £
’34). 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,028 21,420
’35.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
’36.. 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37.. 25,150 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’38.. 26,626 2215 3000 10 „ ~ 12,075 8,336 51,455
’39.. 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ „ 12,827 9,845 61,300
’4O. . 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ ~12,828 5,096 66,396
Contingencies reserve, £20,000 .. 46,396
Underprovided taxation charged to
specific reserves, £9OOO.
’4l. . 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,596 50,992
To contingencies, £5933 .. ..45,059
’42.. 18,469 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 2,993 48,052
’43.. 18,092 2214 3000 8 „ ~10,262 ) RlfiA o fißS
To contingencies, £2OOO ) 010 45,00»
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934 at
Dec. 31). ) Six months.
This is one of Australia’s large and pro-
gressive hosiery manufacturers, and its
association with the Holeproof people in
U.S.A. has meant much on the technical
side. The main mill at Brunswick (Vic.)
was taken over by Staley and Staley, Ltd.,
from a proprietary of the same name in
1929, the name being changed to the
present title at the end of 1935, follow-
ing association with the American in-
terests just referred to.
Turnover and earnings continued to
step along like a thoroughbred. Early
in 1940 activities spread to Sydney, where
the Berkley mills, with full-fashioned and
circular machines to turn out 70,000
dozen pairs of fine-gauge women’s
hosiery annually, were taken over. This
enabled the co. to sidestep shipping and
other problems connected with its N. S.
Wales and Queensland trade. About the
same time the Great Eastern mill, Cam-
berwell (Vic.), was acquired, and produc-
tion of men’s woollen hose is now con-
centrated there.
Under the Government - controlled
economy and other things that the needs
of war have forced upon us, the new
plants, on which a lot of money was
spent to bring them into line with the co.'s
own standards and methods, haven’t had
much of an opportunity to show what
they could do. Rationing and other re-
strictions on production, together with
price control, shortage of labor and lifts
in taxation, wages and other costs, slowed
up turnover in civilian trade, eliminated
some of the co.’s most profitable lines
and narrowed the margin on others. And
the big shift in demand, owing to the
heavy call for standardised hosiery, etc.,
for both men and women in the services,
retarded the rate of net earning, too, be-
cause defence contracts carried narrow
profit margins. Hence the shrinkage in
profits in the table after 1939.
There was little change in last .year's
figures. The contraction in gross earn-
ings (£99,811) was only £412. After
allowing for taxation (£16,805) and de-
preciation (£20,000), the net result was
£377 lighter at £18,092. This was sufficient
to pay the pref. divs. and show 10 p.c. on
the £128,270 of ord. capital as against
10.3, 11.5, 13.7 and 17.7 p.c. for the four
preceding years. The div, was kept at
8 p.c., and £2OOO was sent to contingen-
cies reserve, which -is lumped with pro-
vision for taxation in the published ac-
counts (together £54,000).
The financial position further im-
proved :
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Ond.capital.. £128,12:70 £.128,270 £128,270 £128,270
Pref. capital. . 77,085 77,085 77,085 77,085
Liabilities .. 51,303* 148,354 105,080 102,790
Tax. prov. .. 85,000+ 48,000+ 54,000+
Freeholds, etc. 81,297 80,053 82,352 I
Plant and ' 1110,675
fittings .. 64,308 51,408 45,317 J
Stocks . . 158,647 262,982 301,049 255,580
Debtors . . 6,017 23,607 20.557 27,915
Cash. etc. . . 2,659 2,121 4,221 3,046
* Includes tax provision. + Includes contingencies.
The year’s reduction of £45,463 in stocks
and of £10,994 net in the book value
of fixed assets enabled £62,890 to be
lopped off the outside debt. The more
or less liquid surplus (£129,751) was
£11,610 stronger than at the previous
balance.
After the war costs promise to be
one of the hardest nuts the manage-
ment will have to crack. Much will
depend upon the efficiency of plant, suit-
ability of stocks (especially raw materials)
for civilian trade, and the extent to which
Government continues to interfere in
trade and industry. Government inter-
ference might easily prove the crippling
factor in costs, and so prevent Australian
manufacturers developing an export busi-
ness,
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
r— —Dividends s Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 .. 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Share premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 .. 42,265 8 „ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 ~ 124 „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 124 „ 37,391 16,397 201,790
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15" „ 44,70913,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 12J „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1944 . . 47,642 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,391 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
There is evidence in that table not only
of shrewd buying but, equally important,
of a tight hold upon outgoings as well.
And the position of the store, facing
George and King streets, one of the
busiest intersections in the city, is another
factor which assists earnings. The effect
of clothes rationing and the price ceiling
upon turnover of Sydney retailers is seen
in the next table, which shows percentage
change in aggregate sales of a number
of the larger stores compared with the
corresponding period of the preceding
year: —
Average Three Months Ended
r~ A *
Sepit. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 -19.3 -18.8 —6.0 —12.6
Although rationing, etc., reduced sales by
12.6 p.c. for the year to June 30 last, the
said sales were still about 6 p.c. above
the 193.9-40 level. But taxation, wages
and other outgoings made substantial
advances over the same period.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the contraction in McDowell’s
gross earnings (£343,027) was /£ 11,822.
But after providing for taxation (£80,000)
and depreciation (£4200), there was a sav-
ing of £15,363 in trading exes. (£211,185).
Controls have severely curtailed the pre-


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
1 ransacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept, 2U). 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
a
scrap
of paper
.... but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PUSHKINS, General Manager.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
- SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FI
GUTHRIDGE
CAnPERDOWN
Sydney,
Manufacturers
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 3GO Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
A better living
for all of ns
r J I HE present shortages of coal, food and clothing may be a
blessing in disguise if they teach us to understand what makes
up our standard of living.
It is the total production of goods and services available
to the community that determines our standard of living.
Those who argue that the standard of living can be increased
by everyone doing less work are deceiving themselves.
The only -way to increase our standard is by producing more
goods and services.
One of the most comforting of services is Life Assurance.
Each citizen in good health can have as much of the Security
the A.M.P. provides as he decides upon. The Society is purely
•mutual and co-operative: no member has more privileges than
any other member.
The present members of the A.M.P. have arranged for
Security to the amount of £427,000,000 by taking out 1,790,000
policies. There is no reason why the amount should not be
vastly greater, and the number of people benefiting multiplied.
All that needs to be done is for more people to become members,
and for present members to increase their share of the Society’s
protection.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
. Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
A. M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
'
> -
fi
r*t
m
f
U
x
■<s
16
&
i
MORE planes must be built and manned . . .
More bombs must smash into important
targets . . . More supplies of all kinds must be
behind the final Allied drive against tyranny.
Everything we have must be concentrated into
this great effort to speed our Victory!
Australia needs your money now . . . The fight-
ing forces are relying on it to finish the job . . .
Will you play your part by subscribing to the
First Victory Loan .. Will you invest your money
that our men may quickly defeat the Japs?
Invest in the First
VICTORY LOAM
PATON
THIS «OV£«mE«£III.SHl«SO«SO by
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS Pty.
war standard of service, which was the
keynote of modern retailing, and reduced
advertising to a minimum. The net result
(£47,642, up £3541) was enough to pay
the small pref. div. (£800) and show 16
p.c. on the £292,726 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 14.7, 13.8, 19.6, 18.1 and 17.8
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept at
p.c., £lO,OOO was sent to the staff
fund, and £10,251 was put on the shelf,
making the net tangible backing 365. 2d.
for each pound of ord. capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1042. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £302,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages . . 75,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft . . 54,670 19,667 29,028 18,002
Sundry creditors 37,109 75,498 68,456 88,645
Tax reserve .. 41,6.14 111,496 150,401 160,011
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc... 390,945 406,385 411,420 452,601
Stocks.. . . 165,154 211,261 277,332 251,677
Book debts .. 81,490 83,544 59,421 72,337
Cash, etc. . . 6,777 9,052 10,005 10,587
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
With freehold is lumped an unspecified
amount of investments, mainly Govern-
merit securities, the lot up £41,181 last
term. No effort is being spared, the board
says, to ensure continuous replacement of
stocks (down £25,655). Debtors’ bal-
ances include £50,747 (up £17,148) ad-
vanced to the subsidiary. The extra
money enabled the offshoot to liquidate
a mortgage on its property at 82 King-
street. This property will provide a valu-
able addition to the parent’s selling space
after the war. Thus is the management
looking ahead and making preparations
for increased activity under the competi-
tive conditions expected to exist when
it becomes possible to remove or relax
the irksome controls that war has made
necessary. The lumping of Government
securities with fixed assets obscures the
real liquid position, which appears to be
comfortable.
Mt, Morgan (Q.) figured working
deficit for the four weeks to April 2 at
£6919 as against a deficit of £13,303 for
the preceding month, making total deficit
for the 16 weeks to April 2 £57,328. The
improvement was due to increased ore
deliveries and better throughput of No. 1
mill. A bit more feed is expected from
No. 5 bench following installation of a
power shovel. But mine deliveries are
still woefully short of expectations, and
the man-power position remains acute.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines is heart-
ened by the news that 34 of the United
and Associated nations have agreed on
the broad outlines of an international
stabilisation fund based on gold. It
reads into the announcement a big leap
along the road: to restoration of the
West’s gold industry. When the war
began mining was in progress over an
aggregate area of 27,000 auriferous acres,
16,000 persons were employed and pro-
duction was worth over £11,000,000 a
year. Now, owing to man-power restric-
tions and shortage of essential supplies,
the area worked is much smaller, only
about 4000 men are employed and the
value of the output is down by more than
one-half.
$
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.) mines
which the firewood-cutters’ strike closed
down had reduced returns for March.
Great Boulder milled only 1424 tons, but,
by cleaning up mill stock and treating
specimen ore, managed to get gold valued
at £17,956. Of the six cos. operating on
the “Mile” only Lake View and Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, which use oil fuel,
had continuous runs during the dispute.
% * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) received
£l2OO from sale of surplus plant, reduced
the amount coming to creditors from
£1467 to £368 and converted a bank over-
draft of £220 into a credit balance of
£52 during the 12 months to the end of
July last. There is still some plant for
sale. The Wiluna East mine, closed in
1942, is to resume operations as soon as
labor and materials become available,
when sinking and opening up the gold
carrier in deeper ground will continue.
Hopes are that enough pay-ore will be
exposed to enable the co. to shine as the
prospectus predicted it would.
% H* H*
From London: Shareholders in the
four stock-exchange-banned De Bernales
Westralian goldmining cos. —Anglo-Aus-
tralian. Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, Great Boulder Mining and
Finance, and Murchison —are wondering
what is going to happen next and when.
On September 4, 1941, it was resolved to
wind up nnd transfer the assets to Aus-
tralian Gold Production, Ltd., another
De Bernales float which changed its name
from Emu Gold Mines, Ltd., to the
present title in 1941. The resolutions
could not be carried into effect because
the U.K. Treasury refused to consent to
the scheme. No accounts have been
issued and no meetings held since.
* * * *
Owing to scarcity of Collie coal, some
Perth manufacturing concerns recently
closed down, and the Government is
being urged to buy the near-by De
Bernales-controlled Wilga deposits. Here
vendor interests claim production would
be cheaper than at Collie; but neither
producers nor miners at Collie welcome
the spur of competition.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, '42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life.... as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER —32nd May, *42: "I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT —9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
Concentration, which have combined to vastly
Increase my self-confidence.”
AIR EORCE— IBth May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years....! have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE— I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER— Ist May, ’42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
ter over 34 years,
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the cbre and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
jvoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
. for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. > Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute* Mel-
bourne. ,
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. ,
Please send me, post-free, a copy of "THE EFFICIENT
MIND."
Name
Addrest
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS: _
E. R. Knox (Chairman), SIR Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Keynote,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Shaping of Things to Coihe
Within the past two or three weeks
y nf
there have been happenings overseas of
unusual economic interest. The resigna-
tion of Montagu Norman, that centre-
versial figure of world finance, from the
governorship of the Bank of England was
followed by Lord Catto taking his place.
Lord Catto, who is 65, has been financial
adviser to the Treasury for four years
following a successful career as a ship-
owner, banker and Government counsel-
lor on other matters. He has big business
connections in India. Montagu Norman,
now 73, had been governor of the bank
since 1920, and he came in for much criti-
cism, from Communists and agitators as
much as from more sober minds, for the
post-1914-18-war financial policy of Great
Britain, particularly the return to the gold
standard in 1925.
The appointment to the governorship
of one so close to the Treasury as Lord
Catto has led to comment that the “Old
Lady” will become more and more a
Government servant and less and less an
individual of independent action. Catto,
a Scotsman, has had a long association
with the Government, going to the U.S.A.
on food missions during the last war, and
becoming Director-General of Equipment
and Stores, Ministry of Supply, in 1940.
With Lord Catto in the court of direc-
ters of the Bank of England is Lord
Keynes, the most publicised economist
in the world, and sponsor of the post-
war-credits idea adopted by Britain early
in the present war. Keynes is a compara-
lively new appointment to the court. Sir
Otto Niemeyer, familiar to Australians
whose memories go back to the depres-
sion period, is a member who, like Catto,
has had considerable association with the
Treasury. Niemeyer has had great experi-
ence in international banking as well.
Shortly after the change in the Bank
of England governorship was announced,
a new Chancellor of the Exchequer in-
troduced his first Budget. In his speech
to the Commons Sir John Anderson said
that the second world war would com-
P a revolutionary change in Britain's
financial position. Before lend-lease was
introduce J Britain used £lOOO million
of overseas assets while undischarged
overseas liabilities totalled £2OOO million,
TWere was still a price to pay> an d due
regard was not always paid to this sombre
f ac t. “The last war,” said Sir John,
“affected our export trade. We cannot
afford this time to accept further loss in
that direction and continue to import as
before. It will be indispensable to in-
crease exports. Post-war plans are based
on the assumption that we shall be in a
position to import the raw materials
necessary for active employment, and
sufficient food to maintain a standard at
least a little better than we enjoy now.”
He was disturbed by the manner in
which wage rates had outrun the rise in
the cost of living. The latter had risen
by 25-30 p.c. since the war, while wages
had mounted by 40 p.c. When price
stabilisation was introduced wages had
fallen 6 p.c. behind the cost-of-living rate.
They were now 11 p.c. more than the
cost of living. “I should be failing in
my duty if I did not warn the country
that grave dangers loom ahead if the
tendency towards a general upward move-
ment is not kept in check. It is equally
important that industrialists should do
everything to keep prices as low as pos-
sible.” Sir John Anderson contended
that a new cost-of-living index 30-35 p.c,
above the pre-war level should be sub-
stituted for the late Sir Kingsley Wood’s
aim of 25-30 p.c. On the face of it, a
startling contention, but there may be
implications not immediately apparent,
It appears to be that the present Chan-
cellor is concerned about the relative
position between the cost of living and
prevailing wage rates, and really has
nothing against the comparative smallness
of the rise in the cost of living. It is just
that wages have risen too much, and that
the burden on industry (and the Treasury)
is correspondingly great. Britain’s price-
controllers nevertheless seem to have
worked wonders with a subsidy to prices
of £l9O million a year.
It is clear from the Chancellor’s re-
marks in general that he is concerned
about Britain’s post-war trade prospects.
External trade is the Old Country’s life-
blood. He forecasts a lower-than-pre-
war standard of living for Britons because
of the difficulties of rehabilitating the
country and sharpening its post-war tools
of trade without drawing upon the re-
sources of labor and materials that would
be normally available for civil consump-
tion.
British ships will have to bring in a
greater quantity than usual of construc-
tional goods. While they are occupied
in doing that they can’t be bringing in
luxuries in the way of food, clothing and
entertainments. And while Britain’s
limited overseas funds are being spent
on essentials they can’t be spent on
frills. In order to save Britain’s
industrial life and lay a foundation for
future improved living standards the early
post-war period promises to be a lean
one. But there is, of course, no reason
why the British wage-earners who assist
towards achieving that goal should not
have an investment in the ultimate bene-
fits. If the reconstruction period is
properly planned they could scarcely fail
to have such an investment.
Just about the time Sir John Ander-
son was relating his “sombre facts” and
opinions, Australia’s Minister for Supply
and Shipping was addressing the Inter-
national Labor Office in Philadelphia.
Enunciating “Australia’s future national
and international economic policy,” he
made a statement which, when reduced to
readable language, had a basis similar to
that expressed here more briefly many
times, to wit: Before countries can do
much about co-operating with each other
in dealing with economic problems they
first of all have to put their own houses
in order individually. Then Mr. Beasley
added that the critical factor controlling
the raising of standards of living and trade
levels throughout the world after the war
would be the shape of domestic policies
pursued by the larger economies like
Britain and America. Therefore, higher
levels of employment should be the first
goal sought in international economic
collaboration.
But Australia’s economy, for example,
will not be controlled solely by what hap-
pens in Britain and the United States.
Keeping one’s own house in order is just
as necessary here as it is anywhere else.
The Government of which Mr, Beasley is
a member, indeed, probably has a greater
need for concern in this regard than any
other Allied country. Our Labor party
has been extremely loath to recognise
economic realities. It has generally
shown a preference for ear-tickling vague-
ness like that contained in the Atlantic
Charter. Which raises the question of
whether the Australian Government is in
practical accord with what Mr. Beasley
has been talking about in Philadelphia.
Mr, Beasley’s contentions meet other
cross-currents. To include Great Britain
in general terms with the United States
in speaking of what “should” be done in
the post-war period suggests a narrow
study of the problem. Although Britain
can be expected to be a hive of industry
when the war is over, even if for no other
purpose than restoring homes destroyed
during the blitz, as Sir John Anderson
has pointed out it does not follow that
an immediately higher living standard can
be expected. His “sombre facts” indicate
otherwise. As during this war, money,
though a highly important organisation, is
going to be little more than organisation ;
living standards and economic advance-
ment really depend upon production.
And when productive efforts are concen-
trated upon establishment of plants to
make further and cheaper production
possible later on, as well as upon the
export of a greater proportion of home
production in order to pay for more of
those essential goods obtainable only
overseas, during this readjustment period
there must be a check to increased living
standards.
While a nation is chiefly occupied on
some other job, production of those goods
which enter into present living standards
has to suffer.
In view of this, Mr. Beasley’s argument
that “the primary means of securing in-
creased trade and establishing harmoni-
ous international economic relations is
for all nations to raise their standard of
living” is subject to a number of quali-
fications. It does not appear to take
much cognisance of the present European
scene. Like so many other propositions,
it might be all right on the whole if
things were different.
While these events were happening
or about to happen an announcement
came from Washington. The United
States Treasury issued the news that 34
nations participating in the currency
stabilisation conferences had agreed to
the basic principles of an $BOOO million
international exchange stabilisation fund
based on gold. The United States is to
put in between $2500 million and $2750
million in gold, Britain $1250 (at least 25
p.c. in gold, the rest in currency), and
Russia $lOOO million on the same terms
as Britain,
Voting power is to be “distributed
in close relation to quotas.” Mem-
bers will be permitted to retain war-time
exchange controls, with the understand-
ing that they will be gradually relaxed.
The purposes of the fund are said to be
to provide an international consultative
council, to facilitate the balanced growth
of international trade, to provide help
to countries in difficulties, to promote ex-
change stability and avoid competitive
exchange depreciation. The maintenance
of world employment is an aim asso-
ciated with all these other purposes of
the fund.
The stabilisation fund indicates, among
other things, that gold is to be accorded
a place in post-war economics. But there
remains to be indicated how Britain’s
and, for that matter, Australia’s particular
external-trade and exchange problems are
to be treated by the fund’s administrators.
These recent overseas economic develop-
ments show that certain plans are taking
shape. It remains to be seen whether
the United States will voluntarily accept
those economic responsibilities it has been
reluctant even to consider in the past.
Australia also will have to face realities.


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because 6B
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest Is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladdey
need help. . ,
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
Strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of Varmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
p CAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
\
7u
m
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
The Tankers Must Get Through
illßMlli
«o •• •
•V -
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
In fair weather or heavy seas —in peace or
war —the tankers must get through. We in
Australia rely so much on the tankers and
their brave crews—as do the people of Britain
and the other Allied Nations The enemy
knows tbrs and makes every effort to stop
them.... Early in the war, sinkings of British
Tankers became so great that the shortage
brought about an acute position in this coun-
try. Vacuum thereupon chartered a fleet from
neutral sources and embarked upon a pro-
gram of tanker building. Another huge under-
taking was also initiated the construction
of three great pipe-lines in Northern America
to off-set the hold up during five months of
the year that the St. Lawrence River is frozen
and thus closed to tankers.
These far-sighted policies assured Australia
of a continuous supply of precious petrol for
our war, industrial and civil requirements.
Vacuum's initiative is reflected in other chan-
nels. The Company pioneered the now
famous Houdry process of refining which has
produced over 90 c /» of all the catalytically
cracked 100 octane aviation gasolines for the
United Nations. Our Refineries are also pro-
ducing Butadiene, the chief constituent of
synthetic rubber; Toluol, for T.N.T.; Formal-
dehyde. for shatterproof glass and petroleum
plastics.
Serving the Nation on Land, Sea, and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
V 1.45 (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD.
It is bad that anyone should get
the idea that war is profitable —espe-
cially bad if hundreds of thousands
of people are allowed to get that idea.
Many Australian wage-earners are likely
to come out of this war with a wrong
slant on it because they have not had
to bear their fair share of the cost. The
war has laid a heavy hand on other Aus-
tralians — wage-earners, too many of
them —heavier because of this unequal
sacrifice. The country as a whole has
become materially poorer as a result of
4-V years of conflict. The Australian who
has made money out of the war and re-
gards his making of it as a fair thing is
in for disillusionment later on.
* * * *
Probably because of the necessity to
meet most tax assessments by March 31
there was a somewhat reduced growth
in savings-bank deposits during March.
The expansion, £lO million, compares
with £11.2 million in February. Total
deposits are now up to £446 million, an
increase of £llO million in a year. Over
the same period the growth in the public
holding of notes has been £47 million.
* =K * *
There were only 157,671 subscribers
to the First Victory Loan up to last
Friday, At that stage only one Australian
in 46 had subscribed. In the previous
loan 567,700 contributions were received
for £126 million. This time £l5O million
is asked for.
* * * *
The British Budget allows no re-
duction in the 100 p.c. excess-profits tax,
but the Chancellor promises that when
new plant is bought after the war an
initial depreciation allowance of 20 p.c.
will be granted in the first year for
taxation purposes. That is apart from
the usual allowance for wear and tear.
An obsolescence allowance is to be
granted when plant is scrapped irrespec-
tive of whether a particular machine is
replaced or not. An initial depreciation
allowance on new buildings of 10 p.c.
will be permitted. Capital expenditure on
research covering expenditure on labora-
tories, buildings, plant and machinery
will be allowed as a taxation deduction
for five years, or for the life of the asset
if shorter. These promised concessions
are clearly an encouragement to post-war
British industry, indicating the import-
ance which the Government attaches
to the health of private enterprise after
the war. In Australia the Department of
Post-war Reconstruction is still toying
with socialistic theories and getting no-
where.
* * * *
The Shipping Branch of the Depart-
ment of Supply in 1942-43 cost the Com-
monwealth £1,627,353. The Shipping
Control Board appears to be about break-
ing even on its operations over two years,
but with the position worsening rather
than improving. The Ships Chartering
Committee, with the Wheat Board as
managers, is estimated to show a surplus
of £765,000 for the year to June 30 last,
making an accumulated surplus of
£1,410,000 over the entire period of
operations. Earnings have the help of the
services of two ex-enemy vessels.
* * # *
Taxation collected by Australian Gov-
ernments during 1942-43 averaged £39
7s. 6d. a head, an increase of £6 4s. 3d.
over the 1941-42 rate and £2l Bs. above
the figure for the last pre-war year. In
the current financial year a further in-
crease is certain, higher income-tax rates
having been in force since April, 1943,
and the 25 p.c. surcharge on wages
operating in the majority of cases. The
average rate for 1942 : 43 was a heavy
burden on the face of it; individual rates
have in some cases been vastly more
burdensome. Australia’s war organisation
generally is wasteful, fighting services in-
eluded, and the susceptibility to waste is
increased by the fact that the political
party holding Federal war-time office had
never taken pre-war defence preparations
seriously. It has had to learn, hurriedly,
by, trial and error. That method has
inevitably been wasteful.
# * * *
There are few more uninspiring pic-
tures than that of a political organisation
professing national ideals but the policy
of which is best depicted by a well-
heeled, aggressive gentleman standing,
with a stick, beside a large money-bag.
Politics of that kind have no future ; very
often they approach the extreme reached
by radical Labor. Not that Capital is
not entitled to protect itself; the point
is that individual or sectional interest on
its own is not a wide enough base for the
setting-up of any party which aspires to
national office-holding. The interests of
the many (and they not merely those of
regimented Labor) should color any
national policy. The world is awaiting
a political and economic philosophy
capable of transferring to the people
something approaching the full benefits
offered by present-day invention and
manufacturing capacity. Capital would
still occupy its place in such a set-up
—Capitalism is still the most potent, pro-
gressive force the world knows. A funda-
mental of private enterprise is Capital-
ism. But there are some short-sighted
Capitalists, just as there are Laborites
who advocate policies amounting to
national suicide. Some Capitalists are
problems even among Capitalists. It is
true enough that this country’s present
political and economic problems largely
arise from regimented selfishness on the
part of unionised Labor allied with
a Labor Government unwilling to deal,
or incapable of dealing, with this selfish-
ness. TTe remedy, however, will be found
in applying fundamental principles, not
in trying to enforce another class of
selfish sectionalism.


TH E SERVICE MAN
Into Dutch New Guinea.
“Ek Dum”: On April 24 General
MacArthur reported:
We have seized the Humboldt Bay area,
on the north coast of Dutch New Guinea,
approximately 500 miles north of Saidor.
Our ground troops have landed at Aitape,
Hollandia and Tanahmerah Bay, covering
a front of about 150 miles. The landings
were made under naval cover and air
bombardment, and followed neutralising
attacks by our air forces and by ’planes
from carriers of the Pacific Fleet. Com-
plete surprise and effective support, both
surface and ajr, secured an initial landing
with slight losses. We are pushing forward
to secure the local airfields.
Thus another milestone was marked by
the entry of Allied forces into Dutch New
Guinea,
Aitape is the most westward district
H.Q. in Mandated New Guinea, 290
miles from Madang and about 100 miles
from the Dutch border. Hollandia is a
base a few miles inside Dutch New
Guinea. Tanahmerah Bay is 30 miles
further on, almost on 140 deg. of long, and
about two degrees below the Equator.
Aitape has no harbor. The wild Torri-
celli Range climbs up thousands of feet
a few miles behind it. It was estimated
that there were 500 to 1000 of the enemy
at Aitape. Only pockets resisted, and 181
Jap dead were counted up to April 30.
Hollandia, which is nearly 400 miles
across the ocean from Manus, in the
Admiralties, is a reasonably good harbor,
and was the next staging base for aircraft
travelling from the pivot East Indian
bases to Wewak and Madang. Some road
communication had been established
along the coast on stages between Madang
and Hollandia, but the full extent is not
known.
The MacArthur report continued:
Our feints over the past week towards
Madang and Wewak apparently deceived
the enemy into concentrating the mass of
his forward troops in these areas, thus
leaving the vital sector of Hollandia vul-
nerable and making possible our surprise
movement to his rear. The operation
throws a loop of envelopment around the
enemy’s Eighteenth Army, dispersed along
the coasts of New Guinea in the Madang-
Alexishafen - Hansa Bay - Wewak sectors,
similar to the Solomons and Bismarck loops
of envelopment. To the east are Aus-
tralians and Americans; to the west
Americans; to the north, the sea, controlled
by our Allied naval forces; to the south,
untraversed jungle mountain ranges—and
over all our air mastery.
The enemy army is now completely iso-
lated, with its communication and supply
lines severed. Its conditions become simi-
lar to those of the beleaguered Seventeenth
and Eighth Japanese Armies in the Bis-
marck and Solomons archipelagos. Its
present strength is estimated at 60,000.
The Task at Madang
The first emotion generated by this
news was amazement that the enemy had
not before taken the way of escape, long
open to him along the New Guinea coast
to Geelvink Bay, and with a wide-open
stretch of ocean leading to Palau and
Truk and other Japanese strongholds which
have never been more than raided. Then
came the sobering thought that, as
at Buna, Wau, Salamaua and Finschhafen,
Australian units about to go into action
against the Madang-Alexishafen area,
which was mentioned as a strong point
of concentration, would face another
major battle with at least a section of
the 46,000 Japanese said to be in occu-
pation of the Mandated area, completely
hemmed off by Allied naval and air power.
At Buna, in a position not nearly so
easy to defend as Madang-Alexishafen,
with its channels and its islands and its
many getaways, and its land communi-
cation to the north, a division of the
enemy had killed or wounded 10,000
Australians and Americans, the former
battle-seasoned veterans, before it was
wiped out. The garrison of Salamaua
and the Mubo perimeter had fought
sternly before it evacuated the town,
and the couple of regiments at Sattelberg
and Finschhafen had put up a vicious
fight, even coming right back to the
beach and cutting off Australian units
in process of their defence, before they
were reduced to remnants and put to
flight.
No Resistance
So when the Australian forces that had
taken Bogadjim entered Madang and
found no Japanese there it was a matter
for the throwing up of hats.
The seizure of Madang, about 19 miles
from Bogadjim, was made on April 24,
the day before Anzac Day. Thus, the
Australian forces achieved the honor of
taking two former German capitals
within a few days—Bogadjim (once
Stephanssort) was the original edition;
Madang (Kaiser Friedrichwilhelmshafen)
the second.
The Japanese Navy rushed ships to
Madang in 1914, apparently with the in-
tention of seizing the Bismarck Archi-
pelago and New Guinea itself. The
ships discovered that they had raced to
the wrong capital and that General
Holmes’s expedition, going to the right
ones, already had received the surrender
of the German possessions.
All the resistance met on April 24 was
made by a patrol with an ineffective
mountain gun. The main body of troops,
which had learned that to encounter even
a small body of Japanese during the cross-
ing of the Finisterre meant bitter fight-
ing, was overjoyed to experience the
novelty of acquiring the first major base
which has fallen to the Australian lot in
New Guinea without fierce fighting. A
detachment followed the first success by
the occupation of Alexishafen, nine miles
away.
It had been believed by H.Q. that there
were 18,000 of the enemy at Madang, but
these had evacuated, leaving behind very
substantial stores and armament dumps
and the remains of their airstrips, which
had been pounded incessantly for months.
Madang is about 200 miles from We-
wak, 200 miles or so from Aitape. On
the calculations of the command there
were nearly 50,000 Japanese troops in
this area, either concentrating at some
point for a major battle or merely wait-
ing for death —and the latter alternative
seemed unlikely.
Flight at Hollandia
The position at Hollandia was equally
curious. The landing there was imple-
mented under very strong naval cover,
in which the R.A.N. was well represented
under command of Rear-Admiral Crutch-
ley, V.C. The two heavy R.A.N. cruisers
Australia and Shropshire carried out the
bombardment at Tanahmerah Bay, and
the Australian-built Tribals Arunta and
Warramunga and other ships shelled
strategic positions effectively, while
Kanimbla, Manoora and Westralia,
auxiliary cruisers, carried A.I.F. dock de-
tachments to both landing points. These
were charged with the transport work
incidental to the landing. There were
R.A.A.F. units also.
In the area there were supposed to be
14,000 of the enemy. The terrain is diffi-
cult for the invader. Some distance in-
ward is a large lake, shaped like a half-
curled-up witchetty grub, and in process
of the encircling movement on which
U.S. troops embarked from Hollandia
and Tanahmerah, this had to be crossed—
quite a substantial amphibious operatic#.
But up till April 28, when all the main
air strips, which were the raison d’etre
for the existence of a large body of troops
at Hollandia, had been captured, only
minor resistance had been encountered.
The largest batch of the enemy destroyed
numbered about 100; the total to April
29, when the operation was virtually
complete, was 279 and over a score of
prisoners.
The April 27 communique declared
that “the enemy forces, in complete dis-
order and confusion, fled to the jungle.
Their morale seems to be broken, and
their units melted away into a fleeing
mass of individuals, scattering indis-
criminately in search of safety.” Evidently
a far different type from the Jap at
Gaudalcanal, Buna-Gona, Kokoda,
Munda, the Treasury Islands, Wau, Sala-
maua, Finschhafen, Betio, Shaggy Ridge,
Arakan and Manipur.
The only air resistance came from
squadrons of torpedo ’planes from Noem-
foor Island, in the mouth of Geelvink
Bay. These flew from an area which the
Allies heavily bombed. It was reported
before the week-end that enemy air
resistance in western Dutch New Guinea
was becoming stronger.
The 140,000 Estimate
General MacArthur’s H.Q, announced
that “the total remaining forces of these
armies [i.e., the Eighth, Seventeenth and
Eighteenth], which were those destined
for the invasion of Australia, but
which are now themselves surrounded,
are estimated at 140,000 —50,000 in New
Britain, 10,000 in New Ireland, 20,000 in
Bougainville and 60,000 in New Guinea.”
It was added:
Since the start of the campaign these
armies have lost 110,000 men —44 per cent,
of their original strength of 250,000 —and
the remainder is now neutralised and
strategically impotent. The enemy’s mari-
time and air losses have been proportion-
ally heavy. His invested garrisons can be
expected to strike desperately to free them-
selves, and combat will be necessary to
accomplish the annihilation of forces whose
fate is now certain. The position reverses
Bataan.
The estimate of enemy numbers caused
some surprise. General Blarney, in
March, 1943, when it was certain that
enemy power had begun to decline in
the South-west Pacific, placed the total
force threatening Australia in the archi-
pelagos of the north, from Timor to
the Solomons, at 200,000, but this included
the troops in the East Indies. General
MacArthur, who interpreted the force
actually threatening this country to in-
clude the Philippines and Borneo, said
General Blarney’s figure was “conserva-
tive,” Dr. Evatt in April, 1943, reckoned
Jap killed at 65,000.
General Blarney’s figure coincided with
generally accepted opinions abroad. One
Chinese estimate published in February,
1943, and included later by lan Morrison,
the “Times” correspondent in the South-
west Pacific, in his book This War Against
Japan (“even if not particularly accu-
rate, they at any rate give some idea
of the distribution of Japanese forces”),
gave the figures as six divisions in Burma,
two in Thailand, \\ in Malaya, 4\ in
Java, Borneo and the Philippines, one in
Timor, 2\ in New Guinea, three in New
Britain and two in the Solomons.
The 7y in the New Guinea-Solomons
area would total about 80,000 men, to
which ancillary troops and laborers would
be added.
If there are 140,000 Japanese still in
the New Guinea area, as estimated, they
are capable of doing immense mischief
even if organised only on a guerrilla
basis. They represent a force more than
twice the size of the five fighting Aus-
tralian divisions which Mr. Curtin says
have taken part in the N.G. campaign.
The Assam Tide Turns.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in Burma and
on the frontier are beginning to resolve
themselves into their true perspective.
Both the Japanese and the whiners and
wailers who walloped the South-east Asia
Command before its battle in Assam had
passed the stage of preliminary outpost
engagements are now threatened with dis-
comfiture.
The Japanese are faced with the posi-
tion that their advanced troops are far
from their main communication lines
with the monsoon less than a month
away. It is known that they have had to
bring up reserves from the Chinese and
Thailand borders. Nearly 6000 Japanese
dead have been counted, and there must
be many more who have lain undis-
covered in the jungle, or who have been
killed by bombing and strafing, artillery
fire and tropical sickness within their own
lines.
In the Imphal area the enemy has
apparently given up his plan to take the
town or to cut the Silchar road by a
major drive. And to the north, in the
Kohima area, while his effort against
the town has waned, the British-Indians
have turned the tables on him. It is now
enemy communications which have been
cut or partially cut. The phase is being
entered upon in which the defensive
boxes established by British forces have
ceased to be defensive and have become
offensive bases. Decisive fighting seems
to be near.
The enemy’s effort was not negligible.
The carrying out of such an operation
under great difficulties against a defence
which was backed by sound communica-
tions and overwhelming air superiority
marks him down once more as a foe to
be reckoned with whenever he is deter-
mined to fight.
He forced in British-Indian border out-
posts. He temporarily isolated Kohima,
except from the air, as well as the vari-
ous defence boxes round which he was
allowed to flow, though he did not get
within many miles of his real objective
—the Assam railway and the road to
Ledo in the north. He inflicted casualties
which were not light, though not so
severe as his own. And in the course of
his operations there was generated a press
campaign in Allied countries which
affected confidence in the command and
was availed of by Leftist agitators work-
ing to wreck British prestige.
But from a military point of view the
enemy drive was merely a nuisance
counter-attack. It did not interrupt main
communications with Ledo. The most
it did was possibly—though not certainly
—to dislocate the timetable of the forces
in Central Burma to some extent.
At the week-end, Myitkina, the central
northern Japanese rail base in Burma,
was reported to be in danger from
British-Indian and U.S.-Chinese forces.
Drive in China
In the Burma affair the Japanese com-
mand thus far seems to have used no
more than 25,000 men, including re-
serves. But it is driving into the Chinese
wheat-bowl with 60,000, a force which
has proved too strong for the Chinese
in that region.
Each year the enemy implements two
campaigns in China. In one he destroys
the main rice crop; in the other, the
main wheat crop. While the destruction
is in progress, the Chinese resist desper-
ately and kill large numbers of Japanese.
Then the enemy retires, licking his
wounds, over a countryside which he
leaves smashed and littered with corpses,
fortified in the knowledge that tens of
thousands, possibly hundreds of thou-
sands, of gentle Chinese of all ages and
both sexes will perish as the result of
his ingenuity.
It is barbarity carried to the limit.
Heavy Bombing Continues.
“Ek Dum”: Allied bombing forces
are keeping up their average of dropping
nearly 20,000 tons of high explosives and
incendiaries on Germany and German-
occupied Europe per week. During the
last week the bombing area has been ex-
panded in some directions, the centre of
gravity being altered.
The Kjeller airframe factory at Oslo,
Norway, was attacked, as also were
Brunswick and Hamburg, among many
major targets. Nearly 1000 heavy U.S.
bombers, with escorting R.A.F. fighters,
attacked Berlin with 2000 tons of bombs
in daylight on April 29. The Germans
admitted heavy damage.
The circumstances of this Berlin raid
were significant. Although the city has
been battered time after time until
it has become the most heavily bombed
centre in the world, and until it
has absorbed an overall average of 400
tons of bombs per square mile of the
metropolitan area, the defence involved the
heavy bombers in fierce fights which in
some cases lasted an hour and a half, and
the general rocket and anti-aircraft and
fighter protection was vividly described
by some of those who experienced it.
The Germans sent up defence squadrons
in batches of 200 machines... .The greatest
concentration of rocket flak ever encoun-
tered ; it was bursting like popcorn all over
the sky... .We had it for two hours of our
nine-hoiir flight. They must have flak guns
in every street, in every house, in every
block of flats.
Berlin claimed to have destroyed 129
U.S. machines, mostly heavy bombers.
U.S. Air Force H.Q. placed the loss at
63 bombers and 14 fighters, and claimed
72 German aircraft shot down by
bombers and 16 by fighters.
The shift in operational direction was
mainly towards the south-east of France
and northern Italy. Toulon and Genoa,
as well as other basic ports of northern
Italy, were frequently attacked, together
with Italian railways—it is officially re-
ported that all rail communications by
main line between Rome and the north
have been out of gear for some time —
and the strafing of the Pas de Calais was
pushed southward. Paris, Lyons and
Clermont were hit heavily by the
U.S.A.F., and the fortress city of Nancy
was raided.
Again for the week losses of Allied
machines were difficult to estimate, but
they appear to have been in the region of
300.
Berlin claimed “powerful attacks by
our heavy bombers on shipping concen-
trations at Portsmouth and Plymouth.”
The London description was “some enemy
activity over the south coast.” A few
people were killed during raids on south-
coast towns —now in a closed military
area. Houses were destroyed and other
damage done.
On the night of April 28 three
enemy machines were shot down over
Britain. One of them, a big Dornier 217,
was destroyed by Wing-Commander
Hampshire, of Perth (W.A.), CO. of an
Australian squadron. _____
Invasion Alarms.
“Ek Dum”: Some of them were made
in Germany and satellite countries. There
were stories of “frantic” German pre-
parations in Denmark and Norway; of
enemy fears that Corsica might be the
base for an almost immediate drive
against southern French defences; of
huge naval concentrations further east in
the Mediterranean, convincing Berlin
that an invasion of the Balkans, prepared
for by the dropping of British parachute
troops in Yugoslavia, was imminent.
From April 26 onward Berlin claimed
attacks by heavy bombers on in-
vasion fleets assembled or being con-
voyed in the English Channel, mostly
somewhere near Portsmouth. On April
29 it was said that the German Navy was
now at action stations waiting to begin
the disruption of Allied preparations
Many of the yarns no doubt are de-
signed to persuade the Allies that the
Germans think the attack will come at
points where the enemy does not at all
believe that it will come. And all alarms
serve to keep the German forces guard-
ing the invasion coasts on their toes.
The one thing clear is that weather is
the ultimate factor, as it was in even so
small and local a battle as the attack on
Cassino last month. There the fifth
Army’s meteorologist. Captain Ludlum,
U.S.N., vetoed the operation so otten


Public Notices.
I, HUGO GERSON, Stateless, born at Hohensalza,
Germany, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing' at 25 Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, OYPA REUA GRYNBERG, of Polish nationality,
resident in Australia for five years, and now residing
at 19 Denham Street, Bondi, Sydtaey. N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ALBERT EDWARD AUGUSTINE PURCELL
formerly of Coburg in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
KATE CHRISTINE ELSIE PURCELL has com-
menced proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of the State of Victoria on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards Unless
you enter an appearance to the suit at the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the State of Victoria
on or before the 24th day of May 1944 and cause
an answer to be filed at the abovenamed office on
or before the 3rd day of June 1944 the suit will
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—ROYSTON T. OAHIR, Solicitor, 108
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the petitioner.
CD
am
that it was decided to call the great bomb-
ing of the town the Ludlum Operation in
his honor. Even then, the rain which
came on top of the bombing and bom-
bardment, after nearly 10 hours of fine
daylight, dislocated battle arrangements:
which had been planned for clear moon-
light.
In the operations in Western Europe,
with its immense problems of the use of
sea power, gliders, paratroops, parachuted
supplies and air cover and offence,
weather will be even more vital to suc-
cess.
It has been told in Washington that in
the landings of troops carried out by the
U.S. Air Forces in central Burma dark-
ness prevented the incoming machines
from seeing that the Japs had discovered
what was afoot and had laid logs across
the parachute landing grounds. The
gliders were released in the darkness and
piled up against the logs. Loss of men
was considerable in the smashes which
ensued.
Dependence on the weather, too, un-
fortunately must rob any attack of some
important elements of surprise. English
meteorologists know the epemy will also
know; and his knowledge may tell him
not only when an attack may be made
but where.
It would be quite possible to have ex-
cellent invasion weather for several days
over Denmark or Biscay while the Channel
area was swathed in fog or drenched with
rain from a low-cloud ceiling.
Bombing Effects
The bombing of Germany and
German-held areas now has reached tre-
mendous proportions—nearly 60,000 tons
of h.e. and incendiary bombs were
dropped during April. With the rising of
the tide of destruction, the confidence of
amateur strategists hlso is rising to an
unhealthy pitch. The impression is being
created that Germany and its satellites
are just about being blown off the face
of the earth.
Experience of bombing of Germany
is breeding considerable revision of opti-
mistic ideas expressed officially and un-
officially about results.
Berlin was represented as being con-
siderably knocked about in its central
parts even nine months ago ; but Aus-
tralian prisoners of war with medical
units who were on leave there last August
reported that its heart was scarcely dam-
aged. A reconnaissance photograph pub-
lished in the London “Times Weekly” as
late as April 2, after tens of thousands of
tons were supposed to have virtually
wiped out large areas of the hub of the
capital this year, does not support the
belief that the official quarters of Berlin
are a complete wreck.
The picture covers the whole area from
the Spree to the Leipziger Strasse, and
from the Friedrichstrasse to the Brander-
burger Thor, along Unter den Linden —
about one mile by half a mile. It shows
considerable damage, but nothing to com-
pare with what the City of London suf-
fered in a single raid on December 29,
1940. Some buildings in the Wilhelm-
strasse have been torn out of their set-
tings, including, apparently, part of the
Chancellery, some other Government
offices and the British Embassy. The
Academy of Art, the Russian, French and
American Embassies and other buildings
in the Linden and Pariser Platz were
wrecked or wiped out. The amazement is
not at how much damage has been done,
but how little. The Linden, which is 200
feet wide, shows no bomb craters along
the whole of its visible length, as would
be expected even in a small picture had
heavy bombs dropped in it. Accom-
panying pictures of part of Siemens’
electrical plant, however, show marks of
very heavy damage.
It was declared in February and March
that Allied raids had destroyed or dis-
located two-thirds of Germany’s fighter
constructive facilities, but it becomes
plainer and plainer that the German air
defence has not yet reached its peak,
any more than that the supposedly
astronomical German losses on the Rus-
sian front have weakened German man-
power strength and resources to the point
of collapse.
Cassino Again
The hope that bombing will play such
a decisive effect on coastal defences in
France also is vain in the light of experi-
ence. Here again Cassino speaks elo-
quently.
Lieut.-General Eaker, U.S.A., Allied
Air C.-in-C., who viewed the air attack
which preceded the infantry assault, de-
scribed straightway what he took to be
the effect:
It was by long odds our greatest effort'
of the war. The German stronghold at
Cassino was “melted down”; it felt the
weight of more bombs than Berlin has had
on any day. Undoubtedly never in warfare
have air forces concentrated so much de-
struction on a target of comparable size in a
single mission. Let the German world
ponder that what we have done to its for-
tress of Cassino we shall do to every
stronghold where it elects to make a stand.
The Cassino target was 1400 yards long
and 400 yards wide.
Observers with me agreed that more than
half the bombs were in the target, and the
great part of the remainder, scarcely less
valuable, fell on German trenches and gun
emplacements near by. Exactly on schedule
to a second, the last group [of bombers]
tossed its bombs on the rubble heap which
was Cassino at 12 noon Today we fumi-
gated Cassino —a fortress which withstood
the most courageous Allied effort for
several months and cost many an Allied
soldier’s life—and I am hopeful that when
the smoke of today’s battle clears away
we shall find more worthy occupants in-
stalled with little loss to our men.
The lesson for optimists who believe
that the Allied landings in western
Europe are going to be a sort of butchers’
picnic in which air-power will do the
slaughtering and the infantry will parcel
up the remains consists in what follows.
After the terrific air blast came a heavy
artillery barrage with several hundred
Allied guns, which during the day fired
85,000 shells from 25-pounders and 75’s
to the heavy metal of 240 mm. (9.6 in.)
guns.
The infantry were thrown in—tough
Maorilanders and Ghurkas, then the pick
of British regiments. Much of Cassino
was rubble. Craters 60ft. wide impeded
the advance and deprived the footsloggers
of armored support, since the tanks could
not cross the huge holes, especially after
they filled with water. The first day’s
bombing was succeeded by other days of
bombing and intense artillery fire. Seven
weeks later the Germans still hold most
of everything that matters in the Cassino
fortress area.
In Yugoslavia
The same optimism prevails over Mar-
shal Tito’s efforts. There is a carefully
cultivated impression that he has 300,000
desperate men who are pinning down
anything from 18 to 35 German divi-
sions and handling them so roughly that
it needs only another push to send them
reeling out of the Balkans.
Allowing that Tito’s men are fighting
spiritedly within the limits of their food
supplies and resources, their operations
are comparatively small.
In March there was a combat char-
acterised by the American United Press
as “probably the biggest battle since the
start of organised resistance by Marshal
Tito smashed a costly German attempt
to break into liberated Slovenian terri-
tory.” It was told how this fighting
—“a section of the Partisan campaign to
pin down and chew up piecemeal Field-
Marshal von Weichs’s Balkan forces” —
took the form of a “bloody seven-day”
engagement. But Partisan H.Q. claimed
to have killed only 597 Germans —to the
U.P. “the largest toll suffered by the Ger-
mans in any single engagement with the
Partisans.”
The Partisans have a considerable
nuisance value, but at present no more.
It is the organised armies of the Western
Allies, specially trained for invasion,
splendidly equipped and with great sup-
porting sea and air power, that the enemy
fears. Their task is great, and the diffi-
culties should be soberly realised.
Romantic notions about “guerrillas” and
fanciful expectations are out of place.
Along the Carpathians.
“Ek Dum”: Snow and mud sliding
into saturated villages on both sides of
the Carpathians, with rivers running “a
banker,” sometimes till the end of May,
are characteristics of spring on the Rus-
sian war front.
So a lull began, partly, it seems,
becayse of the need on both sides to do
some regrouping, but mainly because man
has not yet found a way of dealing with
mud on a large scale. In 1942 and 1943
there were similar lulls, which did not
end till late in June.
The Russians will certainly need to re-
group before tackling the Carpathians.
Terrain always restricts deployment. On
plains it is sometimes possible to use
huge masses of men, and there is a lavish
choice of approaches to a given position.
But passes, ravines and peaks usually
limit the numbers which can be economi-
cally and effectively used unless the
attacking generals have vast reserves, are
completely regardless of human life and
propose to win their battles by flinging
more men against the enemy positions
than the enemy has time to kill before the
objectives can be reached by succeeding
waves of attackers.
The line of the Carpathians to which
the Russians have made the nearest
approach is very suitable for defence.
Each system of ranges is divided from
the next by some main pass, usually with
a well-masked railway in the vicinity.
There are six main passes. The Oitoz
runs up a river valley to meet the rail-
way from Brasov (Kronstadt) about 60
miles from Jassy, which is still held by
the enemy. The Russians are nearest to
this pass, which is high and difficult, in
the Jassy environs. At the week-end it
was reported by Reuter that they were
applying heavy pressure north of Jassy,
and that they had secured south of the
town a further bridgehead across the
Pruth in the face of strong German re-
sistance. Moscow did not confirm this.
Next comes the Jablonica (Tartar), 180
miles by crowfly north-west. The Rus-
sians penetrated to approaches of the
Jablonica, but the Germans claimed last
week that in heavy fighting they and the
Hungarians had driven the Red Army
back over 25 miles to the east to Kalo-
mea, 16 miles from the mouth of the pass ;
also to the north of that town. This is a
pass of easy grades, about 2000 ft. high,
but it is long and winding. The width of
the range here is about 60 miles, and on
the Ruthenian side the passage is but-
tressed by peaks which reach the 8000 ft.
level.
Moscow said nothing of any Red Army
retreat in the area.
Next comes the Veresky Pass, which
leads down from Lwow to the network
of Central Hungarian railways. At the
week-end there were no Russians within
70 miles of this crossing or within 80
miles of the track 30 miles further on,
which goes over the range to Uzak.
These two passes are in the region of the
wooded Carpathians. The valleys are
thinly populated with Ruthenians, inter-
mixed with a few Slovaks and Germans.
The Russians are over 100 miles from
here and 150 miles from the Dukla Pass,
which leads through the East Beskiden
Range from Przemysl.
The Border Approaches
Moscow correspondents have drawn a
picture of the Russian forces of Marshal
Zhukov and/or Koniev arrayed along
the Czechoslovak border, and of great
bodies of Czechs and Ruthenians leav-
ing their factories and prosperous farms
silently in their thousands to forgather
as formidable guerrilla forces. Some
newspaper maps showed Stanislawow and
all the territory along the Ruthenian
border to the level of the Lwow en-
virons as in Russian hands. Actually
the only part of the old Czech —
now Hungarian—border of which the
Russians can be in touch on the basis of
their own reports is a stretch of about
15 miles of rugged peaks up to 9000 ft.
high south-east of the Jablonica route.
On the Czechoslovakian (Hungarian)
side of the border for the whole 200 or
more miles the mountain lands are popu-
lated very sparsely. There is not a fac-
tory nor a town of 25,000 within 50
miles of the border. The villages are
mainly one-street affairs of medieval
aspect and odor, some of which scarcely
see grain from year’s end to year’s end,
and in which the typical house consists
of one fortresslike stone room, where
the sleeping accommodation is in three
tiers in one corner. Another corner is
given over to fuel and utensils and living
accommodation, and the remainder, in
winter, is devoted to the cows if the
family owns a couple of miserable beasts.
Neither side in the war will be much
hampered by the problem of civil popu-
lation in the 40-60 miles of Carpathian
fortress line which the Russians presently
will have to try to pierce.
Lower Dniester Defence
On the Lower Dniester last week
Berlin reported heavy fighting, but no
mention of this was made by Moscow.
Here the Germans still hold the west bank
from the mouth for over 100 miles to
the north of Kishinev (Chisinau), where
their defence line makes a sharp angle
towards the Carpathians, forming a front
from the foothills. This line is pinned
to Jassy, thence taking a diagonal course,
following the direction of the maze of
rivers which flow into the Sereth and the
Pruth, to the Jablonica region.
From the Dniester mouth to Jablonica
is roughly 400 miles, via Kishinev and
Jassy. From the Dniester near Kishinev
to the foothills of the Carpathians at the
nearest point is about 100 miles. This
region and the lower Dniester must form
the enemy’s first line of defence of the
Galatz Gap, which leads to the Danube
mouths and the Ploesti oilfields.
At other points on the mainland little
fighting on land was reported. The Ger-
mans claimed that they had “annihilated”
the last of “surrounded” Russian groups
in the Pripet Marsh edges, which had
originally attempted to outflank Kowel.
But the Russians made no mention of
operations near the Pripet Marshes,
though they spoke of clashes west of Tar-
nopol in which German offensive drives
on limited sectors failed.
Artillery at Sevastopol
At the week-end forces closing in on
Sevastopol were disposed round the
heights of that embattled town. The
curious silence of German artillery
here, commented on earlier, was ex-
plained when it became apparent
that Moscow correspondents had, as
usual, raced ahead of actuality in
their descriptions of the Russian ad-
vance. When the besiegers came within
range of the guns of the town the enemy
opened a heavy artillery fire, at the same
time apparently continuing to evacuate
troops and stores, Moscow announced
the sinking of over 30,000 tons of enemy
sea transports and large numbers of
enemy transport aircraft.
Sevastopol is a strong position with
limited approaches. The Germans did
not succeed in capturing it in 1942 until
they had broken its fortifications with
their heaviest railway siege guns and
mortars.
In brief :
In a running fight in the English Channel
the Canadian destroyers Haida and Athabascan
chased two heavy German destroyers of the
EJbing class from the neighborhood of Ushant.
One enemy destroyer was run ashore and left
on fire and Athabascan was sunk. Haida,
which had no casualties, picked up some sur-
vivors; others were seen to have been taken
prisoner. One E-boat was lost in combat with
a superior enemy force earlier in the week.
* ♦ * ♦
H.M.A.S. Norman, one of the five “N” class
destroyers handed by the Admiralty to the
R.A.N. early in the war, is in a home port
after world-wide adventures which included
the convoying of the British Trade Mission to
Moscow in 1941, convoys for the feeding of
Malta —the ship was in the great “converging
convoy battle” in which Nestor was lost—and
service with the Eastern Fleet under Sir James
Somerville, with participation in the attack pre-
ceding the landings on Madagascar. Norman
is commanded by Commander H. J. Buchanan,
D. 5.0., of South Yarra, who captained H.M.
destroyer Valentine, and was forced to beach
his ship in the hotly-fought air-naval action at
Flushing just before the Dunkirk evacuation.
* * * ♦
Land fighting in Italy has for the most part
been restricted to patrol actions, but on April
30 Algiers Radio reported a heavy Allied
thrust against the Cisterna section of the Ger-
man perimeter. The beachhead suffered violent
air attacks during the last week in April, but
few enemy aircraft got through. Earlier in the
week it had been officially announced by
H.Q. that some of the Allied bridgehead posi-
tions at Anzio had been improved.
* * * *
U.S. forces in the mid-Pacific have occupied
Ujelang, an atoll only 580 miles e.-n.-e. of
Truk, bombing of which continues.


m
■m:
"
WOO
ii
mm*
IN THE “OUTBACK
It’s a good life outback. Happy, clean and free. BUT—
there’s one great drawback . . . lack of modem sanitation.
Overcome this by installing a HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
This completely self-contained sanitary system requires NO WATER
SUPPLY. It runs continuously. Emptying and other embarrassing tasks
are eliminated. Sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile
solution that drains away into the soil. . . dangerous germs .. . unpleas-
ant odors .. . flies .. . all are banished completely. Gives the country one
of the main conveniences of city life. Thousands in use in homes, offices,
military hospitals, etc., throughout Australia. Any handyman can instal.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
—FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON
HYGEIA SANITARY 00, PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge St., SYDNEY, ’Phone 81052.
Kindly forward me free illustrated
pamphlet on the Hygeia Dissolvenator.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.4.44.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
JUST PUBLISHED
LIVING OFF THE LAND
A MANUAL OF BUSHCRAFT
Compiled from articles contributed to ‘ Salt, the Army Education Journal
This is a book for which every soldier and airman and thousands of other
Australians have been waiting.
A manual of practical bushcraft, “Living off the Land te s you w
do if you are bushed ; how to find food and water, how P
game ; how to cook ; how to avoid danger and hards ip. « v
It is full of bush lore and fascinating facts contributed by men who really
have lived “off the land.” 160 pages, illustrated.
Published in Aid of the Legacy Club of Australia.
Price 2/6, posted 2/7%.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS OR
Robertson & Mullens, Limited
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney racegoers continue to bet more
heavily on the totalisator. The turnover
at Canterbury on Saturday was £55,224,
nearly £9OOO more than the previous best.
No attendance figures were released, but
the course was uncomfortably crowded.
Racing only for the second time since
his trainer, J. A. Scully, renewed his
lease for a year, Soho won a £664 prize
in the Bankstown Handicap. Soho had
run badly at Rosehill a week earlier, but
the springy going at Canterbury suited
him better. Soho has splints on the in-
side of both forelegs and it hurts him to
gallop on a firm track. Stretching out
more freely than usual, Soho was not far
from the leaders at the turn and raced
to the front nearly a furlong from home.
John Halifax (second) and Grand Pro-
dige (third) each had his chance in the
straight, although some excuse was pos-
sible for Grand Prodige, who sidled
down the barrier at the start and lost a
little ground. Expected to lead, Young
Valais was hard ridden to hold even
fourth place early. He made a dash at
the leger and finished sixth. Of the un-
placed horses, he may be the best to fol-
low; especially on a soft track.
Figures pointed to Goose Boy in the
Canterbury Handicap when a 71b. allow-
ance was claimed for him. He carried
only 3lb. more than his winning weight
in the Doncaster and was opposed only
by suburban stayers. Munro, on Chat-
ham’s Choice, tried to steal the race by
slowing down in front, but Goose Boy
ran to him on the bend and quickly had
him beaten. Cordale made a sharp dash
at the leger, but his run ended quickly
and Goose Boy beat him by three lengths,
with Chatham’s Choice third. Wellesley,
favorite until deposed by Goose Boy in
the last few minutes of betting, could not
handle the track. Thompson was driv-
ing him hard at the five furlongs, but
Wellesley seemed to sprawl at the turns
and was off balance most of the way.
Bookmakers gave nothing away on the
first Highweight division. On their prices
a few minutes before starting time they
had £lO4 to pay out £lOO on five horses,
with 12 others running for them. Their
answer was that the three favorites filled
the places, but these days of amazing
surprises the Ring always has the chance
of a turn-up and punters rightly might
expect a little more generosity. The
winner, Hauteur, was only moderately
placed early but moved up smartly on the
bend and finished too well for Nobleman.
Nobleman had gained a-fair lead at the
furlong, but he was racing for only the
second time in four months and his con-
dition gave out. Anchored by his lOst.
41b., Bruce Wood (third) began slowly
and then had to thread his way through
a lot of inexperienced horses.
Only lightly-built, Valoroi was helped
by an apprentice’s allowance to win the
second High weight from Chinook and
the fast-finishing favorite, Kimbell.
Always well placed, Valoroi finished
solidly, but he probably would have been
caught and beaten by Kimbell in another
50 yards. Recent racing at a mile had
taken the edge from Kimbell’s brilliance,
and he was conceding a dozen lengths
from the half-mile. Owned by D. U.
Seaton, Valoroi was leased to Randwick
trainer F. Dalton, who passed him on to
P. H. Cripps, for whom Dalton previ-
ously had wop races with Edigram.
Glendower, favorite at 5 to 2, might
have won the Ashbury Handicap in any
circumstances, but he was helped by a
remarkable rails run from the half-mile.
Thompson, his rider, is one of the few
Sydney jockeys who realise the ground
to be saved by sticking to the fence.
Sometimes a race is lost because the rails
horse is hopelessly pocketed, but most
times the opening is there at some stage
before the finish, if both horse and
jockey are nippy enough to take advan-
tage. Babillard, who finished second,
stayed better than in former races, and
he might win a middle-distance handicap
during the winter. Nightbeam, appar-
ently unable to handle the turns, came
from last to fourth. A horse of moods,
he will be hard to beat on a bigger track
on his day.
Bon Terre, too, won the Trial Stakes by
taking the short route. Bon Terre now
goes into open company, but apy horse
who can win with 9st. 31b. in restricted
class usually can hold his own among
suburban stayers. The winner was bought
for £4O with a view to running over
hurdles on Melbourne tracks, but travel-
ling arrangements could not be made for
him. White Feather (second) covered a
lot of extra ground on the outside, but
he has had many chances and apparently
is good enough only to run into a place.
Flying Step raced greenly in the
straight, but won the Campsie Handicap
comfortably from the favorite, Marl-
borough, and Courier. The winner
appeared to have forfeited his chance
when he veered out at the furlong, but
he straightened quickly and finished like
a promising stayer. By Flight’s sire,
Royal Step, from Merridong, a sister to
the A.J.C, Derby winner Theo, Flying
Step was passed in at the 1943 yearling
sales and is raced by his breeder, C. H.
J. Schmidt. Marlborough had every
chance, but Courier may have troubled
Flying Step had he escaped interference
at the three furlongs. A long-strider.
Courier was thrown off balance and was
too far back at the straight entrance to
have a winning chance.
* * * ♦
Frill King, an unsound six-year-old
gelding who was thought to have broken
down hopelessly about six months ago,
outstayed Temple Chief in the Brook-
side Handicap, two miles, at Flemington
on Saturday., It was his first win for over
two years, but between times he had fin-
ished third in Taramoa’s Australian Cup.
Frill King is owned by L. O. Menck,
who won the 1942 Melbourne Cup with
Colonus, but had to wait until Mentone
last Saturday week for his next success.
Sir Locket shaped fairly in third place,
but Phocion, favorite, ’'■was never dan-
gerous.
Millais, bought for 1400gns. before his
Oakleigh Plate win last year, followed up
his Moonee Valley success by justifying
a substantial plunge for the Fentona Han-
dicap. In defeating Orcadian and Home
James he completed a double for trainer
R. Shaw, who had won the Comforts
Fund Hurdle with Cape Hero. Though
racing over jumps for the first time, Cape
Hero had schooled well, and was backed
at 20 to 1 and 15 to 1. He defeated his
former stable-mate Gold Watch, looks
the part of a good hurdler, is useful on
the flat and is to be prepared for the
Grand National Hurdle.
Winterset, one of the most brilliant
fencers seen in Melbourne for years,
crashed after landing over the second
jump in the Red Cross Steeplechase. He
was racing for the first time since he
was injured at Flemington last June.
Though he was apparently unharmed on
Saturday, the spill might affect his con-
fidence. Caragona, a gift horse, proved
that his Moonee Valley win at his pre-
vious start was no fluke. He ran to the
front seven furlongs from home and won
easily from Parentena and Winterset’s
stable-mate Highland March. C. Ander-
son, 7st. 71b. rider of Caragona, has re-
corded two wins from his three mounts
in jumping races.
* * * *
Jack Higgins, formerly chairman of
stipendiary stewards in Sydney, now does
the starting for the Calcutta Turf Club at
all non-holiday meetings. In a letter to
“Pilot” (still in hospital, but doing a
little better when this was written)
he explained that the usual official
is a key man in industry, and is
available for race-starting only on holi-
days. “I find starting very interesting
and not nearly as difficult as some would
have us believe,” writes Mr. Higgins, He
adds that Indian-bred racing has come to
stay. Since 1941 the Western Indian Turf
Club has held two-year-old sales on
behalf of Indian studmasters, and at the
1944 sales 175 lots averaged 17,800
rupees (£A1668). However, only 35 per
cent, of the horses he saw at two sales
ever would see a racecourse, predicted
Mr. Higgins. Not many English and Aus-
tralian horses are left in India, and the
majority of them are getting old and of
poor class. Some studs are breeding a
fair class of Indian horse, but the two
best, a colt and a filly, are about 281 b.
lower than the best handicap form.
* * Hs *
Probably through reduced opportuni-
ties of practice, the riding standard in
Sydney has seldom been lower. The
older riders are taking no risks, and,
though one or two apprentices show
promise, the majority are missing the ex-
perience which, before the war, they
gained at Tuesday and Wednesday meet-
ings. Particularly is the riding weakness
apparent when racing is resumed on a
suburban track after a long absence.
Jockeys seem unable to accustom them-
selves to the strange conditions; at Can-
terbury on Saturday several forgot the
long, slightly rising straight and tried to
win at the home turn.
* * , * *
Syndicated ownership, especially of
stallions, is increasing in England. Instead
of allowing the horse to go abroad. Sir
John Jarvis has decided to sell Admiral’s
Walk (second to Blue Peter in the Two
Thousand Guineas in 1939) to a syndicate
of 40 members at £5OO each. Illustrating
the rise in thoroughbred values in Eng-
land, 2500 guineas was offered recently
for a share in Nearco. Price tff the
shares, when the syndicate was formed
last year, was £1550.
* * * *
Looking back over a long period, it
is surprising how few men who were
specially prominent as riders made first-
class trainers. There were some marked
exceptions, of course; but though many
jockeys—leading men in their day—were
given excellent opportunities as trainers,
the skill and quick thinking which
enabled them to shine in races did not
possess the necessary depth when applied
to the preparation of horses for others to
ride. It is possible to recall capable
jockeys whose intelligence came to light
when they got on a horse and seemingly
ceased almost as soon as they got off,
but there were others who appeared cer-
tain to make a success of training and
yet did not fulfil expectations. However,
Australia has no monopoly in that
respect.
* * *
We do not hear so much about doping
as in the past, but, according to people
who should know, it has not entirely
ceased. There may be something in it,
as the occasional rapid improvement in
horses between one race and another is
hard to follow.
Miscellaneous
Using a powder-laden left, Tommy
Colteaux often staggered Cliff Bowen at
Leichhardt and felled him for “nine”
in the tenth, for “eight” in the 11th and
again five seconds before the bell sounded
the end of that round. The only rounds
Bowen won were those in which Colteaux
was obviously resting. Nevertheless
Bowen received the very bad decision.
An eleventh-hour substitute and in poor
shape, Cec Hodges, of the R.A.A.F.,
showed pluck and some skill against Jack
McNamee at Sydney Stadium. With
snappy straight lefts to the face, he scored
many points. When tiring fast in the
fourth, Hodges was settled by a short left
to the chin which knocked him halfway
through the ropes.
* * * *
Manly and East, first and second in last
year’s Sydney Rugby Union competition,
clashed on Saturday. Down 12-5 at the
interval, the Villagers showed their true
form in the second half, whereas East, a
man short (sent off), wilted; Manly won
27-12. Randwick scored five tries to one
to beat Drummoyne, 19-8 ; but University
just scraped home from St. George, 9-6.
Randwick and Uni. are the only teams
unconquered. Other games: West 8, Par-
ramatta, 6 ; North 22, Gordon 11.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
Trial Stakes: Chief Man, 1 ; Sir
Francis, 2 ; Wee Laddie, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Victrix, 1 ;
Platonic, 2 ; Good Idea, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Clarion Call, 1; Young Valais,
2 ; Aquatic, 3,
Brighton Handicap: Chinook, 1 ;
Boorchief, 2 ; Beauhead, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Haripur,
1; Gryphon, 2 ; Chatham’s! Choice,
3.
San Souci Welter Handicap:
Nobleman, 1 ; Steadfast, 2; Cradle
Song, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Even the flower beds are doing their
bit towards victory. The chrysanthemum
took the stage last week, and put on a
brilliant show in David Jones’s audi-
torium. The Australian Comforts Fund
benefited, and half an hour before
Lady Wakehurst gave vice-regal send-off
there were eager crowds of flower-lovers
bending over the displays. Watching
them, it seemed they moved as slowly as
the pieces in a game of chess. These
were no casual observers flitting from
bloom to bloom with a careless “very
pretty.” They were students of form
and knew to the curl of a petal what was
of direct descent or where there were
traces of a royal divorce.
The big act of the opening ceremony
was the choosing by Lady Wakehurst of
an as-yet-unnamed bloom which would
henceforward bear her name. Her choice
fell on a ducal beauty, red waving petals
surrounding a centre of curled beige gold.
It suggested a guardsman’s plume in
some exotic fairy tale. The Governor’s
wife in her speech did not forget to tell
that the astringent bloom had been culti-
vated in China decades before Nippon’s
thoughts had turned to culture. In the
official group were Mayor and Mayoress
Bartley, the president of the Horticul-
tural Society and importants of the
newly-formed Chrysanthemum Society.
Later on there was a tea party for the
vice-regal group.
While his wife was launching the
chrysanthemums, Lord Wakehurst was
making thoughtful speech in the National
Gallery, where paintings, drawings and
sculpture by Australian official war artists
were being introduced to the public gaze.
These are intended for the War Museum
in Canberra, and the Federal Capital
arranged the opening and issued the invi-
tations. There was a fair crowd, but not
the numbers worthy the occasion. Cap-
tain McEacharn and his wife, great
patrons of Australian art, were there, and
Gallery Director Will Ashton and Mrs.
Ashton practically held levee. It was the
kindly and capable director’s last appear-
ance in his official capacity.
Striking pieces of color on the dais
were Australia’s flag and the Union Jack.
Immediately behind the speakers, and
facing the length of the gallery, was Ivor
Hele’s large canvas of Tobruk. In front
of them was Lyndon Dadswell’s sculped
head of an Australian soldier. There is
grim irony in the contrast between the
vivid gentle scene and the subject of the
Herbert water-color, “Camouflaged Artil-
lery.” Swift and terrible movement is
in Roy Hodgkinson’s “Kittyhawks and
Zeros in Aerial Combat.” In short, on
the walls of the sedate gallery of the
sylvan surroundings are set out the grim
engines of war, cruiser, fighter, bomber,
artillery, and that most sublime engine of
all, the soldier.
The Wrans had their third birth-
day last week. There are now 2000 of
them in contrast with the 14 wireless tele-
graphists that was their strength in April,
1941. These girls are writers and coders
and can signal in every way known to
the service. In addition many of them
are doing a first-rate job as cooks, house-
keepers and stewardesses. In every pos-
sible way these intrepids are making them-
selves proficient in jobs that will release
more and more men for active duties.
The big social flutter of the week will
be the concert at Government House to-
morrow night. Four hundred cards at
one guinea each were sold hot off the
press. The Travellers’ Aid Society will
get the loot, as Lady Wakehurst, who has
this one of her pet causes, is
anxious for the hostel, close to Central,
to be made a place of rest and refresh-
ment for the weary traveller. The G.H,
ballroom and drawing-room are being
turned into one big concert room. The
stage will be in the middle, and it is ex-
pected that there will be no crush at all.
Eileen Ralph, Thomas Matthews and
Claire Simpson will be the instrumental-
ists. The question that is now furrowing
the brow is. Will a rationed larder allow
of coffee and sandwiches to follow? Even
if supper is off, the Wakehurst tradition
for hospitality will suffer no eclipse.
Every woman knows these times that
vice-regal coupons buy no more meat or
butter than her own, and that the Gov-
ernment House milkjug is equally
rationed.
First of the few who worked for long
towards the founding of Sydney’s Sym-
phony Orchestra was Mrs. Walter Swin-
son, of Killara. As far back as the
early days of the Conservatorium, when
Henri Verbrugghen had his £5OOO-a-year
offer from the Minneapolis Orchestra,
Mrs, Swinson, called on by the then
Governor’s wife, Lady Davidson, worked
on a P ro i ect Ikeep 1 keep the gifted conductor
JIJ n ':/'. pbe ‘ e was ’ aas ■ no
then back: such a "i undertaking. How-
ever, Mrs, Sw.nson, herself a pianist wtth
a T ond ° n and reputation,
with.others musically minded kept en-
‘husiasm for orchestral expression alive,
“ d a * la “ Sydney launched its Sym-
phony Orchestra. I s success and popu-
mcrease Xf rl \ Now there are
>852 names on its subscription list, and
the . com . mi ‘ tee , ls abou ‘ f est ? bb f h , a
o£ at co ? certs <° „f nfold ‘ he
Qancys of the overflow. Melbourne has
had to do this for some time,
The celebrated conductor Dr. Ormandy,
who 18 comin S to Australia under con :
tract to the A.8.C., was one of Henri
Verbruaehen’s assistants with the Min-
neaDolif 8 Orchestra and after Henri’s
fLiT S
Sydney’s St. Andrei’s Cathedral on the
w i/ws/vm «.;u
shrine a memorial service for the victims
of the sinking off the Queensland coast
on exac „ tl) b same da ? e a y£ar ago D f
*e Australian hospital ship Centaur.
After the service, conducted by Bishop
survivors and others will march
to the ’ Cenotaph. It will be the first
anniversary service of its kind’ in Aus-
tralia and should serve, among other
things, to keep this nation in mind of
how s c ose tho P nera y was twelve months
J
Vera Bradford, who gave her second
Sydney recital last Saturday in the Con-
se y rvat y rium> is one of Melbourne’s star
pj an j s t s She was for some years in the
F J
U.S.A., where she played with various
famed orchestras and made many
recordings. She found Chicago, where
she spent happy, studious days learning
the Alexander Raab weight technique, a
place cif charm, and gives a vivid im-
pression of the beauty of the boulevard
that runs along the shores of the impos-
ing Lake Michigan. Vera, in white, sit-
ting at her piano, made a pleasing pic-
ture. Her music was characterised by
power and a crystal clarity of tone.
The Stud Cattle Fair at Pyrmont last
Saturday brought fine exhibits and their
owners from the great open spaces to
the city. The Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Co.’s wool stores were the show
place, and women, very knowledgeable
and efficient, as well as men, took active
part in displaying the points of Short-
horn, Hereford or Aberdeen Angus. In
fact, the show proved what has been
known for a long time, that the country
women are doing a strenuous job in keep-
ing things going in spite of the almost-
absence of man-power. This is the third
of these shows held during the war, and it
does something to replace the old loved
R.A.S. of pre-war days. Ringside seats
on bales of wool were popular. From
Yass came Mrs. Castle-Roche and
daughter Lorna. The Bruce Walkers, of
Narromine, with baby son Dougal, the
Tony Horderns, the Tom Kellys, the R.
N. McCaugheys, Mrs. G. M. Faithfull
and Pamela from Goulbum, and the
Arthur Cobcrofts were among country
visitors. Catherine Carey, of Wingham,
was an attractive exhibitor. N
Scots College is anxious to keep five
stars on its gate. Each star represents
the support of a prisoner of war, and
for two years the college has done what
it can to make the lot of five p.o.w. a
happier one. This costs £260 a year.
Last Saturday in the Masonic Kali,
Double Bay, the women’s committee held
a market day for this cause, allied to that
of the college bursary fund.
Recently hockey girls in Sydney were
very touched to receive a gift of fifty
dollars towards the Mrs. F. J. Davy
Memorial the association has founded at
the Rachel Forster Hospital. Just before
Japs put a temporary end to the hockey-
sticks-across-the-sea sentiment, a team of
jolly U.S. girls came over to try their skill
against our girl players. It was the last
tour the bright-faced but already doomed
secretary-for-love Mrs. Davy organised.
The gift was a mark of the affection with
which she had inspired the visitors.
From Melbourne
The family that loses Cousin Emily in
the crowds that throng this great city can
be pretty sure that the wanderer has
made her way to the wool counter of one
of the department stores and is waiting
her turn. Knitting wool, as a cold winter
seems indicated, is in tremendous de-
mand, and knitted garments are in favor
both for warmth and for getting-the-most-
out-of-coupons qualities. It seems likely
that long knitted socks in bright colors
will accompany many tweeds this winter.
A birthday that will pass quietly but
deserves quite a bit of talking about is
that of the Red Cross Variety Shop in
Collins-street. The shop’s war-time tak-
ings to date, all of which have gone to
the Red Cross and p.o.w. funds, total over
£30,000. Organisers hadn’t any idea of
the business they were going to do when
the shop started, having modest hopes
of a few pounds a week. The unexpected
success is attributed to the great gener-
osity of the public, as gifts (some very
lovely, others very useful) of saleable
articles have arrived in an endless stream.
“Give a birthday present to the Red
Cross Shop” is going to be the shop’s
slogan in the next few weeks, as trade
keeps pace with gifts and the shop is in
very real need of fresh stock. Offerings
needn’t be valuable; indeed, pieces of
junk jewellery that may have cost the
donor a few shillings in time past are
most readily saleable and will bring in
many times their purchase price now that
such stuff is very popular and hard to
come by. Baby clothes are another popu-
lar line. The shop’s committee urges
everyone to have just one more look in
drawers and cupboards for things that
might mean a few more shillings for Red
Cross funds.
Evelyn Van Norman, whose photo-
graph adorns this paragraph, is a painter
who has been showing at the Athenaeum
Gallery pictures illustrative of the many
spots she’s sojourned in abroad. Her
style is eye-catching in its clever use of
color; and, as much of her time was spent
in Spain, gay-eyed and bright-robed
senoritas look out of several frames and
there is Moorish architecture in some
of her landscapes. Though the lady is a
Canadian by birth there’s nothing of her
homeland in the show, as travelling has
been her lot since quite early youth. She
was in Europe in September, 1939, and
had to make a quick escape.
Eltham War Service Committee, which
sends parcels to the district’s service lads,
intends to put op a show of paintings as
a fund-raiser, quite fittingly, as Eltham
for many years has been the home of a
number of painters and is regarded as
a sort of art colony. The pictures are
lan Bow’s, and they will be on exhibition
till May 6 in Eltham Methodist Church
Hall. The show was opened with after-
noon tea.
Concerts have been coming almost as
thick as art shows lately, and it might
have been thought the public had had a
sufficiency of Beethoven, but the Beet-
hoven plebiscite concert filled its hall.
Two small redheads in the midst of a sea
of black, white and grey ones marked
the spot where the Bradley boys, who
come within the 10-to-13 age-group, were
drinking in the liquid notes. Another
pair that caught the eye were Angela
Sturt and escort, a British mission officer,
heroically tall and blonde.
Thea Philips and Mary Keirnan at their
Assembly Hall concert last week pre-
sented an interesting essay in dressing for
the concert platform, both choosing sim-
plicity of line, albeit with many-yarded
grace of skirt. Thea wore black velvet
with pearls, and Mary emphasised her
blondness with baby blue. Joyce Greer,
recently married, was in the audience.
Rae Benjamin struck an effective note at
her concert at the Conservatorium with a
belt of multicolored ribbons, the ends
of which fell to the hem of her black
lace frock.
The small train-bearer of the “Punch”
drawing who described the wedding
ceremony briefly as “then the big doors
opened, grandfather, and there was me
with the train” must have kindred spirits
among St. Paul’s Cathedral’s pigeons.
During the Air Force march through the
city last week flights of bombers wheeled
and purred over the marching line while
crowds underneath cheered lustily. As
the ’planes roared off into the distance two
pigeons came wheeling down from their
eyrie in the Moorhouse tower and dived
and planed gracefully over the crowd
several times.
Wear - more - wool campaigners are
always up against milady’s affection for
furs. A fur coat not only gives a sense
of luxury but is windproof. Now sheep-
skins have come on the feminine market
as coats and jackets, and these should
provide a spot of competition. They can
be made to look like caracal, with the
wool left curly or brushed out to look
like beaver fur.
Sheepskins, too, should appeal to those
tender-hearted animal-lovers who don’t
like wearing the fur of slaughtered
animals. The Dowager Duchess of
Hamilton, leading light of an English
group that cherishes such scruples,
created rather a stir some years back
when she presented daughter-in-law
Prunella Stack, League of Health and
Beauty leader, with an imitation fur coat
as a wedding present.
Furniture departments and stores are
like bran pies these days, most of them
being stocked with reconditioned furni-
ture bought from a variety of sources.
One week the display will be too horribly
“boardinghouse-parlor” style to be sur-
veyed without blenching and next week
may be charming little spindle-backed
chairs and Recamier couches, with an air,
that will gladden the eyes of the searcher
—usually a bride-to-be or her mother.
Now that house or flat space is very con-
fined and entertaining is practically never
formal, the great dining table of yester-
year commands no buyers, but there’s a
brisk trade in the small, round tables at
which grandpa played whist or bezique.
As they’d been friends both in school
and University days, it was lucky that
Dorothy Shain was able to come over
here to act as bridesmaid to Betty Whitby
at her marriage to Pilot-Officer Gilbert
Tucker last week. Dorothy, from Syd-
ney, gave support looking very lovely
in pink lace with feathered pink headgear.
Married in Grammar chapel the day
before was a school friend of both, Helen
Plante, who became Mrs. John Wisdom.
Helen wore a period (1840) gown in white
net and Venetian veil. Sister Enid was
bridesmaid.
News that the Paul Henrys will be leav-
ing Melbourne in the near future has
caused an outbreak of farewelling. A
private party for their personal friends
took place at Government House last
week, and a civic leave-taking has been
arranged by the Lud Mayor.
Just returned to this city are the John
Wallers. John, son of the Scotch College
master, has been on the diplomatic staff
in Chungking and returned with the
Eggleston menage.
Mrs. G. N. Alexander, an American
settled in these parts, who has had con-
siderable experience of teaching musical
appreciation in U.S. schools, holds the
view that the teacher of ordinary school
subjects does a better job of training the
young musically than a fully-qualified
music teacher, probably because the
general teacher enjoys the break from
the usual curriculum that musical sub-
jects give, and also understands the diffi-
culties that face those not accustomed to
the technical terms of the art. Mrs. Alex-
ander is lecturer for the Victorian School
Music Association, and starts a series of
talks this week.
Two women who can tell interesting
tales about hospital life in foreign parts
are Gladys Collins and Betty Larke.
Betty did a lot of Red Cross visiting in
the Middle East and has recently been
in New Guinea. Gladys saw service of
the same sort in Ceylon.
The Brookes lady, who recently re-
turned from Brisbane, has become this
State’s W.A.T.C. Commandant. The
Corps here has had quite a few comman-
dants since its beginning. It was developed
largely by its first commandant, the wife
of Group-Captain J. R. Bell. Mrs. Bell
later joined the W.A.A.A.F., and, is now
one of that service’s higher officers.


BRANDAEJERS
Evert point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBA.HDA.UBK * CO, UK. KIKMIROHAM. KKO
WOLFE’S
<zzmvmdhc
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Speed the Victory BUY VICTORY BONDS
W. 5.166
THE SPUR OF WAR
II did not need tlie spur of war to intensify tliat zeal for research which
is the secret of Philips eminence in the world of electricity, W.
when the spur was felt. Philips redoubled their energies, realising that
the race for victory would go to the swiftest. Nor will their pace abate
when victory has been won, for peace will have its urgencies no less
pronounced than war.
PHILIPS
Lamps * Discharge Lighting • Radio Receivers • Radio
Transmitters • Valves and Thermionic Devices * Medical and
Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment • Lighting Equip-
ment • Radio Parts • Metal Pressings and Stamping •
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Sound Reproduction Installations
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
LIMITED
BRISBANE
y
UV
S
&
Bourn-vita is aiding
his recovery
In many Military Hospitals and Convalescent Homes,
Bourn-vita is assisting the recovery of sick and wounded
men. Made from eggs, full-cream milk, barley malt and
chocolate, Bourn-vita is the perfect food-drink, light and
easily digestible. Moreover, taken at “lights out”, it
induces the natural, healthy sleep so important to con-
valescence. If you are feeing the strain of these exacting
times, you too, should try Bourn-vita. Ask your supplier
to set aside a tin for you when next he receives supplies
of Cadbury’s Bourn-vita.
BOURN-VITA
at bedtime
COURN
VIT
•m idea!.
f COD DRINK
&
m
Mists
'N*s
ICO TO
Nft
iv
8VP205
SMOKE-OH!
“He found his cap and put it on, and then
heard a descending whistle. The whole ship
shook. There was a sharp and penetrating
explosion.” —Short story.
Must’ve put the skipper’s lid on by
mistake.
•F * *
“This toast-rack wouldn’t break if you
dropped it, and it washes and polishes per-
fectly.’ C atalogue.
If over 45 it should fill a long-felt need.
•F *K
“Quadruplets born to wife of parachutist.”
— “Age.”
That made him jumpy.
•F * * *F
“For years he was a Hwo-up’ addict, but now,
if occasionally he fancies a game, he seeks the
advice of his fiancee.” —“Love Stories.”
He rediscovered that two heads are
better than one.
•F *F 4* 4*
“We shall certainly try to get representa-
tives in the Greek Government of those who
are really fighting the enemy. Some seem to
be more busy fighting their own countrymen.
—Winston Churchill.
When Greek meets Greek they start an
insurrection.
•F *F *F
“The Hindu believes it is unlucky to marry
three times.” —Weekly paper.
A wise man of the East.
“And the brighter the colors you choose for
the blouse the more in fashion you will be.
—Woman s mag.
But the shorter its skirt the higher its
attraction.
4* 4* i* 4* „
“Biscuits are fiddling things to make.
—“New Idea.
And civilians have to pull a few strings
to get them when they’re made.
Impossibility.
You may be handy, mister, in the house
or in the flat;
A sort of trousered parlormaid and
laundryman in one.
You may be smart at stringing beans or
clarifying fat;
At sweeping floors you may with
science any woman stun.
In fact, you may be better than your
wife with mop and broom *
In culinary matters you may know
what that or this is.
Yet though you dust superbly and can
rearrange a room.
I’ll bet a quid you can’t replace a mat
to suit the missus.
P. O. M. C.
Retaliation.
“Witness alleged that when the police raided
the residential nude girls were running up and
down the stairs ."—Court-case report.
A shocking sight! In singles and in pairs
A lot of nudes ran up and down the
stairs * -
And, though it’s just surmise, the thought
intrudes:
A lot of stares ran up and down the
BRIAN BUREAU.
Misunderstanding.
“Yesterday afternoon,” said the Profes-
sor suddenly, “Mrs. Crump had a bath
in her front garden.”
Mrs. Crump is a middle-aged lady of
respectable and unoriginal habits, so this
statement caused some commotion.
“Was there much of a crowd?” asked
Hercules Smith. '
“Film rights by Cinesound,” com-
mented his sister Semolina, with a cryptic
sneer
“Cleanliness is next to godliness,” the
Bishop remarked sententiously.
The Professor made an impatient ges-
ture. “When I say she had a bath
in her front garden,” he said carefully,
“I mean she had a bath there in the same
sense as, for instance, she might have a
dog, a lawnmower, a wheelbarrow or per-
haps even a small tent there.”
“Doesn’t leave much room to dry your-
self,” Semolina pointed out. “Even if
you were inside the tent.”
“You mean she took a bath in her
front garden?” said Cy rus Hamburger,
who was spending two hours’ leave with
us. , _
“No, I said she had a bath,” the Pro-
fessor repeated. “Why she had it there
I don’t know. Perhaps she wanted to let
her friends know that she had a bath.
That is to say, that she did, in fact, pos-
sess a bath.”
“You mean,” I put in, “that there was
a bath on Mrs. Crump’s front lawn?”
“I know,” lisped little Japonica. “I
watched the men taking it out of the fur-
niture van.”
“It is quite impossible to lisp that sen-
tence, Japonica,” the Professor began.
PLUM.
Vicious Circle.
“Artificial Teeth Bought.”
—Placard in secondhand shop.
In order to eat he first bought them —
A set of false teeth, new and neat;
Then, later, to Buyall’s he brought them.
And sold them —in order to eat.
F. M.
Nightmare in Celluloid.
“The term .‘horror film’ is too loosely applied
by those carping critics who want to ban
everything exciting. We all have our own
opinions about it. Anyway, what does consti-
tute a ‘horror film’?”
—Sydney daily correspondent.
It starts off with the Autry, ridin’,
singin’ through the pampas, and then
it works around to co-eds giggling on
the campus. The football team comes
on the grid, the coach is hopping mad ;
the star has failed to turn up and, by
gahsh, the outlook’s sad. But here! He’s
rushing on at last, in time to save the
game! He nearly fell for all that poison
chatter by the dame.
The cahlege swing band does its worst.
It’s heard, of course, by—why, sir, now
need you ask?—that super boogie-
woogian Kay Kyser! Then Bennie
Goodman and his band come on, then
Artie Shaw ; and, as the fiends who make
the film don’t think that deal is raw
enough for fans, they push on Harry
James, whose operation upon his cornet
kills all circumambient vegetation.
A wealthy radio-session sponsor must,
of course, by chance, be present when
the cahlege band is groovin’ at a dance
(this lets the co-ed hep-cats in to do a
jive routine; the horror of this last can
be believed before it’s seen). The wealthy
r.-s. sponsor snaps the band up with his
dough, but, heck! the cahlege head, a
nark, he goes and kills the show!
But, say, you kain’t beat boys and goils
who yell “Phi Beta Kappa!” The mar-
celled baton-waVer’s got ideas in his
nappa. So who should come to light, to
give the eardrums further blisters, but
that triumvirate of croon and blue and
torch the Andrews Sisters! Cab Callo-
way strikes up his noise, the Inkspots then
all plunge in. The cahlege head by
this is overwhelmed, and chucks the
sponge in.
The horror’s “climaxed with a duo
setting up a howell. You’ve guessed it,
brother. Listen! Frank Sinatra and
Dick Powell!
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
SOME Remember
Why must the hero of some outstand-
ing military feat be denied a decoration
on the ground that death intervened? I
am told that only two awards may be
given posthumously.
To quote one of many cases in point,
an A.I.F. infantryman in Syria was the
only one left able to walk of a posse of
seven. He collected his wounded mates
in an old irrigation ditch. On ai scorch-
ing day he crawled out, at intervals, under
fire, to bring his mates the water they
:raved, in a tobacco-tin lid. 1 his man
was taken prisoner by the Vichy French,
was released by the British victory in
Syria and was later a sergeant in the
front line of the Owen Stanley push.
Whilst there, he rescued his wounded
Dfficer, plunging into an inferno of fire
and bringing him out. He had to be
forcibly restrained from returning to
attempt the rescue of a fallen sergeant.
Letters from officers and mates contain
Dther incidents to prove a record of un-
blemished courage and devotion to duty.
Three times he led his men on danger-
ous attacks when superior officers fell.
He was personally congratulated by his
O.C. and recommended for a decoration.
Three weeks afterwards he died of
wounds.
Two of his officers and “all who are
left of his company” put in the leading
Queensland papers, on the anniversary of
his death, the finest tribute to a com-
rade I have yet seen. Yet his memory has
received no official award or recognition.
And no doubt he is but one of thousands
in like case. — Inquirer (Q.).
R.A.A.F. Census
A census carried out recently by the
R.A.A.F. and W.A.A.A.F.. aims at long-
range analysis of post-war needs.
The avowed policy of demobilisation
includes return of personnel to pre-war
vocations or replacement in other posi-
tions. Government intention is that ser-
vice men and women will be returned to
civilian life only when they can resume
employment. The “preference to sol-
diers” controversy showed some of the
complications arising from this scheme.
At present thousands of youths are
occupying positions vacated through en-
listments. They are a major concern of
the Government. How does it propose
to undertake their rehabilitation? They,
as well as members of the forces, will find
the post-war years unsettling. The muni-
tion factories, the army of young women
now working—what is to become of
them?
These matters need much forethought
and intense study by the people’s elected
Ministers. Is a Government whose mem-
bers spend much of their time fighting
for publicity, criticising and carping and
generally behaving like a crowd of ill-
mannered children competent to do these
things?
We think they are because we elected
them? Let us hope that these gentlemen
feel the confidence in themselves that the
nation expects.— Vion (R.A.A.F.).
After the War
Significantly all this gush about a
“new order” fails to take into account
that anything worth while must be worked
for. After this war two courses will be
open to us:
(1) To work hard and suffer further
privations for a fairly long period in
order that we can honestly pay our debts
and maintain our national honor, already
high, thanks to those who fought to put
it there.
(2) To accelerate our pace along
the easy and alas! already partially tra-
velled road to socialism by repudiation.
This would mean repudiation of indivi-
dual as well as national debts—for how
can there be equality when one owes an-
other something?—extermination of am-
bition and a complete lack of the free-
dom that is so craved for. — Edward W.
Cowen (Q.).
War Loans a~ J Security
To persuade d nary man to put
his money inti Tory Loan more
emphasis shou d on the safety
of the investmi ;als to patriotism
to a great exte their own object,
as they imply 1 sacrifice is being
made by the subscriber, which is not
necessarily the case.
Patriotic people need no persuading ;
what is needed is to get subscriptions
from the large number of people who
have money saved but won’t put it into
the loan because they are afraid they
won’t get it back.
Recently I was asked whether I thought
the loans would ever be paid back. On
my replying that I not only thought so,
but was as certain of it as I was that the
sun would rise next morning, the man
said “Well, I have kissed good-bye to
all the money I have put into them.” And
this man is not a fool —or if he is there
are plenty more like him.
It should be explained by speakers that
the loans must be met on their due dates.
Any failure to do so would cause such
a financial earthquake that values of
everything would crash. If the war loans
are not safe nothing is.
Even our pound notes, which are re-
garded as cash, are only promises to pay,
made by the Government that prom-
ises to repay the war loans. Deposits in
the savings banks are also secured by
Government guarantee, and by nothing
else. Yet a lot of people seem to think
their money is safer there than in the
loans. How can it be? The security is
the same —the ability of the Government
to tax and to borrow. —F. J. W. (N.S.W.).
“An' I say it's Anna Philomena Morgan."
Public or Private Enterprise?
The advocates of Government enter-
prise assume that there can be no plan-
ning under the method of free private
enterprise. But there is keen planning
in all private business, and, if loss results,
it falls on the individual or co. and not
on the State. The individual cannot
prosper unless rendering some service to
the community. The difference is a
method of individual and decentralised
planning, as against centralised planning,
and surely past experience shows which
is preferable.
As an instance of Commonwealth Gov-
ernment enterprise, Federal “Hansard”
(10/2/’44) gives the following informa-
tion : —•
The cost of erecting and equipping Hotels
Kurrajong and Ainslie and Gorman House,
all conducted at Canberra as guest-houses,
was £207,312, and accumulated loss on
operations, including interest and depre-
ciation charges of each establishment from
1925 to 30/6/’43, is: Hotel Kurrajong,
£117,306; Hotel Ainslie, £19,080; Gorman
House, £65,311 —a total of £201,697.
This is a business which is generally
profitable in private hands, yet the Fed-
eral Government has run up huge losses.
Under Government enterprise, if pro-
duction is carried on at a loss those en-
gaged therein know that the taxpayer will
have to foot the bill, so there is not the
incentive to maintain efficiency and to
avoid losses.
Recurring booms and slumps are no
argument against a system of private
enterprise any more than good or bad
seasons are, nor is there any guarantee
that there would be a state of perfect
stability under a scheme of Government
control. —P. E. (W.A.).
That Centralian Canal
Supposing it were possible (B. 12/4/’44)
to flood Lake Eyre with sea-water (at a
cost of £lO million) by a canal from
Spencer’s Gulf without danger of it salt-
ing up in a few years, what good would
it do Central Australia? There is no
scientific evidence that the evaporation
would be returned in the form of rain
anywhere near Lake Eyre. On the con-
trary, throughout the world there are
large areas of country adjacent to the
sea which get less than lOin. annual rain-
fall.
In Australia a portion of Nullarbor
Plain at the head of the Bight and a
stretch of coast adjacent to Shark Bay
in W.A. come into this category. In
America, there are Lower California (a
thin finger almost surrounded by sea-
water) and half the west coast of South
America. There are hundreds of miles
of the bulge of Africa, and nearly all of
the north coast on the shores of the
Mediterranean, the greatest “lake” in the
world. There is almost all of Arabia,
surrounded on three sides by sea, and
there is a huge tract in Russia from the
Caspian to well past the Aral Sea—an
almost exact parallel to the Centralian
scheme except that (he Caspian is two or
three times as big as Lake Torrens and
Eyre, including its low-lying shores, put
together.—R. A. J. (S.A.).
Mechanised Farming
“Enveen” (B. 12/4/’44) hits the point
when he talks about mechanisation of
the farm in Tasmania. It’s a long
time overdue, although a property-owner
in northern Tassie who came from
Queensland introduced some machinery
and methods that have proved eye-open-
ing to the conservatives.
There’s a great deal of country (some
of it once thriving dairy land), heavily
loaded with bracken-fern, awaiting the
touch of mechanisation.
In the early days labor was cheap-
one hadn’t to bother much about provid-
ing fancy rations, and 20 ticket-o’-leave
men would be expected to sleep in a
room that a modern health inspector
would condemn if it had four occupants.
No need for mechanisation then.
Even now there are farm laborers
(with, a family) getting eight bob a day,
for the days when it doesn’t rain—but
the number is dwindling, as some of the
wealthy landowners mournfully com-
plain. The writing is on the wall. —
Bracken (Tas.).
The crux of the fodder-shortage prob-
lem is high costs of production and stor-
age waste. My experience with ineffi-
cient war-time labor at the present har-
vesting award is that it costs £4 per ton
to get hay into the stacks. Mice and rats
cause rapid deterioration, and by the
time one is ready to press and market it
the hay is worth only £6 10s. to £7 10s.
in Sydney. As pressing, carting, freight
and selling charges run to £3 there is no
profit left.
We have reached a stage where each
small farm having a full kit of farming
machinery has become uneconomic. To
cut time and labor costs small farmers
will need to replace two-furrow ploughs
with seven- to ten-furrow implements ;
to use 12ft. or 14ft. combines instead of
Bft. cultivators followed by Bft. drills.
For harvesting they will need pick-up
balers; the latest model, worked by two
men, is a labor-saving dream. It cuts
and presses the hay ready for market in
one operation, and costs of stocking,
loading and stacking are avoided.
Farms would need to have at least
1200 acres of cultivation to warrant such
big machinery. Eighty per cent, of our
farms are small, and in many places one
big plant would be able to work up to
ten farms, especially where graziers grow
fodder for their own use. It would be
worth while ascertaining whether it would
pay one man in each small-farm village to
own all the machinery instead of having
a farm. He would need to be a mechani-
cal expert, and would hire his machines
and services. Such a scheme would be
preferable to collective-farm notions.
Farmers wish to be independent and free
oLGovernment interference and doles in
the form of subsidies. —Graz (N.S.W.).
Houses for Australia
“One of Ten” (B. 12/4/’44) advocates
early marriages as a solution to our popu-
lation problem, but before more early
marriages can be contemplated the hous-
ing shortage must be overcome. There
are many cases where married couples
would be willing to have children if good
houses could be found. Mothers don’t
want their children growing up in flats
or small dwellings,
F. Barnett, in “The Housing Problem”:
“To eliminate slums, to meet the housing
shortage and to meet the normal demand
for new houses will mean a building pro-
gramme of approximately 1000 dwellings
a week for the next ten years.” This is
a colossal job, but, he says, Britain did
six times as much in an attempt to abolish
slums after the last war, and as we have
only one-sixth her population the task
should be within our compass. If we
have the houses, Australia will have the
population.— One of Six (Vic.).
Building Regulations
When existing building regulations
were introduced they were said to be only
of a temporary nature for the purpose
of completing urgent Government build-
ings. These have long since been com-
pleted, but there is no attempt to return
to normal.
Already these regulations have un-
necessarily cost this country thousands
of well-built homes which could have
been occupied by people who today are
living in slums. Meanwhile numbers of
elderly but skilled tradesmen are potter-
ing about doing odd repair jobs when
they could be employed to far better
advantage catching up on the housing
shortage.— lnko (S.A.).
Ballot Secrecy
E. G. Sheldon (B. 19/4/’44) is not well
informed when he says that presiding
officers in Queensland elections write each
elector’s roll number on the ballot-paper
provided him. Not so. What is done is
to enter on the roll against each voter’s
electoral number the number of his
ballot-paper before sealing, sticking it
down and so covering over that number.
In my centre, after the close of the poll,
the ballot-box was opened and the con-
tents were counted in the presence of
seven scrutineers. There was not a chance
of violating secrecy had the poll-clerk
I, as presiding officer, desired e'"
so. The roll and the votes * ■ . r sty-
thoroughly sealed r racked in .T
ballot-box (resear'd) anil scat to ...
assistant returning officer . I
What he may do 1 car; ot say, but if
his opportun of .elating the ballot
secrecy are no greater than those of his
presiding officers E.G.S. is disturbing him-
self over a shadow, as I feel sure he is.—
M. Nelson Haley (Q.).
The Dingo Danger
The dingo is not only increasing his
depredations in sheep districts, but has
also penetrated far into the cattle
country, much farther than many
cattle-owners realise. A friend of mine
who has a small property marks his losses
as 100 calves last year. This does not in-
clude cattle that have suffered such in-
juries as chewed ears and scarred legs.
Some years back the Government paid
£1 per scalp. This price has been reduced
to 155., in some areas to 10s., and in
others to as low as ss.
At £1 per head dingoes were scarce.
Every fossicker, water-bailer and travel-
ler was licensed to carry strychnine. If
an increase in meat production is to be
attained a higher price will have to be
paid for dingo scalps.— Bennie (Q.).
A Word for Binghi
A noted anthropologist recently re-
ferred to the rapid extinction of the Aus-
tralian natives. “In less than a century,"
he said, “they will be only a memory."
Robbed of their inheritance and their
freedom, we place them in mission
stations, to lead an existence foreign to
their mode of life. In the north are mil-
lions of acres of scrub country which
will never be used, and the few remain-
ing natives might well be transferred
there to revert to their nomadic customs.
Australian writers have stated their case
in strong language, language that is an
indictment of the Commonwealth.
Many colored men, direct descendants
of the natives, have joined the fighting
forces. Some have given their lives for
our freedom. Others, in years gone past,
have given service in the Northern Terri-
tory and elsewhere, the value of which is
known only to station managers.
In any new order that may eventuate
after the war, fair and just treatment of
the natives should not be overlooked
Wimmera (S.A.).


what this means
tmJ-
V
-T
>
N
r\
ft
£
/
tf
A
s
ss
<z>
9
s
•*£>■
4
S 3
<g-
■o
«=b
w>
/
and hasten
this end
INVEST IN THE 1?T VICTORY LOAN
t— - - ■ —>
Inserted by William Arnott Pty., Limited, Homebush.
