

VINEGA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.-No. 3355
Wednesday, May 31, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SACKVILLE STREET, DUBLIN.
lrish are exceedingly proud of their capital, and well they
* may be. Its situation on the river Liffey near its entrance
into Dublin Bay is beautiful, and many of its public buildings
command the traveller’s admiration. Its principal thoroughfare,
Sackville Street, has few superiors in Europe. In the centre, and
dividing it into upper and lower Sackville Street, is a fluted Doric
column 134 feet in height, crowned by the statue of Nelson, and
reared to commemorate the hero of Trafalgar. The cost of the
monument was about £7OOO, which was raised by popular sub-
scription, ,Qn every anniversary of Nelson’s greatest victories the
Union Jack is displayed from the top of the column. But the
Nelson monument is only one of the many striking features of
Sackville Street. Here, for example, is the General Post Office,
presenting a long and handsome facade adorned with statuary.
Here also are several statues of distinguished Irish patriots, and
many of the finest business blocks and hotels of the city. More-
over, this is the great promenade of Dublin, and it has been often
stated that nowhere can there be seen more beautiful women than
one may meet here on a pleasant afternoon.


kl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 144
AGE
The Red Page
THE ART OF A "PRIMITIVE."
The publication by the Melbourne
Bread and Cheese Club of a book by
C. P. Mountford, The Art of Albert
Namatjira, illustrated with several excel-
lent reproductions in color, is of interest
to the student of ethnology and evolu-
tionary processes as well as to the con-
noisseur of pictorial art. These are paint-
ings by a member of a race belonging to
an evolutionary stratum hundreds of
thousands of years deeper than that of
the civilisations of today and by a mem-
ber of a tribe whose contacts with civi-
lisation in the generations since the white
men came have never been intimate.
R. H. Croll, who provides a foreword
to Mr. Mountford’s account of the artist
and his work, says that blood tests prove
the Australian aboriginal to belong to the
Caucasian type, and he quotes the dictum
of Sir Arthur Keith that the race is the
only one known to anthropologists that
“might serve as a common ancestor for
all modern races,” from which follows the
interesting possibility that Australia and
not the valley of the Euphrates was the
cradle of the human race.
Here, then, is a real primitive—an
Australian aboriginal, born and reared in
Centralia.
His excursions into art, by all accounts,
have profoundly disappointed those who
value, and would strive to recover, the
primitive standpoint. They say that
Namatjira has been ruined by “academic”
training, because his water-color drawings
faithfully depict various aspects of life
and scenery in Centralia, exhibit no dis-
tortion of outline, convey a correct idea
of perspective and distance, and, though
opulent in color, are not false to Nature
even in that respect. Indeed, in many
respects Namatjira’s work recalls that of
Sydney artist Neville Smith, one of the
most sophisticated and cosmopolitan of
Australians.
The primitivist attitude in modern art
is, of course, rather difficult for outsiders
to understand, owing to the obscurity of
the utterances of most of its proponents.
One of these, for instance, wrote
recently:
A comment which is frequently made,
insultingly, about the works of “modern
artists is that they are “childish” or “in-
fantile.”
Many a smug critic, when referring to
such works, has boasted that his little
child, aged lO years, could paint as well as
that.
The sad thing about that remark is that
many a “modern” artist is desperately
trying to paint as well as that little child,
aged 10; but to add to the fresh vision of
that child the accumulated knowledge)
and experience of an adult mind.
This seems to imply that the child (or
the primitive man) is expected to see
things differently from adults or civilised
persons, and that, for some reason unex-
plained, this different view is superior.
Superior because of lack of accumulated
knowledge and experience? That looks
like identifying drawing and perspective
with original sin.
It may have some significance that this
contempt for the fruits of observation
and study is not shared by the practi-
tioners of any of the sister arts. No
musician, however “modern,” composes
pianoforte etudes for one finger or scores
symphonies for tom-toms and clam-
shells carrying four gut strings. No poet
pines for the days of the Cro-Magnons,
when guttural grunts served as language,
or thinks “Peter, Peter, Pumpkin-eater” a
better poem than the “Ode to a Nightin-
gale.”
_ To return to the case of Albert Namat-
jira, his art training, such as it has been,
began ten years ago, when Rex Battar-
bee and John Gardner held a show of
their Centralian paintings at the Her-
mannsburg Mission. The abos. of the
district, among them Namatjira, took a
great delight and interest in the exhibi-
tion.
When the artists had departed Namat-
jira procured water-color paints and
brushes and attempted to emulate the
sketches he had seen, but it was a heart-
breaking task. The only thing was to
wait till those artists came back, as they
had promised, and to hope for a few
lessons. Battarbee came back two years
later, and Namatjira made a point
of being one of his camel-men.
He showed Battarbee some of his
efforts in crayon. Battarbee saw
talent, and gave Namatjira the bare
rudiments of drawing, perspective, com-
position and the management of water-
color. “Beyond the essentials,” says Mr.
Mountford, “Battarbee would not go —
nothing must hamper originality.”
From which it would appear that, so far
from Namatjira being “ruined” by a
little instruction, he had a door unlocked
for him.
He is no more a copyist of his mentor
than were Howard Ashton, Richard Ash-
ton, Joshua Smith, Elioth Gruner, Jean
Bellette and—yes—William Dobell (as
mixed a bunch of painters as Australia is
ever likely to produce) copyists of their
teacher, Julian Ashton. Namatjira, given
the rudiments and perforce compelled
more or less to find his own artistic feet,
has discovered most of the “academic
conventions” for himself —he couldn’t
have done better in that respect had he
drunk deep of Crane’s Bases of Design,
which seems to show that those much-
abused conventions have about them a
flavor of inevitability.
Mr. Mountford refers, with something
of wonder, to the intense love of their
native countryside evinced by aboriginals.
Surely it is one of the fundamental human
emotions.
Certainly Albert Namatjira enjoys the
mountains, the valleys, the forests and the
weird rock formations of the land his
tribe, the Arunta, has inhabited for count-
less centuries. Perhaps the finest of his
drawings reproduced is “The Ancient
White Ghost Gum of Temple Bar.” Only
the lower p.art of the bole, with just a
twig or two of foliage aloft, is shown,
against a characteristic Mac Donnell Range
background.
The contours do not escape Namatjira.
He is master of a firm line, and he man-
ages the gnarls and rumples and smooth
upstanding trunk of the monarch of the
plain with a notable economy of brush-
work. A gorgeous study in reds is “Sun-
set in Ormiston Gorge,” and a symphony
in blues and pale purples is “Haast Bluff”
—a mountain group glimpsed across
forested plains. “The Fish Hole, Jay
Creek,” is a striking study in rock for-
mation and color, accurate, direct and
convincing.
Namatjira is a worth-while artist in
any man’s language. His work is not
only valuable in itself but dignifies his
people, suggesting new potentialities for
the race as a whole.
A. W.
Emperors of Brazil.
Although it’s presented as a history,
Bertita Harding’s Amazon Throne
(Australasian Publishing Co.) reads more
like a historical novel of the Rafael
Sabatini kind.
Partly that is due to romantic over-
writing. Dom Pedro I and his brother
Dom Miguel are at war in Portugal:
Dom Miguel picked up his field glasses
and sighted his brother on the top of the
Tower of Gloria. “Your gun!” he snarled
at a near-by trooper, snatching the musket
from the man’s hands. With trembling
finger he pulled the trigger, aiming blindly
across the smoke-laden void. But he was
neither marksman nor soldier; the bullet
missed its prey by a disgraceful margin.
On the ramparts of Gloria the Duke of
Braganza felt a sudden shiver; it seemed as
though for a moment he had been stabbed
by his brother’s hate.
Miss Harding may have it on good
authority that Dom Miguel fired at his
brother; and no doubt his finger
trembled. But it’s woolly romanticism
that makes, him aim “blindly” when on
her own facts he is not aiming blindly ;
and it’s extremely unlikely that history
records the margin by which he missed,
whether “disgraceful” or pardonable.
All Miss Harding’s young ladies are
addicted to “simpering” ; apd when the
old Empress Dona Thereza is crocheting
doyleys to while away the time aboard
ship, the doyleys—on what, if any, his-
torical grounds is not stated—are de-
scribed as “outrageous.”
These are small points ; but they make
it difficult to accept the book as history.
One finds Dom Pedro I reluctantly agree-
ing to legitimise his daughter Izabel
Maria and then, “overcome by an ex-
travagant impulse,” gaily and gladly be-
stowing the title of duchess on her. Dom
Pedro II is portrayed as a wholly admir-
able ruler, a devoted servant of his
people, and then suddenly—with no more
explanation than that “a wave of repub-
licanism” swept the land —he is forced
to abdicate. And these contradictions are
not small matters if the book is to be
accepted in its entirety as history.
On the whole, however, it may be
taken as authentic. It is elaborately
documented and the author has had
access to “forbidden” documents in the
Brazilian archives.
Largely, it is the colorfulness of the
historical facts themselves that make the
book read like fiction. It is the story of
the Braganzas of Brazil, opening with
the mad Queen Maria and Dom Joao
the Regent fleeing from Napoleon to the
security of Portugal’s overseas empire,
describing the eventual break with the
mother country, and concluding with the
abdication of Dom Pedro 11.
Either for fiction, or for this sort of
“popular” history, the characters are
ideal. Carlota Joaquina, wife of Dom
Joao, murderous and, in spite of an
appearance that led one observer to de-
scribe her as “that furry object” and
another—the French attache —to declare
“Her mother must have caught the eye
of an orang-outang,” indefatigably
amorous ; Dom Pedro I, who admits on
his deathbed that he is generally regarded
as “a petticoat king” ; Domitila, his mis-
tress ; Leopoldina, his long-suffering first
wife; Dona Amelia, his second wife,
who ousted the favorite ; and Pedro 11,
whose adventures were of the mind and
who in the intervals of modernising his
country and encouraging the arts, ex-
changed meteorological reports with the
Arctic explorer Nordenskjold, argued
about ancient Troy with Professor
Schliemann, added Arabic, Persian and
Babylonian to his already formidable
linguistic accomplishments, and worked
on the first translation of the Arabian
Nights into Portuguese.
In addition to the personal and dynas-
tic dramas, Miss Harding gives an
account of the political development of
Brazil, especially of the struggle for the
abolition of slavery, accomplished in
1888.
Pattern of Liberation .
Too loosely and casually put together
to rank as history, and no longer immedi-
ately topical, Guy Ramsey’s One Con-
tinent Redeemed (Harrap)—a journalist’s
survey of the liberation of North Africa
—still has something interesting to say.
Its topical relevance to the Second Front
is that, as Ramsey says, “Africa is the
mirror of all future conquests.”
In France, or Poland, or Norway, or
Czecholovakia, or Yugoslavia, or Greece or
the East Indies, the same pattern will of
necessity be repeated; the Darlans and the
Quislings, the “progressive” Girauds and
implacable De Gaulles, the need to use any
instrument that fits our hand: the difficul-
ties of language, of drained and decimated
supplies, of improvised, sparsely-guarded
communications... .The Eisenhower “pains
in the neck” will be seen, and felt, over
and over again.
Here, as throughout the book, Ramsey
shows a pleasing balance of mind. He
met few angels in North Africa, and he
doesn’t anticipate that the Allies will
find many in Europe.
Dealing with confused and dangerous
matters, largely the French political situ-
ation, with excursions into the maze of
Arab and Jewish affairs, Ramsey had
need of his balance of mind. He is
particularly interesting on Darlan and
Giraud, both of whom he interviewed.
Why did we collaborate with Darlan? —
“No one in the French Colonial Empire
with any prestige whatsoever would agree
to act unless Darlan authorised his
action!” Darlan was Petain’s represen-
tative and—“like it or lump it, Petain
has become as much an incarnation of
France as Hitler is of Germany. There
were no other gods but Petain, and Dar-
lan was his prophet.” He describes
Darlan:
“Punch without his hump”—red cheeks
bunched under the bright and malicious /
eyes of the little man, but a few inches
above five feet. Smooth, experienced politi-
cally, slick as a crook lawyer.
De Gaulle:
He was asked what reaction the sentence
of outlawry pronounced by le Gouverne-
ment Vichy had upon him. The tall man
drew himself up in the French fashion to
beyond his normal height; placed his heels
together; stood at attention, his ears stand-
ing out at right-angles to his head like two
scarlet wings as the afternoon sun poured
through them. “For me,” he said, “ le
gouvernement Vichy, le gouvernement
Petain, nexiste point!”
Giraud:
A large, exquisitely-kept hand thrust for-
ward from a tall, arrow-straight, light-built
body dressed in a uniform verging on
foppishness. The swashbuckling moustache,
seen close to, was not the ferocious
appendage it appears from a distance,
and the mouth that seems so grim across
the street holds a hint of humor. Instead
of a parade-ground bark, a voice surpris-
ingly high in pitch, surprisingly light in
timbre, emerged from the thin, straight lips.
Apart from the analysis of the French
situation, there are a good many other
points of interest. Such as, for example,
Ramsey’s explanation of the fall of
Tobruk in which, after discussing the
various rumors that have circulated, he
declares emphatically, “Tobruk fell be-
cause there were no supplies either of
food or of ammunition available to last
more than a single day. The retreat had
been so sudden, so unexpected, that
preparation for it could not be made.
That was why Tobruk fell —and for no
other reason,”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Spokeshave”: Juvenile art in Mel-
bourne took a step forward the other day
when a show of kindergarten work had
prices affixed to the pictures —all por-
traits. They ranged from a penny up
to threepence, the potential Lambert who
placed that value on his opus having
painted his teacher. Some of the work
should stand a very good chance in the
next Archibald Prize competition.
“C. 8.”: Director Daryl Lindsay, of
the Melbourne Nat. Gallery, is pre-
paring for a big loan exhibition
of the works of the late Arthur
Streetor, to be held in September.
Streeton, anathema to the “moderns,” has
been growing in prestige. This is largely
because the public has had a surfeit of
juvenilia by “geniuses” who, having
painted two pictures, send the second to
an exhibition. Streeton was, what most
“moderns” are not, a solid craftsman,
who served a long apprenticeship to his
art and showed us aspects of the Aus-
tralian scene nobody else had. It is 55
years since he, Conder, Roberts and Mc-
Cubbin enraged a lot of people with their
nine-inch-by-five-inch exhibition. Some
of the “moderns” have also enraged a
lot of people, but enraging people isn't
necessarily a criterion of excellence in
painting.
H. L. Fern, who exhibits seldom, seems
to have hit the public’s fancy with his
latest show of water-colors at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, judging by the
red tabs on the pictures. He is less for-
mularised than Harold Herbert, but has
his flair for the picturesque view and the
tranquil landscape.
An exhibition of paintings, sculpture,
pastels, water-colors, etchings and mono-
types at the Myer Mural Hall in Mel-
bourne in aid of the Woollies Appeal
produced a weird rally of Australian art,
from the latest production of a modern-
ist up north who has come in contact
with the abo. for the first time and makes
him look like a down-and-out in Mel-
bourne, to a panel of Max Meldrum’s,
the most important contribution, includ-
ing an interior, still-life and one of that
painter’s French landscapes, priced at 800
guineas. Arnold Shore and William
Prater show some vigorous sunshine, and
Alma Figuerola effective landscapes.
C. J. Coventry, an uncle of Lionel
Coventry, Bulletin caricaturist, has a
pleasing landscape show at the John
Martin gallery, Adelaide. He throws new
light on scenes anywhere from the Vic-
torian border to Port Augusta. His son
Frederick, formerly a commercial artist
and now a squadron-leader in India, con-
tributes a fine lot of crayon or water-
color heads. At the Society of Arts
gallery Isabel Haynes’s flower-studies,
either in a vase or as they grow, sold well.
The most notable exhibitors at a bright
exhibition by the Australian Art Society
at Farmer’s Gallery, Sydney, are H. A.
Hanke, who has gone in for still life ;
water-colorist W. M. Whitney, who since
he went to live at Camden has been as
one newly inspired ; John Salvana, who
exploits a Continental fashion—the im-
pressionistic landscape on a very small
canvas; Elaine Coghlan, whose joyous
water-colors have style, and Garrett
Kingsley, who continues to paint nudes
beautifully. J. N. Kilgour, looking across
Woolloomooloo rooftops, shows a
picturesque Sydney landscape. Clif Peir,
always an experimenter, shows the Dobell
influence in the portrait of a lady who
appears to be a cross between a giraffe
and a praying mantis.
William Saroyan, American-Armenian author
who modestly admits to being a genius and
who publicly refused the Pulitzer Prize award
for his play “The Time of Your Life” on the
ground that it wasn’t right for Commerce to
patronise Art, reversed the usual procedure by
writing a film script which he later turned into
a novel. It is not on record that he tossed
the filthy lucre he got from Hollywood down
the nearest drain. Writing directly from life,
he is on solid ground in building his story “The
Human Comedy” (Sydney Liberty) around a
small-town telegraph office, for Saroyan himself
was once manager of such an office; but, though
young American men may be as stickily senti-
mental .as he portrays them, it is doubtful if a
mother, in the perfect home in the perfect town,
would interrupt her playing of the harp to de-
liver a homily on democracy to her three-year-
old son. Despite the manifest defects of the
story, the film, chiefly owing to the warm
domestic scenes directed by Clarence Brown,
makes good entertainment.
Bryant’s Playhouse, Sydney, staged Stanley
Nicholls’s “Yesterday’s a Tiger,” concerning a
young gentleman who, admiring the “good old
days’’ so much that he surrounds himself and
his attractive ward with Victorian furnishings
and books, finds himself in the England of
1897. Robert Mowatt was effective as. the
young gent.
Stilted, sentimental and melodramatic
in dialogue, its old-fashioned clowning
slightly less funny than tobthache, “Lilac
Time,” the latest of Sydney Royal’s re-
vivals, relies entirely on Schubert’s songs.
Well done, these will atonje for anything.
They were not, alas, well done.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
ANTHONY
"THE SENIOR STORE'
WL
/*Y
mm
ill
• s \
%
IliiilS
mmm*
;:.is>> j;*l
0 : - :&J
<5*t
'flu. GhaJz*
Tiger-Lilies I bring no more
Their season is over;
Garnered is summer's store
With the hay and clover;
Autumn has barred her door
Upon them, my lover.
Tiger-Lilies no more I bring
For your glad receiving;
Oh! summer, so swift on wing,
What flower are you leaving —
What blossom for comforting
A heart past grieving.
ccmtzs' s
ts k&&" J&Ar U&ltoyL^ 0
Utilise the winter months in preparing for your Spring
Garden for a harvest of Blooms, Vegetables and Fruit.
BOOKS TO STUDY
Obtainable in our Book Department, Second Floor, Pitt Street.
Yates' Garden Guide for the
Home Gardener, 1/-. Post. 2Ad.
Fruit Tree and Grape Vine Prun-
ing, by George Quinn .... 57-
Postage 3£d.
Grow Your Own Vegetables, by
"Waratah" ... 2/-, Postage 2£d.
The A to Z of Australian Fruit
Growing, by Herbert J. Rumsey.
Price 2/3, Postage 3£d.
Pruning, issued by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture of N.S.W.
Price 3/-, Postage 4|d.
The New A.B.C. of Australian
Vegetable Growing, by Herbert
J. Rumsey ... 2/9, Postage 2|d.
Soilless Culture Simplified, by
Alex Lawrie, 20/-, Post. 6£d.
Of*
i^rfvr
4GR1C
SpUjr
Ng
;fVv
SSgsis.,,
Two Important Methods of Preparation for Spring
1—THE RIGHT TOOLS
mm
m
1. —SPADES, Star Brand,
for Ladies. Forged steel.
Price 9/3
Full size. , Pressed Steel.
Price 7/11
2.—SPADES, Samson
Brand (English make), 14/9
3.—CHIP HOES, Elwells
No. 00, 4/9 No. 1, 5/3
Handles to suit, 5ft. length.
Price, each 2/9
4.—MATTOCKS, Pick End.
Price 9/
5. MATTOCKS, Axe End.
Price 9/3
Handles 2/2
6. —PRONG HOES, 9/9
Handles, sft. length, 2/9
7. —THREE-PRONG HAY
FORKS, 6ft. Handles, in
American Ash 11/-
B.—EZI CUT PRUNING
SHEARS 6/6
9. SEYMOUR SMITH
PRUNING SHEARS, Ameri-
can make (same design).
Price 11/6
10. SCYTHE BLADES,
Tyzacks Elephant Brand,
36 in., riveted 17/6
11. SCYTHE HANDLES.
Continental Pattern, 17/6
m
i
2.—THE RIGHT FERTILISERS
We stock fertilizers for all purposes,
including Shirleys Mixtures, Blood
and Bone, Sulphate Ammonia,
Nitrate of Soda, etc. Also "Poultry
Humoss", a scientific blending of
Poultry Manure and Humus Mate-
rial, making a safe and efficient
manure for all garden purposes.
71b 141b 281b 561b 1 cwt.
1/6 2/11 4/9 9/- 15/6
And Vitaraold, the all-humus material
for improving the soil, a plant food
and moisture retainer. It is ideal for
seed boxes, pot plants, fruit trees,
vegetables, etc.
50-lb. bags 10/-
100-lb. bags 18/6
• Gardening and Agricultural Dept.,
Fourth Floor .
WHO DOES NOT ENIOY A DELI-
CIOUS DISH OF HOMEGROWN
MUSHROOMS?
We stock Hearns Brick Mushroom,
Spawn, the most successful and
economical method of Mushroom
growing. This spawn has been
tested and approved by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture of N.S.W. Full
instructions supplied with each
brick. Price, 1/6; Postage extra.
• Mushroom Spawn obtainable
from Flower and Seeds Dept.—Pitt
Street, Ground Floor.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Telegraphic Address: Hordernia, Sydney
Box 2712 C G.P.O., Sydney


LESSON BY FIRELIGHT
By T. HUNGERFORD.
IT is deepening twilight when we come
down from the range, and cool and
quiet under the trees.
A clump of pandanus where we
intended to look for water is slowly
merging into the blue haze that settles
over the bush, and the quiet is so im-
mense that you’d stop to listen. It is
made up of all sorts of sounds that ordi-
narily you never hear . . , the plop of a
wallaroo in the grass, and the rattle of
a disturbed stone on the slope ; the tired
hush-hush of the wind in the trees, and
somewhere, sounding sad and miles
away, a bird warbling.
You might call it desolation, but it’s
not that; it’s just as it should be —we
don’t count. Standing there with the
night coming on, and the old red hills
brooding over the swamps and bush and
open plains, it’s hard to feel like “lords
of creation.”
I say to the Champ “We’ll leave the
pandanus, I reckon,” and he says “We’ll
go back to the waterhole. It’s getting
dark.”
The boss says “Let’s go! ” and we get
the big bluff squarely behind us, and set
out for camp.
We’ve been going all day since before
sun-up, through some hard country.
When the platoon pulls up for the night
alongside a little grey waterhole smelling
of cattle, the three of us come on a few
miles: the boss wants to know what’s on
the other side of these hills before we
settle in. We find nothing except about
thirty miles of blue and green bush
between this and the next line of red
hills, but at least we know.
I T’S exhilarating, hurrying back through
1 the dim bush. The breast-high grass
is cool and heavy with dew, which makes
the going hard, so when we come in
sight of the fire they’ve lit by the billa-
bong we sit down for a breather. The
smell of the broken grass is refreshing
after the dusty day.
We have three boongs with us. They
travel light; only a few blankets, a spear
or two and a little bag of tea and sugar,
all of which they load on to Munumcum-
bubbie, the youngest of the three. Old
Woollamon, the sort of patriarch—and,
I reckon, a wily old rascal—tells us
Munumcumbubbie means “The Burnt
Behind,” and shows us a long scar where
he says a buck hit the boy with a fire-
stick. We call him Charlie, and, in spite
of his stiff leg, he’s a cheerful cuss.
When we reach camp there’s a couple
of billies of tea waiting for us, and some
bully and vegemite stew with an onion
chopped up in it. We finish off the
tucker, and I go to the fire, where Greg
is poring over some letters. 1 haven’t
had a letter for donkey’s years, and 1
say sarcastically “Private courier, huh?”
Greg just says “Pull y’r head in, mug;
it’s old mail,” and goes on reading.
THE mossies are bad, and some of the
boys are drifting over to where
Woollamon, Charlie and Tommie are lying
around their smoky little fire, heavy with
food. During the day they bowled a big
goanna and three shags on a creek we
passed, and we shot them some flying-
foxes ; a pile of green fruits from a vine,
some bully and biscuits —and they scoffed
the lot!
They smile to each other as we come
up and exchange a few words that sound
like water running over mossy stones, so
softly and easily do they speak. They
only whisper, too ; sometimes it seems
they’re merely thinking aloud ; but the
others understand easily enough.
“Hello, Woollamon!” says Curly,
squatting down. “Mosquito no good!”
Woollamon just waves his black paw
toward the waterhole.
No words are needed —he couldn’t
have said more plainly “What in hell do
you expect, camping right on top of
water?” He adds a few rippling sen-
tences to Tommie, just sighs them out,
but Charlie, who is gathering long stems
of grass yards away, hears them and
laughs silently. It is not hard to make
them laugh, particularly Charlie.
Cisco comes up and squats opposite
Tommie and rolls a smoke, looking all
around him meanwhile. “What name?”
he says, and his eyes stop at the water-
hole. “What name that fella?” He
points at it.
Tommie looks at Woollamon and
grins slowly, then back to Cisco.
“Bacca?” he inquires softly, and Charlie
chuckles.
Cisco hands Tommie the smoke he s
made, and Curl gives Woollamon a tailor-
made ; and, as Charlie sidles up and
grins at me, I have to hand him one, too.
Tommie inhales luxuriantly and says,
so quietly that I have to listen hard:
“Quordarrie! ”
“Quordarrie?” says Cisco, and I see
the boss take out his pencil and note-
book. “Well, what name this fella?”
and he holds out his hand.
Charlie, wide-eyed and motionless,
watches, ready to laugh. Woollamon is
scratching his leg—he has had a couple
of draws and parked his smoke behind
his ear.
Tommie spreads his dusky paw and
examines it minutely, as though he’s just
seen it for the first time. You could hear
a pin drop. “Daman,” he says.
Charlie laughs and repeats it softly.
“Daman.” He stands up, dark knd
skinny, and, selecting one of his stems
of grass, launches it straight into the
heart of a water-lily at the edge of the
pool—a distance of about thirty feet. It’s
his contribution to our entertainment,
and, judging by the way he laughs, he
reckons it’s pretty good. They’re so will-
ing to teach us what little we’re capable
of taking in that I can’t help thinking
of another teacher I used to have —she
taught me another language years ago.
MAM’SELLE D’EROT, she was; a
little dried-up woman with a pinched
nose and tired brown eyes; not much
hair to talk of; and she’d carry her head
on one side like a bird watching a beetle,
In the three years she had us I recall
her in but three, dresses, a new one at the
beginning of each year, and always the
same dusty black stuff, made high at
the neck, where she used to pin a great
big carneo brooch and what looked like
a white lace hanky.
“Attendez!” she’d say, and rap her
i .u u
ruler on the board, trying to act fierce,
and one of the sheilahs up the back would
say "La mamaise /5/fc-it means the
wicked girl, doesn t it, Mam selle? and
all the other girls would begin to chant
"La mamaise fille, the wicked girl! La
mamaise fille, the wicked girl!"
She'd jump up and down like a toy
monkey on a stick and beat the desk,
poor old sort; if only we’d stopped to
think... she wasn’t any chicken, and hadn’t
any bloke or kids of her own. I suppose
things were a bit too much for her at
times. She’d say "Cat incroyable!’’
and smooth back her hair nervously.
“Tomorrow I tell the head!” But she
never did. “Maintenant! We count!
Un, deux, trois, quatre”
“AOKAMAR, waharrie, warrak,
' s —'mayeninka ; one, two, t’ree, four,”
says Tommie, counting off on his black
fingers, and old Woollamon nods in
agreement. “T’ree,” repeats Tommie,
holding up his third finger. “Woollamon
... t’ree gin! ” and Woollamon smirks at
us—a bit of a doer in his own quiet way,
I bet.
Tommie is warmed up, “Charlie,” he
says ; “Charlie, no gin! Byembye, Wool-
lamon givem! ” Charlie is wriggling
and giggling like a sheilah; he reckons
this is all right.
Creek, hill, friend, track —the lesson
goes on, and the light from the little fire
dances on their black faces, and on Cisco
and Curl, and on the boss, copying it all
down, and on the white trunks of the
paper bark.
Just outside the circle of light are the
bush and the old hills, and the ghosts of
a million quiet years straining over our
shoulders; and I think: all those years
these words have been whispered around
here, unchanging, like the hills ; they will
disappear, words and misty folklore,
simply because they would not shout out
and be heard, preferring to whisper and
laugh.
Cisco says: “What name ‘yesterday’?”
Woollamon looks puzzled, and Charlie
wrinkles his forehead.
Tommie murmurs something anxiously
and shakes his head. They don’t know
yesterday—all life is just today for them,
today and tucker and sleep.
ITS late, and we’ve had a hard day.
* The boss says good night, and one by
one the chaps drift off. The fire has died
down and Tommie heaps green leaves
on it, and the three of them lie almost
on top of it.
Cisco laughs. “They’d better be care-
ful,” he says, “or they’ll ‘munnum’ their
‘cumbubbies’!”
“Pull y’r head in,” mutters someone
sleepily, and Cisco says “0.K., darlin’;
meet you at the G.P.0.”
The G.P.0., I think, as I gather grass
for my bed. Sydney! Light and music,
noise and a girl to dance with ... wind
and darkness, trees and the glittering
stars!
“SHIPPING WAS DELAYED"
By JOHN STUBBS.
THE cold, still beauty of the winter
afternoon meant nothing to Shelton
but fog.
The powder anchorage, smooth as
a satin gown, reflected faithfully every
detail of the big freighter whose powder
gangs Shelton had come out from the
port to pick up. She was getting ready
for sea, and the clear, accurate sounds
of her preparations were another grim
sign to Shelton. Lying two hundred
yards from her he could hear the reso-
nant jangle of engine-room gongs deep
within her as the telegraphs were tested,
the rumble of the steering quadrant as
the great rudder was moved across and
back, and even the rnetallic clatter of an
officer’s feet on the brass-bound steps of
the bridge ladder.
He cursed himself for not bringing a
compass. A dead-still afternoon in late
May, crisp and clear, simply shouted of
fog to follow. With a compass the job
was easy—forty minutes running n,-e.
to the Light, then fifteen minutes due
north and x ou hit the pier dead on the
nail.
Without a compass it was instinct and
luck, and you needed both. With no
marks visible it was almost impossible
to avoid steering in a huge circle: a circle
that one way would put you on the reef
or the back beach, and the other way
into the open bay, where a man might as
well shut down and wait for the fog to
lift—fifteen hours at least. The company
would have some pointed comments to
offer on that, with sixty stevedores being
paid travelling time until you put them
ashore.
A shout from the ship raised him out
of his gloomy musing. He swung the
heavy engine, flicked down the compres-
sion taps and was rewarded by a power-
ful, rhythmic thunder. Once alongside
the ladder the gangs came clumping
aboard, carrying greasy Gladstone bags,
dressed in the heavy suits and inevitable
waistcoats of the stevedore. Shelton won-
dered idly if there was a race of men
anywhere whose dress was more unsuit-
able to their job.
He was hardly away before a shout
sent him backing up to the ladder again,
fuming at the delay, for a man who’d
stopped too long yarning to a cobber in
the ship Shelton left four feet for the
man to jump and jerked the clutch in
viciously, half-hoping the sluggard would
fall into the drink.
Rounding up, he stared anxiously
ahead for the Light. Praise be, he could
still see it, though already it was taking
on the golden glow that was the last,
infallible sign of fog.
At least he’d had a good start. If he
made the Light the worst was over.
Commonsense and local knowledge
would bring him in from there. It
wouldn’t be the first time he’d got home
on the sound of tram bells from the ter-
minus at the foot of the pier,
A stevedore lounged up to the wheel
apd began an interminable conversation
about racing. The light faded to a
ruby pinpoint and disappeared. Still
the voice drooled on—“I reckon the
damn’ thing’s still running.”
’’Tough luck.” said Shelton and wished
him to the devil.
. te . , . , ,
After half an hour’s running he opened
the wheelhouse window and listened for
his next hope the foghorn on the Light.
Soon he heard it, and was greatly com-
forted by its roar and more by its posi-
tion, well ahead and a shade off his port
bow It meant h? would pass outside
the Light instead of inside, as was normal
in clear weather, but that didn t matter
In another ten minutes he throttled
back to cut down the engine noise, and
hstened keenly. This was a bad place
to dawdle, right in the path of cross traffic
from the river mouth.
Shelton eased the wheel over to port,
swinging on the pivot of the foghorn. He
was fairly confident of his position, but
the fog was thickening, and he decided
to wait for one more blare of the fog-
horn to be positive. Then he’d pour on
the oil and streak for home.
THE blare, when it came, was just
1 where he wanted it, but mingled with
it was a sound that sent a tingle down
his spine—the hoot of a steamer’s whistle.
He judged she was a small coaster, but
five hundred tons could run you down as
efficiently as five thousand.
Presently Shelton heard the sound he
knew must come but dreaded to hear —
the sibilant, tearing hiss of a forefoot
ripping through still water. Soon it was
joined by the rhythmic thumping of a
screw. Holy smoke, she must be close.
Both hands on the wheel, right knee
against the throttle lever, Shelton stood
transfixed, all his concentration poured
into his ears. The fog played fiendish
tricks with his hearing, tossing the sound
at him from all round the compass,
placing it on his starboard quarter, tak-
ing it from there and flinging it at him
from his port bow, offering him a choice
of diametrically opposed actions.
A stevedore called out from aft
“There’s a ship about somewhere,
Skipper.”
Briefly and savagely Shelton cursed
him into silence.
Suddenly he saw the ship, distorted in
the fog, gigantic as doom, seventy ■ feet
off his port bow, crossing him from port
to starboard. Possibilities and alterna-
lives, like a string of colored lights,
ripped across Shelton’s brain,
Go astern—useless: he’d stop right in
her path. Turn to starboard, away from
her: might do, but it opened him to the
menace of those deadly, shearing bows,
turn to port, towards her; safer, even it
they hit* Two blasts on the steamer s
whistle decided him. She was swinging
away to port, offering him her broad-
Hf hove the .
klcked throttle right up against the
stop and the engine note lifted mto a
sta r t ] e d bellow
Almos , before the bows started t 0
.. she|ton saw he must hjt But the
k when i( ca wou|d be broad .
ide , broadside and he might get away
j t
The 'vessels came together almost in
si]ence Then a crash of broken glass
as the shi * s mbbing strake sto ve
in the windoW s down the length of
the starboard side , a series of wet plops
as the starboard fender lashings carried
awa % deluge of warm salt water as they
swept past the condenser outlet and they
were clear, spinning in the turbulence of
t he steamer’s wake,
As her stern wa j fading into the fog,
Shelton had a final glimpse of a man
w j tb his mouth open, frozen by astonish-
ment in the act G f emptying a pail of
slops overboard. Then she was gone and
there was nothing but broken glass and
ug | y stre aks of black paint on the imrna-
cu|ate wb ito side of the launch to prove
ber p ass i n g.
A stunned, frightened silence, louder
than the engine note> fin ed the launch,
Then some One said “Jesus, that was
close,” and the blasphemy was a prayer
of thankfulness,
Ten minutes later they were fast along-
side, and the stevedores were climbing
out. The last man, more sensitive than
the rest, looked down from the pier at
Shelton leaning wearily against the comb-
ings. “So long, mate. Y’ done well to
get us out of it.”
Shelton lifted a hand in thanks. He
moved and sat on the engine box for a
spell, lighting a cigarette and dragging
the smoke deep into his lungs. A quirk
of amusement came to his lips as he
thought of the routine paragraph that
would appear in the next morning’s
paper: “Shipping was delayed and trans-
port disorganised by a heavy fog over
the waterfront and southern suburbs late
yesterday afternoon. City workers were
seriously inconvenienced and many were
late home.” .
A boatman was also seriously mcon-
venienced and sixty stevedores were very
lucky to get home at all.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65— No. 3355.
Wednesday, May 31, 1944.
TRUNK CALL.
“Vot you mean, Tojo, ‘vot’s cookin’ ’?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westhalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
HONORING THE DIGGERS.
Contrary to the impression that some
windbag politicians here have tried to
create, Australia has all along had in the
U.S.A. staunch admirers of its war effort
generally and of its Diggers in particular.
The windbags have quoted—and mis-
quoted—characteristic Chicago “Tribune”
sneers. They have reared in the air like
barrage balloons over statements of one
or two U.S. Senators, though these were
fairly provoked by a mouthing of Mr.
Forde at his clumsiest. Nobody has yet
heard one of the windbags admit that
for every sentence of sneer there has been
a column of generous praise. Yet this
is the fact.
The Digger is a legendary figure in
America. He is there generally rated
second to none among the whole world’s
front-line fighters. It is true that at the
time the Diggers were doing their great
job in the Pacific fighting nobody could
-have guessed at its extent from the widest
perusal of American papers. It is also
true that neither could that have been
gathered at the time from the perusal
of Australian papers. For reasons that
remain obscure, the Diggers’ part in the
New Guinea fighting was heavily blan-
keted. The responsibility for this must
rest ultimately with the Commonwealth
Government, which, if it wished, could
have seen to it that the story was told.
An American war correspondent—Fred
Peterson, in the Chicago “Sun” —has ex-
pressed the astonishment that Australians
felt at that hush-hush business, and tried to
account for it. War correspondents who
accompanied the troops, he wrote, knew
the job that Australian Diggers did in
New Guinea, “but for some reason there
it ends.” His explanation was that it was
natural enough for “American correspon-
dents to emphasise the part played by
American forces on the theory that
American readers are more likely inter-
ested in the doings of Private Joe Doakes,
of Pittsburgh, than about tho exploits of
some Aussie named Bill Smith, of Syd-
ney, whom they do not know.” In fact,
there are a few U.S. correspondents
who do not have to report the war
at all, only the individual doings of
Americans from the localities their par-
ticular papers serve. On the other hand,
the bulk of U.S. correspondents are on
the job to see and report what is going
on, irrespective of who is doing the work.
Correspondents like Mr. Peterson cer-
tainly noticed the Diggers. Mr. Peterson
was so flabbergasted by the general hush-
hush that he sent his paper a special dis-
patch on it, to correct the impression
“gaining weight abroad” that “if Aus-
tralian troops took part in the land fight-
ing on New Guinea it must have been a
minor one.” This, he wrote, was “not
the sort of misconception that can wait
until the history books are written ; the
time to tell the story about Australia’s
part in stopping the Japs and turning them
around toward Tokyo is now.” He noted
—as Australians, watching the apparent
indifference of their Government to the
matter, also did—that “it must come as
a shock to the Diggers on leave after
months of fighting in jungle and mud to
read that people have been wondering
where they got to after they returned
from the Middle East.”
The plain truth is that Australians’ part in
the battle for New Guinea challenges com-
parison with their brightest exploits in the
Middle East and with the deeds of their
fathers in World War I. Australian
Diggers turned back the Japs on loribaiwa
Ridge in the rugged Owen Stanley mountains
—when they were 30 miles from Port
Moresby—in September, 1942. Austra-
lians turned back the Japs when they were
50 miles from the Wau airstrip in January,
1943, and chased them to the sea at Sala-
maua. Australian troops captured Lae and
swept down the Markham and Ramu
valleys hunting Japs into the Finisterre
Mountains behind Madang. More Aus-
tralians took Finschhafen and Sattelberg,
This correspondent insisted that the
story of Japanese withdrawal from New
Guinea, from the mountains overlooking
Port Moresby to the north coast, was
“bound inextricably with the exploits of
Aussie ground troops”; that “Gona-Buna,
Sanananda, Tambu Mountain, Salamaua,
Lae, Finschhafen and the Ramu Valley
are names which the history books of the
future will place alongside Gallipoli,
Villers-Bret. and Pozieres.” He added
emphatically: “The troops who fought
in the mud, heat and rain of these cam-
paigns know they were Australian
shows.” He considered it time people-in
Australia, America and England knew
that “the Aussies didn’t go into mysteri-
ous retirement when they came home
fiom the Middle East,” and he added
one for those who were in the position in
Australia to see that the story was told:
Australia owes them [the New Guinea
Diggers]- a debt that can never be paid.
One small way in which they can be paid
is to give them some sort of recognition
for the job they have done.
Diggers will agree that Mr. Peterson's
tribute to the A.I.F. is all the better
for the emphasis he includes with it on
the part taken in the New Guinea fight-
ing by U.S. air and naval forces. All
honor to him for setting down the truth,
which is that the heavy, and costly, land
fighting was mainly done by Australian
troops over a period when the Common-
wealth Government, for reasons still
known only to itself, allowed the impres-
sion to get abroad that those troops were
doing little or nothing. At the same time
the same Government crowd took kudos
to itself for having saved the country.
The Diggers have another admirer and
champion in Mr. B. T. Richardson, a
member of the Canadian press delegation
which visited Australia last November
and December; and it is a pity to have to
question one who is so emphatic about
their part. “Australia,” he wrote in the
Winnipeg “Free Press,” “was saved pri-
marily by the energy and efforts of the
military forces and the people of Aus-
tralia, and by no other agency.”
The United States played an heroic,
though relatively minor, part in the saving
of Australia; but since the United States
is playing such a major role in the Pacific
War in its present preliminary offensive
stage, tho situation in 1942 has begun to be
obscuied.
“In the months in which it can be said
that Australia was saved,” Mr. Richard-
son added, “the forces were predomi-
nantly Australian.” He would appear to
have overlooked the United States forces
in the Solomons, of vital importance in
the saving of Australia. He allows, how-
ever, that “in the Battle of the Coral Sea
in May, 1942, and the later Battle of Mid-
way, American naval and air power
proved to be the barrier to further
Japanese expansion across the Pacific.”
These battles, of course, exerted pro-
found effect upon the position of Australia.
If the Battle of the Coral Sea had been
lost, the Australians could not have held
New Guinea, for they would have been
outflanked in due course by Japanese land-
ings on fhe eastern coast of Australia.
A statement which annihilates the “no-
other-agency” assertion. Fortunately, Aus-
tralians—the fighting ones particularly —
have no doubt about the value of the
vital aid they had from the United States.
Unfortunately, many Australians are
probably as clouded as Mr. Richardson
on another aspect of the vital aid without
which the Diggers’ part in New Guinea
could never have even begun. .
Britain played no role at all in the saving
of Australia, and that is one of the signifi-
cant milestones in British Commonwealth
relations arising out of this war.
Mr. Richardson is here as far astray
in his fact as in his conclusion. Still,
there is fair excuse for him, and for any
Australians who may agree with his ver-
sion of fact. The silence that once reigned
regarding the A.I.F. in New Guinea was
almost noisy compared with that still
reigning in regard to Britain’s help to
Australia, This can’t be fully revealed
even now, but one aspect of it may do
to go on with.
The great bulk of the heroic ground
fighting in New Guinea was done not
only by Australian troops but by the
A.I.F. divisions brought back from the
Middle East. It simply is not true, as Mr.
Richardson further wrote, that the Japs
were stopped “at Kokoda Pass in the
Owen Stanley mountains” by “Australian
conscripts and regulars.” That is as in-
accurate militarily as it is geographically.
The Japs were stopped and pushed back
by Diggers of the great A.I.F. divisions.
The Commonwealth Government that
has taken credit to itself for having
brought those divisions back can be fairly
blamed for the other, and worse, of Mr,
Richardson’s misconceptions. It could
long since have given out that if a sub-
stantial part of Britain’s already sorely
strained fleet had not been diverted at
the time to Indian waters the A.I.F.
divisions could never have got back.
There is no doubt whatever that but for
that employment of British warships the
Japs would have swarmed down into the
Indian Ocean and attacked Australia on
the west. And that is only one obvious
aspect of Britain’s vital aid to Australia
in its time of need.
As for any change in British Common-
wealth relationships arising from Britain’s
having allegedly “played no role at all in
the saving of Australia,” perhaps Empire
events since then have somewhat altered
Mr. Richardson’s view. The truth here
is that, if anything, the war as a whole
has served to bring Australia and Britain
closer together. Both Australia and
New Zealand realise that their destiny is
more closely linked with that of Britain
than is that of, say, Canada. At the same
time there has also been a great better-
ing of relations with America,
Neither Australia nor New Zealand
wants to minimise the importance to their
continued existence of the aid received
from others. It is very pleasant to be
praised ; but the “alone-we-did-it” frame
of mind would be a risky one with which
to head into the future.
Depressions and Squealers.
Because Mr. Cal well brought trouble
upon himself by describing 1939 A.I.F.
men as “economic conscripts,” it is not
to be supposed that the output of depres-
sion fustian will therefore cease. It has
become part of the stock-in-trade of
Labor and Communist squealers and radio
moaners—very active of late —and there
is always a market for it, human nature
being what it is.
A Honan or Bengal peasant would
smile wintrily at the frequent suggestion
that no people ever suffered more hor-
ribly than did the Australian unemployed
in 1930 and the three subsequent years.
In point of fact, the depression which
began in 1893, and signs of which were
visible at the turn of the century, was
harsher in its effects, for then there was
no dole. Neither were there Communists
nor radio moaners, and, though there
were Labor politicians, squealing had not
then become part of the equipment. In
Victoria, especially, a lot of banks went
bung, the bottom fell out of the land
boom and building incontinently ceased.
But it was a brave and philosophic gener-
ation, and it came, through with unim-
paired cheerfulness and—the pioneering
spirit winning notable victories, particu-
larly in the frontier colonies, not yet
States —with increased economic strength.
In the depression which reduces the
Wards and Calwells and Communists and
radio moaners to crocodile tears, only
one bank closed its doors, and that was a
Government bank. Overseas borrowing
by reckless politicians produced one of
the worst features of the disturbance,
necessitating heroic efforts, fiercely ob-
jected to by the Labor faction that con-
trolled the busted bank, to preserve
national solvency.
In Europe, Hitler and Mussolini
“solved” their unemployed problems by
drafting myriads of young men into
the fighting and auxiliary services,
and so did Stalin, though it would
be courting assault and battery to
say so in the hearing of a Com-
munist mob. This expedient was, of
course, unavailable to the Australian
Government of the period, but the de-
fence and auxiliary services could and
should have been used to mitigate the in-
cidence of the depression as well as to
prepare for the wars even then loom-
ing up. For a proper balance between
civilians and defenders there should"
have been at least 60,000 men in the
defence forces alone. Instead there were
only about 6000, and the Scullin Govern-
ment, after skittling the army recruited
by compulsory enlistment, sacked many
staff men and put others on half-time—
at the same time finding immense sums
for donkey work. We have paid for these
follies in many ways, some tragic, during
the war years.
It is an arresting fact that unemploy-
ment was worst in the States where popu-
lation was (and is) badly distributed, the
Big-City States. Queensland, with its
comparatively well-distributed popula-
tion, its comparatively numerous ports
and inland towns, had the best figures
throughout. Commonwealth Year-Book
statistics are not exact, for they refer only
to trade-unions reporting; moreover,
unionists idle for half the working week
were classed as unemployed. Even with
these limitations, percentages of unem-
ployed unionists to total membership
for the four years 1930-33 inclusive are
illuminating:
Queens- Aus-
land tralian
average. average.
1930 .. .. 10.7 19.3
1931 .. .. 16.2 27.4
1932 .. .. 18.8 29.0
1933 .. .. 15.3 25.1
In two years the Queensland percentage
of unemployed unionists was less than
half the percentages in N. S. Wales and
South Australia.
Another striking depression fact was
that mortality fell considerably. To listen
to the Calwells and Wards and Corn-
munists and radio moaners, you would
think that people perished in vast num-
bers, victims of malnutrition and o>.
diseases thereby caused. Nothing of tho
sort occurred. Subjoined are the crude
deathrates (number of deaths per 1000 or
annual mean population) for 12 years;
four depression years and four years be-
fore and after:
1926 .. 9.42
1927 .. 9.45
1928 .. 9.45
1929 .. 9.55
1930 .. 8.56
1931 .. 8.67
1932 . • 8-63
1933 . • 8.92
1934 .. 9.32
1935 •. 9.46
1936 . • 9.43
1937 • • 9.44
Number of deaths in 1927, a boom year,
was 58,282 ; in 1930, the first depression
year, 55,331. Deaths for the four years
1934-37 inclusive totalled 254,256; for
the four years 1930-33 inclusive, 227,765.
There is no thought of adducing these
figures as an argument for depressions;
but how the squealers and moaners would
perform if they were the other way
about!
Chamberlain Vindicated.
In his Empire Day speech on foreign
affairs, Mr, Churchill referred to Spain
and its Franco Government in terms
which must have made Left-Wing writ-
ing boys and radio spouters throughout
the English-speaking world utter wild
oaths or shed tears (more appropriate in
many cases) of baffled rage. Especially
must the young lions of the Sydney press
and A.J.A. and A.B.C. have felt the posi-
tion keenly. For here was their adored
P.M. in effect praising the non-interven-
tion policy of Neville Chamberlain, de-
nounced as a bungler and a betrayer in
a thousand fiery articles and A.B.C.
philippics—in the latter case with a
years-old prohibition of words for the
defence —and justifying his own accept-
ance of it by war-time results.
“War with Franco’s Spain!” has been
the cry of Communists and fellow-travel-
lers and other belligerent, home-keeping
Leftists for seven years, and it was not
muted when, as Mr. Churchill pointed
out, “Spain’s power to injure us was at
its height.” That was when the success-
ful Anglo-American expedition to North-
west Africa was being prepared.
For a month before zero hour we had
sometimes 600 aircraft crowded into the
airfield on Gibraltar, in full range and in
full view of Spanish batteries. In those
critical and most anxious days it was diffi-
cult for the Spaniards to believe that all
the ’planes were intended to reinforce
Malta, but they continued absolutely
friendly and tranquil.
At Gibraltar enormous numbers of ships
were anchored inside the bay. Algeciras
[the Spanish port five miles from “Gib.”]
was always in command of the Spanish
shore guns. We should have suffered very
great inconvenience if we had been ordered
to remove our ships. If we had been, I
do not know how the vast convoys could
have been marshalled. I shall always con-
sidfcr that a service rendered by Spain to
the cause of the United Nations.
And, as if Left-Wing stomachs weren't
already turning, there was worse to come.
I have no sympathy wkh those who think
it clever or even funny, to insult and abuse
the Government of Spain whenever the occa-
sion serves. 1 am glad that, after prolonged
negotiations, satisfactory arrangements have
been made with Spain regarding Italian
ships in Spanish harbors, the closing of the
German Consulate at Tangier and the re-
duction of wolfram exports to Germany to
a few lorryloads a month. I am here to-
day to speak kindly words about Spain, and
to add that I hope she will be a string
influence for peace in the Mediterranean
after the war.
This magnificent vindication of Cham-
berlain’s policy closed with a tribute to
his Foreign Secretary, the almost equally
hated Hoare.
The policy was not originated by Cham-
berlain, but was wisely adapted by him
from maxims which have guided the
Foreign Office for generations. Though
no actual prescription is on record, it
may be written in these words:
Keep out of Spain! If internal strife
breaks out, let the Spaniards attend to it
themselves, even if it flames into civil war.
For Britain to interfere would mean, for a
certainty, incurring the violent hatred of
one of the contending parties, and probably
of both in the long run, the Spaniard being
a proud and combustible fellow; and this
hatred would endure. What is more, it
would mean buying trouble in nasty forms
with many nations on which Spain has
stamped its culture, and offending many
millions of people of the same faith in the
British Empire and the U.S.A. It might
lead to a world war in which the hostility
of Spain and its former colonies and the
alienation of co-religionists would at least
be awkward, probably dangerous, conceiv-
ably disastrous. So keep out of Spain.
Germany, Italy, Russia and France,
through its Communist party, intervened
in the Spanish civil war. Whether they
backed the side that won or the side that
lost, what did any of them gain in the
end? The only country that has bene-
fited from its Spanish policy is the
country that did not intervene —thanks to
wise old Chamberlain.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not So "Sweeping."
During the last week of the N.S.W. elec-
tion campaign voters were given plenty
of food for thought, if not for the ordi-
nary processes of mastication and diges-
tion.
Coal Commissioner Mighell, who,
when the Japanese conquests were at high
tide and invasion of Australia seemed
imminent, had to put up with the with-
drawal of 1600 fit men from the coal-
mines by the N.S.W. Labor Government,
announced that coal reserves were ex-
hausted, and that the country would
now have to depend on day-to-day sup-
plies. Housewives learned that, when it
was impossible for them to buy eggs, the
weekly allowance for Egg Board em-
ployees, down to the office boy, was four
dozen a week. And the charge was made,
and not explicitly refuted, that the object
for which meat rationing was introduced,
the increase of supplies for Britain, which
with the influx of vast numbers of fight-
ing men for the invasion of western
Europe has to feed a far greater population
than ever before, had not been attained
in N. S. Wales because of the evil strikes
and stoppages of an unpunished mob at
the Government’s Homebush abattoirs.
Had the facts about fuel, food and
clothing and the booze, gambling, taxi
and union rackets and the blafck markets
been placed before the electors by way
of calling N.S.W. Labor to account for
its sins of commission and omission, it
would have been hard pressed, its 56
seats in the last Assembly (90 members)
notwithstanding. Women are in the
majority in most metropolitan electorates.
A daily press such as that with which men
like Tom Courtney were associated could
have mobilised them against the party
responsible for what they have had to
put up with and what was coming to
them —reduced milk and butter rations
were announced in Monday’s papers. But
the journals for which these men wrought
chose tp be kind to Labor to the last. Both
morning papers came out with articles
in which they pronounced the election a
cakewalk for it, conveying the impression
—as did nearly all the other papers —that
it would be wasting ballot-papers to oppose
it. And, with hundreds of thousands of
votes still to be counted, “S. M, Herald”
smugly congratulated Mr. McKell on his
“sweeping victory.... won on a sound
record and policy.”
In point of fact, his personal majority
was substantially reduced by a Lang
Labor man who, according to the Pre-
mier’s account, was unknown to the mass
of Redfern electors. With a makeshift
organisation and a scratch team of can-
didates, Lang Labor did other striking
things—held Auburn easily, unseated ex-
Speaker Burke in Newtown, brought
gloomy half-hours to the present Speaker,
Mr. Clyne, in King and to Minister Mc-
Girr in Bankstownf and reduced the
members for Bondi, Concord, North Syd-
ney, Drummoyne and Dulwich Hill to a
still-anxious dependence on Lang Labor
preferences. . The Country party, harder
hit by war conditions than any other
group, also polled strongly, and may
come back with another couple of seats.
Most of the Independent members will
be returned. Lord Mayor Bartley, how-
ever, though he had Labor support in
Woollahra, failed badly. The Liberal
Democrats fared still worse, and should
now go out of existence. The Democrats,
late U.A.P., did as well as could be ex-
pected, considering their lack of news-
paper support, internal divisions, change
of name and indifferent leadership, which
missed many chances. They could learn
a great deal from Mr, Playford and Mr.
Dunstan, and not a little from Mr.
Chandler,
"Industrial Conscription."
Mr. Curtin did a bit of electioneering
for Mr. McKell by cable, and Mr. Forde
was busy on the same tack with promises
of subsidised milk and more baby linen
and so forth for electresses. He was
shocked out of this blithe occupation by
the news that the N.S.W. Full Court had
quashed the convictions of two persons
for breaches of regulations under which
they were ordered into jobs at private-
enterprise factories. The Court held that
Man-power regulation 15, under which
Man-power may direct any person in
Australia to go into the service of a speci-
fied employer and direct the employer to
employ him or her on specified terms,
exceeded powers conferred in the
National Security Act in that it provided
for “the imposition of a form of indus-
trial conscription,” and was, in fact,
thoroughly bad. An anguished cry from
Mr. Forde ended with the statement that
there would be an immediate High Court
appeal.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Jordan never
minces his words when he has to deal
with what, to him, are wrongs committed
in the name of the law. Referring to
Man-power regulations 13 and 15, under
which swarms of Australians have been
man-powered into private employment,
his Honor said that “Read according to
their natural construction, they would,
if valid, reduce the population of Aus-
tralia to a state of serfdom more abject
than any which obtained in the Middle
Ages.”
No one may employ anyone to do any-
thing except by permission of a Govern-
ment official. Any citizen must work for
any employer at the dictation of a Gov-
ernment official, and must not leave his em-
ployment without the permission of a Gov-
ernment official. Any employer must em-
ploy and pay any person whom a Gov-
ernment official may impose upon him.
There is nothing in Section -I3A of the
National Security Act which authorises the
executive Government to impose upon the
people of Australia the status of villeinage.
The National Security Act was a Menzies
measure. The power taken to direct
thousands of persons into private em-
ployment, and expressed in the priceless
words “I could send you to Bourke if I
liked,” arrived with Mr, Ward, as Minis-
ter of Labor and National Service, being
a first instalment of the “socialisation”
which so attracts him and his Communist
friends.
Granary to Desert.
About 20 years ago the traveller through
Victoria could see exciting posters on
railway stations. They bore a picture of
a golden wheatfield and a legend “The
Mallee, the Granary of Victoria.” This
month, H. Hanslow, of the Rivers and
Water Supply Commission, reported on
his commission’s soil-drift-control com-
petition,
‘The commission has had to do some-
thing about soil drift in self-defence. It
has been costing £lOO,OOO a year to keep
water channels free of sand. It costs rail
and road authorities big annual sums for
the same purpose.
Mr. Hanslow’s report says that in parts
of the Mallee conditions can only be
described as awful:
Channels filled with drifting sand, many
dams full of sand, fences down because
the surface has been blown away from
the posts, roads impassable, sand piled
yards high, stumps of trees standing feet'
high above the clay and limestone from
which the topsoil is blown away.
The report is accompanied by photo-
graphs that should shock Australia to its
soul—if Australia has a soul where land
matters are concerned. “To those who
travel with their eyes open,” the report
says, “it seems probable that if we do
not mend our ways and conserve our soils
more and exploit them less, we will in
the not far distant future be unable to
carry even our present population.”
For not only in the Mallee is Australia
losing topsoil at a rate that scares stiff
those who know about it. Other men in
other parts are trying to do something
and to awaken the nation to its peril. But
their efforts are puny against the steady
onslaughts of wind and water and against
the persistent refusal of Governments to
recognise the tragedy. The ignorance of
city and town dwellers is not altogether
their fault, for they seldom hear about
erosion. Yet Mrs. Roosevelt, flying over
the country, couldn’t refrain from seeing
and commenting upon it. If that good
lady knew how little was being done
she’d be horrified, for in her country the
whole nation was made suddenly aware
of erosion and its national resources
were thrown into the work of rescue.
There are men who think this country
worth dying for. They come from all
parts of it. They have been promised,
by politicians and professors and others,
“reconstruction” after the war. But in
these promises preventing and remedy-
ing of erosion isn’t listed as a great
national work, though if anything has
been destroyed, and is still being
destroyed, in Australia it is Australia’s
soil.
“We will, in the not far distant future,
be unable to carry even our present popu-
lation.” Ominous words and warranted,
they should stir the nation into demand-
ing, not the fiddling little research stations
here and there, but a great Common-
wealth soil authority with adequate
power, staff and finance to do the job.
Housing, health, employment, wage stand-
ards, all are insignificant against this
crying need. None of them will be worth
a tinker’s curse in a desert continent.
When Equity Isn't.
Webster’s Dictionary thus defines it:
“Equity: State or quality of being equal
or fair ; fairness in dealing. Syn.: Rights,
rectitude, fairness, honesty, uprightness.”
There is nothing equal, fair, right or
honest about forcing or trying to force
a person to join an organisation which
the person doesn’t wish to join, whether
it be a mothers’ club or an industrial
union. That is what Actors’ Equity, a
union under Left-Wing control, has been
trying to do with its theatre strikes in
Sydney and Melbourne, and, as usual,
the public suffers.
Members of the casts of “Lilac Time”
and “The Wind and the Rain,” both at
the Royal, Sydney, and of “Katinka”
and “Kiss and Tell” at His Majesty’s and
the Comedy, Melbourne, refused to join
the union. Gladys Moncrieff, star of
“Katinka,” gave her reasons:
Intimidation is the chief means used to
persuade artists to join its [Equity] ranks
and I will not stand for that. 1 am 100
per cent. Equity, but not along the lines on
which it is run in this country. I am
not a member of Equity, but Mr. Alex-
ander, the secretary, is trying to force
my hand, and the hands of other leading
players....
I resigned from Equity following an un-
pleasantness concerning a charity perform-
ance in Sydney Leading artists gave
their services free to provide bundles for
Britain Equity demanded that we should
be paid salaries for this show Ever since
Equity has tried to persuade me to recon-
sider my action, but so long as they have
persisted with intimidation methods I have
refused.
And intimidation, of course, is what the
strike amounted to. The theatre manage-
ments carried on without the strikers, run-
ning shows without chorus or ballet and
filling up with excerpts from Gilbert and
Sullivan. At one theatre vaudeville was
substituted, the proceeds going to the
Australian Comforts Fund. There were
pickets, booing, distribution of leaflets
—all the accompaniments of Left-Wing
unionism on the rampage.
Art and unionism don’t mix. No actor,
author, musician, poet, dancer or juggler
can become a top-liner simply because
he or she is a good unionist. And since
art is nothing if not individualist, indi-
vidual rights have to be respected.
Also calling for the respect of the
strikers is the old Firm. It could
close its theatres tomorrow, hand them
over to picture interests and show a
bigger profit than in staging flesh-and-
blood shows. In that event, all the
strikers could expect would be a call-up
from Man-power and dispatch to the
nearest Government cannery.
Another Optimist.
In an “Agricultural Gazette” article
K. G. Cam, “Assistant Deputy Director-
General of Man-power (N.5.W.),” re-
views the food position:
Without quoting figures it may be said
that production of foodstuffs in N.S.W. at
present has attained a very high level. The
sheep figures are near a record and meat
processed last year exceeded the target set.
The wheat yield was very high over a low
acreage, while green vegetable production
is at a record figure, and the same applies
to potatoes, peas and rice. Egg produc-
tion is high, and milk is showing signs of
reaching a satisfactory target.
It may be read by farmers with
hilarity, but there will be no bursts of
mirth from housewives whose milk and
butter ration have been cut.
EMPIRE DAY CEREMONY.
“Bless my soul if it isn’t Honest John Curtin and Bert Evatt!”


10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
ueaU Ae/mtaMofv
)
fviaualitu'
Witt
i
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 9
POLITICAL POINTS
“I am proud indeed that my Govern-
ment has retained the majority the elec-
tors. gave it three years ago.”—McKell
on Monday. Actually, ex-Speaker Burke
was then a gone coon in Newtown,
O’Halloran’s lead in Orange was precari-
ous and dyne’s in King was by no
means unassailable. Moreover, Landa
(Bondi), Carlton (Concord), Greig (Drum-
moyne), Geraghty (North Sydney) and
Weir, (Dulwich Hill) had much less than
half the total votes. So had Stanley in
Lakemba. Communist preferences seemed
likely to put Stanley in, but friends of
Landa, for one, would have sold out
cheap.
Francis Michael Burke, ousted from
the Newtown Assembly seat, has sat in
the Assembly with McKell since March
24, 1917. The N.S.W. Parliament they
entered together was the 24th —in the
twelfth (1885-87) Michael Burke, Frank’s
father, was M.L.A. for Tamworth. The
son never had a sniff of office, but was
Speaker for 19 months (1930-32). He was
a Lang man then, before and afterwards,
and it was his fate to be beaten by a
Lang woman, Mrs. Fowler.
Chandler’s success in Queensland seems
to have inspired Sydney Lord Mayor
Bartley to stand for Woollahra, and per-
haps if he had got in he would have
formed a party, as the Brisbane man did.
Bartley flopped so heavily that he is un-
likely to have another try, much less
launch a Bartley party. The story goes
that he wanted to come out for Bondi,
and was persuaded to have a cut at Treatt
by a promise of Labor support—undeli-
vered because a Labor man stood with-
out endorsement.
Dr. Evatt can have no illusions about
the N.S.W. election polling. McKell
Labor was the only pro-referendum party
in the field, and even the doting “S. M.
Herald” had to admit that Saturday’s
counting gave it only 45.47 p.c. of the
votes in 74 contested electorates.
Having voted the McKell Labor Gov-
ernment back to power on Saturday,
N.S.W. electors arose on Monday to find
their metropolitan milk cut down again
and the butter ration about to be
dropped 2oz. a*week. Soldiers back from
New Guinea smiled cynically. Before the
Commonwealth election they got a won-
derful meat issue. When their votes were
in they were put back on “bully.”
Without mentioning the Russo-Jap
agreements, Eden said in the debate on
foreign affairs that in respect of Anglo-
Russian relations there were “certain diffi-
culties to be surmounted.” Our Dominion
oath!
On the eminent authority of the Sydney
“Sun,” a U.S.A. questionnaire, taken by
somebody somehow, showed that, “of
approximately 90,000,000 adult Ameri-
cans,” vast numbers didn’t know that the
Japanese have occupied the Philippines
(27,000,000) and Wake Island (50,000,000),
that there are such things as the Atlantic
Charter (60,000,000), reverse lend-lease
(50,000,000) and the United Nations
(“57,000,000 failed to name Canada”),
and that “a two-thirds Senate majority is
necessary to ratify any foreign treaty”
(nearly 65,000,000). When the paper’s
own' “representative asked several Ameri-
cans if they knew Australia’s geqgraphi-
cal location, one suggested the Channel
Islands, another hazarded ‘Near Iceland,’
most people questioned believed Aus-
tralia was still a colony, some hoped
that as a result of America’s war effort
she will ‘gain her independence.’ ” Yet
three days later the “Sun” published this
cable from Beasley to McKell:
Achievements of Labor Governments are
freely recognised in this country, together
with your personal efforts and those of
your Government.
What a whopper!
Dunstan cast up in Echuca last week
and said the Riverina should belong to
Victoria. He’s wrong, of course. The
Riverina should belong to Riverina, with
Riverina affairs run by a Regional Coun-
cil and national affairs run by a national
Parliament. And that goes for other
regions.
Somebody has published in leaflet form
the attendances of 79-yearold David
Gordon, President of S.A.’s Leg. Council.
Since he entered the House in 1913 there
have been 1199 sittings, and he missed
41—ten absences were accounted for
while he was away in Geneva in 1927.
After he became President in 1932, he
attended all sittings till last year, when
he missed one, making his score 490 out
of 491. He retired in April. The House
of Reps, might profitably adopt David
as its pin-up boy.
The latest novelty in strikes in Mel-
bourne was the refusal of members of
“Nothing for you, Jacko. Everything’s off.”
“We have not put any pressure on Turkey other than the pressure of argument and not
giving supplies.”— Mr. Churchill.
the Undertakers’ Assistants and Cemetery
Employees’ Union to fill in the grave of
a soldipr at Springvale Cemetery because
the cortege arrived five minutes after
eleven on a Saturday morning. The union
has decided not to work on Saturday
funerals after eleven, although its knock-
off time is midday. Two of the soldier’s
cobbers filled the grave in.
When it came out that Sydney Egg
Board employees had been getting 48 eggs
a week when other people would have
crawled a mile on their hands and knees
to get one egg, a first-class howl broke
out. But everybody ought to know that if
you belong to a commodity board you are
entitled to a special issue of what’s going.
That is one of the inestimable benefits
of socialism and its concomitants of
boardism, rationism and queueism, and
if you don’t like it you can lump it.
When a paper changes its policy liaison
work is apt to suffer. In two leading
articles “S. M. Herald” pronounced the
N.S.W. election a .walkover for Labor.
In two special articles a staff man went to
great pains to demonstrate that Labor
could lose 11 seats, which would leave
it without a majority.
Opening a full-dress debate on foreign
affairs, Churchill confessed that “the
hopes we cherished that Turkey would
boldly enter the war in February or
March, or at least would accord us the
necessary bases for air action, have
faded” ; and he chided the Turks for their
reluctance, albeit gently. He didn’t go
into their reasons for hanging back, but
the main one sticks out a mile—Moscow.
Alliance with Russia is a military asset-
in Europe ; there is none in Asia, save
for the purpose of getting American sup-
plies through Iran—but, in respect of the
neutrals at least, it is a political liability.
First on a list of speakers at a Manly
election meeting, as advertised in the
local paper:—
Hon. E. J. Ward, Transport and
External Territories. Just Back in Australia
from the A.I.F. New Guinea.
Perhaps he’s been recommended for the
V.C. for taking Sattelberg,
Just when Sydney people were noting
with approval a sudden and very neces-
sary increase in the punishment for crimes
of violence —two ruffians in uniform with
bad military records got ten years for
gouging out an Allied service man’s eye
with a broken bottle —it was noised
abroad that two prisoners, one under a
six years’ sentence, had escaped from
Long Bay jail. A newspaper report says
they were “recaptured at revolver point
after 2000 police had searched for them
nearly 12 hours.” Two thousand police!
Enough, one would think, to round up
all the racketeers and black-marketeers
that pollute the city, but not one of these
scoundrels is caught in a blue moon.
From the mild and careful “Christian
Science Monitor”:
The Japanese surrender of oil and coal
concessions on North Sakhalin [no longer
needed, since ample coal can be got from
China and fivers of oil from the Indies]
followed swiftly on another diplomatic
demarche. The Russians announced the
renewal of Japanese fishing privileges in
Far Eastern waters. The agreement is
for five years, in contrast to previous one-
year agreements.
From these waters the Japs draw im-
mense supplies of sea-food, among them
the crab meat which was an important
item of export before the war. One of
the parties to the agreements and the neu-
trality pact has now consented to
“approach” the other “on the subject of
Allied prisoners of war and internees in
Japanese hands.” A Washington report
issued by the State Department —not
Congressman Bridges or Maas —says
“this development is regarded as very
hopeful, as Russia’s voice is known to
cany great weight in Japan.”
A State A.L.P. conference attempt to
introduce a 65-years age-limit for Tas-
manian politicians was triumphantly re-
pelled by Dwyer-Gray on the eve of his
74th birthday, and his sympathisers re-
appointed him party treasurer and
Federal A.L.P. delegate. There has been
no such move in Westralia, though State
politicians there, as in the Speck, are a
thought elderly. Labor’s oldest, J. M.
Drew, has in his 79th year been re-elected
for another six years’ term as M.L.C. for
the Central Province. Not a Labor man
when the first Labor Ministry arrived in
1904, Drew served in that and three
subsequent Labor Administrations —15
years altogether. Like Dwyer-Gray, he
is a journalist.
According to Barnard, M.H.R., who
was with Beasley at Philadelphia,
“most delegates at the 1.L.0. conference
were amazed at what Australia has done
for social-security.” If they could come
to Australia they’d be still more amazed.
Canberra proposes the color-branding
of meat so the public may know the dif-
ferent grades. Sydney people have no
objections, provided the State employees
at the State abattoirs at Homebush can
be persuaded to kill the meat.
After expressing serious concern at
the increasing incidence of v.d. among
young women and the decline of
the birthrate, Health Minister Fraser
told the National Health and Medical
Research Council that another £25,000
would be granted for the fight against
v.d. Meantime, Kew (Vic.) Council
threatens legal action to prevent a clinic
being established in Kew, and it is not
unreasonable to suppose that other Mel-
bourne suburbs would do likewise. The
project is being financed by the State
Government on a Commonwealth grant
of £5OOO to be used for setting up centres
for the treatment of women and girls who
are a menace to military camps. Per-
haps some of the money could Be spent
on the education of the Kew council.
A survey of the Federal public ser-
vice shows that numbers—exclusive of
service men, munitioneers, etc. —increased
from 48,000 in 1939 to 88,000 at the end
of 1943. There has been no correspond-
ing drop in numbers of State public ser-
vants, Provided the figures keep growing
at their present rate, the time is well
within sight when the few people not
public servants in this country will be
hatters on the Murray and beachcombers
on the Barrier Reef.
From alongside a copy file:
The gyrations of a Left-Wing group which
secured a precarious—very precarious—control
of the Sydney branch of the newpapermen’s
union (A.J.A.) have been a source of annoy-
ance, then of amusement, to other newspaper-
men. In its prosperous days the group took
the branch into the semi-Communist Labor
Council and joined in the attempted boycott of
Sydney University’s W.E.A. because a W.E.A
man, lecturing on the Russian Revolution,
hadn’t grovelled to Stalinism. If also brought
forth a code of ethics, complete with com-
mittee, and planted the idea on the State
Labor party. The code of ethics has been
availed of by Ward and by union and A.L.P.
bosses to try to get home on newspapers and
newspapermen they dislike. But in Sydney it
has nearly gone west as a result of one of its
projectors having to decide (1) whether its a
newspaper employee he should approve of his
newspaper being suppressed for a day by the
censor; (2) whether as a Labor Council dele-
gate he should speak in the Domain for the
suppression. Meanwhile the idea had caught
on in other but a gale of laughter
whirled along the Victorian Inky Way when it
came out that Archbishop Mannix had been
induced to give the Left-Wing stunt his bless-
ing. This charming development and the
comedy of divided loyalties in which the ethics
gentleman had landed himself in Sydney stimu-
lated interest in the affairs of the union, which
previously suffered from inertia, as do so many
other unions—hence the ascendancy of Left-
Wing groups. A proposal from Sydney that
the A.J.A. should come out strong for the
Evatt Powers Bill was turned down flat by
branches in other States. Another proposal
from Sydney that the union should join the
A.C.T.U., which is composed of Labor Council
delegates, was rejected most emphatically by
members. Ayes, 389; noes, 843.


f
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
As this page’s interests go, nothing very
remarkable happened in the N.S.W. vot-
ing, except the election of a grandmother
—it should be said one with a punch
to represent industrial suburban New-
town, Mrs. Lilian Fowler outing Frank
Burke, who had held the seat for 27 years
and was last seen lugubriously singing
“Lay That Pistol Down,” with Jack Lang
representing Noises Off. Burke’s very
helpful supporter for some 20 years, Mrs.
Fowler broke with him after he’d broken
with Jack in favor of again-returned
Premier McKell. First woman mayor in
the Commonwealth (for Newtown, 1938-
39), the new lady member —making two
in the Macquarie-street House; Mrs.
Quirk, McKell supporter from neighbor-
ing Balmain, is the other one —has t>een
a Newtown councillor for 15 years.
Naturally showing kittenish delight,
Granny “Herald” welcomed the new
member as “Lil.”
Confounding the medico “stipes,” J. F.
Dexter (“Pilot”) was out keeping his ex-
pert eye on the horses at Randwick on
Saturday, as he’s been doing now for up-
wards of half a century. He was writing
for the old “Referee” in the ’nineties,
when its fairly frequent editors had in-
cluded Nat Gould. Before “Pilot” joined
its staff the “Ref.,” when it ran out of
an editor, used to send for him to help
it through. It was round about 1895 that
he first put up “Pilot” as his sign in its
pages. When he ambled into The Bul-
letin office last Friday he was still on the
weak side from his severe illness ; but, as
one who knows him extra well re-
marked when it was suggested that he
shouldn’t be going to Randwick yet,
“You try to keep him away!” “Pilot”
has a couple of sons in the A.1.F,, but
denies that he’s thinking of joining it
himself.
Flying is certainly a strong element in
the Kingsford Smith breed. All three
sons of the Neutral Bay, Sydney, family
of the famous name are in the R.A.A.F.;
they are nephews of the great “Kingy.”
The youngest of them, Wing-Commander
Rollo Kingsford Smith, now wears a
D.F.C. in Britain. The eldest, John, is
a squadron-leader up north, and the
other, Peter, a flying officer, is p.o.w. in
Germany.
Evidently they have a special liking
for Diggers in S.A., where one is Premier,
and now another. Superintendent W. F.
Johns, succeeds yet another, retiring
Brig.-Gen. R. L. Leane, as* Commissioner
of Police. Third in the S.A. force to
become Commissioner after serving in all
ranks, Johns joined in 1906, and has had
charge of the police college scheme since
its inception in 1934, Now 59, he was
with the 9th Light Horse in Palestine.
Corrected spelling:
A wrong spelling of A.B.C. war correspon-
dent Haydon Lennard’s first name has served
the useful purpose of bringing in some informa-
tion about another Haydon—James of that ilk,
after whom young Lennard was named. James
Haydon, headmaster at Tighe’s Hill (N.S.W.)
when young Lennard’s father was assistant
teacher there, so emphatically refused to let a leg
crippled from early childhood handicap him
that he not only became a teacher with the
department’s highest certificate and an amateur
master of the ancient craft of carpentry but on
wallaby shoots in the ranges around Walcha
got along with his crutch as well as the next
man with two sound legs. As a choirmaster
he wrote his own voluntaries if some phrase
or theme came into his head, and he harmon-
ised easily and beautifully. Having his 1A
certificate and no further need to study, he
amused himself by taking honors in umpteen
sciences at Newcastle Tech, under John
Mitchell; to all of which can be added a most
exact knowledge of maths. Retired long since,
James Haydon writes an extraordinarily neat
fist. A sample of this, written at 80, was sent
along by a warm admirer with an offer to buy
drinks if anyone on The Bulletin staff could
do belter. If the sender only knew by what
a margin in caligraphy he was there backing
an absolute cert, he wouldn’t make an offer so
miragelike as that. If it comes to the worst
handwriting, all suitable offers gratefully
accepted.
Dr. Edmond Parnes, appointed liaison
officer to the Consul-General of Poland
in Melbourne, isn’t likely to need much
interpreter aid. He speaks 12 languages,
and teaches six at Geelong Grammar,
where he is master of European
history. A member of the Polish
diplomatic corps and correspondent for
several papers at Vienna before Hitler
slopped over Europe, Dr. Parnes escaped
into Russia just ahead of the German
invaders of Poland and came to Aus-
tralia in 1940.
Edwin McArthur, the likeable Yank
here snared by Frith, goes about the
world with the pleasing notion that there’s
more neglected native talent lying about
than anybody knows. “Mac’s” a musi-
cian—on loan from the U.S. Army to
conduct A.B.C. concerts in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane —but he believes his
notion applies to all arts and crafts.
Somebody was incautious enough to ask
him what he thought of Australia as an
incubator of musical talent, whereupon
CONDUCTOR McARTHUR.
he hurled back Melba, Brownlee and
Lawrence, and demanded to know where
you could find better. First native-born
American to conduct at the Metropolitan
Opera House, New York, Edwin Mc-
Arthur was here in 1938 as Kirsten Flag-
stad’s accompanist, and is mighty pleased
young Australians Allison Nelson and
Mary McLeod are to be his soloists, along
with Haydn Beck and violin. McArthur
has been entertaining his compatriots on
the battlefronts, and, since he couldn’t
drag a piano around with him, taught
himself the piano-accordion He con-
fesses to a liking for the “squeezebox.”
Auckland (M.L.) Masonry has been cele-
brating the 50 years’ membership of Oliver
Nicholson, the banker. Now 80, Nichol-
son in his half-century has installed 1300
masters —held to be a record —and opened
50 lodges. Except for a bried period, he’s
been provincial grand master of Auck-
land district' for 40 years, as well as a
past grand of N.Z.
When cables a while back mentioned
that “King George VI misses his cigars”
the Kings of America decided to do some-
thing about it. Two of them, daughters
of Robert N. King, a New York lawyer,
roped in, per mail, upwards of 500 others
named King, and a magnificent stack of
king-sized cigars was built up for presen-
tation. King George having been duly
informed through the British Embassy
Washington, it was diplomatically ar-*
ranged that the smokes should be distri-
buted among war veterans in the United
States. Thereupon the Kings of America
handed them to British sailors of H.M.S.
Asbury who happened to be convalesc-
ing in America. An accompanying
richly-decorated scroll, expressing such
sentiments as “lasting friendliness be-
tween two great nations” and signed by
the Kings of America, has gone to Buck-
ingham Palace. One of the American
Kings dipped his pen in a stronger brand
of sentiment: “Let the King enjoy the
cigars while Hitler burns.”
“Simon”; George Henry Cohen, in his
86th year proprietor of the Mudgee
(N.S.W.)-“Mail,” should about hold the
long-distance record for active newspaper
ownership. In his early teens his father,
a Hebrew barber, set him and the late
Ted Richards, M.L.A., up in the old
Mudgee “Independent.” In this paper
appeared the first verses of Henry Law-
son, written when a lad. When the steer-
ing gear of the “Independent” jammed
George Cohen launched the Mudgee
“Guardian,” and when the exigencies of
country pressdom brought the “Guar-
dian” under a new captain he quickly
hoisted the Blue Peter on a new venture,
the Mudgee “Mail.” That was 13 years
ago, and any day Cohen may be seen at
his case setting stick for stick with the
best —without glasses.
Figuring in a recent story by one of
the “S. M. Herald’s” war correspondents,
Jerry Pentland has been a very useful
man round about New Guinea since the
fighting started there, as he was before
that. An extreme old-timer as flying men
go—foundation member of the R.A.A.F.
and a last-war fighter pilot with 23 Ger-
man ’planes in his bag—he has had more
than 2000 flying hours over New Guinea
since he began flying in 1927, a pioneer
of New Guinea Air Services, earning the
fabulous pockey-money of £lOO a day
taking freight and passengers to the gold-
fields. In this war he has led an R.A.A.F.
rescue squadron, responsible for saving
many a fine fellow who would otherwise
have perished in the wilds or in the sea.
Had a 91st birthday in Adelaide —he
sang to his guests a ballad from “Mari-
tana” —Washington Goodfellow. He
claims to have sold books to Mark Twain
and, as a boy, a race-card to Adam
Lindsay Gordon.
Born in Queensland 37 years ago, Com-
mander G. O. G. Gatacre, D.S.C., R.A.N.,
was the youngest Australian holding that
rank when it came his way in 1941, just 20
years after he’d set foot inside the R.A.N.
College at Jervis Bay, He went to sea
in 1925, was for a while on the China
station in H.M.A.S. Brisbane, then over
to the Mediterranean with H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne. While doing courses he became
the first Australian to play cricket for the
Royal Navy, and the same year qualified
in bayonet-fighting and fencing for the
Services Assault at Arms at Olympia.
Joining H.M.A.S. Canberra when she was
commissioned, he kept his sporting hand
in by routing at Durban an eleven which
included some of the South African Test
stars, who were about to leave for Eng-
land. Later flag-lieutenant to both Com-
modore Holbrook and Rear-Admiral Dal-
gleesh, Gatacre subsequently saw service
round about Spain in H.M.S. Devonshire,
which was bombed at Minorca while
evacuating 700 refugees. First with Edin-
GATACRE, D.S.C. AND BAR.
burgh and then with Rodney, he’s seen
service in the present war in the North
Sea, Arctic, North and South Atlantic and
Mediterranean, with a “mention” for the
North Sea job and a D.S.C. for his part
in the tracking down and sinking of the
Bismarck. Since then he’s been in with
them for the Guadalcanal, Arawe, Cape
Gloucester and Admiralties assaults, win-
ning a bar to his D.S.C. at Guadalcanal.
The citation accompanying the M.B.E.
(military) awarded to Chaplain Captain
Patrick O’Keeffe (A.1.F.) put on record
that “his total disregard of personal safety
inspired all ranks.” On “innumerable
occasions” he had exposed himself to
danger “to render aid to the wounded in
the forefront of the battle” —that is, in
the New Guinea fighting. A Victorian,
the chaplain was ordained in 1933. A
while back malaria knocked him out for
a while, but he’s since gone back to his
unit.
Sir Raghunath Paranjpye, appointed
High Commissioner for India in Aus-
tralia, headed the list in all his Uni-
versity exams, in India, went to Cam-
bridge as a Government scholar and re-
turned to his homeland in 1901. There
he took a leading role in political, social
and educational movements, and was
Minister of Education in the Bombay
Presidency. For six years he was Vice-
Chancellor of the University of Luck-
now, where Burley Griffin, the designer
of Canberra, died.
“Cauboy”: Veteran busker and pro-
ducer Sir John Martin Harvey, passed on
at 77 in England, was 14 when the foot-
lights lured him away from naval archi-
tecture to appear in a pious piece called
“To Parents and Guardians” at the Court
Theatre. His subsequent appearances
comprise almost a complete list of the
drama, good, bad and indifferent. His
finest performance was probably in “The
Only Way,” dramatised from Dickens’s
Tale of Two Cities. Sir John once thought
of an Australian tour, but never made it.
Son Michael came with Dame Sybil
Thorndike, and made his first appearance
in Shaw’s “St. Joan” in Melbourne.
Also, daughter Muriel was here in that
nightmare opus “The Cat and the
Canary.”
Peter Belmont Newcomen, Queensland
Graziers’ new president, has been through
drought, blowfly waves, footrot, man-
power shortages and what-have-you. His
family is that which helped to put Angle-
dool and Belmont Park on the N.S.W.
map, and when Peter got to Queensland
he first took over Noorendoo, near Surat,
then sold it to the Governor’s son, and
bought Pine Hills, at Tallwood. He’s
kept an interest in Gunyeanna, Garah
(N.S.W.). A man who knows the way
of sheep—and politicians—Newcomen
has been president of the Maranoa, St.
George and Tallwood-Bunguuya graziers’
associations. At 49 he’s as wiry as a
western wether.
“MX”: Commander Neil Mackinnon
(B. 17/5/ ’44) was King’s Medallist at the
R.A.N. College in 1920; another Gee-
long Grammarian, Lieut.-Commander
Arnold Green, D.S.C., was Chief Cadet
Captain. Green won his decoration whilst
a liaison officer in the Libyan fighting.
Into the silence:
At Auckland, at 80, Captain Coll McDonald,
one of M.L.’s best-known shipping men. A
Scot, he landed in Auckland in 1883 and in
1906 became assistant U.S.S. superintendent
when headquarters were in Dunedin; chief
super, in 1914.
In Tunisia, Madame Rene Vernon, Maoriland
artist, better known by her maiden name Beatrix
Dobie. M.L. galleries contain much of the
work she did before going abroad. She mar-
ried Rene. Vernon, a French Army captain, and,
living 60 miles from Bizerta, she refused to
leave while ironmongery was flying around
thereabouts, and she was at home to all New
Zealanders when the Eighth Army blew along.
At 58, Dr. J. Grantley Shelton, one of a trio
of medical brothers. Born at Warrnambool and
educated at South Melbourne College (con-
ducted by poet J. B. O’Hara), he graduated at
Melbourne University M. 8., 8.5., heading the
final honors list, and, after a term as Resident
M.O. at Royal Melbourne, practised in Malvern
and Collins-street, and was hon. out-patient
surgeon at St. Vincent’s. Keenly interested in
racing, he was a committeeman of Mentone
and Epsom. A son, Flight-Lieut. John Shelton,
is with the R.A.A.F. Medical Services in New
Guinea.
In Hobart, at 82, Arthur Crosby Walch, for-
merly partner in a leading Tasmanian firm of
merchants. His children include two Hobart
doctors.
At Reading (Eng.), Capt. Richard Huth
Walters, D.S.O. Grandson of Capt. John Hart,
a former Premier of South Australia, and born
in that State, Capt. Walters was for three years
in charge of the naval station at Jervis Bay,
on loan from the Royal Navy.
In Adelaide, at 82, William Birnie, who had
50 years with the ’Wales Bank, in all the States
and in ML. as well. He ended as manager
in Adelaide, and settled there on retiring His
friends mostly called him “Skipper,” for his
yachtsman keenness.
At 65, in Melbourne, Loftus Henry Moran,
one of Melbourne’s leading teamen. A sufferef
from rheumatoid arthritis, he was well known
for his charitable efforts for the relief of
fellow-victims.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: It has just been revealed that
food boards give to their own employees
first whack of the produce they distribute.
Queensland Egg Board employees got
five dozen weekly, until some nark raised
a rumpus. The Sydney Egg Board issue
was four dozen a week, reduced by stages
to two dozen and half a dozen — p.c.
it is officially explained to enraged house-
wives who can’t get a goog for love
or money. I recall my experience
as a chilli-taster with the Birdseed
Board. As a 3rd Class taster I c
was expected to buy 481 b. of birdseed
weekly. In vain I protested. My only
pet was a fox-terrier, who non-co-opera-
tively preferred bones. When I was
made a 2nd Class taster my allowance
went up to a hundredweight weekly, but
when, with my rise to Ist Class taster, it
became two hundredweight (which I had
to lug home myself) I rebelled. Within
three years every room in the house was
chock-full of birdseed and we were all
sleeping in the bathroom. So I started
mucking up the job, hoping for demo-
tion (thereby causing great mortality
amongst canaries). Instead, I was ap-
pointed Taster-in-Chief and expected to.
buy two tons of birdseed a month. It
was the last straw, so I transferred to the
Main Roads Board, thinking I’d be safe
from unwanted products. So far I have
acquired 200 ft. of highway, half a
concrete bridge and 17 culverts. But I
don’t have to lug them about.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “In poetry,” writes “Tuart”
(B. 17/5/’44), “the ‘i’ in ‘wind’ should
always be given the ‘long’ sound,” A bit
too sweeping. Consider Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “Britomarte”:
She was iron-sinew’d and satin-skinn’d,
Ribb’d like a drum and limb’d like a deer;
Fierce as the fire and ffeet as the wind,
There was nothing she couldn’t climb or clear.
And even Swinburne, the greatest master
of rhyme in the English language, could
shorten the “i” when it suited him. In
his tribute to Victor Hugo we have;
Yet though all this be thus,
Be those men praised of us
Who have loved and wrought and sorrow’d and
not sinn’d
For fame or fear or gold.
Nor waxed for winter cold,
Nor changed for changes of the worldly wind.
So even A.B.C. verse-speakers are not
entirely destitude of authority for
“winnd.”
* * *. *
“Tuart”; The fighting for Ponte Corvo
in the Italian campaign recalls the
Frenchman who was Prince of Ponte
Corvo, his strange history and its bear-
ing on present-day affairs. He was Jean
Baptiste Jules Bemadotte, soldier of for-
tune. A revolutionary general before
Bonaparte, with a reputation solidly
based on military talents, but tricky, he
married a sister of Joseph Bonaparte’s
wife, and Napoleon, a good family man,
though disliking and mistrusting him,
made him a marshal of France, and gave
him his principality. Thinking to please
Napoleon, the Swedes in 1810 named
Bernadette crown prince by election,
with the right of succession to the throne;
Charles XIII being decrepit and childless.
Three years later Bernhdotte, who at once
became the virtual ruler of Sweden, had
turned against Napoleon and defended
the approaches to Berlin against fellow-
marshals Ney and Oudinot. The Eng-
lish shared Napoleon’s mistrust of him —
it was the only point on which they agreed
—for he had cynically used English subsi-
dies to finance the conquest of Norway.
Charles XIII dying in 1818, Bemadotte
became King of Sweden and Norway, and
reigned securely for 26 years till his death
on March 8, 1844. With one solitary and
now-precarious exception, the dynasty he
“Damn the fishing—think of the salvage !”
founded has outlasted all those which
were contemporaries in Europe, Bona-
partes, Bourbons, Hapsburgs, Hohen-
zollems, Wittelbachs, Braganzas and so
forth; emperors, sultans, kings (poor
little Savoy excepted) and reigning princes
have all gone, but the Bernadettes remain.
King Gustaf V, a great-grandson of Ber-
nadette, is the fifth sovereign of the
House of Ponte Corvo, and he has
children and grandchildren to carry
it on.
* * * *
The postmen’s marathon (B. 17/5/’44):
“K.G.C.”: C. Fowler leads “Lawnston’s”
nomination by thousands of miles. Postie at
Kyneton (Vic.) since 1910, in the first 23 years
he walked 129,168 miles. In the last 10 years
he has ridden a cycle 185,328 miles —all on
one round.
“Notslor”: My entrant is A. H. (“Pop”)
Cumberland, of Albion (Q.). In 47 years’ ser-
vice at the same post office he has covered on
foot 130,000 miles. He has ridden (per horse
and bicycle) an additional 75,000 miles. Still
going strong.
* * * *
“Jakem”: Believe it or not, a Vic-
torian landowner on receiving an assess-
ment of £1 12s. 9d. on a property valued
at £438, sent back a cheque for £438. The
clerk who handled the matter developed
symptoms akin to shell-shock.
* * * *
“White Savage”: Melbourne’s Savage
Club has been celebrating its jubilee.
The Savage arose out of the ashes
of the Metropolitan Music Club, formed
in the late ’eighties. Only two of the
original members are still in touch with
the club; one, Arthur H. Hassell, came
from Sydney to attend the jubilee func-
tion. The most celebrated musician
member and one who was actively re-
sponsible for the club’s founding was
Alberto Zelman, and the musical pro-
gramme at the celebration was dedicated
to Alberto; above the proscenium
of the club hall a light burns continu-
ously to his memory. Round the wall are
many pictures, the gifts of artist mem-
bers, Longstaff, McCubbin, Bernard Hall,
Will Dyson, Pehleigh Boyd and J. F.
Paterson, among others, being represented.
Overseas members include David Low,
Fritz Hart, Guy Innes and W. S. Percy. In
pre-war years one of Cup Day’s sights
was the coach, complete with whip and
clarion, which conveyed Savage Club
members to the course. Until his death
Arthur a’Beckett was the driver,
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Though not without a sigh
of regret for Howard Vernon, Celia
Ghiloni (what a Fairy Queen and what a
Buttercup she was!) and John Ralston,
I have been through my umpteenth Gil-
bert and Sullivan season with almost as
much enjoyment as ever. Yet I have
always had conscientious professional
doubts about Gilbert, a most un-
scrupulous playwright who overworked
his conventions. It was his rooted
practice to punish his villains by
marrying them off towards the finale
to the fat and faded husband-hunters
of the operas. He used other basic
ideas, over and over again. All the
situations in the operas can be found in
the short-story collection Fogarty’s Fairy,
&c., or in Bah Ballads; nor had the man
any scruples about grabbing other people’s
notions. The germ of “I’ve Got Them On
the List: They Never Will Be Missed”
is in J. M. Barrie’s first book (not a suc-
cess, and excluded from Barrie biblio-
graphies), a whimsical account of the
doings of a Murder Club which proposed
the removal of notable characters who
had outlived their usefulness. But Gil-
bert is Gilbert for a’ that and a’ that.
My worst grouch is about some of the
latter-day feminine leads. I wish they
would sing in English instead of in the
fantastic language of Neutral Bay and
similar places, whose denizens say “May
deah ; wai don’t you come ovah to the
Bee and see us some taime?”
* =K * *
“Skeeter”; Obviously “Matros” (B.
24/5/’44), who complains about the “in a
ship” fetish, has never read Philip
Gibbs’s Street of Adventure —Fleet-street
is meant —one of those romances which
make newspapermen rub their eyes and
wonder how anyone who had ever smelt
printing ink could paint so false a picture.
This editor of Gibbs’s used to keep a
sabre in a corner of his room and would
rush out and threaten to murder sub-
editors and proofreaders with it when
anything went wrong —especially if any-
body wrote “on a ship.” I thought every
aspirant to a career as a writer for the
press had read Gibbs’s novel.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; A young Allied service
woman entered my home-going tram the
other night. She was blonde and shapely,
and on her left sleeve there was a wide
red circle, with across it, bold and stark,
the letters “5.0.5.” It has me wonder-
iijg still.
* t}c * *
“L. H. Keeper”; Here’s something else
that had to come. My tram, heading city-
wards the other morning, was about to
pass another when the conductress sig-
nalled her driver, who slowed and
stopped. The other tram did the same.
Then the girls exchanged small talk about,
the night before or the night to come or
something, while passengers and drivers
waited patiently. At last, with a “See
you later, darling,” we got on our way.
“Pronto”; Cherished in
Commonwealth Treasury
memories is the occasion
when C. J. Cerutty, while
Secretary, fell foul of the
Commissioner of Taxes on a
matter of administration.
Cerutty had become entitled
to an amended assessment
and a refund of income tax.
In those days it was the prac-
tice to send the taxpayer,
with his amended notice, a
form of refund claim setting
out the details of assessment
as well as the .amount refund-
able. This claim, on return,
had to go through various
channels in the Treasury. C.J.
complained that this made
secrets available to officers
who were not sworn to sec-
recy—very naturally he didn’t
like juniors on his staff being
given an insight into his
private affairs. The proce-
dure,, was changed, and tax-
payers due for a refund are
now dealt with by the tax
office only.
“When were YOU on parade last?”
THE LATEST LABOR COMMAND-
MENT.
Thou shall not —for it fractures Labor rules —
Take pick or spade or any other tools
At Canberra, and devote your energies
To excavating holes for planting trees;
Not though you deem this form of toil supplies
Wholesome and beneficial exercise
And helps to keep you, when your desk you quit
At knock-off, hygienically fit,
Ensuring for all worthy citizens
A corpus sanum for their sana mens.
What though you feel, with civic pride aglow,
Trees in these stately thoroughfares will grow
To make your capital, as like as not,
A world-acclaimed, salubrious beauty spot;
Trees foreordained, by noon or night or morn,
To shade or shelter thousands yet unborn
And stir them (when they think of it) to bless
Their sturdy ancestors’ far-sightedness.
Such honorary work is now taboo,
Which means, my friend, the job is not for you.
Brother o’ mine, observe you’re not debarred
From growing greenstuff in your own backyard,
But delving free and gratis, as it were,
Is a proceeding that you’d best' forbear.
It’s held to take the bread you wouldn’t miss
Out of some toiler’s facial orifice,
Some hardy soul with demagogic views
Who regularly pays his union dues
And secs you, for pure love of it, engage
On work he might be doing for a wage.
Leave then whatever tools the game demands
To more legitimate, more horny hands,
Harden your muscles, estimable gents,
By grasping less plebeian implements.
Disport your limbs at tennis or at bowls
Or golf— at anything but digging holes.
At Canberra the union-bosses’ ban
Assuredly will fall upon the man
Who, working gratis, renders null and void
The prospect somebody had else enjoyed
Of presently being “gainfully employed.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
FREE VERSE.
“Free verse is dangerous stuff.’’
—Bed Page (B. 2’,/u/’U)-
I find it full as hard as flint or granite
To penetrate when into it I stray;
I’ve long abandoned all attempts to scan it
Or make it sound in a melodious way.
“I was not born under a rhyming planet”
There’s one of Shakspeare’s characters could
say.
And fancy in our «modern bards depicts
In this regard a band of Benedicts.
A rhyming planet! Minstrels, what resplendent
Luck it would be, what admirable biz
To come on earth when that was in the ascen-
dant
Aloft! Gee-whillikins and eke gee-whiz!
If such an astrological attendant
Exists, I wonder which and where it is
And whether its benignant influence made
Craftsmen as skilled as Ingoldsby and Praed.
But these soi-disant sons of bright Apollo,
These harshly-croaking, shrilly-squawking
birds,
They find no lilting cadences to follow,
Instead, in mists of wildly whirling words
And bogs of cryptic periods they wallow,
Poetical as indices and surds,
Till gloomily you speculate how long
We must endure these travesties of song.
Free verse! Presumably it’s thus denoted
As free from even the remotest hint
Of rhyme or metre, rambling prose promoted
To look a bit like poesy by dint
Of artifice. One never hears it quoted
Or stumbles on the stuff except in print,
Which justifiably inspires a hope
’Twill hang itself, given sufficient rope.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Hobo” : Stewart, has published
a diary of a week’s “work” in the C.C.C.,
which allegedly began with 22 men being
paid double time for “putting concrete
screens in position” on an “urgent” hos-
pital job, and ordinary time next day to
remove the concrete screens. Apropos,
an invalid friend of mine, a veteran
of the 1914-18 scrap, tells this tale,
I don’t believe a word of it. He says
he received a call-up to join the C.C.C.,
which greatly amused him, for he had
been confined to a Bath chair for nearly
12 years. He reported for the fun of it.
To his amazement he was handed forms
and papers which he filled in in a daze.
When he was given a rail-warrant and
“An' don't bale out till you're right over his centre of perduction."
told to go to Adelaide he decided that
the matter had gone past a joke, but his
protests concerning his uselessness for
any type of labor fell on deaf ears.
Accordingly a week later he arrived in
Adelaide, where he had another heated
argument with Man-power and C.C.C.
officials. Once again he got nowhere,
and next day he was taken to Centralia
in a C.C.C. truck. He was met by a
foreman who had been instructed
to take him out to work on a landing
strip. When they arrived at the job the
Old Digger turned to the foreman and
asked sarcastically “Well, what am I
supposed to do?” The foreman said
nothing but wheeled him over to where a
man was shovelling sand into a lorry.
“See that bloke there?” said the foreman.
“Well, all you have to do is to watch him
and tell him when the truck is filled;
he's blind!”
* * * *
“Zake”: Many of Sydney’s suburban
train travellers seem to adopt the un-
reasonable view that, since the services
on some lines were altered in the interests
of coal economy from a quarter-hourly
to a half-hourly basis, the trains should
not run later than they did when they
ran more frequently. What these carping
critics overlook is that the trains now
have more time to be late in. For my-
self, I have nothing but praise for the
department. Sometimes I have to change
trains at a junction, the one I arrive on
being timed (I’d like to get hold of the
timetable compiler on a dark night) to
get fb the junction one minute after the
one I want has left. This theoretically
leaves me a 29-minute wait. Occasion-
ally when the train I want is five minutes
late and the one I am on is only three
minutes overdue, I manage to trick ’em
by catching it. On the other hand, the
train I am on is sometimes running ten
minutes late, and then I have to sit 1 only
19 minutes on an ironbark seat in the
draught instead of 29 minutes—unless, of
course, the other train is ten minutes late,
which brings me all square again. But
in fairness I must admit that this doesn’t
occur often. As to other complaints by
travellers —about non-slidable sliding
doors, unshuttable and unopenable win-
dows, and carriages which are left in
Stygian blackness when the train dives
underground—what of them? Don’t
these cavillers know that thus the depart-
ment patriotically saves wear and tear
,on rolling stock, juice and light bulbs?
* * * *
“Craiser”: If our friends from across
the water present some linguistic puzzles
to Australians, there is reciprocal lend-
lease. Said a Digger to an Allied soldier
who was draining his pot in a Melbourne
pub with what seemed to the Australian
unwarrantable deliberation: “You’re
dragging your feet, mate.”
* H* Jfc
“Spoke”; A lad who lived in a quiet
township 20 miles from the city was re-
jected for military service and subse-
quently got a call from the C.C.C., in
response to which he made his first visit
to the metropolis. His mother was so con-
cerned for her lamb that she accompanied
him on the journey. He was sent Some-
where up North, and his parent waited
anxiously to hear how he was facing the
pitfalls and perils of his new environ-
ment. A two-months’ silence was broken
by a letter. “I enclose,” he wrote, “£3O
of the £5O I won at two-up the other
evening.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The sentiments of knight
Alexander Roberts, of Maoriland,
towards men of the merchant navy (B.
17/5/ ’44) aren’t universally shared. In a
Melbourne court, irritated by a casual
remark made by a seaman up before him
for some minor offence, the Beak snapped
out: “Don’t you know, my man, there’s
a war on?” The rebuked seafarer had
been three times torpedoed, and each time
he returned to England had found his
wife and family in a new home, having
been bombed out of the last one.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: “Chiddy” Ryan,
dead at 73 (B. 17/5/’44), was for de-
cades after his pugilistic prime one of
Sydney’s best-known identities. His pec-
cadilloes and quarrels were always
given newspaper publicity. “Chiddy” ran
gymnasiums now and then (he had one
at Coogee until a few years ago) and
was a masseur of sorts, with bookmakers
for patients. He wasn’t a particularly
quarrelsome chap, but his idea that fists
could be used to settle any dispute led
to conflicts with the Law.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: “2nd Murderer’s” anim-
adversions on the musical habits of the
cinema (B. 17/5/’44) remind me of the
days of the “silents” when I used to attend
previews in a basement of the old Majestic
in Melbourne. On a screen little bigger
than a sheet of foolscap, the next week’s
colossal feature was thrown by the
operator, while press critics exchanged
irreverent comments. The only serious
person present was the theatre’s orches-
tral conductor, who had to arrange inci-
dental music appropriate to the opus.
Beethoven was his favorite composer, and
when the two-fisted he-man floored ten
desperadoes and slung the gurl across his
saddle the first few bars of the “Egmont”
invariably popped up in his mind. The
melancholy emotions of unrequited love
always suggested the “Marche Funebre”
of the Third Symphony, and the Seventh
was usually called upon for a jubilant
obbligato to the final close-up. The
Man of Bonn had very definite ideas
about the purpose of his music, and if
he had known of the uses it was going to
be put to in pitcher palaces he would
have been a very angry man.
* * * *
“Avelona”: The good Doktor
Goebbels got his terrible freezing weapon
(B. 17/5/’44) from Flash Gordon. When
the Armies of the Red Skull or something
were planning an invasion of America,
Flash, plus glamor-gal Dale, climbed
aboard the rocket-ship, sped ouGinto the
Atlantic to meet the invasion fleet and
sank every ship of the Red Skull Navy
with a blast from the ice-producing ray-
gun. Now the Doktor has discovered
Flash I’m expecting an announcement
that immediately the Allies land in
Europe rock-eating termites will be re-
leased from specially constructed cages
and will devour the invading armies with
relentless ferocity. Or maybe that epi-
sode hasn’t got to Berlin yet.
“Ex-C.0.”: Let’s have a little exacti-
tude on this matter of military hats and
plumes. The First Light Horse Brigade
(Ist, 2nd and 3rd Regiments, A.1.F.) left
Australia under Forsyth, but were taken
over in Egypt by Chauvel, and all regi-
ments wore the emu plume. The emu
plume was sported by the Queensland
Mounted Infantry since 1891, where it
was acquired as a headdress when the
personnel were called out during the
shearers’ strike, and men ran down emus
and adopted their feathers. The emu was
the regimental crest of the Queensland
Mounted Infantry. The cocks’ feathers
were worn by the N.S.W. Lancets. When
the 1914 A.I.F. was being formed up a
galaxy of ornamentation appeared,
reminiscent of South African days,
but it was ordained we should fare
forth, all of us, bare of additions
to the slouch hat. The Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau then took a hand,
and the 2nd Regiment, which was
the first Light Horse unit to em-
bark (in the Star of England), was
imshied into Melbourne Show-
grounds for six weeks (ticks and
all, but that’s another story). Andy
Fisher and George Pearce came to
the showgrounds and were re-
quested by the then C.O. to permit
the wearing of the plume. The
C.O. argued that the emu plume
had become so well known through-
out the Empire, after South Africa,
that it was the Australian trade-
mark, so to speak. Fisher said
“Well do it, but Queenslanders
must understand it will apply to all
Australian mounted troops.”
“Nakhoda”: There will be joy in
juvenile circles at the dictum of David
Brownlie, B.Sc., a member of the Con-
vocation Committee of the University of
London and a distinguished scientist, that
the value of mathematics is overrated,
both as a mental exercise and as a gate-
way to the professions, even engineering.
In fact, he says the study of mathematics
is unnecessary, and maintains that a good
case could.be made out for the view that
proficiency in the subject is a sign of
mental deficiency. I have always felt
that myself, being bad at mathematics,.
especially that form of torture known as
mental arithmetic. The subject is sur-
rounded with such dismal associations for
me that today I can’t even count the
change from a shilling when I buy a pot
of beer, though I have had as much prac-
tice in that exercise as Einstein has had
in his more exalted calculations. Still, I
have got along reasonably well without
it.
* . * * *
“Strict Veg.”; A Melbourne “Herald”
special correspondent has given a harrow-
ing description of the impoliteness she
receives these days from shop assistants.
She ascribes it to an excess of demand
over supply, creating a condition in which
counter-hands and waiters don’t have to
bother about goodwill, and to the large
proportion of women in business, which
leads men to regard them as on an equal
“Thank goodness it's only you, General. I thought it was the Sergeant —
he goes awful crook at us smoking on guard.”
footing undeserving of courtesy. Per-
sonally, I haven’t found it so, but one
has only to stand in a shop for any length
of time to observe that some people com-
mand politeness and others provoke im-
politeness, irrespective of their social or
economic standing.
* * * *
“Lack” (R.A.A.F.) on means of supple-
menting service pay:—■
Up North, spare-time occupations cover many
arts and crafts. One fellow constructed a gadget
for printing photographs. He owns no camera,
but docs the printing for chaps who do and
who provide the negatives. Another man made
a ventriloquist’s dummy, and now earns much
free beer and an occasional half-note at officers’
mess functions. A cobber swotted the rudi-
ments of line-drawing via a correspondence
course. Now he finds that water-colors of
aircraft and tropical landscapes sell well. For
10 months I kept the wolf from the door
shaping brooches and knick-knacks from
Thursday Island pearl; others developed sore
mitts filing perspex and duralium scraps into
- rings. Old shellcases have been converted
into ash frays, model aircraft and the like.
Woodwork has its followers. There’s a camp-
stool maker tossing his wares out at four bob a
time. Inlaid crib boards, glove and stud boxes
from coconuts, and other novelties rake in a
handy shekel or two. The camp tailor is
always busy. In our unit three chaps are kept
at it during spare moments patching pants
and remodelling shirts. There’s often a handi-
craft exhibition sponsored by educational ser-
vices. Sections are reserved for the poet and
writer and prizes offered. And, of course,
some of us get pars, into The Bulletin.
* t- * *
“Adelaide”: Decided by S.A. Supreme
Court that the year’s cruelty required by
law for a divorce must be continuous, and
so does not cover the case of a husband
who was alleged to be cruel whenever
he was home, but was away most of the
time. Hubby must be diligent in ill-
doing. Sympathy for the wife, but no
decree.
* afs Jjc
“Fuellist”: Before this war the world
was warned that its natural petrol re-
sources were within measurable distance
of exhaustion. Since the end of 1939 the
belligerents have been burning up petrol
at two, three or even four times the peace-
time rate, while bombs have considerably
damaged some important sources of
supply.. What’s to do when the wells run
dry? Of course, spirit can be distilled
from vegetable matter, from, shale, from
coal, even from meat. In fact, so long
as there are hydrogen and carbon on the
face of the globe an explosive spirit can
be concocted. Synthetic petrol, even, just
the same as is used in the motors of
today, can be, and has been, made from
such substances as clover and cabbage-
tree nuts. But there’s a catch. All these
processes are darned expensive, and th€
vegetable-derived spirits (which are
cheapest) require enormous quantities of
raw material. An American oil expert
estimates that a city of 100,000, if it
wished to continue using internal com-
bustion engines after natural oil sup-
plies had gone phut, must keep in culti-
vation fifty square miles of land to supply
its synthetic oil needs.
* * * 9
“Tasser” tells how a church was built:
The parish church of St. John’s, Launceston,
holds records dating back to the beginning of
last century, though the parish was not actually
formed until 1818. On the books are the mar-
riage entries of John Fawkner and John Bat-
man, founders of Melbourne. The building of
the church is in three periods. In 1824-25,
with convict labor under Governor Arthur, the
earliest bricks were laid. These were made
where picturesque Princes Square now stands
opposite, and many bore the Government broad
arrow and the thumbprint's of their makers.
Early rectors were Government chaplains, and
the organists and clerks were civil servants,
paid for their ecclesiastical efforts. This build-
ing was consecrated by Archdeacon Scott, there
being at that period no bishop in Australia—
St. John's formed part of the Archdeaconry of
Calcutta. Between 1901 and 1911 the “new”
chancel and transepts were built with day labor,
being consecrated by Bishop Mercer. In 1938
the imposing nave was erected. A transept dome
is a constructional feature, being of Byzantine
design. It was an afterthought of the archi-
tect, A. North, an Englishman, who claimed it
to be the only one of its kind in the modern
world. Many yfears of work still remain before
the structure will reach its completed state as
depicted in the plans. Twin towers set one on
each side of the nave door arch, and a spacious
central piece above the transept dome, to house
a chime of bells, are features present-day
Launcestonians are unlikely to see in their time.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”: Just as the horse sale started
the auctioneer discovered that his off-
sider, who had disappeared half an hour
previously, had put in the time to Bung's
great advantage. As soon as the wretch
had staggered away the auctioneer fast-
ened to a gangling, freckled youth stand-
ing near by and offered him ten bob to
lead the horses round. The young fellow
said he would. The first horse brought
out was a high-stepping, flash chestnut,
obviously full of beans. Young substitute
decided to ride it around to show it off.
The chestnut had other ideas, and the
rider went straight over its head. Game,
he climbed aboard again and flew
straight over the rails. He crawled
through, gritted his teeth and hopped
up again —to five seconds longer
than his previous best. By this time
the crowd were so amused they were
taking absolutely no notice of the auc-
tioneer’s honeyed words. Exasperated,
the man with the hammer sang out:
“Hey, you, lead him round, can’t y’?
“We’ll be here all day.” The youth stared
at him. “Well, I got all day, if that’s
worryin’ y’,” he said. “And, anyway,
I’m just beginnin’ to enjoy meself. Give
us a leg up, someone.”
* =K * *
“H.G.”: “Caballer” (B. 3/5/’44) says
he knows no remedy for a bite from the
stinging tree. I have seen all the ac-
cepted remedies —singeing, shaving, cun-
gevoi leaves, etc. —tried with little suc-
cess. But if immediately after the sting
a mud-pack is made, using the soil
around the tree, rubbed on the affected
part and allowed to dry relief will come
swiftly.
* * * *
“Botano”; In his reference to the seed
of the wattle lying dormant in the soil
“Plane Creek” (B. 26/4/’44) understated ;
instead of months he should have said
years. I would readily grant the wattle
seed a dormancy of between quarter to
half a century. The wattle seed is yet
another illustration of the immense age
of our continent. Always well covered
with forest, Australia from the very be-
ginning was probably subject to the visi-
tation of fire. From their nature the
wattles were probably the readiest victims
to such fires, and might have become
extinct had not they, through a long pro-
cess of elimination and selection, come to
produce a seed that not only has great
resistance to fire but in the majority of
cases actually needs the scorching of a
passing fire to start it in germination.
Likewise, since most' wattle seeds must
lie in the soil all the* long period await-
ing a fire, they have that tough, hard
rind that is practically impervious to all
the ordinary processes of earth decay.
For a plant to evolve such a seed it must
count back through a succession of fires
and survivals through hundreds of
thousands of years.
* * * *
“Bill the Blacksmith”: Common cut-
lery steel is of commercially pure iron
alloyed with carbon. The greater the
carbon content the harder the steel. So
when “Sur Cingle’s” butcher knife got
well rusted and later ground to a better
edge (B. 26/4/’44) the only explanation
is that the atoms of uncarbonised iron
tended to oxidise more freely, leaving the
harder carbo-iron atoms to take the new
edge. Some such method used to be
employed by the Arabs and Turks in the
days when they fought against the
Crusaders and the possession of a super-
sword was an excellent life assurance.
First a sword was forged from the best
steel available, ground bright and then
buried for a year or more in damp soil.
It was then dug up and reforged. The
result was one of those legendary swords
such as were said to be carried by Saladin
and Richard the Lion Heart; swords that
would chop through the ordinary body
armor of those times.
"This is the candied honey section, sir—green prawns, weed, chocolates,
cigars, ice-cream, opposite counter !”
“Mario”: Squeals from the water some
distance from the jetty at Thursday
Island turned out to be from a pig which
had apparently escaped from a ketch
anchored some hundred yards off. As it
neared the jetty a Digger took a header
in, swam out like a Bondi champ.,
grabbed the porker by the ears and
brought it in life-saving fashion. Within
a few minutes of landing it he had the
pig trussed up nicely, parked it in the back
of a truck and was soon tearing along
the road in a cloud of dust. A very enter-
prising bit of work, and even the numer-
ous sharks in the vicinity were too
stunned by its audacity to poke their bibs
in.
* V * *
“Aratta”: Dad was reading a letter
from his city agents. His perusal was
punctuated by angry grunts, and when he
had finished reading he tossed the letter to
Dave, exclaiming “The hippercritical lota
cows!” Dave read it, said “I dunno
whatcher want to get y’r rag out about.
All they say is that owin’ t’ the heavy
supplies on hand they’d advise y’ t’ dis-
continyer sendin’ along y’r weekly truck
o’ pumpkins for the present. Personally, I
reckon it darned decent of them.” Oppo-
sition from Dave on any subject was to
Dad like a red rag is to a bull. “Oh, do
y’?” Dad barked angrily; “well, I don’t.
Shows y’ don’t give proper thought t’
things. Look what they finish up with,
‘Hopin’ fer a continyerance of y’r
esteemed bizness.’ In one place they say
discontinyer it an’ in another they say
they hope I’ll continyer it. Tork about
bein’ shifty! Them coots ain’t never t’
be trusted, anyway. I’ve alwus sed that.”
Suddenly he burst out laughing. “What’s
bitin’ y’ now?” asked Dave, eyeing his
sire curiously. “I wus jist thinkin’,” re-
plied Dad, stifling his merriment, “how
narked the schemin’ cows would be if
they knew that that last truck they had
from me wus the last I had left t’
send ’em.”
* % * *
“M.U.R.”: N.Q. conditions may differ
from those in the Murray basin, but we
do believe that fires burn better at night
(B, 24/5/’44), and we burn our logs,
stumps and wheat stubbles after dark.
I’ve done a bit of boiler-firing on river
boats, in sawmills and pumping stations,
using wood, and it’s always a far easier
job on the night shift, when the fire is
clean and bright and keeps the steam up.
Our theory is that the night air contains
a heavier percentage of oxygen.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Rightly or wrongly,
“Curyo” Charlie was convinced that an
unassuming bearing and an inoffensive
form of speech were distinct aids to his
profession of separating the rural sports
from their loose cash; all the same, he
was a dangerous man with whom to trifle.
One or two in the crowd knew this, and
they tried to warn the young bush larri-
kin. But he’d drunk enough to arouse
his bullying instincts, he’d lost two bob
to “Curyo” and he mistook “Curyo’s”
silent acceptance of his abuse for fear.
Charles kept his wheel going until the
larrikin, now joined by a couple of his
fellows, suddenly pushed him aside, up-
ended the outfit and glared round chal-
lengingly. “Curyo” sat down, thought-
fully chewing a match.. The crowd drifted
away ; so did the larrikin and his cob-
bers. That night the larrikin, with more
drink in, ran into “Curyo,” slapped him
on the back and offensively demanded if
he wanted fight. “Not me,” replied
“Curyo”; “I’d sooner have a drink.”
About an hour later “Curyo” was seen
assisting the helpless larrikin along the
pub passage. Ten minutes later “Curyo”
drove his buggy out of the pub yard.
Four hours later he was camped at the
White Elephant tank, 32 miles away.
When his horse was fed and rested
“Curyo” threw the drunk out of the
buggy, remarked “Think that over,
mate,” and headed into the dawn.
* * * *
“J.K.M.”: Dave had ridden his pony
seven miles every Sunday for nearly 10
years to see Kate. Refusal to marry
while her aged mother lived was the
obstacle to the union. Dave lost patience
in the end and discontinued his visits.
But force of habit was too strong for
Dave’s pony; it continued to pay the
visit each Sunday for some time after.
* * * *
“Plum”: We’ve heard a lot about the
intelligence of outback sheep- and cattle-
dogs ; now what about the shrewdness of
the city-bred mong? A dog’s got to be
clever to survive all the dangers and dis-
comforts of civilisation, dodge a sticky
end under a tram or bus, and at the same
time cadge a feed from the pies and
sandwiches of casual lunchers without
having to work for a living like the
suckers outback. Add to all this a specific
■instance of canine opportunism: Getting
.off a tram on the hither side of Sydney’s
coat-hanger the other day, I nearly
stepped on a curly-haired part-retriever
of benevolent but somewhat flustered
appearance. As is my custom with
kindly-looking dogs, I bade him a cheer-
ful good morning. The hound responded
with an absent-minded nod of the head,
and then—well, I wouldn’t swear he
looked at his wrist-watch, but that was
certainly the impression I got. Anyway,
he glanced hurriedly along the tram,
picked the emptiest compartment and
jumped aboard just as the tram started.
Evidently a confirmed tram-rider, the
mong was settling down to read the paper
of the bloke on the opposite seat as the
tunnel swallowed them up. I’m positive
that dog was happily prospecting the
smells of the Bridge stairs when he re-
membered an urgent appointment at
Wynyard station.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; “Law Jik” (B. 24/5/’44)
is a bit mixed. I didn’t say stallions and
rams were monogamous, as he’ll find if
he cares to look up a dictionary. Under
natural conditions, each stallion and ram
has his own bunch of mares or ewes, and
any other stallion or ram who wants
them has to fight for ’em. Brer Rabbit
doesn’t care who’s which.
“C.E.*”: “S.C’s” scheme (B. 26/4/’44)
for making melons grow by giving them
whisky recalls a statement by Bruce Mc-
Cann. An extract from his Popular Falla-
cies reads: “Plants have sexual charac-
teristics. They possess highly developed
nervous systems. They can be intoxicated
by alcohol and affected by music. A pot
of carnations placed near the radio where
a jazz orchestra plays continually will,
after some hours, be found leaning away
from it—apparently not having a musical
ear.” Interested, I collected a fistful of
flowers and, dividing them, placed the
bunches into three different tumblers con-
taining respectively water, beer and whisky.
Then, with the hope they weren’t very
thirsty, I retired. Next morning I found
that while those in the water were fresh
as ever the beer-drinkers were limp and
bedraggled and the whisky bunch were
helplessly flat out. Feeling sympathetic I
gave them aspros and water and they
partly revived. Haven’t tried the effects
of radio jazz, though, considering the
tri —er —style of music one gets nowadays,
I can readily believe B.McC.’s claim.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a pretty cold
night on the outskirts of Wagga (N.S.W.),
and we built a big log fire. Four or five
other blokes camped about there came
over and joined us for warmth and talk.
Presently the discussion became political,
as it generally does when a few out-
backers get together, and the little bloke
began to abuse the squatters, the banks,
the “money interests” and what he called
“bribed offishuldoom.” About then a
long, quiet sort of bloke came up and
stood with his back to the fire. “You
blokes make me sick,” Mat said. “Y’
blame everybody but y’rselves. Look at
me ; all I got is me swag an’ what I stand
up in. But I don’t blame the big-money
blokes. It’s me own fault. But I ain’t
growlin’ an’ cursin’ everybody else. I’ll
get a job sooner or later an’ ”
“You’ve got one,” said the quiet new-
comer, “I’m lookin’ for a couple o’ men
to do some scrub cuttin’ an’ you’re the
sort” Mat stood up. “No we ain't,”
he said. “Give y’r job to his nibs there ;
he’s political, like you. I get me jobs on
me ability, not on me views.” But when
the quiet cove explained that it was con-
tract work we took it.
* * * *
“Hist”; The instinctive orientation of
insects isn’t limited to the south-bound
urge of the tick. (B. 17/5/’44). Knew an
old Scotswoman who has never been
guilty of wasting good oatmeal on ac-
count of a few beasties. She spreads it
out on paper and leaves the weevils to
betake themselves toward the setting sun,
which they invariably do.
* H= * *
“Blime”: Bob had the job of helping
Dad Saunders with a patch of clearing,
and according to Dad the new hand
worked well enough. The only thing that
puzzled him was the way Bob would
suddenly get mad at nothing. Some days
went along peacefully enough, but on
others he seemed restless, self-conscious,
and would burst into oaths on no provo-
cation whatsoever. They’d been at the
job about a week when Bob, picking dp
the end of a heavy log, was dragging it
laboriously towards the nearest fire when
he tripped and dropped it. Spitting on
his hands he was about to take a fresh
grip when suddenly he straightened, broke
into a lurid flow of language and de-
manded his time. “But cripes, whassa-
matter?” gasped Dad. “Work too hard
for y’?” “It ain’t that,” growled Bob,
kicking savagely at a tussock. “What
then? Is it the tucker or the wages or
the hours too long?” Dad persisted.
“No, it’s none o’ them,” Bob burst out;
“it’s that flamin’ horse over there.” Dad
stared blankly at old Blossom hanging
over the fence. “I don’t mind her lookin’
on while I haul logs ’n’ cart wood,” con-
tinued the hand, “an’ I c’n even take her
snickerin’ when I get an extra big load,
but when the blasted moke snorts just
because I drop the thing—well. I’m
quiltin’, that’s all.’’
SMUGGLERS.
“Some whalers went blackbirding, too,”
Old Bill the Whaler said;
“Though they were whalers ‘on the blue’
They traded ‘in the red’
In humankind and merchandise:
The Customs rarely saw
A ha’penny—why, damn y’r eyes,
They played the old game raw!
“The basalt cliffs so tall and grim
At Perseverance Bay
Held many a secret, rich and dim,
When contraband would stay
Till in the* dawns when mists hung low
The little sealers came . . .
There wasn’t much they didn’t know
About the smuggling game.
“The lofty tip of Campbells’ peak
Seemed to be like a hand,
As if it tried, as dumb men speak,
To signal to the land.
‘Come hither, Customs men,’ ’twould call;
‘Come to my caves and see
The booty which the whalers haul
Ashore so brazenly.’
“Intoxicating scents were there
From Hitchin or Cologne,
With wine from foreign places where
They crush the grapes well-grown.
Shoe leather such as I and you
Could not afford to buy;
Wet with the sea-mists and the dew
On rocky floors they’d lie.
“Huge cases, casks or banded bales
On which were foreign brands "
From ports wherever seaman sails
Greeted the whalers’ hands.
And sometimes if a keg should burst
The whalers drank their fill,
Yet landed all the cargo first,
The whalers’ way,” said Bill.
“Sometimes when they were landing stuff
Their lookout man would cry
‘Here comes old Taipo round the bluff,
I seen her black smoke fly!’
And when the Guv’mint steamer’s pick
Was down, her boat would bring
Her skipper to us, rowing quick—
He was a kind of king.
“Taipo, they called him —Maori for
A devil —and he was,
A martinet right to the core;
But when he pulled across
To us he just saw whalermen,
Whose breath smelt of Three Star,
Making her rigging taut again
And pluggin’ planks with tar.”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Lik Lik Liar”; If you reckon Fm a
nark, blame the Abo. page of May 3.
In the first place, where did Oswald Pryor
ever see a Digger humping a rifle like
that? Any man who ever carried a slung
rifle on one shoulder lets the rifle slip
down behind till the weight is taken by
that part of the sling nearest the upper
sling swivel. The inner side of the elbow
steadies the rifle against the side, and
the sling should be just slack enough to
be held taut by the natural downward
pull of the hand. “8.A.” caused the next
itch with his yarn of the two-year-old
packhorse that got away with the brum-
bies and broke back four and a half
years later at the sound of his horse bell.
Serves “8.A.” right for making a pack-
horse of a two-year-old filly anyhow. My
guess at her real reason for returning is
that she had read “The O.D.’s” par. and
wanted to get back to Pitt-street to hear
a ram whistle and a stallion blow their
well-known warning signals. “The 0.D.”
must be one of those bushwhackers who
gave up the mulga for munitions and
now gouges steel wool off a hydraulic
ram. And if it comes to blowing—why
bring in the stallion?
* * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Though
Edmond Morey was not the original
holder of the run on which Wilcannia
now stands (B. 5/4/ ’44) he was the in-
stigator of its selection. In 1846, when a
lad of only 19, he/trekked with 700 cattle
and a bullock-dray down the Murrum-
bidgee on the tracks of Major Mitchell,
and he took up Euston station on the
Lower Murray. Two years in a Sydney
“Told you we should've dug a drain round it !”
bank and two years on the land with his
brother at Lake George had convinced
him that squatting “in settled areas”
wasn’t going to pay. So in 1849, worried
by the influx of Victorian squatters to
the Murray, young Morey induced
Hugh and Bushby Jamieson, of Mildura
station, John McKinlay, of Ki, and
McCallum, of Goungera, to accompany
him north by an aboriginal pad leading
through Euston and on by way of Mulu-
rulu to the Darling at Menindie. The
party were well satisfied with the abun-
dance of good grazing land on each
side of the river there, all except Morey,
who insisted on pushing north to “Major
Mitchell’s Mt. Murchison.” In allotting
the land by means of a game of cards,
McKinlay drew Menindie, the Jamieson
brothers Mt. Murchison and Morey took
Tintinallogy across the river, or, as he
writes it in attempting to preserve the
correct aboriginal sound, T’dinionallogie.
Incidentally, Morey was the instigator of
Murray navigation. He became a police
magistrate in Queensland, living until
1917.
* * *
“The 0.D.”: One of the sure signs of
the cove who doesn’t know what he’s
talking about is when he tries to change
the subject, evade the issue or lead you
off the track. “Sur Cingle” began this
with “But do horses eat bread? My ex-
perience is that they don’t, unless some-
one'teaches them.,, .And the same goes
for sugar” (B. 19/4/’44). Whereupon I,
and others, said his experience was pecu-
liar, isolated and inverted. Now (B.
24/5/’44) he unashamedly admits to hav-
ing used sugar and bread with which to
catch prads, though he says nothing about
the tutorial course he put them through
to make them like the stuff. Then he
cites one lone prad as the only one he’s
known “voluntarily to tackle sweet stuff.”
Let “Sur Cingle” put a bucket of molasses
out and see whether the prads have to
be taught anything. And relief though
it undoubtedly would be for Boko,
I’m accepting no invitations to ride
him. I get a lot more fun out of put-
ting the hooks into his boss, a darned
sight greener colt, for all his vaunted
experience, than ever Boko was.
“Suburbanite”: As to that idea about
horses not taking to bread-eating
naturally (B. 19/4/’44) my baker con-
fessed that in the old days his couple of
nags won at least half their sustenance
by eating up all the stale loaves. Now,
of course, in these days of take it or
leave it or be damned to you, there is no
stale bread left, and the horses have come
to look on a loaf as a luxury.
* * * *
“Pinto”: Plodding wearily past a native
reservation in New Britain I was abruptly
halted by the sight of a tall, powerfully-
built native, clad only in the traditional
loincloth, stalking majestically towards a
near-by creek, the embodiment of savage
dignity and grace. One could envisage
the thick features bespattered with blood
and inhuman cries bursting from the
twisted lips as he whooped and danced
around the dismembered remains of an
enemy. As I watched he reached the
creek, and as his lithe body bent I noticed
what had previously been hidden from
me. With an air of abstraction he un-
screwed the cap, squeezed an inch of
paste on the green-handled brush and un-
concernedly began to clean his teeth.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Each bird of the insect-
eating tribes has a different realm to ex-
plore in cleaning aip the marauders of
our gardens, and none seems to poach
on the preserves of the others. Watching
a tree-creeper (the nearest bird we have
to the woodpecker) busily spiralling a
stringybark and ferreting out grub
larvae brought the thought that no other
wog-gobbler thinks about exploiting that
cache. Willie Wagtail keeps to the air,
scorning such trash as bark and leaves and
rubbish as storehouses for his larder.
Peewees stick to the ground and its en-
virons in search of tucker. Lyrebirds
scratch for molluscs in the deep leaf-
mould of the valleys. Ibises scrounge
round the swamps for fluke-snails, and
can manage about 2000 grasshoppers at
a plague time. Jacky Winter is impartial,
catching meals on the wing or in trees.
Scarlet and rose robins are miniature
kookas in stolidity, but move like a shot
on to moths, flies and midges ; so does
the scissors-grinder. Chats and tits
forage in the grass brushes, trees and
ornamental shrubs for trifles like aphis,
thrips, green-grubs and other disturbers
of the garden peace.
“Hope you’ve got a bucket of coal — I’ve still a chance of making port.”
“Bo”: The small, pugnacious fellow in
the township’s only pub, almost frothing
at the mouth because nobody would
fight him, beerily eyed the big man with
the ginger moustache who strode into the
bar and called for a pint. As the new-
comer put down his half-finished pot The
Pest leered along at him and said “Come
an’ ’ave one with me, mate.” The big
man raised his pot. “Not today, old
man, thanks. I’m in a hurry.” “Oh, too
blanky flash to drink with a bloke, eh?”
flared up the little fellow. Ginger Mo
finished his pot. “No, it isn’t that,” he
said with gentle patience. “But as I just
told you I haven’t time.” The pugnacious
one whirled on him. “ ’Aven’t time me
foot! Yore jus’ one o’ these flash
blankards. Prob’bility is y’r ole man
was a blankard, foo.” The large person’s
smile became more expansive and genial
than ever. “Wqll, I must be off,” he said,
and, wiping his mo, made for the door.
But the little man staggered across,
blocked the entrance and started pulling
off his coat. The big fellow pinioned the
other’s arms, lifted him with amazing ease
and deposited him, as tenderly as a mother
would a babe, against the wall. As he
was passing out the door the small, man
yelled out as a parting shot, “Y’ ain’t
got the manners of a blanky pig!” In
an instant the big man rushed back and
proceeded to lambaste the other. A
minute later he dropped the wreck to the
floor and strode out. “He’s a queer bird,”
I said to Bung, indicating the departing
chastiser. “He did his block over a little
thing and ignored insults that you’d have
thought might make him see red. Who
is he, anyway?” “Oh,” said Bung, “that’s
Sid Morgan—runs a few hundred head o’
stud Berkshires out along the Bingee road.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Stock horses are born and
not made. A neighbor has been trying
vainly for months to make a stock pony
from a neat bit of horseflesh that was
meant for something different. This wit-
ness has owned three generations of mares
who with practically no stock training
couldn’t go wrong. The granddam was
good, while for cutting out purposes and
at .weaning time the dam was worth three
or four whip-armed riders. Ridden with
or without saddle and bridle she was
equally tractable, and would follow the
selected beast through the mob like a
dog. When retrieving a break-away she
always galloped in the right position,
turned when the beast turned, and
seemed to know what it would do next;
in fact, her twists and turns were so swift
and unexpected that when properly
warmed up it took a real rider to sit her.
More than one buster I got, exhibitions
which I suspect rather disgusted the little
brown nag, for on one occasion she
finished the job of yarding the horses
on her own. She died at foaling, and
the poddied youngster, broken in at last,
now exhibits all the talent of her parent,
promising to keep in order any bunch
of obstinate bailies.
s[: * * #
“H.G.”: “Rivalry in our. little cane-
growing centre between household gar-
deners is pretty fierce,” said “Babinda”
Ben. “So when Dad Turner, who special-
ised in growin’ shallots and used to clean
up the prizes year after year at the show.
gets tossed one year he’s full of wounded
pride. He finds out that this other
cove used to get his champion length
of stem by trenching, so Dad goes
in for excavating in a big way. As the
shallots started to grow he fills in the
hole with a mixture of soil and manure.
Very soon they were above ground level
and growing vigorously. Dad hilled them
and still they grew. He put big earthen-
ware drainpipes over each shallot. More
soil and manure were added as they grew,
and it wasn’t long before a second and
then a third pipe were added, complete
with struts and stays. When show day
comes he pulls ’em out with the help of
the tractor, loads a few of ’em up, and
tells young Steve to take ’em to the show-
ground. But when later in the day Dad
goes to the show his shallots haven’t
turned up. He can’t make it out. A
bit later he runs into Bradley, one of the
committeemen, and starts to go crook,
‘Was they shallots?’ asked Bradley. ‘Why,
’struth, we thought young Steve must’ve
mistaken the place he was to take ’em —
we sent him over to the sawmill with
’em.’ ”
* . * * „ * ,
Edjudma”: We were well accustomed
t 0 the wild duststorm that usually came
tearing out of the east and blew tor
hours; and also to the evening terror
that would come rushing almost like the
gigantic pillar of smoke from an ex-
plosion. But this particular one was a
creeper. The day had been blazing hot,
anc t we were thankful that night was corn-
mg, when the setting sun became obscured
an( l darkness fell like a blanket. There
w as no perceptible wind only dust float-
in § nlong in ghostlike wraiths, flooding
noses and throats and nearly choking
on ®- hh £ horses went half crazy,
even the camels, which had the
faculty of closing their nostrils, seemed
upset. For close on an hour it
drifted by. And then the stars shone
out clear. Our idea was that some-
where there had been something ap-
preaching a rainless cyclone ; tremen-
dous billows of dust had been caught
up into the atmosphere. Then the wind
had dropped, leaving the great clouds of
dust to drift down to earth again. In
15 years of desert wandering I met that
kind of duststorm only that once,
**. * . *
Bughouse ; Physiologists have had
reason sometimes to wonder whether cer-
tain organs such as the stomach have a
consciousness of their own which operates
without reference to the brain. Thus the
discrimination on the part of the stomach
°f the currawong (B. 26/4/’44) is ex-
plamable. Much the same thing is ob-
servable when a human, usually a child,
swallows an open safety pin, a nib, or
some similar dangerous article. For quite
a l° n g time, in the absence of medical
treatment, the stomach will retain such
potential dangers as though loath to pass
them on to the narrower intestines where
they might do fatal damage. But should
the patient be given the modern treat-
ment of a cottonwool sandwich the
stomach immediately wraps the cotton-
wool around the open safety-pin and then
pusses it on along the alimentary canal,
seemingly aware that its threat of injury
is curbed. So the stomach of a bird or a
wild animal often has the power to select
and reject poisonous berries and meat.
But the stomach will invariably fail when
given a poison alien to its customary line
of food, as, for instance, arsenic, strych-
nine or phosphorus. Regarding the last
poison I know of no animal which has
the power to regurgitate a dose of it.
THE WEST WIND.
Oh, listen, woman, to the west wind calling
As it sweeps through the night out there;
Does it frighten you with its endless calling
From the far-out land where the great stars
flare?
It is not you that it seeks on the corners —
You with your fear of the cold and dark;
Nor the people wrapped in their cloaks like
mourners
Where alien trees stand bare in the park.
For the west wind’s call is a homing call
And the heart that hears it blest.
And the man-made gods of the town may fall,
But never the god of the west.
Aye, hearken, woman, to the west wind singing
As it comes from the mountain crest,
And hold me close if you hear it singing,
Hold me close to your breast.
Yet still would I hear, like a whisper in grass,
Though you and your heart would beat them
back,
The small, quiet, sounds that hover and pass
By the fitful light of a blaze on the track.
For the west wind’s song is a homing song
Made from the sun and the rain,
And it sings to the lost in the careless throng
Its song of river and plain.
So shiver, woman, to the west wind crying
From sheep-camps far on the Bogan side,
From still lagoons and the she-oaks crying
And white-armed gums where the possums
hide.
To you it is cold and you think of cover,
But I hear the beat of swans on the wing,
The curlew call and the challenge of plover,
And here I’m a lover, but there I’m a king.
For the west wind’s cry is a homing cry
And I am a stranger here,
And I know the road that the wind came by
And the star by which to steer.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER


Wmssms
-• y-.
•'.VcV.V.
m
WITH A VIEW
.. .v WHY NOT BUILT ON?
A lovely view but —the area is unsewered. If YOU own a block of land in an
unsewered area you can start planning your home NOW and let the HYGEIA
u ISSOLVENATOR take care of your sewerage problems.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a completely self-contained sanitary system.
Simple in operation .. . REQUIRES NO WATER SUPPLY ... no emptying. Sewage
material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the
S r ir Unhealthy odors, flies, disease germs are all banished. Approved by the Board
ot Health, any handyman can instal one. Thousands in use in homes, offices, military
hospitals, etc., throughout Australia.
U.S.A, Navy orders for mobile hospitals having been completed,
we are now able to resume delivery of private orders.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
fill in and mail this coupon.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address
’ BTN.I.VI".
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863) 4
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
„ SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
_ TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
c7k
c
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Postures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Future of Wool.
“Graz”: There is no need for growers
to feel jittery. The British purchase
scheme will extend to June, 1946, at least.
When the scheme ends the British
Government, as owner of the huge
quantity of carry-over wool, will be just
as anxious as Australian growers to see
prices kept at a payable level. Australian
wool is undercutting American at the
Boston markets, and U.S. growers would
like to see our wool selling at a higher
figure. Naturally, Britain will be after as
much profit as she can get out of surplus
wool stocks. This presages an organised
plan to keep up prices and feed carry-
over stocks on to the market.
Men’s clothing is the chief avenue for
wool consumption, and in almost every
country in the world there is a shortage
of it. After the war European countries
will be very short of all woollen goods.
Yorkshire will be after this market, but
how much those countries will be able to
pay is a question none can answer.
Australian mills are now absorbing
450,000 bales a year. Canada has doubled
her output, and in U.S. and the Argen-
tine output is up 60 p.c. Owing to the
transfer of operatives to other war jobs
Yorkshire mill turnover is much lower
than pre-war. However, when imple-
ments of war exceed demand it is a safe
bet the shrewd Yorkshire millers will
have everything in order to work their
mills to capacity.
Handling Zebus.
“Julia Creek”: Fifteen years ago I met
my first zebus, on Greenvale station
(N.Q.). Some of these crosses were easy
to handle and some not, actually much
the same as the English breeds, which
produce an odd outlaw or two. Zebus
require careful handling. The greatest
curse is the whip crank, who imagines
plenty of noise helps at yards and gates.
Before yarding, water and rest the
cattle. In a mixed mob allow time for
all calves to find their mothers and drink.
The mob should be grazed to the yard,
not driven. Only experienced stockmen
should be on the wings ; bad wing riders
seesaw the lead and start the mob ring-
ing. Dogs, if used, must be well under
control.
When mustering, great attention should
be paid to steadying the cattle to prevent
them from becoming stirred up and giv-
ing trouble at yards and gates.
Should it be necessary to draft it is of
vital importance that only men who
thoroughly understand the work do the
cutting-out and ride on the face of the
camp. There are few places worse than
a cutting-out camp to stir cattle up, par-
ticularly if it is intended to yard soon
afterwards.
At all times handle the zebu cross on
the same lines as the “near-scrubber”
cattle that used to be found in large
numbers in Queensland 25 or 30 years
ago.
Pig-breedmg Stock.
“Myrrhee”: As both boar and sow
carry inherited characters affecting fer-
tility it is a good plan to select breeders
on production performances or, if un-
tried, on those of their relatives, but the
use of breeding stock will not in itself
ensure the production of large litters.
Environment makes or mars productive
capacity. Environment includes food,
which, when deficient in quantity and
quality, is a frequent cause of low fer-
tility.
Breeding boars should be in good,
fleshy condition. Sows should receive
enough food after weaning to bring them
quickly to the same state. Diet should
then keep them in good condition with-
out excessive fatness until they farrow.
Breeding pigs need separated milk,
buttermilk, meat or meatmeal and pas-
ture or cut, green fodder or legume hay
or chaff, together with cereal grain or
meal or their substitutes, to make up the
required bulk. When less than two gal-
lons of milk per pig daily is fed in a diet
mainly grain give a supplement of four
parts ground limestone and one part salt
at the rate of loz. daily to each breeding
boar or pregnant sow.
A boar temporarily infertile through
excessive work should be rested from ser-
vice for a month and well fed. His
productivity may be maintained over a
long period by keeping him away from
sows until required for controlled service.
Stopping Mallee Drift.
“Lingabool”: In their search for means
of overcoming wind-erosion of the
Mallee Victorian experts at the Walpeup
research station have found lucerne, sown
with wheat, to have its points. C. G.
Webb, a science field officer at the
station, insists that the land must be
fallowed, and says 21b. of seed an acre
with not more than 451 b. of wheat is
enough. Further, farmers should not use
lucerne seed from irrigated areas, since it
is soft. Dry-grown seed is available
from Sou|:h Australia.
Lucerne has been tried with oats as a
cover crop, but wheat always beats oats.
Idea of the cover crop is to protect
lucerne seedlings from blown sand, keep
down weeds, provide stubble as protec-
tion for lucerne in summer and offset cost
of lucerne sowing. The lucerne is sown
at the same time as the wheat, but with
an attachment for very shallow sowing.
A way to do it is sow the wheat first,
then go over the paddock with super, and
lucerne in the box and sow again,
shallowly.
The Walpeup men are convinced that
lucerne can be established on Mallee soil,
but warn growers against disappointment
in bad seasons. They advise a higher
rate of supering, though they admit that
war-time conditions are against it. Once
a stand is established it has to be grazed
with the utmost care if it is to thrive for
any length of time.
For drift control, even on partly-
abandoned land, ryecorn, in the words
of H. J. Sims, manager of Walpeup
station, “is a most useful crop. Of all
the cereals withstands the onslaughts
of the sand blast the best.” On blown
hills, where wheat and oats struggle up
to 3in. or 4in. high and then give up,
ryecorn may reach 3ft. or 4ft, It has
stopped drift, protected roads, railways
and canals. Maintenance of canals was
costing the State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission £lOO,OOO a year. It
spent £lO,OOO resuming land adjacent to
canals and sowing it with ryecorn to stop
the sand drift. The annual saving in cost
of drift removal is equal to a return of
27 p.c. on the capital.
A grazing crop, ryecorn has to be care-
fully managed. On badly-blown areas the
first crop should be untouched and
allowed to reseed the following year. It
is capable of providing more green feed
under Mallee conditions than any other
cereal —the hay is coarse and tough ;
stock don’t like the grain.
Trough Feeding.
“L.C.”: It not only saves grain but
prevents deaths Caused by overloading the
stomach and bowels with sand and dirt
when the feed’s trailed over the ground.
Fifty yards of hessian 6ft. wide, slit down
the centre, will make 100 yards of good
troughing. When erecting, fasten well
down at the bottom of each pair of posts,
or run a wire along the bottom of the
trough to prevent it lifting with the wind.
If the troughs are arranged on square
formatidn, don’t let them meet at the
corners; give the sheep room to move
in and out and feed from both sides.
Two hundred yards of troughing ac-
commodates about 1000 sheep; if neces-
sary separate the weak ewes. To run up
board troughs quickly, peg two 6in. to
Sin. planks into the ground in a vertical
position about Sin. apart; water and ram
the earth between to make a hard bottom.
This type needs a guard to stop the sheep
getting into the trough. Failing troughs,
feeding the grain from sheets of roofing
iron placed end td end saves it being
contaminated or pounded into the earth.
Biodynamic Composts.
“Pat Ater”: Experience with manures
and fertilisers in short supply has taught
vegetable-growers the value of properly-
made composts. There are several
methods of composting or “breaking
down” the material, and though they
vary in details the general routine is the
same. It is that of “pitting” or building
the refuse into heaps. Usually every 3in,
or 4in. of the compost is sprinkled with
lime and some nitrogenous fertiliser, such
as sulphate of ammonia. This is forked
into the layer, which is covered with a
sprinkling of soil. So the heap is built.
It must be kept moist, but not soaked, in
the process. A tin cover or roof to ex-
clude rain and a concrete base and /or
sides give the ideal conditions.
When ready for use the compost can
be cut out like cake. It is rich in all
plant foods. Vegetables grown from it
have unrivalled vigor and disease-resist-
ance.
A good method is the biodynamic,
now largely used. Animal refuse, with
the urine, is imperative to the heap. The
heap itself is soil-covered to exclude air
and not turned regularly as in the Indore
process. The material, if soft leaves, etc.,
will be ready in three warm-weather
months; longer for straw and fibrous
matter, including stalks.
A grower of glasshouse tomatoes at
Narrabeen (N.S.W.), using biodynamic
compost, claims that the plants, usually
devastated by wilt, have come through
sound and healthy in the first season of
the new method. Fruit, picked green,
ripens a full deep red, and sprays were
dispensed with. Flavor was improved.
This grower anticipates that next season
even mildew will be controlled through
increased plant vigor.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ninety-nine”: When the usual arseni-
cal tick preventives are used with little
result, the addition of a small amount of
nicotine sulphate to the fluid usually gives
good results, treating at intervals of 14
days. To four gallons of the spraying
fluid add six teaspoons of nicotine sul-
phate, and use as a spray, which is to be
preferred to washing.
“Portergaff”: Success of a soldering
job depends mainly on the use of correct
fluxes. On new galvanised iron use spirits
of salts broken down with 10 p.c. water;
on dirty galvanised iron, raw spirits ot
salts ; for stainless steel and tin use spirits
of salts killed with zinc and broken down
with 20 p.c. water. More sensitive brass
and copper require resin or tallow, and
lead tallow only.
“E. 2”: On the blacksmith hammer-
handle I use a narrow strip of leather
wound in a spiral groove, the turns about
an inch apart. Groove is easily cut with
the edge of a rasp or file and the ends of
the leather wedged with wood into bored
holes. There is no slipping of a perspir-
ing hand; and the hammer may be
wielded more freely as it does not have
to be held so tightly clenched.
“Ned”: For the vegetable garden make
an efficient weed eradicator from an old
scythe blade. Cut the blade to a suitable
length, rivet it on to a horseshoe-shaped
piece of flat iron, turned up slightly at
the apex of the curve, affix a handle and
use it in similar fashion to a Dutch hoe.
The keen-edged blade cuts through the
soil and lifts weeds clean out.
“Sarina”: If the ants are working
from an open-air nest (B. 26/4/’44) a
few spoonfuls of carbon bisulphide
poured into each opening will gas the
whole colony, provided the nest is im-
mediately covered with a wet bag. Big
colonies need “blowing up.” Use up to
half a pint of c.b. to big nests, and when
the whole nest is full of fumes explode
the gas with a light. The stuff is rather
expensive, but its effects are permanent.
Carbon bisulphide is hard to beat for
wiping out potato-moth larvae in stored
spuds.


m
SW
CM 5
VA'V c
S P
!
M\R
■F
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
/f’s your fight — your money is needed note.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
242D3.44
The World follows Britain's lead..
■ 'AjLillii / 'r“ *$ rn. » *'
: ; • t;Ov
P’S
vSr?=
rTl#Viffr ‘
jr'f^kfflj
fcSigt
V/.i;/ OVA;'
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Comnionwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Freedom to Undermine.
(Condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
It is about time to make a few dis-
tinctions about freedom of speech.
If Mr. Stalin discovered in his admin-
istration workers who had even attended
a cocktail party in behalf of the Repub-
lican party or the American Chamber
of Commerce, he would not debate long
as to whether or not to keep them on the
payroll. Nor would he permit people to
accept public office when it had been
proved that their public attitudes were
entirely dependent on events in some
country other than Russia.
The American practice is different. In
the most recent plebiscite in New York
at least two Communists were elected
to the City Council. If past experience
with Communists means anything, they
can be relied on to stick as close to the
party line as they can get in view of
Stalin’s reluctance to let his American
suckers know what it is. But because
we believe in freedom of speech, we feel
that we must make public office available
to men whose ideas spring from outside.
Carried to its logical conclusion, this
complacency could result in national
suicide. Before that happened, the people
would undoubtedly repudiate freedom of
speech and expel the fellow-travellers by
force and violence. More sensible would
be a more precise definition of freedom
of speech. For, after all, it is one thing
to give a crackpot the right to expound
his views on a soapbox in the park; it
is quite another thing to give him a job
in an executive department where he may
make decisions and rulings which affect
the welfare of millions of people. That
the two should be lumped together under
our constitutional guarantees is nonsense.
The Palestine Tangle.
(Condensed from a London “Doily Mail" article
bv George Murray, explaining the Palestine
position for the benefit of critics and propa-
gandists in America.)
Before anyone can indulge in snap
judgments on a matter of such import-
ance he should know something of its
background.
The position of Jews and Arabs in
Palestine rests upon two pledges which
have never been reconciled.
In 1915, when Britain was trying to
enlist the aid of the Arabs against Tur-
key, Sir Henry McMahon, then High
Commissioner in Egypt, promised them
independence. Unfortunately, the word-
ing of the pledge was not precise. It
reserved certain territories whose exact
situation has never been settled. British
Governments have always maintained that
they included Palestine, but the Arabs
have denied it.
By 1917 America was in the war, and
the influence of world Jewry had become
of the highest importance. In that year
Mr. Balfour, the Foreign Secretary,
stated: “His Majesty’s Government view
with favor the establishment in Palestine
of a National Home for the Jewish people
.... it being clearly understood that noth-
ing shall be done which may prejudice
the civil and religious rights of existing
non-Jewish communities in Palestine.”
From the beginning the Arabs feared
they would be outnumbered by the Jews
and that their land would be taken from
them. The British promised, in 1922,
that Jewish immigration not
exceed the economic capacity of the
country. That same year the British
proposed self-government for Palestine,
but the Arabs objected. In 1928 the
proposal was revived, but the Jews ob-
jected. It was dropped in 1929 when
racial riots broke out.
In 1930 the Arabs demanded a com-
plete stop on Jewish immigration. The
British refused. During the next few
years Jewish immigration was speeded up.
The Arabs reacted violently. In 1934
immigration was reduced. The Jews pro-
tested and went on strike.
So it has gone on. In 1935 the British
proposed self-government again. The
Jews strongly objected. In 1936 serious
disorders broke out. In 1937 the Peel
Commission reported: “Conciliation has
failed. It has been tried for 17 years,
and the Arabs are more hostile to Jews
and Government than they .were at the
beginning.” This commission recom-
mended partition in Palestine. Both Jews
and Arabs denounced it in violent terms
—though the Jews afterwards modified
their views.
Another commission went out. It re-
jected partition as impracticable. The
Government then invited Arabs and Jews
to a conference in London. It failed.
So—at long last—-the British Govern-
ment announced that it would impose its
own solution and stick to it. The patient
British public sighed with relief. The
solution was the White Paper policy of
1939.
Now what should the British have
done? Set up a Jewish State? That
would have incurred the hostility of all
the Arabs in the world. Should they
have washed their hands of the idea of
a Jewish National Home? They could
not, because they had given a promise.
But if they had—what cries of “perfidi-
ous Albion” would have echoed round
the globe.
Should they have walked out of Pales-
tine? That would have meant leaving
the Jews to their fate. Besides, it would
have meant abandoning a vital strategical
position. Think what might have hap-
pened in that case. If Britain had not
been in Palestine this war might well have
been lost three years ago. Where would
Britain and her friends have been then?
Where would the Jews have been?
The position would have been as bad
if Britain had declared for a policy of
unrestricted immigration in 1939. Egypt,
Iraq, Trans-Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the
Yemen, would have been our enemies.
The British have made mistakes. They
have at times been too lenient, at times
uncertain, even irresolute. But they have
at all times tried to be just. They have
striven to introduce self-government and
to reconcile Jew and Arab. The British
taxpayer, abused by all, thanked by none,
has poured out millions of pounds in
Palestine. He, at least, would be happy
to see someone else have a cut at that
troubled country.
U.S. Policy Crumbles.
(“ Wall-street Journal” editorial comment.)
So long as the principal war aim o
Russia appeared to be the preservation
of her national territory, that nation
could subscribe to the Atlantic Charter.
Russia did so, although with reservations
which assume more significance as tune
goes on.
So long as Great Britain could fore-
see that the defeat of Germany would
remove all threats of domination ot
Europe by a single Power, she could pnt
her dependence in arrangements for col-
lective security which the Charter implied.
The characters of wars change as they
progress, and what are valid war aims
today may not be valid tomorrow. We
have seen that change take place.
Russia’s aim is much more than the
preservation of Russian territory. She
intends to annex considerable European
territory. She intends to dominate other
territory; to what extent is not wholly
clear, but perhaps as far west as the
Rhine. This is obviously contrary to the
terms of the Charter.
Great Britain deems that she cannot
be assured of safety so long as one Power
dominates the European continent,
whether that Power be Germany or
Russia. In face of Russia’s apparent am-
bitions, Britain must have stronger guar-
antees than the Charter contains. If her
national life depends on securing them,
she will make the attempt, and the
Churchill Government has been under
fire on those very grounds.
Thus in the case of two of the United
Nations, the Atlantic Charter—which is
the cornerstone of American foreign
policy for the war and post-war periods
—no longer coincides with what they
regard as their self-interest.
The consequence is that the Charter
is crumbling. American foreign policy
has fallen into a heap of improvisation.
There is a damaging uncertainty at home
and a paralysing loss of prestige abroad.
It is possible for a conservative Wash-
ington writer to report his dismay at the
recurrence of the question, “What are


TWO WEEKS ADRIFT open boat
in the North Atlantic, Third Officer Roberts and
Seaman Hart kept alive on the chocolate which forms
part of the rations stored in every lifeboat at sea.
Writing to Cadbury's on their safe return, they soy,
"Your Chocolate was the only foodstuff we were able
to eat . . . Cadbury's helped to save our lives."
Large quantities of Cadbury's Energy Chocolate have
been supplied to our Merchant Navy for life-boat
rations. Such vitally important uses for chocolate
naturally absorb a large portion of Cadbury's out-
put, and make civilian supplies uncertain. Still,
occasionally, you will see
a welcome block or two
of Cadbury's Chocolate in
your Confectioner's (ex-
cept in N.S.W. and S.A.
where we are unable to
distribute owing to trans-
port regulations).
FC83a.15
f
Ruwolt
9HHMI
m
wm
:■
m
mm
: B
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
I
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
WSI64
we fighting this war for?” If that ques-
tion can be asked in Washington what
must be the state of puzzlement in places
not in position to be so well informed?
Learnt in Italy.
(From a report by N.Y. “Tines” war
correspondent C. L. Sulzberger.)
Italy has furnished an excellent lesson
in the precept that the Allies, if they are
to achieve victory, must rely on their
own efforts rather than on those of any
outsiders who also happen to hate the
Germans. In order to be sure that the
job is done it would appear wise for the
Allies to count on doing it entirely by
themselves, and regarding any outside
help as so much gravy.
Italy, at some cost, has shown that the
Germans are still entirely indoctrinated
with Hitlerism, still cheeky and largely
confident, for some mystic reason, that
they are not only going to win the war,
but that they are going to win it this year.
We can expect anything from the Ger-
mans, as this campaign has taught us.
They employ all the old dirty tricks of
fighting which they have always used.
They are a desperate, cheeky, brave,
hard-fighting lot. They know that they
are in the soup if they lose, and they have
got their backs to the wall for a tremen-
dous eleventh-hour effort with alternative
results—at least, a partial victory or • a
Gotterddrnmerung such as Wagner never
imagined.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
The propagandists for an alliance of the
United States, Britain, Russia and China always
assume that the American people are hunger-
ing for some such arrangement. Actually, every
time the people have had any proposal of the
sort presented to them in an election they have
snowed it under.— Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
“The Germans are masters of digging in.
They burrow tunnels and make shelters of
ravines. Our doughboys are glad when the
Jerrries mount an offensive —then they can see
them.”— Lieut.-Col. Alfred Dumoulin, official
U.S. Army observer in Italy.
* * H= *
There is no agreed boundary between Russia
and China. Russia is now running Outer Mon-
golia, although'the territory was under nominal
Chinese sovereignty for centuries. When the
German pressure is off, will the Russians freely
return Mongolia to China, and when the
Japanese pressure is off, will China insist upon
reoccupying Mongolia? And what are we going
to do about it if our two proposed partners do
not agree? Which of them will be the peace-
loving nation and which the aggressor?—
Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
To point to Cassino as an example of the
futility of the decisive influence of bombing is
to make a jump at an unjustified conclusion.
With Berlin and Stuttgart and Frankfort and
50 other Reich cities burning and vibrating to
the bombs, it seems a most magnificent leap to
conclude that the little Italian village in the
mountains embodies the limits of air-war effec-
tiveness. —Gill Robb Wilson; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
An American Government which tries to
police France and Italy after the firing has
stopped, either in behalf of bankers’ profits
or of idea, will have the American soldiers to
reckon with. When they have made a success-
ful campaign against the enemy their homes
will be their reward. The garrison in Coblenz
after the 1918 armistice was a thorn to the
men who composed it and an irritation to the
people at home. The Germans liked it better
than we did. Another poli.ce job of the sort
would be regarded as involuntary servitude. —
Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
F. 8.1. Director Hoover states that “13 p.c.
of all murderers arrested in the United States
last year were under 21 years of age, as were 59
p.c. of all robbers, 55 p.c. of all burglars, 37
p.c. of all thieves, 32 p.c. of all rapists and 65
p.c. of all car thieves. More boys 17 years of
age and more girls 18 years of age were arrested
than in any other age group. And arrests of
girls last year were up 130 p.c. over those of
1941.” Some of this increase is no doubt due
to war conditions. The same phenomenon was
noted in England during the first two years of
the present war. We may as well face the
truth that war always tends to upset private
notions of right and wrong, and so to en-
courage crime; and we may asd this'to our
general indictment of the warmakers. Never-
theless, the home, the school and the church
have also failed when adolescents take to break-
ing the law. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The Communist leadership is a blight. Its
previous tactics make it suspect; its present
freedom from all shackles of consistency, logic
and simple intellectual honesty make it danger-
ous, and its future is most uncertain. A con-
vinced Communist, working to produce the
socialist State, may be a danger, but he is an
open dapger and may be combated openly. A
repentant Communist, sincerely convinced of
error, is an admirable and not uncommon
phenomenon. But a party chieftain, suspend-
ing the whole platform of his organisation and
offering his services to another group like a
condottiere of old, should he shunned. He may
help a faction, but he will surely kill a cause.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
$ * #
Every night at this American bomber base in
North-west Australia there is a movie some-
where. The boys go miles to see them.
“Patriotic” movies draw the most laughs. At
one the other night Katherine Hepburn worked
herself into a lather over your duty to your
country, and up piped a voice from the rear:
“Now, will you eat your dried eggs?”—
Chicago “Tribune” correspondent.
* * * ♦
While the British were not ready to go along
with us [America] in stopping meat from the
Argentine and worried about freezing Argen-
tine credits, British Ambassador Kelly in Buenos
Aires stood up and battled against Argentina
effectively—but without headlines. He told
President Ramirez that, though Britain was not
ready to co-operate with the U.S. immediately
in cutting off imports, she intended to within
three months. Ramirez asked Kelly to put it
in a note. Ramirez showed it to army head-
quarters. Two days later Argentina broke with
the Axis. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
After reading day-to-day stories of the suc-
cesses of U.S. fliers in the Pacific the statement
of an army officer on this subject came as a
surprise to the writer, as it probably will to
other civilians who believe Japanese air strength
has been greatly whittled down. According to
the army’s information the contrary is true.
Despite the loss of 12,000 ’planes by the enemy
in the Pacific Japan’s monthly rate of produc-
tion is greater than her losses. She has accu-
mulated a force that is today 500 ’planes
stronger than when she went into the war. —
William R. Miner; Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
The M.V. Delius, 6000 tons, has been
brought into a British port after being set on
fire during a convoy battle which took place
1000 miles out in the Atlantic. The ship was
brought home by Gordon Marshall, second mate,
who took over command after the captain had
been killed by a glider bomb which struck the
ship. The first officer had died during the
voyage. For five days he went almost without
sleep while the crew —on deck and in the engine-
room-**-manned hoses and fire-fighting equip-
ment day and night. When the ship eventu-
ally arrived in port she was still burning, and
burnt for 10 days afterwards. The bridge and
a large area of the forepart of the ship were
wrecked. Fire broke out in the hold below, and
the bulkhead of the engine-room, which was
next to the hold, grew red-hot. Throughout the
voyage the engineers kept the engines running,
although the cargo in the hold next the engine-
room was on fire. — London “Times.”
*i*
We want Rome because it has some useful
airfields round it. We want Rome because, in
General Alexander’s words, “whoever holds
Rome holds the hearts of the Italian people.”
And we want it because if we have it there is
a much better chance of getting Italy into
working order again. But with Rome we get
2,000,000 hungry people. Refugees have come
down from the north, hoping that the Eternal
City will not be bombed. They have flowed
up from the south, fleeing before the battle.
And we shall find this swollen, foodless popu-
lation living in a temporary unworkable city.
The Germans, with plenty of explosive and
plenty of experience, will do their best to para-
lyse the place. The light will not be working.
The water will be cut off. As in Naples, the
main hotels and big public buildings—places
we might use as headquarters and billets —will
be gutted or blown up. There will be no
public transport. The sanitary services will be
disorganised. But, worst of all, we get no
harbor with Rome. These 2,000,000 people
will simply be an added burden on the harbors
we are using now. Their food supply, which
at present comes from the north, will be cut
off abruptly as the battlefront sweeps on. A
new food supply will have to be organised
from the south. And that is going to be mighty
difficult. — London “Daily Mail” special corre-
spondent.


Missing Friends.
EDWARD JAMES WILSON HOBBS.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of any
of the members of the family of the abovenamed
deceased person please communicate with the under-
signed ?
The parents of the deceased were Frederick Hobbs,
a brickmaker, and Lucy Hobbs, nee Wilson, who
were married at Liverpool, New South Wales, on
the 26th July, 1883, and at the date of birth of the
deceased were living at Ohalder Street, Marrick-
ville, New South Wales. At the date of birth of
the deceased on the 13th June, 1886, he had one
elder living brother.
J, E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
TO THE CHILDREN OF , THE FOLLOWING
BROTHERS AND SISTERS OF CATHERINE
MUNN: JANE OSBORNE, JOHN MUNN, WILLIAM
MUNN, ALEXANDER MUNN, ROBERT HENRY
MUNN (or McMunn) AND THOMAS MUNN, AND
TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR
UNDER SUCH CHILDREN. —Pursuant to an order
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
required to send to the undersigned before the 21st
day of December, 1944, your claim to share in the
estate of DAVID MUNN, late of Dunedin, Laborer,
Deceased, failing which the estate will be distributed
disregarding your claim. —PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
A Boon to Timbermen -The (/fef Chain Saws
GASOLINE TANK
AIR CLEANER^
HANDLE BARS
THROTTLE
CHOKE LEVER
CARBURETOR
MALL-BUILT AIR COOLED 2 CYCLE ENGINE
DOUBLE EXHAUST STACKS _
AUTOMATIC CLUTCH PREVENTS STALLING
THE ENGINE WHEN SAW IS PINCHED OR
FORCED TOO HARD. ONLY NECESSARY
FOR OPERATORS TO MANIPULATE ENGINE
THROTTLE WHEN READY TO CUT.
CHAIN TENSION SCREW
RELEASE TO REMOVE CHAIN
OIL PLUNGER RETRACTOR KNOB
OIL LEVEL INDICATOR
OIL SHUT OFF AND
AUXILIARY PUMP KNOB
/
\
....
m
\
BUMPER
INDEXING LEVER PERMITS CUTTING
IN ANY POSITION OR DIRECTION
CUTTING CHAIN
2 STARTING CORDS CARRIED ON ENGINE
FOR CONVENIENCE
IDLER SIDE HANDLE. CAN BE USED ON
EITHER SIDE OR BOTTOM FOR EASE OF
HANDLING MACHINE IN ANY POSITION
Fewer timber-getters are available for present
cutting operations and more timber is required
for critical war-time needs.
Chain Saws are definite solutions
to both problems. They produce
more usable timber per tree.
360 deg. index permits horizontal, vertical
or -any angle cuts. The opinion of many
operators is that a four-man team to one saw
or seven men to two saws would produce the
greatest output. With the four-man team, one
man, familiar with the knowledge and best
methods of falling the tree, could go ahead of
the saw team, marking the trees so that the
saw team would lose no time in making the
undercut; the third man, being a part of the
saw team, could drive wedges, do trimming and
clearing for the saw team.
Inexperienced laborers with just a small
amount of instruction oan easily operate this saw.
The saw has an automatic oiling system
which not only lubricates the saw track but
also serves to remove the resin which usually
collects in the sawing operation.
It is interesting to note that on one operation
with inexperienced operators, taken from the
crew where the demonstration was held, 12
trees, having an average diameter at the butt of
21 inches, were felled and topped in 30 minutes.
In another location, where the trees averaged
from 15in. to 24in. at the butt, a four-man
crew, who were working on a contract basis
but who had never before used a chain saw,
cut in three and a half hours, both felling
and bucking, an amount of timber equal, they
told those present, to four days of cutting with
their regular crosscut equipment. These trees
were in a cleared area and conditions for cut-
ting were ideal.
CUT STANDING TIMBER-BUCK FELLED TREES-REMOVE
LIMBS and BRANCHES FASTER-with these STURDY SAWS!
Write for literature with further particulars to —
WALTER A. COX PTY., LTD.
193-3 Clarence Street, Sydney :: :: :: 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne
f
I
■■■■■ -X
V \
m.
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
NO, THEY'RE NOT PEARLS - their value is
far more fabulous than that! You are looking
atthe new "Bead Catalyst” used by Vacuum's
American Associates in the refining of vastly
improved aviation gasolines. These beads
have properties of great magic. By their use,
100 octane aviation fuels possessing power
hitherto undreamed of, are made. Thus, for
Allied war planes, these new fuels will
permit far higher power output, greatly
increased bomb loads, a wider cruising range
and a greater degree of safety for the crew.
The Houdry Process of Catalytic Cracking
was first developed by Vacuum's Associates
and has produced over 90% of all the cata-
lytically cracked aviation fuels for the United
Nations The "Magic Beads" are a still
later development-magic beads that open
up a whole new world of engine power -
Flying Horsepower The Petroleum Industry is
busy these days in other directions too
producing Butadiene, the chief constituent of
synthetic rubber; Formaldehyde for plastics;
Toluol for T.N.T., and fuels and lubricants of
all types to serve the Allied Nations on land,
sea, and in the air.
Serving the Nation on Land\ Sea , and in the A
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
'VI-fcll (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy pictures by' Conrad Martens. —3467.
To buy Robert Simpson’s The Grey Char-
teris.—3468.
To buy Introducing London, by E. V. Lucas.
—3469.
To buy second volume of Treasury of
Botany, edited by J. Lindley and T. Moore,
1866.—3470.
Information Sought.
What is the strength of a British Army
division in this war and the last, and that of a
German division at present ?
British divisions in the last war contained
18,000 to 20,000 men; strength is now about
12,500, including subsidiaries to battalion troops,
but there is some variation according to the
purpose of the division. German divisions
at full strength are about 12,000, but may
be as little as 7000. Panzer divisions hold
3500 to 5000.
Treatment for peripheral neuritis ?
There are so many causes of the malady that
no one form of treatment can be effective in
all cases. Massage, etc., may be employed if
there is no tenderness, and in these cases the
administration of strychnine under medical
supervision is often helpful. Electrical stimu-
lation is also used. The presence of anaemia
requires medical care, and vitamin deficiencies,
which are also present, may be obviated by a
suitable diet.
What is known of the spawning habits of the
sea mullet (Mugil dobuld)?
The fish lives mainly in coastal lakes and
rivers in fresh or brackish waters. The annual
migration for spawning begins in n.-e. Vic-
toria in Jan.-Feb., and is maintained en echelon
northwards by successive contributions from
lake by lake in turn. The mature fish is 12in.
to Bin. long. The spawning has never actually
been observed, but is assumed to occur in the
surf near mouths of estuaries. What happens
to adult fish after spawning has been the sub-
ject of much controversy.
What are the six most venomous Australian
snakes, in order of deadliness ?
Taipan, death adder, tiger-snake, brown
snake, copperhead and black snake.
(1) What was the cast of J. C. Williamson’s
revival of “The Student Prince” in Sydney in
1928 ? (2) When and where did the show open ?
(1) Prince Karl, James Liddy; Kathie, Beppie
de Vries; Litz, A. Stigant; Engel, Hedley Hall;
Hubert, Mason Wood; Captain Tarnitz, A.
Clarke; Tony, J. Forde; Duchess Anastatia,
Millie Engler; Gretehen, Vera Spaull; and
Princess Margaret, Adele Crane. (2) Her
Majesty’s Theatre, September 15, 1928.
Brief Answers.
R.O.R.: “Solo” as played in Australia is a
hybrid unknown to Hoyle, a sort of auction
whist. Answers to your questions are not,
therefore, backed by any standard authority,
but follow Australian usage: (1) The place of
the lead remains unaltered no matter what the
call. (2) If the trump feature is retained a
declaree in trumps outbids a declaree in a
non-trump suit... .C.J.C.: Burke’s Business
Principles and Practice, 5s., from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .F.G.: On June 30, 1941,
Queensland’s public debt was £130,094,603, and
that of S.A. £109,779,725.... A.E.: (1) Barley
is steeped in water, allowed to germinate and
dried in a kiln to form malt. (2) Three bat-
talions compose a brigade, three brigades a
division I.M.R.: The nightingale is
migratory, known throughout Europe to Italy
and N. Africa. It appears in Italy each year
and remains for several months, coming to
England late in April and staying for the
summer J.P.G.; Tax would be £13 11s.
in each case B.S.: Cannot trace verse
H.M.: Levenson’s Wireless, 226 Pitt-street,
Sydney, might have something to suit you
J.A.McL: Copies of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution are obtainable from the Common-
wealth Government Printer, Canberra, 2s. 3d.
. ...W.O’G.: (I) Write c/o Ward, Locke and
Co., 19 McKillop-street, Melbourne. (2) Chil-
blains develop as a result of exposure to cold,
appearing mostly in young people with a poor
circulation and insufficient calcium in the blood.
Other questions will be answered later....
S.J.B.: Information may not be given.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
T.: Forgiven... .H.E.R.: Well, it’s quite bad
enough for an anthem.. . .P. 8.: Try it on the
barmaid A.A.H.: Not here R.C.P.:
No bite W.E.E.: It’s been said before
J. ; “Gums-runs,” “awe-soar” —where’s
your ear? ... .W.G.: Call again... .M.T.:
Ever tried short stories? ... .R.G.C.; Trite....
K. ; He’s a very literary kookaburra
E.M.C.: Indistinguishable, except for a bad
rhyme in the second stanza, from the usual
seasonable reflections... .A.V.M.: Get away
from sunsets... .W.A.M.: “The Intruder” was
promptly expelled—.E.J.L.: “Ah, young
April! Whims and wiles, Tempest tears and
sunny smiles.” ’Oppit, April... .H.J.S.;
“Then I with many laughs, Ho! Ho! Ha! Ha!
and di-diddle-de’s, Will enjoy the young olds,
the marvellous would-be’s.” Ho, ho, ho, ho,
ho, ho, h 0... .C.F.R.: “Vast, though unpro-
pitious at first sight”... .E.R.N.: Excruciating,
. ...T.R.: Milly’s heart is melting in the
w.p.b H.A.C.: Type in double spacing
L.D.: Incredible.... P.R.L.: About three
“gots’ to every sentence.. . .S.K.: the Lite
Story of a Lover of Animals should appeal to
all animals.


WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
HRY FAMILY
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges
are fixed and moderate. Con-
sult your solicitor or write for
Free Booklet.
f
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD..
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£960,645. ,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.:
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart}
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughea
..
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
forced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY., LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
£
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES : LA5034-5-6
Established 1890. Agents and Service Mechanics in all States of the Commonwealth
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ jg £,£,£,
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1933 .. 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 7 99R
Reserved for contingencies. £lOO,OOO j
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596]
From bonus equalisation account, 1 579,467
£30,000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289 ) a 8„
To staff fund, £6OOO J 560,88 d
1938 .. 1,355,548 600,763 160,031 10,268 ]
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 1 540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..J
1939 .. 1,368,133 732,398 172,415 21,755 441,565
1940 . . 1,432,037 650,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down £557,308—£322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1941 .. 1,457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
1942 . . 1,509,888 636,190 261,342 7,761 ) _ gq ,- q( -
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 f oz ,oy
1943.. 1,586,207 663,209 218,235 8,321 7 fi9l
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 ] ’
The 65-year-old City Mutual, which lost
some of its former weight without im-
pairing its constitution* continues to pro-
gress. Outstanding features last term
were the sharp increase in surplus avail-
able for distribution among policy-
holders and allotment of reversionary
bonuses on an increased scale. Amounts
involved compare as follows:
1941. 1942. 1943.
Distributable surplus . . £274,154 £127,435 £298,860
Bonuses to policyholders 116,965 107,607 132,437
Carried forward .. 157,189 19,828 161,423
The surplus actually earned last term
was less than for the preceding 12
months, when approximately £300,000
was used to strengthen actuarial reserves
on account of a reduction in the basis of
valuation from 3 p.c. to 2| p.c.—the
assumed rate was lowered from 3f- p.c.
to 3 p.c. in 1940. Last year’s available
surplus was figured after reserving
£75,000 for contingencies (same as for
previous term) and withholding £60,000
from interest receipts, etc., to write down
the book value of a “special asset.”
War-time management and control of
the national economy brought a reces-
sion in bonus rates —a common experi-
ence —but they remain satisfactory. And,
as with other life offices, the rates aren’t
broadcast these days, nor are certificates
sent out —this to save paper and labor.
Bonus additions are credited direct to
policyholders’ accounts.
The co. used to pay exceptionally fat
bonuses. They came mostly from high
interest returns on mortgage and prop-
erty investments made on a rising market.
But slump and subsequent developments
reversed these conditions, and in 1940
substantial amounts were written off the
book value of properties and mortgages.
Still, the adjustments were made without
interfering with either the life fund or
actual earning power of the business.
Since then surplus earnings have been
mostly channelled into Government
securities to meet war needs. And indi-
cations are that cheap money will be a
feature of public policy post-war.
It was to help offset the effects of all
this on bonuses to policy-holders in the
future that the management made pro-
gressive reductions in the basis of valua-
tion. The reason that such a substantial
amount (£161,423) of last year’s avail-
able surplus was carried forward was to
provide for a still more stringent 2j p.c.
basis of valuation, should the board con-
sider this necessary.
According to the published accounts,
after deducting taxation (£55,909, down
£37,449), last year’s net effective return
from investments (£472,240, up £49,394)
was 4.1 p.c. on the mean life fund as
against 3.8 p.c., 1942, and a shade over
5 p.c., 1938. If the £60,000 withheld from
interest, etc., already referred to is taken
into the reckoning, last year’s net effective
return was 4.6 p.c. So there is a satis-
factory margin between the assumed and
actual rates of earning.
The investment portfolio in tabloid:
1942. p.c. 1943. p.c.
Govt, securities.. £4,022,845 33.9 £5,054,519 40.2
Mortgages, etc... 3,307,574 28.0 2,828,976 22.6
Loans on policies 1,235,457 10.4 1,134,071 9.0
Properties.. .. 2,236,414 18.9 2,517,704 20.0
Shares and
debentures, etc. 885,015 7.4 910,049 7.2
Cash and sundries 167,679 1.4 124,263 1.0
Last year over a million pounds was put
into public securities, now 40.2 p.c. of
total assets as against 23.2 in 1939. The
growth of £281,290 in properties and re-
duction of £478,598 in mortgages was
partly on account of repossessions.
The amount of new business put on
the books last term was £2,073,576, up
£252,707. A tight hold was kept upon
exes., which took 10.3 p.c. of. total in-
come as against 11.5 p.c., 1942. That
leaves taxes and contributions to staff
fund out of the figuring. Death claims
(£311,252) include about £60,000 on war
account. The assurance fund (£11,946,326,
up £621,442), which more than covers
liabilities under policies, has the support
and assistance of £380,643 (up £75,000)
of general reserves.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 38,058 5 p.c. = 37,500 558 102,101
1936.. 37,158 5 „ „ 37,500 101,759
i°36. • 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938. 65,145 6i „ „ 46,876 I
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ] 13 ’ 2 ' 0 134,621
1939.. 51,233 6± p.c. = 46.875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 6J ~ „ 46,875 2,477 141,456
.1941.. 38,971 5 „ „ 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45.661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943. . 58,243 6j „ ~ 46,875 11,868 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8j p.c. = 65,625 7 46 964 fi o 7
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ] 4b,Jb4 J 81.637
For the improvement in net earnings—
they almost doubled last term, and were
easily the best in the co.’s history—share-
holders can thank the American fleet and
Allied land forces. Together they stopped
and then rolled back the Jap drive into
the South Seas, providing the security
necessary for continued trading there, as
well as a new and strong demand at
good prices for much merchandise which
the co. has been able to provide as
shipping space became available. Further,
since the enemy’s thrust into the islands,
there has been a a ready market for
copra and other South Seas products at
enhanced prices.
The co.’s headquarters are at Suva—
and have been ever since it took over
this section of the big B.P. organisation
in 1920—and it has 17 branches and
numerous trading stations now scattered
throughout the islands of the South Pacific
as well. The Solomon and Gilbert
groups, where the co. had four branches
and did an extensive trade, fell into
enemy hands, and the estimated financial
loss was chalked up against inner re-
serves and 1942 earnings in undisclosed
proportions. The Jap has now been
driven out of these two groups, after
bitter fighting, but for security reasons it
is too early yet for ordinary trade activity
to be resumed.
Because there was no Government war-
damage insurance schemes to cover
properties, etc., in the areas where the
co. operates, provision was made against
possible war losses by the various
branches. And the providing appears to
have been done with a liberal hand. Since
it has not been necessary to draw upon
these accounts, and owing to the change in
outlook and the enhanced security which
have followed successful Allied opera-
tions, the board has now decided to cen-
tralise the accounts concerned in a
“general equalisation and rehabilitation
account,” with which has been lumped
“sundry other branch reserves.” In this
way £172,217 of inner reserves was dis-
closed in the latest accounts. Exactly
how much of it was accumulated pre-war
isn’t ascertainable from the published
figures. Appearances are that a substan-
tial part of it was provision against war
contingencies. That means earnings,
especially over the four years to the close
oP accounts in 1943, were better than
claimed.
Expanding turnover and disclosure of
more branch profits are reflected in a
sharp spring of £52,224 in last term’s
gross earnings:
Gross Gross
Jan., Profit. Exes. Jan., Profit. Exes,
1932 £169,182 £112,487 1940 £191,683 £142,331
1934 147,700 109,642 1941 164,226 125,255
1936 153,393 110,639 1942 180,407 134,746
1938 203,465 138,320 4943 220,371 162,128
1939 184,269 138,036 1944 272,595 160,006
Visible provision for depreciation was
£19,560 (up £461). It was a contraction
of £15,943 in the allowance for bad
debts, etc. (£2290), that was responsible
for the contraction of £2122 in total exes.
The net result (£112,589, up £54,346) was
equal to 15 p.c. on capital as against
7.7, 6, 5.1 and 5.6 p.c. back to 1940. The
cautious management added only 2\
points to the div., making it 8f p.c., and
£lO,OOO was sent to staff retirement fund.
The £46,964 that remained lifted reserves
to £381,637, and the “Wild Cat” believes
there is still more wheat in the ear than
the eye can see.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1040. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 55,708 119,222 430,777 268,428
Properties,
shipping, etc. 384,546 215,679 199,209 145,153
Investments . . 258,096 211,421 282,560 408,765
Stocks, etc. . . 98,803 .390,504 698,998 691,807
Book debts . . 163,221 121,666 90,482 97,244
Cash.. .. 67,498 99,790 100,108 94,595
The disclosure of inner reserves, con-
traction of £162,349 in liabilities and ex-
pansion of £126,205 in investments (they
include Government securities) are partly
inter-related, as the apparent improve-
ment of £282,612 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,023,983, including in-
vestments) suggests. Stocks, now seven
times greater than the 1940 figure, look
like being a sensitive point in the co.’s
early post-war armor.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8.250 7 R9 o . n OKII
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO | 62,840 2511
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 7.. ...
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO ( b5 > b4b
1936.. 12.840 6 p.c. = 8,250 ) R0
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO (' 3J > A6:>
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 1 71 , Rl .
Staff Super; Fund, £lOOO J ' l,OOO
1938.. 13,478 p.c. =10,313 t 700 9070
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO r d,7oU ZU ‘ 6
1939.. 13,550 8 p.c, =ll,OOO 7 7 r non 9708
Staff Super. Fund, £looo] 75,280 27 8
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO I 9097
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ]
1941. . 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO ] mo 3183
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f 76,6 ““ 383
1942.. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
Investment fluctuation reserve
taken in, £2523 . . . . 77,492
1943.. 7,367 6 p.c. = 8,250 76,609
1944.. 9,832 6 „ „ 8,250 78,191
The uncertainties of war and the com-
plications that a maze of legislative and
quasi-legislative controls have given rise
to have made more apparent than ever
the need for revision of wills as well as
the advantage of the corporate over the
private trustee. One result has been a
steady increase in the volume of busi-
ness placed in the expert care of the
trustee cos.
But their moderate corpus and com-
mission charges are anchored by legis-
lation, as they always have been, which
means that the cos. have been unable to
pass on any of the costs inflation due to
imperative war spending. Thus the cos.
have been long subject to the “price-ceil-
ing” principle, and have been compelled
to absorb expanding costs within the busi-
ness. At the same time financial controls
have forced down interest rates and kept
rents low, which means only moderate
returns for the cos. from investment of
their own funds, which are represented
mostly by rent-producing freeholds and
Government securities. Further, the said
controls have retarded realisation of
estates and affected corpus and other
commission earnings.
The Union, which has strong connec-
tions in pastoral circles, set up in Mel-
bourne 59 years ago, and now has
branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Too-
woomba and Townsville, with agencies
at London and Glasgow. It doesn’t
broadcast the volume of trusts in hands,
but gross earnings from all sources and
exes, have stepped along in this way:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534 79.8
1985 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 .. .. 97,411 82,571 84.7
1938 . . .. 99,605 84,117 84.5
1939 . . . . 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 .. 107,743 92,031 85.4
1941 .. .. 110,191 94,661 85.9
1942 .. .. 112,087 98,015 87.4
1943 . . . . 116,554 103,553 88.8
1944 . . . . 116,615 103,027 88.3
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
The small improvement in gross earn-
ings last term was because of an “un-
usual” loss, not likely to recur, in admin-
istration of one of the branches. The


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street#,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
f
/7//er
3K5555555
Cylinder
IJ i 1
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
do not experiment with Imitations.
a BBAXDAOM * OOu UL BIBMESOHAIA KNO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ncT«
LIKE THE HRIID
The latest invention of Dr.
L, Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2W), 243 EEIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing’, nagging, gllnPul
backaches people blame on colds or strains
nre often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
Relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, puffin ess under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—-the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney*
obtain CommonweaJth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
\ o '
&
FLANGE
I
Were these flanges forged, cut,
machined and welded to the core? Not at all.
They were simply formed by B.T.M. Craftsmen
from the extremities of a single Cold-Drawn
Precision Seamless Steel Tube. Such an immense
saving of metal, money and time is one of the
many reasons why you can
confidently expect post-war com-
modities to be both better and
more economical to consumers.
E 34
TU B E MILLS
i
OUT OT MY WAY
SQUANDER BUG!
I'M WANTED FOR
WAR SAVINGS
\
5 ?Ap
ON TO VICTORY!
No time to spare for the Squander Bug these days—
no money, either. Spending hinders the war effort.
Use all your spare money to buy 6d. War Savings
Stamps, War Savings Certificates, or 5/- National
Savings Stamps. Raise the standard of your war
savings by increasing your purchases every week.
BUY 6d. War Savings Stamps, from any Money Order
Post Office. OR War Savings Certificates, from any
Bank, Savings Bank, or Money Order Post Office.
OR 5/- National Savings Stamps, from any Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office.
KEEP UP YOUR
AL,t.a«
provision for taxation was £3756 (down
£1879). Taking this into the reckoning,
the net result was £2465 better at £9832,
equal to 7,1 p.c. on the £137,500 of paid
capital as against 5.3, 5.8, 7.6, 10, 9.8,
9.8, 9.4 and 9.3 p.c. back to 1936. The
div. was kept at 6 p.c. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
the year’s net result was only 4.5 p.c.
Capital is in 100,000 shares of 50s. each,
paid to 275. 6d. ; all but 2s. 6d. of the
remaining 225. 6d. is a reserve liability,
callable only in event of liquidation.
When the books last closed premises, etc.,
figured at £140,217, Government securi-
ties £60,770, debtors’ balances £2OOO and
cash £26,948. There was nothing coming
to outsiders.
Mt. Morgan (Q.)
Shareholders will be asked on June
22 next to authorise issue of 300,000
new £1 7 p.c. cum. redeemable second
prefs. for the purpose of repaying the
existing 200,000 £1 8 p.c. prefs. and pro-
viding additional working capital.
Holders of existing 8 percents have the
right to take up new 7 percents at par
pari passu with present holdings. Any
new shares not so taken up, together with
the other 100,000 of them, are offered at
par to those op,, both pref. and ord.
.registers. The new prefs. are redeem-
able in part or whole at the co.’s option
after 10 years but not later than 15 years,
and carry voting rights in the event of a
wind-up, "sale of the undertaking, reduc-
tion of capital, or on questions affecting
their rights and privileges or when the
div. is more than three months in arrears.
When all the money is in on the new
issue and the 8 percents have been re-
deemed, paid capital will be £593,500
in 300,000 7 p.c. redeemable cum. prefs.
and 2,318,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each. The
pref. div. will then call for £21,000 p.a.,
or £5OOO more than at present, but the
charge for amortisation will be £5OOO
lighter at £20,000 p.a. The board figures
that, after meeting all liabilities, it will be
left with approx, £120,000 of working
capital.
The 8 percents were put out in 1938
to help finance erection of a reverbatory
smelter to treat concentrates —previously
shipped to U.S.A. —on the spot. Thus the
co. has been able to sidestep shipping
problems and continue operations during
the war. A second and larger smelter
has been recently installed at a cost
of about £125,000. This was done
at Government instigation, partly to
treat concentrates from the reopened
Mt. Chalmers mine, now closed, and
partly to provide for larger throughput
in the future of higher-grade copper ore
from Mt. Morgan itself, as well as to
ensure uninterrupted output when No. 1
smelter needs repairs. Government
offered to advance the money for the new
smelter, but the terms were unaccept-
able to the co., which met the outlay
partly from profits and partly from work-
ing capital.
Recent losses on working account have
been arrested (see B. 24/5/’44), and with
the peak of overburden removal past,
costs on this account are expected to
ease to the benefit of net earnings in the
future. There is now only 8,500,000 tons
of overburden to be removed as against
21.000. tons seven years ago, and of
the 7,000,000-ton one scheme approx.
6.000. tons, averaging 4.23dwt. gold
and 1.85 p.c. copper, remains to be treated.
Chief difficulty at the moment is man-
power, over 100 men being required to
bring the undertaking to full production.
“O.B.”: Westralian Government con-
siders that Canberra is giving it the cold
shoulder with regard to production of
alumina. Its spokesman says (1) that
while Tasmania’s claims for establishment
of the aluminium industry there, based
on cheap hydro-electric power and juxta-
position to the big industrial centres of
the Commonwealth, are recognised, West-
ralia’s commendable efforts to produce
alumina from alunite are not; (2) because
Westralia, in face of active opposition
from Eastern States interests, has man-
aged to get a plant capable of producing
20,000 tons of refined alumina, it feels
that it has prior claims to supply Tas-
mania’s demands for this product; (3)
that factors favoring selection of West-
ralian alunite as a source of alumina
for aluminium production in Australia
justify a greater measure of Common-
wealth support, both financially and tech-
nically, than has thus far been forth-
coming.
* * * •
The Federal Government has given
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) permission
to export antimony, which the co. pro-
duces as well as gold. Still, the future
Of the mine remains precarious. De-
spite scarcity of supplies and shortage
of labor, with consequent inability to get
sufficient tonnage to show a profit on
treatment of present grade ore, the co. is
willing to carry on so long as the Ipss
on mining account doesn’t exceed revenue
from investments. When that point is
reached operations are likely to cease
abruptly, unless Government comes to
the rescue.
Burbidge (W.A.) is stated to be over-
hauling its machinery and plant in anti-
cipation of miners being released from
the forces, and consequent early resump-
tion of operations on its present idle mine
near Southern Cross.


n
'em
Turn
ii
DOWN.
Lady
AND CONSERVE FUEL FOR THE WAR EFFORT
Because coal is so vitally needed for war production,
you are asked to conserve gas and electricity in every
way you can.
Every unit you save at home means just that much more
to produce the weapons of Victory,
What you save may not seem much, but if everyone
saves' gas and electricity in every way possible, war
plants can maintain their production schedules.
BE A FUEL-WATCHER IN YOUR OWN HOME
CUT DOWN ON CAS, ELECTRI AND HOT WATER
f
m.
Z 2% ZZZ ZZ-Z
MMW mmS.
StSAVEDf
issued by the Commonwealth Coal Commission
OK. 31-31
g W:
Production Is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Keep ’em fit! You’ll have to make your Gillette
“Standard” blades last longer, just as you did the
Blue Gillette and the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. They can take it —and give you the
finest shave you can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
THE WOOLCOTT FORBES ERA.
Five Years' Jail
The appeal of John Woolcott Forbes,
otherwise Louis Brandei, against his sen-
tence of five years’ jail for scrip forgery
was dismissed by the Court of Criminal
Appeals. The Judges were unanimous,
Forbes appealed on three grounds,
namely, that the Crown Prosecutor had
no authority to prefer the indictment,
that the evidence of his character and
of convictions against him of fraud in
America should not have been admitted,
and that the offer of a bribe to a juror
entitled him to a new trial.
f
Forbes s Early Career
Forbes, as Brandei, in his early days
in N.S.W. and Queensland, to which he
came from Westralia, sold bonds for New
Zealand Perpetual Forests v and made the
acquaintance of others in the game ; later
he became prominent in the New Zea-
land Investment Trust (which dealt in
N.Z.P.F. shares, scrip in Waldas Shoes
and other ventures).
The New Zealand Investment Trust
(paid capital £34,766) subsequently
passed ils business over to Cw
wells (Australasia), Ltd., tor £69,532.
That was in 1934. In the following year
Cranwells bought the old book debts
thp, dpfnnot Primarv Producers’
ot the delunct Primary producers
Bank (estimated to have a book value or
£548,000) for £200,000, and some of these
assets were later the subject of specula-
.. , Q r. or
tion and manipulation. Not lone, after-
wards Cranwells increased its capital
from £174,994 to £250,000, discharged its
liabilities in connection with the P.P.
Bank deal, and then sold its assets to
Producers’ and General Finance Corpora-
tion, after passing over its share-hawking
connections to Hamiltons (Australasia),
Ltd.
Forbes was becoming expansive now.
The gold-share market, then buoyant, as
well as the racecourse, knew him. The
mansion at Gordon, the spectacular gifts
and the “£lOOO party” were to come.
The first board of directors of Cran-
wells was comprised of R. B. Cranwell,
knight Daniel Levy, A. J. McLachlan (a
solicitor), L. T. Burnard and E. A. Gold-
smid (of the Merchants and Traders’
Association), with John Woolcott-Forbes
(the name carried a hyphen then)‘man-
aging director. Douglas, Jowett Bush was
secretary and A. H. Fellow manager. The
first balance sheet of P. and G. Finance
showed knight Harry Budge to be chair-
man, John Woolcott-Forbes to be manag-
ing director, with A. J. McLachlan and
A. H. Fellow (general manager) as the
other directors.
Producers’ and General Finance
P. and G. paid £312,500 (including
£93,735 for goodwill) in scrip for its
portion of Cranwells’ assets. Before it
published its first accounts it had bought
the shares, or most of them, in Bear
and Co., retail furnishers, and Colonial
Finance, paid £20,000 for the dis-
counting rights of Bear and Co., ventured
into the cash-order, hire-purchase and
general-finance business, and had made a
public issue of 223,717 new £1 ords. at
par. Paid capital had been blown up to
£562,434 at June 30, 1937.
There was a great flourish of trumpets
accompanying the activities of Forbes and
jjj s associated companies. The man him-
sey- m jght be seen of a morning alighting
from a car oLlts i de the P. and G. office
w ith cigar, stick, d.-b. suit and bowler hat.
p dividends were paid by P. and G.
ear jy j n j^ s career, suggesting the wizard
j n finance that others hadn’t got.
g u j a j. enc j ver y fi rs { year there
were portents of disasters to come. Wool-
porfies, signing his name without the
hyphen, wrote on August 17, 1937:
We are satisfied with the results achlCTe d
during the first year of the co.’s operations,
a nd, including a final dividend of 4 p.c. that
it is proposed to pay, shareholders will have
received during the year a total dividend of
J 4 pc xhe int . erim dividend of p . c .,
together with the bonus of 2\ p.c., making
10 p.c. in all, was in effect paid more in the
nature of a final div. to shareholders in the
old co., which explains the greater disparity
be t ween interim div. and final div. now to
b e paid. In future, of course, it will be the
policy of the directors to pay equal interim
and final dividends.
In spite of these protestations, it was
the last ord. div. to be paid by P. and G.,
and the sharemarket sensed trouble,
The scrip had been listed on ’Change
in December, 1936, with ord. dealings at
355. 6d. Shares had previously been
hawked by Hamiltons (Australasia),
Ltd., at prices up to 475. 6d. People
in rural districts were the princi-
pal victims. Within a month or so
of listing the 10 p.c, div. mentioned
by Forbes (20 p.c. p.a.) was paid. On
August 26, 1937, wild Stock Exchange
selling crashed the price to 10s. It was
remarked here: “Confidence went to pot
when the atmosphere of ballyhoo con-
cermng div. prospects came up against
the hard facts of the business’s earning
power.”
The second year’s accounts showed a
loss of £67,881. In October, 1937, Wool-
cott Forbes “severed his connection with
the co. and its subsidiaries.” It had been
suggested to him—such is fame—that his
presence on the board was depressing
the sharemarket; and the sharemarket
had become important to Forbes. As
at Dec. 31, 1938, out of a paid capital of
£604,938, it was estimated that there had
been losses inrlnriina goodwill written
- “ ;,°f S , S ’ goodwill wntte
off and bad debts, of £406,731. The entire
COSt of shares in Bear and Co. (£84,451)
and Colonial Finance Co. (£21,993) was
regarded as a loss, and some of the money
advanced to these COS. was also written
off. The contract rights bought from
Bear and Co. were wiped out of the ac-
, t-u css ~,ca ■ • ,
counts. There was £65,354 in special
advances, largely debts owed or guaran-
teed by Forbes. For all this loss and
financial disaster people had paid share-
hawkers up to 475. 6d. an ordinary share!
fThev qre nmv worth about QH 1
Uney are now worth about is. 9d.)
Typical financial methods of the time
are revealed in this statement of the
P. and G. board of August 4, 1939:
vw- t1 . , .
With regard to the goodwill of Bear and Co.,
your directors found that on March 25, 1936
(before the P. and G. shareholding was
wrTten un 5%29°072 andZ Mv'
further r?,aLlio,f and the “im
written up by an additional £50,090, until this
asset appeared in the co.’s books at £80,158.
Bonus shares were issued to the then share-
holders of the co. consequent upon the writings-
up....N0 value can be placed upon this item.
n„«, . , , .
Before all this was revealed, at
a sultry annual meeting of P. and G.
on Nov. 22, 1938—there was a thunder-
form both ontdrip nnri indrip manna
storm botn outside and inside—manag-
ing-director Fellow announced that he
had a five-year contract at £3500 a year,
and evoked a whistling chorus from
shareholders who had been sadly study-
mg their own Forbes, who, it
was stated, had been advanced £36,000
to pay calls on shares he held, said he
had raised £lO,OOO on his wife’s jewels
in order to meet further calls. He owned
inn aaa t i . . i •
100,000 shares, and meant to honor his
obligations — every bob of them.” A
shareholder interjected: “You ought to
be can-vina vnnr hlnnriv <jwna”
. carrying your bloody swag. inside
six weeks Forbes had bolted.
Scottish Loan and Finance
In addition to P. and G., Forbes had
other financial interests. In June, 1941,
m r» . ’ . ~
The BULLETIN had this to say about the
Scottish Loan case :
The end of the seeming-endless “Woolcott
Forbes case” came last week. Albert Levitus,
company director and solicitor, was sentenced
to five years’ and Ronald Bruce Walker solici-
tor and ex-M.L.A., to three years’ imprison-
ment. Clive Oscar Airey, secretary and com-
mercial traveller, was acquitted. In the case
of William Kingsley Wicks, accountant, the
jury failed to agree, and he was remanded for
further trial on reduced bail. [The Crown
subsequently dropped the case against Wicks.]
The case was one in which Levitus, Walker,
Wicks and Airey were charged with conspiring
with John Woolcott Forbes, David R. Provan
and Albert Edward Walker to induce people
to buy shares in the Scottish Loan and Finance
Co. “with intent to defraud by means of
fraudulent statements, conduct, tricks, and de-
vices, by preparing false records, minutes, and
other documents in connection with the busi-
ness of the company, and by publishing false
reports, financial statements and balance sheets
of the company, and by reporting falsely that
the company and its affairs were in a sound
and prosperous condition, producing profits
divisible amongst the shareholders.” All the
a"°E. Walter are'no'fto
Australia.
Evidence was given of the acquisition of the
Scottish Loan business for £12,500 by a dummy,
and of the appointment of Levitus as managing
director for 10 years at £l5OO a year, plus
£22,500 for work done by him in reconstruct-
ing’the co. and sacrificing his legal practice. To
J. J. Harrison, who did not exist, £n,250 p was
£ ScSmJoSctSjc*' for Woffcott Forbes
_ ma inly for arranging an underwriting agree-
ment with David R. Provan Pty. R. B. Walker
was appointed chairman at £4OO a year, an
was granted, with Levitus, an option over
20, 000 Scottish Loan shares. [Jan.-Feb., 1937.]
Leopold Rose said he sold the Scottish Loan
business to Levitus, through “J. J. Harrison,”
for £12,500; he later bought back the assets
for £11 > 250 > leavia s a baaac ?' 0 £ •
Nominal capital of Scottish Loan was m-
flated from £l7 500 to £750,000. Forbes got
30,000 shares, the Crown stated. D. R. Provan
Pty., Ltd., was formed, and sold “well over
100,000” Scottish Loan shares. The usual
price was 30s. The Provan co. later changed
name to Scott Elder Pty. False balance
sheets were issued, it was said, with the idea
of selling Forbes’s and other shares.
Early, 15,000 shams ware sold to a man
, a " d bu h v is th ““£“;
P re f ed £ orb f£’nnhOnanentfon the
back ra * beir * b 'f n . %.w md wffcame
prosecution stated. Levitus and Walker came
to rbes s assistance. ... , e
Evidence in connection with the purchase ot
Primary Producers Bank book debts from P.
and Finance, of which Forbes was a director,
was also given. Certain of these debts were
sold by P. and G. to a person who was re-
garded as nominee of the Scottish Loan co. tor
| 26 250 Face value of the se debts was
£ i48,000, but there was “misrepresentation.”
The debts were mostly old and doubtful [but
were* taken into a balance sheet at a high
fis “ rel was in etidence that to
Scottish Loan shares was to be paid to Forbes,
w ho handed back the 30,000 shares allotted to
“Peter Jackson.”
M. G. Smith, a witness, said that D. J.
Bush > A - n D °t"tv ldS ° Th'ev™ were
ployees ot David Pro van Pty, iney were
furnished with reports and balance sheets of
Scottish Loan. He himself had sold “just over
100,000” Scottish Loan shares.
A transaction involving large amounts in cqn-
nection with the Alrona beach estat e, Victoria,
was mentioned, also the sale by Forbes of
shares and securities previously assigned by
him to Scottish Loan.
Walker, from the dock (he later went into
the witness box) declared his innocence Since
his arrest ne had gone through two years or
be jL” His hair had turned grey. He said he
was the victim of circumstances and a clever
man, “the like of whom the State may never
see again.” Woolcott Forbes was surrounded
by big names and influential men—including
“Ernest A. Gqldsmid, of the Merchants and
Traders’ Association, at that time probably one
of the most influential businessmen in the
community.” Walker had had great faith
in Scottish Loan.
Levitus, from the witness box said I was
never asked by Forbes to do anything improper
or dishonest. I had no reason to regard Forbes
in any way then but as a straightforward and
very reputable man. He had never got a
penny out of the 22,500 shares allotted to him,
which were held by him on Forbes s behalf,
Goldsmid was the first person to mention the
P-P. book debts to him. He had corresponded
with P. and G. over the unsatisfactory P.P.
Bank deal right up to the time Scottish Loan
liquidated.
j ust i C e Halse Rogers, addressing the
.. , °
prisoners, saia:
Assuming that you were led astray by a
man cleverer than yourselves, I think that
the verdict the jury arrived at was the only


Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
VLtHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to hear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deucliar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. p Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Aonnnistrator etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDPtEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
USE
CIO BITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
Now is the time for
Vi
all good Australians
to produce
Q[(
FOOD
Country man and city
dweller, large producer and
amateur gardener, food pro-
cessing worker and house-
wife—now is the time for
every Australian citizen to
join hands in the urgent and
necessary task of increasing
the nation's food production.
Although Australia is produc-
ing record quantities of food,
we must put every square
yard of ground to work—
whether for vegetables or
fowls. We must shop with a
strict eye on quantities, and
make the most of what we
buy. In these ways we do
more than protect ourselves
from shortages—we are re-
leasing food that the Allies
are waiting for everywhere,
from the Pacific to the in-
vasion base of Britain.
1944 must be the Record
Food Production year in
Australia 9 s History
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control
F. 29.27
A better living
for all of us
r ’J~'HE present shortages of coal, food and clothing may be a
blessing in disguise if they teach us to understand what makes
up our standard of living.
It is the total production of goods and services available
to the community that determines our standard of living.
Those who that the standard of living can be increased
by everyone doing less work are deceiving themselves.
The only way to increase our standard is by producing more
goods and services.
One of the most comforting of services is Life Assurance.
Each citizen in good health can have as much of the Security
the A.M.P. provides as he decides upon. The Society is purely
mutual and co-operative: no member has more privileges than
any other member.
The present members of the A.M.P. have arranged for
Security to the amount of £427,000,000 by taking out 1,790,000
policies. There is no reason why the amount should not be
vastly greater, and the number of people benefiting multiplied.
All that needs to be done is for more people to become members,
and for present melhbers to increase their share of the Society’s
protection.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay. Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon F I.A. General Manaqer and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
A. M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
one which was open to them on the evidence.
In recent years share hawking has become an
infamous trade. Companies have sprung up
which had as their main object the sale of
their own shares. The suave and plausible per-
sons who go about procuring the purchase of
shares from the public are a menace in the
community, and mostly they are to be classed
as cheats and robbers. On the basis of false
balance sheets and faked financial statements
this is an infamous crime.
During all this disturbance, of course,
Woolcott Forbes was “in smoke.” A
warrant had been issued for his arrest
late in 1938 for forging scrip in P. and
G. Finance. The warrant was executed
in Bombay, whither Forbes had travelled
on the Strathnaver, but while on bail there
he absconded. He was traced to prance,
and there the trail was lost until he was
arrested (not by N.S.W. police) in Mexico
City in 194 L
He was sentenced to a jail term in the
U.S.A. before being extradited to Aus-
tralia. He had spent some time in Canada,
“engaged in the only business 1 knew —
selling stocks and bonds.” It was from
Canada that Forbes had gone to the
U.S.A., where he had sold stock for his
“late employer,” Mr. Dawson, “in good,
honest faith... .1 had unwittingly become
the dupe of Dawson.”
In Canada on March 2 Alfred E.
Dawson, former Toronto stockbroker,
was sentenced to four years’ jail on
“theft by conversion” and false pre-
tences charges. (With Forbes, he
had previously been convicted in the
U.S.A.) It was the old story of
people being canvassed by Dawson’s
salesmen (Woolcott Forbes, who in
Canada took the alias of “George
Blake,” and G. W. C. Perry) and asked
to swap their sound Stock Exchange
securities or cash for stock of little or no
value. A “well-off widow,” Mrs. Blake,
“turned over to Perry and Forbes cheques
and stocks valued .at $57,727, in return
for other securities which never earned
what was paid in dividends.” The “divi-
dends” were usually the return of a small
part of the money paid by the victims.
While Mrs. Blake had money Dawson
and his salesmen “had sent her roses.”
Most of the other victims mentioned in
the trial were women.
Hamiltons (Australasia)
It has been mentioned that Hamiltons
(Australasia), Ltd., took over the share-
hawking connections of Cranwells in
1935. The board of Hamiltons in Dec.,
1936, was made up of Brig.-Gen. H. W.
Lloyd, E. H. Farrar, M.L.C., W. J. Curtis,
K.C., J. L, O’Donnell and F, H. Taylor
(manager). Murray Buttrose was secre-
tary. The ultimate destiny of this break-
away was no happier than the portion
(P. and G.) with which Forbes chose to
remain. From The Bulletin of January
25, 1939;
Trade Credits ( Australasia ), Ltd.
Confusion between this co., which has a Can-
berra registration, and Trade Credits, Ltd., of
Sydney, has been sufficiently marked to call for
a Government inquiry. Trade Credits (Austral-
asia), Ltd., which took ewer Hamiltons (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd., has gone bung—it was hur-
riedly put into voluntary liquidation just be-
fore Christmas because, it was stated, “by
reason of its liabilities,” it couldn’t continue
business....
The Canberra Trade Credits co. bought out
Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., in July, 1937.
Hamiltons had been formed on Sept. 13, 1935,
to take over the share-selling business of Cran-
wells, of which John Woolcott-Forbes used to
be managing director. Forbes was not officially
connected with Hamiltons. Hamiltons, how-
ever, hawked a large parcel of P. and G.
Finance shares, as well as scrip in Trade
Credits, Ltd. (Sydney), and on a paid capital
disclosed at £67,074 on Sept. 30, 1936, it claimed
earnings of £18,760 and paid a 15 p.c. div.
The share-selling and share-swapping operations
seemed to have been quite profitable— to Hamil-
t'ons —for a time.
Following the amalgamation (or whatever it
was) with the newly-registered Canberra Trade
Credits concern, capital had swelled to £233,579
at Sept. 30, 1938 —five times the figure of two
years earlier. Old shareholders in Hamiltons
were in some cases canvassed and asked to
transfer to Trade Credits (A’sia). Though
share-hawking in N. S. Wales has at last been
stifled by overdue company law, in Victoria
the operations of Hamillons-cum-Trade Credits
were carried on until a later date. Apparently,
however, the Victorian field of operations be-
came unprofitable—low prices and drought must
have stiffened farmers’ resistance—and so the
Canberra Trade Credits co. has put up the
shutters, with over £190,000 of its £233,579 of
capital represented by intangibles—goodwill
£33,000, preliminary exes. £709 and £156,588
loss on shares in Hamiltons (A’sia), which
went into liquidation four months after it was
taken over.
Why was the reconstructed enterprise ever
called Trade Credits (Australasia), Ltd.? The
type of people with whom Hamiltons had been
dealing were bound to be confused between the
two Trade Credits concerns, especially while
the divs. were (lowing at the same rate —10 p.c.
pa. each. Now that those of Trade Credits
(Australasia) have cut out, and that co. is in
liquidation, such people must realise only too
well that they are different enterprises entirely.
The smash in the affairs of Trade Credits
(A’sia), Ltd., necessitates a wide public in-
quiry.
There was never any public inquiry. The
liquidator, who has carried out much
interesting investigation into the co.’s
affairs (in spite of the disappearance of
early records), in the sixth year of the
liquidation does not expect a return to
shareholders of more than 2s. a share.
The affairs of the original Trade Credits
co. are improving.
Money and Men
Hundreds of thousands of pounds were
lost by people who put money into Wool-
cott-Forbes enterprises. By the P. and
G. shares hawked at 475. 6d. people
bought into an inflated structure honey-
combed with hot-air cavities for which
shareholders’ money had been paid.
Under present stable. P. and G, manage-
ment, with the bad assets written off,
sellers are now content to accept 3s. 9d.
each for the ord. shares. The Scottish
Loan enterprise in Forbes’s hands was
a ramshackle, camouflaged thing built
largely of decaying P.P. Bank book debts,
“shares,” book entries, “agreements,”
fraud and bluff. In a few hectic years
(1937 to 1939) its capital was inflated
from cost price of £12,500 to “about
£250,000” at date of winding up. It was
then unable to pay its debts.
Forbes fouled enterprises he came in
close contact with, and, as to persons, to-
day a number of his old colleagues find
it convenient to stay away from Australia.
Two others have served jail sentences.
More have other sorrows. Many of
those who bought his shares or who
otherwise cast their lot with him
were mugs for “easy money.”
Brought back to Australia from the
U.S.A., where he was sentenced to five
years’ for share-selling frauds and was
castigated by the Judge, Forbes
adopted the pose of the inn-o-cent youth
from the backblocks, “where life was
good,” who built his money into a large
fortune where the pavements glittered.
“I married a lovely Sydney girl, de-
scended from the family of Lord Nelson,
and reached my peak when I became
managing director of P. and G Times
changed....! overreached myself
Stupidly I fled from myself... .Dark were
my days and hopeless my nights....ln
New York I h£d unwittingly become the
dupe of Dawson.”
Charged with forging scrip in the P.
and G. and of obtaining loans thereon,
Forbes’s defence was mainly that Doug-
las Bush, his secretary, had forged scrip,
not he. “I lost all my money, and I lost
my faith in men I had trusted.” It did
not go down with the jury or Street, J.
Five years’. After a verdict had been
brought in a juryman told the Court that
he had been approached by a man who
had offered him £2OO to influence the
jury in Forbes’s favor. Forbes is now in
his early forties.
The First Victory Loan of £l5O million
was “oversubscribed” by about £475,000,
according to Mr. Forde. Total of sub-
scribers “would reach 445,000.” “No
central-bank credit was used, nor were
there any subscriptions from the private
trading banks, which under the banking-
control regulations were not permitted to
invest.” The savings banks took up a
largo part of the loan.


THE SERVICE MAN
"Strategic" Campaign Ends.
“Ek Dum”; The Allied South-western
Pacific communique of May 28 an-
nounced another long hop along the
Dutch New Guinea coast to Biak, in the
Schouten Islands in Geelvink Bay.
The landing was made under the usual
cover of American and Australian air-
craft and naval bombardment at dawn
on May 27. There was stronger resistance
than usual as the troops made their way
ashore and towards the airfield seven
miles away. They soon established a
perimeter and began a vigorous advance.
General MacArthur celebrated the
occasion with the issue of a special bulle-
tin in which he said that the results of
the offensive launched in New Guinea
with the Nassau Bay landing 11 months
ago had “more than fulfilled” his “most
optimistic hopes”:
The operations have appreciably advanced
us on our way, and I am specially thank-
ful for our light losses. Nothing could
more clearly indicate the mercy of a
guiding Providence.
The day’s communique declared that
for strategic purposes the landing marked
the practical end of the New Guinea
campaign, and that the last stage had
been reached in the reconquest or neutral-
isation of the enemy forces in the Bis-
marcks, Solomons and Admiralties and
on the New Guinea mainland.
An official spokesman at headquarters
gave out to correspondents arresting
statistics of the campaign. He said that
in 11 months 250,000 Japanese had been
destroyed or neutralised 140,000 of
them were announced as still at large
after the capture of Hollandia, although
the numbers actually encountered since
have been comparatively small.
The enemy, the spokesman shid, had
lost 272 ships, 2317 barges and 5245 air-
craft. Excellent, if the checking has been
sound. The number of ships is more
than the Germans and Italians lost in the
Tunisian and Sicilian campaigns; the
number of aircraft more than the R.A.F.
claimed to have destroyed in the Euio-
pean and African campaigns in 1943.
Out of the 110,000 Japanese estimated
as destroyed in 11 months up to the Hol-
landia landing, apart from those de-
stroyed before then, according to esti-
mates, in the Solomons and the Buna-
Gona campaigns and the Bismarck Sea
battle and not including enemy losses in
naval engagements in the Coral Sea and
Solomons in May and November, 1942,
1659 were taken prisoner. Allied
prisoners of war numbering 836 have been
freed.
Though the strategic campaign is de-
clared to be at an end, important bases in
Mandated and Dutch New Guinea are
still in enemy occupation—for example,
Rabaul, Kaevieng, Wewak, Manokwari,
Buin-Faisi, Kieta and some minor ones.
Apparently the command is satisfied that
whatever Japs are in these can be left
to starve. Four main bases have been
taken —Lae, Madang, Hollandia and
Munda,
Bombing continues as far afield as
Manokwari, but in Rabaul and other
Mandated areas it has dwindled to a
nuisance scale.
In the Sari area of the mainland, oppo-
site Wakde, 225 more enemy dead have
been counted, bringing the total enemy
casualties to 1141, including six prisoners.
In the Hollandia-Aitape area total enemy
casualties were reckoned at 3222 on May
26.
On May 19 and 20 an Allied force
bombed Marcus Island, 1100 miles south-
east of Japan, with 148 tons of bombs.
On Wake Island 150 tons of high ex-
plosive was dropped. And the Shimushu
airfield in the Kuriles was attacked again,
damage being caused and fires started.
U.S. Navy Department announces that
since January this year 157 Japanese ves-
sels have been sunk by submarines, the
latest batch reported consisting of a de-
stroyer and 14 other vessels.
Burma in the Rain.
“Ek Dum”: The Burma campaign is
in its last real throes, with heavy rain
in all sectors. But General Stilwell’s
men are competing with the Japs and the
weather for Myitkyina, the Irrawaddy line
railhead. The enemy appears to be in
fairly strong force in the town, and it
is reported that Myitkyina can be taken
only by assault. It is a pity that progress
was not faster, since a few more weeks
of campaigning would have seen
Mogaung in AUied hands and Bhamo
seriously threatened. But the northern
forces—British, Indian, American and
Chinese —have done well inside Burma,
and General Stilwell claims 20,000 enemy
killed or wounded, including 9000 by the
Hukawng Valley and Kachin Hill forces
—3500 by the British glider troops in
the Kathi area and 7500 by the Allied
air forces.
On the Kohima-Imphal front the initia-
tive —if such it may be called, in view of
the dominating effects of the weather- —
is in the hands of the British. The official
summary at the week-end declared that
the enemy was in “a grave position”: - -
The Japanese on the eve of the monsoon,
after gambling for high stakes, and mis-
judging their opponent's’ strength, are unable
to retreat swiftly anywhere, and must make
a prolonged stand.
During this stand, the British will have
all the advantage, especially since, apart
from rail and road from Indian bases,
they have a relatively dry area in their
rear along the Brahmaputra Valley up
which to stage their stores.
The one setback in Burma has been
suffered by the Wingate force, which has
been forced, in heavy fighting, to give
up its blocks south of Mogaung across
the railway and road to Myitkyina.
It is only a small force, and no doubt
the rains are hampering its aerial supply
lines. It must have been worth while
for the enemy to make a special effort
to keep the railway line to Myitkyina open
for the purposes of the impending battle.
In any case, the Wingate force has
broken new ground—it is the first siz-
able body of troops in history which has
been dropped down in the very heart of
enemy-held country with the resources of
a modern expedition. And there it has
stayed.
Japanese in China
With improved weather, the Japanese
have again become active in China,
bringing up armor against Loyang, where
the Chinese have been so isolated that
for some days there was no certain news
of them. The Japanese claimed the
capture of the town a fortnight ago, but
the Chinese denied this until May 26,
when a Chinese spokesman admitted that
it had “probably fallen.”
The enemy is now driving south in
Honan, cleaning a way along the Peking-
Hankow railway, and has launched a
fresh drive further south-west from the
Tilting Lakes near the great Yangtze
bend, aimed at Changsha.
The Battle of the Caissons.
“Ek Dum”: Five days after the battle
of the Liri-Sacco Valley began all was
quiet in Cassino on May 18.
The Maoriland tank force—Welling-
tonians —and British infantry took the
town, or its crumbled ruins, that morning
almost bloodlessly.
Cassino was no more. Wrote the
Maoriland official correspondent;
Men who wage war unthinkingly or for
gain should see this stark memorial to the
thousands of men of both sides whose
bodies lie yet unburied amid the ruins of
the once-beautiful town.
The fresh green of the valleys was
splashed with the scarlet of poppies. The
Polish flag had just been hoisted on the
broken ramparts of the Cassino monas-
tery, 1800 feet above the valley floor.
The Maorilanders moved on; at sun-
down they occupied part of the main road
to Rome as a culmination to five days of
fighting during which they had always
been in the van.
Smoke still curled up among the ruins
of Cassino. The place was still full of
mines and booby traps, but the battle
was rolling steadily towards Rome along
the lines of direction here sketched last
week as probable.
The Germans, when the full pressure
began to be put on the central roads of
the Liri Valley covering Arce Junction,
met concentration with concentration.
They made the fight for Terracina on
the coast, where the U.S. troops had
naval support, merely a rearguard action
with scant forces whose function was
probably rather to keep in touch with
the Americans and plot their course and
strength than anything else.
Knocking at the Door
The enemy flung his maximum possible
strength into the central sector of de-
fences, a block of territory delimited by
roads running south-west from Pied-
monte, on the Via Gasilina, to Pico,
thence north-east to Arce Junction, meet-
ing the Via Gasilina (the main road to
Rome) again on the way, and thence back
to Piedmonte.
Thus, a large defence area surrounded
by roads was formed across the highway
to Rome and across the Liri-Sacco
Valley. This block, held together by
fortress-town buttresses, was like the
caisson door of a dry dock. When the
British flood could break through it it
could surge all the way up the Sacco
Valley to the region of Rome.
Through the caisson door the railway
runs ; also the Sacco River, which enters
it from the Cassino side and emerges just
to the south of the Via Gasilina on the
Rome side.
The caisson area is guarded on the
south by the high Lepini Range ; on the
north in the Arce region by the Apen-
nines.
The British and their Allies threw their
main power at the southern or narrowest
part of the caisson between Ponte Corvo
(or Pontecorvo) and Pico, and between
Ponte Corvo and Piedmonte, at the same
time striking at Piedmonte on the main
road in the north on the direct route
from Cassino to Rome.
It seemed that the Germans were not
bent on permanent defence of the area
or they would have made a greater effort
in other areas. They were merely holding
the caisson door shut while they emptied
the dock—the Sacco Valley—behind them
and removed their troops and stores
somewhere further back, - They had been
beaten from the moment their defences
on the Gustav Line gave way.
On May 22 they admitted that Ponte
Corvo had been penetrated; Algiers
Radio declared it surrounded.
The Canadians largely French-
Canadians —and the French were now
associated in these attacks. The Canadians
drove in north of Ponte Corvo. The
French were forcing the pace on the
southern side of the town along the road
to Pico. Later the British relieved them.
The Canadians, found strong fortifica-
tions, tough barbed-wire and minefields,
on their side of the town, but by May
23 they had made powerful infiltrations.
The French, on their left, were met by
counter-attack after counter-attack, but
they had broken German resistance, and
Berlin admitted that Pico had been aban-
doned.
Ponte Corvo was doomed. Piedmonte,
the strongest position of the lot and the
one best served by rearward communica-
tions, was surrounded by the British
forces, who later handed over to Poles
and pushed on.
And all the way back to Cassino the
northern mountain flank, which could
have provided harassing bases from
which to attack British communications,
had been stripped of the enemy by ad-
vancing Allied troops of various nationali-
ties, including the Poles, as deeply north-
ward as the summit of the 5800 ft.-high
Monte Cairo.
C»n the coast, Terracina having fallen,
the U.S. troops moved on towards Anzio.
They had to move carefully. For most
of the way the enemy was on their flank
just across the mountains.
•
Anzio in Action
With Terracina in Allied hands, the 20
flat miles between the promontory on
which it stands and the Mussolini Canal,
which can be seen from it, and which
marks the border of the Anzio beach-
head, would be no place for Germans.
The enemy apparently agreed with this
view. He got out, the Americans on his
heels.
On May 25 a junction was made with
the Anzio forces, hitherto hemmed in
except on the seaward side. Rail and road
(Via Appia) up the coastal region
were in Allied hands. The one inter-
mediate lateral road across the Lepini
hills into the Sacco Valley behind the
Germans holding positions in the caisson
defences of Piedmonte-Pico was blocked
at the sea end.
The new coastal road communication
made all the difference to the Anzio men.
They could use established land lines of
communication back to Naples. The very
assurance of the coming junction bore
fruit before the actuality arrived.
Up till now there were two Allied
forces which had taken no integral part
in the battle One waited on the Adriatic
side before Pescara ; the other was the
powerful body of troops stuck on the
flank of the right flank of the German
rear at Anzio like a large mustard plaster.
The British announcements of May 23,
when the Americans were still about 14
miles from the Anzio troops, declared
that the intensity of the fighting in Italy
was beyond description, A German com-
munique said:
The Allies in the Nettuno beachhead in-
creased their artillery activity early today
to drumfire intensity. They then, supported
by ’planes and strong artillery and tanks,
launched an attack south-west and west of
Carrocetto and in the Cisterna-Littorio
sector.
In fact, a double, parallel thrust, aimed
along two main roads at the enemy com-
munications down the Sacco Valley and
at the Alban Hills defence position, which
consists of mountain areas ringed by a
road of which the keypoints are Rome,
Velletri and Valmontone, on the Via
Gasilina.
From this road-encircled defence area
the fringes of the Allied Anzio position
were only a few miles away. The Alban
Hills defences duplicated in nature those
at the other end of the Sacco Valley,
which the Allies were attacking and break-
ing into between Piedmonte and Pico,
The Alban Hills, in fact, formed another
caisson at the opposite end of the broad
Sacco Valley “dock.” Destroyed, it
would let the invading flood of British
and Americans into the Sacco Valley
“dock” from the rear and leave the Ger-
mans no way to scramble out save by the
various roads which ran diagonally to
the north-east to the Rome-Pescara high-
way over the valley sides, through Arce
to Avezzano and from Frosinone, half-
way up the Valley, to join the Pescara
highway east of Tivoli.
As you look inland from the low land
around the Anzio-Nettuno perimeter —
if you are elevated enough—you see a
flat plain. In the centre is the Alban
position, like a great mound —the Roman
Ninth Legion once had a camp on it.
On the right flank, a little in the fore-
ground, is Velletri, German H.Q., on a
hill. Beyond a valley to the right the end
of the Volscian Hills can be seen, and a
wall of snowclad mountains beyond it
again on the other side of the Sacco
Valley mouth.
Left of the Alban Hills, the eye, sheer-
ing along the Tyrrhenian coast, sees the
Tiber. It runs into a valley between the
Alban Hills and more mountains to the
north. In the valley is Rome, on trifling
hills of its own.
May 22 was evidently accounted by the
Germans as the beginning of the crucial
phase. On that day Marshal Kesselring
began to fling in the full force of his
reserves on the Cassino end of the front.
Some of these reserves appeared to be
troops switched from the coast. Kessel-
ring’s purpose seemed more than ever
to make retreat routes secure.
The Alban Hills forfned one flank key-
point of a line covering. Rome and sweep-
ing across the communications with the
north of Italy, which passes east of Rome,
for 50 miles to Avezzano. It appeared
likely that this might be a staging line
to cover further retreat; and the lock-
gate : in the broad river of communica-
tions along which the Germans were re-
tiring, and which might be their imme-
diate objective, to be reached by the
Gasilina and more easterly roads.
Correspondents enjoyed themselves
computing the size of the forces —1000
British-American-French tanks thrown
in ; Kesselring using 17 divisions, variously
estimated to include from 150,000 to
250,000 men. There was scarcely room
in the valley for such deployments. If
there was anything in the figures the
battle was intense indeed.
The Canucks Break Through
Empire Day, 1944, was a great day in
the history of the battle of the caissons.
At the Cassino end the Canadians had
burst into the German defences north of
Ponte Corvo and driven forward in a
great wedge, shaking and cracking, but
not wrecking the whole German de-
fence structure at the end of the valley.
For the moment, however, the vital
part of the battle then shifted to the
Anzio bridgehead. It needed a forward
move of only a few miles to render any
effort of Kesselring at the Cassino end
futile, unless made in running shoes.
From the time the Fifth Army had be-
gun its assaults with a dawn bombard-
ment of 1000 guns, followed by the dual
land advances—Americans towards Cis-
terna, British towards Velletri, via Carra-
cetto, both backed by naval as well as land
guns—progress had been swift across the
flowering land with its carpet of poppies.
The British had forced a gap and sub-
dued the fortifications across the railway
four miles south of Velletri, cutting the
rail from Velletri to Rome. The Ameri-
cans had cut the Via Appia on the Pon-
tine flank of Cisterna.
The German communique that day
made no attempt to conceal the real
state of affairs:
With growing ferocity and power the
enemy continues to develop his attack
from the Nettuno bridgehead. He has suc-
ceeded in making several fairly deep
breaches on several sectors by the em-
ployment of powerful artillery and tank
forces, supported by many formations of
aircraft. The fighting on both sides of
Cisterna is especially heavy. There is savage
fighting on the western flank of the south-
ern front [i.e., at the Cassino end]. On the
main southern front between Ponte Corvo
and Pico the enemy attacked but was
checked.
North of Ponte Corvo, however, the
British and Canadians were right through
the frontal defences, pouring masses of
men, guns and tanks into the gaping
wounds they had inflicted. i
Next morning the actual junction be-
tween the Americans frorp Terracina and
the Nettuno bridgehead troops took place.
The whole of the Pontine region, the
whoie of the Italian coast almost from
the Tiber mouth to the Strait of Messina,
was in Allied hands.
The German lines at the Cassino end
had been withdrawn in bloody fighting


Public Notices.
I, FRIEDRICH HERMANN WEYER, of German
nationality, born at Viersen, Germany, and resident
18 years in Australia, now residing at 44 Beach
Road, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, MAX KRUGER, Stateless (formerly Austrian),
born at Pilsen, Austria (now Czechoslovakia), and
resident four years and ten months in Australia and
three months in Great Britain, now residing at 104
Mel ford Street, Hurlstone Park, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, NIKOLAI ALEXEEVICH HIONIN, of Russian
nationality, born at Kalinin and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 25 Brentwood Avenue,
Turramurra, N.S.W., and now N 224754 of the Aus-
tralian Military Forces, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, DOMENICO PORTELLT, of Italian nationality,
born at Messina, Island of Sicily, and resident 15
years in Australia, now residing at 140 Victoria
Road, Glades ville, N.S.W., intend to apply for
Naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
ITgEORGE LASZLO EISLER, of Hungarian nation-
ality, born at Budapest and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 24 Manion Avenue, Rose
Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
GANLEY.—Anyone knowing the whereabouts of the
children or any of them of THOMAS GANLEY and
MARGARET GANLEY (formerly Dockery) are re-
quested to communicate with THOMAS JOSEPH
PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street, Sydney.
McCarthy, Cornelius, late London Police Officer.—
Children are inquired for. Please communicate with
THOMAS PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
Sydney. _____.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CECIL JAMES REYNOLDS formerly of Gular-
erambone and Tooraweenah in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that BLANCHE MURIEL
JOYCE REYNOLDS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2300 of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 9th July 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from M. G. TILBURV
Solicitor 28 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY SOLOMON FIENBERG late of Sydney.
-TAKE NOTICE that WILHEMENA GEORGINA
FIENBERG has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 109
of 1944 on The ground of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the First day of July next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from HAROLD
MUNRO Petitioner’s Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
€7}
am
to the Malfa River, which runs across the
main road and rail between Piedmonte
and Arce. It was a five-mile withdrawal,
made while fighting off a tremendous
flood of Allied men and vehicles. The
main battleline was now 16 miles from
Cassino.
Enemy Admissions
The Germans used superlatives on an
unaccustomed scale. They called the
engagement, now, a “great defensive
battle.” They commented on its growing
fierceness and intensity as the Allies
packed into the terrain all the tanks and
mobile guns the valley communications
would hold.
The enemy admitted withdrawal from
the Pontine area in terms almost identical
with those usually used to describe with-
drawals in Russia, in which he is repre-
sented as hopelessly routed, with enor-
mous losses. The Allies did not claim
to have inflicted great losses in the Pon-
tine sector.
It was a case of “backward, ever back-
ward” for Kesselring, however. Every
few hours saw some fresh German with-
drawal. Cisterna falls. The Allies break
through the German defences north-east
of it. Prisoners since the beginning of
the offensive have mounted to 12,000.
Aquino has fallen to British troops half-
way along the road from Pico to Arce, at
the southern end of the Sacco Valley cais-
son defences. On the northern part of
the caisson, the Canadians have burst
irresistibly across the Malfa River and
established a new bridgehead. Thus,
along two roads, the Allies are converg-
ing on the important junction of Arce,
and the southern drivq threatens to come
out soon against the main road and rail
on the Roman side of the caisson. Poles
have taken Piedmonte, the last bastion
of the caisson defences on the Cassino
side, after a bitter struggle. The measure
of the fighting is written clearly in statis-
tics. Allied aircraft are reported to have
destroyed 610 enemy vehicles and dam-
aged 561 south of Rome in a single day.
Decision in Reserves
By the week-end the battle of reserves,
which represents the decisive phase of
every great engagement, is over. The
German reserves were thrown in from the
ninth day. The Allies have used theirs
from the beginning, never allowing any
unit to diminish materially in strength
through depletion in battle. They have
raised the stake time and again. Kessel-
ring’s chips were all gone on the
fifteenth day. All the initiative was
now decisively with the Allies. By May
27 they were forcing their way in the
Arce area up two roads —that through
Arce itself, which goes on up to Avez-
zano, and the main road to Rome. Forty
miles away troops from the Nettuno
bridgehead were within two miles south
of Valmontone, having scoured round the
edges of the Alban Hills past Velletri,
which, a strong position comparable to
Cassino, they had not attempted to take.
“Rome an Open City”
Vichy Radio, whose relation to Ger-
man defeats is that of the currawong bird
to the imminent heavy weather, began to
declare that Rome would not be de-
fended, and that the enemy would retire
to a line north of the Eternal City, Rome
Radio took up the cry and gave assur-
ances that not a German soldier remained
in Rome.
A fierce attack on by-passed Velletri
began, combined with an assault on Val-
montone by Maoriland infantry, who had
been switched by the Anzio front per-
haps in the wake of the Americans along
the coast, perhaps by sea.
While they fought, their Prime Min-
ister, Mr. Fraser, was somewhere at the
other end of the line in Cassino inspect-
ing its ruins and the heights above which
they had so gallantly assaulted among
their dead from the March battle.
When Valmontone fell the Maori-
landers had a glorious place in the story
of the Italian war. They had forced the
Sangro. In the Liri Valley campaign they
had been the beginning and the end. For
they had made the first gap in the German
flank defences at Cassino and taken Castle
Hill —the gap which had been the ruin of
the German left flank ; and they had, in
capturing Valmontone, cut the Via Gasi-
lina behind Marshal Kesselring’s troops,
still fighting desperately in the Arce sec-
tor, and pushed down the road a couple
of miles towards his rear, Artena was
taken —an important break into the Alban
Hills defence fringe.
Contemporaneously came the news that
in the Arce area General Leese’s Eighth
Army troops were back on the Casilina
on the wrong side of the caisson for
Kesselring.
The Allied troops were on the high
ground overlooking Arce, The German
defences on the seaward side in the
Lepini Range were cleared or immobil-
ised ; the Eighth Army flanks secure in
both directions.
In the north, though Velletri was hold-
ing out desperately against the U.S.
troops, the advancing British units were
scoring round the north-western part of
the Alban Hills, past Albano township,
towards Lake Albano, apparently making
for Frascati and the Pescara highway,
now only a few miles away. To some
of them the dome of St. Peter’s must have
been in sight.
End of the Section
It was' reported that the Liri-Sacco
Valley was now nearly empty of Ger-
mans. But somewhere in the mountain
fringes there must be strong enemy
forces. Over the bloody ground where
the advance guards had fought their last
battles and among tangled heaps of guns,
tanks and vehicles, the Eighth Army tide
was still rolling on, swollen from its rich
stores of men and tanks and artillery.
On May 28 the C.O.S. of the Eighth
Army, Major-General Walsh, gave assur-
ance that the Germans now could do no
more than fight delaying actions.
The enemy had escaped disaster by
a hairbreadth, chiefly by grace of the
terrain, which prevented Allied armor
from getting at the flanks of his retreat
and using to the full their advantages of
sea transport.
At any rate, it was Alexander s battle,
as fine a job as has been done in this or
any other modern war, by a combination
of concentration, mobility in difficult and
compartmented terrain and splendid
timing. It was the product of the ex-
periences of Alamein and Tunisia.
The enemy proved himself (as every-
where save in Russia) a skilful, stubborn,
brutal antagonist—as skilful in retreat
as in success.
Casualties on both sides on the Cassmo
front must have been very heavy in the
units which applied and took the weight
of the blows and counter-blows at points
of greatest concentration.
Elsewhere, over the bulk of the front,
where the battle was one of manoeuvre
and pursuit, they would not be nearly so
heavy, though too heavy for the enemy
where the monster barrages of the Allies
caught him. In the aggregate, distributed
over all forces, Allied losses will not
be so great.
German losses of prisoners tell the
measure of their suffering. The capture
of prisoners is usually one of the signals
of defeat, and the taking of 12,000 during
actual operations is likely to be decisive,
even when the side which loses them has
150,000 men or more in action.
Big Raids Continue.
“Ek Dum”: Air attack on “Fortress”
Europe in the past few days was notable
more for changes in technique than for
any outstanding feature.
It obviously has not reached its cul-
minating heights, since there is no men-
tion of the use of the new-vintage heavy
bombers such as the American 829 and
some British giants which are known to
be on the way. Until the B29’s are in
service the use of the six-ton bomb must
be restricted to the R.A.F., since only
Lancasters and Stirlings can carry it.
Constant mention has been made of
the increasing strength of fighter escorts
sent out with bombers, a sure indication
that a lot of optimism about die railing
strength of the Luftwaffe has been un-
justified.
Where a few hundred fighters used to
go out with a greater number of Ameri-
can day bombers, the latest recipe seems
to be about 1250 Thunderbolts, Light-
nings and Mustangs to 700 or 800
bombers, with the R.A.F. waiting to take
over the second shift of escort duty as
the raiding formation comes home.
Use of Typhoons, a new version of the
Hurricane, armed with eight rockets, is
being extended, as is also bombing by
Mosquitoes with 40001 b. bombs.
The culmination of the week’s bomber
operations involved the use of 5000
machines, of which 1000 were R.A.F.
heavies, whose • chief target was Bourg
Leopold, a big military depot north-east
of Brussels, with railway yards from Ber-
lin to Nantes at the other end of France,
under fire from both British and U.S.
squadrons.
The U.S.A.F., with 750 heavy
machines, attacked Cologne area and
other parts of western Germany.
-The American Ninth Air Force re-
ported 1950 individual bomber and 4800
fighter sorties on European targets in the
week ended May 27. The Ninth Air
Force launched 650 individual attacks by
medium and light bombers and more than
1000 by fighters on May 24 alone: On
that-day about 7000 Allied machines took
part in attacks on Europe.
Allied losses of machines are not clear ;
but added fighter cover for day bombers
appears to be having a good effect.
Several small raids were made on Eng-
land during the week. Most of them
seemed to be primarily for reconnaisance,
but on the night of May 27 there was a
sharp attack on a south-coast English
town, with casualties and damage.
Russia, Turkey and Bulgaria.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian front re-
mained quiet, with patrol actions here
and there. The season is entering its last
phase before the drying up of the steppes
and the swift oncoming of the summer
heat.
If conditions are normal, the first
seasonal floods of the great Russian rivers
will have abated and the second, or late
spring, floods, particularly on the Don,
will have begun. Till those are over, some
time in June, conditions are not practi-
cable for all-round offensives by either
side, though a general action on the
Carpathians front might bo a possibility.
The advantage in lateral communications
would be with the Germans, who could
afford to move men from other parts of
the front in case of emergency, in the
knowledge that conditions west of the
Russian border are far more satisfactory
than those on the Russian side.
The Germans are busily canvassing the
chances of an attack on the Lwow-
Dniester arc, with signs of fear which
have an air of falsity. They would prob-
ably like nothing better than a premature
Russian blow which would give them a
real excuse to clamp down fully on Bul-
garia in an atmosphere in which the
seizure would be least unfavorably re-
ceived in Turkey.
The chances of Turkey coming in on
the Allied side now seem, to Mr.
Churchill’s great disappointment, at an
end. They probably died when Bulgaria
became a vassal, thus giving the Germans
power to reach the Thracian with-
out further formalities. Istanbul is less
than 150 miles from Svelingrad, the Bul-
garian border customs town. And the
terrain of Thrace —open undulating coun-
try oven which tanks could roam at will
—is such that within four or five hours
from leaving the border German detach-
ments could bring the Bosphorus and
Istanbul under gunfire ; and Istanbul with
its huddled streets clustering round the
Golden Horn could be turned to match-
wood in an hour.
From the Bulgarian border to the inner
neck of the Gallipoli Peninsula and the
Dardanelles is only 40 miles. Turkey in
the war might be a greater embarrassment
to the Allies than Turkey out of the war.
Still, in view of past pressure, especially
during the period when Russia was
friends with Germany, and when the
Kremlin frequently announced its inten-
tion of helping to break the British block-
ade on the ground that it was “starving
German women and children,” it was
something of a feat of diplomacy to keep
Turkey neutral. If the Turks had let the
Germans through at the time of the Iraq
affair Russia could have been attacked
from the rear and India menaced along
with Suez.
Russian threats to Bulgaria have so far
had no effect in changing the attitude of
that country, though either Moscow’s
pressure or that of Hitler, or both, has in-
duced a change of government.
"Greater than Verdun."
The claims of Moscow correspondents
that Russian barrages outstrip anything
in the world’s history and that German
capacity in artillery is inferior are not
borne out by experience in Italy or by
facts about this war’s or last war’s
barrages.
German capacity in artillery is greater
than in the last war, judged by the
enemy’s range of guns and the increased
rate of fire. The only statistics available
from Russia are those for Marshal
Vatutin’s first day of bombardment on
a 40-mile perimeter of the German forces
in Stalingrad. It is recorded that he fired
689,000 shells in the day. His guns were
mostly 76mm. (about 14-pounders), 105’s
(35-pounders) and 47mm., which would
be about a three-pounder. There is no
mention of the huge siege artillery which
the Germans used at Verdun— 16.8-mcn
stuff. At most, Marshal Vatutin fired
8000 tons that day, and the bulk of his
heavier shells were in the 60-pounder
range.
There is no record of quantities at
Verdun, and, anyway, quantities must be
related to the area bombarded to give
accurate comparison. But at the Somme
in July, 1916, when artillery barrages
were in their infancy, 12,776 tons were
fired on the first day; in the Arras battle,
nine months later, 24,706 tons on the first
day, and at Messines, on a fourth of the
Stalingrad front, 20,638 tons. Even at
Alamein at one stage 1000 tons of fire
ammunition was used in an hour.
The normal formula for a six-hour
bombardment late in World War I per
mile of front was 50,000 18-pounder or
75mm. shells, 10,000 rounds of 4.5
howitzer, 5000 six-inch howitzer, 2000 six-
inch gun, 500 heavy howitzer and 200
super-heavy rounds —total, 67,700. Thus,
as many rounds were normally fired on a
10-mile front in six hours of an opening-
day barrage as in Marshal Vatutin’s much
more widely distributed 689,000 rounds.
And in World War I the barrage usually
increased in intensity by 50 per cent, on
the second day, and perhaps again on the
third day.
Time and transport factors have made
improbable the frequent claims of Mos-
cow correspondents that each succeed-
ing “thunderous” Russian barrage is the
greatest in history, and that the Germans
afterwards are found cowering under its
impact. And the pictures of regained
Russian towns which supposedly were
bombed by masses of aircraft and
bombarded by artillery during the Ger-
mans’ advance and then by massed Rus-
sian artillery show little damage compared
with that done to Verdun and other places
during the last war.
Cassino is the first town to show signs
of being hammered on last war’s scale,
apart from Stalingrad and Sevastopol,
which were subjected to heavy beating
by German siege artillery—it seems to
have been used on a large scale nowhere
else in Russia. And the recent Allied
bombardment is the first which the Ger-
mans have compared in fury to those of
the last war. They have scoffed at claims
regarding the intensity and weight of artil-
lery fire in Russia.


*** STB ” ec 'tablets
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES, ETC.
What is ELASTO? , . . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be’’, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed ...
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —lt revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries,
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language In a free book-
let see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
"No sign of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
" ‘Elasto’ has Quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to "Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month's supply.
f
Western Electric
HEARING AIDS
Not only your everyday enjoyment of
social life, but your very earning power
may demand the ability to hear well.
If your hearing is impaired you should at
once investigate the advantages of the
Western Electric Audiphone. This is the
modern scientific hearing aid, with the
exclusive Tone Discriminator which
eliminates background noises and enables
you to hear at any distance without any
distortion or strain. The Western Elec-
tric Audiphone is the result of over sixty
years’ experience and intensive research
by the world pioneers in the design and
manufacture of precision instruments for
sound amplification and transmission.
Arrange for an appointment and a free
Audiometric test. There is no obliga-
tion incurred by doing so.
THE AUDIPHONE COMPANY
at 110 comn!
, fe
Street HOBART. Messrs. Samken & Sainken, 633 Hay Street, I'Jmxn.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Racing at Randwick was interesting,
with Shining Night the only successful
favorite. The stewards have been doing
their best to check careless riding, but
there was a full share of it on Saturday.
Inclusive of 7000 service men, the attend-
ance was 41,500 and the tote turnover
£122,510.
After being out of the winning list
since last August, Magi (Knox) returned
to it in the Flying Handicap, and was
the medium of some big cash wagers.
Third to Tribal and Grand Prodige into
the straight, she did better than any-
thing else in the run home, John Halifax
and Soho filling the minor places. The
last-named was second-last after the field
settled down, and had not improved his
position to any extent after going a
couple of furlongs. He now appears to
need a longer trip than six furlongs.
Winnipeg is not improving, and of those
nearest the place-getters Tribal and Ara-
hura are the most likely to pick up a
race in the near future. Tribal tired after
leading into the straight, but he retains
all his pace of early in the season.
Shining Night (Bartle) won the May
Handicap in the manner of a good horse.
Always well placed, he took charge from
a bunched lot inside the last furlong, and
then held off Beau Timide, whose fast-
finishing run looked like carrying him
to the front 30 yards from home. Run-
ning much better than at Rosehill,
Boomanulla was a good third, while Buzz
Off, after swinging wide at the straight
entrance, finished third-last. Orderly and
Turn Again did the pacemaking, and the
former held on to get fourth, form good
enough to make him a welter possibility.
Much-boomed MacArthur was beaten
a long way from home, and wound up
ahead of only Turn Again.
Accounted a certainty Massena led into
the straight in the Trial Handicap, and
that was the end of him. Over the last
furlong Thorn (Tomlinson) and Prince
Buzzard had the issue to themselves, and,
served by his light weight, the former
scored by a head. Roger and White
Feather headed the remainder, without
ever being really dangerous. Trained by
M. McCarten, Thorn is by Spearfelt
from Ballet, by King’s Scholar.
Wellington (Le Grand Due-Sweet
Sound), a 1000-guineas yearling, but
minus racing form as a recommendation,
was backed down to favoritism for the
Two-year-old Novice. He gave his
backers a poor run, never getting near
the front. Recka Oka, who is very
speedy, but up to the present an in-
different stayer, led into the straight, but
Good Idea (Maxwell) had the race won
a furlong from home. Removal, though
unable to trouble Good Idea, was doing
well at the finish and is worth following,
while, .though Cordially beat Fireboy
(a well-grown Fireman colt) for third,
the margin was narrow. Good Idea is a
heavy-bodied and plain-looking son of
Marconigram and The Oyster, the latter
being by Salmagundi from Pearl Neck-
lace.
Served by recent hard racing, Russia
finished too strongly for Scene after the
latter appeared the winner of the first
division of the Three-year-old Novice
halfway down the straight. Thompson’s
horsemanship was also a big factor in
Russia’s success. The run should do a
lot for Scene, likewise Montano and
Marabelle; but, though Steadfast was
fourth, he at no part looked like justify-
ing the support accorded him. Harrier
was not sighted.
Royal Janette’s (G. Moore) form did
greatly recommend her for the second
division of the Three-year-old Novice,
but, second to Notre Dame in the early
part and first into the straight, she even-
tually won comfortably from Gunman
(who made up ground from the turn) and
Sir Francis. No excuse was possible
for heavily-backed runners in Sunfel and
Nabinabah, the former, in particular,
being handily placed for the first half-
mile. Royal Janette is by Royal Step
from Trick.
On figures and Doncaster form Easter
Time read like the winner of the
Welter Handicap. Chatham’s Choice,
who led from Riverton at the turn,
Omapo and Salivant were all in it after
entering the straight, but with a well-
sustained run on the rails Easter Time
was their master. Veering out after he
took charge he interfered with Omapo,
but the result was not affected. River-
ton weakened at the end, and of the un-
placed runners Gigli was doing best at
the winning-post. Doon rode Easter
Time.
♦ ♦ * *
Although they dismissed a protest after
Conserve (20 to 1) had defeated Wonder
Bird (50 to 1) in the Maiden Plate at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, stewards
suspended J. Pearce, rider of the winner,
for two months for interference to the
runner-up and to Redrath, who finished
fourth. Scrimmage occurred near the
winning-post, but stewards did not con-
sider it serious enough to affect the result,
Wonder Bird being beaten by a length
and a half. Conserve gave trainer S.
Boyden his first win for his new patrons,
H. G. Raymond and H. B. Ranken, and
his second in the metropolitan area. For
many years Boyden was associated with a
horse-float firm, and drove Phar Lap
throughout the latter’s Melbourne career.
Voltaire, a Portofino - Acheron colt,
gave bookmakers a 20-to-l result in the
first Nursery Handicap. He is owned by
Mrs. E. J. McCormack, a daughter of
Mrs. J. J. Kitson, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup with Skipton. Voltaire’s
rider, C. Morley, apprenticed to the
colt’s trainer, J. Fryer, had not previously
ridden a winner. Fryer later completed
a double with his own gelding. Panloon
(2 to 1), in the institute Steeple, but latter
is trained by a fellqw-Maorilander, F.
Higgott. Pantoon’s defeat of Solecism
and Jack Farr was unimpressive from a
National viewpoint.
Varieson, winner of two races at Bal-
larat, and racing for the second time in
the city, landed a plunge in the After
Care Handicap. Backed from 7 to 1 down
to favorite at 7 to 2, he won well from
Ducal and El Marko. Costing 140gns.,
Varieson is owned in the Western Dis-
tricts by former amateur rider T. M.
Slattery. Manstar (5 to 1) reversed his
usual tactics when he came from behind
to beat The Monk and Portfolio in the
Society Highweight. Miss Dorothy, an
850gns. yearling by Enfield-Dawn, easily
justified her 2-to-l favoritism for the
second Nursery Handicap, and Carzana,
well backed down to 8 to 1, outstayed
Centenary and New Warrior in the
Charity Handicap.
* * # *
The plea of the metropolitan race
clubs that they should be permitted to
carry on as at present until conditions
are normal is reasonable. They have
made considerable advance in prize-
money, and are really doing more to im-
prove matters for owners and trainers
than could be expected of the S.T.C. with
limited capital and little likelihood of
possessing a racecourse of its own for a
long time. Of course, the contemplated
conference between Federal Treasurer
Chifley and Premier McKell in respect
of loans may alter the club’s financial
position, but, apart from setting up a
body expected in some quarters to even-
tually rival the A.J.C. for control of
racing, it seems as if as much could have
been achieved for the general benefit by
limiting proprietary dividends, with the
addition of a proviso that anything in
excess of a fixed percentage should be
devoted to prize-money and racecourse
improvements.
* ♦ * ♦
After all, this season’s racing in Syd-
ney has not been so sensational in high-
class three-year-olds as we anticipated.
It would be impossible to deny that Flight
is a filly out of the ordinary. It takes a
high-class older horse to win a Don-
caster with 9st., and Flight only just
missed with that weight. Still, at weight-
for-age, she was subsequently defeated at
a mile by seven-year-old Katanga, who
is really “the” horse of this season and
entitled to more credit than has gener-
ally been accorded him. With w.f.a. wins
at six, seven, eight, nine, ten, twelve and
fourteen furlongs, he is not merely good,
but exceptional. Trainer B. Payten has
reason to be well satisfied with what he
has accomplished.
Reverting to the three-year-olds. May-
fowl reversed spring form as between
himself and Moorland. The latter is the
handsomer colt, but Mayfowl is of the
raking type, and next season may still see
him the better of the two over a distance.
MacArthur did not improve upon his
spring form, and though Falcon Knight
gave great promise when he beat May-
fowl and Flight at nine furlongs in the
Rawson Stakes he did not shine later as
a sprinter or stayer.
Among the older horses Main Topic
did not live up to his spring form, and,
while Veiled Threat falls short of being
a first-class w.f.a, horse, his second, Syd-
ney Cup win further proved his high
standing as a handicap horse over a
distance.
* % * ♦
It is uncertain whether June yearling
sales will be held in Sydney. Transport
is the principal trouble. Many young-
sters bought at the autumn sales for
owners in other States are still here, and
their departure is indefinite. Anything
affecting war effort must take precedence,
but breeding and racing are industries
of sufficient consequence to warrant their
receiving all consideration possible.
* * * *
In America horse-meat enters largely
into the feeding of racing greyhounds.
It is also responsible for peculiar beliefs.
One greyhound-owner will buy only meat
that comes from worn-out winners of
horse-races. He insists that meat from a
slow thoroughbred might slow up a racing
dog. An American paper vouches for the
correctness of the foregoing, but it seems
a little tough to swallow.
Miscellaneous
When Fitzroy and Richmond met on
Saturday they were sharing the V.F.L.
leadership. Richmond had it when they
parted, having literally bumped Fitzroy
out to win, 14.13-7.9. Other candidates
for the premiership polled as follows:
Hawthorn, 11.7-9.12, v. St. Kiida;
“Sowth,” 12.18-11.18, v. Collingwood;
North, 15.14-9.16, v, Footscray; Mel-
bourne, 22.10-10.9, v. Geelong; Carlton,
13.17-14.9, v. Essendon. It was one of
the League’s biggest days, with over
80,000 spectators, about 30,000 of ’em at
Richmond.
* * * *
In Saturday’s Rugby Union the incon-
sistent University team rose to the occa-
sion and convincingly defeated Parra-
matta, 16.9. Avenging last season’s de-
feats, Randwick trounced Manly, 26-11.
Randwick is still supreme, three points
ahead of Uni. and West (equal second),
with Parramatta third. Other games:
East 36, Gordon 11; West 15, North 3;
Drummoyne 10, St. George 3.
* * * *
Veterans of the game marvelled when
Tommy Ward was awarded a points win
over George Delaney at Leichhardt. A
straight left to the point put Ward on his
haunches in the first round. A long right
swing to the chin floored him in the
seventh, and though he was up at “five”
he seemed at Delaney’s mercy. He took
more punishment until the ninth ended.
•Then Delaney tired, but he was still giving
as much as he got in the twelfth —and
last. Ringsiders and galleryites alike
hooted the decision.
Advantage in weight did not compen-
sate for inferiority in skill when Jim
Gray met Alan Westbury in a return
match at the Sydney Stadium. West-
bury’s better and faster boxing was evi-
dent early, and he twice had Gray groggy
with powerful rights, Westbury, on the
other hand, seemed in a bad way in the
tenth, but he recovered and ran out a
good winner on points.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT"
Nursery Handicap: Clever Lass,
1 ; High Tide, 2 ; Cordiality, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap : Orderly, 1; Russia, 2;
Thorn, 3.
Dundas Handicap: Nobleman,
1 ; Magi, 2 ; Clarion Call or High
Flight, 3.
Rosehill June Handicap: Booma-
nulla, 1; Prince Buzzard, 2; Red
Pete, 3.
Carlingford Mile: Chatham’s
Choice, 1; Gigli, 2; Omapo or
Haripur, 3.
Novice Handicap: Alan Veil, 1 ;
Gunman, 2 ; Commando or Brueg-
mah, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The blithe little Lunchtime Music
Club is having a jubilee next Monday.
No, not 50 years, just 50 concerts old.
For the great occasion the “Peasant Can-
tata” will be revived. Lady Gowrie, who
has interested herself greatly in the musi-
cal life of Australia, will be in the audi-
ence. Later in the afternoon she will be
present at the Bush Book Club’s annual
meeting, and with her will be Dr. Thomas
Wood, author and musician. Lady
Cowrie’s June engagements, which will
also be her farewells to Sydney move-
ments, are a non-stop round. On June
14 a lunch with the Society of Women
Writers is on her programme, and on the
afternoon of that day the Governor-
General’s wife will visit the King
George V Memorial Hospital.
Patriots had no cause to complain that
the atmosphere of Empire was not fervid
enough last Wednesday, May 24. And
if there is anything in the claim that no
sound loosed upon the air ever dies, then
the strains of the war songs of Sudan,
South Africa, World War I and today’s
sequel must have been marching along
through the stratosphere in fine style.
There was a ceremony in Martin-place
v/hich Lord Wakehurst attended. There
were Empire Day broadcasts, and in the
evening from every suburb hundreds
gathered in the Town Hall, where the
Day was celebrated in speech, in song
and in picture.
Minister for External Affairs Dr. Evatt
read a speech tracing events since Empire
Day in 1940 and the present anniversary.
Dr. F. A. Maguire’s eloquence was like
a banner proud in the breeze. Marie
Bremner sang “There’s a Land” and a
song, “For England,” the words of which
had been written by J. D. Burns, a Scots
College lad, in the 1914-18 war. Her mid-
night-blue brocades shone richly. Mel-
bourne pianist Vera Bradford played with
clear-cut ease, and wore white as usual.
The films were Norwegian scenes and
part of the Royal Canadian tour.
The big moment of the night was the
presenting to Lady Wakehurst of two
cheques, each for £250. These were from
the A.J.C. and from Tattersall’s Club,
and were their generous response to the
appeal for the Y.W.C.A. War-time Fund.
For this big Y.W. effort a concert was
held, under the patronage of the Queen,
at the Albert Hall in London, and each
Dominion was asked to take a box, cost-
ing £250, to be used by troops serving in
England. Mrs. Churchill, who is presi-
dent of the fund, sent a cable to Lady.
Gowrie on the matter. A.J.C. chairman
George Main and Tattersall’s chairman
W. W. Hill handing over the cheques to
Lady Wakehurst, whose afternoon frock
was gala with a long string of pearls, and
orchids on her silver fox scarf, was the
right answer.
The young mother and the expectant
mother of Australia must be forgwen if
they smile at the great concern expressed
by Place and Power on the decrease
in the birthrate. With no prospect
of a small home of their own, or
indeed of any sort of decent housing
conditions, the urging to the young-
marrieds to increase and multiply must
fall on ears, if not deaf, at least bewil-
dered. The cost of living is high ; the dif-
ficulties in the way of the about-to-be
mother’s shopping have not yet been
smoothed. When the baby arrives the
juice of the orange is practically unpro-
curable. It looks, now, as though milk
is to be another scarce commodity.
Why not, as a means of keeping the
cradle full, revive the Ministry of Mother-
hood, as the matron of one of the city’s
maternity hospitals has suggested, and
this time let the Ministry be run by
women? The price of essential baby
clothes should be fixed, moderate rates
prevailing. Where necessary, layettes
should be given free of all cost. That,
after all, is a very small present to a new
little Australian. Hospital and home
conditions could be a matter for the
Ministry. The vital point is, why
wait till the war is won for bettering the
lot of mother and child?
Three thousand pounds will be ticked
up to the credit of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital Golden Jubilee Fund
from the “Mother and Child” competition.
The winners* were Mrs. O. D. A Oberg
and daughter Gwendell, whose votes
represented £1258 and some shillings.
Mrs. Colin Tannock and Isabella totted
up the neat sum of almost £832, Mrs.
Robert Dixson and daughter Mary com-
ing a good third with £B2B 10s. 6d. There
were 44 candidates altogether. Certifi-
cates signed by Lady Gowrie and cash
prizes of £lOO, £5O and £25 were awarded
according to place.
Nancy Bird and knight Donald
Cameron are to be kept hustling along in
the Red Cross Air Race. These two
represent the society’s headquarters, and
their flight is being chivvied on by after-
noon and evening parties in many a
home. On Saturday, June 10, the Sam
Walder lady will stage a card party
in her home at Point Piper. Tickets for
the party are five shillings.
Bowing to the inevitable has no place
in Mrs. Ben Edye’s scheme when it
applies to the dances she and her com-
mittee run for the boys in the services.
Since the beginning of the. war these
have been held on Wednesday nights.
Lately the wardens of Christ Church St.
Lawrence took the hall over for Wednes-
days. Mrs. Ben Edye didn’t bow to cir-
cumstances ; she dismissed them with a
wave and engaged the hall for Tuesdays
instead. On the 20th of next month the
group will celebrate its fourth birthday.
Lady Wakehurst has promised a visit
during the evening, and Carrie Moore
will sing.
Hockey girls all over Australia w'ill be
pleased to hear of Isabel McKinney’s new
job at Sydney University. For some time
Isabel was secretary to the Uni, Women’s
Union at Manning House. Now she is
appointed to the secretaryship of the Uni-
versity Appointments Board. Her pre-
decessor, Agnes Scobie, is now Adviser
to Women Students at the University,
and Miss M, A. Teller, who was the
Adviser, has become deputy-assistant-
registrar of the University—a sort of
pleasant academic game of musical
chairs, with no one left out. In fact,
room is thus made for a newcomer.
She is June Barkett, who takes over Isa-
bel McKinney’s job at Manning House.
Tomorrow night at the Conservatorium,
Marjorie Hesse, pictured here, will offer a
rich programme of pianoforte music. Mar-
jorie is both talented and hard-working,
and the result shows in the sensitiveness
of her interpretation, her sureness of
tone. The Brahms-Handel variations,
works by Ravel, Debussy, Haydn, and,
for the first time in Australia, “Fiesta en
Purchena” from the pen of the American
Albert Hay Malotte, will figure in her
recital.
The much-talked-about and eagerly-
awaited Eugene Ormandy arrived in Bris-
bane midway through last week, and
from there came on to Sydney. Mr.
Ormandy is one of the world’s famous
conductors, and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra is manicuring, barbering and
oiling up all its instruments ready for the
sign “go” from his baton. Apart from a
series of A.B.C. concerts, the visitor will
conduct the Symphony Orchestra at a
concert for the Gowrie Scholarship Trust
Fund, This will be his farewell, and
the preferential reserve price is one
guinea per ticket. The Town Hall and
June 24 are the place and time.
The date fixed on by golf champion
Margaret Rankin, of Newcastle, and
Charles Lucien Miles Shoppee for their
wedding is June 10. St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral will be the setting. A reception will
follow at the home of bride’s sister, Mrs.
Robert du Val, of Double Bay.
The “Seeing Eye” movement —the term
in America has come to mean the ser-
vice of guide dogs in leading the blind —
was brought before an audience in the
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer theatrette re-
cently. A number of shorts conveyed to
the gazers the many ways in which the
dogs leam to shepherd those dependent
on them. An enthusiastic committee is
hoping soon to have this aid brought to
Australia’s afflicted.
From Melbourne
The Government House farewell recep-
tion to Lady Gowrie was the first formal
at-home that the vice-regals have staged
since the outbreak of war put the damper
on such things. Now that the risks and
losses of war have come so much nearer
to people here than in the first days, with
the conflict 12,000 miles away, the feel-
ing that a little social coming and going
is out of place no longer holds. With
everyone harnessed to the war-effort
plough it’s good sometimes to make
merry.
Fashion note of the reception was the
arrival of the tailored jacket for wear
with evening clothes. At a first glance
it seemed as if every woman present had
turned out in one, and even on more de-
tailed scrutiny it was clear that the
majority, and the smartest figures at that,
were showing jacketed upper halves,
often over voluminous skirts, Mrs. Der-
mott Casey looked very regal in flowing
black skirt with a parchment jacket of
high-hip length. Mrs. Gordon Chirnside’s
bronze jacket dropped full from the shoul-
ders like a Regency buck’s riding cape-.
Married at St. John’s, Malvern, on
Saturday, Pamela Wrigley and Lieut.
Robert Farquharson Stewart (A.1.F.) made
wedding plans with war-time suddenness,
and the bride had a busy week’s shop-
ping behind her. Nevertheless, she
achieved traditional bridal regalia with
draped white formal frock. Pamela is the
only daughter of Air Vice-Marshal H. N.
Wrigley, on service abroad, and Mrs.
Wrigley. Bridegroom is the son of Mrs.
M. Stewart, of Beecroft (N.S.W.), and the
late Mr. Stewart. This is a recent picture
of Pamela.
A bird’s-eye view of the Lower Town
Hall just before Lady Gowrie arrived for
her farewell reception revealed a sea of
hats as varied as the women’s interests
represented. There were the good solid
coal-scuttle-shaped ones with a no-non-
sense look, a few rakish felts tipped with
bright feathers (one guessed the wearer
wasn’t letting good deeds get her down),
and here and there a wicked little twist
of fabric in the “model” class. In addi-
tion to these civilians were service caps,
W.A.T.C. Glengarries, and here and there
the well-loved Salvation Army bonnet.
However varied, the assembled milli-
nery nodded together as its owners
dropped into conversation. As at most
dos of the kind, workers for various
charities who are generally too busy for
such affairs make the most of the oppor-
tunity to inquire “How are things going
with you?” and to discuss common prob-
lems. This time chief topic was impres-
sions of Lady Gowrie, her friendliness and
her interest in women’s work. When the
vice-regal lady herself arrived the warmth
of feeling was obvious, though rules of
etiquette forbade handclapping or cheer-
ing. r .
Making a conversational tone of voice
reach to the farthest corners of the Town
Hall is no small feat, but Dr. Thomas
Wood seemed to find it easy when he
spoke at the A.W.N.L. Empire Day
gathering. The civic welcome to Dr.
Wood on Friday brought more than the
usual crowd to the mayoral rooms, and
he re-established his reputation for wit
and warmth.
Among those who heard him were Mrs.
Essington Lewis, taking time off from her
busy round of organising the raising of
the Y.W.C.A. Fund, and Mrs. Carl
Kumm, hard-working president of the
appeal committee. Air Vice-Marshal
George Jones was present with Mrs.
Jones, the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund’s presi-
dent. Sighted amongst the thiung (well
over the heads of most of it) was Mrs.
Fred Dennet.
The arrival of Dr. Wood and Mrs.
Grenfell more or less on each other’s
heels has made for discussion of the
value of unofficial ambassadors in tighten-
ing the silken bonds. Undoubtedly these
two have brought about a better under-
standing of the British viewpoint.
Knee-high knitted socks seem to have
caught on with this city’s women. In
the busiest spots can be seen quite an
army of besocked damsels, who must
have taken to the needles early, for a
long sock takes no small time to knit.
Latest convert to this warmth-making
movement is erstwhile Peter Pan, Gloria
Mellody, who has had engagements with
the National Theatre and the Firm of
late. She is being seen about in bright
yellow ribbed ones.
A very cute leopard couchant and a
lifelike galah are two examples of the
work of invalid ex-service men to come
to Red Cross shop in Regent-place, The
shop, which has made a clientele for itself
in the many years it has been function-
ing, produces some of the most attrac-
tive toys to be found in the city,, and at
prices so reasonable that something to
suit the most hard-up toy-buyer can gen-
erally be found. The stock includes sets
of doll’s-house furniture and wooden
Noah’s ark animals, which can be bought
separately if the ark is running short of
odd animals.
Kurrajong pods and gumnuts make
hippopotami, mice and other fauna, and
fur-fabric is used for very real-looking
koalas, avidly bought up by Allied ser-
vice men as souvenirs of Australia to send
home. The koalas are the work of a
last-war nursing sister who has a special
gift for making realistic cloth animals.
One problem that she, along with other
workers for the shop, is up against is
shortage of materials, so scraps of fur-
fabric, velvet and cloth are welcomed by
the shop. All profits from sales go en-
tirely to the invalid men making the toys,
with the exception of a shilling in the £
for shop upkeep.
The old jingle “Silk, Satin, Cotton,
Rags” has a double meaning these days,
recently-married brides are lamenting.
Complaint is that the most carefully-
selected trousseau of silks and satins and
the like turns to rags in less than no time
since “war-time weaves” took the place
of the more lasting stuffs of pre-war days.
It would appear that the basis of all
fabrics has altered in quality, though their
surface appearance remains the same,
leading the purchaser to think that she’s
getting what she bought a few years ago.
To make matters more puzzling for the
shopper, price has no relation to intrinsic
value, as more recently manufactured
(and therefore generally poorer) materials
are dearer than old stock, which sells at
its original price.
The lady of the ballad who was “off
with the Raggle Taggle Gipsies” prob-
ably had no end of bother cooking out
of doors, but the damsel who’s had ser-
vice training in field cookery will be
equal to the demands of a roving exist-
ence or to any of the exigencies of a
gas or electricity shortage. Questions
asked (and in some cases answered in
practical demonstration) at a recent exami-
nation in the culinary art held by one
of the women’s services showed how
equal-to-every-occasion these lasses are
expected to be. Moving stores vast dis-
tances was one subject of query. One
lass was still bright and cheerful after
cooking pasties for 200 on a very primi-
tive outdoor stove.
One of many girls who are working
bravely on in spite of personal tragedy
is Mrs. Bill Heffernan, Jean Scarfe before
her marriage to Bill, who was reported
missing after a bombing raid over Ger-
many some months ago. Jean has re-
turned to educational work, but this time
to a new side of it —visual education.
This includes the editing and planning of
moving pictures on various subjects to
be shown in schools. This work is under
Prof. Brown’s guidance.
Thunder in the air and a considerable
amount of tension on stage marked the
opening night of “Viktoria and Her
Hussar” at His Majesty’s, Doug Stark
had so many little sailor caps stuffed with
papers that it’s a wonder he didn’t call
for a filing system to keep him in coun-
tenance. The kimono-clad maidens of the
chorus did the little jig trot when they re-
membered and bounded with strides the
width of their garments when they didn’t.
The audience, not being quite sure where
it stood in the matter of the strike of
members of Actors’ Equity, dressed for
the evening in its soberest day clobber.
As usual, the elderly predominated, as
is the tendency on first nights of revivals
of ancient musical comedies.
New Group players are rehearsing a
play by George Sava, of “Healing Knife”
fame, so new that it’s still in manuscript
and was sent to the group’s director, New-
man Jubal, from London. The play will
open on June 3 at Kelvin Hall, and the
plot concerns Russian exiles (of whom
Sava himself is one) and their reactions
to war and invasion. In a letter accom-
panying the manuscript Sava expresses
the hope that after opening in Melbourne
the play would be produced in Sydney,
because his wife is an Australian and her
relatives live on the harbor side.


7
m
5^
55?
LEADERSHIP
In the field of technical and scientific development—and still more in the
stress of commercial competition—leadership is a position not easily
earned or lightly held. Nor is the house of Philips unmindful of the
obligations which leadership entails; the confidence of the public for
over fifty years is a proud responsibility.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments ♦ Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
f
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep
out all the rabbits.
the rabbit
is to clear
IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
SAVES
MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
' -
...
:■ '
yirrvtf'
II
:W,
...the Kitthen of J94X
—Masonite, of
In your post-war kitchen the walls will be of gleaming,
easy-to-clean Masonite with a dado of the same non-
warping, non-cracking wonder board grooved into
squares. The cupboards, in-built, will be of Masonite
Presdwood; and the floor and working surfaces of
Tempered Presdwood ... the board which stands up to
all the knocks and bumps of a hard life. In your
kitchen, as in every room of your house, you will dis-
cover the truth that the war has so fully established —■
the truth that Masonite is “The Wonder Board of
1,000 Uses.”
>■
MA22-44
MASONUt PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
I ■ ,
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Invest Your Savings in WAR LOAN BONDS for Post-war Use
SMOKE-OH!
“How can 1 get rid of a married man?”
— Woman’s mag.
Go home to mother.
“Can 1 do anything about a rather flat nose.”
—lnquirer in “Woman."
You can always tilt it in the air a little,
dear.
4* 4*
“The average height of adults among the
poorer classes is about four inches less than
among the properly-fed well-to-do.”
— “World’s News.
Munition workers now stand head and
shoulders over professional men.
•I- 4* -I* 4*
“Science is rapidly advancing to a stage
where practically nothing will be impossible.”
— “World’s News.”
“Middle-aged farmer, with four hands, seeks
attractive proposition.”— N.-w. Tas. “Advocate.
Has he tried milking two goats simul-
taneously?
•f* *l*
“It’s not fair to mention the name of the
star involved —but a certain studio has loaned
out one of its glamor girls in return for the
use of a big camera crane.” — “Woman.”
A wench for a winch, eh?
“Some people still attribute their troubles to
the influence of an evil eye.”— Psychologist.
Others to the influence of a glad one.
•£• *l*
“Wanted, General Hands, lambs’ wool pro-
duction.” — “S.M.H.”
Wouldn’t it be better to leave this to
the lambs?
.
“Wearing battle helmets, trench coats, and
carrying their packs and wafer-bottles over
their shoulders, the Wacs managed to save
some of their famininity.”— “Sun.”
Not hunger strikers, surely!
4* *i* , "i* ,
“Girls or Women, wanted for ice-cream pack-
ing in the city.”—
Paradoxically, although much sought
after they’re assured of a chilly reception.
On the Nose.
“A London tattooist specialises in tattooing
red noses a true flesh color.”
—“Daily Telegraph .'
Let us suppose upon your nose
A gallant blossom brightly blows
With tints of crimson and old rose,
For which a princely sum you’ve paid;
Though people term the colors crude
I doubt if you’d have them subdued
And get your brilliant conk tattooed
A pallid, wan teetotal shade.
Alas! The fuel supplies expire;
On nose and cheekbone sinks the fire.
And former pot-companions think
You’ve lost your aptitude for drink ...
This circumstance may soon procure
A different job for that, tattooer.
P. M. LUSK.
Science may triumph yet, although
Frustration seems to dog
A chap I know who hopes to grow
Pink feathers on a frog.
F. M.
Decadence.
“American Indians horses and
cleaning harness.” — “Sun.”
My once pet author’s master-stroke.
In days consumed by moth and rust,
Was when he’d of his hero croak :
“Each time his trusty rifle spoke
Another redskin bit the dust.”
But not before each valiant brave
Had made a ding-dong fight of ft.
Their sons, to dodge an early grave,
Reverse their doom; they meekly slave,
And, cleaning harness, dust the bit.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Lament.
Those fatal words have filled my soul
With overwhelming misery!
It seems Tm under the control
Of devils who would torture me!
In other days Td never bow;
At all my sorrows I could scoff ;
But what can raise my spirits now
When they’ve declared the beer is off?
T. W. NATHAN
Yo Ho Ho and a Bottle of Scent.
“Crews’ cabins on Mann Shipping Line
tramps are painted in two shades 01 peach, and
the dayrootn walls in soft', restful Chinese green.
All Lave bunkhead lights and stainless-sfeel
cutlery.”— Cable.
All was bustle on the deck of s.s.
Lounge Lizard as the last of cargo and
stores were being stowed away. In the
fo’c’sle, where the din of rattling winches
was shut out by soundproof doors, a
couple of A.Bs. were giving final instruc-
tions to the mate.
“No,” one of, them was saying, “I
simply can’t have a tufted candlewick
chenille bedspread in duck-egg blue —-it
not only clashes with my pale saffron
pyjamas, but it positively shrieks at the
rust-and-gold carpet.”
“Quite right, Basil,” said the other A.B.
“And look at these curtains over my
porthole —doesn’t the company know that
curtains to be ala mode should be
draped?”
“Orright, gents,” said the mate respect-
fully. “I’ll get the ship’s furnishing up-
holsterer to have the alterations made
right away. Now do youse blokes”
“You blokes,” corrected Basil gently.
“And ‘blokes’ doesn’t sound sufficiently
respectful or dignified. We prefer to be
addressed as ‘gentlemen.’ Remember, we
aren’t seamen any longer, you know —
we’re now vessel valets.”
“Sorry. Now, do you gentlemen mind
coming up on deck and bogging into
some graf—er —assisting the captain by
performing some chores? We push off
—that is, we depart—at four bells.”
“That’s another thing,” broke in Wil-
fred as he raised himself on his toes to
look in the bevelled wall mirror to adjust
his tie ; “we find it too fatiguing to have
to interpret bells. Please arrange to have
the time broadcast instead over the ampli-
fiers. Oh, and kindly have a cheval
mirror installed alongside my lowboy.”
“Very good, gentlemen. And now, if
you will be good enough to step on
deck”-
Basil and Wilfred had taken their pull-
overs off, folded them neatly and were
pulling on leather gloves preparatory to
coiling some rope when a near-by burst
of profanity caused than to look up,
shocked to their depths. Coming up the
gangway, a cocky’s cage held in one hand
and an old dunnage bag slung over his
shoulder, was an ancient shellback, a
fringe of matted hair around his weather-
beaten face, a rusty-black woollen cap
on his head and a barber’s-pole sweater
under his coat. As he reached the deck
there came another burst of invective
from the cage, and the old salt rolled
away for’ard.
“What a horrid-looking man! ” ex-
claimed Basil. “I do hope we aren’t com-
pelled to associate with him at all on
the voyage.”
An hour later, as they re-entered the
fo’c’sle, Basil and Wilfred almost choked
with the smoke billowing up from a slush
lamp. The duck-egg blue chenille bed-
spread had been tossed on to the cage,
and the cocky was swearing luridly. The
carpet had been heaved on to Wilfred’s
bed, and obviously bilgewater had just
been swilled across the floorboards. The
old shellback was lying on Basil’s bed
with his boots on, and as the two vessel
valets came forward, the bed occupant
let fly with a stream of tobacco juice,
which just missed Basil’s bows. He in-
terrupted his singing of “Whisky for My
Johnny” to say as the others approached,
“Well, blow me down, shipmates, I jus’
bin gettin’ the fo’c’sle shipshape before
I go up to tackle some sorlt junk. But
what I’d like to know is what qu”
But Basil and Wilfred didn’t hear him.
They’d fainted.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Inaccurate Maps
It would be a good idea if the Lands
Department adopted the new military
survey maps in place of the inaccurate
Government maps with which land-
owners have been misled for years. The
military maps, drawn from aerial photo-
graphs and checked by exacting ground
surveying, now cover practically the
whole of Australia.
I find that my pastoral holding is five
square, miles larger than is shown on the
Government map, and that it is even a
different shape. So is the adjoining graz-
ing lease. A neighboring block of land
has doubled its area, the boundaries on
the Government map being two miles
out. An important creek is half a mile
out of position, while in another case a
large river is shown running the wrong
way, to quote but a few gross mistakes.
If other districts of Australia are as
misrepresented on the Government map
as this one it will be essential that a
whole shoal of mistakes be rectified be-
fore any post-war land-settlement scheme
can be considered. — Gip (N.Q.).
Work for Returned Service Men
Getting soldiers back to work, is it?
Here’s my experience: I had four years’
active service in the 1914-18 war and two
years in this war, with a clean record.
On my discharge from the Army in
1942 I joined the Commonwealth Public
Service (clerical) and, after 12 months in
various departments, decided 1 was re-
ceiving public money for nothing. I de-
manded my release and (on account of
war disabilities) it was granted.
I was then referred to Man-power and,
notwithstanding my qualifications, includ-
ing 8.0. T. master’s certificate and 15
years’ representation of reputable Mel-
bourne firms,, I‘was offered three posi-
tions; (1) Hawking typewriter-ribbons at
£2 per week and commission ; (2) hawk-
ing tea in country districts; (3) canvass-
ing photdgraph enlargements. These
offers of employment I considered an
insult and declined.
The matter was then referred to the
Minister fey Labor, who wrote to me
stating that he regretted the insults to
which I had been subjected and that the
officer responsible had been dismissed. I
was instructed to report to a rehabilita-
tion officer in Melbourne. This gentleman
stated that he was not concerned with dis-
abled returned soldiers and had no other
positions to offer. He suggested I adver-
tise for a job.
Fortunately I have my own business
and have no need to go to these
extremes, but God help the unfortunate
Digger who relies on this so-called Re-
habilitation Commission! R. Dodd
(Vic.). ______
War Brides
“Ah Gee” (B. 10/5/’44), who is con-
cerned about an exodus of war brides,
should go further and say what he thinks
should be done about it. Does he want
to stop them from leaving? Then trouble
would really start.
The exodus of brides won’t affect our
plans of immigration, for those girls will
be an encouragement to others in America
to settle here. And are we not taking
just as many girls from other countries?
Just recently I have read of the arrival
of British and Canadian girls in Aus-
tralia who are married to Australians.
“Ah Gee” should be consoled by the re-
flection, too, that many Australian brides
have encouraged their American hus-
bands to stay here. — Good Luck (Vic.).
Nursing
The disabilities of the nursing profes-
sion get a lot of publicity these days, but
no one seems to take the trouble to show
prospective trainees that nursing has its
good points too. The job is no bed of
roses, but it has its compensations.
The nurse can feel that shQ is doing
a worth-while job in looking after and
easing the sufferings of her patients. Dur-
ing her hospital course she is working
with girls of her own age with the same
interests, girls who, like herself, are striv-
ing to live up to a worthy ideal. She
lives near her work, and is spared the
expense and inconvenience of travelling.
She does not have to give a hand with
domestic duties. Her meals are prepared
and served to her, her laundry is done
and her hours off duty can be spent as
she pleases. In most hospitals she is
able to.choose her weekly leave time.
Should she become ill she is given all
hospital and medical attention free.
On completing her course of training
the nurse finds many roads open to her
for the pursuit of her calling, and she
will possess knowledge that will be use-
ful to her throughout her lifetime. The
difficulties and trials seem small when
compared with the bright side of a nurse’s
life. — An Old Nurse Who Knows
(N.S.W.).
Free Medical Services
Whatever our standard of living it will
not be good enough until every man,
woman and child, fallen sick, is enabled
as a right, not charity, to obtain the best
medical, surgical and nursing benefits the
country can provide.
This might come about sooner than
now appears likely if % the medical profes-
sion would supply constructive criticism
or formulate its own plan. The cost
“ Anyone's likely to make a mistake, ain't they?"
would have to be met from income tax,
of course, but that surely would be a
better method than the present one where
doctors base their bills on the apparent
ability of their clients to pay. — Ex-Army
(S.A.).
Why Crooners?
“Mclntyre” (B. 10/5/’44) attributes the
sad crooning so popular today to war-
time separations and the call on adoles-
cent singers to substitute for more mature
voices.
Maybe, but isn’t it possible that we
wouldn’t have heard crooning but for
the introduction of the microphone? Had
there not been a means of amplifying
it we should never have heard the husky
sob of Crosby. The microphone is better
wooed than bullied. It was the crooners
who made that discovery. Pinthie
(Vic.).'
The Dingo Danger
The dingo danger referred to by
“Bennie” (B. 3/ 5 / ’44) is likely to be felt
soon in the Monaro (N.S.W.) sheep coun-
try. The Government has taken elabo-
rate steps to provide the dingo with an
undisturbed breeding ground in the vast
reserve at Kosciusko. All wild animal
life is to be protected! After years of
close study and contact with our beauti-
ful Alps, I know that there is no wild
animal life there, except dingoes and
rabbits.
Sheep have been in the habit of graz-
ing there in summer, and those in charge
of them have put up a splendid fight
against the dingo. But as the sheep are
only there a few months the dingoes
travel through from the Victorian side
once the sheep are gone and make short
work of all wild animals.
There have been no kangaroos or wal-
labies at Kosciusko for many years, and
koalas were wiped out much earlier. If
there are a few stray bandicoots or kan-
garoo rats left they will soon vanish
once the dingo holds undisputed com-
mand of this country.
From this reserve it is only a few
miles to some of our best sheepgrowing
country. With mountain-bred dingoes
closing in on these short-handed sheep-
owners, one can only expect that, like
the hard-pressed dairymen of the coast,
they will have to quit.— Farmer’s Wife
(N.S.W.)
Farmhouse Architecture
Anyone who could advocate flat-
roofed farmhouses for Australia must be
a Tasmanian or a dweller in some singu-
larly chilly corner of the continent. Let
him sizzle in a flat-roofed structure in
the western wheatbelt or on the blister-
ing plains around Moree and he wouldn’t
entertain the idea for half an hour.
I agree that the ideal, air-conditioned
hot-climate house for Australian condi-
tions has not yet been designed. One
thing it should provide is a full-length
(and full-breadth) passage of air between
the roof and the ceiling.
One more word. In spite of its mar-
vellous utility, I sometimes feel that the
invention of galvanised roofing iron was
not an unmixed blessing. —G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Seamen’s Pay
As one serving on an Australian
merchant ship, I was interested in
your comments (B. 26/4/’44) under
the heading “The Union Asks for
More.” Why shouldn’t it ask for
more? The war-risk loading paid
to men on the Australian coast is
33| p.c. at first; 50 p.c.
after six months’ con-
tinuous service. Ac-
cording to the /‘Sea-
men’s Journal,” April,
1944, the war-risk
bonuses paid by other
Governments to their
men serving on our
coast are: Norwegian,
120 p.c. ; Dutch, 100'
p.c.; Yugoslav, 100
p.c. ; British, 100 p.c.;
Swedes, 200 p.c.;
Greeks, 200 p.c.
In addition to the
rate quoted, Greek sea-
men accumulate 100
p.c. deferred pay, pay-
able at the termination
of the war. United
States seamen receive
five dollars .a day for
being in certain ports,
and 125 dollars if sub-
jected to an attack.
I know of at least
one man serving on an
American vessel who
had approximately £3OO
(Aust.) due to him for
enemy attacks. The
vessel was not sunk.
Australian seamen receive no extra
money for being attacked.
You remark that the seamen’s meat
ration is 101 b. of meat a week to each
man. Admittedly so, but meat has to be
used so largely because vegetables are not
always available. Many seamen would
prefer to receive less meat and more
vegetables, but this is very often imprac-
ticable. And it must be remembered that
meat that has spent weeks in a vessel’s
freezer is not the same as the fresh meat
eaten ashore.
However, your remarks about food in
general are quite sound. It is a fact that,
especially in cargo vessels, saloon and
crew menus are very similar, if not iden-
tical. But don’t get the idea that saloon
food is something to be marvelled at.—
Interested Seaman.
Shoddy Furniture
In an endeavor to stop the manufac-
ture of shoddy furniture, I learn from the
daily press, more than 200 furniture fac-
tories in N.S.W. have been inspected in
recent weeks by officers of the Depart-
ment of War Organisation of Industry.
According to Director Ifould, many
cases had been revealed of the use of
paper, cardboard and other rubbishy
materials in hidden parts of furniture.
Said he:
The public, particularly women and
newly-married couples, are notoriously bad
judges of furniture... .It is a shame that,
when accumulating furniture which should
rightly last them all their married lives,
they should be taken down by a few un-
scrupulous manufacturers.
I say the workers engaged in the
manufacture of shoddy furniture (and
shoddy footwear, shoddy clothes and
other shoddy things with- which we are
now so familiar) are also to be blamed,
perhaps even more than their employers.
Could the bosses foist such stuff on the
people unless the workers prostituted
themselves and their labor by sanctioning
the fraud and turning out the goods?
Without their connivance and their crafts-
manship the bosses couldn’t possibly take
down the public.
Presumably the workers are trade-
unionists, and thus they also prostitute
trade-unionism. Trade-unionists should
strive to reach the highest degree of skill
in their various occupations, and should
insist that the materials with which they
work should be the genuine stuff and of
a quality worthy of their skill. Trade-
unionism is being debased when it seeks
and is concerned only with selfish sec-
tional ends; when it fails to recognise
its obligations to the public and becomes
anti-social.
A high-principled trade-unionism would
not, could not, countenance at any time,
even in times when jobs were hard to get,
shabby, scabby production and sale of
shoddy goods of any description. Now,
when no man need fear unemployment
and when the social conscience is stirred
as never before to demand a fair deal
all round, it is the clear duty of trade-
unionists to refuse absolutely to con-
done or participate in the taking down of
their fellow-citizens by putting shoddy
work and shoddy materials into anything.
—Avoca (N.S.W.).
Sydney Milk Supply
That Consumers and Producers’ Co-op.
Society (B. 17/5/ ’44) offered the Milk
Board samples of extra-zone milk in 10-
gallon lots to prove that it could bring
good milk into the city. The board
demands a 4000-gallon sample.
Professor Priestley, of Sydney Univer-
sity, a recognised food authority, has told
the C.P.C.S. that 10 gallons drawn from
bulk by an independent person is a fair
sample, and the C.P.C.S. has asked the
board to accept this, adding that it is
prepared to stand by an analysis of the
milk by a board expert and Prof. Priest-
ley. The reply is awaited.
Meantime, people go short of milk,
though they haven’t gone short of elec-
tion propaganda.— Norther (N.S.W.).
Swamp Reclamation
Up till two years ago there were 4000
acres of ti-tree swamp in the south-east
of South Australia. Years ago as a boy
I was lost for half a day near Eight Mile
Creek, where I walked miles through
water a foot deep before I found my way
out on the beach. Fed by a series of
springs,' this swamp rendered the land
almost useless.
Today the whole area has been drained
by channels runninginto the sea, and the
good depth of soil is producing turnips
a foot across for sheep. Later this land
will be sown to pasture. When Premier
Playford viewed the scheme he said “We
hope to bring in a new era in land settle-
ment.” He envisioned a large scheme of
further reclamation. The necessity for
such work, pressing then, is doubly so
in view of the demand for land for settle-
ment that will arise after the war. —
Lacas (R.A.A.F.).
“Hey, you girls all twenty-one?"


. V
.rl.
L
I
■
oiMii
w
m
a
LI
: .
\ 'V
afvi
& mi
- .
M
W*
4*l
ti«
T*®
> m'l
wMmJA c
m
Vli
■V,
LI;
m
>m
■ ..«
W/
> ■' IBMHi
irir?
*sdl
Storage equipment is on
Active Service with
Australia’s Fighting Forces
Mfj I
Ui!l HilHI ? HIiIEZJ I
h ijl i£sq I* iv |
s m
«^ i ~ ~j §
■l . !■» s r 3 •
a •
mm
m
tm
Wm
' i
mtmsm*. //,-. qk. t
•: • Mimm* ‘B 2
. ;
;
if
HI
l|| :
>
Wmm :
W r ,
c^y,
-
T.:: (
mm
m
■: ■-
;■ y
. ; v. x - ■
.
L; ; -■ ' : .... • •■■■.■•:■■■.■ ■.■
I HBr t
I Hm.
■ . •
mmmmm
pa
mum
mm
mT*
W L
I
1
'1
I
■I
’ w 0 i ftJ* *
9 ** i " m
"H* ■ ». ■« ' # - 5 S9i
:
Si? * »
%r:r:-cm:y.-.. ... *■■<:
'
BHL
SSHiili
"Steelbilt” is doing a hundred vital jobs in Australia’s war industries. "Steelbilt” bins and shelving are on front-
line service in mobile workshops and stores. "Steelbilt” lockers are in commission at airmen’s dormitories and aboard
fighting ships. "Steelbilt” cupboards guard replacements in ordnance stores.
More and still more "Steelbilt” must be produced . . . "Steelbilt” factory quotas must be doubled . . . trebled ... to
keep pace with Australia’s mounting war effort. All this means that civilian needs have to be passed by for the
moment. But later when normal times return, all this extra manufacturing experience will be at the disposal of all
commercial and industrial concerns.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doors weighing 100 lbs. to
1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer, bangor door
hangers having been called up for the duration, will not now be available.
*
ff
STOMGi ipmmw
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
