

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.—N0. 3347
Wednesday, April 5, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
THE ALBERT MEMORIAL, LONDON.
ONE of the most magnificent monuments in the world is the
structure outlined in this illustration. It is the “Albert
Memorial,” erected to the memory of the Prince Consort (husband
of Queen Victoria), partly by the Government and partly by
voluntary contributions, at a cost of £120,000. The foundation of
this monument alone repays an hour’s close examination. Broad
granite steps lead up on every side to a spacious platform, at the
four corners of which are fine colossal groups of statuary, repre-
senting the four great divisions of our globe, Europe, Asia, Africa
and America. The pedestal itself is nothing less than wonderful
in its elaborate display of marble statues in relief encircling the
entire monument. There are 169 of these figures, representing the
world’s greatest artists since the dawn of history, including Painters,
Musicians, Poets, Architects, Scullion-. ?• i Reformers. In
one place, Homer, the Fath-: - v . > holding the
lyre, while near him •• ■ ■ *••••. of cv- r; .■ . *r*tic i are Virgil,
Dante, Shakespeare, C ■'!•••. f■;< ... In another
section are grouped \ . . e Bologna,
Benvenuto Cellini, and o ■ ,• ,cc. At last
above all this rises to the ixse.it! oi ' '■■ <>* ■ u,n ■ 'decorated
Gothic canopy, beneath w cob :ui statue of the
Prince Consort, fifteen feet i ■ ; -t ...nd m .ae of gilded bronze.
Ihe excessive amount of orn . , ,m mosaic and gilding on
this canopy may be criticised, b ■ re is no doubt of the grand and
imposing effect produced by die lower portion of this superb
memorial.


11
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised tn the Sydney ‘‘Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 144 AGE
33 Prizes Offered
For Short Radio Plays
The Quensland Temperance League an-
nounces a Competition for short Radio
Plays (seven minutes’ playing time), deal-
ing with the advantages of total abstinence
from intoxicating liquors or the danger
and folly of drinking such liquors.
Entries will close on May 31, 1944.
Entry forms, with full conditions of the
competition, may be obtained from the
Campaign Secretary, Queensland Tem-
perance League, 318 Edward St., Brisbane.
PRIZES.
SECOND
THIRD £3
In addition to the above prizes, £l-1-0
will be paid for every play accepted by
the League.
The Red Page
ART AND THE "HERALD."
Since “S. M. Herald” has bestowed on
itself a dictatorship over art I think it
but just to pay a tribute to that paper’s
services to Australian culture. It is a
tribute long overdue. For over 30 years I
have looked on at the “Herald’s” unfal-
tering affirmation of all that is good in
our national art effort here. \
There are two ways of affirming values
in art. One is to attack all that is good
in it, and the other to praise all that is
bad. I put aside appreciation or depre-
ciation by constructive analysis, because
that is not the “Herald’s” system..
The automatic attack on any vitality in
art is-purely physiological. A state of
inertia is suddenly aware of an impact by
energy, and is aroused to defend itself
against a- sensation of %cute discomfort.
And this procedure, however annoying
individually to the artist, is essential to
the dynamic of art, which exists on
antithetical conflict. “S. M. Herald’s”
immense service to our national culture
is that from first to last the paper has
attacked it, and it has failed to do so only
when for the moment it has overlooked
some isolated expression of value. And
this refers to prose and poetry as well as
painting. At the present moment the
“Herald” is making up for such past
oversights by clamoring to have our
national culture abolished and replaced
by a few European primitives.
And there, once again, it is hand-
somely performing its special function by
lavishing appreciation on the most worth-
less exhibits that the whole aesthetic of
the world’s art had produced.
In this case it is not originating the
conventional attack by affirming bad art,
acclaiming the primitive art which
emerged from the gradual collapse of
France, but is merely lumbering along 20
years after that system of attack was ini-
tiated in Europe. We know, of course,
that primitive art has never been attacked.
From the very outset journalistic critics
rushed out to appraise it.
Let me pause here at a valuation of
our national culture which the “Herald”
is so actively attacking today.
When this present war burst on us, I,
like everybody else, suffered a profound
depression of spirits. Not for what a
threat of war might imply, but because
I was forced to ask myself whether our
national culture was worth preserving
after all. For, in simple terms, I believe
that art is the core of a nation’s vitality,
in which all other expressions of vitality
are implicit; and that art therefore repre-
sents an energy principle which can drive
back any attack on its locality in space.
I could look back on the works of my
own generation and assure myself of
their value, but, being a unit of that
generation, I could claim no assurance
that it was strong enough to withstand
the attack of cataclysm.
When that state of depression was at
its worst two things arrived to bring me
reassurance and affirm my faith in Aus-
tralia’s cultural destiny., One was the
sudden revival of poetry in this country
and the other was the equally sudden
revival of the “Herald’s” attack on our
whole national culture. It restored my
spirits like a cold shower on a tired body.
In its early days the “Herald” wasn’t
much use to us as an antithetical conflict
motive. For that matter, we were too
obscure to warrant its attention even as
news value. It used to dismiss our shows
in a paragraph or two. The fact was we
were just, about as muddled ourselves as
the “Herald” over what we were doing
and why we were doing it.
I believe it was only the indomitable
spirit of Julian Ashton which held us to-
gether as an art group in those days.
And I think he was the only one who
saw the first portent of a new and vital
outlook on Australian landscape in
Streeton’s astonishing “Fire’s On”—a
work just as powerful and revolutionary
as Constable’s first landscapes. With
those early works of his Streeton gave
Australia new eyes; eyes that, before him.
could see only through the colored lense
of an English tradition in landscape.
I don’t think the “Herald” saw the
significance either of “Fire’s On” o
Gruner’s first “Morning Light.” We
were still a fairly obscure group
when that appeared, but buyers were
beginning to take an active interesi
in our works, so the “Herald” mus
have sniffed witchcraft somewhere
And what a calling for fire and the gibbe
there would have been if the “Herald’
had guessed that the greatest analysis in
pure light ever made was made by
Gruner in those first lyrical works of his
I said so in print some time later in the
preface to a small book on Gruner’
work, and what an outburst of scanda
Used protest I called down on myself foi
making an affirmation at that time which
today every lover Of Gruner’s work
knows to be the simple truth.
Since those days the Australian ar
movement has built itself up steadily--
with Heysen, who taught the Australian
eye to appreciate the beauty of its tree
forms, besides showing it a splendid mas-
tery of realistic water-color ; with Blamire
Young, who, besides a charming fantasy
in color harmonics, left us- the tradition
of pure water-color by the control of a
full brush and a flowing wash ; with Lam-
bert, who at least returned to Australia
in time to give it a sound tradition in the
technique of oils; with all the other
artists of quality who have given their
works to add power to the movement-
till we know now, with assurance, that
in all forms of plastic art that movement
is stabilised and will endure.
And that assurance is the whole key
to the “Herald’s” present attack on it.
The surface mechanism of that attack
is rich in comedy. The “Herald” ap-
pears to have picked up some denizen
of the European jungle, who arrived in
this country in the self-appointed char-
acter of an evangelist. The evangel he
preaches is that primitivism in art which
has been defunct this 20 years.
I am convinced that this unfortunate
gentleman arrived in Australia expecting
to find a simple bucolic population pluck-
ing the wool off sheep and prepared to
squat on its hams and gape amazement at
his announcement of the new evangel.
Instead, he found a tradition in painting,
poetry and prose already established, pic-
tures being painted and sold, books being
written, printed and sold—in short, a
highly civilised community arrived at
maturity and moving towards a self-
chosen destiny. He was outraged—-con-
founded—couldn’t believe his eyes. Like
a cow in front of a railway train, he
bellowed madly for the whole thing to
stop instantly. Still skipping ahead of the
engine, he is still bellowing.
And here I wish to acknowledge my
own personal debt to the “Herald; ” If I
appear to be paying myself a handsome
compliment in doing so, I can’t help it.
The records of the “Herald’s” services to
me are printed in its own columns for
anyone to read. When its attack began
I can’t recall; since my earliest days here
it has been going on spasmodically, and
the “Herald” is still breathlessly tub-
thumping away at it.
When one is young, of course, attack
depresses, disturbs and confuses, because
one is still vacillating uncertainly over a
future direction for work. There is also
the wolf cry of the mob in it; an odor
about it of flesh burnt at the stake.
But even in those early days I began
to notice that the more violently my work
was attacked the better it sold. The com-
pensating law of energised inertia was at
work on my behalf there, and the
“Herald” was its motive power. Let
anyone who cares to turn up the
“Herald’s” files covering the years 1925-
26, which saw our first big national
exhibit of Australian art in London.
For over six months before the exhibit
left the “Herald” never ceased trying to
have my works excluded from those
selected. It worked up such a mob frenzy
against me and those works that there
were even deputations to Parliament to
have them censored. As a last resource,
fanatics cabled the English Customs to
have them stopped entering England. I
will say that English news rags took
up the “Herald’s” outcry in the hand-
somest manner, and denounced my
works in the best “Herald” tradi-
tion. Even English artists, from Orpen
downwards, were caught up in the
same hysteria. And—well, here’s the
answer to all that attack. I sold every
work out of that show and at high prices,
,too. Even works of mine lent by buyers
here were sold, and there was a lot of
trouble over trying to buy them back.
I intrude this brief personal reminis-
cence here because it is pertinent to the
whole problem of antithetical conflict so
essential to art, and because it revealed
a truth to me which I wish to pass on
to the young generation now functioning
actively in our aesthetic. Obviously attack
on a work already created must be futile.
since the work exists as a concrete thing.
Short of taking an axe to it, the attacker
is helpless. To be successful, he must kill
work unborn.
I have always had one very simple
answer to people who make objec-
tions about my work to me personally.
“Sir, or Madam, you may be quite right,
but please observe that the picture isn’t
taking the slightest notice of you.”
Conceive the sensations of a man who
has been mentally murdering you for
years; who has satisfied a conviction of
power as the knife goes into your writh-
ing carcass ; who arrives at last at the
assurance that he has demolished you for
good and shoved your corpse under-
ground. Then conceive the sensations of
that man at suddenly discovering that the
corpse is quite alive and without a scratch
on it, and nothing at all has happened
over all those arduous, exultant exercises
in murder. Could anybody face a more
devastating conviction of futility than
that?
I think not. And that is the exact state
of futility in which the “S. M. Herald”
and its art critic are existing at this
moment. And that is why, at all costs,
they must keep up an incessant pother
of noise and activity to keep at bay the
devastating knowledge of their futility.
I often wonder if some “Herald” man
wakes up for a moment to a dim percep-
tion of what his paper is trying to do to
Australia, and what would happen if, by
a mad gambade of fantasy, it succeeded
in doing it. But let him be reassured.
The best the “Herald” and its Stone-
Age evangelist can do is to try to frighten
the trustees of the National Gallery into
buying a few examples of primitive art
and to put its Gruners and Streetons in
the cellar.
If the trustees allow this foolery to
disturb their dignity and equanimity, that
is a matter for their own private con-
sciences. We know that the Melbourne
“Herald” has succeeded in overawing
the trustees of the Melbourne Gallery
by shaking its prehistoric bludgeon at
them. And a hell of a price Melbourne
is going to pay later on for allowing a
slab of printer’s ink and wood pulp a
dictatorship over its culture.
All that is no affair of ours. National
institutions may help a country’s art,
but they cannot hinder its movement by
refusing to buy a few examples of its
works. Our paintings, poetry and prose
are in thousands of Australian homes to-
day, and have become an integral content
of Australia’s national consciousness. A
cow in front of an express train is a
potent obstruction to its passage
compared with the Sydney “Herald’s”
efforts to stop the movement of Austra-
lian art into the future of Australia’s
destiny.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Two Travellers.
Henry Baerlein’s Baltic Paradise (Fred-
erick Muller, Ltd.) and Rumer Godden’s
Rungli-Rungliot (Peter Davies, Ltd.) are
readable lightweights of travel. Baltic
Paradise suffers from too much humor*
Rungli-Rungliot from too little.
After a preface summarising the
Danish contribution to the Allied war
effort, Baerlein goes on a tour of the
Danish island of Bornholm and the
neighboring archipelago of Christianso.
Like all small islands inhabited chiefly
by seabirds and fishermen, these are
pleasant places, and Baerlein’s adven-
tures give the book something of the
flavor of a picaresque.
When he is not describing the historic
“round churches” or telling the stories of
old war, Baerlein amuses himself with the
comedy of the Consul for Nicaragua,
whose great ambition was to meet a real,
live Nicaraguan ; with a lady who wished
to remarry her ex-husband ; with a black-
smith who enjoyed great fame as a kind
of Christian wizard ; and with assorted
islanders in all stages of insobriety.
Something of the spirit of the island
is revealed when a little hairy man named
Sophus Bangs warns the author not to
pluck too many flowers “because the soil
would all get loose and ultimately it
would be dispersed by the strong gales of
winter” ; and again when Baerlein and a
fisherman named Lund decide to burn
an old boat so that it will die in the Vik-
ing manner—“not ignominiously upon
the beach, but in the old-time, splendid
way, reclining on the water.”
There is also an account of a
prophetess named Jomfru Fanny who
in 1870 prophesied the present war and
the ultimate defeat of Germany; “Just
north of Aabenraa there would be a
terrible battle in which pardon would be
neither sought nor given. On the one
hand would stand the Danes, old men
and boys, a disorderly army, but God
would give them the victory.”
Danish readers would probably find
Baerlein’s book wholly delightful. But it
needed some amplification for an Eng-
lish audience. Half the time the author
appears to be roaring with laughter at
some joke known only to himself.
Rungli-Rungliot is set a long way from
Bornholm—in a village in the Himalayas
where the authoress lived for a year with
her two small girls. Although there are
interesting notes on the processes of tea-
planting and some good descriptions of
the tribespeople of the Himalayas, there
is so much more about house decoration,
the bright sayings of the infant daughters
and the author’s vicissitudes with servants
that two chapters of it would probably
drive Baerlein out to exchange uproari-
ous (and hardly intelligible) confidences
with fishermen. Particularly in its
personal revelations and musings the
book seems pretentious. '
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: The Lud Mayor’s art show at
the Town Hall, Melbourne, culled from
private collections, is admirably arranged
and much better lighted than the National
Gallery. Streetons, Heysens, Herberts
and William Rowells abound, but there
is only one by Max Meldrum, though a
good one. The nearest approaches to the
modernist persuasion are a Shore and a
Prater. The previous generation is rep-
resented by Penleigh Boyd, David Davies,
G. W. Lambert, Walter Withers, Conder,
Buvelot and others, and there is some
nice work by the late Fred McCubbin.
Overseas entrants include Clausen,
Cameron, Augustus John, Sickert, Orpen
and Epstein, and there are two dreadful
portraits by De Lazio, the one-time Court
painter. Old masters include Romney,
Fragonard, Greuze and Salvator Rosa.
There are some notable omissions—for
instance, the late Clarice Beckett, of
Beaumaris, whom Meldrum once de-
scribed as the greatest woman painter in
history. The Lud Mayor can hardly be
blamed for that, however. There isn’t a
single picture by Miss Beckett at the
National Gallery yet, though she left
behind her at least a thousand lovely
Victorian landscapes.
Adelaide Repertory’s first show for the
year (to three packed houses) was Frank
Harley’s “Saloon Bar,” with 24 charac-
ters, who battled bravely with the various
Cockney dialects. Jack Ham produced
an effective show, with the best chances
going to Robert Matthews, Ronald Peter-
son, Mimi Mattin and, as two contrasted
barmaids, Phyllis Burford and Florence
Brown,
At the talkies:
The New York stage actress Dorothy Mc-
Guire has the title role in the film version of
Rose Franken’s play “Claudia” (Sydney Cen-
tury). Rich in comedy and human understand-
ing, the play gives her scope for the exercise
of a vivacity out of the ordinary, and when
drama intervenes she switches to that with equal
facility.
“Stage Door Canteen” (Regent) puts the spot-
light on the New York super club for service men
where famous actors, actresses, vaudevillians and
radio stars entertain and wait on the guests. The
story’s a featherweight, and mush is over-promi-
nent; also Benny Goodman, Kay Kyser and
their respective herds of cacophonists make the
crotchets quaver with their assortment of instru-
ments ; but there are some notable minutes when
Katherine Cornell becomes Juliet again and when
Yehudi Menuhin plays Schubert’s “Ave Maria”
and the “Flight of the Bumble Bee.” Grade
Fields, Ray Bolger, Ed Bergen and Charlie Mc-
Carthy, Harpo Marx and others do their funny
turns, and the war —except for the uniforms
and a bit of interpolated flag-waving—seems
very far away.
The villain approaches. He is a white trader
who has gouged from the weak brother the
secret that the pool belonging to his bewchur
island-princess sister is studded with precious
stones and gold. But is the wench hapless.
Nay! A young man —strong, bold and hand
some, who yet plies the lowly trade of fishing—
is there with his .beautifully technicolored biceps
a-ripple to protect the princess. True, at firsi
she scorns his succor, but soon tropic 1m
works its magic and she yields herself plus the
gem-studded pool to the hero, who spectacularly
confounds the villain. This, the 2749th varia-
tion of plot No. 14, is the setup for “White
Savage” (Empire). Flappers will even knock
off chewing gum when they gaze on Jon Hall’s
perfect profile, and Maria Montez is an answer
and a half to a director’s dream.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
m
m
ate
t
m a-**
The illustrations are types of a
very interesting collection of
ANTIQUE CHINESE BRONZES
now on display in our Fine Art
Gallery.
These are not ordinary trade
specimens, but are types worthy
of a collector’s attention.
You are invited to inspect our
Fine Art Gallery, where you will
find a wide and varied range of
decorative art.
U.
m
m
“u :
mm
m £
r
thy
&
S/7~
///I
Cu
m
&
a
yio
A
r
/
n
CO
<rs
Cl
;///
/.y.
r
;
4DWOIW 4iOK
4
ms
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HELP FILL
THE FIRST
VICTORY LOAN
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


HERE COMES THE BRIDE
By "STANDBY.”
FOR the second time in ten minutes
the steamer’s siren blared angrily.
There was no mistaking the anger
in that second blast. It rose to its
highest pitch, stopped for perhaps half
a second and finished with a short, defi-
ant bellow. It rang back from the jungle-
clad hills surrounding the harbor and
the native boys along the beach grinned
with delight.
On the ship’s company its effect was
just the opposite. It informed every
man, from the first mate down to the
latest-joined ordinary seaman that the
Old Man was in a raging temper and
sooner or later, directly or indirectly,
every member of the crew would feel its
effects. It quickened the mate’s foot-
steps as he hurried along the boat deck
on his way to the bridge. It broke up
the yam that the second mate was tell-
ing the purser and caused both these
gentlemen to move off and look extremely
busy. It caused the bos’n to find fault
with a splice that a seaman was putting
in an old heaving line. It even caused
Squib, the deck boy, who was doing
Peggy” that morning, to turn back with
his bucket and broom and scrub the
dark comer under the starb’d bunks in
the forecastle. Squib was learning fast.
He guessed the Old Man would snap at
the mate for something. The mate would
probably take it out on the bos’n and
the bos’n would come raging into the
fo’c’sle looking for just such a dirty
corner as he, Squib, had contemplated
leaving.
Overside the third mate was standing
by in the ship’s launch. He noted that
last note on the siren and immediately
took a quiet kick at the dozing native
launch boy and straightened himself up
with a wary eye on the bridge.
As for the Old Man himself, he was
angry, and justly so, he considered. It
was half an hour past his sailing time.
The cargo hatches had been on for
nearly an hour, but of the two passengers
booked to sail for Sydney there was not
a sign. Worse still, the mails were not
aboard. The Old Man would have sailed
without the passengers at his advertised
sailing time, but he couldn’t leave with-
out the mails. He strongly suspected the
agent of holding up the mails to give the
two passengers time to catch the ship.
He strode across to the engine-room
telegraph and rang “stand by” with such
vicious jerks that, down in the engine-
room, the second engineer found himself
ringing back the answer before the
pointer had properly come to rest.
“All right, Mister, I’m casting off. Tell
the third mate to stand by with the
launch. Tell him to pick those mails up
and have ’em aboard before we clear
the outer reef. I’m not hanging around
here all day.” The Old Man fairly spat
the orders at the mate.
Quietly, without any fuss, the steamer’s
lines came aboard as she cast off, backed
away from the wharf and then slowly
gathered headway as she made for the
narrow passage between the reefs.
HP HE last line had scarcely splashed
1 into the water when a heavily laden
car came racing down the island’s soli-
tary road to the wharf. At the same in-
stant, as if by magic, a truck laden with
mails materialised from nowhere and a
dozen grinning native boys commenced
tossing the bags into the waiting launch.
The third mate was slowly sweating
his nice white uniform into a limp rag.
He was a nice, easygoing young fellow
but fear of his skipper’s wrath sharpened
his tongue and helped him assume a
proper air of authority.
“Snap into it!” he called to the pair
emerging from the car. “I’m leaving as
soon as the mail is aboard. Come on.
Miss. Cut the kisses short or ‘you’ll miss
the ship.”
The lady in question seemed to be
intent on kissing every man on the wharf
good-bye. Certainly this was an occa-
sion. The island’s one and only bar-
maid, recently imported from Sydney,
had married the day before and was now
on her way to spend her honeymoon on
the mainland. Every bachelor on the
island was doing his best to kiss the bride,
shake hands with the bridegroom, and
otherwise impede the embarkation, but at
last the sweating Third gpt the couple
into the launch and pushed off. By now
the steamer was well out in the channel.
“Gee, what a party! What a send-off! ”
The honeymoon couple were disposed to
be talkative, but the third mate was in
no mood for conversation. He was
thinking that the Old Man would hold
him personally responsible for the extra
delay and wondering how he could best
evade the attack. The engine throttle
was open as far as it would go, but they
seemed scarcely to be overtaking the ship.
“I think the Captain’s an old pig.
Why couldn’t ho have waited for fis?
Another couple of minutes wouldn’t have
hurt him. My frock’ll be just a wreck
after climbing in and out of this dirty
old launch.”
in ™ s "!? h a d ‘ r i Ct !? a A a h nd ,. a person f l
Wba tcver the Third s private
°Pof his captain he couldnt sit
Ulet , wbl „ a -j Stra ”f P ass ® d insulting
l£ L st blt £ ankled -
Hf ° f the la Jf nch was . hls °' vn
J ° b ’ t an r was ra ther proud of her
a ffi./ resb v pai , ntw ? rk - f lared at
wf, bnde *, ,^° / V r ? da ™ lu £ k y be dldn }
!f/T ve , y ? u e , blt ? d together, he snapped,
S t ° r H mail f S you
iV Z
g p r ? vil ” th , llfni r
, • P ™f ge , L Wajt tdl ,f see y° ur ca P’
taia : T 111 tell him what
Now, darling, don’t get upset!” the
bnde B room interposed. But the bride was
P pset - . Sbe bad cou nted on making an
im P re ssive arrival on board. She was
t be w , ife of a P lai her now, one of the
island s eiect > and she meant everyone to
lL But sbe was beginning to see
tbat ll ould be difficult to make a dig-
mfied arrival f rom the bobbing launch
* be st eamer s deck,
nd the launch was bobbing. She
was now running into the swell coming
over the outer reefs and a fresh coastwise
breeze was kicking up a nasty little
cros s chop. By the time they reached
the ship the spray would be coming in-
board. The Third was looking at the
bride out of the corner of his eye and
wondering what half a bucket of sea
wa ter slopping inboard would do to that
f roc k she seemed so proud of. Even at
a garden-party down in Sydney she would
bave looked overdressed, he thought, but
anything more unsuitable for a launch trip
b was bard to imagine. His mind was
suddenly jerked back to the job on hand
by two short blasts from the steamer’s
whistle. The Old Man was swinging
her to port to give him a lee. The‘mate
had dropped a short rope ladder from
the for’ard well deck and No. 2 derrick
was swung outboard ready to pick the
launch up as soon as the passengers had
climbed aboard.
Now it was a company rule that no
persons other than the actual launch
crew were ever allowed to stay aboard
the launch while she was being lifted
from the water to the steamer’s deck.
Once, long ago, a worn for’ard sling had
parted, causing the launch’s bows to drop
crashing into the sea while her stern hung
suspended six feet up the ship’s side.
No great damage was done. A smart
mate instantly gave the order to lower
away, and had the launch back in the
water on an, even keel in a few seconds,
but in that first drop a very important
passenger was thrown clear over the
launch’s deckhouse and into the water.
Although the Third had hauled him back
on board within twenty seconds, the im-
portant passenger was neither grateful
nor amused. His dignity was hurt to
such an extent that he made things very
uncomfortable for the master and mates.
The next board meeting passed a lule
that thereafter no person other than the
launch crew should be aboard the launch
while she was being taken aboard.
The ship was low in the water, and
the for’ard well deck was only a few feet
above water. The first mate, with the
bos’n and a seaman, was standing by the
head of the ladder, and one look at the
mate’s face satisfied the Third that he was
only looking for an excuse to let fly with
some language.
“Come on, Mister,” he called as the
Third started to throttle down and come
alongside. “Get her alongside and get
those passengers up. Smartly now.”
The Third appealed to the ’groom.
“Shake it up, please,” he said. “Get your
wife up first and follow her. We’re in a
hurry.”
The bride darted a startled look at the
dangling rope ladder and caught sight of
the face of the mate glaring down at her.
She turned to the young Third. “The
idea!” she said. “I can’t climb up that
thing, and I won’t.”
The Third was nonplussed. He cast
an appealing look at the ’groom. “Come
on, please,” he said. “Get her started.
It’s £piite easy.”
He was alluding to the climb up the
ladder, but the ’groom, who was by now
looking decidedly seasick, misunderstood
him. “Go on then. If it’s so easy get
her up yourself,” he said.
UP on the bridge the Old Man was
slowly getting redder in the face in
an effort to control himself. He always
made a point of carefully controlling his
language in the presence of passengers,
but now it looked as if he’d either break
the habit of a lifetime or burst a blood
vessel. He did neither. Instead, his care-
fully-controlled voice carried down to the
launch party and was heard by all the
passengers crowding the rails. “Mister,
will you kindly cease wasting the whole
morning in conversation and get that
woman aboard the ship? I don’t intend
to wait here all day.”
The Third made one last effort. He
took the bride by the arm, intending to
assist her up the first couple of rungs,
but she brushed his hand aside in a way
that plainly showed she’d handled better
men than he in many a bar. “Take
your dirty paws off me. I can’t gpt up
that thing, and I won’t. I won’t, I tell you.”
She was rapidly becoming hysterical.
“Can’t you get that infernal* woman
started?” asked the mate. “Get her hus-
band to give you a hand.”
But the ’groom had lost all interest in
the proceedings. The antics of the dip-
ping, swaying launch, combined with the
effects of that celebration, had been too
much for him. He was being noisily sick
overside.
Again , that carefully-controlled voice
carried down from the bridge. “Mister
Mate, either get that woman aboard or
take her back to the island. I intend to
sail.”
“I won’t, I won’t. I tell'you, I won’t!”
The chant was becoming monotonous,
and the Third looked appealingly at his
superior officer. “It’s no good, Chief,”
he said; “I can’t shift her.”
The mate looked as if he’d like to
commit murder. “I can see that for
myself,” he snapped, and, raising his voice
to the bridge, “It’s no good, sir. We
can’t do anything with this woman. She
refuses to move.”
The Old Man stepped to the engine-
room telegraph, rang “Slow ahead” and
gave the order “Hard astarb’d” to the
helmsman. His voice was dangerously
calm as he moved back to the wing of the
bridge and addressed the group below.
“Cast off that launch and take her
round to the starb’d side. I’m giving
you another lee, Mister Mate. Lower the
accommodation ladder, please.”
“Aye, aye, sir.” The mate was snap-
ping into it even before he’d answered
the skipper. He wasn’t deceived by the
calm voice. Someone was going to get
it in the neck, and as chief officer he’d
be first.
“Get that launch around lively now,
Mister.”
“Bos’n, all hands to lower the accom-
modation ladder. Starb’d side it is. Snap
into it now, me lads ? ” and he hurried aft
to direct and speed up operations him-
self.
It was a nice bit of work. For smart
seamanship the Navy couldn’t have done
better. The steps were lowered and
rigged, just as the launch came round
the stern and shot alongside the lower
platform, where the burly figure of the
bos’n was waiting. The third mate judged
it nicely and threw his clutch into reverse
just at the right moment. As the launch
came to a stop, the native launch boy
grabbed the accommodation rail and held
her in position.
“Lively now. Mister,” called the mate.
“Lively now, please,” echoed the Third
to the bride.
But the bride was now thoroughly
demoralised. Useless to point out to her
that this called for no more nerve or
effort than walking up a flight of stairs.
“I can’t and I won’t,” seemed to be her
theme song, and as she started once again
without even looking at the ladder the
Old Man broke loose at last. “Damn
your eyes, Mister! Don’t stand there
staring. Lift that blasted woman up and
dump her on that platform. Get her off,
I tell you.”
The Third did. He lifted the shrieking
bride to the launch’s side, and from there
the bos’n took a hold. The bos’n pulled
and the Third pushed, and together they
dumped the lady on the lower platform.
The bridegroom followed in almost the
same fashion. As the launch dropped
astern to be hoisted aboard the last the
third mate saw of the bride’s triumphant
arrival was a weeping figure going up
the steps on her hands and knees, while
the bos’n followed behind encouraging
her on. Higher up two rows of grinning
faces showed that the other passengers
had missed nothing of the performance,
VARIOUS VERSE.
Goldfish.
Caged in a crystal bowl,
Shut in fluidity,
Round and around you swim
In your round sea.
Heir to omnipotence,
Lord of all elements —
I have broke through the bonds
To large events.
Nothing confines my feet,
Nothing confounds my hands,
I tread the air, the sea.
The uttermost lands.
Was it a voice I heard?
“Vaunt creature if it please:
Thou in a darker globe
Prisoned like these.”
Bare Hills.
Bare hills, no rain; curse and prayer
Poured into vacuum;
Those who came first, armed with torch and axe,
Had the despoiler’s means and power
But no authority; they cared not for posterity,
Nor do we.
The useless storms bite the long dust,
Catve swift runways, in years meeting;
And, as if dredged,
The rich soil slides to the sea.
This lubra land has few lovers.
What do cities care, and the others?
The time-gap of near two centuries has added
Nothing to love, to wisdom; we live, exist
In a lunatic tower, laughing to see concrete and
steel
Usurp the rain-trees;
No love, no rain.
What shall war-victories gain us, or our pos-
terity,
We makers of a continent of sand!
N.S.W.
BRIAN VREPONT.
This Will Be the Hour.
Not in a burst of flame
Or cosmic catastrophe
Will the hour be
Of this world’s end.
But, when some god leans over
Carelessly singing
To pluck this orange, swinging
On the tree of Space,
This will be the hour:
He will suck it dry
With greedy lips
And, finding it sour,
Will pull a wry face,
Toss the rind away
And spit out the pips.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
Premonition.
There are gigantic shames
That my parochial mind
Measures in its own kind,
Finite in cares and blames,
And unimaginative
Before the massive wrong,
As if ignorant were strong,
Shudders, and turns to live.
If there be nations damned,
As men Were singly once,
I, willingly a dunce,
I, with my limits crammed
With my possessiveness,
My wrath and my desire,
Shall never see the fire,
Nor of the brimstone guess
Until that day of wonder
When, empty handed, I
Tremble and wake and cry
As my world falls asunder.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
To a Farmer, Fencing.
Where hides the spider, mortal or machine,
Whose web is stranded from each telephone;
Light bulb to light bulb strung like beads of
dew?
Who is that mammoth spider who threads the
dew?
I saw you fencing where cattle were your flies,
Trapped in lush p'addocks. You toiled spider-
wise;
Enmeshed young swine; and left a likely clue,
So strong a web no creature could break
through.
What spinneret, freak machine,
Did you conceal, that eye had never seen?
You say “A factory.” Ah, that implies
Some city spider trapped you with the flies.
Indeed, 1 noted you ensnared inside
The web that’s spun about the countryside;
And though the lure of lissom gossamer
Will trap the best of flies, a wily spider
Lurks out of sight of web upon a thread
That links a telephone beside his bed:
He sets his net and seldom after toils,
But sleeps and smiles and feasts upon the spoils.
And knowing now that spider wasn’t you,
The miles and miles of wire a maze pursue;
Let’s follow, find that spider spinning wire
And draw so much of it his legs will tire.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3347.
Wednesday, April 5, 1944.
“TOUGH GUY, HUH?"
“In a few weeks Americans will get their first look at Honest John Curtin, of Australia. We had better take a good look—he rates it. He is the Number One
Fighting Man from Down Under.” —“This Week.”
“Lemonade for the house!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
.Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westsalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.Q.4.
POST-WAR RECON-
STRUCTION.
The public man who stands second to
Mr. Churchill in the affections of the
British nation is Lord Woolton ; and he
has escaped the criticism of which the
Prime Minister has become the target
from Left and Right.
As Minister of Food, Lord Woolton
seems to have thought of everything
and satisfied everybody, except black-
marketeers and profiteers. He “made
the health of children and mothers his
special care,” reserving for them out of
supplies which, before the U-boats were
mastered, were always precarious and
often scanty, eggs, oranges and other
requirements of a proper diet. Dr. Earle
Page has published some ghastly statis-
tics relating to a group of 120 Austra-
lian women who attended a pre-natal
clinic along with another group of 90
women, fed at much the same cost, but
given a daily ration of milk, eggs,
oranges, tomatoes and cheese not fed to
the 120. All the women in the second group
bore children and were comparatively
free from “complications,” whereas in
the other group there were 6 per cent,
of miscarriages, 3.4 per cent, of still-
births and 14 lost offspring, while rickets,
totally absent from the second group,
were “prevalent.” No charge of this
nature was ever brought against Lord
Woolton’s administration.
Appointed Minister of Reconstruction,
Lord Woolton said that before leaving
the Ministry of Food he had “made plans
to secure major supplies for some time
to come,” and that in his new post he
hoped “to continue the care for the health
of the children and mothers, which has
been effected at a cost to the nation really
very small compared with the national
benefit received.” As for “social secu-
rity,” it could be founded only on full
employment: to “ensure work for the
nation —that is the place where recon-
struction starts.”
We must work to live; and if this nation
is to rebuild its commercial life and to
be able to afford to give social security to
its people it will need to work very -hard.
....We shall want enterprise among the
industrialists and the traders; a willingness
to take risks among our commercial men,
and a spirit of co-operation and fair deal-
ing between employer and employee.
The danger to the nation’s physical life
has not passed. Its commercial life will re-
main in danger for some years to come,
and from that commercial danger there
follows the danger to all those hopes for a
better world which bear on the solvency
of our national finance.
Let us not assume that during the transi-
tion period between war and peace all in-
itiative and all action are going to depend
on what the Government is going to do.
It is not the Government’s “new world”
we are going to build; it is the people’s
world; they will build it and work for it
and benefit from it.
There were plans for education, “the
essence of reconstruction,” for a settled,
land policy, for housing, for the switching
over of industries from war to peace, and
for the demobilisation of the forces. He
had seen them all, but they were not
going to be carried out by him. That
would be the responsibility ofithe respec-
tive Ministers and departments, though
he would try to bring the plans into rela-
tion with one another and make sure
there were no gaps and no overlapping
and no conflicts between departments.
“There is going to be no Ministry of
Reconstruction with any large staff.”
That is Lord Wooltoh’s way. The
Canberra way is vastly different.
Mr. Chifley, of pay-as-you-are-slugged
celebrity, was named Minister of Post-
war Reconstruction on December 22,
1942. He straightway began to assemble
an imposing staff, with an M.A., Ph.D.
(Econ.), then aged 36, as Director-
General. Before nine months were out
the inquisitive Mr. Fadden was informed
that the staff had 22 members “in receipt
of £4OO a year or more.” It rejoiced
in a B.Sc.Agr., aged 24, a B.Sc. (Econ.),
aged 26, three B.As. (26, 39 and 32), a
Master of Commerce with “twelve years’
banking and Commonwealth Public
Service experience” (28), a B.Arch.
(29), a B.Ec. (33), a 8.A., B.Ec. (35) and
a Ph.D. (Econ.) a year older, together
with a “Permanent Third Division officer
of the Commonwealth Public Service,
with four years’ general departmental
experience with the Department of Com-
merce and Rationing Commission” (24).
In the course of six months other not-
ables have been added, among them a
D.Litt, M.A., LL.B. (43; “recreation,
writing and producing working-class
plays”). From the Minister and his
Director-General to the Permanent
Third Division officer with four years’
general departmental experience, not
one of the gentlemen is known to
have run any sort of business employing
more than one person. Yet the depart-
ment is sure it can “reconstruct” Aus-
tralia perfectly, and it is an unusual week
when one of its academic enthusiasts
doesn’t hold forth on the need for a
planned economy and the indefinite ex-
tension of “controls,” the department to
do the planning and exercise the “con-
trols.” From these utterances wage-
payers derive the impression that; in the
name of reconstruction, they are to be
kicked around at a great rate, and that,
in the view of the Government, which has
surrounded itself with economists and
calculators and is never happier than
when consulting a professor, that is what
wage-payers are for.
Unreported Warfare.
Two entirely false notions about the
fighting going on doggedly in Italy can
be largely attributed to the superficial
accounts which only too generally pass
current as war reporting. One particu-
larly vicious notion is that the fine troops
who fought their way from El Alamein
to where they are now battling, and their
leaders with them, have suddenly lost
* their punch. This is fostered by items
carrying such headings as “Why the De-
lay in Italy?” in newspapers that seem
to take a particular pleasure in discredit-
ing anything in which J. Bull is playing a
leading part. The other notion —merely
silly—voiced chiefly by Corns, and other
enthusiastic non-starting second-fronters,
is that what has been most clearly demon-
strated in Italy is that opening a “second
front” elsewhere on Continental Europe
is going to be a walkover.
Actually, the British and American
High Command has learnt a great deal in
the Italian campaign— to the very oppo-
site! It has been learnt the hard way—
in a campaign which, ushered in
with monotonous repetition of Mr.
Churchill’s optimistic reference to the
“soft underbelly of Europe,” has proved
tougher than the most pessimistic could
have feared. Accounts have carried
passing mention of some of the difficul-
ties of fighting at all in such country,
made at times next to impossible by
weather conditions; but it evidently
needs more than that to convey a real
idea of what the men doing the fighting
have been up against.
For them the weather and other con-
ditions of “sunny Italy” have been major
antagonists. Weeks and weeks of rain
bogged down their movements in
seas of mud reminiscent of last war’s
Flanders. Streams that could normally
be crossed with ease swelled into tor-
rents, blocking the progress of planned
advances. The Allied troops have had to
fight their way up mountains many
thousands of feet high, so rocky that any
movement of modern war transport has
been right out of the question, all sup-
plies going forward on mules or on the
backs of the men themselves. Instead of
being fair targets for doubts and criti-
cism, the Allied troops and their leaders
have done all that human beings possibly
could do in such conditions.
The difficult country and atrocious
weather make only the beginning of the
story. The complete picture has to be
rounded out by details of the German
strategy of destruction, carried out with
typical ruthlessness. By accounts that
have been ’released in America this
strategy of chaos would seem to have
probably been more effective as delaying
defence than the - extremely difficult
country, the hampering weather and the
exceptionally stubborn enemy resistance
together. It is a grimly significant
pointer to what the other parts of Europe
which the Germans intend making the
scene of similar defence methods will yet
have to go through.
The German defence scheme, as prac-
tised throughout the fighting in southern
Italy to date, includes complete and
scientific destruction designed to paralyse
all industry, transportation and public
utilities, imposing on the invading forces
the huge task of coping, before they can
go on, with utter chaos in the whole civil
organisation, including the reduction to
destitution and even to actual starvation
of the local population. In this German
defence strategy, food, already down to
mere existence level, is made a special
target. All plants having anything to do
with food production—mills, bakeries and
the like —are blown up as the Germans
are forced back. The means of carrying
on farming—the peasants’ horses, mules,
carts, bams—are destroyed. To disrupt
transportation railways are torn up, tun-
nels are blocked, locomotives are blown
up, all bridges are dynamited. As well
as larger ships sunk to block ports, fish-
ing boats are sent to the bottom. Even
the fishermen’s nets are burnt.
Naples is. described in the accounts
both as typical of the rest-of the area
from which the Germans have been
driven and as indicating “what is to be
expected on a bigger scale when the
Allies launch all-out invasion of Europe.”
In Naples the whole 2,000,000 inhabitants
were forced by this deadly effective
strategy to become a means of holding
up the invasion forces’ progress. Here
the water system was knocked out, the
mains broken, the reservoirs blown up.
Sewers were rendered useless by bombs
floated underground on rafts. The elec-
tric power system’s dynamos were
wrecked, gas plants and mains were blown
up. Here, and elsewhere, steel mills were
reduced to rubble; key parts of factory
machinery were ruined; generators,
boilers and the machines vital to all large
plants were smashed; buildings were
weakened by damaging such weight-
bearing parts as pillars and foundations ;
all to a carefully co-ordinated plan.
As a result, the invasion forces have
had the colossal task of repairing the
damage, getting the public utilities and
transport and food-producing plants
functioning again, and bringing ashore
supplies for their own needs and for the
millions of people hungry in the parts
under Allied control. Some small idea of
the size of the job might be had from the
fact that up to early February the U.S.
Army had already spent $21,000,000
merely for immediate relief in Sicily and
Italy. The invasion forces have had to
do what they could for many thousands
of families rendered homeless, A con-
siderable part of the necessary supplies
has been medicines to cope with malnutri-
tion sickness among Italian children, and
to stay the spread of disease, such as
typhus, which, not surprisingly, quickly
broke out in Naples.
Instead of miserable criticism of those
who are doing the fighting in these con-
ditions there should be praise for such
success as they have had. And what they
have been through, rather than the “walk-
over” rubbish of rabid second-fronters,
is almost certainly an indication of what
lies ahead.
Corrected expectations of many in a
position to know the unreported as well
as the reported side of warfare now are
that the mere invasion of Europe is not
going to be decisive in itself. The actual
defeat of the German armies in the field
will be Tequired for victory (unless some
such potent force as a modification of the.
“unconditional surrender” terms should
lead the German people to turn it in);
and defeat of the German armies, despite
anything that has happened to them up to
now and the pounding the German home
front has had, may prove a long, difficult
and costly business. In contrast to
former optimism, it has been suggested in
America —per the well-informed “United
States News” —that “it isn’t so certain
any more that Germany will be denied
armistice terms; that unconditional sur-
render will remain the only basis for end-
ing the war.” A considerable body of
vocal opinion in both Britain and
America has always held that the pro-
nouncement of such terms was a mistake
in the first place.
That is, as far as Germany is con-
cerned. Significant of American feeling
particularly, no suggestion of anything
hut a fight to a dead finish has so far
been made regarding Japan. The present
expert view in America that there is a
long, long way to go yet before the Japs
are as satisfactorily licked as Americans
—and not only Americans—want them to
be is made a practical certainty by the
very absence of any suggestion of any
programme for Japan short of crushing
defeat and total, unconditional surren-
der. With that prospect facing them the
Japs, on anything so far known of them,
cannot be expected to do otherwise than
fight a savage defensive war to the very
end ; and even they might be learning
something in ruthlessness from the Ger-
man methods in Italy.
Thus —unless all such signs miracu-
lously go wrong, as in 1918 the early
signs did go wrong—there would at this
date appear to be a terrible amount of
bitter fighting still ahead. It is a
conclusion which cannot be shirked,
though nobody would be likely to
reach it from reporting which leaves
out so much, not necessarily on
any deliberate purpose, but because,
for one thing, superficial generalities are
much easier than exact description to
write and, for another, because there is
little of the glamor that home-fronters
appear to favor in their war reading in
the cruder factual details which make the
picture of war so very different to those
who do the fighting. This difference has
been at its widest in the mostly genera-
lised and usually comparatively skimpy
accounts of the Italian campaign and the
therefore wholly unappreciated difficul-
ties with which the invasion forces there
have all along been beset.
On the Football Front.
It used to be said that Melbourne was
football-mad, and certainly it was a regu-
lar thing for one V.F.L. match to draw
more spectators by many thousands than
the number distributed among the four
Rugby League matches in Sydney. But
the war has brought changes.
Last season one of the V.F.L. clubs,
Geelong, dropped out and “gates” were
the smallest on record. With this the
fate of the Melbourne team’s captain,
Squadron-Leader “Bluey” Truscott,
D.F.C. and bar, may have had something
to do. The V.F.A., which is older than
the League, abandoned its senior games,
and- does not propose to resume them till
1945 at the earliest.
In Adelaide a sort of two-in-one com-
petition was decided upon for 1943 and
1944, Sturt amalgamating with South
Adelaide, Norwood with North Adelaide
and so on. War and charitable funds
share in the takings. They are to get
50 p.c. this season.
In Sydney the amateur Rugby Union
has so large a proportion of its players
in the services that last season it was
hard put to it to field teams, having to
call on men long retired and youngsters
who had played earlier in the day. Many
Union lads have been decorated for valor,
and the code has a mournful list of
killed, wounded, missing and prisoners,
among the dead being Squadron-Leader
Thorold Smith, companion of Truscott
and Finucane, and two sets of brothers.
But the Rugby League had, and has,
players galore and money to burn. Read-
ing Rugby League “literature” you would
scarcely think there was a war on.
In a whoop from G.H.Q. the financial
results for the 1943 season were set forth:
The League received £16,741 in revenue,
and the clubs [eight] £16,531. Total receipts
of £36,056 were £9734 above those of the
previous year [they were also £2784 above
those given for the head body and the
clubs, but this discrepancy seems to have
excited no remark]. In the-record-breaking
grand final between Newtown and North
Sydney the attendance was 60,992 and the
gate receipts £2887, after deduction of
£774 entertainment tax.
In short, as they say at the Bar, the
money is good—never better. All the
players received “bonuses,” the premier
team’s share being £2OB a man. Two of
Newtown’s champions were “under liberal
guarantees,” and at the League’s annual
meeting a retiring vice-president protested
that “the policy of giving huge sums to
players before they put on a jersey” was
to be “deplored.” This brought the indig-
nant reply that it had been justified, even
in the case of clubs which failed to reach
“the record-breaking grand final.” One
paid “a £250 fee” to a leather-chaser who
was a financial success, though “a foot-
ball failure,” Another’s reward of “£8
an appearance” helped to swell the club
takings to £3868. And in addition to
guarantees and “bonuses” there may, in
suitable cases, be “considerations” from
admiring bookmakers or punters and
publicans, while one bright particular
star swells his income from football and
his service pay by figuring with curious
frequency in boxing matches in two
States.
In anticipation of the season which
begins at the end of this month, and for
which attendances of 40,000 are glow-
ingly predicted, scouts have been busy,
especially in the country, and aspirants to
League honor and glory and its material
accompaniments are so numerous as to
have become embarrassing. One club
alone has over 200 on its books, and the
total has been reckoned at 1400, but that
may be an underestimate. Some are com-
ing from the Rugby Union, a movement
which began last season. But the League
being now in a position to pick and
choose, “residential-qualification rules are
to be rigidly enforced,” to the detriment of
young gentlemen who receive “offers.” It
is suggested also that service men from
country-camps who played in Sydney last
season should be refused this privilege
unless they can play in Sydney on Satur-
day and in the country on Sunday. There
have been harrowing protests.
If this recommendation is adopted, nine
stars will be lost to Sydney football.
One club secretary said “We have built
ouy team round a country player who has
been camped in the city for ten months.
He has been switched temporarily to New-
castle.”
Another club secretary pointed out that
last year’s arrangements provided the big-
gest crowds in the history of Rugby League.
And all this when the Japs are still ifi
north-east New Guinea, New Britain,
New Ireland, the Admiralties, Bougain-
ville and Buka, all parts of Australian
Mandated Territory, and have been
strongly posted in Timor, 400 miles from
the Prime Minister’s own State, for up-
wards of two years.
Footballers are excellent fighting
material, and the number assured of or
seeking Rugby League engagements
exceeds a battalion, perhaps a battalion
and a half. Even if they are all
in convenient camps and protected
industries, it must seem very strange to
the Diggers who have gone through hell
in New Guinea, especially as nothing
resembling it is occurring anywhere else.


PLAIN ENGLISH
End of the Section.
Because Mr, Curtin will be unavail-
able and because a flattering press has
persuaded him that he is the Indispens-
able Man, the Parliament elected on
August 21 is to have another long spell.
In vain the mildly rebellious Mr. Morgan
protested that Mr. Churchill's absences
and illness found the House of Commons
attending to business as usual.
Mr. Beasley, another Indispensable, is
himself going abroad, in his case to attend
an International Labor Office Confer-
ence, and perhaps to see whether the
Washington (or Ottawa) climate would
suit him.
With a pressing need for war funds
and wise expenditure (that waste and ex-
travagance abound is common know-
ledge) the dominant majority decided to
pander to the taste for taking medicine in
large quantities, an old Australian weak-
ness, by providing it free. Dr. Page sees in
this extraordinary proposal a “dastardly”
way of “introducing nationalisation of the
medical profession when more than a
third of the doctors are on active ser-
vice.” To provide medicine before pro-
viding for diagnosis and for medical and
hospital treatment was, he said, starting
a national health programme in reverse:
“the only further backward step would
be to give coffins before medicine.”
Taken back into the Advisory War
Council, from which Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Hughes (in his case perhaps tem-
porarily) resigned, though Mr. Out-In-
Out Spender elected to remain, Dr. Page
has been a disconcerting critic of the
Government on other scores, notably the
campaign in New Guinea, the transfer of
fighting commanders to non-fighting posts
and the food-production and -distribution
mess. So has Major Cameron, particu-
larly with regard to the “idiosyncrasies”
of the communications censorship and a
crazy Central! an experiment in the sub-
stitution of laborers from Nauru fof
experienced white miners. Discussing the
communications censorship, he produced
a letter from the District Censor at Ade-
laide regretting that “a personal letter
addressed to you” had been “opened in
error by a censor,” after having been
“mis-sorted by the Postal Department.”
This made nonsense of the report of
a Parliamentary committee of which
Major Cameron was to have been a mem-
ber, and which, after very strangely de-
claring itself opposed to “the immunity
from censorship of letters addressed to
members,” affirmed that Major Cameron’s
mail had “not been treated in any manner
different from other members’.”
Resorting to methods wholly out of
keeping with its pretended zeal for free-
dom of expression, the Government got
its Constitution Bill through, and the
income-tax measure which imposes a 25
p.c. surcharge on the highest rates in his-
tory, while pay-as-you-earn without a slug
or catch has been granted as an act of
necessity to all British wage- and salary-
earners, was also slammed on the Statute
Book. On this subject it was “explained”
that a Law Professor’s opinion that there
is a year’s tax-lag was obtained be-
cause “the Solicitor-General was absent
on leave at the time.” The “explanation”
would not deceive an imbecile.
Towards the end, Mr. Menzies brought
up the atrocious case of the N.S.W.
Australia-Firsters, so-called, who in 1942
were arrested and held without trial, ex-
periencing also the bitterness of being
denounced by Mr. Forde and Mr.
Hughes, and defamed by Communists in
their poisonous way. Dr. Evatt admitted
that innocent men had suffered, and
promised to review all cases and consider
the question of “compensation, the im-
portant thing.” Mr. Ward came in with
a roar of “Quislings,” his favorite term
for opponents ; and on this characteristic
Sydney political-larrikin note the proceed-
ings closed.
Yallourn.
The Yallourn brown-coal mine, the
briquette factory, the electrical under-
taking—it supplies juice almost from
one end of Victoria to the other —and
the model township have been the
pride of State Governments for a gen-
eration.
The outfit was considered important
enough after the last war for John
Mortash to take charge. It has been
woven so deeply into the warp and
woof of Victorian affairs that the State
couldn’t do without it. When the Japa-
nese approached Australia special meas-
ures were taken so that no incendiary
bomber could put it out of action. When
another enemy came along in the shape
of bushfires riding on a wind like a
typhoon measures had to be improvised
and they could not be completely success-
ful.
That happened in February, 1944, the
fires being the third of a series only less
destructive of life and property than the
great fires of January, 1939. The fire in
the opencut at Yallourn inflicted partial
paralysis on Victorian railways, tram-
ways, munitions factories and industry
in general for some days.
It has been reserved for Judge Stretton
to report, as Royal Commissioner, on
the 1939 fires and on the Yallourn part
of this year’s disaster, and it can only
be hoped that some attention will be paid
to his second set of recommendations.
His Honor found that the Yallourn
fires started on a farm three miles north-
west of the town; that the farmer had
been given permission by a Forests Com-
mission employee to burn off dead scrub ;
that the Forests Commission was rightly
uneasy about the Lands Department still
having power to grant grazing licenses to
“persons known to be fire lawbreakers” ;
that Yallourn fire-fighting organisation
and equipment were inadequate; that, in
fact, there was a lack of almost every-
thing, from water-storage facilities to
supreme authority. His recommendations
included the clearing of a wide firebreak
and the appointment of an expert to co-
ordinate fire-fighting efforts.
There followed a searching study of life
in a commission town. The Yallourn
resident, his Honor said, “has everything
the heart might desire—except freedom,
fresh air and independence.” If a man,
he can’t acquire a home or an equity in
one ; if a woman, she can’t open a shop
or withdraw her custom from one with-
out going several miles; and besides the
lack of competitive spur to the giving of
good service there is lack of refreshment
facilities after 6 p.m.; lack of a public
hall or library where townspeople could
publicly assemble as a right and lack of
any municipal democracy. On the other
hand there is an almost continuous rain
of fine coal particles and a nauseating
stench from a paper mill. Some
workers, but only some, “escape the
coal rain, the stench and the atmosphere
of suffocating paternalism by going to
live outside the jurisdiction of the State
Electricity Commission, there to live
comparatively contented but deplorably
unplanned lives.”
If people now in authority have their
way, millions of Australians will have to
lead the Yallourn life, and there will be
no islands of refuge.
Collective Security.
New Zealand’s High Commissioner in
Australia, Mr. C. E. Berendsen, may or
may not be right in declaring that “there
is no alternative” to “collective security.”
He is wide of the mark in suggesting,
as to “collective security,” that “some are
constrained to smile or sneer at the idea.”
Nobody in his senses would sneer at
the idea, any more than at the thing
itself, if there were any such thing. What
is a fair cause for loud laughter is the
notion that by merely wishing for a thing
and giving it a name you have it.
The indisputable fact, as to the past, is
that there never was collective security.
There was only the assumption. The
danger, as to the future, is that the
assumption will again be put over as the
actuality.
If the actuality can be achieved, such
countries as Australia and New Zealand
will have' everything to gain by being in
it. But to assume that it has been
achieved when it has not, and to shape
policy accordingly, would be to invite
something much more drastic than smiles
or sneers.
WAR IS HELL.
“A Melbourne girl (19) has been fined £5 for using clothing coupons presented to her by ‘a friend.’ 'The information,’ her counsel said, ‘was obtained through
our so-called censorship.’”


A
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
«
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St, (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
*
mm.
M
"X %
. :
:>,/ WOX
:■ ■ "K■
' ’ j ■ ;■• ■yj
■ m
M
Mf ■ I s ; ' i
, ', ' M jm
\. m $
■
ft
r ;
*
m
V, X
%fe. Wf&&
m ».::j
MrflfaiMM
im
5 3
m
YES:.iu
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD _A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St.. Britan*
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PEKKINS, General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Parliament elected on August 21,
1943, met for the first time on September
23. An official chronological table
follows :
On October 15 the Parliament adjourned
to a date and hour to be fixed by the
President and Mr. Speaker
Ihe President and Mr. Speaker sum-
moned the Senate and the House respec-
tively to meet on February 9, 1944, at
3 p.m.
On March 31 the Parliament adjourned
to a date and hour to be fixed by the
President and Mr. Speaker.
...... ,
4 nd iK u d^ atl ° n ! ar r e l hat * b
“fixed’ till the end of August. Mean-
time the dominant majority, having
0
surcharge on skv high income fax rates
and represented it as a great concesSn
wdl fsk them for greateffowffs
will ask them lor greatei powers.
the en d of the first week about a
fifth of the £150,000,000 war loan had
been subscribed ; and that was good,
although more individual subscriptions
than last time will be needed. As usual,
the great life-assurance societies were to
‘he tore What a tower of financial
rivin g r3dleTass to rto
mncf- mrt havp hppn tn Australia I Yet
Sere Labor"iam wolm
“nctmnoi.-oo” XT c w
” P
annuation fund was nationalised, to
the concern, periodically expressed,
“ warranted or not ’ of sta,e dvil
What Queensland electors have to
decide on April 15 is whether or not
they’re sick of Labor rule in their local
affairs—with a break of two years they’ve
had it since 1915. But to listen to Cooper
and co. they could be pardoned for think-
mg that they have to decide whether to
let Queensland Labor or its Opposition
fight the war. They want to hear what’s
to be done* about preferential voting
(filched from them by Labor), State taxa-
tion, education, transport and other
things, but Labor seems strangely reluc-
tarn to talk about these matters.
Dunstan went to the conference of the
U.C.P. in Melbourne with a book of
2000 pages under his arm. At a point
where he got his hearers into a high
pitch of excitement with his description
of Federal bureaucracy in the saddle, he
raised the volume and exclaimed “This is
the New Order, this is the New Democ-
racy ; this is what has superseded the
Parliament of the people.” It was a
collection of National Security Regula-
tions. There was something of Tweedle-
dum defying Tweedledee in the gesture,
but it went down well.
The Russia-is-Always-Right brother-
hood, which is stiff with writing boys,
has had to think fast, for Moscow, whose
“Pravda” venomously accused Britain
two months ago of trying to negotiate a
separate peace with Germany, has signed
another lot of agreements with Tokyo,
As well as renewing the queer fisheries
arrangements, they provide for Russia
getting Sakhalin oil and coal. This is
presented by the brotherhood as “an im-
portant diplomatic victory for Russia.”
As if the Japs can’t get from China all
the coal they need, and from the Dutch
East Indies and Borneo more than the oil
they need!
A Chinese interpretation of the
new agreements is that they set
Japan free to launch an all-out offen-
sive against Free China and “indi-
cate that Russia will remain neutral
in the war in the Pacific after Ger-
many is defeated.” Simultaneously there
have been sinister reports of Russo-
Chinese clashes in Outer Mongolia, an-
other, detailed Washington statement of
the immense assistance given to Russia
under lend-lease', and, according to the
London “Observer,” well informed as a
rule, an American request for an under-
taking that Russia will “co-operate fully
with the Western Powers in waging war
against Japan.” The Russia-is-Always-
Right-ers haven’t announced their re-
actions to these particular developments.
It has been revealed that Australian
militiamen are having a taste of foreign
service for the first time, being in Dutch
New Guinea with A.1.F., U.S.A. and
N.E.I. troops. This is permitted by the
Militia Hopscotch Act, but that measure
forbids the sending of militiamen to
British Borneo, the northern parts of
Sumatra and the Celebes, the Philippines
and Malaya, where so many of their
brothers became captives of the Jap.
Supporting the Labor candidate for
Oxley, Queensland Premier Cooper
protested that the State public debt
of £130,000,000 was not the shame-
ful thing Chandler, of the Q.P.P.,
called it. If Queensland hadn’t had that
debt it wouldn’t have had the Brisbane-
Cairns and Townsville-Mt. Isa railways
or the Cairns, Townsville, Mackay and
Bowen harbors —“all useful instrumentali-
ties in this war; things that have served
Australia well.” Put like that it makes
seers like Nostradamus and Mother Ship-
ton look like amateurs.
A recent roar from Maxie Falstein,
M.H.R., was to the effect that he would
“never rest until Theodore and Packer
are dismissed from the Allied Works
Council.” Now Packer has been “re-
leased” from the A.W.C. for a return to
service duties.
Back to the Army again, sergeant,
Back to the Army again.
Don’t look so waxy, to blazes with
Maxie,
It’s back to the Army again.
Ward, as Minister for Transport,
doesn’t seem to know what his depart-
ment is doing. *He asserted that export
of apples from S.A! wasn’t banned. Play-
ford informed Curtin by wire that it was
banned and had been banned since March
20. Thereupon export of 7000 cases a
week was permitted—the State has an
exportable surplus of 200,000 cases. Of
course, there should be no talk of ex-
ports from one part of Australia to
another, but it will be a weary time be-
fore the Parliaments see it.
Hanlon, Cooper’s Minister for Health
and Home Affairs, \told a Brisbane audi-
ence that Ward’s Brisbane Lie was “the
truth,” as evidence of which coils of
barbed wire were sent to Evans Head
and “a little” to'Brisbane. Bondi beach
in Sydney was wired, but so far nobody
has discovered a Bondi Line.
After 79 sittings, during which 105 wit-
nesses were heard, Judge Markell, as
Royal Commissioner, pronounced H. A.
Stevenson, superintendent in N.S.W. for
the Apple and Pear Board, guiltless
of irregular, improper or fraudulent prac-
tices in allocations of fruit to board 1
agents. Stevenson, he added, had suffered
injustice through not being informed of
charges brought against him, though his
home was searched and documents
were seized. From the Australia First
cases to that of a Melbourne girl fined a
fiver for accepting coupons from a friend
there is an ugly record of espionage,
bullying and false imprisonment in a
country which is putting up with much
to keep Gestapo and Ogpu methods away
from its shores.
Judge Stretton’s report on the Yallourn
(Vic.) fires shows there is urgent need
for a single bushfire-fighting authority
to prevent a recurrence of these dis-
* rn, T a a ■ -i a a
asters. The Judge made a similar demand
for urgent action in his 1939 report, and
Dunstan was Premier then, as now. Speed
isn’t thn pocpnro nf Fliinctnn
isn t me essence ot Dunstan.
Perhaps spurred on by the statement of
Codings that “the Allied Works Council
has not wasted labor or material,” Dun-
stan gave his Agrarians some feAce-post
figures. Posts split in A.W.C. camps,
he asserted, cost £2O a hundred (one man
split four in a day), and posts that cost
£6866 were sold for £2OOO. In similar
areas Forestrv Gommissinn rrmn had
a ™./ 1 ?! 1 , aCI
tallied 133,000 posts at £4 11s. 4d. a hun-
dred, and a profit of £2235 was made,
Dunstan rounded off the story by saying
that Cfiatf. RncU nw u n A
*■ * w Bush Fire Relief had ceased
Using A.W.C. labor.
When the Chief A.R.P. Warden of
„ j • xt •n o
Randwick proposed a reduction in N.E.S.
personnel operating there Minister Heff-
ron’s Department of N.E.S. objected,
The Chief Warden and others have re-
„• j xr i ~ tt a i .
Signed. Naturally, Heffron doesn t want
N.E.S. reduced. If you have a depart-
ment you must try to keep it going
. ~
Ihe true average wheat yield for the
Commonwealth is probably 15 bushels an
acre. Thus the Scully guarantee of a
fixed price for the first 3000 bushels is
what Menzies says it is, “a premium to
small growers.” Talking on wheat in the
House before members retired for an-
other long rest, Scully had to admit that
the country has a big carry-over—
-200,000,000 bushels—and that there is no
sign of a local shortage. Then he made
what, if he is correctly reported, is an
astonishing statement:
The fundamental principle of the plan
is to give a subsidy to the small grower,
who is in a precarious position What
the Government wants is more wheat pro-
duction by a lesser number of growers.
His plan is likely to have the reverse
e fj ect
.*., . , a •
Amazing statement made m Congress
by Senator Holman (Oregon), who was
m Alaska m 1942 when members of a
Russian mission were preparing there to
fly American lease-lend ’planes to secret
fields in Kamchatka, thence to Viadi-
vostok”-
It was a time when American fliers
operating against the replenishment of Jap
nnpnti^\ponrri^ ttU iric? d n^ S i^ a fo We hpvon e a
finamr in ai!^r.!rnrr^ o fhP
those j sl a uds and finally descending to tie
nnr, a^ia^ eC ffri °1-
?i? y L, ace - t 0 and , on . any vxr L 'u Sian 01
the Siberian mainland. With such know-
S® Ith s y “ u i d m St T, cases hav ? P r °-
ceeded to safety. The Russian visitors,
accepting our airplanes without any too
great show of appreciation, were witlmut
th 7 heard th ? s f stor ' es ;
Some rash young American aviator asked
where a fellow might land if he continued
on to Siberia m an emergency. The Rus-
sians leturned only blank stares.
But that was before Cordell Hull went to
Moscow and the President to Iran to
1 .1 v rvtbincr
seiue eve yunrig.
Among those present at the Sydney
launching of the First Victory Loan was
McKell the Premier who nrnnWd tn
MCJveil, tne J rentier, wno promised to
use all the resources of the State in
making the loan a big success.” This
might be taken by trusting people
to mean that McKell intends to suspend
his Government lotteries (“five a fort-
night”) until the loan is filled, and also
to dub in a couple of million from his
Government’s unearned surplus. It
means nothing of the kind,
To W. P. Simms, the Scripps-Howard
writer, one of “the shrewdest envoys in
Washington” made the startling state-
ment that “there is a potential majority
in America in favor of isolation.” Then
he said:
Mark my word: if, in the opinion of the
American people, the little countries of
Europe get a raw deal after the war they
will refuse to help enforce it. If this or
that mighty nation arbitrarily retraces
frontiers to suit itself the American people
will not send their sons overseas to die in
defence of it. If gross injustice is done to
populations as a whole, Americans will not
collaborate with others to make the in-
w 3USt i CeS Pff I ? aneat - ~ , . . .
Words ® h,ch s . h ° uld be b ° rne ,‘ n Sin
by the Immy Aldndges and other Reds
m the war-reporting and political lines,
Declaration of Tehran, abridged:
We expressed our determination that our
natlons , shall work together in war and the
peace that follows... .We are sure our concord
will make it an enduring peace. We recognise
fully the supreme responsibility resting upon
us a " d al ,l the United Nations to make a peace
which will command the goodwill of the over-
whelming masses of the peoples of the world
and banish the scourge and terror of war....
We shall seek the co-operation and active
participation of all nations, large and small,
whose peoples in heart and mind are dedicated,
as are our own peoples, to the elimination of
tyranny, slavery, oppression and intolerance.
We Wll . l ( wel T e the ?l a f th f y m i iy choose }°
come into the world family of democratic
nations... .We look from these conferences
with confidence to the day when all the peoples
of the world ma y live Tee lives, untouched by
tyranny and according to their varying desires
and own consciences. We came here with hope
and determination. We leave here friends in
fact > spirit and in purpose,
It 18 here repeated in case it has been
forgotten.
„ Som e of the Commonwealth Ministers
a od members, freed from the Parliamen-
tarV duties which have occupied them so
little, are off to South Australia ‘to whip
Plhyford.’’ They are confident, perhaps
excessively, that it will be easy,
Adelaide Trades and Labor Council
baa come out with a “memorandum” full
of jargon about loyalty to leaders and
“the fight against Fascism,” condemning
unionists who “show a disregard for
, • , • • „ , ■ °
union decisions and proposing to dis-
c iP bne recalcitrant unions by cancelling
their affiliation. Unionists must be won-
dering whether the well-paid gentlemen
descr f bed as .. union executives,” all
exem p t f rom national service in war-time,
are c^nscious o£ £ doubt as t 0
whether there m ® ea „ be njches for
them in the New order about
n „ , , u
Rosevear, Rowe and others:
waTaskedm kfhTsefrefarv
K e . ‘burned soWier, act as of
tbe Social Security Committee and did. The
dissolution of Parliament necessitated the
appointment of a new committee, and Rowe
was kept on as research officer, Rosevear, the
Speaker, appointing Second Clerk Assistant
Chubb S.C.C. secretary. By a Public Service
Board ruling Rowe’s salary was reduced £147
p. a , 5 and he and committeemen, Barnard, the
Labor chairman, among them, were refused
expe nses. Stewart and Ryan resigned, and
voiced their objections, as did Barnard himself,
though somewhat nervously. Rosevear, the
Speaker, took the extraordinary course of giving
his version of the case—peremptory in tone,
it closed with the words “I propose to send
Mr. Rowe back to his department forthwith”—
from the floor of the House. The Opposition
protested against the whole business and pro-
cedure, but the other side had the numbers.
and the debate was cut short at its most inter-
? st ing stage The gag has become a regular
jm P lement of the party which yearns, so it says,
to copper-bottom our Constitutional liberties
with the words “freedom of expression.”


(ytl cutd^
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Honors continue to turn up on Direc-
tor-General of Munitions and Aircraft
Production Essington Lewis’s doorstep.
The latest —the Bessemer Gold Medal for
1944, awarded by the Iron and Steel
Institute (London) —is in recognition of
“outstanding services to the Australian
iron and steel industry,” as B.H.P. manag-
ing director.
The generals;
Four Australian generals have been appointed
to high positions in the A.M.F. Lieutenant-
General Leslie Morshead, defender of Tobruk,
commander of the Second Australian Corps in
the Middle East and in New Guinea, and of the
Ninth Division A.I.F. at Alamein, succeeds
Lt.-General Iven Mackay on the mainland as
“G.O.C. Second Army.” Lt.-General V. A.
Sturdee, who succeeded Brudenell White as
C. succeeds John Lavarack as G.O.C.
First Army, and the picturesque Lt.-General
S. G. Savige, who commanded the 17th Infantry
Brigade in the first Libyan campaign and the
Wau-Salamaua campaign, takes over as G.O.C.
First Australian Corps in place of Lieutenant-
General Herring, who has become Chief Justice
of Victoria. Savige is a bluff, vigorous leader
who began life as a blacksmith’s boy, enlisted
in the 1914-18 war as a private, A.1.F., and
ended it in command of a brigade. He is best
known in private life as the founder of Legacy.
The least known of the four senior officers
advanced is Lieut.-General Berryman, who suc-
ceeds Morshead in command of the Second
Corps. Berryman is a Duntroon graduate, still
under 50, once the C.M.F. representative in the
High Commissioner’s office in London and
G.S.O. (Operations) at Army H.Q., 1934-39.
He is essentially a first-class staff man who
has been through both artillery and engineering
staff colleges in England and who did much
of the planning in New Guinea, where he served
as D.C.O.S. after a period as Deputy Chief of
the General Staff, following his recall with five
other senior officers for special service when
Japan entered the war.
Sgt. Thomas Currie (“Diver”) Derrick,
V.C., D.C.M. (B. 29/3/’44), is an only
son; he has five sisters. Their father is
D. Derrick, of Port Adelaide. Before
enlisting in 1940 the V.C.-winner was on
a fruit block at Berri, on the Murray.
In those days he was known for his swim-
ming, diving and boxing.
Now, at 25, shaping up to have a crack
at Abram Landa in Bondi, Sydney, as a
Lib.-Democrat, Allan Stewart is a young
A. captain who came unscathed
through service in the Middle East,
Ceylon and New Guinea, only to suffer
an accident while on leave that led to
his being invalided out. He joined the.
Darwin Mobile Force before the war,
but switched to the A.I.F. immediately
the gong sounded, and went abroad with
the originals. In advertising since shed-
ding khaki, he makes time to delve into
the mysteries of public administration at
Sydney Uni.
When this par. passed to the printer, S.
B. Dickinson, S.A. Deputy Director of
Mines, was a stone monte for the job of
Director of Mines, Govt. Geologist,
Supervisor of Boring Operations, Warden
and secretary to the Minister, vice Dr. L.
Keith Ward, retired. A 31-year-old, the
favorite has been tried over some pretty
hard courses and in strong company.
He did mining engineering at Melbourne
Uni. in three years, then made the same
time in the colors of Assistant Common-
wealth Geologist, including a survey of
the mineral resources of the North.
Entered for the B.Sc. event on his home
course, he broke evens with first-class
honors and an exhibition, had a canter on
survey work for Mt. Lyell and Electro-
lytic Zinc, trotted easily over the Com-
monwealth goldfields survey course and
finished, pulling hard, in S.A. In be-
tween collecting his M.Sc. from Mel-
bourne Uni. he did the aerial survey and
geological mapping of S.A.’s new coal-
field at Leigh Creek, and made a special
study of means of using the coal.
Between current issues of The Bulle-
tin award of a bar to Lt.-Col. G. E.
Colvin’s D.S.O. has been announced —he
was portrayed and paragraphed in B.
29/3/’44. Another to get a bar to his
D.S.O. is Lt.-Col.' Noel William Simpson,
also of Sydney. Both additions were won
in New Guinea, where (announced in the
same listing) Corporal Mervyn Hall, of
Perth, won a D.C.M. for a particularly
daring one-man performance, capturing at
Shaggy Ridge a strongly-fortified pillbox
held by five Japs with machine-guns.
Hall fought his single-handed war with
a tommy-gun and grenades.
Some of the early Labor members were
brought up with a belief in voluntary co-
operation and with a reverence for the
Rochdale Pioneers, whose centenary is
being celebrated. W. D, Johnson, doyen
of Westralian Labor politicians, and
George Booth, Chairman of Committees
in the Sydney Assembly, are still
constant to the old faith, and T. H. Bath,
who was Johnson’s leader for four years
(1906-10), has been very active in the
cause since his retirement from politics
in 1914. A recognised authority on
wheat as well, with long personal ex-
T. H. BATH.
perience of every aspect of the business,
Bath is always a welcome visitor to
Canberra (he has been there again lately),
which is short of practical advisers,
though it has projectors to spare. Still
“Tommy” to his friends, he is a native
of Hill End (N.S.W.), is in his 70th year,
would pass for 50, and has never lost
his youthful enthusiasm.
Penfold’s hundred years:
One of South Australia’s (and of Australia’s)
greatest wineries, Penf old’s has scored its cen-
tury not out. Dr. Rawson Penfold planted the
first vines in 1844; his daughter married a
Hyland, and the firm, now a co., has been run
by Penfold Hylands ever since. The present
Chairman of directors, Frank Penfold Hyland,
is of the third generation, and the family has
seen the wine-producing holdings in-
crease till they now include the original planting
site at Magill, on the hills within five miles
of Adelaide G.P.0.; Nuriootpa and McLaren
Vale (also in S.A.); and, in N.S.W., Griffith,
in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area; Min-
chinbury Vineyards, at Rooty Hill; and Dal-
wood Vineyards, at Branxton, on the Hunter.
Also in its time the family has seen wine-pro-
ducing become South Australia’s second and
Australia’s third most important primary in-
dustry. But for the war there’d probably have
been a bigger celebration of the century than
the quiet spread put on last month at Magill.
If the war ended in time, that could be appro-
priately enough attended to next July, because
it wasn’t till that month of 1844 that the original
Penfold had cut a pathway through the scrub
and tall timber to the rich brown hills of Magill
outside the Adelaide city survey and planted
the 50 grape cuttings of the port-wine type
with which he landed in S.A. in March of that
year, after a five months’ voyage from England.
Evidently grape cuttings can take it. That lot
were nine months or more from when they
were snipped till they eventually found a home
in Australian soil, and every one of the batch
that left England as part of the doctor’s per-
sonal luggage grew. The vines also can take
it. Not far in from the main entrance at Magill
those old-timers are still going strong, produc-
ing heavy crops of grapes. They form a small
patch of color much deeper than that of any of
the hundreds of thousands of vines round
about and look to be growing more vigorously
than any of them. The wine-makers can take
it, too. A. E. Vesey, a Penfold’s wine-blender
still going strong at 84, was making wine here
70 years ago, when the grapes were literally
crushed by hand.
Stephen Leacock, who passed on at
Toronto (Canada) last week at 75,
couldn’t have been a more prolific pro-
ducer of gurgles and guffaws if he’d had
a trained typewriter to do his work. He
commenced author very late, as that in-
dustry goes —in 1906, when he was 37,
and it was three years after that before
he put out his sign as a laugh-purveyor.
His first publication was Elements of
Political Science, hardly an indication of
his other vein, though he never wrote
anything even on such pet topics of
his as economics and the Empire, with-
out some humor to it. In 1907 he pub-
lished Baldwin and La Fontaine, in a
“Makers of Canada” series ; but this was
only sparring with authorship: he knew
he wasn’t on the right foot. There was
a break till 1910, with an Empire lectur-
ing tour in 1907-08, before he really came
out of his corner fighting, leading at the
risible ribs of the world at large with
Literary Lapses, and then ill successive
years with Nonsense Novels, Sunshine
Sketches of a Little Town, Behind the
Beyond, Arcadian Adventures with the
Idle Rich, Moonbeams from the Larger
Lunacy and the dozens of others. As
if bent on making up for lost time, he
had hardly a blank year till the end —in
fact, 1916, 1923, 1932, 1935, 1939 and
1942 each saw two of his books pub-
lished, and in 1936 there were three.
Emeritus Professor of McGill University,
Montreal, Leacock was English-born, at
Hants.
W. A. (Bill) Chaffey, youngest member*
of the N.S.W. Parliament, has won a
well-earned A.I.F. commission. Shortly
after getting into the Macquarie-street
House for Tamworth —previously repre-
sented by his late father, Frank Chaffey,
who had been an old A.I.F. captain—
young Chaffey joined an A.I.F, Com-
mando unit. He has since seen his share
of jungle fighting. Away from politics
and soldiering he’s on the land, on a
Goonoo Goonoo subdivision block, for
which he had Hawkesbury Agricultural
College training.
Another of the ex-students whose
names stand specially high at Hawkes-
bury College these days is Flight-Lieut.
A. H. Gould, D.F.C. (R.A.F.). Now
p.o.w. in Germany, <he was officially
credited as the first Australian airman
to drop bombs on Germany in this war,
and he was personally congratulated for
it by the King. A Maorilander, Gould
went to Hawkesbury from Carlton and
Hurstville Tech., but his interest was
much less in the soil than in the
power dives of ’planes in the vicinity. A
wizard with machines —a dilapidated
motor-cycle was the particular joy of his
life —he joined the R.A.F. in 1938 and,
at 21, took part in the first raid on Kiel.
His folk live at Kiama on the N.S.W.
South Coast.
■ Taking to the Navy in 1941, Surgeon-
Lieut. W. D. Ackland-Horman was in
Singapore on the day the Japs started
belying the pacific nature of the Pacific.
NAVY SURGEON.
Since then he’s seen service in other parts
of the Pacific and in the Indian Ocean.
On his first war-time visit to Sydney he
showed that his hand was still in at golf
by scoring “60 off the stick” at Royal
Sydney. Back in 1933 he had celebrated
his entry to the Medical School at Adel-
aide Uni. by winning the State golf cham-
pionship, beating W. S. Rymill, who is
now serving with the A.1.F., and who is,
incidentally, champion of New Guinea.
As partners the two rivals twice won the
foursomes championship of Australia.
Maurice Blackburn did not long sur-
vive the close of his political days.
He had a stroke, went back to work, col-
lapsed again and died after a short illness.
Beaten by the Labor machine at the last
Federal elections, when he had to stand
as Independent
Labor for dis-
obeying the
m a c h i n e’s
order to keep
away from
Australian
Soviet Ffiend-
sh i p League
meetings, he
had been one
of the most
f o r t h r i ght
figures in Aus-
tralian politics
from 1914 on-
wards—in the
Victorian
Assembly till
1934, ending
up as Speaker,
and then rep-
resenting
Bourke in the
Canberra
House. He
was a pacifist,
but never one
of the belli-
cose breed, and
when the
Corns, were
claiming him
as on e of
MAURICE
BLACKBURN.
themselves he infuriated them by standing
up stoutly for the Australia-Firsters when
they were arrested and held without trial.
A Melbourne University graduate, Black-
burn was a barrister and solicitor of the
Victorian Supreme Court and a trustee
of Melbourne Public Library and
National Gallery. A native of Inglewood
(Vic.), he was 64.
Wingate of Burma:
Killed when the ’plane he was travelling in
crashed against a mountainside in a storm,
Major-General Orde Wingate, D.S.O. and two
bars, was in the tradition of the picturesque
fighting figures that come out in all J. Bull’s
wars. Called “Lawrence of Burma” for his
exploits with guerrilla parties 'Which beat the
Japs at their own infiltration game, he was
actually a blood relation of Lawrence, and
had points in common with him, as with Mont-
gomery and others. But he was a definite
original. Like MacArthur and Montgomery,
a “sword and Bible” general, a non-smoker
with an almost fanatical belief in physical fitness,
he had an extraordinarily wide range of interests,
from Yoga mysticism to hyena shooting by pistol
in the moonlight. An utterly fearless fighter
who liked fighting for its own sake, he was
something of a Shakspearean authority, and a
confirmed chewer of raw onions on the march,
believing they ensured fitness. He’d lie for
hours on the floor listening to symphonic
records, could talk well on painting and
on the habits of flies, liked singing to himself
in Arabic, and believed that men could store up
energy as a camel stores up water. Out in the
wilds of Burma, or, before that, Abyssinia,
he’d go for weeks on only a few hours’ sleep;
then, a job done, he’d spend days sleeping or
dozing. His deeply religious mother gave him
a Puritan upbringing, and his father, after serv-
ing 32 years in the Indian Army, retired to
found a mission for the Pathans.
Into the silence :
In Adelaide, at 81, journalist John William
Hinsley, on the “Advertiser” editorial staff for
38 years. A Yorkshireman, he came to Aus-
tralia 55 years ago.
At Young (N.S.W.), John Fisher Soley, former
“S. M. Herald” sub-editor, who became editor
of the “Sunday Times” and a great friend of
R. L. Stevenson —R.L.S. stayed at his house
when visiting Sydney. Born in Canada and edu-
cated in England, Soley came to Australia in
command of one of his father’s ships, and soon
after arrival here joined the Sudan Contingent.
Both he and his second wife contributed to
The Bulletin, and she founded the Lyceum
Club.
At 54, in Melbourne, Dr. Roy Chambers,
a leading specialist and gynecologist. In the
last war he was a lieutenant-colonel and a
D.5.0.-winner.
At 84, in Melbourne, Emeritus Professor
Thomas Ranken Lyle, F.R.S., D.Sc., M.A.,
who, with Baldwin Spencer and David Orme
Masson, gave the Science School at Melbourne
University a world-wide reputation. His original
research work, inventions and apparatus which
he designed himself placed him out of the run
of the average professor, and he worked out
and published the first complete theory of the
alternate current dynamo. First chairman of
the State Electricity Commission, he was bom
in Coleraine (Ireland). One of his daughters
is the wife of Chief Justice Herring.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: It is possible that among them-
selves rude Rumanian peasants disre-
spectfully refer to their young sovereign
as King Mick. His sire’s name, Carol,
doesn’t lend itself to familiarities, though
it does to alliteration. So to Europe the
old man is “Carol the Cad.” He deserves
a better passport to history, for, in one
way at least, he has shown a considerably
greater capacity for loyalty than some
other monarchs of the Ratbag Continent.
He has stuck to The Lupescu (delicately
referred to as his “consort”) for 24 years.
Lupe, now 46, still shares Carol’s for-
tunes. How many other comic-opera
kings, with limitless opportunities to
trade their “fairies” in for later and
snappier models, would not only stick to
"I'll teach 'em concealment!"
the old one, but go to the expense of
bringing a topnotch surgeon from New
Vnrk to Mexico Citv to take un her
York, to Mexico to take up ner
facial slack, iron out the wrinkles and
eliminate a brace of redundant chins?
Carol, as Balkan kings go, you’re near the
trvr. nf tbf. rdnccl
top or me crass • ■
„„ „ _ A . , _
Clooter : Daylight-saving has fin-
ished, to the general joy of the populace,
most of whom were heartily fed up with
it. Mothers with young children found
it impossible to get them to sleep at the
proper time, eating hours went awry and
in most households a general air of
j,, ~ , T . & . t ,
muddle prevailed. It vanished nuracu-
lously last week. Personally, I never got
used to the switch, and am convinced
that I’ve been more tired than normally
during its currency, having to rise
an hour earlier and being unable
through fear of insomnia to retire an hour
earlier. Now that the silly business is
over, I’d like to know just what this
country of ample light and sunshine
saved or gained by following blindly a
movement instituted in the cold apd dark
northerly latitudes. I’ve a theory there’ll
be less industrial trouble for the next six
months.
* * * *
“V.C.”: How do these Commonwealth
loan organisers work out the allotments
of quotas to shires and municipalities?
Sydney’s biggest racing suburb, Rand-
wick, is set for the record quota of
£650,000, while neighboring Waverley,
which houses the overflow, as it were, is
up for £450,000. Since it may be sup-
posed that a lot of the loose money about
Sydney finds its way to those parts via
the betting bag, I somewhat hastily con-
cluded that the quota-fixers were attempt-
ing a sort of poetic justice. But after
comparing populations (as at Dec., 1939)
with quotas, I’m not so sure. Randwick
and Canterbury are the biggest areas,
with 85,000 people each, and Canterbury
is expected to weigh in with £500,000. On
the other hand, Alexandria, with 8500,
far less wealthy than Vaucluse, with 8000,
is expected to find £350,000, compared
with Vaucluse’s £50,000. There are other
odd comparisons. On the whole the im-
pression is given that the organisers are
out after the new-rich, mainly responsible
for the big increases, in savings deposits.
* * * *
“H.G.D.”: Someone in authority has
a quaint sense of humor. Whenever the
services are treated to a cinema show
the first film is the “Hi, Soldier” warning
against V.D. The musical background
to “Hi, Soldier” is “Don’t You Remem-
ber Sweet Alice, Ben Bolt?”
* H= * *
“T.M.C.”: The secretary of a Sydney
friendly society suddenly discovered, what
every mother has known for a long time,
that infants are being deprived of citrus
and prune juices. “Mothers should re-
ceive first priority for fruit,” he thun-
dered to a reporter. “If the fruit-
shops are unable to supply them,
then let the Government take over! ” Un-
fortunately for the gentleman’s proposi-
tion the deprivation, one of many,
occurred because the Government has
taken over.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” On lava and its habits:
According to an “Age” correspondent in
Naples, “the horror that the flow of lava stirs
is hard to resist.” Probably the most dramatic
lava-producing volcano is Batur in Bali. The
original crater, 40 miles from lip to lip, is dead
now > but two fresh volcanoes have heaved up
from its bottom and have periodically overflowed
f rom as f ar back as there are records. Lava,
after cooling, breaks up into immense blocks as
big as houses and as hard as glass. A friend of
mme w h° tnec£ to cross the flow at Batur wore
out a pair of boots in a few hours. Strangely
enough, the lava supports life and gradually a
mould grows on the surface-; the color of
this, varying from pitch-black to every shade of
B re y> tel j s the age of the deposit. There is
another form of life in the bottom of the crater,
a jj more a stounding because of the sur-
rounding evidence of past eruptions. It is a
native village, complete with public square,
| em P les and pagodas. Clambering 1000 ft. down
to see if there are any human beings left
amongst the mins you get a further surprise
to find everything in apple-pie order, the temples
freshly painted and new sculptures of gods and
demons being carved and put into position. In
the square a male population, from old men
to children, armed with swords and lances, is
conducting military exercises intended to dis-
courage the demon of the volcano from slop-
ping over. Pious Balinese the island over
support the‘village with their contributions, and
that their prayers and offerings aren’t wasted is
shown by the fact that in the last great erup-
tion the lava torrent froze just at the point
where it had pushed a pagoda over to about
the same angle as the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
Several thousand people perished in other parts
of the island.
* * * *
“Zaks-”: I have often read those un-
challengeable edicts, couched in the Olym-
pian manner of the arbiter elegantiarum,
issued by the London “Tailor and
Cutter.” I visualised the editor of that
“Where Would you like to sleep , Uncle? With me and George or
with the kids ?”
organ as a slim, elegant cove wearing a
30-guinea light-grey double breaster, with
knife-edge creases to his pants, highly
varnished hair and shoes, spats, lavender
gloves and a dream of a Homburg: one
who would no more think of leaving his
office —pardon, sanctum —without a walk-
ing stick than with only one side of his
zonker waxed. But there is a rival jour-
nal, the “Outfitter,” which exudes a very
different'flavor. It could be edited by a
beefy man with half a day’s stubble
and baggy-kneed trousers. This journal
predicts—a euphemism for ordains —that
“cheeky neckties, bright red and yellow,”
are coming “right in,” and that clothes
must be worn “with oomph.” If from a
near-by London office there is heard a
strangled cry followed by a bump, a cor-
rect guess will be that the high priest of
Savile Row, having absorbed the remarks
of his coarse contemporary, has destroyed
himself.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Definition of a department
by one who has had dealings with it:
“The only mental hospital in Australia
run by its own inmates.”
* * *
“C. 8.”: A recent cable reporting the
profound observation that Englishmen
tilt their heads to the right when
kissing and Americans to the left
has been elucidated by a “Sun-Pic.”
correspondent in Melbourne. “In Eng-
land, where the driving seat of a
motor vehicle is on the right-hand side,”
she points out, “it is natural for a man
when parking to enfold his girl friend
with his left arm and tilt his head to the
right. In the U.S., however, the driver
sits on the left.” Presumably only motor-
ists kiss.
*
“E.R.L.”: Beecham was peppery about
latecomers (B. 1/ 3 / ’44). Many music-
lovers will remember a performance of
“Messiah” under his baton at Brisbane.
Between the overture and the tenor solo
which opens the oratorio proper, late-
comers were being noisily admitted, when
in a voice which rang around the conti-
nent Sir Thomas thundered “Kindly close
those doors ; this is not a cabaret per-
formance.” Silence descended like a
blanket until, somewhat shakily, the tenor
solo began.
* * * *
“Frank N. Stein”: Samuel Butler, who
startled the Victorian era with a tale of
Erewhonians who abolished machines,
fearing they might evolve better brains
than mankind could boast, wrote at a
time when (with perhaps the single excep-
tion of Babbage’s calculating engine) no
machine performed what are usually
looked upon as mental processes. Nowa-
days there are spheres in which the
machine can give the human brain a start
of nine-tenths of the distance and still
win in a walk. In the South Pacific the
Americans have been using an electri-
cally-operated a.-a. gun pointer, so accu-
rate that on the first trial 16 Jap bombers
were brought down with an expenditure
of only 88 rapidly-fired shells. This
pointer calculates height, speed, drift and
direction of enemy ’planes, makes adjust-
ments for muzzle velocities (according to
the type of shell used), pull of gravity,
air density and wind direction, and sets
the fuse so that the shell explodes within
destructive range of its target. Major-'
General L. H. Campbell, U.S. Army
Chief of Ordnance, who recently lifted
the veil of secrecy from this device, says
the basic idea came to the inventor in a
dream.
* * * *
“Petermac”; A mantle of affluence has
fallen over Darlinghurst. The ham-and-
beef shops and hamburger joints, always
busy, can’t cope with the rush nowadays.
Tin-openers are working overtime. Ser-
vice men are attracted to the Cross’s
racy, garish atmosphere like moths to a
candle and the Saturday afternoon beer
rush resembles a Zane Grey stampede.
“Hot” parties are all the rage, and
“genuine Scotch whisky” and other
stomach corroders are to be had by
those prepared to pay their weight in
silver or gold for them. There’s a marked
decline in the prevalence of refugees, and
most of those still to be seen are in the
uniform of the Labor Corps, looking
healthier, if not happier, than of yore.
* * * *
“N. Shore” on a military engineer:
There is a mural tablet in St. Thomas’s
Church at North Sydney which recalls the
memory of a man once of considerable note
in N.S.W., but now long forgotten—Colonel
George Barney, R.E., who was bom in London
in 1792, and came to Sydney in 1835 to direct
a policy of public works inaugurated by
Governor Bourke. He it was who designed the
Victoria Barracks, at Paddington, to supersede
the old military headquarters in George-streef
which stood on the site of the present Wynyard
Square. Returning to England in ’44, Barney
was employed on important engineering under-
takings on the lower Thames, but-came back
to Sydney in ’49, when he was appointed Com-
missioner for Crown Lands. On the death of
Sir Thomas Mitchell in 1855, he became Sur-
veyor-General of N.S.W., knd held office until
the end of the decade. He died in Sydney at
the beginning of 1862.
* * * *
“Pawang”: In an investigation of
working time lost by women in factories
in Britain it was found that more stayed
away in the morning than on the after-
noon and night shifts. It seems strange
that women should favor the uncomfort-
able and irksome night shift to the day
shift. My suggestion is that this is a
reaction against an almost universal prac-
tice in Christian countries for parents to
impress on their children the virtues and
pleasures of early rising and the wicked-
ness of staying up late.
BASIC ENGLISH.
I had a troubled dream the other night
That Basic English had become a law,
And all with anything to say or write
Had but a thousand diff’rent words to draw
From their vocabularies, on which they might
Employ the pen or exercise the jaw;
A thousand parts of speech, or rather less,
Their various views and notions to express.
I dreamed some voiced approval, some dissent.
While Cardus looked as if his heart would
break.
Such orators as our Domain frequent
Bluntly admitted little odds ’twould make
7o chaps like them. The work of Parliament
Took hardly half the time it used to fake,
While “Hansard,” which such pabulum sup-
plies,
Shrank to about a quarter of its size.
Professors and long-winded lecturers
Showed symptoms of annoyance, I re-
marked ;
Sky-pilots—clergymen, if one prefers
The term —on mild remonstrances em-
barked,
While glib K.Cs. and fluent barristers
Seemed definitely and distinctly narked,
Though magistrates, as far as I perceived,
And Judges looked prodigiously relieved.
I felt a touch of sympathy for scribes
Who formerly were ready to compile
Voluminous and vicious diatribes
Or mushy panegyrics—by the mile.
Whether they dealt in eulogies or gibes
This Basic English biz. would cramp their
style,
’Twas pretty clear. Though this might be as
well
Now newsprint has become so valuable.
Anon I seemed to hear a tumult rough
From bards who bellowed like old Proteus’
herds.
Wild voices cried: “Out on this Basic stuff!
What! Limit us to a bare thousand words,
When twenty thousand scarce provide enough
To meet the needs of modern singing birds!
Brothers, hang up your harps! This dastard
stroke
Has queered our pitch for keeps! ” And then
I woke.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
STUMPED.
I’ve been a constant seeker for the key
To many problems on this puzzling earth;
I hold a university degree
For whatsoever such a thing is worth.
I’ve solved some crossword puzzles two or
three , , .
Which baffled hard-boiled experts at the biz—
Yet I’d be sadly, hopelessly at sea
If you should ask one what a “tax-lag is.
I’ve mixed in treasure hunts. It’s been my task,
And not an easy one, I must confess,
To answer questions correspondents ask
In the receptive columns of the press.
I’ve delved in libraries for quite a stack
Of knowledge from their bulging shelves one
gleans; , ,
Yet I’m as far as an unlettered black
From comprehending what a “tax-lag means.
I’ve read whole reams about th’ elusive thing,
Studied the cons and wrestled with the pros,
And found it vastly more bewildering
Than mathematical embroglios.
It seems as much an unknown quantity
As that vague “x” in algebra we meet;
And whence it comes and how and when ana
wh y . , , u ♦
Are mysteries that fairly have me beat.
We need some wizard, like the one of Oz,
To rout the bees that in some bonnets buzz.
What “tax-lag” means evades me. But, because
My income slug is treble what it was,
I’ve no illusions touching what it does.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Pink Tape”: When the war is over and
the Diggers get back to their civil jobs,
the public service is going to find itself
stocked up with mirrors whose use will
be gone. Little Governmental offices that
never thought of a looking-glass as a
necessary article of furniture have had
to buy all the mirrors obtainable for the
use of newly-enlisted women employees.
A conscientious postmaster who didn’t
like spending money without authority
frantically ’phoned the news that the four
postwomen allotted to him were prac-
tically on strike after surveying the prem-
ises. Not a letter would they deliver until
arrangements were made so that they
could watch themselves powder, their
noses or settle the hang of their skirts
before they set out on their beats. What
was he to do?* “Don’t be a fool —get the
mirrors,” he was told—“one each, if that’s
what they want.” A lot of other stuff that
will be mere dunnage shortly is being
bought, too. It includes the “female
bicycles” (that’s the way some of the
puzzled P.Ms. put it) which have to be
provided for women posties.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I don’t like the idea of pre-
fabricated houses, but will welcome them
if it is true, as I have been told, that they
will be so unsubstantial that manufacturers
will make yearly models, as do the motor-
car makers; thus the houseowner will
be able to have his old-fashioned 1946
home carted away and replaced by a
larger, improved 1960 model. Under
such conditions house architecture will
be continuously in fashion, and the man
who started with a T-model Ford, so to
speak, can end up with an eight-cylinder,
streamlined, air-cooled limousine of a
mansion. But I fear the old model will
have a trade-in value and will be sold
second-hand.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; A retired Melbourne prof,
who lectures for University Extension at
provincial centres is well liked by the
hard-pushed reporters on country papers.
He always rings up the office and gives
the tip that he will summarise his ad-
dress in the first 15 minutes, hnd before
he goes on to details will crack a joke
so that the reporters can quietly make an
exit under cover of the laughter. On
one occasion he forgot his programme,
and halfway through the lecture caught
sight suddenly of the stony look on the
face of the lone reporter present. His
own face lightened, out came the stock
wisecrack, the audience rocked with
mirth and out slipped the reporter.
*•* * *
“R.F.0.”: Reference to Samuel Way
(B. 15/3/’44) reminds me of another
incident connected with Adelaide Uni.’s
Commem. Samuel had a mental recording
of a little speech which he played to each
new graduate. Regularly he would turn
slightly to the left and say his bit. As
he came to the final words “And I con-
gratulate you” he used to turn to the
grad, and shake hands with him. Noting
his method, the meds. one year connected
a skeleton to the rafters with ropes and
pulleys. When the old boy turned left
incline the skeleton was lowered to the
spot where the next graduate should have
been. The Chancellor’s congratulatory
speech and proffered hand were forth-
coming, to the vdst delight of under-
grads., graduates and the faculty.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: The Recherche Archi-
pelago forms a rough crescent around
what is now the port of Esperance. Over
a century ago this coast had a
“king,” a huge American negro, John
Anderson, who had as his lieutenant
and bodyguard another American black,
John Bathurst, In a whaleboat, with their
harems of native “wives,” this pair
worked west as far as King George’s
Sound, disposing of their catches of seals
to odd American whalers, then to be
found almost always in- that vicinity.
The gang’s supply ship was a schooner,
The Mountaineer, skipper and owner Lief
Evanson. Subject to “Black” Anderson
was a riffraff of half a dozen whites,
possibly absconders from Van Diemen’s
Land. These fellows lived the wildest of
lives, all in a condition of barbaric plenty.
Selecting the most fertile spots of the
dozens of islands at their disposal, they
planted gardens, forcing their native wives
to till and hoe for them. Fish was to be
had in any quantity, geese and duck in
unimaginable numbers, and all the seal
meat they desired. Came a destroyer—
booze. In a drunken fit Evanson ran his
schooner ashore in Doubtful Island Bay.
Anderson was shot by a couple of venge-
ful whites. Then the Law arrived at
Albany.
* fe * • *
“Caballer”: The legal firm of Tort
and Costs had been administering the
estate of Woolbales, deceased, for several
years, and it was a gilt-edged job. Old
Tort socked away his money, and young
Costs spent his share in as much riot
as could be made in a small country
town. Tort, prim as parchment, had
often to reprove his junior partner for
burning the candle at both ends and
using a painter’s blowlamp in the middle,
so Costs was relieved when a matter con-
cerning the Woolbales estate took Tort
to Sydney. When the old-man arrived
in the city, by some curious trick of
memory he could not remember the
name of his chief client. He wired young
Costs: “What is full name of client?” I
saw the answer and the grin on Costs’s
face as he wrote it: “Client’s name
Robert John Woolbales stop your name
William Henry Tort.”
* * * *
“Dutigalla”: Scene; Court of General
Sessions, Melbourne; huntsman-judge
Magennis presiding. Counsel to witness:
Was the accused the big noise in this
band? Wasn’t his name emblazoned
across the drum, and didn’t his pictures
appear in the newspapers as the star
attraction? Judge (interposing): Did he
croon? Counsel (hastily): That is not
the charge, your Honor. We say the
accused is a man of good character.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I wonder how a D.O. I
knew in Malaya would have functioned
in a civil service which goes in as much
for forms, records, duplicates qnd trip-
licates as does the Australian? When he
received a communication from some
private individual he would yawn, write
his comments below it and send it on to
“ Don't pull him back , Dad —We might run over him.”
the police inspector or some other official,
who would yawn and add marginal ob-
servations. On its return to the D.O.
there would be further additions, which,
for lack of space, might encroach on the
back of the missive, which would then be
returned to the sender. If the sender had
objections to raise he would add them on
the same sheet, and back the document
would come, and the same process would
be continued until there wasn’t sufficient
space on the paper for an anopheles mos-
quito to turn on. Possibly the epistle,
with its addenda, would end its days in
the D.O.’s office, where, if it wasn’t used
by his “boy” to make blowpipe missiles,
it might find its way into the records.
But of course it might finally stay with
its original author. Anyway, the official
archives were saved "from becoming un-
wieldy, and there was a great saving of
paper.
* * * *
“Ken”: There’s discouragement for
originators of new words in a footnote
to the introduction of Roget’s
He lists the abstract nouns “irrelation,”
“amorphism,” “sinistrality” and “gaseity”
as new words he coined to act as substan-
tives to the adjectives “irrelative,” “amor-
phous,” “sinistral” and “gaseous.” Some
of these nouns have got into fat diction-
aries—Webster listed them all as early
as 1874 (the Thesaurus appeared in 1852),
but only “amorphism” has achieved
much usage.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: News from New York that
Marjorie Lawrence will* revisit Australia
shortly reminds me that on her last return
to her homeland the Dean’s Marsh (Vic.)
singer got the usual mixed reception this
country gives its talented children who
make names for themselves abroad. Her
native village went mad about her, Mel-
bourne showed moderate enthusiasm and
Sydney at first was unimpressed, though
it warmed up before the season ended.
This time interest in Miss Lawrence’s re-
turn will be enhanced not only by her
increased reputation as a Wagnerian
singer, but by the stories that have been
told concerning her fight against infantile
paralysis and by the fact that her healer
was Queensland Sister Kenny, whose
methods, disparaged and discouraged by
Australian medical authorities, received
aid and appreciation in America. Miss
Lawrence appeared as Isolde on March
14—-her first full-length role since her
paralysis,
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: It isn’t wise to assert
your rights as a citizen Unless you can
enforce them under your own power, as
it were. Filled with indignation at being
refused a pot at a suburban hostelry, a
•Melbourne citizen .went out and returned
with a policeman. He got his pot, but ever
since his voice has become inaudible and
his face invisible to Bung and his Hebes.
* * * ■ ♦
.“A.J.K.” goes to school:
The township palms are bathed in late-Sfter-
noon sunlight, for the school assembles after
tea. Within the four-deep ring of pressed
soldiery the ringer raucously spurs on hesi-
tating bettors with an auctioneering technique
born of nightly repetition. On a soapbox sits
the boxer. “Blue,” his pipe clutched in set
jaws, and his freckled face a knot of pro-
found , concentration, reaps in the centre, or
box, flung to him across the 25ft. gap, or slams
back a stack of notes to a winner. After a
toss the clamor is deafening. Frenzied invi-
tations scream from the side-bettors: “Five
’e ’eads ’em, five ’e ’eads ’em”; “I back the
tail”; “A couple he does it!” or (when the kip
holds a two-coin spin) “Eight he two’s ’em.”
Silver and paper scatter from all angles to the
settlers. Everyone speaks at once. Then
“Blue” booms: “Set in the centre?” A few
late bets scurry over the gap; then “Set” from
the spinner awaiting the toss. There’s a "hush.
The spinner balances the precarious coins and
with the characteristic downward and upward
fling the brownies soar up. But they spin slug-
gishly. “Barred.” The ringer jumps to re-
trieve the descending coins. The centre is set
again. Up they go. All eyes lift to heaven,
follow the twirling shinies and bow in suppli-
cation as they flop. Pandemonium reigns!
Moving figures grope for the stack at their feet,
and either pocket the dough with ill-suppressed
elation or with a mirthless grin fling a bundle
across the circle. Mack found himself £5OO
lighter in two nights. Gus sent £6O to the
wife for safe keeping. Not bad going for eighf-
or nine-bob-a-day capitalists! -
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Comparative values?
Gross takings of “Gone With the Wind,”
that tedious film Version of a tedious book,
exceeded 25,000,000 dollars. Half this
amount had to be paid to Metro-Gold-
wyn-Mayer for the loan of Clark Gable
as Rhett Butler. That’s a sum that would
go a long way towards paying the salaries
of all the real actors that have trod the
boards between Shakspeare’s time and to-
day. Burbage, Kean and Mrs. Siddons
must be kicking holes in their coffins.
id He JjJ ♦
“S.T.S.”: “Dido” hardly does full jus-
tice to Wolseley (B. 15/3/’44) over the
phrase “all Sir Garnet.” It was really a
tremendous compliment. In the ’eighties
Kitchener was not yet famous ; Roberts
away in India; Gordon dead. Wolseley
always had only “little” wars to handle,
but he did each job thoroughly. Some-
body called him “our only general,” and
the phrase stuck for years till it became
obviously untrue. Thus the Cockney say-
ing “all Sir Garnet” (or popularly “all
Sirgarnio”) meant that everything was
quite satisfactory, just as we may say
today “all 0.K.”
♦ ♦ *
“Curtain Raiser”: Why is it that
“Coastal Command,” the British official
film anent the Sunderland flying boats,
doesn’t produce in an audience anything
like the strong emotions that the most
ordinary cowboy or crook film can do
quite easily? The feats performed by the
men, some of whom may even be known
to people in Australian audiences, in
patrolling death-ipfested waters, shadow-
ing U-boats, diving through barrages,
going down to inspect and report on the
damage are amazing, and the contrast be-
tween these doings and the calmness of
the High Command in a room replete
with every modern means of record and
communication hundreds of miles distant
issuing orders is highly dramatic. But
there is little response from audiences.
The explanation seems to be that indi-
vidual adventure, even in the tripiest of
tripe films, speaks to the individual in
human being; concerted action
doesn’t. But perhaps there is another
explanation not flattering to audiences.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: How sissy the stage has be-
come since the advent of the talkies is
shown by an incident in Melbourne. The
National Theatre put on a stage presen-
tation of Shaw’s “’Pygmalion,” and a
bright young 16-year-old made a hit in
the part of Eliza. Next day a daily paper
solemnly interviewed her and inquired
how she felt when she came to the place
where she had to utter the word
“bloody.” Her rejoinder, in effect that a
playwright’s intention must.be carried out
though the heavens fall, was natural in
the circumstances, but it would have
sounded pretentious even in the mouth
of such an iconoclast as Voltaire. Much
more pungent epithets than “bloody” are
heard from the lips of babes and suck-
lings these days.
* * He *
“C.R.”: There is a clumsy sound about
the Basic English version of the Atlantic
Charter recently published as a White
Paper, but at least it blows the gaff on
some hallowed old diplomatic phrases.
Thus “their countries seek no aggrandise-
ment, territorial or other,” becomes “their
countries will do nothing to make them-
selves stronger by taking more land or
increasing their power in any other way.”
* * * *
“Wusslean”: The legal bombshells
that lurk in the words “Jew” and
“Jewish” were detonated when the Full
Court dismissed an appeal against a de-
cision by the Victorian C.J, that a bequest
by Solomon Finklestein was void for
uncertainty because of the use of those
words. Finklestein left two Carlton cot-
tages in trust until his granddaughters
should each have been married for
five years “to a Jew, both of
whose parents were of Jewish birth.”
The Full Court upheld the C.J.’s
decision, based on a recent Privy
Council judgment that no certain mean-
ing could be assigned to the words
“of Jewish parentage,” which . were
treated as a reference to race and not to
religion; hence there was the same de-
fect in Finklestein’s will in the words “of
Jewish birth.” An equal uncertainty was
held to exist in the House of Lords case
in respect to the words “of Jewish faith,”
so that, whether a racial or religious inter-
pretation was attempted, the meaning was
obscure.
$ * * *
“N.F.”: Though I’m no longer youth-
ful, all this talk about rescuing youth
amuses me. What the earnest rescuers
never seem to appreciate is that youth
itself is unconscious of the need for
rescue. Which probably explains the dis-
appointment that befel an English attempt
at uplift. A municipal council, spurred
on by reformers, provided a hall and
equipment for a “Youth Night Club.”
The local youth was mustered and intro-
duced to its haven. It promptly threw
the furniture and the crockery at its
saviors. Soldiers had to restore order,
and a Civil Defence guard was placed
over the hall, to which nobody under 16
is now admitted.
* * H* *
“Roberto”: Ages before Alexander’s
men established a beachhead there
Anzio was the jumping-off place for a
march on Rome. Under its old name,
Antium, capital of the country of the
Volsci, it harbored Caius Marcius,
dubbed “Coriolanus,” when he was
banished, from Rome 490 b.c. At Antium
Corio planned and organised the campaign
of revenge which took him bloodily to
the gates of Rome, where, however, his
mother’s entreaties prevailing, he turned
back and was done in. Antium was
subjugated and became a Roman colony.
Cicero had a house there, as did
the Emperors Caligula, Claudius and
Nero. The Temple of Fortune, where
oracular responses were given, existed
there until the advent of Christianity.
Pope Innocent XII restored the harbor
in 1698, and the little fishing town that
has since existed there was a favorite
resort of Romans during the bathing
season, despite its liability to fever.


ABORIGINALITIES
Tommy, he’s startin’ back! —then we c’n
cut a trail ’n’ bum her off.’ The mob
considered the layout. ‘That ain’t no
good,’ claimed old Hogan; ‘the wind’s
due t’ change any time. We oughter
swing west an’ hold her on Stringy Creek.
Look out,’ he added, ‘the moke’s off
again.’ Well, Bill couldn’t agree about
the fire. ‘She won’t go that way,’ he
argued, “an’, anyway—who brought that
fool' of a horse? Grab him, somebody—
an’, anyway, we’d gain nothin’.’ They
argued for .about half an hour, then
Hogan sez ‘Well, boys, I’m goin’ my way
an’ Bill’s goin’ his. You blokes’d better
foller whoever y’ think’s got the best idea
about .this here fire.’ Off he strides with
about half the chaps behind him, and
after a bit the others get up an’ start up
the spur after Bill.” “What about you?”
I asked interestedly, “Me?” Weary
grinned knowingly. “I follered the nag.”
* * , # *
“Colonial Cove”; Of all the colonies
none suffered so much during infancy
from poison plants as W.A. It was com-
mon for the settler driving his stock to
new pastures to find in the morning many
of them dead. More puzzling was that
some members of a flock or herd would
seem to be immune. Also the poison
plants when identified seemed to be toxic
only at certain times of the year or dur-
ing certain stages of their growth. Again,
when pastures were lush after rain stock
might perish, although they might have
grazed the same areas bone-bare during the
■ “Zake”: He seemed at first glance to
be the same old-time swaggie made so
pictorially familiar. His whiskers were
luxuriant; he walked with slow, steady
gait, slightly stooped under the weight of
his eternal “drum” ; around his hat was
the circle of bobbing corks ; out of the
lidless, battered, blackened billy the
head of a pup protruded ; and of his love
of beer there could be no possible doubt.
Yet about him there was-an indefinable
air of pride, almost of distinction. I re-
marked on it to one of the fellows in
the bar as the old-timer, slowly hoisting
his knot and whistling his dog, walked
out. “Well, you might say he is a bit of
a celebrity,” quoth the stranger. “You’ve
heard the one about the bloke that put
down a zack for a double-header whisky,
and with the trey change Bung sarcasti-
cally handed him cracks the jackpot on
the poker machine? We’ll, he’s the
only cove on the track from Liverpool
Plains to the Wallaby that isn’t the hero
of the tale.”
* $ $ «
“Betcha”: Don’t care what the drought
record is for a camel; I still think he
can’t touch the rabbit for a long-time
thirst, though just how long bunny can
go without water I haven’t yet discovered.
What I do know is that when the back-
country in these parts goes dry and all
stock must be shifted and hares and other
animals move down and make outlets for
themselves in the fences, bunny thrives on
unconcernedly. He makes no attempt to
find water, though the drought lasts for
months. On one rocky hilltop Brer and
family defied my best efforts to dislodge
them, so to prevent them spreading I
solidly netted the entire outcrop and
made them a present of the waterless
area. The only times they can possibly
drink are during the infrequent rains.
How long will they last out? Search me.
But that fence went up four years ago,
and those bunnies look as healthy as ever.
“D.R.H.”; “Smoke,” says “Aperist”
(B. 1/3/’44) “makes bees drunk, and a
drunken bee rushes off in search of
nectar.” I wonder. The version of the
yarn which came my way is that smoke
terrifies bees. It sounds reasonable:
presuming instinctively that the premises
are on fire A pis rushes to collect the only
provision for camping-out available —a
bingyful of honey. And with that under
her bodice she apparently finds stinging
inconvenient —but by no means impos-
sible.
* * * *
“Chuck”: I arrived home to find all
hands out on the far run fighting a bush-
fire. All but Weary. “Why aren’t you
with the mob?” I inquired in surprise.
“I did go,” explained Weary, “only—
well. I’ll tell y’. Y’ see, we drove out,
that is, all ’cept a bloke from the Cross-
ing, who took a nag in case we needed
one. At the foot o’ Pinchgut we left the
truck an’ walked about seven miles inter
the bush there, climbin’ the Razorback
an’ slitherin’ down Granite Gorge till we
were half skinned. By then we were
gettin’ close to the fire, so after the Cross-
ing bloke caught up we stopped for a
confab, ‘Better go to the top o’ the ridge,’
sez Big Bill, ‘Then —hey, stop that horse.
“Pity to kill 'im with so many ’orses about!”
dry season. But even this seemed to meet
contradiction in that stock driven over
very poor country often died. Pastures
were lush at Guildford, on the middle
Swan ; lush, too, at York, some 60 miles
across the mountains. The intervening
high ranges and elevated valleys were
distinctly infertile, yet it was when cross-
ing this ’poor country that stock suffered
most of all —hence the name of dread,
York-road poison. James Drummond,
W.A.’s first botanist, drew up an almost
complete descriptive list of these vege-
table assassins, but it took the best part
of a century to eradicate them from even
the settled districts. Nowadays 12 poten-
tial stock-killers are listed.'
V * * •
“Gumsucker”: The old digger’s way
of rendering the possum palatable was
temporary earth burial. First, the mar-
supial was eviscerated —gutted we called
it—then with the fur still on but with
the stomach space stuffed with sweet
grass it was covered with -at least a foot
of damp soil or clay. Left interred for a
full 48 hours the game not only lost most
of its gummy flavor but also acquired a
tenderness not to be excelled by the best
spring chicken. Some epicures went
further ; if the material was at hand they
divested the prospective fodder of its
coat, then, prior to burial, wrapped the
raw meat in thick swathes of green rushes
or green grass. This even more success-
fully eliminated the eucalyptus flavor.
¥ * * *
“Blime”: Paddy hadn’t seen a rain-
gauge till he came on old Walter measur-
ing a recent shower ; becoming interested
he installed one of his own. Proudly
he awaited the first rain, and when it
was over rode out to his neighbor’s selec-
tion. “How much rain d-’ja get, Walter?”
he greeted. “Seventy points” was the
reply. “How many’d you?” Paddy’s
grin subsided. “Aw, cripes, I only got
fifty-eight.” The next was a thunder-
storm, Paddy’s land catching the outer
edge. “Twenty-two points,” he claimed
joyfully the following day. “That all y’
got?” Walter queried. “Why, I got just
on a inch an’ a half.” Paddy looked over
the other’s flourishing crops and turned
thoughtfully homeward. There was a
lapse of six weeks, then he registered an-
other fifteen points. He used the ’phone
this time. “How much rain, Walter?”
“Twenty-five points. Why?” “Aw, nuth-
in’.” Three hours later Paddy strode into
the store and shoved a bulky parcel over
the counter. “George,” he growled dis-
gustedly, “y’ know that contraption that
ses how much rain a bldke gets? Well,
the one y’ got me don’t say enough.
C’d y’ take it back ’n’ get us somethin’
bigger?”
r * * # *
“Nor’-west”: Seeing that it is now ad-
vocated that the jumbuck should undergo
an operation, named after a Mr. Mules
(elderly ewes will then be able to baa
about their operation), and also that vari-
ous city department stores are now adver-
tising a nice line of sheep rugs in white
duck to keep the baa-baa’s back dry, it
may not be out of season for “R. Ney”
(B. 23/2/’44) to fit his flock leaders with
bifocal spectacles. For the sheep with its
eyes where they are is considerably lack-
ing in stereoscopic vision, and that may
be just why it is so obstinate in the matter
of gates and bridges.
* * * *
“C.C.T.”: I question some of “H.H.’s”
statements concerning Wilcannia (B.
8/ 3 / ’44). E. Morey, one of the
earliest pioneers on the Darling, held
Tintinallogy. The original holders of the
run on which Wilcannia now stands were
Hugh and Bushby Jamieson. Around
1850 they took up two runs along the
Darling, naming them Moorabin and
Tallandra. When the great station hold-
ings came into existence the two runs
became part of the Momba Pastoral
Co.’s possessions. This company at
that time held more than two million
acres. For many years a manager con-
trolled that portion of the holding in the
vicinity of Mount Murchison. It was
not until the early years of the present
century that the Mount Murchison por-
tion became separated from Momba. Sir
Thomas Mitchell in 1835 had given the
name Mount Murchison to a landmark
in the vicinity. In the early days of the
settlement, even after Wilcannia had
come into being, the whole of that
area was generally referred to as Mount
Murchison. Wilcannia, the site of which
was laid out in 1863 by J. C. Woore,
Commissioner of Crown Lands for the
Albert district, is situated not far from
the southern boundary of Moorabin run.
Woore named his house, probably'nowa-
days the oldest at Wilcannia, Moorabin
House. The town grew rapidly as the
principal supply depot for the outback
stations which were then being developed
in all parts of north-western N.S.W. In
1883 the population was around 2000.
Today it is less than 700.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: “Pip” (B. 15/3/’44)
needn’t have wasted precious matches or
cigarettes on those leeches of the
northern scrubs. As kids in Queensland
we used to swim in creeks which were
infested with leeches of surprising girth
and elasticity. All that was required to
make them double-up and let go was a
pinch of salt.
* * * *
“Karaji”: Major Morrissett could not
have learnt anything from the work of
the first explorers who crossed the Blue
Mountains or he would never have taken
nine days in travelling from Hawkesbury
to the Hunter, They found that the
easiest way of crossing that tableland was
to get on the Main Divide and stick to
it. The country for the greater part of
the way from the Hawkesbury north is
part of the Blue Mountain system. I
have travelled along Blaxland’s track
from the Hawkesbury to the Hunter; it
lies between Cuttamuttans Arm and
Mogo Creek, and is still in just as primi-
tive a condition as when the first white
man travelled it to Singleton, and there
are no physical difficulties. Once the
traveller gets to Burra Gurra (the Devil’s
Rock) he can descend into the valley of
Yango or Blaxland’s Arm. Each con-
tains easy going to the Cockfighter, the
fine open valley leading to Singleton. A
great part of that track was an aborigi-
nal trade route, used by the Wiradhuri
on their periodical visits to salt water.
sfc sH ♦
“lan J.”: Seeing that I believe our alien
Ananias Stretchitoutski when he says a
trapper in North-eastern Siberia fed his
dogs for a whole winter on the flesh of
a mammoth that had been entombed in
the ice for thousands of years, it may
seem a bit invidious for me to doubt
“Moyhu’s” straightforward account (B.
15/3/’44) of the discovery of a frozen-
beef mine dating back one hundred years
in n.-e. Victoria ; but the artistic details
he adds to an otherwise bold and con-
vincing narrative gives him away. One
bullock would be swallowed without a
doubt, but when he suggests that any part
of Victoria is cold enough to incom-
mode, let alone freeze to death, a High-
land cloddy I simply will not believe him.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: That bloke needn’t have
gone to all that trouble to make sure his
stewed cockatoo was fit to eat (B.
29 /3 / ’44). All you have to do is get a
bit of white quartz, preferably with a
speck or two in it and about the size of
your fist. Put this and the bird into the
water and simmer slowly. When you
can get the fork into the quartz the bird
will be ready.
* * aje *
“All Fours”: In Stonehenge on the
Greyhound, which coursing classic, now
more than a century old, has never been
improved upon, it is laid down that the
greyhound’s natural way to catch a hate
is to toss it and snap it in the air.
Under Australian conditions the grey-
hound became bigger, more powerful and
much faster than his English forebears;
and changes in structure and height put
an end to the flip from beneath. Many
years of coursing convinced me that speed
is not the hare’s best asset; and it is not-
ably the fact that the speed kings of the
coursing world are seldom good killers.
Both facts are logical. The fast-moving
hare cannot execute the sharp-angled turn
possible to the slower mover, and it is in
the acuteness of the angle that safety lies.
The dog that sends the hare circle-sailing
with a hurricane miss-or-kill drive cannot
get round in time to pick her up. Bladen’s
Bulwark won the Australian Waterloo
Cups of 1906, 1907 and 1909, yet didn’t
catch.a hare!
* * * *
“Sarina”: Delighted to hear that the
grass-tree grows leisurely in all circum-
stances (B, 15/3/’44). I’d thought that
N.Q. conditions were hampering its
spread, and that, if it got its foot in in
rich land with only grass cover, it would
soon be in complete possession. The
sparse grass growing amongst the 3ft.
grass-trees on these timbered hillsides of
Queensland’s north coast is wiry stuff
that doesn’t appeal to stock. After
struggling for years even that grass has
given up the ghost. Bush trees and grass-
trees are now in undisputed occupation.
The spears of X. preissi here average 9ft.
in height, the trees from 3ft. to 12ft. I’m
game to plant grass-slips and cuttings
amongst ordinary green trees, but I
wouldn’t waste time planting ’em amongst
thick grass-tree groves.
* * * *
“Avon Ridge”: The grim-looking
bloke who burst into the department had,
it appeared, completed a gravel-carting
contract and had been trying for weeks
to get a final payment. Now he’d
come down to get it, and he wasn’t leav-
ing till he did. The officer, with the poker
face of the public servant who refuses
to be stampeded, began carefully to ex-
plain that it was out of the ques-
tion. Certain things had to be done,
forms had to be completed, signatures ob-
tained and so forth. The grim-looking
bloke thumped the counter, thrust his
face forward and roared “You listen t
•me! All my life I bin workin’ for me-
self. When I do a job I do it an’ I expect
t’ be paid for it. I’ve done this job an’
done it ruddy well. If you think I’m
goin’ t’ pig-push about fillin’ in flamin
forms an’ waitin’ on peanuts who’ve
never seen the job, you think again. Now
you go in there an’ find the boss of this
joint an’ tell him I’m here an’ I’m roarin’
f’r me money. Go on, don’t gape! Get
to it! ” The no-longer-poker-faced officer
made for a door and I had to leave, but
I’m ready to bet the bloke from the bush
got his cheque within a few minutes.
ON AN ABANDONED FARM.
Go, thoughts, as the plovers go,
Crying against the crimson west
Their warning of the night—
Oh, cry your high alarm
To the listening stars.
No child is laughing here
Where the pale hope, sad and sere,
Hides in the dying weeds, to die
And leave no echo on the mournful air.
And, aliens dumb in a concrete tower, *
The children’s tongues are still,
That shouted to see the box in flower
And the rain come over the hill.
Call, words, as the curlews call,
Aloof and alone in the secret dark.
Their wistful call of the* lost —
Oh, call your sad appeal
To the listless wind.
While the dry windmill grates
Its death-song, through broken gates
The dying visions pass and go
To the last, lonely agony of all.
And small feet run in the grass no more,
But ache on the city street,
Far from the tree with the wild bees’ store
And the dawn dew, cool and sweet.
Go, dreams, as the wild swans go
On questing pinions ’twixt the earth and stars,
Their unseen bugles calling—
Go, seek the lost heart’s beat
In the silent land.
This place has lost its song,
Its dreams, its heart; and the wrong
Is crying to the heedless night
And the cold mercy of uncaring time.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Bo”: Touching these examples of the
pull of the homing instinct in animals, I
hop out of my mulga mia-mia to give the
cow-laugh to the foal that wended its
way back to the homestead where its
dam had lived, and to swear to the
veracity of the feat performed by an
Ayrshire cow of mine, McJeannie. Mc-
Jeannie, until delivered of her first calf,
was a placid bovine whose sole vice
was cud-chewing ; then in an evil moment
I gave employment to one Angus Me-
Sauchihall. Angus was milking one
morning and trying to blow out his front
teeth on “Killiecrankie” when, happening
to pass the bail, I noticed a madly
excited look in McJeannie’s eye. That
afternoon she disappeared. I searched
the district thoroughly, but nothing
further was heard of her until three
months later a press cable announced
that a cow answering to her description
had been discovered hiding in the fo’ :
c’sle of a Glasgow-bound freighter. A
unique example of the pre-natal-homing
urge, for the port she embarked from
was 250 miles from her outback home
and her only clue was that the name of
the ship’s second engineer 'was Mc-
Dougall.
* * * *
“J.G.”: After all, the bird with teeth
was only seen by a sober farmer from
the Old Koreelah district (N.S.W.). But
the latest phenomenon collected up
Ingham way is no myth—a fish with legs
and arms to which are attached minute
fingers and toes. It was discovered by
a fisherman while searching for bait.
About 2in. long, it was slaty in color,
with brown spots, somewhat like a cod.
The thing has been preserved, and in
due- course should reach the Brisbane
Museum.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Night in the little wes-
tern township. The three patients in the
C.W.A. hospital had been bedded down ;
the bush nurse was writing a long-de-
layed letter to her people; beyond the
stars looked down on the silent houses
and deserted street. Far in the south a
plover cried in momentary alarm, the
sound trickling through the night like
faint silver threads. Inside the little
police station the telephone rang and
the trooper, muttering cuss words, got
carefully from his bed and went along
the passage. He stopped as though shot,
for from the C.W.A. hospital came the
yell of a strong man in agony, breaking
the silence like a thunderclap. Grabbing
an overcoat the trooper left the station
on the run, for he remembered that the
only male patient was “Long’” Lane, a
suspected* appendix case waiting for the
doctor. Racing to the door the trooper
beheld two struggling figures, dived in
and sorted them out. Then the bush
nurse, panting from her efforts, gasped
“You’d better lock him up for his own
“Do you mind if I finish the lawn on my next 24 days leave , sweetheart?"
safety. If he hadn’t stubbed his toe on
the door-stop he’d have got away.” And
the long bloke, still in hospital pyjamas,
but with his trousers, shirt and boots in
his hands, looked once at the distant
timber line, sighed and went quiedy
enough with h.s captor.
* „ * , *, *
B. A. Ker”: Old Dutchy, an acquaint-
ance of my youth, in trying to express
the enthusiasm of his mate, said “He is
von of dose mad fishermens.” Recently
Fate has deposited me amid the frater-
nity of fishermen. One of the ilk would
rather leave behind hooks or bait than
a snapshot of himself holding—with diffi-
culty—a 151 b. snapper (weight, date, etc.,
preserved for posterity on the back). An-
other escorts all his visitors down to the
toolshed, on the door of which he nailed
his greatest triumph, ran a pencil around
the outline and painted in the etching —
with, of course, the inevitable details. I’ve
encountered a devotee who has kept a
written record of every fish he has caught
for five years! Yet another keeps a
diary and won’t rebait a hook until the
date, position, wind, tide.and set of cur-
rent have been entered. As for manner-
isms, there is the fellow who must be top-
dog—if his tally looks like being passed
“ Aw —let him go!”
he’ll pack up. Then the bloke who keeps
up a mumbled running fire of inanities:
“Too much water mixed up with ’em” ;
“They’re gawn—gawn with the wind” ;
“What y’ wrigglin’ for? I ain’t goin’
to ’urt y’—much” (as he shoves a 2in.
hook through a young mullet); “Shame
to take the money” when he catches one.
The other extreme is the chap who can’t
bear conversation of any kind, preferring
to sjt and think—well, sit, anyway. And
the addict who sat speechless, motionless
and biteless all day, but assured me that
he enjoyed every minute of it. Still, they
can all catch fish when I can’t, which
convinces me that you don’t have to be
mad to be a fisherman—but it’s a great
help.
*** . *
“Gwan”: It wouldn’t matter two hoots
if “Solitude’s” dog (B. 8/ 3 / ’44) went
bootless on two feet. Any decent dog
will run on two feet only. My own dog
has gone on with his job of rounding
up lambs when the saffron spikes made
him tuck his two off paws up close to his
body. He will balance on the two near
feet without even looking awkward,
*„ „ * . * nmn , rh , wa< .
Arev : Turner, , ,
handy to the.township.of
£« asked
“carnival.” “Yes ” he replied ; “and it
will only cost you a quid.” Bill Jupp
offered his paddock gratis, and the
“ carn i va i” was held there. As it was
flashing the advance agent of a travel-
hng circqs approached Bill and offered
a pound for the use of his paddock. “I
didn’t mind giving the use of it for the
Red Cross fete,” Bill said, “but I’m not
interested in having a circus about the
place. Try George Turner: his property s
nearer town than mine, anyway.” Next
morning the township was placarded with
notices advertising that the Mammoth
Circus would be performing the following
Friday night in Turner’s paddock. “You
were a mug,” Turner said to Bill next
day. “You don’t want money. Give y’r
paddoqk for nothin’ for a shivoo and
knock back an easy quid for a circus,
And I’m gettin’ free seats for the family,
too. After all, they couldnt keep me out
of me own paddock! But next morning
Turner’s fowls had taken wing ; his cows
had broken the fences and his horses took
one look at the lions and the elephants
and lit out for the horizon. It cost him
a fiver to get his assorted stock out of
the pound over at Tandem Bend. •
* » * *
“Blime”: Old Ted arrived and flopped
on the doorstep just as Dan came in from
work. “Keeping dry, Dan.” “Yair.”
Dan chucked a drowned magpie out of
the water barrel, skimmed a few flies off
the top and, bending nearly double, meas-
ured a couple of mugfuls into the tea
billy. Next he poured another pint into
a dish and proceeded to wash. With the
same water he cleaned his breakfast
dishes, mopped out the camp oven, rinsed
a pair of socks and bathed the withers of
his sweating nag. Then pouring the drop
that was left into a meat-tin, he stood
over it'to see the two tonguing mongs
shared it equally. “On y’r way outback,
Ted?” he inquired, coming in to see that
the tea billy didn’t lose any of its con-
tents by boiling. “No,” was the reply,
“the soak in the gully’s gone dry, so I
just come over t’ borrer half y’ drinkin’
water till the next rain.”
♦ * * *
“Jimmy Dux”: Tell “Sailor Bill” (B.
8/ 3/ ’44) that if he had been a tmshman
instead of a sailor he would have roasted
the bandicoot for his dog. Dogs will
eat both bandicoot and native cat when
roasted. But they would starve to death
rather than eat them raw.
* * * *
“Louden”: Old Bendy, a Murrum-
bidgee whaler, sat on the high bank on
the outer curve of the river, smoking and
wrestling with the effects of a bottleful
of dragon juice that he’d surrounded that
morning. Eventually overcome by drow-
siness he shoved the pipe into a waist-
coat pocket and lying back shielded his
eyes frpm the noonday sun with his hat
and went to sleep. Some time later he
was wakened by a burning sensation on
his stomach, and sitting tap he saw the
old ’Bidgee steamer Wagga Wagga going
down the lower reach just as his own
shirt and open waistcoat burst into flame.
Getting on his feet with amazing agility
for one of his years Bendy glissaded
down the red-soil slope into deep water
from which he was rescued by a passing
station hand, who thought he was trying
to commit suicide. To the end of his
days, Bendy firmly believed that the firing
of his garments was done by a spark
from the passing steamer.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: One of the queerest of
marine denizens is the trepang, that
comatose, sea slug so prized in happier
days (though not for the slug) by Chinese
epicures. When captured by Torres
Strait Binghi hunters, it is thrown into
the bottom of the dinghy or canoe,
where, nauseated by the bilge, it casts
up its entire inner mechanism. Should
the slug be then returned to its
natural element it will soon recover and
evolve a new set of entrails with no
apparent indisposition. Binghi captures
the deeper-dwelling varieties by first
observing the slug fathoms down through
a glass-bottomed box, then transfixing
the prize by means of a barbed plumbob
suspended at end of a very long line.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Is there a more observ-
ant animal than a dog? A few seconds
after I’d heard what I thought was a gun
report my purebred' mongrel began
barking with extraordinary violence as
he raced excitedly from the house to the
road and back. Nothing showed on the
road, and nothing appeared amiss. Still,
the dog was obviously agitated as he
stared, with hackles raised, down the
road. Following his slightly-upward
gaze I noticed a glint, as though from
the angle of the sun, on the high-tension
electric main about 200 yards away.
Suddenly there was a flash, and the wire
appeared to break. Investigation showed
that a dry stick (who said dry wood
wouldn’t conduct?) had fallen from a
wayside box-tree, crossed two wires and
caused a short-circuit. The stick and
both ends of the insulated wire were
burning on the ground when I arrived.
What I can’t puzzle out is how the dog
first saw it, and why he got so excited —
since no animal could have realised the
danger.
* * *
“Moyhu”: William Trezise, an early
settler on the small flats of the Upper
Ovens (Vic.), was struck by the contrast
between the rich soil of the flats, which
went down 30 feet and more, and the
steep, soil-free hills which dominated and
were included in his lease. Dreaming of
the rolling, grass-covered hills of his
native Cornwall, Trezise figured that if
he could return to the heights some of
the valley soil he would more than treble
his acreage of fertile land. By the use
of specially - trained Cashmere goats
hitched to billycarts loaded by himself
and his two sons he had within five years
achieved his object. At first the innova-
tor laid a thick coating of soil on the
ridges immediately bound it there
with a liberal sowing of native grasses,
gradually extending the soil covering to
the lowest slopes. Special goat tracks
were retained for maintenance work.
Unlike some latter-day settlers, Trezise
did not remove trees other than dead or
straggly specimens. The value of this
precaution was shown when during a
very wet winter occasional landslides
were arrested within a few hundred feet
by the well-rooted timber and were re-
placed with little more labor than the
filling of the billycarts and sprinkling a
few pounds of grass-seed over the dis-
turbed ground.
MEDICINE MEN.
I had a dream when I was young.
When, it would seem, my bare life hung
On the least touch, the merest hair;
My nurse would clutch my wrist and stare
At her thermometer and sigh.
I was not fated then to die—
Instead, each night, my mind deranged
Dreamed strangely, and Death’s plans were
changed.
When wrapped in prayers my people slept,
Down the dark stairs, it seemed, I crept,
And through the dark, sad, sighing pines
I saw the stark igid lines.
So to the gate where, patiently,
As slaves would wait, awaited me
Two jungle men as black as sin—
They saw me then and sidled in.
In silence, as if prearranged,
Was their routine; it never changed.
And then between them I would plod
With footsteps clean and shadow-shod
Through the night dew, past darkened doors,
Between the two big blackamoors,
Till windowpanes’ dim gleams became
Like jungle lanes where fireflies flame.
They 1 never slowed, they never sped.
But down the road like shadows fled;
And I ran, too, as light as they,
Through the night dew as though ’twere day;
And all my pain and all my fears
Fled like a rain of silent spears,
Flung to resist a cunning foe —
Only my wrist with warmth would glow.
We passed the church and that dark curve
Where buses lurch and tramcars swerve;
And there were none abroad —just we:
We were alone, a ghostly three,
Running along a jungle way.
Whatever throng went there by day
Was not there then; no lonely soul.
No drunken men who’d horpeward roll.
I did not seek to speak to those
Black runners sleek, who wore no clothes,
Nor shoes, whose feet made ne’er a sound,
Nor stones could bruise; through night pro-
found
They ran as though in forest deeps.
Someone, they knew, who never sleeps
Would have a balm my pain to ease
In that vast calm of night and trees.
Then as we ran we came again
To haunt's of men, to windowpane
And gloom that hid the darkened doors.
Then I would bid my blackamoors
Farewell. And they would bow and go—
Where their homes lay I did not know.
And then the pain would come, and then
I slept again as sleep sound men.
Until my breath is gone will I
Believe that Death thus passed me by.
His runners came and took me where
The death-fires flam? in jungle lair,
Yet ran me on to forest deeps
Seeking someone who never sleeps.
Who warmed me back to life; and so
Till life be gone this will I know;
Down that dark track my spirit sped
To win me back ere I was dead.
N.S.W.
WOLL LAWSON.


FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
Under instructions from Campbell Bros.,
AT ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
ON THURSDAY. 20th APRIL, 1944, AT NOON,
THE WELL-KNOWN PROPERTY,
"RANGER'S VALLEY"
24,967 acres Freehold.
903 acres, Cond. Pur. (approx. £3OO owing to Crown),
25,870
A First-Class Sheep and Cattle Property, with a High Carrying Capacity.
Situated 18 miles from Glen Innes and 6 miles from Dundee Trucking Siding, general!*
undulating granite formation, timbered with Box, Gum, Appletrae, Oak, Peppermint, and
Stringybark, which has been Judiciously cleared and sufficient left for shelter purposes.
Very well watered by Severn and Beardy Rivers, Cam and other creeks, and five ground
tanks. Exceptionally well improved, with boundary fences netted and three netted sub-
divisions. Subdivided into 27 main paddocks and seven smaller paddocks. Sheep and
cattle yards in good order.
Buildings comprise commodious brick and stone homestead, surrounded by delightful
gardens; hot water, electric light, and sewerage equipped in homestead. Large woolshed.
10 stands equipped, and steam engine. Ample other buildings.
"RANGER’S VALLEY" has an average annual rainfall of about 30 ins. The famous OBX
brand of cattle are bred af "Ranger’s Valley."
Solicitors: BORTHWICK & BUTLER, INVERELL.
For further particulars apply to:—
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY (Incor. in England, 1863),
CLAUDE BLOXSOME, GLEN INNES.
Agents in Conjunction.
AND
''GURTEEN" STATION
A Good Cattle Property, with Some of the Area Suitable for Sheep,
Under instructions from
Mrs. I. V. A. Campbell, F. S. C. Butler, Esq., and
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), SYDNEY,
Executrix and Executors of the Will of the late Colin James Campbell.
8,636 acres, Freehold.
1,512 acres, Conditional Pur. (£5OO due to Crown).
10,148 acres. /
Situated 50 miles north of tenterfield, 25 miles from Warwick, 14 miles from Killarney,
and two miles from Lower Acacia P.O. and School.
Granite formation and red and black soils, timbered with Box, Red Gum, and Stringy-
bark. Very well watered by Maryland River, Acacia Creek, Springs and Dams. Homestead,
5 rooms and Wizard lighting plant, and several outbuildings.
"GURTEEN" is enclosed by either rabbit-netting or secure cattle fences. Subdivided
into 15 large paddocks, with small paddocks about the homestead.
Solicitors: BORTHWICK & BUTLER. INVERELL.
For further particulars apply to: —
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
(INCOR. IN ENGLAND. 1863). 4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., TENTERFIELD (Incor. in England).
Agents in Conjunction.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS. *
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. *
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOE NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD,
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
rn\ \Ccd-'® 1
J Sterilised
C
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of anv other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
A ll particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 088
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Salt for Sheep.
“J.R.D.”: N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture has issued a report op experi-
ments conducted in New England to dis-
cover what results, if any, were to be
obtained from feeding sheep without
mineral licks. The tests were op grown
sheep over periods ranging from 18
weeks to 12 months, the shorter periods
covering winter months only. Each lot
of sheep started off in practically the
same condition, weighing roughly 80lb.
live weight. In each case comparison was
made with part of the mob grazed under
normal copdiftqns.
Some sheep were grazed on natural
pasture only, some on improved pasture
and some on natural pasture plus 4oz.
maize per day.* The mineral licks experi-
mented with in open troughs comprised
(a) salt alone, ( b) salt plus iron carbon-
ate, (c) salt plus dicajcic phosphate and
molasses, (d) salt plus dicalcic phos-
phate. In addition some sheep were given
a mineral mixture to ensure that every
sheep got its share.
Sheep were weighed before, during and
after the experiments, and wool weights
were also recorded. The results indicate
no appreciable advantage in the addition
of mineral supplement, whether com-
bined with grain or not. Details are not
given regarding the actual mixture of
mineral lick supplied, but the amount of
salt consumed per sheep each week
appears remarkably low in comparison
with the amount of dicalcic phosphate
eaten, so it may be that salt and di-
calcic phosphate were fed separately or
the mixture may have comprised a very
small proportion of salt in a phosphate
concentrate.
Quite a number of those on natural
pasture alone failed to survive the New
England winter. Those that received
supplementary feeding maintained their
live weight to the end of the trial, but
sheep on improved pastures did remark-
ably well. Sheep on natural pastures
were stocked at the rate of three to four
acres, while the improved pastures were
stocked at two to the acre. On a per-
acre basis the improved pastures not only
carried the sheep through in excellent
condition but the greatest benefit was
observed in the weights of wool grown
per acre. The sheep on improved pas-
tures were given no salt, yet the return
in wool was 131 b. per acre, valued at
21s. 2d. more than the sheep on natural
pastures, with or without salt licks. This
figure does not take into account the cost
■of providing salt licks to the other sheep.
Wheat for Dairy Cows.
“Myrrhee”: Grind the wheat to a
fairly fine, gritty texture. As the meal
is apt to run together and form a doughy,
glutinous mass which cannot be regurgi-
tated and may sour the rumen, causing
food-sickness, mix in some chaff to keep
the mixture friable —at least 11b. of chaff
to every 41b. of ground wheat. Any kind
of chaff, including flax-boll, may be
used.
Wheat isn’t rich in protein, and if green
pasture or good lucerne-hay or -chaff is
“A Digger tol' me if We gave her spaghetti We could make some o’ that
Eyetalian cheese out o’ the milk.”
not to be had add a protein-rich meal
such as meatmcal or linseed-meal; lib.
of meatmeal or 31b. linseed-meal wifii
51b. ground wheat will do.
An almost ideal ration for a three-
gallon cow where no other food is avail-
able is 101 b. good oaten chaff, 121 b.
ground wheat, 21b. meatmcal, loz. ground
limestone. If meatmeal or chaff is scarce
try 241 b. daily of the following mixture:
61b. chaff, 121 b. ground wheat and up to
121 b. of bran, pollard, linseed-meal or
other common concentrate —21b. of grass-
hay could be used to replace 11b. of
ground wheat. Where handfeeding is
necessary it will be more profitable to
keep the cow ip production than to dry
her off
Tomato Seed.
“Karma”: Commercial tomato-growers
and home gardeners should be on the
lookout for good-type, heavy-yielding,
disease-free plants from which to savei
seed. Bacterial canker is a curse.
Seed treatment with acetic acid steeps or
with fungicidal dusts is of value, but the
safest way is to select from plants known
to be cleap. Go through the crop at
ripening of the first fruits and mark
plenty of good-type plants. From these
pick out the best and save the seed. One
good plant should yield enough fruits to
provide seed for about 4000 plants.
Set your standards before selecting the
seed plants and stick rigidly to them.
Don’t be misled by large, growthy plants
with a few super fruits —these may be
“bucks,” and will be shy bearers. Look
for plants with regular and well-spaced
fruit trusses, borne well up to the top
of the stake. Good-shaped, moderate-
sized fruit, free from circular and star
cracking, should be sought, and any
showing white or brown spots or flecks
should be avoided.
C.S.I.R. officers have evolved a method
which produces a high yield of excellent
seed. Hydrochloric acid is used to free
the seed from the flesh and mucilage, and
the sepd can be washed out after one
hour. Squeeze the pulp and' seeds into
a non-metal container and add the acid
at the rate of two fluid ounces to each
251 b of tomatoes used. Stir well and
allow to stand one hour, then add water
and stir. The seed sinks, and the liquor
and pulp can be poured off. Wash well
and spread out to dry on calico or paper
(not hessian) in the shade. Rake seed
about to hasten and even up drying and
to prevent seed lumping together.
Locusts.
“Plane Creek”: For several months
they've been in plague proportion along
the Queensland coast, and cane crops and
grazing areas have copped it hot. Dam-
aged cane may recover if left alone frqfrn
now on, but if the plague continues heavy
losses are inevitable.
Farmers in the Mackay (N.Q.) district
report an 80-90 p.c. kill with* poison baits.
Arsenic, however, is scarce. Queensland
Department of Agriculture recommends
this: Bran 251 b., molasses 41b., water
2ygal., arsenic pentoxide ilb. Dissolve
molasses and pentoxide in separate con-
tainers, each containing a pint of boiling
water. Stir both solutions well, add half
the remaining cold water to each vessel.
Pour the molasses solution into the other
and stir thoroughly Pour the poisonous
solution on to the bran and stir the mass
on a metal sheet until a daffip, crumbly
mash is evolved. Because arsenic pent-
oxide is injurious to the skin, do the
stirring with a suitable stick or discarded
spoon. Cover your hands with a protec-
tive film of vaseline as an added pre-
caution.
Best results are obtained where “breed-
ing beds” are baited. During a bad
locust plague myriads of egg-laying
locusts are found on every bare patch of
ground. Lay the poisonous material
amongst the females. When the adults
have gone the “breeding beds” should be
closely watched and the poison bait dis-
tributed when the young locusts are
noticed. Being weak and wingless, the
baby locusts are unable to travel far
afield for a number of days. If there is
skilful baiting, whole colonies rpay be
annihilated.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Summer is not the time
to operate on stock. Not only are flies
more prevalent and the risk of infection
much greater than in the cool months,
but the blood is thinner, and severe bleed-
ing usually follows deep cutting. There
are men who make no attempt to
arrest marked haemorrhage after a cow
has been dehorned. Be on the safe side
by tying a string firmly around the top
of the head before dehorning, as they do
in America. The string will keep the
arteries partly closed and greatly lessen
bleeding. Don’t use the knife on stock
that are hot and excited.
“H.C.”: fed ground, value of grain
sorghum falls little short of maize as
cattle feed. Crushing reduces the amount
of indigestible matter excreted; fine
milling enables the cow to make use of
it as a first-rate concentrate. When short
of maize substitute crushed sorghum;
51b. of it equals 61b. of pollard.
“Graz”: As a substitute for nicotine
sulphate for spraying fruit trees and vege-
tables simmer on the stove 71b. fresh
soft soap in one quart of water until
uniformly melted. Then dissolve in the
mixture 12oz. flaked naphthalene. Remove
and stir ip a quart of kerosene Until
thoroughly mixed. For spraying use
three tablespoons of the mixture to one
gallon of water (soft for preference) on
soft-leaved plants and four tablespoons
for others.
“Kay”; In erecting bush huts for use
as dining or meeting halls build with de-
tachable sides. The sides fastened up
against the ceiling during the day enable
a fresh and cooling current of air to flow
through; they are let down at night.
“Steve”: Build the haystack wider
than the average. A wide stack settles
down hefter and the ends do not slip. In
going round the ends (assuming the
builder makes round-ended stacks) make
the turn as quickly as possible so that the
stack is almost square cornered. Use the
fork, keeping the stack well packed in
centre (not banked up) and fairly level.
As the weight comes on the outer sheaves,
being “unpacked” they tilt outwards and
downwards, which is the aim of all
builders.


Siiii
Jiil
liiiiiiililii
V '
iiiil!
liiiiiiilii?
i
Siiiiijiiiiiiiiii
iiiiiiiiiiliiiiii
i\ ’mf.m \
I::::;:;:;:;::;::
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
241 D-U 43
CHOCOLATE HELPS
THEM TO CARRY ON . . .
# X
#
*1
* NV
B
%NX '\s^\
li
ass
m'
§^s
m
m
»
m
Mi
il
\v\\
im\\
THERE'S a lot of food value in a bite of choco-
late, which makes it a grand stand-by for the boys in
the Services. That's the reason for the demand from
Army, Air Force and Navy for Cadbury's Chocolate.
But you can still occa-
sionally obtain a block
of Cadbury's Dairy
Milk Chocolate or
Energy Chocolate from
your confectioner, ex-
cept in N.S.W. and S.A.,
where we are unable
to distribute owing to
transport regulations.
mi
ic
%
CO
DM82a.15
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s Pay-as-you-earn.
( From a “Britain Today" article by O. R.
Hobson.)
From the taxpayer’s point of view the
time-lag between the receipt of income
and the payment of tax due on it raised
the spectre of how to find the unpaid tax
in the event of his losing his employment
through ill-health or old age or bad trade
or death. From the Government’s point
of view there was the undeniable prob-
ability that af the end of the war a wave
of unemployment (even purely temporary
unemployment) would render uncollect-
able many millions of tax.
So arose an insistent demand —a clamor
—for the adoption of a system in which
this “lag” between earning and tax pay-
ment did not exist and in which the prol>
lem of tax deduction from fluctuating pay
envelopes was settled once for all—a sys-
tem of “pay-as-you-earn.”
The attempt to devise such a "system
encountered two major difficulties. The
“first was the plain fact that if tax collec-
tion was to catch up income-earning
either the taxpayer would have to pay
double tax over a period or else the fax
relative to the “lag” would have to be
forgiven. The second was that, if the
taxpayer was paying tax as he earned it,
it must clearly be a matter of great tech-
nical difficulty to devise as “tidy” a sys-
tem as the previous one as regards adjust-
ment of claims in respect of children, in-
surance, etc., which varied greatly be-
tween one taxpayer and another.
From the very nature of the circum-
stances which led to the demand for “pay-
as-you-earn” it was at once obvious that
the forgiveness of the taxation appro-
priate to the “lag” period was indispen-
sable. The ethics of remitting so huge an
amount of taxation—the amount for all
weekly wage-earners was estimated at
£250,000,000, of which, however, the
Exchequer would in any case have ulti-
mately had to refund about half under
the post-war credits scheme—gave rise
to a great deal of discussion. Full con-
sideration, however, led to the conclifsion
that this remission was more nominal
than real and would not in any case cause
immediate loss to the Exchequer.
Under the “pay-as-you-earn” Scheme
finally devised by the Inland Revenue
experts no taxpayer ceases to pay tax for
a single week. The only immediate dif-
ference will be that in April he will start
paying tax in respect of his current earn-
ings instead of paying in respect of his
earnings of ten (or seven) months back.
In a good many cases —where wages .have
risen—he will actually pay more than he
would have done had “pay-as-you-earn”
not been adopted. True, when his em-
ployment ceases —or if his earnings fall
off—he will gain and the Exchequer will
lose correspondingly. Even so the tax
payments of new entrants into industry,
who will start paying earlier than they
would have done, will for some time to
come offset the loss sustained by the
Exchequer in respect of workers who
leave industry and cease paying tax earlier
than they would have done.
Furthermore, the fact that any change
in tax rates will now have a more imme-
diate repercussion on the revenue than
under the old system of the “lag” is
bound to be taken into account when the
question of reduction of income tax after
the war comes up for serious considera-
tion. With “pay-as-you-earn” in force
the Chancellor of the Exchequer will,
without doubt, have to defer his tax con-
cessions beyond the date when he would
otherwise have felt justified in granting
them, or the concessions will have to be
smaller than they would have been. In
that way he will to some extent take back
with one hand what he has “forgiven”
with the other.
Revaluation of Japs.
(From a report by the Manchester “Guardian’s "
special correspondent in New Guinea.)
When the Japanese entered the war the
Allies tended to underestimate the Japa-
nese soldier. Six months later they had
rushed to the other extreme. Now, after
two years, they are arriving at a fuller
and truer appreciation. But even with
all the experience gained of the Japanese-
soldier, especially in this theatre of fight-
ing, it is still dangerous to make facile
generalisations about his morale. Those
Australian troops who have had most
experience of fighting the Japanese soldier
never underestimate his formidability,'
and this although they habitually inflict
a far higher rate of casualties than they
themselves sustain.
Recent experience in New Guinea sug-
gests that the most notable characteristic
of the Japanese soldier is not the fanati-
cism for which he was given so much
credit in the early days of the war but
rather a blind and unquestioning sub-
servience to authority. Officers and
n.c.os., having been longer and more in-
tensely indoctrinated and being conscious
of their responsibilities, do appear to have
an ardor which might be called fanati-
cism.
The private soldier is also subjected,
chiefly by his officers, to a considerable
amount of “seishin kyoiku,” that spiritual
training to which the Japanese Army at-
taches so much importance. But there
appears to be little fanaticism in his
make-up. He is extraordinarily depen-
dent upon his officers and very much at
a loss when, as has happened more than
once in this theatre, all his officers are
killed. On such occasions he huddles
together with his fellows and seems to
be deprived of all power of action and
decision.
Australians who have had experience of
fighting German and Italian troops look
upon the Japanese as a sort of animal,
a being so far outside their experience
that he can scarcely be included in the
human category. They cannot conceive
that he is capable of the same human
emotions which they themselves feel —
fear, love or homesickness. Some learn
with surprise that the Japanese soldier
can read and write, and are shocked if
told that the standard of literacy in Japan
is higher than in either Australia or the
United States. The truth is that the Japa-
nese soldier is a very human being and
an unwilling exile, but his training, both
in the army and in civil life, has been
very different from that of the Allies, and
very much stricter.
Promising the Impossible.
(From an article by Henry J. Taylor in the
U.S. service men’s publication the “Legion
Magazine.”)
If our [U.S.j political leadership at
home does not mend its reckless ways
the military victory will lose its real
meaning.
Among dangers are these;
(1) The belief that American genero-
sity can bring* the world prosperity.
Beyond the most immediate and tem-
porary relief, the other countries of the
world must do many things for them-
selves before America can help them very
much.
(2) That a world built on arbitrary
Anglo-Americanism (for that’s what our
policy of exaggerated internationalism is)
will be a peaceful world. Our policy of
exaggerated internationalism is as war-
provoking and foolhardy as is narrow
isolationism.
(3) That we can dole out freedom, as
though it were some commodity, to all
the peoples of the world. Eighty per cent,
of the people of the world simply are not
ready for what we are talking about.
Eighty per cent, of the world’s people
would not use universal freedom to main-
tain universal peace.
Good government is a prerequisite to
winning this war in such a way that some-
thing more than disillusionment can
come with the peace. The direst threat to
America’s future—and to the world’s
future, too, because a healthy world is
impossible without a healthy America —■
lies in the reckless promises of our open-
handed leaders. They conjure up a world
Arcady—peaceful, prosperous and uni-
versally in love with America. This
vision, in itself, is not evil, of course,
but that fact makes it none the less dan-
gerous. For when primitive peoples
throughout the world are solemnly told
America will and can breathe freedom
and prosperity into their lives, they make
their own definitions of freedom and
prosperity and then get ready to hold us
to our impossible promises.
Dreams tempered with practicality are
the signposts of progress. Promises which
none can fulfil do lasting harm. The
Atlantic Charter, interpreted abroad as
America’s promise of freedom to the
peoples of Europe, Asia and Africa, is
a stirring document. Freedom has been
fought for and died for by the heroes of
the world since the world began. But
the Charter is a false proposal, for it is
not rooted in the facts, and its “prom-
ises” will not be kept.
We cannot solve, overnight and from
afar, the complicated, centuries-old prob-
lems of the Old World. These are prob-
lems of races, religions, superstitions,
customs. Their solutions lie in recognis-
ing the limits of human nature and the


v-
V
Q. *ff)
f
Production Is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have .difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Posted for General Service. —To save man-
power, Gillette “Standard” Blades now replace
Gillette, and the 7 o’clock. But you will find these
“Standard” Blades are still the best shave you
can buyso when you get them, make them last.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and*fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
The Prosperity of our Manufacturing
Industries
IS THE PROSPERITY OF THE NATION
The more active our factories are, the
less unemployment there is in Australia.
Full pay envelopes mean an active buying
market for our own manufactured goods.
Australia thrives on the prosperity of her
own manufacturing' industries.
The demands of war have proved that
here in Australia we are able to make
practically everything necessary for the
comfort and well-being of our people.
The lessons our manufacturers have
learned from war’s urgent necessity will
be applied in the post-war years for the
benefit of Australia and the Australian
people, provided that our vigorous manu-
facturing industries are given the en-
couragement and protection which their
importance justifies and the prosperity
of Australia demands.
df
/* ///
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
PORT K E M B L A, N, S. W.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tube*
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste ana
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and m a ; l
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg P a: ®>
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffine® under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scan.
passages, with smarting and burning, show there
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contai
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidnej.,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store tor
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILES . . .
successfully the world over by millions of P C "°P •
They give quick relief and will help to flush o™__
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOANS BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or sto**.
short distance we have gone along the
road to universal education.
Americans who propose to remake the
world overnight, as a result of this war,
will in their haste end by disgusting our
own people with the rest of the world and
the rest of the world with us.
Americans may take our global-
planners lightly. Peoples abroad do not.
We are piling hope on hope, dream on
dream, building up an airy structure that
will collapse after the war, bringing dis-
illusionment. And in this disillusionment
we are sowing the seeds, not of peace’ but
of continual war.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
History may fix El Alaraein as the turning-
point in the war. It was the Allies’ first strate-
gic success of unreversed consequences. It
was there that Germany lost her initiative, never
to regain it. In June of that year the Battle
of Midway halted the tide of Japanese aggres-
sion in the Pacific, but it was a defensive vic-
tory. Stalingrad was a German disaster of
vastly greater magnitude, the fruits of which
Russia is still reaping; but Von Paulus did
not surrender his army there until three months
later. El Alamein was a triumph so shining it
need compete with no other. — N.Y. “Times:”
*'* * *
Argentina is probably more immune to sanc-
tions than any other country in the world today.
Its only serious wants from the outside world
are manufactured consumers’ goods of which
neither Britain, Russia nor the United States
has any large exportable surplus. Shutting
off what few automobiles and typewriters and
sewing machines do go there wouldn’t be an
effective way of putting much pressure on
Argentina. Refusing to buy their raw materials
would hurt us more than it would them. They
have a surplus of exportable beef and hides
which Britain, particularly, uses and needs. Re-
fusing to buy would probably drive the remain-
ing big ranchers of Argentina over the bank-
ruptcy cliff which has already claimed many
of them. But it wouldn’t hurt most of the
people. It would only make the cost of food
cheaper in a country which now eats better than
any other in the world. — Washington correspon-
dent “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
There were more strikes in Great Britain and
Northern Ireland in 1943 than in any other
year in this century. The total was 1775,
the highest since the Labor Ministry started
keeping records in 1893. — London correspon-
dent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
There may or may not have been some inci-
dent behind the peace negotiation rumor. Both
Russia and Britain are supposed to have con-
ducted some indirect talks with Nazi peace-
bearers from time to time in order to sound out
the enemy for military purposes. These, how-
ever, in no way impair the genuineness of the
agreement among the United Nations for un-
conditional surrender. To the contrary, some
negotiations are proceeding now between Russia,
Britain and the United States for occupation
of Germany when victory finally is won. It is
being decided what part of Germany Russia
will occupy no matter who gets to Berlin first.
—Washington correspondent N.Y. “Journal-
American.’ 1 '
* * * *
A European statesman—not a Pole—told this
writer that, since the flare-up of the Soviet-
Polish dispute, he had observed an increasing
tendency toward isolationism in the U.S.A.
He agreed that, as of this moment, probably 85
p.c. of the American people appear to favor
the Fulbright and the Connally resolutions.
But, he recalled, the first of these specifies
“a just and lasting peace,” while the second
endorses the declarations of Moscow as “the
basis of-a treaty or treaties between the United
States and such nations as the President may
deem advisable.” Boiled down, this- indicates
that American participation in post-war peace
enforcement depends,(l) on whether or not the
American people believe the peace is just and
deserves to be durable, and (2) on whether, in
their opinion, the spirit of the pact’s of Moscow
has been observed. And the dismemberment of
Poland by unilateral action would scarcely
seem to fit into the picture as the people of
the United States see it. — William Philip Simms;
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * - *
English pilots get one-third the pay of their
American equivalents, but “both go over Ger-
many and drop the same number of bombs.”
By the same token British and American
lines might be making the same runs after
the war. Everything else being equal, it seems
natural to expect that the less expensive will
get the business.— U.S. aviation writer Arch
Whitehouse.
-1! * * *
Canada has built 300 10,000-ton freighters in
the last four years, and will have built 400
by war’s end. Many of the ships are lend-
leased, but will return to Canadian possession
with the armistice. They will form the nucleus
for a shipping fleet to carry Canadian products
to every part of the world. Post-war shipping
in Canada will be in private hands, although
the Government will continue to subsidise ship-
ping, probably through mail contracts. — U.S.
United Press.
* * * *
A pellet which prevents and cures seasickness
—and airsickness—-has been discovered by ‘the
medical research unit of the Royal Canadian
Navy. The honors go to Surgeon Capt. C. H.
Best, who worked out the formula with the late
Sir Frederick Banting, co-discoverer with him
of insulin. The formula will remain a military
secret until peace is declared, but production
of the capsule is already under way and soon
there will be enough to make the pellets avail-
able for all the Allies. Seasickness and air-
sickness in war is a much more serious prob-
lem than the discomfort of the' sea traveller
in peace-time. In case of abandonment of a
sinking ship, the chances of survival by a man
weakened by nausea is greatly reduced. In
cases of survivors on a life raft, loss of body
fluids by vomiting is a vital matter in relation
to thirst and water supply.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
It must be recognised that as the offensive
approaches Formosa and the main Japanese
islands the across-the-Pacific strategy will face
serious difficulties. Our supply fines will be
greatly extended while those of the enemy will
be extremely short. And even when we suc-
ceed in winning back the Philippines we shall
still be too far from Japan for effective bombing
of its main islands. It was doubtless with this
limitation in mind that Admiral Nimitz recently
declared that in his opinion “Japan will be
defeated from China.” — “Nation” U.S.A.
* * v *
If the major Powers make an unsatisfactory
settlement in Europe or otherwise indispose the
European people, it is we [British], far more
than our partners, who will be called on to
foot the bill. While it is abundantly clear to
us all that we must cultivate the closest re-
lations of friendship with the Dominions, the
United States, and the Soviet Union, it is not
so evident, after three years, of total separation,
that the same close relatioris with the friendly
peoples of Europe are, for Great Britain at
least, a vital necessity. We are today an
integral part of Europe, where our strategic
and economic future is deeply engaged. If we
turn these peoples against us by domineering
over them or neglecting them these hurts will
rankle, as is the way with human memories,
Jong after the part we played in their liberation
is forgotten; and we may sow the seeds of one
of the gravest dangers with which we can be
confronted —a voluntary “Continental
—Sir Geoffrey Knox; Manchester “Guardian.


Public Notices.
I, IZRAEL lOEK RZEZAK, of Polish nationality,
born at Sitashov, Poland, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at Mulgawarrina Station,
Nyngan, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PIETRO SANTANGEIX), of Italian nationality,
bom at Adrano (Italy), and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at Oxford Falls, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under' the Nationality
Act 1920-1936. ‘
I, ERIO (ERIOH) KUGEL, of Austrian nationality,
now being regarded as Stateless, born at Vienna,
Austria, and resident five years in Australia, now re-
siding at 30 Clanalpine Street, Eastwood, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
‘There were Reservoirs
and Grand Canals...
yj
M
~ aJ
“/ saw a vision in days gone by and would dream that dream again —
Of the days when the Darling shall not back her billabongs up in vain.
There were reservoirs and grand canals where the dry country had been
And a glorious network of aqueducts and the fields were always green.’*
—Henry Lawson.
That vision of a glorious future for Australia can become a reality in the
peaceful days to come. Back from the fighting fronts and with an amazing
knowledge of modem tractors and earth-moving equipment, our men could
trap, into great dams, billions of gallons of water now flowing needlessly to the
sea. Then with similar equipment they could build canals and ditches to take
this water to millions of thirsty acres. So would our land become a land of
plenty ... a land fit for heroes to live in. All this can be done with Caterpillar
Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth - Moving Equipment at a fraction of
the cost and the time of older methods.
*
Laying a pipe line with Caterpillar
Tractor and Sideboom
I
: a x e R pl
** c . p^f ers Sydney. 'Phone~-£A3 3 • - Grafton. 102 Melbourne
“" s * c , E rTI M c A T E s
WAR
Wm
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • •
Always smooth
i
Carreras Ltd—l 34 Years' Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a trailer.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 B
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
What deductions are made from invalid and
old-age pensions for property owned by the
pensioner ?
Where a pensioner has property (other than
the home in which he permanently resides, the
value of which is exempt for pension purposes)
the rate of pension otherwise payable is sub-
ject to a deduction of £1 for every complete
£10 by which the net capital value of such
accumulated property exceeds £50. If this value
exceeds £400, no pension is payable. In the
case of husband and wife, the property of each
is held to be half the combined property of
both. Cash in hand, banked money and sur-
render value of insurance policy are regarded as
income.
* * * *
Treatment for de-worming a horse ?
A mixture of two parts of carbon tetra-
chloride with three parts of liquid paraffin is
administered in the following ratio: Ponies and
horses under two, two fl. oz.; horses ovei; two,
three fl. oz.; draught horses, four fl. oz. The
animal should be starved for 24 hours prior
to treatment. The mixture is then administered
as a drench.
* * * »
How much gold has been won in Australia
since its discovery, and how much of that
quantity has been produced in Victoria and
W.A. ?
Total, 162,604,978 fine ounces; Vic.,
72,708,801oz.; W.A., 49,283,032oz.
* * * *
How' to waterproof canvas?
(a) Dissolve 5oz. alum in one gallon of
boiling water. (6) Dissolve 4oz. sugar of lead
in one gallon of boiling water. Mix (a) and
C b ) and stand overnight, then pour off clear
liquid and throw away sediment. Soak canvas
in solution until thoroughly wet, then squeeze
but do not wring; partly dry, repeat the dip-
ping, squeeze out again and dry.
* * * *
What is Britannia metal, and hew does its
value compare with that of pewter and silver ?
Britannia metal is an alloy of tin, copper and
antimony, sometimes containing zinc. The com-
mercial value of Britannia metal and pewter
is comparatively low, and the value of an article
made of them would depend on workmanship.
In the case of silver articles the alloy used is
of relatively high intrinsic worth.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Billy Jones win the Aus-
tralian welterweight championship? (2) Who
heat him for it? (3) What boxers have held this
title from then up to the present time ?
(1) Russ Critcher, in 1932. (2) Jack Carroll,
in 1933. (3) Carroll retired as champion in 1938.
Bennell, Westbury, Reilly and McLaughlin have
been claimed as successors, but Patrick (who
twice defeated McLaughlin before he accounted
for Bennell) is really the first undisputed welter-
weight champion since Carroll retired.
H*
What were the weights of Eugene Criqui and
Sid Godfrey at the time of their fight at Sydney
Stadium in 1921 ?
Godfrey, Criqui, 8.12^.
Brief Answers.
P.F.: Stanley Brogden’s The Australian Free-
lance would help you R.R.: Information
can be found in any good encyclopaedia or
history book... .J.P.R.: A wetting agent known
as “Wetsit” may be obtained from Hermon
Slade and Co., Primrose-avenue, Rosebery,
N.S.W J.D.: Skins should first be tanned
and then stretched G.E.: Campaign medals
will not be issued until the end of the war;
when available medals, but not ribbons, may
be worn by next-of-kin of deceased personnel.
N.B.W.: (1) A fair number of that family
came out to Australia from 1815 onwards. (2)
Lord Wakehurst’s colors are blue and gold....
E.H.T.: Trouble could be canker of mouth, lips
or gums, tooth trouble or fur ball M.G.S.:
Never heard of that boxer attaining prominence
in Maoriland M.L.: The Dukedom of
Richmond was created in 1675 for a natural
son of Charles II L.B.: (1) Means “greatest
height.” (2) Definitely does not affect growth.
... .F.L.; Second-hand claviers are worth
about £7 H.L.D.; He did not fight in the
last war.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
DJ.T.: It begins in the middle.. . .A.R.: No
notice will be taken of contributions addressed
personally to members of the staff A.R.C.:
Archaic S.H.: Too thin, too jingly P.G.:
Try elsewhere R.S.N.: Misses... .A.C.P.:
For private circulation 0n1y... .M.P.P.: Apples
unripe E.M.C.: Both lightweights
G.R.D.: No luck R.G.U.: hobgoblins,
gnomes and elves are shot on sight A.N.S.:
Atmosphere pleasant, emotion and technique
weak H. 8.: Send what you please R.C.:
Come again G.J.: You haven’t made it of
more than local interest H.H.: Background’s
right enough, but it’s weak on the story side
H.S.R.: Can’t face up to “the paradise of
our mature emotions” N.E.8.: Promising
if he’s very young N.M.C.; Too sweet. ...
V.A.: Feeble... .J.L.: Outdated... .G.E.O’L.i
Obvious E.M.T.: Try a woman’s paper.
P.M.J.: Nearly; a daily might take them.
A.P.R.: Gets nowhere C.J.: “Why, O
why, did I ever leave the city?” No beer?....
J.T.D.: Tillie Tellem’s broadcast delighted the
office boy VJ.B.: Your hints on obtaining
cigarettes caused a stampede among the staff.
T.J.D.: “The Hour” lasted five minutes.
T. 8.: This week’s worst.


WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR DIES
-Will YOUR ESTATE SUFFER
If you appoint an individual as Executor his
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devdted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. *By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
CHE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD..
Incorporated in Victoria in
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST-
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G, S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan - Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart: R. T Hilder
N.S.W., Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
/
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Town-
W. G. BROWN,/ General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd. ,
, Dividends— —
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 124 p.c. serves, serves, t
£’££ £ £ £
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO .. .. .. 42,053
Share premiums, £BO,OOO .. •• 72,053
174 p.c.
1936. 7500 li, 862 73,844 ), n 0 97 .
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j ’ ’
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583' .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
124 P-c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 1. 9 q , Q IQS q«n
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO ) 42)d4y lyB,i5DU
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
15 p.c.
1938. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 7 ,-- o 7RI n R
Staff fund and charities, £5600 } 58)155
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 • • 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
. £7500 184,939
174 P-c.
1939. 7500 14,000 194,950 ( 9 „ 1a9
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO ) 50)248 880)188
1940. .272,922 7500 14,000 194,950 I K ,
To charities, £5OOO .. .. J 61,472 Z8b,004
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 .. 406,749
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472,865
, 124 P-c.
1942. 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
11 p.c.
1943. .148,303 7500 14,000 122,540 4,263 570,168
12 p.c.
1944. .176,574 7500 14,000 133,680 21,394 591,562
t Excluding depreciation reserve, £309,989 at
31/l/’44.
Reduced turnover, higher costs and im-
paired trading efficiency have been the
inevitable experiences of retailers in a
managed economy, prime aim of which
is to cut down civilian consumption
and liberate maximum resources for
more urgent war needs. Still, for the
most part, well-handled chain stores of
the variety type have been able to make
internal adjustments to meet the change
in conditions, and therefore continue to
earn very satisfactory profits and pay
good divs. Indeed, this type of chain
trading has been one of the most profit-
able developments of modern merchan-
dising methods, and, subject to Govern-
ment interference, it promises to’ yield
satisfactory results in the post-war period.
Owing to conversion of manufacturers’
plants to production of war goods many
cheap lines and other inexpensive frills
of civilisation which Woolworths and
its subsidiaries used to sell have dis-
appeared from the market. Exchange,
shipping and other import difficulties
affected the crockery and chinaware sec-
tion of the business, and sales of sports-
wear fell away; mobilisation of women
ih the services, where stockings, under-
wear, etc., are ordinary items of issue,
replaced when worn out, gave turnover
in these items a jolt, and clothes ration-
ing put yet a further brake on takings.
At the same time the taxgatherer de-
manded a bigger share of takings, and
costs kept on gathering momentum —here
the overall price ceiling has lately had a
steadying effect —while man-power re-
quirements complicated staffing problems
and slowed down efficiency generally.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover and gross earn-
ings continued to retreat. But operating
exes, retreated £28,271 further, lifting the
net result to £176,574, or enough to pay
pref. divs. and show 13.9 p.c. on the
£1,113,999 of ord. capital as against 11.3,
20.8, 23.4 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1940. That
was after providing for depreciation
(£25,658, up £656) and paying the pre-
vious year’s tax bill (£72,617, down
£10,652). No specific provision was made
to meet the next tax bill when it arrives,
but the margin between earnings and dis-
tributions is considered more than ade-
quate for the purpose. The div. was lifted
a' point, making it 12 p.c., which is worth
a lot more to old holders because
£944,712 of paid capital represents bonus
scrip, scattered since 1930—£199,977 of
share premiums takes only a trifle of the
gilt off the gingerbread.
During the year the book value of
leaseholds expanded by £38,460, suggest-
ing the forging of another link in the
chain —the number of stores operating
isn’t broadcast. Here is the picture as
balance-sheet figures paint it:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£ & £ £
Paid capital 1,388,999 1,888,999 1,388,999 1,388,999
Liabilities. . 316,798 626,390 389,925 355,066
Freeholds, etc. 36,717 41,148 41,148 41,148
Leaseholds.. 82,506 82,065 75,745 114,205
Plant . . 282,531 350,928 344,317 345,734
Shares other
cos., etc... 1,226,263 1,376,263 1,376,263 1,376,263
Stocks .. 465,024 767,109 634,896 732,146
Debtors ... *344,626 *298,600 *206,242 108,454
Cash .. 6,479 8,627 19,442 41,896
* Includes advances to associated cos.— £58,291,
1937; £317,321, 1940; £287,624, 1942; £192,370,
1943 ; £98,163,1944.
Xiabilities (down £34,859) and debtors’
balances (down £97,788) are mainly inter-
co. current accounts. The growth of
£97,250 in the stocks item is a further
suggestion of the new link already re-
ferred to. Excluding shares in sub-
sidiaries, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£527,430)
was £56,775.
Combined figures of the seven sub-
sidiaries show a contraction of £67,085
in aggregate net earnings, £197,995, That
was after allowing an unspecified amount
for depreciation, paying the previous
year’s tax bills (£134,309, down £52,771)
and setting aside £248,401 (up £46,790) to
meet the next lot of Treasury demands
when they arrive. Divs. (£102,547) re-
mained steady. Stocks (£1,311,554) in-
creased by £263,821. Aggregate paid
capital is £1,983,996, of which £743,394 is
pref. and preferred ord. money costing
£47,304 p.a.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
t Dividends N
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
£ £ £
jfnof ‘ • 86,740 64p.e. 6& 7 p.c. 91,410 893,502
1936. .119,541 74,, 6& 7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £lOOO .. .. 910 101
Inin 182 ’ 863 74p.c. 6& 7 p.e, 103,942 989’,022
153)870 7 1., 6& 7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
1939. 162,995 74 „ 6& 7„ 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Co. absorbed.
Added purchase a/e, £24,225 . . 1,073,778
Net additions reserves, £229,957 .. 1,303,735
, Di l s -> etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446.. 1,296,289
1940 ' ,°' 4)B6 ° 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.e. 90,867 1,300,282
Added purchase a/c, £9709 .. .. 1,290,573
, Net additions reserves, £109,678 ..1,400,251
1941.. 114,580 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 112,389 1,402,442
Added purchase a/c £10,217 .. 1,392,225
Expenses debenture issue, £10,868 .. 1,381,357
Net additions reserves, £97*799 .. 1,479,156
1942., 103,204 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,204 1,479,156
Expenses debenture issue, £4911 .. 1,474,245
Tax reserve included with creditors,
• £74,459 .. .. .. , . 1,399,786
Net additions reserves, £109,521 .. 1’509,307
1943. .104,423 5| p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307
Vvnten off debenture exes.,’ £3944 .. 1,513 251
N®| additions reserves. £110,346 .. 1,f:23’597
194 !’; J ,x 153 ’, 85 , 6 , 5 1 P-c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,672,957
t After deducting intangibles (now £118,709).
Here private enterprise and bureaucracy
are running smoothly in double harness.
The co. is the executive factor in the big
scheme for extension of electric current
throughout the south-east of Queens-
land, from Gympie to the N.S.W.
border; and it holds a long-term fran-
chise covering the Tweed River district as
well.
Planning is controlled by the State,
which is represented by a commission,
whose job is in part to supervise co-ordi-
nation and extension of the supply of
current in the area concerned, leaving
the co. free to decide and carry out in
its own way difficult technical and other
problems upon which efficiency of an
undertaking of this kind hinges. Though
the commission does not interfere directly
in the co.’s domestic affairs, it is respon-
sible for fixing prices for current on a
basis designed to cover costs, plus depie-
ciation, plus enough to enable the co. to
add a moiety to the reserve fund and pay
contract rates on its debenture and pref.
capital and give the ords. 2 p.c. more
than is to be had from Commonwealth
loans issued for voluntary subscription
during the previous year.
The catch is that when public policy
is to keep interest rates down, and at
the same time the cost of living rises
sharply, as happened before the general
price ceiling was imposed last year, the
co.’s dividend formula operates counter-
clockwise to the formula used to calcu-
late wages. But the commission is not
unco-operative. Last year it agreed to
an alteration in its contract with the co.
In the event of the Government buying
the undertaking, provision is now made
for addition to the purchase price of
amounts by which the co.’s earnings fall
short, owing to conditions arising out of
the present war, of what it is entitled to
earn under its original contract. These
amounts are to be agreed upon from time
to time between the commission and the
co., which will also be indemnified against
any additional income tax incurred as
a result of this alteration. One of the
dangers about Government control is
that it carries authority without responsi-
bility.
Last term £119,492 (2.7 p.c. of cost of
all fixed assets at end of Jan. last) was
allowed for depreciation. The £153,856
(up £49,433) of profit that remained cov-
ered the pref. and standard ord. divs. and
enabled £49,359 —full amount permitted
—to be added to reserve fund (now
£90,343). That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £3944 written off debenture exes. In
the table net additions to reserves repre-
sent the allowance for depreciation, less
plant-written off.
During the year a new 25,000 k.w.
turbo alternator was installed and another
is on order. Net addition to the book
value of fixed assets was £271,806:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. .. £1,398.22S £1,945,879 £1,945,879
Debentures . . 912,000 912,000
Sundry creditors. . 179,925 257,362 314,325
Property, plant,
mains, etc. . . 2,180,699 4,124,197 4,396,003
Stock .. ... 120,912 352,138 322,905
Book debts, etc.. . 19’0,639 143,220 143,393
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 235,874 57,241 31,108
Owing to shortage of labor and materials
further extension of the undertaking has
been held up. When conditions permit
plans to be pushed ahead, shareholders
will be asked for more, and there are
sound reasons why the response should
be a good one.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd, (N.S.W.)
r Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Be-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1932.. 1,065 Nil Nil Nil 1,065 23,061
1933.. 9,296 Nil Nil Nil 9,296 32,357
1934.. 25.131 .Nil Nil Nil 25,131 57,488
1935.. 38.413 4.0 p.c. Nil 8,399 30,014 87,502
1936. .43.233 11.8 „ Nil 24,879 18,354 105,856
1937. .52,402 37.2 p.c. Nil 78,353 79,905
1938.. 53.640 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 29,082 24,558 104,463
1939.. 54.097 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,758 1,339 105,802
1940.. 52.883 6.2 ~ 6.2 „ 52,768 125 105,927
1941.. 44.572 7.1 „ 5.6 „ 50,818 99,681
1942.. 28.862 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,280 88,763
1943.. 47.079 8 „ 3 „ 36,081 10,990 99,761
■ * Subject to unspecified rights.
There is £850,940 of capital to feed in
639,885 ords. and the balance 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. Howard Smith and Australian
Iron and Steel own approx. 250,000 and
330,000 of the ords. respectively, and
£96,600 of the pref. capital apiece. Pro-
duction began at the anxious end of the
1920’5. But owing to slump and the
overcrowded state of the industry in
N.S.W. it was not until the last half of
the 1930’s that the co. began to make
financial headway, despite its connections
and favorable situation as regards trans-
port and markets. The prefs.* slate was
cleaned in 1937; they have since had
their statutorily-reduced rate and then
their full contract rate for the last two
years. And the ords. have managed
something, too.
In N. S, Wales the pre-war civilian
demand for cement, which evaporated
with the taboo on civil construction work,
was greater than the demand for war pur-
poses that replaced it. In 1938 produc-
tion had reached 460,700 tons; the figure
had dropped to 380,000 tons in 1941, and
has receded further since. For the most
part producers were working only half
time or thereabouts. So, as a rationalisa-
tion measure designed to meet service
man-power requirements, the Charbon
works of Standard Cement shut down.
That was in Oct., 1942, since when Stand-
ard has drawn its requirements from
Southern Portland’s 160,000-ton plant at
Berrima, which has thus had more of an
opportunity to cope with higher costs and
lower prices.
After providing something for the tax-
gatherer and allowing £48,748 (up £1554)
for depreciation, the board Was able to
write net earnings £18,717 better at
£47,079 for the 12 months to the end ot
Oct. last. The prefs. were again handed
their full contract rate, and enough re-
mained to show 4.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
But half a point was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 3 p.c., leaving £10,996 to
put on the shfclf.
Outstanding feature of the last decade


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
lOflflV
Filter
Cylinder
fg
i
ran a =m m
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2 S), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
c/vlote titan,
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the nois© and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cosine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
<S.
nei
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adtt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Owners of patents or smart ideas, useful
in the Indoor Game, Toy, Novelties, Building or
Plastic Industries, please write Box 3804 T, G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electria and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
SECURITY
is easy to arrange
\TO Government plan for Security can do much
more than provide the minimum of shelter,
food and clothing, without which human beings
cannot live as human beings.
If they want adequate security, men and women
must continue to provide it for themselves.
All men and women in good health can arrange
for whatever measure of personal or family security
they think, necessary by calling at any A.M.P. Office.
Members of the Society are at present protected
by 1,790,000 policies to the amount of £427,000,000.
Are you participating in all this comfort, peace
of mind and security?
AJM.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Haskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
A. M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
m
m
m
1
m
M
mm
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
O)
I
sS
e
heather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
B carings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY . 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
has been the remarkable improvement in
the co.’s finances:
1933. 1937. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £849,889 £850,940 £850,940 £850,940
Overdraft . . 210,953 27,829
Creditors .. 54,492 80,556 111,321* 116,149
Fixed assets,
rights, etc. ] , , on nnQ ( 916,926 692,548 664,239
Stocks J 1,120, uu» 39,476 103,659 104,332
Book debts . . 27,564 85,653 53,846 54,305
Cash, etc. .. 119 2,060 235,199 256,771
* Including taxation.
Last term surplus earnings and allowance
for depreciation, etc., enabled the over-
draft (£27,829 at previous balance) to be
wiped out and £21,572 to be added to the
already substantial cash holding, etc. —the
etcetera is £250,000 of Commonwealth
bonds. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£299,259) was £45,705.
Copper
Announcement by the British Govern-
ment of a 20-25 p.c. cut in its copper
purchases from beginning of this month
indicates that for immediate war puri
poses supply of this strategic metal has
run ahead of consumption, thanks to
rapidly-expanded > output of the big
Rhodesian producers. Here ownership is
British, but American interests have a
substantial stake in the field through stock-
holdings. Less than a year ago the British
Ministry of Supply asked the N’Changa
co. to step up production, and agreed
to find half the estimated capital expen-
. diture of £1,500,000. One question that
now arises is to what extent will world
requirements of the red metal after the
war match productive capacity, which
has responded handsomely to the
war stimulus? Nobody can say defi-
nitely. It is estimated that world pro-
duction is running some half-million tons
above pre-war level, and that potential
capacity is in the neighborhood of
3,000,000 tons p.a. Possible effect of all
this on prices suggests return to some
form of international agreement on pro-
duction, •
Australia’s main producer, Mt. Lyell
(Tas.), is a low-grade proposition, whose
pre-war output was mostly consumed
locally. All-in costs, then around £53
per ton copper, have advanced substan-
tially since. On the level of post-war
prices and cost will depend the grade of
ore than can be treated at a profit.
Government purchase of copper from
Mt. Isa (Q.) has practically ceased, be-
cause more of the stuff has been imported
from Africa than was needed to meet
current requirements of local manufac-
turers. This after the co. had, at Govern-
ment’s instigation, spent nearly £250,000
on developing its copper lodes and on
construction of new plant—the first pour
of blister was made on April 12, 1943.
Tindals, the London co. which owns
all the shares in Consolidated Gold Mines
of Coolgardie (W.A.), again emphasises
•die possibility of having to close down
the mine in Westralia for the duration,
unless losses diminish. Small tonnage,
owing to shortage of labor, and rising
costs are chief troubles. At the end of
1942 the operating co. owed £30,000 to
the Westralian Government, which in
June last advanced a further £3OOO. The
loan from the parent co. remains at
£221,400. For the 12 months of 1942
the operating co, registered a net loss of
£10,300, compared with a profit of
£17,200 for the previous year.
* * * *
Imperial Gold Mines, Ltd., of Adel-
aide, showed a loss of £9 for the year to
June 30 last, increasing the debit balance
to £14,878. Co. first tried its luck on
two shows at the south end of the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile, and opened a Lon-
don office. Later it disposed of its hold-
ings and plant piecemeal, and then put up
its London shutters. Later still it went
to Broken Hill, where operations were
also disappointing.
*\» * *
Firewood cutters on the Westralian
goldfields, who downed tools for more
pay and better conditions, are swinging
the axe again, pending the decision of
the Commonwealth Conciliation Commis-
sioner, who went from Canberra to Kal-
goorlie to hear both sides. Uncertainty
of full supplies, however, makes the re-
sumption by Golden Mile cos. difficult.
Premier Willcock has asked man-power
authorities for additional labor for wood-
cutting.
* * * *
G. Goldthorp Hay, who used to be
managing director, succeeds Douglas
Christopherson as chairman of London-
controlled Lake View and Star, operating
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.). He
is also president of Yukon Consolidated
Gold Corp. (a Canadian concern which
owns ten electrically-driven dredges oper-
ating in the Klondike area), is on the
board of Hellenic-Yugoslav Exploration
and Development Co. (formed in London
in 1940 as a prospecting and finance con-
cern), is a director of Mill Close Mines
(an English lead-zinc show which ceased
operations in 1940), and has been chair-
man of- the Westralian Mineowners’
Association.
* * * *
“O.B.”:
I have an old balance-sheet of Boulder Perse-
veiance—then known as Great Boulder Perse-
verance —which is interesting. It shows on the
assets side “Loan to the Chairman, £48,000.”
Shareholders were told at the annual meeting
that the amount, sent from Kalgoorlie to Lon-
don in the form of bar gold, was borrowed to
pay a pressing creditor and that the board had
the chairman’s word that it would be repaid
shortly. It wasn’t, as the debtor died before
he was able to redeem his promise. In those
days it was not uncommon for London-con-
trolled Westralian goldmining cos. to finance
their directors. One financial journal, com-
menting on the practice, said that of six directors
of one co. drawing big fees five wanted to
borrow money. Quite recently a director of
one co. with la shut-down mine got a grant of
£7OO “to be repaid when operations are re-
sumed.”


YOU
AND
YOUR
CAN
NEIGHBOURS
WN
THIS
%&3>
m
//a
I
XT*
m
ST
/
yk
'7
Tl
?>*
m
»
7/JA
HONOUR
PENNANTS
Pennants are awarded to each community that
reaches its quota either in amount of money or
number of subscribers. Special red pennants go
to the towns in each population class who most
exceed the quotas set. Mark your application
form and be sure ybur subscription is credited
to your district.
SPEED THE VICTORY!
SMASH YOUR DISTRICT’S QUOTA
IN THE FIRST VICTORY LOAN
Victory won’t just happen. It must be won, and
it will come sooner if each of us redoubles his
efforts. That means buying more Victory Bonds.
A fair quota has been set for every town and
municipality throughout Australia, so every dis-
trict has a chance to win one of the fine honour
pennants awarded for outstanding success in the
First Victory Loan Drive. When you apply for
your Victory Bonds, write the name of your
district on the form you sign and help to estab-
lish you and your neighbours as amongst those
who have fully backed our fighting
men. i
WATCH THIS BAROMETER
You’ll see it at different places round
your district—at the Town Hall, School
of Arts, Pictures, Leading Store. It
tells how well you and your neighbours
are responding to the urgent need to
fill the First Victory Loan.
INVEST IN THE/gPVICTORY LOAN
Make your application at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker
V.4.19
E
iTiwnmiimiiiir^fg
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Who Benefits?
From the debates on the Unemploy-
ment and Sickness Benefits Bill in Can-
berra last week it is plain that it was
conceived to serve a political purpose
firstly and a social one secondly. There
is no deep thinking as to the national
effects of the scheme in evidence any-
where in the legislation or the “plan”
behind it. Great economic principles are
involved as well as human ones, but clumsy
political minds are having their way in a
Government in which political and bureau-
cratic considerations are paramount.
The National Welfare Fund, which
will finance the unemployment and
sickness benefits, is to be “non-contri-
butory,” though most people who have
had anything to do with this sort of
thing will say that schemes such as
these should be contributory, even if sub-
sidised. The Beveridge plan in Britain was
to be contributory ; though shelved, it was
not shelved on that account. Far from it.
To those of a reflective turn of mind
it may seem odd that the present
Government is worrying about unem-
ployment at all. Because, if we are to
take any notice of the Department of Post-
war Reconstruction, if we barter certain
“mechanical” freedoms, such as that of
selecting our own jobs and in other ways
leading our own lives, we are to be
assured of freedom from unemployment
in the Government’s post-war “new
order.” If this freedom from unemploy-
ment is merely to come from a dole out
of an unemployment and sickness fund,
why put up with any restriction of liberty
at all? During the dole period of the
depression it was not necessary to restrict
liberties. And eventually we came out of
the slump.
Opposition-leader Menzies, criticising
the bill, said that to maintain a social
benefit on the scale contemplated by the
Government income tax from individuals
would have to be maintained at 12 times
its pre-war level. In this Mr. Menzies
and Dr. Coombs are to some extent in
agreement; the Director of Post-war Re-
construction has said that the post-war
world would undoubtedly demand per-
sonal concessions, and that taxation would
be higher than before the war.
But Mr. Menzies was more specific
than Dr. Coombs. He pointed out that
into the National Welfare Fund was to
be paid a quarter of the income tax col-
lected from individuals other than com-
panies, or £3O million a year, whichever
was the less.
That meant that income tax from
individuals would have to be main-
tained at £l2O million a year in
order to enable £3O million a year
to be paid into the fund. (At the present
time personal income tax, both State and
Federal, runs to about £l4O million a
year.) Before the war Federal income
tax from personal sources had been a
little under £lO million a year,
“If we are* going to maintain taxation
at that level in perpetuity,” added
Menzies, “then we are going strike a
blow at private enterprises, on which our
reconstruction will vitally depend. If the
Government tells the people that their
present income-tax rates are stabilised I'
shall be interested to know the effect of
it. People will pay through the nose
when there is a war on, but does anyone
think they will be prepared to do so in
times of peace?”
The Leader of the Opposition con-
tended that a contributory basis preserved
self-respect, enabled a scheme to be .sol-
vent and prevented humiliation caused by
the means test. The moment a citizen
had to come along and prove poverty
he was converted into a suppliant.
The Government’s scheme was not
contributory simply because it was
being financed out of a taxation fund
to which wage-earners contributed. He
proposed that the bill be withdrawn and
redrafted on a contributory basis, but his
motion was defeated. Members on both
sides of the House complained that dis-
abled soldiers would not be entitled to
benefits under the bill if they were re-
ceiving a disability pension.
Even the Minister for Labor didn’t
seem enthusiastic about the thing. “We
do not claim that this bill provides for
economic security,” he said. “We say it
is just a little social security. It is just a
bridge built to pass over a few of those
little gaps that have existed in the past.
We hope that unemployment and sickness
will be reduced.” For such modest,
almost “ ’umble,” hopes, what economic
disturbance and cost!
It has been already pointed out here
that at the present time the substance of
the fund is being spent on war. The
Government will carry into the peace a
liability to pay pensions, etc., but, though
the defence account may owe the welfare
fund a certain sum, the money, or a large
part of it, will really have been spent.
The whole thing is inflationary and
generally unsatisfactory. In New Zea-
land there is a universal flat-rate tax to
pay for social security. As can be seen
from the analysis of Mr. Menzies, the
Australian post-war tax scheme seems
monstrous and incredible.
Auditor-General Abercrombie has few
details to offer of the workings of the
Division of Import Procurement during
1942-43. The D.I.P. handles lend-lease
and diverted cargoes, as well supervis-
ing the issue of import licenses as a
branch of the Customs, Mr. Abercrombie
says that the D.I.P. has “established a
system of accounts on commercial lines
and has prepared a trading account, profit
andTloss account and balance sheet for
the whole period of operations to June
30, 1943. These accounts have not been
submitted for audit certificate, but a con-
tinuous audit of the Division’s account is
in existence covering also a complete
examination of the Treasury accounting
section. The trading account has been
prepared to show results in the following
transactions: Dr., total value of material
received under lend-lease and diversions.
Cr., sales to civilian consumers, transfers
to war and service departments, and
stocks on hand of lend-lease materials and
requisitioned cargoes admitted to lend-
lease.” No explanation is offered as to
why the D.l.P.’s trading account has not
been tendered for audit, nor does Mr.
Abercrombie comment on the D.l.P.’s
trading activities and its observance or
otherwise of the price-control regulations.
He simply comments that, in respect of
diverted cargoes, the Commonwealth re-
quisitioned the merchandise on 39 ships
under a regulation dated July 25, 1942,
and from the beginning of operations
until June 30, 1943, sales of these cargoes
brought in £3,072,681, while ownership
claims admitted came to £204,294 and
administrative expenses to £197,331.
Total cost of the D.l.P.’s administration
is put at £1,349,406 (salaries £834,083,
other outgo £515,323), of which £385,253
has been treated as overhead charges
recovered.
* * * *
A special National Security Regulation
issued on March 27 prohibits, without
the consent of the Director-General of
Man-power, the standing-down or sus-
pension (otherwise than for serious mis-
conduct) of any person employed in a
protected undertaking. Australian Iron
and Steel, Port Kembla (N.S.W.), put off
some hundreds of employees because the
coal strike on the South Coast had de-
pleted stocks. The Government takes the
view that even if a “protected” employer
can’t find anything for his staff to do he
should go on paying them, unless a Man-
power officer says otherwise.
* * * *
Canada is the only one of the co-
belligerent nations that has not found it
necessary to accept lend-lease from any
outside source. It has paid cash for all
its imports throughout the war and met
all its debt payments on time. To pro-
vide Britain with funds, the Dominion
paid off in advance the entire balance
of its British-held Federal debt, and “a
considerable volume of other Canadian
securities has been bought back through
Government channels by the Canadian
public.” Last year Canada made Britain
a $ 1000-million gift of war supplies.
This year, under the mutual-aid pro-
gramme, $ 1000-million-worth of supplies
is being made available to the United
Nations, and Australia is sharing in them.
At present 70 p.c, of Canada’s entire war
output goes by gift, exchange or pur-
chase to the Allies, a fifth of it to the
United States. During the first 15 months
of the war $250-million-worth of gold
was sent from Britain to Canada, but all
of this, plus more from Canada’s own
reserves, was required to pay for
materials bought on a cash-and-carry
basis from the United States. A threat-
ened shortage of gold or United States
dollars that would have cramped both
Canada’s and Britain’s war effort was
avoided by the Hyde Park declaration,
made by President Roosevelt and Prime
Minister Mackenzie King. This provided
for (a) co-ordination of war production
so that Canada and the United States
should provide each other with those
war supplies which it could produce
more readily and rapidly, and (b) lend-
lease aid direct to Britain of those com-
ponents which Canada previously had
bought from the United States for in-
clusion in British war orders. This re-
lieved Canada of the cost of United
States imports for transfer to Britain.
It also increased its exports to the U.S.A.
and thus reduced its adverse trade
balance. As has been observed in Canada,
“the Hyde Park declaration thus provided
for an integration of physical production
on the North American continent, and
to some extent an integration of credit.
Under it, every possible measure has
been taken to streamline North Ameri-
can output.” The exchange of these
supplies between Canada and the U.S.A.
has, however, remained on a cash basis.
Since 1942 Canada has been providing 40
p.c. of the aluminium going into United
Nations war production.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government in
1942-43 received a rental of £50,000 from
the Cockatoo Docks and Engineering
Co. Rental for the dock is based on a
sliding scale, according to turnover, with
£50,000 p.a. as the maximum. Prior to
the George Davis concern taking over
the dock it was a Government liability.
The war has stimulated activity, but
there has been an increasing annual in-
come for the Commonwealth since the
lease was signed in 1933


Public Notice.
I, IGNATZ METSCH, of Rumanian nationality, borr
at Yasileu, Rumania, and resident five years ir
Australia, now residing at Farnham Road, Quaker’s
Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation undei
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
(T-.
' \
<si
t
n
r
r mix
" 1
Wi-tK* 1;
C. S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bagt
PL(Si
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
- P. 1-43.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
g
CVanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
WAR IS NOT ALL DESTRUCTION
War is nof all destruction. Out of the crucible emerge new discoveries,
new applications of electrical science, which Philips will harness to the
needs of peace and progress just as they are to the demands of war. Born
of grim necessity, these advances will benefit the very civilisation in whose
protection they were evolved.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio'
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
- SPEED
THE
VICTORY
INVEST IN THE
FIRST
VICTORY LOAN
•
HEINZ
57 Varieties
05
>3
Making it perfectly clear —from an
“explanation sheet” relating to “rebate
of tax in respect of loan interest”:
Interest partially free from tax under Sec-
tion 20 of the Commonwealth Debt Con-
version Act, 1931 , or under Section 528
(2) of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock
Act, 1911-1940.
The rate of rebate in this instance is
the difference between the rate of tax pay-
able on the taxable income under the In-
come Tax Act, 1930, and the average rate
of tax payable on the property income in
the 1943-44 assessment. To find that
average rate, deduct from the property tax
( property fax )
a proportion ] !• of the con-
( total tax J
cessional rebates allowable under Section
160; and divide the amount of property
tax then remaining by the taxable property
income.
The rebate allowed in the enclosed
assessment was calculated according to the
following formula:
property tax
Property tax x Sec. 160 rebate
total tax
taxable property income
which equals the average rate.
Average rate less 1930 property tax
applicable to total taxable income equals rate
for calculation of rebate of loan interest.
After the war, says Dr. Lloyd Ross, we
must have more bureaucrats, more “plan-
ning.” In that case, God help us!
* * * *
At Dec. 31, 1942, the share capital of
National Oil Pty., Ltd., was £325,000,
there was an advance of £166,000 by the
N. S. Wales Government, a first advance
of £334,000 by the Commonwealth, and
subsequent advances by Canberra
amounting to £609,231. A Common-
wealth Bank loan (guaranteed by the
Commonwealth Government) rounded off
total share and loan capital employed of
£1,684,231. Current liabilities ran to
£153,570. The Commonwealth advanced
a further £lOO,OOO on May 22, 1943. In
1941 the undertaking made a loss of
£177,219 and in 1942 £263,123. Produc-
tion in 1942 was lower than in 1941 and
unit costs were greater. Extraction was
48£ gallons to the ton in 1942, 53 gal-
lons in 1941.. Laboratory assays show
a yield of 91 gallons to the ton. Exten-
sive alterations to the plant are being
carried out to aid recoveries,
* * * *
An American soldier was having lunch
with two girls in an Australian restaurant.
“What costs us six or seven shillings here
would cost us about a pound and a ha’f
back home,” he said. “And yet your
pound’s worth only three dollars twenty-
nine! Just too bad to Australia, I say.”
In items of food and some clothing it
is clear that the dollar is greatly over-
valued in the Commonwealth. It is a
different matter where motor-cars, ma-
chinery and many war materials are con-
cerned, but if Australian foodstuffs and
clothing are being taken into the lend-
lease accounts at Australian prices and
then converted into dollars at $3.29 com-
parisons are likely to be unfair. President
Roosevelt said originally that lend-lease
was not to be a matter of bookkeeping
in dollars and cents, but periodically such
figures are published. Apart from lend-
lease, the question of spending by U.S.
service men in the Commonwealth arises.
The favorable exchange rate for dollars
exaggerates a rate of pay already high
and places a strain both on the price ceil-
ing and the breaking strain of shop-
keepers’—and other persons’—morals.
* % % ale
The First Victory Loan will be open
until May 9. Some people are in
a position to subscribe, others aren’t.
Bbnds are readily negotiable in case
of need, and where they are bought
there is a greater tendency to save
than if money is left lying' idle. Idle
money has a habit of slipping away
without showing mqch return. The £l5O
million asked for, though the biggest
figure so far, is by no means too much
for Australians to manage.
* * * *
The Taxation Department has decided
that, where an extension of time has been
granted, deductions from wages made
between April 1 and June 30 may be used
in part-payment of assessments on in-
come received during 1942-43. These
April-June deductions would, it is pointed
out, ordinarily apply to the 25 p.c. sur-
charge, and where they are otherwise
used the surcharge still has to be met.
In all this there seems to be an admis-
sion of something by someone which was
not made before the bill became law. *
* * * *
Senator Cameron, Minister for Air-
craft Production, says that experience
during the war has “proved beyond
doubt” that Government control of essen-
tial services such as building of aircraft
and transport by aircraft was imperative
in the future “if the nation’s man-power
and materials were to be used to the best
advantage.” The Government-controlled
aircraft industry in Australia had gone
ahead “by leaps and bounds,” and it was
now better able to build aircraft and pro-
vide services needed than “any private
company could ever hope to be.” The
Australian aircraft industry under war-
time Government control has truly built
a great number of ’planes under hcffhouse
conditions. But Senator Cameion does
not mention what Government-super-
vised aircraft have cost. Government
supervision „ particularly that part played
by Senator Cameron, has had little to do
with the successful production of Aus-
tralian warplanes. The key has been
Government priorities and Government
money, allied to the undoubted ability
of Australian enterprise when decently
treated. The Minister for Aircraft Pro-
duction has little cause to skite. Aus-
tralia’s war effort has been exceptionally
costly, and the Australian people have
had to pay for it. It has been an un-
paralleled opportunity for Federal Min-
isters, whatever their calibre, to put on
airs and graces. Probably no Federal
Ministry has had so much power and
money at its disposal and has yet shown
so little administrative ability or regard
for facts when making public statements.
* * * *
Sydney architects and housewives have
been pulling to pieces the State Govern-
ment’s design for a proposed post-war
workman’s cottage'. The design seems to
be typical of so many Government post-
war plans, State and Federal. We have
had standard cloth and other “rational-
ised” articles of clothing during the war
which do not inspire optimism as regards
what will happen if the Federal Govern-
ment continues its overlordship of pro-
duction and finance when the war is
finished.
4 * $ $
Now totalling £436.4 milliofi, Aus-
tralian savings-bank deposits rose by
£11.2 million during the month of Febru-
ary. The increase in 12 months was
£lO9 million, and since war began the
growth has been £192 million —78 p.c.
The net amount subscribed to war-savings
certificates to February 29 was £41.2
million.
* * * *
Probably the scarcest major item in
civilian male clothing in Australia today is
a hat. There are plenty of rabbits and
plenty of hat mills in the Commonwealth,
but in Sydney the customary tiling for
a hatter to do when asked if he has a
respectable hat is to direct the customer
to his most-hated competitor. It is almost
as bad in the case of made-to-measure
suits.
The Australian note issue is now up to
£176 million, a rise of £45 million in a
year. Special war-time deposits with the
central bank (representing “surplus in-
vestible funds” of the trading banks) are
now £l7O million, a rise X)f £77 million
in 12 months.


THE SERVICE MAN
Palau and Hollandia.
“Ek Dum”; The sands began to run
out for the enemy in Kavieng when that
port on the extreme northern tip of
New Ireland was bombarded by Allied
battleships and troops were landed on
Emirau Island, 80-odd miles to the
north-west.
Kavieng’s aerodrome and storage
dumps are now daily targets, receiving as
much attention as those of Wewak.
During March 2900 tons of bombs were
dropped on Rabaul and much of the re-
mainder of the town was burnt out.
During 21 days 2359 tons fell on Wewak.
Other Bismarck Sea bases have corns
in fbf almost daily attention. Bombing
is reinforced by increasing fighter attack,
largely carried on by the R.A.A.F.
For the first time R.A.A.F. Spitfires have
begun to operate from the Admiralties,
where they joined with R.A.A.F. Kitty-
hawks in the softening up of Pitlyu
Island, just off Lorengau, prior to its
occupation by U.S. troops.
The war was pushed further out to
the west and north-west in the equa-
torial belt, both by General MacArthur’s
forces in the South-west Pacific area and,
over the longer distances of the Caroline
defence zone, by Allied naval forces
under Admiral Nimitz.
The main attacks by land-based South
and South-west Pacific air squadrons,
apart from those along the sides of the
Rabaul - Kavieng - Wewak triangle, were
directed at Hollandia, the centre of enemy
activity on the north coast of New
Guinea, just inside the Dutch New
Guinea frontier.
The announcement of these attacks fol-
lowed the statement by Canberra that
Australian militia forces were included in
the units which went to Dutch New
Guinea last year to join the Dutch and
Americans there and to drain a defence
area and lay down aerodromes in the
terrible belt of country south-west of the
Fly River.
It was mentioned that these militiamen
were the “first to fight on foreign soil.”
Japanese penetration into the district was
very thin, and, though there were a few
small, bitter patrol encounters, the war
was mainly against nature.
The attacks on Hollandia were made as
part of an all-round drive on the western
compartment of the Caroline bases,
launched on March 29.
Liberators and other heavy machines
made the journey to Truk from the Allied
bases in the Solomons, 900 miles away,
on March 29. They concentrated on the
air base on Elen Island and Moen, other
islands in the atoll being attacked later.
Fragmentation bombs set oil and aerial
stores blazing, and 31 enemy aircraft
were shot down, 49 others beiKg wrecked
on the ground. Further west, Catalinas
raided Woleai, which is the heart of the
Caroline belt.
Palau Attacked
At the same time a powerful fleet, in-
cluding some of the largest U.S. battle-
ships and several aircraft-carriers, made
its way to Palau. It was significant of the
state of developments that this tremen-
dous stride into the heart of the enemy’s
seas was taken almost as a matter of
course.
Palau is 1500 miles north-west of
Rabaul, over 2000 miles from Kwajalein,
1040 miles from Manila and less than
1500 miles from Saigon. It was the pivot
link in southward Japanese civil air ser-
vices before the war. Through Palau
machines flew to Timor and through it,
in time, Tokyo hoped that they would
fly to Darwin. It was also the main base
for the fishing sampans which operated
off the north Australian coast, 1500 miles
away, and it was believed to be a big sub-
marine and aerial reconnaissance centre.
However, when the Allied fleet
approached Japanese ships left for the
horizon. No attempt at a landing was made.
Port facilities and storage were
pounded with bomb and gun, but the
main objective had been to try to lure the
Japanese Navy into combat. Through no
fault of the Allies, that plan failed, but
it was announced at the week-end that the
attacks on Palau itself were continuing.
At Hollandia the assault by South-
west Pacific squadrons began before
dawn on March 29, when 15,600 frag-
mentation bombs were dropped on
assembled aircraft, 92 of which were de-
stroyed or damaged to an extent which
would make them useless. These assem-
blies of machines which invite attack
continue to be a mysterious feature of
the enemy’s tactics. About 40 enemy
fighters took the air. Ten were shot down
and seven others probably destroyed.
Allied losses were reported as “negli-
gible.” Next day a further 140 tons of
bombs destroyed 57 aircraft on the
ground and 14 were wrecked in battle,
bringing the total for two attacks to 189
machines destroyed, with 15 probables.
In effect, according to the Allied com-
munique, “only a third of t,he enemy
’planes gathered at the base for aerial
reinforcement in this sector are now
serviceable.”
Truk was once more blasted on March
30 and 11 out of 40 fighters were de-
stroyed in the air. The resistance was
not as heavy as on the previous day,
when it was reported that the enemy
fighters showed a new quality and fierce-
ness in attack.
Meanwhile R.A.A.F. Beauforts and
Dutch Mitchells attacked Timor ports
and shipping on March 30 and 31. The
Beauforts sank or disabled three small
ships at Koepahg, and damage to vessels
and installations was reported from Pen-
foel.
The advance on the north New Guinea
land sector continues slowly but surely.
On April 2 Australian troops were at
Yaula, on the Daumoina road, about 10 air
miles and 18 road miles from Bogadjim.
Statistics for March
The South-west Pacific Command
claimed 578 Japanese aircraft destroyed
in March, including the 249 wrecked at
Hollandia and Truk in two days. Of
these, 133 were wrecked in battle. Allied
losses for the period were 23 machines.
The enemy lost 546 machines in the
South-west Pacific in January against an
Allied loss of 97, and in February the
ratio was 425 to 43 —for three months
1549 Japanese and 163 Allied machines.
In March, it is reported officially, the
enemy also lost a destroyer, three auxili-
ary warships, 17 merchant ships, 129
barges and 49 small craft, besides having
a multitude of small and medium craft
heavily damaged.
Imphal and Bhamo.
The Japs’ operations along the Chin Hill
section of the Assam border should get
them no further than their thin pene-
tration of the Owen Stanleys got them
in Papua. At least one of their routes
through the jungle towards Imphal is
comparable with those of the Owen
Stanleys, so far as communications for
vehicles, guns and heavy stores go. Their
one chance of making a success of their
drive would be to increase their force
greatly, capture airfields on the plain of
Imphal and carry out a large-scale pro-
gramme of air supply. So far they have
shown no sign of having, the re-
sources or the air personnel and equip-
ment to indulge in this kind of warfare.
General Auchinleck declared on March
31 that he was certain Assam would
never be in danger, let alone India.
He made it clear that, though Tiddim,
on the Manipur River, on the southern
of the three enemy lines of advance, had
been given up without any attempt to hold
it, there was no intention of allowing
Imphal to fall into enemy hands.
The policy in India is the reverse of
that in Papua, with the lessons of which
the Indian Command must be familiar.
In Papua the thin trickle of the enemy
which braved the Owen Stanleys was
chased over the mountains, amidst shrill
cries from southern newspapers, which
had become intensely alarmed ; and when
Diggers came to grips with his main
forces they had noisome mountain trails,
impossible for heavy equipment, behind
them. The enemy had the advantages of
communication and established defences.
In India, he is being allowed to mono-
polise the rough jungle mountain trails
and fever country, and he will be fought
finally on the edge of the good Indian
communications where airfields, equip-
ment, roads, food and ammunition supply
are all in the Fourteenth Army’s favor.
Doubtless this will result in the saving
of a lot of Allied lives and prevent the
impairment in health which the Owen
Stanley divisions suffered in their drive
to Buna. And the political lessons of a
defeat inside the border will be height-
ened. Japanese Radio last week was loud
in its boasts, but its vanguards on reach-
ing the Manipur Plain were torn to pieces
and the remnants sent back to the hills.
Enemy losses in their advance towards
Imphal already number 2600 killed.
In the north the Twenty-second Chinese
Division, driving down from Hukawng,
has debouched into the Mogaung Valley
close to the railway northward to Myit-
kina.
General Wingate Killed
Somewhere in the same vicinity the
glider and parachute force of British-
Indian troops has been operating since
the first week in March.
The Japanese say this force numbers
three brigades, and allege in their hectic
fashion that it is being “mopped up.”
They place its location in the Katha
region. Katha is a main town in north
Burma, terminus of a small branch rail-
’ way tp the Irrawaddy. It is 150 miles
south-west of Imphal, 150 miles north of
Mandalay, 70 miles from Bhamo and 75
miles from the Chinese border, in an
area where the rough, wild hills of the
north begin to give way to gentler slopes
and more fertile valleys. Bhamo is the
head of Irrawaddy navigation and ter-
minus of a great historic trade route into
China.
The nucleus of this body of troops is
formed by the picked men who made an
experimental excursion across Burma in.
this region last year. Round them has
been built a powerful force of Indian
troops from the hill tribes —Gurkhas et
al. —brigaded, as is customary, with Scots,
and served by both British and U.S. air
transport. Their commander was Major-
General Wingate, who led the explora-
tion party last year. His leadership of
the force was kept a secret till it was well
established. Unhappily he was killed
when a U.S. transport ’plane in which he
was travelling crashed into a mountain,
and the British Army lost one of its most
daring officers and youngest major-
generals—he was only 41.
He did a grand job in Abyssinia early
in the war with a tough party of bush-
men, who included several Australians —
Queensland’s old lion-hunter Arnold
Wienholt was lost in that expedition.
But nobody heard a word of it till the
peahen press got on his trail after his
Burmese expedition last year, and did its
best to make him look as ridiculous as
the rest of its heroes. From his picture
he resembled his near relative, the old
Sirdar of Egypt, whom the writer saw in
London a few years ago looking like
an old-style Queensland police sub-inspec-
tor in mufti and obviously tough leather,
without a squeak in it from the heels
upwards.
The Wingate campaign in northern
Burma sounds like an adaptation of Boer
tactics to rain-forest country, salted with
the technique of Bo da Thone, The job
of the expedition is to move across enemy
lines of communication, infiltrate, form
road blocks, pounce on small Japanese
parties, smash up airfields and generally
spread blight throughout the enemy’s
northern area, until his power of control
withers.
The effort is corollary to that in the
Hukawng Valley which will shortly be
linked to it, thus opening land commu-
nication to the north right across Burma
to within a few miles of the Chinese
border.
The Japanese expedition towards
Imphal is strictly a counter-offensive and
not a proper offensive. It is designed to
take the only measures which could pre-
vent the strengthening of Allied forces
in Burma interior.
The Jap may not himself expect to
take Imphal and its surroundings, but he
thinks that his three advancing columns
may create sufficient diversion to keep
the Imphal air bases busy and prevent
them from enlarging the operations of
the Wingate Force. He is making most
of his effort in political propaganda;
and it must be allowed that immediate
political results are awkward.
Cassino.
“Ek Dum”: After 12 days of attack
the Allies realised that their attempt to
take Monastery Hill and the surround-
ings of Cassino, and to break the Gustav
Line, had failed temporarily. As in all
setbacks, valuable lessons were learnt, the
most important being that the devastating
air and ground bombardments which
have been supposed in other countries to
assure the success of assaults is a hindrance
rather than a help. They do not blast the
enemy out of his vital positions, while
they tear the ground into craters which
impede the progress of the infantry and
make it difficult or impossible to bring
up tanks.
Young correspondents are disappointed
with results, though their criticism is
slightly more subdued than usual. They
feel that if the Command would only show
some “originality” instead of indulging in
stuffy and static war in which no one ever
“hurls forward irresistibly” or takes 400
inhabited places in a day or “massacre”
(sic) Germans all would be well.
Exactly what originality can be exer-
cised against an enemy who has fortified
himself to withstand the dumping of
148,000 tons of shell and high explosive
on him in 40 days, as the Germans did
at Cassino, even better than he withstood
170,000 tons at Ypres in World War I,
only a boo-boo boy could know. It took
three months for the Russians to capture
Gomel, which has no hill positions, and
they have been four months trying to break
into Mogilev, Orsha and Vitebsk, all on
flat lands, without success. And in four
months they have not been able to blast
a way through the four-mile-wide Pere-
kop Isthmus which locks the northern
gate of the Crimea on enemy forces which
can receive no succor save by sea and
air. The German defence in those posi-
tions has thrown off corps upon corps
time and again. This is no more to the
discredit of the Red Army than events
at Cassino are discreditable to the Anglo-
Americans. There is no such thing as
mathematical certainty in such operations.
The truth is that all the maxims of
offence and defence which were true in
World War I are true today, and that
concentrated resistance in positions suit-
able for fortification to which the access
can be covered by machine-gun and
mortar fire and artillery can hold off
attacks just as in the battles of 1916-17.
Gassino is just as difficult of approach as
and far more heavily protected and de-
fended than Anzac Heights.
Not Yet Lost
It would be wrong to say that the
Battle of Cassino is lost or finished. Swift
communications and power to lift huge
quantities of men and armaments by lorry
and by air tend rather to lengthen than
to shorten engagements and to divide
them into episodes. Time was when men
went into and were compelled to stay in
battle till one or other side cracked.
Now, reinforcements and replenishments
can be flown in quickly, exhausted men
and wounded rapidly flown out, and
methods and dispositions reorganised in
a few hours or days in a way which
formerly would have taken weeks.
Thus tragedies and victories proceed by
scenes and acts even as on the stage, and
at the intervals nobody can say whether
or not in the end the villain will be foiled.
Indeed, as in Bland Holt drama and at
Waterloo and Austerlitz and Schellenburg
and Ramillies, evil often appears bound to
triumph at some of the various entr’actes,
but virtue nevertheless triumphs, after
many vicissitudes, in the end.
Hie N.Z. official correspondent de-
scribed the attack as “just like a game if
the stakes were not so high”—a game of
hide-and-seek in which every rim might
hold a sniper and every object above the
skyline hide a tank or a grenade party.
The Gurkhas and Maorilanders last
week were withdrawn at the end of the
first act of the battle, being pulled off
Hangman’s Hill (Hill 435), the next hill
to the monastery, and 400 yards from it.
The Indians had been isolated, drawing
rations and ammunition from the air.
They retreated after the wounded had
been taken out under a Red Cross flag
hoisted at dawn on March 26,
The weather was still wet and dreary
and snow covered the lower slopes of the
hills after heavy rain as the weary Maori-
landers and Indians withdrew and the
Allies returned momentarily to old posi-
tions and to a stalemate. Reporting to
his Government, General Freyberg, V.C.,
said that the Maorilanders’ losses were
“not light.”
The Bombing
One useful service which may be done
by the story of Cassino will be to put an
end to the fiction that every time a
Fortress or Liberator looses a bomb at
20,000 ft. its target goes up in a puff of
smoke.
Even the outer walls of the Cassino
monastery were not razed, though the
interior was gutted, and much of the
town reported as blasted out of existence
was intact and alive with heavily-armed
Germans who stopped dead the Maori-
land attack on the southern portion of
the position.
The Germans probably are paying
more attention to the Cassino line than
its intrinsic value warrants. They regard
the fight for it, no doubt, as a prelude to
the greater battle for western Europe.
They know the damage which might
be done to Allied morale by securing a
preliminary battle ascendancy. They
know the damage which can be done,
with the help of parlor pinks and surly
Communist scribes who enjoy freedom
of speech and writing under Allied
Governments, in drawing contrasts be-
tween the lack of British-American pro-
gress in Italy and the apparently victori-
ous joyride of the Red armies in Russia.
The nature of the enemy retreat in Rus-
sia is no doubt partly dictated by politi-
cal reasons, as is the particularly strong
resistance in Italy, and is part and parcel
of the same general defence strategy.
Defence in the Air.
“Ek £)um”; The air war over Europe
has kept to its usual pattern. Attacks on
German targets connected with the air-
craft industry, from Paris to Steyr m
Austria, comprised the strategic side.
Combined with these were three sets or
tactical-force operations. One from the


Divorce Notice.
TO NICHOLAS JOHN MITCHELL late of Bourke
and Goondiwindi Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
IRENE MARY MITCHELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 285 of 1941 on the ground of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three years
and upwards. You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before 22nd June 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from CLIVE DAVIES &
SHARPE Solicitors 14 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM McMILLAN late of Syd-
ney New South Wales. —-TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA MAY BOOTH has Med a Petition for
Nullity No. 1303 of 1943 on the ground that the
marriage is within the prohibited degrees of con-
sanguinity or affinity you having on the Ist De-
cember 1927 been lawfully married to Sarah Mc-
Millan (formerly Sarah Leitch) deceased the lawful
mother of the said Thelma May Booth If you wish
to defend • you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office S’upreme Court, King Street Sydney
by the Bth of May 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from J. BIRNIE JACKSON,
Solicitor 117 Pitt Street Sydney Town Agent for F.
DUNCAN Solicitor of Wollongong.—(n.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
To CLYDE MoFARLANE.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM BROWN THOMSON has Med a Petition
for Dissolution of Marriage No. 3329 of 1943 on
the ground of his wife ROSE HESTER THOMSON’S
adultery with you If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Eighth day of May
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS Solicitors
56 Hunter Street Sydney.
No. D 97/43.
IN DIVORCE.
TO BASIL ALBERT CLAYTON otherwise known as
JAMES WILLIAM DERBYSHIRE the husband of
ELLEN MAUD CLAYTON of the City of Auckland
Married Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
has filed in the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Auckland a Petition against you for Divorce on
the ground of desertion A copy of the petition and
notice will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at my office Unless you Me an answer
(having first given an address for service as pro-
vided by the Rules of Court) in the said Court at
Auckland within Forty days from the publication
of this advertisement the said petition will be
heard and determined in your absence Unless you
give an address for sendee the Petitioner is not
required to serve you with any further documents
and you are not entitled to receive any further
notice in connection with the proceedings.—(n.s.)
O. MASON, Deputy Registrar, Supreme Court, Auck-
land. Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing adver-
tisement. J. J. SULLIVAN, Esq., is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
office of the said J. J. SULLIVAN, Selborne
Chambers, O’Connell Street, Auckland.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE EDWARD DENNISTOURNE TUSCOD
BELLINGHAM and PHYLLIS MARY MOORE
TAKE NOTICE that NANCY JOAN BELLINGHAM
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3001 of 1943
on the ground that you have committed adMtery
together If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Twelfth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-four and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
Mr. J. H. FISHER Solicitor for the Petitioner 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY
Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
southern zone aimed at disrupting enemy
communications in Italy. One was con-
cerned with the rear of the Hungarian
front. This took the shape of a heavy
raid —hundreds of machines were used —
to disrupt the communications of Sofia,
which are highly important to the Ger-
mans in the Carpathians and along the
Black Sea.
The third series of strategical opera-
tions was connected with the coming land
offensive in north-western Europe, and
consisted in a vicious display of forked
lightning which struck in two prongs —
one down through the coastal areas of
Biscay, from Tours marshalling junction
to the Bordeaux region ; the other aimed
at the Pas de Calais and the northerly
communication routes between France
and Germany.
Defences again proved strong during
the main raids. When Nuremberg was
hit for the first time since last August by
a force of over 1000 British heavy
machines the enemy came out with new
types of weapon, including developments
of rocket projectiles not hitherto used.
The R.A.F. admitted a record loss of
94 machines —against the previous record
of 79 in the Leipzig raid of February 19.
The Germans claimed to have shot down
121 four-engined bombers.
Even allowing that the journey was
long and that all but a few miles had to
be made over enemy-held territory, the
results were a painful demonstration of
the development of night defence against
aircraft since 1940, when Britain was
almost powerless against night attack.
The admission of the vast change which
has taken place since then was a pro-
nouncement by General Sir Frederick
Pile, C.-in-C. of Britain’s anti-aircraft de-
fences, who gave correspondents a
demonstration in which clouds of rockets
were hurled into the air “like a charge
from a giant shotgun,” exploding in a
dome like a giant Roman candle.
While intensified defence of this kind
cannot stop raiding, it certainly can push
bombers higher. And high-level bombing
has still a long way to go before strict
accuracy is achieved.
Fighter efficiency for night defence has
increased in a sensational way. During
March eight R.A.F. aircraft crews each
bagged two machines in a single night
over Britain, and one got three machines
in a single sortie. The significance of
these feats is heightened by the thinness
of the enemy’s attacking squadrons and
his piecemeal method of attack.
From February 29 to March 31 Ger-
mans were over Britain on 15 nights,
though the forces on some nights were
only reconnaissance flights. In six raids
the enemy lost 56 machines, but he did
considerable damage.
The new trends in the air war appear
to be already in process of being met by
new trends in design and method. The
greatest defence against attack is speed.
Mosquito bombers, which raid as far as
Berlin, have gone unarmed, and are sel-
dom brought down, though they are giv-
ing place to armed fighter-bombers.
With the forcing of heavy, machines
towards the stratosphere has come the
bigger bomb, which can be depended on
to offset lack of extreme accuracy by
blasting a wider area. ' The new British
12,0001 b. bomb does relatively nine times
more damage than the 40001 b. bomb, now
reduced to the status of a medium pro-
jectile which is carried even by the fast,
latest Mosquito model. The 12,0001 b.
bomb can completely wipe out an acre
of buildings, and its blast and suction are
effective for destruction of life and
weakening of buildings, as well as for
the wrecking of power and water sup-
plies, over a far wider area.
The air war has some way to go be-
fore it reaches its climax in ferocity and
destructiveness. When the decisive air
operations take place in Europe, as they
should some time this year, however, the
determining factor, will not be machines
or weapons so much as man-power.
Man-power in the air is not merely a
matter of numbers. Quality counts for
much in the air war.
Along the Corpathicns.
“Ek Dum”: Last week the Germans
abandoned Nikolaev—wrecked, as usual
—most easterly point in their small resi-
duary Ukrainian holding, without any
noteworthy loss of prisoners. The tail-end
of Hitler’s retreating legions pivoting on
Odessa then became involved in their
final operation on south Russian soil.
“Famous” reporters in Moscow and
places even more remote wrote with their
famous assurance of “traps,” one
doomed force of hundreds of thousands
of disordered, ragged, demoralised in-
vaders being pictured as running like
hares towards a river bank; in their des-
perate, feverish, frantic, frenzied condi-
tion being ignorant of its being in Rus-
sian possession. And young Mr. Aldridge
held a cool million in the small Odessa
salient, where there might be 50,000. The
Russians on April 2 were within 20 miles
of Odessa, in which large columns of
smoke rising over the oil suburbs in the
eastern part of the town indicated that the
usual pre-evacuation destruction was in
progress.
The Russians were now gradually over-
running Bessarabia, the province to
which the U.S.S.R. lays claim by reason
of its occupation 130-odd years ago by the
Czarist Marshal Kutusov. Kutusov’s most
famous saying about his intentions was
that he would leave the inhabitants “noth-
ing but their eyes, which they will need
to weep with.”
Through this region, separated by a
few miles from the forces of Marshal
Zhukov driving down from the Pripet
Marshes to the north, the Russians were
surging on at ,15 to 25 miles a day, infan-
try and tanks alike, meeting little resist-
ance. Their speed of advance indicated
that they were travelling along roads free
of minefields and blocks. The season and
the normal March weather and the nature
of the landscape preclude any other pos-
sibility.
They are crossing a sort of platform
approach to the main Carpathian ranges
of Moldavia, through which pour the
wide Pruth —600 to 1000 yards broad for
the most part—and the Sereth, which
have scoured wide, deep, marshy valleys
in the plateau right across the line of the
Russian advance. In normal dry parts
of the year these rivers are fordable in
their upper reaches, anything up to 20ft.
deep lower down.
In March, however, come the thaw
floods which turn them into torrents and
the marshy valley bottoms into swirling
lakes. The Germans have fallen back
for the length.of this Rumanian terrain
to the higher levels of the Carpathians.
The Russians have been driving to-
wards two points, one being the Ploesti
(“Ploesht”) oilfields. The spearhead
reached Jassy (“Yahsh”), about 170
miles by air line from Ploesti, and much
nearer to some other oilfields. The route
through the gap between the Carpathians
and the Danube Delta to the main oil-
fields,is, however, wetter than a Circular
Quay bar on pay night.
Another drive further north-west aims
at the crossing of the headwaters of the
Pruth along a line between Cernauti —
Cernowitz in the days when it was an
Austrian city, and still Austrian in looks
and manners—and Kalomea, thence to
the Lablonika Pass and other gateways
to the Tisja Valley and the Hungarian
Plain.
On April 2, the report said, Russians
reached the northern end of the Tartar
Pass across the Ruthenian border.
The Moldavian Ranges
The Carpathians in this part of the
ranges are smoother hills than the ter-
rible-looking limestone and crystalline
ranges of the Wallacian massifs nearer
the Black Sea and the Danubian plains.
These are torn into huge escarpments and
gorges filled with the roaring of rivers,
which have often dug miles of caves
under the cliff edges, and which some-
times drive underground and stay there
for miles on end. The Moldavian ranges
of the north, however, lend themselves
to the kind of defences which the Ger-
mans tried with success in the early
days of the North Tunisian fighting, and
which they brought to perfection in Italy.
It is here, as “experts” have pointed out,
that Russians in the last war penetrated
some of the Carpathian passes. But the
penetrations were made against Austrian
defences, not against an enemy who
has a habit of paving passes with mines
and jumping-jacks, and of making com-
partments of armored roadblocks, at the
same time hanging the whole length of
the sides of the valley with heavy
machine-gun and grenade posts, mortar
pits and long 75’s placed to fire right
down the road at advancing tanks.
Neither in the last war did the Aus-
trians have the mobility of this wars
defenders of mountains and forests, nor
had they ever used a parachute battalion.
Their army, indeed, had felt a traditional
dislike of aerial warfare ever since 1793,
when poor old General Latour com-
plained bitterly of the ungentlemanly
habits of the French revolutionary gun-
spotters who soared into the clouds in
balloons and dropped pink notes to their
artillery. And among them were vast
masses of disaffected Slavs, who sur-
rendered easily to the Russians.
If Stalin’s troops attempt to storm the
Carpathians and the enemy decides to
put up a defence, it will be a slow busi-
ness to dig him out, especially in the
passes which provide the best strategic
approaches on the Ruthenian-Czecho-
lovak west, which are still far from the
nearest Russian soldiers. And it will cost
a heavy toll of Russian troops.
The approach to Ploesti, on the south,
is just as difficult as the approach to Hun-
gary and Czechoslavakia across the
mountains.
The Danube Plain
Between the 100-mile-long Danube
Delta, a mass of swamps and lagoons,
and the high Transylvanian mountains
there is a narrow, muddy gap, very much
defendable.
Beyond it and Bucharest the plain south
of the Carpathian massif opens up. The
land south-west of Bucharest looks
most like some of the flatter parts of
Australia. It is as level as Sturt’s Stony
Desert, with small farmhouses, basket-
work fences along the creeks and well-
whips standing in the plain, but in
summer, though it is as hot as Hay, Hell
and Booligal put together, it provides a
wonderful road for motor traffic com-
parable with the Russian steppes.
Beside it flows the lordly Danube, set
about with marsh, reedbed, anabranch
and lake. The Danube for hundreds
of miles is 12 to 15 miles wide. The plain
north of it provides a flank approach,
very convenient for the enemy, for from
Austria to the Moldavian front there is
only one range, not very difficult to be
negotiated, between Vienna and the Pruth.
What of Vitebsk?
“S. M. Herald” summed up the Car-
pathian war position a week ago.
All other current events in the World
War are dwarfed by Russian victories on
the southern portion of the Eastern front
....[which is] changing and dissolving
day by day before the incredulous eyes of
those southern European vassals of Nazi
Germany who never thought to see broken
remnants of the mighty Wehrmacht stream-
ing across the River Pruth....
In view of the speed of the retirement
and of the few prisoners taken, a fact
noted in the paper’s London office, a very
optimistic summary indeed. And there
was no mention of the position in the
north.
Though Narva, on the Baltic coast, was
reported weeks ago to be at its last gasp,
the enemy is still there ; the Russians have
not succeeded in forcing the 25-mile
Narva gap between the Baltic and Lake
Peipus.
On Friday the enemy referred to
“renewed heavy fighting south-west of
Narva,” asserting that “the bulk of several
divisions was encircled and wiped out,
the killed numbering 6000.”
A month ago Russian correspon-
dents had armies surging on into Latvia,
past Pskov, which was about to fall.
Then fell silence, broken on April 2 by
an enemy report that the Russians were
attacking south of Pskov, “using nine
rifle divisions and two armored corps,
with 200 Stormoviks.”
Further south again, from north of
Vitebsk to the Beresina and the beginning
of the Pripet Marshes,* there has been an
incessant struggle since mid-December.
The Germans have spoken of attacks by
up to 40 Russian divisions, Moscow itself
mentions fighting occasionally. But of
the three months’ Battling little, or
nothing is said, it being a precept with
papers which sneer at every slight British
or American setback in the sway and
swing of the unfinished battle in Italy
that nothing but victory must ever be
whispered from Moscow. This is of
eminent assistance to Communist propa-
ganda, but it is a false guide to what is
going on.
Pripet Strategy
Kowel, a railway junction at the south-
west corner of the Pripet Marshes, is re-
ported as surrounded by Marshal Zhu-
kov’s forces. It is 120 miles west of the
longitude of Minsk, the enemy’s central
H.Q. in Russia, and 200 miles west of
the line of the German front on the Upper
Dnieper at Mogilev. The Russian
southern armies'” flank for nearly 200
miles on the north is covered by the
Pripet Marshes, but a further Red Army
westward advance is risky unless the
Germans in Central Russia can be forced
backwards towards Warsaw and East
Prussia in conformity with southern
movements.
In any case, if the southern German
retreat were the catastrophe and utter
rout it is pictured as being the enemy cer-
tainly would not be dallying north of the
Pripet Marshes. He would be getting
back to his main defe : r -as his
caterpillars could pac ;: • of hold-
ing on to the d i.ic> central and
northern sectors.
That the norT a eentral fronts
have held firm retreat in the
Ukraine has b a out step by step
on the tele . aciple, shows that,
suffering or v- as he may be in the
muck and bloc< me Russian front, the
enemy is still ip control of his move-
ments.
German commentators apd military
critics, official and otherwise, are harping
on the theme that the orientation of fronts
has become that of the last war. One
and all declare that the Russian front,
under pressure of the greater threat from
the west to Germany, has become a
secondary defensive front on which the
Russians are to be held along unspecified
mountain fortress lines while .the mighty
Anglo-American offensive is encountered.
The new Russian-Japanese agreements reduce
the fishing concessions for Russian waters held
by the Japs and abrogate Japanese rights to take
oil and coal from north Sakhalin in return for
a Russian agreement to supply 50,000 tons of
oil fuel per annum for five years, deliveries to
begin after “the present war” —a term not in-
terpreted in the cables. Tokyo Radio described
the agreements as solving long-standing problems
at one stroke and proving that the friendly re-
lations between Russia and Japan are secure
and established. The acquisition of the South
Pacific areas has probably solved the fuel prob-
lem for Japan, so that north Sakhalin is no
longer important.
* * * *
The Swiss military authorities reported on
April 1 that U.S. bombers flew over the cantons
of Thurgau and Schaffhausen and dropped
bombs on Schaffhausen, 33 miles south of the
German border. Schaffhausen railway station
and many industrial buildings were darrtaged
and 50 dead had been counted up to Saturday
night. This is not the first regrettable acci-
dent of the kind by a long way. In mountain
country in bad weather and at high altitude,
accuracy in navigation and recognition is neces-
sarily far from perfect. There is no zone in
which friend has not attacked friend or neutral
by mistake in the air war.
‘ * * * ♦
A U.S. destroyer which accidentally fired on
three landing boats at Eniwetok on February
22 killed 13 U.S. troops and wounded 46.
The mistake was attributed to bad visibility
due to the heavy dust and smoke caused by a
preliminary bombardment.


Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of •
registered
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
grained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long- been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with- the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple: skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the bipod. It explains
TABLETS
that Elasto Is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
df
tissue, thus enabling' nature
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It it this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema."
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a4&r u>tM' i/mi' jbtnovbdd /
Western Electric
HEARING AIDS
The closest approach to natural hearing
yet achieved by a hearing aid is available
for the enjoyment of the hard-of-hear-
ing in the latest Western Electric Hear-
ing Aid, the ultimate expression of over
sixty years’ experience by the world
pioneers in sound amplification. The
modern valve-operated Audiphone incor-
porates the new and exclusive Tone Dis-
criminator, which completely eliminates
background noises and their accompany-
ing nervous strain.
However much below normal your hear-
ing may be, there is a positive assurance
of the maximum of hearing pleasure in
any position and at considerably greater
distances than hitherto has been pos-
sible with a hearing aid.
A free audiometric test in our consult-
ing rooms places you under no obliga-
tion, but gives you an oppOTtunity of
realising how much the Audiphone can
do for you.
THE AUDIPHONE COMPANY
M.L.C. Building, 44 Martin Place, SYDNEY (Phone: 8W7387), and at 110 Collins
Street, MELBOURNE (Phone: Central 4195), also
Trevor Henderson, Grice Building, 90-92 Queen Street d Elizabeth
Place. ADELAIDE. Messrs. Findlay Pty.,. Ltd., 98 Brisbane BlizaDet
Street, HOBART. Messrs. Samken & Samken, 633 Hay Stieet, m.u .
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Randwick attendance on Saturday was
55,000 and the tote turnover £148,568.
Betting with the bookmakers was never
heavier, £lOO notes being as plentiful as
“fivers” in pre-war days.
Tahmoor showed all the pace expected
in the Liverpool Handicap, leading into
the straight from Hall Stand, Versailles,
Aquatic and Triad, but not one of the
first-mentioned four had anything to do
with the finish. After passing the Leger
Goose Boy’s chance appeared a winning
one, but Lord Neith (Thompson), who was
a long way back at the turn, ran over him
in the last bit. Triad, Grand Fils (who
finished strongly) and Kiaree headed the
remainder, but the honors of the race were
entirely with Lord Neith. Soho ran
badly, and War Eagle will need to im-
prove rapidly in order to pick up a race
at the A.J.C. meeting.
Stablemates in Cream Puff (Knox) and
Night Parade had a great tussle in the
Warwick Farm Autumn Handicap.
Second-last for seven furlongs, and ninth
at the turn. Cream Puff then made up her
leeway so rapidly that shortly after
commencing the final furlong she was
fighting it out with Night Parade, and
lasted too long for him. Veiled Threat,
with luck in running against him, was a
fast-finishing third, and in getting fourth
Dewar showed there is still hope for
another win for him. Shining Night was
backed, but, though only fifth, will be
better at his next start. Etching did the
pace-making, but lasted only to the
straight entrance. Form of any of the
other runners is not deserving of note.
In the Chipping Norton Stakes seven-
year-old Katanga (Munro) disposed of
the generally accepted belief that our
three-year-olds were out of the ordinary.
Early in the race he and Mayfowl were
racing together in front, and there was
little between them entering the straight.
It was expected Mayfowl would then
come away. The reverse was the case, as
Katanga left him, going on to win com-
fortably from Moorland, who beat May-
fowl on the post for second, though it
looked as if the latter should have gained
that position. Outpaced from the start,
Falcon Knight was second-last through-
out, his effort indicating neither sprint-
ing nor staying ability.
Mustang’s (Knox) Cobbity Handicap
win was not well received by a large
section of racegoers. At Rosehill the
previous week he commenced indiffer-
ently in his race, for which he was a
short-priced favorite, and then, after
working into a fair position at the turn,
he tired. Last week he was again slow
in finding his legs, being last for a long
way, but, though still poorly placed at the
turn, a clean run on the rails gave him
his chance, and he won brilliantly from
the pacemaker. Turn Again. Cordale,
for whom 31b. overweight was declared,
was a good third, and in getting fourth,
after losing half a dozen lengths at the
start, Annie Laurie gave an excellent
account of herself. Boomanulla ran well.
All Scot, who was at a false price, was
never a possibility, and MacArthur did
even worse. An inquiry asked for by
the trainer proved that the stable backing
of Mustang at Rosehill was in order.
Well placed from barrier-rise in the
first division of the Fairfield Handicap
Miss Sovereign (Bartle) hung on gamely
to win by a half neck from the faster-
finishing Beau Monde, who, fifth at the
turn, put in good work over the last fur-
long. Bravo and Strathdarr led into the
straight, but the former’s weight, in con-
junction with its being his first run for
some time, found him out, and he did
well to run third. The race should im-
prove Strathdarr, and though Fire Chat
(by Talking) died away at the finish he
displayed pace. Prince Verity ran fairly.
When Shannon ran past Birthright at
the leger in the second division of the
Fairfield Handicap he appeared to have
the race won, but Liberality (McGrow-
die), who was sixth at the turn, put in
such a solid run down the straight that he
caught Shannon a few strides from the
winning-post and defeated him a head.
Britannic, though third, ran without any
dash, and never looked like winning.
Marlborough and Courier did best of the
unplaced runners, and both may prove
useful. Trained by G. Prince, Liberality
cost 300gns. as a yearling, and is a good-
looking son of Nuffield and Kathamepa
(Tippler-Skopona). He is a first foal.
Beauhead again proved himself a use-
ful welter horse by winning the Cabra-
matta Handicap, though it was by only
a half head he downed Marcondis, who
gave him a long start from the straight
entrance. Jungle King and War Trophy
tired after leading into the straight, and
third place went to Haripur, who was
always prominent, Nightbeam and Gun-
dagai headed those nearest the place-
getters.
* * * *
After the finish of the second division
of the Juvenile Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, the stewards had to
deal with a double protest. The race was
won by Reperio by a neck from Tol-
stoy, with Antares a head away third.
On the turn, where Hellenger was lead-
ing, Reperio and Tolstoy ran very wide,
and in the straight they again ran
about, hampering Antares. O’Brien,
rider of Tolstoy, lodged an objection
against the winner, and R. Heather, rider
of Antares, who started favorite, pro-
tested against Tolstoy. The stewards,
after a fairly long hearing, dismissed the
objection against the winner, but upheld
that on behalf of Antares, placing him
second and Tolstoy third.
Tolstoy was the unlucky runner in
Saturday’s race. He was cut out at the
start, and after experiencing a poor run
he finished very fast and was rapidly
overhauling the winner. Tolstoy cost
1000 guineas as a yearling, and shows
promise of developing into a useful colt.
In winning the Hospital Handicap of
13 furlongs, New Warrior registered his
best staying performance. He won in
particularly good style. Always handy to
the leaders, he took the lead in the
straight and finished on too well for the
favorite. Royal Enfield. Saint Warden
again finished on strongly to run third.
New Warrior is trained by J. Smedley,
who races him in partnership with former
jockey B. Conaghan. New Warrior was
well ridden by H. Mornement, who won
the Newmarket Handicap on Orteli.
The veteran hurdler Virile, who had
built up a remarkable record of placings
in hurdle races, was cheered when he
scored a comfortable win in the Charity
Hurdle. In five years Virile has had 51
starts for four wins and 24 minor plac-
ings. Despite Virile’s consistency, Jerry
Cronin started equal favorite with him,
and although he ran second he was no
match for the veteran.
Backed to favoritism on the strength of
his fourth in the Futurity Handicap when
he showed great pace, Sangallo won the
Patients’ Handicap, but was very fortu-
nate to account for Dukedom. Dukedom,
who started at 50 to 1, missed the start,
but made up his .ground in dashing style,
failing by only a length and a half to
catch Sangallo. Regency also came home
well to run third.
Starting from number 19 barrier posi-
tion, the topweight, Phoines, outclassed his
opponents in the Benefit Highweight.
Apprentice McComiskie did not hurry
him early, but took him to the front
before the turn, and he finished on
strongly to hold off Brother Bill and
Prince Ronald. Brother Bill did well to
run second, as he was one of the last
away. Approaching the turn, Hestia and
Leicester Square fell, their riders escap-
ing with only minor injuries.
* * * *
If form could always be relied on it
would be possible to write “No chance”
concerning three-fourths of the horses
still in the Doncaster. Lord Neith stood
out from last Saturday’s runners, and if
Thompson were again his rider it might
be unnecessary to look further for the
winner. However, Thompson will be
on Flight, and brilliant as is that filly
9st. may be a little more than she can
successfully carry. Goose Boy ran well
in the Liverpool Handicap, but he was
so decisively beaten by Lord Neith that
on 41b. worse terms it is difficult to
visualise him turning the tables on the
latter.
Marcondis made a good bid for Satur-
day’s welter after being some distance
from the front at one stage. That, how-
ever, leaves doubt whether he is quite
nippy enough for a race like the Don-
caster. Versailles was eased up in the
Liverpool Handicap when his chance was
hopeless, but he failed so badly at seven
furlongs that with only -21 b. less he can-
not now be recommended at a mile.
Grand Fils ran surprisingly well on
Saturday, and the extra furlong will help
him, but there was so little dash in Fal-
con Knight’s Liverpool Handicap effort
that it now seems doubtful whether,
even with his light weight, he will
be able to get a sufficiently good
position in the early part to make him a
danger at the finish.
Fifth at the finish, Kiaree ran a fair
though not exactly impressive race, but
it might be advisable to still include him
among the possibilities. Warlock’s easy
win at Rosehill cannot be overlooked.
The Doncaster distance is not beyond
him, and latest form says more for Lord
Neith and Warlock than any of their
probable opponents.
So far as the Sydney Cup is concerned,
nothing impressed me more favorably on
Saturday than Veiled Threat. He rattled
up in great style with his 9.4 at the
finish of the Autumn Cup, and that drop
of 51b. should do a lot for him, especially
as last week’s run should put him right
at his top in condition.
He will meet Cream Puff only 31b.
better, but that is* enough to give him an
excellent chance of turning the tables on
her. Applying the w.f.a. scale, he has a
pull of 121 b. over Moorland and 71b. over
Mayfowl, and Saturday’s running says
more for him than either on those terms.
Falcon Knight made a poor showing in
the Chipping Norton Stakes, but if the
belief in him as a stayer is well founded
he may, with his light weight, still prove
the best of the three-year-olds at two
miles.
Failure in the Doncaster may leave
Flight and Lord Neith as possibilities,
though both have to be taken on trust
at two miles. Wellesley, of-course, enters
a long way into calculations. His Rose-
hill form indicated that he was back to
his best, and though he has 81b. more
than when a close second in last year’s
Cup he still has a reasonable weight. It
is worth mentioning that he is meeting
Veiled Threat 141 b. worse than on that
occasion, when the latter, with 9.5, was
third favorite, but ran nowhere.
Unless Mustang should come to light
as a stayer the prospects of the horses
down near the bottom do not appear
bright, and Veiled Threat, Wellesley,
Cream Puff and Falcon Knight should
furnish more than one place-getter.
Miscellaneous
“Good fight, bad decision,” was the
majority verdict in Dundee v. Bowen at
Leichhardt. A long way behind on
points, and dazed in the tenth, Bowen
did most of the work in the last couple
of rounds, and this must have impressed
the referee, but his judgment, “a draw,”
was unjust to Dundee.
Tommy Chapman, from Newcastle, is
featherweight champion, for what the title
may be worth. He was outboxed by
Eddie Miller for three rounds at the Syd-
ney Stadium, but the fourth had not gone
far when a right to the chin, preceded by
a straight left, floored Miller for a frac-
tion more than 10 seconds. Miller and
his manager, Jack Warner, protested that
he had beaten the count. Referee Wallis
denied it.
~
FOR RANDWICK.
( Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Vaucluse Handicap: Easter Time,
1; Felbeam, 2; Babillard, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Shannon,
1 ; Bravo, 2; Gay King, 3.
Autumn Stakes: Katanga, 1 ;
Veiled Threat, 2 ; Main Topic, 3.
Doncaster Handicap: Lord Neith,
1; Warlock, 2 ; Kiaree or Flight, 3.
A.J.C. St. Leger: Moorland, 1 ;
Mayfowl, 2 ; Highgate, 3.
City Handicap : Dewar, 1 ; Shin-
ing Night, 2; Dick Whittington or
Thrax, 3.
SECOND DAY, MONDAY,
APRIL 10.
Sydney Cup: Veiled Threat, 1 ;
Cream Puff, 2 ; Wellesley or Falcon
Knight, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
When Priminister John Curtin starts off
for London he will leave the Victory
Loan working like yeast in Australia’s
daily bread. Victory! The thought
makes the blood tingle. It is more than
banners stiff with the pride of conquest,
it is more than laying the enemy low.
It is the coming home of all the young
men. It is the founding of thousands
of Australian homes. It is loving and
laughing and peace of mind. It is build-
ing a nation. War veterans (the only
lines on their faces caused by sun and
weather) marched through the city last
week to mark the opening of this loan
that is the force behind Australia’s for-
ward-sweeping army. Decorated heroes
in jeeps, their companions mayors of
surrounding districts, took part in the
parade. Victory, that’s the stuff to give
the troops, and every woman wage-earner
in Australia can help to make it come
true.
Smiles, congratulatory speech and tea
were served in Mayoress Bartley’s draw-
ing-room last Friday. Cash to the value
of £4026 chinked accompaniment, the
result of the Australian Comforts Fund
Fair. Chairman of the committee Sam
Walder handed the cheque to Sydney’s
Mayor, amid the loud purr of 50 or so
of A.C.F. ardents. Money for the general
collection is still coming along in hun-
dreds and thousands from country dis-
tricts, so the total should be something
to cheer about.
Sheila Mackay made vivid and force-
ful speech at the lunch of the Society of
Women Writers last Thursday. Sheila,
an Australian M.A. of Sydney Univer-
sity, has been in England for about 10
years, and just after the outbreak
of the war joined the staff of the
Ministry of Information in Scotland.
The lovely city of Edinburgh is where
her work lies, and of the well-known
writing men and women who are devot-
ing their talents to the Ministry’s propa-
ganda she tajks in interesting and inti-
mate fashion. The film and the radio, as
well as the newspapers, are on active ser-
vice all the time, telling in picture and
story the victorious progress of the Allied
cause.
The contrast between the ship in which
she crossed the Atlantic in 1941 and the
ship in which she came to Australia held
her hearers. The ship of today is fitted
with lifeboats that look positively cosy,
with lifebelts carrying everything but a
powder-puff, and with ingenious gadgets
that almost smell out an enemy. Poets
present loved the picture of T. S. Eliot
at one of the press conferences with his
umbrella, its enormous handle carved
of plaintain. This had been given to him
by an Indian admirer. Mrs. Mackay,
who was a guest, heard, for the first time,
her daughter speak in public. It is no
wonder that Sheila is a good speaker;
Richard Moulden, of Shakspearean re-
nown, was an uncle. From here Miss
Mackay will journey to America and
Canada.
Three hundred and two pounds in the
kitty and more rolling in assures the
success of the Kirribilli Yacht Squadron’s
fete. President Mrs. E. W. Marriott and
committee members are jubilant, as what
with one thing and another they can see
a cheque* for £4OO being passed over to
the Navy Auxiliary in not-so-far-off days.
English-speaking Unionists filled their
clubrooms last Thursday afternoon to
listen to organising secretary Mrs. Wal-
lace Turner’s talk on America and the
American. The address covered the
whole field of American history from
the arrival of the first pioneers, and
showed the evolving of the ally of to-
day. The speaker, who has visited the
United States several times, slid in word
pictures of the Capitol, of New York, and
of old Virginia, and proved by reference
that she knows not only the historians
but also the novelists of our neighbors
across the Pacific. Some old stories of
Abraham Lincoln were told with such
dramatic effect that they were clothed
with new life. A tea party for all the
principals, hostessed by Mrs. Tosi and
Dulcie Pritchard, rounded off the after-
noon.
A letter last week from Euston Greene,
who is managing the venture, tells defi-
nitely that the grand opera season will
ring up the curtain in Sydney on July 1.
The season will not be very long, as it
is timed to end on the 22nd of the same
month. Twenty-six performances in, all
are planned. The operas chosen are
“Cavalleria,” “Pagliacci” and, of course,
Gounod’s “Faust.” A chorus of about
70 yokes has been rehearsing regularly
for the last seven weeks in Paling’s music
hall, directed by Curt Prerauer. The
A.B.C. has promised full co-operation,
and it is planned to engage indivi-
dual players of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra.
As this Letter was being slipped into its
envelope Madeline Withall, organiser for
the Wool Trade war fund, was busied
about many things in the State ballroom.
The yearly auction of a bale of wool was
in full swing, and W. G. Lumby, J.
Brassil and F. Davies were busy totting
up the bids. Last year enthusiasm rose
to the £2330 mark. Last Tuesday £3OOO
was the aim. The extra was needed be-
cause after paying off the balance on the
new extensions at the War Veterans’
Home it is planned to give a substantial
donation to Legacy War Orphans,,
Guests of the afternoon were chairman
of Legacy C. A. Davidson, Colonel W.
Wood, the chairman of the board of the
War Veterans’ Home, and Captain Arthur
Lyddall.
Mrs. Gilmore Rees, who organised
with such skill the display of the work
of the Red Cross, is a Londoner, and
before coming to Australia had won
recognition as an artist in her own coun-
try. Her studio was in St. John’s Wood.
Evidence of sense of design was shown
in the way the different sections flowed
into one another. For instance, the Field
Force, which takes all Red Cross needs,
be it a rug, an easy chair or a needle, to
the battle front, was next door to stores
whence all supplies come. The Red Cross
stores have stocks as diverse as an
army’s requirements: chocolate, cigar-
ettes, knitted goods and many another
hobnob in good comradeship. Medical
supplies (among them bandages made
from tyre retread material), the work of
blood transfusion, papier mache and ex-
hibits of the junior Red Cross made the
art gallery of Anthony Horderns’ a place
of pilgrimage to every family with a sol-
dier in battle areas.
Dr. Morel, of the International Red
Cross, who made the opening speech,
must have been pleased with the photo-
graphic record of the progress of the
movement at the back of the stage. Here
was the splendid-looking Swiss founder
of the work that has brought something
of mercy and humanity into the horror
and devastation that is war. Florence
Nightingale is here, no gentle, wistful
lady with the lamp, but a woman of char-
acter and driving force. Here are ambu-
lances, ranging from those of the Crimea
to those on sleds as used in Finland. Mrs.
Gilmore Rees had given a good setting
to this display.
An exhibit which no one passed by
was the warm pullover made by a Cretan
girl in the hills for Corporal Birch when
he had been rescued, sick and wounded.
It is of goat’s hair. It was spun in primi-
tive fashion on the forks of saplings, and
later woven on twigs. Later it was dyed
with the juice of the pomegranate. The
whole took about four days. The model
of the Lady Gowrie Home at Turra-
murra was among things admired.
The Minerva’s present joyous show,
“Boy Meets Girl,” started with a crowded
house last Saturday afternoon. Rows
and rows of Allied service men laughed
and chortled over this rainbow-gay satire
on Hollywood. Impossible to pin down
any of this fun —it’s just quicksilver.
A book for women in war-time (and
when isn’t there a war on for women?)
is Louise Randall Pierson’s Roughly
Speaking. Louise, a small girl bulging
with riches, high spirits and the tough
touch that Australia calls “guts,” was
passed into the wringer of life at an early
age. Father died, money vanished, and
the kid was caught. But the wringer
didn’t squeeze the fun out of her ; it just
gave her bounce. To the unappreciated
poet, maiden, wife or mother or any-
one under 60, the story of the failures
that she turned into success, and the
laughs she, got out of the whole business
of life, will chart a hilarious course.
From Melbourne
Red Cross and A.C.F. organisers are
knitting their brows over the falling-off
of public enthusiasm for knitting with the
needles. Socks, scarves, jumpers and the
like haven’t been rolling in as of yore,
and in spite of the fact that so many of
our troops have been fighting in hot
places where woollies aren’t needed
there’s a decided shortage in incoming
garments. Red Cross is particularly
anxious to stir up a bit more activity on
the knitting front —its commitments in-
clude supplies to hospitals, P.O.W.
camps, airmen and the navy.
The mailbag will be looked forward to
with even more eagerness than usual on
farms and in other country homes in the
next week or so, for to many Land Army
girls will be posted their service stars.
Members of the L.A. are entitled to
wear a star for each year of service, and
early-comers will qualify for two stars this
year. The decorations are red woven
symbols, worn on the shoulders both with
full-dress uniform and working overalls.
General feeling among women here is
that Land Army girls deserve their stars
and some bouquets, too. It’s realised that
it takes pluck to face life on a farm
as the only girl employee there, as many
A.W.L.A. girls must do. Another point
that women appreciate is that the land-
working lass has bid farewell to lacquered
fingernails and lily-white hands. Her
hands must take everything sun, soil and
pigs’ feed can do to them. A small matter,
perhaps, in pioneering days, but to city
girls of today’s generation quite a con-
sideration.
At the concert given by aborigines at
Fitzroy Town Hall demonstrations of
native talent such as that for firelighting
probably interested anthropologists more
than the hula-hula chorus, but the audi-
ence, some black, some white, many
half- and quarter-caste, gave enthusiastic
appreciation to everything. A little black
mite left in a prayerful attitude when her
fellows of the chorus walked off brought
down the house. The concert, an abori-
ginal contribution to p.o.w. funds, netted
about £lOO.
Among the lasses who appeared in
gowns and hoods for the University degree-
conferring last week was Betty Barrie,
who completed her Bachelor of Laws
course last year. She is a daughter of
city solicitor' R. W. Barrie and Mrs.
Barrie, and is getting a practical insight
into legal ways as assistant to her father.
In this she’s following what has almost
become a tradition amongst women
who’ve entered the legal profession, by
far the greatest number of whom -have
started practice as members of the pater-
nal firms. The New Talma Studio made
this picture of Betty,
First day of U.S. Information Library
brought a constant stream of visitors.
Many came just to “look around” be-
cause they were struck in passing the
doors by the galaxy of attractively
covered shelves within. The librarians
have left the illustrated loose covers on
the books, and it’s surprising how colorful
and interesting they look when compared
with the row on row of dull-covered
books on most library shelves —of course,
it’s admitted they won't stay on for long,
but the effect over the opening weeks
should be well worth it.
Quite a number of those who’ve popped
into the library over the last week have
been mothers of girls who are married
or about to be to U.S. service men.
Mother’s interest in the spots daughter
will see has a little pathos about it —“My
daughter’s going to live in New Jersey ;
could you just show me some pictures
so that I know what it looks like?” is a
typical question. “Picturing” the spot
is the essential —mothers on the whole
aren’t worrying about what the “pop.
per sq. mile” is or the yearly yield" of
wheat. They find a sympathetic helper
in assistant-librarian Hazel Brown, who
has warmth and charm. In control of the
library is Mrs. Helen- Wessells, who has
U.S. facts and figures at her fingertips.
Mrs. Wessells, who has made a full-time
career of librarianship, gave Uni. students
a bright lecture on what is needed for the
job. Qualifications are plenty, a liberal
education and a lot of tact in dealing with
the public being the main ones. She is
an apostle of the idea that the atmosphere
of a library should be warm and friendly,
with bright furnishings and adquate heat-
ing in winter, and expressed disapproval
of the type that’s built like a baronial
hall and in which the book you want
always turns out to be on the third floor.
Now that laundries are mostly staff-
less and washerwomen are as rare as
duchesses, tablecloths are rapidly taking
rank as antiques, like tapestries and
chandeliers. It’s said that Winston
Churchill’s American-born mother was
responsible for bringing to Britain the
fashion of clothless dinner tables in the
’nineties, but up till now that fashion
has been mostly consigned to formal
dinner parties, and even so the cloth is
then replaced by lacy mats that are just
as hard to launder. A new scheme to
preserve appearances is to use papier
mache picture mats, designed with scenes
or flower motifs. These have a glazed
surface that is easy to clean. Some people
dig up old-fashioned teapot mats for the
job; others have them made by local
artcraft practitioners.
Two art shows opened on Tuesday con-
tained work by women artists. Louise
Thomas, showing at the Athenaeum Gal-
lery, is a grandmother. C R. Badger,
of the Uni. Extension Board, presided
at this opening, which was at the midday
luncheon hour. Mrs. Thomas has been
painting for many years, but this was
her first show.
Other exhibitors whose show opened
the same day were Alannah Coleman,
whose paintings were associated with
those of her fellow-gallery student Joan
Malcolm at the Velasquez Galleries.
Claude Flemming did the honors. Alan-
nah, a frequent theatregoer, is one of
the few first-nighters still as dashingly
robed as of yore. For some months now
she’s been Mrs. Desmond Fenessy. Mar-
riage was a rush affair just before Des-
mond went up north on military duty.
Till very lately she has been in a war job.
The question as to what grandma wore
on her wedding day has been asked at
quite a few family councils since a bride
of 75 years ago, Mrs. Laura Hudson, of
Clunes, produced hers. It is of yards
and yards of grey silk (with lots of
flounces), and its color bears out the
theory that the tradition of all-white wed-
ding regalia doesn’t go very far back .
in history. Corroborative evidence is to
be found in Mrs. Horace Calder’s collec-
tion of crinoline-era dresses (legacy from
an ancestress whose early widowhood
necessitated putting away her girlhood
finery). Among these are wedding-day
accessories that point decidedly to a day-
time outfit. But at least one “granny”
has been discovered who can testify to
making her vows in white Indian silk
lawn, at that time, so she says, a very
popular stuff for such occasions.
Propaganda for Australia shouldn’t be
lacking in post-war Britain judging by the
many links being forged with English
literary lions. Latest link is Lucile
Stephen’s (the Douglas Stephens’ second
daughter) marriage to Lieut.-Commander
John Moore, Fleet Air Arm, who, when
not in uniform, is a popular novelist and
writer of books of the H. V. Morton
type about the British countryside.
An injury to Elizabeth Gardner’s eye,
caused by the bite of an insect, has given
her 15-year-old understudy, Desiree Mere-
dith, a star role in “Kiss and Tell.”
Desiree’s acting has caught the eye of
the Firm. She is a singing student at
the Albert-street Con. Father is Lieut.-
Col. Meredith.
A birthday party for Robin Mackay,
who has made National Theatre history
with her portrayal of Eliza Doolittle in
“Pygmalion,” took place at the theatre,
with parents of the lass as co-hosts with
Gertrude Johnson. Stagy parties thrill
the young, coming into contact with
grease-paint for the first time ; for stand-
ing near public figures and eating the
sanje sort of indigestibles make for a
great lift of the spirit.


Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Speed the Victory. BUY VICTORY BONDS
PROVIDES THE SAaiE COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN,
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman tin instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2300 In use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
Seven years’ guaramee against corrosion affecting efficiency or longevity.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd Telephone 81053. |
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12J% Sales Tax.
Plus 33/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct from ns or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide;
Victorian Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; K. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd.,
Perth; Wm. Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., Tasmania.
... the Kiddies' room of 194 X
—Masonite, of course.
When the war ends your kiddies won’t be babies
any more. Your post-war home will have to in-
clude a room which will be theirs exclusively ...
a room with a floor that can “take it” ... a floor
of Masonite Tempered Presdwood. The fittings
and furniture will also have to be of this steel-
strong, knock-proof wonder board because Tem-
pered Presdwood can withstand all the bumps
and thuds those lovable young barbarians can
provide! The walls? Masonite Presdwood,
bevelled and grooved, creating an environment
of which those kiddies may well be proud.
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
INVEST YOUR SAVINfiS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
MAIO-44
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST., SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“We have been hearing a lot lately about the
great strides that are being made in the woollen
industry.”— Weekly paper.
For Senator Keane?
•F *F *F 4*
“For smart feet, the first essential is a well-
fitting shoe.” — “New Idea.”
The tighter the fit, the greater the smart.
-I* *l* *F
“Much railway material, temporarily scrapped,
is being brought back and reconditioned.”
-—Melbourne “Herald.”
Including thousands of old buffers?
“Gramophone records of smooth music—
preferably violin qr ’cello — perfect har-
mony at a seance. Jazz is too discordant. It
does not allow the spirit to penetrate into the
seance.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
But it doesn’t necessarily prevent spirits
penetrating into the participants, judging
by the things they see.
v 'l* ■F *F
“My husband was so mean he ate dogs’
meat.” — Wife in divorce.
And did nothing but growl.
•F *F *2* *F
Observation.
“Jon was too small to be an ideal dancing
partner, but that did not worry Mavis.”
—Magazine story.
1 always find
That womankind.
When out in search of sport,
Don’t care at all
If men be small —
That is, unless they’re short!
T. W. N.
•F *F *F *F
“Ever since his marriage a year ago tonight
his wife’s mother had lived with them. It
was not that George was a quarrelsome fellow.
He was, in fact, a quiet, easygoing, ineffectual
little man.” — “Sun.”
Obviously.
Some people with polished manners
can be amazingly dull.
4’ *l'
Mystery Picture.
The murderer must have been cog-
nisant of the contents of Mrs. Vander-
bilt’s will, otherwise her heir and nephew,
who was allegedly travelling at the time,
would never have broken his engagement
to the daughter of the eccentric inventor,
except for the purpose of throwing De-
tective Orison off the scent, in which
case the butler would no doubt have
given the necessary evidence against that
blonde woman —the one played by Gloria
Blobson.
But if this were so, it would hardly
seem credible that the police would re-
ceive a ’phone call from the house after
the lines had been cut, thus laying sus-
picion on the hooded figure which
appeared at the window when old Mac-
pherson was negotiating that big deal
with the company’s solicitor, in spite of
the fact that he had already been in-
formed that Mrs. Vanderbilt had had her
throat cut.
That seems pretty clear.
But I still can’t fathom who got away
with the corpse.
Nat.
To a Dogmatist.
My controversial friend! To hear
The way you loudly dogmatise
Induces me to laugh. I fear
That you’re exceedingly unwise.
. For, in the light of logic pure.
No truth is certain, so your long
And fiery statements aren’t so sure:
In fact, they’re definitely wrong;
And this emphatic contradiction
I give with absolute conviction!
T. W. NATHAN.
The New Order.
On Mrs. Brown
I cannot frown
Again while I’m alive ;
I know that she
Reported me
As under 45 !
DR ETHEL.
Convenient Difference.
“You told me a lie,” Maria was say-
ing ; “if there is anyone I despise it is a
liar.”
Just then the doorbell rang. The relief,
though, was but momentary, for the
caller didn’t come in.
“It was that Mrs. Klimber,” said Maria
on returning. “She wanted to see you,
but I told her you were out.”
“Spoken like a stalwart apostle of
Truth,” I murmured.
“It’s altogether different,” said Maria
belligerently. “I only”
“But why on earth if Mrs. Klimber
wanted to see me” I began, to change
the subject.
“Because,” said Maria warmly, “Mrs.
Klimber is scheming in her underhand
way to become vice-president of our dis-
trict’s Patriotic Auxiliary, and she prob-
ably wants you to get yohr men friends
to influence their wives.”
“Well, why shouldn’t Mrs. Klimber be
vice-”——
“Because I am going to be vice-presi-
dent when Mrs. Fullchair goes to the
country shortly. She is certain to recom-
mend me as her successor, because I told
Mrs. Gossip that Mrs. Klimber said it
would be a good thing when Mrs. Full-
chair was gone, because she was a dud
vice-president. Mrs. Gossip is bound to
carry that to Mrs. Fullchair. Oh, and I
want you to buy a nice bunch of flowers
and leave it at Mrs. Fullchair’s on your
way to town. You can say I gathered
them in our garden.”
“Oh, Truth!” I apostrophised.
“This,” said Maria loftily, “is alto-
gether different.” It is one of her most
effective phrases.
H. M.
Wanton Warriors.
“How Women Wage War —Four Angles.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
First they contend that white is black,
Or green, or other hue.
Then, checked, return to the attack
By reckoning it’s blue.
But, meeting with resistance stout
And warming to the fight,
They soon see red (and hot tears shed)
And put the enemy to rout
By swearing black is white!
P. O. M. C.
Rara Avis.
“Young man, position, educated, dependable
and healthy, seeks sincere young lady with
similar qualities, also sense of humor, view
matrimony.”— “S. M. Herald” agony.
On studying this billet-doux
I’ve come to this conclusion :
There’s one among us, brothers, who,
Should full atknowledgment accrue
From his apostrophe, is due
To forfeit an illusion !
PERCY.
They Know Their Onions.
“An American review of Soviet Medicine
discloses that the Red Army is now using
onions as an antiseptic.”— Cable.
Dr. Numbaninovitch, going through the
ward of the collectivised hospital, came
to a stop opposite a bed beside which
an anxious-looking nurse was gathering
up a heap of wet towels.
“Is anything wrong with the patient,
Nurse Tuckeminski?” he asked.
“There is. Comrade Doctor,” she re-
plied. “Private Onnanoff seems greatly
distressed today.”
“How is his temperature?”
“It is quite normal.”
“His wound was coming along well.
In what way is he distressed?”
“Well, Comrade Doctor, he displays
symptoms of a great sadness, He weeps
without pause. See, he has soaked seven,
towels through. Already I have changed
the sheets four times during the morn-
ing.”
“Has he received any bad news from
home?”
“No, Comrade Doctor. No letter has
he had ever since he was admitted.”
“There were no signs of neurosis or
shell-shock? He does not jump about or
twitch continuously?”
“No, Comrade Doctor, he just sits and
weeps all day.”
“H’m. Let me see. Private Onnanolf.
Leg wound. What is the bandage doing
around his face. Comrade Nurse?” As he
spoke the doctor bent down over the
patient’s face, took several deep sniffs.
As he straightened up the nurse spoke.
“That is the onion-paste bandage you
told me to put on his chin, Comrade Doc-
tor.”
Dr. Numbaninovitch pulled out his
handkerchief and wiped his own stream-
ing eyes. “I wish you would listen more
carefully, Nurse Tuckeminski,” he ad-
monished. “I said to put it on his shin !’’
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ijd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Two Kinds of Fatigue
“Two Wars” (B. 2/2/’44) is certainly
one of the old school in his comparisons.
To put the fatigue experienced by our
14-hours-a-day pioneer forefathers in the
same category as that produced by to-
day’s high-pressure conditions is ridi-
culous. On a farm I have worked 14
hours a day at harvest time, often on
ensilage, heaviest toil of all; and after
unyoking after 8 p.m. was still feeling
fit for another hour or so. When I wen
to bed in those days it was to sleep.
Not so long afterwards, when I wa
engaged on high-pressure mental work
in civil life, with a maximum of 10 hours
rest at night was greatly different. With
out any of the “night life” or “intense
emotional excitement” of which “Two
Wars” speaks, the “proper relaxation’
was hard to find, and even when sleep
eventually came it brought dreams in
which I lived over and over again the
events of the day. It is in an effort to
relieve their minds of this strain before
they attempt to sleep that many seek
recreation before retiring with consequen
loss of energy for the succeeding day’s
work.
Today I am engaged on light, fast
operative work in the R.A.A.F. in the
Darwin area, where leave and night life
are unknown. To do a 4ay’s fatigues in
the open air is a pleasure, because one
knows that he will sleep far sounder than
when on a normal day’s work.— The
Tatler (N.T.).
The Booze Business
The amendments to the N.S.W. Liquor
Act engineered in 1929 amid the plaudits
of the Liquor and No-liquor factions are
reacting in a manner disturbing to both.
The vested liquor interests find that
the allocation of licenses to police dis-
tricts is hampering the distribution of
beer in the more progressive parts of the
State, and blue-ribbon supporters dis-
cover that illicit traffic is increasing. The
brewer has not so far obtruded his
person into the mess. There are only five
of him nowadays (53 in 1901).
Folk on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Areas have founded at Griffith a Com-
munity Hotel and Liquor Reform Asso-
ciation. Meetings attended by hundreds
of earnest people at Griffith and Leeton
have demanded reform of the existing
Liquor Act, and petitions praying for
relief have met spontaneous and universal
approval.
It was the S.A. irrigation settlement of
Denmark that 50 years ago introduced
to Australia the Gothenburg system of
community-owned hotels, and since that
date Renmark and its sister-hamlets have
devoted tens of thousands of pounds,
representing profits, to local charitable,
cultural and civic activities.
Griffith and Leeton, desirous of follow-
ing the example of Renmark, meet in
the opening gambit the obstacle of a
liquor law very kind to brewing interests
—a law that virtually grants powers to
those interests to override the judgment
of licensing magistrates.
The M.I.A. irrigators have raised an
issue that will cause State politicians to
dance like parched peas on the hot stove
of the swing electorate of Murrumbidgee.
—Solomon Merri (N.S.W.).
Secesh in W.A.
“WX Sarge” (B. 23/2/’44) takes me
to task for daring to assert that
secession is not dead in W.A. He
says it “got a good vote” (an understate-
ment), but “never became an issue
to be worked for.” He should bear in
mind that a more immediate issue than
that of the internal domestic condition
of Westralia arose. I think he will agree
that the members of his State met this
issue just as manfully as those of any
other State or country.
His assertion that there is no skilled
labor in W.A. to operate munition fac-
tories is just funny. Were it true that
would be a strong argument in support
of secession. “WX Sarge” knows as well
as I do that we had many first-class engi-
neers. They have all gone east —after the
money.
Apparently “WX Sarge” is satisfied
mat the inhabitants of this State should
tor all time be hewers of wood and
drawers of water provided the outback
has “postal and telegraph facilities which
our State can be proud of.”
Why secession should make W.A. any
less Australian than it is at present is
apparently known only to “WX Sarge.”
After almost four years’ service I find
that the average soldier fights for his
home in Cottesloe or Coogee, his farm
at Mukinbudin or Muswellbrook, or
simply because he has been called up to
do a job. Larger abstractions rarely
enter his mind, or if they do he doesn’t
mention them.
No, “Sarge,” it is simply because W.A.
is a great State that people like myself
want to end its days of goatdom. We
know that Eastern States’ financial in-
terests and Eastern States’ politicians
won’t help us. We have got to do the
job ourselves. — Lomond (W.A.).
After-war Reforms
I should like to make three suggestions
as to post-war reconstruction.
(1) To ensure education being in the
hands of the right type of teacher, the
salaries and social status of the teaching
profession should be raised to a degree
necessary to attract the best brains in the
country.
(2) Reduce the number of Parliaments
and Governors to one, and institute an
entrance exam, for prospective members
of Parliament. Also require from each
member at election time an account of
what he has done for his electorate, how
much time he has spent in Parliament
House and what he has said there, and
“George, for heaven's sake, let me have some coupons!”
the places he has visited in his consti-
tuency.
(3) Newspapers should be constrained
to keep an editorial eye on truth rather
than on circulation. All controversial
articles should be signed.— Tapioca (Tas.).
Preferences and Jobs
I see the A.C.T.U. doesn’t see eye to
eye with the R.S.L. on the matter of
preference to returned service people.
But is the matter worth quarrelling over?
I doubt if it is possible for everybody to
be employed at the same time during the
years of peace. In war-time everyone is
in employment, but not one service man
or woman is contributing to the produc-
tion of the goods consumed and exported.
Full employment for all after the war
won’t be possible unless thousands are
put to work on digging holes and filling
them up again.
But is it the object of statecraft to
provide work for all? Certainly not!
The goal is leisure and security. In this
machine age it is impossible to employ
everyone without causing overproduc-
tion. Very few people object to being
out of work; their objection is to being
out of money.
The problem at issue will not be solved
by one group seeking preference over
another. It is purely an economic prob-
lem, and the A.C.T.U. and the R.S.L.
should realise that they are only wasting
their time and energies in trying to alter
effects while leaving causes undisturbed.
— N. G. McDonald (Vic.).
Certainly, preference for soldiers, but
only for the man who has faced death
and innumerable trials in the front line,
not the base wallahs and those thousands
of men encamped in Australia, who
already are enjoying a great deal of
preference as compared with the civilian
population, though running no more risk.
Here in North Queensland vegetables
and fruit and other foods are at times
unobtainable by the civilian population
for weeks, yet in near-by military camps
they are wasted with not a thought of
the morrow. —H. J. R. (Q.).
Anti-bushfire Houses
I should like to join issue with “Nak-
hoda” (B. 15/3/’44). Live embers falling
on a joof do not lodge on the ridge.
They fall into the spouting, and from
there the trouble starts. Each corruga-
tion of the roofing iron carries a draught
upwards.
There is a space of two or more inches
between wall-plate and purlin, on which
the iron rests.
If flat galvanised iron is cut to a ser-
pentine pattern to fit closely in. the corru-
gations just at the back of the spouting
it will do much to lessen the fire risk.
If the spouting were fitted with plugs
at the downpipe vent a small roof tank
or even a few buckets of water would
fill the spouting and kill the sparks when
they lodged.
I live in the worst fire-trap in Victoria
and should like to hear of a better idea.
—Snowy (Vic.).
Wool-classing by Post
A “college” advertising in reputable
journals offers to teach wool-class-
ing by correspondence alone. AmOng
the journals is the N.S.W. “Agricultural
Gazette,” which enjoys a high prestige
among men on the land.
In most States wool-classing instruction
is imparted under Government direction
in courses of two to three years’ dura-
tion. Sydney Technical College gives in-
struction by mail to students unable to
attend courses in Sydney or at country
♦
centres, but it stipulates that they
must spend the last year of the course in
practical instruction.
The advertisement states that “Experts
earn big money.” “Expert” has a
special meaning in the wool trade. Most
sheds of any size employ a classer and
an “expert,” the latter’s job being to run
the machinery—he has nothing to do with
the wool.
It is stated also that “women are
urgently wanted in the industry. Land
Girls should enrol.” If the war isn’t
over by the time a Land Girl could learn
classing by correspondence or any
other method, then the situation is more
serious than anyone realises. Several
women are now classing on small proper-
ties, and Land Girls and others have done
shedhand work, but the percentage of
women suited to this work is small. They
have to work among a pretty rough mob
of men and boys, good fellows as many
of them are, and, since a classer
has not only to look after the fleeces but
has to instruct and control shedhands, it
isn’t women’s work.
Other statements are that the course
is “the most practical, efficient and
rapid in the world” and that there is
“permanent big money in an industry
that can’t stop or put off.” In normal
times a wool-classer is lucky to get five
sheds in a season. He is paid only while
on the job, and frequently has to put in
time between # sheds staying at country
pubs at his own expense. For the remain-
ing six or seven months of the year he
may get employment in stores, scours,
etc., for two to four months, according
to his ability and experience, but wool-
classing is not a permanent job in any
sense of the word, neither is there perma-
nent big money attached to it.
After claiming that classing is “taught
rapidly by mail, condensing the experi-
ence of ten or fifteen years’ travelling into
a year or two,” the advt. appeals to
graziers: “Growers! Don’t be in trouble
next clip. Qualify now and be indepen-
dent.” The next clip will be shorn within
several months, so apparently the college
is going to make experienced classers of
growers inside six months.
“If the war ended tomorrow it would
be many shearings before classers re-
turned ; many would stay abroad and
others on returning would drift into other
occupations.” Apparently the college
has inside information on demobilisation,
or is it referring to casualties? If others
on returning would drift into other occu-
pations, how can the college reconcile
that with its assertion that there is per-
manent big money in the industry?
If an individual without other creden-
tials than the diploma of this concern
applied to any woolbroker or shearing
contractor for a job as classer, it is my
guess that he would have Buckley’s
chance of getting it. — Classer (N.S.W.).
Jewish Immigration
“Commonwealth Digest of Decisions,’
No. 74, says:
In March, 1943, Full Cabinet approved
of the Australian Jewish Welfare Society
bringing to Australia up to 150 Jewish
refugee children between the ages of seven
and 14 years under certain conditions. Full
Cabinet today gave authority for the entry
into the Commonwealth of up to 150 addi-
tional refugee children from France who
may be granted refuge in Switzerland. The
children are to be between the ages of
seven and 14 years; to be of good type;
satisfactory physically and mentally; to be
submitted to examination by Australian
authorities in Britain; and to be received,
maintained and cared for after arrival in
Australia by the Australian Jewish Welfare
Society.
1 do not like that last line. It indicates
an addition to, and continuance of, a
racial bloc in the capital cities, with rural
counterparts of other types in the sugar
and irrigation areas.
Soon after the quoted announcement
appeared certain Government spokesmen
were at pains to explain that the British
wives and children of Australian returned
soldiers who had married abroad cculd
not, because of lack of shipping facilities,
be brought to this country. Surely
preference in transport should be given
to the kith and kin of Australian Diggers.
And after that space should be given to
the transport of British orphans who
would grow up as our own and not form
blocs and groups differing in most
respects from ourselves.
It would solve many problems of
transport and supervision if all immigrant
children came out with the Diggers’
families. Under the Government’s plans
the 300 alien children would need a
supervising staff and escorts, all to be
returned at the end of their task.—A. A.
(Vic.).
The Paper Shortage
For a long time Australian publishers
wishing to publish books by Australian
writers have not been able to get paper.
But local printers printing for English
publishers are busy ; they tell you the
paper is supplied by the English pub-
lishers. Books of the Penguin and White
Circle and other such series are being
printed in M.L. or Australia in vast
numbers. Another English firm had made
contracts for delivery of 500,000 cloth-
bound books by next Christmas. Our
publishers can’t get cloth for binding.
This isn’t so much a wish to break
into the Australian book markets by
English firms as to get in here ahead of
Americans. In the trade newspaper of
U.S.A. publishers recently it was sug-
gested that American and British pub-
lishers should get together and discuss
the Australasian book market—for them
about the best export market in the
world. No talk of any Australian pub-
lisher sitting-in at the conference table.
The announcement that the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund will start book
publishing—of out-of-print as well as
new works—is good news. But the addi-
tional intimation that the Federal Gov-
ernment will be behind the venture and
will supply unlimited book paper makes
us wonder why our private Australian
publishers cannot get supplies. Inciden-
tally, many Australian school books are
written in England and printed here for
English publishers, who find freight rates
and insurance a handicap on bringing
goods from England.
I understand that paper supplies are
based on pre-war requirements, which
gives the big publishers a flying start.
The Commonwealth Literary Fund’s pre-
war requirements were nil. If paper can
be found for the C.L.F., why not for
private firms who have many books await-
ing publication, also many much-needed
reprints? Practically all of the works of
Australians from the time of Henry
Lawson —and including him —are out of
print today, while thousands of reprints
of English and American books are avail-
able.—Will Lawson (N.S.W.).


what this means
I
IM
fir
r»
K
\
L
ff
t?
8
J.
J
A
i
<4>
<c>
9
<?-
N
S 3
<?■-
/
-'y' :r/ .-
and hasten
this end
INVEST IN THE I S J VICTORY LOAN
Inserted by William Arnott Pty.. Limited, Homebush.
