

GRAPE VI
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65-—No. 3384
Wednesday, December 20, 1944
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.
CORONATION STONE AND MARKET PLACE.
\ WITH Winchester, the ancient town of Kingston disputes the
* “ glory of having been the Saxon capital of England. One of
the oldest of England’s towns, Kingston was the scene of the
coronation of Saxon kings a thousand years ago, and of Egbert’s
Witenagemot even before that.
The pride of Kingston must surely be the famous Coronation
Stone upon which the ceremony, according to tradition, was
performed. Removed nowadays to the market place and reverently
railed off by a massive iron screen, the Coronation Stone is a mute
yet eloquent reminder of England’s storied past, for upon it,
according to tradition, at least seven Saxon kings were here
crowned.
The church at Kingston contains some old monuments, including
one to a daughter of Edward 111 and his mistress, Alice Perrers.
Some of the Kingston houses are very interesting, and even modern
shop fronts sometimes guard fine Jacobean carved staircases that
could perhaps, if they would only speak, tell many a fascinating
story.


team '
Storij
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SIOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Sly Name
Sly Address
S.B. 244 AGE
The RedPage
DREAMS OF PAPUA.
There was a native of Papua who, giv
ing evidence in the Central Court, causec
a sensation by declaring that he had see
a two-headed snake on the Fly River. ]
had a head at each end and, when h
saw it, was travelling both ways at once
The witness admitted he was aslee
when he observed this dainty pheno
menon, but nevertheless firmly believec
in its existence.
This is one of the instances of th
Papuans’ inability to distinguish between
dreams and reality given in Lewis Lett’
Papua (F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Me]
bourne). Another delightful case is tha
of a member of the Royal Papuan Con
stabulary who walked into the Saving
Bank and asked for twenty pounds, par
of the reward the King had given him
for capturing Hitler.
He had been patrolling the town a
night, he said, when he saw a white man’s
hand protruding from behind a boulder
Seizing it, he found Hitler attached to it
so he handcuffed the Fiihrer and marcher
him to the aerodrome. As there was no
’plane leaving for England, he boarded
machine for China and there transferrer
with his prisoner to another ’plane for
England, where the King, overjoyed
offered him a sum of money. A member
of Judge Murray’s police could not ac-
cept cash payments for his services; his
Majesty apologised and said he woult
pay £2OO into the captor’s savings ac-
count at Port Moresby.
It took a fortnight’s vacation to rid
the policeman’s mind of his conviction
that the whole story was true. And he
was an educated Papuan who had often
ridiculed his less civilised brethren for
believing their dreams were reality.
Sub-titled “Its people and its promise,
past and future,” Papua is intended
chiefly as a warning to Australians not
to believe in cheap dreams about turning
the territory into a paradise for immigra-
tion and settlement:
The plain truth is that Papua is not a •
country for the small settler.
After the last war a number of returned
soldiers took up land in Papua. They
were helped to some extent by the Com-
monwealth Government, as well as by the
Papua Administration. Only one of those
men still held his land at the end of 1941.
There are the obstacles natural to any new
country, such as isolation, high costs,
lack of transport. Health must be con-
sidered. Native labor is a problem in itself.
The second class of difficulties comprises
those that have been to some extent manu-
factured. Markets are erratic; freight rates
very high; Papuan products do not enjoy
any sort of preference on the Australian
market
It may seem that the foregoing remarks
are - designed to discourage settlement in
Papua; but if so they have been misunder-
stood. The commercial development of
Papua is desired by all who have the interests
of the country and of its natives at heart.
But none who has witnessed the tragic
events that have taken place in the Terri-
tory during the last 30 years would be will-
ing to see a large influx of young men
with insufficient capital.
Soldier settlement might be successful if
a number of men would form themselves
into an organised body with resources ample
to cover all probable expenses.
These extracts can do no more than
give an inkling of . Mr. Lett’s line of
thought. The book should be read in
full, not only by anybody interested in
settlement in Papua, but by the nation at
large. Allied to the question of settle-
ment, there are the problems of labor
and defence. Mr. Lett believes that both
in justice to the natives and as a practical
business proposition the importation of
Asiatic labor would be disastrous; “The
example of the Indians in Fiji and that
of the Chinese in Mandated New Guinea
provide a warning it would be madness
to ignore.”
As for defence, he points out that
although the Territory was annexed
chiefly for strategical reasons, “until 1939
nothing whatever was done to give effect
to the strategic advantage that had been
gained. There was not in .the whole of
Papua any sort of defensive work! There
was not a military or naval uniform any-
where throughout the Territory. And the
nearest approach to warlike weapons
were the rifles, of obsolete pattern, that
were used by the Native Armed Con-
stabulary.” Mr. Lett might have added
that The Bulletin stood alone in insist-
ing that Australia’s island possessions
should be defended.
A book of national importance, Papua
is also an entertaining piece of reading.
It is packed with anecdotes; how a native
servant gave notice because the cat kept
stealing his breakfast (“breakfast” being
a handsome rat); how a collector a few
years ago acquired from the Aroma
people a reproduction in wood of a
Spanish halberd and copies in basket-
work and fibre of Spanish helmets of the
seventeenth century; how the stone im-
plements of an earlier, more civilised
people have been found ; how 200 women
nagged for a day and a night because a
man had poached on their fishing
grounds; how the people of the Ebei
tribe rear pigs, of prodigious size, as big
as Shetland ponies, how the girls of the
village take the monsters for a walk, lead-
ing them on a leash, and how 700 of the
animals were slaughtered for a great
feast; how an escaped French convict,
searched for by a warship, joined the
vessel as pilot and nosed round the coast
for weeks, helping to look for himself ;
how 300 shipwrecked Chinese, stranded
on an island, were taken ashore in batches
of half a dozen on the promise of food
and housing, and were there killed and
eaten —all except one survivor who was
rescued by a French survey ship.
The book is stated by the publishers
to be “one of a series of independent
publications dealing with Australian and
Pacific topics.” Papua is a good start,
and the rest of the series should be worth
watching for.
White Knight of the Pacific .
C. Brunsdon Fletcher’s The Black
Knight of the Pacific (Australasian Pub-
lishing Co., Sydney) appears to be some-
what tactlessly titled for a book about a
missionary. The “Black Knight,” the
author explains, saved Ivanhoe in Scott’s
novel; George Brown, D.D. did much to
save the souls and bodies of the natives
of Samoa and Papua.
Just as he asks for a generous acquain-
tance with Scott to make his title com-
prehensible, so Mr. Fletcher asks for a
prior knowledge of George Brown to
make his biography fully acceptable. His
account of the missionary’s battle in New
Britain with the cannibal Talili is sketchy ;
and when dealing with George Brown’s
efforts for the fantastic Marquis De Ray
expedition in New Ireland he speaks of
a “whirlwind of false witness and malice
that grew out of it” but gives no details
at all.
Over-decorous is weak biography. And
in the case of a George Brown, whose
faith, courage and integrity could never
be doubted, there is no reason whatever
to shrink from printing the full facts
about sensational incidents.
These faults apart, The Black Knight
of the Pacific is a most interesting nar-
rative. Mr. Fletcher presents his hero as
a boy in England mixed up in the smug-
gling profession ; as a lad running away
to sea and taking, without any qualifi-
cations at all, a job as a ship’s cook; as
a sailor on a troopship ; as a voyager to
New Zealand encountering as fellow-
passengers the two great missionaries
Selwyn and Patteson ; as an eye-witness
at one of the great meetings of the Maori
King movement; as a would-be mis-
sionary nearly failing of appointment
because he was thought “too lady-like”;
as a honeymooner in the wild New Zea-
land bush, perilously fording the mouths
of the rivers and escaping from the fleas
in a deserted Maori whare to the rain on
the hill outside ; and finally as a mis-
sionary in Samoa and Papua.
The two pictures of Brown in Samoa
the present commentator liked best were
one of him shooting the breakers in a
small boat and making his wife sit with a
mat over her head so that she could not
see the perils they were facing; and
another of him sitting all day in the sun in
the path of a war-party because, under
Samoan etiquette or superstition, the war-
riors could not pass a peace-maker who
blocked the way. The general effect of
the Samoan chapters is a portrait of
Brown as a peace-maker, and a survey of
German ambitions in the Pacific.
Mr. Fletcher is interested in literature
as well as in history. George Brown’s
father knew the schoolmaster Shaw whom
Dickens “mined almost with a stroke of
his pen” by his caricature of Wackford
Squeers; and Mr. Fletcher records that,
as an odd consequence of this excursion
into reformism, “A son of Shaw went to
New Zealand to get away from the tur-
moil of it all and was becoming a success-
ful farmer there; then he was hunted off
by insistent tourists who wanted to see
what Squeers’s son was like.”
There is also an interesting reference
to the lost MSS. of one Cannibal Jack,
otherwise known as Jackson. Papers by
Cannibal Jack about life in the South
Seas were held by a Parramattan ; “still
unpublished, and the owner has died.
Possibly the executors, trustees or legatees
do not know their value, if they are still
in existence.”
And, as a final literary note, there
are a number of meetings between Brown
and Robert Louis Stevenson. It says
enough for the quality of Mr. Fletcher’s
hero that Stevenson wanted to write his
life.
Two from Soldiers.
Short, dramatic, clearly written, limited
to personal experience and never attempt-
ing to be an official history or a tourist
guide-book, J. L. Lind’s Escape from
Crete (Australasian Publishing Co., Syd-
ney) is a model of the soldier’s narrative.
It does not matter that the story of
the invasion of Crete is no longer topi-
cal ; except in his opening chapter, it
does not matter that the story of the in-
vasion has been told many times by sol-
diers and reporters: the book lives as a
story of adventure.
Taken prisoner by the Nazis on the
island, Lind saw fellow-captives spat
upon and kicked, saw them beaten with
a waddy of timber, given cruel and de-
grading punishments, tormented by
dysentery because the Germans had no
drugs available to relieve them. He saw
the leading men of a column of starving
prisoners rush on a stray fowl, tear it to
pieces and eat it raw on the spot. He
tells these things calmly, as facts.
He escaped from his prison camp and
ran into adventure after adventure. The
Cretans hid him in lonely gullies. Word
would come that the Nazis were
approaching, and he would have to move.
At one time he had to climb a tree, like
King Charles, and hide in the branches
while the searchers stood below him.
He met other escapees, British, New
Zealanders and Australians, and was sus-
pected by one group of being a German
spy in Australian uniform, so that he
was in more danger from them than from
the enemy. After a time, when he had
grown dark and shaggy enough to pass
for a Cretan, he mingled freely with the
Nazis in the villages.
Friendly Cretans fed him on flowers
of marrow stuffed with rice and barley
and baked in olive oil —“delicious,” he
says; other well-meaning but misguided
villagers fed him on baked snails.
He made his way to a rendezvous near
the sea, where other fugitives had
gathered and were awaiting a chance of
rescue.
I don’t suppose you could have seen any-
thing more ludicrous than the appearance
of some of our New Zealanders. Several
strutted about in straw college hats cocked
well over the eye; another sported a bowler
hat which he seemed to regard as a halo to
his long beard; a few wore caps of strange
shape; and there were two Kiwis walking
round in ancient Turkish costume —turban,
shirt, droop-bottomed trousers and leather
knee-boots complete. And, of course, every-
body carried a walking-stick in the Greek
fashion.
On a dark night, lit perilously by the
playing of German searchlights, the com-
pany came down to a little bay, stripped
and stood naked in the wind, and at last,
one by one on the orders of a leader,
waded into the sea, caught hold of the
rope that had been stretched from the
waiting submarine to a boulder on the
beach, and made their way to safety.
“The eyes of those who waited their turn
were glued on the searchlight station in
dread that it would spring to life again.
When there were only five men in front
of me I stamped with fierce impatience.”
It is a fine story; and a writer who
remembers such vital details as that he
“stamped with fierce impatience” can’t
fail to make it exciting.
Another soldier’s book, A. S. Helm’s
Fights and Furloughs in the Middle East
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.), is less suc-
cessful. In its 301 packed and crowded
pages there is inevitably a good deal of
interesting material: notably a meeting
with an Australian who is a member of
the Palestine police—“ During the trouble
of 1936 this Aussie was assistant hang-
man and was kept very busy. Often
they had to ‘push off’ fourteen or fifteen
in a morning. He seemed very proud of
the fact that they hanged them in English
style” ; a meeting in Persia with a Tommy
who spent all his spare time poring over
the railway timetables of Great Britain,
so that he could tell the time of departure
and arrival of all the principal trains ;
and a meeting in the same country with
the miniature-artist, Musavvir. Among
the descriptions of war—Helm was with
the New Zealanders —the street-fighting
in Galatos on Crete is especially well nar-
rated.
But as a whole Fights and Furloughs
reads more like a guide book than any-
thing else. All the celebrated sights of
the Middle East are described at inordi-
nate length and without a trace of origin-
ality. Helm has a genuine passion for
travel and archaeology; he is likeable
company. But if, as he seems to threaten,
he is going to continue writing travel
books, he will have to learn to cut the
cliches from his writing and to select his
material.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At Anthony Horderns’ gallery, Sydney
John Eldershaw has a show of 4
water-colors supplemented by 10 oils
This painter, who first came into promi
nence through his sympathetic studies o
the quieter aspects of Tasmanian scenery
particularly the old stone bridges th
Speck abounds in, later developed a liking
for brighter color, and sought it out anc
managed it with great skill. The lates
examples of his work show a renewec
feeling for unobtrusive gentle effects
Among the water-colors “High Tide
Bayview,” “River Pool” and “The Placic
Creek,” all highly effective, illustrate the
newer trend. The Spanish sketches reve
in color. With the exception, perhaps, of
Norman Lindsay, Eldershaw is about the
only Australian painter who generally
prefers water-color as a medium who has
also mastered oil technique witness
“Araluen Valley” and “Araluen Hills.’
“Berrima” is also a fine vigorous achieve-
ment.
A retrospective exhibition at the Velas-
quez, Melbourne, of the works of Danila
Vassilieff, who teaches at the Nield schoo
at Warrendyte, includes early work in
the West Indies, England, Spain, Portuga
and Sydney, the period when he was de-
scribing the Warrendyte school and
life in Footscray, his impressions of his
fellow-workers in an ordnance factory
and a recent adventure into oils and por-
traiture, plus some surrealist explora-
tions. It is difficult to know why uni-
versity gentlemen who write forewords
should find the pictures unlike any other
painting here or abroad.
At the talkies;
Not counting an appropriate Shakspearean
quotation nicely declaimed by Peter Finch
Charles Chauvel’s “The Rats of Tobruk” (Syd-
ney Mayfair) avoids the Hollywood error of
making soldiers give platitudinous orations on
democracy under shellfire, but the story creaks
at several joints, the siege itself is given too
tame an ending and the unpolished romantic
sequences produce the impression that they were
put in because expected. The girls are prettty,
but colorless ; Grant' Taylor looks every inch
the muscular hero, but hasn’t enough scope.
Although spectacular, the epilogue set in New
Guinea appears to have gone in as an alter-
thought, and the epic should have ended in
Tobruk. “Chips” Rafferty plays a “typical”
Digger convincingly, and the photography is
good.
In “Follow the Boys” (Empire) Hollywood
rears up and beefs out to the woild what good
fellows the film colonists are in sending con-
cert parties to all battlefronts. The story is
just a Big Dipper over which skim in rapid
succession various vaudevillians. The best of
these is Orson Welles as a magician who saws
Marlene Dietrich in halves. If he had used the
saw, without any illusions, on the Andrews
Sisters and Dinah Shore the world would be a
happier place.
Although the screen version of “The Hairy
Ape” (Plaza) seems to have not much of
Eugene O’Neill in it, it does convey the dumb
antagonism of the huge and hairy stoker to
the society pet who hurls the simian compari-
son, which culminates in the stoker’s shaking
her till her bicuspids rattle, contemptuously
tossing her a coin and, having thus established
his mastery and recovered his sanity, goes
back joyfully to his stokehole. William Bendix
is the boss stoker who becomes a novitiate in
sociology the hard way, and Susan Hayward
the perfect snob.
Although witty lines are fewer than in
the usual run of American domestic
comedies, “It’s a Wise Child,” Sydney
Royal’s late-afternoon show, has some
joyous misunderstandings when the
daughter of the house, in order to break
a burdensome engagement, announces
that she is about to become a mother.
Jessica Noad brings a sound comedy
sense and a charming personality to the
role of the daughter, and Howard Craven
is good as the straightener-out.
The luck of the beginner continues to
dog Hector Crawford, the young Mel-
bourne conductor, *who drew an immense
crowd to the Botanic. Gardens for the
first open-air Sunday concert of the
season and was provided with warm sun-
shine and no worse interruption than an
occasional domestic quarrel on the lake
between two ducks whose musical educa-
tion had been neglected. William Herbert
and Glenda Raymond sang operatic items
that soared amongst the treetops.-


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE'
M
■ ■■
a
m
$
mk
*>
9
0*
m
m
m
h
y>
g?
m
m
5S*
<3
H
A:
<*
7
m*
... \-A
.;! « -
ii
HI
m
m
vc*
rS
VS
s?s
*=•
//,
?
''r>
J^i
•C? i
t&iU***
m
O «
I
mm
Wv _
T ♦ * S T
* -« iT
i£”yz « & #
s» : 'Sr
»;s!Ss
I SI
V- HH :■ 1
mmmmmz
mmm
T>£pW-
m
.and SutUhtttot/
"MOSOM" MOSQUITO COIL. The most effective, reliable
and economical method of dealing with mosquitoes and other
insects. Prefectly harmless to humans. Price .... box
"SKEETA" MOSQUITO CREAM AND INSECT REPELLANT.
Price 1/- jar
"CELEBRITY" MOSQUITO CREAM REPELLANT. This cream
contains a high percentage of medications compounded into
a smooth paste. Price 2/3
"PALACE" FLY SPRAY effectively repels mosquitoes and all
types of insects. 20-oz. bot., 2/6; 1-gal. tin, 13/6; 2|-gals., 30/-
POTTER & MOORE'S MOSQUITO REPELLANT. Concentrated
Lavender. Apply thinly and ensure complete comfort ... 1/2
"NIVEA" SUNNING OIL with special
Anti-Burn Filter. A delicately perfumed
oil containing an ingredient which
screens off the burning rays, but does not
impede the rays that give health. Two
sizes. Prices l/3£, 2/6 bottle
"JONCOLIA" CREAM. Protective dress-
ing for sunburn. Also efficient for
ordinary burns and abrasions. It relieves
pain. Price 1/6 tube
° Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


r «r
r
r
r I
'j./y/'l-
OTRER FAMOUS PRODUCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE ... CHERRY BRANDY
v
ADVOCAAT .' ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. Si A. 61LBEY LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST., WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams & Cables;"Gilbeys" Melbourne
REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables: “Gilbeys” Sydney


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3384.
Wednesday, December 20, 1944.
“A FAMILY AFFAIR.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P- H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
xr Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Streetj Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
STRENGTH THROUGH DUTY.
The King isP sending to Australia as
Governor-General his brother, the Duke
of Gloucester. Preceding his Royal High-
ness, who,' like his Majesty, is no stranger
to the people, came Admiral Sir Bruce
Fraser as Commander-in-Chief of the
great British Fleet which, with its “power-
ful striking force of modern battleships
and very substantial aircraft-carrier
strength,” is to join in the task of driving
the Japanese back to their homelands for
the final settling of accounts. And it is
no mystery that British soldiers, as well
as British seamen and airmen and Ameri-
cans, Australians, Canadians and New
Zealanders in all the services, will have
a part in rolling up the enemy from the
south.
That the British should show such
strength in the sixth year of a terrible war
with the most formidable military Power
in Europe is a miracle —there is no other
word for it. They began the struggle with
only 22,000,000 males of all ages and
conditions, and for nearly two years,
except for the Battle of Britain, fought
grandly in the skies by young men (“few
of their names are known,” and many of
those remembered, among them our own
Hillary and Bungay, are dead), they went
from defeat to defeat. Their armies were
driven out of Norway, France (with the
loss of all its equipment) and Greece.
They suffered frightful losses of warships
and merchant shipping, officers and men.
They had to provide not only against
invasion (this with, at first, only one fully-
equipped division) but against starvation.
For a year they stood alone against a
conqueror who, relatively to the condi-
tions, commanded far greater strength in
men and materials than Napoleon ever
had at his disposal. Even after the
attack on Russia relieved some of the
pressure on their country (it did not for
a long time remove the danger of in-
vasion) and the Pearl Harbor infamy
brought in their mightiest ally they had
to accommodate themselves to the loss of
two mighty battleships, other vessels of
a substantial squadron, an army and
some of the richest portions of their
empire.
Yet, as always in their history, adversity
brought out the finest qualities of this
grand old race. It was during the year
in which they stood alone, and in which,
on land or sea or in the air, they never
went into a fight in which the odds were
not on the enemy’s side, that they started
Italy on the road to destruction. In this
task they had to conquer nature as well
as man, and it was delayed by bitter
reverses; before the tide turned the army
of the Axis, led by one of its best gen-
erals, was virtually in sight of Alexandria.
Yet at El Alamein the enemy’s dream
of Middle East conquest was shattered.
Men from three Dominions and the
United States —the Americans from
November, 1942 —had honorable shares
in the victorious campaigns which tore
the Italian empire “to tatters,” and which
rolled from Egypt to Tunisia,' and across
the Middle Sea to Sicily, and so to Italy
and the downfall of Mussolini; but the
defeat of Italy was in the main a British
achievement.
And what an achievement! Because
the British don’t advertise and other
people do its effect on the course of the
war —and that doesn’t mean merely the
war in Europe—is not even yet assessed
at its true value. Before El Alamein the
Germans had the use of Italian divisions
from the Garonne to the Don. As soon
as they realised that El Alamein and the
swiftly-following Anglo-American inva-
sion of North-west Africa had put the
Italians on the skids they began their
retreat in Russia, and the retreat was in
progress on parts of the long front when
the Sixth Army was caught in Stalingrad.
Stalingrad has grown legendary. In the
latest version of the legend, as published
in Sydney, the Russians are credited with
having “annihilated 375,000 Germans,”
A contemporary London “Times” esti-
mate of the Sixth Army gave it a strength
of between 120,000 and 130,000. In the
Russian official account published (Feb. 1,
1943) in the New York “Times,” in which
the communiques of all the warring
nations appear, it was stated that “alto-
gether, during the general offensive
against the encircled enemy troops, our
men took prisoner 46,000 officers and
men” (the enemy had previously claimed
to have flown out 40,000), many of whom
were Rumanians—the commanders of two
Rumanian divisions. Twentieth Infantry
and First Cavalry, were named.
Even so, Stalingrad was a fine feat of
Russian arms, and it certainly influenced
the course of events in eastern Europe.
But four Stalingradscould not have brought
about the conditions which compelled the
Germans to throw a great army into Italy,
to make a show of holding the Balkans
and the South of France with puny forces
(in the South of France there were two
divisions, two-fifths of which were Rus-
sians and other Slavs, when the German
bluff was called) and to give up the Medi-
terranean, and with it their island garri-
sons, however long these garrisons might
hold out. Nor would it have been pos-
sible to form the British Pacific Fleet
at the time and on the scale decided upon;
nor should we have learned from Admiral
Sir Bruce Fraser that “the Japanese fleet
has retired from the Indian Ocean” had
the Italian fleet, instead of surrendering
to Admiral Cunningham, remained a fleet
in being.
“The fear of God made England,”
Froude wrote in his life of Disraeli, “and
no great nation was ever made by any
other fear.” It is true ; and in the steady
devotion of the British people to Chris-
tian principles and in the spirit which
united all sections and all parties in de-
fence of King and country, truth and
honesty and fair dealing in international
relations under Neville Chamberlain,
whose fame, temporarily obscured by
Leftist mudslingers of the sort that per-
petrated “Guilty Men,” grows brighter
with the years, lies the explanation of the
miracle whose latest phase we Austra-
lians are witnessing. Already in countries
freed by English-speaking men communist
revolution has raised its ugly head. The
only British revolution that will come
out of this war is an educational revolu-
tion, planned during the war and about
to be introduced, though the war is far
from won. It provides for free schooling,
primary, secondary and technical, up to
the age of 19, and beyond that age where
an unsatisfied urge for instruction exists.
And, very significantly, religious training,
though never neglected, is to be extended.
Not only in Britain has national unity
been attained. Mr. Roosevelt, who ap-
pointed two Republicans to his Cabinet
in July, 1940, made his first campaign
speech in 1944 at a gathering of the
Teamsters’ Union. On one side of him
sat the president of the union, Mr. Tobin;
on the other the president of the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor, Mr. Green, and
Mr. Kaiser, the shipbuilder; and all joined
in the applause when the President re-
affirmed his faith in free enterprise and
private property. No American saw any-
thing strange in such a scene, but it would
be impossible in present-day Australia.
Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser got an ink-
ling of the extent to which the spirit of
faction has prevailed over the spirit- of
unity in the good cause when he was in-
formed by Mr. Forde of the coal posi-
tion, and by the papers of the latest out-
rageous proposals of the communist-led
Miners’ Federation —“authorised” strikes
against the collection of fines -imposed
on workstoppers, and defiance of the
Government’s gazetted restriction of un-
earned Christmas holidays to ten days—
for making it still worse. The British
Pacific Fleet, he said, would depend on
Australian facilities and supplies of- coal
and other essentials :
If power or railways have to be cut down
it will affect us frightfully.
And the first war Prime Minister, who
had to contend with a communist con-
spiracy against the war effort, expressed
in subversive propaganda and “planned”
strikes, uttered a warning against the
“rapidly-growing communist movement,
carefully concealing its revolutionary
objectives under fair words, but all
the time invading, with its grossly
materialist doctrines of hatred and
division. Parliament, the public plat-
form, the great trade-union movement,
and even, in many instances, the pulpit,
from which a strangely different religion
was once preached.” And, surveying the
general scene, he saw Australia “moving
steadily towards several things, for all
of which we must hold our present rulers
accountable”:
A growing indifference towards the war
and our share of responsibility for winning
it; a growing indifference to the dignity
and authority of the law, under which all
our freedom exists; a growing disposition
to call into question, and sometimes into
vulgar abuse, the judiciary, a great institu-
tion, one of the major arms of government;
a growing feeling on the part of the Execu-
tive Government that Parliament is not the
voice of the people but merely the record-
ing instrument for decisions made else-
where; the growing practice of indifference
towards those sensitive ideas of public
morality which alone have enabled free self-
government to flourish in British countries,
and the undermining of the vital basis of
our economy, upon which we shall depend in
post-war days, by party political interfer-
ence with the vigor and freedom of industry.
An incontrovertible indictment. Yet
those who know Australia best know
that all the follies and weaknesses can
be arrested and the bad elements put
down by the better part of the nation,
summoning to its service the “good and
honorable men in all parties,” of whom
Mr. Menzies spoke. And though a
national Government to see the war out
and act until the servicemen have been
restored to civil life doesn’t now seem
even remotely probable, a hint from the
King’s brother, himself closely acquainted
with the Ministry of all the talents in
Britain, could not be abruptly dismissed.
Parade of Blimps.
Between the wars millions who put their
faith in peace everlasting found the comic
figure of Colonel Blimp in David Low’s
cartoons right to their taste. Blimp was
accepted as the masterstroke of a genius
who had embodied in that one fat old
dunderhead what everybody then thought
of military men, particularly British.
How Mr. Low missed getting a Peace
Medal is a mystery.
Mass-thinking processes having since
changed for the time being movie
audiences, by a nice turn of irony, now
behold an altered Blimp. It is dis-
covered that the old duffer won the V.C.
in the Boer War, was a notable fighting
leader in World War I, and in the present
war was still capable of doing his Country
useful service. The walrus moustache
turns out to be honest modesty’s covering
for a war wound.
Colonel Blimp, of all people, slushily
sentimentalised! The gods must be laugh-
ing hugely at the human comedy which
makes it possible—and a little at Mr.
Low.
There might be some laughs, too,
among those whom the original Blimp
was accepted as rightly holding up to ridi-
cule—the men who, in the face of the
disparaging and belittling of them and
their calling, carried on, making them-
selves efficient against the day when those
who howled with laughter at the Low
parodies would howl with fright for pro-
tection.
But the metamorphosis of Colonel
Blimp has more to it than a mere change
of popular feeling brought about by war.
The simple fact is that Blimp, as created,
was a falsehood. Nobody would contend
that there Were —or are —no pompous
asses in the services, any more than any-
body would contend that there are no
fools in Parliament. But Blimp was
accepted as typical. It was the open
season for potting at military men and
all they were regarded as representing.
It brought rich rewards to writers as
well as to Mr. Low.
The facts of this war turn the ridicule
back with singular force. Yet even now
the widespread popular belief probably is
that the war is being won by newly-
discovered British and American mili-
tary, air and navy men. The notion
seems to be that, for example, the British
can thank God that Mr. Churchill dis-
covered such new blood as Alexander
and Montgomery. The truth is that both
these ‘'discoveries” are professional
soldiers. What is more, that goes for
all the British and American top-flight
war leaders.
Alexander —53 on December 10 —went
to Churchill’s old school, Harrow; then
to Sandhurst, the most notorious of all
training schools for Blimps. In the other
World War he commanded Irish troops ;
went over the top 30 times before he was
wounded; at 26 became a lieutenant-
colonel in command of a battalion ; won
the D.S.O. and the M.C. In 1919 he
led a battalion of Lettish troops in
Russia; between the wars he went on
making himself a more competent soldier
(towards this, learning French, Italian,
German, Russian and Urdu). In the
present war he took the British First Divi-
sion to France and out again at Dunkirk,
showed masterly command in the retreat
in Burma, then the same quality in attack
from Alamein to Italy—this last one of
the finest campaigns ever fought.
Last month Alexander was promoted
to field-marshal (dated back to June 4,
the date of the fall of Rome), and was
made supreme Allied Commander in the
Mediterranean. At Dunkirk and in
Burma, Africa, Italy, he proved the un-
surpassed quality of British military
genius in the most difficult circumstances
imaginable.
Montgomery turned 57 on Nov. 17. He
started out to qualify as a Blimp in 1908.
He fought through 1914-18, ending as
a major with the D.S.O. Between the
wars he stuck to soldiering, despite the
disparagement of all things military and
the attitude of time-serving politicians—•
reflecting, of course, the public mind —
which made promotion so difficult that
he did not step one more rung up the
ladder, to lieutenant-colonel, till 1931. His
present-war career and performance are
too. familiar to need detailing, and his
non-smoking, non-drinking, non-swear-
ing, Cromwellian character is almost as
well known as that of the Low caricature
formerly accepted as faithfully represent-
ing him and all his kind,
“Soldiering,” it has been said of Mont-
gomery, “is his religion, and books of
military strategy, with the Bible, are his
favorite reading.” It could be said of
them all; perhaps excluding* the Bible
in some cases, though MacArthur, for
one, would have made an excellent
bishop. The point about Montgomery is
that he, too, is a professional soldier, of
mature vintage.
When Montgomery went to take com-
mand of the British invasion troops for
France in a blaze of universal approval
his place with the magnificent Eighth
Army was taken by Leese. Leese had his
50th birthday on October 27, so he was
of a good age to start his soldiering in
1914-18. He was wounded three times,
and came out with the D.S.O. Nothing
could be more in the pre-movie Blimp
tradition than Leese’s career since—adju-
tant in the Coldstream Guards; ad-
jutant at the Eton Officers’ Train-
ing College; major in the Ist Guards
Brigade; chief instructor at Quetta;
with much else of the kind in between,
all of it professional soldiering. Now he
commands the 11th Army Group in
South-east Asia.
The listing could go on indefinitely;
but the sum of it would be the same—
that the whole of Britain’s mighty mili-
tary effort is fortunately under the con-
trol of the very brand of men formerly
held to have been so cleverly hit off and
so deservedly pilloried as the fat colonel.
The Air Forces, of course, are too
young and too much a young man’s
business to have anyone in them
sufficiently long in the tooth or con-
firmed in the service to be regarded
as fair prey for Blimp bludgeons
—or are they? Of the British,
Tedder —• most unobtrusively Deputy
Commander-in-Chief, second only to
Eisenhower —is of 1890 vintage. Tedder
Started his soldiering in 1914 with the
Dor sets; got into the air with the old
R.F.C. in 1916 ; and ever since that war
has made the R.A.F. his profession. The
same goes for other British top-rank air-
men, such as Leigh-Mallory—lost while
going out to join Leese in J. Bull’s
large-looming Asian operations—Harris,
with the American Spaatz, conducting the
steady bomb-crushing of Germany, and
the Australian-born Coningham, son of
an international cricketer. Being veteran
fliers, all of these —and dozens more of
them—would have been qualified for the
pre-movie Blimp category had they been
army instead of air-force men.
The British Navy escapes the Blimp
blight for a different and rather curious
reason. Naval men are expected to be
professionals. It is held to be a virtue in
them to be “tough oldseadogs”—the older,
presumably, the tougher and better.
Otherwise the whole of the top-rankers of
the Royal Navy would be targets for the
Blimp line of attack, including such
thickly salt-crusted old seadogs as Bruce
Fraser. Fraser (b. 1888) has been in the
Navy since he was old enough to be in
anything. What would be considered
worse in the pre-movie Blimp outlook,
he is the son of a British Army general.
Britain’s First Sea Lord Cunningham
has actually been in the Navy since
1897 ; and, to give one more typical ex-
ample, Ramsay had already been 40 years
at sea when he retired in 1938, to be re-
called to active service again a month be-
fore the present war broke out, acquit-
ting himself so well that he was chosen
to command the Allied naval forces under
Eisenhower for the big job across the
Channel.
The effete British, however, have no
monopoly of Blimps —land, sea or air.
U.S. Chief of Staff Marshall—has his
64th birthday looming up for December
31, and for 44 of his years he has been
in uniform. He differs from most of the
other outstanding U.S. Army leaders in
being a graduate not of West Point but
of the Virginia Military Institute. When
Marshall took over the top post in 1939
Uncle Sam’s Army—the peace-everlasting
lotus was widely chewed totalled
174.000. Marshall’s job has been the top
organising in its growth to some
8.000. inside four years, and the
placing of the bulk of them for fighting
at the ends of enormously long supply
lines. It represents a truly colossal
achievement, calling, above all, for the
trained —the professional —brain.
Eisenhower is another of them 10
years younger than Marshall, and a pro-
fessional soldier since he entered West
Point in 1911. It has been redundantly
written of him that “he was virtually
unknown to the general public for the
first 26 years of his military career.” If
he had done nothing else his job as
supreme commander in the biggest in-
vasion in history would mark him as one
of the greatest; and, like Marshall, he
has a fine mind and a profound know-
ledge of men.
That holds, too, for MacArthur, who
will*have his 65th birthday on January
26. The general best-known of them all
to Australia —though some Australians
knew Monty better— graduated from the
U.S. Military Academy right back m the
dark ages (1903), was twice wounded m


World War I, and continued as a pro-
fessional soldier till he retired in 1937.
He came back for his first, and now his
second, great fight in the Philippines,
wading ashore at Leyte for the latest.
Altogether, with all his Blimp qualifica-
tions thick upon him, he has done for
the Allied side, and for Australia in par-
ticular, a service that will never be for-
gotten ... Who said that? It will be for-
gotten all right if the state of public mind
which engendered the Blimp idea re-
turns ; by no means unlikely.
So the list for the Americans, too, could
be extended indefinitely. King, highest
of all their navy men, is 65, and saw
action in the Spanish War! He was 49
before he learned to fly and got his pilot’s
wings. He has been about half his life
at sea and more than two-thirds of it with
the navy, Nimitz, under whose general
command Fraser’s Pacific Fleet will go
into action, will be 60 in February, and
was a navy ensign back in 1907. Halsey,
62 this last October, has been a quarter
of a century at sea, was an ensign in 1908,
and is such a specimen “gruff old sea-
dog” that he has a foul anchor tattooed
on his left shoulder, is known by such
names as Buck, Bull and 8010, and has
even owned a parrot.
Bradley, Montgomery’s opposite num-
ber as commander of the American
ground forces in Europe, graduated from
West Point with Eisenhower in 1915, and
has been soldiering ever since. Clark,
who took over from Alexander in Italy,
is scarcely well qualified in years for the
Blimp category, being of only 1896
vintage ; but he was born in barracks,
knew from when he was four years old
that he was going to be a professional
soldier, graduated at West Point, and
has even been described as “a reaction-
ary, a traditionalist” because of his un-
shakable belief in the value of infantry.
Vandegrift, top man of the U.S. Marines,
has been in that splendid fighting force
since 1909. And Spaatz started opera-
tional flying chasing Pancho Villa in
Mexico in 1916,
Come nearer home. Freyberg, V.C.,
of 1890 vintage, has been soldiering since,
at 23, he fought as a freelance in a Mexi-
can civil war. He did try once, in Eng-
land, to become a politicians fortunately
failed; and so carried on as a soldier,
leading to his grand performance as the
fighting New Zealanders’ commander in
his second World .War.
And one of them—and not the least —
Blarney, of the A.1.F., in its two wars ;
62 next January 24 ; a professional soldier
before and after he was Victorian Police
Commissioner; Monash’s Chief of Staff
in the last great A.I.F. campaign in
France.
Does the filmed metamorphosis of
Colonel Blimp really mean that this
aspect of the war-winning is now recog-
nised and appreciated? Perhaps not;
though it would be healthy if it did, par-
ticularly in countries like Australia,
where between the wars professional
soldiering was treated most shabbily by
Governments and with indifference by a
complacent public. Leading politicians
—called statesmen —what odds are you
offering that it won’t happen again?
PLAIN ENGLISH
Thrown to the Wolves.
One of the few genuine authorities on
eastern Europe, particularly Russia, is the
American William Henry Chamberlin.
In a “Harper’s” article correcting the
errors of practitioners of the new
romance Chamberlin wrote that “neither
Lord Curzon nor the Supreme Allied
Council ever assigned the territory east
of the so-called Curzon Line (with the
drawing of which Lord Curzon had little
to do) definitely to Russia. It was con-
sidered a minimum, not a maximum,
eastern frontier of Poland.”
A true bill, and Chamberlin might have
added that Lord Curzon was no Friend
of the Soviet. On the contrary, he was
“one of two powerful men in the British
Government of the period” (the other
was Mr. Churchill) “who were zealous
and untiring advocates of the policy of
intervention” in Russia (Lloyd George,
in The Truth About the Peace Treaties).
' He was mostly concerned about rescuing
Georgia [Stalin’s country] from the con-
tamination of Bolshevism. He had a
special affection for the Caucasus. The
thought of abandoning its gallant moun-
taineers to the despotism of Lenin and
Trotsky filled him with horror, and he
fought to the end for the retention of
British forces in Georgia.
That was in December, 1918! In 26 years
what a change!
Mr. Churchill, no longer “the most
formidable and irrepressible protagonist
of an anti-Bolshevist war,” is now Prime
Minister and one of the chief architects
of an Anglo-Soviet alliance. In the House
of Commons on Friday he supported
Russia’s claim to all Poland east of the
Curzon Line~“one-third,” he said, but
on the map it looks more like three-
sevenths ; and in it is Lwow, one of
Poland’s ancient cities, birthplace of some
of its most famous men, see of a Catholic
archbishopric since 1412, with a cathedral
dating from 1480.
The P.M. scolded the Polish Min-
isters in London for failing to agree to
the sacrifice. But how could they without
forfeiting the allegiance of the Poles fight-
ing gallantly in the British Army, the R.N.
and the R.A.F., and of the survivors of
the heroes who died lately in Warsaw,
and accepting for Poland the position of
a puppet republic, at the mercy of its
own communists, always looking to Mos-
cow? He promised the Poles compensa-
tion : “all East Prussia west and south of
Konigsberg”—meaning presumably, that
Konigsberg is to go to Russia. If the
Poles accepted the Greek gift the next
war would straightway become a matter
of calculating the year.
Apparently by way of justification, Mr.
Churchill said queer things about the Rus-
sian armies in Poland: “motionless before
Warsaw.... if and when they advance,
as they surely wi11... .the Russian armies
— I know nothing of their intentions —will
probably, during the early part of 1945
traverse larger areas of Poland.” “I know
nothing of their intentions.” Surely he
should know everything of “their inten-
tions,” considering that “the intentions”
of Britain and America were communi-
cated to Marshal Stalin at Tehran, where-
upon the long and world-wide agitation
for a second front —in France, not Siberia
—ceased.
As was said of Clive in other circum-
stances, Mr. Churchill has rendered
“great and meritorious services to his
country.” But his “stand on Poland,” as
a panegyrist calls it, is in conflict with
the Anglo-Polish Treaty (August 25,
1939), which, as Mr. Chamberlin pointed
out, made no distinction between Poland’s
western and eastern boundaries; with
Mr. Eden’s Note to General Sikor-
ski on the occasion of the sign-
ing of the Russo-Polish agreement of
July 29, 1941 (“His Majesty’s Govern-
ment does not recognise any territorial
changes which have been effected in
Poland since August, 1939”} ; with Article
5 of the Anglo-Russian alliance (“The
High Contracting Parties... .will act in
accordance with the two principles of not
seeking territorial aggrandisement for
themselves and of non-interference in the
internal affairs of other countries”); with
the Atlantic Charter (“no territorial
changes, that do not accord with the
freely-expressed wishes of the peoples
concerned sovereign rights and self-
government [to be] restored to those who
have been forcibly deprived of them ”),
and, of course, the Covenant of the
League of Nations.
It was Mr. Chamberlain who gave the
guarantee to Poland. He would never
have thrown the Poles to the wolves or
sold them down the river.
Christmas in a City.
Facing its sixth war-time Christmas,
Australia’s largest city thinks it has a lot
to grumble about. Smokes are scarce
and only the black market seems to have
bottled beer and wine. Butter and meat
are rationed ; there are no nuts for the
Christmas table ; poultry is sixpence a
mouthful; presents for the family and
toys for the kids are at siege prices, and
the wife is worn to a frazzle tramping
from shop to shop trying to buy things,
and, if she is lucky enough to get ’em,
lugging ’em home.
Everything is short —coal, vegetables,
fruit, transport, clothing, patience, tem-
pers—except betting, tote and lottery
tickets, and the supply of mugs. There
are five or six Government lotteries a
fortnight, and the newspapers declare that
the bookmakers are facing ruin. If so
they are facing it with fortitude, and
they are always to be found in the same
old place.
The inhabitants have been told that
milk and eggs are to be rationed, fruit
and vegetables are certain to be shorter
than ever before the drought breaks,
and there won’t be much chance of going
anywhere for the holidays, either because
there’ll be few trains or because all near
resorts are booked out. Petrol can be got
on the black market; but tyres are worn
and dangerous, and where can you go if
you get the petrol?
The Government is buying racecourses
and talking airily about housing and “de-
velopment,” but nobody is amused.
“Things are tough in Sydney!” is the
almost universal sentiment.
But they’re a sight tougher in London
and Rome and Athens and Brussels ; a
sight tougher on the battle-fronts, and in
China and in Norway and Finland and
Poland and many other places. In fact,
if Sydney people could lift their eyes
above their own small troubles and com-
pare thein lot with the lot of other cities
they’d be so struck with their happy con-
dition in a world at war that they’d want
to shout “Merry Christmas” at every-
body. For, in comparison with the
peoples of Europe and Asia, they will
indeed have a merry Christmas.
Two Versions.
The case of Old Digger Watts, M.M., in
which all members of the First A.I.F.
are interested, was the subject of evidence
at the Australia First inquiry. This is
how the Sydney “Sun” reported it:
Story of Quarrel About Hereafter.
A woman told the Australia First inquiry
that she and her husband had written for
the “Publicist” until they quarrelled with
W. Miles (founder of the movement),
“about the hereafter.”
She is Mrs. Dora Watts, widow of
Martin Francis Watts, former internee and
member of the A.F.M.
“Miles wrote to me saying: ‘I believe
in Morley Roberts’s theory that the nation
is an organism, as the body is,’ ” said Mrs.
Watts.
“I said I thought there seemed to be
some general scheme throughout the uni-
verse.
“When he wrote back saying that he could
see no scheme I replied ‘That you see no
scheme in the universe may be due to your
limitations.’
“That was the genesis of our quarrel.”
Mrs. Wafts said that her husband had
served in Gallipoli and France in the last
war and was on a military pension. She
noticed a marked change in her husband’s
condition after he came out’ of internment.
He was heartbroken.
Had the paper been prepared to forego
the use of its flaring double-column head-
ings and the great blob of black-faced
type at the head of its “report” it could
have published a full summary of the
evidence in the space which it actually
devoted to its distorted and mangled tit-
bit. Here is the substance of what the
widow said:
Her husband served on Gallipoli and in
France and suffered from a war disability
for which he received a military pension.
The payments he did not take unless
obliged to apply for them. He served with
the militia from 1931 to 1939 [it had been
stated by a Crown witness that Intelligence
did not discover this fact about him, though
it had been in touch with him early in the
war]. The militia during that period was
his chief interest in life. He was interned
on March 9, 1942. He had been employed
as a Commonwealth Peace Officer on a
watbhihg job at a munition factory.
He had previously written for the
“Publicist,” and bad been paid for his
contributions, until the quarrel mentioned
by the “Sun” took place. During intern-
ment his health, which had troubled him
for years, deteriorated rapidly. When he
came out she “used to look and look into
his face to try to see the features of the
man I had known. I could hardly recog-
nise him. His weight fell from 12s. 91b.
to lOst. 71b.” He was an entirely different'
man and broken-hearted. Neighbors used
to ask who the old man around her farm-
let was.
Her husband applied for reinstatement in
his Government position but was refused
it with insulting language. Between his re-
lease in August, 1942, and June, 1944, he
earned only one guinea—in a radio play
competition, and his health continued to
faii. In June, 1944, after the inquiry began,
he was admitted to the Prince of Wales
Military Hospital and he died in July. He
was a loyal man —a King and Empire man.
And Mr, Dovey, K.C., assisting the
Commission, said (unreported by the
“Sun”):
“There is nothing to be suggested against
Mr. Watts’s character, reputation or
loyalty.”
The chairman of the concern (Asso-
ciated Newspapers) which publishes the
“Sun” complained at the annual meeting
that “newspapers in Australia, particu-
larly N. S. Wales,” had for “more than
a year” been “subjected to a campaign
of abuse and distortion of truth,” de-
signed to “destroy confidence in a free
press, and to pave the way for a con-
trolled press.” And he found it “signi-
ficant that the attack has been led by
communist publications and the organs
of those trade-unions whose officials were
professed communists.” Significant it is.
All the same, communists, who boasted
that they had had the Australia Firsters
put behind bars, must have been delighted
with the “Sun” report of the Watts case,
which is of a piece with a lot of the stuff
that has appeared in the supplement the
“Sun” calls “Fact.”
"Down at Honolulu."
Report by John Brennan, now in the
Philippines for The Bulletin, between
campaigns:
The ’plane Comes in across the rim of
Diamond Head, the great, grassed crater of an
extinct volcano at the southern end of the
city. Round and about the lines of the streets
the island of Oahu is patterned with canefields.
Beyond the city are the wide runways, huge
hangars and block upon block of administrative
and barracks buildings that make up Hickham
Field. They all seem dwarfed by the immensity
of the Pearl Harbor Navy Yard alongside.
Hickham, as ’planes travel in war-time, is less
than 36 hours from Brisbane. With the day
gained in crossing the Date Line it’s a matter
of leaving Australia in the early morning and
arriving in Hawaii in mid-afternoon same
date: that with three hours taken out for
meals and refuelling!
At present Honolulu must be one of the
most crowded cities in all the world. Sailors,
soldiers and Marines jostle each other on
the narrow pavements. All day long they
pass up and down in two continuous streams,
forward and back, back and forward, in the
centre of the city and out along the road
towards Waikiki Beach. The place is like
a gigantic fairground, with the booths of
cheapjacks lining the roadways and the cries
of boosters competing for the last few cents
from a tired crowd. There are minnie golf
courses, peepshows, penny - in - the - slot
machines, “Hire a bicycle! ” “Have your foto
taken with a hula girl!”
The hula girls are more tired than the cus-
tomers. Daylong they pose in front of the
backdrops painted to represent a stretch of
beach, a lagoon and a palm-tree. It costs 50
cents for a photograph with one girl, 75 cents
with two girls. Many of them are Polynesians;
many more are Japanese or Chinese or white;
all wear the grass skirts and the leis and the
flowers in the hair.
Towards evening lei-sellers are everywhere—
outside restaurants, theatres, on street corners.
Trinket shops do a thriving trade in shell
ornaments, palm-leaf mats and bags; the word
Aloha is on all of them. Men as well as
women wear the flower garlands and walk the
streets in flower-patterned shirts.
Patrol cars equipped with loudspeakers pass
up and down the roadways directing the sailors
as to the best means of finding buses that will
take them back to their ships. On the main
road out towards Pearl Harbor cars and trucks
move back and forth six abreast in continuous
lines. There are T-model Fords, cars without
hoods, windscreens, bonnets or mudguards;
they fight for position with the latest model
limousines. There is no apparent shortage of
petrol for private needs.
In Honolulu everybody queues for every-
thing: for meals, for taxis, for hula girls;
for other ladies. There have been queues
a quarter of a mile long of people waiting
to find out how they should go about paying
their taxes. At the hotels for the evening meal
the queues extend up to 60 yards or more out
on to the pavement. It’s almost a tradition that
a hotel guest should not try to eat in the hotel;
he goes looking for a restaurant where the
queue may be shorter.
A hotel room cost's $5 the night; meals
run from $1.50; taxis are 50 cents the first
mile, 30 cents after that. From Honolulu to
Pearl Harbor there is an inadequate bus service;
the return taxi fare is eight to nine dollars.
Tipping is so much an obligation as to constitute
an additional charge.
The newspapers carry such advertisements:
“Grand piano offered as reward for information
which will lead to the renting of an apart-
ment”; “Case of whisky as reward for infor-
mation that ”
The hotels serve liquor only from 12 noon
till 3 p.m. on weekdays. There is none on
Saturdays and Sundays.
Residents on the island buy their food cheap
enough at the markets. There is a shortage
of fish, which, with a mixed population of
Orientals, is a staple; the greater part of it
is brought from the mainland, even oysters.
In Hawaii one speaks of the United States
(over 2000 miles away) as the mainland, and
from the mainland everything comes. Yet
“mainland money” is no longer legal tender.
Because of the war and for fear the Japanese
might capture sufficient American money to
make the payment of agents in Hawaii an easy
matter the currency in use has been overprinted
“Hawaii.”
There are over 100,000 Japanese in the
islands. They constitute about 90 p.c. of the
artisan class; the barbers’ shops are staffed
with Japanese girls. A mere handful has been
interned, but there have been no cases of
sabotage, no known leakages of information.
The blackout has been lifted, but the curfew
remains—everybody must be off the street's by
10 p.m. Work stops early in the afternoon;
theatres and dances commence at 6.30.
Every Australian is disappointed in Waikiki
Beach. It is little more than a narrow strip
of sand with a tiny, lazy surf, irregular, seldom
more than a couple of feet in height, that
wanders in over a shallow, reef-broken bottom.
It could not compare with any one of the
beaches from Eden to Bundaberg.
But out beyond the reef at Waikiki at any
hour of the day there are half a dozen ships
to be seen —transports, merchantmen, ships of
war, occasionally an aircraft-carrier. They’re
moving north or south —moving all the time,
day in and day out. They point to the strength
in material and in shipping that is head-
quartered just around the corner there at Pearl
Harbor. Their strength is the real strength,
the real meaning, of present-day Honolulu.
Democracy.
“The last thing that resembles democracy is
mob law.” —Winston Churchill on the situation
in Greece.
Democracy ! That form of rule in our
Country or any other land that gives
The body of the people sovereign power
For duly chosen representatives
To use. A word that also calls to mind
Greece is the spot where it was first
designed.
Democracy! A term now oft abused,
"Twisted by knaves to make a trap for
fools,”
Implying violence may be excused
And viewed more leniently where
Demos rules
Than under oligarchs or tyrannies
Or any other regimen you please.
Mob law — or, rather, say, mob lawless-
ness —
Frothy incitements to disorder flung,
May work as much of mischief, none the
less,
As products of a contumacious tongue.
As those material missiles which attract
The hostile notice of the Riot Act.
Democracy —how passing ill it fits
With constant wagging of refractory
jaws,
With fierce tirades from Cades and Tap-
pertits,
With mutinous defiance of the laws.
With callous strikes! How incompatible
With all we’ve borne so long and know
so well!
Ah, not alone in torn and riven Greece
Should Churchill’s voice attentively be
heard,
The nursery of the arts of war and peace.
I claim it for a well-worth-heeding
word
Wherever Government machinery fails
To do its job. Imprimis, New South
Wales.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Joseph Furphy. The Legend of a Man and
His Book. By Miles Franklin. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
Spreight and Geist. Poems. By Guy
Howarth. 2/6 (post. 2d.).
Japan’s Military Masters. The Army in
Japanese Life. By Hillis Lory. With a fore-
word by Ambassador Joseph Grew. 8/6 (post.
3d.).
The Uninvited. Novel. By Dorothy Macardle.
8/6 (post. 3d.).
The Moonlit Doorway. Poems. By Kenneth
MacKenzie. 5/- (post. 3d.).
Introducing Australia. By C. Hartley Grat-
tan. Our history, politics, industry, agricul-
ture and cultural life. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
One Hundred Poems 1919-1939. By Kenneth
Slessor. 5/- (post. 3d.).
These Beastly Australians. By Leon Gellert.
Illustrated by Bernard Hesllng. 4/6 (post. 2d.).
What the U.S. Means to Australia. By J. H.
Ithodes. 2/- (post. 2d.).
The Bookplates of Norman Lindsay. By F.
C. V. Lane. 8/6 (post. 2d.).
The Life of Shaw Neilson, By James
Devanney. 6/- (post. 3d.).
Broom in the Sky. Mystery story. By Prank
Nunn. 7/6 (post. 3d.). /
Botch and Color. Short Stories. By Kather-
ine Prichard. 7/6 (post. 3d.).
To the Isles of Spice. By Prank Clone.
12/6 (post. 4d.).
A Girl with Ked Hair. By Douglas Stewart.
6/- (post. 3d.).
Fire on the Show and The Golden Bover.
Two plays. By Douglas Stewart. 5/- (post
3d.).
Front Fine Airline. The war story of
Qantas Empire Airways. By E. Bennett
Bremner. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
Tobruk. By Chester Wilmot. 15/- (post.
Cd.).
Who Travels Alone. New Guinea, Malay,
etc. t By P. S. Greenop. 10/6 (post 4d.).
Valentin Zeglovsky’s Ballet Crusade, Prom
the Russian. Numerous plates. 12/6 (post du.j.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
d
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
Manufactured by
fd
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street. Melbourne; New Zealand: A. M.
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodail &. Co. Pty. Ltd.,
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies made a very good speech to
the Liberal-party delegates at Albury,
touching on many subjects with graphic
force, but two Sydney dailies straightway
began to carp. “S. M. Herald” demanded
“indications” and “assurances” of some-
thing or other, and the “Mirror” pounced
on “two flaws,” one relating to finance
and the other to choice of candidates,
which Labor, it alleges, is without.
Menzies and his associates should pay no
attention to these papers and their equally
small-minded contemporaries. They are
all sport-mad, and their political influence
for good or ill doesn’t amount to a row
of pins.
“The National Parliament has met, has
conducted such debates as the Govern-
ment has permitted, and has adjourned.”
So said Menzies at Albury, reviewing
what had happened since the conference,
“initially constituted of somewhat diverse
elements,” decided at Canberra to revive
the Liberal party, which could have run
Australia for ten years after 1916 if it
hadn’t allowed itself to be swallowed by
Hughes. The Menzies speech did not fall
below that level, and, glancing at the case
of the Commonwealth Railways secre-
tary, in which Commissioner Gahan was
warned that it would be “unfortunate”
for him “if he were to give evidence not
completely in accord with the case pre-
sented by Parliament,” Bob said
In Britain today, and in Australia a few
years ago, no Minister could retain office
for five minutes after the disclosure of
such an egregious act of impropriety.
But though the matter was “referred to
the Crown Law authorities by the learned
Judge, the Attorney-General announced
in the House that the matter was not one
in which proceedings should be taken
against the Minister for the Interior.”
It was Laski’s turn to become chair-
man of the British Labor conference last
week, and this disciple of Karl Marx
and tutor of many left-wingers even bit-
terer than himself kindly reshaped John
Bull’s destiny for him. The Old Man is
to transform himself into a “socialist
Commonwealth” as like the U.S.S.R. as,
with his lingering prejudices, he is able
to be. Under the Laski influence, the
delegates passed a resolution ordering
J.B. to sue for an armistice to the
Greek communist killers of Tommies,
lorry-drivers and Australians on the
Graves Commission, though it would
mean giving the go-ahead signal to Red
ruffianism everywhere. Stalingrad, Laski
wrote, demonstrated the enduring worth
of Russian socialism, and Tobruk (when
it was lost for a few months) the hollow-
ness of British capitalism. That’s how
one-eyed the professor is.
Winding up an attack on Menzies,
Forde said “He will find that nobody will
be fooled by his political manoeuvres!”
But surely Forde doesn’t bglieve that,
seeing that so many people have been
fooled by his own party’s political
manoeuvres?
Victorian Parliamentarians go off to
their Christmas jollifications having in-
creased their own salaries and left under-
paid teachers without the. public service
tribunal they were promised. Members
were annoyed when H. E. Thonemann, of
Toorak, gave them a parting kick about
it. After all, teachers have to pass exami-
nations to qualify for the miserable
emoluments they do get; but there is no
examination for politicans.
Apparently inspired by George Weller’s
book, the agitation for U.S. bases in the
Pacific has broken out anew at Washing-
ton. Congressmen Vinson, from Georgia,
who is chairman of the Naval Affairs
Committee in the House, said “We are
going to get exactly what the Navy asks
for.” His opposite number in the Senate,
Mr. Walsh from Massachusetts (both are,
of course. Democrats), asserted a claim
to bases in the Solomons-New Guinea
area, mentioning his country’s expendi-
ture there in blood and treasure. New
York “Daily News” insinuates that there
has been “diplomatic opposition” from
Australia and N.Z., but that surely can’t
be right. In Bases Overseas Weller refers
to Congressman Magnuson, then on the
House Naval Affairs Committee, as “hav-
ing asked particularly to maintain the
American base in W.A.”
One of the Sulzbergers, who run the
New York “Times,” has been in Australia
on Red Cross work. The “Times” is one
of the world’s great journals, as fair as
it is informative. It devotes a page every
(Modelled by Frith.)
MENZIES.
Now leader of the Liberal party, the formation of
which was completed at Albury this week. He is
50 today.
day to the bulletins broadcast by all the
belligerents, as picked up by the Federal
Communications Commission. Particu-
larly interesting of recent weeks have
been those relating to the Balkans. Sur-
prising as it may seem to Australian
newspaper readers, the Bulgarians, on
their own showing, have been fighting
bloody battles with the Germans in
Yugoslavia. A German account of one
of these engagements was that the Bulgars
had been whipped, with the loss of all
their equipment—which must have been
read with mixed feelings in Moscow. The
Germans also asserted that as soon as
they left Athens the communists and
anti-communists were at one another’s
throats.
Calwell had a bad audience in Dun-
stan when he suggested that States and
Commonwealth should appoint a com-
mission with statutory powers to under-
take conservation of lands, forests and
water supply. Dunstan tartly replied that
the States were capable of managing their
own affairs, which is questionable. But
he added that the sooner Australia re-
turned to Parliamentary government in-
stead of having government by regulation,
with boards, commissions and whatnot,
the better. Here the Court is with him.
Blast from the Sunday issue of the
Sydney “Telegraph,” and astonishing
considering its source:
If Stalin could have restrained the revo-
lutionary ardor of the Left Wing Greek
groups and did not he has betrayed the
spirit of Tehran as much as any Colonel
bump did’.
The introduction of Colonel Blimp was
a concession to “Telegraph” “policy.” It
is not to be supposed that the “policy”
has changed. While people were lighting
fires with the Sunday issue the morning
“Telegraph” came out with an article in
which a Mr. Philip Wynter blamed the
British Ambassador (an Australian and
therefore fair game) for “the reactionary
intervention policy in Greece,” Leeper
being “so notoriously Tory-minded” as
to have been incapable of realising that “a
social revolution movement was born” ;
hence “the unwarranted and dictatorial
intervention by Mr. Churchill.” Mr.
Philip Wynter is unknown outside the
“Telegraph” office, but the color of his
politics is now no mystery.
There is doubt whether a certain
benevolent old gentleman, mention of
whose name is prohibited
by the Minister for W. 0.1.
or W.0.E., will be able to
make his customary visits
this year. The b.o.g.’s
occupation necessitates de-
scent of narrow shafts, and
prohibition of the use of
his name meant that he
couldn’t give a true state-
ment of his occupation. So
he was compelled to write
himself down in his iden-
tity card as “a goer-down
of shafts which are usually
designed for the ascent of
smoke and gases from
combustibles.” This brings
him within the category of
miner, and it is felt that,
for the sake of solidarity,
he should be compelled to
join the Miners’ Federa-
tion. When it was pointed
out that this would entail
his taking 16 days off,
from December 22, which
would rob him of his occu-
pation, it was decided that
the best thing to do would
be to have the date of the
annual festival moved
from December 25 to
some other date, thus
allowing the ben. old gent,
to continue his avocation
without threatening those
industrial standards which
militant workers have
achieved through bitter
years of struggle. A deputation is ex-
pected to see Mr. Forde about it, and Mr.
Forde is expected to hold a conference.
In his annual report on the Govern-
ment coalmine at Wonthaggi (Vic.),
general-manager McLeish stated that the
loss for 1943-44, exclusive of deprecia-
tion and loan redemptions, was £58,228,
and that, although there were no strikes,
absenteeism and other troubles accounted
for the output being 24,721 tons down.
Wonthaggi is a jewel in the crown of
socialistic enterprise in Victoria, and
Labor politicians periodically wax lyrical
about its co-operative theatre, clubs,
grocery shops and amenities of all sorts.
But if decrease of output and a chronic
deficit are the necessary conditions for
successful Government ownership it can’t
be extended to a whole nation. Nobody
would say that an individual market
gardener was successful if he fell into
debt and had to sell Dobbin.
State politicians have let it be known
that they will, if they can, grab intra-State
airlines and squash opposition, just as
they did with road transport. One result
of their road strangulation policies was
that the country found itself depending
for military transport on Govern-
ment railways which made friendly
strangers grin before they started to
cuss. The lag has been caught up,
but at what a cost! Now air transport is
headed for the same fate in an air-minded
world.
Discussing the U.N.R.R.A. Bill Senator
McLachlan (S.A.) remarked that another
Senator had asked him if he knew there
was a war on.
That phrase has been the alibi for ineffi-
ciency, work-dodging and procrastination.
It is the battle-cry of the incompetent and
a way of avoiding responsibility.
Too true, and when there isn’t a war on
the “battle-cry” of the same peculiar
people will be “Don’t you know there is
a peace to win?”
People fed to the back teeth with
filling-in forms, posting them, awaiting
replies, then filling-in more forms, post-
ing them, awaiting replies, then filling-in
more, etc., have sometimes thought of
the great open spaces in the N.T., where
a man might ride 300 miles and see
nobody. But even that paradise has been
invaded or acquired or controlled or
something, for an order has gone forth
that building restrictions have been ex-
tended to the Territory. Now no man
dare build a fence or whitewash a tele-
phone line without going through the
form-filling agony. Thus is the subjuga-
tion of the continent by the bureaucrat
complete.
Melbourne’s fibrous-plaster manufac-
turers asked for a permit to build
a home to be raffled by the R.S.L.
W. 0.1. replied with a neigh, Dedman
remarking that, while he agreed that the
cause was worthy, the winner might be a
person not entitled to a house in the cur-
rent shortage. The rejected parties might
have retorted that winners of lottery
prizes are not entitled to draw them tax-
free as they do even when war loans
are on the market —seeing that earned in-
come is taxed up to 18s. 6d. in the pound,
but they let Deddy’s snuffle go un-
answered,
A living example of the difference
between the N.S.W. communist spirit and
the spirit of the Private of the Buffs:
In June, 1940, the Kentish coalminers
were producing 30,000 tons a week. It was
agreed by the Government and the military
authorities that with invasion threatening
and the bombers about to come over the
coalfield was untenable. But if the miners
quitted their example might have been un-
controllable and ruinous to the country. I
invited their agent to come to see me.
Four men came. Without hesitation they
said they would stay on. The highest mili-
tary authority in the country came to see
me. I said to him “I know you have your
evacuation plans ready, but you can’t
evacuate these people. Cancel your trains
and let them stay on.” They stayed on,
and there they are today.
The narrator was D. R. Grenfell, some-
time Secretary for Mines, now a Labor
M.P.
Australians interested in wool find it
hard to understand why stocks should be
piling up terrifically in the U.S.A. when
Uncle Sam has a greater use for woollens
than ever before. Judging from a “Jour-
nal of Commerce” article, it is an effect
of politics:
The Commodity Credit Corporation has
been paying about 45 cents per pound more
for domestic wool than the prevailing quo-
tation for imported wool. Products for
the armed forces must be made from
domestic wool.
A fine arrangement for the small wool-
growing States, but an increasing em-
barrassment to Uncle, especially as he is
committed to buying the domestic clips
year after year. One proposal is that he
should raise the price of foreign goods
to the domestic level, but as that would
mean raising the price of civilian goods
manufacturers and consumers object.


(
YOUR place in a Tank Crew
2»
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
Sxtdc
HOUSE-LIGHTING
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
South Australia’s exceptional prefer-
ence for ex-Diggers has often been noted
on this page, and may have been noted
elsewhere. To the list, which includes
the Premier, the Police Commissioner
and many others in the top pussies, has
been added Sir Willoughby Norrie as
Governor, a soldier ever since his Sand-
hurst days. In 1914-18 he was wounded
four times, twice “mentioned” and won
the D.S.O. and M.C. and bar. Soldiering
again in the present war, he had the
Ninth Division under his command in the
Middle East. Also, both his A.D.Cs.,
Capt. J. Richardson, M.C. and bar, and
Capt. R. Fairbrother, are disabled
present-war Middle East men. Captain
Richardson went right through the great
holding of Tobruk.
“The English regard the appointment
of Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, the naval
counterpart of Montgomery, as the
British Empire’s signature on Japan’s
death warrant.” Thus N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” war correspondent Richard
Tobin summed up on the posting which
has now brought Fraser and his men and
ships to Australia, Tobin, with experi-
ence on board three British battleships
and many other of J. Bull’s warships,
found that Fraser was regarded in the
Royal Navy “as perhaps the brightest
fighting man in that enormously success-
ADMIRAL FRASER.
ful service,” that “imagination, great
daring and an instinct for gunnery” made
up his renown. The admiral’s books on
gunnery are the gunnery textbooks of the
British Fleet. In this war Admiral Fraser
has been chiefly responsible for the safe
arrival of convoys to Russia ; but what
British Navy men probably hold most
highly to his credit is the great expan-
sion of the Fleet from when war began
to loom up.
Fifty today, R. G. Menzies, with the
best sort of birthday present he could
have in his own just-concluded achieve-
ment of setting the Australian non-Labor
groups on the road to unity. Now as
generally Bob as W, M, Hughes is Billy,
Menzies stands at his half-century
the most brilliant figure in Australian
politics—one of whom anybody at all
could say that he ought to be in the
Commons. He showed his ability
early, winning exhibitions in his school-
days, and at Melbourne Uni. bagging
first-class final honors in Law and win-
ning the Dwight Prize in Constitutional
History, the Sir John Madden Exhibition,
the Jessie Leggart the Bowen
Essay Prize and the Supreme Court
Judges’ Prize.
Adelaide Uni. thinks it has discovered
a leading surgeon of the future in Ronald
Hunter. Taking his degree at 22, he has
carried off during the Uni. course all the
scholarships and medals which com-
memorate the great names of the past—
Elder, Davies, Watson, Everard, Gardner
and Gosse.
“Starboard Quarter”; Another sur-
vivor of the Sydney-Emden battle (B.
29/11 / ’44) is Len Darby, the senior m.o.
of the Sydney, who, with the late Arthur
Todd and the Emden’s Herr Doktor,
did a marathon multi - operation
list on the wounded of both ships.
Darby received a bauble and —strange
in those days, though not in this war —
accelerated promotion, jumping six years,
from surgeon to staff surgeon (today’s
titles, surgeon lieutenant to surgeon-
lieutenant-commander). He is now a
four-ringer surgeon captain. A Mel-
bourne Uni. product, he could hold his
own in tennis with Davis Cup players.
His other interests, following a Specialty
Course at Haslar Naval Hospital (Eng.),
was a crusade against syphilis, concerning
treatment of which the likable little man
achieved a reputation.
Letter to the editor of The Bulletin
from Major-General J. L. Bradley, com-
manding the U.S. Ninety-sixth Division:
I want you to know what a very great
pleasure if was to have Mr. John Brennan
of your staff with us during the opening
phases of the Leyte operation. He cheer-
fully accepted the considerable difficulties
under which we labored and, to my mind,
did an outstanding job of reporting. He
is a credit to his profession, and we would
welcome him back on any future operation.
John Brennan, who has been with the
U.S. troops— The Bulletin not being
allowed by its own Government to have
a war correspondent with the A.I.F. —
through the campaigns of Munda, the
North Solomons, Guam, Peleliu and
Leyte, has received a mention from
General MacArthur’s H.Q. for a gallant
rescue of a wounded U.S. combat photo-
grapher, Harold Hoffman. The pair
with other correspondents were with guer-
rillas, following up a party of Japanese
on Samar on November 16, when Hoff-
man was shot in the neck on a bridge by
a sniper. Brennan rushed forward and
picked up Hoffman and his camera under
fire. Unhappily, the game Hoffman’s
wound was mortal, and he died next
day. In mid-September, on Peleliu,
Brennan was only a few yards away when
his friend Damien Parer was killed in a
tank attack on Japanese positions.
Familiar to shipmaster’s in Fremantle
harbor since 1918, when he began as
pilot there, Capt. William K. Saunders
retires as harbormaster. An Adelaide
native, he went to sea in windjammers
and later was for about 15 years in com-
mand of Adelaide Steam coastal ships.
Going to the House of Reps, in 1919
and since then defying all-comers, Earle
Christmas Grafton Page and Norman
John Oswald Makin were able to cele-
brate their quarter-century not out as
members on December 13. They still
have a tidy distance to go to catch
“Billy” Hughes, who’s been M.H.R. since
1901.
“P.A.”: So Claude Corbett has passed
on in Sydney at 59. Son of W.F., of the
old “Ref.” and “Sunday Times,” Claude
was Rugby League’s staunchest advocate
and ablest propagandist, but his sports-
manship was beyond question. That was
shown on a famous occasion when Alan
Kippax, allegedly clean bowled by an
Englishman—a bail fell—was given not
out. To keep the row going as “hot
news,” Claude was called in and asked
to taunt the Englishmen into making
further comment. “That’s not sporting,”
Claude retorted ; “haven’t you ever played
the game? I’d chuck the job first.” There
was no necessity.
When General MacArthur came to
Australia one of the men selected to do
the intelligence detail for turning the Japs
out of New Guinea was Col, Rupert
Edward Fanning, D.S.O. Col. Fanning
was born at St. Kilda in 1889, and his
first wish on leaving school was to join
the army, but he got into Loan and Mer-
cantile Agency instead, though becoming
a part-time soldier. He served with the
A.I.F. through the last war, was wounded,
gassed and mentioned in dispatches and
ended up as brigade major. Instructor in
gunnery at Duntroon from 1920 to 1923,
he then did a term at the Staff College
at Quetta. In this war he was Director
of Staff Duties, A.H.Q., Melbourne. The
other day, as manager of Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital, he organised the trans-
fer of patients to the new address at
Parkville.
William Neville Harding steps into the
Sydney Lud Mayorship with a back-
ground of years of taxation probing and
presiding over the County Council, but
with spare-time reading, music and
LUD MAYOR OF SYDNEY.
science shaping the assthetic features here
sketched by Scorfield, Born in Sydney 51
years ago, Harding passed from Sydney
Uni. to accountancy and business. He
has been a Reform alderman (Mac-
quarie ward) for nine years, and was
president of Electrical and Radio De-
velopment in 1941-42. Since the elec-
toral storm blasted the U.A.P. he has
been a leading light in the Democratic
party and went to Albury last week to
help along the Liberal party conference.
Quiet, but forceful, he hopes to see city
replanning begun in Sydney during his
term. One of his first jobs will be wel-
coming the Duke of Gloucester.
Though he had to sign himself James
Emery a vast number of times in the
past few years, he’s been Jim for a con-
siderably greater number among Sydney
artists. As Frith indicates, Jim’s dial is
of the rugged persuasion, and the grey
thatch wouldn’t prevent it from suiting
the Digger hat he lately wore. He didn't
get to the other war—they knocked him
back —but this time they took him, and
what he saw of the Middle East and
thereabouts he is setting down in works
of art technically called maps. The origi-
nal of one of them, of the Lebanon, along
with other of Emery’s work, is in the
War Museum at Canberra, and U.S.
Consul-General Ely Palmer is taking a
copy of it across to Washington. An-
MAPMAKER EMERY .
other Emery map, depicting the discovery
of Australia, won the sesqui-centenary
prize and now hangs in the Science Hall
at Sydney University. Another recent
one—their lively pictorial manner gan’t
be imagined by thinking of them as maps
—covers Tobruk and accompanying
desert, based on captured Eytie docu-
ments and personal observations of
Chester Wilmot, who wrote a history that
goes with it. A Sydneysider-born, and a
product of Julian Ashton training, Emery
had his 53rd birthday on December 4.
M. J. Hogan, who left Sydney for
Adelaide 30 years ago when the S.A.
Jockey Club started stipendiary stewards,,
and has been chairman of them most of
the time, has decided, through ill-health,
to resign at Christmas. He has been voted
a pension. The chair is to be taken by
Harold Rowell, who has been “acting”
during Hogan’s illness.
Back in Melbourne, Albert Louis
Bussau, Victoria’s Agent-General since
1938, who lived in London through
the first blitz and returned to advise
the Victorian Government on air-raid
precautions. Back once more in London,
he witnessed the first arrival of the
robombs. Also he cast an experienced
Mallee farmer’s eye over Britain’s amaz-
ing agricultural renaissance and the scien-
tific farming methods which have more
than quadrupled production, and which
experts believe could do the same for
Australia. Bussau was M.L.A. for Ouyen
and Attorney-General and Minister for
Transport from 1935 to 1938.
Battle-front tours by U.S. Congress
men and others are becoming fashionable,
and according to the Scripps-Howard
Washington staff are likely to become
more so. The latest batch doing the
Pacific, with a look in on Australia, in-
cludes Congressmen J, J. Heffernan, W.
Rowan, E. Price, J. Wolfenden, Robert
Grant, W. Blackmey, J. McWilliams,
Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith and mem-
ber of the Naval Appropriations Com-
mittee W. Ploeser, Here, after seeing
Dr. Evatt, they declared themselves “en-
lightened on points which may have led
to misunderstanding,” which can prob-
ably be'interpreted as indicating a pow-
wow on the Australian-New Zealand
Agreement.
“Nil”; Australian destroyers with the
Eastern Fleet are to operate together
under the command of A/Capt. H. J.
Buchanan, D. 5.0., R.A.N. The appoint-
ment marks the creation of what is vir-
tually an Australian destroyer flotilla.
Captain Buchanan gained his D.S.O. at
Dunkirk, where h& had two destroyers in
succession knocked from under him. Like
Collins, he has a reputation as a gunnery
specialist.
Been about a bit:
The Sydney racing trainer George Price has
acquired an unusual apprentice jockey in young
Ted Hewitt. Only 17, he’s had more adven-
tures than most men cram into a lifetime. He
was born in Poona, India, a son of the L. H.
Hewitt who rode many winners in Australia
long ago, went to New Zealand and England,
and finally settled in India as a trainer.
Price, then a jockey, accompanied the elder
Hewitt, but returned to Australia. Young
Elewitt set out for Sydney from Bombay
ten months ago, but the ship was diverted to
Sicily, then to Bari, and the lad set out to
see the front line in Italy. Forced back, he
went with the ship to England, was transferred
to a vessel that was part of the invasion fleet,
made four trips- in her, then bought a revolver
from a Canadian and hitch-hiked to Caen. He
got within a mile of the British lines, was
picked up and handed over to the provosts as
a suspected German paratrooper and held for
repatriation to England. After two days he
escaped from detention, bought a German rifle
and ammo, and again set out for Caep. This
time he was picked up by an R.E. outfit and
suspected of being a spy. Taken under escort
to England after proving his identity, he stowed
away on a ship bringing Australian repatriates
home,, but was discovered in the Mediterranean
and handed over to his parents at Bombay. A
week after that he was working his passage
to Australia as a mess boy.
Into the silence;
At 72, in Melbourne, James Harnetty, C.8.E.,
until last May chairman of the Victorian Public
Service Board. Joining the Treasury branch in
1902, he was Treasury accountant when the
Loan Council was formed.
James Alfred Levey (98), for many years
president of Royal Melbourne Hospital—he died
on the eve of the hospital’s transference to the
new Parkville building. He was one of the
200 highly-placed civil servants who were arbi-
trarily dismissed on “Black Wednesday,” Jan.
9, 1878. Found too valuable to lose, he was
recalled and got a sort of revenge when he
refused a lump sum on retirement and drew a
pension many times the amount in the succeed-
ing half century. He was for many years
chairman of the Felton Bequest.
At Mt. Lawley (W.A.), at 81, Archdeacon
Cuthbert Hudleston, manager of the Perth Girls’
Orphanage for 40 years. Educated at Oxford
and ordained in London, he came to W.A. in
1898.
In Melbourne, W. J. Trevena, known over
Australasia as an authority on all that apper-
tains to the science of breadmaking. He was
a director of Henry Berry’s, general merchants.


Socity
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ear Punisher”: Drinkers in hotels
have been treated like dogs for a long
time. Now they are to be treated like
sheep. Brisbane hotelkeepers propose to
erect railings flanking their bars inside
which customers will have to file to get
their beer as at a ticket window. These
war-time amenities are never removed
after the occasion for them disappears;
so I suppose next-generation Australians
who enjoy a pot will be queueing up in
pens and runways quite naturally after
this war, as docilely as they endured in
perpetuity all the restrictions placed on
them during World War I.
He
“Bar Din”: By all accounts, Japan’s
latest earthquake was only a baby, caus-
ing only a fraction of the damage which
could be inflicted by a fleet of bombers.
The earthquake of September 1, 1923,
was another story. At 11.58 on a bright
clear morning a rumbling sound like that
of a rapidly approaching train was heard,
immediately followed by a sharp, vertical
shock, lifting the earth’s crust, then drop-
ping it. Great shocks were felt all that
afternoon and night and continued for
days and nights; 222 in Tokyo on Sep-
tember 1 between 11.58 a.m. and mid-
night; 1109 to September 5. They
gradually diminished up to the 18th. The
earthquake was followed by fires. Yoko-
hama and more than half of Tokyo were
destroyed. Loss of life was estimated at
157,000 ; of property over five and a half
billion yep. The U.§.A., through the
American Red Cross, contributed heavily
to relief funds, and Australia sent a relief
ship.
* * * *
“Avon”: That heading “Impatient for
the Fray?” on an “Other Fellow’s Mind”
letter (B. 29/11/ ’44) brings to mind a
little story that went the rounds of Maori-
land troops fighting in Italy. Their re-
inforcements at one stage came from
Egypt, A company of these was being
strafed by dive-bombers outside Pisa, and
having a very unhappy time. Along came
a cheery young captain with “Well, boys,
how do you like it?” Replied one truth-
ful soul: “I wish I was back in Cairo
wishing I was over here with you! ”
* * * *
“Cism”: The screening of the “Rats of
Tobruk” recalls that Australians, elements
of the 20th Brigade, were the first Allied
troops of this war to hold the German
attack, hurl it back and keep it back. They
did that during Easter, 1941, when the
German military tide seemed unstem-
mable. The enemy tanks overran our
infantry positions and passed on, but
when his infantry and m.-g. formations,
following in the Wake of his armor,
arrived near the Australian emplace-
ments, our men (Lord Haw Haw said
they differed only from a circus in that
they had more tents) were still in their
trenches and popped up as full of fight as
ever. Jerry was “done over” in fine style.
Members of one unit involved won the
first V.C. (posthumous), an M.C. and an
M.M.
He ♦ * *
“X.S.”: In upsetting a conviction
whereby a Melbourne storeman was fined
£2 for dressing as a woman Justice Mac-
farlan upset another held by the vast
majority of Australian citizens. Previ-
ously Victorian magistrates have con-
victed men who dressed as women under
a belief that such behavior is inherently
offensive. Not so according to Mao-
farlan, who handsomely admitted that he
himself had donned feminine costume at
a fancy-dress ball.
» * ♦ •
“Lexer”: It must be a very old and
hardened habitue of courts who doesn’t
feel a bit goose-fleshy when, jury having
found murder suspect guilty as charged,
the Judge fossicks in his desk for a piece
of black silk and lays it on top of his wig
(or has it laid there by the court orderly)
while he passes sentence of death. There
is no part of legal usage concerning which
tradition is more hazy—l have heard half
a dozen theories of the “black cap’s”
origin. Latest is that of a Maoriland
lawyer, H. P. Lawry, a stipendiary magis-
trate, who has been reported as saying that
“What, leaving us after seventy-five years!”
“Well, I don't feel I'm making any progress
the headgear is not worn only when pro-
nouncing sentence of death, but is part of
the full judicial regalia and should be
worn by all Judges on State occasions.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Why is it that Austra-
lian vignerons persist in doing themselves
and Australian wines a disservice by
naming their wares after European
exemplars? Australian port, sherry,
chablis, claret and other wines can, gener-
ally speaking, stand on their own feet,
but the names their makers give them
invite comparison with Continental
liquors which they very often don’t in the
least resemble. It would have been far
better if the early winemakers had not
labelled their wines at all, except by the
names of their vineyards*- Gradually the
local palate would have become accus-
tomed to the indigenous vintages and the
local names would have stuck.
X H« * *
“Snorker”; Touching the way city
crowds gather at an accident (B.
13/12/ a man I knew in Melbourne
discovered a way to scatter ’em. Half-
tanked, he came upon a mob around an
accident victim, and, overcome with sym-
pathy, took off his hat and went among
the crowd saying “Come on, put in some-
thing for the pore cow.” The hosts of
the Assyrian could not have melted any
quicker than did that crowd.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: The other night, with rain
threatening, the corn under my left little
toe was throbbing, and it came to me with
an awful clarity that though I lived an-
other 50 years that corn would still be
there, quiescent in dry weather, angrily
asserting itself in moist. It wasn’t a bright
picture, and when I tried to cheer myself
with the thought that death would bring
release I had a mental vision of my re-
mains, wrapped in the winding sheet,
awaiting disposal while the last rites were
held and the mourners stood reverently
by. “Not one of them,” I reflected, “will
know that on my left foot, defeated at
last, will be a malignant callosity that
shortly will go down with me to the
grave.” The vision of that neglected
organism was too much; I arose, lit the
fire and made myself a cup of tea.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: Everybody’s doing it in our
subbub. Nightly the tempting aroma of
hops tickles the nostrils of residents.
Except for hops, ingredients are easy to
get, and recipes abound. The first experi-
ment in our boarding-house was not suc-
cessful. After we had cooked and bottled
the brew we tested it after only two days’
maturing. Carefully we opened a bottle.
With a loud “Pop!” a spout of foaming
liquid bespattered the ceiling and fell to
deluge eight thirsty watchers. The second
bottle bubbled threateningly but sub-
sided. When sampled it tasted like liver
salts. Research is now directed at improv-
ing the flavor without impairing the punch.
* * * *
“Bo”: Cables report that American
circuses, desperately short of attractions,
as well as advertising lavishly for all kinds
of animals are offering as much as £2O a
week to Fat Ladies, dwarfs, giants and
other human freaks. Here is an oppor-
tunity for Australia to build up a valu-
able export trade. Molongloside could
supply a rich crop of those human in-
vertebrates who, on a sound like a limou-
sine arriving from a coalfields district,
immediately start crawling along on their
vests. We could also supply a queer
assortment of birds marked with a deep
saffron streak who can turn themselves
inside out effortlessly on the orders of an
ostensibly defunct foreign organisation.
And we have scores of bureaucrats who
would bring top prices in the freak
market due to their ability to rise higher
and higher by falling down on their jobs.
* * Hs *
“Kestrel”. remembers stormy days in
Greece:
Greece was in turmoil, much as today, during
World War I. Then there was a struggle be-
tween a large section of the people and an
anti-British, autocratic Government led by King
Constantine, who vacillated and temporised
about every important matter of State and was
only really interested in himself. Discontent
and rebellion smouldered all the time. When
it flared up there would be some fighting and
the King would dismiss Priminister Venizelos.
When things got worse instead of better he
would call Venizelos back again. I was serv-
ing on an Australian destroyer in Greek waters
at the time and well I remember the sullen,
bitter atmosphere of the Greek capital. To
make matters worse, German fifth-columnists
were at work with their usual diligence. They
tried to burn the slipway on which our ship
was docked. It was an Australian destroyer
that carried Venizelos to refuge in England, the
distinguished passenger being known as “Father
Christmas” to the lower deck, on account of
his long beard and benevolent appearance. Aus-
tralian ships also escorted British and French
troops into Greece; I have a photograph of
French troops patrolling the streets of Piraeus
in 1917-18 to preserve order. A turbulent
country.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Malcolm Sargent, coming
to Australia for the fourth time to con-
duct the A.B.C. orchestra next year, has
made the interesting suggestion of music-
while-you-drink in every inn. Thus, he
thinks, music would become a natural
part of everyday life, instead of being
the prerogative of people who can afford
to attend concerts. He isn’t likely to
repeat the suggestion when he sees what
that centre of life and society the old
English tavern has become here. The
only music audible in the average city
pub these days is the cash register, and
it’s about the only music war-time Bung
has any time for. Sargent has conducted
all through England’s bombing travail.
Once when bombs began to rain around
he turned to the customers and told
them that though they might be blown
to bits and the hall with them, Beet-
hoven’s Seventh Symphony couldn’t be
lost to the world whatever Hitler did ;
and nobody got up and left. Another
time his orchestrions arrived at the
Queen’s Hall for a rehearsal to find the
Hall a shell and their instruments de-
stroyed. They were told to go away and
beg, borrow or steal fresh ones. The con-
cert took place at the Academy of Music.
* * * *
“Petermac”: The radio “walkie-talkie”
has proved its value in this war, and
when peace comes it will not be surpris-
ing if it is part and parcel of the reporter’s
equipment. Amazingly light, it puts the
carrier in direct communication with his
h.q., and makes him independent of the
hazards of public telephones. Just-dead
Sydney reporting scribe Claude Corbett
used the verbatim method of reporting big
football matches, reciting a description of
the game into the telephone at his elbow.
sK H*
“Barwon” on slang in the R.A.A.F.:
“Whizz” is now our favorite verb, applied
to a variety of actions, including “whizz
through,” meaning to “go through” or “go
adrift” (otherwise.A.W.L.); “whizz up to your
huts and change”; “whizz this form into the
Orderly Room” and so on. To “tear a strip
off anyone” means to dress the victim down
verbally. “Panic night” is the weekly scrub
and polish session to clean barracks. “Browned
off,” or its variant “brassed off,” is the state
of low morale otherwise known as fed up. To
be “out'raked” by someone has the same idea
as the army “swinging his rank.” A pilot who
piles his machine up is said to “prang.” He
has tried to land his kite ‘TOO feet below the
drome.” If he finds it necessary to bale out
he “hits the silk.” To “go in” means to crash,
and if it ends in a funeral the victim is said
to have “bought it” though not in the civilian
slang sense of meeting a deserved fate. The
“gen” is the good oil, the authentic information.
Ground personnel, especially administrative
office staff, are collectively known as “shiny-
pants” ; wing commanders are “winkers”;
group captains are “groupers” and air com-
modore is the “air commode.” Perhaps the
most all-embracing term is “scrub,” which may
mean wipe out, eradicate, abandon, eliminate
pupils from flying courses (the percentage
of failures being called the scrub-rate), tear
up, ignore, neglect,
* * * *
“Zake”: Under drastic new traffic
regulations in Toronto pedestrians are
required to raise their arms as a signal
when about to make a turn. Running
for trams or jostling other pedestrians
is forbidden. Sydneysiders, from their
own long, sad experience, know that the
Toronto authorities have committed a
tactical blunder. What they should
have done was to pass a by-law making
it an offence for any to raise
his arm as a signal that he was about
to make a turn, and ordaining that any
such fellow neglecting to sprint for a tram
or shoulder aside a fellow-pedestrian
must be jailed. Sydney streets here and
there still adjure pedestrians to “keep to
the left.” Naturally everyone walks to
the right except when the left takes them
alongside a shop window they want to
gaze into. I have seen a burly traffic cop
turn pale at the spectacle of a woman
not only walking at a right angle across
a street, but even waiting for his signal.
I attribute the fact that I can negotiate
the Pitt-street pavement between King
and Market streets during lunch hour
without being involved in 32 collisions
and 18 crushings and without getting
pushed through plate-glass windows to
my experience as an old Rugby scrum
half and the liberal use of a pair of sharp
elbows. No ; even though Toronto citi-
zens mightn’t get any encouragement in
law-breaking from their Federal Govern-
ment, ,1 rank their mayor as a mighty
poor tactician.
* * * *
“Maleesh,” with a Palestinian vig-
nette :
The village of the Seven Wells (in Arabic
Bir-es-Saba, Hebrew version Beersheba) stands
on a plain which is believed to be the Biblical
land of Goshen, not far from Hebron and
Bethlehem. It has the usual quota of donkeys,
ophthalmia-blighted children and veiled, un-
glamorous women. Camels lurch disconcertingly
round narrow corners, and their drivers make
the night hideous with a brand of crooning
that was old-fashioned when Abraham ruled
Israel. The male population converses gravely
over coffee and “Hubble-bubbles” in boulevarde
cafes. Butchers’ stalls can be located by their
awesome stink and clouds of flies. Some women
work; otherwise life is leisurely and dignihed.
But on one day a month Beersheba is invaded by
forceful men who speak strange dialects, armed
tribesmen from the Transjordan, the Sinai
Peninsula and Arabia. The reason for their
presence is the sitting of the Bedouin court in
a heavily-guarded building to the west of the
town. The judges are half a dozen sheiks
skilled in Islamic law, chosen from the major
tribes. They settle all disputes except those
of a political or military nature. Sometimes
trial by fire is resorted to—a he detector on
the medieval pattern. A witness suspected ot
lying may be asked to lick a red-hot ba
irom The theory is that a man who is con-
scious of his innocence will haveasufficie
secretion of saliva to protect inm from nnjury.
Under British administration? Certaiffiy, and
the flexibility of the methods used isA h r u v S
why they work much more satisfactorily tha
has been the case with stricter and more central-
ised administrations.
THE BLACK MARKETEER.
“Dr. Evatt said the detection of black marketeers
was difficult, because the buyer was guilty as well
as the seller.”
He works like a mole underground, you’re
aware;
And u s Hard for the sleuths to get down on
him there,
For the fellow on whom he relies for his prey,
And who’s his accomplice as well, you might
say,
Is highly unlikely to give him away
When he harks to the voice of authority telling
That there’s guilt in the buying as well as the
selling.
A point in his favor that’s perfectly clear,
It’s safe to assume, to the black marketeer.
He’s a corker for cunning, a wizard for wile,
A fox for astuteness, a serpent for guile.
To nab him red-handed, it seems, is a heap
More ticklish a job, an achievement more steep
Than catching a vigilant weasel asleep.
So I judge from what Evatt is moved to confess,
And one features the Doctor consumed by dis-
tress
At the lack of expedients, sharp and severe,
For cooking the goose of the black marketeer.
Still, it’s time our reformers quit wringing their
hands.
Illicit supplies for insistent demands
Will be always forthcoming, I venture to think,
When those who’re accustomed their quotas to
sink
Have no other way of procuring a drink.
It’s just human nature, so often deplored,
And till war regulations all go overboard
And the white wings of peace in the sky re-
appear
I doubt we’ll be rid of the black marketeer.
The charges against him are heavy indeed;
He battens on crookness and trades upon need.
And a term in the jug might do more than a
fine
From Beaks all too apt to be over-bemgn
To make him abjure his nefarious line.
Meanwhile, here as elsewhere, he ranks as a
bane
That war and bureaucracy bring in their tram;
And there’s no one, it’s hinted, the pitch who
may queer
And settle the hash of the black marketeer.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Tnart” • Seeing that there is obviously
luait . seeing ~ • ,
a great public tor pseudo-nistoncaj pro-
phecy salted with astrology and served
with slush it’s a wonder the English
don’t set ur> Mother Shipton as a rival
to Hollywood’s Nostradamus. Working
on a “biographer’s” description of the old
girl’s phiz, written 200 years after her
decease (“long head, sharp fiery eyes,
nose with many crooks and turnings and
pimples of divers colors, red, blue and
dirt which gave a lustre to her affrighted
spectators in. the dark”), they could make
her look less unconvincing than the im-
possible creatures dragged in to imper-
sonate the alleged monkish seer at vari-
ous stages of his career, and the predic-
tions attributed to her could be so altered
“Post-War rehabilitation be hanged! Get that stuff out of the tent!
and modernised as to be more acceptable
to the prevailing taste. In the latest issue
of Nostradamus stuff the responsible
faker was at dreadful pains to show that
his mealticket foresaw a whole series
of current events, going to the length of
transposing letters to “prove” that Hitler’s
throat will be cut by Goring or Himmler.
But it has to be admitted that the mugs
lap it up, and no doubt they go home
with the strengthened persuasion that the
war is nearly over, and that perfect
’appiness will break in upon us in the
New Year, if not sooner.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A woman residing in an
Adelaide suburb has made a rationed
and quota-ridden public envious by her
application to a Court for return of liquor
seized in her house by the police—about
130 bottles of wine and spirits and 80 of
beer. She was a hotel-keeper until last
year, she told the Court, and on retiring
took some of the stock with her, having
many friends and liking to entertain
them. It was her custom to buy two
dozen of ale and two dozen of sherry
each month for domestic use, and lately
she had to celebrate her daughter’s en-
gagement and marriage—thus the liquor
in the house was “reasonable.” She was
not prepared to dispute accounts showing
that 333 bottles of liquor had been de-
livered to her between July 19 and
October 18. As for eight dozen of
sherry, “the stuff was very weak, and
wouldn’t hurt anybody.” The Bench
ordered confiscation of the lot, but more
may be heard of the matter.
* if * *
“Strict Veg.”: In the issue of my morn-
ing paper which reports that of 17,000
homer pigeons released in the European
battle zone only 1700 got through to
England, Burnie, Tasmania, announced
that of 101 birds released at Geelong
one homed successfully across Bass
Strait, winning a prize for its owner. That
Seems to be very cruel to pigeons, and in
the Tasmanian case there is no utilitarian
excuse. A cable connects the Apple
Island with the mainland, supplemented
by continuous radio and telephonic com-
munication.
* * * *
“Pip” on a hobby of the soldiery:
For the last couple of Christmases coconuts
have been popular gifts for sending south.
The types selected are those just beginning to
ripen, the green husk lightly flecked with brown.
Elaborate designs are painted on the surface
and the recipient’s address is surrounded by
palms, jungle scenes or dancing hula belles.
Favorite motifs are snakes and pythons, creepy
insects like scorpions and centipedes, and mos-
quitoes six inches high with stings as big as
themselves. Self-portraits are also popular,
or drawings of the tent and its surroundings.
The paints are concocted from all sorts of
substances —clay, Indian ink, oil and varnishes.
Some of the more elaborate workmen have
proper paints and brushes for the job. Each
soldier tries to outdo his mate in the pattern,
and often hours will be spent by an enthusiast
who has selected some intricate design. Imagi-
nation runs riot. The coconuts are not wrapped,
but the stamps affixed to the husk itself. The
Postal Corps chappies take rather a dim view
of the whole business, especially when the field
post office, all the tents, and even the sleep-
ing quarters are stacked roof-high with nuts
awaiting shipment. It has been found neces-
sary - n some areas to ban their dispatch, but
generally they are allowed, and the weird pat-
terns find their way into southern homes,
* * * .*
“T. Hyphen”: An assumption that
only two of Shakspeare s plays have
been filmed is a bit astray. Here
are a few I can remember: Elizabeth
Bergner and Laurence Olivier in Barries
screen version of “As You Like It ;
Mary and Doug in “The Taming of the
Shrew \ Midsummer Night s Dream,
with Rooney as Puck and Victor lory
as King of the Fairies Cagney and Dick
Powell were other parties in the crime ;
and, in the days of the silents, “Othello,”
with Emil Tannings as the blackamoor.
“F.S.”: As a frequenter of Mel-
bourne art shows I have been puzzled
for a long time to account for
so much importance being attached
to the work of grown-ups who try
to paint like children. When a child
does a drawing of a motor-car or an
aeroplane he is doing his best. I suppose
modernists are doing their best when
they paint their pictures. If they are not
then they must be charlatans or are
merely following a fashion, like the girl
who uses lipstick. I have no objection
to their painting as they do paint if they
like it, but how can they hope to develop
if their aim is to paint as innocently as
children do? One of those days perhaps
some impish critic will start applying
to children’s art the meaningless jargon
that invests adult daubers with signifi-
cance, and then the contemporary bubble
will burst.
H: * * *
“Hamer”: The phrase “given the sack”
in a cablegram from Britain set me think-
ing of its origin. An old friend who
dabbles in such matters reckons the say-
ing arose in Australia. In the days of
widely-scattered settlement it was the
understood thing that a station-owner dis-
pensing with a man’s services should fill
a sack with provisions necessary for the
discharged hand’s trek to a new job.
H: * * S'
“Craiser”: “Ruddigore,” revived in
Melbourne, wasn’t a success when first
produced. Gilbert meant it for a bur-
lesque of melodrama, but the British pub-
lic had little taste for burlesque, and the
piece fell flat, which was unfortunate, be-
cause Sullivan was in his freshest and
gayest mood when he wrote the music.
The comic business of the baronets whose
portraits come to life is not up to the
standard of the music, so the renewed
popularity of the opus is a feather in
Sullivan’s, rather than in Gilbert’s, cap.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Glad to find that The
Bulletin considers (15/11 / ’44) that for
S.A. to call Ayers Rock “Ayers’s” would
be “clumsiness.” But how constantly we
do see that very trick with other names —
Dickens’ work called Dickens’s, for in-
stance. And why? “Moses’s” used to be
given in treatises on English usage as an
awful example; but now we have some-
thing just as bad every day in “Mr.
Menzies’s”. Where is the sense in the
extra “s”? One stayed at “Menzies’
Hotel” in old times, and it seems to be
the custom still.
» * * *
“C.Q.”: A.B.C. announcers who make
a practice of pronouncing foreign names
as they imagine the relevant foreigners
would pronounce them remind me of
a Melbourne artist who, during a visit
to Madrid to see the Velasquez portraits,
got into conversation with a cultivated
Spaniard and asked him what he thought
of “Don Qui-ho-tay.” “Don Qui-ho-
tay,” said the Spaniard, looking puzzled.
“Is it a town?” “No,” said the Aus-
tralian. “It is the name of the most
famous character in Spanish literature.”
“Never heard of him,” remarked the
Spaniard. “I mean the great novel by
Cervantes,” persisted the Australian.
“Oh, Don Quixote!” cried the Spaniard,
“I didn’t understand your English way of
saying it.”
* * * *
“Lucky”: Maoriland’s settlement of
Polish orphans at Pahiatua recalls that
the S. Aus. Government made two very
interesting experiments along the same
lines. Over 50 years ago Italians were
brought out to help in establishing
the olive oil industry. A little over 40
years ago several Spanish families,
growers of wine and currant grapes,
were settled in the hills beyond Magill.
Both experiments were successful; the
foreign names have become Angli-
cised and the people absorbed into
the Australian population. Maori-
land has also benefited by a Euro-
pean influx. Dannevirke was origi-
nally entirely composed of Danes
brought out by the M.L. Govern-
ment to assist the dairying industry.
Up to the time of World War I
there were many Danes in Danne-
virke who could not speak a word
of English. There were other Scan-
dinavian settlements in the North
Island, Danes, Swedes and Nor-
wegians, fine settlers all.
* * * *
“Melb”: The largest benefaction
in its history comes the way of the
Melbourne University in the shape
of a Christmas box of £105,000 for
a new library building from the
estate of E. L. M. Baillieu. It is in
memory of the testator’s brother,
Bill Baillieu. In reporting the
present Vice-Chancellor Medley
said that the university would now
be in a position to build a first-
rate library. My oath!
* * * *
“Pawang”: Mention (B. 6/12/ ’44) of
the Victorian law which says that between
seven and 14 a person is presumed not
to have sufficient understanding to be
capable of wilfully committing a crime
makes me wonder. If the law is such,
why was a boy of nine subjected to the
dreadful ordeal of trial in order to be
acquitted? If the killing wasn’t wilful it
wasn’t murder.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Royal Humane Society
has awakened to the danger of stopping
a bolting horse and the courage shown
in doing it. The curious fear of death
by drowning inherited from the English
(a race of mainly non-swimmers, sur-
rounded by rivers and canals) has made
R.H.S. awards lean heavily to water
rescues, which often do not very seriously
risk the rescuer’s life. However, in the
latest batch in Adelaide awards were
given to two bolting-horse stoppers, a
policeman and a girl of nine.
* * * *
“N.”: Dunstan objects to mar-
riage loans as “handouts.” If Can-
berra wants to increase the population,
the way to do it, in his opinion, is
to increase child - endowment bene-
fits. Either method is only a way of
improving the standard of living and im-
proved standards of living don’t increase
the population, in my experience. The
highest birthrates in the world are in
India and China, which have the lowest
living standards. The blind enthusiasm
with which the Indian tani and the
Chinese peasant propagate their species
“Cofee is sewed in the lounge, gentlemen!”
beggars description. Lack of hope of im-
proved conditions is the reason. In high-
standard countries people have conditions
they wish to preserve and one way to
preserve them is not to have too many
children. But most Asiatic women in the
peasant classes I have conversed with
have told me that they had had up to a
dozen children, four or five of whom sur-
vived jn the struggle for existence.
“Harap”: Ben Boyd’s lightless light-
house (B. 15/11/ ’44) had a sort of cousin
at Puket on the west coast of Siam.
Thinking up a way to raise the wind the
local Amphur hit on the idea of erecting
a lighthouse at the harbor entrance as a
pretext for doubling the harbor dues. But
as continual maintenance of the beacon
would have eaten too deeply into his
profits he left the lamp unlit and issued
a regulation that any ship arriving after
dark must anchor outside the heads anc
give three long blasts on its whistle. Thus
aroused from sleep, the Amphur dis-
patched a coolie to light the lamp, the
ship passed safely into port, and (presum-
ably) everyone was happy.
* * * *
“Sextant’s” sad tale:
It was bad weather for surveying, haze pre-
venting us from taking theodolite angles. The
skipper announced that he would land me on a
buoy at dawn. With a sextant, I was to sit
there and wait for flashes from the ship. The
object was to take the angle from the flash to
another buoy further along. At 6 a.m. 1 was
lowered in the whaler into a choppy sea. “What
have you got in the parcel?” called out the
skipper. “My lunch,” I replied. “You won’t
need that,” he said with a grin. We bumped
alongside a fairly large light buoy, which was
bobbing up and down like a cork. I grasped
a rail and pulled myself up, only to slide back
again. Making it the second time, I sat down
and lashed myself to the rails. The instrument
was passed up and the boat returned to the
ship, which shoved off. The sea commenced to
rise, and the buoy was swaying madly. Be-
fore very long I realised the skipper was right;
the fish, not I, would be having lunch. At
noon, as*l was taking the sextant from the box,
an extra large roll caused me to drop it,
putting it out of action. The flashes from the
ship went unheeded as I sat there wondering
how anyone could suffer so much and still live.
It was dark when I was startled by a search-
light flashing on the buoy. A boat had come
to take me off. In the chartroom the skipper
was leaning over the chart, waiting to fit my
angle into the triangulation sheet. The rest
is too sad to relate.
* * * *
“Traymon”: Apropos the early set-
backs of successful novelists (B.
8/11/ ’44), 91-year-old General Sir lan
Hamilton has thrown some new light on
the beginnings of Kipling, whom he met
in India in 1886. At Rudyard’s request
Hamilton sent the young man’s first short
story to brother Vereker Hamilton, in
London, for criticism by Andrew Lang
and the gentleman disguised as Fiona
MacLeod. Lang replied “I would
gladly give lan a fiver if he had never
been the means of my reading this poison-
ous stuff.” The MacLeod verdict was
even less encouraging: “I would strongly
recommend your brother’s friend in-
stantly to burn this detestable piece of
work.” Years later the story, “The Mark
of the Beast,” was published in its original
form and acclaimed a masterpiece of
its kind.
* * ' * *
“S.T.S.”: That preposterous idea of
“Aunt Sally’s” (B. 29/11 / ’44) that it was
the comparatively modern Strudwick who
introduced standing back to a fast bowler
moves me to record what I heard straight
from the lips of A. H. (“Affie”) Jarvis,
a really fine ’keeper (and useful bat) who
had the bad luck to be exactly con-
temporary with the great Blackham, and
thus, though he got some English trips
between 1880 and 1893, was not in many
Test matches. Jarvis was over 30 when he
had to “take” the fierce pace of Ernest
Jones as it began to win matches for
S.A. “Somehow I let two come through
my hands and hit me on the chest; and
[ heard ‘Jonah’ was laughing about it.
So I said ‘l’ll show him,’ and for three
overs I stood right up to the stumps. You
could hear the murmur going round the
ground: ‘Poor “Jonah” must have lost all
his pace. Look, “Affie’s” standing right
up to him.’ ” Never mind the courage of
the man or the snicks he may have missed,
and the byes given away. The point is
that not to stand back to an express
bowler was to insult him. And that was
last century.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Monty and Hard Tack, £
couple of station rabbiters who worked
and lived together, always separated when
they hit town on a bender. Monty liked
Hogan’s pub. Hard Tack preferred
Schneider’s, so they parted temporarily,
each accommodating his pack of assorted
hounds at the rear of his favored pub.
This had gone on for years, but it ended
at last. Hard Tack cut his cheque out
first and, dry as a wooden god, sought
out Monty, only to find his mate in the
same condition. Both publicans proved
obdurate on the question of irrigation.
Hogan spluttering furiously over Hard
Tack’s hide in preferring Schneider,
Schneider mumbling German oaths over
Monty’s liking for Hogan. So the pair,
with their hounds, roamed disconsolate
on the fringe of the town. Presently
Monty said “What y’ reckon y’r mongs
is worth, Hard Tack?” H.T. surveyed
them, thought slowly, then replied “A
quid apiece. Them’s flamin’ good rabbit
dawgs.” “Yair,” said Monty. “Well, if
yours is worth it, so’s mine. Strike me
blue, we got about thirty quids’ worth o’
dawgs between us an’ can’t raise a flam-
in’ drink in the lousy town.” After that
they spent their cheques in a village
further down the line.
* * * *
“Blime”; Old Silver was solidly con-
vinced that terrible happenings would
result should he kill the mating swallows
in his hut. Other ejection schemes having
failed, Silver captured the birds at night,
and, after tying on a length of red silk
as an identification mark, took them
into the township seven miles off and
released them. Next night both birds
were back op the old cross-beam. Un-
daunted, the old chap waited until his
next down-country trip ; then, again cap-
turing the trespassers, he released them
some 70 miles down the valley road.
Once more he returned to be greeted from
the roof by his feathered nuisances.
Silver sat down to work it out. The
following week, at the same deserted
camp 70 miles from home, he climbed
from the truck and produced his box of
swallows. Then, with a pair of scissors,
he carefully trimmed each left wing.
“There, now,” he grunted, setting the
second bird on the ground, “I know where
yez are headin’, blast y’, but let’s see how
long it’ll take yez to make it walkin’.”
* * * *
“Pookie”: I met him at King’s Cross,
of all unlikely places, and he was in-
terested in soil erosion, water conserva-
tion and other outlandish subjects. He
contrasted the preventive and remedial
measures taken in the U.S.A. and Canada
to check soil loss with Australian apathy
on the subject. “But,” he said, “things
were pretty bad in Canada in 1902. I was
visiting my cousins, who had adjoining
farms. All individualists, Dan had
wheat, Joe had oats and Stan had barley.
I went to town for the week-end,
and when I. came back they were all
sitting in Joe’s kitchen hotly discussing
a financial problem. You might call it
a question of ajistment. A dust storm
came up on the Saturday and now Stan
had oats, Joe had wheat and all Dan had
was a couple of bewildered Jersey heifers
that had blown in from Godi-knows-
where.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The hay was a bit on
the dry side and slippery, and as the stack
grew in size Mat found it harder and
harder to bind the sheaves. Presently it
was so touchy that he was working on
his knees, moving slowly and carefully
along as the sheaves came up from the
wagon and I turned them for him. Then
the west side began to move, and both
of us dropped hurriedly to the ground
and propped it up. A little later the
east began to sway, then the west again,
then the south. Mat was riding the
moving top while the boss, the loader and
I were darting from point to point with
boards and stays. Then the whole west
corner bulged, hung, bulged again and
cascaded to the ground with Mat in the
midst of it. He emerged from the heap,
plucked a sheaf or two out of his hair
and remarked “Well, it’s a good job it
went. I was gettin’ seasick up there,”
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: N.Q., drought-stricken
under a veil of red dust, is witnessing a
change in the habits of the teeming bandi-
coots. Summer generally finds grubs,
worms and other “bandy” tucker pretty
“Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser to see you, Prendergast. Shall I ask him
to Wait ?”
scarce in the topsoil except in vegetable
gardens, where the use of sprinklers keeps
a little moisture in the earth. The ’coots,
therefore, only burrow for grubs in the
gardens during the warm weather. But
they’re taking no notice of damp soil this
'spring. Reason is that the parched pad-
docks contain vast numbers of egg cap-
sules laid by rampaging locusts last
summer. They’re digging them up and
eating ’em wholesale.
* * * *
“Bar Din”: I don’t know what colored
horses the Arabs prefer (B. 6/12/’44),
but the colors of the English thorough-
bred may be some indication, as it is of
Eastern, though not exclusively Arab,
origin; as a matter of fact, the term
Arabian was very loosely used in the days
of the Stuarts. The Darley Arabian came
from Smyrna. Place’s White Turk, owned
by Cromwell’s studmaster, was probably a
barb. One of the first importations was
a brown, the Markham Arabian, bought
by James I. The Godolphin Arabian was
a brown bay, 15 hands high; he died in his
29th year in 1753. Charles I had a stud
containing three Moroccan mares which
the Lord Protector took over in the teeth
of Puritan disapproval: among others,
Thomas Fairfax shared in the look
Charles II imported Eastern mares, and
from these the bulk of English thorough-
breds probably have sprung, and from
the English stock the world’s racehorses ;
but I have never seen a white thorough-
bred nor a piebald one, so there may be
something behind the Arabs’ prejudice.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: A lot of strange and
amusing things have happened to me,
especially with wood duck (B. 6/12/’44),
which, in my youth, I used to stalk with
a .22 rifle. In those days I had a profit-
able market for the beautiful speckled
feathers from under their wings—a mil-
liner in the city took all I could send —
provided the feathers came from young
birds and were not tom or damaged by
shot-gun blast. The best way was to drop
’em with a .22 pellet through the head
and, since a wood duck has a very small
head and is about the most scary of all
wildfowl, I had to get close and be accu-
rate. In that part of the world there
were strange tales of a queer animal,
plastered with mud and water-lilies, that
used to lie still on and behind logs or
move sinuously through the water-couch
and mud of the swamps—one enterpris-
ing youth mistook me for a bunyip and
tried to decimate me with a .410 orchard
gun—and also of a youth who, if he
heard wood duck crying on a moonlit
night, was apt to fade silently into the
river and be seen no more till dawn.
Believe me, I could howl like the blasted
things myself and bring ’em around. So
I’m sure “Herbert Dawson” won’t mind
if I remind him that what I objected to
—and still do—was a statement- that a
duck “soared” up from the water to a
tree-top. As for the rest of his par., I
hope “H.D.” has a grandmother; he
should be able to give her a good lesson
on extracting the innards of duck*eggs
by using the contracting muscles of the
mouth.
* *' * *
“Sur Cingle”: That phrase “sit a buck”
(B. 29/11/ ’44) always brands its user, in
my mind, as a cocky-couhtry horseman,
I’m old enough to realise that it may
mean what it says or, at least, that it’s
only a matter of local terminology. But
I was brought up among old-timers, who
spoke of “sitting a couple” or “ridin’ a
few roots,” and who reserved “bucking”
for the activities of that one horse in
thousands which can be ridden only by
one man in many thousands. Any other
use of the word earmarked the speaker
as a newchum.
* * * *
“Harrigan”: “M.B’s” ornithologist (B.
8/11 /’44) wants to scan his blue-print
again. He has the description of a crow
and a raven reversed. The raven has
white eyes, not red ones; the crow has
hazel eyes, under its feathers pure white
down, while the lower portion of each
feather is white. The raven has grey
down and black throat feathers, with a
greenish tinge. A crow calls “Car, car”
while the raven has a deep-throated
“Gwar, gwar.” Crows are not lone-
handers either ; I’ve seen 1 them congre-
gate in thousands in the Kingaroy (Q.)
district, where they destroy hundreds of
acres of corn every year. There’s a price
on the head of the crow in the Lands-
borough shire (Q.).
* * * *
“Eureka”: I have in my collection a
postage stamp issued by the Coolgardie
Cycle Express Company (B. 29 /11 / ’44).
It has a face value of sixpence. Strangely
enough, no cycle is depicted; it shows a
camel being ridden towards the setting
sun.
* * * *
“R.D.”: Ben Hogan was a pest at the
monthly cattle sales, especially if he
had pulled in at the pub on the
way over. “Two bob,” he’d shout
whenever a lot of sheep or cattle were
offered, and the auctioneer put up with
him as well as he could. One day when
a mob of ewes were knocked down at 18
bob a head Ben waxed indignant. They
weren’t worth two bob. Why, on his
place he had a mob of ewes twice as good
and he only wanted 12 bob for them.
Some of the mugs swallowed the bait and
drove out to Ben’s farm along 20 miles of
rough road and through as many barbed-
wire gates. Ben’s drought-stricken sheep
were in a yard, without shade or water.
‘'There y’are,” he said, “what d’yer think
of ’em? They’re cheap at the price, y’
know.” No one seemed anxious to clinch
the deal. “Whatinell is the matter,” he
snorted. “What d ’yer think they’re worth
anyway?” “Two bob,” said one of tha
mugs, making for the car.
* * ♦ ♦
“B. A. Ker”: In blissful ignorance 1
described the way of a captive possum
with its baby as “the most fascinating
piece of nature study I ever hope to see
(B. 8/11/ ’44). Now, thoroughly disillu
sioned, I add the sequel. Long after h
had outgrown the pouch Joey was still
“mummy’s boy.” His ventures ended i
his clinging to a branch-tip until a patheti
little hissing cry brought mother. An
strange noise was sufficient to send hin
jumping for the haven of the maternal
back, although he was now half-grown
and heavy enough to cause his parent to
stagger. I still like to recall the picture
of the two cuddled in together, with the
mother’s “arms” around the sleeping
baby. Only once I saw it; the next morn
ing a series of violent snorts, scuffling
and a high-pitched piping (much like the
note of a fan-tailed fly-catcher) drew
attention to the aviary. Overnight mothe
had become a vicious beast intent on de
stroying the little creature she would have
died to protect 12 hours previously! Nor
could the change of heart be attributec
merely to the weaning process; on
the contrary, mother took an unholy
delight in stalking the bewildered off-
spring even when it cowered in the oppo-
site side of the aviary. The terror-
stricken screams of the poor little creature
as his persecutor leapt upon him, with
half-inch claws rending and teeth tearing,
haunted me until, regretting that I nursed
mother back to health in the first
place, I left the door open and watched
the two go in opposite directions. Pos-
sibly, Nature, with her ruthless efficiency,
uses this method to drive the younger
generations away, and thus lessen the like-
lihood of in-breeding. But I can’t forget
that pathetic little face, its eyes bright
with fear and bewilderment, and its pretty
little nose scored with scratches. Don’t
talk to me about the “mother instinct!”
V * * «
“Hanko”; “Giddap!” The horses
lurched into their collars; the fanners
whirred ; with a clatter and shuttle of
parts the binder came into action —and
into the carrier cascaded an avalanche of
loose hay! Posthole jerked the nags to a
stop; slid to earth and eyed the mess
distastefully. “First time she’s ever tied
a loose sheaf,” he growled. I pointed to
the four balls of twine that decorated
Nuggets’ hames. Posthole grinned sheep-
ishly: “I knew she’d never tie a loose
sheaf be her own flamin’ fault,” he said.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Early in the present cen-
tury a Swift’s Creek (Vic.) bullocky,
observing the way in which not only his
bullocks pulled the logs, but the logs
pulled the bullocks down the steep, moist
slopes, came to believe that the timber
was actually co-operating in getting itself
to the mill. Acting on this assumption,
he built from logs a contraption in the
shape of a railway locomotive, intending
it for use in his haulage business. The
fact that the invention now moulders in
the Gippsland scrub without having ad-
vanced an inch from its original posi-
tion is believed by its nonagenarian
creator to be due to the depredations of
the pinhole borers, which riddled the
boiler before the thing had been given
a proper trial.
* * * *
“Driaz L.”; Lachie learned the wool
game inside out and followed it from
the Three Rivers country to the Murray.
But, pining for Gippsland, away from
everlasting droughts, duststorms and
blowies, he took a job classing for old
Uphill Dagg back in the Rumbugs. Up s
country stood on end mostly, the only
horizontal bit being where his homestead
was. There were no dogs, and Laehie
said it just couldn’t be done. But even
a good sheepman can be wrong, for old
Dagg had a 15-year-old wether that fed
out of a bucket and knew all the tricks.
What that old Dorset did to vindicate
his poddying was a caution. He didn’t
leave a fox on the place, and he was an
almanac when it came to seasonal work.
Every year he watched over his kindred
at lambing time and reported casualties.
He drafted them daily in handy lots as
the Time Clerk ticked off the dates for
docking, crutching, dipping, shearing and
the like, with not a double-fleecer left
behind in those abysses. In trucking
operations he took charge, marshalling
his fats up the ramps with care and baa-
ing his objections to any attempt at cram-
ming. After loading he stood on the
platform and bleated for the boss’s utility
to back in and take him home. Lachie
swore he could read, too —reckoned that
if an auctioneer’s notice was stuck on a
post within sight of him that old wether
would go and muster the culls!
AT CHRISTMAS.
As idly I strolled through the mist on the range,
A holiday-maker new-risen from bed,
I chanced on an old man, and thought him so
strange,
So like to a wizard that, pausing, I said
“For what are you seeking, old man of the
Bush,
So early abroad on the lone range today,
As here and there list’ning and peering you push
Through leafage and frondage your wandering
way?’*
I asked him, with wonder at work in my mind,
And mist wreaths adrift on the tall mountain-
side.
What sight in the timber, what sound on the
wind
Had summoned him hither; whereto he replied
“Tis Christmas, yet Christmas it seems not to
me.
For gone is its goodwill and mute is its mirth,
And gone, too, a something that, gladsome and
free,
Enthroned at this season reigned over the
earth.”
1 said to him then, as the song of a creek
Came up from a hollow green-screened from
my view,
“Oh, what is this something, old man, that
you seek
So early abroad in the mist and the dew?”
He motioned for silence, he said not a word;
Twas magic, ’twas musical magic in truth,
For, echoing far through the mountains, I heard
Sweet voices that chimed with the joyance of
youth.
Youth singing, youth happy, youth glowing of
Youth free as the wind that roams mountain
and plain,
A moment I heard it, then heard in its place
Youth weary and war-worn and moaning in
pain.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: Stringer, a tight, cantankerous
old cuss who had made a wad as a wheat
cocky, had six sons and a daughter. After
his wife died he went the rounds spong-
ing on the various members of his family,
but with his continual criticism of his
daughters-in-law and his whining ways
he soon wore his welcome out. So it
was that he took up residence at his
daughter’s farm. Herb, his son-in-law,
was a born crawler. Hoping by giving
his father-in-law a home he would be
favorably treated in the will. Herb for
years led a dog’s life, for as Stringer grew
older he got even more cantankerous and
eccentric ; but in one of his rare spells
of geniality he told Herb he had left
everything to him and Millie. Then
Stringer died, and Herb sought feverishly
for the will —in vain. So Herb cursed
his double-crossing pa-in-law and refused
to go to the funeral. Eventually the
estate was administered as an intestate
one, and was split equally among the
seven children. Some 15 years later
Herb’s fox-terrier, in searching for a
buried bone under the big pear-tree, un-
earthed a jam-tin containing a blue docu-
ment, and Herb is a living rebuttal of
the theory that a man will froth at the
mouth only during fits or partaking of
poison.
* * * *
“Dahbi”: There is no viler bit of road
in the Commonwealth than that which lies
between St. Lawrence and Sarina (N.Q.);
“Full up? So'm I!"
well, along its evil course the umpteenth
creek gashes across it near (save the
name!) Mt. Christian. A weary motorist
belted his shaky car up the bank, and
stopped at the cane siding for a word with
the loadsman. “Whad d’ya call it?” he
asked, pointing into the bowels of the
earth. “Rocky Dam Creek,” said the
local truthfully. The air was blue for
a good minute, and then the motorist
took breath. As he bumped off he called
out “I wouldn’t’ve cursed your creek if
y’ hadn’t started it y’self, but I like to
see a thing done properly!”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: In his advice regarding
the use of files, “B.” (B. 15/11 /’44),
teaches something directly opposite to the
lessons I had from Sandy McKay. Said
Sandy: “Never lift your file on the draw-
ing-back stroke. First, because pushing
it down on to the metal at the beginning
of the next stroke is likely to do the teeth
more harm. Second, because it is im-
possible to keep your file level when you
lift it each time. Third, if ever
you go into the company of tradesmen
and lift your file they’ll know you for an
amateur right away —they keep it mov-
ing backwards and forwards like a
planing machine.” Following Sandy’s
advice I became an expert filer. With
nothing more than a hammer, chisel, file
and a steel square Sandy, a fitter of re-
nown, could take a rough casting, say a
cylinder end, and face it up as true as
though done with a lathe. He could do
the same with the slide valve for an
engine. His handicraft as a metal worker
was marvellous. It was often called
upon, too, places when the
nearest foundry and machine-shop might
be 100 miles away.
, * * * *
“D.R.H.”: This is for Oswald Pryor’s
Cousin Jacks only. I often sit and smoke
outside the front door of an evening and,
of course, I drop dead matches, A week
or so ago I noticed that the entrance to
an ants’ nest five yards from the front
door was surrounded and partly thatched
over with a pile of match splints. I
dropped two or three marked sticks and
waited. In every case the marked matches
were taken to the nest and some were
dragged into the hole —a practice that I’d
suspected. Now, if I had the heart to
dig out that formican village I’d expect to
find galleries and slopes timbered and
propped with match splints. In any case.
I’ll not be surprised when I see those ants
carrying candles on their hats.
* * * *
“Harap”: The evidence is all against
“D.R.H.’s” contention (B, 29 /11 / ’44)
that, left to itself, Nature would “solve
the soil-erosion problem.” She’s had a
couple of thousand years to do the job in
N. Africa and Palestine, but so far shows
no sign of forgiving the ignorant vandals
responsible for the original spoliation of
the forests. Coming nearer home, the
pig-rooted areas caused by the gold dig-
gers of the ’sixties around Bendigo and
Castlemaine are still bare hills and gullies.
Speaking generally. Nature is a pretty
poor craftsman, whose work can
usually be improved by man. The origi-
nal apple, for instance, was a small, sour
fruit until human genius developed it to
its present perfection ; but leave an apple
orchard uncared for and unpruned and
in a generation or two it has degenerated
so much that it is useful only as firewood.
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: Old Jack Cronin was our
Clement Wragge. A pickle bottle nearly
full of water with a big leech resident
within was his weather glass. With fine
weather continuing the leech reposed
coiled up at the bottom of the bottle.
The threat of rain stirred it to travel;
ascending to the surface it stayed there
until the weather again promised to
settle. Wind was foretold by the prisoner
swimming round and round. The
approach of a cyclone brought it to
the extreme of uneasiness, for then
and ' only then it tried to escape
from confinement, pressing against the
piece of cheese-cloth tied across the
mouth of the bottle. Old Jack was a
beachcomber who, with a couple of abos.,
scraped the shell banks of Exmouth Gulf
and similar places. His derelict lugger,
“ Whacko, three weeks' shore leave!”
always safe in shelter at the time, sur-
vived blows that sent plenty of better-
found ships to the bottom. But Jack
reckoned Australian leeches lacked the
power of weather forecasting—his was an
English leech, though how he came by
it he declined to state.
Jj: * if if
“Prop” : “Tough” Larsen, the 17-year-
old rouseabout on old Alec Scott’s
bachelor selection, used to get up as the
alarm went off and light the fire. No
matter how promptly his employer rose —
he was handicapped by the fact that his
preparations for bed were more thorough
than those of Larsen, who merely pulled
off his boots —the fire invariably was
roaring merrily. This, together with the
fact that the hurricane lantern required
filling almost daily, made Alec suspicious,
and he taxed “Tough” with using kero-
sene to light the fire. “Tough” sourly
denied it. And then one morning Alec
came out to a cold stove. “Hullo, fire on
strike?” he asked pleasantly, eyeing the
sodden mass on the kitchen flo . “Lurid
wood’s wet,” grunted “Tough.” “What?”
said Alec. “Can’t be. We haven’t had a
drop o’ rain f’r three months.” “Y’r
blasted kettle mus’ be leakin’ then,”
snarled “Tough.” “Not the kettle, son,”
grinned Alec. “Just a little tank-water
that I let leak into the lantern after you
went t’ bed last night.” “Tough’s” still
with old Alec ; they say he’s turning out
pretty well.
« * « *
“Prop”: Have always maintained that
a man’s best mattress is Mother Earth.
Bedding down among the gibbers has
always been, for me, a guarantee of really
refreshing sleep. And yet I have the
word of a former owner of Killalpaninna
station, in the Lake Eyre district (S.A.),
that his wife could not sleep on the
ground. She said that she felt an uneasy
swaying motion, almost like camping on
the bottom boards of an anchored dinghy.
Given two or three pack-saddles as insu-
lation, the movement ceased, and she was
able to sleep,
* * * *
“Julia Creek”: In stock work a really
good cutting-out horse is nothing else but
a trick horse. A youngster being trained
is never over-ridden, and this keeps it
“on the bit.” When mouthing in the
early stages the colt is trained to turn at
a brisk canter, and turned correctly, the
hind feet almost stationary, the front feet
coming round. When mouthing he is
never on any account let stand after
being turned ; he is always jumped out
immediately after being pulled round. He
is taught to stop by firm, steady pulls on
the reins; when he slackens pace the
weight is immediately taken off the reins
for a stride or so and then pressure is
applied again, and so on. By this method
the colt is trained to drop from a gallop
to a walk in one firm, steady pull. After
several weeks he is put into the cattle,
the time depending on how he responds
to the preliminary training. And here is
where most men make their mistake. The
youngster must be given time to learn
and not ridden fast. The beast to be cut
out is poked through to the edge of the
mob, the youngster then reined up
tightly and the beast dodged out as
slowly as it can be. Many men imagine
fast riding makes a good horse, which
results in the horse not having time to
learn. He becomes over-excited and hot
and is very often overdone, which means
he becomes stag-headed, reefs and some-
times gets quite out of hand. Once the
youngster starts to come to his work
spurs can be judiciously used. We spur a
colt only for error of judgment, failing
to turn fast enough or slowness off the
mark. He is pulled up, a tight hold is
taken of his head, and he is raked three
or four times, then patted and shown
what he should have done. A horse that
is moving should never be spurred. By
following these simple rules on a colt a
rider will find himself mounted on a
horse which has great interest in his
work; the slightest pressure on the reins
and the horse will move like a thorough-
bred out of a barrier, and with time and
practice the owner will have a horse no
beast will get away from.
* * *
“Herbert Dawson”: All right, “Cou”
(B. 8/11/ ’44), I’ll bite. Some time ago I
was readin’ a Zane Grey story. Come I
was holed up in a gully-raker’s hut with
a lame leg and a belly and a half of
deathadder rum or I wouldn’t have been
readin’ it. Get me? Waal, this Zane
Grey guy, he tells me about a greaser
what is makin’ a break from the sheriff
or some other pizen and jumps kind of
hurried, and short of a saddle, on a pinto
that’s never been gentled. The pinto
lights out to catch the sun before it
sinks, and goes so durned fast he has
the sun goin’ backwards. The sheriff
pulls out, see, because that goldarned
pinto’s movin’ so slick the bullets get
kind of tired tryin’ to ketch him and
drops behind him. Then the greaser
wants to pull up. How’s he. do it? I’m
tellin’ you. He crawls along that paint
boss’s neck and sets his teeth in its nose.
And does it work? You’re tellin’ me.
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Luckiest man I ever
knew,” said Limestone, “was a school-
teacher we had one time at the Flat. I
was chairman of the committee, an’
the number o’ kids was gettin’ so low
that we thought the school ’ud be shut
on us. So I writes the Education Depart-
ment, an’ they writes back t’ say they was
sendin’ us a teacher who’d remedy matters.
That was a bit vague-like, but when
he turns up we understood. How many
kids he himself had no one seemed to
know, but there was six or eight goin’
t’ school an’ another cornin’. Well the
few local kids grew up until, except for
the schoolie’s tribe, there was on’y my
youngest at the* school. She left, an’
there was this flamin’ teacher pullin’ in
five or six quid a week jus’ for teachin’
’is own kids—school pervided an’ all.
After two or three years like that his
missus died an’ they shifted him to an-
other school that was low on numbers.
I heard he married again—a big strappin’
young widder with a few kids of her own
as a starter. So if all the cockies leave
the district where he is he’ll still be set
for years.”
if * * *
“Aurang”: Fifty years ago, when Aus-
tralia was a good deal more horsey than
now, it was commonly held that a white
horse was the most delicate of prads.
After that came greys, followed by pie-
balds. Chestnuts were held to be pretty
tough, though less so than blacks or bays.
The black, curiously, was held in less
esteem as a malady-resister than the bay.
I have a memory of seeing white and grey
draughts in those days, though I can’t
recall seeing one in W.A. this past 30
years. So great is the prejudice against
white that breeders apparently have cut
them out. Yet in other lines white holds
up well. Take the white leghorn, with
its marvellous egg-laying powers, and the
white muscovy duck, which, as a rule,
grows more weight than colored varieties.
There seems to be a bit of a prejudice,
however, against the white pig.
MURRAY CHRISTMAS.
I was sitting, worn and weary, in a suburb
drab and dreary,
Full of grumbles and as surly as a bear;
For suburban life is galling when the bush is
ever calling
And the heart is ever yearning for the things
it knows out there.
I was tired of rush and rattle and the never-
ending prattle
Of the peepul and the garish city ways;
And I cursed the cash that bought me and the
evil day that brought me
From the country of the plainsmen to the
prison of my days.
Then they handed me a letter, and I’ll never
get a better,
For it smelt of eucalyptus in the night,
And contained an invitation to a Christmas
celebration
On the Murray where, in fancy, I can see the
evening light.
And I’m changed in my demeanor as I head for
Riverina
And the sandspit lying golden in the noon;
And I hear the curlews callin’ on the ridge above
Tapalin
And the white-armed gums are waiting in
the glory of the moon.
And I’ll waken in the morning to the scolding
and the warning
Of the soldier-birds’ reveille on the stream;
To the magpie chorus singing and the kookas’
laughter ringing
Down the reaches of the river where the
flashing sun-points gleam.
I will see the brown limbs flashing at the duck-
ing and the splashing
As the children swim beneath the solemn
trees;
While the pudding will be boiling and a fat
young turkey broiling,
Sending gastronomic promises abroad upon
the breeze.
So we’ll gather at the table in the big room
and the babel
Of the voices will be music in my ears;
As we toast those who are missing there’ll be
barracking and kissing,
And the dogs will raise a clamor as another
guest appears.
Then we’ll seek the deep,, cool blackness of the
v’randah for our slackness,
And our talk will die away as senses swoon;
And the Murray air will charm us and its
lazy touch becalm us
In the warm and happy silence of the Christ-
mas afternoon.
n.s.w.
Old-timer.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Facts of Warsaw Uprising.
(From a N.Y. “Times” article by Edwin L.
James, managing editor.)
The Russian fine regarding the uprising
in Warsaw and the capture of its leader.
General Bor, is that Bor led his uprising
on the orders of the Polish refugee Gov-
ernment in London, without approval by
the Russian Army, and that therefore
Moscow had no responsibility in what it
called a tragic error.
But the record is there to confute the
authors of this version. Before Bor’s
uprising he was roundly abused from
Moscow for doing nothing. In a speech
,in Moscow on May 9, 1943, Colonel
Berlings, head of the Moscow-sponsored
Lublin Committee, said: “We and all the
Polish people know that the path to liberty
cannot be won by waiting with rifle slung
on the shoulder, but by military exploit
only.”
On May 20, 1943, Anna Wasilewska,
head of the Union of Polish Patriots,
said in a speech at Moscow: “Have no
faith in those who urge you to be in-
active and to wait. Ruthless mortal com-
bat with the enemy at every step—that is
our slogan.”
Coming to this year the newspaper
“War*and the Working Class” of Moscow
said on April 8: “The official Polish press
justifies the Government’s waiting policy
on the grounds that it is necessary to
avoid a premature revolt and needless
sacrifices. But this is obviously false and
an evasion,”
On June 3 “Pravda” said of the Polish
Government in London: TThey cannot
palm themselves off as representatives of
the Polish people when the people begin
to speak for themselves, when the people,
permeated with implacable hate of the
German fascist invaders, are rising to holy
struggle against the Hitlerite invaders.”
A resolution of the Polish Patriots on
June 22 accused the underground leaders
of virtual treason because they had not
risen to arms. And again on July 13
“War and the Working Class” declared:
“Our immediate task is to arm the Polish
people to fight the German occupation
forces for the liberation of Poland.”
•
On July 30 the Kosciuszko radio sta-
tion in Moscow sent out an appeal to the
Poles to rise in Warsaw. After saying the
Red Armies were approaching, the appeal
said; “People of Warsaw —to arms! The
whole population should gather around
the underground army. Attack the Ger-
mans ! Assist the Red Army in crossing
the Vistula. Give it information and
show it the • best fords over the river.
More than a million inhabitants ought to
become an army of more than a million
fighting for liberation and destroying the
German invaders.”
There were 13 appeals from the Kos-
ciuszko station urging the Poles in War-
saw to rise and fight the Germans.
On Aug. 3, three days after Bor had
started his move. Bulletin No. 88 of the
Polish Patriots in Moscow was still abus-
ing him for doing nothing, saying “The
policy of sitting tight and playing a wait-
ing game advocated by the emigre re-
actionary Government will lead to no
good.”
But by August 17 “Izvestia” was berat-
ing Bor for having thrown into a fight
“the almost unarmed people of Warsaw.”
Thus, as the record stands, there is a
year of abuse from Moscow because Bor
did not fight. There is a rpcord of appeals
from Moscow to the Polish underground
to rise. And then there is a record of
abuse of Bor from Moscow because he
made his effort,
* it: !js i|;
(From a report by the London “Times" mili-
tary correspondent.)
It can now be revealed that General
Bor, commander-in-chief of the Polish
Home Army, was directed by the Polish
Government in London to use his own
judgment about the time for a general
uprising in Warsaw.
Before August 1 there had been many
signs that the Germans were about to
withdraw from the Polish capital, but on
that day a Russian mobile column ad-
vanced to the outskirts of the Praga
suburb and the Germans at once began
to retreat to the western bank of the
Vistula,
General Bor then decided that his
opportunity had come. The rising took
place at five o’clock that afternoon. It
took the enemy by surprise and achieved
great success in the first instance, but the
Russian advance came to a halt and the
Germans immediately set about retriev-
ing the situation. Armored reinforce-
ments arrived, German bombers came
over, and by the third day the tide had
turned.
The Germans recrossed the Vistula.
pThey also proceeded systematically to
bomb and out all the centres of
Polish resistance. The Polish underground
units and volunteers continued to fight
on amid the ruins, but they were short
of weapons and soon lacked ammunition
even for such weapons as they possessed.
Hitler’s 1940 Invasion Debacle
[From a report by John L. Parris, U.S.
United Press war correspondent. Very much
the same report by other war correspondents
has appeared widely in the U.S. Press.]
Hitler did try to invade Great Britain,
after France capitulated and the British
Army lost its armament at Dunkirk and
the British islands appeared defenceless.
He tried on September 16, 1940.
Belgian nurses and doctors who cared
for his wounded have confirmed rumors
periodically current since 1940.
The nurses and doctors told me that
the German survivors had called Hitler’s
debacle “a hellish nightmare.” The
British defence was simple. R.A.F.
bombers coated the sea with oil, and in-
cendiary bullets ignited the oil.
Belgians with whom I talked said the
invasion attempt was common knowledge
in Belgium. A Belgian Red Cross nurse,
who was in charge of caring for Belgian
refugees at the time, told me;
“During the day of September 17 we
heard rumors that thousands of bodies
of German soldiers were being washed
ashore along the Belgian beaches. That
night at 7 o’clock a German Red Cross
train of 40 coaches pulled into the
Brussels station. A German officer who
looked tired approached me and asked if
we could give aid to his wounded. He
said ‘My men are dying for lack of
treatment.’
“We sent a call for more nurses and
ambulances and began taking the
wounded from the train. The moans and
screams were terrible. I helped carry one
young German soldier from the train to
the stretcher. He was horribly burned. He
said they had been told they were going
to invade Britain, that nothing could stop
them. He said: ‘lt was horrible. The
whole Channel was in flames. The British
bombed and machine-gunned us. Hell
couldn’t be worse.’ And then he died.
“We cared for more than 500 soldiers.
Many of them died there in the Brussels
station.”
Watch for a Chinese Tito.
(From an article by the N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram’s” Washington representative William
Philip Simms.)
Events in the Far East point suspi-
ciously to the emergence of a Chinese
Tito. The Big Three seem to have a
predilection for Titos.
Hard pressed by the advancing Japs
and beset by internal difficulties —finan-
cial, political and economic—Generalis-
simo Chiang Kai-shek needs all the sup-
port he can get from outside to spare
him a fatal loss of face. Yet the breaks
are all against him. Abroad, he is bit-
terly criticised. At home a relentless
enemy is poised to strike him down.
In north-central China, in the provinces
of Shensi, Kansu and Ningsia, the
Chinese communists have set up a regime
of their own, with an army, and even
with printing presses to turn out cur-
rency. Its ultimate aim, of course, is to
overthrow the central Government at
Chungking.
From time to time there have been
armed clashes between the Chinese Reds
and Chiang’s regulars. The 18th Group
Army, as the communist forces are
known, number several hundred thou-
sand men, good fighters and compara-
tively well armed. Of necessity, there-
fore, the central Government is forced
to keep a considerable portion of its
troops along the “border” to maintain
what is commonly referred to as a “block-
ade.”
Thus it is that foreigners, with only a
superficial understanding of 5000-year-old
China and her complex problems, are
charging Chiang with working harder to
fight other Chinese than he does to fight
the Japs—which is too sweeping a simpli-
fication. What the recognised Govern-
ment of China is trying to do is to save
itself—as the American, British, Russian
or any other Government would do —
from threatened destruction.
Prodded by Vice-President Wallace and
other American and Allied envoys, the
Chungking regime has been trying not
only to come to an understanding with
the Chinese communists but to improve
its relations with Moscow. At a recent
conference—which, incidentally, lasted
four months—Chungking offered to
absorb the 18th Group Army on precisely
the same footing, pay and all, as the regu-
lar army and leave it under its own offi-
cers. It proposed to reorganise it into
four armies of 10 divisions, but it would
have to disband certain “irregulars” and
take orders from the central Govern-
ment.
Just when everyone thought the agree-
ment was concluded it fell through with
a crash. The communists raised their
price. They demanded “recognition” of
the Red administration -/five armies of
16 divisions and other details.
Chiang is accused of being a dictator.
China, it is said, is not a democracy, and
it is riddled with graft. All these things,
no doubt, are true. But there are other
dictators among the Allied rulers. Quite
a number of the United Nations are not
democracies. Some are totalitarian and
few are wholly strangers to graft.
The Great Powers Plan.
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine” <
article by Peter F. Drucker.)
Since the Tehran Conference the grand
design of Allied policy has unfolded suffi-
ciently to allow the conclusion that the
Great Powers have formed a Council for
Europe —“for” rather than “of,” because
The real inside on the recall of
Gen. “Vinegar Joe” Stilwell boils
down to the fact that General Stil-
well served an ultimatum on Gen-
eralissimo Chiang Kai-shek to co-
operate with other Chinese armies
in waging war against Japan, and
you can't serve ultimatums on the
head of another Government.
United States Ambassador Clarence
Gauss also called on the gen-
eralissimo regarding the same ques-
tion of co-operation; but, being a
diplomat, he merely “suggested.”
He served no ultimatum.
Chiang and Stilwell had rubbed
each other the wrong way for a
long while. Stilwell’s blunt, brusque
manners also had caused friction
with Gen. Claire Chennault and
Lord Mounthatten. —Drew Pear-
son ; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
the Europeans themselves are excluded
from it or subordinated to it. Mr.
Churchill’s repeated promise that even-
tually the Continental nations will be
admitted to membership in equality with
the Great Powers only emphasises their
present inferiority or exclusion. The
policy may be summed up under four
major headings.
First, there is the decision to organise
Europe separately instead of within a
world-wide international order. This is
the one point on which we know that
Great Britain sided with Russia against
the American State Department.
Second, the peace is to be based on
the military and economic strength of
the three Great Powers who are to make
all the major decisions. Instead of an
international police force there is to be
a close military alliance of the three
Powers, modelled on the Anglo-Russian
entente. Instead of international agencies
for raw-material control, such as had
originally been considered by Britain and
the United States, there are to be accords
between the Great' Powers, such as the
Anglo - American petroleum compact.
Accords between the three Great Powers
will also decide the future international
organisation of aviation and shipping. It
was obvious at the international monetary
conference at Bretton Woods that the
real points at issue were the currency and
credit relations between America, Britain
and Russia, and that the “international”
in the title of the conference was not
much more than a courtesy title.
It follows from this that in the Three-
Power master plan there is no room for
any Continental Power with an indepen-
dent foreign policy. That means that the
Great Powers will frown upon a Euro-
pean Federation or regional federations
between European countries, such as the
proposed Balkan League or the Scandi-
navian bloc. It also means that, in effect
if not in theory, the sovereignty of all
European countries is to be limited to
the domestic sphere. Therefore, no Great
Power with an independent system of
alliances is to be allowed on the Continent
of Europe ; all the Great Powers are to
be non-European.
These two principles can be regarded
as the real foundation for the European
peace as envisaged by the Great Powers ;
and there is little doubt that it was the
agreement on them which constituted the
achievement of Tehran. Yet it is most
unlikely that Continental-European re-
gionalism and Great-Power rule will be
openly acknowledged in the official peace
plans. On the contrary, there is bound
to be a good deal of internationalist
camouflage—not only to placate the in-
ternationalists in England and America
but, above all, to smooth the ruffled
feathers of our European Allies. But all
questions of political and military secu-
rity will remain firmly in the hands of
the Great Powers and will be decided by
them on a purely European or purely
Pacific basis —however well the big stick
may be hidden behind internationalist
verbiage.
In marked contrast to these first
two principles, the third has been
openly acknowledged, particularly by Mr.
Churchill: “the abandonment of any
ideological basis of European recon-
struction.” Hence, any European Gov-
ernment will be acceptable, whatever
its political complexion, if it seems likely
to guarantee peace.
Finally, it has become pretty clear that,
by and large, the Versailles borders —the
1941 borders in the case of Russia —will
be the basis of the territorial settlement
of Europe. With the exception of the
three Baltic States incorporated in the
Soviet Union, and of the city of Danzig,
which will be Polish, all of the countries
in existence in 1938 are to exist as auton-
omous units in the future; and, unless
the permanent dismemberment of Ger-
many should be attempted, there will be
no new States. Except for the shuffling
of Polish and Prussian provinces, perma-
nent territorial changes will be rather
slight and in the nature of “frontier recti-
fications” rather than of large-scale an-
nexations. They will not be based on
ethnic or historical principles but on
considerations of strategy. And the solu-
tion of minority problems will be sought
not in “just” frontiers but in large-scale
exchange of populations.
It is also clear that Russia has been
given a veto power on all territorial settle-
ments, if only because she alone of the
Great Powers has a land frontier on the
Continent and a land army ready for im-
mediate action against disturbers of the
peace.
Viewed historically, this emerging plan
is far more like that of the Holy Alliance
which terminated the Napoleonic wars
than like the League of Nations; in every-
thing pertaining to power politics it is
built very much on the lines of Metter-
nich’s structure, which kept peace on the
Continent for 33 years. But instead of
a political ideology—such as the legitim-
ism of the Holy Alliance —it makes the
maintenance of order the supreme, if not
the only, criterion.
There is a great deal to be said for this
plan of the Great Powers. It establishes
a relatively clear and unambiguous cri-
terion of political action and decision.
It is not based on the demand that any
Great Power act “altruistically,” that is,
in opposition to, or in disregard of, its
national interests. On the contrary, it
proclaims that what is best for each of
the Great Powers is best for international
society; and it seeks the basis of universal
peace not in a subordination of the Great
Powers to a world order but in the basic
peace interest of the Great Powers them-
selves. It frankly recognises that no poli-
tical order can survive unless it is ulti-
mately backed by superior force.
The plan also puts first what for most
Europeans will come first: peace, order
and a chance to pick up the shattered
fragments of individual and social life.
It recognises that Europe is tired and
worn out to the point of complete col-
lapse, and that the raising of ideological
issues at this time might easily lead to
civil war.
Finally, the plan is modest and easily
enforceable. It aims at “peace in our
time” rather than at the millennium. It
does not pretend that the Great Powers
have a common ideology when, in fact,
they differ widely in their ideas on gov-
ernment and economics. It does make
possible collaboration between the Great
Powers on a purely pragmatic basis. It
eliminates the danger that they will try
to convert each other, which certainly
would make any peace impossible. It
also eliminates the necessity for that con-
stant interference in the internal affairs of
the countries of Europe which made the
Holy Alliance universally hated and which
finally led to its collapse. The Great
Powers, under their present plan, will not
have to take sides in the struggle of fac-
tions within European countries. They
will have neither to spur nor to buck basic
social or political trends in Europe, as
Metternich had to do. They can be in-
different to European nationalism and will
not have to support rival claims to terri-
tories. In other words, the Great Powers,
by abandoning an ideological basis for
the peace in Europe can act efficiently


IV. lUKI
WAR SERIES
RONALDSONTIPPETT
Wear Savings win battles! Buy Bonds, Certificates and Stamps!
mmm-
mmsm
THIS “Ronaldson-Tippett” Type “CK” 832 unit
comprises two 50 B.H.P. type “CK” totally-
enclosed, 4-cylinder, vertical diesel engines,
coupled in tandem to marine gear box, complete
with electric starting equipment, water circulation
pumps and electric generators.
These units are being installed by the Army in various
types of small craft, the uses of which are part of general
strategy.
Similar units will be much sought after in the post-war
period for fishing boats and other craft.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 638 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 43 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’iand Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 137 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Quick relief from
m&jLrb
• •
e/HPuis
GIN PILLS strengthen weak Kidneys—-
help them to banish excess uric acid
and other impurities from the system
relief from Rheumatism soon follows.
Immediately you experience the first
signs of Rheumatism you should lose no
time in commencing with Dr. Sheldon’s
GIN PILLS. They contain no harmful
ingredients and can betaken by anyone.
Give your Kidneys the assistance they
need by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
NOW.
Dr. Sheldon's
pills 1/9
60 pills 2/0
■or TH E KI D N | VS'
and without friction for the sole aim o£
which make it a
s£ong plan “hS may make the
Three Power settlement a very weak one.
Md % 7 easy ”o say whether the
Strong or the weak features will prevail,
To the abandonment of an ideological
basis the Three-Power scheme owes its
realism and the possibility of unity be-
tween the Great Powers. But along with
the ideological basis the Great Powers
have voluntarily abandoned the moral
leadership in Europe to which their vie-
tory over Nazism entitles them. And it
is questionable whether without such
leadership Europe can overcome the
hatreds which Nazism will have left
behind and can form the stable Govern-
meats without which it cannot recover,
But the greatest danger in the abandon-
ment of ideological principles and of
moral leadership is that it may force the
constructive energies of Europe into
opposition to the Great Powers and their
peace. And if the constructive energies
of Europe cannot be organised in sup-
port of the peace they may well be forced
into anew totalitarianism—which is pre-
cisely what the Nazis will be waiting and
working for. By abdicating moral leader-
ship the Great Powers will have largely
deprived themselves of the means to
counteract such a development, should’ it
happen. For neither air superiority nor
the control of raw-material supplies is an
effective weapon against a moral collapse.
In the final analysis, the Great Power
plan aims at establishing the foundations
of peace rather than peace itself. It is
a plan for a long transition period—per-
haps as long as ten years—out of which
the new Europe is to emerge. Its strength
lies in the clear recognition of the need
for unity between America, England and
Russia during this critical period. Its
weakness is that in order to achieve this
unity the developments in Europe itself
are largely left to chance.
Interview with Franco.
(As reported by U.S. United Press corre-
spondent A. L. Bradford.)
General Franco received this corre-
spondent and Ralph Forte, United Press
correspondent in Madrid, in historic
Palacio Real in El Pardo. He was wear-
ing his full military uniform, and sat
behind a desk in quarters formerly occu-
pied by Alfonso XII, father of the last
King of Spain.
He said there was no obstacle, so far
as Spain’s internal affairs went, to col-
laboration with the principal Allied
Powers, including Russia, but that there
must be no interference in Spain’ST in-
ternal affairs.
Spain, he said, has now entered a
period of pacification and hundreds of
thousands of Spanish exiles already have
returned home.
“A civil war,” he said, “is difficult to
settle. It inevitably leaves in its wake,
among other evils, the existence of emigre
(pother unhappy
their homes always moves the sympath.es
of those who harbor them.
“On the other hand, it is impossible in
a majority of cases to take these exiles at
their word. The distances involved the
lack of accurate information from home,
the natural bitterness of those who have
lost the fight, and their passion—all these-
things usually prevent them from being
fair in their judgments,
“ It is dangerous, therefore, to believe
w hat such exiles say when they speak ot
those who govern in the country wherein
the fortunes of politics have prevented
them f rom living. But hundreds of thou-
sands of Spain’s sons who left their coun-
try after the civil war have now returned
home. Distinguished personalities who
were exiled from Spain during the civil
W ar already occupy important posts here
j n various fields and especially in intel-
]ectual activities.
“Forgetting the bitterness of the
strug gle, we often have extended an invi-
tation to return home to those desiring
to h V e here, and I repeat that those who
have accepted our invitation are innu-
merable. It is to be hoped that others
w ill return to continue among us useful
and productive work,
“Naturally, professional and perma-
n£nt ag it a tors who defy the authority of
the state and see k hy violence to under-
mine that authority—these, so long as
th do not mend their ways, will not be
adowed t 0 return,
coun t r y i n the world faced with
suc!l activities would follow any other
course ,»
j n ev j dence 0 f his that Spain
was not ad j ed w ith Axis powers, General
Franco said:
“When, in July, 1940, the German
arm j es 0C ’ CU pi e d France and reached the
§;p an j s h border and France was totally
d i sarmed> instead of seizing upon these
circumstances to attack France fr,om
behind, which our traditional chivalry
would never have permitted, Spain, on
the contrary, adopted a friendly attitude
toward that neighbor.
ttJn moment only one European
power remained at war with the Axis
nadons and the Un i te d States had not
ent£red the confl i ct . if the accusations
concern i ng OU r alleged obligations with
tfae Axis had been true, this was the in-
comparable moment to have taken up
arms against the Allied coalition, where
- n France it had cease d to fight, leaving
territory easy prey to occupation by
a Jbreim armv ”
speaking of Spain’s internal situation,
Gen P eral F ? anco aid . _
“I invite all Americans to come an
see for themselves with their own eyes
and contemplate what goes on m
country. They will appreciate, especially,
our insistence on maintaining order, with-
out which progress is impossible,
“Due to certain peculiarities ot the
Spanish temperament, political institu-
tions that produce excellent results in
other countries lead here to the exact
contrary. Forms of government that
appear moderate even when directed by
men of moderation here in Spain only
serve to unleash acts of violence that im-
mediately destroy these very same men
and institutions. Hence the necessity for
reinforcing the authority of the Govern-
ment.”
He said the time for restoration of the
monarchy had not yet come, but indi-
cated that it might after the war.
“It must be a monarchy,” he said,
“which, recovering the essence of our
tradition, will constitute an eminently
social reformist monarchy very different
from that which recently presided over
our decadence,”
Why Stalin Stayed Out.
(/Is interpreted by the Washington correspon-
dent of N.Y. “World-Telegram:”)
On excellent authority it is possible to
clear up some of the “mystery” surround-
ing Russia’s boycott of the international
If a majority of the American
people were willing to accept the
hazardous precedent of a fourth
term, it seems clearly because they
were convinced that in this extra-
ordinary crisis the Republican party
offered them no satisfactory substi-
tute for Mr. Roosevelt’s experience
in military affairs and foreign
policy, and no equally good assur-
ance that under Republican leader-
ship the country could achieve a
lasting peace. On this issue Mr.
Roosevelt sought and obtained a
clear mandate. The work of the
conference at Dumbarton Oaks was
completed in ample time for its
results to be submitted to the elec-
torate. Mr. Roosevelt committed
his next Administration to a full
assumption of the responsibilities
which fall naturally to the United
States as a great world Power, and
it is primarily on the basis of public
confidence in his ability to lead the
way in establishing the conditions
of an enduring peace that he has
been returned to power. — N.Y.
“Times.”
aviation conference, which opened in
Chicago on November 1.
The official reason for staying away
was that Switzerland, Spain and Portu-
gal had also received invitations, and as
these countries had never been any too
friendly toward the Soviet Union, Russia
did not care to share their company.
That, I am informed, was a diplomatic
excuse rather than a valid reason.
The real reason is that the United
States, Great Britain and other partici-
pating nations are thinking in terms of
commercial aviation and Russia, for the
present, is not ready to talk in such terms.
For an indefinite time to come, it is
said, Russia will be primarily interested
in military, rather than commercial,
aviation. If there is any “commercial
flying inside the Soviet Union, it will be
on a national, not an international, basis.
It will probably be some time before
Russia will allow commercial ’planes of
other nations to come and go within her
territorial limits. Pilots and passengers
can see too much. And until she is will-
ing to give as much as she asks in the way
of international aviation privileges she
would only be inviting embarrassment if
she attended the conference at Chicago.
Census of Slaves.
(As tallied by N.Y. “Times.”)
Today there are more than fifteen
national groups reckoned as Germany’s
slave labor. The largest of them are:
Russians—2,000,000-3,000,000. As in-
dustrial workers and miners in Bremen,
the Ruhr.
French—2,700,000. Distributed
throughout Germany ; at one time con-
stituted 20 per cent, of workers in the
Ruhr district.
Poles—2,000,000. In agriculture and
domestic service ; as industrial workers in
Ludwigshafen and Stettin.
Belgians—500,000. On railways m
Bielefeld, Nuremberg, Stuttgart.
Netherlanders—400,000. Technicians in
Cracow ; engineers on the Baltic coast.
Italians—300,000. As industrial workers
in Hamburg, Bremen, Munich, Gdynia,
the Ruhr.
Czechs —160,000. Mostly in the build-
ing trades.
J. Bull's Rocket Ship.
(From an account by a N.Y. “Herald Tribune’
correspondent.)
A long-kept secret was finally broken
when Great Britain’s devastating invasion
weapon —the rocket ship—was unveiled
in all its glory. This horrendous craft
of the Royal Navy has the kick of 30
cruisers each mounted with 12 six-inch
guns.
The ship is known officially as the
Landing Craft Tanks (Rocket). I went
aboard one in the Bay of Biscay and was
invited to stay aboard while all her
rockets were fired at once. This makes
an unforgettable noise and fury signify-
ing a great deal, because her rockets can
all be fired in about 30 seconds at con-
siderable range. One bank of rockets
alone sounds like the crack of doom, with
accompanying sparks and jet swish. And
sometimes there are 150 banks aboard a
single rocket ship.
This craft was developed by Combined
Operations Headquarters to aid in over-
coming what is probably the greatest diffi-
culty in assault landings—giving close


support to troops as they approach an
enemy beach.
Many suggestions came from the Com-
bined Operations “brain trust,” but the
most novel was the simple idea of a flat-
bottomed raft fitted with an enormous
number of rocket projectors. As the
Navy already had the basic structure
in its Landing Craft Tanks, it was a
simple matter to take an empty L.C.T.
and bolt down scores of rocket projector
racks, all facing the same general direc-
tion.
One L.C.T. was fitted with 100 or more
rocket projectors and was made ready
for her first sea trial in April, 1943. There
were prodigious wagers in Whitehall
whether it would work at all, and whether
the ship would sink when all her rockets
went off at once. There were many
doubters, but the trial proved no mistake
had been made. The rockets went off.
The craft did not sink.
Aboard the rocket ship in the Bay of
Biscay I stood on the stern bridge during
a trial, and even through earplugs given
to me by the commander the noise was
almost deafening.
After the first experiment in 1943 six
craft were hurriedly adapted and sent to
the Mediterranean to take part in the
landing on Sicily. It was reported that
their first impact so shook Italian garri-
sons that they surrendered without further
resistance. I can well believe this, be-
cause when several hundred rockets are
fired at once from an echoing, steel-
walled, close-packed landing craft the
result is something Dante himself
wouldn’t believe.
U.S. Plan to Help Britain.
[Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine’
article by John Fischer, who lately resignec
from the U.S. Foreign Economic Administra
tion to join that publication.]
England will end the war with her
economic system bled white. She can
struggle back to her feet only if she get
in the three or four years immediately
after the peace a reviving stream ol
food and raw materials. The United States
must decide whether or not it would be
prudent in U.S. self-interest to provide
the help England must have.
This question has been debated, behinc
carefully closed doors, all over Washing-
ton. Few issues during the war have been
argued so stridently or have created such
sharp dividing lines within the State De-
partment, the Foreign Economic Admini-
stration and the War Production Board
Almost the only echo of the debate
which has seeped out of the Washington
conference rooms was reported in the
August 6 issue of the publication of the
National Association of Manufacturers.
In a widely-quoted article it said that
“top administration circles” were discus-
ing “a proposal to continue lend-lease
to England after the fall of Germany—
at least until the surrender of Japan and
perhaps well into the transition period.”
It added that the plan was intended
“very frankly to support Britain’s domes-
tic economy,” and estimated that it would
“cost the U.S, taxpayer $2,500,000,000
and up a year, above war costs.” The
implication was that those dreamy fel-
lows around the White House are yearn-
ing to play Santa Claus again.
Actually, England does not want lend-
lease or even a cash loan after the war;
nor will she need anything like as much
as 2\ billion a year. She does want
desperately to get something more than
one billion dollars’ worth of food and
other goods from America each year
during the three- or four-year period of
reconstruction, while she is rebuilding her
factories and restoring a healthy inter-
national trade. Britain is perfectly will-
ing, however, to pay for these goods.
The real problem is to find some form
of payment which a near-bankrupt Eng-
land will be able to make, and which the
United States will be willing to accept.
Many people are so used to thinking
of Britain as a wealthy nation that they
cannot quite believe her purse is wearing
threadbare. A few even suspect that she
is getting rich out of the war. Here are
the facts —by no means precise, since
nearly all figures on international trade
still are wrapped in the secrecy of war,
but accurate enough:
In normal times the United Kingdom
has to import about four billion dollars’
worth of goods a year—including 60 per
cent, of her food. If she is not able to
resume imports at this rate after the war
she must either reduce her population or
cut her standard of living, or both.
England can no longer pay for these
imports as she did in the past. Before
the war she paid in three ways:
1. By exporting machinery, calico,
Scotch whisky, Harris tweeds and a long
list of other manufactured goods—about
2\ billion dollars a year.
2. By drawing interest on the invest-
ments Englishmen have made abroad
during the past three centuries —about
800 million.
3. By a wide variety of “services” for
other countries —about 700 million.
These services included carrying other
people’s cargoes in British ships, banking,
insurance, etc.
During the war these things have
happened:—
1. England has lost considerably
than half of her export market. Much of’
it has been grabbed by the United States,
which today is selling more goods abroad
(in addition to lend-lease) than it did in
most pre-war years, American busi-
nessmen presumably have no intention
of giving up this new slice of interna-
tional trade without a fight.
2. Nearly half of England’s foreign in-
vestments have been sold off or suffered
considerable damage when the Japanese
over-ran south-east Asia. In addition,
Great Britain has borrowed about 10
billion dollars from other countries, over
and above lend-lease and mutual aid from
Canada.
3. England has lost —perhaps for
good—her old dominance in shipping,
international banking and similar lucra-
tive services. The world’s financial centre
obviously has shifted to New York and
Washington. Submarines have pared
Time is of no advantage to Japan
from this moment on. The only
element of urgency in the Far
Eastern war is China. The pressure
on that battered and nearly ex-
hausted ally must be relieved at the
earliest possible moment. Plans for
doing that are complete and firm.
Relief is on the way. It will come
in the form of an enormous in-
crease in traffic “over the hump”
and by way of the old Burma Road.
With the ending of the rains it will
be possible to re-organise the whole
air-transport system on the basis
of Myitkyina as the fuel and freight
head. And the old hope of amphi-
bious landings at the mouths of the
Burma rivers is blossoming again.
The back door to China should be
open wider than it ever was before
by the end of the next dry season.
—Washington correspondent;
“Christian Science Monitor.”
down the British merchant fleet, in spite
of lend-lease replacements, while America
has been building a merchant marine
almost equal to the pre-war tonnage of
the whole world.
Although this adds up to a fairly
gloomy picture, no responsible English-
man would argue that it is hopeless.
Britain pulled out of similar holes after
the Napoleonic Wars and World War I;
given time, she confidently expects to do
it again. Her businessmen are tough and
aggressive, with an unequalled experience
in foreign trade. They undoubtedly could
recapture at least part of their old mar-
kets from America, plus a good share of
the trade which once went to Germany
and Japan. Most of all, they count on
an eventual expansion in the total volume
of world trade far beyond the pre-war
level.
What worries England is the critical
period immediately after the peace. Some
of Washington’s shrewdest economists
predict that England’s ability to pay
during this period probably will add up
something like this:
From exports $2,100,000,000
From return on foreign invest-
ments 400,000,000
From shipping, banking and
other services .. .. .. 500,000,000
Total $3,000,000,000
The gap may, indeed, be considerably
larger than a billion dollars a year, Eng-
land may need to import a considerable
tonnage of lumber and other raw
materials, above her normal four billion
of purchases abroad, to rebuild her
bombed-out homes and industries.
How xan England fill this temporary
gap of a billion dollars or more in her
trade budget? There are only four
possible courses open to her.
First of all, Great Britain might reduce
her purchases abroad. In normal times
more than half of these purchases are
foodstuffs. England probably will con-
tinue to raise more of her own food than
in the past; but the savings could hardly
amount to more than 10 per cent, of her
total food imports.
Any really sizable cut in imports could
be accomplished only by clamping down
on living standards or forcing a large-
scale emigration of Englishmen to less
crowded parts of the Empire. Neither of
these drastic measures seems to be politi-
cally feasible. Any Government which
tried them, except as a last desperate re-
sort, probably would be tossed out of
Westminster in a rush.
A second alternative might be to
borrow enough money abroad to cover
the deficit. Britain already has piled up a
World War II debt to foreign creditors
of about 10 billion dollars, plus that
much more in her net lend-lease account,
after offsetting about two billion in reverse
lend-lease. This constitutes a very heavy
burden indeed. The British Treasury is
anxious not to take on any additional
foreign obligations until it can find out
precisely how much payment the U.S.
expects to demand for lend-lease and on
what terms,
A third course would be for England
to launch an all-out campaign to double
her present volume of exports immedi-
ately, without waiting for a gradual,
healthy recovery of world trade as a
whole. To many Englishmen this seems
the obvious (and traditional) way out.
From the American standpoint, however,
it is the least desirable alternative.
For England could achieve an immedi-
ate increase in her exports above the pre-
war level only by the most relentless kind
of economic warfare. As a first step she
would have to try to build a wall around
the Empire which would give her a near-
monopoly of trade with the Dominions,
India and the colonies. How far the
Dominions would be willing to go along
with such a policy is an open question ;
but there is reason to believe that they
were sounded out in a delicate and tenta-
tive fashion at the gathering of Prime
Ministers in London. It would mean that
other nations would have to throw up
retaliatory tariffs and similar “protective”
devices. At that point the United
States might as well pull the shroud over
its hopes for “the elimination of all forms
of discriminatory treatment in inter-
national commerce,” which is one of the
announced U.S. national objectives.
Incidentally, the U.S. would have to
forget sympathetic wishes for an early
liberation of India. If Britain is forced
to fight tooth and claw for export mar-
kets immediately after the war she simply
cannot afford to let go of India.
Similarly, the U.S. would be forced to
abandon the policy of gradually tighten-
ing economic pressure on Argentina.
Unless England joins, a commercial
quarantine of Argentina obviously is im-
possible ; and an England desperate for
export markets could never dream of
slamming the door in the face of one of
her best customers.
Most important of all, a policy of ex-
port-at-any-cost almost inevitably would
compel England to play ball, economi-
cally, with the Soviet Union. The Soviet
Union can supply the lumber and other
raw materials Britain has to have in order
to rebuild her homes and get her factory
wheels turning. Furthermore, the U.S.S.R.
—unlike the United States —is willing to
accept England’s exports in return. For
at least a decade Russia might offer an
almost bottomless market for British
machine tools, tractors and industrial
equipment.
Some of the more far-sighted U.S. policy-
makers—including a number of heavily
starred Army officers —contend that the
U.S. cannot afford to take a chance, how-
ever slight, on permitting a situation to
arise which will tend to push England
away from the United States and into a
closer partnership with Russia.
There is a fourth possible alternative
for solving England’s post-war economic
predicament. Would it be feasible to
work out a swap—American food and
raw materials for a few thousand acres
of British territory?
If the U.S. could buy a suitable net-
work of bases in the two oceans for, say,
four billion dollars’ worth of wheat and
cotton and lumber the dollar cost would
amount to considerably less than one
month of the current war. Cheap
enough.
A bargain of this kind would not
affront any major political pressure group
in the United States nor threaten any
vested economic interest. On the con-
trary, it probably would be welcomed
with hosannas by the powerful farm
organisations, which already are begin-
ning to fret over the prospect of a huge
post-war agricultural surplus.
To the British a goods-for-bases deal
might look considerably less attractive.
Mr. Churchill has announced repeatedly
that he has no intention of liquidating
the British Empire. Any suggestion that
England should part with a single inch of
territory is sure to stir up a tempest of
protest. If the idea of an outright trans-
fer of title sticks in the British craw per-
haps the islands could be left formally
under the Imperial flag with the under-
standing that the United States would
have the right to fortify them and use
them for military and naval purposes in-
definitely.
If some such device can be negotiated
to overcome the political and sentimental
difficulties there should be no other seri-
ous obstacle to British agreement. Eco-
nomically most of the islands are virtually
worthless; in many cases their entire
produce probably has never paid for the
cost of government. From a military
standpoint the bases would have practi-
cally the same value to Britain in U.S.
hands as in her own. Assuming that
England and America will stand together
as two of the major partners in the future
world-security organisation Britain has,
in fact, every reason to want the United
States to shoulder the main burden of
policing the Pacific and the western
waters of the Atlantic.
On balance, then, an arrangement
under which the United States would help
feed and rehouse battle-worn Britain in
return for certain strategic British bases
would seem to be a sound bargain for
both countries.
Dragnet Digest.
{Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
If the Japanese choose to fight on to th
end despite the certainty of eventual disaster
the job of conquering them will require in
fantrymen in considerable numbers who are we
trained, well led and supplied with all the dread
ful weapons of war as it is fought today
Transporting and supplying these infantrymen
over the vast distances of the Pacific will be
complex and difficult task which will tak
time, no matter what effort is brought to bea
on the problem.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * »
Admiral Sir James Somerville, recent com
mander of the British Far Eastern Fleet, ha
revealed that in 1942, when the Japanese were
riding high and the situation was “pretty black,’
the main base of that fleet was movec
from Ceylon to Kilindini, on the east coas
of Kenya. Somerville admits that the British
Navy was outweighed and outmatched in 1942
and could no longer control the central anc
eastern portions of the Indian Ocean, much
less anything in the western Pacific. Allied
convoys were, therefore, very much at the
mercy of the Japanese fleet for a time, which
might explain the slowness with which the
Burma campaign got under way.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune!'’ war correspondent Richard L. Tobin.
* * * *
Here in Rome the worst health problem
we had was the babies from one to three years
of age. In normal times Rome required more
than 250,000 litres of milk daily, but under
the Germans they got just 30,000, and the
mortality rate was appalling. Fortunately, we
were prepared to distribute hundreds of tons ol
powdered milk, and in less than two months’
time the infant health rate has climbed back to
normal.— Allied Commissioner in Rome Col
Charles Poletti {U.S.A.), in the “American.”
* * * *
Doubts of Chiang Kai-shek’s wholehearted-
ness in fighting Japan should be discounted in
light of the record of China’s long fight which
he has led. Chiang could make peace with
Japan at any time and on favorable terms.
Japs would like to disengage armies now busy
in China, use all their strength against us. But
persons who have talked intimately with the
Generalissimo say he will never accept a Jap
armistice, because he knows that though Japs
agree to get out of China they can’t be trusted
to stay out. China’s only hope to become
the future Power of the Orient lies in crushing
the Japs now, while China has strong Allies. —
Scfipps-Haward Washington staff.
* * * *
Of India’s 390,000,000, approximately
255,000,000 are Hindus and 94,000,000 are
Moslems. There are twice as many Moslems
as there are Britons in the British Isles. To
speak of them as a mere “minority,’.’ therefore,
begs the question. They refuse to be gov-
erned by a “majority” of Hindus. And
although they are just as ardently for indepen-
dence as the Hindus, they prefer British rule
to Hindu rule. They declare they will fight
rather than submit to Hindu domination. The
Moslems want nationhood. They call it Paki-
stan, meaning “the land of the clean or pure.”
Orthodox Hindus regard other peoples as
inferior. Christians and Moslems are known to
them as Melachyyas, which mean “unclean,
impure, dirty.” But as Moslems, like Christ-
ians, preach that cleanliness is next to godli-
ness, they resent the Hindu attitude. The term
“Pakistan” reflects this feeling.— William Philip
Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
U.S. will insist upon either: (1) return to
this country, or (2) a definite purchase of all
unused lend-lease material in hands of other
countries at the war end, if one State Depart-
ment group has its way. U.S. keeps title to
this material and can have a voice in its dis-
position.—“United States News.’''
* * * *
“The Soviet hate the German invaders
not because they are people of a foreign nation,
but because they have brought our people and
all freedom-loving peoples misery and suffering.
It is an old saying of our people;‘The wolf is
not bad because he is grey but because he ate
the sheep.’ ” — Stalin.
* * * w
Many Argentine nationals believe that there
will be a very considerable reaction against the
United States throughout South America as
soon as the war is over. Their argument is
that if this should come to pass Argentine
would find herself in an excellent moral posi-
tion to regain her lost leadership of Latin
America, provided she succeeds in establishing
herself in the minds of South American nations
as the only country that had enough strength
and determination to stand up against the
United States to the very last. — Buenos Aires
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Another and extremely serious case of Ger-
man looting of art treasures and vandalism,
this time from Florence, has been divulged by
the Monuments Subcommission of the Allied
Control Commission. A partial list has been
made of known treasures that had been placed
in the villas around Florence for safekeeping
and are now missing. The Germans told the
Italians they were taking them “to save them
;rom the American barbarians.” — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It is true that Great Britain has a 2,000,000-
man Indian Army composed of volunteers, to
make up the world’s biggest volunteer army, as
Mr. Churchill reports, but some informed U.S.
officials say that a large proportion of the
men joined up to get something to eat and
are not well-equipped, highly trained soldiers.
—“United States News.”


wm
JJUDIO
£)U l n
a i
V/oiLfS.. HM
I N—
•wa*| u.B.
o
\JOtLI
o
"V
luce-AGE- OYfF
Mi
•roiuj-
C*!
oi
JMol/Vt* —■
hJ
-.Cahagi-
LiM
latF
fa
an
PR'
Lobby
o
pi3£
jFrftV. : !ii j=^i
3fD
PLAY t”
LDY
MIL
J 7 A
j
-< •LOUNGL*
MKtL H
PJMING
0
/ L
•V
r HAN
DAH
Etc. ACE
T
K
•li Cu5K 1H &OWE Architect
\„A',
<Sl* ■ i
Family’ Home
. . . Australian Style
»
y
Pt^O^iTTT'^r
w
0 O'
A
wyi
ur,-;
h>
The post-war 'family’ home . . . will it be
larger? . . . will it be designed so that
additions can be made . . . how will it be
different?
We asked a leading architect about it.
And here’s the result.
A home with new roominess... a roomi-
ness designed for the family’s health . . .
and the family’s comfort.
New constructional methods mean that
both architect and engineer will contribute
to better housing after the war.
We believe the use of Structural Steel
Tubing for the framework of buildings
will provide stronger, more durable homes.
The exclusive nailing device enables all
forms of standard external and internal
finishes to be nailed to a tubular frame-
work.
But today, and until Victory is won, our
resources are devoted entirely to the
making of munitions and of piping for
essential purposes.
The plan depicted above is used only to
illustrate the possibilities of Structural
Steel Tubing in post-war homes. We
regret it is not possible to answer personal
enquiries in the accurate detail necessary
to individual home building problems.
Stewarts and Liayds
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd .
SYDNEY NEWCASTLE
MELBOURNE PERTH BRISBANE


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK STATION _^ENTS.
SYDNEY OPPTPP • a BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW' SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Pat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r
G£.
J BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of anv other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DON'T WORRY. I'M SEMDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DUST IS DEATH.
Since the middle of October this year
south-eastern Australia, which contains
more than half the population of the
entire continent, has been forced by
drought and duststorm to realise the
grave national disaster the country is
facing in the loss of its soil. Although
apparently only just discovered by the
cities, it has been going on for 50 years,
i has assumed alarming proportions in the
last 20 years and has reached a climax
in the present drought.
The mechanics of soil loss are simple,
Nature, by slow and sure processes, takes
from a million to 50 million years to
This land was cleared in 1925. The amount of soil lost since then, as shown
by the exposed tree roots, is about 4ft. deep.
create the topsoil which grows the grasses,
cereals, vegetables and fruits to sustain
animal’ and human life. Under natural
conditions that topsoil is protected by
trees, bushes and the roots of the grasses,
and its health is kept up by the constant
addition of decaying matter. This pro-
cess makes the soil a living organ-
ism, capable of producing life. Then
man gets to work. He clears away the
trees, crops and grazes the land heavily,
sends the products to the cities or to
other countries, and fails to restore what
he has taken away. In simpler terms,
he ravishes the earth. Then comes the
inevitable dry season, the loosened top-
soil rises and blows away, the first heavy
downpour washes away what the wind
has left. In ten years or less man can
destroy in this fashion what Nature has
taken a million years to create. Man s
process makes the land a dead and barren
S^le o£ oSSiZt°lt a lan
ing life
That destructive process, begun in Aus-
tralia with the first big agricultural ex-
pansion, has been hastened in recent years
by the advent of mechanical power to
farming. The tractor brought the era of
big acreages, huge wheat harvests were
reaped. We repeated what was happen-
ing in the U.S.A. and in Canada, and
now wind and water are repeating here
the results suffered in the U.S.A. and
Canada.
But soil destruction isn’t confined to
wheat country, nor to North America
a nd Australia. All over the world top-
soil is being lost wherever man is allowed
to work his own selfish ends. But in the
older countries, where centuries of farm-
ing have taught men that the soil must
be protected and fed, the loss is small
and is within measurable reach of bein£
stopped altogether. In the newer coun-
tries U.S.A., Canada, Australia the
loss is going on and multiplying, and in
Australia worst of all. North American
countries are awake to soil loss, and are
sparing no effort to stop it.
On this page are pictures of sand drift
in the Victorian Malice, less than 20
years ago ago proudly called “the granary
of Victoria.” They were selected from
dozens taken by Harold Hanslow, Corn-
missioner of the Victorian State Rivers
and Water Supply, who is fighting despe-
ately to keep the water channels through
the Mallee from being lost under seas
of sand. Similar pictures since the
present drought and duststorms can be
seen j n t he N.S.W. Riverina, regarded as
one 0 £ t be best parts of Australia. And
beyond the coastal ranges, right across
vas t cont j nentj topsoil is being
kj own awa y. In coastal districts water
cu down hUlsid silting ap cree ks
d rivers and spreading dead sand over
ferflle flats * , - ■
Until now efforts to beat erosion in
Australia have been confined to propa-
ganda and teaching directed at the
farmer. Agricultural experts and the few
writers on the subject have striven to
make the farmer protect his land , when
drought and erosion have received men-
tion in the city press it has been more
calculated to remind the reader, indirectly
but surely, of the benefits the city-
dweller enjoys. Except for isolated voices,
nobody has tried .to make the city reader
understand that he is the one that will
suffer. All those thousands of tons of
topsoil blowing over the cities into the
sea mean so many thousands of bales
of wool, bushels of wheat, cases of fruit
and tons of vegetables less for city people
A block of the original noil stands as a monument to man's rape of the earth.
to buy and so many millions more of tax-
money to be paid to ruined farmers. In
the end they will mean many thou-
sands more of country people coming
into the Cities to live.
There is no exaggeration in saying that,
unless this thing is taken in hand within
a few generations human life in Aus-
traha will have dwindled to a few coastal
settlements, grimly hanging on in the
face of the encroaching desert, as the
scorched, fly - blown, poverty - stricken
settlements of North Africa struggle lot
life between the Sahara and the sea.
Of what use, in the face of this,
are grandiose post-war reconstruction
schemes?
There is, as a result of the drought,
an awakened national interest in the soil,
Erosion has become news to the press,
matter for debate in the Parliaments, topic
for discussion in the streets. But how
long will this interest survive the first big,
widespread rainstorm? How long do
bushfire topics last after the fires are out?
And erosion, unlike a bushfire, is a
continuing disaster. It goes on, night and
day, without pause, all the time. After
a fire the greenstuff grows again * after
erosion there is only death. The smell
A sandhill, useless to man or beast, 15chs. long by 2chs. wide, on once good land.
of death has been in the noses of Aus-
tralians this month, though they called
it dust.
How can the soil be saved? How can
we hold what is left of that precious
eight to ten inches of top crust and add
to it? Only by tackling it as the United
States was forced to tackle it, by a huge
national conservation scheme to cover
soil, water and forests. It will cost mil-
lions, employ thousands and take a long
time. If it began tomorrow no living
Australian would see the end of it. The
preliminary national surveys in them-
selves would be a big job. The initial
stages of reafforestation, water conser-
vation, changes of land tenure, stocking,
cropping and management would keep
an enormous staff busy for years. But
it will either be done or the nation will
die, for no nation can survive without
soil, and Australia is losing its soil at
a frightening rate.
Education Needed,
“Julia Creek”: The various organisa-
tions that warn us of the national danger
of soil erosion err by overstressing inci-
dences and results of erosion when the
damage has been done. To reclaim ba y
The main thing
educat ' people to avoid erosion,
H are some points in detecting
ks early stages in pastora i
countr y— no t e d in north-west Queens-
j and . The f a ui ng away of the percentage
0 £ f ats j n a mo b of sheep. There are
always some bad doers in any mob ; but
jf ordy a bout 40 or 50 p.c. are topped
up an d the balance dulled off something
is wrong. Watch for a good grass year
that you cannot prime sheep up in. These
conditions are brought about by over-
stocking, and overstocking is the prin-
ciple cause of erosion on grazing land,
Watch wool prices and how your sheep
are cutting. A falling wool price is a
danger signal, and it can be very sudden,
I have seen scoured wool drop as much
as 6d. a pound in 12 months,
Another line of evidence is the way
your country responds to rain. After the
usual dry period it requires at least two
inches of rain on black soil to bring a
decent shoot in the grass. If your country
is making a good response after a light
fall of 50 to 60 points it indicates that
the soil has been trampled away from
the tufts of grass, allowing the light
shower of rain to reach the roots. After
a short period what at first appeared to
be a good shoot of grass has dried off,
as the sun can also reach the grass roots
near the surface and dry them out. In


EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty_ Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
° was^e matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflneas under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
°my 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
w mch contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
dela y ■ Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BA °K A CHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people,
rhey giro quick relief and will help to flush out the
kidne 7 tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
HUMS
Circular Charts im all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. O LD.
OF ALL AUSTRALIAN MOTOR VEHICLES
FROM 1926 TO 1944
r
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyruanV
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
Every working day in the last IB years, an
average of nearly 60 cars, trucks and utilities
were built in General Motors Australian fac-
tories, the Company’s total vehicles registered
in that period being 323,457. These figures
reflect the consistently good value built into
the Company’s cars, trucks and utilities, as
well as the wealth of manufacturing experi-
ence acquired in the process. . , experience
which has been valuable to Australia at
war, and which will prove equally valuable
in peacetime reconstruction.
but Victory is our business
AT PRESENT
During the war years, G.M.H. facilities have been de-
voted to the production of essential materials , including
aero-engines, aeroplane parts, guns, boats, pontoons, trans-
port vehicles, and torpedo components. Until Victory
the Company’s facilities will continue to be available
for production in aid of the Nation’s war effort.
GENERAL ROTORS-HOLREfS LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
* Keep buying War Savings Certificates and
2 /• National Savings Stamps.
BEDFORD ■ BUICX • CHEVROLET -CMC • OLBSMOBILE . PONTIAC . VAUXHALL
C 794-22
LYSASHTS
,4. -i:
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
iwrlmw.w.
“-* ■ ». •• \ 4|- - i '■• * .
■..»■ . rtfHßSfaz. :
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable*from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
a long dry spell the sun can kill the tufts
of grass if the roots are badly exposed.
Community Forests.
Jocelyn Henderson; Most landowners
for their own sakes are going in for pas-
ture improvement or intend to do so as
S oon as materials and labor are available,
so that the fertility of pastoral and agri-
cultural land should be improved, but no
one worries much about the local creek.
which used to flow so continuously, and
the local timber which is v practically cut
out
If any community decided to get that
creek running again and to reserve land
for growing timber for local needs—em-
ployment, production, decentralisation,
erosion control and shelter—it would
make a notable contribution to national
as well as local welfare.
Experiments in the U.S.A. to discover
what climatic effects a forest has locally
showed that it breaks the force of the
wind, evaporation is lessened, there is
more moisture left in the soil for plant
use, erosion is prevented and the air does
not carry driving grit and dust. It was
proved that in the winter 30 p.c. less
Not the Sahara Desert. Sand drifting a few miles south of Mildura (Vic.).
fuel was needed for heating to 70deg. F.
houses that were sheltered from wind,
and that stock in sheltered paddocks did
almost as well as if housed. In summer
the heat is less because the ground, from
which so much heat is radiated if bare,
is covered by the trees.
It has not yet been proved that trees
attract rain, but rain falling in a forested
area is made better use of than that
which falls in the open, where evapora-
ti°n is greater and run-off frequently bad.
Hail is much less frequent in forested
areas, particularly where pines are grown,
Records kept for 20 years proved that
orcharding districts which grew much
pine forest were practically safe from it.
The air in a forest is moist and cool,
and currents of air circulating over near-
by land caused heavy dews, helped to
prevent heavy frost and generally im-
proved growing conditions. In fact, the
climate is milder and moister and better
dor man, plant and beast,
When one considers how much more
pleasant and prosperous a reasonably
forested area is to live in it is amazing
that our people have been content to live,
as so many of them do, in unsheltered,
glary, windswept areas,.when they know
timber belts will do so much to make life
more prosperous and pleasant.
— 1
. , . _
Hmts for “e Farm.
“Farmer Bill”: If the horse goes off
his midday feed and eats greedily at night,
take a look at his nosebag. Moisture and
saliva may have soured food remnants
left in it.' Turning the bag inside out and
exposing it to the sunlight each day keeps
it fresh. Provide a spare for use while
the other gets a weekly wash in hot suds.
“Hav”: To prepare surfaces for paint-
ing, use pumice stone or steel wool to
smooth olf knots and veins that exude
gum and coat over with shellac. Wash
greasy or dirty surfaces, smoked ceilings
or walls, with hot water and soda. Dry
well; moisture destroys paint. Apply
the priming coat and stop up holes with
putty. The job is then ready for the first
coat of paint.
“L.C.”: There’s an alkali in new
cement that keeps ordinary housepaint
sticky and won’t let it dry. On untreated
cement use cold water paint, lime wash
or a proprietary line put up for this pur-
pose for the first two years. To prepare
for ordinary paint apply two coats of sul-
phate of zinc, brush off crystals when dry
and paint in the ordinary way. Best
priming coat for weathered cement is a
mixture of one part red lead, with two
parts of titanium zinc paste.
“Bennie”: To tan rabbit-skins take
two quarts of bran and pour over it six
quarts of boiling water. After a few
minutes strain it. In an equal quantity of
water put as much salt as will dissolve,
then mix bran and salt-water together.
To each gallon of the mixture, which
must be lukewarm, add an ounce of sul-
phuric acid. Immerse the skins, and give
a stir occasionally until tanned. Rinse in
several clean, cool waters, then put in a
shady spot to dry. Should the skins be
dry before tanning is applied, soak in
water until all flesh and grease is removed
from them.
“P.R.A.N.”; The addition of 31b. of
sulphate of ammonia, 11b. of finely-
ground limestone and 31b. of superphos-
phate per 1001 b. of vegetable matter
favors the increase of bacteria in the
compost heap. Sprinkle the mixture on
the lawn clippings, weeds, etc., as they are
added to the heap ; water the heap each
week when there is no rain. Treated thus
the material will rot four times as quickly.
“C.H.”: When assessing the amount of
water to be used in a cement mix, deduct
the amount in the sand or gravel from
the total amount of water to be added,
Damp, moderately wet or wet sand con-
tains respectively igal., |gal. and igal.
of water per cubic foot. Amount of
water in damp, coarse sand is negligible;
when it’s wet, allow igal. of water per
cubic foot.


THE ROAD TO YESTERDAY
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
ENGINEERS have built a new roac
up the Plenty Ranges to Westgat
—or Tommy’s Hut, as we use
to call it.
The new road is a modern mountai
highway, a black stream of bitumen tha
loops and sidles along the flank of th
range, with pointed bends in the shadowe
gullies, and scenic sweeps around th
sunny shoulders of the spurs. There ar
white posts marking the outer edges ol
the curves, and smooth, purposeful em
bankments. The bush is tall and dense.
The old road was different —unsur
faced earth, a pioneer track, broadenec
and graded within the limited resource
of a rural shire. Its course had been de
termined by that axiom of simple bush
manship “To get through the ranges slid
to the tops of the ridges.”
The roadside timber was different from
that which shades the new road. Th
thin soil of the ridges ran to no opulenc
of leafage, only to grey messmate trees
with bare gravel and rocky outcrops be
tween, and a few tufts of grey wiregrass
Here was no birdsong, no undergrowth
no ground life. It was a lean, spare bush
life clung to these bony heights only by
drawing in on itself; you imagined tha
the putting forth of a new leaf would be
a matter affecting deep issues, and notable
in an uneventful calendar,
“The old road up the range shoulc
begin about half a mile further on,” 1
said almost anxiously as we came unde
the foothills, and “Yes, there it is,” as
it came into sight.
John must have caught the note in my
voice. “We’ll have a look-see,” he said
and shortly after turned on to the gravel
A hundred yards further on he slippec
into second gear, and we purred steadily
up the spur where the mountain settlers
horses had once won their way toilsomely
Near the top of the rise—by the kind-
ness of Melbourne friends I was on my
way to revisit Tommy’s Hut after many
years and much wandering—we passed the
spot where a loaded cart had once gone
hurtling backward down the right-hand
declivity.
It had happened at eleven at night
and we had been trying to get up the
range with a horse weary from the day’s
journey from the city. A chock thrown
under the wheel must have been a cloc
of clay and not a rock as was intended,
for the cart ran back. “Chock! For
God’s sake, chock! ” The driver’s cry had
panic in it. There was a frantic scrap-
ing of hooves as the horse struggled to
regain control. Then horse and cart dis-
appeared into the night. Out of the dark
came the thump of something overturn-
ing, and a bang and clatter as the dis-
lodged load shot off and avalanched down
the hill. Then the groan of a horse, fol-
lowed by sounds of ineffectual plunging.
Then silence again.
It was chill dawn before we had extri-
cated the horse from under the cart, got
the cart back on to the road, collected
our scattered goods, reloaded, and —
shaken and hollow-eyed—were again on
our way. A shaft of the cart, lodging
against a stump, had stood prop against
complete disaster.
We saw now a couple of recent cart-
wheel marks on the road before us—fire-
wood cutters, most likely—then these dis-
appeared among the trees and we realised
that the old road was quite abandoned.
As well as being deeply channeled by
past rains, it was littered with fallen
timber—a lace of twigs, leaves, great
branches, an occasional whole tree —
brought down by the winds in the years
since it was last used by the settlers. The
side-tracks which had led to the settlers’
homes were abandoned, the moss deep in
the old wheel-ruts.
As we passed the old side-tracks I
named them from memory; “Glenden-
ning’s Turn-off,” “Cummins’s Turn-off,”
“Jamieson’s Turn-off.”
I T was White’s Turn-off I was looking
* for, and Sims’s selection, where I had
first put down roots in the earth.
Arthur Sims was from the Old Coun-
try, a Man of Kent, who had spent the
better part of a lifetime in Australia —
or the Colonies, to use the term he em-
ployed with a slight air of patronage —
bringing up a large family by dint of
heavy toil until, in his late fifties, he had
found himself with enough money to
make a small start for himself on the
land; a dream that had stalked his
thoughts for years, growing more insis-
tent as the time before him shortened.
I was the boy about the place, wide-eyed
and with a mind as receptive as the soil.
The family, in addition to Mr. and
Mrs. Sims, comprised two daughters and
three sons. There was Jessie, aged about
fourteen, in her last year at school,
strong-limbed, blue-eyed and as blonde
as new rope; imbued with something
more than a tomboy interest in every
aspect of the outdoor life of the selec-
tion. We were friends, and even acknow-
ledged sweethearts after the day when we
exchanged, in the twilight of the barn,
the startling kiss of adolescence.
Annie, aged sixteen, a buxom girl with
smooth honey-colored hair parted in a
white line up the centre of her head, was
one to whom the four walls of a dwelling
were in the nature of a cocoon. She was
the protectress and student-observer of
our attachment.
The sons —Ernie, who was before my
time, Harry, who came after my arrival,
and whose going overlapped Charlie’s
arrival and preceded my own departure—
were a special feature of the place. They
came in their turn from their wanderings
far and wide to toil awhile shoulder to
shoulder with the old man. Here was a
home-life and Mum and Dad. Here
was sonly duty. Here was the fashion-
ing of a hearth, a man working for him-
self and not for a boss. Here was effort
with which they could identify themselves,
until the calls that young men answer
drew them off.
Harry, the one I came to know best,
was twenty-four, sober to the point of
dourness, hard-working and witfr a pride
in past feats of labor on the ballast trucks
of railway construction camps.
Mrs. Sims I remembered only as a
smallish dark figure ever hurrying about
some household task, someone whose
kindness I took as much for granted as I
had taken my own mother’s.
Mr. Sims was a man of medium
physique and courageous countenance.
Under a bald head fringed with greying
curls he had fine blue-grey eyes in a
bronzed face, a straight nose and a good
mouth showing between moustache and
grizzled beard. Hard work had affected
him. His gait was stiff-kneed and he
walked with drooping shoulders and
dangling hands.
He had a habit—perhaps it was the
Kentish accent —of drawling and distort-
ing certain % vowels. In his mouth “yes”
became “yuurce,” and “year” “yuur.” He
had a melodious voice and in his lighter
moments would pause in his work to troll
a line of song, most often “I’ll Be a
Jolly Pedlar and Around the World I’ll
Roam.”
In bed he wore a nightcap. I saw him
in it once when, after going to bed, he
returned to the living-room for something
he had forgotten. I had never seen a
nightcap, and, in combination with
whiskers and night-clothes, the sight
overwhelmed me. I think my astonished
stare embarrassed him a little, an embar-
rassment he sought to turn to humorous
account with a large wink before darting
from view.
He was not one to take part in evening
activities. After tea he would scratch
his beard a little while washing-up was
in progress, then remove his boots and,
carrying them, depart stocking-foot to his
room at the opposite end of the small
dwelling. Sometimes he would take with
him a large seedsman’s catalogue, the
only book I ever saw in his hands, to read
for a few minutes in bed before putting
out the light. On these occasions—much
to the annoyance of us young ones—he
would interrupt the elementary card
game or snakes-and-ladders which fol-
lowed washing-up by communicating the
results of his study in a voice that car-
ried clearly through the hessian partitions.
“Jessie! Annie! Are you thuure?”
“Yes, Dad.”
“I think I’ll plant ’talers between the
Jonathans, where we had the beans last
yuur.”
Silence from the players absorbed with
their game.
“Jessie! Annie! Do you huur me?”
“Yes, Dad.”
Another silence.
“Jessie! Annie! Are you thuure?”
A resigned voice “Yes, Dad.”
“It says here Giant Maincrop is the
thing for cool climates and heavy soils,
but I don’t care for ’em. I think I’ll
plant Early Miracle, same as I did yuur
afore last.”
Silence, accompanied by glances of
exasperation between the players.
“Jessie! Annie! Do you huur me?”
“Ye-e-e-s! Of course we can hear
you!” And mumblingly, “Worse luck!”
Mr. Sims had little time even for read-
ing his seedsman’s catalogue. In his
reckoning when it was too dark for work
it was time for sleep. In this he was
something of a household tyrant. Soon
after we heard the seedsman’s catalogue
flop on the floor we would hear his voice
inquiring whether we were ever going to
bed, and expressing surprise that we still
had the lamp burning. These words, ad-
dressed ostensibly to the younger mem-
bers of his household, were perhaps also
by way of tactful intimation to his spouse
—Lucy—that it was time she laid aside
her darning and joined him in sleep,
He would wear us down in the end,
and we would break up reluctantly, the
B ir^s to tlie^r room adjoining the living-
r°om andl i°, u my u bun ~m a *V e r °° m
at tbe er l d ° f . the ther t „
panioned before falling asleep by the
munching of the horse in his stable at the
other end of the building, the occasional
ratde °f tbe watcbdo 8 s chain, the spooky
d Q f a nropoke or the complaining
r“V \
y
K 4R. SIMS had selected a hundred acres
*vl on the edge of the big timber coun-
try ; heavily forested land, some of the
trees as thick through at the butt as the
length of a couple of axe-handles.
My arrival was in the fourth year
when, a little at a time, ten acres had been
cleared, ploughed and planted with fruit
trees, and a house and barn built. But
clearing was still going on at the edge of
the bush in the intervals between caring
for the young orchard, so I came to
know what it meant to uproot the living
forest with the aid of a few small tools,
and make it vanish back to the elements.
It took upwards of half a week of
sweat and hard breathing with mattock,
shovel and axe to grub and fell one of
those trees. It went over like grandeur
undone, crashed to earth with terrible and
dusty impact, and lay dramatically inert,
The severed roots of the stump were
cocked U P as hi 8 h as a man’s head ; you
could have buried a dray in the hola
you had dug; and two men could see
each other only from the midriff up across
its prone trunk. The trunk had to be
sawn through in several places, the
branches lopped and cut into manageable
lengths, the stump end rolled clear of
the hole, and the logs swung round and
piled for burning-main strength and the
craft of pole and lifting-jack pitted against
earth’s tenacious clutch of her own.
The fires had to be stoked for weeks
on end, as well as being shaken down —
spark fountains leaping in the dark—each
night before you went to bed. Every
chip from the axe, stick and fragment of
wood, had to be stooped for and fed in
armfuls to the fires. While the burning
went on—and that was just one tree—
the buttress roots remaining in the ground
had to be traced and uncovered to below
plough de P th ’ and cut through in several
places, and torn from their moorings in
the subsoil, and lifted and cast on the
fires, and the heavy clay returned, shovel-
ful by shovelful, to the holes from which
StUmp and root had come - From al) this
you got some idea of how much had
been done since the day Mr. Sims and
Ernie had pitched their tent in the forest
and made a start.
When he paused for a breather or a
strengthening snack it was Mr. Sims’s
habit to sit facing the young orchard,
fondling his beard and heartening him ‘
self in present labor with the thought of
labor done. At such moments he was
prone live P ast struggles over 80 fully
as to forget that another son now toiled
beside him.
“Ernie, d’you mind that whopping big
gum that stood right where the end of
that row of Ribstone Pippins is now?”
he would say, turning round. “Oh, it’s
you, Harry! Well, Ernie looked up at
that tree and he said to me ‘Dad,’ he
said> Ve won . t get the best of this i^ side
a twelvemonth!’ Man, he was a big
’ un! » Here Mr. Sims paused to dwell in
thought on the size of the branching giant
that had been vanquished, and to give us
time to imagine its proportions. “But we
got rid of him!” he added in triumphant
recollection. “By frawst, we did!’’
In addition to the living trees there
w ? ere the stumps of the dead to be dug
and wrenched piecemeal from the earth
and piled for burning, and the striving
horde of saplings to be worried loose with
mattock and axe one by one and gathered
up to the fires, and the ground raked
clean of everything that might foul the
tillage. It was Mr, Sims’s pride that
there should be no by-passed stumps in
the cultivation, no forest litter to sour the
soil, no hidden root to snub the flow
of the plough.
When at last the acre marked was
cleared it looked strangely tidy, like a
schoolyard on a Saturday morning, only
that it was criss-crossed with red and
white bars where the log fires had been.
There were only light cultivation tools
on the selection, so a man had to be
brought from a distant place with a heavy
plough and three big horses to break up
the ground; and the cold, heavy earth
gave to his mould-board with unwilling
groans and the explosive snapping of
small roots, and the yellow-grey furrows
lay over against each other as hard and
unyielding as paving slabs. It was left
to lie like that, to weather, while we
shifted the fence to include the new cul-
tivation. Then the sods were ready to
break down and must be ploughed and
harrowed and rolled and ploughed and
harrowed again and made up into banked
lands before the little fruit trees were set
out in their sedate rows.
MR. SIMS aspired to recreate on his
selection the Kentish garden of his
youthful recollections, and his orchard
was a picture of careful tillage. Just as
the company of well-bred people gives
you the feeling “Here is gentleness” or a
library the feeling “Here is learning,” so
when you came to Mr. Sims’s place you
had the feeling “Here is husbandry.” I
felt it myself when first I entered the
gate, though I had no word for it.
The tall young apple-trees to the right
as you went down the lane leading to the
house were as straight in their latticed
rows as if they had been set out by some
exact machine ; and there were no ragged
headlands or weedy corners; ground that
couldn’t be reached with the plough was
turned by the spade, right up to the fence
posts.
Between the apple-trees, in their rows,
gooseberry bushes were growing, two at
equal distances between each tree, and
between the rows of apple-trees thefe
were rows of vegetables.
On the left-hand side there were two
acres of raspberry plants, the canes sup-
ported, not as was the local custom, by
stakes driven through the crown of the
plants, but by being trained on wire fenc-
ing stretched taut along the rows. The
fork-dug ground was free from so much
as a single leaf of weed or sorrel. The
lane itself was fenced from the cultiva-
tion, and the strip on each side of the cart
track sown with grass—a bit of Saturday-
afternoon grazing for the horse.
The house comprised three rooms in
a row, light and cheap in construction,
but comfortable. The barn, built of slabs,
was model, the subject of approving com-
ment from all callers.
To the right, below the barn, was the
second-year planting t?f young trees,
standing in a catch-crop of red clover;
and to the left, below the lane that led
across the bottom of the raspberry patch
to the bush paddock, was the third-year
planting of fruit trees —pronged sticks,
merely—standing in a catch-crop of rye,
just greening the ground.
Mr. Sims lived in two worlds, that of
his present labor and that of his early
recollections, and they wove in and out
of his thoughts as he worked, each the
inspiration of the other. He would pause
sometimes in the midst of work —when
a breathing spell was reasonably indi-
cated—to speak of the past; or would
be very easily stimulated by question or
comment to point the difference between
Old Country and local methods, even to
his own disparagement.
I commented once on the straightness
of a furrow he had just turned in, start-
ing the winter ploughing-out in the four-
year-old orchard.
“Straight!” said he. “Oh, no, boy!
That’s as crooked as a dog’s hind leg! ”
He paused to give time for this correc-
tion to sink in, looking at me the while
with eyes that dared me to point out that
his furrow really was straight except for
a very small wobble halfway along. Then
followed an explanation of how plough-
ing was done in Kent, and not, mind you,
just in a two-acre patch, but a furrow
drawn the length of one side of a twenty-
acre field. The ploughman would be ex-
pected to cut his furrow as straight as a
stretched string and with the turned earth
lying over as smooth as if it had been
trowelled, from end to end! He was no
ploughman if he couldn’t!
It was the same with almost everything
about the place which X found reason to
admire. It might be good enough in its
way—and he was grateful in so far as
he might accept my words as a compli-
ment to a man who was doing his best
under adverse conditions —but it was
always about three jumps behind Kant.
“Yuurce! Yuurce!” he would say
after telling me about the thatching, the
stabling, the hop-picking or the milking
byres of Kent, and stare into the dis-
tance a while from his blue-grey eyes
before turning back to his task.
I CAME to regard Kent as a sort of
A fabled country, something to look back
on much as the people of the Dark Ages
{Continued on page 22.)


CHRISTMAS ODYSSEY.


must have looked back on the fabled lays
of Roman order, so that I was a little sur-
prised and disconcerted to note that Harry
was not always at one with his father in
reverential regard for Kentish ways.
I noticed it first when the winter piun-
ing of the four-year-old apple-trees was
under way. Mr. Sims had not changed
his ideas of pruning during his years
abroad, while Harry had absorbed some
of the ideas of his own country. In most
things about the farm he honored his
father’s superior knowledge, but in the
matter of pruning he felt that Mr. Sims
had something new to learn, and that he
must make a stand. They argued the
matter while they worked, and the sound
of their dispute came down from among
the twiggy trees. Neither woijld yield,
and, as they worked facing each other,
one side of each row of trees was pruned
in Kent, so to speak, and the other side
at Tommy’s Hut.
Notwithstanding this significant clash,
I continued to accept the fable—it was
a happy one —and my acceptance stimu-
lated Mr. Sims in his own belief in it,
even to sentimentalising it to a point
which led him into a rather shattering en-
counter with his son.
One day, following a recent talk by
him on the splendid spectacle of hunts-
men riding to hounds, and of the gener-
osity of the Kentish gentry at Yuletide,
he came to me with a very happy glint
in his eyes, the glint of one who had in-
advertently upon evidence sub-
stantiating a theme.' He was carrying a
folded sheet of paper, which it happened
I had seen before, and which I knew had
reached the homestead wrapped round
some groceries. He unfolded it and held
it before me. It was from an English
illustrated paper, and on the page facing
me were rows of photographs of rural
gentlemen in hunting garb, shooting rig-
outs and velveteen jackets.
“Now, boy!” exclaimed Mr. Sims,
beaming at me over the top of the page
like a benign but expectant schoolmaster,
and quite expecting me to recall our
earlier conversation. “Now, boy! If I
were to ask you which of these men was
a typical dee-ar old English country
gentleman which would you say?”
He had overlooked the near-by pres-
ence of Harry. Harry snorted as if his
tonsils had exploded. “Dee-ar old Eng-
lish country gentleman!” he repeated in
drawling mimicry.
Mr. Sims bent on him a look of mingled
embarrassment and reproach before
thrusting the sheet into my hands and
darting off.
It was not in the mind of Mr. Sims
alone that thoughts of the fabled land
of Kent wove in and out of the realities
of the moment. His stories set up the
same habit with me, and one day I asked
him a question which I had been pon-
dering for some time, and which drew an
enlightening answer.
“Mr. Sims, why did you leave Kent?”
My question fetched from Harry a
deep belly-chuckle which ended in a ring-
ing laugh and, although it had been asked
in all innocence, drew upon me a shrewd
look from both men. Mr. Sims seemed
to feel that I had challenged him, so,
while Harry listened, grinning, he ex-
plained.
“Well, boy, seeing that you’ve asked
me, I’ll tell you!”
And then followed an explanation in
which I learned that while Kent was a
very beautiful and wonderful place—“the
finest county in all England, I’ve heard
say”—it was a place in which everything
was owned by someone, pretty well down
to the last minnow in the brook, and the
people who owned it, and had owned
it “for hundreds and hundreds of yuurs,”
were very jealous of their rights. If the
farm steward saw me eating as much as
one raspberry unbidden by him he might
lay his whip about my legs; and if my
father took some faggots from the woods
for fifing and the steward came to know
of it he might be brought before the
“magistr’te” and be turned off the place.
The “magistr’te” would be a friend of his
master and a neighboring squire.
There slowly faded from Mr Sims’s
faces the somewhat dramatic expression
with which he had made me this explana-
tion, and he looked long into the distance
while Harry lit a pipe and looked at me
with an ironic smile about his mouth.
Mr. Sims said “Yuurce, yuurce”; and
we bent again to our digging, and to our
several trains of thought.
From then on Mr. Sims spoke to me
of Kent in the tone of one.speaking to
another who is in the know, but I think
he was anxious lest I. should think too
badly of his home country, because a
few days later, when we were hilling-up
the potatoes in the top orchard, he in-
terrupted work to tell a few yarns of the
great larks they used to get up to in the
Old Dart. When we reached the head-
land he put his hoe on his shoulder and—
to Harry’s amusementj and my vast delight
—did a few steps of a village breakdown.
[T was at about this time that I began
1 to understand something of the chances
governing Mr. Sims’s hopes of success in
his enterprise.
I came from the house one raw winter
evening to get some wood for the stove
just as he —last home from the field of
toil—was stumping up from the barn.
I heard his footsteps cease at the gate,
and glanced up. He stood there a while
looking back through the murk at the
lower cultivation, and then he spoke, half
to himself and half as if he had become
aware of a listener. “Yuurce, yuurce,” he
said, “we’ll have the living cornin’ in in
a couple more yuurs.”
Then he turned and stumped on toward
the lighted kitchen.
It was the first time I really became
aware that the living was not yet coming
in. The way he spoke, as if reassuring
himself, made me wonder whether —de-
spite that it would be impossible for him,
of his nature, to slum any kind of work
—there was not a measure of desperationV
behind the fine state of cultivation in
which his orchard was kept.
People round about were not doing
very well. The cold, clayey soil just
didn’t seem sufficiently responsive to cul-
tiyation; crops
seemed, as a
rule, uncertain,
and orchard
trees, as a rule,
seemed to run
more to wood
than to fruit. I
had come to un-
derstand, from
the tenor of Mr.
Sims’s observa-
tions, that the
indifferent suc-
cess which was
being met by his
neighbors was
due in some
part to slack
methods, and
that good
methods would
prevail over dis-
advantages of
soil and climate.
That was the
farmer’s justifi-
cation.
But then there
was the after-
noon when, re-
turning by a
short cut through
the bush from
meeting the
store keeper’s
wagon on the
road, I saw Mr.
Sims standing on
the headland be-
low the barn,
facing the crop of red clover, and I
climbed through the fence and joined him.
“That clover’s not doing very well,”
he said.
The clover looked well enough from a
distance, but when you came to look at
it closely it was very sparse, with a lot
of bare ground between the plants.
He left me and walked into the middle
of it and looked about him, and stood
for a long while in thought. I saw that
he had forgotten me and was deep in a
problem. When he came back he was
almost up to me before he looked at me
with a slight widening of the eyes which
showed he had just recalled my presence.
We stood together for a moment or
two, looking at the clover ; then he said
quietly “We’ll start to plough that in in
the morning. I’ll try something else —
swedes, probably.”
And you could tell from his tones that
in the minutes while I had watched him
standing alone in the middle of his un-
successful crop of clover one hope had
been courageously abandoned and an-
other, with equal courage, taken up in its
place.
I began to understand that in the affairs
of the selection too much depended on
too little for comfort of mind. The
failure or success of this or that small
cropping venture made a difference in
immediate living prospects. Hard work
had anxiety for its invisible team-mate.
No jollity accompanied the ploughing-in
of the clover and sowing of the swedes.
Nor was there any margin to cover
loss by disaster. There was the time
when we were driving down the range
in the wagon to the railway and Billy,
the creaky old horse-of-all-work, slipped
and fell and knocked the wind out of
himself and couldn’t get up. Mr, Sims
was the first to scramble from the wagon
and rush to kneel at his head. It seemed
for a minute as if the horse had broken
his leg and would have to be destroyed.
Mr. Sims had great difficulty in control-
ling his feelings. He made a funny noise.
He seemed for a moment to shrink in
bodily size, and the hand that rested on
Billy’s head was shaking.
When we had got Billy up and were
driving on again I sat very quiet, not say-
ing anything to Mr. Sims for fear talk
might be unwelcome at the moment. I
just sat there watching the trees move
past, rather frightened at discovering that
accident could rip away the surface of
things and show the works underneath.
It seemed to be my first glimpse of works.
It was all right on the drive home from
the railway, Mr. Sims had enjoyed the
glass of beer he always drank on his rare
visits to the township, and he had had
some pleasant conversation with people
he met in the store —as well as a day sit-
ting in the wagon instead of working him-
self to death. While we were jogging
back over the level road between the rail
and the foot of the range he talked about
things on the selection, what good growth
the young apple-trees had made since the
day they were planted, how healthy the
raspberry canes looked and about the
fowls coming on to lay very soon.
He sang a bit pf “I’ll be a Jolly Pedlar
and Around the World I’ll Roam” ; and
when we came to the place on the moun-
tain road where Billy had fallen down he
didn’t seem to
notice ; he just
slapped Billy’s
back with the
reins in a friendly
way.
"THINGS went
1 up and down
like that, and it
was not always
a matter of
whether they
were up or down
in themselves,
but to some ex-
tent a matter of
how you were
feeling in your-
self.
There was the
day Mr. Sims
came along just
when I had fin-
ished cleaning
out Billy’s stable
and stacking the
manure neatly
on the heap out-
side the stable
door. He stopped
very kindly to
give me a word
of praise for the
thorough way I
did the job;
which really
wasn’t deserved,
because to me
old Billy was all
the grand horses
in the world,
and I just en-
joyed fixing things up comfortably
for him. I was even pleased with
what he left on the stable floor for me
to clean up, and I said to Mr. Sims
“That’s a fine lot of manure we’ve got
now.”
Mr. Sims said “Boy, that’s only a
spoonful! That’ll go nowhere!” And
then followed a tale of the manuring of
Kentish fields. Now, in addition to the
manure of byre and stable, cartloads of
fish would be brought from the near-by
markets in time of glut and ploughed in ;
and after a storm at sea the wagons
would go down to the beaches and come
back loaded with seaweed to be spread
on the fields.
Mr. Sims stood looking out over his
own acres, and I saw that hope was at a
low ebb. Perhaps he was tired, and per-
haps he was thinking of the clover that
had failed. “That land ’ad been tilled
and manured for hundreds and hundreds
off yuurs,” he said. “And that’s just the
difference!” He kicked a near-by clod
and watched it burst into dust.
I wondered if Kentish fields had not
been better soil to begin with; won-
dered, in fact, if he had not selected un-
wisely.
The same thought must have been run-
ning through his own head—and possibly
was no newcomer—for he said, as if in
answer to my speculation, “Perhaps I did
wrong in coming to this part of the
country.”
He asked me then why I didn’t work
in the city and grow up to sit at a desk
and wear a coat and be a gentleman,
and I had difficulty in making my pref-
erence for cleaning out stables and split-
ting fence posts sound very sensible.
The good sense of my preferences was
linked in a certain way with his moods,
and I was reassured to notice that the
moments when he seemed to wonder if
his hopes were hollow didn’t last. He
went on working just the same, and pres-
ently the beginning of some new job
would indicate that he had forgotten his
doubts.
It was only a couple of days after our
talk that we started digging the well he
had been planning for some time. I
noticed later that the successful comple-
tion of one job seemed always to set his
mind busy with plans for the future.
When we were finishing off the well—
shovelling away the spoil from around the
top —he fell to talking of the nice pas-
tures, in place of the rough grazing of
the bush paddock, he hoped to have for
the livestock “by and by.”
THE swedes came up nicely, but a few
months later the weather dealt Mr.
Sims a heavy blow. It was the only occa-
sion on which I heard him driven by
excess of feeling to lay his troubles at
the door of a malignant fate.
The part of the range where the selec-
tion lay jutted to the south and was
sometimes swept by unseasonable hail.
One of these storms came over in early
spring, just when the raspberry blossoms
were setting to fruit.
I was bringing the two milking cows
home from the bush one afternoon when
the sky darkened, and by the time we
were in the lane leading from the bush
paddock to the barn the hMI was danc-
ing off the cows’ backs and was getting
heavier. I made a bolt for the house
with face screwed up against the stinging
pellets, and arrived at the gate just in
time to run into Annie and Jessie, who
had been across the road to visit a neigh-
bor. We raced pell-mell for the shelter
of the verandah and reached there breath-
less, laughing and shouting.
It was a wonderful hailstorm ; the iron
roof roared under it. You couldn’t see
fifty yards from the verandah. The
ground whitened with hail while you
watched.
We stood admiring the transformation,
pointing out the big fellows—like pigeons’
eggs—and exclaiming over the way the
hail danced back from the verandah
ledge. We hadn’t thought of it knocking
every blossom from the raspberry canes.
Just then we saw Mr. Sims coming
towards the house from down by the
lower cultivation. He wasn’t running.
Indifferent to the pelting hail, he was
walking more heavily than usual, and his
shoulders were more drooped. We re-
membered the raspberry canes then. Our
voices were hushed and our eyes fixed
on him.
Within a few yards of the verandah he
stopped and lifted a haggard face and a
clenched fist to the sky and shouted
“Send it down! Send it down!”
His wife gasped in the doorway. “Oh,
Arthur,” she cried. “You shouldn’t speak
like that!” And drew back into the
shadows of the kitchen.
Mr. Sims shouldered past us to the
end of the verandah and stood looking
out, his hands clutching the rail. His
face was no longer tan, but ashen. He
turned and spoke as if he felt his outburst
demanded justification.
“That’s a yuur’s work gone in less than
two minutes!” he said, and turned
grimly to watch the hail again.
We were silent. His arms, from
shoulder to the hands gripping the
verandah, were shaking. He spoke again.
“And half the next yuur’s livin’ gone
with it! ”
Soon afterwards he slumped down on
the slab wash-bench and was lost from us
in unhopeful reckoning and bleak medi-
tation.
The storm passed shortly after. The
air cleared and all the earth was white.
The trunks of the trees in the bush pad-
dock looked like charcoal marks on
paper. Then the sun shone forth, and
all the world sparkled like fairyland. But
we could take ‘no delight in it. The
farmer’s loss was heavy on us. It
seemed as if all his hope lay under a
shroud of bright ice.
YOU’D have thought a blow like that
would have sunk Mr. Sims for ever,
but he came right side up again. Per-
haps despondency was a luxury beyond
his means.
At any rate, within a few days we had
begun work —“to take advantage of the
cool weather” —on a new bit of clearing.
It was in the following weeks that I
learned what it meant to uproot and de-
stroy the forest. • It was during the later
part of those weeks, too, that I heard
Mr. Sims, as if misfortune and disaster
were unheard things, recalling with satis-
faction the epic days when he and Ernie
began in the virgin bush.
The tide was on the turn while we
grubbed and burned the trees, and there
came a Sunday morning in middle spring
when it seemed as if soil and season were
conspiring to encourage the farmer in
his best hopes,
Sunday morning on the selection was
a time when you had the world in repose
COUNTRY TOWN.
This is no longer the landscape that they knew,
the sad green enemy country of their exile,
those branded men whose songs were of rebellion.
The nights were cold, shepherding; and the
dingoes
bawling like banshees in the hills, the mist
coming over
from eastward chilled them. Beside the fire in
the hut
their pannikin of rum filled them with songs
that were their tears for Devonshire and Ireland
and chains and whips and soldiers. Or by day
a slope of grass with small sheep moving on it,
the sound of the creek talking, a glimpse of
mountains,
looked like another country and wrenched the
heart.
They are dead, the bearded men who sang of
women
in another world (sweet Alice) and another world.
This is a landscape that the town creeps over;
a landscape safe with bitumen and banks.
The hostile hills are netted in with fences
and the roads lead to houses and the pictures.
Thunderbolt was killed by Constable Walker
long ago; the bones are buried, the story printed.
And yet in the night of the sleeping town, the
voices:
This is not ours, not ours the flowering free.
What is it we have lost and left behind?
Where do the roads lead? It is not where we
expected.
The gold is mined- and safe, and where is the
profit?
The church is built, the bishop is ordained,
and this is where we live: where do we live?
And how should we rebel? The chains are
stronger.
Remember Thunderbolt, buried under the air-
raid trenches.
Remember the bearded men singing of exile.
Remember the shepherds under their strange
stars.
n.s.w.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


and, therefore, in condition for stock-
taking. You couldn’t work on Sunday,
but you could walk about at ease and see
how things were getting on. You could
look back over the work you had been
doing and plan what you were going to
do next week. You might end up raking
the fowl-yard, but that wasn’t really
work ; that was just making the fowls
comfortable and putting in a half-hour
while waiting for dinner.
My own Sunday morning was generally
taken up with a prowl down the fern
gully which led off from near the back
of the house, there to commune with the
boles of the aloof gums, with running
waters, and to disturb the peace of a
wombat whose burrow I had discovered ;
afterwards, perhaps, to return to wait
about the kitchen in hope of a kiss from
Jessie when her mother was out of the
room.
On some Sundays, however, Mr. Sims
would indicate a liking for my company
on his tour of the farm, and we would
go off something like Page and Good
King Wenceslas.
This occasion in mid-spring proved a
very hopeful morning. The pods of the
early peas had swelled nicely and would
soon be ready for picking, while there
was a good show of blossom on the later
sowing.
It was only the kitchen garden, of
course, but success here indicated some-
thing which might be done in a larger
way for market. There had been plenti-
ful rain followed by tempered warmth —
good growing weather —and wherever
you looked tomatoes, pumpkins, radishes,
were going for their lives.
In the larger world of the market crops
the swedes which had replaced the red
clover were making good headway. “If
the blight don’t get at them,” said Mr.
Sims, and stooped and turned up a few
leaves, only to find them comfortingly
clean and healthy-looking.
In the top orchard the gooseberry
bushes were thick with little goosegogs.
There weren’t many gooseberry bushes,
of course. They had just been planted
between the appe-trees as an afterthought,
and their promise didn’t compensate for
the loss of the raspberry crop ; but still,
it was cheering to see them thriving, and
the jam made from them would cut down
the grocery bill.
There were some apples, too, on the
young four-year-old trees; not a gre'at
number; the upper branches were rather
bare ; but halfway up from the fork there
was quite a showing. With careful brown
hands Mr. Sims turned back the leaves
to reveal the green fruit marked with
faint bars of pink.
He mentioned that there had been some
apples last year, a few bucketsful —all
that could be expected from three-year-
old trees. “And excellent apples, boy!”
he exclaimed, looking up at me.
I had thought apples were just apples.
“Oh, excellent apples!” he repeated,
seeing that I had failed of being properly
impressed. “I’ve never seen better in my
life!”
No mention of Kent! The omission
seemed almost deliberate. Those last-year
apples instantly loomed in my mind as
large as coconuts, and I stooped to look
at those his hands were revealing, con-
vinced that they were fruit of very notable
promise.
Mr. Sims stopped at the top of the
orchard and looked back at the trees.
“Yuurce,” he said, in confident and happy
anticipation, “We’ll have some cases of
apples to sell this yuur! ”
The raspberry plantation didn’t in-
terest us much that morning. We viewed
it briefly from over the fence which sepa-
rated it from the lane. Mr. Sims remarked
“We might have better luck next yuur,”
but there was some doubt in his voice,
and some distaste in the glance he bent
on the flourishing but fruitless canes.
Hope had received a cruel blow, and it
was clear from the way he spoke that the
future of the raspberries rested with
themselves.
The rye, below the raspberries, was
more inviting to look at —and we could
see it from where we stood—now going
on for two feet high, a fine dark green,
and dense, like a soft pile. Here waved
the true banner of hope.
THAT rye was a great source of pride
and satisfaction to Mr. Sims during
the last weeks of its growth.
It was a hay crop, for the comfort
and sustenance of the horse and cows
during the winter, when the picking would
be lean in the bush paddock and the
nights frosty. It stood for the future of
animal husbandry on the selection, and
was of a piece with the projected pasture
paddocks.
When we passed along the lane at noon
or evening, during the warming weather
when we were at the grubbing and burn-
ing-off, Mr. Sims would often lag behind
on the headland to enjoy the sight of his
prospering crop, dark —like wheat —and
full of a sappy fragrance. The wind blow-
ing across it made catspaws of silver-grey,
and the leaves rustled as if they were
talking together.
On a Sunday morning, when there was
a twinkle of heat in the air and the
seedheads were beginning to make their
appearance in the rye, Mr. Sims took
down his scythe from its peg on the wall
of the toolshed and wiped off the grease
which had protected the blade during the
winter. He referred back to Kent, of
course, saying that he supposed that they
had reapers and binders now, at any rate,
on the bigger farms, but in his day the
grain was cut by scythemen, working as
many as ten and twelve in line. Then he
went out in front of the barn and had
two or three practice swings to make sure
that hand and eye were still in trim.
When the clearing was finished the next
job in the developmental scheme was the
splitting of posts in the bush for the new
fencing. But the season was advancing
and the rye harvest was in close prospect.
It now loomed as the big event of the
year, and we were caught up in the feel-
ing with which the farmer watched crop
and weather. We knew that even while
he pulled on his end of the cross-cut saw
or barked logs ready for splitting his
thoughts often strayed to the cultivation.
If he was late for meals we knew where
he had been lingering.
Mr. Sims’s view of the rye was no
longer confined to the headland. He now
ventured a few feet into the green, here
and there crumbling a seedhead, parting
the flag with his hands to examine the
stalks.
“Better not ask too much for ’ er or We'll ’ave the Prices Commissioner
on our tails!”
Knowledge and good luck would both
be necessary for a successful harvest. The
right time to cut would be when the low-
est part of the stalks turned yellow-
showing that the roots had done their
work for the year —but before the grain
fully ripened, while it was yet soft and
milky, and there was still nourishment
all through the leaves and upper stalk.
Good weather would be looked for then,
so that the crop could be cut without
delay and brought to cover without dam-
age from rain.
There came the days when the rye was
in full head. We were some while into
the time of year when meals were eaten
in shirt-sleeves, and with door and win-
dows open. The world seemed working
up to burst with light and warmth.
Work moved at a steadied pace, and
we often rolled a log into the shade
before beginning on it with maul and
wedges. Every green thing in bush and
clearing was moving to a climax of
growth. Cicadas made the noon-day
loud and Billy drowsed under the trees
on three legs. Something in the air told
you that the season was at the turn ; and
then came an evening when Mr. Sims
was more than ordinarily behindhand in
appearing at table, and said as he took
his seat “Well, I’ll begin cutting the rye
in the morning.”
IT was a warm morning and dry, ideal
i harvest weather, with a mid-November
bloom on it—just before the pallor of
high summer—when everything you
looked at seemed brighter than life and
a size larger; and although work made
you sweat freely you felt larger than life
yourself.
The scytheman, stripped to grey flannel
and with a red kerchief around his neck
to ward off sunburn, trimmed a few
straggling stalks which had sprung on the
headland, then swung into the crop, and
soon the lane of shaved stubble was
lengthening behind him, while the rye
subsided in dark swathes above the shin-
ing arc of his blade.
The use of the scythe is an art and
beautiful to see. It takes skill which has
become part of nature to wield .that
python handle so that the blade neither
stabs the earth with its point nor raises
the dust with its heels, but shears close
and. even. The movements of the scythe-
man’s body are rhythmical like those of
a ritual dance. His arms and shoulders
swing wide above rigid hips, and the
movements of his feet are timed to the
sweep of the blade. In watching our
scytheman you forgot his stooped
shoulders and stiff gait; youth and grace
had returned to him. In the return swing
his blade came clean from under the
swathe, leaving the windrows smooth for
the binders who would come after him.
Twice in his first strip off the side of
the crop Mr. Sims turned to look back
over his work in careful self-criticism ;
and when he had turned the corner of
the field and was lost to us across the
green from the chest down he up-ended
his scythe to whet it.
His left forearm lay along the back
of the blade to steady it. In his right
hand the whetstone flashed back and
forth as if it had a life of its own, and
the blade sent a keen song into the morn-
ing air. After he had slipped the stone
into the holder on the back of his belt
he paused to mop his brow, and stared
briefly over the crop. Perhaps the shades
of old scythemen had come to swing
their blades with his ; at any rate, before
lie reversed the scythe he lifted his voice
in a bar or two of his favorite lay.
Annie, Jessie and I were the binders.
We began when some of the rye had dried
out a little.
Mr. Sims came back from the face of
the crop and showed us how to take a
handful of grain, divide it and, by a dex-
terous twist of the hands, knot the heads
to make a band to bind a sheaf. After a
few fumbles we caught the trick —to our
immense satisfaction —and from then on
we followed at a distance behind the
scythe, gathering and binding the rye into
sheaves and standing the sheaves by the
head in stocks of half a dozen to cure
ready for carting.
It was warm work. The sun smarted
on our bent backs. The stubble stabbed
our hands and crackled under our feet.
But it was good work, and we were care-
ful to leave our stocks in rows as straight
as could be desired.
Little by little as we followed the scythe
around the field the green square in the
centre grew less and less, until there came
a time when we stood to raise a cheer as
the last of it fell. Then Mr. Sims joined
us and we learned to our surprise just
how quickly sheaves could be made and
stocks put together.
When the stocking was finished the
field was a great pride to us all. It was
let remain for a day or two until the hay
was nicely dried; then we took the hood
off the wagon, harnessed Billy, and drew
in load after load of the sweet-smelling
stuff until the twilit cavern of the store,
between the stable and the wagon shelter,
was crammed to the rafters —and the har-
vest was home.
THE old road rewarded our hope of
it, and we came to White’s Turn-off
just past where the bitumen road glides
up out of the gullies to take over the
running on top of the range.
We turned on to the bush track. The
tree butts and saplings came close to the
sides of the car, and we were near our
journey’s end.
I didn’t expect —not after thirty-five
years—to find the scene as I had left it.
The selection was abandoned. I knew this
much from a chance encounter, a few
years previously, with a man who had
known the Sims. Mr. Sims had suc-
ceeded in making a Jiving from the selec-
tion until, in his seventies, it had proved
too much for his declining strength, and
he and his wife had gone to live with
children in the city. Here they had re-
mained until he died, and she followed
him within a few weeks. None of the sons
had thought the place worth carrying on.
In returning for a day—a blessing on
John —I was realising a hope I had nur-
tured for many years and in far places.
Neither time nor distance had dulled the
edge of happy recollection, nor robbed
the old man of stature. In my thoughts
he had come in a way to stand for all
humanity, holding to its dream while
heart and nerve endure. I wanted to
glimpse again the ground where he had
fought the good fight—just as in telling
this story I seek with words to make him
a memorial.
We reached our destination and
alighted. As we passed through the
broken gate I noticed that the area of
the clearing had increased very little since
I last saw it. The pasture paddocks had
not materialised. The demands of the
orchard as the trees grew in size—to-
gether, no doubt, with, diminishing
strength as the years passed—would ex-
plain this.
There was little to be seen ; just a clear-
ing in the bush with a thin coat of grass'
over the old plough-rumpled earth. Of
the young apple-trees I remembered on
the right there were remaining only a
couple of hoary old stumps with broken
and withered arms ; and on the left just
a green slope where the raspberries had
been. Of the dividing fence only a couple
of old grey posts were standing, and the
grass now hid the cart track.
The homestead buildings had vanished
and the site looked strange, marked with
a couple of tall, dark trees which I re-
membered only as seedlings. There was
a hard lump where the chimney had stood
and a bare patch where the barn had
been. That was all. The lips of the well
had fallen in, like an old mouth turned
to the sky.
We stood a while, our minds busy with
thoughts inevitable to such a place. I
was wondering what the dark-haired lad
m dungarees would have thought of the
baldish man in city togs revisiting his
morning scene, and what thoughts had
been in the minds of the old man and
his wife when it came time for them to
retreat. The road to yesterday had
brought us to the end of tomorrow —all
tomorrows. It seemed odd that I hadn’t
counted on that.
It was a pleasant day, brightly sunny,
blue-skied and quiet. We could hear
water trickling down the fern gully be-
hind us, and there was a whiff of wild
clematis in the air. A magpie was being
happy about something among the trees
beyond the open grass, and we saw a fox
trail his brush across the bottom corner
of the clearing.
The fence around the clearing—once
so trim and taut —was now in a state of
collapse, rotten posts leaning awry, and
wires missing or fallen slack. Saplings
were thrusting up through the ruin, and
a seedling shrub or two was growing on
the grassland. Little by little the bush
was reclaiming its own —though there
would be an open green place in the
wilderness for many a year.
On leaving the gate we encountered a
couple of local bushmen; men at the
turn of forty, they would have been
toddlers when I was a lad; and from
them I added a little to my knowledge
of events since the days I recalled. Harry
had fought through the war from Gal-
lipoli onwards. Jessie had afterwards
gone with him wheat-farming in the
Mallee, and there had married another
veteran of the campaigns. Charlie and
Annie were still in the district, along the
new road, in the red-soil potato-growing
country, further back in the hills. There
was a grandson who was an aviator. It
was too late for further visiting, but I
made a note of addresses.
We went on then a few miles and pic-
nicked under the tall gums where King
Parrot Creek comes singing from the
gorges over a bed of green and grey
stones. After lunch we enjoyed climb-
ing over creek-bed boulders and mossy
logs, spotting trout in the brown pools.
We gathered an armful of bush foliage
—harmony in low tones —and we set out
for the city again when the gullies were in
shadow and the hilltops golden. We
travelled by the new road, sliding swiftly
and smoothly around its sleek curves.


m
.
a
o
s.
Sous-marin de la France
libre en diiSiculte •
It was early morning on the
22nd August, 1941,
The British Coastal Com-
mand had picked up the
radio message. The Free
French submarine " Rubis ”
was in grave difficulty off the
coast of Norway.
Away raced three Blen-
heims to the rescue. The
"Rubis” was located quickly.
A constant patrol was
maintained until nightfall.
She was picked up again next
morning.
But now the submarine’s
engines had stopped. Radio-
ing back to base, the protect-
ing aircraft brought a Sunder-
land and two Catalinas to
pick up the crew, as the pres-
ence* of an enemy mine-field
prevented surface vessels
reaching the "Rubis”.
The rescue, however, prov-
ed unnecessary. The “Rubis”
succeeded in starting her sur-
face engine and moved slowly
off to her base. She reached
port escorted by British Naval
units, protection from the air
being maintained by aircraft
of the British Coastal Com-
mand.
Another incident of this
war showing how radio makes
possible co-operation amongst
the services.
♦ * *
Australian industry has shown
the world we can produce equip-
ment for our armed forces ..
planes, ships, guns and radio.
As victory succeeds victory, let
us not forget the part played by
Australian Industry in helping to
win this war. And let us realise
that whilst all such equipment is
produced in Australia, we need
never fear being cut off from our
sources of supply. Amalgamated
Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
.T
W4m*
...Give War Savings
Certificates and Stamps!
These conveniently purchased gifts increase in value
every year. They will provide a fund from which
their recipient will be able to buy any of the fine
things the post-war world will bring. In the mean-
time they conserve manpower and materials for
Australia’s war effort. They bring victory closer.
I
HERE'S MOW. —Buy War Savings Certificates from any
Bank, Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office, sixpenny
War Savings Stamps with gift folder, free, from any Post
Office, and 5/- National Savings Stamps with free presen-
tation folder from any Savings Bank or Money Order Post
Office.
X-2-26
SMOKE-OH!
“A tall widow, large farm, North Queensland,
desires meet gent., interested in same.”
—“ Courier-Mail v advt.
Invitation to become a “landed” gent,
4* 4* -I*
“Beer fine for boy, 17.”— “Sun” heading.
And even more beneficial for a
grown man.
•h . 4* 4*
Keep your skin clear by looking after your
inside.” — Medical note.
Then blemishes will be on the outer.
.j. -i* -i-
-‘Darwm troopS, after hours of training, can
now read their own newspaper.”
— Woman’s paper.
But surely only few are so illiterate.
A V A A
Matrimonial Politics.
“My wife and I differ in our political ideas.
We used to have bitter arguments.”
—Divorce evidence.
Wanting to get Maria’s vote for Binks
I told her I was going to vote for Blither.
“Of course you would!” snapped
Maria. ‘Well, I’ll vote for the other man,
whatever his name is.”
“Binks,” I volunteered.
“Yes, Binks, He’s a good man. Natur-
ally you would vote for a man who
drinks and treats his wife shamefully.
Birds of a feather!”
Maria even went canvassing on her
favorite’s behalf. After Binks was elected
it came out that I had voted for him.
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
Aitchem,” said Maria bitterly. “And it
would serve you right if Mr. Blither sued
you for libel, considering the things you
said about him.”
“/ said about him!” I exclaimed.
“Yes, you told me distinctly that you
often got drunk with him and that he
was living apart from his wife—and all
. A p T ~ ~. . r»i;+v,»r-
that - And now I find that Mr Blither
* s teetota der and a model husban .
It was you
“Well, didn’t you tell me you were
going to vote for Blither?” demanded
Maria. “Wasn’t that enough.”
H. M.
juju ju JU
p. • .. i.
m P om 8
Absolute knowledge have I none.
But my aunt’s washerwoman’s sister’s son
Heard a policeman on his beat
sergeant in the street
H ' knew a who daimed , 0 know
A shearers’ cook by the name of Joe
Who has a son who has a friend
Who knows when the war is going to ena.
' J 7 $
.j. .j. ,
“If he bluffed successfully the natives might
make him their king, if he lost his nerve they
wo T uld c ! ub h,m - ' nctl sto J u
ei^er c^ ase would be crowned.
“You should now be looking forward to a
sunny season of baiting the unwary male.”
—“New Idea,
The better your lines the sooner you’ll
hook him.
.j. .j. .j. .j.
“Young lady, university vacation, assist young
family.”—' advt.
Applicants must possess all their facul-
ties.
These gold-diggers have a habit of get-
ting rapidly down to bedrock.
>]• »!• 4*
Forcible Feeding.
“To prevent a plan falling into German
hands an American corporal swallowed it.
— Cable.
It is reasonable to suppose that, mili-
tary science having advanced, plans and
maps are now made of edible material,
pleasantly flavored, or are printed on a
peppermint - bubble - gum - based paper
which when chewed up into an inchoate
mass can be pulled out into long strings
and regurgitated schoolboy fashion. But
in my army days map-chewing was no
joke,
I rdcall an occasion when I was fight-
ing with the Corps Bakery unit as bat-
man to the C.O. One day I was loung-
ing in his billet laughing over a letter his
missus had written to him when he
rushed in greatly agitated.
“Ah, there you are, Dumbelle,” he
said. “I want you for an urgent job.”
“Now,” I protested, edging the open
whisky bottle further under his bunk,
“don’t tell a man we’re on the move
again, just as we’re settled in comfort-
ably with a good sort on tap and a handy
boozer”
“No, Dumbelle. I’ve just had bad
news. The enemy has broken through.
There’s only an army corps and 30 miles
of barbed wire between him and our
unit. At any time the bakery may fall.
There are documents which on no
account must fall into his hands. It’s a
matter of life or death.”
“Well,” I said cheerfully, “if it’s my
life, you can count on me, Colonel. I’ll
volunteer to take them back to a safe
area,”
“You and the documents stay here!”
the C.O. said firmly. “But they must
disappear without trace. There is only
one way.”
“Make them into paper aeroplanes and
throw them around,” I suggested. “The
enemy would never think we’d use con-
fidential documents for that.”
“No, Dumbelle,” he said, “You’re
going to eat them!”
“Square up, Colonel,” I said respect-
fully. “You’re not a bad bloke and all
that, but, cripes, I couldn’t eat paper.
Anyway, I just had a big feed a while
ago. What about giving your own gullet
a much-needed change from the old gay
and frisky?”
For answer the C.O. produced from his
pocket a document which crackled as
he opened it. “This,” he said in de-
liberate tones, “is a blueprint of our
streamlined dough-mixer, which is still
on the secret list. If this fell into the
enemy’s hands the war might well be
lost. Masticate it thoroughly before
swallowing. If you don’t,” he added
darkly, “you’ll be court-martialled for
insubordination and mutiny in the face
of the enemy, and you’ll get a long
stretch in the boob, where you won’t
be able to drink anyone else’s whisky,
smoke his cigarettes or wear his socks!”
Sheer vindictiveness, I was convinced.
However, he had me where the hair was
short. Resignedly I held out my hand.
Apart from the taste of the paper,
which had an old cabbage-water flavor,
the corners scored my gullet like the
rifling of a gun. I had just got the last
of it down and was breathing heavily
when the C.O. produced another bulky
document. It seemed to have a texture
between papyrus and coarse sandpaper.
“This, too, must be disposed of,” he
said. “It’s a copy of this week’s returns
of stocks in hand of yeast containers and
tartaric acid made to Corps H.Q.”
My own stock of saliva wouldn’t have
gummed a stamp to an envelope. I had
to get it down dry. I was just shudder-
ing down the last mouthful when the
C.O. began taking the drawing pins out
of the 6ft. x 4ft. wall map.
“Not that, Colonel,” I sobbed.
For answer he folded it neatly and held
it out. “Start eating,” he said inexorably.
Six hours later, blown up like a
poisoned pup and full of bitterness as
well as chewed-up paper, I sat miserably
listening to the sound of “cookhouse,”
which for the first time in years held no
significance. Then the C.O. burst in and
joyfully slapped me on the back.
“Great news, Dumbelle,” he said.
“Our fellas have counter-attacked and
the enemy is falling back fast. All danger
is over. Why don’t you celebrate by
having something to eat?”
80.
Pocketed.
When on a hostile tropic isle
A communist was cast
He soothed the savages a while
By picturing the past.
He told how wage-slaves were despoiled
By callous, class-made laws,
Their leaders suffered, sweated, toiled
While fighting for the Cause.
That was their cue ; those boongs were
fey;
And though no ball vms sped.
By some instinctive magic they
Were quick to pot the Red.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Quick Work.
“Once, when I brought home a bottle of
beer, my wife seized it and threw it at my
head.”— Husband, in divorce suit.
Strange things can ensue
When a bottle of brew
Is brought home by a fellow who’s wed :
Ere a drop of this bottle
Had passed down his throttle.
The whole of it went to his head!
NAT.


Personal and Missing Friends.
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill, Vic-
toria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
by writing to TRUMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill. _
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED RALPH GIBSON late of Guernsey
Street Scone N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that MARY
GRACE GIBSON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3404 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or exceuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry King Street Sydney by 9th
February 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from FITZGERALD HALLIDAY &
CO. Solicitors Liverpool Street Scone N.S.W. —(t.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GORDON RUSSELL MOORE—TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN JOYCE MOORE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3199 of 1944 on the ground of your
desertion If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist day of February 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
N. C. LANGHAM DALE Solicitor 60 Hunter Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a ioan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4 th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
his TVo-Bum er “Therm'l”
* n **ge serves even T*
need, ft’s as e.i«M Co °kmg
need **** Voicing
Sf '~~-J£cy
IANFS.
y
BLUE
flame
■1° OI<INC appliances
Bath-time
I
m
\
r
*>
<4
Ye
ft
\
i
i:*
lt£X
A
nPHE zest of any hot bath is reduced if the water is hard. Hard
water wastes soap —you know how the soap will not lather and
scum forms on the surface. Thanks to chemical research the secret
of hard water and its cure were discovered many years ago. If soft
water makes home washing easier and more pleasant, it is a necessity
for Industry. Until the chemistry of water was fully understood
factories had either to be built in districts with suitable water, or
else suffer the disadvantages of hard water. Nowadays water can
be made suitable for use in factories wherever they are sited, and
even naturally soft water can be improved for special purposes.
In peace time you threw bath salts into your bath. The industrialist
installed a water softening plant or used chemicals to reduce the
harmful effect of hardness. Today softened water enables Industry
to save fuel, and the work of the chemist is bearing
fruit, as it so often does, in unexpected directions.
No. 17 in the "Services of an Industry” series
issued by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
c
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy Boldrewood’s Robbery Under Arms.
—3561.
Information Sought.
I have got a job in Moor Hand, but have been
unable to secure permission to leave Australia.
Have I any redress?
A person travelling from Australia to M.L.
must hold a permit issued by the Ministry ot
the Interior. Applications for these permits are
referred to the Man-power directorate. It the
Man-power does not desire an applicant to
leave Australia the Minister for the Interior
is advised and the permit refused. As there is
no right of appeal nothing can be done.
Cost per tan of building merchant ships in\
Britain, America, Canada and Sweden ?
Gt. Britain—10,500-ton Empire ship (10-11
knots), £21; 10,000-ton cargo liner (15 knots),
£35. U.S.A. —10,500-ton Liberty ship (11 knot's),
£45; 10,500-ton Victory ship (15 knots), £62.
Canada—10,350-ton Fort ship (11 knots), £37.
Sweden—7000-9000-ton cargo liner (15-16 knots),
£33-£38; 7000-ton ore-carrier (13! knots), £27.
Details of the first escalator installed in Syd-
ney? When were the escalators at Milson’s
Paint put into use and removed?
An escalator of French manufacture was in-
stalled in Mark Foys, Elizabeth-street, in August,
1909. It gave considerable trouble, but ran
for a number of years. The three escalators at
Milson’s Point were put into service in August,
1924, and their use was discontinued in March,
1932, when the Harbor Bridge was opened.
Information on cultivation of asparagus in
N.S.W., and prospects of the industry?
Asparagus requires heavy applications of
farmyard manure and artificial fertiliser. Irri-
gation should also be available. Deep sandy
soils which may be irrigated are the most suit-
able; the Bathurst, Cowra and M.I.A. areas
are typical. The life of a plantation ranges
from 10 to 15 years, but crops planted in light
soils decline rapidly after eight years. A satis-
factory yield would be l!-2 tons per acre.
Price for 21b. bunches of fresh asparagus is
from Is. 6d. to 2s. Provided tariff protection
for the canning industry is continued and the
quality of the product is maintained, there are
excellent prospects for development. The
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture has a leaflet
on thq subject.
Is a will otherwise in order invalidated by
neglect to appoint an executor?
No. The beneficiary may apply for admini-
stration with the will annexed.
Is a beneficiary of a will compelled to accept
the gift?
No. He may disclaim at any time before
acceptance of its provisions, but once he has
elected to accept he cannot thereafter disclaim it.
Sydney retail price of No. 8 galvanised fence
wire in March, 1939, 1942 and 1944?
March, ’39, March, ’42, £17; March,
’44, £19 11s. 6d. per ton. The increase shown
between 1942 and 1944 was due to a rise in the
price of steel.
, How are mirrors made? Name of a Sydney
firm making mirrors?
Glass is treated with nitric acid, washed till
absolutely cleared and then silvered. Premier
Glass Co., 104 King-street, Newtown, are manu-
facturers.
Brief Answers.
W.H.R.: Item of no philatelic value ... .L.W.
and T.D.: Information posted Soldier: Send
full name and address R.A.J.: No figures
available, but Rugby Leage draws the greater
crowds A.W.T.: Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, can supply We Were the Rats at 9s. 6d.
Others out of print—.A.B.K.: No_ books
available on subject E.G.L.: Hadlington s
Poultry, obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son’s, Sydney, has a section on turkey-produc-
tion,... .C.M.R.: Sydney Public Library could
supply.... R.P.D.: A mandolin is 13-13*in.
from neck to bridge— not Fretting should
be done by an experienced craftsman.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.D.L.: Style too jaunty A.H.: Don’t like
either “the idiotic ramblings of an unstable
mind” or the anti-climax, but there’s some-
thing to it R.H.; Andy and the cat come
from nowhere and get nowhere A.G.H.:
Empty C.L.: Only a par in it J.W.W.:
Burglars called “The Wart'” hardly ever break
in 8.L.M.N.Z.: “The salary ' offered did
not draw a plethora of applicants.” A plethora
of polysyllables won’t draw any salary
D.M.: Try a woman’s paper E.M.E. and
M. Mack.: Frothy and unreal 8.5.: So old
Jim found gold again and somebody tried to
steal it. Somebody should shoot old Jim
H.S.: Too slangy... .J.E.: “Quite a worthy
apartment for that esteemed personage to
receive the dignitaries* of the business and
financial spheres of the city.” Pomposity is
not satire M.P.: The ’possum in Mr.
Brown’s garden is off our beat S.S.: “If,
then, a dog abounds in all those rare virtues
to a greater degree than most men do, should
he not be elevated to a higher plane than that
to which he is usually relegated?” Dog hereby
elevated to top of flagpole, story relegated to
bottom of the w.p.b H.M.: Puzzled by John
Bull’s score of 1073 in that “Never Get ’Em
Out” cartoon were you? Scorfield reckoned it
up from the year Alfred the Great mounted the
throne.


Gordon’s
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
V
THE PLEASURE HOUSE
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
AN pld, boarded-up, empty house
behind the Wesleyan Parsonage
would have been eminently suit-
able save for the slight disadvan-
tage that the only entrance to it was by
way of a skylight in the roof.
Simple enough for Bill and Waldo t
drop through that, and swarm back agai
up a clothes-prop lowered through th
skylight, but it seemed possible tha
feminine capriciousness might raise
objection to entrances and exits on thos
terms, not to mention the acrobatic fea
of scaling the roof via a tank-stand i
the dark.
Purdie’s old empty store down the mai
street was free of that disadvantage,
you could gain entrance to it by a cella
flap opening into the basement. But
was a dim, dank, echoing cavern in th
night, dark as the bottomless pit; anc
if you had a light, like as not it woulc
be spotted through chinks in the shutters
and bring old Danby the copper nosin
around to inquire into an illicit possessio
of the premises.
They even inspected an ancient hove
in the diggings, long deserted by othe
Chinese because old Jimmy Ah Wah had
pegged out there ; but as it had a list
starboard and its roof had caved in, pro
posals for reconstructing it were too
strenuous to be considered.
“Far as I can see, there’s nothing fo
it but that blinkin’ old shed down ou
cow paddock,” said Waldo.
In the end it came to that. The shec
was a small six-by-eight affair lobbed
up against the cowshed itself, and pos
sibly it had once harbored a custodian
of cows, as it had an old rotten bag bunk
nailed up in one corner, which collapsec
to tinder when they sat on it.
At the same time it was private
being behind the cowshed and grown
about by a little thicket of capebroom
and lantana. Pa Peddler no longer main-
tained a cow, so there was no likelihood
of intrusion on that score.
The problem of getting going with
girls by “doing the thing in style”—
chance encounters in the street having
been dismissed as too great a tax on the
impromptu inspiration of gallants aged
fifteen and a half —was nearing a solu-
tion. Certainly a good deal must still
be done to the shed to turn it into a
suitable pleasure-house for love affairs,
as it had an earth floor and had accu-
mulated much rubbish and its door hung
by one hinge.
That had to be remedied at once, so
they dug up a rusty T hinge and got it
attached, with a great deal of abortive
hammering and bending of nails. Bill
nipped an immense old hasp and pat*-
lock from the Gimbal stable and they
attached that, too, as a first essential to
the exclusion of snoopers.
When the shed was swept out and the
old bunk demolished and a handsome
provision of chaff-bags made for sitting
on, it was definitely a privacy, if not
exactly a pleasure-house. Feminine fas-
tidiousness, it was felt, might raise a
captious objection to sitting on a slightly-
dank earth floor in the dark, even if
chaff-bags were provided.
“To do the thing properly we ought to
have some real furniture,” said Bill.
“Gripes, I got a good mind to sneak some
out of our loft. They’d never notice it.”
“All right, you sneak some out of your
loft; I’ll sneak some out of our lumber
room,” said Waldo. Short, stocky, with a
pugnacious underlip, he looked at Bill
with satisfaction. Bill was his dear friend ;
and he was Bill’s dear friend ; and to each
other they were the only people of any
real importance on earth.
A CAUTIOUS inspection of the Gim-
. bal loft, to which they made entrance
via the small cobwebbed window in the
back of the stable, gave them a con-
siderable choice in decrepit washstands,
iron bedsteads and three-legged chairs ;
not to mention obsolete bath-tubs, should
they require to make a -fastidious touet
for the entertainment of ladies.
But one noble relict was still intact,
an immense old mahogany and horsehair
covered sofa, a period piece dating from
the ’fifties, and weighing half a ton, which
was felt to fulfil the most luxurious con-
cept of lolling on with girls in pleasure-
houses.
It took them most of the afternoon to
disinter it from the mound of bed-slats,
Venetian blinds and rolls of carpet accu-
mulated on it, and leave it ready for
“A room with a bath, and call me at four hells.”
transport under cover of night, as the
only possibility of getting it off the prem-
ises undetected. By arrangement, Waldo
was to call and summon Bill when both
households were deep in sleep, which
could be done safely by Waldo reaching
in at Bill’s window to give his hair a tug,
should he succumb to slumber while wait-
ing a call to action at midnight.
Getting that sofa out of the loft in the
dark was a tremendous job, not onlv as
commanding intense precautions against
noise, but as a tax on physical endurance
plus an exercise in mechanical ingenuity,
which required them to devise a means
of lowering it from the loft. Any pro-
posal to do so by hand was out of the
question, the loft being ten feet high and
the Weight of the sofa such that it must
infallibly drag them to earth with it, or
else crash there on its own account.
Even when it was partially projected
from the loft door, with the hissing and
heavings of excessive exertion, and with
a clothes-line rigged over a rafter for
lowering, it jerked them off their feet and
reached the yard with a rumbling crash,
taking with it a half section of the stable
door, which, by an oversight, they had
left open. The sofa punched a hole in
the yard, but remained undamaged ; it
was built for millenniums.
Sweating alarm. Bill and Waldo poised
on the brink of flight, in case the crash
aroused inquiry from the home. That
did not come, and in a frenzy of intensive
activity they bore the sofa off the prem-
ises, else must detection have discovered
it flown from the loft by supernatural
agencies.
Well for them if they had had some
such extra-mundane assistance in trans-
porting it down the flat. Lugging it there
by their own exertions nearly did for
them.
They had to put down that Gargantuan
piece of lumber at intervals and sit on it
to recover breath. And when in the last
stages of exhaustion they did haul it
across the cow paddock an awful dis-
covery awaited them. It was too big to
go through the door of their pleasure-
house.
They performed feats of Homeric en-
durance trying to get it in from all angles,
till they were forced to give it up or faint
in their boots. With the night air hinting
at the softer coming of dawn, they had to
shove the infernal thing into the lantana
and tear down capebroom to camouflage
it, lest someone should come to marvel
at such an out-dated sofa materialised in
the cow paddock as a feat of spiritoidal
phenomena.
Bill went home so used up by super-
human exertions, and so caked by their
accumulated grime, that he tumbled into
bed without the precaution of washing,
thereby bestowing on Ma next morning
a minor mystery, which was that a com-
paratively clean boy should go to bed and
exude all that filth on its sheets and
pillow-slips in his sleep. Also, unknown
forces in the night had torn off a stable
door, which Bill’s exhaustion had over-
looked replacing, even if he had been
able to risk the necessary loud hammer-
ings.
DILL had a sufficiently distracting
‘' problem on his hands next day to get
that blinkin’ sofa under cover. Consul-
tation with Waldo advised that the only
expedient was to knock off Half the end
boards of their pleasure-house; which
was done, and the sofa lugged in to take
up half its floor space.
They were nailing up the boards again
when a snooper intruded on them, in the
person of Bulljo Peddler, young brother
to Waldo, who put his pugi face over the
lantana to demand “What you up to?”
“Tou clear to hell outer this or get a
hidin’,” shouted Waldo ferociously.
“Will I clear out! As much nmcow
paddock as yours.”
Dispensing with subtleties, Waldo
leaped for Bulljo and downed him
for a fraternal pounding. Released, it was
then Bulljo’s cue to bounce from the
earth and down on a rock and bung it at
Waldo. The correct procedure for just
reprisals was then in order, chasings by
Waldo for downings and poundings,
bouncings by Bulljo for downings and
rock bungings.
But it put an end to pleasure-house re-
constructing for the afternoon, for it
aroused an unappeasable curiosity in
Bulljo to discover what illicit proceedings
these were which required such downings
and poundings against inspection.
When elder brothers have secret doings
behind a cowshed younger brothers
know at once that illicit proposals of a
first order are in hand, so that it was a
purely formal statement to that effect
which brought Bulljo, Peter, Conkey
Menders and Snowey Critchet to the cow
paddock next afternoon, bent on defying
an august interdiction by elder brothers
against a tadpole intrusion on their
private affairs. And as chasing them off
was about as effective as throwing away
a ball attached to one by a rubber band.
Bill and Waldo decided to compromise
with a nuisance by allaying its curiosity
and assuming to invite its collaboration.
Said Bill “Here’s where it stands, you
kids. Waldo and me are making a Club
House. But it’s got to be kept absolutely
dark, or else we’ll have people bummin’
in on us. You keep it dark and we’ll
let you have a sit in it when it’s finished.”
“On condition of you kids scooting up
the flat to keep nit, case the old man
comes down this way,” added Waldo.
Chirruping gratification at being in an
important affair with Bill and Waldo,
Bulljo and co. scooted for scouting on
Pa Peddler, who on a bare chance might
come sticking his nose, over the cow-
paddock fence. It was some time since
Bill and Waldo had last been forbidden
to consort with each other and parental
vigilance had relaxed ; yet the interdict
was still in force, and could bring added
trouble td detection.
AND the desirability of consorting
being kept a secret from the home in-
flicted on Bill, at least, a great deal of
discomfort over their next venture in
pleasure-house furnishing.
A table was obviously required, and
Waldo announced that the Peddler
lumber-room secreted the very thing: a
marble-topped table, a bit gone in the
legs owing to the weight of its marble top,
but still a regal piece of furniture, fit to
consort with their superb sofa. As the
top was detachable, it could be lowered
from the lumber-room window in sec-
tions —as proved by measurements be-
forehand. The warning given by the
selection of outsized sofas for undersized
pleasure-houses had not been overlooked.
Bill’s help would be required for this
operation, as the Peddler house was built
on piles to secure its floors against dry
rot. This removed its windows beyond
reaching height, and made the tossing of
marble-topped tables from them an ex-
pedient to be rejected. But one above


Personality Depends on Health
THE IMPORTANCE
OF REGULARITY
Nature places much importance
on the elimination of waste
matter from the system through
the elimination channels, the
principal ones being the kidneys
and the bowel. These two
eliminating organs respond
quickly to the benefits of R.U.R.,
as you will agree after reading
the letter published here, from
Mr. Waters, 7 Wilson Street,
Hamilton East, Waikato, N.Z.
"For a long time 1 suffered with
constipation, together with a dull
headache more or less all the time.
X used also to get stabbing pains in
my knees and different joints in my
body, and they became so painful I
decided to try your R.u.R. remedy,
and although I haven’t finished my
first bottle, I have completely lost
all signs of pains. Instead of rising
In the morning with a heavy head
and dull spirits, I am beginning to
jump out, feeling it is really good
to be alive. Each dose seems to give
me a more and more buoyant feel-
ing, and I am much more alert than
I was. With all aches and pain gone,
thanks to R.U.R., I am beginning to
enjoy life again.’*
B.TJ.R. keeps the blood and organic
functions in first-class order. B.TJ.R.
is an internal bath. It clears away
the cause of rheumatic aches and
joint pains, purifies the blood, tones
up the liver and kidneys.
Take B.TJ.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/8.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
TAKE HU B. nXD RICHT YOV
From Munitions to Motor-cars
DIE CASTERS, LIMITED.
Annual Speech by R. W. Newton, Managing Director, November 8, 1944.
THE END OF A TASK.
The figures and statement issued to share-
holders via the printed balance-sheet are of
our fifth, and what I trust will prove to be our
last, year as a 100 p.c. War Munitions Plant.
Cancellations, curtailments and official direc-
tional hesitancy on most munition programmes
shaped the order of our business year. Be-
cause we could make no headway, or even plan,
for that matter, to reoccupy our work benches
with other commerce to keep all wheels turn-
ing, the position was disconcerting. However,
we remained content to read into the steep de-
cline of the munitions programme exactly that
which we had been fighting for over the past
five years.
£1,500,000 WAR EFFORT.
I believe this is an opportune year to present
to shareholders a very short review of the
Company’s over-all war effort.
Five months after war was declared we re-
ceived pur first munition contract to the value
of £75. Four and a half years later we had
delivered over £1,500,000 worth of munition
engineering goods, varying from sub-machine-
guns to some of the most precise instruments
of war, as bombsights.
We became responsible for 85 distinct de-
fence projects, each and every one calling for
an intense tool-up from our own toolroom, and
many left to our own ingenuity for pioneering
and successful achievement.
We organised and directed over 3,000,000
man hours, and my tribute goes out again to
our staff and workmen by recording that work
hours lost through any cause whatsoever were
infinitesimal.
Our Adelaide Division turned in some extra-
ordinary fine engineering achievements, as did
our subsidiaries, Metalcraft and D.C. Plastics.
So our war record comes to an end, but
when the war itself is over much more will be
told beyond the short review this year outlined.
Management, over the past six months, has
tackled post-war planning and thinking in an
extremely serious vein, and here is one rather
heartening sign on Australia’s industrial post-
war horizon.
PLANS FOR AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MOTOR-CAR.
Our Government has made and repeated a
very determined statement that one of the big
things that will happen in Australia after the
war is the manufacture of a 100 p.c. Australian-
made motor-car. When this far-reaching an-
nouncement was prefixed with the mild challenge
that the Government would go into the business
of building motor-cars if secondary industries
did not tackle the job our Company immedi-
ately said the job could be done, and we have
submitted our first proposals to the appropriate
authorities.
That a motor-car can be 100 p.c. made in
Australia I personally have no engineering
doubts whatever. Australia has the skilled
draftsmen, toolmakers, engineers; as far as raw
materials are concerned, we would not depend
upon any outside source except for, possibly,
rubber. Australia is now rich in machine tools
—can even make them —and on toolup and
mass-production knowledge has very few lessons
to learn.
Co-operative effort of all branches of indus-
try to bring these factors and ingredients to-
gether to end as finished motor-cars flowing from
production lines is all that would be required.
That a people’s car can be built in this
country at a cost so that the people can buy it
is perhaps the only unknown factor that, in
my opinion, has to be decided. This decision
can. only be published after a careful analysis
is made of Australia’s over-all manufacturing
facilities, particularly those born of war. As
many of these are Government-owned, our own
Company’s proposition to the Government has
suggested that all such facilities be closely sur-
veyed and analysed so that, in drawing up
plans for the manufacture of a car, recapitali-
sation be avoided.
We are awaiting reactions to our first plans
and suggestions.
LOW COSTS MEAN PROSPERITY.
Apart from the motor-car, we have taken
many other soundings in order to ascertain
the shape of business to come, and, as a result,
it is with great soberness that we set our manu-
facturing thinking for the future.
There are indelible signs and facts now avail-
able that Australia must look to her secondary
industries as the country’s “protector” rather
than be referred to again as those “protected
industries.” Our war records have earned us
this place.
Even if this thought is nationally and inter-
nationally accepted, we will find we will have
to face up to a manufacturing era which will
be truly bristling with unprecedented problems.
I put the major of these as one of the residues
of the war already with us, namely, high cost
of production.
Stated simply, if our Company went back
tomorrow to 1939 production—if that were
possible—then costs would be a minimum of
50 p.c. up compared with 1939 levels. This
high 'cost of production is evident throughout
the United Nations. It is part of the price of
war. However, I can assure you that British
and American industrialists, when the peace
comes, will have no time —or the inclination, for
that matter —to worry about the high cost of
production in Australia. It is our own national
job, not only to lower production costs, but to
plan to make better and cheaper goods as never
before. The alternative, if this is not achieved,
will be dreaded inflation.
The nation that blazes the frail of lowering
production costs, and, at the same time, meets
the enormous pent-up demands for consumer
goods, without boom prices, and, paralleling
these purposeful drives set plans so that there
will be no depression, will be the first nation
to lay some real bricks to that New Order we
hear about. Australia will have a dual goal
in these drives; such a stabilised prosperity,
when achieved, will bring us our much-sought-
after increased population of the right type from
overseas.
The job will be terrific; its final achievement
will be measured in years. No one section or
line of endeavor will successfully handle this
reconstruction alone, any more than the war
could be won without all fighting forces in
combination. I am certain that Australia’s
secondary industries are again ready to throw
their combined weight, resources and knowledge
behind another huge national* effort—-the
winning of the peace.
It is still most difficult to differentiate be-
tween shareholders in manufacturing companies
and shareholders in Australia, because, whatever
my remarks as they relate to motor-cars and
post-war planning and thinking, your Board is
not unmindful that we have a war still on our
hands which must be finished off as quickly as
possible—a job which our Company still con-
siders as holding Priority Number One until
reconstruction and rehabilitation become the
action order of our business lives.
LEND NOW SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
might lower the table comfortably t 0 °^ e
below; and that office was assigned to
Bill, also the duty of arising by night and
summoning Waldo. . -
The trouble there was the height ot me
Peddler windows, which made waking by
hair-tugging impossible—not to mention
the fact that Waldo occupied a room
with elder brother Bags, who might narK
the whole thing by waking up and put-
ting them away to Pa Peddler.
As signalling by whistling was also
ruled out, for its announcement of a
human presence without, it was anange
that Bill would make a sound like a tree-
frog below Waldo’s window, on which
Waldo, pledged on oath to remain awake,
would arise instantly and lower the tabs*
from the lumber-room window, left open
for that purpose. Obviously, nothing
could go wrong in a perfectly-timed
arrangement of that sort; and tree-1 rogs
are notable for making sounds in gardens
of a night. , , . .
In its event, Waldo put the whole thing
wrong by basely going to sleep, and that
in swinish slumber impervious to Bill s
loudest tree-frogging without; which had
the disastrous effect of arousing old Pa
Peddler to the presumption that some
wayfarer of the night was suffering a
tremendous bellyache in his garden.
Stepping forth in slippers to inquire
into this strange mischance. Pa Peddler
was able to detect a dim form lurking
and dodging and kerooking in
and very naturally boomed a “What s
going on here?” at it, startling it into
a panic bolt for the fence, with Pa Peddler
instantly in pursuit. A short and intem-
oerately active man, Pa Peddler chased
Bill down the flat, round the gasworks
and into the common, where Bill evaded
capture only by going to earth in a mass
of furze that defied pursuit from Pa
Peddler’s pyjama-clad legs. Even Bill,
who knew its rabbit paths from infant
days, had a pretty tough time worming
his way through its insensate obstruction
of prickles.
BILL was so disgusted with Waldo for
betraying a sentinel trust that he
almost resigned from any more pleasure-
house furnishing on such terms.
“By cripes, I had enough of it, getting
a chase like that from your old man,’
he complained to Waldo next day. “Your
old man’s a pretty stinkin’ good
runner; would have copped me if a
hadn’t bunked into the furze. I call it a
dirty lousy trick letting a bloke in for
a like that.”
“All I can say is I must have had the
hard luck to close me eyes for a minute,
Waldo excused himself. “I must have
just closed me eyes the identical moment
you gave the signal.”
“All I can say is I ain’t going to take
another risk like that with your old man.
You want me to help you shift that
bloomin’ table, you can bloomin’ well
come up to our place and call me out.’
Which was done that night by Waldo,
and the table safely lowered in sections
and transported to the cow paddock and
locked in with its companion period-
piece sofa, taking up about a quarter
of the floor space left over from that
majestic work of art.
Indeed, those furnishings designed for
the refined drawing-rooms of the ’fifties,
whose spreading crinolines required
abundant seating accommodation, so
handsomely fulfilled the concept of a
voluptuous pleasure-house that Bill and
Waldo were in a state of doting satisfac*
tion over it, and could not have enough
of lolling on their sofa and smoking cigar-
ettes and rehearsing in fancy the perfect
love-affairs to be enacted there.
As those would naturally infer refresh-
ment for ladies, a receptacle for storing
suitable delicacies was required, and the
very thing for that purpose was un-
lumbered in the Gimbal loft, in the form
of a discreet piece of furniture once
known as a commode. It took up a
quarter of the quarter of floor space left
over by the table and sofa —but what of
that? Snugness is everything.
They put up a shelf with a few books
on it, for intellectual relaxation, and
added a pen, an ink-bottle and paper, in
case a bloke wanted to dash off a letter
in a hurry.
By a slight oversight in the original
construction of their pleasure-house, it
had no window, so that when the door.
closed one sat in a dim penumbra, illumi-
nated only by such light as leaked through
cracks in the wall or under the door.
But, blow it, you don’t need light; or, if
required, candles could be sneaked from
the home.
Said Waldo, glancing proudly round
its crowded six-by-eight dimensions, “By
cripes, you couldn’t have a more bonzer
place for doing the thing in style with
girls. No need for asking them to come
for a bit of a walk, either. Ask them
round for a bit of a party. That’s the
gag to catch them with. You know,
(’stead of having to fool around doing a
lot of back-chatting, all you got to say to
a girl is ‘What-oh, we got a bit of a party
on at our club-house; how about comin
round to it this evening?’ Trouble is,
to keep up the gag of having a party we
ought to have a bit of music. By cripes!
The very idea! I’ll sneak Bags’s gramo-
phone,”
As Bags, aged seventeen, had recently
got religion badly, he would naturally
have no use for so mundane an instru-
ment as a gramophone.
Not that consideration for Bags
would deter Waldo from embezzling a
brother’s property; but it was with a
conscience shiningly clear that he
emerged from ambush, descended on the
gramophone in Bags’s sanctuary and
bolted with it off to the cow paddock.
Greatly Exulting, Bill and Waldo reclined
to enjoy a leisured interlude with music.
Well, yes, music, if you listened hard
enough. It was a very aged gramophone,
dating almost from the genesis of its in-
vention, with a battered tin trumpet and
a few worn records, and when set going
it emitted a shrill screeching and clicking,
under which, by intensive listening, a
ghostly tune might be detected struggling
for audibility against the gramophone’s
determined efforts to drown it.
Still, it was a handsome addition to
any gentleman’s leisure or the pleasing
of guests, and with a supply of rock-cakes
and a medicine bottle filled with cooking
sherry in the commode, it was felt that
nothing had been overlooked for the en-
tertainment of girls in the grand manner.
IN fact, they were so engrossed oyer
1 entertaining themselves in the creation
of their pleasure-house that they had no
time left over for the quest of girls to
be entertained there, too. The pleasure-
house sufficed as a pleasure in itself.
It was their ardent desire to live there
altogether.
Lousy having to live in a home when
you had a bonzer pleasure-house to live
in, There was much talk of sneaking out
of bed in the night to go forth and resume
sleeping there. Plenty of room for two
on the sofa, and blankets could be
brought from beds at home and returned
there in the dawn. They tested it out as
a place to live in by spending a wet Satur-
day there, boiling their billy on a small
fire in the cowshed, and frying slabs of
corned beef on a piece of tin, which
made a delectable meal, eaten at their
marble-topped table in the shadowy
gloom of their pleasure-house. With lip-
smackings over swigs of cooking sherry,
it was felt that luxury could go no
further.
Of course, to stall off Bulljo and co.,
they had to let them on rare occasions
have a sit on the sofa all in a row;
which they found delectable, too, as an
exotic experience of great rarity. The
commonplace act of sitting became mys-
terious on a stately sofa in the semi-dark-
ness of a small six-by-eight shed. When
elder brothers had had enough of their
exultant chirpings they were bundled out
and the door padlocked on them. For,
of course, kids could not be let into the
secret of their pleasure-house, designed
for perfect love-affairs.
Need it be said that no girl ever set
foot in their pleasure-house? No girl
ever does. Pleasure-houses are desert-
island escapes from those complexities
of life of which the pursuit of girls is
the most complex.
They absorbed its sense of security
from dangerous contacts with such a
gusto that within a couple of weeks they
had used up their capacity for thrills on
that or any other motive of escape from
danger. Possibly the pleasure-house had
served its turn in using up such illusive
thrills. An essence had been extracted
from it as a spiritual home for adventures
with girls, and its service was ended.
Their visits became rarer and rarer.
Presently they ceased altogether. Reality
commanded them back to its service, and
the sofa, the table, the commode and the
gramophone were left to moulder away
in the dim penumbra of their pleasure-
house, behind its padlocked door, a dedi-
cation to perfect love-affairs in fantasy,
which only the drab factuality of life
may perfect.
The Water-lily.
The stone boy straddles by the pool
To wake his straws of stone:
No ear may prick to that he breathes,
Unless it be his own.
The nenuphar unfolds her bud
Beneath one marble thigh;
Yet, when it's shadow slants her on,
She shuts her golden eye.
The carp show like a surge of shame,
Glinting her cool green fingers:
Be sure, to goggle and to gape,
Each wafered witness lingers.
Her mysteries are safe with them,
As they were ail her own:
These lucky fish are dumb from birth;
As dumb as straws of stone.
VICTORIA.
PETER HOPEGOOD.


Zb you
C^oeo/a/e?
Then you should
know what every \
chocolate maker knows
'i
')
TV
Take any chocolate you like
—any colour, size or shape.
Break a piece in halves.
Some will fall apart without
any "snap” at all. The easier
that chocolate breaks, the
more likely it is to go melty
and lose its flavour.
But you will find that
Small’s Club Chocolate
breaks with a good "snap”.
Any chocolate maker has to
admit that the bigger the
"snap” the better the choco-
late. It is because of this
extra firmness and "snap”
that Small’s Club Chocolate
is resistant to heat.
\\
V.
%
6oot> \
wust
I. Hftve
. w.ywww^
1 I
ftOBW WOIM
/
VI
X '\ N
SMALL'S CLUB CHOCOLATE
Small's Make Great Chocolate
“We could
tell you
plenty..
says Bill Field
Draughtsman
“The drawing board is always a jump ahead of the plant...
and there are some people —they’re no friends of Australia
—who’d dearly like to glimpse Richards drawing boards
right now! I can’t talk about my work except to say that
we’re looking forward to the day when we’ll be planning
jobs that will be of service to the peace-time community.
At present we’re blue-printing to win the war, but as soon
as that job’s done we’ll be free to go
ahead with planning a new "Body by
Richards” among other essentials to,
a thriving peace.”
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
THE RIVER
By CECIL MANN.
WHEN they got him to Australia
they did two things to him—they
changed his name and they took
him up there to the River to cure
him. And God knows he wanted both.
Anybody whose name ends with five
consonants jumbled up in a heap, “jczyk,”
as his did, needs to have the thing
changed. They renamed him Grey, he
being a near enough relation, and that
being the name taken since the originals
of the family first came out from Poland
some sixty to seventy years ago. For a
general handle they gave him Robert,
making it Bobby, which sounded from
them more like Poppy, though by now
their pronunciations were mostly good.
There was, too, somewhat of the poppy
about Bobby. At least, to look at then.
With the right rigout he’d have passed
for an adolescent girl, considerably
anaemic. He spoke hardly at all, though,
with the foreign knack, he had already a
fair idea of the gist of the language.
Their doctor, seeing what he could see
in Mrs. Grey’s thin face, with the grey
hair clipped and clustered in duck-tails,
told the old lady one thing: “He’ll come
all right, Mrs. Grey. He wants quiet, a
lot of it. Do you know somewhere nice
and quiet where he can wet a line and
get some good food into him? Some-
where up the country?”
With Harry Grey, looking like one
who’d been Australian as long as the
gumtrees, he’d been on a shooting trip
and outside once or twice fishing. The
doctor told Harry another thing: “Hell,
he wouldn’t make a decent bait for a
marlin! I might, y’ know, be wrong—
it’s hard to say in these sort of cases—
but my idea is that he doesn’t want to
get right. We can only try to do some-
thing for him. For a start, try taking him
to the quietest place you can.”
“He’s had a hell of a time,” Ghey said.
“I can’t get much out of him but his
mother and his sister. I’ll write up to
Jason.”
Thus they came to the River. Jason
put them on to a house ; on the north
bank, which is more a ridge than a bank,
“Repairs of a more permanent nature will be carried out shortly, Jones, so
you may come across !”
high and sloping steeply down to the
water. As the ridge runs on that side, in
a long, bent sweep, so runs the River,
following against the inside of the steep
bend as if for shelter and to have a place
to be cool in when the sun has passed
over. The River runs west to east, but
the bend makes this part the west bank,
and over on the other side, the flat side,
is the town.
It was strange to Bobby; strange and
different from anything he had ever
known; and very quiet. Just what the
doctor ordered.
After the bombing of Warsaw he had
gone to England. About all that Grey or
anyone had got out of him was that his
mother and sister had been torn to pieces,
and he had seen the pieces lying and
hanging round the room. The sister was
five ; he was then twelve.
That was something of what looked
down and across the River to the town.
The River had known many things in its
time, and had kept them or carried them
out to sea; but it had never known this.
It knew nothing of bombing and killing
and' maiming of men and women and
children, in families and in thousands;
huddled in falling houses; heaped dead
and dying in the streets. The dead it
had taken, and given up, or held, had
come in ones.
That was something of what was being
cured; what the River was being asked
to cure with its still mirror of quiet.
He had known that his father would
be out at the airfield. It took him the
rest of that day and the night, going
through the smoke, to get there. One of
his father’s friends told him he had had
to go away. He translated it as dead,
too ; and the friend thought enough of
the father to get the boy into the ’plane
for England.
Nothing else like that looked down
across the River to the town. The others
Jiving there all belonged. The River, the
town, the green flats beyond going to the
rising hills and the trees were nothing
different from them. The town’s cOrru-
gated-iron roofs shone silvery in the mild
sun, or, here and there painted red,
added to the color of the churches’ tiles.
Held in the bend of the River, the town
drowsed away its lazy days.
Nobody took the slightest heed of it.
They might have missed it if it had got
up in the night and moved off. It hadn’t
the energy. Floods, coming along once
in thirty or forty years, had tried to shift
it, breaking over the low bank just above
it and sweeping through the streets,' but
the town stayed, fixed, with the River
not so much flowing as lying in a band
around it, asleep, too.
'T'HIS warm, sunny winter the River
* made a steady habit of its stillness.
It is practically always like that in the
winter months. The banks, high on the
one side, low on the other, and all grass
green, and the whole round sky and its
stray clouds, too, lie far down in the
depths of the mirror, to look down on
“deeper than did ever plummet sound,”
though, as a matter of fact, you
can reach the weedy bottom with the
length of an oar. Steady chugs of a
pumping plant up above the bend, sounds
of some cars or farm trucks passing over
the big white wooden bridge on the lower
side of the town —the trucks carrying
pigs or calves to the weekly sales or little
black half-abo. piccaninnies to school,
standing, like the pigs and calves in the
roofless railed-in truck bodies —or a stray
train going over the slim grey steel bridge


BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTI 1C AXES
PZO DM « M
»<}
IliW
s
$
*
xw*
WiPW
r «t
&
I
v)’- ?® *' " , .
| '■■■ , I , ■■/■ \ ~;■
i"’, - ', / ■•'• a .
k #;? . irl
P"
v
I H % W'
i
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
—T
Bi
m
Battle is the testing
ground for the researches of war-time labora-
tories . . . among them those of Stromberg-Carlson, as
suppliers of communications equipment keyed to
commando conditions.
From their war-time experience, Stromberg-Carlson will
evolve post-war radio products that will be an achieve-
ment as distinguished as their war production record.
Post-war, too . . . there will be nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson.
STROMBERG-CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia.
50 Years of Communication Engineering
SUPPORT WAR LOANS REGULARLY.
at the up-river end, break into the quiet
only to isolate the stillness. It only the
elements themselves can ever disturb.
The house they had on the hill was
near the centre of the river bend. From
it they looked down on a small willow-
dressed island in the midstream. The
island and the whole curved stretch of
nearly a mile of water banded partly
round the town between the two bridges
is all a sanctuary for birds. They de-
lighted the old lady.
“Poppy,” she would say to Bobby
reading on the back verandah, “look at
that now!” They would look down on
a flotilla of a dozen pelicans floating in
formation on the water or sailing like
’planes, rising to hurdle one of the
bridges. “Ah,” old man Grey would
sigh, “they’d go well in the pot,” mean-
ing the wild ducks, temptingly there —in
the heart of the town —in their hundreds.
The sanctuary has been there for years.
It started in a drought, when the swamps
dried and the birds came in looking for
water. The council reckoned the birds
deserved a decent spin and gave them the
River between the bridges. Now even
old duck-shooters have almost got used
to them as part of the place. Their trigger-
fingers itch, but they see the joke is on
them. There are baby ducks that can’t
fly yet, but can run on top of the water,
belting it with their sprouts of wings for
twenty or thirty yards, landing broad on
their chests and shooting on still faster
in a skim over the water. Old white
spoonbills stalk about the island’s weedy
mud beaches. White ibis dip their long
necks feeding, and satin-dark redbills go
“Any honey?”
sprinting and squeaking over the mud in
scores.
This sunny winter it was all in the very
depths of its stillness. It was all held in
quiet by the still River, wrapped in its
sweep partly round the flat town, with
the island a brown dead dream in its
midst.
The ideal of what the doctor ordered.
Another thing belonging to the place
is that nobody there ever thinks of using
the River. They leave it alone. Even
the water pumped from up above the
town they drink only when the corru-
gated-iron tanks go dry. They say it
stinks and use it on their gardens.
When it looked like invasion, and some-
one had the frantic thought to gather up
all the small boats even here, and turn
them all bottoms-up in a paddock to peel
and crack in the sun, the town did not
average one small boat to four hundred
inhabitants.
Grey got one of the few there were
for Bobby; towards the cure.
He went daily out on the River in it,
and looking down and along they could
see him there, not rowing, but just float-
ing on the barely moving tide, reading, or
looking downwards through the still
water at the sky, and the inverted tall
oaks and willows, and a horse or cow or
two grazing upsidedown near the River’s
edge ; so that he and the boat, seen from
up there, were on the water and below it,
too, as a part of it. It made a picture of
stillness, seen in a mirror. They were
most happy to think of all the good it
was doing him, floating there in the boat,
reading one of the books he carried in his
pockets, or just looking. Quiet and peace
were down there.
SO the cure progressed, beautifully, it
seemed; till the day the old lady
looked down from the back verandah and
called into the house “Harry, Harry,
come out quick! Come out and look!”
They stood astonished hear the veran-
dah rail and watched him. Halfway
downstream, between the tip of the small
island and the lumbering white bridge,
he was standing up in the boat, shatter-
ing the mirror surface with the flat of an
oar.
They had no Warsaw behind them, so
it did not mean to them that that might
be exactly what he was doing! They were
puzzbrf.
The lad came up from the River with,
they were sure they could see, the look
in his face they had believed he was
losing. As he got to the steps the woman
in the next house called over the fence
“What were y’ tryin’t’ kill?” He repeated
“Keel?” in a puzzled voice, shook his
head and went on inside.
The old pair could make nothing of it.
Grey looked in a book or two that he’d
left on the dressing-table, but found
nothing in them to mean anything.
They didn’t discuss
it or agree on it, but
just came to under-
stand that the cure
had failed. “I think
he is worse,” the old
lady brought herself
to say, and Grey
understood her to
mean worse than be-
fore they had their
talks on him with
their doctor.
Next day Mrs.
Grey asked him
“Would you like to
go back to Sydney
now, Poppy?”
Bobby said he
would, oh, yes, very
much, how he would.
He was so pleased
about it Grey wished
they hadn’t promised
to go down for a
day to the Jason’s
near the mouth of
the River before
going horhe.
The Jason name
was known far from
the River in times
when crowds went to
see two men in skiffs
in a world champion-
ship sculling match
on the Parramatta or
the Thames. With-
out effort, but using
now the short fisher-
men’s stroke, Jason
rowed them across
to his home and nets
on an island so big and thick with
swamp oaks and lantana it looked to be
the mainland.
Here, sweeping straight past, the River
is still the River, but its ways are dif-
ferent. Between its quarried-rock walls
it is always in some sort of trouble with
itself, racing over the bar out to sea or
back in again as fast as it can rush. It is
a vast spread of wild, windy and broken
water.
As Jason rowed, caps of the waves
broke into the boat. Rowing on, he
spoke over his shoulder to the lad in the
bow, sensing what he couldn’t see, “I’d
keep me hand out of it, if I was you.*
The sharks got me dog the other day.”
It scared the old lady so that she
trembled. She, for one, was pleased to
have a Jason youth, bigger even than his
father, lift her up on to the post-and-
packing-case jetty.
The Jasons ranged down through half
a dozen assorted big youths and solid
lasses to eight-year-old Jim, podgy, and
distinguished from them all in not only
knowing every swearword in the fisher-
men’s vocabulary, but in using the lot
regularly. Jason had told them about
Jim; said he was “a bit funny” ; but
{Continued on next page.)


The most
a
£ *
\
V
\
m
Australia
today
vn**n»
§ss
m
m
m
m
m
y*vF
*T>
2K
»*&
&S J&
Sj«»
*s*
45%
*48
Deposit entries in a Savings Bank
Book always make pleasant reading
fas* « acc&M<Z
* WITH THE
Commonwealth Savings Bank
OF AUSTRALIA
CB.9-16
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN fl
*
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
mi
?A
- ■ .
VL ( ‘>
■ ;•'
-C
i
4
5562B
the force of the actuality was as different
as the River itself.
With, a hundred yards from the house,
podgy little Jim hauling great bream out
with a length of-bamboo rod and a short
bit of line almost as fast as he could get
baits on the hook, and describing every
catch with bursts of language that would
have done justice to a whale, Bobby sat
by an oak for an hour or so before dark
watching the River. The others were up
in the house, agreeing that they all had
problems on their hands—Bobby for the
Greys and Jim for the Jasons.
THE two problems, the silent Bobby
and the luridly vocal James, after
being called in for the evening meal, went
again to Jim’s fishing spot by the net-
rails. The one difference about Jim
was that now he hooked them faster and
therefore had to swear faster.
The new lad found another sort of dif-
ference ; one belonging to the River.
Wild, broken, tormented enough by day,
at night it comes to black life. He did
not see it; he heard it. He heard it as
a writhing, living mass in the night’s
darkness. He heard them leaping, swish-
ing, snapping, splashing in their millons.
He stood on the bank by the nets and
heard them in their countless numbers
moving, while he could see nothing. He
was part of the night, listening with it.
After a time he did not so much hear
and saltily smell those myriad fish rush-
ing and fighting and killing; he felt it as
one thing; as something black and enor-
mous and living in the, dark.
It did not scare him. It brought back
something to him. It broke into his sub-
conscious and unlocked the terrific, the
horrible. It brought back a world; and
took it and cast it deep out into the dark.
He stood breathing in the black night air ;
filling the deep emptiness in him.
He asked, and so they left him there,
for a while. He is still there, with the
River ; as the River, with all that it is
and all that is in it, always has been. He
is brown, solid and salty. They will tell
you this about him; “Grey? Yair, that
blocky little fisherman cove down with
the Jasons? Talks a bit like a sorta
foreigner? Gripes, can ’e swear!”
Evening Etchings.
Now the' day dwindles down the sky and leaves
Like a familiar etching blurred with time
These few trees at the quiet curve of the hill
Washed lemon-yellow in a lake of light.
Turn over the fading page, see, here is shown
The fettler waving from the railway and the long
Shadows of signals lengthening down the line.
And turn again: the child swings on the gate,
Dragging a sandal over the rutted path,
Half-fallen in love with dreaming as she goes.
In all the little yards
The hens shake out the light beneath their wings
And settle into silence. Another page:
The shovel idle and the abandoned fork
Left leaning with the earth between the tines.
And turn again:
The tail-piece in the last light faintly shown,
The round loaf on a platter with a glass,
And Finis with The Good Life written under.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Dummy.
The valet, when his master died,
Was driven near to suicide,
There was no other job in view,
And all the silly chap could do
Was, under harassing conditions,
Looking after mad musicians.
As a valet he was so-so,
But he’d served the virtuoso,
A wizard with the violin,
Which he cherished with his chin.
Quite fascinated by those powers
The servant sat for hours and hours
And watched him play and never missed
The slightest' turn of hand and wrist;
So, with no knowledge of the art,
He got the motions all by heart.
His master left him his old fiddle
And so he told this taradiddle:
To a famous concert hall he went
And interviewed the management:
“Sir, if it please you,” he begins,
“Put me among your violins,
I am an artist, have no fears,
I studied hard for twenty years
With Paganini; now he’s gone
I face the cruel world alone.”
The maestro, shaggy-maned and gruff,
Broke in, “Enough, dear Sir, enough,
Come, we must honor as we can
The pupil of so great a man;
Come, though our number is complete,
Come in, come in, and take your seat.”
The audience froze, the baton tapped,
The bold musicians, tensely rapt,
Fell to their work; the music rose,
The strings received the gliding bows
And there, complacent in his seat,
Among them sat the simian cheat,
And while the catgut wails and sings
His bow has never touched the strings.
So perfect are his act and pose,
His bow so chimes with other bows,
That there the swindler, undetected,
Year after year played on respected,
Chatted with colleagues, took his pay,
Grinned his sly grin and went his way.
The life of men in majesty,
Moves to a godlike symphony,
Wherein all brains, all minds, all hearts,
Are called upon to play their parts;
While most of us, base aims pursuing,
Do just what that sly knave was doing.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


DOLE
By BRIAN JAMES.
MRS. BOLTON mentioned one day
that she would get the butcher to
“stick” Dolf. , „
“He’ll be calling on Tuesday,
she said, “and I’ll be able to scrape him
myself and cut him up next morning.
(Of course, she meant Dolf, not the
butcher.)
Dolf was Mrs. Bolton’s pig a. pam-
pered and over-nurtured pig. Other
people kept two pigs—or even three
with far less of resources than were at
Mrs. Bolton’s command. But as pigs
they were not worth looking at. Dolf
was worth looking at.
He handsomely repaid all that was
given him in the way of skim-milk,
butter-milk, boiled rabbit, windfall
peaches and apples and yellow corn. He
was fat but firm and well proportioned,
too —a perfect baconer.
So Mrs. Bolton was proud of Dolf,
and would often talk to him for quite long
periods. Dolf, of course, would only grunt,
but Mrs. Bolton supplied the appropriate
answers. In a way, it was better than just
talking to herself —which she frequently
did—and seemed much more natural.
Old Charlie Box was staying at Mrs.
Bolton’s—though some people said he
was “living” there. There are subtleties
and implications in the distinction drawn
between living at (or with) and staying
at. Suffice to say, perhaps, that there
were five major theories and three minor
ones concerning the status of Old Charlie
in the Bolton household, and not one of
these—major or minor—reflected the
slightest credit upon Old Charlie or Mrs.
Bolton. All of which showed that the
district enjoyed its evil thoughts.
Still, the most casual glance at Mrs.
Bolton would convince any fair-minded
person that she was specially designed by
Nature for nothing but platonic love
perhaps not even for that. And in Old
Charlie were high principles and delicacy
of feelings that his language and appear-
ance did their best to conceal.
There was also Mr. Bolton —alive, but
well out of the picture.
From time to time, at uncertain inter-
vals, Mr. Bolton came “home” from some
distant part of the State, the distance
being determined by how much money
he had left for fares after his last stay.
Mr. Bolton, it was said (maliciously, no
doubt) was working on the well-known
assumption that the “first ten years are
the worst.” If so, his periods of living
at home never totalled anything like ten
years—even when he returned subse-
quently for the golden wedding. Per-
haps greater success might have crowned
his persistence if Mrs. Bolton only con-
tinued to talk to herself when he was
home. But she didn’t.
All that by the way. But it helps to
explain Old Charlie’s interest in Dolf and
his flatly disputing the arrangements with
the butcher.
“Begawd, woman, why get the butcher
to kill the pig when I can do it? That is,
Big Jack and I can do it.”
Mrs. Bolton thought that the butcher
would make a quick job of it, that being
his line of work, as it were. She said,
too, that she hated the notion of Dolf
suffering unnecessarily.
But Old Charlie declared that the first
principle of pig-killing was complete
bleeding—butchers always slummed the
job and left half the blood behind ; what
did they care? Old Charlie confessed, how-
ever, that he had not killed many pigs;
in fact, he couldn’t clearly recall ever
having killed any.
But it was all a very simple matter.
And he did want to get the very best out
of Dolf. That was all.
So Old Charlie was given the commis-
sion. It says much for his strength of
character that it was so.
Old Charlie was nothing if he was not
thorough. He spent the rest of the day
in preparation; he improvised a scraping
table from the door of the tool-shed and
four bushel cases; he filed two old sauce-
pan lids for scrapers —with a specially-
treated tablespoon as a reserve; he
erected a galley, with two kerosene-tins as
containers for hot water; he earmarked
a stout limb on the cherry-plum tree to
act as a gallows; he gathered together
much rope and put running nooses in
certain bits of it.
Finally he sharpened up the butcher’s
knife.
“Now,” he said, “it will be possible to
make a good job of it.” Then he added
with some contempt “Would you find
any butcher taking all this trouble?
Begawd, you wouldn’t.”
IT remained to bespeak Big Jack. Big
1 Jack belonged to the Ryan clan —or
one of the Ryan clans. There were Ryans
“laid on” everywhere—families and fami-
lies of them, and mostly big families.
And every family had two Jacks in it.
§o it went: Big Jack and Little Jack;
6v, Old Jack and Young Jack, which
would have been confusing indeed but
for other distinctions —Stumpy Jack,
Happy Jack, Curly Jack, Spluttering Jack,
Ratty Jack, Hungry Jack. Further, for
the purpose of exact designation, locality
was often added: so you wouldn’t con-
fuse Big Jack of Two Rocks with Big
Jack of Round Swamp, or Old Jack of
Tipperary with Old Jack of the Nine
Mile. Of course, all this went for the
other names, too (though in a lesser
degree). There were Long Tim and
Squinty Pat, and Hairy Jim and Lumpy
Tom in varying numbers. Identification
was a simple matter, then, when one had
such a key to it.
Big Jack (of Two Rocks) at this time
was splitting posts on Baker’s Hill. Very
busy, too, at what he called a “rush
order.”
But Big Jack’s busyness was never so
great that he forgot what was due to his
fellow-humans; nor did it prevent his
contemplation and observation of and
reflection upon many things.
Through brbaks in the trees he saw
Old Charlie approaching in full sail —
which meant that he was lumbering along,
head bent forward and down, and hands
inside belt and trousers. Old Charlie
always went like that when in trouble
or in a hurry. He was mostly in one or the
other —sometimes both at the same time.
Big Jack sat on a slaty-gum log, of post-
length, filled his pipe, sent out blue
wreaths of smoke, with great enjoyment
saw the sun’s rays slanting through the
tall timber to glisten on wet fern and
underbrush, took in the sweet, if mono-
tonous, winter call of some thrushes, lost
sight of Old Charlie now and then —and,
in all, arrived at the conclusion he had
often come to before: that life is good in
spite of “rush orders.”
Old Charlie sailed into the nearer dis-
tance and announced “Begawd, Jack, the
woman’s mad! ”
Jack gave a sidelong squint, and
heartily agreed that it was so. And then
inquired which woman.
“She still wants the butcher to do it.”
Old Charlie was indignant.
It seems there had been further argu-
ment on that score. Big Jack was patient
and waited for the explanation of Old
Charlie’s troubles.
At length Old Charlie started at the
right end of his story, and Big Jack was
in total agreement that no butcher should
touch Dolf, He agreed to assist at or
about two-thirty that afternoon. He said
it would be a real pleasure—hadn’t killed
a pig these years and years.
Then Big Jack and Old Charlie yarned
for hours, and had a billy of tea and
some scones that Big Jack had in a dotted
handkerchief, and reverted occasionally
to general reference to pig-killing.
A lot of posts for the “rush order”
stayed in the log, but Big Jack didn’t
seem upset about it. He put the maul,
wedges and axe near the stump, and the
saw under a curly sheet of bark, and
accompanied Old Charlie down to Bol-
ton’s for dinner,
DOLE had not been fed since the pre-
vious midday, for Old Charlie held
that you couldn’t starve them enough in
the day or two before killing.
But that was something you couldn’t
well explain to Dolf, so that he’d clearly
understand. He was spending most of the
time with his front feet on the top rail
of his sty, head just above the rail and
giving voice to his resentment at the way
he was being treated. He had good lungs,
and so the world learned that Dolf had
a definite grievance. He kept his little
wicked eyes on the house, and at the
slightest sign of any movement there he
raised his squealing to undreamt-of
height.
And from that house at length there
appeared Old Charlie and Big Jack walk-
ing purposefully towards the sty.
In spite of his hunger Dolf felt in-
stinctively that there was something
wrong about them, and about the two kero-
sene-tins they were carrying—too heavy
altogether—and all the bright things and
ropes and so forth that they bore with them.
The buckets were swung on the galley,
and Old Charlie touched off the fire,
while Big Jack strolled over to interview
Dolf, and spoke pleasantly to him, and
reached out to feel his broad back and
scratch it. Dolf reckoned all this had
no reference to honest tucker,, and
grunted very gutturally and suspiciously,
and retired to the middle of his pen. A
much less intelligent pig than Dolf would
have seen something foully wrong with
all this easy familiarity from a compara-
tive stranger.
By now the fire was blazing under the
tins, and Old Charlie came over to dis-
cuss what might be termed the tactical
approach, Dolf was very interested in
this discussion.
And in every move they made.
There was evolved at last the simple
plan of getting a rope on Dolf’s hind leg
—any hind one would do, they said, but
for preference the “off leg.”
Dolf anticipated any steps they took
to accomplish this and retired to his lean-
to shed and stood, facing them, on his
bed of couch grass and pine needles. That
low shed was no place for manoeuvring
with a pig like Dolf, and Old Charlie
said they must get Dolf out by guile.
He brought Dolf’s usual bucket,
rattling it violently and deceptively to
develop a hope of good things, and
poured a pint or two of milk into the
trough. Dolf quite evidently enjoyed the
sloppy sound of the skim-milk and left
his retirement to sample it, but he never
took his eyes off the two at the fence.
Also, he disapproved keenly of Old
Charlie’s attempts to slip the rope on
his hind leg. When he had guzzled his
meagre gift of milk he retired to his
lean-to.
Big Jack then delivered what should
be described as a very touching and
searching dissertation on pigs, and though
Dolf might well be viewed as the Awful
Example he showed no intention of con-
forming with the ways of man, and thus
removing some of the discredit attaching
to his race.
But Old Charlie was a man of many
wiles. He put a conveniently looped rope
near the trough, and about it an allur-
ing array of chunks of corn-cobs. Dolf
came forth for the corn, but his ingenuity
in keeping a hind foot out of that Ipop
was ample proof of the long association
of pigs and the Evil One. He finished
his corn and retired once more.
Of course, in the end they got him,, but
it took at least two gallons of milk and
a vast quantity of corn to do it. Old
Charlie was very distressed about it, and
reckoned it would undo all the good of
Dolf’s long fast.
With his leg secured, as it were, Dolf
behaved disgracefully, and tore about and
grunted and squealed and dragged Old
Charlie and Big Jack through the wallow
at the low end of the pen and the hore-
bound at the top end of it, and knocked
Big Jack over in both, and greatly over-
taxed their fairly complete vocabularies.
Twenty pigs, acting in concert, could have
done no more, even if twenty pigs ever
did act in concert.
But another rope was secured to Dolf’s
front leg, and in bitter and muddy
triumph they led and pulled and kicked
Dolf out of the sty and guided him to-
wards the makeshift table.
And then Dolf began to squeal —not
that there was any real need for him to
do that yet. But he knew that wicked
things were intended.
Mrs. Bolton hurried to the scene with a
fork, a saucepan and a milk bucket —to
catch and hold and stir the blood. She
wanted to make black pudding, she said.
There were tears in her eyes, and her
face was drawn and white —the struggle
between her genuine feeling for Dolf and
the desire to make black pudding must
have been a terrible one.
Old Charlie knew she must be got out
of the way. “Go away, woman; go
home! There’ll be no blood to catch the
way we kill pigs.”
Mrs, Boiton placed the utensils on the
table and put her lingers in her ears.
Dolf’s appeals for justice and mercy were
too much to listen to. Old Charlie told
her to go home and keep out of the way.
She went.
Dolf was trussed up near the table.
He eyed Old Charlie’s testing of knives,
saucepan lids, spoon and hot water with
a most lively interest —it would have
touched a heart of stone. But Old Charlie
and Big Jack were no longer hearts that
pity could touch.
Big Jack knelt on Dolf’s shoulder and
asked Old Charlie to pass the knife.
DEEDS of dreadful note must be done
off-stage. Merciful darkness must
obscure them. So what happened next
cannot be recorded or described.
Hence no mention will be made, no
hint dropped, of how Big Jack expertly
felt Dolf’s neck for the “exact spot.” Or
how he No, such things cannot be
told.
What Dolf had done earlier in appeal-
ing to the unpitying heavens was but as
nothing to what he did now. But Big
Jack and Old Charlie seemed not to hear,
though the air throbbed with the persist-
ence of high-pitched sound.
Inquisitive neighbors just happened
along to see what was doing; children
coming home from school raced to the
scene and arrived breathless, and gazed
with morbid interest on the bloodless
spectacle (for Dolf refused to bleed —
Big Jack said he was one of those stub-
born cases you meet with once in a
.while); Mrs. Bolton’s colt Darkle raced
round the paddock, tail and mane flying,
stopped a moment to look with horror
at the awful show, snorted in an ex-
aggerated fashion and then flung off
faster than ever.
But no one helped, no one offered
advice. There might be a murmur of
voices occasionally from the spectators,
but it was mostly silence. And Dolf
squealed on. Endlessly. It seemed hard
to think of a world that had not been
filled with Dolf’s squealing.
“Only one thing for it now,” said Big
Jack —he had to roar really—“and that’s
to let him run.”
Old Charlie tied one end of some
joined plough-lines to Dolf’s leg and the
other end to the cherry-plum. Big Jack
arose stiffly, and Dolf left off squealing,
turned over and doubled himself into a
rising position. .
Then he bounded off, grunting, and
fetched up at the end of the line with a
At the end of the taut line he described
a perfect circle at a most surprising speed,
and from the point of view of confusion
a most successful circle: the line caught
Old Charlie and Big Jack and brought
them down in a heap, it caught the table
and sent it flying, it knocked down the
galley and spilled the kerosene-tins on
the fire with a fine smother of steam and
much hissing.
The spectators now became vocal and
encouraging.
Then the rope parted and Dolt ran
towards the scrub of yellow-box suckers
and saplings in the direction of the
Willow Ponds. Twenty feet or so v of
plough line streamed out in Dolf’s wake,
jerking, curling, looping; the small boys
and the dogs ran yelping after. Dolf s
progress was, in the main, voiceless,
except for short bouts of excited grunts
at intervals, as if recent memories gave
an extra spur to him, or as if a series of
rockets propelled him.
DOLE was never seen again. Not
positively and provenly seen.
It was believed that he slunk into the
reed-beds on the, river, where he healed
him of his grievous wound and then lived
as a recluse in the reeds, becoming- at
length a legendary figure, a wraith of a
pig that raided the Chow’s garden and
the lucerne paddocks in the dark of the
moon and scared young horses at night
on the road to Tipperary.
Be that as it may, but old Joshua
Bisley, the lay-preacher, took some pigs
—months and months after —to Mac-
Pherson’s sales, and one of the pigs had
a curiotfs slit in his throat, healed and
wealed. Someone said it looked like as
if he’d been stuck one time, and someone
else said “Not there —surely, not there,
damitall!” . ,
Anyway, Mr. Joshua Bisley would surely
have had nothing to do with pigs of
doubtful ownership.
Mr Bolton came home the very day
after 'Dolf’s escape, and Mrs. Bolton
straightway stopped talking to herselt.
The matter of Dolf’s misadventure was
not made clear to Mr. Bolton, but
he gathered that he was to blame for it
—whatever it was. ,
Old Charlie stayed on at Billy Rosen s
—for the time being, begawd—and Big
Jack at length resumed work on his “rush
order.”
THE EXPLORER.
Travelling alone the legendary journey
Towards the New Atlantis or as you will have it,
Fill your hands, pilgrim, with small white
pebbles,
That (hobbled to the pivot of the body) one
may watch for
The way you took walking the highest ridges.
And when the final pebble has fallen, traveller,
And the rings of sound die away to silence,
Break twigs, make signs for the mind to peer at
Climbing after on the difficult marches . . .
Thus far the course can be plotted with the
compass, ,
Dividers and rulers and all the brain s
appliance—
With the star in the north, the arrow pointing
eastwards
The puff-cheeked winds and the whale spout-
ing—
Strangely a solace to the earth-bound watcher.
Somewhere the line there wavers and trembles
Between the fact and nothing, between the place
and nowhere.
Thus far one follows. The tracing finger
pauses.
Having, we think, lastly
Bread, he scattered crumbs which the birds
took, leaving only
Footprints soon brimmed with time.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS—Buy War Savings Certificates.
Made hy
PORD SHERINQTON
LTD V
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO B I T E Travel Ca sea
How can 1 have
a luxury interior
at low cost?
Youthful, modern rooms with beautiful walls,
ceilings and floors are easily and economically
acquired with Masonite Presdwood. Small
rooms appear larger; dull rooms brighter.
Masonite Presdwood is easy to apply. It’s
lighter, stronger than wood, takes any finish
you desire, bends around corners without
cracking or chipping, and lasts a lifetime.
H T&i
it
3
/In
m
♦PRESDWOOD
♦TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QU4RTRBOARD
“W/r
°o 0
Manufactured by: MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.,
SALES DIVISION, 369 Pitt Street, Sydney.
* limited supplies note obtainable from all leading builders’
suppliers, timber merchants and hardware stores.
MA 74-44.
THE WOOMERA
By T. HUNGERFORD.
ABOUT the middle of the morning
the little dark Sister hustled into
the tent where Rex was lying, anc
said “Come on, Galahad, your
good deed for the day. Take Rose her
morning tea.”
Rex looked up from his paper, laugh-
ing, and said, “Break it up, now, Sister
I did it yesterday. I think you’re a bit o;
a matchmaker.”
The Sister, already half-way to the
next tent, said over her shoulder, “Look
out I don’t nab you for myself, Ser-
geant,” and as Rex picked up the bucket
of lemon-juice he thought, “you could
too.” Then he walked over to Rose’s tent.
Rose was a half-caste lubra from one
of the outlying stations. She had long
slanting eyes, and her black hair, insteac
of being a wild frizz, hung in long waves
which she plastered with brilliantine.
There was no civilian hospital within
hundreds of miles, and so the abos. were
admitted to the A.G.H., where a line of
tents was set aside for them, Rose’s
husband was camped by the creek behinc
the hospital, a grizzled old buck, who spen
the entire day pottering around her tent
As Rex walked in she looked up from
the cards laid out on her blanket anc
said, “Good morning, Sergeant Rex,” in
a high lilting voice.
Rex smiled. “Good morning. Rose.
Like a drink?” He poured it out, and
as she leaned over to take it from him
he was enveloped in a cloud of the cheap
perfume she used.
Phew,” he muttered as he walked
away from the tent, “what a crow!”
He noticed that the tent next to Rose’s,
empty last night, now had an occupant,
and he caught sight of the newcomer
as he walked by... .a woman’s enormous
brown eyes staring from a pinched black
face, and one ludicrously skinny leg
hanging from under the heavy army
blanket.
He picked up the hose and began to
water the young pawpaws which the
little Sister had bullied him into planting
around his tent.
Someone said softly, “Good morning,
boss.”
He turned around and saw a black
boy leaning against the tent-pole. He
wore a faded pink shirt, tattered army
trousers and high-heeled stockman’s
boots, and was smiling questioningly.
Rex said “hullo,” and the boy’s grin
broadened. He pointed to the young
pawpaws.
“Soon grow. ...nine mont’s, year,
maybe fruit!”
“Well, I hope I’m not here to pick
’em,” said Rex. “What you here for?
You sick, too?”
The boy shook his head. “Me not,”
he said, “T’resa, my wife. She too sick,
longa that tent,” and he looked at the
tent where Rex had seen the little gin.
“Oh,” said Rex, “you married. How
old you?”
“Dunno twenty, maybe; I got two
piccannin’, little boy, little girl.”
“Kicking on, aren’t you?” said Rex,
and when the black boy looked at him
enquiringly said hurriedly, “What your
name?”
“Peter,” said the boy. “I live longa
Mission.”
Rex lit.a cigarette, and gave the boy
one, which he carefully placed behind
his ear. “My word, you have come a
long way.”
“Yes, I come longa aeroplane,” Peter
said proudly. “T’resa, she very sick.”
“Oh, well,” said Rex, laying the hose
at the roots of a big pawpaw-tree, “I’m
going to lie down. See you after lunch.”
“Yes,” Peter replied, walking away,
“I go see T’resa.” He walked over to the
tent, and Rex heard a plaintive rippling
voice, and, craning his neck, saw the
black boy leaning over his wife fanning
the flies away with an old newspaper.
A FTER lunch Rex sat in the shade of
a casuarina, and idly watched the
black boy’s deft fingers scraping patiently
at a slender stick with a piece of a broken
bottle.
It was still and hot, and the amiable
conversation of the creek and the nar-
cotic hum of thousands of insects in the
grass made him sleepy. He sat up with
a jerk and said, “What you make, Peter?”
The boy looked at Rex quickly and
held out the stick. “Woomera,” he said,
“for t’row spear.”
Rex took the weapon, and ran his
fingers up the smooth haft, marvelling
at the patience that had fashioned it out
of a knotted stick. He gave it back to
Peter, who started to scrape a groove in
the base.
“How’s T’resa, Peter? What Doctor
say?”
The black boy continued scraping for
a while, measured the depth of the
groove with a small stick, and said,
“Dunno... He don’t tell me, ever.
T’ink T’resa too sick, too much.”
He spoke quite without emotion. He
fished in the pocket of his ragged
trousers and found a small piece of quartz,
which he placed in the groove, leaving a
projection of about a quarter of an inch.
Rex watched in silence, interested.
“Who show you how to make woomera,
eh?” he said, and Peter replied without
looking up, “Old man live along Mission.”
He paused, and his black eyes swept
over the plain and the hills behind the
hospital, and Rex followed his gaze:
red and green and blue, mile upon mile of
it, the imperishable sheet upon which was
written the only record of the black man’s
history, and now.. .who could read it?
“I piccannin, then; little fella,” Peter
said. He patted the air about knee high
with his open palm and laughed, show-
ing his pink tongue and even white teeth ;
then he took a lump of bitumen from
his pocket and, kneading it soft in his
palm, pressed it into the groove around
the quartz, and proceeded to bind the
whole with copper wire.
Rex watched him. A piccannin. He
tried to picture the black boy as a child,
but could not. Hell, they were much the
same age—but Peter was married, had
two kids and his wife was dying; not
that he seemed to care much. Or did
he? Rex could not fathom the boy’s
blank gaze when he spoke of T’resa.
“Wljat your name, Peter?” he said
suddenly.
Peter looked at him strangely. “Peter,”
he said.
“No, I mean your... what your
people call you?”
“That one? Weeharrie.”
“And T’resa?”
Peter looked at him again and said
abruptly, “Neeloona. Look, you see.”
He rose, and, taking a long, light stick
from the grass, fitted the end against the
quartz and, raising the woomera, launched
the stick straight at the dog that lay
outside Rose’s tent. The cur ran howl-
ing, and Rose’s husband came out.
Peter called to him gaily, and laughed,
then said to Rex “I go now. See T’resa.”
Rex watched him as he wandered over
to the tent lines, his bare feet splashing
in the soft dust —he had not worn his
stockman’s boots again since he arrived.
Soon the heat and the drone of the
insect sent Rex to sleep, and he lay in
the shade, not even waking when a Sister
tip-toed out and laid a rug over his legs.
Half a dozen of the patients started a
game of pitch-and-toss outside Rex’s tent
after tea that night, and he stood watch-
ing them in the fading light. Mosquitos
were abroad, and the little dark Sister
was whisking from tent to tent, putting
up nets, and spraying.
“Got your net up, Sergeant?” she said
to Rex as she passed him. As always,
the sweet, clean smell of her starched
apron and the touch of powder made
him feel-giddy and he wanted to lay his
lips against her hair.
“Come on, boys, nets up,” she called
to the players, and ducked as one of them
plucked a flower from a pawpaw tree,
and tossed it at her.
“Gripes, Sister, what about putting
our nets up for us? We’re sick.”
She made a savage grimace at him and,
crushing the bloom in her hand, held it
to Rex’s face. “Sweet, isn’t it? Like
tuberoses.”
Rex looked at the fine blue veins in
her wrist and mumbled, “Yes, like
tuberoses.”
He turned away and saw Peter stand-
ing at the side of the tent, watching in-
tently. As he caught Rex’s eye he smiled
and murmured, “Goo’ night, boss,” and,
when Rex nodded, they sat down to-
gether on a log to watch the pennies.
“Must be my first toss,” said one of
the players, spinning the six pennies high
into the dusty air. “Come up heads!
You beauts... four.”
“You’re unnatural,” said another, bend-
ing to pick up the tails. He took a
cigarette from his mouth, and flipped it
away; it lobbed almost at Peter’s feet.
The black boy stooped, picked it up, and
was putting it to his lips when Rex
knocked it out of his hand.
“Don’t do that,” he said, “it’s dirty.
Here, have one of these.” He took a
packet from his coat pocket, and gave
one to Peter, who tucked it behind his ear.
The pennies player walked over,
“What y’ mean —dirty?” he said, stand-
ing oyer Rex, “It’s good enough for the


V.
R f
# 9!
rrf\
n.
i-^j
m~.
X
||s
. :
m
Jtx£-.
ia i«w
iiaSfiwp**
"’ xnaiC
AS TODAY^
J 0 TOMORROW
/fM
///I
SfeStS
BE'SURE OF SHELL
YOU CAN
Tomorrow's Cars will reap
the benefit of Today's
ExtraordmarLj Advance
in Engine Lubrication.
MOTOR OIL
C 7&
THE SHELL COMPANY 0F x AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORfORATED IR ENBIAN D )
104-412
m
DO YOU KNOW?
Greek Goddess Athene took
teeth from the dragon slain by
Kadmos, scattered them like grain
on the ground and from the teeth
armed men sprang up.
|
■r-J
\
Indian proverb: "Be heed-
ful of thy teeth and thou
wilt show it in thy mouth.”
Kolynos floats away cling-
ing food particles the
starting point of decay.
m
Old Yorkshire custom.
When a child’s tooth comes
out, it must be dropped in
the fire and a rhyme recited,
to prevent misfortune.
3
K
zma
tv*'
<0
w
K
vJvf
w
Peruvian Charm a
necklace consisting of
puma teeth, human teeth,
bones of monkeys, birds’
beaks, etc. Add charm to
your smile by twice daily
brushing with refreshing
Kolynos Dental Cream.
Half an inch on a dry
brush is all you need to
make every tooth in your
head antiseptically clean.
Because Kolynos is con-
centrated half an inch on
a dry brush is plenty.
Have you a dental plate? One brushing with
Kolynos Dental Plate Cleanser will leave it as
bright as the day your dentist gave it to you.
m
w
Seventeenth Century dentists did all their work in
the town square, so that the populace could enjoy the
writhings of their patients. Today your dentist is the
best friend of your teeth —so visit him at least every six
months for a check-up, and remember to brush your
teeth twice daily with Kolynos —a dentist’s prescription
for the care of your teeth. Switch to Kolynos today.
bloody boong, anyway. They should be
glad to get that much.”
Rex felt the black boy start, and the
red rushed to his face.
“Ah, pull your head in,’ he said sav-
agely : and the other muttered All right,
don’t do your block.” As he walked
back to the game, Rex stood up, and
moved in the direction of the Red Cross
tent. Peter overtook him.
“Boss,” he said, “what that feller mean,
‘boong’?”
Rex looked up at the first pale stars
and said “I dunno. Just a name.’
Peter said “Teacher longa Mission
tell me white man, black man same, all
same God. Me. Cat’olic, look.” He
pulled an old boot-lace from his shirt.
On it hung two tiny silver medals, and a
little leaden saint. He displayed them
anxiously on his dark palm. “That feller
say wrong. Me not bush blackfella! ”
His voice was troubled, seeking assur-
ance. Hell, thought Rex, what am I
supposed to say? “P’raps that fella don t
know, Peter. You all right, don’t worry.”
He walked away and said over his shoul-
der, “I write letter. See you later.”
But he went to his tent and lay down
on his bed. Poor cow... didn’t know
whether he was coming or going.. .why
did they interfere? One tells him he’s all
right and another slaps him down. Well,
he couldn’t do anything about it.
He lit his lamp, and picked up an old
magazine but couldn’t read.
Beetles and mosquitos were hitting at
the lamp and getting in his hair. The
game had stopped and he threw his book
on his bed and went to stand outside the
ttent in the cool dusk, and watch the
darkness seep up from the hollows and
blot out the warm glow that still lingered
on the red, barren hills.
I N the still gloom the strident racket of
* cicadas was harsher than ever and over-
head the flying-foxes flapped in an un-
ending stream out of the east, dragging
after them the shadowy night. They
passed over quietly, like a flight of sound-
less black bombers; in the morning, the
ground beneath the mango trees would
be littered with half-eaten fruit, and the
trees starred with splashes of bright yel-
low where the big bats had been feeding.
Rex had shot them, often, in the colony
out on the river, but they never fell out of
the trees, just hung there screaming shrilly.
A slight noise behind him made him
hum around, and he saw Peter’s white
teeth gleam. He said “How’s things?”
Peter came closer with his noiseless
tread. “Goodnight, boss, he murmured.
“Me sad.”
“Why? T’resa not too good?”
The boy said nothing, but traced in-
visible lines in the dust with his bare
toes. Rex could hear, faintly, coming
from the Red Cross tent, a gramophone
playing “Melancholy Baby,” and the
half-heard refrain brought back things
only half-remembered that filled the
night with a sadness he could not define
... scattered memories of nights just like
this, on a high sand-hill over-looking the
sea, and his girl singing softly ; carnival
dances on New Year’s Eve, the streamers
and the lights, and the determined gaiety ;
booze and the fresh breeze early in the
morning, and the Cross fading slowly
into the sea.
He took out a smoke and lit it and in
the flare of the match he saw Peter’s black
was fixed on him in a meaningless stare.
“Poor cow,” he thought, “what the hell
can I say?” Aloud he said “Doctor he
come today . . . what he say?”
“I dunno,” Peter muttered. “T’ink
T’resa she die tonight, tomorrow, maybe.”
He said it very quietly, without self-
consciousness. What did he know?
thought Rex. How much did they know?
What secrets did they hide beneath the
eternal “no savvy” and meaningless grin?
Perhaps death came to them as a buzz-
ing in the ears and a warm silence, or a
blinding flash and a black curtain or just
sleep. They said it was like that with
animals —they didn’t think about it, or
about what happened after, and so didn’t
fear it . . . nice way to be! In the dark
trees by the creek the fireflies were busy
weaving their glittering decorations in the
branches, each one Morse-coding his pal-
pitating song of love into the shadow’s.
Rex picked out a couple of letters and
smiled.
He flipped his butt away, and watched
it describe a ’hot arc in the gloom, and
burst against a stone in a shower of tiny
sparks.
“Goo’ night, Peter,” he said. “Think
I’ll hit the hay.”
The boy said nothing, and Rex walked
into the tent. He could feel the black
eyes upon him. As he turned Peter
stooped and picked up the glowing butt
and inhaled deeply from it, then walked
aimlessly towards the creek.
Some time that night Rex was awak-
ened by a soft moaning from TTesa’s
tent. Hurricane-lamps cast awkward
shadows around the lines, and made the
pawpaws dance drunkenly. He heard the
swish of the Sister’s skirts, and the sub-
dued rattle of a basin or a bucket, and,
all the while, the soft animal sounds of
suffering.
He got up and peered down the lane
between the tents. Peter stood in the dis-
turbed darkness outside and, as the
Sister or the Doctor brushed by him, he
would make as if to speak—put out his
hand and half-open his lips —but what he
wanted to ask wouldn’t come. Perhaps
he didn’t even know himself, and while
o Continued on page 35.)
SONGS OF THE EAST COAST.
x.
I am of the east coast country;
not from the great cities that play Faust,
with flats for souls, but where the Queensland
hills
bite the blue skies with their emerald teeth,
and where the sun sets witches’ fires on the
waterline.
Here I was born.
Each morning I was Balboa or Magellan,
viewing the vastness of a new Pacific;
and I heard the anthem of the cargo slings
and the song of loading wool.
I have been cradled in the wide arms
of the sea, and from her breasts sucked life.
My slumber song was the tide’s thundering.
Once the moon called me across the waters
to a secret pool she knew behind the islands.
Now the moon of the east coast is my mistress;
often we have loved upon the rock-fret shore.
There are nights when there is no moon on the
east coast;
and nights when the moon is lost in the vistas
of harbor lights,
and the heavens sing not, envious of the tide’s
night-music.
11.
My father has fished in these waters.
I remember him unloading at' the water’s edge—
his chests filled with ice and vacant-eyed fish.
Other times he has come home with empty
baskets, to tell
of coral he had seen, and bright circuses of fish
in gay parade by rocky amphitheatres;
even a mermaid slipped through his starlit nets.
The wind has chanted in his sails of winter
shoals
stealthily finning where the turtle grass is long,
and he has heeded the wind song,
drawing in nets bespangled with his haul.
111.
A galleon once came to our coast.
There remains a handful of doubloons
upon a nameless reef.
Upon the cliff the sailors carved a face —
a woman’s features —a Madonna or a mother,
that when their sun-blind eyes would gaze no
more
across the fatal blue she may keep watch
and meet the answering stare of waiting eyes
in Callao, or Peru.
Of what avail the gold and cannon brought
through doldrum, tempest to this resting place?
Of what avail the images of stone? No trace
remains;
the moon and the sun and the waters have for-
gotten
what men they were,
for the moon is without memory and the
waters without heart.
IV.
We are the little people, who fish, and lift,
clear scrub, work shifts in slaughter-yards.
Our homes are square and patterned. Our lives
are patterned. A little room to sleep, to breed,
a pleasure room, maybe a dining-room,
and a sun verandah.
We do not understand the ways of the city.
My father went there once, and was bewildered
by the maze of ill-graced stones and the distrust
of men, the cold heart of a morning tram
flaunting its newsprint. And he returned
to the sea to find companionship.
In our town all men are brothers.
No man has marked a little plot of ocean
as his domain and jealously enclosed it;
each fisherman rules a kingdom without end.
V.
No longer the ships of the Dutch and the Ger-
mans come,
no longer the pearling lugger charts our shore;
and old men toil on wharves, the younger men
are pell-mell with the city men at war.
My father, once too old, knots slings again,
and draws his nets when the loading season’s
done.
And he will be fastening slings when the night
of war
wearies into half-light and uncertain morning.
And when the few return not home from war
there will be tears, and old men loading ships,
and women mending nets by midnight lamps.
VI.
Yet, who return will have much work to do.
From the waterfront will rise the fumes of tar
and paint; and ships, their war-time mourning
over,
will swim like proud swans down to anchorage,
white sail, coiled rope, red decks, to curb the
wind.
The sea will sing and the wind cajole the sails
with tales of fin-churned waters by the reef.
A new love will relume their hearts, a love
intense with exile.
They will come back to their quiet harbor
and seek no more of life than humble fare;
small rooms, the sunlit sea, good winter hauls,
for the people of the East country love well
simplicity.
O God, will I be one
to share these old loves with a new-forged
heart?
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


*
w
A
tismm
mm i
iHI«
IN PEACE AS IN WAR!
jdg£
■:.-v
□
Men of the fighting services
who have tested Sisalkraft
in the rain-soaked tropics
have proved its value as a
damp-resisting material
which has as many applica-
tions in peace as in war.
Today the entire output of
Sisalkraft is used in battle
areas for many purposes.
When Victory is won there will be just as many peace-
time uses for Sisalkraft—sheathing walls, sarking roofs,
lining troughs, sealing silage pits, poultry night arks, hay-
stack covers, concrete curing, damp-proof wrapping, etc.
F
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin."
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street
Auckland.
I
musrzo m
Service!
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 12,
AGA
«E 6 D. TRADE MARX
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD
Eit JSSi (foe. In N2J
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. 6. Webster A
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
QM. Agents; Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
e«g>
]\/[aking
MORE
out of
LESS
The modern way of
making a 5-ton Trailer
Axle by machining it
from a forge 4 Seamless
Steel Tube instead of
solid bar results in a
saving of 34% of
material. The 70 lbs.
of alloy-steel thus con-
served can be turned
R. a Me.
B 104
into vital munitions —
70 lbs. of extra muni-
tions for every Steel
Tube Axle to carry to
the battle front! When
peace comes,these same
economies will be avail-
able to speed up and
cut the cost of post-
war reconstruction.
fd
t i
s i
mm
ILL
///«5
"IS
K,’
I
m
II
1
1
I
The same artistic effects...
Range of colours only restricted
Beauty that endures .. . that is what you’ve always
wanted, and that is what Feltex floor-covering
gives; hut, until increased production is available
in the post-war period, an extensive colour range
is not possible. Despite this, each one of the
shades at present available could form the basis
of a charming decorative scheme
in your home.
your home. gt
feltex
Product of
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Plain and Marbled Feltex.
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR BONDS
F 1.37.16


&
'S
j)m>
djUljiX J
3>wi
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager. N.S.VV.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia Si New Zealand.
I
m
*
m
mm
m
9
m
It 'i
w
■ : ..-
r
tGUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
m
This Book Points the Way for
Australian Industry
IX THE POST WAR YEARS
Unquestionably Australia’s future
success, locally and overseas, will
depend upon its industrial policy.
“Looking Forward” sets forth in
plain and virile language the future
path that Australian industry should
follow.
“Looking Forward” demonstrates the
vital need for a spirit of partnership
between employer and employed and
indicates the contribution that both
must make to bring about this
desirable end.
Rarely, if ever, has such a forth-
right statement upon Australia’s
industrial future been made.
Virile, constructive, sincere, it merits
the earnest consideration of em-
ployer, employed, and all affected by
or engaged in industry.
The first edition of this stimulating
book appeared on October 5, and was
cleared in THREE DAYS. The se-
cond edition is now ready and is pub-
lished at the nominal price of 1/-, so
that it shall be within the reach of
all.
m.
LOOKING FORWARD"
A VITAL BOOK THAT HOLDS A
MESSAGE FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN
Get Your Copy Now
AT ALL LEADING BOOKSELLERS
and at Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne
Rex watched he turned away and faded
noiselessly into the shadows.
IN the morning T’resa’s tent was empty.
1 The hard iron bed was stripped down
to the mattress, and the flaps were rolled
back. Rex breakfasted and shaved, and
was standing out in the warm early sun-
shine watering the young pawpaws when
Peter came up from the creek.
He had his stockman’s boots on, and
walked awkwardly. In one hand he car-
ried a bundle wrapped in a red-spotted
neckerchief, and in the other the
woomera. His face was blank, impassive,
and Rex could not even guess what was
going on behind the smoky eyes.
“T’resa die las’ night,” he said, as he
approached closer to Rex. No more
just that, and said it as if he were remark-
ing on’the weather. “What does he feel?”
thought Rex. “Yes, Peter, I know. I’m
very sorry.”
The boy said no more, but stood still
and looked at the white man. The little
dark Sister bustled by, raised her brows at
Rex, and said to Peter “Off now, Peter?”
He answered, without taking his eyes
off Rex, “Yes, missus,” and then they
were enclosed in a little world of uncom-
fortable silence, around which the activity
of the hospital flowed unnoticed. Rose’s
husband walked up from the creek with
two 'of his mangy dogs, which scuffled a
hole in the dust outside the lubra’s tent
and settled down to their scratching ; an
ambulance pulled up at the Administra-
tion block, and four or five new patients
got out; a Sister called out clearly and
gaily to one of the orderlies. It all passed
over their heads.
“What you do now, Peter? Go home?”
“Yes, go along Mission, p’raps,” said
Peter.
“How far —one day, two days?” Rex
was glad to find something to talk about,
something that would lead the conversa-
tion away from the empty tent down
the line. He felt that the boy wanted to
ask him something, and he wouldn’t
know what to say in answer. “You walk,
or you got horse?”
Peter stared up the road. “I get ride
longa truck?” he said, “no go there” —
waving to the shimmering eternity of
bush and hills behind the hospital—“bad
blackfella there, maybe kill this boy.” His
black fingers wandered up and down the
smooth haft of the woomera. “TTesa
dead. My wife.”
Rex said hurriedly “Your piccaninnies
—they live longa Mission?”
“Yes, longa Mission—learn sing, Bible,
Peter ’n’ Paul. Boss, you tell me some-
t’ing?”
“Here it is!” thought Rex. “Yes, Peter ”
he said casually, “I tell you if I know.”
Peter turned away and looked at the
empty tent, and then at the ground, a
furrow in his brow. “Boss,” he said
softly, “they put TTesa, my wife, longa
graveyard?”
“Yes,” said Rex, “I suppose so.”
“They put her longa grave with sol-
dier, boss; he no touch her?”
Rex stared at him astonished. A
kookaburra was croaking hoarsely in a
tree near by, and snatches of talk and
laughter drifted from surrounding tents,
but between them, the white and the
black, the dim past and- the present, there
could be only silence.
“Holy smoke!” he thought, “so that’s
it! Poor cow” .. .
As he looked into Peter’s eyes he was
touched by the plea he saw there, the
struggling understanding that was caught
between two worlds so totally different,
and unable to believe either one ; and his
anger rose against the people who had
stripped the boy of his code and given
him in return something half understood
and a troubled memory of somethihg his
people had believed in since time began.
He put his hand on the black shoulder
and said softly “No, Peter, no one touch
TTesa . . . you don’t worry, she safe.
She sleep all right, I tell Father Riley.”
“T’ank you,” said Peter simply. “I
go now.”
He held out the woomera. “For you,”
he said. “You good man.” He turned
abruptly and shuffled out towards the
road, and was soon lost to sight amongst
the dusty trees.
Rex stood looking after him with the
woomera in his hand. A good man . . .
first time anyone had called him that . . .
funny! The little dark Sister walked past
him, stopped and came back.
“He gone?” she inquired, and looked
in the direction of Peter’s tent.
“Yes, he’s gone,” said Rex, “he gave
me this.”
“What, his old bow and arrow? What
a card!”
“Yes, his old bow and arrow,” said
Rex, more to himself than to her, and
she hurried away. “His supple black
fingers made it while his poor damned be-
wildered head tried to grapple with some-
thing he couldn’t understand ; and now
he’s given it to me for something I didn’t
do for him, and I’ll just heave it away.
As you say. Sister, what a card!”


C/lliiiEX
KEROSENE
LUBRICATING OILS
CAWiEX
CIiTEX
MOTOR & AVIATION SPIRIT
The long history of
pioneering, embrac-
ing every major de-
velopment in the
Petroleum Industry
is climaxed by the
high-grade Caltex
products available to
every user of Mech-
anical Transport.
IF YOU WOULD MAKE SURE
INSIST ON
CALTEX PRODUCTS
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION *
I N AL L ITS PHASES
siw
M
SifSSS
A
I
i
Owing to the disruption in transport, and shortages of
manpower, refrigeration is playing an increasingly
important part in the foodstuffs industry, from the
primary producer to the finished goods.
ZEROHEAT Low Pressure Refrigerators, either auto-
matic, electric or engine driven, are made for walk-in
cool rooms, food storage cabinets, milk cooling and
storage, or mobile units.
There is a ZEROHEAT Refrigerator Unit suitable
for every use.
Agents:
HENRY BERRY & CO,
(A’ASIA), LIMITED.
EGKERSLEY & SONS PIL LID-
SOUTH MELBOURNE .... VICTORIA
THE FIGHT FOR HUON
By “EK BUM.”
ON August 15, 1943, General
Blarney, with Major-General Berry-
man as C. 0.5., established H.Q-
at Dobodura in Papua, where
First Australian Corps was presently to
be found under Lieut.-General Herring,
Salamaua had fallen. The first moves
were being made in the campaign which
was to clear the enemy from south-
eastern New Guinea and the Huon
Peninsula. The Ninth Division, under
Major-General Wootten, was ready to go
ashore east of Lae. The equally historic
Seventh Division—Major-General George
Vasey’s Own—was, in the Pom Pom Val-
ley’s Old Man aerodrome near Moresby,
undergoing the process of being bap-
tised as the first Airborne Aussie division,
It was the Ninth’s 20th Brigade—of
yore it belonged to the Seventh—which
first set foot on the Peninsula, at 6.30
a.m. on September 4, 1943, with units of
the 532nd U.S. Boat and Shore Regiment.
The 20th had taken Rommel’s first blows,
It was the pioneer formation of Tobruk,
Its units were the last of the Old Inhabi-
tants when the siege ended. Its 2/17th
Battalion had won the first Australian
V.C. of the Second World War—Edmon-
son’s. Its 2/13th Battalion had glorious
memories of Alamein.
Tllo . r • , • , . ,
, ™, e >T h ■ c t a h mpaiBn t
flol f ‘fi® , l ‘7
£*"» of t fl ” J " ns,e F-WR T
issued as the Christmas book of the
T P :± r 19 d 4 Wit o h itS USUaI variety ° £
art, verse and humor.
Ninth and Seventh
T , ... , j, „ a , •. . XT .
It did not fall to the lot of the Ninth
o take Lae. Afterwards the division
learned with wry grins that its bombard-
ment preliminary to attack had driven
. Bl l Sf de , °f
which forestalled it while units of the
Nmth wrestled wffh muddy river cross-
mgs. However, the 25th s Brigadier K. W.
Eather- PharLap to his troops-and his
jeep won by a neck and hauled down the
Japanese flag from Lunamen Hill under
the very eyes of the 2/32nd Battalion,
which* was crossing the Butibum River,
and which had been an original battalion
°f. before being transferred to the
Ninth Division.
Lae had fallen on September 6, after
a 12-days’ campaign in which there had
been much mud and sweat and some
fierce small engagements. In one of
these, at Whittaker’s Plantation on Sep-
tember 12, Private Richard Kelliher, of
the 2/25th Battalion, had won a V.C. in
action against Japanese Marines. *
The casualties of the Ninth had been
eight officers and 69 other ranks killed,
25 officers and 372 other ranks wounded
and three officers and 70 other ranks
missing. Those of the Seventh Division
numbered 270, including 38 dead, one
half of the total being caused by sickness,
There was little breathing space for
the Ninth. It was decided that the 20th
Brigade, which had been first ashore in
the Lae landing at Red Beach, should
on September 21 sail from the mouth of
the Burep River, turn the eastern tip of
the Huon Peninsula and in the darkness
of the following morning land on Scarlet
Beach, north of Finschhafen, in an inlet
between the Sang and the Siki Rivers.
It was a perilous undertaking. The
veteran brigade was called on to make a
beachhead on a narrow strip of coast
quarter of a mile wide, dominated by the
ranges, which rose up in a tangle of
timber and precipice to Sattelberg, more
than 3000 feet above. The landing beach
was 900 yards long, 30 feet to 40 feet wide.
The embarkation beaches were bombed.
But the trl P was made through the night
uneventfully. At 4.45 a.m. on September
after a preliminary bombaid-
mfnL the 2/13th and 2/17th waded
ashore in the face of fire from well-con-
structed bunkers. Scouts of the 532nd
U -S. Regiment went with the first wave to
put up range lights.
The first wave landed a little off
. , mar k J the third hit its accurate
Soon the 2/13th, 2/15th and
2/17th were ashore, the first of them
nearest Finschhafen at Heldsbach. Units
of the 2/43rd joined the others. The 22nd
Militia Battalion (Fourth Infantry Bri-
gade) marched to Dreger Harbor by
ft ' h t hara „„.s hv thp enprnv
battalhins’had
• , c
carried through the tortuous actions of
I he s P urf ; aad cliff faces culminating in the
terrible little battles of Kakakog. They
were ma i n i y fought by the 2/13th, while
the 2 /15th cleared the fords of Ilebbe
Creek and the 2/17th got ready to cross
the Bumi River and | dvanced through
Salankau on the main objective. In the
j ate a fternoon this grand unit (Edmon-
son ’ s ) fi ad cleared Finschhafen and had
made contact with the 22nd Militia south
of the Ma Riyer beyond the town .
The Enemy Retires
Withdrawing, the enemy concentrated
near]y 6700 men in the area t 0 the north
and no rth-east of Finschhafen. The effec-
tjve f orce a t first immediately facing this
formidable assembly was the 2/43rd Bat-
talion, but the 2/17th was requisitioned
f or operations preliminary to a main
a ttack and to a period of fighting by
A.I.F. pockets, which, as they wrestled
amid the jungle, cliff and bamboo, some-
times had to be supplied by the R.A.A.F.
The fame of McLarn’s Detachment (A
an d B companies, 2/17th) and A Com-
pany, 2/43rd of Jivevaneng will live in the
stories of the campaign into which the
2/15th was presently drawn,
Reinforcements consisted of the 24th
Brigade and the 2/2nd M.-G. Battalion,
less C Company, which had been with
the 20th Brigade fpm the landing.
The force was complete by October
15, just in time. The enemy counter-
attacked next morning, hitting at the
2/17th near Jivevaneng, to be re-
pulsed bloodily in an all-day fight. An
enemy landing from barges failed disas-
trously—the 2/43rd and the 2/4th Light
A.-A. Regiment knew Something of that,
as did the newly-arrived 2/28th.
The same day a whole enemy regimen-
tal group was passing between dispersed
positions held by the 2 / 3rd Pioneers,
There followed anxious days, when a
wedge was driven between the 20th and
24th brigades, and reserves—2/28th and
2/32nd—ceased to be reserves. The mam
dressing station of the 2/Bth Field Am-
bulance was under heavy mortar and
small-arms fire and had to be evacuated,
Three companies of the 2/3rd Pioneers
were cut off and lost sight of for a time
till found by aircraft.
The R.A.A.F. did a grand job. And it
was needed, for, generally speaking, the
24th Brigade was a thing of bits and
pieces in the days before October 20,
each detachment fending for itself, and
the whole cut off directly from Div. FI.Q.
until the night of October 18-19.
On the night of October 20-21 the 26th
Brigade, completing the Ninth Division,
sailed into Langemarck Bay and took
over a sector from Siki Cove to a bend
on the Sattelberg road, north of Helds-
bach. On October 25, his pockets wiped
out, his most desperate measures a failure,
the enemy gave up his last attempts to
re-take Finschhafen. His casualties were
conservatively estimated at 1500 ; 679
of his dead were actually counted. Ninth
Division losses from October 16-28 were
three officers and 46 other ranks killed
and 179 other casualties.
„ xl _. ~
From tins stage proceedings were
organised under the First Australian
Corps, Tieut.-General Morshead, which
had on Oct. 8. relieved the 2nd Australian
Corps The remainder of the 4th Militia
Brigade had been brought m and assigned
to protect the base at Fmschhafen-Lange-
maick Bay. Hundreds of native earners
had arrived in E.S.B. boats.
.. J. vo. p a ii-
a i ** ovx , , „,, „ . ,
r-.i* le , en d October the /13th and
cleared out the enemy pocicet
astride of the Sattelberg road east of
Jivevaneng Before long the 20th Brigade
was relieved by the 26th, after over seven
weeks ol almost solid action.
With great secrecy Matilda tanks, under
Major Hordern, were brought up, their
noise covered nightly by artillery fire.
The 26th Brigade was to take the Sattel-
berg Ridge and exploit towards the Wareo
with the support of the nine tanks. The
20th and 24th Brigades were to continue
active patrolling and diversionary work;
the 4th Militia Brigade was to patrol
offensively to the west towards Lae and
try to find the enemy’s southern flank.
The attacks had to be made
through bamboo, up precipices and
flooded creek banks and finally up open
kunai-covered slopes. The 2/48th, 2/23rd
and 2/24th were the heroes of the initial
part of the operations, and a company
of the 2/32nd did useful diversionary
work, which at Pabu dislocated plans for
a powerful enemy counter-attack,
There were, however, heavy counter-
blows north of the Sang River. They
were dealt with mainly by the 2/43rd and
2/28th. In all the assaults the enemy fell
short of his objectives and lost heavily
under mortar and artillery fire.
On November 22 the 2/48th was within
600 yards of Sattelberg, on the southern
side, but a landslide across the road
blocked the tanks. Two days later the
2/48th and 2/23rd swung westward to
seize the 3200-foot height. They fought
their way up inch by inch. At nightfall
the 2/48th was only 150 yards from the
summit. It was here that Sergeant Tom
Derrick won his V.C. and cleared the
way for the final rush by three battalions
-2/23rd, 2] 24th and 2/48th, whose
troops at 1 p.m. that day were admiring
the scenery from the Mission,
A ,
I ~ e . Advance
„ ,n the drive northwards it was the 26th
® r ‘ Sad % wh , lah ST 1 T De ‘
B ’, the /?‘ h Brigade which cap-
tmed the steep Christmas Hdls and both
7' d Ses> °Pf nm 8 the Wareo-Gusika track
n T ., ec f,? l D . , , , ~
f e 4th Militia Brigade advanced north
fr°™ Gus.ka with six tanks and guns,
On December 3 the 22nd Battalion across
'he.nver found a strong enemy bunker
Position protected by a minefield The
tan . ks u ? roke f . 1th !jßrunt of the resistance
tln d helped he -.9/46th to break through,
This advance had the strongest artillery
su W° rt of the whole campaign-4000
rounds were fired m a day.
B December 20 enem t resistance in
, he Masaweng River a / ea had been
broken , he 4(h Bri ade was on Fortjfl .
cation Point The 20th Bri ade o£ the
Njnth then moved through the 4th and
, ook (he ui , The 24th Brigade
rdieved , he 26th Brigade on Satte , berg .
Xhc worst was now over. By January
15, 1944, sio had been captured after a
long march along trails on which broken
equipment and smashed bodies, and
wrec k ed barges on the beaches, testified
to efficacy of the R.A.A.F. and naval
preparation. The Ninth Division, its job
comp l e ted, handed over to the Fifth,
The Ninth had won a complete victory,
j n f our mC nths exactly it had routed the
enemy and demoralised him, and in
the Finschhafen campaign alone had
caused him 7750 battle casualties out of
a total force of 12,635, apart from sick-
ness. Only 4300 of the original Japanese
force remained, to be withdrawn, sick
and j n jeopardy, towards Saidor. There,
on January 2, the Americans had landed
without meeting resistance, blocking the
roa d between Sio and Bogadjim.
But the Ninth had paid dearly. It had
lost 16 officers and 267 men killed in a
total of 1028 battle casualties, apart from
a heavy toll o&sick since the Finschhafen


? v i
•v
i
Ik
WC CARRY 0/Y7
THANKS TO THE PLANTERS OF CEYLON,
INDIA AND NEW GUINEA AND THE INDUS-
TRIAL CHEMISTS OF U.S.A.
The United Nations must still get back the great majority of
their rubber-bearing areas from the Jap. But all the industries
connected with American oil, rubber and industrial chemistry,
together with the rubber planters of Ceylon, India and New
Guinea, Have helped to save the day —one with synthetic rubber
production, the other “forcing” every possible pound of crude
rubber from their plantations.
Buy
S/~
National
Savings
Stamps
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
w
INSULATED
CABLES
Australia will be getting her share of synthetic to use
with the limited crude stocks, and soon OLYMPIC
and other tyres made in Australia will contain a per-
centage of synthetic.
Olympic tyres
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS Of’tHE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA %
N
JziY'
/ // /
L' -i
a
K /
w
.-toft v\V®
VI. %. *k*t
C
cO<o.<i
" e^ V vrff e \ V»i 4 V TxV e ' £ V V 4
* v \o< ' J& x V vtv& ;
V tvV* V* ...vtV' V
*^w
O^'
Vtv
iB
** V «^ e Vo s
AV
o^
i°*
iS® C^ tVS#
c **’ *
tv° vv
°*t>
,( 1 ’
V^\ ( oVV»
A^ 1
c
t v
-1*
v^ e -- ‘
.v,S
vfA v ,0^
sv*
Cl 3-44
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP! BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
battle began, and 356 killed out of 1575
battle casualties since September 4.
Advance to Sio
The Fifth was commanded by Major-
General Ramsay, who had been C.O.
Artillery to the Ninth in the Middle East.
Its only blooded units were those of its
7th Brigade, which had had more than a
bit of battle experience at Milne Bay in
August, 1942, and its 29th Brigade had
seen a little action in a drive into Sala-
maua.
The Fifth’s. advance, through terrible
country, was led by the Fourth Battalion,
with a troop of the 2/14th Field Regi-
ment and the Eighth Field Company.
The Fourth and the 30th, which relieved
the Fourth Battalion at Malasenga, and
the 35th, which relieved at Yupna, all
met the same conditions. They fought
no pitched battles, but 1291 Japanese dead
were counted along the track, including
300 killed in running tights, and the rest
found dead —some very dead —along the
track between January 24 and February
3. An inland patrol into the mountain
areas by the 35th to Tapen, 4500 feet
above sea-level, wiped out the enemy
there, causing another 1250 casualties.
No Fifth Division casualty list has been
published. But within a fortnight of the
arrival of the Eighth Brigade at Saidor
30 per cent, were evacuated sick.
The Seventh on the Ramil
It was the 21st Brigade, Seventh Divi-
sion—2/14th and 2/16th — which carried
out the first operations in the Markham-
Ramu campaign; the 2/6th Australian
Commando Force which implemented the
first substantial advance. It pushed on
from its first stamping ground, along with
“B.” Company Papuan Infantry, to the #
fight in the tall kunai at Kaiapit against
the spearhead of General Nakai’s force.
Then the 2/27th (21st Brigade) was flown
to Kaiapit. Soon the 2/16th was involved
in the little-known country round
Sagerak. There was delay in the A.I.F.
advance while the 25th Brigade was
flown to Kaiapit on September 27-9.
The chase of the enemy followed, the
2/16th leading across the Umi, with the
2/6th Commandos on the flank.
The advances were full of epic inci-
dents after October 1, when Major-
General Vasey, arriving in the first trans-
port ’plane, established his H.Q. at Gusap.
There was the fording of Gusap, swift-
moving and steep-banked, by the 2/16th,
many of whose men were knocked off
their feet by boulders hurtling along
in the current, to take Dumpu and
begin the Ramu campaign. There
were all the tortuous wanderings
and probings of the 2/27th in the
high Finisterres and the Faria River
valley along with the ‘ 2/6th Com-
mandos. There were the warm scraps of
the 2/14th on the Uria banks. There
were the outpost frays of John’s Knoll
and the transactions of Trevor’s Ridge,
where the 2/16th relieved the 2/27th,
after Lieut. Bob Clampett—“Shaggy” to
his troops —had made a “recce” along
the sheer narrow track, sometimes with a
drop of thousands of feet half a pace
sideways, pausing 5000 ft. up beside
a wire fence, inside which Japs were
chattering like galahs.
The ridge provided a fine view—the
visitors could see everything, even to the
traffic in Madang Harbor, 40 miles away.
The position was called Shaggy Ridge
after the bold leader who pioneered it—
“the one-man-front,” stamping ground of
Don Mcßae’s 12th Platoon (“Don’s
Post”), Bert Sutton’s 10th Platoon (“Bert’s
Post”) and Young’s and Levett’s Patrols,
each of which had a post named for them
to honor the 2/14th Battalion.
Here was fought the knife-edge battle
of The Pimple. The Pimple was pounded
by 3500 shells from the twenty-fives of
the 2/4th Field Artillery down below be-
fore the 2/16th scaled the precipitous
rock face, made their way along a track
so narrow that between drop (thousands
of feet) and wall there was barely room
for men to move two abreast, and fought
their way from foxhole to foxhole, even-
tually blasting out the last pillboxes be-
fore the summit.
Over this battle a small Piper Cub
“recce” aircraft hovered so close to the
commotion that a flash of red could be
seen in it. It was the staff capband of
Major-General Vasey.
There was a grim series of fights for
other Pimples—Snipers’ Pimple, Inter-
mediate Snipers’ Pimple, Green Snipers’
Pimple—until the summit was reached at
McCaughey’s Knoll, named after the gal-
lant commander of the platoon which
made it: Lieut. S. M. McCaughey. He
lost his life.
Bogadjim and the Sea
By January, 1944, the force was
whittled down. The 21st and 25th
Brigades were flown out to Moresby
and the mainland. The 18th Brigade
(the 2/2nd Pioneers remaining behind
with it) relieved the 21st Brigade on
Shaggy Ridge. Its great task was to
take the wide-thrown positions of the
Kankiryo Saddle, the highest point of the
muletrack from the Ramu to the Jap
motor road at Bogadjim.
Here it was that the 2/12th Battalion
led the flank approach to Prothero, drag-
ging itself along the cliff faces with rope
and lawyer-vine. Here the 2/10th ad-
vanced along Cam’s Saddle, and the 2/9th
attacked along the north of Shaggy Ridge
to link with the 2/12th. These battles
of cliff faces, mud and jungle along the
edges of dizzy heights were some of the
most remarkable in the history of any
war. They closed the Ramu campaign
—the 15th Brigade had meanwhile raided
Kesawai.
The rest was easier. Major-General
A, J. Boase’s 11th Division took over
from the Seventh on April B—the8 —the 11th
included some of the pionfeers of Milne
Bay. Contact was made with the Ameri-
cans from Saidor, and 450 men of the
Eighth Brigade were landed at Bogadjim,
including the Fifth and Eighth Divisions.
On Anzac Day, 1944, a patrol of the
57/60th and the 30th occupied Madang
without a fight. On April 26 the 30th
entered Alexishafen. By May 15 only
carrier tfoops remained in the Ramu
Valley. By June 12 the 35th Battalion
(Militia) was in Hansa Bay, in posses-
sion of dumps as great as any captured
in New Guinea.
From then onward a curtain fell over
Australian operations. Now re-equipped,
largely retrained, armed with more
modern weapons, covered by the most
modern aircraft and artillery in abun-
dance, and with shipping and mercantile
marine support such as they had never
dreamed of in the pioneering days of
loribawa, the great fighting divisions of
the A.I.F. stand ready for new adven-
tures which cannot be long delayed.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Interlude in Chivalry
Bushranging was never the
flourishing industry “north of
twenty-eight” that it had been in
New South Wales and the sister
provinces of Tasmania and Victoria.
It was not until Alpin Macpherson—
“the Wild Scotchman”—took to the bush
in the early ’sixties and staged the melo-
dramatic and half-witted stunts which
gave him a brief notoriety that Queens-
land produced any sort of a bushranger
at all, but soon after his capture and
sentence of twenty years’ penal servitude
had put an end to his activities another
highwayman started in business and
enjoyed a brief and more or less harm-
less career. His speedy capture and con-
finement almost completes the record
of Queensland bushranging, but there
were such unusual and remarkable fea-
tures connected with his taking as to give
to Mr. Hunter, alias Russel, a distinction
that is wholly his own. His arrest by
Sub-inspector Elliott provides us with an
interlude in chivalry almost unique in
the story of Australian bushranging.
j N the first six months of the year 1866
‘ Hunter’s mail-robbing exploits were
the cause of a good deal of excitement
in Queensland, and the last of them —the
sticking-up of the down mail from
Taroom to Condamine—had curiously
interesting features. When he bailed up
the coach he took all the letter-bags
away with him, but gave the mailman a
a letter addressed to the editor of the
“Burnett Argus” with a number of
crossed cheques—their total value was
£4500 —which were the proceeds of
earlier robberies.
The police could find no trace of
Hunter, but three weeks later he was
seen by a landowner at Wallan, about
thirty miles away from Condapiine, who
at once sent off a messenger with the in-
formation. Next morning Sub-inspector
Elliott and a blacktracker rode out to
Wallan, whilst two troopers and another
tracker patrolled the road to Roma.
At Wallan Elliott learned that the
wanted man had stolen a valuable horse
and made off into the bush, so he
borrowed another blackboy and started
after him. They followed a false scent
for twenty miles, but at last struck the
right track, which took them to an out-
station on Wallan known as Begandilla,
where they learned that a solitary rider of
Hunter’s description had called a couple
of days before and had asked the way to
Dulacca and Bendemere,
At Bendemere Mr. Swan, the manager
of the station, told Elliott that he had
seen Hunter at a bark humpy about a
mile away on the previous evening, and
after borrowing fresh horses the party
rode on.
Elliott was armed with a breech-loading
rifle and a revolver, whilst the two blacks
each carried a carbine, and Jacky Lister
had a revolver as well. Swan was un-
armed. When they came in sight of the
hut they saw a man making down to-
wards-the cheek carrying a saddle on his
head and a double-barrelled carbine in
his hand.
“That’s him!” the blackboy George
shouted. “Shoot him, Mr. Elliott.”
Elliott called on the bushranger to
halt and surrender, and Hunter turned
to face them. “What for?” he asked,
“Have you got a warrant?”
Elliott unslung his rifle and shouted
“If you don’t surrender at once I’ll fire!”
Hunter dropped the saddle and made
a dash for the timber. Elliott fired at
him but missed, and from the shelter of
a tree trunk the bushranger returned the
fire, his bullet hitting the ground and
splashing the dirt up into Elliott’s face.
The blackboy George, reckoning discre-
tion the better part of valor, sought cover
in the creek, but Jacky Lister remained
with the police officer.
After the first shots Elliott had dis-
mounted and began to fire over the
saddle, keeping his horse between him-
self and his enemy, but presently one of
Hunter’s bullets struck the animal in the
foreleg and it broke away. The two men
were about eighty yards apart, and sud-
denly Elliott called out that if Hunter
would come forward and have a talk he
would not shoot.
“All right,” answered the bushranger.
“I’ll come out if you’ll give me your word
you won’t take advantage of me, and
won’t fire again until I’ve got back. And
I’ll pledge myself to do the same by you.”
The two men came out into the open
and stood facing one another with a dis-
tance between them of about ten yards.
Elliott urged Hunter to surrender quietly,
pointing out that it would pay him to
do so, and make matters very much
easier for him at his trial. At first Hunter
seemed rather inclined to follow this
advice, and wanted to know whether, if
he surrendered, he might ride with his
captor unhandcuffed and carrying his gun,
but Elliott could not agree.
The bushranger shook his head. “Well,
I won’t surrender,” he said. “I’ve robbed
three or four mails, and I suppose I’d be
served out with twenty years. I think
I’d rather be shot.”
“Well, Hunter,” Elliott said, “as we
can’t come to terms we’d better fight it
out. You can go back to your tree and
I’ll go back to mine.”
He began to walk backwards. Hunter
kept his gun pointing towards the ground
and called out: “You needn’t distrust
me; I’ll keep my word. You can turn
your back on me with perfect safety.”
He turned himself and walked quietly
back to his tree-trunk.
The firing began again, but after a
while Swan, who had gone for reinforce-
ments, came back with another man, both
of them armed, and the bushranger was
outflanked.
"Lend ash y'r teeth , mate!"
Elliott again came out into the open
and begged him to surrender as the odds
against him were too great.
“You stop those fellows firing and I’ll
talk to you,” Hunter responded.
He walked up to Elliott and the inspec-
tor asked him “Do you surrender?”
“No, I don’t want to surrender,” re-
plied Hunter. “You shoot me. I’d rather
have it that way.”
However, after some persuasion, he was
induced to extend Jiis wrists for the hand-
cuffs, explaining that his ammunition was
done. It ended the most singular en-
counter between police and bushrangers
in the whole story of Australia.
Burwood Bushrangers
IN 1826 Major Lockyer took a party
of soldiers and convicts to King
George’s Sound, where he founded a
settlement at Albany, in order to anti-
cipate a French intrusion on the con-
tinent of Australia, and this was almost
the last step in acquiring it for the British
Empire. Captain Cook had annexed the
east coast to Great Britain in 1770, and
in 1788 Governor Phillip took over “the
country inland westward as far as 135deg.
long. E., as well as over the islands
adjacent in the Pacific Ocean” within the
latitudes of Cape York and South Cape
in Van Diemen’s Land. In 1825 Gov-
ernor Darling’s commission extended this
territory to 129deg. E. long. The occu-
pation was completed when the Swan
River colony in Western Australia was
founded in 1829.
The Major’s most notable mark in his-
tory was, of course, the King George’s
Sound affair, but earlier in the year men-
tioned he had distinguished himself
by capturing a party of bushrangers
close to where the present Sydney suburb
of Burwood is situated. The place then
had the name it bears today, and was the
estate and home of Dr. Dulhunty.
“Two daring bushrangers named
Mustin and Watson,” says a newspaper
of the period, “were captured on Mon-
day last, between four and five o’clock in
the morning, near Burwood, six or seven
miles distant from Sydney, by Major
Lockyer, J.P., and a party of military,
together with Constables Sutland and
O’Meara (and some others) of the police.”
On the Friday night they had stuck
up a publican named Coles at his inn on
the Liverpool road, and looted his prop-
erty pretty extensively. The newspaper
goes on:
“It appeared also that the same party
paid a visit to Burwood, the residence of
Dr. Dulhunty, on the following night,
Saturday. The noise of dogs barking
alarmed the family, and Mr. Dulhunty,
jun., immediately proceeded to the hut
of the Government servants, at some dis-
tance from the house, which he found,
on his entrance, to be filled with strange
men. Some excuse was set up that they
belonged to a neighboring road party,
and Mr. Dulhunty returned to the house,
when, after some time, receiving a second
alarm from one of his family, having
seen a flash from a gun or pistol in the
direction of the hut, he again went out,
armed with a pistol and stick, and, find-
ing the same party, he ordered them
away, when, using some imprecations,
they rushed out and one of them snapped
a pistol at Mr. Dulhunty, which, fortu-
nately, missed fire. A scuffle ensued, in
which Mr. Dulhunty was knocked down
and beaten by one of the ruffians with
the butt-end of a pistol. He afterwards
ran towards the house to procure assist-
ance, and on his way perceived a man
getting over a fence, at whom he pre-
sented a pistol, and, happening to slip
at the moment, the pistol went off as
he fell, and the fellow escaped, but it is
thought received his death wound on that
occasion, and was hidden in the bush by
his companions, as he has not since been
discovered.
“The robbers succeeded in effecting
their escape on Saturday night, and on
Sunday morning, previous to coming to
town to give information to the police,
Mr. Dulhunty discovered part of a steel
watchchain, with a gold seal and keys
appended, lying close to the fence, and
near, as he stated, to a pool of blood.
The chain and seal, together with a
watch subsequently found with the
prisoners, were identified by Mr. Coles
as those taken from his premises on the
preceding night.
“On Monday morning, the constables,
accompanied by Major Lockyer, as a
magistrate, and a party of soldiers,
apprehended the prisoners in the bush,
about a mile and a half from Burwood.
They were concealed under two fallen
trees, with a tarpaulin and brushwood
over them, and, on being searched, the
money taken from Mr, Coles was found
in their possession when they were
secured. Major Lockyer said to Mustin,
‘You are the man Mr. Dulhunty beat last
night,’ and he replied T am,’ and, after
finding the money, when Major Lockyer
directed a further search to be made
about the place, Mustin said, ‘Oh! there
is no occasion ; you have got enough to
hang fifty men.’ The boots taken from
the house of Mr. Coles were identified
at the police station on the prisoner
Watkins, and, upon the Superintendent
ordering them to be taken off, some of
the bystanders heard Mustin say, ‘You’ll
make a liar of your mother now ; she
always said you’d be hanged in your
shoes, but you won’t.’ They were yester-
day fully committed.”
Incidentally, when The King’s School,
Parramatta, opened its doors six years
afterwards, the Major’s son, Charles
Lockyer, was one of its first pupils.
Round the Harbor
THE most remarkable thing that had
hitherto occurred in their small
township was when Sydneysiders
woke up on a May morning in
1831 and found a most extraordinary
little ship anchored in the Cove.
It was a vessel with two singular
wooden semicircles enclosing a pair of
paddles attached to each beam amid-
ships, and a frilled funnel nearly as tall
as her two masts ; a polite and capable
retired officer of the Royal Navy was
in command. Bill Hart’s aeroplane, or
Ross Smith’s, or Bert Hinkler’s, had no-
thing on the Sophie Jane, the first steamer
in Port Jackson, as she lay at anchor
between Benelong and Dawes’ Point that
sunny forenoon 113 years ago.
Lieutenant Biddulph, R.N., part-owner
and skipper, decided to put her on the
Sydney-Newcastle run as a passenger-
carrier. Being keenly alive to the advan-
tages of advertisement, he invited a repre-
sentative company of Sydney citizens, in-
cluding Mr. George Howe, proprietor
and literary staff of the “Gazette,” to an
excursion round the harbor in the new
steamer. Mr. Howe did the Sophia Jane
proud in his best style, as the following
extracts from his gorgeous account of
the day’s doings testify. The Governor,
Sir Richard Bourke, had breakfasted with
the commander whilst the ship cruised
around Darling Harbor, Goat Island and
Dawes’ Point, but the big event of the
day came off later on.
“Soon after 11 o’clock,” chronicles the
enthusiastic George, “a signal gun having
been previously fired, the Sophia Jane
loosed her moorings in Sydney Cove and
began her adventurous journey. The
manner in which she threaded her way
through the shipping without any assist-
ance whatever filled everyone with ad-
miration. She crept in and out with the
utmost exactness, as if she had possessed
all the attributes of a rational creature;
and when fairly free from the Cove her
engines were allowed unlimited play, and
away she went on the wings of the wind.
“Her velocity was astounding. She actu-
ally flew through the water. The ordinary
motion of a vessel leaving the harbor,
compared withThers, was absolutely con-
temptible.
“Before the passengers well knew
they had started they found themselves
abreast of Pinchgut Island ; and ere they
had digested their astonishment they
looked up and lo! they were in the very
mouth of the Heads! Here a gun was
fired and Mr. Watson, the pilot, came
on board. Then away she dashed up
Middle Harbor—crossing bars, skimming
flats and threading needles in the finest
style imaginable. In many places the
Harbor was so narrow as to resemble a
mere canal.... Having reached the utmost
navigable point she veered round and again
ploughed her way towards the Heads....
“She performed the trip from between
the Heads to Fort Macquarie, a distance
of full five miles, in 26 minutes and 42
seconds—the shortest period in which it
was ever accomplished by a sailing ship,
with wind and tide directly in favor,
being 42 minutes.
“Having honored Sydney with a hasty
glance, to assure the good folk that all
was well, she shot past with velocity of
thought, directing her course tq Kissing
Point. Thither she had a delightful trip,
and returned to Sydney, the distance
being about 10 miles, in less than three-
quarters of an hour....
“ Captain Biddulph acquitted him-
self in the handsomest manner. His
duties, as the navigator of the vessel,
were performed with the utmost zeal and
discretion, while his polite assiduities for
the comfort of his passengers were all
that became a commander and a gentle-
man. Everything, in short, went off in
the very best style. Not one blunder —
not one mistake. All was order and
precision,
“The accommodations between decks
are truly admirable. The state cabin is
appropriated exclusively to the ladies.
The fair sex are always entitled to the
best, and certainly their claim is fully
conceded on the Sophia Jane, their apart-
ment having every convenience they
would desire, together with superb
looking-glass panels, which reflect their
charms with all the fidelity of truth.
“The dining-room is a noble apartment,
being arranged with the most ingenious
regard to utility and comfort. But those
who would fully appreciate this wonder-
ful achievement of human skill and
enterprise must take a trip and judge for
themselves. Her first voyage to New-
castle will be performed this day, and
we hope she will have abundance of
passengers. She deserves well of the
colony ; may she receive that liberal share
of public patronage and support of which
she is so eminently worthy!”


0
0
*
!
x m
, \
llh
mm
m
v
nTh.
' - .; :•:
..,'
■HH
MS&
---“•I
I i
M
mm
mm
»■
. ;-, ; j .’- - ■r,-- • h : -sm-m.:-:.;-
;•-, -
MK
■HHE
IJK- ; . : -
#w
;. ‘ ■
" • ;•• ; ■■:: ■ ■': .V-. :<r -.
la A
,
i;’ . ‘
■
■■VI
iV\ tßr-j
111 II Mol 1
■
v\".
■
When a “Grinnell” Sprinkler Head automatically
strikes ... it kills the very heart and source of the
fire. At the same moment the Fire Brigade auto-
matically gets the alarm. But before the engines
arrive that fire is OUT! And fire and water
damage is confined to a few square yards. The
chances of a fire escaping from the control of a
“Grinnell” Sprinkler Head are almost negligible.
The 1943 Grinnell Record speaks for itself!
© Fifty-three out of eighty fires controlled by Grinnell
extinguished by just one Grinnell Head.
•In thirty-one fires the damage was nil or so slight
that no claim was made on Insurance Companies;
• The Average Loss per fire for the eighty “saves” was
£92/2/-. ' _
A Grinnell Sprinkler System installation means a 50 /o
discount on Fire and Loss of Profits Insurance
Premiums.
GRINNELL SERVICE! The Grinnell Fire Protection Service maintained by Wormald
Bros. Pty. Ltd. in every city where there are Grinnell Installations has behind it the
accumulated knowledge of more than half a century of servicing every type of fire risk.
df
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. Fire Protection Engineers since 1889 Branches throughout Australia and N.Z
(INCORP. IN N.S.W.)


v'
X
H
m®2
r j
iXXX -rSX
I ■
■ -
*>£■
...
■■l
'.-ad
'I ::
1
HUH
V-:
. ■;"
■ ■ .
Wsßßmmwm
ME
■
v-“
PS
Hi
>
SH : . BBBiiw
?>•<>'■ >,
»■5 X, X
WOULD YOU LIGHT THIS FINE MACHINE WITH HURRICANE LAMPS?
NO—THEN WHY ACCEPT ANYTHING LESS THAN
(SWim
FLUORESCENT LAMPS?
Condor Fluorescent Lighting gives that type
of efficient illumination necessary for maximum
“see-ability.” A worker who can really see
his work loses no time poring over charts and
parts. Maximum production is attained with a
minimum of “spoils.” All inspection jobs are
facilitated.
These factors alone warrant your serious study
of the improved lighting we offer. Then con-
sider the additional benefits —the virtual elimi-
nation of glare and shadows; the tubes are
cool —no danger of burning if accidentally
touched ; no additional heat in summer;
greater light output, three to four times as much
FLUORESCENT lamps
per unit of electricity consumed —hence, lower
operating costs for the same light intensity, or
greater light intensity for your present operating
costs; low installation costs —existing wiring
can generally be used, for Condor Fluorescent
Lamps operate on normal voltage , high voltage
is not used; continuous lines of light can be
installed following the layout of your plant;
replacement of lamps is simple—anyone can
do it, you do not need a “specialist.”
For full details on Condor Fluorescent Lighting
communicate with your nearest Condor repre-
sentative. He will be glad to assist you with
your lighting problems, and is in a position to
give you complete and satisfactory service.
Installations can only be made, with rare excep-
tions, in protected industries.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY:
George Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd. Reg. Rose & Co. Pty., Ltd.
T. F. Stewart & Co. Pty., Ltd. Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd.
National Theatre Supply Co. (A’sia) Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd. A. J. Veall Pty., Ltd.
Howard Electrical & Radio Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE: ADELAIDE:
Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd. R. 0. Woollard.
CONDOR LAMPS (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD., 35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY
CHANDRAS THE GREAT
BY J. H. MELVILLE.
CHANDRAS THE GREAT was
coming up in the afternoon train.
Under the tension of waiting
details stamped themselves on my
mind with an odd significance. Kitchener s
nwn Ur hl„f nTL'ln™ “Tf n “ S
own high up on the wall, bowed down
gravely at the class. The big double
doors at the side of the classroom were
wide open, but there was no cooling
breeze. The heat was stifling. Old Me-
Knight stared remotely over our heads
and droned out the lesson. Now and
then the scent of burning gorse drifted in
to relieve the chalky harshness of the air.
Through the open doorway I kept
watch on the railway line where it curved
round into the straight from behind Nor-
tons orchard. The red dress of the
Norton girls, who were prowling round
the orchard gathering windfalls, showed
occasionally among the trees My vigil
on the line was a needless safeguard, for
™ f s‘”f s Wh ! Stle at cros . s ;
mg and its panting up the incline would
give ample notice of its approach.
Thursday afternoon’s train drew only
one passenger carriage behind the empty
cattle-trucks, which it shunted off at sid-
ings as far up as the foot of the Ranges,
There would be no privacy for Chandras
the Great. His dignity would set him up
as an ideal target for the wit of Frog
O’Halloran the auctioneer. It was a
disturbing thought.
Old McKnight’s persistence with the
lesson was wasted effort. His claim on
our interest had been hopelessly usurped
by p OS t er on the wall of my Uncle
Hen - s smithy If he had iven up and
Axed the poster to the blackboard the
result would have been the same,
F ol ' we had all seen that poster, a
splash of color against the smoky brick-
work of the’ smithy, showing Chandras
the Great, bearded and masterful, mak-
ing his way casually along a rope
stretched high above a blur of upturned
faces> « T he Diamond of the Gods”
gleamed in his turban. Below, in Uncle
Henry’s own writing, was the promise
that chandras the Great would walk the
tight-rope in the showground on yards-
day A s ii ve r-coin collection was to be
made to defray expenses,
h chandras the Great was allowed
h expenses seemed shameful.
Golden domes and minarets rose out of
, . thp nri „ tpr
the background of the poster.
Vague impiessions my ram a
unr ® a l weie awa kene y
thrill of it all. The name of Chandras
the Great was linked with the magic or
white palaces reflected in moonlit hly-
ponds, and of ceremony and display made
in splendor that was beyond imagining.
I hoped that Chandras the Great would
be asleep or too preoccupied to notice
the waste of tussocky swampland that
formed the approach to the township.
But he would see the. foolery at the
mouth of the cutting. Frog O’Halloran’s
capers and the amusement of the other
passengers would draw his attention to
that.
A swaggies’ hut stood back from the
line where the train went into the cutting,
and Thursday was one day for certain
when its occupants could be sure of a
free delivery of coal for their stove. Steve,
the engine-driver, and his fireman would
shy coal at a scarecrow of sorts propped
up against the bank specially for that
purpose. If the scarecrow was hit and
knocked over Frog O’Halloran was
pledged to stand drinks for Steve and his
fireman, and, however wild the throwing,
the swaggies got their coal. I don’t know
how the idea developed. It had gone
on for years. But it was humiliating to
sense the contempt that Chandras the
Great would feel on entering the town-
ship for such a performance.
Suddenly, above the drone of old Mc-
Knight’s voice, I heard the chugging of
the train echoing in the cutting. It
whistled at the saleyards crossing. Puffs
of black smoke were rising up behind the
orchard, and then the engine nosed round
the bend into sight.
“There’s his stuff!” came an excited
whisper from the back of the class, as a
flat truck laden with scaffolding turned
broadside on.
A string of cattle-trucks led the carriage
round into the straight. An awe-stricken
murmur of recognition went up in the
classroom. Framed in an open window,
the sun glinting on the Diamond of the
Gods in his turban, sat Chandras the
Great. He sat rigid, with his arms folded
across his chest. The magnificence of
his beard and moustache had not been
exaggerated by the poster on the smithy
wall.
The train passed, and a rattle of old
McKnight’s cane curbed the babble that
threatened. McKnight had viewed it all
with a patronising smile,
pHANDRAS THE GREAT was to
Vs - / stay with my Uncle Henry and AUnt
Amy. At first I had been excited by the
arrangement, but, on a new scale of
values inspired by the wonder of Chan-
dras the Great, the warm homeliness of
Uncle Henry’s place that I had hitherto
enjoyed sank to crudeness and banality.
There were Aunt Amy and her cats.
Aunt Amy freely dispensed a brand of
affection that was naive and cloying.
Many times that afternoon after the train
had passed, solely as a test of its absur-
dity, I tried to picture Chandras the
Great viewing the performance that Aunt
Amy and Bluey, the Persian cat, would
put on in the passage.
The marbles would be tipped out of
the cocoa-tin and arranged along the
carpet, and Aunt Amy would kneel there
giggling and giving little shrieks of delight
while Bluey pawed them around at her
direction. Amongst ourselves it had been
good enough fun.
And Uncle Henry would be sprawled
back in his chair before the fire with his
feet on the mantelpiece. When he wasn’t
talking politics he’d be boasting about
some fancy job he’d turned out down
at the smithy. There was a negative sort
of satisfaction in knowing his bagpipes
weren’t in playing order.
Uncle Henry was a great talker. Even
while he swung a sledgehammer and held
his curly pipe in the corner of his mouth
he could keep talking. I’ve seen drovers
in the smithy winking and grinning at
each other behind his back while he ham-
mered out his arguments against a shod
hoof. If there had been a mayor at that
time it would have been my Uncle Henry.
Father was a great talker, too. But
his line was instruction. While Uncle
Henry allowed contradiction from a
stolid sense of fairness, Father resented
it as casting doubt on his knowledge. He
flaunted his knowledge and would go to
ridiculous lengths, even to engineering
stunts, to bear out some trivial point that
had been doubted.
He would not have conceded points in
tight-rope walking to Chandras the Great.
Father was secretly proud of the nick-
name of “Professor” that Frog O’Hal-
loran bestowed on him, though a profes-
sor of Father’s girth with red hair and
freckles would hardly have been typical.
K 4 p L/" NIGHT’S dismissal bell sent
t * a mob of us whooping round
to the smithy. Handkerchiefs tied round
our heads were turbans. I took import-
ance from kinship with the host of Chan-
dras the Great and led the way through
a hole in the smithy-yard fence.
Uncle Henry was busy in a corner,
rooting for old iron in the tangle of couch
and cocksfoot that overran everything
while he talked politics. He blinked
under the hail of questions that were
loosed at him. «
“Mr. Chandra’s up at the house rest-
in’,” he said, “and his gear hasn’t been
taken off the truck.”
“Is he brown or red?”
“Well, now,” Uncle Henry pondered,
“I ain’t seen more’n bits and patches of
him between his turban and those whis-
kers of his, but he says he’s what they
call a white Indian.”
I mumbled something about Bluey,
Aunt Amy’s cat. %
Uncle Henry winked. “Trust your
Aunt to be showin’ old Bluey off.”
“A cat won’t be much after the lions
and things he’s seen,” I said.
“Old Bluey’s a pretty knowin’ old cat.”
Questions were pelted at Uncle Henry
quicker than his deliberate mind could
cope with them.
“I’ll just fill my pipe and answer you
one by one while you boys sort those


m?
o*f
v
cHO*
II
uc *
L
m
m. . r
m
mm
:*m
m.
\
when you buy
U
TOP DOG” Men’s Wear
‘Top Dog’ Men’s Wear takes the
gamble out of buying. It gives you
garments with a national reputation
for quality to maintain garments
that are smart in appearance, con-
scientiously finished and which give
uncommonly long wear. Supplies
to civilians are restricted, of course,
but you can bring nearer the day
of peace and unlimited
stocks by investing in the
First Victory Loan —to your
very limit!
ox
S 3
v.
BRERS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also “TOP DOG” Products
rods and stack them against the fence,
Uncle .Henry said.
Excuses were hastily summoned up,
and we filed out through the gap in the
fence. A chuckle from Uncle Henry
followed us.
“And, Mike,” he called to me across
the road, “ask your dad if he’ll let me
have an extra drop of milk tonight.”
F* ATHER was fixing leg-ropes down in
the byre when I passed on Uncle
Henry’s message.
“Extra milk for the Indian, eh?” he
muttered, and then demanded in a voice
of authority, “Shorthorn or Jersey?”
I didn’t understand what he was driv-
ing at.
“If you weren’t so ignorant you’d have
found out,” he said. “Cows is sacred to
Indians and they’re pretty touchy about
customs and things like that.” Cherry,
fidgeting in the end bail, caught his eye,
and he murmured thoughtfully “Even a
thing like that would be sacred to an
Indian.”
He turned on me again. “You should
have asked about the milk. An Indian
that goes for Jersey milk might die before
he’d touch Shorthorn. This Chandras
might be a Jersey Indian or a Shorthorn
Indian or maybe some fancy breed I’ve
never heard of, and if he gets upset with
his milk there mightn’t be much chance
of him gettin’ across that rope.”
“He wheels a barrow across, too,” I
said.
Father looked up from edging a bucket
along the floor with his foot and asked
quietly “Can he run along a rope hang-
ing upside down underneath it?”
“Nobody could do that,” I said.
He pointed to a stay-wire stretched be-
tween two studs. “I’ve seen a rat run
along that wire upside down.”
“But a rat’s got four legs.”
“Of course a rat’s got four legs,”
Father scoffed. “Did you ever know of
a rat that hadn’t?”
It would have been folly to yield
to the temptation of answering by
drawing a conclusion from the solitary
gnawed-off leg that had been the only
result of his complex trapping system in
the barn.
AFTER tea Father accompanied me
over to Uncle Henry’s with the milk.
We had just turned the church corner
when Mr. Guest, the parson, came strid-
ing out of the side gate.
There was no danger of a collision, but
Father did an exaggerated sidestep and
held his billy high in the air. He ex-
plained why the billy I carried contained
Shorthorn milk, while he was bringing
Jersey milk as an alternative for Chan-
dras the Great. He referred modestly to
his regard for Indian custom. Mr. Guest
mumbled a vague “Yes, yes,” at intervals,
and then patted Father on the back and
hurried on without having the faintest
idea what it was all about.
Darkness was gathering in the trees of
the churchyard.
I felt ashamed of Father’s farcical
parading of knowledge and of all the
other things that threatened to give Chan-
dras the Great a poor opinion of the
township.
Father’s meeting with the parson
prompted him to talk on religion in
India. When we turned into Uncle
Henry’s driveway he was telling me of
“Flora Macdonald’s” joy on hearing the
skirl of the pipes herald Lucknow’s
relief.
He was interrupted by screams com-
ing from the house.
“It was just a game! It was just a
game! ”
It was Aunt Amy’s voice. She sounded
hysterical.
Father said nothing. He lengthened his
stride, and I kept pace alongside,
r ; I could see that the kitchen window
was open by the way the two cabbage-
J trees beside the back porch were lit up
and by the lamplight slanting across to
the sheds.
Men’s voices suddenly broke out in
argument. One was Uncle Henry’s.
I had only a quick glimpse over the sill
before Father thrust his head through the
open window. Chandras the Great was
wedged in a dimly-lit corner between the
sideboard and the wall. Uncle Henry
stood over him barring his way of escape.
Aunt Amy was sitting in a chair with her
hands'over her face and her hair hang-
ing down.
“What’s up in here?” Father asked.
“I caught her carrying on with the
Indian,” Uncle Henry said. His voice
was toneless with a cold, compressed
sort of anger that was much less whole-
some than the bellow he would send re-
sounding through the smithy one minute
and forget the next,
“I want your help,” he said to Father.
“You go back home, lad,”
“Yes, get to hell out of this,” Father
shouted, as if he were surprised to see
me standing there beside him.
He took my billy and waved me away.
“It was just a game,” I heard Aunt
Amy protest as I went back down the
drive,
BACK along the road a bit I turned
into the paddocks and followed a
hawthorn boundary hedge down to the
willows of the lagoon below the house.
From there I intended to work back
behind Uncle Henry’s sheds to a vantage
point a few yards from the back porch.
Whatever I saw or heard from there
could be checked against the morbid fan-
cies that Uncle Henry’s request for help
had aroused in my mind.
I hadn’t time to get clear of the willows
before there was a shout from up at the
house and the sound of a door violently
slammed. Then Father emerged from
among the sheds carrying a lantern.
Following him, and beyond the light
of the lantern, came two interlocked
figures moving jerkily. They were com-
ing down the yard towards me.
I crouched down low in the shelter of
a patch of scrub. A layer of humidity
close to the ground was heavy with the
smell of decaying wood.
The approaching group moved into the
circle of lamplight. With one hand Uncle
Henry held Chandras the Great by the
scruff of the neck, and with the other
pushed up his victim’s arm in a hammer-
lock. The Indian’s attempts to speak
were silenced by Uncle Henry’s knee
being brought up hard from behind.
“Shut y’r mouth,” Uncle Flenry
growled every time his knee came up.
As they halted on the bank of the
lagoon a little way along from my hiding-
place the light fell full on Chandras the
Great, and 1 realised then what had given
him his odd appearance in the dimmer
light. His beard was false and hung
awry on his chin.
The water of the lagoon was stagnant,
and stretched across in mottled grey to
thp gloom of the far bank. Patches of
weed rose from scum collected at their
tt tmi ”
' Henry, 111 take his feet,
Fa “Don’t throw me ” Chandras the Great
Don t throw me, Chandras me ureat
pleaded. “Don t throw me. 11l lump
His accent was the same as that of the
li«l? Cooney who had worked for a
while m the timber yard.
the i bank USSled tumbled d ° Wn
He went under with hardly a splash
and came up cursing and spluttering a
yard or two out with the water up to his
chest. One end of his turban had become
_d and was draped over his
‘‘Youll pay for this,” he whimpered,
and began to wade across "to the other
side
“You’ll go in next time with a stack
weight or two round your neck,” Uncle
Henry said.
Chandras the Great looked back and
shook his fist. “You’ll pay for this, both
of you,” he shouted. “By God, you’ll
pay i”
Father and Uncle Henry began to
move away. I stayed for a minute to
listen to the splashing of Chandras the
Great in the darkness and then took the
short-cut round the head of the lagoon
to be home before Father.
I WAS in bed and waiting when the
I gate clattered and Father’s footsteps
came stamping up the path. He came
along the verandah and pulled aside me
dividing curtain,
“You awake, Mike?” he asked,
“Yes.”
« D | d you happen to meet anybody
were comin > back from Uncle
Henrv ’ s ?”
j replied.
“That upset we ran into at the back
dooJ .„ he began aw kwardly, “it was all
a misunderstanding. I had the whole
straightened out the minute I set
“JJ? the door. There’s lots of
ro°t m=> _ world hv neoole
Jo°nsf
J T F vmir Annt Amv
by speakm’ a word of what happened—
breathe a word
SSthcSt
° f thoueht I’d take you
He
Pf *e curtain across and went into
the house. .
A chastening and more powerful mflu-
ence than Father’s threat endorsed my
promise of silence. It involved Steve the
engine-driver. Frog OHal oran
auctioneer, Uncle Henry, Aunt Amy and
her cat and all the rest of which I had
t> ee n ashamed for Chandras the Orea .
The shame was my own. To keep it
where it belonged there was the impres-
sion of the wretchedness of Chandras n
Great chest-deep in the water of t e
lagoon.
I heard the sound of footsteps and
chattering out on the road. Silhouettes
moved back and forth across the lighted
windows of the church. Somewhere
somebody was laughing.


Balance Sheet of the Bank of New South Wales
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1944
LIABILITIES. £ s. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 81,069 10 0
Deposits, Accrued Inter-
est, Rebate, Bills Pay-
able and other liabili-
ties, including reserves
held for doubtful debts
and other contingencieslB6,247,967 5 2
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Profit and
Loss .. £817,803 16 3
Less In-
terim
Divds.
to 30th
June,
1944 .. 395,100 0 0
8.780.000 0 0
6.150.000 0 0
422,703 16 3
£ 3. d.
186,329,036 15 2
15,352,703 16 3
201,681,740 11
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc,, as
per Contra .. .. .. .. 6,945,352 8
5
2
£208,627,092 19 7
ASSETS. £ s. d. £ a, d.
Coin, Bullion, Government
Legal Tender Notes and
Cash at Bankers .. 17,936,724 18 11
Short-dated Treasury Bills
—Australian and New
Zealand.. .. .. 20,225,000 0 0
Government Securities —
Australian, New Zea-
land, London and Fiji 34,958,533 13 5
Due by Other Banks .. 3,936,515 310
Bills Receivable and Re-
mittances in Transit .. 6,821,130 7 0
Special War-time Deposit
A/c with Common-
wealth Bk. of Australia 47,979,000 0 0
Statutory deposit with Re-
serve Bank of New Zea-
land 946,794 0 0
132,803,698 3 2
Loans and Advances to Customers .. .. 65,276,042 8 3
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. 3,600,000 0 0
All other Assets 2,000 0 0
201,681,740 11 5
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters
of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as per Contra 6,945,352 8 2
£208,627,092 19 7
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1944 Cr.
£ s. d.
To Interim Dividends as under, paid in terms of
Clause 105 of Deed of Settlement out of the
Year’s Profits
For Quarter ended —
31st Dec., 1943, at 6/- per share Australian
Currency .. • • ■ • • • 131,700 0 0
31st Mar., 1944, at 6/- per share Australian
Currency . - • • • • ■ ■ 131,700 0 0
30th June, 1944, at 6/- per share Austral-
ian Currency 131,700 0 0
395,100 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows :
To Quarter’s Dividend to 30th
September, 1944, at the rate
of 6/- per share Australian
Currency .. . ■ . • £131,700 0 0
To Balance carried forward 291,003 16 3
422,703 16 3
£817,803 16 3
£ s. d.
By Amount from last Account .. .. 266,754 711
„ Balance of Year’s Profits, after deducting
Rebate on Current Bills, Interest on De-
posits, providing for Income, Land and
other Taxes, reducing valuation of Bank
Premises, providing for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, fluctuations in the value of Invest-
ment Securities, and other contingencies,
and including recoveries from Debts pre-
viously written off as bad 551,049 8 4
£817,803 16 3
RESERVE FUND
Cr.
£ s. d.
To Balance (used in the business of the Bank)
carried forward to next year .. .. 6,150,000 0 0
£ s. d.
By Balance brought forward from last year 6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
A. 0. DAVIDSON, General Manager.
F. A. SISLEY, Chief Accountant.
Audited, 7th November, 1944.
V. V. NATHAN, F. D. HOBBS, Auditors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet, made up to
the 30th September, 1944, and report that we find the several
items therein stated to conform to the balances in the General
Ledger, and to the Balance Sheets of the respective Branches
and Agencies of the Bank collectively.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills and other
Securities held by the Bank at the Head Office, in Sydney, on
the 30th September, 1944, and hereby certify that we have
found them correctly stated.
The Cash, Bills, and other Securities held in London, and at
the Branches and Agencies in Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand and Fiji, on the 30th September, 1944, have been
certified to as being correct by the usual documents.
Bank of New South Wales, V. V. NATHAN \ »
Sydney, Ith November, 1944. IF. D. HOBBS / Auaitors
DECLARATION
We, Venour Vigne Nathan and Francis David Hobbs, of
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, being duly elected
Auditors of the Accounts of the Corporation of the Bank of New
South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing Statement of Accounts is, to the best of our several
and respective knowledge and belief, a just, true, and faithful
statement of the Accounts of the said Corporation and that this
Declaration is made by us after diligent and careful examination
into the state of such Accounts, as far as the same have come
within our cognizance ; and we do severally and respectively
make this declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be
true and by virtue of an Act of the Parliament of the State of
New South Wales, passed in the fourteenth year of his Majesty,
King George V, intituled “ Bank of New South Wales Act,
1923.
Declared before me, at Sydney, this 7th November, 1944.
T. LEWIS, J.P. V. V. NATHAN.
F. D. HOBBS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
y Dividends
Pref. Ord. Written
Juno, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 350,161 12 4~ 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 174 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Taxes short-provided, £87,500 .. 662,110
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
1943.. 406,759 9 9 270,000 88,999 794,620
1944.. 889,920 9 9 270,000 72,346 842,194
A country’s effort to maintain its fighting
forces is inseparable from its metal in-
dustries. Materials dug from the earth
have to pass through numerous processes
before they are turned into arms, ammu-
nition, equipment, etc,, for use in battle
'areas. In one or other of its alloyed
forms zinc is called for in every
cartridge case and in every projec-
tile fired from guns. As a consti-
tutent of brass it is an important element
in armament and equipment of all kinds,
and as dust it finds its way into flares
and smoke mixtures. Also, as an anti-
corrosive and protective agent it is used in
galvanising, and in its oxide form it goes
into paints and pigments and into tyres.
To Australian users the co.’s zinc—it
sold in London pre-war at a premium
over G. 0.8. spelter from all quarters of
the globe—is, like Australian lead, iron
and steel, the cheapest in the world.
Locally the price is fixed at £22 per ton ;
in Britain the figure fixed by the Ministry
of Supply is £25 15s. per ton, equal to
£A32. 3s. 9d.; in New York a recent
quote was 8.25 cents per pound, equal
to £AS7 Bs. lOd. per ton. More than
two-thirds of the co.’s output has been
used locally, most of the balance being
sold to U.K. and U.S.A. The Australian
price has not covered increases in costs
since war began, which largely explains
the recession in net earnings and the drop
in divs. The contraction would have
been more pronounced but for overseas
sales.
The programme of plant extension to
step-up output of refined zinc at Risdon
is not yet complete, owing to war-time
shortage of labor and materials. How-
ever, some new units came into opera-
tion last term, and all existing plant
worked at high pressure, lifting produc-
tion to a record level. This was a little
ahead of demand, owing to the tapering
of munitions production and sale by the
Government of surplus reserve stocks of
metallic zinc and other metals. The in-
crease in the co.’s stocks at June 30 was
3200 tons.
Concentrates continue to be drawn
from the Barrier and from the co.’s own
rich zinc-lead-silver mines on the west
coast of Tas., where production and
treatment were below normal, mainly be-
cause of shortage of experienced miners
and skilled operatives. The roasters and
sulphuric add plants, operating at Ris-
don and various mainland centres, were
kept busy on account of demand for
fertiliser for priority crops. For the same
reason the super, plant at Risdon in-
creased its output. Tapering of Govern-
ment orders affected earnings of some
of the subsidiaries, while Austral Bronze
operated at a loss.
Last term the surplus on working
account was £552,269 (up £3183). That
was after sending £143,238 (up £18,238)
to reserve for depreciation, etc. Income
from investments was £29,941 (down
£4882). The board figured the net result
at £292,574 (down £191), which is recon-
ciled with the profit shown in the table
in this way:
1944.
Profit and loss balance .. .. .. £292,574
Add: Addition depreciation reserve .. 72,346
Unexplained addition gen. reserve 6,750
Reserve for ore depletion. . . . 25,000
£396,670
Less: Appropriation new plant, etc. .. 6,750
Profit per table .. . . . . £389,920
Net addition to the depreciation reserve
(now £3,010,543) is included with profit
and then shown as written off. The bal-
ance of last term’s profit (£317,574, down
£186) was 10.5 p.c. on the £3,000,000 of
share capital (half of it 8 p.c. cumulative
participating) as against 10.5, 12, 14, 17.3,
15.6 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1938. An
all round 9 p.c. was again distributed.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Debentures .. £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 199,416 255,137 £274,737 £358,822
Deposits . . 203,432 225,696 96,752 15,096
Overdraft . . 62,393 47,920 182,750 259,297
Tax reserve . . 107,829 251,677 233,081 254,586
Mt. Read-Rose-
bery mines.. 457,524 457,525 473,543 479,089
Properties,
plant, etc. 3,959,003 4,234,410 4,618,486 4,722,739
Book debts . . 194,916 262,135 525,542 667,028
Shares . . 500,468 714,397 762,567 778,366
Stocks .. 618,744 734,191 958,312 962,800
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,271,578 1,062,671 331,687 288,016
Tha year’s net addition to plant, etc., was
£104,253, and £141,486 was added to book
debts; £81,656 of deposits were repaid.
Including shareholdings, the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,808,409) was £17,621
stronger than at the previous balance.
The question of setting up a new in-
dustry at Risdon to make 50,000 tons of
sulphate of ammonia annually is to be
further considered when the co.’s execu-
tives, now in America investigating
technical and other aspects involved,
return. It is hoped to develop an export
as well as a local market in the new pro-
duct, which is used chiefly as fertiliser.
The cost of establishing the venture will
probably exceed a million pounds. The
board’s decision will depend largely
upon the level of costs.
The trouble is that industry cannot go
ahead with new large-scale undertakings
until it is known on what lines the
Government is working. While the war
lasts industrial production must conform
to service needs. Still, the stage has now
been reached when, in the interests of
reconstruction and full employment, the
Government should make a definite and
precise announcement of what its post-
war plans are —broad principles are not
enough. Where questions of official con-
trol and licensing are involved only the
Government can provide the answer.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1934.. 149,489 6 p.c. = 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ ~162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ „ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74 „ ~174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 6i„ „ 151,134 31,681 579,709
194 J . . 180,066 64 „ ~ 151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 64 „ ~ 151,134 40,118 648,759
1943.. 190,938 64 „ ~151,134 39,804 688,563
1944.. 191,103 6| „ ~ 151,134 39,969 728,532
This co.’s fleet of 30 vessels —six pas-
senger and 24 cargo, aggregating 77,227
tons —is the largest sea-transport service
on the Australian coast. The inter-State
ships, including the two large passenger
vessels, are still under requisition by the
Federal Government. Control is vested
in the Shipping Control Board, manage-
ment remaining in the hands of the
owners.
Earnings, therefore, are now derived
from charter and management fees, tak-
ings of intra-State vessels still under the
co.’s own control, pickings from tugs,
lighters, engineering shops, etc., and from
returns from a wad of outside invest-
ments. These include Government secu-
rities and cash £1,240,950, over half a
million shares in J. and A. Brown and
Abermain-Seaham Collieries (div. 5 p.c.
p.a. for the last three years), control of
Waratah Tug and Salvage
and Brown’s carrying business (Port
Pirie), an interest in Newstead Wharves
and Stevedoring Co. (Brisbane) and in
National Airways, presently to be taken
over by the Government. Returns from
these investments acount for a good
slice of net earnings.
Financial terms of the chartering aren’t
broadcast, but it is reasonable to assume
that they are in keeping with Government
policy on profits. Chief complaint of
owners is that the rates do not enable
adequate provision to be made for re-
placement of old tonnage, or tonnage that
might be lost through accident or war
operations. Moreover, any recovery from
underwriters in respect of loss is taxed
as profit. No such tax is levied in U.K.,
where the whole of insurance money is
available for replacement, which will have
to be made at greatly increased cost com-
pared with pre-war prices.
Reduction of working hours at sea
from 56 to 44, and the war-risk bonus
addition to wages—initial rate 33| p.c.,
increasing to a retrospective 50 p.c. after
six months’ service, and payable whether
at sea or in port; all subject to taxation,
of course —have sent costs rocketing.
The risk having largely disappeared
on the east and south coasts of Australia,
the Maritime Commission recently de-
cided to revise bonus rates on a graduated
scale. However, following a general hold-
up threat and political manoeuvring, the
Commission decided to let the old rate
of bonus run until the beginning of
February next. Meanwhile, the chairman,
Judge de Baun, resigned.
Last term the co.’s fleet was free from
loss or serious accident, the engineering
shops worked to capacity, and tugs,
lighters, etc., were busy as bees. After
making an unspecified provision for de-
preciation, and including £20,000 dropped
into the insurance account (£415,000),
and a like amount into the repairs,
renewals and replacement reserve
(£313,500), there was little change in net
earnings. The £191,103 of profit was
equal to 8.2 p.c. on capital, compared
with 8.2, 8.2, 7.7, 7.8 and 8.6 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was kept at p.c. The
rate of div. the co. will be able to pay
after the war will depend largely upon
the level of costs and the nature and
extent of Government controls.
Finances are comfortable:
1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 240,677 804,026 135,713
Provident fund .. 97,614 99,402 104,792
Steamers, properties,
etc 1,450,293 1,312,407 1,197,080
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 83,377 83,652 80,208
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 774,411 904,768 720,810
Consols, cash, etc. 948,984 1,061,181 1,240,956
Last term the book value of the fleet and
property was reduced by £115,327, and
book debts, etc., by £183,958, while
£168,313 was lopped off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, and Government
securities, cash, etc., was strengthened by
£179,775. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,937,969,
including shareholdings) was £155,296.
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
r Dividends —>
Year Net Pref. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £12,319.. .. .. 12,319
1937.. 41,303 8,092 5J p.c. = 11,906 i, 10j612 1j70 7
Interest payment vendor, £10,693 }
Reserves.
1938.. 43.031 13,500 5| p.c. = 19,330 10,201 8,494
1939.. 40.001 13,500 5* „ „ 19,439 7,062 15,556
1940 . .40,621 13,500 6i „ „ 19,483 7,638 23,194
1941.. 34.951 13,500 54 ~ „ 19,484 1,967 2a, 161
A.R.P. expenses, £5691 .. •• ••
1942.. 47,155 13,500 54 p.c. = 19,484 14,171 33,641
1943.. 43.165 13,500 5J „ „ i9 >484 10,181 43,82^
To superannuation fund, etc., £2OOO .. 41,8^3
1944.. 46.508 13,500 6 „ „ 21,256 11,747 03,569
To superannuation fund, etc., £2OOO .• > 51,569
Considering the difficulties in the path,
this Perth retailer has put up a very
creditable performance, thanks partly to
able and experienced management and
partly to its connection with the big
Melbourne parent of the same name,
which owns its own woollen mills and
has been a pillar of strength on the
supply side. , . .
The co. took over the business from
the parent in 1936 for £550,398, paid


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
fd
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUS SEE aPFLIAXCE CO ,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
October 31, 1944.—1 find myself becom-
ing more methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmanism has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has ,
widened my horizons socially and cuI-
turaIIy.—LIEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944.—1 am afraid force of
circumstances had caused my fires of
interest to die down. Now I feel that I
have regained my grip and have defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Course.—MAJOß.
November 10, 1944.—My memory is good.
I have an interest in life, and I am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
I find I can accomplish more work and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944. —I feel I must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits I have
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that I have
derived since I started. —CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944.—My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIER.
September 17, 1944.—1 must tell you how
much you are helping me and how
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people; I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER.
September 18, 1944.—Frankly, I feared
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Fear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September SO, 1944. —Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
my surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines,” to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater were formerly about
my Iimit.—PLIGHT-SERGEANT.
October 30, 1944. —One of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods I was pleased to find I
had the whole list correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur.—COR-
PORAL.
C O R-• CO R -C O R-- COR- • C O R •C O R -■ CO R
COR- ■ C-O-R • • COB-• COR - • COR- ■ COR - ■ COR - - COR - • COB- • COR
wm
/
"CO.R Plus" Motor Spirit • • . "CO.R" Power
Kerosene • • • "Coralite" Kerosene • • • "C.O.R.
Light Diesoleum" • • • "C.O.R" Diesel Oils; and
"C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils.
* COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
Branches in All States
C O R ■ • C O R • • C 0 R • • C O R ■ • G O R • • C O R • • COR • • COR • • G 0 R• • COR
COR- • COR-• C-OR- • COR ■ ■ C-OR- • GOR--GOB
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality,
1945
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members of
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation , Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pehnanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers,
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
171
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London . The Institute has been established in Melbourne under
the same direction for over 36 years, and has enrolled more than 50,000 of the half-million world Pelmaniet*,
£325,000 cash and £225,398 in f.-p. ords.
There was no goodwill or other intan-
gibles to weigh down the earning-power
of capital. To meet the cash payment
and help provide working capital
£225,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs, and 125,000
ords., underwritten by the parent, were
offered and quickly taken. Recognising
that successful retailing depends upon
service, including attractive shopping
facilities as well as value, a lot of money
was spent on brightening the store, a
policy of cash buying kept mark-ups
competitive, and attention was given to
weeding out dead lines and livening turn-
over of others, which means keen buying.
At the same time a very tight hold was
kept upon outgoings.
Owing to rationing and other controls,
the difficulty during the last few years has
been to get rather than sell consumer
goods. This difficulty has been accen-
tuated by dependence of Westralian re-
tailers upon manufacturers in the Eastern
States for much merchandise, and
shortage of transport has aggravated thei
position. While some lines have been un-
obtainable, others have been in short
supply, delivery irregular, quality has
fallen and prices have risen. Controls
have stifled free competition, service has
been substantially curtailed, and so has
expenditure on maintenance, improve-
ments, advertising and a number of other
things. Altogether exes, have been artifi-
cially repressed. They can be expected to
become a much more conspicuous item
of the p. and 1. account as conditions get
more normal and controls are relaxed.
Gross earnings receded from £224,504
in 1942 to £199,219 last term, when the
drop was £8536. Provision for taxation
shot up from £18,792 in 1942 to
£30,317 in 1943; it was £28,905 last term.
Obviously, the satisfactory net earnings
the management has been able to exhibit
have resulted from repression of con-
trollable exes., and much of this repres-
sion has been compulsory. Last term s
£46,503 (up £3338) of profit was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 9.3 p.c.
on the £354,263 of ord. capital as against
8.4, 9.5, 6, 7.6 and 8.3 p.c. back to
1939. After sending £2OOO to the staff
fund, the balance of the year’s net earn-
ings lifted reserves to £51,569, which is
none too stout a prop for capital.
There is nothing to worry about in
finances:
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £577,762 £579,263 £579,263 £579,263
Liabilities . . 45,023 59,822 36,327 29,499
Freeholds . . 369,298 859,551 358,953 358,953
Plant, etc. .. 42,479 54,156 45,979 40,496
Stocks 164,065 211,994 173,028 155,088
Debtors . . 59,740 50,424 5,350 4,038
Cash, etc. .. 33,517 27,579 120,383 151,403
Stocks (down £17,940) are now below
pre-war level, indicative of the difficulty
in obtaining supplies —only a trickle comes
through from Britain these days. Still,
the strong holding of cash, etc., places
the co. in a position to take immediate
advantage of any opportunity that offers
in connection with the purchase of mer-
chandise. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£281,030)
was £18,596.
Recent prospecting in the vicinity of
old tin workings at Koorboora, on the
Chillagoe railway (N.Q.), has located a
spurred lode pipe with rich bunches of
wolfram up to a foot across. The stuff
occurs, in some cases with tin, near the
surface, but seems to give place to tin
only at no great depth, where the ore-
body becomes refractory, owing to an
excess of the sulphide minerals galena,
zincblende, pyrite and chalco-pyrite.
Over the last 14 months wolfram recovery
has aggregated tons, the only impurity
being tin, which, in one parcel, amounted
to 1 p.c. Work done to date is not suffi-
cient to indicate possibilities of what is
as yet only a prospect. Though only
800 ft. away from the old Neville wol-
fram mine, any idea of a connection
between the lodes can be disregarded,
says geologist C. C. Morton.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado, which took over the
old Cocks Pioneer property near Wanga-
ratta (Vic.), met with more difficult
ground last term. Along the foothill on
the northern boundary of the lease the
dredge encountered seams of cement
in the overburden; and then the
granite bottom came up abruptly and tne
dredge had to be diverted toward the
creek. Here the ground was easier, but
values did not improve until toward the
close of accounts. Operating results com-
pare with the two preceding years as
follow:
Av. Av. Net
Treated, Value, Cost, Profit. Dividends.
Sept., O.y. C.y. C.y. £ P-c. £
1942.-2,401,460 6.86 d., 4.20 d. 21,218 15 1= 20,625
1943- 5.57 d. 4.33 d. 8,415 5 „ 6,875
1944- 5.54 d. 4.19 d. 7,835 5 „ 6,875
Recoveries were 3209.750 z. (down 2630 z.)
smelted gold and 53.5 tons (down 3.73
tons) tin concentrates, assaying 71.46 p.c.
metallic tin, the lot worth £44.836 (down
£3.408). A line of bores immediately
ahead of the dredge have failed to show
payable values. Further scout boring
continues. Area yet to be dredged is
expected to provide a further 5-6 years
work. To meet £2507 coming to sundry
creditors and the div., the co. had £25,500
in Government securities, and cash, metal
in hand, stores, etc., totalling £20,313 at
the end of September last.
* * * *
At the end of March last Victoria Gold
Dredging’s unworked areas at Newsread
(Vic.) contained approx. 7,884,500 c.y.,
averaging 1.99 fine grains gold, say, 85
p.c. recovery. From ground dug to date
the average yield has been 3.43 gr. gold.
In addition to the yardage mentioned,
there is 895,580 c.y. of marginal ground,
part or all of which might be found pay-
able, and the board has its eye on a
further 29 acres, containing 1,361,500 c.y.
of “payable” ground, for which permis-
sion to dredge has not yet been granted.
* * * *
Hill 50’s Christmas box to shareholders
is a sixpenny div., the second this year.
Co is treating about 3000 tons ore a month
for a gold return worth approx. £BOOO.
The main ore channel requires systematic
examination, and there are also possibili-
ties in the lateral and vertical extension
of known ore-bodies, none of which have
been fully explored. Chief difficulty at
the moment is lack of equipment.
* * * *
Reopening of Mt. Ida Gold Mines,
N.L., when the labor position improves,
will be facilitated by the sound position
as regards ore reserves. A Menzies
(W.A.) producer, the co. is listed by the
Mines Department as one of the most
promising of the West’s smaller fry. Pro-
duction in 1943 was 5251 tons for 3195
fine ounces of gold, an average of
12.2dwt. per ton.


9.6. C.
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO..
LTD
OF
in war as in peace
at the service of the Empire
The G.E.C, is the largest British electrical manufacturing organisation in
the Empire. Production of huge motors, having dimensions like the one
illustrated, to develop tremendous power in rolling mills and winding
engines, etc., was one of the normal activities of the Company.
Peace experience prepared us for war. War
experience has prepared us for peace. Deeper
technical knowledge and greater development
many new and wonderful applications of elec-
tricity—notably in electronics—have emerged
from the urgency and variety of war’s demands.
These will be wholeheartedly devoted by the
G.E.C. to the no less urgent requirements of
peace and the betterment of life throughout the
world.
—Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The of England.)
SYDNEY . . MELBOURNE . . PERTH . . HOBART . . LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
&&e.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include
all industries; Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotive and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oil Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
Ed?
c
;
s
r
MUCH MONEY
Is running to waste
W H£ N a river is in flood much valuable
water runs to waste. When a dam is
built the water is stored for future use.
The same with money. When there is
more money about than goods to spend it
on, it can be as dangerous as a river in
flood.
When we put as much of our earnings
as possible into War Bonds, Savings
Accounts and Life Assurance, we have
protection against rising prices, power to
finance the war, and purchasing power
for the future.
Let ns store this power!
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
Busines. Rollery. Ete.
Time Catches Up
The speeding years of war have left
marks of violence on many parts of the
world, the violence being of various
kinds. Some countries have seen whole-
sale devastation, starvation and death.
Other lands have suffered less physically
but more socially or economically. Some
have been ravaged by war itself and then
riven politically. It has been Australia’s
Jot to have been saved at the last moment
from invasion only to enter a period of
political disintegration.
On the face of things one would have
thought that, confronted with the danger
of being overrun by a barbarous Asiatic
enemy, Australia—with a population
nine-tenths British —would have been a
single-purposed, vigorous young warrior
among the Allied Nations, perhaps lack-
ing in the mechanical aids which go so
far to make up the modern war machine
but possessing that dash, hardihood, com-
radeship and adventurous spirit which
have typified the A.I.F. abroad during
two wars.
Instead of the true spirit of the rugged
pioneers and the A.I.F. characterising the
land during the greatest crisis in its his-
tory, these traditions have found them-
selves to be in recurring conflict with a
morbid preoccupation concerning class-
conscious political doctrines. Most of
these doctrines are militant and disrup-
tive, with the prime object of creating
disunity and then establishing a “new
order”—which really means little more
constructive than an overthrow of the
“old order.”
Upon sober analysis it will be found
that none of the doctrines advocated by
political revolutionaries indicates even a
small rise in living standards or other
such benefit in the long run ; all indi-
cations, indeed, are the other way. But
in the overthrow of the influences of
private enterprise, democracy, law and
order as we know them it seems that
a number of people possessing unusual
envies, jealousies, greeds and other
psychological twists feel that they
would be satisfied. They would not, of
course, be satisfied. But in the confusion
there might be a reallotment of power in
which the militant advocate of the “new
order” hopes to figure.
The Australian Labor party, in Federal
office since just before war came to the
Pacific, has very little excuse left for its
existence, if ever there was a sound ex-
cuse ; it is now held together mainly by
its mechanical strength or “solidarity.”
An illogical and in many cases an anti-
social institution, it has not assumed
the national responsibility one would
expect to see in adult behavior its rise
to government.
Within the democracy that Australia
knew before the war there appears to be
no place for the Labor party that now
rules in the Federal sphere. The A.L.P.
has ambitions outside that democracy, as
indicated by the referendum campaign
and other developments.
Wage-earners in the majority of Austra-
lian cases have excellent working condi-
tions by comparison with other countries.
The really important thing is to preserve
these conditions and to promote stable
economics and employment. Except
for anomalies, further improvement
will need to come on the national ad-
rhinistrative side and from a general rise
in living standards. The latter can come
only if the output per wage-earner is in-
creased. It is one of the illogicalities of
the Labor party that it seems to resent
any increase in output per head, even if
there is no extra strain imposed on the
wage-earner in achieving it. The A.C.T.U.
is now after socialisation of industry,
increased wages, fewer working hours
and increased “social security,” regardless
of how the national production would
seem to be moving by comparison.
It is over five years since war started
and over three years since Federal Labor
took office in Canberra. It is three
years since Japan entered the war. As
the years pass and the people become
resigned to the shocks, military and poli-
tical, of war, memories of our pre-war
ideals and standards grow dim. Can-
berra has become a place where political
intrigue and departmental authority run
to extraordinary lengths. Caucus rules
the Government, and the trade-union
movement holds the whip over Caucus.
The Communist party has dug itself
into a number of trade-unions, after
having the ban that was imposed upon
it by the Merizies Government removed
by Curtin.
There is very little administrative ability
in the Federal Labor Ministry, and Where
there is brains there is often a lack of
consistency or principle. Such a Ministry
must inevitably depend a great deal for
its actions upon Caucus and upon the
civil service. The latter has been inflated
prodigiously since the war, and its quality
has fallen with its dilution. Not that
there has not been the taking-on of many
able and conscientious men since the war
began. The trouble is that too many poli-
tical pets have infiltrated the civil ser-
vice, the Government of the day being
unashamedly wedded to the policy of
spoils to the ,victors in its appointments
to key positions. There are one or two
high civil servants of the old school, too,
with bureaucratic ambitions that have not
been checked by the appropriate Minister.
Too many Ministers are mere puppets,
pushed by the militant unions on the one
hand and pulled by the bureaucrats on the
other.
The war has brought an even greater
proportion of the population to the capi-
tal cities of each State. And in some of
those capitals, particularly Sydney, there
is a sickly concentration upon “class”
politics that is accompanied by almost
dictatorial trade-unionism. The cities
themselves have for long periods lived
too cheaply off the land industries, even
though the handling charges of city
middlemen (wage-earners included) and
the high cost of Government services
may make the prices of city food, etc.,
dear by comparison with what the land
worker gets for his production.
Whilst Labor Governments have pam-
pered city unionists to an extreme, the
problems of the land industries —desper-
ately real problems, whether from the
point of view of production or from that
of competitive selling overseas —have
never been given realistic consideration.
The rural industries have been the source
from which much of our city “living
standards” have been derived. Except for
“guaranteed prices” and other vote-
catching stuff that merely amounts to the
inflationary dog being assisted to chase
its tail, landmen get none of Labor’s
largesse. They are picked as one section
which has to pay for Labor’s “bounty.”
Hence the great present difficulty in get-
ting man-power back to the land.
Australia, in spite of difficulties mostly
centring around water supply, is a coun-
try capable of great future development,
granted intelligent and impartial govern-
ment. It is certainly a long way from the
Stage where all that is left in life for its
citizens is the exploitation of one for the
benefit of the other. The future of this
generation and that of many more genera-
tions to come to lie in the development of
our production possibilities, both rural and
manufacturing. But the planning of that
production must have regard for eco-
nomic realities, particularly the truth that
what we desire we must work for. And
we must accept the responsibility of gov-
erning ourselves intelligently, paying high
regard to social harmony.
Two years ago, under the heading of
“Envy Is Not Ability,” it was written
here;
No member of the present Australian Parlia-
ment would be so blindly self-confident that he
would back himself at billiards against Walter
Lindrum. Yet there are many members who
set themselves up as experts on matters where
they are out of their element just as much as
they would be playing with Lindrum. They
have seen smooth-running factories, transport,
financial and judicial systems, and take that
smooth running for granted—any alterations
that can be made, they insist, must be for the
better. They don’t realise that the building-up
of anything entails knowledge and experience


is
a
a
wa
(QM
FOR 23 years we have supplied all types and sizes ot forgings and castings to
all Australian industries. They are available in all grades of stainless,
heat-resistins, and alloy steels, for every type of application. Have you
considered how much high-grade steels can give you in longer service and
lower maintenance costs?
(g ©M i m® 2a
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED—Head Office and Works: WARATAH. N.S.W.
[sbi Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
as well as industry and wholehearted applica
It is certainly to be hoped that we in
this country have finished with the
we can do our best in the war effort by blaming
the other fellow or exploiting him. We have
had about 12 months [now three years] of class
friction created by the Government in P >
and there has been a spoils-to-the-victor atti
tude, with an accompaniment of blackguarding
of anything that resembles industry or thrill.
Decent and industrious people, with their m
telligences awakened, have suffered pers
largely because they were big enough in them-
selves to let it pass in the seriousness of t
real issue. Their tormentors have had minds
undeveloped except in respect of P r
cunning, and have been protected by i
stitutions of their country for so !°ng that
they did not realise the meaning of
bility when political power was placed m their
h Tt d is hard to build up a thing, very easy to
pull it down. Most efficient things in Australia
are the envy of the disgruntled and un-
balanced. All our industries and inst ut °^
are capable of improvement—we know little
of perfection—but improvement is hardly likely
to come from the jaundiced critic, the spite-
ful interferer, the perpetual dreamer, thj
political adventurer or the go-getter,
should be constructive, impartial, tolerant and
based on knowledge. Men who know the
job should be left to it, checked only in the
public interest. And a long view has to be taken
of the public interest, also a view broad
enough to see what is going on in other p
of the world, which might have a bearing on
any changes we might feel inclined to ma
hC Tliere is no such thing as a self-contained
or self-sufficient country; this war has shown
that we cannot stand aside from the surge
of world events. Australia, to survive even
after this war is over, will have to recognise the
industries and services essential tp its exist-
ence, to respect ability and enterprise in rna -
agement and administration generally, and to
acknowledge that rewards go with merit and
hard work, and are not automatic merely
cause the person looking for a reward happens
to have a vote that is sought' by a parasitical
politician.
That, as mentioned, was two yea is
ago. Today the results of earlier war-
time opportunism and recklessness are to
be seed throughout the Australian
economy. They are beating the Govern-
ment itself—the Government which has
an extraordinary majority in the Repre-
sentatives and control of the Senate.
Labor truly cannot govern. The Curtin
Government, with Australia and its re-
sources at its feet, chose to play politics
while directing the nation’s war effort,
and the effect of those politics is now
seen in the repeated evidence of indus-
trial lawlessness and economic frustra-
tion. The Labor policy has been to teach
its adherents to take much and to return
little, to demand service but not to give
it, to invoke the law but not to obey it.
The results of the policy are now driving
the Government to distraction and the
nation to bitter disillusionment. It will
tax the wit and skill of Australia s ablest
citizens to restore industrial and political
sanity and economiQ stability.
The Commonwealth Treasurer doth
protest too much, perhaps. He has had
to get out a circular letter to answer
those people upset by- the prospects of
nationalisation of banking. In his reply
to them he says:
No official statement has been made re-
garding details of the Government’s inten-
tions, nor has any information been made
available to the banks on the matter. It
is obvious, therefore, that the widespread
campaign of protest which has been inaugu-
rated by some of the trading banks is
premature, to say the least. However, I assure
you that the people of Australia will hnd.
any changes which may be made in the
present set-up in no way detrimental to the
interests of the public, depositors or bor-
rowers.
“No official statement has been made
regarding details of the Government’s in-
tentions.” Well, perhaps Ministers Ward,
Calwell, Lazzarini and the rest of them
haven’t gone into precise details. Last
week Mr. Chifley said that the Govern-
ment’s “banking proposals” had not been
considered by either Cabinet or Caucus.
But he did not say whether Caucus’s
banking proposals had been considered
by the Government or Cabinet.
* * * *
Intimation by the New Zealand Pet-
roleum Co. that oil-drilling operations in
the Shaky Isles have been abandoned
could hardly have come as a surprise to
the majority of investors in Taranaki Oil
Fields, Taranaki Oil Developments and
the other associated concerns; since Min-
isterial statements at intervals during the
year had been progressively pessimistic.
Over £1,000,000 was spent (excluding
large sums lost earlier by New Zealand
and Australian interests), the most modern
equipment was used and eminent pet-
roleum technologists were employed in
sinking eight major drills of an aggregate
depth of 52,000 ft. On the day after the
cessation of activities was reported bids
for Taranaki Oil Field scrip slumped to
3d. on the Auckland Stock Exchange,
against sales a couple of months previ-
ously at 2s. 6d. In recent years the 30s.
shares paid to 245. 7d. never rose higher
than 6s. or 7s. on the N.Z. Exchanges,
and fluctuated according to the frequency
(and optimism) of drilling reports and
Government statements. While company
information had been consistently conser-
vative, a rosy canvas was painted by
Mines Minister Paddy Webb and others
a few years ago, as the result of which
many small investors feel aggrieved. At-
tention has been drawn by one M.L.
daily to the silence of perennial critics of
private enterprise. Had the oil search
succeeded there would have been a
mighty howl against “huge oil interests,”
“exploitation” and the “ravages” of
“blood-sucking foreign capitalists,” even
though the discovery of oil in commer-
cial quantities would have greatly bene-
fited the Dominion’s economy. It could
well be argued that as the State passed
legislation to ensure for itself a substan-
tial portion of the profits of success it
logically should share in the losses of
failure. But nothing like that was said
by the critics. There are still experts,
real and imagined, who claim that mil-
lions of gallons of the precious fluid re-
poses beneath the surface in M.L. The
point is that the most modern and reliable
methods known to man have not yet pro-
duced it, but possibilities of its extraction
some day (if the prophets are right) can-
not be ruled out,
* * * *
Ready Mixed Concrete, Sydney, now
in its fifth year of operations, has re-
ceived Treasury permission to offer
200,000 new ordinary shares of £1 each.
Paid capital at present is £BO,OOO, of
prefs ‘last
S bef T fe pit r
£5OlO, out 5 S' ' ' wa j
£s a nB Pal The co 'derates in Sydney and,
&\ Tbsidfary, in. Bribji the
plant ° f the P u P.^ nt be^\ fu Ji y
pleted. The equipment of a quarry is
in process
coarse aggregate from outside sources
being lnsu ® clen ' fo^ 4 % co or s ds pu^ OS t “;
Queensland* concrete Subsidiary,' as well
as 29,994 shares in Stirling Granite Co.,
which owns a granite quarry at Ashgrove,
near Brisbane. Installation of modern
plant here has been delayed owing to
war conditions A pilot mixing plant is
operating in Melbourne, and it is now
proposed to use part of the proceeds of
SfifTthTcSTthe M
will be utilised to exterld the Sydney
undertaking and to establish a plant in
Adelaide. The idea behind these Ready
Mixed Concrete enterprises is to supply
concrete of any desired strength to con-
tractors and others ready for pouring,
thus relieving the builder of the trouble
of mixing it on the job. Special trucks
are used to convey the mixture from the
mixing-plant to the place where build-
ing is being carried out. Ready-mixed
“sa£ SS’SeS
an d construction authorities now support
this co. and are regular purchasers of the
on a cost-p/«/basis at the present time,
A t “f ul i y a ii ve to the
need for 'curtailment of all unessential
t 0 a price reduction in
the co.’s product which should follow as
contract work is reassumed asi the basts
upon which
• lied y n a cos t -plus basis but a
toSTtaen en-
f nlim inhs Post-war pros-
co/will be related to fome
Pj capitalisation, the demand
“ e (which hould be high tor
least) and to the course of
competition, # #
* . . .. _
By National Security Regu J atl °” ,
Taxation Department may now d ®“ a “
the production of all balance sheets,
manufacturing, trading and profit an
loss accounts, and all production, hnan-
cial and statistical ar ” t
prepared by or for a trader. The depa
ment is authorised to make copies of
documents for record purposes.


THE SERVICE MAN
A Year with Mars.
“Ek Dum”; December, 1943, seems a
long way from December, 1944.
On December 22 last year the Eighth
Army, over the Sangro, was fighting in
bitter weather in the streets of Ortona,
200 miles south-east of Ravenna by air-
line. The Australians in New Guinea,
12,000 miles away, were wading through
the mud in the unfrequented country
between Finschhafen and Saidor. Ameri-
can troops under General MacArthur
were putting the last touches to their
preparations for the Cape Gloucester
landing.
On December 24 the composition of
the Allied invasion command was an-
nounced —General Eisenhower, General
Montgomery, Admiral Ramsay, Air-
Marshal Tedder.
On Sunday, December 26, off the
North Cape, Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser
and strong units of the British Home
Fleet gave Davy Jones Hitler’s battle-
ship Scharnhorst for a Christmas box.
The position in Burma was not good—
it was one of those fronts which could
wait. The democratic world sat back in
awe and satisfaction as it heard that
Berlin and other German cities were
being blown to bits with loads of bombs
weighing up to 2000 tons. There were
still people who believed that bombing
alone could win the war.
But Russia, as usual, was absorbing
most of the limelight in Australian news-
papers. The Russians were supposed to
have “virtually cut off” the Germans in
Vitebsk. In the Ukraine they had ad-
vanced 60 to 180 miles in a few days, in
fierce fighting in which the Germans were
mown down in sheaves as they fled
screaming. Marshal Vatutin had taken
Jitomir. It was felt in the responsible
quarters which produce “authoritative”
newspaper articles that if the British and
Americans would only open the “Second
Front,” ignoring the fact that the worst
stages of winter were approaching, Hitler
would last about a fortnight. All Europe,
it was represented, would be bound to
rise against the invader and sweep him to
destruction.
After a Year
Twelve months later Mars can scarcely
recognise his world. France is virtually
free of the enemy, save for a few pockets
holding out in strong fortress positions,
with the same tenacity and the same ob-
ject as at Stalingrad. Belgium has been
evacuated by those of the Germans who
could get away. The whole of southern
Holland has been freed, but much of it
battered flat or drowned by the breaking
of the dykes.
In Italy the Eighth and Fifth Armies
are 200 miles ahead of their December,
1943, positions. They have taken Rome,
Florence and many another proud Italian
city. They have crossed the Rubicon
and are breaking out on to the
plains of the Po. British troops are in
Athens, Salonika, Patras and many
strategically placed Aegean islands. The
only Germans in Crete are locked up in
the north-western peninsula, whose in-
habitants, looking out to sea upon the
battle, of June, 1941, must have felt from
what they saw that the British Fleet had
been destroyed never to rise again. Yugo-
slavia is only a channel of communica-
tion so far as the enemy is concerned.
On the eastern front all Russia is free
of the enemy. Finland, Rumania, Bul-
garia are all in Allied —that is, Russian
hands after various x curious manoeuvres.
Turkey has become a specifically friendly
neutral in which there was no longer any
room for German diplomats or traders.
Hungary is almost overrun by the Russian
armies knocking at the gates of Budapest,
The Baltic States, fellow-members of the
League, which Australia is still support-
ing financially, are once more Soviet.
There are Russians on the Vistula and
inside the East Prussian border.
The War with Japan
In S.-E. Asia, little understood as a
front, the change has been great. It was the
second-longest actual fighting front, easily
the most arduous and difficult. It was
the poor relation of all fronts at the be-
ginning of the year, fitted out only with
what could not be done without in other
areas where calls were urgent. At one
stage somebody even purloined most of
its landing craft —which are equivalent to
the feet of an amphibious force. In the
interval —to the accompaniment of the
usual snarling criticism from people who
know nothing of their subject—the army
of Burma has taken a tremendous Jap-
anese blow on the chin, caught its
attacker by the scruff of the neck, shaken
250,000 to 300,000 casualties out of his
clothes, heaved him over the ditch of the
Chindwin, crawled into his ear from
North Burma, made his railways look
white-anted string and his Burmese mili-
tary centres like spring hats which have
been sat on by Goring.
When last heard from in 1944 the
South-east Asian Command was building
Bailey bridges over the moat of the
Chindwin. It had a fleet worthy to be
commanded by a very active and distin-
guished Vice Admiral, Sir Arthur Power.
In process of time it had acquired air-
power which had been able to decant into
central Burma—and afterwards feed —
the Chindit force, which actually was
about twice the fighting weight of General
Urquhart’s airborne division of Amhem
in Holland.
South-east Asian naval forces have
long since developed the habit of slip-
ping across 1200 or 1500 miles of sea to
the approaches of the Malacca Strait and
tweaking the nose of the enemy in a very
painful manner.
Australians are getting ready for a new
campaign. General MacArthur’s Ameri-
cans are in the Philippines, 2400 miles
from Cape Gloucester, their rendezvous
last Christmas. The Jap “Mandated”
islands are no longer Japanese.
But the most significant item of change
in the nature of the war is marked on
the martial map by the figure of a rather
small admiral—about the size of Horatio
Nelson, if better nourished—who spent
last Christmas in the Arctic fog off North
Cape, above 70 degrees north latitude
and less than 20 degrees from the North
Pole ; and who is spending this Christmas
somewhere on or below 35 degrees south
and nearly 14,000 miles from where he
was at the same time last year.
It is even of great significance that it
is possible to say where Sir Bruce Fraser
is. A year ago Australian censorship
might have told you where an admiral
in Canberra was a fortnight before, but
never where he was at the moment.
Now the nearest enemy aircraft are
as far away from Sydney as London is
from Bagdad. And if there are any Japa-
nese naval craft near enough to reach
Admiral Fraser they will be keeping very
quiet, remembering his habit of giving
enemy craft to the familiars of the ocean
for Christmas boxes.
The Great Sea Change
The change which has centred in
Admiral Fraser, indeed, is the yardstick
by which the change in the fortunes of
war must be measured. It is a great
thing that 700,000 square miles of terri-
tory and 100,000,000 people, on a normal
population basis, have been torn from
the grasp of the enemy in a single year.
It is a great thing that air superiority has
been established in Europe. But it is a
far greater factor —and a decisive one —
that the wars in the Atlantic and the
Mediterranean have been won by the
Western Allies, chiefly by the British
Navy, that not even a remnant of Ger-
man, Italian or French capital sea-power
remains at the disposal of the Axis, The
sea raiders have gone, save for a few
sneaking U-boats, which do little harm.
The German Navy has become of such
little use that its personnel are being
found fighting far inland.
All round Europe the Reichsmarine
has been compelled to haul down its
flag, and its hulks dot the bottom round
millions of square miles of sea.
It has been maintained in these pages
from the beginning that this war, in
essence, was a sea war, and that land
war in all its stages up to the decisive
one was accessory to it.
So it has proved. It was the over-
whelming superiority of the British Navy
in protective units which prevented
Britain from being starved out when
she stood alone. It was the same
superiority, combined with the tremen-
dous carrying capacity of the British Mer-
cantile Marine and the enormous build-
ing capacity which shipyards were able
to develop everywhere—almost entirely
due to the results of generations of
shipbuilding experience which Britain
gave to the civilised world —that every
situation was met, no matter how long
the road, nor what its demands might be.
History will write that Germany lost
the war because at the right time its
armed might was not able to cope with
the British Navy. It will write that it
was Britain which made the convoys to
Russia possible and saved that country
from complete isolation in 1941, when
—in the words of its own leaders —it was
“in mortal peril.”
It was the British Navy which saved
Malta, the keystone of victory in the
Mediterranean, and made possible the
military opening of Africa and the “soft
underbelly” of Europe.
It was the British Navy and its mer-
cantile sister which made Alamein pos-
sible, secured the breaking of Italy and
started the retreat of the Axis from the
Volga—the first troops to begin to fail
back in the Stalingrad campaign were
the Italians to the north-west of Stalin-
grad, who began to make for Italy the
day after the Alamein victory. They did
not stop running until their vestiges
reached home.
It was the R.N. and the U.S.N. which
made it possible to bring back the A.I.F.
to Australia, to set a limit to the Japanese
westward drive, to fight the Coral Sea
and Midway battles and the crucial battle
of the Solomons and save this country
and the American coast from at least
major raiding.
The Greatest Secret Weapon
It was appropriate that the great secret
W'eapon —about the only real one of
moment used in the whole course of the
war —should have been born in the brains
of British designers, fabricated by British
workmen and put together with the aid
of British sea power.
Port Winston, with its great breakwaters
and quays, in the Bay of the Seine, was
to the men of Eisenhower and Mont-
gomery what the wooden horse was to
the besiegers of Troy.
But it and the armies which dis-
embarked in it would have been of little
use without the service of the British
Navy.
The blushes of those critics who
shouted early in 1942 that the day of
the battleship and the cruiser was over,
and that John Bull was an old fathead
for having wasted his substance on heavy
metal to be sunk, instead of concentrat-
ing on bombers, would this Christmas, if
placed together, create a bright-red light
long enough to join the Aurora Borealis
to the Aurora Australis.
The experience of the last year, in the
battles of the Philippines and elsewhere,
has proved again the rightness of stand-
ard naval theory as held and developed
by the British since the beginning of time.
Fleets are still forts. Ships are their gun-
platforms. Aircraft in sea warfare is
merely a new kind of two-stage artillery
fired from ships and ultimately plugging
a missile into the enemy.
The year has even reinforced the truth
that sufficiently strong naval forces
heavily enough gunned are not neces-
sarily at the mercy even of land fortifica-
tions which they approach.
The new radio sciences and other de-
velopments have given heavy naval guns
an accuracy which they have never known
before. And such devices as liners, new
metals, new propellants have removed
the necessity of husbanding barrels to
the same extent as of yore.
Rocket ships and suchlike provide new
kinds of offensive weapons whose terrors
are only in their infancy. The rocket
battleship and Tlie robomb-carrier are well
advanced embryos, and will be bom in
time if there is need for them.
The salient fact in the war of 1944 is
that sea power has turned the scale so
far against Germany that the balance
cannot now swing back. The salient fact
about the year (or years) ahead is likely
to be that if sea power fails in the Pacific
the war against Japan cannot be won.
Victory can be accelerated in relation to
the power of the Allied navies to block-
ade Japan entirely, to sweep Japan’s
traffic off the sea, to make Japanese har-
bors untenable, to land troops in Japan,
to carve up the Japanese empire into
besieged units, as isolated formations are
besieged in New Guinea.
This Year—and Next
It was here written a year ago (B.
22 /12 / ’43) that in 1944 the Allies “might,
and probably will, invade the Agean
countries and/or France from both
sides ; perhaps Belgium and the Nether-
lands and Norway,” but that “all would
not be plain sailing.” Also, that it was
possible that the “resources of the Allies
will for the'first time be available for the
main attack on Japan by 1945, though
there will certainly be large-scale pre-
liminaries before that —in Burma, the
South-west Pacific and West Pacific.” All
this has come true.
It was said that it was doubtful whether
the Japanese had reached the peak of
their effort or if Germany was over the
peak.
Regarding Russia, it was.written that
during 1944 the Germans “might continue
to go back, fighting stubbornly, hanging
on to every river line, sacrificing armor,
putting up with limited air cover, until
they reach the natural battlegrounds and
defence lines of their own border
country... thus lengthening Russian com-
munications ... leaving the Russians fresh
responsibilities in the shape of a devas-
tated countryside devoid of power and
fuel.” It was added:
At the borderland of Germany proper the
natural defence positions are strong and
diverse, and the strategy of holding them
and of using them for offensive purposes
has been worked out for a century or
more.
Six months later, when the Russians
began their offensive to follow the inva-
sion of France, it was here written (B.
12/7/ ’44), before the enemy had left the
Russian border hundreds of miles from
where he ultimately stopped;
He (the enemy) might' go further back
across the East Prussian border, disposing
his legions along the Angerapp River, the
chain of the Masurian Lakes, linking the
Narew River and the Vistula defences right
down to Gorlice Tarnow.
That proved to be the exact defence
line to which the main German Army
retired.
At the time that was written the daily
press was shouting that the Nazis were
“leaving Russia to fight for Berlin...
68,000 Germans killed in a week.
Terrible scenes as German rout grows ~.
The German Army is a broken army on
the run.”
However, what was here suggested
mostly came to pass—it needed no pro-
phetic powers for anybody familiar with
the situation to write the programme for
the year.
But the gift of prophecy would be
needed for 1945, for there are numerous
factors to be considered—how far
Russia is prepared to go to defeat Ger-
many ; whether the policy which Mos-
cow Radio, through the Free German
Movement of the captured German
armies, and Russian Affairs, the organ of
the Soviet Embassy in Washington, have
been publicising represent Russia’s true
intentions:
We do not pursue the aim of destroying
the entire organised military power of Ger-
many. Our intentions are to lead back the
Wehrmacht to the frontiers of Germany
and preserve it for the people.
Events depend, too, on whether every
country in Europe is to have a “libera-*
tion” movement, prepared so soon as the
land is free of Germans to implement
Lenin’s slogans and use the period of its
own country’s war to develop civil war
and revolution within it, as is being
attempted in Greece, has been attempted
in Belgium, and would be attempted, if
possible, in France.
But all this is subsidiary to the sea.
Control of the oceans still means victory.
And it has brought the war to a stage
which somewhat resembles that of the
year of Trafalgar in the Napoleonic wars.
It has assured that the enemy cannot win,
even though there are years of hard fight-
ing ahead.
Naval control, too, can presently assure
that the internal enemies of democratic
Europe cannot produce world revolu-
tion.
Mindoro Landing.
“Ek Dum”: After two months’ stub-
born fighting, which began on October
20, the Leyte campaign is reaching its
final phase in a hurricane of rain, with the
United States 77th and other divisions
advancing yard by yard against heavy re-
sistance, rolling up the Yamashita Line
from the south. Before the week-end the
enemy was able to thrqw in tanks. But
the battle cost him 3350 dead before he
gave up more ground.
General MacArthur announced on
December 15 that the Americans in 55
days to December 12 had had 2176 killed
and total casualties 10,400. Japanese
casualties he estimated at 82,554, includ-
ing at least 63,801 killed—of the enemy
dead 33,801 were found on the ground
and the rest drowned or killed when 10
convoys were totally or partially de-
stroyed in the enemy’s endeavor t 6 bring
in reinforcements.
Tokyo Radio then, for the first time,
made remarkable admissions of losses:
79 admirals killed in the Pacific since
May (22 in the last week), and 162,159
officers and men of both services lost in
the Philippines since November 1 —78,411
naval men and 83,748 army personnel.
All this with the fantastic claim that half
a million Americans have been killed
since the Leyte landing.
Whatever is behind the figures they go
far beyond the most optimistic claims of
the Americans. The naval ones represent
the complements of 20 battleships, 50
cruisers and 100 destroyers—which the
Japanese certainly did* not possess at any
time and now never will possess. Inscrut-
able are the workings of the Nipponese
mind.
On December 15 General MacArthur
made another step forward, jumping over
the islands of Panay, Negros and Cebu
to land near the southern tip of Mindoro,
between Luzon and Palawan. It is a posi-
tion which commands the entrance into
the Sulu Sea at the north end, about 150
miles airline from Manila.
An island of about 4000 square miles,
a third bigger than Leyte, Mindoro appar-
ently never has been strongly occupied,
and like other portions of the Philippines,
outside Mindanao and Luzon, the two


Birth Notice.
SOUTER-SMITH (nee Chappie) .—December S, in
Melbourne, to Ethel, wife of Flight-Lieutenant L.
Souter-Smith, a son (Norman John).
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re ETHEL MAY SHERRaTT
WILL the above named who left England for Aus-
tralia about the year 1902, or any person having
information as to her marriage, death, or present
whereabouts, please communicate with NORTON
SMITH & CO., Solicitors, S 9 Hunter Street Sydney?
Legal Notice.
WALTER NORMAN CLAPP late of 75 Stirling
Street Perth in the State of Western Australia but
formerly of Ooolgardie and formerly of 217 James
Street Perth in the said State born at Homebush
Road in the State of New South Wales the son of
ROBERT JAMES JARVIS CLAPP of Perth in the
State of Western Australia formerly of Newton in
the State of New South Wales and ELIZABETH
CLAPP nee HUGHES of Perth in the State of
Western Australia and formerly of Newton in the
State of New South Wales died on the 31st day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
at Perth in the State of Western Australia Intestate
and Letters of Administration were granted to
SYDNEY WENTWORTH CLAPP of 11 Brunswick
Road Albany in the State of Western Australia on
the 30th day of July 1937.
Creditors next of kin or other persons having
claims on the Estate are hereby requested to lodge
such claims with the aforesaid Administrator
SYDNEY WENTWORTH CLAPP care of HUGHES
& BROCKMAN 201-204 C.M.L. Buildings St. George’s
Terrace Perth Western Australia Solicitors not later
than the 3rd day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-five.
DATED this 20th day of December 1944.
HUGHES & BROCKMAN,
Solicitors for the Administrator.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY CHURM.—TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY MARGARET CHURM has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3521 of 1943 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney before the Ist February
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO. 117
Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce. '
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK EARNEST WILLIAMS.—TAKE NOTICE
that THELMA EMMA OHILVERS WILLIAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3552 of 1944 alleging
that you the said Jack Earnest Williams have been
guilty of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you desire to defend the
suit you must enter an appearance at the Divorce
Oaice King Street Sydney by the sth day of Febru-
ary One thousand nine hundred and forty-five and
obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
GEORGE HENRY BESWICK Solicitor of St. James
Buildings 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney New South
Wales. DATED this 14th day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-four.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWIN TERENCE DONOVAN.—TAKE NOTICE
that VALDA DONOVAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4664 of 1944 alleging that you the
said EDWIN TERENCE DONOVAN have been guilty
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you desire to defend the
suit you must enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office King Street Sydney by the Twelfth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty-five
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from GEORGE HENRY BESWICK Solicitor of St.
James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
DATED this 14th day of December 'One thousand
nine hundred and forty-four.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
vm
&
largest islands on the extreme north and
south, and Leyte, the gate covering the
eastern central approaches, it had been
very largely in the hands of guerrillas.
Its backbone is a wild range rising up
over 8000 feet. The Americans had an
airfield there at St. Jose in the days of
Bataan. They destroyed its last petrol
dump before abandoning it on March 8,
1942.
Advancing inland for nine miles on a
broad front, MacArthur’s forces seized St.
Jose and the airfield, meeting negligible
resistance on the way. They were accom-
panied by the usual R.A.A.F. construc-
tion unit, which at once set to work to
recondition the field.
Next Door to Borneo
At the same time American and Philip-
pine guerrillas, who were so well
organised that as far back as 1943 they
were issuing their own postage stamps,
liberated the provinces of Lanao and
Misamis Occidental in Mindanao —Misa-
mis is at the base of the western penin-
sula which runs down to Zamboanga,
opposite North Borneo. On Panay they
took over several towns. They cleared
the southern half of Negros and most of
south and Central Cebu. Some small
islands in the Sulu group, between Min-
danao and Borneo across the southern
side of the Sulu Sea, have been liberated
—they were long since virtually in guer-
rilla hands.
Allied forces, therefore, are only a short
distance from Borneo, which a little while
ago held large numbers of Australian
prisoners.
The Japanese told a tale of a large
naval and air battle before the landing
on Mindoro. In this battle the Ameri-
cans were alleged to have lost or had
crippled astronomical numbers of ships
and aircraft, including two battleships,
three cruisers, two destroyers and eight
transport and six other unidentifiable
ships sunk or damaged.
There certainly was a heavy air attack
which ranged over Luzon and surround-
ing islands before the landing. In three
days 347 enemy aircraft were claimed
as destroyed and damaged, including 41
machines shot down —about half the
enemy’s total air force in Luzon, The
enemy apparently considers Luzon as his
battlefield.
North Burma Clear
Outside the Philippines, equally im-
portant developments, dismissed in a para-
graph in the morning press, were taking
place in Burma. Building a Bailey bridge
across the broad Chindwin, the British-
Indian units of the Fourteenth Army
linked with the 36th Division, which was
driving down the railway from North
Burma after having entered Indaw a few
days previously. The Japanese to the
east hastily let go of Bhamo, which
Chinese troops had been attacking. Thus
they abandoned their last foothold in
northern Burma and made certain the
transfer of the war zone to dry central
Burma.
Synchronising with the northern sweep,
British troops in Arakan began to push
over Maungdaw - Buthidaung battle-
grounds against only slight resistance.
Advances will not be fast. The supply
difficulties of British troops in interior
Burma are tremendous. But their task is
mitigated by the possession of a trans-
port air force which has already per-
formed unprecedented tasks in the way of
moving whole divisions.
Along the Siegfried Defences.
“Ek Dum”: Moves on the Western
Front during the week served to show
that all had not been plain sailing on
the northern sector.
It had been reported on December 1
that the U.S. First Army had driven to
the Roer and had entered parts of
Diiren, which is on the eastern bank.
This was not confirmed, and silence
descended over exact details of what was
happening. But from the movements
announced early this week it was obvious
that the Americans had either got no
further than the edges of the HUrtgen
Forest in the earlier moves or that any
troops which had penetrated further had
been compelled to move back to the
slopes of the hills.
On December 13 it was stated from
Allied H.Q. that five villages guarding
the western approaches to Diiren had
been occupied ; that the Americans were
within two-thirds of a mile of Diiren on
the west, and that they had reached the
Roer on a half-mile front near Ober-
maubach, five miles to the south.
To move forward calls for the destruc-
tion of everything in the Allied path. In
the wake of recent advances scarcely a
building has been left standing, and the
whole country is a closely planted garden
of pillboxes, mines, booby-traps, “laid-
on” flame-throwers —they are installed
like garden-tap systems and operated by
remote control —barbed-wire dozens of
yards deep, tank barriers and traps.
Resistance had been particularly bitter
south of Diiren, around Monschau.
There the Germans on December 13-14
launched a counter-attack on the greatest
scale since Normandy. They appear to
have regrouped, and are striking at the
points where communications best favor
them.
This operation extended southward to
the crucial flank positions of the First
Army in the Ardennes, where Luxem-
bourg joins Belgium, and thence almost
to the Trier sector. It is hilly,
w'ooded country, served by several main
roads. The chief force of the German
attack, served by especially power-
ful air and tank support, was along the
Trier-Liege road. The enemy broke into
Belgium and brought Malmedy and
Eupen under his shellfire. The develop-
ment was a serious threat. It looked like
a general testing of the line and of the
Allies’ reserve capacity.
It is obvious that the Allied advance is
going to be a long process, but the factor
which will count is man-power. If, as Mr.
Churchill says, 6,000,000 to 7,000,000
Germans have been killed —he apparently
is polite enough to accept Russian
figures—it is difficult to understand how
the enemy continues his resistance.
When in the last war Germany had
1,300,000 dead, its annual man-power
pool had been drawn on ahead to the
point of bankruptcy—this despite the fact
that the industrial demands for man-
power were infinitely smaller than in the
present carnage. At that point it col-
lapsed totally. The loss of seven millions
means that one man in every four in
Germany between the ages of 19 and 55
has been wiped out. And at least another
one in every six is supposed to be a
prisoner. These figures take no account
of wounded.
Shells in Karlsruhe
The southern fronts are still divided as
to resistance. The German retreat on
the Rhine plain, between Mulhouse
and the Palatinate, has continued.
It is very much like the retreat
out of the corridor in the Ukraine
last year in method —the front has been
caving-in from the more distant end.
Next there was a retreat into the
frontal German lines north of the Saar
River, covering the Kaiserslautern Gap.
Here the U.S. was brought to a
halt by heavy defence in which artillery
was a strong ingredient. Then the enemy
gave way along the rest of the frontier,
which turns eastward toward the Rhine,
from Saarbriicken. The American advance
up the low-lying Rhine valley was
unresisted until the 49th parallel was
reached, and with it the German border,
beyond which is the line of the Lauter
River, linking with the Saar headwaters.
Here the Americans were into Germany
along a five-mile front before the week-
end, but they had not reached the little
village of Worth, where the crossing-place
is, though they were within seven miles
of Karlsruhe —Karlsruhe soon ceased to
be anybody’s “Ruhe” (“rest” or “peace”)
under their shellfire.
There was an air of expectancy about
correspondents’ reports of the proximity
of the Seventh Army to this industrial
city, the point in the European rail-
way system where the train turns east for
Vienna, Istanbul, Bagdad and Caiflo. But
between the Allies and the city is the
Rhine. And I know one Australian who
can testify fervently that hereabouts the
crossing of the river is a swim comparable
to that from Circular Quay to Kirribilli in
Sydney Harbor on a running tide. The
main Siegfried frontal defences in this
region are cored by the Saarbriicken,
Zweibriicken, Lauterbach—not Lauter-
bourg, which* is on the border further
south—railway. They cross the Rhine
slightly north of Karlsruhe and run down
the east bank, but some distance from
the river.
The next stages of advance along the
Rhine and Rhineland fronts are assaults
on the first main sponge defences which
the Allies have reached. There is only
too much warrant for Mr. Churchill’s
prophecy that “the fighting to come will
involve the largest and fiercest battles
of the war.”
Freyburg in Faenza.
The taking of Faenza and the opening
of the road from Rimini towards Bologna
became the job of General Freyberg’s
Maorilanders, who had not been in action
for a little time.
As always, they did it thoroughly. On
December 16 they smashed into the
perimeter along the road to the east and
also from the south-west. They pushed
northwards afterwards on a wide front,
took the village of Celce and approached
the river Senio, 29 miles from Bologna
along the main road. All this was
achieved in face of the opposition of
their old adversaries, the Panzer Grena-
diers.
Within 24 hours 600 prisoners were
taken, and another stage was passed on
the blood - stained journey towards
Bologna.
Budapest to Athens.
“Ek Dum”; Diary from Budapest
recorded in Sydney’s greatest daily,
which, though not so optimistic as con-
temporaries, had the Hungarian capital
“surrounded on the north, east and south”
on November 7;
Dec. 11: The Germans are pulling out of
burning Budapest, according to reports re-
ceived in Moscow The Moscow correspon-
dent of British United Press says that, with
Russians closing in on three sides, the capture
of Budapest appears imminent. The Germans’
retreat is said to be so hasty that they are
leaving their equipment and wounded.. . .The
Germans threw in all available forces in an
attempt to cover their withdrawal The Red
Army now has Budapest at its mercy, says the
Moscow correspondent of the “The Times.”
The Russians are showing themselves af the
very top of their powers... .The Germans at
the gates of the Reich have been outgeneralled,
outmanoeuvred and outfought. The Red Army’s
artillery aver a front of 2000 miles has dealt
a blow which front-line correspondents re-
scribe as unprecedented in density.
Dec. 12: Russian attacking columns have
smashed their way into the outskirts of Buda-
pest where a desperate hand-to-hand and
house-to-house struggle is now being waged
“Red Star” says the Russians are pouring into
the industrial north-east through a breach in
the enemy’s defence wall.... With the city com-
pletely surrounded, their (the Germans’) free-
dom of manoeuvre is restricted by the threat
of tank blows against widely separated points
of the city perimeter. German tactical re-
serves north and north-east' of the city are
being smashed German and Hungarian units
are surrendering in large numbers.
Dec. 13: The German garrison in Budapest is
apparently well dug in tor a siege and pre-
pared to make a suicide stand, even at the
price of the capital’s destruction... .Marshal
Malinovsky appears reluctant to attempt to
smash frontally into the flat and crowded zone
of Pest (on the east bank of the Danube)
while hilly Buda (on the west bank), where the
Germans have commanding observation over
Pest, is still not completely surrounded. Rus-
sian observers do not minimise the military
problem of the reduction of the fortress city.
Dec. 14: German and Russian troops are
fighting hand-to-hand as the battle at the
gates of Budapest enters the most bitter stage.
One-third of the city lies destroyed by Rus-
sian shellfire and German demolition.,. .The
Germans counter-attacked furiously yesterday
inside the north-eastern sector of the suburbs in
a yard-by-yard battle for the capital It is un-
likely that the Russians have yet launched a
frontal attack on the city because some soften-
ing-up by artillery is required The Moscow
correspondent of the United Press says that
savage hand-to-hand fighting is going on (in the
northern suburbs). Russian infantry are charg-
ing with the bayonet to hurl the Germans from
their strongpoints Reuter’s correspondent
says that fresh deluges of rain have made the
going heavy for Russian stormtroops in the
outskirts of the city.
Dec. 15: Tanks are fighting a big battle south-
west of Budapest. When the Red Army breaks
through the encirclement of the city will be
complete A Soviet front-line correspondent
says that the Germans understand that the
fate of their whole forces in Budapest is
being decided here The main defence sys-
tem on the north is still intact The Germans
have slowed down the Red Army’s onslaught
by pouring in reinforcements and by savage and
costly counter-attacks.
Thus war on the Russian front runs its
normal course. The Soviet armies’ front-
line correspondents have their accounts
published in official prints. British and
American correspondents bite their nails
in the Hotel Metropole, 1000 miles from
the front, and send what the censors will
permit. In the daily press each day’s news
is contradicted by that of the day follow-
ing. The cataract of exaggerations and
contradictions can be summed up in a
sentence: “The Russians are beginning
an attack on Budapest.”
And already, as often happens, atten-
tion is shifted to another war zone;
“All Moscow correspondents draw atten-
tion to the East Prussian front, where air
activity suggests that a flare-up is immi-
nent.” And then attention is attracted to
the Czechoslovak border in the Miskolcz
area.
What Russian plans are none know.
Even Mr. Churchill, who said on October
15: “I know nothing of their intentions.”
E.L.A.S. in Greece
By a curious coincidence, Marshal
Tito, who was supposedly racing towards
Vienna while holding 200,000 Germans
bottled up in Macedonia, disappeared out
of the news about the time that the
E.L.A.S. broke out in Greece. This com-
munist “people’s army” continued its
insurrection against British and Govern-
ment troops last week, though at the
week-end it was reported that there was
some hope of an agreement following the
visit to Athens of General Alexander and
Mr. Harold Macmillan, British Minister
in the Middle East. British troops, how-
ever, suffered more losses in dealing with
this new enemy. And the communists
stand accused of murdering three British
lorry-drivers and “two members of the
Australian War Graves Commission”
(“Daily Mail”) —unarmed, useful, devoted
fellows who were “digging graves for
British dead.”
One thing is certain, though foreigners
who dish up foreign stuff for Australian
radio stations (A.B.C. dotes on them)
may dissent: the British Government will
not leave the Greeks at the mercy of the
“democratic” forces, who are described
by the British United Press correspon-
dent as “of a very low type —thieves,
gunmen, pimps looting wherever they
can and some of their appeals based on
the loot they promise.” It must have
obtained full knowledge that, even before
the Germans were out of the country,
E.L.A.S. used its arms to slaughter politi-
cal foes and suppress free speech by
terror —though speech has never been
very free in Greece.
A N.Y. “Times” correspondent re-
ported from Kalamata in the Morea on
November 4 that on the previous Sep-
tember 17 the Third E.L.A.S. Division
entered the town “and shortly afterwards
began an orgy of slaughter, descriptions
of which inhabitants are still too fright-
ened to give except in utmost secrecy
In front of the Rex Hotel seven persons,
including the Mayor, were found hang-
ing from lampposts. A dozen others,
stabbed to death, were sprawled on the
pavement.”


Doesn’t anybody care
about the man on the land
Too right we do —at Eveready, “Oh, yes?”—
says the man on the land. “Well, why was I
done out of the invasion news? And all our
favourite radio programmes, too, because we
couldn’t get a new set of batteries at any price?”
That’s been giving us at Eveready more than
a few grey hairs, because your goodwill is going
to be all-important to us after the war. It only
stands to reason that we’d do all in our power
to keep that goodwill, doesn’t it?
But, war orders poured in on us. We’ve
been making batteries for everything from
walkie-talkies to mine-detectors.
Now, here's the good news!
We’re catching up on the
terrific pressure of war
orders, but we’re not slop-
ping for breath. We’re con-
tinuing flat-out to try and
catch up on civilian needs . . .
and we know that the civilian
battery that is most urgently
needed is the radio battery
for the man on the land.
But, don’t forget that even
after the batteries leave our
factory there may be delays
in transport, and that’s some-
thing over which wj have no
control.
Believe us —we’re going flat-
out!
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
EVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
BUILDING BOARD
&
iS
m
m
asy
Cane-ite is made in handy sized sheets
ready for fixing. It can be grooved,
panelled, or finished in any colour
scheme. A room lined with Cane-ite
is insulated against heat, cold, and
noise. Specify Cane-ite for your post-
war home and have comfort and
beauty in every rooms
igasa&affis
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
BUILDS • INSULATES
DECORATES • ABSORBS SOUND
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.,
MARKETING: CANE-ITE
PLASTER PRODUCTS. .AS
Building Material* Division
. . SLAGWOOL
BESTOS FIBRE
CA. 58-44
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at Rosehill was not so
large as at some previous meetings there
this season, but 23,000 made it payable.
The track was in great order. Hall Stand
(l.lli), and Easter Time (2.4) broke
course records, and Pension (54|) equalled
another. Three winners—Pension, Anne-
Tien-Et and Ribbon—had not previously
raced.
No Rosehill winner was more impres-
sive than Pension (G. Podmore) in the
Nursery Handicap. Second to Brazardis
until nearing the turn, he led into the
straight, and then won at his ease by
four lengths in time equalling the track
record. Pension is by Pentheus from
Grace Eaton by Eaton Lad from Grace
Dighton, and costing 350gns. as a
yearling this was his first appearance.
Well-tried youngsters in Toulon and Tac-
tician (slightly lame after the race) never
got in it, and behind the place-getters
Brazardis (Brazen-Ardis) was the only
runner worth noting.
The 4500gns. filly Anne - Tien -Et
(Thompson) landed the Juvenile Handi-
cap, but, allowing for the fact that it was
her first run, the effort was not in keeping
with her private reputation. It does not
seem as if Courtship or Civic Pride will
have much to fear from her unless she
improves considerably. Well placed from
barrier-rise, Anne-Tien-Et joined Trianon
in the lead entering the straight, and then
was all out to beat the latter a neck in a
second slower time than Pension recorded
in his race. Doubloon finished strongly
to dead-heat Impulse for third.
City betting—which flourishes despite
alleged efforts to suppress it —made it cer-
tain Hall Stand (Sinclair) would be
favorite for the Kingsford Smith Flying
Handicap. Opening at 7 to 4on the
course, he closed a shade shorter, and
never gave his backers any cause for un-
easiness. Never further back than a close
third, he was a sure winner from the time
he led into the straight. Soho and Noble-
man ran on well, though without being
able to trouble the winner. Milanja's
fourth gives him a chance in a suburban
welter, and of the remainder Modulation
and Rex Felt were going best at the finish.
Easter Time (Doon) hung on well to
win the Ascot T.C. Handicap from Betza,
who did not have the best of luck in
running. Gauntlet did the pacemaking
with Easter Time, but he is an indifferent
stayer. Kiaree was a moderate third, and
no excuse for him was possible. Lam-
beth was always one of the tail-enders,
and Beline ran a long way below his
Newcastle reputation.
There was little between Ribbon (Dun-
can), Milanion and Philgita at the finish
of the Bunnerong Three-year-old Handi-
cap, but though Ribbon ran wide when
rounding the home turn she scored by
a neck from Milanion, who similarly
beat Philgita. Recka Oka’s pace carried
him to the front at the half-mile, but
though first into the straight he could
not see it out, running fifth, just behind
Ascertain. Oliver headed the others, and
with anything like a fair passage in the
straight would have been up with the
place-getters. Heavily-backed Silent and
Fireboy were never dangerous. Ribbon,
who cost 80gns. as a yearling, and was
not raced last season, is by Talking from
Advance Australia (March Along-Aus-
tralian Flower) half-sister to Prince Min-
imbah.
In the Encourage Handicap Skip Bom-
her (McGrowdie) came from a long way
back at the half-mile to beat Tres Bon,
who led round the home turn. Simla
also made up a lot of ground from the
six furlongs. Manday Son was fourth
without ever being a winning possibility,
while Mel Swan, after being prominent
for a few furlongs, dropped right out of
it in the straight. Nepean River was also
a complete failure. J. King may have
a useful stayer in Skip Bomber, who is
by Harinero from Our Legion (Legion-
naire-Orula), even though his pedigree
may be more suggestive of speed.
Kimbell (Bartle) was seen at his best
in the Welter Handicap, heading Air Link
inside the last furlong, and winning by
four lengths. Lady Marie should not be
long in adding to owner R. Wootton’s
winning account, and Goya and Monaro
will be all the better for their run. It
was Kimbell’s eleventh race this season.
* * * *
Canada, a four-year-old gelding by
Manitoba-Poor Princess, defeated Liberal
Knight and Azores in a muddling-run
race for the Epsom Cup at Mentone last
Saturday. Well-backed at 8 to 1, he
won well enough to indicate bright pros-
pects during the Christmas and New Year
meetings. Backers of Azores, favorite at
9 to 2, criticised W. Williamson for his
handling of that gelding. Williamson,
however, was the victim of circumstances.
Azores fought for his head early, and,
with nothing anxious to set a fast pace,
Williamson evidently thought it best to
let him run along. Result was that Azores
hit the front about five furlongs from
home, and tired at the business end.
Disgruntled backers congregated
around the judge’s box and raised their
FOR RANDWiCK.
(before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Three-year-old Handicap: Silent,
1 ; Debenture, 2 ; Oliver, 3.
December Nursery; Sir Alex, 1 ;
Pension, 2 ; Doubloon, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Marquis,
1 ; Man o’ War, 2 ; Severus, 3.
Villiers Stakes: Liberality, 1 ;
Grand Prodige, 2; Modulation or
Craigie, 3.
December Handicap: Royal Peer,
1; Night Parade, 2; Prince Buz-
Welter Handicap: Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; War Effort, 2 ; Valiant
Garde or Kimbell, 3.
SECOND DAY—DECEMBER 26.
SUMMER CUP.
Royal Peer 1
Betza -
Falcon Knight _ •• • • 3
DECEMBER STAKES.
Courtship 1
Civic Pride 2


o
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Shin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
iiHii
in
ill
llfll
ill
id!!
IH
%
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
-t
r G
m
&©
‘h!
7 el e
Sch
9r*r,
lect
\ftw
?"*3
y>63
and
®en
Ce c -
°sf
<?»v
®9o/
sow
'e/
v *</
°o^
O/),
9r ®p*
CON
Oft
oz*-
'ce
p Os r
'no
ISd
°*7>
On
9‘n.
of
br
C*
®S"
off
mM
es
BNt
s TDlf%
°'d
fh rli *r Z* *ho epfi °.
h * **?**• /.
6 of /„>*»
T
30.
C 4z?fi
iO.
Od
to d
99?
WM
»m 8o ,
34
s^YNai^sn s
V
2 if Cn
wotu
If
.o
ted
2 On
****** 0 *W
stop - .: Sl0l >
CX
ATr '
St ANd
4RDs
iir
Au *te a
Is At
OES
AU2, °MAXxn
IT
StlOlfn
ATI. o«e« yo^onne”««b^“"V t WS U
s-s2tt"r5-«sss s*
&
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY.... MELBOURNE.... PERTH.... BRISBANE
ATL 7-A
voices in protest after Solstar (3 to 1)
and Private Chat (10 to 1) had been
awarded a head-heat for first in the
second Parkdale Welter. Demonstrators
favored the outside horse, Solstar, and
considered he had won comfortably.
Spectators on the other side of the judge,
however, were of opinion that Private
Chat had won. It was the old story of
the deceptive angle, and the judge obvi-
ously was correct.
Leading apprentice T. Hoppo experi-
enced a day of mixed fortune. His six
mounts yielded two wins, a dead-heat for
first and two seconds, but stewards sus-
pended him for two months for alleged
interference in two of those races.
Hoppo’s winners were Canada and Bisley,
his dead-heater being Private Chat. An-
other apprentice, G. Clarke, had his
first winning mount on Port o’ Call in the
Mordialloc Stakes. Port o’ Call started
favorite at 5 to 2 and led all the way
to record his second win for his Indian
owner, H.H. the Maharajah of Parlekimidi.
* * * *
Among the horses unplaced at Rose-
hill on Saturday those worth keeping in
mind include Brazardis, Monaro, Rex
Felt, Milanja, Ascertain, Oliver and
Goya. There will also be considerable
improvement on the part of others
of Saturday’s division. With the
fields so large a slow beginning dis-
poses of many horses in the first
furlong. They cannot get through,
and an attempt to go round minimises
their chances. In the circumstances seem-
ing reversals of form from one week to
another are excusable, but it is hard to
convince the man who, having lost his
money on a horse one Saturday, sees it
win a week or two later.
» * * *
Hall Stand won in such good style at
Rosehill that he was immediately rushed
in Villiers and Cup doubles. His double
backers were unlucky, as on Monday he
was taken out of the Villiers in favor of
the Carrington Stakes, Probably it was a
wise move, as, though there is no doubt as
to his ability to run a great six furlongs,
another fast beginner in Grand Prodige
might make things a little too tough for
him at a mile in the Villiers. Modulation
is sure to do better at a mile than six
furlongs, and while Craigie, with 81b.
more than his Villiers weight, disap-
pointed at Rosehill, it is some excuse for
him that he ran into a lot of trouble.
The Randwick mile may be slightly far
for Nobleman, though he is well
and has an appreciable drop in weight
of 81b. as compared with last Saturday.
Non-runners of Villiers prominence last
Saturday included Grand Prodige, Liber-
ality, Victory Lad and War Eagle, and
at the time of writing uncertainty still
attaches to War Eagle being a starter.
He will need to be at his best for his
chance of downing some of the others
mentioned being really good. There may
not be much need for backers to go be-
yond Liberality, Grand Prodige, Modula-
tion, Craigie, Soho and Victory Lad in
their search for place-getters.
* * * *
Any owner plucky enough to pay
4500gns. for a yearling deserves luck, and
most racegoers were pleased to see Anne-
Tien-Et win at Rosehill. Still, the per-
formance was not one over which it was
possible to enthuse, as her time left her
nearly half a dozen lengths behind Pen-
sion, and he had something in reserve at
the finish ; whereas Anne-Tien-Et was all
out and was meeting youngsters that did
not have much in the way of the form to
recommend them. Admittedly, it was her
first run, but Civic Pride and Courtship
won much more convincingly at their
first appearance.
'** * *
Kiaree, who moved a trifle short in
the Ascot Turf Club Handicap, may be
helped by the longer distance of the
Summer Cup, but it was scarcely a
winning effort for that race, in which he
will carry only a pound less than last
week. He will meet Easter Time on the
same terms and Betza Blb. worse, or 6lb.
if, as announced, McGrowdie will ride
him 21b. over. Therefore, probabilities
do not greatly favor Kiaree turning the
tables on Easter Time and Betza. There
does not seem much hope for
Neta Linette or Lambeth, the last-
fiamed’s showing at Rosehill being dis-
tinctly poor. He showed neither pace nor
finishing power. Sticking to figures, Betza
reads best of the Cup horses that ran
at Rosehill, and he cannot be accorded
any pull over Royal Peer, though he beat
the latter at Canterbury on a pound
worse than Cup terms.
* * * J> *
The closing down of Victoria Park as
a training track as well as a racecourse
will be a nasty blow for many trainers.
It was popular even with trainers who
did not regularly work their horses there,
and those who did so will have diffi-
culty in getting anything so good.
Trainers who have No. 1 licenses but
have given Victoria Park preference for
training purposes are F. T. Cush, S.
Lamond and J. W. Cook, each of whom
has a fairly large team. It is an awk-
ward problem, and though the S.T.C.
evidently looks to the A.J.C. to greatly
assist in overcoming it, Randwick is one
course now carrying as many horses as,
in fairness to its “regulars,” it can
accommodate. It must not be overlooked
that a little while ago it took over a lot of
horses previously trained at Kensington.
* * * »■
If the Sydney T.C. purposes sending
someone abroad to gain ideas as to race-
course construction before starting to
build its own track it might be as well to
wait until the end of the war. There
might not be much to be learnt in Eng-
land at present, and even America
reckons its own tracks can stand improve-
ment. The executive director of Arling-
ton Park and Washington Park, Chicago’s
two big tracks, has recently been in con-
ference with an internationally known
architect relative to post-war improve-
ments. It is planned to make the tracks
mentioned the most attractive in America,
and it might pay the S.T.C. to wait some
time before sending a representative
abroad for ideas.
'
Miscellaneous.
Having an adverse decision to avenge,
Tommy Colteaux left nothing to chance
'when he fought Max Cameron at Leich-
hardt. Nor did he leave much of the
Cameron head and torso unhit. He had
his man down and nearly out in the
ninth, and Cameron was hard put to it
to see the twelfth round through. Yet
the judgment of the court for Colteaux
was denounced with all the passion that
moves a Leichhardt crowd in its most
unreasonable mood.
Sydney people who go to the fights had
their first glimpse of Kid Young at the
Stadium on Saturday, and pronounced
him good. In fact. Young and Tozer put
on a real fight. It was close for nine
rounds; then Young outboxed and out-
fought Tozer and got away with the de-
cjsion> He depended mostly on snappy
straight lefts, like the boxers of a better
scboo i An ear iy bump made his right
brow b]eed but before the eleventh
, .„ . ’ ln „, Tn7.r-
*nded he had closed Toze s right eye
Young, conqueror ot Boxall, who had a
dectsion over Morgan before the veteran
quitted the business, has far and away
the strongest claim to a title match with
Patrick.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Cheers are deserved by the group ot
women who 18 months ago took over
Ye Olde Dutch Coffee Inn and turned it
into a money-making undertaking for
p.o.w. In this short space of time the
cafe has cleared £lO,OOO ; £7OOO has been
handed to the Red Cross, the rest distri-
buted to other efforts which have p.o.w. at
heart. The cafd has become quite a social
centre, and well-known people are to be
seen there at all times enjoying the good
food and happy in the knowledge that
they are helping an excellent cause.
“Lightning Strikes Twice,” written and
produced by Rex Rienits, had an excel-
lent reception when the Tin Alley Players
presented it recently at the Union
Theatre. The action of the play takes
place in the morning-room of a house
on the outskirts of a small Australian
country town, and bowls of gay flowers
and bright furnishings figured in the set-
ting. Jo, wife of the author-producer,
was responsible for the scenery, and Des-
mond Connor arranged the effective light-
ing. Ruby May as the possessive aunt,
an unfortunate woman who murders
twice, was thrilling. v Joy Youlden was
a country-girl maid. Proceeds went to
charity, and many well-known people at-
tended, including Mrs. J. G. Medley, wifa
of the Vice-Chancellor of the University.
Authoress Jean Campbell, Doha Ribush
and Mrs. Ribush, smart in a scarlet
jacket worn over a black frock, were also
in the audience. June Richardson, a
student of commerce at the University,
Was an attractive figure, her hat featur-
ing an outsize in white snoods. Jean
Darragh pinned a posy of pink and blue
flowers in her fair curls and wrapped her-
self in a beige coat. Other applauders
were Major J. D. Wittemeyer and Major
D. Schemers, of the Netherland Indies
Forces.
From Adelaide; An unusually delayed
tribute is the Edith Hubbe and Harriet
Cook Memorial, just established at Ade-
laide Uni. The sisters ran a school of
great repute for girls from 1886 to 1921,
when they retired. Now both are dead,
and former scholars with long memories
have subscribed £5OO for an annual prize
in a modern language, “preferably
Dutch.”
In 1840 John Pascoe Fawkner gave a
two-storey building at the west end of
Bourke-street for use as a hospital. So be-
ban Melbourne General Hospital. This
building housed 20 beds and had a small
out-patients department. In 1848 its activi-
ties were transferred to a site at the corner
of Lonsdale and Swanston streets, where
it has remained. As far back as 1865
it was realised that the hospital was in
the wrong spot, and a movement was
made to transfer it to Parkville, adjacent
to the University. In 1929 a site in Park-
ville was reserved by the State Govern-
ment and in 1939, almost 10 years later,
excavation began, building operations
commencing on January 8, 1940.
The new Royal Melbourne Hospital
(to which patients from the old institu-
tion were transferred last week) stands
in a series of blocks ten storeys
high (the maximum height of 132 ft.
allowed by building regulations). The
main block is T-shaped to allow for
plenty of sunlight and air. This new hos-
pital, which cost over £1,000,000, can
house 536 in-patients and deal with 1200
out-patients every day.y At full working
capacity the dispensary could dispense
1,000,000 prescriptions per year. There
are no more than 16 beds in each ward
(some have only 12), and the wards are
the acme of comfort. One set of beds is
separated from another set by a high
plate-glass screen, and long windows from
floor to ceiling allow sunlight and air to
enter freely.
Eleven operating theatres are in use,
and these include the main suite of
six on the ninth floor. The steril-
ising plant for instruments is most up to
date, and was built and designed in
the State. Everything that could be
done for the comfort of the patient
has been done. The huge kitchens,
embodying the latest in cooking methods,
serve up to 3000 meals every day.
The transferring of food to wards
and to the patients, hot, is done by steel
trolleys which hold deep containers into
which the food is put and then served on
the plates at the patient’s bedside.
When war came in the Pacific arrange-
ments were made by the trustees of the
hospital for members .of the Fourth
General Hospital U.S. Army to occupy
Royal Melbourne. From February 28,
1942, until March 31, 1944, American
patients, doctors and nurses were in
friendly occupation, and the Stars and
Stripes floated over the institution. The
U.S. Government installed a heating
system which cost £3OOO.
Ernest and George Conibere, who gave
£130,000 to the Melbourne Hospital trus-
tees to build a nurses’ home, in
memory of their brother Charles, re-
cently presented a cheque to the trustees
to cover the cost of the heating system.
The Conibere Nurses’ Home is ten
storeys high, with a basement, and has
406 bedrooms, all simply but pleasantly
furnished. There are also suites for the
lady superintendent, assistant lady super-
intendent and chief dietitian.
The Royal Melbourne Hospital is also
a teaching school for medical, nursing,
dietetic, almoner and massage students.
Small classrpoms abound and there is a
large lecture hall, completely modern,
with separate seats and desks for the stu-
dents. Floor space is 11 j acres, the same
area as the grounds upon which the hos-
pital is built. From the main block is a
tunnel, 850 ft. long, which connects up
with the nurses’ home and the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute, where research is
done. A separate building accommodates
29 resident medical officers and there are
suites for the medical superintendent, the
assistant medical superintendent and the
radiologist.
Four years ago the Woollies’ Appeal
was launched as a means of helping
needy mothers to clothe their babies. As
times improved the need for this very
valuable assistance lessened, but the hon.
organiser of the appeal, Mrs. J. F. Key
(pictured here by Broothorn), with the
help of her committee, opened a shop in
the heart of Melbourne. Not only are
woollies sold in this shop, but a splendid
service is given to the wives of service-
men and to women in the outlying
country districts. These women, expec-
tant mothers, write to the shop (enclosing
coupons, of course) and stating the
amount of money they wish to spend,
whereupon a complete layette is chosen
for the expected arrival.
A small profit is made in this shop and
put to good account. Each year money
is sent to the Associated Creches and to
a kindergarten in one of the industrial
suburbs. A trained supervisor at a
kindergarten is supported by funds from
the shop, and there is a balance in the
bank which, when peace comes, will be
used to build a nursery home where
young children who suddenly find them-
selves homeless can be accommodated.
When Dr. Edith Summerskill visited
Melbourne she told of the little children
of Great Britain who were suffering not
only from the blitz but from exposure
due to lack of warm clothing. Mrs. Key
appealed for money and volunteer
knitters. In one day 2000 skeins
of wool were given out to knitters,
and women of the services were
amqng those who helped. A subur-
ban group of women who had not
time to knit raised enough money to buy
240 knitted skirts matched with pullovers
and cardigans. Another group of women
knitted 6000 garments in six weeks. In
12 weeks 32,000 garments were collected
at headquarters.
Ten thousand garments knitted for Dr.
Edith Summerskill, to distribute in her
West Fulham electorate, have now
arrived safe in England. Before the
campaign closes Mrs. Key and her com-
mittee hope to have obtained 50,000 gar-
ments. A cable has been sent to Mrs. S.
M. Bruce asking her to arrange for their
distribution. A reply has been received
that the Women’s Voluntary Service has
undertaken to dispose of the garments
and that the Dowager Lady Reading,
chairwoman of this group of women, is
delighted at the gift.
«
From Sydney
For still another summer the bell has
tolled over the havoc wrought by bush-
fire and dust-storm. Palls of dust, raging
winds, homes gutted, lives lost and crops
and gardens destroyed were last week’s
tally. Dwellers in the cities, though they
suffered discomfort from oppressive heat,
were safe from the menace of fire, but
even the least imaginative shuddered to
think of the desolation caused in country
district, in mountain town; and sym-
pathised with fellow-Australians who had
been the victims of summer’s No. 1
Public Enemy, the bushfire.
A Commonwealth Literary Fund Fel-
lowship has been voted to Dame Mary
Gilmore to enable her to devote time and
research to the writing of her biography.
This work promises to be one of the
most comprehensive yet produced by an
Australian writer. It takes in men,
moods, manners, making a pageant of
years that covers not only the
biographer’s life-time but re-tells stories
of events in her forebears’ days.
Here is a quaint instance. In 1838-39
Mary’s grandfather lived in Guildford.
He was fortunate enough to obtain a
small iron wheel, and made a wheel-
barrow. A neighbor offered him a pad-
dock at the Haymarket for it, but the
offer was turned down. The wheelbarrow
was too valuable.
New honorary director of Red Cross
branches Mrs. G. R. Strachan brings un-
bounded enthusiasm and practical ex-
perience to her job. Mrs. Strachan has
spent years in the Far West, so she knows
all the difficulties that have to be over-
come by the branches in seasons of
drought and bushfires. Bright ideas com-
bined with unremitting interest are char-
acteristic of the new director. Photograph
by Norton Trevaire. :
In former wars every nice girl might
love a sailor, but the boys had no sailor
lasses to fall in love with. Now, things
are evened up ; and soon as gallant a
company of Wrens as ever stepped will be
in Australia. In fact, some attractive
young officers of the Women’s Royal
Naval Service have "already arrived. They
are on the staff of Vice-Admiral Daniel.
Almost every classi of shore duty is car-
ried out by the hands and brains of these
courageous girls, and so men are released
for duty at sea.
To whatever war front the British Navy
goes there go the Wrens. Like our own
Wrans, their uniform is dark blue, but
for overseas they also have a tropic out-
fit. Officers sport white drill skirt and
shirt, stitched felt hat with black band,
and black shoulder purse. Two recently
arrived in Australia are Second-officers
Allyce McCallum and Pat Ingham.
The first U.S. Congresswoman to visit
Sydney made a pleasing impression. She
is Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith, and she
came with the U.S. House of Representa-
tives Sub-committee on Naval Affairs.
As Mrs. Smith sponsored legislation
which gave America the W.A.V.E.S. and
the S.P.A.R.S. and other of its women’s
naval services, it is fitting that she should
be in this Pacific tour. Mrs, Smith repre-
sents Maine, as did her husband at the
time of his death. Maine, of course, is
noted for its sailors and ships.
The State ballroom rang with French
voices singing “The Marseillaise” last
Friday night. This was the crescendo of
the welcome, to France’s new Consul-
General in Australia, Dr. Boris Eliacheff.
The French - Australian Association
arranged the party, and president Sir
Hugh Poynter and his wife welcomed the
guests. “France” was the toast of the
evening, and Dr. Eliacheff’s speech made
rousing appeal.
After a rest cure of 16 years, “Rio Rita”
proved herself quite a girl at the Royal
last Saturday night. Gladys Moncrieff
was the South American beauty, and
sang with all the verve of the South
American belle she is supposed to be, and
with the vocal riches that never fail her.
Don Nicol and Fred Murray kept the
first-night audience simmering with laugh-
ter. Among their jokes was a neat crack
at Noel Coward. An anemone-pink frock,
its skirt all fine pleated, worn by Gladys
in the second act, was first favorite.
Betty Sparks teamed up well with Fred
Murray. A word must be given to the
“Spanish Shawl” effects, and to the
“Montezuma’s Daughter” number.
Newly elected president of the Society
of Women Writers, Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont (Vinia Deloitte), took her
official place for the first time last week
when she welcomed Mrs. Irvine Doug-
las. Mrs. Douglas, who has lived in
London throughout the war years, has a
tale to tell of the heroism and uncom-
plainingness of the English woman that
made all her listeners determine to bear
marketing worries in silence. The Snow-
den lady made speech of thapks.
From January Mrs. Neville Harding
will take over the duties of Mayoress of
Sydney. Her husband has just been
elected to office in succession to Aider-
man R. J. Bartley, who, as civic host, was
ably seconded by his smiling little wife.
Mrs. Harding is very active in war work,
and among her interests the A.C.F. ranks
high. Every Tuesday finds her busy in
the Red Cross Thrift shop in Elizabeth-
street. Friday afternoons she devotes to
St. Andrew’s hut for servicemen. Mrs.
Harding plays a good game of tennis. The
new mayor is a taxation expert. 'The
Harding home is at Wollstonecraft.
President of the Fellowship of Austra-
lian Writers George Farwell did not need
to introduce the guest of honor last week.
The Fellowship room had been buzzing
with excitement for half an hour before
the speeches, for the guest was poet
Roderic Quinn, and this was his birthday
party. Rod is a life and foundation mem-
ber of the Fellowship, and, sitting on his
75th milestone, as it were, he delivered
his message to the assemblage. It was to
keep faith with literature. For 60 of
those 75 years the president said, this
writer had devoted his pen to poetry.
“The Hidden Tide,” by Rod, was an
early Bulletin book.
The room was crowded with admirers,
and Arthur Crocker, one of the regulars,
proposed the toast of the guest of honor,
embellishing his speech with lively anec-
dotes of the poet’s youth. Rod, with his
clear skin and bright blue eyes, looked
like a benign and mature cherub. His
gift was a copy of Kenneth Slessor’s One
Hundred Poems, and it now bears the
signatures of all, or nearly all, who were
present. Mrs. R. G. Cassidy, in black
velvet sprayed with gardenias, was there ;
so were Miles Franklin, Frank Daiby
Davison, Bartlett Adamson (who read
one of the guest’s poems), Will Lawson
(who read one of his own written for the
occasion), Dulcie Deamer, in a scarlet
cloak, Leslie Rees, singer Maude Telfer,
niece Marjorie Quinn and the Fellow-
ship’s good-looking secretary, Mrs. H.
Law. There was a super musical pro-
gramme.
Lieut.-General Sir Charles Willoughby
Nome, South Australia’s new Governor,
Lady Nome, their family and staff, passed
through Sydney on their way to Adelaide
last Sunday.
There was great excitement in the
household of the medical M. J, Slatterys
at Woollahra last week when eldest son
Dr. Edward Matthew Slattery arrived
from Lismore, where he is resident at
the Base Hospital, for his wedding to
Beverley Watt. ’Groom’s brother, Ser-
geant-Pilot Kevin Slattery, R.A.A.F., was
best man. Sisters Mary and Margaret
Slattery, with Geraldine Watt, sister of
the bride, ’maided in ivory taffetas, sup-
ported by roses and frangipanni. Beverley,
a pretty dark-haired girl, wore magnolia
satins, a mist of veil and gardenias. A
Nuptial Mass at St. Joseph’s, Edgecliff,
blessed the vows. Beverley is the elder
daughter of Sergeant-Major and Mrs. S.
Watt, of Waverley. Her father is a
prisoner of war in Germany.
When Edward Wright (ex-A.l.F.)—his
mother is a writer of distinction, Zora
Cross —married his Avonia Miller, St.
Peter’s Church in Glenbrook was massed
with November lilies and white gladioli.
A frock of white marquisette, a tulle veil
and a posy sweet with jasmine suited the
bride’s youth. April Mckee Wrigj?t and
Bernice Miller were her attendants.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor piacea ti.st is paid
4%d. per line; all others per line.
Erosion and Drought
As a farmer I’m heartily sick of read-
ing about both visitations. Head-
lines such as “Australia Blown to New
'Zealand” and “Drought on the Outskirts
of Sydney” leave me cold. From all
accounts the drought that worries the city
most is in the pubs. I’m so fed up with
seeing and hearing about erosion that if a
Forestry officer drove up to my gate and
said “Hey, you—you’ve got to plant four
rows of trees from here to there, and the
trees will be delivered at your gate on
Monday,” I wouldn’t even cuss back.
Bpt if he said he’d pay me ten bob a
tree if they were alive and doing well in
six months’ time I’d welcome the job.
I have little faith in my fellow-farmers,
and know quite well that until the De-
partment of Agriculture or the Forestry
Department gets and exercises the
power to make landowners carry out anti-
erosion measures nothing constructive
will be done. Among the landowners I
include the Lands Department.
The same applies to bushfires and
droughts. We see a picture in the daily
paper of a row of houses burning and
the unfortunate fatheads that own them
making futile efforts to save them. But
the paper wouldn’t have been interested
in a spot of firebreak-burning or bush-
cutting last winter —not on your life!
And no local authority can enforce such
work.
Australia has always had droughts, and
unless somebody can build a range of
mountains in the middle of the country
it always will have them. Does the man
who breeds cattle or sheep do all he can
to provide against drought? He does not.
Measures to counteract soil erosion, fires
and drought must be worked out by
experts and enforced —and paid for—by
Government. The time to start telling
landowners what to do is NOW. Men
on the land should also be told what not
to do and severely fined if they do it. —
K. Steel (N.S.W.).
Service Chevrons
“L.T,” (B. 15/11/ ’44) in pointing out
the lack of uniformity in service chevrons
has shown an anomaly, but, in the case
of the army, I do not think the solution
lies in issuing a red chevron for every
year of service in Australia.
With all due respect to the Middle East
men (I just in among them myself),
it was easier to accumulate chevrons there
than in the Pacific, because training time
in Palestine, Syria and Egypt counted,
whereas time spent in training in Aus-
tralia before and after an island show
does not count towards a chevron. Thus
a Middle East man with three chevrons
may have seen less actual active service
than a Pacific man with only one.
In these matters it is impossible to
strike a perfectly equitable balance, but,
in fairness to those men who unwillingly
“soldiered on” in Australia, I would issue
one blue chevron for each year of ser-
vice and an additional one on embar-
kation, leaving the Africa Star, the 1939-
43 Star and the proposed Pacific Star to
denote overseas service.—WX Digger
(A.1.F.).
Yes! Impatient for the Fray
I cannot agree with “Reo” (B.
30/11/’44), and I assume his views are a
reflection of the fact that he is a rein-
forcement. lam an original member of
a Sixth Division battalion that sailed in
the first convoy.
The A.I.F. is straining at the leash, and
what it desires most is to get into the
European Western Front show; next in
order of preference are Malaya, N.E.I.
and the Phillipines. The reason for the
preference is that the A.I.F. likes best to
fight side by side with Maorilanders,
then with the Tommies (particularly
Scotties), then with Canadians and
Americans.
We are anxious to get into the fight
again because we have been out of it for
so long. Some A.I.F, units have not
fought since Crete.
We put the Western Front first because
we know that when that battle has been
won, and not before, such enormous
forces will be available as will finish off
the Nips in quick time. Moreover, it is
always well to catch and punish the
original wrongdoer first—to encourage
the others. The defeat of Japan would
have little effect on a still powerful and
undefeated Germany, but the utter rout
of Germany, the model on which the
Japanese Army has been built, would be
an excellent advertisement of the fact
that crime doesn’t pay. —NX TwD
Figures (A.1.F.).
Servicemen’s Party
Australian servicemen have no chance
of securing a fair deal for themselves in
post-war affairs unless they form their
own political party immediately war
ends.
Federal Caucus is obviously divided on
the question of preference. The rank
and file of the Labor party are against
it. So are‘union bosses.
All will depend on the stand servicemen
take whether they are relegated to the
background in favor of the men who
stayed behind or whether they receive
the recognition they have earned after
years of strenuous fighting and bitter sac-
rifices.
If they can sink personalities, ignore
social differences and unite for the
common good as soon as the war ends
they can sweep the polls at the first post-
war election ; for the nation is sick of
professional politicians and unioneers
who know no devotion other than to
selfish causes. —P. X. (R.A.A.F.).
Colonise New Guinea
Papua, the Mandated Territory of New
Guinea, the Dutch portion of the N.G.
"Now, do you believe me ?”
mainland and the Solomons should be-
come the seventh or Islands State of the
Commonwealth.
The defence of Australia is a first con-
sideration. From that point of view the
suggestion should have the approval of
the U.S.A. That the Dutch would not
agree is hardly conceivable, seeing the
position from which their East Indies
Empire must be extricated. Now is the
time to discuss the matter with those
who we hope will be our very good
neighbors in the north. Britain’s approval
also we can be sure of.
Australia needs two or three hundred
thousand white settlers, with an Austra-
lian outlook, in these territories. Those
settlers will create a local market, the
absence of which now retards progress.
There is ample room for all, Aussie and
native alike.
This Islands State should have its own
elected representatives at Canberra and
consequently some political pull, but there
need not be any competition with Aus-
tralian-grown or -manufactured produce.
These territories could supply Australia
with anything, almost, which she cannot
produce within her own borders. — Moale
(Papua).
Nationalisation
Small businesses shiver in their shoes
before the dread spectre of Government
control. They need not worry.
Can anyone visualise the nationalisation
of country stores? The thing would be
too laughable for words. The country
storekeeper, and usually his wife, must
be on the job in some cases almost 24
hours a day. Labor must come from the
local supply; of inexperienced youngsters,
at low rates of pay. It is sometimes pos-
sible to have a good enough business to
pay a senior male assistant approximately
the full-time correct wage, but if over-
time, holiday rates and so on were in-
sisted on it couldn’t be done. What
would happen in a Government store
tucked away up in Wiregrass some-
where?
The same conditions would apply as
obtain in post offices (which; by the way,
are only to be found in large and pros-
perous centres) with elaborate staff,
managers, assistant managers and so
forth, all on good screws, working award
hours, provision for holidays, rebel
staff, overtime, inspectors, heaven knows
what.
Any country storekeeper will know
what would happen to the profit and loss
account with such a menage. It would be
in the red from the word go. No one
would give a hoot—the taxpayer would
foot the bill. „
Private enterprise has been accused ot
hogging all the profit-making concerns,
leaving the Government to carry the baby
with services that show a loss. The
accusation applies equally to both, the
only difference being that Government
is just starting to feel its oats.
When they set about nationalising
country stores I may believe that the
thing is genuine, and not merely the in-
evitable tendency of Government to in-
crease power. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
A Strategic Railway
Continuing north from the N. S. Wales
system there should be at least one
strategic line through to North Queens-
land.
The N. S. Wales coastal line continues
on to Brisbane without gauge-break.
From Casina to Bonalbo (N.S.W.) a route
has been pegged out and earthworks con-
structed for a considerable distance.
(Work was stopped on this line during
the depression.) For strategic and de-
velopment purposes the Casino-Bonalbo
line should be constructed and continued
north from Bonalbo to connect with the
Queensland system at Killarney, with a
short connecting link between Bonalbo
and Tenterfield, on the N.S.W. Tablelands
line.
The Queensland track from Killarney
to Warwick could be unified. At War-
wick it would intersect the Queensland
system running eastward from Wallan-
garra and from Derranbandi and Goon-
diwindi. From Warwick the 4ft.
track could be continued northward to
connect with the Queensland system at
Millwerran and also at the terminus of
the Dalby-Tara line. From there it could
proceed to Miles to intersect the Queens-
land south-western line to Charleville.
From Miles the 45-mile 3ft. 6in. track
to Wandoon could be widened, carried
on to Taroom and thence to Springsure
and Emerald. There it would link with
the Queensland Central railroad from
Rockhampton to Longreach, which turns
north to Winton and Hughenden and then
east to Townsville, with a western exten-
sion to Cloncurry, which should be linked
with any Northern Territory railway. The
strategic line could be carried north from
Emerald through Clermont and on to
Townsville.
By taking this route the Queensland
system would be tapped at strategic points
insofar as future defence and develop-
ment are concerned. It would cut through
splendid country, and in drought periods
would save large numbers of cattle and
sheep. Of course, it would also divert
trade. But this is Australia, a country
which should be bigger than a collection
of- fretful States. — Looking Forward
(Q-).
The Shortage of Booze
Before the war pub bars were opened
for 72 hours a week, and there were no
shortages of liquor. Since the cut of one-
third of supplies (and some query this)
trading hours have been whatever the
Trade chooses.
There may be a few more drinkers
about than in peace-time, but there are also
many people who have given the game
up because of the difficulty of obtaining
liquor and an objection to emulating pigs
gobbling at a trough. Then where is the
liquor going? It is common knowledge
that sly-grog joints abound, charging as
high as £5 a dozen for bottled beer, with
extra fancy prices for spirits. Black-
marketing is going on in a big way, and
hotels are not guiltless.
Part of the racket is the saloon bar
opened, the public one closed, and the
selling of bottled beer in middies across
the counter, but no bottles available for
the public.
I believe that a large percentage of the
industrial unrest today is attributable to
the conditions in the liquor trade. Work-
ing men and women who want a drink
after their day’s work now find they can-
not get one and are discontented. As a
result the maximum is not being done for
the war effort, war loans are not sub-
scribed to at the rate one would natur-
ally expect. Contented people or people
getting a fair deal will readily respond
no matter what the call is. It’s time the
liquor situation was seriously grappled
with and put right.— Glen (N.S.W.).
The Rent Racket
Victims of Sydney’s long-standing rent
racket should realise the value of the
National Security Regulations made to
protect them froqj paying half or more
of their income to live in some hovel.
Often the serviceman who comes back
from active service is shocked and
thrown out of gear in his notions of what
he and his cobbers are fighting for by
the conditions that exist in such cities as
Sydney.
Strange to say, the worst rent-racke-
teers are little people, our friends and
neighbors of pre-war days, not big prop-
erty-owners. Anyone with a spare room,
verandah or anything that resemlfes a
dwelling-place can let it at an exorbitant
rent (usualy avoiding servicemen, b -cause
they are hard to eject, and babies, I ecause
babies cry and are sometimes destructive),
and dictate to the tenant how much power
to use and whether or not visitors can
be allowed.
The best antidote to this disgraceful
racket is recourse to the Fair Rents
Courts. — H. Peck (A.1.F.).
Church Methods
“Twentyfour” (S.A.) (B. 1/11/ ’44)
criticises church methods and considers
that the church should provide more
entertainment and sports to hold and
interest young people. There’s a good
deal to be said on that.
(1) Before the war, in Geelong, Vic-
toria, nearly every church had its own
tennis courts, football and cricket teams,
with regular inter-church competitions.
I’ve seen healthy gymnasium clubs and
dramatic societies connected with
churches, and not a few of our pub-
lic men have made their debut as speakers
in the church debating or dramatic club.
A big percentage of the clergy takes part
in sport.
(2) The churches do give considerable
attention to fostering social life and
healthy sport, but this isn’t primarily their
function. The churches do frown on
organised sport, which tends to interrupt
regular worship and church life, particu-
larly the teaching of children in Sunday
schools and Bible classes.
(3) “Twentyfour” says “Bewailing the
shortcomings of youth never got anyone
anywhere.” I haven’t heard much of
this in my congregations, which recog-
nise that youth is full of spirit and needs
an outlet for surplus energy. If “Youth
has ideals and is fundamentally decent,”
where did this idealism and decency come
from? I suggest largely from the teach-
ings of the Bible propagated by the
church. The life of our nation is shot
through with Christian ideals and con-
ceptions which deeply influence people
who may not recognise or honor the
church.
I appreciate the concern of “Twenty-
four” for the welfare of young people,
but I object to changing the church to a
social and sporting club. In the declining
days of the mighty Roman Empire the
Government, attempting to keep the
people contented, provided amusement in
a large way —it built theatres and
arranged the staging of the latest Greek
plays, and organised sporting and athletic
contests on a grand scale. But moral and
spiritual truth was neglected and the
people became weakened by ease, indul-
gence and false ways of life. In the end
they fell before the vigorous Goths and
Finns.— Alpha (Vic.).


.
t v..
X.
m
;
«S
.
■M
-
>*
:V
* '
■■
*•■ x; A .
It
v-a
S 3
T,
■
m 3
II
tons of B.H.P.
steel have gone into
the Australian-made farm-
ing implements, which to-
day are helping in the effort
to increase our vital food
supplies.
THE fluctuating fortunes of war set
Australia a new role in the Allied
campaign for complete victory.
To the successful efforts put forth to
provide her fighting men with weapons
worthy of their valor has been added
the equally essential job of providing
food in tremendous quantities.
Food for the sustenance of our own
and our Allies’ fighting forces on the
Pacific and other fronts .. . for Great
Britain’s millions and for the peoples
of the liberated territories.
Priority now goes, therefore, to the
man on the land’s requirements, so that
production targets may be reached.
Here the steel industry’s contribution is
the k*:y, for only through mechanisation
of farming methods can real results be
achieved.
Results have shown that our steel
industry—in which The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co., Ltd., is the major producer—
can meet the extraordinary demands for
steel for munitions, and it is doing the
same basic vital job in satisfying the
requirements of the food front.
Large tonnages of steel are being
diverted towards meeting the needs of the
men on the land. Every assistance is being
afforded the implement makers so that
their time-saving machines may go to the
aid of the farmer without delay.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY GO. LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters
Mine and Ship Owners
Colliery Proprietors
e : Ship Builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Offices also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane
►»
IRON & STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. AND WHYALLA, S.A.
So the slogan “Swords into Plowshares”
instances another of the vital war-
winning roles being filled by B.H.P. Steel.
