

ŵ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/* VoL 65 —No. 3372
Wednesday, September 27, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer,
Seppelts
BATH.
TRADITION credits the discovery of the springs of Bath to a
British prince named Bladud, and about a.d. 44 the Romans
built a watering-place here, with extensive baths and temples, of
which numerous remains have been discovered, and named their
settlement Aquae Solis or Sul is. In 577 the town was taken and
destroyed by Saxons, whose name for the place was Akemanceaster.
At a later date it reappears in history as.Aet Bathum, and during
the twelfth century it was the seat of a bishop, and even to this day
the diocese is-still called “Bath and Wells.”
The beginning of Bath’s modern reputation as a spa may be placed
about 1650, and when Queen Anne came in 1703 Bath became
the fashionable winter watering-place in England. No other town in
Britain has so often been the theme of literary allusions, from
“Humphrey Clinker,” “The Pickwick Papers” and “The Virginians”
to Compton McKenzie’s “The Passionate Elopement.” Bath cele-
brates by memorial tablets visits of many famous people, including
Sir Walter Scott (1775), Nelson (1780), Wordsworth and General
Wolfe (1759) and Sheridan (1772),
With its terraces rising gently from the valley of the Avon, Bath
is one of the most picturesque cities in Europe.


u Writing
M at home
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244 AGE
The RED Page
Bullocky.
Beside his heavy-shouldered team,
thirsty with drought and chilled with rain
he weathered all the striding years
till they ran widdershins in his brain ;
Till the long solitary tracks,
etched deeper with each lurching load,
were populous before his eyes,
and fiends and angels used his road.
All the long straining journey grew
a mad apocalyptic dream,
and he old Moses; and the slaves
his suffering and stubborn team.
Then in his evening camp beneath
the half-light pillars of the trees
he filled the steepled cone of night
with shouted prayers and prophecies,
While past the campfire’s crimson ring
the star-struck darkness cupped him
round,
and centuries of cattlebells
rang with their sweet uneasy sound.
Grass is across the wagon tracks,
and plough strikes bone beneath the
grass ;
and vineyards cover all the slopes
where the dead teams were used to pass.
O vine grow close upon that bane
and hold it with your rooted hand.
The prophet Moses feeds the grape
and fruitful is the Promised Land.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Art and Science.
Martin Johnson’s Art and Scientific
Thought (Faber) is a futile sort of book
—-the cautious fumbling of the scientific
mind, which will not state definitely an
outlook because it might be confuted. A
scientist who has some taste for the arts,
his idea is that there may be a basic unity
in symbolism between the arts and
science, or that at least communication
may be established between them by an
equal exchange of imagery.
This exchange, Martin Johnson pre-
sumes, would benefit both the scientist
and the artist.
In a discursive and inconclusive way he
seeks for evidence of a past exchange
between science and art, but does not
produce any convincing evidence that the
two extremes of mind have any basis in
common. One is apt to suspect an
aesthetic which seeks its instances in such
minor arts as medieval church sculpture,
Chinese carvings, Arabic geometry and
the poetry of De la Mare.
The only valid instance he can claim
of close relations between art and science
is the case of Da Vinci, and he does not
seem quite sure whether Da Vinci was
an artist who dabbled in science or a
scientist who went wrong and took to the
arts.
At this date making a profundity out
of Da Vinci’s muddling about with
science becomes tiresome. There is
nothing complex or obscure about his
peculiar psychology, which Freud has
clarified for us with a final authority in
his monograph on the subject.
In common terms. Da Vinci was the
most shameless idler in the whole history
of art. He fooled away his time on any
excuse not to work. To be sure, his
abnormal psychology was the basic
reason for his idleness. By his abnor-
mality Da Vinci cut himself off from
the mass experience of humanity, which
is the material for art. He could not
achieve that dramatic intensity within
himself which might be transferred to
the centralising crescendo of a work of
art.
Deprived of that constructive potency.
Da Vinci tried to apply geometrical prin-
ciples to composition, found they did not
work, and chucked up his job. The few
examples of his work that survive are
evidence that he was given the very high-
est creative faculty in art, which his un-
fortunate psychology deprived him of
power to create with. Their quality dis-
penses with any presumption that his
generic faculty was scientific, for that is
a faculty extreme from creativeness. It
exists to observe and analyse a process
already created.
There cannot be greater evidence of
the idleness of Da Vinci’s mind than that
he exercised it on the mechanical logic of
physics and mechanics, or in diverting
himself with clinical experiments whose
results might be factually demonstrated.
No doubt he got a great deal of fun out
of acting the sapient buffoon, for no
rewards can be quite so gratifying as
those of the scientist who announces a
hypothesis and then proceeds to prove it
by the assumed infallibility of mathe-
matics, or by its application to mechanics.
The mathematician may attain his ob-
ject : the misery of creation in art is that,
no matter what may appear to be the
achievement, the creator can have no
assurance that he has achieved what he
set out to create, because the concept of
a work of art is not a fixed standard in
space by which an effort to achieve it
may be measured.
I do not know what science expects to
extract from a reaction to the arts.
Martin Johnson seems to imply that the
scientific imagination might be thereby
stimulated. In the case of astronomers
(defined by Charles Fort as gentlemen
who sleep all night and do sums all day),
perhaps some attention to realistic art
might be of value as a curb to fantasy-
mongering over the unknown in space,
but I think chemists would be well ad-
vised to steer clear of art, if its function
is to stir the imagination. It is painful
to contemplate the possibility of a gentle-
man busy with experiments in high explo-
sives and poison gases suddenly afflicted
with an imagination.
It may be the scientist’s job to explore
and exploit the substances and forces
generated in this earth, but to do that
effectively he must ignore any urge to
forecast the effect of his activities. It
was a poet, Cowper, who had a prophetic
eye on modern warfare when he said that
the- first man to invent an aeroplane
should be shot as a public criminal.
Despite Martin Johnson’s rather con-
fused attempts at appeasement, there is
a war between the artistic and the
scientific mind that no exchange of an
equal symbolism can invalidate. The
artist has nothing to gain from the scien-
tist and a great deal to lose by meddling
with his systems or being meddled with
by them. Even mechanical construction
had beauty before the scientist took
charge of it.
Ships, buildings, bridges, utilities gener-
ally, were all constructed on principles
of rhythm, balance, grace of line and
charm of design when they were in the
hands of artist craftsmen. Now the pro-
duct of mechanical science, they are just
as ugly as the uglification of form can be.
All machinery is disarticulated form.
I think it might be demonstrated that
all the disarticulations of form and
rhythm defined by extremists in modern-
istic art are derived from the world of
applied mechanics. Cubism certainly is.
An earth of angles. Is there a signifi-
cance in the fact that the angle of forty-
five degrees is the angle of extreme viol-
ence, as any scientist may demonstrate
for himself by getting a punch on the
nose? He will then be able to observe,
that a fist reaches its maximum of force
projected at an angle of forty-five degrees
from the human body . . .
I cannot think of an instance where
science has given an image to poetry, a
form to art or a sound image to music.
Prose can have nothing to do with its
barbarous terminologies. Even where
science is dealing 'with the special prop-
erty of art, human psychology, its ter-
minologies for behavior and states of
mind cannot be used by the novelist with-
out corrupting the accepted understand-
ing of a word. Freuc(, for his own pur-
poses, gave a special inflection to such
words as complex, fixation, transference,
etc., so that they have become almost
taboo as the instruments of prose. Freud
may perhaps be pardoned for doing this
disservice to the dictionary, as he is about
the only scientist I know of whose prose
is a pleasure to read.
If Martin Johnson’s presumption that
an exchange is possible between art and
science by what he calls “communication
of Pattern, Form or Structure in mental
images” means that the scientist is going
to surrender his uglification of form to
the arts, it might be worth a little serious
thought. But even if the scientist had
the modesty to do so, I doubt that the
very mechanism of his own creation
would let him do it. We are in the grip
of a mechanical earth whose latest
triumph of ingenuity is the flying bomb.
One marvel alone restores us to faith in
life. The spirit of man survives a
mechanised earth in spite of that earth’s
attack on him. We may almost add that
the artist survives also, in spite of the
scientist.
Norman Lindsay.
Ngaio Marsh Novel.
To all remittance men, retired colonels
and their ladies, retired Harley-street
specialists, all West End actors and their
gentlemen, secretaries who read Ngaio
Marsh’s novels, Color Scheme (Collins)
will convey the comforting assurance
that there are no New Zealanders in New
Zealand.
If they should think of visiting the
Dominion after the war they can rest
assured they will meet none but remitt-
ance men, retired colonels and their
ladies, retired Harley-street specialists and
visiting West End actors and their secre-
taries ; plus, of course, geysers and
Maoris. Color Scheme, consequently,
should be very good for the tourist trade.
If should also be very good for Ngaio
Marsh’s English sales, for, though set in
a distant and dangerous country that
might well have been populated by
trades-unionists and dairy-farmers, it will
not in any way disturb the traditional
peace and quiet of the murder novel.
It is true that there are an uncouth
youth, a dowdy young lady and a crude
businessman who might be taken to
represent the native (white) population,
but they do not affect the general impres-
sion.
New Zealand itself, indeed, disappears
from time to time. For when Gaunt, the
actor, is standing on a cliff and hears the
cry of seagulls, be observes:
I never hear fhose creatures without
thinking of a 8.8. C. serial.
Detective novels, it may be, should be
reviewed simply as detective novels. And
if that is so. Color Scheme is a good one.
It is an intriguing story of espionage and
murder, made plausible by the fact that
in the early days of the war ships were
sunk off the New Zealand coast, and the
enemy seemed to have knowledge of
their movements. The characters, though
more or less stock types, are extremely
well drawn, the writing is competent, the
dialogue always crisp and often witty.
Moreover, though the old chief of the
tribe on his first appearance looks a bit
like The Last of the Mohicans, the Maoris
are convincing. There is a measure of
truth, too, in the satirical portraits of the
indigenous white population as seen by
the English visitors. It is sadly true that
not only policemen but even former
Prime Ministers have pronounced the
country’s name “New Zillund”; even
“Noo Zillund” has been heard.
But it is just these virtues in Ngaio
Marsh’s writing that make it impossible
for anyone w'ho cares about Australian
or New Zealand literature to rejoice that
she is a good detective novelist. New
Zealand has still to be “created” by the
novelist, and it will never be created by
the hollow mechanism of the crime novel.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“S.”: I agree with The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic that Marjorie Lawrence
is more than just a beautiful voice. In
the first place, she is a strikingly beautiful
woman ; with those battlements of golden
hair and the spiky head-dress that make
her look like the heroine of a Norse saga,
with the glitter of her diamonds and those
curiously fierce and lowering eyes, mag-
nificent is the only word for her. And
when she sings she has certainly that
“inspirational quality” the Melbourne
man wrote about. When she sang the
Henley poem “Invictus” she made me feel
that Henley was indeed captain of his
soul, that she was captain of hers and
that I—it mattered not how strait the
gate, how charged with punishment the
scroll —was getting along surprisingly well
with mine, too.
“Curtain Raiser”: U beg to lodge a
protest regarding the current season of
G. and S. at His Majesty’s, Melbourne.
My taste may be perverted, but I like
Sullivan and 1 don’t like Gilbert, and re-
gard the prolonged reverence displayed
for his quips and cranks and attenuated
satire as possibly a sign of delayed
adolescence. Unfortunately, I can’t have
one without the other, so when I am
listening to Sullivan’s delightful music
I strongly object to being glared at by
Gilbert admirers because I don’t split my
sides laughing every time Mr. Ivan
Menzies utters one of that gentleman’s
antiquated wisecracks or cuts a caper
that would get him the bird at any Tivoli
theatre. The players themselves are
obviously bored to distraction with some-
thing they have done a million times be-
fore and apparently must go on doing
until the last Gilsullivanite mercifully
dies from over-indulgence.
Melbourne Little Theatre breeds play-
wrights as well as actors, and one of
them, Alan Burke, has done a smart bit
of work in “Woman Bites Dog,” put on
at the small St. Chad’s Theatre. Purport-
ing to be a backstage glimpse of an
American commercial radio station
specialises in a scandal session Sona 5
by a business sponsor, it is „n h! d
than the Albert Park lake bm fast
unny T Margaret Reid, J“ D $ „ "
John Jess, Don Jordon, J. V Jollev 1!
day Hills and others played it with a
that suggested considerable acquaintance
with the real thing-which £?£
Australia!' Ve,T ha,e set *>"
At the talkies:
Alfred Hitchcock has long been recognised
as a master of tension and suspense in thfS
world. He was handed an outsize in jobs in £
directing of John Steinbeck’s “Lifeboat” (Sydne
Century), for the whole of the action fS
around 100 minutes, is confined to a ship’s boa
containing nine survivors of a torpedoing Th
whole thing is splendidly done, with Tallulah
Bankhead as a hard-bitten newspaper woman
William Bendix as a wounded A.B. who
drunk in preparation for an operation to his
leg and Henry Hall as a millionaire who play
poker for fabulous stakes with a tough oiler
John Hodiak. ’
A contrast in the treatment of musicals is
°£? red J? y Knickerbocker Holiday” (Civic) and
The Girls They Left Behind” (Empire). The
him ot the early Dutch in America has been
adapted by Kurt Weill from the Maxwell
Anderson book. The lyrics are sprightly agree-
able light humor and airy philosophy cheek bv
jowl, whistleable melodies and singing by
Nelson Eddy. It cuts clean away from the
stereotyped; and there is a quaint and charm-
ing mixture of modernity and the seventeenth
century. The 20th Century Fox film has gor-
geous settings of Latin America in technicolor
and spectacular ballets. The slight story is a
thread to hang some saccharine numbers by
Alice Faye. Edward Everett Horton turns in
some neat coinedy in the vein he has made hi,
own.
Adelaide Repertory decided to exploit
the resources of the big Tivoli, which it
now controls, in Irwin Shaw’s “Gentle
People,” which has 11 short scenes,
changing in cinema style from heavy
wharf with floating boat to Law court,
wharf, Turkish bath, wharf, open sea,
etc. This is just the sort of thing that
Irving Johnston does best, and he not
only produced, but staged the heavy sets,
Two gentle old fishermen (Cecil Reed
and Robert Matthews) are oppressed by
a young racketeer (Donald Noblet), who
wants to take everything they have, in-
cluding a romantic daughter (Joan
Sharp), till it becomes absolutely neces-
sary to kill him. A strong story, so far;
but Shaw has perversely made the
righteous murder low-comedy. There
was good support from Binns and Leib-
ner, Mimi Mattin and Ruby Litchfield.
The Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales,
believing that “fashions have nothing to
do with good painting,” took its courage
in both hands and excluded from its 65th
annual show all offerings that did not
match up with the society’s canons of
sanity and craftsmanship. This step was
sternly reproved by the Sydney morning
papers. “Granny” remarked “Probably
it is not too much to say that there is
not a single picture displayed which is
a real work of art,” and the “D.T.” found
the “whole show... .imbued with the
decay of a dying aesthetic tradition.” As
a matter of fact, the show (Education
Department Gallery) attained a rather
higher standard than it has during the
last decade. In oils Howard Ashton,
Norman Lindsay, Syd Long, Albert Sher-
man, H. A. Hanke, J. R. Jackson, Robert
Johnson, Dick Ashton, Fred Leist, Erik
Langker, Lyall Trindall, John Salvana,
John Alleott, portraitist Wilson Mawhin-
ney, W. R. Bennett, Howard Barron,
Alan Baker, M. L. Moodie and Wilfred
Peisley show aesthetically pleasing work on
a high level of technical skill. In water-
colors a score of competent exhibitors,
headed by G. K. Townshend, Margaret
Coen and H. Neville-Smith make attrac-
tive use of their medium. A study in
gouache by Tom Garrett and etchings
by Cedric Emanual and Squire Morgan
round out a good show.
“F.S.”: The ghost of Ern Malley must
have been gibbering with envy in the
background when the latest show of the
Contemporary Art Society was opened at
the Velasquez Galleries, Melbourne. An
illustration by Sidney Nolan of one of
the non-existent poet’s meaningless lines
was one of the exhibits, and if some of
the others had been painted by a blind-
folded person or by means of a brush
tied to a donkey’s tail it is doubtful it
anybody would have noticed any differ-
ence. Not that there is any objection to
a modernist painting his images, ideas,
dreams or introspections. They are just
as real subjects for a painter as a gum-
tree or a cup and saucer. If some of the
ideas' the Contemporaries symbolise l
their pictures aren’t very profound, b* e
Oswald Hall’s “To the Wpmen ot
Russia,” depicting -a blasted ttec and a
bombed dwelling, that is no] argumem
against the picture. There ijs no va.i
objection to the Conteraporaj|ries painting
what they do paint; it is hd6w they Pain-
it that is of importance. Auid the line 0
most of them is as c/Aarse as an}
academician’s. /


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
r**u —■
'Mfm
S'yi
1 ]//
-(k: Pi
&
*
/■v
Ift®
)
FOR THE MECHANIC
Greases, fats, oils, as well as other dirt,
will be entirely removed and all bacteria
killed. Unlike most germicides, the
pleasant fragrance of tea-tree oil used in
Palace Antiseptic Liquid Soap vanishes
so quickly that any article of personal
use may be used immediately and will
be completely disinfected too.
ST*
g, v
r»
r r&£m.
I
/#■:_ ,
r
FOR THE HOUSEWIFE
This soap is of great value to the
housewife in her general duties. It
does not affect woollens or delicate
fabrics. Its fragrance and lather
will delight you. It perfectly deodor-
ises all garments and destroys all
germs. Cleanses perfectly all crock-
ery, cutlery, etc. Its fragrance van-
ishes immediately and no odour re-
mains about the utensils. For this
reason it may be used safely in
cafes, milk bars, etc. It is also a
protection against mouth infections.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT-
GROUND FLOOR
m
y
PALACE
ANTISEPTIC
LIQUID
SOAP
W.?
II
•< V S:, ■A';'- iJStt'i .’i>
The ideal general cleaner made up from fhe
finest and purest ingredients. A non-poison-
ous deodorant and non-irritating cleanser.
Free from caustics and has a superior emul-
sifying and absorbing quality.
PALACE LIQUID SOAP incorporates the most
powerful disinfectant oil. distilled from
selected leaf of the finest species of Aus-
tralian Tea-Tree. Its antiseptic, germicidal
and healing properties are unsurpassable;
Sizes: 2f gal., 21/-; 4 gal.. 35/-; 5 gal., 37/6.
MiTii
A n A
TOTi ii
A
1 O
I
14
. A
V
SSSAS.
V 3 A
/
m
.r
HJ
n
V'
FOR THE DOCTOR OR DENTIST
In the Surgery, all instruments, uniforms and towels
must be kept sterile. Palace Antiseptic Soap is the
germicide for this purpose. Its powerful antiseptic
properties are superior to other disinfectants. Used
as a mouth wash in dental surgeries it has healing
and purifying properties.
'THE SENIOR STORE"
If \>
•0
t\\
IA
m
L hj
/
K
V
FOR THE NURSE
Invaluable to the nurse for cleaning hospital
floors, lockers, uniforms and personal
articles. As articles used in hospitals have
to be sterile, Palace Antiseptic Soap comes
to the fore because of the germ-killing
properties it possesses.
W
i r
JIIIV
l!=‘
&
v
>/ hk
/i
si
V
%
\
FOR THE FARMER
In the great out-of-doors, farmers find
this antiseptic liquid soap invalu-
able. Animals must be treated with
a disinfectant and germicide when
they have diseases or sores, and so
this soap will kill all bacteria and
germs that are in the infections. Milk
cans and dairy sheds can be
cleaned and kept fresh and sweet
with this soap.
WHEN IN TOWN, LEAVE YOUR
PRESCRIPTIONS WITH OUR
PHARMACY DEPARTMENT,
WHERE THEY WILL BE
ACCURATELY AND EFFICIENTLY
DISPENSED.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Telegraphic Address: Hordemia, Sydney
ẁ
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


S. H. Prior Prize
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
As no award has been made in the
last two years, the total prize-money
offered for the current competition
is £3OO.
The Prize will be awarded to the
author or authors of the book by an
Australian writer which the trustees
consider the most valuable contribu-
tion to Australian literature pub-
lished in Australia between June 7,
1944, and June 6. 1945. (“Aus-
tralia” and “Australian” for the
purposes of this award include New
Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
HAPPY SUMMER DAYS
By T. HUNGERFORD
IT was close to the wet; the jumpy
wind that swirled down the gully car-
ried dead leaves and fine grey dust
with it, and as Brock walked over to
the Rec. tent he thought “It must rain
soon, it must.”
The oppressive heat of midday and the
cloying warmth of the nights were too
much altogether, although it would be no
better when the wet did come ; but any-
thing to break the monotony of blazing
days that sucked out your energy and left
you limp.
He entered the big tent, where Bluey
was fiddling with the wireless. “Hello,
Brock,” Bluey said. “Stinker, isn’t it?”
He couldn’t get anything decent on the
air, either; it wasn’t much of a set.
Brock walked over to the bookshelf.
The two inadequate kerosene lamps were
smothered by clouds of insects dancing,
whirling, frizzling, and the smell of them
was nauseating. He looked over the titles.
“This all you’ve got, Stan?” he said
to the lance-jack in charge. Stan kicked
the box at his feet. “Some new ones in
there, Brock,” he said ; “haven’t had time
to look ’em over yet; only come up yes-
terday.” Brock lifted the lid and took out
the first book he came to and opened it.
“Don’t tell me,” he said aloud to no
one in particular, and no one listened to
him. They were playing draughts and
chess and Chinese checkers, and talking
about what they did on leave, and what
they would do on their next leave . . .
' What in hell do they think we are?
Listen to this, ‘Awarded to Effie Lucas
for the most consistent attendance, Chris-
tian Endeavor, St. Mark’s, third of May,
1913”....
Dim ghosts of a long-gone Sunday,
and the warmth of a faded summer.
Listen ....
EFFIE cuddled down in bed, knowing
it was Sunday morning. She sniffed
the starchy smell of the sheets, and
wriggled her toes in the warm nest she
had scuffled for thqm; it was quite early
yet, not long after sun-up, and the whole
house was quiet.
She could hear the ticking of the
kitchen clock and the rustle of the blinds
and ail the secret sounds that go on
in a house not fully awakened. Some-
where a rooster crowed, a long way
away, and Effie snuggled closer ; it was
such a lonely sound, and sad.
She didn’t mind their own rooster ; she
knew what he looked like, and, although
he chased her, she could laugh at him,
because Ella said begod what a fine tail
he had, and it would look a sight better
on a good woman’s bonnet than dragging
around in the muck; but those roosters
that crowed in the half-light, miles away,
sounded lost and somehow frightening,
and you couldn’t be sure they were
roosters.
Effie looked over to Meg’s bed and saw
the fair pigtail draped over the pillow.
“Margaret!” she whispered hoarsely,
“come over and play, Meg.”
Margaret stirred, and her brown eyes
fixed on her sister. “Play what?” she
said. “I been awake hours! ”
Effie ignored this evident exaggeration.
“Oh, anything,” she said. “Come over to
my bed and you can nurse Emmaline
Constance.”
“There, there,” she soothed the doll
as she passed it to Meg; “it’s the wind,
poor lamb!” She didn’t know exactly
what this meant, but Mrs. Potter said it
about her baby, and it sounded very good.
They could hear Ella in the kitchen
now, pattering around noisily, and the
flip-flap of her slippers as she waddled
between the pantry and the stove.
“Meg,” said Effie, “d’you remember
what today is?” Meg, without taking
her eyes off Emmaline, said “Yes, of
course —Sund’y! ”
Effie wriggled excitedly. ' “Yes, of
course ; but what else? You know —
Prize Day.”
“So it is, too! D’you think you’ll get
a prize?” Margaret was out of the run-
ning herself, since she had missed a
number of Sundays on account of small
illnesses.
Effie wriggled again, “I think I will,”
she whispered. “I’ve only missed one
Sunday, and Mamie Stone has gone
away....”
“What’s this, what’s this?” Ella said
as she bustled in. “Playing again? Now
up you get, and Effie, you tidy up your
bureau before you come to breakfast.
Now come op, show a leg or your
Mama’ll be having my hide! ”
She whisked back the curtains at the
window and bustled out. Effie pictured
her genteel Mama “having Ella’s hide” —
Ella spread out like the bearskin in the
drawing-room, only not so hairy.
SUNDAY had spread its quiet charm
over the breakfast-room —on no other
morning did the curtains flutter so softly
nor the sun shine so warmly on the
linoleum beneath the window.
Papa was seated at the table with his
glasses on reading the paper, and Mama
was pouring the tea. As Effie walked in
she was saying “....and of course it’s
been apparent for a long while ; I don’t
know what Mary’s mother can have been
about not to have noticed it. She must
be blind. And as for that Arthur”
Papa coughed and rattled his paper,
and Mama, raising her eyes, continued,
“And don’t drag your chair, Effie ; lift it.
Where is Margaret? She is always last.”
“Mama,” said Effie. “Mama, may I
wear my pink ribbon today, please? It’s
Prize Day.”
“We’ll see,” replied her mother; “but
remember, you don’t go to church to
show off your hair ribbon. And stop pick-
ing all the strawberries out of the jam.”
“Yes, my lady,” Papa rumbled as he
put down his paper and stirred his tea,
“but I think we might manage the pink
ribbon today, eh, Mother? Are you going
to get a prize?”
Effie put down her glass of milk.
“Yes, Papa; I mean, I hope so,” she
murmured shyly. Papa always seemed to
be making fun of her. “You see, Mamie
Stone has gone away.”.
“Oh,” said Papa, “I see. That makes
it quite clear!”
Effie smiled gratefully at him and,
having finished her v milk, put down her
glass and said “Please may I leave the
table?” and in a few minutes was busily
braiding her hair.
“Meg,” she said when she was joined
by her sister, “what has happened to
Mary? I heard Mama say her mother
must be blind, and as for Arthur”
Arthur Andrews played the organ at the
church, and was secretly very much ad-
mired by Margaret and Effie.
“Oh, I don’t know,” said Meg. “It’s
just the way they talk. Where’s your
ribbon?”
“No, wait a minute!” cried Effie. “Not
that one —it’s the pink one today! ” And
she lifted it reverently from the drawer
and gave it to Meg to tie on.
WHEN Effie passed demurely through
the front gate on her way to En-
deavor she was very conscious of her
shiny Sunday shoes and spotless white
Sunday dress, but, above all, of the pink
ribbon. If she swung her head she could
see it over her shoulder, dancing at the
end of her plait, and she wanted to skip ;
the sunshine and the Sunday calm, the
green gardens and somewhere the homely
sound of a lawn-mower filled her with
a happiness that she felt must bubble
over somehow, but young Miss Lucas'
did not skip in the street, so she sang
happily under her breath.
Down the street Charlie Graves was
sitting at the front gate sucking a lolly-
ball, which, as she passed, he took from
his mouth, reverently noting the changed
color.,
The Graves family added a piquant
touch of evil to an otherwise blameless
street, since Mr. Graves, who worked at
a bank, was addicted to drink, and the
Graves children never came to Christian
Endeavor or Sunday-sclfool except on
wet days in winter when, as Effie had
heard her mother say, Mrs. Graves could
not stand them in her own house, so
packed them off to make a nuisance of
themselves in God’s.
Charlie popped the lolly-ball back in
his cheek and gave it a few vigorous
sucks.
“Where you goin’?” he inquired of
Effie, and she stopped, for, although she
was years his senior, Effie was always
thrown into a near panic by Charlie. Of
every other house in the street, she knew
the secrets of the back garden ; who had
fish pools, rose gardens, grapevines ; but,
because she was not allowed to play with
the Graves’s, the area behind the trellis
at the side was a mystery, and the Graves
children, whose dolls she had never
nursed, and whose tricycles she had never
ridden; were almost as creatures of an-
other world, and, be it admitted, a very
alluring world at that.
Effie could not even guess at what lay
behind the trellis, but it was something
monstrous, she felt sure,
Charlie’s unwinking gaze had not
shifted from her face. “You'c’n come in,
if you like,” he volunteered, “we got
kittens!” and he indicated a deal box
on the verandah. Effie glanced up and
down the Sunday-stricken street. Kittens!
She crossed the forbidden threshold,
Charlie treading on her heels in his eager-
ness to show off his treasures. They
nestled, five of them, on an old knitted
blue skirt in the box, and in no time
Effie had a warm little kitten snuggled
under her chin.
“Oh, you lovey!” she crooned, and
wondered why there were never any
kittens at home, nor pups; all they ever
had was chickens, and then they mustn’t
touch them ...»
A door opened behind her, and turn-
ing around she saw a lady walking slowly
along the verandah towards her, a pretty
lady with red lips and cheeks, and black
hair, and a fine white dress with lace at
the throat like the ladies on the choco-
late boxes and —Effie felt her hypnotised
gaze drawn to the cigarette that dangled
between the lady’s long fingers.
A cigarette! Effie felt horror trickle
down her back like cold water.
Charlie was grappling with the lady’s
hand, not even noticing the cigarette.
“She’s come to see the kittens, Mum,”
he babbled. “She’s Effie, from up the
road. Perhaps she can stay an’ play?”
“Yes, dear,” said his mother, and, to
Effie’s ecstatic surprise, inhaled deeply
from her cigarette and let the creamy
smoke trickle from her nostrils, lazily
inspecting the visitor through the haze.
“Does your mother know you are here,
Effie?”
Effie started. She had been peering
down the hall, which was disappointingly
like theirs at home. At least there might
have been something. “No,” she replied,
feeling herself blush. “I was on my way
to Endeavor when Charlie”
“No,’’ murmured the lady, half to her-
self, “I didn’t think she would.”
Her tone was bitter. She walked to
the edge of the verandah and plucked
two blood-red geraniums. and pinned
them to her bosom, and she said again “I
didn’t think she would! ” She stood still,
looking out over the geraniums into the
sunny street, and Effie thought she had
forgotten her, but presently - she gave a
little laugh and, turning to Effie, smiled
and said “Look, Effie, would you like to
see me make smoke come out of my
eyes?”
■ Effie nodded, not trusting herself to
speak.
“Well, put your hand here, on my
chest, and look right into my eyes,” said
Mrs. Graves. Effie complied, and when
the lady drew deep on the cigarette
waited breathless for the miracle.
Charlie suddenly started to jump up
and down. “Look out!” he cried, “or
MumTl burn your hand! It’s a game! ”
Effie snatched her hand away and fled
up the path to the gate, the pink ribbon
dancing over ■her shoulder as she ran
Behind her the pretty lady stood on the
steps and laughed till suddenly she
stopped and, putting her hand to her
cheek, turned swiftly and disappeared
through the door.
ONLY when she was two houses away
did Effie realise that she still held the
kitten against her heaving chest. She
could not take it back; not for worlds
would she again set foot in the Graves
place, so she hurried on, and reached the
church just as the minister was shepherd-
ing in the last of the late-comers.
“Why, Effie, you are late,” he said
smiling. “What’s this ... a kitten?”
“Yes, Mr. Douglas, I found it,” mur-
mured Effie ; after all, she had found it
in the box. “And Mama says tyargaret
can’t come today on account of her cold.”
“Well, well, I’m sorry to hear that. Tell
your Mama, will you? Now, we’ll put
your kitten in a box until afterwards
and go in, eh?” And together they walked
into the cool church.
Effie noticed, as she tiptoed down the
aisle, that Mary was not in her place;
Mary’s mother stood by herself, and now
and then jerked her head upwards as if
throwing something off, and looked defi-
antly around the church. Arthur sat at
the organ with his shoulders hunched,
and his fingers straying idly over the key-
board, instead of grinning and winking
over his shoulder as he usually did.
But soon the music of the first hymn
banished all thought of Mary and Arthur
from Effie’s mind, and she sang lustily,
opening her mouth very wide, and clos-
ing her eyes to get a better effect in the
parts she particularly liked; although
during the address that followed, she
found it increasingly hard to keep her
mind off the fact that it was Prize Day,
and conjecture as to whether Mama
would let her keep the kitten. The minis-
ter droned on about the stark necessity
of succoring the heathen, and noises from
outside drifted in, the barking of a dog,
pigeons in the roof and the hollow
clippity-clop of a horse passing the
church.
Another hymn, and at last Mr. Doug-
las’s voice announcing the prizes.
“Effie Lucas, for best attendance! ” and
somehow she was out in front of a haze
of faces, curtseying, and back in her
place, but in her lap now lay a dull
crimson book; on its cover, in ornate
gold letting with a fairy swinging from
the middle of the capital “H,” the title
Happy Summer Days. The organ
chanted, and Effie felt her heart lift and
soar as reverently she opened the cover.
There, in the spidery script of the min-
ister’s wife, was her own name. “Effie
Lucas ... St, Mark’s . . . Third of May,
1913” . . .
D ROCK closed the cover of the book
) quietly and looked about him. Blue
was still fiddling with the wireless, and
the swirl of frenzied insects around the
lamps was still unabated.
Stan said “Found something you like,
Brock? What name?”
Brock shook his head. How long had
he been standing there? He seemed to
have been listening to a story, or some-
thing ; it seemed somehow as if the simple
things of his childhood had come flood-
ing over him, calm and serene ; and now,
of all things, tears burned in his eyes.
“Yes, Stan,” he said, holding up the back
of the book, “think I’ll take this one.
Seems okay ... a bit old-fashioned,
maybe” . . .
Outside in the darkness a rising wind
eddied around the crooked knees of the
ghost-gums, and a few big drops of rain
fell into the deep grey dust. The wet
would soon come.
To a Dead Tree.
How would you look in a steel-grey suit,
With telephone cups for your pips, and a boot,
A tall jack-boot of fresh black tar?
It’s better you stand in the bush as you are:
Not drilled on a ridge, and holding a line
That leads to a city over the Rhine—
Who, then, would believe you were ever a tree,
Or your kindred a mast in a ship at sea?
You stand here in beauty, of a forest, the bones;
Untrammelled by ravings of night telephones:
Though stripped of your bark and your leaves,
still a tree
Honored and sung of in memory.
Gilded by dawns that parakeets flash:
Undoubtedly proud of those antlers that clash
With the moon’s wide horns, entangling at night,
Pricking the stars in the sky as you fight.
Yours is the battle no saint would gainsay,
To stamp in the sunshine for ever and aye —
But what if they made of your timbers a post,
How then would you stand, you gaunt grey
ghost?
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
The Ship.
Now calm into the burning west
Moves on the mast of my desire;
And all my heart cries after her
, Torn wake of shadowed ice and fire
Till her cool timbers touch my lips
And tears of long grief comforted
Shower with the spray of darkening seas
Cold on her lovely, lifting head.
How shall my shocked soul live the pain
When the taut rope must jerk it free
Back to the clumsy flesh that stands
And sweats upon the empty quay?
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3372,
Wednesday, September 27, 1944.
TROUBLE AT THE STARTING POST.
“‘After Germany’s defeat, Hitler and his gang will make a getaway in a passenger submarine specially built for the purpose,’ says the Stockholm
correspondent of the N.Y. ‘Times.’ ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
A TALE OF THREE CITIES.
Marshal Stalin did not attend the
Quebec Conference, which was concerned
mainly with the war against the Mar-
shal’s partner in a neutrality pact and
fisheries agreements which appear to be
valued on both sides. Neither was Mar-
shal Tito present, that “Communist party
member” being perhaps engaged in hav-
ing another lot of photographs taken
or in trying to find the grand offensive
he was to have launched with 330,000 to
500,000 men when the Second Front was
opened. Marshal Curtin was another
absentee.
American and Canadian newspapers
insist with astonishing vehemence that
Australia was snubbed, but the Prime
Minister protests that this is all moon-
shine. The Australian Minister at
Ottawa, a distinguished general of the last
war, was present by invitation —at least
towards the close of the proceedings—
and so was a distinguished general of
the present war, summoned to Quebec
from Washington before the discussions
ended. In any case, Mr. Churchill was
there, at the top of his form and with
plans for an all-out British effort against
the Japanese once the Germans are out
of the way: —. i
The British Commonwealth was repre-
sented by its most conspicuous leader, who
spoke for the whole British Commonwealth.
The problem at the conference was the use
of British Empire forces in the Pacific War.
The total that Australia has in those forces
had been decided previously by Mr.
Churchill, President Roosevelt and myself.
This Mr. Curtin had mentioned before in
a vague way, and he mentioned it again
without ceasing to be vague:
Australia’s plans for the Pacific War are
those agreed upon by Mr. Churchill and
President Roosevelt, signed and settled and
fixed in character and in scope, and
accepted by them as being proper long ago.
Any disposition of forces 4s subject to the
decisions of the commanders. The strength
and resources of this country are known to
our collaborators, and we have a fair idea
of theirs, but they have not been able to
bring their full strength to bear in the
Pacific War up till now.
Elementary, Watson, as to the last sen-
tence, but still uninformative. Were
“Australia’s plans” presented as alter-
able or unalterable, and were they ac-
cepted by “our collaborators” with grati-
fication or with philosophic resignation?
Did all the parties have in mind the
recall of the Ninth Division from Egypt,
several times referred to with regret by
General Montgomery, when every avail-
able Anglo-American warship and mer-
chantman were needed for the great
operations then in train on both sides of
Africa? Were the “plans” shaped with
regard to Australia’s duty to rescue its
brown wards and 22,000 of its soldier
sons from captivity, and to the fact that
it has a greater population than coun-
tries of no small consequence in the
world’s affairs: Sweden, Switzerland, Bul-
garia, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Lithu-
ania, Estonia and Latvia, as well
as Scotland, Wales and most of the
Latin American republics? Did Mr.
Ward’s yiews come into the picture
—Mr. Ward, whose great idea is that the
country which produced Monash’s and
Chauvel’s men and the men of Bardia,
Tobruk, Syria, El Alamein, Milne Bay,
the Kokoda and Sanananda trails. Buna
and Finschhafen should concentrate on
the production of saleable supplies such
as butter and corned beef, leaving others
who don’t object to conscription without
geographical limits to fight the nasty Jap?
These questions must occur to everyone
who has followed the history of Mr.
Curtin’s party before and since Septem-
ber, 1939, but Mr. Curtin keeps his own
counsel.
Mr. Menzies has voiced the general
desire for the definition of a military pro-
gramme readjusted to a situation that has
changed materially in respect of home
defence, but not in respect of the fight-
ing that has still to be done in neighbor-
ing islands (some under Australian man-
date) and territories more distant. He
said “The Government must know that
there is a widespread feeling that home-
defence forces not designed to fight
abroad are being maintained to an un-
necessary degree.”
We should know how many troops are
designed for overseas fighting and how
many for home defence, now that the need
for home defence is so far diminished.
The U.A.P. leader allowed that the
Minister for the Army could not discuss
these matters “in the open,” but he felt
that “all the facts should be placed before
the House at a private meeting.” “Would
you limit the private meeting to those
two requirements?” Mr. Curtin asked.
“No,” Mr. Menzies replied ; “but they are
two matters for authoritative discussion.”
The Prime Minister agreed that “many
members on both sides of the House
would perhaps like to know more about
this problem, and offer criticism about
the way in which it is being handled” ;
and, if convinced that there was “any
substantial desire” for a private meeting
or secret session, he was “prepared not
only to give it sympathetic consideration,
but to make the necessary arrangements.”
Which suggests that he “felt” he was
being really magnanimous and all that.
The Government at Wellington doesn’t
consider it necessary to make a deep
secret of the way it is running the part
of the war for which it is respon-
sible. Compared with the scraps doled
out at Canberra from time to time,
and as often as not conflicting, the people
of the little Dominion are kept well
informed of things which come home to
every New Zealander’s business and
bosom, and the information is a stimulus
to individual effort and national pride.
Last month the Maoriland Minister of
Defence gave the House the number and
distribution of the armed forces on the
last day of July. Personnel, he said,
totalled 114,022 men and women, of
whom 52,953 (6589 of them females) were
in New Zealand and 61,068 overseas —
splendid, considering that Maoriland had
only about 800,000 males, whites and
Maoris, of all ages and conditions at the
outbreak of war, and has had 32,000
casualties. Those in New Zealand in-
cluded 214 furlough men and 3061
returned men of the Pacific force ; of
those overseas 44,143 were in Europe,
14,211 in the Pacific and 2714 in “other
locations.”
Air Force personnel in July, Mr. Jones
proceeded, totalled 41,577, of whom
28,196 (3410 of them women) were in
New Zealand, 6390 in the Pacific, 3939
in the United Kingdom, 2195 in Canada,
519 in the Middle East and 308 in India.
Of the 13,351 overseas 7800 had gone
into service last year. In the same period
2280 had been sent to Canada under the
Empire Air Training Scheme, to which
New Zealand’s contribution in men had
totalled 7986.
In the Navy there were 9823 men—-
4906 in New Zealand, 4917 overseas. The
men of the cruiser Achilles (immortal
for its share in the sinking of the
Graf Spec) had been transferred to
the Gambia, a first-class cruiser which
was serving in a theatre of war; and
most of the Leander’s men had been trans-
ferred to sister-ship Achilles. And there
was the Monowai, also in a theatre of
war. A gift of two corvettes from Britain
would admit of two vessels used for
mine-sweeping being returned to the
coastal trade and the construction of ships
in N.Z. yards would enable the Navy
to release ships for the fisheries.
As for the N.Z.E.F., there were 35,471
officers and men in the Middle East, and
the United Kingdom and 7211 in the
Pacific (amongst the 35,471 are the offi-
cers and men of the division serving in
Italy on whom Mr. Churchill sets so high
a value that he wants to keep them ;
Mr. Fraser stated last week that
they were to see the Italian campaign
through, whereupon the future role
of the division would be examined).
Against this total of 42,682 there
were 13,690 in New Zealand, reduced
from 75,000 in June, 1942, and 31,330 in
June, 1943 ; and “further reductions”
would take place “as they” could “be
made.” Already the Staff College, the
Forest and Jungle School and the
Armored Vehicle School had been
“closed”; the Home Guard had been
posted to the Reserve, and the Army
School of Instruction was operating on a
reduced basis. Estimated war expendi-
ture for the current year was £100,000,000,
down £20,000,000. In the Commonwealth
estimated war expenditure for the current
year is £505,000,000, down £39,000,000.
In effect, a full and precise statement,
presented for discussion in Parliament
and dissection in the newspapers, by a
Government which has a lively sense of
its responsibilities; and we should get
one from Canberra. The concealment
policy has been tolerated too long. Far
too long for the scores of thousands of
young men who have been in military
camps for years, and who want to be
relieved from their boredom one way—
the fighting way—or another.
In the contest with the foreign foe it is
no private or party war that the Gov-
ernment is waging in its fashion now
that the referendum is over, but a
national war. And, short of the disclosure
ot information that might be useful to
the enemy, the people have a right to
know the essential facts, so that they may
judge for themselves how the Govern-
ment is dealing with their manhood and
money and how —with many thousands
of imprisoned sons and wards to be
rescued, and with the certainty that one
very awkward question will be raised at
the peace discussions —it is shaping up
to the task of maintaining the nation’s
military renown and credit.
Time Yet for Bells.
A move to have all the ferryboats and
other shipping in Sydney Harbor break
out in a furore of cock-a-doodle-dooing
on the day Germany turns it in was
rejected, not on the ground that,
with the Japs still to be beaten, it would
be, to put it charitably, unrealistic, but
because it would be an infringement of
war-time shipping regulations.
Still, Sydney is not to be denied a
measure of jollification. The ringing of
church bells for 10 minutes as soon as
news is received of Germany’s surrender
has been suggested in a church circular,
and no doubt the suggestion will be
heartily endorsed with vigorous ding-
donging on the day. And probably the
unprayerful of the community have be-
come pious enough to petition Heaven
that the day will be a week-day, so that
the celebrating can be suitably liquid.
It will all sound odd in the ears of
the thousands of Australians whose lads
are still in the A.I.F. divisions, the
R.A.A.F., the R.A.N. and the supply
services, all of whom, Mr Forde has
said, will l?e fighting against the Japs
“soon.” To these citizens and their fight-
ing representatives—the willing volunteer
lads who will be giving their lives in un-
imaginable conditions —the bells will
sound as grimly ironic tolling and the
callous guzzling will seem a not inappro-
priate accompaniment.
Without any question, the earliest pos-
sible defeat of Germany will be a cause
for gratification—that then, in the due
course of the necessary time, the full
strength of Britain and America can be
turned against the enemy in the Pacific.
This war, which is right at hand, and
which has already cost Australia this
country’s heaviest casualties in the present
conflict, would even now appear to be
considered a mere trifling aside. Mr.
Churchill, reflecting the offhanded optim-
ism regarding it that has all through
been prevalent in Britain, stated in
August: “I am increasingly led to feel
that the interval between the defeat of
Hitler and the defeat of Japan will be
shorter—perhaps much shorter —than I
had at one time supposed.” Mr. Churchill
should know ; but taking his “shorter”
to mean that the Pacific War is as good
as over, that it can now be quickly ended
without fierce fighting and saddening
casualties, might be grievously disappoint-
ing.
After his Mytkyina victory in North
Burma only a couple of months back, the
American General Stilwell stated: “We
must give all possible aid to relieve the
very serious situation in China. The
Japs are just as tough as ever.” The
seriousness of things in China is only
now, very belatedly, finding its way into
Australian cables. American newspapers
have been emphasising it right through
this year. They have even envisaged the
total loss of China, and the extreme
lengthening of this war that that would
bring about.
Recent cables here, like many others
in the past, are not above suspicion of
an ideological slant. Most suspiciously,
it is suddenly discovered that the trouble
in China is a matter of faulty adminis-
tration. The implication is that if only
the Chungking lot would hand over to
the Communists of the North all would
be well. The facts, as seen without the
ideological slant, are that China has now
been at war twice as long as we have
and is proportionately war-weary, and
that, if we are feeling easy enough to be
girding up our loins to ring bells and
guzzle, thd Chinese remain captive occu-
pants of an invaded country, and to
them the help from the fighting far out
on the Pacific fringes must seem remote
and the ending of it all also.
Australian newspapers must take a
large share of the blame for the general
offhandedness and complacency regard-
ing this war that has still to be fought.
Their function, as they appear to con-
ceive it, is to present the war as a mag-
nificent daily serial for their readers’
entertainment. Consequently, the un-
doubtedly thrilling events in Europe have
the front pages and the big headlines. The
Pacific front is forgotten, and its signi-
ficant happenings either go unreported or
are smothered under in the competition
to give the serial its daily exciting twist.
There was a tragic, and near-disas-
trous, happening in the North Burma
fighting which convinced General Stilwell
that the Japs are still tough It occnrrM
in May, was not released by censorshin
until August, and was then reported in
these terms in the American press •
A combination of “ill-advised promises”
and faulty hospital procedure caused In
oSeTf ,S'Z^ f br “ kdOW " S'"
one of the most famous American fighting
units, Bng.-Gen. Frank Merrell’s Maraud^
*hi “fh ‘* ? Mytky * na - An official
inquiry by the nffire
w e re° removf Vml hundred Marauders
weie removed from temporary duty while
3nd WCre rel Urn ed tO
active duty The seriousness of the situa-
tion at Mytykma necessitated “scraping
the bottom of the barrel” for man-power
General Stilwell wept openly when he
learned his orders that as many able-bodied
men as possible be thrown info action had
been misinterpreted.
With this distasteful news fresh in their
press, Americans also read another Aus-
tralian Government official announce-
ment of man-power releases from the
forces here. Nothing could possibly be
clumsier than all the Australian Govern-
ment official announcements on this
matter. They have created in America
a widespread belief that this country is
now prepared to shirk the fighting part.
On Mr. Forde’s more recent say-so that
simply isn’t true, and no doubt there
will be saddening casualties enough in
due course to contradict the impression
left by the stupid official statements. But
the notion does remain widespread in
America, where decidedly unflattering
thoughts rose with the reading of that
tragic “scraping of the bottom of the
barrel for man-power” in Burma.
Before that delayed news was given to
them Americans read of the cost of that
speck in the Pacific, Saipan. There 2359
Americans were killed, 11,481 wounded
and (in early reports) 1213 were missing
and presumed dead, a total of 15,053
men. This was approximately a division
—out of only three divisions employed.
And the Jap garrison totalled only 20,000.
If it had been an Australian engagement
there would be cause for renewed pride
in the undoubted mettle of the race.
Would there be, a couple of months after
the event, preparations for bell-ringing
and swilling?
“The battlefield on Saipan,” a corre-
spondent reported in the American press,
“was a scene of utter carnage, the dead
of both sides intermingled. In numerous
places the Jap dead lay literally in heaps,
indication that our infantry fought
fiercely to the end, succumbing finally to
overwhelming numbers.” It was, indeed,
as bloody as Tarawa, showing for all
except those too dull or uninterested to
see that the Japs are still a deadly serious
fighting foe, still with a formidable supply
of fighting man-power that can make
every yard won seep with blood, still en-
forcing nothing short of the highest fight-
ing quality of their opponents, such as
the Americans magnificently gave at
Saipan, to defeat them.
Apparently, optimism is based on the
assumption that the war against this
fanatical enemy will be largely one of
ships and ’planes. It might be as well to
be prepared, instead, for more Saipans.
The Japs are not only tough, they are in-
calculable ; and they have as yet given
no reason for this widespread idea that
they will be easy “once Germany is
beaten.” That is the popular notion sup-
porting the moves for cock-a-doodle-doo-
ing and ding-donging and swilling, which,
in any case, must come bitterly to the
hearing of all those tragic, forgotten men
sweating and brooding in Jap prison
gangs.
Bomana.
Twelve miles north of Port Moresby,
on a rise in a little valley, with the Owen
Stanley range towering in the background
and the white mountain mists hovering
above the Kokoda Trail, is Bomana, the
first Australian war cemetery established
in New Guinea and recently dedicated by
the three fighting services.
An A.I.F. private was the first man to
be buried in Bomana, and he has been
joined there by other Australian fighting
men, Britons, Dutch, Papuans, Java-
nese, merchant seamen, a war correspon-
dent and an Australian civilian. There b
no distinction of rank, religion, race or
country. All lie side by side under the
white crosses, for in the manner ot then
deaths all were equal and united m pro-
pose against a common foe.
Australia has it within itself to be
great, and Bomana and other Austra ia , n
war cemeteries, at home and abroa .
prove it with a silent and mcontestau -
argument. For the men who he in them
died for their country, a common enoug
thing, perhaps, but still splendid above
all other human things and still the deau
less inspiration of all our dreams. . w
the clamor of politics and commerci
ism and all our little demands and as *
tions and threats, our whingeing and r
ing, Bomana lies silent, newly-dedica t >
calling by its very presence for, a . d
cation of the nation to its duties
responsibilities under God.


PLAIN ENGLISH
In Labor's Name.
Party v. People:
“Labor principles” are among the war casual-
ties, notably the one in which it was laid down
that Australian militiamen must not be sent
beyond the mainland and Tasmania, the defence
of die northern possessions and their inhabitants
being the duty of the handful of white settlers
and of lesser breeds without the law. In the
course of events this “principle” was battered,
but it was not sunk, enough of it being salvaged
to prevent militiamen being sent to Halmahera,
the Philippines, Sumatra, Malaya and other
places north of the Equator towards which the
war is moving.
And the manufacture of “Labor principles”
goes on. One of the latest of them concerns
commercial radio-station licences. The “Labor
principle” is that when any of these licences is
withdrawn, as was the case with SKA Adelaide
and 2HD Newcastle, issued to Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses, the equivalent of the goodwill, or as
much as it is deemed expedient to take, auto-
matically passes to Labor.
This proposition, sugar-coated, was put to
the Central Methodist Mission at Adelaide,
which was after SKA, and was ready with the
full price asked by the legal representative of
Jehovah’s Witnesses for the assets. In a spirit
very different from that of the founder of
Methodism, the Central Mission agreed, giving
Labor a one-fifth interest in the station and the
direction and a lavish allotment of time, which is
money—an hour a week on ordinary occasions
and half an hour a night during State and
Commonwealth election campaigns.
The new “Labor principle” established, an
offer of 2HD was made to the Anglican Dio-
cese of Newcastle on terms even more generous
to Labor. The diocese was to put up the dust
and give Labor gratis a fifth share in the
station, one director on a board of five directors
and “the right to broadcast propaganda for one
hour in each ordinary week and for one hour
each day between the issuing of writs for a
general election and the holding of such election,
no payment to be made.” At the instance of
Bishop Batty, the diocesan council refused “to
ensure the acquisition of 2HD by making con-
cessions of great commercial value to supporters
of the political party in power.” This was
astonishing, and momentarily disconcerting,
Bishop Batty having been marked out as a prac-
titioner of the sentimental clerical Leftism which
is an unfailing source of boisterous merriment
at Communist D.H.Q. and Trades Halls.
Labor had already decided on a powers refe-
rendum that would enable it to make a certainty
of the next general election, in the process
placing “the banks” and “the capitalists” at
its mercy, and on financing the thing from
funds raised for the war against foreign foes.
From this source it shovelled out money for the
presentation of the Labor “case”; £50,000 it
said, though no detailed accounts have been
This was, in effect, a new “Labor
principle,” and if became embarrassing when the
referendum was defeated in four States by a
majority for the six States of 342,018 votes.
Mr. Haylen, M.H.R., a recruit from flapper
journalism, obviously fated to disappear after
one Parliamentary term, was put up to demand
a royal commission to inquire into the expendi-
ture of private funds on the No side. This in-
solent stunt being carried into the Senate, the
Labor leader of that Chamber, whether because
he was ashamed of the misappropriation of the
people s money or concerned about Queensland
opposition to the referendum being carried into*
the 1946 election—Queensland servicemen and
civilians alike polled stunning No majorities—
replied that Noes who chose to subscribe for
the propagation of their opinions had an un-
assailable right to do so.
On the score of “Labor principles” and prac-
tice the radio-station and referendum-expendi-
ture transactions were challenged by the Opposi-
tion in the House. The Prime Minister, that
bavior of the Country who has never been to
see the instruments of salvation, did not attend
either debate, being prevented on the second
occasion, it was explained, by a sprained ankle.
defence of the indefensible was left to
Mr. Calwell, who sought refuge in bluster and
invective. In an incautious moment he asserted
that the squandering of public money on the
Labor “case,” £50,504, according to his account,
had been authorised by an Estimates item,
Post-war Educational Scheme,” to which Mr.
Menzies replied that “the amount for 1943-44
was £5256, and for 1944-45 £45,750, leaving
only £502 for Post-war Education for the whole
x* “Unlawful and immoral,” was
Mr. Cameron’s comment. “The money was
used to advocate a case that was not a Gov-
ernment case. The referendum proposals could
not become law unless the people agreed to
them It is a great pity that this debate could
not be broadcast over SKA.”
The “Labor principle” laid down during the
referendum campaign by Dr. Evatt (“The right
to ‘fire’ is characteristic of the social system
against which the Labor movement must fight
and win”) is still some furlongs short of
ultimate triumph. Unforeseen circumstances
have halted the major campaign against the
Portland (N.S.W.) butcher. It was given out
last week that he was to be deprived of the
use of slaughter-yards he has rented for six
years; but even this felon blow may not bring
the stubborn fellow down. Human courage is a
factor which the authors of “Labor principles,”
themselves addicted to leading the mob from
behind, have never sufficiently taken into
account.
A Socialist Speaks.
The House of Commons has (1) a Labor
party whose leaders are in the Ministry
and the War Cabinet, and (2) an Indepen-
dent Labor group. One thing they have
in common is a supreme contempt for
Communists. While the Australian Labor
party was preparing to accept Commun-
ists as referendum allies, one of the
Labor Independents, John McGovern,
spoke in the Commons of his personal
relations with the Red brotherhood:
I used to work in unity with the Com-
munist party when sent by my own party.
There was one thing I recognised about it
at the beginning, and of this I warned my
party. I said “You can never satisfy these
people. They are out either to swallow you
up if you resist their policy or to slander
and libel you if you fail to accept their
policy. Therefore you have to stand up to
them as men and fight them.”
Mr. McGovern was in Australia for two
years, 1923-25. Perhaps while here he met
and communed with another evolution-
ary socialist, Mr. Curtin, and warned
that gentleman and his associates against
having any truck with Communists.
Whether he did or not, Australian Labor
politicians are already regretting that they
did not reject alliance with the foreign
party as uncompromisingly as did Mr.
Herbert Morrison and Mr. McGovern.
Continuing, Mr. McGovern gave the
Commons his views on the situation de-
veloping in Europe: •
I believe in socialism, but I do not be-
lieve in socialism with a tommy gun. I do
not believe in imposing my will upon people
who have not agreed to a change and trans-
fer of power. I see this gradual develop-
ment taking place all over the Continent,
this civil war which is going to be worked
out in its most brutal and acute form.
If you are going to disarm Germany com-
pletely, are you going to allow Russia to
retain her great military strength and arms?
If so, after this war Stalin will be able to
carry on from one end of the Continent to
the other, through the Balkans, and place
the whole of Europe under his totalitarian
form of bureaucratic Government.
Will the Foreign Secretary tell us whether
Russia was consulted in connection with the
Japanese war? What is Russia’s attitude
towards it? Who is financing the Com-
munist army against Chiang Kai-shek?
How do we stand in relation to all the
little States over which so much blood
and sweat has been lost in this House?
Can Mr. Eden give us an unqualified state-
ment that we stand, not for the creation
of Soviet stooge Government's, but for the
complete independence of the peoples of
those countries who have drawn up their
own Governments?
In my estimation, you are marching to-
wards a showdown. You are evading the
issues of the present moment, but they are
coming faster and hotter on your trail as
the war comes to a conclusion.
In the same week General Smuts said
in Birmingham: “Let the voice of Tolstoy
speak to us, rather than that of Karl
Marx, who, after all, was not a Russian
and never really was of Russia.” And it
would be a very great thing for Russia
and the world if the spirit of Tolstoy, not
that of Marx, informed Russian policy ;
but of this there is not the slightest sign.
Australia-First Cases.
Before the inquiry was entered upon the
Attorney-General stated positively that
there was no guilty connection between
persons arrested in Westralia and tried
for conspiracy (two were convicted and
sentenced, the others being acquitted)
and members or alleged members of the
Australia-First movement interned in
New South Wales. Nevertheless, it was
admitted by official witnesses at a Sydney
hearing last week that the N.S.W. in-
ternments were made in consequence of
a cypher message from the West.
“About 20 names were selected from a
dossier,” a police sergeant, then attached
to Military Police Intelligence, said, and
“it was decided to intern 14.” “A pretty
slipshod method of putting people behind
bars,” said counsel for one of the 14.
“They got a telegram from Western Aus-
tralia, and they didn’t bother to see
whether it was true or false. The names
of 20 persons were selected and 14
arrests followed —it was like a conjuror
pulling a rabbit from a hat.”
Another witness was a lieut.-colonel, in
private life an advertising agent, and for-
merly in charge of the branch of Mili-
tary Intelligence dealing with Security in
N. S. Wales. He said that as a result of
the telegram from Westralia he decided
at once to have at least one member of
the movement interned and perhaps two
or three. He ordered a search of the
homes of other members, and on receiv-
ing ’phoned reports from the searchers
in the early hours he ordered the arrest
of several others. Six women whose
names were on his list were not ordered
into internment because it was not at
that time the policy of the Government
to intern women.
Under cross-examination, the lieut.-
colonel said it was the only occasion in
his experience on which 14 British- or
Australian-born citizens had been interned
in one batch. He could not remember all
the names. Neither could he remember
what was in the dossiers, how much of
those dossiers he had read before taking
action, who was present when the de-
cision was made, what room he and his
officers sat in or whether the files on
which he acted were in the same room
with them. He was sure the files were
“available.” Asked whether it was not a
fact that every issue of the “Publicist”
since 1940 had been censored, he said he
didn’t know, but his impression was that
at the period of the internments news-
papers censored themselves.
The substance of this evidence was
that the decision as to whether any citi-
zen of N. S. Wales should be seized in
the dead of night and placed behind
barbed wire was in the hands of an adver-
tising agent, then recently promoted to
lieut.-colonel, not even a J.P., and, though
in charge of Security, ignorant of the
censorship requirements. He could order
an arrest without search, without hearing
evidence, without seeing his prospective
captive or even reading his dossier.
The arrests were made in March, 1942.
What was described as a Security report,
dated January 25, 1941, was read out. It
alleged that one Arnold von Skerst, then
editor of “Die Bruecke,” had been
charged with the “duty” of enlisting “the
assistance of Australian press personali-
ties,” and in pursuance of the “duty”
had “systematically and repeatedly dis-
cussed the relationship between Australia
and England with the proprietors of the
‘Publicist,’ The. Bulletin and Australian
associates.” He had also “fostered in
Australians with whom he came in Con-
tact—sometimes men in high Government
positions—doubts about England’s inten-
tions.”
The Bulletin has never been asked by
any Security man whether or not the part
that concerned the proprietors was true,
If it had been asked it would have replied
that its only connection with the “Publi-
cist” consisted in its having been sued for
libel by a person who became one of the
principals, and that it didn’t know Skerst
from a bar of soap, having had no com-
munication, direct or indirect, with him
or with the German Consul-General or
any member of his staff. A statement to
this effect, signed by editors and directors
and printer and publisher, and offering to
give sworn evidence, was mentioned by
Mr. Cassidy, K.C., who appeared for The
Bulletin. At his Honor’s suggestion, the
gist of the repudiation was published in
two papers in which the Von Skerst stuff
had appeared.
The inquiry looks like being a very
long job, there being so much to be
cleared up.
COMBINED OPERATIONS.
“The latest in the commercial radio world is an alliance between Labor, which goes in extensively for the coarser forms of
commercial sport, and the Church.”
“Freakin' in on the benediction, sports, I’m goin’ to give y' a lay-down misere for the dogs.”


NEW GARDENING BOOK
THAT IS ENTIRELY DIFFERENT FROM ANY OTHER GARDEN BOOK YOU HAVE
EVER READ.
.10,000 Garden Questions Answered, by Fifteen experts, with 400 illustrations and planting
maps. By F. F. Rockwell. 1485 pages. A ten-volume set, of the most practical kind of
garden information, packed Into one handy reference manual. A quick action index places
all the information at your fingertips. Size, 7J x 4i inches, and two inches thick. Price 30/-
(post. 1/-).
OTHER IMPORTANT BOOKS
Eend-Eease. Weapon for Victory. One of
the most thrilling and dramatic stories of the
war. It is an important book, as many lend-
lease affairs were military secrets. By B. B.
Stettinius, Jun. 30/- (post. 9d.).
The International Encyclopaedia of Music
and Musicians. Revised and enlarged by Oscar
Thompson. It represents the collective scholar-
ship of distinguished writers on music in a
dozen countries. Nearly 3000 pages. Size 11 x
SJ inches, and three inches thick. £4/16/-
(freight extra).
The Australian Blue Book. A National Refer-
ence Book, containing information on matters
Australian from authoritative sources for all
members of the community. Edited by Arthur
Wood head. Illustrated. Special offer. 20/-
for 10/- (post. 6d.).
U.S. Camera Annual, 1944. This magnificent
volume is devoted to the U.S.A. at war. It
contains about 160 of the most authentic and
most expertly selected collection of war-time
photographs to date. It is not only of fascina-
ting interest today, but of intense historical
interest for all time to come. Size of book is
13 x 10 inches. 37/6 (post. 2/3).
The Science Year Book of 1943. By John D.
Ratcliff. Stories of remarkable discoveries in
laboratory and workshop and in the field, by
writers of distinction and authority. 17/6
(post. 6d.).
Prowling Through Papua, with Frank Clune.
A Papuan cavalcade, revealing all the high-
lights and turning points in Papua’s story.
Illustrated 12/6 (post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street. Sydney
The “VENUS” 7-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
I Dynamically
I Balanced
w
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd., Clarence
St., Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Marx-i
St., Melbourne; Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Ward figured last week in an A.B.C.
debate as a supporter of nationalisation
of the coalmines, without compensation
if he had his way. Reminded in the
House that this was in flat contradiction
of the policy of the Government, as stated
by its head, and of the doctrine of Cabinet
responsibility, Curtin pleaded that as a
Minister, Ward was bound by the
“policy”; as an individual, he was en-
titled to say what he thought. An older
and wiser P.M. than Curtin said to his
Ministers: “It doesn’t matter a damn
what we say so long as we all say the
same thing.” Many of Curtin’s troubles
have proceeded from his neglect of the
maxim, and the worst is to come.
While there has been a lull on the
Portland (N.S.W.) butcher front, Gov-
ernment, “Movement” and mob having so
far been unable to crush their solitary
opponent, Sydney’s meat position goes
from bad to worse. With slaughtermen
refusing to slaughter and shop hands re-
fusing to serve on Saturdays, liver and
brains, essential for young children, have
vanished, and the hunt of the housewife
and business girl for a bit of meat has
become a saddening feature of city and
suburban life. Saddening except to
strikers, go-slow artists and Trades Hall
worthies, one of whom had the face to
assert that the dearth of refrigerators and
ice-chests was “the fault of the system.”
The Commonwealth Second Victory
Loan of £160,000,000 is out of the barrier,
hard ridden by John Curtin, with Bob
Menzies and Artie Fadden urging it on
and Miss Marjorie Lawrence warbling in
dulcet strains. Sydney N.E.S. sirens ripped
the air, there was a march of servicemen
and there was a pageant in the Town
Hall. All in a good cause, of course,
and no patriotic Australian can refuse
to lend what money he can spare, but it
seems a queer way to launch a war loan.
Queerer still is the open go given to lot-
tery promoters and punters who bet in
thousands.
Playford protests that he is unable to
present his Budget because Chifley has
banned comment on the proposed Com-
monwealth grant to S.A. Chifley said
Tasmania and Westralia had been asked
to refrain from comment on their grants.
Chifley’s attitude is mysterious, seeing
that the proposed grants figured in his
Budget. In that Budget there are items
appropriating at least £100,000,000 that
could be questioned, but, as usual, the
thing is being rushed through by a docile
majority as if Parliamentary control
of the public purse had never existed.
They had a debate on immigration in
Queensland Parliament the other day.
Nicklin, leader of the Opposition, snorted
that talk of immigration was humbug
while union bosses could close their books
against new members and while they had
the say as to who should or should not
be employed. And that’s just about it.
Under the terms of the armistice with
Rumania the U.S.S.R. is to have an in-
demnity equivalent to £93,750,000 Aus-
tralian, payable in goods, and a United
Nations’ title to Bessarabia and Northern
Bukovina, “annexed” by it in 1940 ; in
effect, just on 20,000 square miles of fer-
tile territory, with a population of nearly
four millions, “of whom 52.4 p.c. are
Rumanians and 10.5 p.c. Russians.” Bess-
arabia was a Russian province for a bit
more than a century, a prize of that
beastly thing imperialism ; but Bukovina
was an Austrian crownland. From Fin-
land the U.S.S.R. is to get more territory
than it “annexed” in 1940, notably the
rich Petsamo region, plus an indemnity
of £A93,750,000. Why the Socialist Sixth
of the World should require more terri-
tory possibly Bishop Burgmann or the
Dean of Canterbury will explain. Other
gentlemen may or may not explain what
has happened to the Atlantic Charter. <
Communist plans for capturing the
A.L.P. have gone awry in S.A., of all
States. Sure that it was merely a step from
the referendum alliance to “unity,” the
Coins, moved for “unity” at the State
Labor conference, doing the job through
representatives of Com.-controlled Labor-
unions. Going on Federal Labor prece-
dent, Bardolph, M.L.C., the president,
ruled the motions —there were five —out of
order, and “his ruling was upheld, amidst
applause,” A motion that the S.A. dele-
gates to the Federal A.L.P, conference
should be instructed to press for the lift-
ing of the ban on Corns, was defeated by
nearly three to one, a majority delegate
pointing out grimly that alliance with
ANOTHER COMMISSION FOR DOBELL.
“While many Australian- artists have achieved a local success which has sometimes been
creditable, William Dobell is the first to knock with any degree of authority upon the door
which leads to fame, and to comparison with standards of great painting, of which Europe
is still the home and the inspiration. Of these standards Australia knows very little.”
—“ S. M. Herald .”
"But, Warwick”
“Shut up, Granny — it’s the living image of you!”
the Corns, would “again consign Labor
to the political wilderness.”
In the shadow of defeat at the A.L.P.
conference in Adelaide, some of the Corns,
showed temper as well as the arrogance
of the breed. One irate gentleman broke
out with “You seem to forget that Rus-
sian Communists are saving your hides.”
Out of the tumult thereby evoked came
in a loud voice “What about our own
forces and the Yanks?” Another com-
rade brought an outburst on his head
by saying that the Communist bosses of
the coalminers, munition workers, iron-
workers, wharfies and so forth were “the
cream of the intellect of the Labor move-
ment.” After more of these exchanges
a realist named McMullin, from the Aus-
tralasian Society of Engineers, gave the
Corns, the unkindest cut of all: “If you
want unity you should abandon your
sinking ship and come into the Labor
party like men, and not try to sneak in by
the back door.”
Final referendum figures: No 2,305,418,
Yes 1,963,400. Details show that Koo-
yong (Menzies) polled the biggest No
majority (17,578) in Victoria, and .Barker
(Archie Cameron) the biggest (12,074) in
S A Kooyong also polled the greatest
No’vote (48,317), but then it has the
greatest electoral population ; in point of
electoral population Barker is only fourth
on the S.A. list (six divisions) and the
State had a Yes majority of 4977—West-
ralia’s was 12,096. The service vote m
Barker was No 3152, Yes 3066 ; in S.A.,
Yes 19,337, No 17,573. It would almost
seem that Cameron and Menzies are
highly thought of by their electors.
W. Bankes Amery, leader of the British
Food Mission to Australia, to the S.A.
Agricultural Bureau:
Even although Germany is virtually
beaten, Britain does not know whether it
will be able during 1945 to get sufficient
quantities of meat and dairy produce to
provide the weekly meat ration (Is. 2d.), the
butter ration (20z.), or the cheese ration (it
fluctuates between 2oz. and 30z.); and what
are we going to do about devastated
countries such as Greece, Yugoslavia and
Poland? Doesn’t this mean that thousands
of tons more food have got to be pro-
duced?
Then he referred to the negotiations for
“an agreement under which the whole of
Australia’s exportable surplus of beef,
mutton, lamb, butter and cheese will be
bought by Britain until June, 1948, at
prices which, it is hoped, will be satis-
factory to all concerned.” In spite of the
familiar excuse —trotted out in the latest
instance by Dedman —he still insists that
there is no shipping difficulty.
Headlines from two Sydney papers with
half a day between:
Two Million Flee from Rhineland.
Germans Refusing to Leave Rhineland.
In these matters it is necessary to have
tuppence each way.
After a month’s sickly silence, Dr.
Lloyd Ross, “Chief Executive Officer of
the Department of Post-war Reconstruc-
tion,” is out with a new series of talks,
the first being “Reconstruction, Now —
After the Referendum.” Though the
young gentleman’s faith in the electors
has been sorely shaken, he and all the
other doctors are still prepared to plan
their economic life for them.
Earle Page is always most effective in
debate when he draws on his medical
experience to illustrate an argument.
Dealing with free medicine and the rest,
he said that to raise the money by taxa-
tion in war-time from a people already
strained to the utmost is “like asking a
man wh° has been shot through the lungs
and has near y bled to death to act as“a
blood donor.” The House grinned, but
agreed that it was apt.
Commissioner and coppers : -
Two longstanding Sydney feuds, one between
newspaper proprietors who once came to blows
at Randwick, and the other between the Police
Commissioner and the Police Association, were
mixed up in a constable s action for libel against
Commissioner Mac Kay and a Sunday £aper
The copper was one of a pair who arrested an
employee of one of the proprietors, an editor,
on a nasty charge, and the Commissioner, on
being appealed to, withdrew the charge (he was
overruled by the Premier, the editor being
acquitted) and weighed in with an article assert-
mg, among other things, that the two coppers
had made an extraordinary number of arrests on
similar charges in a short space of time. This
was a fact, but it is strange that Mac Kay’s sus-
picions were not aroused till it was, in effect,
brought to his notice by' outsiders, seeing that
he publishes an annual report in which there
is a detailed comparison of arrests on all the
charges in the calendar. In any case, the pro-
cedure he adopted was all wrong. On the
libel issue he succeeded; verdict for the defen-
dants with costs. But the problem of lifting the
force back to the fine state it presented in
Mitchell’s day remains. It has first-class
material, but is a prey to unceasing internal
strife which affects its efficiency. It obviously
needs another Commissioner, but Mac Kay was
so anchored to his job in the Stevens Govern-
ment’s time that no change can be made for
some years. He once threatened to resign but,
on second thoughts, decided to remain.
Grant, the Senate’s new recruit from
the Sydney Domain, devoted his first
speech to a denunciation of “the profit
motive,” though he never leaves it at
home when he goes to the races. No
great man, he shouted, was ever inspired
by “the profit motive” ; and he mentioned
Shakspeare and Shelley. Nobody pointed
out that Shelley lived on an allowance
from a rich baronet, his father, or that
Shakspeare was that abomination to
demagogues, a shrewd businessman and
property-owner, A wise and witty poet
of the next century wrote that the Bard
For gain, not glory, winged his roving flight,
And grew immortal in his own despite.
In reply to a question, the Foreign
Secretary stated in the Commons that
20,000 British prisoners of war are work-
ing in German coalmines. He had to
admit that this is not contrary to the
laws of war. It is a solemn thought that
these poor chaps perforce turn out more
coal for Germany than the N.S.W.
miners, who have been “given everything
they ask for” (Mr. Beasley), turn out for
Australia; and ferocious punishment
would be their portion if they struck or
loafed on any of the thousand pretexts
which serve in N, S. Wales. Of recent
weeks the N.S.W. coalminers have elected
to be “good,” They have these spasms
when the Christmas holidays are in sight.
Trade-unionism is compulsory in
Maoriland, but, although the law re-
quires the submission of union books to
“every person having an interest in the
funds,” there is no provision for publica-
tion of balance sheets. The National
party has come out with a declaration
that, when returned to office, it will make
compulsion subject to secret ballots and
“have all union funds open to audit;’
Similar provisions should be included in
the policy of every party opposed to
Labor-Socialism in this country. Law,
strictly enforced, is the one remedy for
the anarchy of union bosses and mobs
and the one guarantee of a fair deal for
individual members of unions.
Incident recounted by L. L. Hill,
M.L.A. for Albany (W.A.), one of the
best natural ports in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and the one most neglected:
I travelled with a party of American sea-
men. As we neared Perth one of three
young officers said: “Where is all your
population?” I replied: “If you could put
one of your long-range guns into the centre
of Perth you would have half the population
of this State, nearly a million square miles,
within range.”
Then he repeated an old story which,
disgraceful as it is, never interests the
Perth Parliament, “Of £3,000,000 spent
on ports in twenty years Albany has had
£121.”


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
- «••••
*S
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in -touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
Exide HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Duke of Gloucester’s personal
staff for the Governor-Generalship will
go down extra well with Australians.
Chief-of-staff Brigadier D. S. Schreiber,
who was equerry to the Duke during the
1934-35 visit here, is an armored-forces
soldier, whose latest command was that
of the Fiftieth Tank Brigade in India. A
keen airman, he flew three times in King’s
Cup races. Named as Comptroller,
Lieut.-Commander A. W. P. Robertson,
R.N., is also already known here. He
was on Lord Huntingfield’s staff in Vic-
toria from 1935 to 1939, and since then
has been with the Navy. Of the two
aides, Major M. B. C. Hawkins lost an
arm in the Libya fighting, but that hasn’t
stopped him from being lately with
Alexander in Italy ; and Captain Alex-
ander Ramsay lost a leg in the Tunisia
fighting.
Damien Parer, killed by Jap machine-
gun fire while filming the fighting on
Peleliu Island, had already had several
very narrow escapes in carrying out his
fearless photographing of actual front-line
warfare. Only recently, in the Guam
fighting, two Jap bullets went through his
tunic without wounding him. Before
breaking with the Department of Infor-
mation he did an outstanding job photo-
graphing and filming the A.I.F. in action
in the Middle East, Greece and New
Guinea. Since then he had been in the
hottest of their actions with the U.S.
counterpart of the A.1.F., the Marines.
His “Kokoda Trail” film remains one of
the finest things of the kind made any-
where in this war, and much more im-
DAMIEN PARER.
pressive than any published record of
that A.I.F. action. Born in Malvern,
Melbourne, Damien was a cousin of air-
man Ray Parer.
Victorian Premier Dunstan set up a
new record last week when he made his
tenth Budget speech. Willcock (W.A.)
is the next-best with eight. A shrewd
old political campaigner, Dunstan has
been M.L.A. for Korong and Eaglehawk
since 1920 and Premier since 1935. In
between he has held pretty well every
Ministerial position. Despite his bulk,
he is a prodigious worker, arid is proud
of the fact that he has had a hand in
making ovy 500 of the thousands of
laws with which his State is blessed or
burdened.
Australians in Webster’s: —
W. M. Hughes, who had an 80th birthday on
Monday, leaves Curtin, Evatt, Menzies and
even Henry Parkes in the shade and most
other Australian politicians in frozen oblivion
in the new Webster’s Biographical Dictionary.
“Billy” gets 13J lines to “Bob’s” 4J, “Bert”
just pipping “Jack” by 5J to sf. Including one
line which describes him as the author of
“poems,” Parkes gets 11 lines, just twice as
many as Henry Lawson. Norman Lindsay has
the same number as Hughes, but half Norman’s
are a listing of books by son Phil, with no men-
tion of son Jack or any of the other Lindsays
except explorer David. Paterson gets half a line
more than Lawson, with no mention of The Man
from Snowy River or anything else earlier than'
The Animals Noah Forgot (1933). Also, Pater-
son figures as an Australian war correspondent
from 1900 to 1915. “Bob” is the only Menzies
from anywhere listed. There’s a remarkably long
listing of Wards, but “Eddie” isn’t in it. Nor is
Beasley included; in fact, there are no Beasleys.
Two of the fine sons of W. H. Ifould,
former Sydney Public Librarian and now
W. 0.1. Deputy Director, have been killed,
one recently in naval operations, and the
other in a testing-flight crash in Sydney
last week. A third, an R.A.A.F. squadron-
leader, holds the D. 5.0., D.S.C. ancl bar,
and has been mentioned four times
in dispatches. The test pilot,
Flight-Lieut. E. M. Ifould, held
the American Silver Star and was
mentioned in R.A.A.F. dispatches
Vor gallantry in New Guinea.
Before one of the most comprehensive
assemblages of medical talent in Mel-
bourne history, Sir Howard Florey, co-
discoverer of penicillin, had an honorary
fellowship of the Royal Australasian Col-
lege of Physicians conferred upon him
at the Wilson Hall, Melbourne Uni-
versity, by president Dr. H. J. Ritchie.
Only two physicians have previously re-
ceived honorary fellowships—Dr. Noble
Wiley Jones, of U.S.A., and Dr. Morley
Fletcher, of England. The graduate of
the Adelaide University got the presen-
tation on the same day that Stockholm
announced that the £B5OO Nobel Prize for
medicine would go to his colleague in the
discovery of the wonder drug, Sir
Alexander Fleming.
The first British officer to be taken
prisoner in the war was Flight-Lieutenant
Laurence Edwards, R.A.F., of Welling-
ton, Maoriland. The other day he was
released on exchange, five years and three
days after his machine was shot down
over Heligoland on Sept. 4, 1939, the day
after war was declared. Only two Britons
had been captured in this war before
that —a couple of flying non-coms, who
arrived over German territory before him.
R. D. Elliott, former Senator and pro-
prietor of a chain of Victorian country
papers, has made a present to Mildura
of his entire collection of pictures by
English artists. It includes his two-score
Orpens (the largest collection of that
painter’s pictures outside the Kensington
Museum), works by Augustus John (in-
cluding his portrait of “Billy” Hughes),
Brangwyns, D. Y. Camerons, George
Clausens, Arnesby Browns and Philpots,
plus an example of Epstein’s sculpture.
The consignment will need 700 feet of
wall space, and will make the dried-fruit
city’s art gallery, when it gets one, the
best-equipped with British art orthodoxy
outside Melbourne.
Lt. Leon V. Goldsworthy, R.A.N.V.R.,
a George Medallist from W.A., has been
mentioned in dispatches following an
attack by H.M.A.S. Arunta on a Jap
submarine. Goldsworthy went from S.A.
to the West in 1929 as an electrician, be-
came departmental manager of Rainbow
Neon Light, and joined the R.A.N.V.R.
early in 1940. For some time he was on
bomb disposal work, completed a diving
course, was on liaison duty at Admiralty
House' and was in the invasion of Nor-
mandy.
The Kingsford Smith film,.now being
got on the way, will need to be good to
do justice not only to the man but to
the clan. The quality of Smithy himself
as an airman probably comes out no-
where else so well in print as in P. G.
Taylor’s fine book on his flight with
Smithy to America. The clan carries it
on in Smithy’s nephews, of the Vaucluse
family. With the R.A.A.F. in England
for over a year, and there at 24 com-
manding a Lancaster bomber squadron,
Wing-Commander Rollo Kingsford Smith
lately got an immediate award of
the D.S.O. in further recognition of gal-
lant services. He collected the D.F.C.,
also on immediate award, a few months
back. John, oldest of the three brothers,
is a squadron-leader on active service,
and Peter, a flying-officer, is p.o.w. in
Germany, having been shot down over
Europe.
Fred Ward, who has been secretary of
the Labor party in S.A. for over 20 years,
was surprisingly rejected at its annual
convention. His successor is Fred Walsh,
secretary of the Clerks’ Union, a returned
airman, on the right side of 30.
In more ways than one Wilfred Robert
Dovey, K.C., assisting the Commissioner
on the Australia First inquiry, ranks
amongst the biggest men of the N.S.W.
Bar. He goes 6ft. 2in. and has so much
weight with it that when, in 1914, he
DOVEY, K.C.
enlisted early and got to New Guinea
the decision there was in effect: “He’s a
big bloke well make him police
manager.” Malaria that he picked up
there hit back when a bit later he got to
Egypt, knocking him out of soldiering.
Next he was a master at Brisbane
Grammar, and he still marvels at the
extraordinary brain, of Jack Lindsay, then
a 15-year-old student there. After that
Dovey became associate to Sam Griffith
and to Adrian Knox, and took silk in
1935. He sports a monocle, is vice-chair-
man of the Sydney Turf Club and a lead-
ing figure of the Australian Golf Club.
A 20-year-old 6ft. sin. son is a sub.-lieut.
with the R.A.N.V.R. overseas, and there
is a daughter who, at 15, was breaststroke
swimming champ, of Australia.
It’s an automatic arrangement that
when S.A. Government sets up a com-
mittee to deal with agriculture, dairying
and the like the chairman will be Direc-
tor of Agriculture Walter John Spafford.
Already chairman of at least nine such
committees, he was lately hoisted to the
chair of the Dairy Produce Board. Born
60 years ago in an Adelaide hills district,
where his father was a fruitgrower, Spaf-
ford was on the Roseworthy College staff
for 14 years, and while there bred several
varieties of wheat which were a marked
success in many wheat parts of Australia.
W. J. SPAFFORD.
At one time half the wheat grown in S.A.
was of a variety he’d bred. Away from
chairs and things that grow, Spafford’s
an A-grade bowls-player. His only son,
the late Flying-Officer F. M. Spafford,
D.F.C., D.F.M.—one of the most highly
decorated bomb-aimers of the war —was
in Gibson’s ’plane in the German dam
raid.
Passed his ninetieth milestone on Sep-
tember 24, Henry M. L. Pike. Born in
London, he arrived, with his parents,
at Hobart in 1855. Passing his licensed
surveyor’s exam, in 1878, he must
be one of the oldest surveyors in the
Commonwealth. For 50 years he prac-
tised as land agent and surveyor at Moree
(N.S.W.).
A Queenslander doing big things in a
quiet way is Dr. Colin Courtice, soa of a
Bundaberg cane-farmer and nephew of
Senator Ben Courtice. Dr. Courtice
is in England on important research work
on various gases, including the war kind.
He’s a Queensland Rhodes Scholar and
one of a family of six, of whom five hold
university degrees.
“Uramao”; Once the stormy petrel in
Maoriland politics, Robert Semple, Min-
ister of Public Works, has relapsed into
a silent member. Only occasionally he
is stirred sufficiently to lash out with his
picturesque phraseology. A practical
man, Bob scrapped most of the out-of-
date methods of the Public Works when
he assumed command. His bulldozers
and other road and aerodrome machinery
proved a godsend when Japan went on
the rampage ; and the Japs’ failure to,
invade M.L. saved them from feeling
the quality of Bob’s tanks. Semple was
born at Sofala (N.S.W.).
Into the silence:
At Manly (Sydney), Henry Hampton Ray-
ward, who designed and put up the first wind-
ing and pumping plant for the Yarragon Coal
Mining Co. (now Yallourn, Vic.). In the firm
of Rayward and Baldwin, consulting engineers,
he supervised the erection of gold dredges in
Maoriland. Also, he founded and for some
time edited the technical magazine “Progress.”
He qualified for the Bar, but did not practice.
In Cowra (N.S.W.), at 71, Hugh James Kelly,
one of the State’s pioneers in agricultural ex-
periment; manager in turn of Coolabah, Nyn-
gan and Cowra experiment farms. He carried
out the first work in conservation of farm
lands from erosion, and originated the contour
banking and ploughing method of soil conser-
vation. It was during his 19 years’ managership
at Cowra that J. T. Pridham did much of his
wheat-breeding and improvement.
At Cootamundra (N.S.W.), Harold Davidson,
of Geraldton, Stockinbingal. Son of George
Douglas Davidson, one of the early pioneers,
he was a noted sheep-breeder, a great sup-
porter of patriotic causes, and formerly one of
the State’s leading amateur riders.
At 70, Sydney Ford Adams, secretary of Haw-
kesbury Agricultural College for 40 years.
Holder of the Humane Society Medal for a
gallant rescue, he helped form Sydney’s first surf
life-saving club.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 73, H. A. Bown,
leading figure for 40 years in M.L. commercial
and motor affairs. Born at Ballarat (Vic.), he
left schoolteaching for commerce, and was one
of the earliest members of the Melbourne Com-
mercial Travellers’ Club.
In Glasgow, Lieut.-Commander M. Geddes,
before the war astronomer at the Carter Obser-
vatory, Wellington (M.L.), and discoverer, in
1932, of the comet which bears his name. A
Fellow of the Royal Art Society, a Master of
Arts and a great mathematician, he joined the
R.N.Z.V.R. and served on ships escorting con-
voys in the Mediterranean and to Malta when
the going there was at its worst.
At 77, in Melbourne, Dr. H. Osburn Cowen,
one of Victoria’s most distinguished medicoes.
A Manxman, he opened his first practice at
Eaglehawk, and his love of good horses was one
of the things that endeared him to the district.
Later he practised in Kew and Collins-street,
where his work on safe motherhood earned him
overseas recognition, including a Glasgow Uni-
versity degree.
In Adelaide, at 79, J. T. Furner, son of a
long-ago Public Works Commissioner under John
Downer. He did surveying for the outer harbor
and the East-West railway, but was best known
for Mount Bold, Tod River, Bundaleer and
other big water schemes in which he had a
prominent part.
At 67, Colonel F. M. Best, of S.A., a noted
rifle shot who twice represented Australia at
Bisley. Enlisting as a private in 1914, he had
four years’ active service and went on to a
commission. Col. Best commanded at Fort
Largs in 1939, and since 1941 in Melbourne in
the 2nd Aust. Transport Training Corps. He
was a lecturer of engineering at S.A. School
of Mines.
In Adelaide, at 82, Gavin Lucas, who had
more than half a century with A.M.P. Vic-
torian-born, he was in Perth for 20 years, mostly
as manager; then for about 14 years, from 1919
till his retirement, was manager in Adelaide.
At Mills wood (S.A.), at 48, Captain Eric
Herbert Chaseling, one of Australia’s best-
known civil pilots. Operations manager of
Guineas Airways since 1938, he was for five
years prior to that managing director of the
Victorian Flying School.
At 88, Melbourne’s oldest priest, Rev. Peter
McGee. As R.C. chaplain at Pentridge, he re-
ceived an illuminated address from the prisoners.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS
“Pitt St”: An affliction of peculiar
forms of the common cold fell upon
Sydney this month. Some of the afflicted,
though suffering no great bodily discom-
fort, experienced two or three days of
deep depression, developing in some cases
to utter despair; others had bouts of
giddiness, stiff necks, partial deafness,
blurred eyesight and faces swollen so
badly as to make them unrecognisable.
When the epidemic was at its height a
bitterly cold and rough Saturday caught
thousands at sporting fixtures sans over-
coats or umbrellas and drove most of
them home. Myself and three others,
staggering half-numbed into the tea-
house at the ninth at our golf course,
might have become sideshow exhibits as
petrified specimens of homo sapiens, only
that a fifth golfer, alone, his partners
having fled while he was prospecting
some scrub for his ball, produced a bottle
of black-market rum* from his bag.
They’re still talking at our club of the
five who finished the course, then fell into
the clubhouse and fell asleep for three
hours.
* * * «
“McBo”: Hoots, mon! Ah see yon
bonnie Prince Rupprecht o’ Bavaria, who
says he’s on oor side, claims to be a
Stuart and the rightfu’ Southron king,
forbye. Na doot the loon mak’s his
haggis o’ bludwurrst, sauerkraut and
sausage, plays Deutschland Über Alles
on the bagpipes an’ mixes bock wi’ his
wee drappie. Ech, sirs! I’d give sax-
pence to see yon Squareheed in a kilt
(though Ah doot his knees’d be hairy or
knobbly enough tae dae the garb credit),
singin’ wi’ Rabbie, while pipers skirl the
beautiful lines:
Maun primsie gowk, rarnfeezled byne,
An’ riskit shair’d a sleekit scaur;
Since smoutie wyle an’ snoukit syne
Wi’ scroggie hame an’ bluidie war.
* * * *
“Arter” on a tribal conflict:
The war in Sydney between “academic” and
“contemporary” schools of art is accelerating
to a blitzkrieg tempo, with the Hague and
Geneva conventions thrown out of the window.
First stage of the intensified battle was the ex-
clusion of the Society of Artists from its annual
show of a whole raft of paintings by well-known
practitioners of the “academic” sort and the
flooding of the walls with “contemporary” offer-
ings. The old Royal Art Society retaliated by
banning the “contemporary” stuff from its show
altogether, with the exception of a spoof-portrait
of Hitler that parodied Dobell’s Archibald
Prize winner. The parody was resented as
blasphemy or lese majeste or something by
earnest “contemporaries,” who demanded its
withdrawal. - The morning newspapers damned
the show root and branch. “S. M. Herald”
found not one work pf art in it, though it con-
tained pictures by a score of painters on whom
the old lady almost exhausted her stock of
superlatives just a few years ago; and the
“D.T.” spoke of a “new level of dullness,” and
described leading exhibits in such terms as
“dreary, uninspired and poorly composed”;
“dripping with sickly sentiment and pretty
color”; “vulgar enough to grace any suburban
grocer’s Christmas calendar”; “a murky, over-
painted oil” and “another dreary work.” If that
sort of thing were published about the works of
the* “contemporaries” libel writs would soon be
flying thick as leaves in Vallombrosa, but the
Old Guard, apparently, can take it with a grin
—the happier because sales totalled £l5OO be-
fore the show was officially opened and a little
later were past the £2OOO mark.
“Spokeshave”: In opening the sixth
annual exhibition of the Contemporaries
in Melbourne Dorian le Gallienne,
the composer, urged the public, if it
couldn’t understand a painting, to try
to understand the artist, and, instead
of criticising, give him the benefit of the
doubt. Well, we all try to, but what I
can’t understand is why, when there were
so many nice-looking girls at the show
obviously associated with the Movement,
the artists didn’t try to paint them instead
of painting their sub-consciousness, which
appear to be stocked with demons, devils,
cadavers, gangreened skulls, Jhings that
look like cuttle-fishes and nudes that are
either in the last stages of emaciation or
inflated by elephantiasis.
* :K * *
“Takhif”: Recent mention of Tom
Price, first Labor Premier in S.A. (and
in the Empire), reminds me that his sobri-
quet “Honest Tom” is now carried by
Tom Playford. Old John Verran had a
similar monniker until he fell out with
his party over conscription, and then they
could find nothing bad enough to say
about the same old Cornishman. A forth-
“Come on! I'll give you another game with two men start.”
right man was John, and as character-
istic as a Moonta identity as ever Oswald
Pryor portrayed in The Bulletin. John
it was (though the distinction has been
claimed for others) who impressed on a
Sunday-school class the meaning of “that
beautiful little word of three letters
L U V.” But he fought hard that others
might have the education denied to his
own toil-filled youth,
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see where a Mr. Allan
Gamble, opening a Sydney exhibition of
photographs of the defence of Leningrad,
Stalingrad and Sebastopol, said that after
t h e war y OUn g people of this country
should visit Russia and study the new
social order in that country. I’m all for
a "V ideas that will give young Australia
a chance to see the world, but I can t help
thinking that any tours of the kind should
begin with Britain, where are planted the
roots of our race, our institutions and
traditions, and where is seated the immov-
ab)e rock of courage and freedom against
whirh M r- tn n .: n „
j c s; hlazi aspirations crashed to rums,
Old George Gibson, chairman of a British
trade-union conference a couple of years
ago, had the right idea when he said that
the British and Dominion Governments
should see to it after the war that ocean
travel between Empire countries was
mac j e so cheap and comfortable that there
~, “ . . « c , c _
would be a constant flow of people from
and to Britain and the Dominions,
# * *
ttc , „ * ~ , .. . „
ocnnorrer : A bloke on the tram
remarked that Sydney seemed “chock-a-
hlnrk with Vide ” Whpn nne of the
DI ° CK wim . Ylcl s. WUen one OI tne
synagogues is emptying at the time of the
New Year or Day of Atonement services
that impression is easily come by. Ortho-
dox Jews curl the lip at “once-a-year
Jews,” blit these certainly make up the
miKtpr anf i w hpn fhp Npw Ypar fwhich
muster > ana wn ? n , f h e New Year (wnicn
spreads over eight days) is celebrated
outside halls have to be engaged for
extra services and overflows. The war
u„„ hrnimht rhncpn morp tmrether
Jias , Drought the Chosen more together,
a nd many who were hardly identifiable
as Jews have returned to the fold. Apart
from these, there are Gentiles who like
to attend the services on the Day of
Atonement and Yom Kippur. A friend
who has no drop of Jewish blood in his
veins makes a point of doing this—to
“change his mossel” (luck). That’s a
superstition long held by Jews.
* * * *
“Adrinoc” on some historical associa-
tions in North Italy:
As the American Fifth Army moved up the
west coast of Italy to Grosseto, where Roman
legions defeated the Gauls in 225 b.c., the
British Eighth Army, approaching Lake Trasi-
meno, where Hannibal annihilated the Roman
army under Flaminius in 217 B.c, occupied
Assisi, known to all Christendom as the birth-
place of St. Francis. Son of a rich merchant of
Assisi, he earned the title of II Poverello, “poor
little man,” by lavishing his substance on the
poor and renouncing his worldly heritage.
Amid the olive trees between Assisi and
Perugia, said to be the oldest in Italy and prob-
ably old when Francis was a youth, belligerents
may feel especially close to this saint, who be-
fore he became a monk was a soldier and for
a while a prisoner of war. Like peace-time
tourists who did the “hill towns,” Allied soldiers
will be encouraged to visit Assisi’s eleventh-
century cathedral of San Rufino, in which is the
font where Francis was baptised; the six-
teenth-century church of Santa Maria degli
Angeli, built round the Portiuncola, wherein
is the cell where the saint died; the double
church of the Franciscan Monastery, with its
Giotto frescoes, a Madonna by Lo Spagna and
the saint’s tomb; St. Clare’s tomb in the thir-
teenth-century church of Santa Chiara, and,
lastly, Santa Maria della Minerva, a converted
pagan temple dating from the reign of Augustus.
“Curtin Raiser”; The idea that Aus-
tralian music publishers have a violent
prejudice against Australian song-writers
is not shared by tne versatile Jack
O’Hagan, of Melbourne, who has been
getting his ditties published for a quarter
of a century, during which period over
two million copies of his efforts have been
sold. In addition a dozen of his musical
comedies, revues and pantomimes have
been given commercial production.
O’Hagan was born in Melbourne in 1898,
was educated at St. Patrick’s College and
Xavier, and started writing songs in 1919.
* * * *
“M’s.M.”: I never actually pinched a
house (B. 20/9/’44), but a mate and I
were accused of it. We were humping
the bluey over the N.S.W. Blue Moun-
tains, and on a cold, wet winter’s night
near Katoomba found an empty week-
end shack and bedded down on the lee
verandah. About midnight we were
awakened by police and the indignant
female owner of the place, who had
arrived from Sydney, found us there
asleep and sent her son for the Law. She
“Henry! Come home at once.”
refused to listen either to us or to the
police, and chanted “They’ve stolen me
’ouse and you’ll put them in jail, con-
stable, or I’ll report you.” She refused to
take her eyes off us, even while we
dressed, and we had to wrestle with our
pants under the blankets, after which we
were taken to the police station. The
police gave us hot tea and toast, then
made a tarpaulin muster to buy us beds
in the town. Next morning they put us
on a west-bound train, anxiously watch-
ing the street in case our would-be prose-
cutor turned up before they got us away.
* * * *
“Petermac”: The morale and discipline
of Chinese troops have frequently been
questioned, but, if the conduct of an Aus-
tralian-born Chinese in my unit can be
taken as any criterion, both should be
good. He was always scrupulously clean
and tidy in appearance, reckoned boozing
was unsoldierly and had a wonderfully
retentive memory. After one brief lec-
ture on a weapon he could recite all tech-
nical details verbatim and never forgot
them. An elephantine memory seems to
be a specialty of the Chinese. Globe-
trotters attended by Chinese ship stewards
have noted that if they are served by the
same steward. three or four years later
he will remember every preference they
have ever expressed to him.
* * * *
“El Madjal”: Green jackets (B.
13/9/ ’44) were unsuitable for South
Africa, yet, like the present day jungle-
green uniform, they were originated in
order to make their wearers inconspicu-
ous. When the rifle was first adopted by
the British it was issued to only two regi-
ments —the 60th Royal Americans (now
the King’s Royal Rifle Corps) and the
95th, now the Rifle Brigade, the latter
being especially raised to handle and ex-
ploit the new weapon. These regiments
were used in the Peninsula War as skir-
mishers, and in order to tone in with the
landscape were clothed in black-but-
toned green uniforms, with facings
for the 60th and black for the 95th. Rifle
regiments still retain some of their tradi-
tional privileges and peculiarities. They
march to a bugle band and wear black
buttons ; their n.c.os. wear green rank
chevrons. The K.R.R. are entitled to
more battle honors than any other regi-
ment in the British Army, and the R.B.’s
run them a close sbcond, yet neither of
them carry colors, their honors being
“blazoned on their Appointments.”
THE LIGHTS OF LONDON.
“The lights of London are being turned on again.”
—Cable.
Denied their task to lighten
. Five war-torn years ago,
Again they blaze and brighten,
Again they gleam and glow.
Again they stress the lustre
“Of cities all the crown,”
The lambent lights of London,
The lights of London town.
Once more are children learning
To look with wondering eyes
On beams, long lost, returning
To stab the darkling skies,
Lamps that no waves of blitzes
Beyond recall could drown.
The lordly lights of London,
The lights of London town.
Where Freedom’s lights have beaconed
So long, howe’er assailed,
Were wills that' never weakened
And hearts that never failed.
They tell of grim endurance
And dearly-won renown,
The lights, re-lit, of London,
The lights of London town.
What fitter sign or token
To usher in the day
When night’s fell spell is broken
And shadows flee away?
Again they glow to heaven,
Through tortured years turned down,
The lawful lights of London,
The lights of London town.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE TWO WARDS.
“Mr. Ward, in addition to being a Minister, is
an individual, and as such quite entitled to say
what he thinks. As a member of the Government
he is bound by the Government policy, of which
I am the spokesman.”-— Mr. Curtin.
A logical distinction, possibly,
And yet, one can’t but think, a novel view
Of Cabinet responsibility,
That one may shed it when it suits him to,
Just as he might a collar, should it be
A bit too tight, or scrap a pinching shoe,
And never jib at indicating what
The Minister approves the man does not.
In Cabinet or at the council board
In what’s decreed he needs must acquiesce,
But ever and anon another Ward
Pops up, a law unto himself, no less,
Whose sentiments, it’s obvious, afford
His team-mates undeniable distress,
Hardly appeased by the reflection that
They gratify the proletariat.
In other spheres of life, one may presume,
A fellow who’d officially agree
With all his crowd decides and those with whom
He works, but flout them unofficially,
Would very soon be bluntly told his room
Was preferable to his company.
But poverty can show no queerer tricks
Or stranger bedfellows than politics.
Two Wards there are for us to contemplate
Beneath a single cady, it appears.
But which of ’em can pull the greater weight
Remains a problem for the coming years,
The one who sits in Ministerial state
Or he whose metier is chasing cheers.
Meanwhile you’ll note that Curtin, worthy soul,
Sees nothing outre in the dual role.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


«C B” ’ “Modernist” painters dote on
horrific subjects, and the current show
of “contemporaries” in Melbourne has
its fair issue of cripples, madmen, starv-
ing wastrels, Jews being hanged, skele-
tons and entrails and other gruesome
topics. I would like to think that these
artists are so oppressed day and night
with the world’s woes and the sufferings
“ I still say what I did when it started — it'll all be over by Christmas !”
of their fellows that they are forced, like
Goya, to give their feelings pictorial ex-
pression. When, at the opening, how-
ever, I saw some of the artists —pretty
girls dressed in the latest fashions and
with the latest shade of lipstick, and
well-nourished young men very particular
about their ties—l found it difficult to
believe that they had all the misery and
wickedness and injustice and oppression
of the world upon their shoulders.
“Craiser”: The Archibald Prize con-
troversy has penetrated inland. A Mel-
bourne motorist, passing through the
main street of a country town saw a
crowd milling outside a newsagent's
windows. Inquiring the cause of the
excitement, he learnt that the town had a
resident patron of “contemporary art,”
who had induced the newsagent to lend
his windows for the purposes of an exhi-
bition. Hanging in place of the pulpies
were f.a.q. examples of “modern” paint-
ing. For fully a week the village
heatedly discussed the distorted nudes of
Mudmadigliani and the surrealist con-
ceptions of Dude and Dangle. The sub-
ject of “significant form” was debated at
tea parties, and the butcher, as he tore
down a string of sausages or battered a
beefsteak, discoursed on “dynamic
rhythm.” But at the end of the week
the township relapsed into its cultural
slumber.
# Sf * *
“Tasma”: Christ Church, Longford
(Tas.), keeps the 105th year of its foun-
dation-stone laying this year, and the
100th year of its dedication. Another
large church (brick —the newer one is
of convict-hewn freestone) stood in the
same grounds previously and housed the
same tower clock, which was given by
George 111. The church’s first musical
instrument was a seraphine, a sort of
harmonium. This, displaced by a fine
Bishop organ, now belongs to Gor-
don Gumming, the Launceston wood- and
stone-carver, whose work figures in so
many ecclesiastical and civic buildings.
His grandmother played it in her younger
years.
* * * *
“El Madjal”: The Fifty-first Division
(B. 6/9/’44) consists of Highland Terri-
torial regiments. Its fighting traditions
date from Dettingen, where the Black
Watch received its fiery baptism. Since
that engagement there has not been a
British campaign of any note in which
the Highland regiments have not parti-
cipated. The Irish likewise have not been
backward in fighting the Empire’s battles,
although a lot of their fighting has been
done in English regiments. On mem-
orial plaques in Canterbury and Chester
cathedrals commemorating the fallen in
England’s little wars during the nineteenth
century 75 p.c. of the names are Irish.
During the Irish “troubles” in 1798 High-
land Fencible regiments were sent across
to maintain order—English regiments
contained too many Irishmen. Excluding
Ulster, there were never any territorials
in Ireland, but prior to 1914 young
Dublin bloods who were martially in-
dined crossed annually to Scotland and
did their military training in the uniform
of the Black Watch.
**♦ _ ♦
“Aeram”; Victorian railways’ vege-
table gardens are a reminder that the
Queensland railways (like those of N. S.
Wales) for many years ran a station gar-
dens competition. This has resulted, in
the northern State especially, in the beau-
tification of many stations that would
otherwise have been dingy, little, soot-
encrusted buildings. Particularly delight-
ful are the palms and ferns at Kuranda,
on the Atherton Tableland, the greenery
and trim shrubs at Auchenflower (a Bris-
bane suburb) and Holmes (on the Too-
woomba Range), and the display of
flowers at Karara (on the Goondiwindi
line). A beautiful sight just now is Bris-
bane’s Roma-street station (whence all
Q. mail trains except the Kyogle-Sydney
express arrive and depart). Here huge
trellises are engulfed by masses of golden
and scarlet bougainvillaea.
* * * *
“Pip” discusses tents, troops, for the
use of: —
These days army tents are pitched in every
manner except that for which they were origi-
nally designed. Raising the poles on 2ft. blocks
of wood is a common practice. The space be-
tween the tent sides and the ground is logged
in or covered with old canvas, or even with
spare bed boards. Joining several tents to-
gether on a single long ridge pole is also
popular. It produces a canvas mansion par-
ticularly suitable for dice and baccarat schools.
The conglomerate issue of Australian, Indian
and American pattern tents has ended all uni-
formity, and commanders with a flair for a neat
and orderly array have long since retired in
despair. The American tent is never pitched
identically by two different people. Some in-
genious systems of logging devised for them
allow even the side flaps to be used as part of
the roof, making the interior as big as a ball-
room. Most soldiers are adept at making the
interior of their tent comfortable, and chests
of drawers, tables, chairs and the inevitable
foodbox are installed within an hour of the
tent’s erection. A fireplace is built outside from
stones, and on it the billy is boiled at odd
hours of the day and night. Most tents have
some sort of a garden, and many of these are
things of beauty. Ferns and frangipanni are
the dominant motifs. One tent up here is perched
on blocks and is surrounded by a thick maize
garden whose plants are now about 6ft. fall.
Warnings of Jap snipers who may lurk in its
depths leave the occupants unmoved.
* * * *
“E.N.E.”: If Melbourne’s Lud Mayor
Nettlefold still feels sentimental (B.
23/8/’44) he may exchange several
messages with Canada, for there is a
Melbourne in each of the provinces of
Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario and
Quebec, in addition to a Melbourne
Island off the Mackenzie River, At
Mount Melbourne, in Antarctica, there
are no residents to reciprocate, but there
are plenty in the Melbournes of
Arkansas, California, Florida, lowa,
Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri and Wash-
ington in the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Melbn”; There was a spectacular
auction of jewellery the other day in Mel-
bourne, and although diamonds are sub-
ject to price-control, bids soared to £2300
and upwards. A ring which went for
£7OO was said to be a “Spanish Court
jewel,” and was set with a nine-carat ruby
and 14 diamonds. If it was bought dur-
ing the war in Spain, its owner probably
sold it for precisely the opposite reason
for which it was bought in Melbourne.
Money is a drug in the market in these
days of colossal war expenditure, but a
diamond will always bring its value in
any currency. Indian potentates recog-
nise this. One of them is said to own a
hoard of gems worth £400,000,000.
* * * *
“Harafat” on truth in drama:
The facility with which movie fires are lighted
(B. 13/9/’44) is only one of many dramatic un-
realities. Famishing characters, on the pictures
as it was on the stage, still cure their hunger
by gulping a couple of mouthfuls. The films,
however, have overcome to a large extent the
carelessness about drinking; in drinking scenes,
notably in the orgy in “The Sign of the Cross”
and the tavern scenes in “If I were King,” the
floor would have been awash if there had been
real liquor in the drinking vessels used by supers
and small-parters. One of my own efforts to
obtain a better artistry met with disaster. Stage
beer, when “practicable,” is usually an infusion
of boiled cloves; in my young comedy days,
playing the stuttering Freddie in “The Guv’nor,”
I saw that real beer was provided from the pub
next door. The substitution enabled me to
drink off a foaming glass with artistic gusto in-
stead of taking a sip or so and then forgetting
about it. My confidence established, one night
1 swilled down a well-filled glass before making
the horrible discovery that the stuff was cloves-
water. The sight of other members of the caste
toasting me with my beer in the wings did not
improve my feelings, especially as Freddie
stayed on stage for a whole act, and my impulse
to tell the cows just what I thought of their
perfidy had to wait. To this day I shudder at
the sight of a clove.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The claim that “Kiss and
Tell” at the Comedy, Melbourne, has set
an Australian record with 300 perform-
ances would be received with a smile by
George Highland, J.C.W.’s veteran pro-
ducer. His production of “Rose Marie”
at His Majesty’s, Sydney, in 1926, put
up a score of 346 in 41| consecutive
weeks.
“Cauboy”: Apropos of “Kiss and Tell.”
Where there were eight “flesh-and-blood”
theatres plus three vaudeville houses in
Melbourne before the advent of jhe
talkies there are now only two. Scores
of better plays than “Kiss and Tell” ran
only a fortnight in pre-movie days and
failed to pay the wages of actors as good
as any tramping the boards today.
* * * *
“P.J.McM.”: Seeing a secondhand car
advertised “Pegged price £75, tools £l5
extra,” 1 went to look it over. The car
Was just what I wanted, but being a
handyman with a well-equipped work-
shop I offered to buy it minus tools.
“Sorry,” said the owner, “I won’t sell
the car without the tools.” “Let’s have
a look at them,’’ I said. Grinning
broadly, he produced the whole kit —one
screwdriver!
* * * *
“Caballer”; Ours was the first Austra-
lian transport to arrive at Marseilles, and
as this was'nearly 30 years ago, long
before organised publicity was thought of,
the inhabitants could not make but who
we were. The wide-brimmed hats led
them to suppose we had come from
Africa. So, amid shouts of “Vive les
Africains !” we passed along the streets to
our rest camp. There we encountered a
much less complimentary misunderstand-
ing. We had come from Gallipoli through
the desert, and our uniforms showed
signs of Courtney’s Post and Sinai. A
Frenchman approached a Digger and in-
quired in precise English what body of
men we were. He was told. “Sank you,
sair,” he replied, raising his hat, “I have
won five francs from my friend. He
insist you were Serbian refugees.”
* * * *
An early Sydney parson:
Richard Johnson, chaplain to Phillip's First
Fleet, was a Yorkshireman like his redoubtable
successor, Samuel Marsden, though hardly of
such an aggressive and formidable a type as the
latter. He sailed from England in the storeship
Golden Grove, which arrived in Botany Bay
on January 20, 1788. It was a Sunday, and it
is nearly certain that divine service was per-
formed there for the first time in Australia,
though not on land. Whether the honor of
holding the first religious ceremony on shore be-
longs to the Church of England or the Church
of Rome is still a moot point. As Phillip’s
flotilla was departing from Botany Bay for
Port Jackson a few days later, the ships of
Laperouse entered the harbor. Two French
priests, L’Abbe Monges and Le Pere Receveur,
were its chaplains. The latter was a dying man,
and was buried where his grave may still be
seen on the north side of the bay in the middle
of the following month, but it is fairly likely
that the Abbe celebrated Mass on shore soon
after the arrival of the squadron. However,
because of the loss of the expedition in the New
Hebrides soon afterwards, there is no written
record that he did so. Johnson’s first service
on land took place on February 3, 1788, where
Sydney’s Macquarie Place is now.
* * * ♦
“Avon”: Maoriland primary schools,
both State and denominational, have for
so many years placed English at the top,
or very near the top, of their curriculum
that a complaint by the history professor
of Auckland University College, James
Rutherford, that many of his first-year
students are illiterate has shocked the
College Council. The professor did not
pull his punches. Part of his report read:
One of the most disturbing signs of
weakness is the sheer illiteracy of a large
proportion of the weaker students. About
35 students in this class are illiterate in the
sense that they cannot write simple English
sentences reasonably clear in meaning and
reasonably correct in grammar and spelling;
sentences, that is, such as would be properly
required of a sixth-standard pupil in an
English elementary school. Some students
arc under certain handicaps, but in most
cases it is because the pupils have not been
taught at school how to read accurately and
profitably. The average capacity for clear,
relevant thought is remarkably low.
Dr. Elder, history professor at Otago
Uni., backed up Prof. Rutherford.
Rutherford is an Englishman, Elder hails
frae Aberdeen.
* * # *
“B. Bureau”: The remarks of “S.T.S.”
(B. 30/8/’44) about the preference for
“sick” over “vomit,” bring to mind the
prejudice against that good old word
“puke.” Shakspeare used it in Jacques’s
great soliloquy: “At first the infant.
Mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms,”
and Byron commandeered it to provide
an ingenious rhyme in “Don Juan”;
There’s not a sea the passenger e’er pukes in
Turns up more dangerous breakers than the
Euxine.
Notwithstanding these august sponsors,
the term seems to be looked on now as
obscene.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” on some early immigration
propaganda: —
When William Charles Wentworth (who was
born pn Norfolk Island) published his book
on Australia in 1819 he announced that the
volume would present the country as above
all “a land of promise” which only lacked de-
velopment because of its “political disad-
vantages” and a general ignorance as to its re-
sources. He wished to “promote the welfare
and prosperity of the country which gave him
birth....to divert from the United States of
America to its shores some part of that vast tide
of emigration which is at present flowing thither
from all parts of Europe.” He would point out
“the superior advantages of climate and soil
possessed by this colony” and explain “the
causes why these natural superiorities have not
been productive of those beneficial conse-
quences which might have been expected from
them.” The book had a marathon title: A
Statistical, Historical and Political Description
of the Colony of New South Wales and Its De-
pendent Settlements in Van Diemen’s Land,
with a Particular Enumeration of the Advan-
tages Which These Colonies Offer for Emigra-
tion, and Their Superiority in Many Respects
Over Those Possessed by the United States of
America, by W. C. Wentworth, Esq., 1819.
* * * *
“Derwent”: The name “Tank,” applied
to a now well-known item of fighting
machinery seems to explain itself. But
it has frequently been asserted that the
name arose through the men who were
manufacturing the first lot, under secrecy,
being led to suppose that they were at
work on portable water reservoirs. In the
“Strand” magazine of March, 1918, F. J.
Gardiner, a Fellow of the Royal Histori-
cal Society, asserted that the name de-
rives from the inventor of the caterpillar,
Thomas Tank Burall, manager of the
Thetford Engineering Works (Norfolk),
always “Tank” to his friends. He in-
vented the compound steam traction
engine, and conceived the idea of pattens
for the wheels in order to get over the
difficulty of crossing ploughed fields and
uneven ground. Those pattened wheels
were colloquially known as “Tanks.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer!’; There was excitement
on the Horton farm. Young Jack, the
second son, who’d run away from
home at 14 and hadn’t been Ifeard
of for ten years, had sent word of his
impending arrival. Dad and Mum Horton
were properly moved and Bob, five years
older than Jack, was stirred deeply. On
the great day the three of them drove
into the station and enthusiastically
greeted a burly young man who came
from the train. For his part he had little
to say, grinning somewhat shyly as they
clustered around him, shaking his hand
and patting his back and telling him how
well he looked. Home they went, dis-
posed of the fatted calf and were settling
down for a yarn when the prodigal
turned to his brother and said, “Come
out to the stables. Wanter show y’ some-
thin’.” Dad followed them out. Jack
indicated a spot on the ground and said
to Bob, “Eleven years ago y’ caught me
here an’ gave me a beltin’ an’ when I
reckoned I’d pay y’ out for it some day
y’ laughed an’ said I’d never be able to
do it. You was twice as big as me then,
an’ y’ thought it’d always be like that.
Well, I’ve caught up t’ you in size an’
here goes.” Whereupon he fell upon Bob
—and got the father of all hidings. Next
day he returned to his city job.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: Obviously the woman
“C.E,” mentions (B. 23/8/’44) wasn’t an
outback Queenslander or she wouldn’t
have thought of turning a packing-case
into a flour-bin. During the bush-rat
season in C.Q. nothing less than a cast-
iron oildrum is rat-proof. I couldn’t
give up my old drums to the Government
because of swarming rats. Tea-cases look
just the thing for holding flour, etc., but
the rodents’ teeth go through ’em like
cheese. Traps are useless against mass
visitations, but tubs and drums of soapy
water are deathtraps. Rancid bacon fat
dressed with strychnine is good poison
bait if a tin of drinking water is placed
handy.
*** * ■
“Herbie”: “Those blokes that hit and
kill three runnin’ dingoes with an extra
spill o’ powder and a few Bathurst burrs
are only one shot ahead o’ kids with
shanghais,” Stumpy Joe told us. “I’m
weanin’ poddies up on the northern
rivers, and the cream-carrier tips me off
that the* meat-hungry pubs in town are
issuing open orders t’ blokes that’ll quietly
turn up at the kitchen door with a bag
containin’ somethin’ that once dressed it-
self in feathers. It’s one o’ those days
when y’ don’t walk far before the sweat
is tricklin’ out o’ the crack in y’r boot,
and there’s a humdinger storm brewin’,
when I spots that the big lagoon up the
dry gully is swarmin with ducks. I ram
a very light charge into the £ld muzzle-
loader, sneak on ’em and let drive, I
miss, but the thunder o’ the old gun
touches off the storm. The wind catches
the ducks on the rise and whips the
feathers clean off ’em in a tick. The hail-
stones does the rest, settlin’ them back in
the lagoon and packin’ them in ice. For
the next three months I’m jonick. All I
has to do is to go up the gully, open up
the refrigerator, fill a bag with plucked
protecteds and collect the open orders.
Yair, I call it good shootin’ t’ knock
over six free pots at each o’ the five pubs
on 13 consecutive Friday nights!”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: “Fancar’s” (B. 6/9/’44)
“old-man pepperina” tree is more likely
an old lady. Actually the pepperina is
mono-sexual; that is, the male and
female flowers are on different trees. I’m
inclined to think the bees would be
making more for the nectar trees than the
pollen of the males.
“Esk D.”: Was over to watch Charlie
making an inspection of his beehives —
sans veil, as usual —and I noticed three
big swellings on his face. “Thought you
told me stings don’t affect you?” I said.
“Neither they do,” replied Charles.
“Them g-nats did that.” Charlie can
stand a dozen bee stings without a sign
of irritation, but the tiny bloodsuckers
hang lumps the size of tennis balls on
him.
* * * *
“J. McD.”; Bald Knob’s annual race
meeting was in progress, with the town-
ship’s one dusty street, the only strip of
“We weren't expectin' y' till Christmas, Dave. Wat's 'appened ?”
“Tell the truth. Dad, We've run out of food coupons."
flat country within miles, serving as track.
Principal event of the day, the Publicans’
Purse of £25, donated by Bull Murphy,
of the Hotel Ironbark, situated mid-
way down the street, was due to start.
Hot favorite was Fire Hawk, a dejected-
looking chestnut gelding, with sight of
whom local punters were familiar, since
he spent a considerable part of each day
hitched to the verandah rail of the Hotel
Ironbark awaiting the pleasure of his
owner. Red Timmins. Nevertheless, the
chestnut had pace, and when he vindicated
his backers’ judgment by taking the lead
soon after the race started the result
seemed a foregone conclusion. But habits
of long standing are not easily discarded.
Nearing the pub Fire Hawk began to
slow down, and, despite the frenzied
urgings of his jockey, ended by ambling
leisurely to his accustomed place at the
verandah rail of the pub where, with
head drooping, he stood waiting for his
rider to dismount.
* * * *
“P.I.Q”; The excited bark of the
kelpie took me from my lunch. There,
within 50 feet of the shack, plumb in the
middle of the track, stood Old Man Emu
with mum and four offspring. Grabbing
a gun I returned in time to see them
flying up the track, the kelpie in hot
pursuit. I raced after them, but they
were out of sight in a few seconds.
Presently, to the accompaniment of
pounding feet, the kelpie, ears flat, tail be-
tween legs and fear in every line of his
fleeing body, came hurtling towards me.
With neck lowered and malignant eye
Old Man Emu was snapping viciously
within a yard of his tail and gaining.
Then the big bird saw me, jammed on
the brakes, skidded and veered off before
I could get a shot at him. It was the
only time I saw that dog really scared,
$ $ * *
“Rooster”: Without disparaging
“Kin’s” generalisations on crooked
animal pads (B. 6/9/’44), a stroll along
any cattle trail will soon reveal the cause.
Most animals follow a leader in single
file when “homing” or going out to
water. The leaders will walk around
tussocks, anthills, thick clumps of grass,
stumps, ferns or even smaller obstruc-
tions. If there are intervening rises the
track usually circumvents them. Should
they elect to amble over a rise it is cer-
tain to be a markedly serpentine track.
Which reminds me. I was trapping down
at the sandpit one day when I heard
something like a miniature stampede. On
looking around my worst fears were con-
firmed: Gay Lord 11, Ferdinand’s oppo-
site number, was charging straight at me.
I’ve only seen but one straighter track.
That was the one I made streaking for
the boundary fence.
* * * *
“Stanus”: “Old Harry,” white cocka-
too mascot of our air-force camp,
is one of the area’s most colorful per-
sonalities. Scorning the early-to-bed rule
of his bush brethren, Harry attends and
enjoys every picture show and concert at
the unit theatre, his lurid comments en-
livening the drab shows and making the
good ones even better. With superb im-
partiality, Harry dines at officers’, ser-
geants’ and airmen’s messes, but his really
big moment is in the early morning. Tak-
ing up a position near some dead trees
in which a couple of dozen peewits roost,
his screaming produces a spirited attack.
Circling the camp, the old miscreant man-
ages to keep ahead of his attackers, and
unceasingly shouts “Help.” Gradually
the black-and-white terriers give up the
chase ; then when the last one has dropped
out Harry alights on a rooftop, where he
scornfully and loudly advises the gory,
illegitimate sons of so-and-sos to go
somewhere.
* * * m
“Bo”: Harry Brigden looked sourly at
the single-track railway that ran close by
the top end of his rich river-flat paddock.
Before the line was put down he used to
take his produce into the junction at Fly-
wire. Now he could dump the stuff at
the siding. Mrs. Brigden, who objected
strongly to dalliance at the Fly-
wire pub, always examined the truck
speedometer on his return to see that
he had traversed but the necessary six
miles to and from the siding. Then
Harry got a crop of pumpkins of prodi-
gious virility. The vines simply went
mad, so that what with all his other jobs,
the task of keeping them within bounds
got beyond him. One Sunday morning,
during a survey, he noted that dozens
bearing incipient “ironbarks” were trail-
ing across the line. Promptly Harry got
to work and, across the rails opposite the
northern and southern boundaries, he
dragged heavy logs. Next afternoon
“Wheezing Willie,” pulling the weekly
“mixed,” shrieked to a stop a foot from
the first hiatus and the driver hopped
angrily down. “What’s the idea o’ these?”
he demanded. Harry looked up from the
fence he was mending. “My pumpkins,”
he said slowly, “took it inter their ’cads to
go acrorst the line. If they want t’ go
that way I’m not on’y not goin’ to stop
’em, but I’ll encourage ’em. And if y’r
lousy train causes ’em bodily ’arm I’ll
sue y’, see? Don’t for git, this is a free
country !”
* * *
“Moyhu”: Enoch Strettle, an early
cow-cocky on the Kooweerup Swamp
(Vic.),, used to lop the horns off his milkers
long before dehorning was as common
as it is today. Strettle was cockying on
the swamp in the days before it was
drained, when it was little better than a
morass. The good, all-the-year-round
feed on the wet, low-lying flats amply
compensated for the inconvenience in
working this type of country and for
the annual loss of 10 per cent, of milkers
sucked into the black swamp mud in the
winter months. The herd was maintained
around the 200 mark, so that approxi-
mately 20 head of cattle sank into the
S ™P eac , h most of them Ayrshires
and other long-horned breeds. As a rule
the beasts hooves reached bedrock at
ab 3, U / '’i mOSt u° f the cattle Perishing
with their long horns protruding above-
ground. In summer these horns, hidden
m rushes and tussocks and held firmly
by the dried mud, were a constant menace
fast-moving animal. Dogs, cattle
and horses suffered chiefly, losses averag-
ing five to six canines yearly by staking,
a horse or two by leg injury and seven
or eight milkers incapacitated by serious
damage to the udder. After the herd had
been dehorned and the horns grubbed
out of the swamp losses from this source
jell to zero. A charge of cruelty laid by
local humanitarians was answered by
Strettle taking the deputationists on a
tour of his paddocks, and later showing
them figures of casualties suffered from
horn injury, which resulted in the leader,
editor of the news-sheet, instituting a
strong campaign in favor of the innova-
tion.
* * * *
“Stanus”: In the ten years I put in
among sleeper-cutters operating in N. S.
Wales the only one I recall who used
an adze (B. 16/8/ ’44) was an elderly
Swedish shipwright, who cut for the rail-
way depot at Condobolin. He turned out
a faultless job, but rarely offered more
than 30 at each five-weekly inspection.
I’m not suggesting that as maximum out-
put, as scarcity of timber in that district
usually made sleeper-cutting a part-time
job.
* * * *
“Kinka”: The abos. of the Queens-
land coast use dugong flesh as both pork
and steak. To prepare the feast a hole
is dug deep and long enough to contain
the whole animal. Stones are packed in
to form a bed for the coals. The sea-
cow, complete with hide, is lowered on to
the coals, after being wrapped in banana
leaves. More stones cover the dish; sand
is thrown over all and left for about 24
hours. By that time it’s done to a turn
and is fodder fit for a king.
* * H= *
“Old Camp”: In his life before the
whites arrived the aboriginal was not
without his love romances and Gretna
Greens. Each tribe was ruled by an
oligarchy of old men ; and ancients tried
to appropriate the best things to them-
selves. So it often happened that an
infant girl was sealed to wedlock with
a greybeard. In process of time such
girls not seldom looked askance at
such husbands, nor were the youths
of their own age always backward. And
there was always the bush into which the
lovers could make a bolt. Immediately
that step was taken their tribe excom-
municated them. But they would still
have friends and a refuge; for fifty
miles in every direction the tribes were
intermarried and related, so the runaways
found hospitality, being allowed to hunt
and gather food on each friendly family’s
territory. Sometimes if the outraged “hus-
band” was still vigorous he would seek
out the truants and settle the matter in
combat. If he refrained, the lovers in
course of time would of their own accord
return and again the affair would be
settled by single combat. But there
would be no attempt to kill; with his
shield the young man could easily ward
off the spears of his aged adversary,
though it was etiquette for him finally to
be slightly wounded in the leg; the girl
also had to submit to a similar spear
thrust. So, honor being satisfied, they
lived happily ever after,
* * * *
“Sarina”; Some pigs will enter into a
chase as gleefully as small dogs (B.
23/8/’44). I had a large boar on pasture
which always insisted on coming out with
me in search of the draught nags; and
when I sooled the mongs on to my
neighbor’s trespassing cattle about a
dozen times a day, Denny always figured
in the noisy pursuit. I’ve owned any
number of goats that got up to the same
dodges. Getting rid of such livestock
has always cut me hard.
* * * *
“S.G.”: The big motor-lorry, heavily
laden, was trundling through western
Queensland, and had got within three
miles. of its destination when the engine
conked out. The driver and his ofi-
sider got down, examined ignition and
fuel lines, and rightly concluded theyd
run out of petrol. So, leaving the ott-
sider to watch the load, the driver set out
for the destination afoot, got a tin ot
petrol and humped it all the way back,
muttering to himself about his bad luck
in running out so close to the end ot the
trip. Presently the engine leaped to iitc
and the lorry rumbled gratefully in. I tie
load? Three tons of petrol in l° ur ’
gallon tins!
SPRING OFFENSIVE.
Parrot on the pomegranate
—Purple, red on gold—
Harlequin against the sky,
Warmth against the cold.
All winter long the birds,
Withdrawn to northern range.
Waited for this hour to strike —•
For the year to change.
Not by any outward sign
—Here the frost was grim—
By some singing faith they sped
Through the starlight dim.
And, when sun revealed the town,
Shuttered, patient, frore,
All the streets were theirs again;
Barren branches hoar
Burst into a haze of buds
At the signal given
In the first lone cuckoo-call.
Sparrow units driven
From the city’s outposts fled,
Chickering with fear,
Into doorways; fighting back,
Vainly strove to clear
Tree by tree the colored hordes
—Snipers’ leafy dens—
Honeyeaters, winter-thin,
Wattle-birds and wrens.
Winding from the forest deeps,
Bell-bird and thrush,
Call your laggard comrades out
Frojn their fortress bush—
For the sun is south- again,
Gardens come alive,
Earth is waking warm again,
Stir is in the hive.
Spears of jonquils break in gold,
Wattle wears a crown,
Blossoms take the wind with light,
And the bush birds take the town.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Bo”: Reynolds, riding along the river,
was attracted by the high-pitched, un-
mistakable yelling of a woman. Round-
ing the bend at a canter, he reined in
at sight of the abo. squatting behind a
bush on the bank holding a rifle, while
in the water, tied to a log which was
anchored on the shore, was his gin. Rey-
nolds knew the abo. At first he thought
it was a form of punishment, until Cooba-
dah grinned, slapped the rifle and said
“Croc, him come longa, pfinis him dam-
quick.” Reynolds’s eyes blazed. “You
inhuman swine! ” he roared. “If you’ve
got to put a bait for a crocodile why
couldn’t you use that mangy yellow dog
of yours?” Coobadah grinned wider still.
"Dog all-same dead,” he said. “Dead
dog no bark, no bring croc., baal that
pfeller. Mary gottem yell hear longa
good, all-same that Marjorie Law-
rence pfeller! ”
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Nine-inch-long, sun-
ripened bananas, delicious pineapples and
pawpaws—the first fresh fruit we had
tasted for months —were showered on us
when we arrived at the Archer River,
along the western coast of the Cape York
Peninsula. The gifts came from the pic-
turesque little farms run by the 700-odd
abos. settled at the Aurukun Mission.
Established 40 years ago by the Rev.
Richter, the mission has 2\ million acres
of good farming and grazing country,
where the abos. grow all kinds of crops
and go in for cattle and horses on a
fairly large scale. Along the mission’s
coastline length of 120 miles are camps
of nomads, unattached to the mission,
who spend most of their time fishing. At
one such camp we were greeted by the
sole inhabitant—a bearded and wizened
veteran, who crawled from a 3ft.-high,
semi-circular shelter of bark, and without
a word presented each of the three mem-
bers of the shore party with a spearhead
fashioned from a serrated stingray spine.
The old abo. had a rusty kerosene-tin
full of the spearheads, apparently the
result of a lifetime of stingray-hunting.
After the presentation he ignored all
offers of cigarettes and tobacco and
crawled back into his shelter. Later we
learned from a missionary that the old
fellow was a hermit who had been living
alone there since the days of the first
missionaries, and had never been known
to speak to another person, black or
white. Other abos. avoided him as some-
thing evil.
* * 'i *
“L.E.G.”: As to dogs “belling and
clapping” (B. 16/8/’44), I recall that
King and McLeod, advertising their
nationally-known breed of kelpie dogs,
always stressed the points “No hellers or
clappers.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Dan was to be away for a
week or more, and Scottie promised to
go over occasionally and keep an eye on
things. The first two days passed un-
eventfully, but on his third visit Scottie
noticed a dray pulled in against the road
fence and a figure moving about in Dan’s
lower paddock. By the time he arrived
the dray was gone, and so also were a
number of split posts that had been
stacked near the fence. A few nights
later Scottie discovered more post losses,
and set himself to investigate. His sus-
picions fell on old Walker. Walker, he
learned, was working on a job up the
road, and each night returned in his dray
past Dan’s place. Mad clean through,
Scottie decided to catch the lousy cow in
the act before exacting vengeance, and
as there were now no posts left he split
another fifty, carting them down to the
fence where the others had been. Then
he retired to cover and waited. About
dusk along came Walker, and was almost
past when he suddenly spotted the posts.
Immediately he pulled up, climbed the
fence, and was approaching the pile when
Scdttie’s dog challenged. The visitor left.
For three successive nights Scottie whetted
his rage at full length in a bracken patch,
then Dan returned and he went up to
report. Walker was already on the ver-
andah. “Them posts y’ split, Dan,” the
old bloke was saying; “I suppose y’re
sure °’ y ’ r number? ” “Certain,” replied
the boss. Righto, I’ll pick up them
others then,” Walker nodded. “An’ here’s
the cheque we agreed on for ’em.”
* * * *
» Hig Nob ”. “Where I play,” remarks
“J.T.K.W.” (B. 13/9/’44) “you get one
for your last card in a three-card game”
of crib. Well, he’d better stay there.
J
“Look out, ’ere comes the boss!”
I’ve played two-, four-, six- and even
eight-handed crib all over the country,
and the rule for two-handed is invariably
that only one count is taken on the play.
If 31 or “go” is reached before all the
cards are exhausted, the remaining card
or cards have no value. So Bert won
all right.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were working for
a rough-and-ready cocky in the S.A.
Mallee and were at first amused at the
way the tucker was served up. No carv-
ing or peeling or slicing was ever done
there ; you got your mutton in a solid
slab, your spuds in their jackets, your
pumpkin in one piece with the rind.
After a while it got less amusing and I
could see that Mat was waiting his
chance. It came the Sunday they served
us beef, and Mat found a couple of great
ribs on his plate. He growled, dragged
them to the floor, put one great paw on
them and put his head down, chawing.
When the family cat looked in Mat
barked and showed his teeth. The dumb-
founded cocky and his missus watched
this, then the missus burst into tears. “I
know me tablecloth isn’t too clean,” she
wailed. “But he needn’t insult me by
eatin’ on the floor.” Mat looked at her,
then at me, got up and sat down at the
table, a picture of penitence and disgust.
* * * *
“S.G.”; The police sergeant in a
Western Queensland town had a reputa-
tion for brusqueness to swagmen calling
in for track rations. His name wasn’t
O’Dunn, but that will serve. An old bag-
“ Let's see you get into this—build up the arm and chest muscles. ”
man drifted up from the south, listened to
the others bewailing the necessity for ap-
proaching O’Dunn and announced that
there xvas a way to get over such diffi-
culties and he proposed to take it. They
followed him into the police station. The
sergeant questioned the old ’un closely
on his history and destination and finally
asked his name. “O’Dunn,” was the
answer. The sergeant stood up. “Yez a
ruddy, hootin’ loiar,” he roared. “An’ a
thafe aa’ a vagabone into the bargain.
None of the O’Dunns iver carried his
swag! ” Then he grabbed the clever cove,
rushed him round the back and ordered
him to cut all the wood in sight. The
old bloke got his rations later and silently
stole away.
* * * *
“B 4”: In the darkling gloom was
wending along a split-paling fence, when
I heard a quick pattering of feet. Look-
ing over, I beheld a large cat galloping
in my direction. There below me an out-
size in brown snakes was winding a
parallel course to mine. Before the snake
could coil, the cat propped and whirled
to face his enemy a mere foot away, his
eyes a blaze of mesmeric light as he'
crouched and waited with left paw
slightly lifted outwards. Now the snake
raised its head a foot high, arched back
its neck and struck. Swift as light, that
sinewy paw armed with steely claws
flashed a left hook which ripped the right
of the reptile’s face. The snake arched
again and struck, only to be met with a
heavier hook which, ripping deeper, tore
out an eye. With head pressed low to the
ground the snake endeavored to retreat,
but Felix, springing and twisting in mid-
air, landed with clutching claws on its
neck and bit viciously, while the snake
threw constricting coils around him. But
that gladiator had severed the spine, and
the coils relaxed. Stepping daintily out,
the cat miaowed and circled, the triumph
of battle in its shining orbs.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”; The queerest dog-
tucker I’ve struck is that of mongs
belonging to the colorful Torres Strait
Islanders. Anchoring recently under
Roberts Island in the reef-strewn Great
North-eastern Channel, between Thurs-
day Island and the Gulf of Papua, we
were surprised to see domestic dogs
frolicking on what we knew to be an un-
inhabited isle. They were bitches, a blend
of all the best doss in Torres Strait, with
blue-heeler blood predominating; and,
though the mile-long, palm-fringed atoll-
like island showed no signs of human
existence or of fresh water, the dogs were
in great ffettle and most friendly. A few
miles away, at Coconut Island, the niggers
told us they had exiled the lady dogs
there two years ago, because there were
too many puppies in the village. The
beachcomber-bitches, they averred, lived
by gnawing fallen coconuts, eating turtle
eggs and, believe it or not, catching small
fish at low tide in the pools in the reefs;
they depended for drinking-water on
dew and rain caught in huge clam shells.
Moreover, at Coconut Island the
islanders’ dogs never see meat beyond
“fishmeat.” They thrive principally on
yam and coconut core, balanced occa-
sionally with pawpaw and banana.
* * * *
“Wester”: A Melbourne paper pub-
lishes a picture of a “former well-known
wrestler” with a defunct wedge-tailed
eagle he shot with a pea rifle in Gipps-
land. If this country had a proper appre-
ciation of its birdlife anybody who wil-
fully destroyed a wedge-tail would get,
not hero-worshipping publicity, but three
months’ without the option. The wedge-
tail destroys enormous numbers of rab-
bits, rats and bandicoots, is a superb
specimen and has suffered severely from
ignorance and the misplaced hatred of
sheepmen. Because of an old-wive’s
notion that it preys on new-born lambs
and may even carry young children off,
it dare not come within range of gun
or trap and expect to survive. I have
frequently challenged its detractors to
bring me convincing proof of its alleged
destruction of lambs and never got it;
anybody who wants to see what it does
to rabbits need only examine a wedge-
tail’s nest.
$ * * *
“Long 'Un”: “Solitude” (B. 30/8 / ’44)
gives a good spin, but I’m barring that
one about the pup dragging a sleepy
lizard about for hours. I’ve had a few
snake-killing dogs, and not one would
touch a blue-tongue. Stumpy’s skin
exudes something that a dog won’t tackle
a second time. A pup might take one
mouthful, but after that he leaves S.
severely alone. Excuse the hurry to
finish, but I want to hop in before “The
0.D.” gets there.
* * * #
“Horseless Horseman”: At Darnley
Island, that massive volcanic mountain
top at the north-eastern extremity of the
Great Barrier Reef in Torres Strait, sar-
dines are the main line-bait among the
fine type of island fishermen. But fish-
ing there recently with two natives at
picturesque Treacherous Bay, where the
verdant jungle overlaps the black rock-
strewn shore, sardines were unprocurable
by spearing, so my companions produced
a root like horse-radish, and, by rub-
bing the ends together, spilt a milk-like
sap in the water. In no time sardines
and other small fish floated ' out from
under the rock ledges, stone-dead ; then
a 6ft. shark, attracted by the floating
fish, swam into the whitish, poisoned
water, gave a couple of kicks, and it, too,
was knocked cold. Johnny Pau, the
Queensland Government’s native school-
master at Darnley, told me the root is
called Sardi, and that generations ago,
when the Darnley Islanders were head-
hunters and went trading voyages in
canoes up the Fly River (N.G.), they
brought the vine plant back with them.
The fish, poisoned by Sardi-root, eat a
little tainted, but as a means of fishing—
well, dynamiting isn’t in it.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “T.G.” (B. 13/9/’44)
states that I can see ducks “perching” at
Gleeson’s Weir, Townsville (Q.). I doubt
it. The duck, being web-footed, is not
a percher. Oh yes, I’ve seen plenty of
’em sitting on broad limbs or in nesting
hollows, on fence rails and logs sticking
out of the water, but the statement I
queried was made by “Blime” (B.
9/8/’44), that “the duck soared (soared!)
comfortably to a tree-top.” Even the
large perchers won’t try a tree-top, where
the fine twigs would bend under their
weight. And the duck that lands upon
a broad limb is seldom comfortable.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I don’t want to* get
dragged into an argument as to whether
“Sur Cingle’s” dog eats bumpers or not
(B. 30/8/’44), but I do know a dog that
puts ’em out. It took months of patience
and coaxing, the method adopted by
the trainer being to drop a butt or a
burning match on the ground in
front of the dog, then dab its forefoot
quickly on and off the burning article.
The intelligent animal quickly learnt the
substance of the trick, but would stand
with paw held up ready and tail wagging,
waiting for the trainer to complete the
movement. By an unfortunate chance,
soon, after the trick was mastered in full
the dog accompanied his master to the
local smithy, where, seeing a glowing
end fall to the floor, he darted in, to per-
form his trick. The end being a piece
of red-hot steel, the poor creature’s pad
suffered a painful burn. Many months
passed before the kindly patience of the
trainer proved stronger than the pain-
filled memories, but now the dog carries
out the trick with evident pleasure.
THE FENCER.
I am fencing on the ridges where the wattles
bend with gold;
The bloodwood posts are heavy but my horses’
hearts are bold;
Through miles of virgin bushland, along the
rough-hewn line.
The fence is going forward to mark this work
of mine.
The sweat upon the leather, the dirt upon the
brow,
The weariness of toiling do not matter to me
now;
For the chestnut mare afnd pony, with the colt
and old bay mare,
For me all pull together, for me all do their
share.
While early morning sunbeams are dancing on
the plains,
The posts are marching onward to the rattle of
the chains.
I'm busy and contented till the sunlight hours
fade
And, straight and strong behind me, stands the
fence that 1 have made.
QUEENSLAND.
JACK KING.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
Orders are now being booked for the
rams dropped in April, 1943, and shorn
in April, 1944.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
H. E. KATER & SON - - - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren TO
/
iooad
SXHOVSAI
ŵ
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
v f ■'•■ ••. w
t*
w&m
ẁ
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Spring v Autumn Shearing.
“Murrawong”: Though most graziers
favor the spring, labor and other diffi-
culties during the past three or four years
have tipped the scales strongly in favor
of autumn shearing. In N.S.W. the
season reaches its peak in September, and
although it has been lessened to a fail-
extent by zoning it is still the period
when heaviest demands are made on
available man-power. Even before the
war there were not sufficient shearers to
cope with this peak demand, and it was
around this time of the year that the
pernicious habit of offering and paying
higher than award rates to shearers
crept in.
A good, clean, reasonably fast shearer
was never short of work, but incompetent
shearers got pens only when there was a
shortage. The war gave the incompetents
their opportunity, and that type usually
comprises the malcontents responsible for
most of the holdups that have occurred
recently.
Some graziers claim that zoning is un-
necessary. If every grazier viewed the
matter selfishly sufficient shearers would
have to be found to shear approximately
H million sheep per day during a peak
period of four or five weeks. That would
mean about 15,000 shearers, plus shed-
hands, cooks, pressers, experts, classers,
etc., in correspondingly large numbers.
Those numbers were never available in
Australia at any time, and unless the
graziers organise the job of their own
accord they’ll have to submit to Govern-
ment control in the way of zoning, dr
chaos must result.
There may be fewer shearers after the
war. If the shearing season is going to
be contracted again into a few months
of the year men will be unlikely to give
up a steady job to go shearing. Training
of shearers will have to be put on a less
haphazard footing. Zoning has caused
many graziers to change to autumn shear-
ing, and most of them have no intention
of going back to spring shearing. One
who recently switched to shearing in
March is definite that his sheep do better ;
he has less trouble from fly and can carry
on with less labor. He crutches once
between shearings and jets whenever a
fly attack appears imminent. Losses
through fly-strike have been negligible.
The old bogey of shearing in the cold
weather has been completely blown out,
as even in a bad season the sheep do
much better during the cold months
through not having a heavy fleece to
carry when feed is scarce.
Three things will continue to be neces-
sary in the future. They are (a) Control
of shearing (by graziers themselves if
possible) to ensure a spread of employ-
ment over a longer period of the year.
( b ) Facilities for teaching shearing and
for improving the standard, (c) Insistence
on the employment of the full number of
learners laid down in the award.
Improving the Herd.
“Den”: “Hux” (B. 30/8/’44) touches
but briefly on the most vital subject in
herd improvement, the bull. Much has
been done by subsidy schemes to improve
dairy herds, but much remains to be
done. These schemes should be wider in
their application and the subsidy more
generous to allow more to participate,
because the biggest stumbling block in
the way of herd improvement is finance.
Many small farmers cannot afford to
spend ready cash on herd improvement.
Soldier settlers after the last war were
often at the mercy of unscrupulous
cattle-dealers, as well as land agents. That
should not happen again. At the out-
break of this war all Governments should
have established stud farms as a safe-
guard against loss of private studs. Had
this been done there would now be in
all States many hundreds of pure-bred
and appendix dairy cattle, as well as
many pure-bred bulls. They would have
provided the foundation of a pure held
for each settler as he acquired his land.
Legislation should be enacted to pro-
hibit the rearing of “scrub” or mongrel
bulls, and to make compulsory the brand-
ing of dairy cows below a certain stand-
ard of production, to be sold only sub-
ject to slaughter. All these things are
long overdue, but it is not too late. By
such methods herds will improve gener-
ally throughout the land. Then will herd-
testing, which with t.b. testing should be
compulsory, come into its own.
Save Our Soil.
“P. Ater”; You don’t need to go far
from the coast to find erosion. Where
some of the first settlement took place,
Campbelltown, Menangle to Picton
(N.S.W.), there are thousands of acres
with the hard yellow to red clay sub-
soil showing. All the fertile topsoil has
gone—like the trees which the settlers
killed. The N.S.W. soil-conservation ser-
vice has started renovation, but it is
patchy.
Much good hill land has been eroded
by the greed which prompted the cutting
of trees from hilltops and along water-
ways. Gutters and sheet erosion could
have been avoided by leavings enough
trees to break the heavy falls which start
the soil moving. Gullies and dry creeks
criss-cross the flat lands. Every bit of
high land in an area of good rainfall is
a potential source of gullying where it
is not tree-topped.
This type of erosion is not as disastrous
as that in the sand-drift areas, but it is
insidious. Not obvious to the casual
observer, it apparently does not worry
the men who own the land—except for
occasional drops in the wool cheque—be-
cause it responds so quickly to rain,
though a lot of soil goes away with the
rain. It is going on all the time, and it
won’t be long in terms of national life
before the land is ruined and dessication
sets in. The silting-up of Badgery’s Creek
weir near Harden in a few years shows
what a tremendous amount of erosion
goes on.
It is time the drift was arrested by
compelling landholders to grow a tree to
every acre, to replant the hilltops with
native box and gum or apple, to brace
and stay the worst gullies on the pattern
of the Tennessee Valley Authority
methods in the Kentucky hills and to
plant willows along the worst-gouging
waterways. Our land is too precious to
waste.
Trucking Cattle.
“Mackay”: Deaths occurred in a mob
of 50 Queensland bulls trucked imme-
diately after dipping. All the animals
were in fair condition ; ages ranged from
18 months to four years. Distance to
railway siding was 14 miles and the day
very hot; they were watered and yarded
at the dip overnight.
Dipping took place at 6 a.m. next day ;
the arsenical mixture was standard
strength. As none of the bulls had been
through a dip before, they became excited
and were difficult to handle; all were
trucked by 9 a.m. The rail journey of
140 miles took 12 hours. It was made
in the heat of a day when the tempera-
ture reached 91 deg. F., humidity was
73 p.c. and wind missing. Heavy rain
fell most of the time ; one centre received
137 points in 24 hours. Late the same
evening the bulls were untrucked and
yarded. Next day they were driven six
miles to a paddock providing good feed
and shade. They appeared in fair condi-
tion.
When mustered for the next stage after
ten days’ rest they appeared stiff. Day
was again hot. At the end of nine miles
their condition —due to stiffness and over-
heating—was so bad that they were pad-
docked. By next morning two were dead
and over half the remainder very sick.
They were found to be badly scalded.
The skin was stripping off the shoulders
and the ribs in large patches, exposing
the raw flesh. Most of the bulls were
scouring badly; quantities of blood
showed up in the faeces. As it was im-
possible to secure treatment, the animals
were placed in a shady paddock and
given fresh water. There were no further
deaths. At the end of three days they
were driven back the nine miles to their
first temporary paddock.
Expert verdict was that it was not the
strength of the dip that did the damage,
but the fact that the bulls were trucked
while wet, and were kept wet by rain
on the first day’s journey when the
weather was hot and humid. Packed
closely together in the trucks, the shoul-
ders and ribs of the bulls rubbed together
and scalds resulted. Arsenic was absorbed
through the wounds into the blood
stream, was excreted through the kidneys
and the bowels and was the cause of
scouring 12 days after dipping.
Queensland Division of Animal Indus-
try issues the warning that it’s risky to
truck cattle within 12 hours after dip-
ping ; they should not be trucked wet,
and excessive handling of recently-dipped
cattle should be avoided. Animals should
be dipped the day or evening before,
rested overnight and trucked in the cool
of the following morning.
Save the Trees.
“H.C.”: The N.S.W. branch of the
Australian Forest League is planning a
“Save the Trees” campaign and looks for
State-wide support Main aim is a sound
forestry policy that can be translated into
legislation. The -branch hopes to rope
in 40 associate bodies for a conference
on November 1 and 2. The scheme is
similar to the Victorian “Save the
Forests” movement, which is representa-
tive of over 30 organisations and has
100,000 members. Born out of the devas-
tating bushfires of recent years, the main
objectives are to arouse public interest
in forestry and to enlist assistance in pre-
venting and fighting bushfires. Conserva-
tion of timber, water and soil resources
also have their part in what is primarily
an educational scheme.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.C.Q.”: Florida Agricultural Station
(U.S.A.) has proved mastitis to be a herd
disease and not an individual cow prob-
lem, Flies kept in a screened cage were
fed on milk from the quarters of infected
cows ; allowed to contact the teats of
healthy cows they transmitted the disease.
Contaminated milking machines, careless
wet-hand milking and stripping infected
quarters on the floor, are other means of
spreading it.
‘ Plane Creek”: Small areas of
elephant-grass come in very handy on a
dairy farm or anywhere where grasses
are needed for chaffing. I’ve had an acre
or two of it for many years at Sarina
(N.Q.). It’s easily propagated by roots,
being an upright grower to Bft. and a
prolific yielder of seed which is wind-
distributed. Mine is along a creek
(generally dry in winter and spring) on
scrub loam, but my neighbors are grow-
ing it on forest soils where it gets hill-
side drainings.
“Myrrhee”; Pig-lice can be kept down
by using a spray of emulsified neatsfoot
oil applied with a spray pump. Dissolve
two teaspoons of washing soda (or four
teaspoons of soap powder) in two quarts
of water and stir info a quart of neats-
foot oil, which produces a milky-white
fluid. Use a spray pump with a fine
nozzle. Apply the spray twice, the second
spraying 10 to 14 days after the first, to
destroy lice hatched after the first oiling.
“B.”: To “stop” tomato plants cut off
the main top growth, leaving one lateral
above the topmost truss of fruit. This
gives the plant an outlet for its energy
and induces higher trusses of fruit to
develop. Leaves drooping downwards
prevent sunscald of the top fruit or
splitting after rain followed by hot sun-
shine. Flowers above the highest truss
of fruit should be cut away.
“Sarina”: Only way to grow tender
lettuce in N.Q. from August is to give
’fern a semi-shaded position. Hessian
shelters sufficiently high to prevent draw-
ing of the plants are good. Water should
be laid on generously. They’re practically
all water, so the sprinkler should go on
three or more times daily. Humus from
the manure heap can’t be beaten as a
fertiliser for lettuce.
“Nedher”: If there’s an old hay fork,
minus handle, about the place heat the
section that fits on the handle and bend
it so that the prongs will be hoe-shaped.
The old fork will make a splendid weed-
ing tool for working between plants that
are not widely spaced. The sharp prongs
sink easily into the soil and cultivate as
well as weed.


Strikes Make Them See Red.
(From an article by N.Y. “Herald Tribune” war
correspondent in the Pacific Lewis B. Sebring .)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The soldiers—and the sailors, too —
see red when they hear of strikes, and
the reaction of hundreds with whom I
have talked in Australia and New Guinea
is quite unprintable.
The correspondent who goes among
these men doesn’t have to bring up the
subject; it is pressed on him from every
side, usually with some question such
as: “What the hell’s going on back home,
don’t they know there’s a war on?” You
try to tell them it is only a very small
part of the population that is so little
patriotically-minded as to go on strike,
but that answer doesn’t satisfy them.
All the serviceman knows is that some-
body has gone on strike, and that is
enough for him. He can’t strike, “so
why should anyone else be allowed to?”
He usually doesn’t know the reasons that
have been given for the strike and,
frankly, he doesn’t much care. Some-
body has stopped producing the things
that he needs, and no amount of argu-
ment or discussion can alter his belief
that it represents a generally lax attitude
on the part of the people as a*whole.
The soldiers’ formula, summed up con-
cisely and briefly, is usually: “Bring the
b s over here and let them go through
what we’re going through.”
Patriot Poles.
(Statement by Prime Minister of Poland Samis-
law Mikolajezyk , published in "Colliers.”)
What would be amusing but for its
ugly implications is a fairly general
drive against the Polish Government in
London as “undemocratic,” a set-up so
feudal and reactionary, in fact, that it is
completely unrepresentative of the Polish
people. My own case proves it false to
the point of absurdity. Surely a Govern-
ment is not medieval or aristocratic when
its Prime Minister is the son of a coal-
miner, a product of the public schools
and a worker in factories and fields
throughout the greater part of his adult
life! My entrance into politics was as a
spokesman for the Peasant party, drawn
from agriculture and labor.
Of the Cabinet of 13, two others also
represent the Peasant party. One is a
small farmer and one, like myself, the
son of a' miner. The Socialist party has
three members—a farm worker, a miner,
and a lawyer who specialised as the coun-
sel for labor unions. The National
Liberal party has two members —one a
professor, born on a little farm, and the
other a newspaperman, son of a store-
keeper. A professor and a journalist,
both with humble beginnings, represent
the National Democratic party. Only
three—a diplomat, a professor of mili-
tary history and a professor of economics
—have no party affiliation of any kind,
but no one of them is wealthy or nobly
born. Would you say that such a Cabinet
was feudal and aristocratic?
To stigmatise the Polish Government
in London as an “emigre Government” is
as unfair as it is dishonest. It is in exile
by order of the Polish people. Its
authority derives from Poland, its leader-
ship is accepted by Poland. In Poland
a patriotic coalition has welded all parties
into phalanx formation. All act as one,
and their representatives compose the
National Council that sits with the presi-
dent and the Cabinet.
A delegate from the London Govern-
ment, with the rank of a Deputy Prime
Minister, is in Poland as the accredited
and authoritative contact with the people.
Under his direction underground admin-
istrations have been set up in every
province, city, town and village. If the
Germans were expelled tomorrow com-
petent Polish officials, properly elected,
could take over at once.
Another libel that needs to be answered
is that Poland still holds fast to racial
and religious prejudice. Here again the
answer is a matter of record. In our
Government and in our armies, both at
home and abroad, Poles of all creeds
fight side by side with never a hint of
division. Not the least effort of the
underground has been to save our public,
educational and religious leaders from the
extermination that was Hitler’s declared
purpose. It is a task that has been dis-
charged without discrimination. Go into
our woods, mountains and cellars, where
we hide them, and you will find no lack
of rabbis, rabbinical students and famous
scholars, authors and scientists of Jewish
blood.
Two of our national heroes, enshrined
in the heart of every Pole, are Samuel
Zygielbojm and Michael Klepfisz. The
first led Jewish battalions in the heroic
defence of Warsaw and helped to
organise the underground before we
transferred him to London as the repre-
sentative of the Jewish Socialists on the
National Council. A great, sensitive soul,
he killed himself when couriers brought
the news that the Germans had destroyed
the ghetto, enslaving the pitiful remnant
left alive. His last letter addressed to
General Sikorski was a prayer for
Poland.
Michael Klepfisz captained the battle
of the Warsaw Ghetto, as heroic a stand
as any in all history. From January, 1943,
until May the doomed inmates fought off
daily German attacks. When both food
and ammunition were gone, and every
building was shattered by land and aerial
bombardment, only 20,000 remained out
of a population of 250,000. Klepfisz,
dead on the field of honor, was awarded
posthumously the highest decoration in
the gift of Poland and lives for ever in
our pantheon of heroes.
Let me now take cognisance of the
charge that Poland has offered no effec-
tive resistance to German occupation. In
view of the record, I brand it as a cruel
and monstrous slander. Disarmed at the
outset, terrorised and tortured with every
circumstance of fiendishness, there has
never been a day in five long years that
Poland has not waged a desperate and un-
ceasing struggle—pitched battles, sabotage
that has destroyed stores, railroads and
military concentrations, and the sentences
of secret courts that have sent hundreds
of Nazi leaders to death. All this, though
every single act meant the massacre of
hostages or the utter destruction of towns
and villages.
Is it without meaning that Poland is
the one occupied country which has no
quislings, that only a small number of
Poles ever collaborated with the Ger-
mans, and that these few traitors were
quickly executed by our punitive squads?
We are also the one occupied country
that has had an organised underground
from the very first, powerful enough
to maintain the nation’s morale and at
the same time to immobilise an army of
500,000 Germans and some 60,000 Ges-
tapo agents.
The price that we have been called
upon to pay for this resistance will give
you some idea of the value that Poles
place on freedom. More than 5,000,000
of our people have been butchered by
the Germans; and more than 2,000,000
have been sent to slave in the labor camps
of the Reich. A fifth of our population!
Lidice shocked the world, but in Poland
428 towns and villages have been burned
to the ground and ploughed under. At
last count the inhabitants of 1080 small
communities had either been massacred
or deported. And we still fight on, not
only at home but abroad!
Do you know that Poland ranks sixth
among the United Nations in point of
military strength? Not counting the vast
numbers engaged in other forms of re-
sistance, our underground army, organ-
ised and disciplined, numbers 200,000.
That is all we can arm and feed. A
Polish armored force of 45,000 was re-
formed in Scotland to take part in the
invasion of France. A Polish navy helps
to patrol the sea lanes and has been
highly effective against submarines and
even battleships. A Polish air force, more
than 12,000 in number, proved itself in
the Battle of Britain and again in the
conquest of North Africa, bringing down
more than its quota of ’planes.
There are 75,000 Poles in the Medi-
terranean theatre under General Anders,
and their record is told in daily communi-
ques. It was the Polish Second Corps,
with its infantry divisions, tank units and
artillery, that carried the heights of Monte
Cassino after 22 days of fierce fighting,
and it was the Polish flag that first flew
over Monastery Hill.
In view of all this, what more under-
standable than Poland’s shock at being
asked to cede 45 per cent, of her terri-
tory? How can Poles look on the demand
except as a direct contradiction of the
cause for which they have been fighting
inside and outside of Poland for five
long years? Even if the Polish Govern-
ment were willing to agree to any such
cession, how would it be possible to con-
vince the people of Poland that the
present is the moment for adding to their
burden of sacrifice and tragedy?
Longer Jap War.
(From an article by the Washington syndicate
writer David Lawrence.)
Optimism with respect to the Japanese-
American war is not shared by naval
men, because, Jiley point out, at the
present moment The United States is just
nibbling on the edges of the Japanese
Empire.
The Marianas Islands, for instance, are
1500 miles from Japan, and while some
important air bases have been acquired,
the naval anchorages are, not adequate to
support our fleet. It will be necessary for
some other bases to be captured before
large supplies of fuel can, be stored.
It is simple enough to state that the
Superfortresses can fly from Guam or
Saipan, but in order to sustain any con-
siderable number of bombing ’planes a
large ground force with repair shops and
other installations is necessary, and there
just isn’t the space in the Marianas
Islands for all the things that are needed
to make such an air operation successful.
Likewise, a 3000-mile-long trip is still
too long from the military viewpoint as
compared to a raid from bases 500 or
600 miles away, as has been the case
between Britain and Germany.
It may be expected the Japanese will
intensify their operations in China so as
to prevent the acquisition of bases there
and that in the not-far-distant future they
Referring in a speech at Seattle
to his visit to Russia, Eric Johnston,
U.S. Chamber of Commerce presi-
dent, after praising Russia as a
nation of indomitable courage,
described it as a land where “civil
liberties are only a vague promise'’
and where, “if there is any religion,
it is the worship of Stalin.”
“In my travels I have rediscovered
America. Never before did I
realise the importance of our free-
dom, our standard of living, our
right of habeas corpus, our Bill of
Rights.” — N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
will use their land-based ’planes in con-
siderable numbers to ward off invasions
on the Philippines or Formosa.
There is hard fighting ahead in the
Pacific, and the assumption that a short
interval will elapse after the German war
is over before the Japanese surrender is
predicated upon the theory that Japanese
morale will crack-something that mili-
tary men here in Washington do not think
is likely.
U.S. Election Prospects.
(A s looked into by the "Saturday Evening
Post!")
It is the state of mind of the American
people, even more than the skill of the
candidates, which will decide this cam-
paign. Nobody—least of all Governor
Dewey —underestimates the odds. How
many people will associate military vic-
tories with the assiduously employed
emphasis on the title “Commander in
Chief”? How many parents of soldiers
actually believe that the President is per-
sonally responsible for the safe return of
their sons from the hazards of war?
Are the people less alarmed by the Presi-
dent’s personal dealings with Stalin or
Churchill, and the possible consequences
of same, than they are over the pros-
pects that an “untrained man” may take
over? Those and other questions cannot
be answered until the votes are counted.
But one thing is certain, and that is that
the inner council of the New Deal knows
that it has a fight on its .hands.
Governor Dewey’s job is to convince
a majority of his countrymen that he can
set up an administration which will win
the war, make necessary agreements with
other nations to guarantee the peace,
dispel the New Deal threat to competi-
tive economy and liquidate the class war.
There are some elements that he cannot
persuade, even if he wanted to. Leftist
Labor, under Sydney Hillman’s Political
Action Committee, is tied to the Roose-
velt Administration and has become per-
haps its chief prop. He cannot win the
“solid South,” despite fustian threats of
revolt. Nor will he win the votes of the
millions of Federal officeholders who
multiply under the New Deal like the
lice of Egypt.
Governor Dewey’s prospects will turn
on his ability to sway the American
middle class, including workers who
don’t delegate their suffrage to commit-
tees, small businessmen, white-collar
workers, housewives and farmers. If
these groups are at last convinced that
we need a national housecleaning Gov-
ernor Dewey will win.
In any event, it is clear already that
this campaign is going to be different.
Gone is that 1940 feeling that, when the
contender has labored through his act
the champ, will step forth majestically
and flatten him with one Sunday punch.
The New Dealers are not sure that the
champ, can deliver this time; the Dewey
cohorts are not even looking toward his
corner. Something new has been added
—or, perhaps more appropriately, some-
thing old has been restored —to American
politics. We refer to the traditional way
of looking at an election campaign,
which was that no officeholder could
become so indespensable that it was a
sacrilege to try to throw him out. Led
by a candidate who is strong where the
President has been invincible —the ability
to appeal to the masses of men—the
Republicans have no sense of defeatism.
Quite the contrary, they are coming to
think that they can win, and that their
victory will record a gain not merely for
a political party but for the United
States of America and its ever more im-
portant influence among the other
nations of a torn and troubled world.
Sidelight on Hess.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
A former United States Government
official who recently returned from
England has a sidelight on the arrival of
Rudolf Hess, former No. 2 Nazi, in Scot-
land in 1941.
Prime Minister Churchill was visiting
a friend in the country near London,
according to the account, and, after an
excellent dinner, while the party was
viewing a motion picture, a messenger
whispered in the ear of his host.
“Mr. Prime Minister,” said the host,
“the Duke of Hamilton is on the tele-
phone and apologises for disturbing
you, but thinks the matter is sufficiently
important to ask you to discuss it
directly,”
Mr. Churchill, with a wave of the
hand, said he did not want to be both-
ered. A few minutes later there was
another message that the duke insisted
he talk with the Prime Minister because
a mysterious man had arrived by para-
chute near his estate, claiming to be
Rudolf Hess. The duke explained he had
seen Hess only once before, at the
Olympic Games in Berlin in 1936, and
could not be sure of his identity and sug-
gested the. Foreign Office send a represen-
tative at once.
“Tell the duke,” said Mr. Churchill,
“that I am looking at a Marx brothers’
film, but his message is funnier than what
is being shown on the screen. However,
if he hears of Goring landing with four
parachutes, by all means to call me up.”
As far as Mr. Churchill was concerned
that was the end of it for the evening.
The Duke of Hamilton eventually got
Anthony Eden on the telephone. Mr.
Eden sent a representative to identify the
visitor, but too late to prevent publica-
tion of Hess’s arrival in the morning
press. The British Foreign Office would
have liked to have kept the matter a
secret to see first how the Germans re-
acted.
France Vita! to Britain.
o Condensed from an article by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century.’ 1 )
France means far more to England
than she does to the United States and to
Russia —and England more to her than
they. It is for England above all. there-
fore, to have her own opinion with re-
gard to the French Provisional Govern-
ment. She must defer to Washington and
Moscow in much —but not in this.
France will be a Great Power when the
war is over, or even before, on one con-
dition, that she retain her national unity.
Her empire has shown remarkable cohe-
sion. Her African and Asiatic subjects
could have risen against her, had they
wished to, for she was prostrate. No-
where, except in Syria, has there been any
manifestation of strong anti-French senti-
ment. The French divisions who have
fought with such skill and heroism in
Italy are made up, for the most part, of
Africans, though they were led by
Frenchmen from France*
In the mother country the nation has
been united in the wish to get rid of
the Germans. .But there unity ends.
As a military leader General de Gaulle
has the greater part of the nation behind
him, but not as a political leader. He is
the symbol of unity against the foreign
foe, but is in danger of becoming a
symbol of disunity at home.
The French Communists are remark-
ably strong and well organised. Until
Russia came into the war they were de-
featists. But since then they have be-
come a heroic elite in the movement of
resistance. But they have intentions that
go beyond liberating France from the
Germans. There is as little desire for
social revolution in France as there is
anywhere else in Europe. The Europe of
today, unlike the Europe of 1918, is not
at all in a revolutionary mood (Europe
knows only too well what revolution is


THE AUSTRALIAN BUILT
Mosquito
m
IS EQUIPPED BY
DUNLOP
WITH WHEELS, TYRES, BRAKES,
GUN OPERATING GEAR
AND MANY OTHER PARTS
Among the numerous
rubber parts supplied
by Dunlop for the
Australian-built Mos-
quito are rubber
packings, petrol hose,
rubber for self-sealing
tanks, weather-sealing
strips, gaskets, shock
absorber cord, etc.,
etc.
DUNLOP RUBBER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
AIRCRAFT
DIVISION
m
i
a
sm
D 5
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
❖
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
ẃ
:v>.v s
W
MS
4
55628
like). But where men and women are
apathetic after a long and exhausting
period of strain and shortage, and where
they are perplexed because authority is
divided and loyalties are in conflict, the
small but resolute and united minority is
able to do much, especially if ft is armed,
as the French Communists are armed.
De Gaulle is not a Communist and does
not want the Commune anywhere. But
he agrees with the Communists in one re-
spect—“collaborationist” has become
synonymous with traitor in his mouth.
But the truth is that there are amongst
“collaborationists” men who are no less
patriotic than De Gaulle, and more pat-
triotic than the Communists. The armee
de Tarmistice, which the Germans allowed
France to retain, is no less patriotic than
the forces of la France combattante.
Few Frenchmen were able to leave their
country when the collapse came. And
amongst those who could leave there
were those who would not, thinking it
their duty to stay behind—even if to do
so meant collaborating with the enemy.
For, after all, France must live.
It seems unlikely that De Gaulle, with
his dictatorial leanings, will be able to
work with the Communists for long—
he is more a man of the Right than of the
Left (in so far as the terms Right and
Left still have any meaning). But for
the time being he means to use them —
as they him.
What will French foreign policy be?
No one can foretell, though the matter
is one of great moment to Britain,
General de Gaulle has shown a very inde-
pendent spirit and will not adapt his
foreign policy to suit the wishes of others,
Britain included,
France shows little inclination to re-
sume her old alliance with the Eastern
and South-eastern countries of Europe,
but is, rather, resolved upon a close alli-
ance with Russia. Russia herself surely
wants a strong France and is, therefore.
hardly interested in a Communist France,
which could not last and could not be
strong even if it lasted. When De Gaulle
no longer needs the Communists he will
be able to dispose of them without in-
curring the displeasure of Russia,
The French are, of course, intensely
anti-German. But national hatreds do
not endure. De Gaulle himself is cap-
able of bold empiricism and we cannot
be sure whether France, under his leader-
ship, will not revise her attitude towards
Germany. The possibility of a Franco-
German understanding, within the next
decade or so, cannot be excluded alto-
gether. In any case, France will promote
her own interests and will not allow those
interests to be prejudiced by any feeling
of gratitude which she may have towards
Britain and the United States,
The idea that Europe should be organ-
ised in regional federations is gaining
much support, especially in Europe itself.
Three possible federations have been
adumbrated: the Federation of the
Middle Zone (countries between the
Baltic and the Aegean), the Northern
Federation (Finland, Sweden, Norway
and Denmark) and the Western Federa-
tion. The third has the support of De
Gaulle. Speaking in the Consultative
Assembly on March 18 this year, he pro-
posed that there should be a Western
group of nations, whose main highways
would be the English Channel, the Rhine
and the Mediterranean. The group, there-
fore, would consist of the British Isles,
Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, France,
Portugal and Spain. The “Echo d’Alger”
of March 19 expounded General de
Gaulle’s speech of the previous day.
According to the “Echo,” the Western
Federation should also include Switzer-
land and Italy. The negotiations between
the Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg
Governments in London for a customs’
union between the three countries show
that the idea of regional federation, or
at least of closer collaboration between
groups of countries, is gaining ground.
Justified as the concern may be that is
felt by many because of the peculiar poli-
tical idiosyncracies of General de Gaulle,
it must be admitted that he is a man of
some force and that he cannot be ignored.
But whatever he may or may not be, what
matters is that we have lasting collabora-
tion between France and Great Britain
in Europe and between the French and
British Empires in the world.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The first few weeks of the battle of Saipan
were tough, and possibly were the hardest cam-
paign in American military history. Veterans
of the Pacific war tell you Saipan has been the
hardest of them all.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune
war correspondent at Saipan.
* * * *
The Baltic States, which declared their inde-
pendence from Russia in 1918, were conquered
by Russia in the eighteenth century, Russia re-
obtained them by force in 1940. The people are
of different stock from the Russians; their
languages are different, their religion, customs,
culture, way of life are entirely different. How-
ever hard the Russians have tried they never
succeeded in Russifying these people. The first
to recognise the independence of the Baltic
States “for ever,” which is the actual phrase
used in the relevant documents, was Soviet
Russia in 1920. Then followed Great Britain,
France and other European Powers in 1921, and
finally U.S.A. in 1922. — Lima Dangerjield;
London “Weekly Review.”
* * * *
Optimists to the contrary, when hostilities
cease defence budgets will be quickly pared to
the core. This is the danger point where tra-
ditionally we have started down the road to
future insecurity. God help us if we do so
again!— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” columnist
writing of America, though probably not of
America alone.
* * * *
Vice-President Wallace’s Russian speeches
were as inept as others he has made. What he
said sounded perhaps a bit strange to his audi-
ence. After visiting industrial plants in Maga-
dan, Komsomolsk and elsewhere in Eastern
Siberia, again and again he said “I can bear
witness to the willingness with which your
citizens give their utmost efforts in mines, air-
craft factories and metallurgical works.” If so
happens that the recently emerged industry of
this region has been built and is being operated
largely by the man-power of the labor camps
of Eastern Siberia. These camps, consisting of
deportees, convicts and “socially dangerous”
elements, are among the saddest features of our
sad times. Mr. Wallace, in speaking of the in-
mates’ “willingness” to work, was unwittingly
ironical. — David J. Dallin, in the American
Liberal-Labor weekly “New Leader.”
* * * *
Australia, like America, is a composite of
many things—a people fundamentally sound in
tradition arid judgment, a history that is be-
ginning to be looked back upon with pride, great
spaces bounded by frontiers yet to be opened,
cities that by comparison with those elsewhere
have no need to apologise, economic resources
that are far beyond the bounds of the wool
for which the nation, commercially, is best
known abroad. And perhaps most important
of all is the growth of a national spirit that
today is reflected in a justifiable pride in the
deeds of its soldiers, and tomorrow will be
demonstrated in the existence of a healthy
southern Pacific nation, sturdily loyal to its
British traditions and British ancestry and to the
British Crown but mindful of the fact that it has
earned a place in the world commonwealth of
nations, and determined to deserve that place.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” war correspondent
in the Pacific Lewis B. Sebring.
* * * *
The experts in psychological warfare are
taking some of the credit for the crumbling of
German morale. It is reported, for example,
that leaflets dropped by our ’planes were found
in the pockets of prisoners, and this fact is re-
garded as significant. The truth, of course, is
that all the leaflets in the world wouldn’t have
unhinged the Germans when they were winning.
Their fighting spirit has been weakened on the
battlefields. — Chicago ‘‘Tribune.”
For the peace U.S. will want
these things: It will insist upon
control , directly or indirectly, of
Marshall, Caroline, Marianas and
Bonin islands. It won’t again be
manoeuvred out'of these outposts.
Naval bases at Dakar, at Saigon in
French Indo-China and the Island
of Martinique will have to be
opened to United Nations’ forces,
including U.S. It [t/.S.] will insist
upon building up China at Japans
expense. Reparations so large as to
demoralise Germany or Japan will
be opposed. A politically weak but
economically strong Germany will
be favored if it is possible to attain
that combination. Experts are try-
ing to do it now. Self-determina-
tiorf. is not to be the basis for boun-
dary changes. Russia is too expert
in the matter of moving populations
when they don’t fit. —“United Stales
News.”
What is the truth about the armed might of
Great Britain and the Empire? The truth is,
that of the Powers in the armed coalition at
war with Germany and Japan, Great Britain
and the Empire are the most powerful. Hard
as the war would be without Russia and the
United States, it could still be won by Great
Britain and the Empire. They dispose of in-
vincible power on the sea and in the air.
Against sea power and air power in combination
land power cannot prevail.— London “Nine-
teenth Century” editorial.
* * * *
Observers here [Washington] point out that
we’re playing for even bigger stakes in the war
against Japan than on the other side. The
United States may have more power in the
Pacific if she continues to contribute most to
the victory. The stakes: Trade in the worlds
biggest potential market, trade routes, defence
bases. — Scripps-Howard Washington report.
* * * *
“Canada will follow what might be con-
sidered a part of a continental policy in deal-
ing with Japanese immigration after the war.
There is no need for an identity of policy with
the United States, but there is merit in main-
taining a substantial consistency of treatment
in the two countries. It is my Government s
opinion that no immigration of Japanese into
Canada should be allowed after the war.
Canadian Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie
King.
* * * *
British soldiers embarking for France,
Minister of Labor Bevin revealed in the Com-
mons, called out to him and to the Prune
Minister their worry over their chances ot
finding work when the war has been won. “The
one question they put to me,” he said, was;
‘Ernie, when we have done this job for you are
we coming back to the dole?’ It stung-
The Prime Minister and I answered them: No,
you are not.’ ” — London correspondent N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Soviet Russia can hardly be blamed for
paring to grab all she can in Europe and foistum
her totalitarian slavery on Europe. Grabbing
and foisting have been the main business ot
Europe for thousands of years. But why do
Roosevelt and Churchill remain silent while
they see one of their allies, a signatory to the
Atlantic Charter, take up the work of European
slavery that Hitler will soon be compelled to lav
down? It has been said, with some show ot
logic, that this war was brought on the world
by the “appeasing” attitude of the United States,
England and France toward Hitler and Tojo.
Why, then, do we so obsequiously appease
Stalin, seeing that silence before his evident
intention to unite all of Europe under the
hammer-and-sickle will surely lead to World
War III? And while we are asking questions
let us add several more: What was secret!)
agreed upon at Tehran? Was Stalin promisee
an absolutely free hand in Poland, East Prussia,
the three little Baltic States, Finland and
Czechoslovakia by Roosevelt and Churchill
Was Communism impliedly given the O.K. b>
the leaders of the two great Western democra-
cies? Is this a “war to end wars” or a war to
begin another war? — N.Y. “Daily Mirror’ edi-
torial.


Personal and Missing Friends.
NEXT OF KIN.
WILL the relatives of ANTHONY SKERRETT, late
of Wellington, New Zealand, at one time of Victoria,
South Australia, Western Australia and New South
Wales, Miner, Shearer and Boundary Rider, or any-
one knowing their whereabouts, please communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, New Zealand?
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill,
'Victoria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
by writing to TRUMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria.
THE CHILDREN of ALEXANDER GALLAGHER at
one time of Tahara, Victoria, now deceased, are
asked to communicate with WALTER H. GALLAC-
IER, of Hamilton, Victoria.
Public Notices.
I, LILLI KOHN, Stateless, born at Vienna and resi-
dent five years in Australia, now residing at 36
Clarke Street, Earlwood, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, VINCENZO ANELLO, of Italian nationality, born
at Lipari, Italy, and resident fifteen years in Aus-
tralia, n ? w A residing at 12 Belmore Street, Burwood,
A.&.\v. intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, GEORGE CHAKOVAN, of Yugoslav nationality,
Dorn at Glogon, Yugoslavia, and resident five years
and eight months in Australia, now residing at
Windsor Road, Baulkham Hills, N.S.W., intend to
1920*1930 natura * isation Wider the Nationality Act
The I Anti-T.it. £50,000 Appeal
Tuberculosis strikes at the very vitals of our nation. But its spread
can be checked! The Anti-T.B. Association provides Clinical
treatment, but needs your help in building a Modern Clinic and
providing Mobile Service to Country Districts; Support their
£50,000 Appeal send donations now to the Honorary Treasurer,
Anti-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
ALTHOUGH war-time require*
• meats for the services have
restricted the output of these
famous Australian Pure Fur
Felt Hats for civilian needs,
you should always select an
AKUBRA. . . , Style and long-
wearing qualities, combined
with comfort, ensure sound
money and coupon value.
inn
K YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
The Tankers Must Get Through
W\
Mmmmmmmi
\ \
- Wm
ii^HM
>mmm
■
m
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS.
In fair weather or heavy seas-in peace or
war —the tankers must get through. We in
Australia rely so much on the tankers and
their brave crews-as do the people of Britain
and the other Allied Nations The enemy
knows this and makes every effort to stop
them Early in the war, sinkings of British
Tankers became so great that the shortage
brought about an acute position in this coun-
try. Vacuum thereupon chartered a fleet from
neutral sources and embarked upon a pro-
gram of tanker building. Another huge under-
taking was also initiated.... the construction
of three great pipe-lines in Northern America
to off-set the hold up during five months of
the year that the St. Lawrence River is frozen
and thus closed to tankers.
These far-sighted policies assured Australia
of a continuous supply of precious petrol for
our war, industrial and civil requirements.
Vacuum's initiative is reflected in other chan-
nels. The Company pioneered the now
famous Houdry process of refining which has
produced over 90% of all the catalytically
cracked 100 octane aviation gasolines for the
United Nations. Our Refineries are also pro-
ducing Butadiene, the chief constituent of
synthetic rubber; Toluol, for T.N.T.; Formal-
dehyde. for shatterproof glass and petroleum
plastics.
Serving the Nation on Land, Sea, and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY [S
VI-45 (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy the Australian Encyclopedia, m two
vols., Gordon Buchanan’s Packhorse and Water-
hole, Taming the North (Hudson Fysh), North-
most Australia (Dr. R. Logan Jack) and Early
Days in North Queensland, by Edward Palmer.
—3514. . „ „
To buy any works of Hilaire Belloc. 3515.
Information Sought.
If an estate is deteriorating owing to the
executor’s neglect how can the beneficiary
compel the executor to fulfil his duties properly ?
His only remedy is to institute a suit in equity
based upon a breach of trust. Services of a
solicitor would be essential.
My money has been banked in the names of
both my husband and myself; he never draws
from it, but occasionally deposits a little into
the account. If he inherited the whole from me
what duty would be payable ?
Estate duty would be payable only on such
part of the money as was yours.
If a book is published for me by an Aus-
tralian publisher is he entitled to Australian
rights only, and can I then take out copyright
in America ? How do I do this ? Do Austra-
lian rights mean Empire rights ? If I bring out
a book of my own short stories, taking out
copyright here for the book, would I then be
able to market the book in England or America ?
The author of a literary work is the first
owner of the copyright and may transfer the
copyright either wholly or partially to another
person or a firm or co. For example, the Aus-
tralian copyright only may be transferred, or
the British Empire, United States or foreign
country copyright, or copyright for all these
countries or any combination of them. The
rights of the Australian publisher, therefore,
would depend on the terms of the contract made
between him and the author. When a book is
first published in a British country the owner
of the copyright should apply for registration
of copyright in the U.S. without delay and pub-
lish an edition of the work in U.S. within the
time allowed by the Registrar of Copyrights,
Washington. The registrar will supply forms
and information on request. Copyright in a
work of British origin exists automatically
throughout the British Empire.
Biographical details of P. G. Wodehouse, the
author ?
Born October 15, 1881, son of late H. E.
Wodehouse, C.M.G.; ed, Dulwich College;
married in 1914. Began as a writer of school
stories, such as Tales of St. Austin’s (1903);
later specialised oa tales of Psmith and Jeeves,
such as Leave it to Psmith (1923) and The
Inimitable Jeeves (1924). Is part author of
various musical-comedy lyrics. Captured by the
Germans in France in 1940.
(1) How does the wood-gas producer work ?
(2) How is the gas cleaned of dirt and tar?
(3) Where are wood-gas producers manufac-
tured and sold?
(1) Wood is treated in the same manner as
is charcoal to produce gas. (2) Mechanism
varies. An efficient system would include (a)
A cyclone or baffle cleaner to remove coarse
dust, shielded to prevent too great a cooling
effect, (b) a cooler of downwards flow pattern,
exhausting into a condensate tank, (c) a final
cleaner of a wet type, with or without a final
settling box to remove droplets of the filtering
fluid. The wood-gas producer employs the down-
draught principle to draw the distillates, includ-
ing tar, through the fire. It is usual in prac-
tice to by-pass the filters when starting up and
exhaust the gas into the atmosphere until the
producer is hot. (3) Wood-gas producers are
used in European countries extensively ? and
it is understood there are a few operating in
Victoria and S.A. made by the Gasogene Co.
How should a kelpie pup four months old be
fed? Should he be washed? What are the
symptoms of worms and distemper?
First meal (11 a.m.) may consist of table
scraps such as cooked meat with a little raw
carrot made up with wholemeal crusts. Second
meal (4 p.m.) could be a little milk with yolk
of egg added, poured on broken dog biscuit.
The evening meal (8 p.m.) should consist princi-
pally of raw beef. The less a dog is washed
the better. A good grooming daily is more bene-
ficial to skin and coat. It is a safe bet that
a dog of that age has worms, and he should be
treated with a safe remedy. Distemper symp-
toms are lassitude, rise in temperature and
sometimes mucus from eyes and nose.
Brief Answers.
G.R.: Walter A. Cox, Ltd., 193-95 Clarence-
street, Sydney N.F.J.; Mould may be pre-
vented by weatherproofing tank D.H.M.:
Apply to Education Office, Treasury-place, Mel-
bourne L.C.G.: Any reliable local kennel
can supply a dog suitable for climatic conditions
and your requirements W.A.R.: McLennan’s
Spirit of the West, from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, 3s G.H.: He was bora April 15,
1887 F.CJ.: Apply to (1) Deputy-Director
of Navigation and Lighthouses N.S.W., G.P.O.
Box 4176x, Sydney, and (2) the Registrar-
General’s Department, Chancery-square, Sydney.
D.K.: The Department of Agriculture
could advise you... .M.F.T.; Carol Hill, 22
East 40th-street, New York, Grace Morse, 435
East 57th-street, New York, and Marion
Saunders, 104 East 40th-street, New York....
A.W.L.: Cannot give details as case has been
reopened.... J.H.: Obtainable from Anthony
Horderns’, Sydney J.F.: (1) Consult a firm of
patent attorneys such as Griffith, Hassel and Grif-
fith, Asbestos House, York and Barrack streets,
Sydney. (2) Try the W. 0.1 H.N.S : Occa-
sionally stocked by large Sydndy and Melbourne
bookshops R.S.E.: Kathryn Grayson sang
“Let There Be Music” in the circus scene of
“Thousands Cheer”; Jose Iturbi played Liszt’s
Tenth Hungarian Rhapsody T.G.: (1) Wool-
worth’s Holdings, Ltd. (2) Yes. (3) Share
register can be inspected at Registrar-General’s
Office for a small fee... .Coorabie: He was
born in London, England P.G.W.: Nothing
known C.D.; E. H. Hargraves was bom at
Gosport (England) and Peter Lalor at Tinakill
(Ireland). Neither was ever a convict W.H.;
Yes P.R.: No records available F.8.A.:
The “bug” is merely a ferment. Any yeast will
do. Your recipe seems satisfactory; treacle
could be used.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.M.1.: “Just a Dream” is just a nightmare.
B.G.R.: Good in patches; but, particu-
larly in the sentimental ending, you’re straining
too much for effect C.H.D.: Agree that it
is painful, but was it a necessity? E.H.:
Language unreal R.McK.: If anyone walked
in and ejaculated “What need ye cathedrals of
carved wood?” you’d suspect him yourself of
being either an eccentric or a ghost
W.M.W.: Album verse E.M.: Conventional
moralising in commonplace verse A.F.A.:
“Rather dubious attempts to fill in time” just
about describes ’em.... V.M.M.: Apart from
the fact that in the first line you appear to be
walking on the treetops it is singularly un-
original F. 8.: Nothing but froth in those
washtubs L.W.: “Ah, foolish interrogator!
Misunderstanding man! Knowest me thou
never can!” Ah, .c. .P.Q.: Not
a hope R.S.: “Scottie,” if true, should be
told simply in prose... .T.W.McC.: The line
objecting to “The prattling tongues of people,
coarse remarks” brought a tear to the eye of the
Religious Editor 0.C.M.:
Your cheeks were red
As apples are—
Roses, too, are red,
And roses dwelt upon your lips
And both your lips were red.
Well, the facts are clear enough.


The sign that is inseparable
from the most outstandingly
high*grade products pro*
duced Siy the Petroleum
Industry.
MOTOR AND
AVIATION SPIRIT.
KEROSENE.
LUBRICATING OILS
AND GREASES
CALI EX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION -+C
IN ALL ITS PHASES
ft ;
■ft
A
V
V
W
OLE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong ■ Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
C ° M p A N Y LI MIXED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP *tU.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Loss. Ords. Def.* Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Establishment and formation, £20,426.. 20,426
Forfeited shares reserve, £250 .. .. 20,176
1939 f. 1,188 Nil Nil 21,364
Profit.
1940.. 10,429 Nil Nil 10,429 10,935
8 p.c. 52 p.c.
1941.. 30,-530 20,000 6,515 4,015 6.920
37.6 p.c.
1942.. 26,904 20,000 4,702 2,202 4,718
61.9 p.c. Reserves.
1943.. 32,979 20,001 7,739 5,239 521
79.7 p.c.
1944.. 37,438 20,001 9,969 7,468 7,989
* Including undistributed equity in profits.
f 04 months.
This lusty industrial youngster has put up
a remarkable performance, thanks partly
to fortuituous circumstances, of which
an able management has made the most.
Registered at Sydney in 1937, the co.
came on to the market with 250,000 £1
ords., which were soon taken. The
money was wanted to put up a factory
at Raymond Terrace, near Newcastle, to
turn out pressed-wood building and insu-
lating materials known as Masonite.
Patent rights covering the processes in
Australia and Maoriland had been
secured from Masonite Corp. (U.S.A.) in
return for the American co.’s right to
take up 100,000 deferred shares of 2s. 6d.
each. Holders of the deferreds—£l2,soo
in a paid capital of £262,507 —enjoy the
right to 50 p.c. of the profits after the
ords. have received 7 p.c., as well as
the privilege of electing three of
the seven directors. Some of these
shares, together with a parcel of ords.,
are held by Australian Consolidated
Industries. And C.S.R. distributed • the
new Masonite products until the end of
December last. So the new co, was in
good company from the start, which is
an advantage in trade as in other circles.
Commercial production began during
the first half of 1939. Though a trading
loss of £llBB was recorded for this period,
the story since has been one of expand-
ing output and satisfactory profits. It
wasn’t long before plant was working
three shifts a day for five days a week.
And with war came new and increasing
demands for the co.’s products —the tem-
pering kilns were duplicated, warehouse
extended and a sawmill erected to ensure
continuous supply of timber. The profit
figures in the table, however, need to be
considered along with tax allocations,
which have advanced from £2500 in 1940
to £39,294 last term, including the pay-
roll impost.
Last term plant, which continued to
work to capacity, was unable to cope with
demand, which was mostly on defence
account at prices about 30 p.c. below the
co.’s pre-war schedule. After allowing
£19,159 (10.8 p.c. book value all fixed
assets at previous balance) for deprecia-
tion. gross earnings (£94,325) improved
£BOO4. Exes. (£56,887, including an extra
£2983 for taxation) took £3545 of the
increase. That left the net result £4459
brighter at £37,438, equal to 14.2 p.c. on
capital. The £37,438 belonged £27,469 to
the ords. and £9969 to the deferreds,
equal to 9.5 p.c. and 79.7 p.c. on their
respective capitals. The ord. div, was kept
at 8 p.c., and the £7468 that remained
lifted free reserves (£7989 above the book
value of intangibles (£14,426), not treated
as an asset herein.
Though overhaul and replacement of
plant will call for heavy expenditure
when labor and materials are available,
the co. isn’t likely to go outside for the
money. Consider these figures:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £262,470 £262,507 £262,507 £262,507
Creditors .. 11,245 6,741 11,491 13,638
Tax reserve .. 19,500 33,000 39,000
Freehold and
buildings .. 59,447 60,356 04,970 65,017
Machinery, plant
& fittings .. 155,574 133,544 110,841 94,761
Stocks.. .. 33,231 45,308 47,772 48,627
Debtors . . 4,430 18,670 24,089 48,933
Cash & investments 419 41,715 07,734 79,079
Subsid. co. .. 11,120 7,343
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
outsiders, including the tax reserve, by
£131,344, an improvement of £25,120
over the twelvemonth. It is a very healthy
position for the seven-year-old, thanks
partly to adequate capitalisation from the
start.
The prices control office chipped a bit
off selling prices as from the beginning
of July, but savings are expected to follow
improved methods of manufacture, and
little, if any, reduction in the div. is ex-
pected. The co.’s products enjoy a high
reputation, which augurs well for sales
when present controls are cast into the
limbo of the repealed. When that will
be it is difficult to say. The internal
situation in Australia after the war will
be dominated by reconstruction require-
ments. These promise to give a fillip to
trade activity. On the other hand,
scarcity of resources and uncontrolled
competition would be pretty certain to
mean a sharp rise in prices, and therefore
in costs. But pressure in this respect will
disappear when ordinary trade production
catches up with civilian demand. In this
connection hopes are that much will be
accomplished between the end of war
in Europe and the end of war with Japan,
after which early discontinuance of con-
trols should be possible without undue
danger to either the level of prices of
costs, though some riseTn each is inevit-
able, owing to depreciation in value of
the currency.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 8,874 8 p.c. = 6,259 2,615 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080 . . 143,234
1985.. 12,126 8 p.c. = 8,345 3,781 147,015
1936.. 15,843 8 „ „ 8,345 7,498 154,518
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
1937.. 18,717 10 p.c. = 10,432 8,285 160,805
1938.. 22,460 10 „ „ 10,432 12,028 172,833
Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
1939.. 20,821 10 p.c. = 13.909 6,912 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ „ 11,127 1,458 146,480
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,205 147,635
1942.. 12,007 8 „ „ 11,128 879 148,514
1943.. 22,423 8 „ „ 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
Formed in the infancy of the motor
business in Australia, this co. has given
a good account of itself from the start.
It was the Chevrolet agency that enabled
it to put on most fat —this agency was
acquired in 1918 and relinquished in 1930,
when General Motors took over its own
wholesale distribution in Australia. After
that the Morris and Studebaker franchises
for Queensland and Northern Rivers of
N. S. Wales, assisted by agencies for
ElectrlCE refrigeration and Philoc radio,
together with returns from a wad of
outside investments —consols and indus-
trials —contributed to expanding earn-
ings.
Then war gave takings a jolt. It
brought motor sales almost to a stand-
still, and control of most of the co.’s
other lines, output of which has been
absorbed mostly by the services at lower
profit margins than were obtained in the
open market pre-war. Taxation and other
costs climbed, of course. But the man-
agement kept such a tight hold upon out-
goings that it was able to pay a regular
8 p.c. div. over the last five years, with
handsome margins for the last two of
them.
With the help of a sub-agency for
International trucks, turnover continued
to expand last term, and gross earnings
from all sources (£76,949) stepped up
£10,268. After paying the previous year’s
tax bill (£10,813, up £5474), but making
no provision to meet the next one when
it arrives, exes. (£51,356) took £7098 of
the increase. The net result (up £3170)
was 18.4 p.c. on capital as against 16.1,
8.6, 8.8, 9 and 14.9 p.c. back to 1939. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c., and the £14,465
put on the shelf lifted the lay-by £35,181
in excess of paid capital. So the two
combined need turn in only 3.5 p.c. to
show 8 p.c. on capital alone.
As for post-war conditions in the trade,
indications are that competition will be
keener than ever. Both British and U.S.
manufacturers are preparing for the
struggle for markets. Immediate post-
war models are expected to incorporate
some improvements over pre-war pro-
ducts, but it might be a couple of years
before all technical advances arising out
of war experience are embodied. With
the anticipated advance in post-war
car design, plus the advance in petroleum
technology, cars of the future ought to
show an improvement in miles to the
gallon compared with pre-war averages.
Financially and otherwise, Howards is
well equipped for a flying start in the
field of distribution. Here are the co.’s
balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £189,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors* ~ 39,868 31,648 30,489 13,066
Freehold .. 69,969 69,929 69,929 69,929
Plant, etc. .. 1,754 1,623 1,452 1,312
Stocks .. 105,247 69,869 43,640 50,410
Book debts in-
vestments, etc. 158,458 161,348 181,584 195,205
Cash, etc. .. 1,092 27,603 43,918 20,704
* Including unacerued interest.
To add £13,621 to book debts and invest-
ments, £6770 to stocks and clip £17,423
qtf the outside debt, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £23,209 last term. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£253,253) was £14,605.
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
June, Profit. PreL To Re ~ ®*-
£ ru - total, serves, licit.
Goodwill, £27,000 £ £ £
1935*. 3,450 6p,c'.' 2 783 fifi7 Ifi sv
1936.. 8,127 SJp.c. 7 , 7510 «?? SHS
1937.. 10,504 54 „ 74 8 325 0179!^
1938.. 13,960 54 „ 8 8 89', 111*
1939.. 13,422 54 „ g ” rr,' a’soT ™’sn ;
1940. 15,600 6 „ 9 IS I ®
■ Share premiums. £e 250 9 sJu
1941.. 16,920 6 p.c. 10 p!c. 16,591 829 a’.oTJ
«•»«» « » 8.. U. 400 4.66?Tw
Iff* ■ ■ i/VaJ r '• 8 » 14-400 3,131 5,227
1944.. 16,09/ 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 2,197 7,424
* Six months.
This co., which turns out towelling,
tenycloth and surgical gauze, first set up
as a proprietary concern in 1926. The
public became interested nine years later,
when shareholders received a seven-for-
four gift scrip issue, lifting paid capital
to £92,755, and the shares were listed.
The co.’s record since has been one of
progress, hastened by war developments,
which cut off competition from overseas
sources and accelerated local demand.
To meet the increased demand, which
has been largely low-profit-margin de-
fence orders, additions costing approxi-
mately £lOO,OOO were made to spinning
and weaving plants, and £75,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £6250 of
share premiums, was gathered in 1940.
Output continued to increase, the im-
provement in the spinning section being
28 p.c. for the 1943 term. But shortage
of suitable labor kept production below
full capacity, and has continued to do
so, thus rendering acute the shortage of
supplies for civilian needs. These sup-
plies are now parcelled out among the
States on a population basis; and little
relief from the existing shortage can be
expected until defence demands ease—
indications are that they might taper a
little during the current term.
After successive step-ups the div,
reached 10 p.c. in 1941, but fell back
to 8 p.c. for the following term* and re-
mained steady thereafter. Pressure of
costs, including taxation, took the buoy-
ancy out of earnings. Last term the co.
failed to get full benefit from further
expansion of output, owing to an increase
in the cost of cotton used, while the co.’s
selling prices remained anchored to the
buoy of price stabilisation. The co, has
asked for a subsidy (amount unstated i
to cover the difference —subsidies come
out of the taxpayer’s pocket.
The improvement in the years gross
earnings (£52,523) was £4208. That was
after striking off an extra £1754 for de-
preciation (£16,105, equal to 9.8 p.c. book
value all fixed assets 1943). Including
provision for taxation, exes. (£35,926)
took all the increase and £934 besides.
The net result (£16,597) was enough to
hand the prefs. their £2400 and show
9.4 p.c. on the £150,000 of ord. capital
as against 10.1, 11.1 and 8.5 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The £2197 put
on the shelf lifted the lay-by £7424 in
excess of goodwill (£27,000) not treated
as an. asset herein.
The financial position improved:
1935. 1938. 194 3. 1944.
Paid capital .. £92,755 £115,000 £lt»0,000 £190,1K"
Liabilities .. 29,220 45,306 66,346 39,V?
Tax reserve .. 1,580 2,470 15,000 21,5
Freehold .. 29,856 37,350 76,283 74,934
Plant, etc. .. 29,846 35,280 88,962 75,2?
Stock . . . . 27,543 58,804 79,185 74.05 J
Debtors, etc. 1 16,547 23,528 26,..v
Cash, etc. | 12 ’ n ° I 807 14,815 15.362
The more or less liquid surplus (£54,40y
was £18,221 stronger than at the previous
balance. .Stocks (down £5101) are more
than 25 p.c. above the 1938 figure.
The co.’s prospects post-war will partly
depend upon its ability to compete with
imports, and that in turn will be governed
mainly by the level of costs and the tarn.


HAIMS
Circular Charts Jot all types ot
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed- Gel our quotation
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, O LD.
STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do bard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney,
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
DON'T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get DOAN’S.
Wanted.
TO BUY. —Small quantities of PRECIOUS and SEMI-
PRECIOUS AUSTRALIAN STONES from prospectors.
—3504.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Giiffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Anvi.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
They’ll be
back with
Victory!
Lysoght's Zinconneol, the* fust-
resisting, pointoble steel sheet,
hos been hord to get during the
post four yeors, becouse of the
unique suitability of all types of
Corrugated Iron for defence con-
struction. Wilh Victory, however,
this famous building sheet will be
back. In fact, so great wo> the
demand for Zinconneol before the
war that the manufacturers hove
'planned to double their pre-war
capacity —so specify Lysoght’s
Zinconneol in all your reconstruo
tion work where great strength
and a high degree cl resistance
to rust is on important factor/
LYSAGHTS
ZINCANNEAL
rm eaintable: ruslresjsusg steel jshl.
JOHN LySAGHT (AUSTRALIA)' Piy:/LTD>
SYDNE? • MELBOURNE’. • .BRISBANE! • .ADELAIDE* t PERTH'
LUO— 376§j
The money
that still has
three jobs to do
Australian Consolidated 3 and 4 per cent.
Inscribed Stock and Treasury Bonds
mature on 15th October, 1944, If you
hold these securities, convert them, now,
into the Second Victory Loan, and you
will help—
Hold to-day’s prices down by keep-
ing dangerous surplus money out
of circulation.
Build up the purchasing power that
will be needed to create post-war
employment.
Ensure quick and decisive Victory.
These three considerations come first.
Don’t hesitate—
Convert
YOUR MATURING SECURITIES INTO THE
SECOND VICTORY
LOAN
Applications for conversion may be lodged through
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post 0 ffice,
or member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
CL2-26
Adelaide Electric Supply Co.
At an extraordinary general meeting on
Oct. 12 shareholders will be asked
increase capital from £3,625,000
£4,750,000 by the creation ot 1,12;»,uuu
new ord. shares of £1 each. The money
is wanted to help finance construction of
the Osborne B powerhouse and tor gen-
eral extension of the undertaking, nia e
necessarv by rapid industrial expansion
of South Australia and delayed on
account of war-time difficulties.
Subject to existing preferred ords.
agreeing to convert their stock into ordi-
nary stock, the new shares are to be
offered at par on Nov. 1 to holders ot
existing preferreds in the proportion or
two for every £3 of stock, and to holders
of existing ord. stock in the proportion
of one for every £1 of stock. Fractions,
together with any other shares not
applied for, are to be disposed of by
the board for the benefit of the co. The
new shares, when fully paid —10s. is due
during November, ss. March 1, 1945, and
ss. June 1, 1945—are to be converted into
ordinary stock.
Present financial structure of the under-
taking is as follows:
Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £
Pref. 6 .. 178,608 71,392
„ 5A .. 250,000
„ 8 B .. 249,950 50
„ 64 C.. 747,127 252,873
„ 5 D . . 500,000
P. ord. 8.. 743,348 6,652
Ord. .. 616,729 8,271
Total £3,035,762 589,288
Y —Debenture Stock—>
Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £
6 D 250,000
4 E 197,750
44 F 200,000
H G 200 829,594
44 H 250,000
S 3 J 250,000
£1,147,950 829,594
The preferreds are entitled to a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. p.a., after payment of
dividends on preference stock. In the
event of a wind-up, after repayment of
preference stock with any bonus to which
holders thereof are entitled, the preferred
and ordinary stock rank pari passu for
return of capital, except that as between
these two classes- of stock assets are to
be distributed as if the £125,000 ordinary
stock allotted as fully paid on June 4,
1935, had not been issued.
In raising additional funds the board
has had in mind the desirability of in-
creasing the proportion of ordinary to
preference capital and debenture stock.
It also considers the existence of pre-
ferred ordinary stock presents, and will
present, difficulties in raising new ordi-
nary capital. The preferreds are, there-
fore, asked to convert their stock into
ordinary stock, ranking pari passu with
existing ordinary stock as regards divs.,
return of capital in a wind-up and in all
other respects as from Dec. 1 next. Until
then divs. are to be paid at the old rates
(10 p.c. ords.). Thereafter it is not expected
that the ord. div. will exceed 7 p.c. for
some years, at any rate.
The market prices the preferreds at
435. 6d. and the ords at 515., at which
figures the return is 3.7 p.c. and 3.9
p.c. respectively on the basis of cur-
rent divs. After conversion and exercise
of fights to the new issue, holders of
preferred stock who obtained the hold-
ings at par (original issue price) will
receive 1 p.c, less in dividend, but will
enjoy the right to participate in the issue
of new ord. capital, now and in the
future. These issues have been in the
nature of bonuses to shareholders be-
cause of the premium the ords. command
in the market. On the basis of current
market prices, the preferreds, after con-
version and exercise of rights, would
receive a return of 4.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, and there would also be a small
capital gain on the market for those who
cared to take it.
It is estimated that there are now
10,000,000 tons of reserve ore in sight
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.).
The average grade is reckoned to be
approximately s£dwt. a ton. Nearly one
half is in the Lake View-Star Group, and
about half of the remainder is blocked
out in the adjoining Great Boulder.
Paringa with 6.54dwt. and North Kal-
gurli with 6.34dwt. have the highest
grades, and Lake View with s.oldwt. and
South Kalgurli with s.oBdwt. the lowest.
Provided the present high price of gold
holds, the Golden Mile is likely to be
golden for many years yet, and the mines
on the western side (Lake View and Great
Boulder), whose shoots are more persis-
tent and least refractory, the last to shed
their gilt.
* * * *
Blue Spec Gold Mines informs share-
holders: (1) That the surface plant on its
Pilbara (W.A.) gold and antimony show
has been completed ; (2) that so far as
the consultant, Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
can see it is all right; (3) that a suitable
water supply has been located, and when
the State Government lays some 4j miles
of pipeline production will commence ;
(4) that development work and rehabili-
tation of underground driving has com-
menced ; (5) that driving at No, 2 and
diamond drilling at No, 1 leyel have re-
vealed good values. Nothing is said
about what extraction is expected from
the refractory ore which contains these
values.
* * * «
From London: Wilunas are wanted
but not easy to get. Apart from ore that
remains to be extracted from an almost
depleted mine, and for taking out and
treatment of which there is a Government
guarantee against loss, co. has three
golden strings to its bow. The first is
cash and bonds estimated at nearly 10s.
stg. a share, the second several million
tons of tailings, some rich, that await
re-treatment, and the third a lion’s share
of an option on the Mt. Charlotte Group,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Shares are 10s. buyer
in Australia and about 7s. buyer in
London.
* * ♦ ♦
From London:
In the claim for damages brought by Apley
Estates, Ltd., and 308 others against Claude
Albo de Bernales and 34 others, certain of the
defendants asked Justice Morton in the London
Chancery Court on July 11 last for extension
of time for discovery of documents. After
pointing out that defendants knew the nature
of the case against them more than two years
ago, the Judge granted an extension until the
end of August in some cases, and until July 14
and July 21 in others. It was claimed with respect
t'o one affidavit alone that from 4000 to 5000
documents had had to be examined. Some
documents had been at Mr. de Bernales’ private
house, which had been damaged by enemy
action. The roof had been blown off, rain had
got in, and many documents, though saved,
were in a somewhat sorry condition. A micro-
film of affidavits from Australia on behalf of
A.M.L. had arrived only the pfevious day.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has announced
another half-yearly ore reserves estimate.
The figures are: blocked 218,100 tons,
assaying 4.08dwt.; probable 137,700 tons.
assaying s.l2dwt. Previous estimate was
blocked 206,000 tons, averaging 5,2dwt.;
probable 144,000 tons, averaging s.oBdwt.
End of the mine was reckoned to be in
sight years ago, but the rise in the price
of gold altered the picture.


SOUTH AFRICA YOUR POST-WAR EXPORT MARKET
KEENE & COMPANY
( Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias,
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY —or write direct.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
Alkali o
r Lim
pLA S T E
F r e e 1r o ro■ AL L
CONCORD HAK
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, Sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Juie Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
W
y%
m
ili
■
SYDNEY
MELBOURN E
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
PH-44
RmU
l-r:
•ff &
•V
? yM
"Htl if ■
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies—-are
all banished. Approved by Board ot
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PXY., LTD-,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8100..
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphAi
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.H
Business.Rollery, ETC.
Socialism Through Taxation?
It is becoming increasingly evident that
the Commonwealth Government does not
wish to give up its war-time liberty to
tax, borrow and spend without making a
scene. The referendum campaigners asked
for the right to open up new Government
avenues of spending when defence ex-
penditure on a war-time scale ceased, but
the people rejected the referendum. Now
Mr. Chifley says “I cannot see taxation
falling back to pre-war levels. It would
be foolish for anybody to suggest that it
yvould be possible to do that.”
By itself, of course, that is not a very
definite statement. Does Mr. Chifley
mean that the increase in the war debt
will involve us in perhaps another £5O
million of interest charges, and that with
another million here and another there
revenue will have to be found to pay,
say, £75 million extra altogether
after the war? Or does he mean that
something like the whole £286 million
of taxation now levied will still be levied
when the war ends, with the difference
that, while half of it is now used to pay
for war, the whole of it will be used
after the war to pay for Government ven-
tures, adventures and misadventures?
Our polite and amiable Mr. Chifley
mostly cuts the figure of one who is in a
pretty hopeless mess with the job he has
in hand, but who feels that he is entitled
to receive the sympathy of the entire
people in his difficulties, whether they
have been created by the political policy
to which he has so staunchly adhered or
whether they have arisen from unavoid-
able national problems. His naivete in
this regard is at times overwhelming. It
occasionally overwhelms the Treasurer
himself, and it is on record that Jimmy
Scullin has had to be brought into a
Budget debate in ordqr to extricate Mr.
Chifley from the morass of contradictions
and complications with which he has sur-
rounded himself.
Publicly the Treasurer’s main construe-
tive economic efforts per annum are
those of reading a prepared Budget speech
and imploring the public to support war
loans. But whilst he rarely shows con-
sistency (illustrated in his attitude over
pay-as-you-go taxation) or outstanding
competence as Treasurer, Mr. Chifley is a
leading member of the Labor Cabinet,
and over a long period has ventured to
express disapproval of the financial sys-
tern which preceded Labor’s accession to
office. It may be that Mr. Chifley now
finds the demands from within his party
for the nationalisation of banking some-
thing not at all justifiable in the light of
his own war-time experience. If that is
so, it merely means that another unit of
the traditional Labor policy, when
brought to the jump, threatens to break
its own neck,
Mr, Chifley is not above harking back
to the days of the depression in terms
suggesting that Labor industrial and eco-
nomic policy had no hand in the making
of it. At the present time, because of
the starkness of realities, the Treasurer is
occasionally heard exhorting the lower-
income groups to contribute to war loans
and pay up their taxation cheerfully in
order to meet the financial difficulties
created by war; but when reflecting upon
the depression problems with which the
country found itself beset a dozen years
ago Mr. Chifley invariably indicts one
class for the economic collapse t)f that
time—the “capitalists,” one gathers, were
wholly to blame.
One frequently hears from the Labor
side comments to the effect that as so
much money has been found to pay for
war why cannot similar sums be found
to “prevent depressions.” Had the
“workers” found as much money to
take their fellows off the 1932 dole as
they are now finding to pay for the war
—and their present contribution is not
overgenerous, taken as a whole—the de-
pression would have fallen much more
lightly on its victims. It is the earnings
of £8 a week and under which represent
the greater part of the Australian national
income. Yet Mr. Chifley’s Government
invariably blames the “capitalist” for
any lack of economic support to indus-
try and the workers in it. Mr. Chifley
offers no realistic long-term financial
policy for the Commonwealth. When
pressed in debate he seeks refuge in re-
marks about the wrongs Labor suffered
during the “capitalistic depression.”
Reference to these wrongs is becoming as
tiresome as the alleged “wrongs” in an-
other country in another period. And
they are far more illogical,
When the Treasurer discounts the pos-
sibility of taxation being ever reduced to
pre-war levels his remarks deserve more
than passing attention. He may, as has
been suggested, merely mean that the war
debt will be reflected in an increased in-
terest and taxation burden ; he may, on
the other hand, mean that increased Gov-
ernment spending is to become a feature
of the national policy. It appears, in any
case, that he is all against the 1939 con-
dition of things, including the low taxa-
tion ; he is reported as saying that “this
country cannot be expected to progress
under the financial methods that operated
in the years before the war, when hundreds
of thousands of people were on the dole.”
There is a good deal of evidence that
the Labor party is deliberately keeping
the Commonwealth payroll high in spite
of the reductions in the number of muni-
tion workers claimed by Mr. Makin.
Over the 12 months to the end of May
there was only a very slight reduction in
the total of Commonwealth and State
employees, even if a number of them had
changed from one type of job to another.
There is also evidence, now supported by
Mr. Chifley’s statement, that the Gov-
ernment will be loth to choke off the
great stream of war-time taxation revenue
when the end of the war comes. It may,
indeed, attempt to do what so many of
its followers have previously spoken
about —that is, find as much revenue for
peace-time “works” as it has been able
to find for expenditure on war.
If it is part of the Labor party’s policy
to maintain a high rate of taxation in the
post-war period, especially in respect of
the proprietary side of industry, it may,
indeed, achieve a large measure of social-
isation of industry by financial rather than
legal means, thus sidetracking the referen-
dum verdict. It has been said for a
number of years that Governments have
been becoming the major profit-takers in
nearly all businesses —at present they take
a minimum of 7s. in the £ from com-
panies, rising to a very high maximum—
and they may, in addition, exercise in-
creasing control over industry by the
spending of their revenue as well as in
the taking of it.
But it will be impossible for Aus-
tralia' in peace to cariy the same
number of bureaucratic deadheads as
it has carried in war. During this
war we have been under the wing of the
Allied Nations, economically as well as
militarily. The Allied political attitude
has been one of “anything for a quiet
life until the war is over.” Under com-
petitive peace-time conditions Australia
will have to get back to the basis of effi-
cient private enterprise, with the greatest
possible output per head and the smallest
possible number of Government stamp-
lickers and form-filers.
Australians as a body expect the return
after the war of the right to spend their
own money, or all but a modest percent-
age of it. Many want a chance to
save part of their incomes in order to
buy homes. Already rising up as an ob-
struction to their anticipations are the
various Government schemes for “social
security.” Just as Government has be-
come inebriated in its recourse to the
delayed-action bank-credit dope, so it is
going on a bender of cradle-to-the-grave
“protection” for the “people.”
It is true, or should be true, that schemes
for social security and illness and disability
benefits render some of the service
which they profess to give. But they
must be fairly and expertly conceived.
It seems as though the National Welfare
Fund alone will cost £3(5 million a year in
taxation. Old-age and similar pensions
and child endowment are already costing
about £37 million a year. The underly-
ing principle of all these “benefits” is that
no direct contribution is asked from the
beneficiary'; consolidated revenue pays
for them all. But, of course, consolidated
revenue is another name for taxation, and
there is a most pronounced tendency in
Mr. Chifley’s party to levy taxation upon
political rather than economic lines.
Since taxation is strictly an economic
matter, political abuse leads to economic
reaction. Thus, if industry is overtaxed
in the interest of the “workers” it does
not follow that industry, the basis of em-
ployment, will always be able to stand up
to the abuse. A “social security” scheme
wrongly conceived and applied can easily
become the source of great industrial and
social insecurity.
In spite of what inescapable difficulties
there may be ahead in the matter of a
full reduction of taxation after the war, it
should be the policy of the Common-
wealth to cut out as soon as possible
every unnecessary form of Government
expenditure. A great fall in the taxation
burden would automatically follow.
F. M. Daly, a N. S, Wales Labor mem-
ber, said in Canberra last week that
competition for world’s markets had
already begun, and Australia should send
trade representatives abroad, particularly
to India, etc. They should be men of
wide experience, and something like the
British Board of Trade might eventually
be established. Provided the right type
of men are selected for the job, Mr.
Daly’s suggestion meets with approval
here. Not long ago it was contended in
these pages that it was a legitimate func-
tion of Government to assist in the open-
ing-up of trade channels without the
Government going into business itself,
and that experienced and skilled repre-
sentatives should be set up in parts of
the world likely to be receptive to our
trade. It is a fact, too, that many anom-
alies which hinder our exports to other
countries are entirely within the power
of our Government or its departments
to correct. Trade is something which
the Labor Government, if it is to remain
in office, will have to take very seriously.
Munitions Minister Makin says that
the peak number of people employed in
munitions factories was 156,421 (in Anril-
June, 1943). The total had now dropped
to 99,825, The administrative staff of
had been reduced by 820. With regard to
the Lithgow-Bathurst group of small-arms
factories, the number of employees had
fallen from 11,323 to 4891. In the
machine-tool industry the number had
dropped from 12,000 to 5000. Two Gov-
ernment factories have been released for
commercial industry. Mr. Makin’s figures
are impressive, but they need to be accep-
ted only after taking into consideration
other factors. According to the Com-
monwealth statistician, employees in Gov-
ernment munition factories, annexes and
certain private firms engaged exclusively
in aircraft and shipbuilding totalled
131,700 in May, 1943, compared with
104,800 in May this year—a drop of
26,900. But total Government employees
in the same time moved down only by
1500 to 537,300. “Private” factory em-
ployment, including war contractors, rose
from 617,200 to 626,000 during the year
to May 31. As total Australian employ-
ment (excluding domestics and rural
workers) rose by 800, reaching 1,368,400,
in the same period, it seems that only the
natural increase, plus discharges from the
armed forces, have been available to help
the land industries out of their man-
power troubles. The fact that, in spite
of the reduction in munition workers
indicated by Mr. Makin, total Govern-
ment employees in the Commonwealth
have shown practically no decrease sug-
gests that the Government has not fin-
ished its job-providing when munitions
work runs out. It seems that “transport
arid communication” are now absorbing
many thousands more, as well as “pro-
fessional and personal services.” Private
industry was still being drained of man-
power on May 31.
* * * *
Wilson, the Victorian Independent,
who was important during the currency
of the first Curtin Government because of
the accident of comparative equality be-
tween the Government and Opposition
sides of the House, had a mortgage bank
department added to the Commonwealth
Bank. Apparently he is not entirely sat-
isfied with results. He complains that
many of the men making property valua-
tions for the bank are not competent,
some having previously been “noxious
weed inspectors.” But at least they know
something of rural conditions. If Mr.
Wilson would like to get hold of some
real anomalies of war-time employment
he should inquire into the previous occu-
pations of Commonwealth security inves-
tigators. The competence of some of
them is indicated by the results of their
activities. And, as in every other Gov-
ernment department, there is a danger
that a section of the security service will
be kept on the public payroll for political
purposes long after the “defence” need
for so many investigators has passed.
This service needs overhauling now.


PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept,,
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for - everyman’a
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
ilanufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,. N.S.W.
MfINErY TALKS
as
&
2%
ay
'J
Emperors of Rome made dishonesf
i profit bv/ pul+inq add plate on lead .Your
country issues JOOy.safounds..
Australia is worth supporhnq inttus
war
7*r
0?
s\ inoneq hadtobe weiqhed
' <?'% w Thar’s whq a pound is a
pound.Youdonfneed*te
■ '■** welqh a VICTOFO/
BOMQto know id value.
B ui| a biq bond TODAY...
7
cm
*o*
nxi
\
r slomful and n/aSaT k
„ unprofitable ser-
n *w vant of me Bible hid .N
'*s*S hisTalent't about £5O) m
the qroynd.now much are
qou hidin.q or carrqinq
around in qour
pocket*
?
The Japanese stented coin-
age a thousand gears later
than Ihe British /Lei- 's raise
enough monegtopul-her
back where she sterhed
from.
pOSiCSTfQKI®
lFLy)R9@f‘
-<aar
A#> IMPORTANT NOTICE:
60, te daij. to-day .To. DAY ho ipur
bank, posh office,or broker,Sign an ap-
plication for Hte biqqesh bond uou can pos-
sible bw{. Dorih be polish like the miser •
,tv-
-2 V3-I6
The Second Victory Loan
The present loan is of £l6O million,
of which £47.5 million is required to
convert or redeem two loans maturing
on October 15. The remainder —£112.5
million —is wanted as cash to pay the cost
of that part of Australia’s war effort not
met by taxation and other means.
There is plenty of money about for the
purpose of filling the loans, but this
abundance is not in the hands of the “in-
vestor class”; wage-earners and those
with small businesses have most of it.
For this loan to be a success —apart from
the conversion operation —there will need
to be a multitude of subscriptions from
those able to put in from £lO to £2OO.
Speaking in support of the loan, H. I.
Armitage, governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, said:
War -is a period of too much money and
too little on which to spend it. Our national
income is now about £l2OO million —much
more than before the outbreak of war.
Never before have so many Australians as
a whole had so much income.
The loan is in two classes of securities
— short-term stock carrying 2j p.c. and
longer-term issue paying 3i p.c.
Up to date support to war loans by the
mass of Australians has been very poor.
The Government itself has been partly
to blame. In the case of the present loan
the population has the opportunity—and
the money—to make a success where pre-
viously there has been a long row of com-
parative failures.
“Economic News,” a bulletin issued
each month by the Queensland Bureau of
Industry, is invariably interesting, even
if contentious. It is equally critical of
the breweries and the Commonwealth
bureaucracy, and it has been known to
have a slap at The Bulletin, which it
once described as the “mouthpiece of
the monopolies, admirable paper though
it may be in other respects” (or terms
very similar). But, in the words of the
Man from Gundagai, “that’s all past and
dead and gone”; and comments in
“Economic News” dealing with the foolish-
ness of overestimating the likelihood of
vastly increased Government “social
benefits” at the conclusion of the war
have been read with an open mind.
Pointing out that after the war “it is
going to take us all our time to main-
tain existing social services, let alone pro-
vide for new ones,” the “E.N,” says: “In-
comes above £lOOO in 1938-39 only con-
stituted 9 p.c. of the national income,
and no conceivable scale of taxation upon
such incomes can avoid the necessity in
a country like Australia of taxation fall-
ing on the whole people, and not on a
restricted class*.” The footnote reads:
*lt may be mentioned in passing that
present rates of taxation are remarkably
favorable to incomes in the £l5OO-£2OOO
range. If the present rates of Common-
wealth taxation are plotted on a log scale, a
curious dip will be noted in tax rates on
this income range, which covers most taxa-
tion commissioners, professors of eco-
nomics and members of the Federal Parlia-
ment.
Perhaps the taxation, economic and Par-
liamentary potentates will say that this
footnote is in the literary strain of the
Treasurer of Tasmania when he is com-
paring his own Budget with those of the
mainland States. All that is necessary
here is to repeat —“interesting, even if
contentious.”
* * * *
“A preliminary Commonwealth-State
survey shows Australia’s housing short-
age to be 257,521 dwellings. This is made
up of an actual shortage of 175,490 dwell-
ings and 82,931 existing structures which
are unfit for human habitation.” The
“actual shortage” represents more houses
than those reported to be totally destroyed
in London by bombing. In addition, in
Australia there are said to be 154,899
dwellings that are sub-standard, although
capable of being repaired and renovated.
Victoria, according to the survey, has the
worst housing shortage, with 31.5 addi-
tional dwellings needed per 1000 of popu-
lation. The shortage in N. S. Wales is
23.9, Queensland 19.6, South Australia
26.9, Westralia 14.8, Tasmania 9.2.
# * *
The Maritime Industries Commission
has recommended large cuts in the war-
risk bonus payable to seamen in Austra-
lian vessels operating in coastal waters.
Since the Commission’s decision the poli-
tics of the matter have been receiving
great attention in Canberra.
* * * *
An instance of the price-control law
being used instead for profits control is
revealed in the case of Masonite Corp.
Because the Prices Commissioner con-
sidered that the co. was making too much
profit he ordered a reduction in prices as
from July 1. Previously the co. had
charged pre-war prices, less about 5 p.c.,
with a further reduction of 25 p.c. on big
defence orders.
* * * *
It would be a wise precaution if tire
Government used the proceeds of sale of
its surplus war stocks and assets to retire
Treasury bills. With the ending of hos-
tilities there is likely to be considerable
selling of war bonds and a quicker re-
demption of war-savings certificates,
This may tax the present controls over
the bond market and interest rates,
and the central bank may be called upon
to provide credit to steady things. So
that the Treasury bill debt should not.
as a result of post-war cashing-up of
Government stock, grow in peace as it
has done in war, as much Treasury bill
indebtedness as possible should be retired
by any means available. At Aug. 31
there was £365 million owing on
Treasury bills. If the sale of Govern-
ment war-time assets realised £2OO mil-
lion it would do a good deal to set the
bank-credit debt moving the others way
and at the same time provide a fund to
steady the bond market and the interest
level.
* * * *
A year or two ago an American news-
paper correspondent announced the dis-
covery of “an oilfield” in Great Britain,
Until last week there was silence as re-
gards further developments. Then it was
stated that there are “more than 300 wells
dotted over nine miles of countryside,
and more are being sunk as quickly as
possible on what was till 1939 rich farm
land.” It was said also that production
“is sufficient to keep a sizable heavy
bomber fleet in the air.” Such sparse
information is tantalising even if under-
standable. The advantage to Britain of
a large domestic flow-oil supply would,
of course, be immense. It would help to
counter the declining economic value of
coalmines. #
* * * ,
It has been mentioned in the press that
the Newcastle and Port Kembla steel-
works (N.S.W.) have a capacity of
1,750,000 tons a year, compared with
1,200,000 before the war. The output of
these works still represents the cheapest
steel in the world.
* * * *
The granting of exemption from sales
tax on building materials is estimated to
sa ve about £5O in the erection of the
average cottage—yvhen the average cot-
tage is allowed to be built once more,
The rate of tax on building materials has
been 124 p.c. Because of the great hous-
ing shortage, Mr. Chifley says, the
Government has given home-building
“high priority” in the post-war period.
* * * *
In reply to a question asked by A. W.
Fadden in the House, Treasurer Chifley
said that Treasury bills held by all de-
partments of the Commonwealtth Bank
at June 30 last year totalled £246 millions
and this year £315 million.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Pacific War.
“Ek Dum”: Fighting continued on
Peleliu, in the Palaus. By September 24
American Marines held the greater part
of the little island and much of its
neighbor, Angaur. It was estimated that
8000 Japanese had been killed in what
seems to be fighting as bitter as that on
Saipan and Guam, and comparable with
any in any war zone, among coral hide-
outs and gullies, the approaches to which
were heavily seeded with booby traps.
The main force of the enemy is seem-
ingly not on Peleliu, but in the northern
islands of the group, where its strength
is estimated at 40,000. But it has been
unable to reinforce the Peleliu units
because of U.S. command of the sea and
air.
Tokyo Radio declared on September
19 that all civilians had been evacuated
under a cruiser and destroyer escort, cov-
ered by aircraft. It claimed that the
Americans had lost 5600 dead, 15 large
ships, 60 landing craft, 150 tanks and 26
aircraft.
An attack on Sfgli, in Sumatra, from
the East Asian area on September 18
brought little resistance. The impres-
sion is growing that the island is not very
heavily defended, a surmise which might
easily have begun to be tested before
the year is out.
Manila Attacked
The greatest attack of the week, how-
ever, came from the carrier forces of
Admiral Nimitz, which aimed a heavy
blow at Manila, the first really major
attack in the Philippines area.
Tokyo Radio’s version was that the
assault, which took place between 7.30
a.m. and 10 a.m., was the work of four
waves each of 200 machines.
Admiral Nimitz’s communique reported
that 27 ships had been sunk or damaged,
including a large destroyer leader, four
large tankers, a small tanker, two large
cargo ships, one medium-sized and two
small ships.
In the air 110 Japanese aircraft were
destroyed, apart from 95 on the ground,
at Nichols Field and elsewhere.
In the month since August 30 Admiral
•Halsey’s Fleet has claimed as sunk or
damaged 429 ships and 908 aircraft for
a loss of 20 U.S. aircraft.
The attack stirred Manila like a
hornet’s nest. The puppet Filipino Gov-
ernment declared war on the United
States and Britain and declared martial
law throughout the islands.
Two more substantial raids on the
islands followed, which made three
attacks between Wednesday and Sunday.
The second attack was made on Manila
by four waves of 200 machines on Sep-
tember 22. In this 29 ships were reported
sunk and 200 or more aircraft were
destroyed or damaged. Borneo also was
raided.
Enemy reaction to -Allied operations
round the whole Pacific defensive arc,
where the bombing of all the routine
targets continued, especially in the Hal-
mahera zone, was feeble. It consisted
mainly of some very weak raids on the
U.S. troops and the R.A.A.F. engineer
unit busily consolidating on Morotai.
The Japanese seem to be evacuating
Halmahera. A 1000-ton freighter loaded
with troops and bound northward was
sunk above Morotai by P.T. boats.
On the New Guinea mainland in the
Wewak-Aitape sector a further 800
Japanese dead were counted and 200
more prisoners taken up to the end of
the week.
Kweilin Lost
But there was sad news from China,
where Kweilin in Kwangsi was lost, after
the 14th U.S. Air Force had retired.
From many points of view this is little
short of a disaster. It brings the enemy
to a communication head which opens
the way towards Chungking, being only
400-odd miles from that city. Kweilin
had a tremendous aerodrome with land-
ing fields stretching from horizon to
horizon. It provides the Japanese with
a striking point from which they can hit
Chungking very hard and cover the port
of Hongkong with ease.
From the far north, in Manchukuo, a
Japanese line is now nearly complete
down the whole face of China. Only
one gap remains: that between Waitsap,
80 miles or so north of Canton, and
Yungming, inland from Kweilin.
On the Indo-Burmese Border
In Assam, Indian troops on September
24 were seven miles from Tiddim, meet-
ing some resistance at road blocks but
making progress—they have advanced
140-odd miles since the Japanese retreat
from the Imphal sector began.
British troops in Central Burma are
50 miles south of Mogaung along the
Irrawaddy railway.
Damien Parer.
‘Ek Bum’s” farewell:
He never failed to come to see me within a
few hours of landing in Sydney. At first it was
in an Australian uniform, later in American.
The uniform was always neat and trim and
well-fitting. Even in the last few months, when
malaria and atabrine had left their marks on
his bright face and spare form, he was always
gay and sprightly. It is difficult to believe that
he is dead, killed by Japanese machine-gun
bullets in Peleliu.
There would be a crisp knock at the door
and there Parer would be: slender, laughing,
dark Spanish eyes dancing with the life and
courage behind them. Then he would launch
without ado into whatever theme was in his
mind. He might have come straight out of a
battle —he thus arrived fresh from the Bismarck
Sea—or he might have stolen through jungle
and moss forest to lie concealed under the
noses of the Japanese, leisurely putting their
secrets on the film.
He did everything at a great pace, but he did
it well, and it has fallen to the lot of few
men to leave behind so fine a record of their
experiences and of their own personal gallantry.
Many of those dream-light pictures of the route
of the Australian retreat in Greece were Parer’s,
including the really great film of the bombing
of the Australian headquarters at Elassona.
Damien and a companion were having lunch
on a height above the little town when the
Stukas came down. He reached for his camera
and made that superb record.
To hundreds of thousands the world over
Parer’s films of the Kokoda trail and its after-
math brought the realities of that terrible adven-
ture home. His pictures of the front-line fight-
ing beyond Salamaua have no parallels, and his
re-creation of the Battle of the Bismarck Sea,
filmed from a Beaufighter screaming along the
surface, mast-high, is a classic among battle
classics.
Beyond the fact that it was acclaimed by
every fighting man who knew him that he was
utterly fearless and utterly devoted to his job,
and that no risk stood in the way of his doing
it thoroughly, he was a man with a good
mind, an accurate and cool observer of detail,
who could be depended on to give a conservative
description of the most exciting events and to
strip of their exaggerations accepted versions
of happenings in which he had taken part. If
he had not been a great photographer he would
have been an equally great war correspondent,
for he had more military technical knowledge
and more battle sense than the majority.
Parer was a good Australian. For a long
time he resisted tempting offers to leave the
parsimonious and shortsighted Information De-
partment to enter American service. He capitu-
lated t'o circumstances only when he was about
to marry the girl whose life he shared for only a
few weeks. They were married in March.
Above all, he was kind-hearted, considerate
and generous to a fault. If you knew him you
were always involved in a contest with him to
prevent him giving you something or doing some
little service. In fact, the very last time he was
in The Bulletin office he came back, after he
had said good-bye, to carry out a kindly after-
thought. It had occurred to him that John
Brennan, The Bulletin’s man in the Mid-
Pacific, to whom he had only once spoken, was
married. He offered to carry a letter from Mrs.
Brennan to her husband. Then he went off
laughing, full of excitement at the prospect of
filming the great battles which were then known
to be imminent somewhere up above the Line.
Fight for the Rhine Flank.
“Ek Dum”: Any observer who wishes
to cure himself of over-optimism, a
disease readily contracted by reading
newspapers, should compare the Sydney
Sunday press of September 17 with that
of September 24.
That of September 17 displayed head-
ings about a foot high indicating that the
Siegfried “Line” had been broken
through and shattered to bits, and that
Hitler was up a gum-tree. Maps con-
firmed this story. The Siegfried Line was
shown looking like a cornstalk which has
been chewed by a cow.
By September 24 the map-makers had
obligingly moved the Siegfried “Line” a
few miles east to conform to a new-born
belief that the Siegfried defences were
not, after all, shattered. And instead of
vaunting their exultation that our enemy
was a gone coon with only 100,000 old-
age pensioners meekly waiting in the
West Wall till the Allies should have time
to “annihilate” (or “liquidate”) them, the
concern was all for the British air-
borne division, which, under com-
mand of the gallant Major-General
Browning, Deputy Commander of the
Allied Airborne Army, had been fighting
for its life since September 17 at close
quarters with powerful forces of well-
equipped and determined Germans.
The issue was whether units of the
British Second Army could reach the
officers and men of the division in
time to save them. The bad weather
which dogs General Montgomery had
thrown awry the plan in which they
were involved, and the danger of
their loss seemed to be real, though
possibly not so real as it seemed
to correspondents, who were mysteriously
allowed great latitude in reporting the
plight of the surrounded division and
who, as usual, took full advantage of it.
The enemy has had reason to learn
that when any army commanded by
General Montgomery becomes publicly
gloomy it is time to be careful. There
were periods at Alamein, in the Mareth
Line and at Caen when the British com-
mand aired its gloom with the most salu-
tary results. The general is a good hand
at attracting enemy reserves to the right
spot and then fighting a decisive action.
There was, however, no doubt that the
Airborne Division was involved in diffi-
cult operations, though they had already
borne fruit and achieved some of the
primary purposes.
The division was dropped along a
stretch of country beyond the Belgian-
Netherlands border and over the river
Lek, which is an arm of the Rhine.
The country is familiar in British mili-
tary history. Nijmegen (“Nimwegen”)
was the pivot of the operations. There it
was that Frederick, Duke of York, let
the French into Holland almost exactly
150 years ago. There Marlborough first
made a name for gallantry as a young
captain; there, in 1702, he began the
commands which brought him fame as a
general. Not far from Nijmegen he was
nearly captured by the French that year.
The task of Montgomery’s army in this
region was to get across the Meuse and
the Rhine —or rather “Rhines” —in the
waist of Holland far and strongly enough
(1) to block all main German communi-
cations to the Fortress of Holland and
Amsterdam, which chiefly pass through
Arnhem ; (2) to outflank the Ruhr and
Siegfried defences and secure access to
the northern plains of Germany.
To reach Arnhem the forces across the
Escaut Canal on the Netherlands border
had about 65 miles to travel by road
through Eindhbven (15 miles) and
Nijmegen (50 miles), where they would
be across the Meuse and have reached
one of the main arms of the Rhine —the
Waal.
They had some advantages on their
side—-notably the presence of the marshy
Peel-Raam positions along their flank
nearest Germany.
Parachute Procedure
The procedure was to drop airborne
forces at key points all along the route to
hold the gates open, and then to begin the
advance. The dropping of the troops
was a tremendous business—including
gliders, advance bombers and escorts,
about 3000 aircraft were used. At the
same time the prudent Dutch immo-
bilised railway and other communications
by a strike.
With these operations under way, the
British Second Army, by September 19,
had enlarged its bridgeheads across the
Escaut Canal, over which it had four
crossings, and had linked up with the first
parachute and glider troops ahead near
Eindhoven. North of the Gheel bridge-
head, one of the earliest developed, touch
had been lost with the enemy for some
hours.
In the evening it was reported that
Eindhoven had fallen without a fight,
and that armored patrols had pushed
beyond it and joined up with still more
airborne advance guards—the Germans
said they were Americans—ls miles
away, who were helping to keep the way
clear at Vechel (Weghel), beyond the
Dommel River and the Zuid Willems
canal.
To reach this point armored troops had
had to cross, also, the Wilhelmina Canal.
They were in the area where the Dutch
111 Army Corps had taken the brunt of
the enemy drive towards Amsterdam in
May, 1940.
A heavy artillery barrage had opened
the battle on the Escaut Canal and had
given the British units space to develop
momentum.
The terrain had not been altogether
easy beyond Eindhoven, a beautiful town
full of flowers and gardens and fine resi-
dences. The Zuid Willems canal has a
great growth of shrubland along its banks,
and it has high-dyked sides, so that it is
well adapted for defence. But the ground
beyond it to the north-east, where the
parachute troops were established, is
almost entirely open. Still beyond,
between Nijmegen and Arnhem, there
is little cover against air “recce” at this
time of year—less than there would be
when the orchards are in fuller leaf.
The rivers are broad, with dykes along
the sides even higher and deeper than
those of the Zuid Willfems Canal, and the
roads are mainly narrow. There are only
two bridges over the Waal branch of the
Rhine —at Nijmegen and Zalt Bommel;
only one in the region in which the
British troops were advancing across the
Lek, further on.
Neither Nijmegen nor Arnhem is an
easy place to take. The former is a very
ancient town with memories of Charle-
magne and Charles the Bold. Its new
town is wide, beautiful and exnansfve
but the old town clusters togethe? in the
frightened way of medieval cities It
has many decorated fronts, in red and
black and checkered blue and yellow, and
a golden cockerel twirling in the wind
on a square steeple over the market place.
In peace-time it is a pleasant place to
come to To the right of it, on the Ger-
man side, are hairy-looking hills. The
moors of Brabant lie south-west, and in
the noith you see the wooded heights of
Arnhem. But built in an amphitheatre,
with its winding streets, some of which
have to be climbed on stairs, the Old
Town must be a terrible spot to attack
when full of tommy-gun-armed Germans.
Arnhem, on the north side, is very
much a border city. It is a sort of Dutch
Bowral or Moss Vale or Dandenong, to
which jaded burghers retire to look down
from Richmond Hill, or the Steenen
Tafel over the river, and the endless flat-
ness of the Gelderland to the north.
The Lek is much more like the Rhine
which Germany knows than the Waal.
It is no mean obstacle for a reliev-
ing force operating in bad weather,
which now began to hamper the
advance. However, the Airborne Divi-
sion’s main body was certainly over the
“Neder Rijn” at Arnhem, where it was
fighting at close quarters with terrific
drive and fortitude, the communications
being all in favor of the defenders.
General Dempsey’s Advance
By September 20 General Dempsey’s
spearheads were on their way from Nij-
megen over the long Waal bridge. They
had the comfort of knowing that they
were less than 350 miles from Berlin.
They were nearer by tens of miles than
any other part of the Allied armies to
a main German internal defence centre—
about 70 miles from Munster, the perma-
nent base of the north-west section of
the German first military inspection dis-
trict and peace-time H.Q. of the VI
Corps,
They were about 50 miles from
Essen, which, along with the greatest port
of the Rhine, Duisburg, and Cologne and
Diisseldorf and other cities, they had
almost outflanked. These advances had
been made mainly from the Beeringen
bridgehead over the Escaut Canal.
Enemy Resistance
This was the bright side. The less
bright one was that the enemy was show-
ing a power to resist which was remark-
able in view of his losses elsewhere.
The four U.S. armies were not able to
force on him operations sufficiently large
to compel him to withdraw troops from
the Netherland fronts. Though Aachen
was a battered ruin, and perhaps about to
surrender, the Americans in the area in
which it had been reported hysterically
last week that the Siegfried Line had been
shattered were finding that they had to
fight for every inch they made towards
Cologne. They, in fact, fought them-
selves up against the frontal positions ot
the Kyll River primary defences, taking
Stolberg. Further south, on the Luxem-
burg front, the First Army was forced to
make some small retirements.
The British operations in the Nether-
lands would hardly have been taken with-
out close co-operation with General Brad-
ley’s First Army, and a breakthrough to
the Rhine at Cologne or some point near
it was not only a major but an urgent
objective. It would have settled the hash
of all the enemy to the north along the
west bank of the river and thrown him
precipitately back on the Ruhr before
his flanks were crushed from both sides.
And no doubt great efforts would have
been made if this had been thought pos-
sible.
The German Air Force, which so tar
had made little showing save for sporadic
raids, bombed Eindhoven heavily and
strafed advancing troops.
In the forward areas of the Dutch zone
the enemy proved himself to be well
equipped with tanks, and to have abun-
dant anti-tank guns and sound air sup-
port.
On the Southern Front
In the Third Army area far to the
south,, from Thionville to Belfort Gap.
resistance had stiffened. Enemy artillery
cover was stronger. New giant tan
had made their appearance. Thougn
Thionville (Diedcnhofen) had been pene-
trated, it had not been taken. Very larg-
enemy tanks of a new variety began to
appear. The Americans had found i
difficult to get near enough to Metz u
plaster it with adequate shell-fire. In-,
had already encountered heavy fortress
positions 50 miles from the Rhine.
Flying-bombs had been added to t .-
variety of German missiles. Ameriw-
advances had slowed almost to a stan
still —at some points quite to a standstill
—in the Belfort Gap sector, and
attempts to close the Gap to enemy tro p
west of it or to break into it had
But further north Epinal had been ta u-
with another Moselle crossing- .
fortress area of Epinal, however, >
nearer the Rhine than the town, an -
\


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JESSIE WALTON late of Darlington Point New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT WIL-
LIAM JOHN WALTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2716 of 1944 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Thirty-first day of October
One thousand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from NORMAN
LESLIE LANDERS Solicitor for the Petitioner 9
Martin Place Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
CD
am
not been breached. Epinal is 50 miles
from the Rhine.
The sole advances of any magnitude
were those on the British front.
Canadians were still pushing forward
against slackening resistance in the area
on the Belgian side of the mouth of the
Scheldt, not far from where the famous
Sir Richard Strachan, “longing to be at
'em,” once waited for the Earl of Chat-
ham —his postal address in those trying
times had an Australian flavor: “On the
Kangaroo, near the Kaloot, West
Scheldt.”
Taken all in all, with his resistance on
the Russian front and on the Gothic
Line, the enemy was putting up a remark-
able effort, considering that on the
western front alone since June 6 he had
lost 467,000 prisoners, apart from killed
and wounded, who numbered perhaps
another 250,000.
The press revised its hopeful estimate
of the previous week that Hitler had only
100,000 battered veterans and youths to
guard his western borders. It turned out
that there appeared to be 100,000 Ger-
mans west of the Allied corridor across
the Waal.
Berlin on September 24 reported that
German forces were “continuing their
disengaging movement in western Hol-
land according to plan.”
It was comforting to hear from General
Montgomery in the circumstances that he
believed the war would be over before
Christmas.
Nijmegen Cleaned Up
On September 20, after six days of
heavy fighting in isolation, the frontal
forces of the Second Army, having taken
and cleaned up Nijmegen, had been
stopped two miles beyond the Waal and
about eight miles from Arnhem just be-
yond the village of Lent, which is flanked
on either side by orchards.
They were in wireless touch with the
surrounded division, full of good spirits
at receiving help from mobile artillery
which was shelling objectives ahead under
direction of the besieged.
At noon that day the Germans an-
nounced that, on all fronts in Holland,
they had begun to counter-attack. At
evening they declared that the airborne
troops beyond the Nether Rhine (Lek)
in the Arnhem area had been split into
two groups and “completely liquidated,”
4000 prisoners being taken.
They seemed to be the liveliest set of
‘prisoners” ever captured judging by the
sounds that came over the wireless. Their
assurance that they were still fighting
heartened the rescue detachments to re-
double their blows.
Next day, September 21, the worst
seemed to be over. In the afternoon the
news spread that Polish and other para-
chute troops had been dropped as reliefs
on the south side of the Rhine across the
river from Arnhem. The stage had been
reached when both sides were throwing
in reinforcements to secure a decision.
British tanks pushed forward in very
strong force to Elst, and there fought a
great tank battle five miles from Arn-
hem, where S.S. and Panzer troops were
making a suicidal stand, with every house
turned into a pillbox. Beyond the river
our parachute troops were grimly holding
out on September 24, keeping the
northern end of the traffic bridge clear so
that it could be used when the break-
through forces reached it.
Relief was in sight for the undaunted
men of Arnhem as they lay after seven
long days and six sleepless nights, still
plastered with every kind of ammunition
which the Germans thought suitable to
the occasion. Food and supplies and
reinforcements poured in to them. The
issue was not much in doubt in view of
the wealth of Allied man-power and
resources.
Cleaning Up in France
In France and Flanders the clean-
ing up continued. The last pocket
of Germans in Antwerp was rooted
out. Boulogne had fallen to British
troops a gutted ruin, in which 8000
prisonefs were taken. The clean-
up in Brest had yielded 36,000 prisoners
altogether. There still was a German
division in the Channel Islands whose
position was hopeless. Mentone had been
taken. The British were fighting inside
the outer perimeter of Calais and were
on the fringes of Dunkirk, but German
guns continued to fire on British ports
across the Channel until September 23,
and some flying-bombs still were falling
in England.
Germany’s Chances
High military authorities seem to think
that the Germans are almost finished
because their forces have lost all strategic
cohesion. So they obviously have, at
least momentarily, but it is conceivable
that if they can get back far enough to
roll themselves into a hard ball inside
the borderlands served by the major de-
fence areas of Munster, Frankfort, Stutt-
gart, Munich, Linz, Vienna, Breslau,
Stettin and Hamburg they might regain
it. Each of these bases before the war
was a corps H.Q. with a second ring of
corps bases inside it —Niiremburg, Dres-
den, Berlin, Magdeburg, Hanover, Cassel
and some in Czechoslovakia.
Inside this area there are enormous
resources, highly organised industry, roads
without peer for military purposes, strong
mountain and river barriers and mag-
nificent canals.
Everything depends on the German
ability in several directions:
(1) To maintain civil morale into and through
a dreadful winter just ahead;
(2) To provide first-class man-power and
equipment in fast, heavy units capable of in-
stantly destroying tank and artillery spearheads
and air-bornq divisions;
(3) To deal with the growing numbers of
Allied bombers and rocket-firing bombers against
which little can stand so far.
The effect of rocket and dive bombing
is becoming serious for the enemy. The
Second Tactical Air Force has attacked
450 German H.Q. since June 6, apart
from stopping the heavy German armored
drive from the Mortain pocket towards
Avranches and working great havoc in
the Falaise pocket. These objectives are
apart from radar stations, bridges, petrol
and ammunition dumps, power stations,
narrow-guage railways and motor trans-
port workshops, which are attended to
in that order.
The Typhoon is the queen of strafers.
She comes into attack at from 400 to 450
m.p.h. She is armed with eight rockets,
the destructive power of which is equal
at short range to the six-inch broadside
of a cruiser. Sometimes all eight rockets
are plugged at once into a target; some-
times, as when dealing with long columns,
four pairs are fired in quick succession.
And prisoners who have been rocketed
usually seem to feel as if they had been
let down a volcano.
Rimini Falls.
“Ek Dum”; Both the Eighth and Fifth
Armies of General Alexander had a week
of hard but unspectacular fighting which
yielded splendid prizes.
The Fifth, on the west, was over the
Apennine divide, and on September 20
began a thrust about six miles north of
Florence towards Firenzuola. From
Firenzuola down die valleys it could
soon hope to reach the northern Italian
plain, 25 miles away. The ultimate target
was Bologna, midway along the great
highway which runs straight as an arrow
from Milan to Rimini diagonally across
the Peninsula,
Firenzuola soon fell, after little resist-
ance. The Germans, outflanked on both
sides, hurried to safety, and on Sep-
tember 24 Allied spearheads were 10
miles from Bologna.
This movement of the Fifth Army
troops—British, Americans, Indians and
others—was paralleled by a thrust to-
wards Spezia, on the west coast, made by
Brazilians, At the week-end they were
almost in reach of Spezia, which had
been heavily bombed, and in which the
marker for advancing troops and bomber
units alike was the burning cruiser
Taranto in German hands.
The brunt of the fighting on the
Adriatic side was carried by Canadians
and Greeks. The Canadians cleared the
last ridges west and south-west of the
town, which has a population of 65,000
or so. In the heavy fighting at the
approaches during the past couple of
weeks 12 German divisions have been
encountered and have been halved in
numbers, about 8200 prisoners being
taken since the offensive began.
To cap this savage attrition the
Greeks marched into Rimini, sweeping
aside the final opposition and enabling
the Allied communique to mention “a
most important success, as the city lies at
the entrance to the Po Valley.”
The destroyers Kimberley and Look-
out helped by blanketing batteries to the
north of the town.
Crossing the Marecchia River on a
broad front, spearheads were soon fight-
ing nine miles up the coast from Rimini.
The Eighth Army, too, was on the way
to Bologna, and in the last phases of its
campaign south of the Po its tanks were
out on the plain. The cheering as the
nightmare of 250 miles of mountains
from Cassino, over which the armies had
fought since May 14, was left behind
must have been well worth hearing.
Inland, on the Upper Tiber reaches
and the Upper Arno, Eighth Army troops
occupied several towns and many vil-
lages.
Though the Germans have been pushed
out of the Gothic Line defences, they
are not routed, and they are fighting
fiercely as they disengage.
Retreat on the Baltic.
“Ek Dum”: With the end of the war
in Finland, under terms which involve
the entry of Russian troops into that
country, the Germans who have held out
in Estonia and the coastal sections of
Latvia and Lithuania found themselves
with the Russians across the water a few
miles on their northern flank.
As the determination of Finnish affairs
approached, the Germans were faced with
a new Russian offensive at the end of
their Baltic salient along the Tartu (Dor-
pat) railway west of Lake Peipus, which
leads to Tallinn (Reval), on the Gulf of
Finland, the capital of Estonia, and
another salient further south on the Riga
front.
On the northern sector, in the Reval
region, the Russians had made about 50
miles’ progress from Narva and 75 miles
up the western side of Pskov since June
6. It was alleged two months ago that
the Germans were in a desperate posi-
tion, cut off, except by sea, and obsessed
only with the idea of escape.
The German Supreme H.Q. announced
so soon as the new September offensives
opened that, there being now no need to
cover the flank of Finland, a withdrawal
from the north Baltic States had begun.
The crucial area is that round Riga,
where, in spite of all Russian efforts, the
Germans had continued to maintain a
corridor along the coast of East Prussia,
along with the main railway lines to Vin-
dau (Ventspils), Libau and Memel and
Tilsit.
Tallinn Falls
It is unlikely that the Germans have a
large force in the far north —the loss oi
the area was inevitable so soon as Fin-
land was out of the war and the Russians
were able to use their air force across
the Gulf of Finland.
When the main Russian attack on the
Estonian front from the Narva and
Pskov directions developed there was a
caving-in of the German front so swift
as to be inconsistent with any fighting of
consequence.
On September 20 the Russians were 72
miles from Tallinn, on the Pskov line-
Late on September 22 it was announced
from Moscow that Russian forces had
reached the outskirts of the railway junc-
tion of Tapa, midway between Tartu and
Tallinn, 45 miles from the lastnamed
town, and that “Russian forces were so
overwhelming that it seems unlikely that
the enemy will be able to make even a
temporary stand before Tallinn.”
As the enemy in France has shown that
even with a single division he can make
a very substantial stand for weeks, it was
obvious that he was leaving Tallinn as he
left Rennes, Le Mans, Nantes, Bordeaux
and Dieppe, with scarcely the whistle of
a bullet. Within a few hours after the
approach to Tapa Marshal Govorov’s
troops had travelled the 45 miles to
Tallinn and captured it. But this did not
prevent Moscow correspondents from
allotting General Schoener an “army
group” of “200,000 to 300,000 men”
which Russian and Estonian shock troops
were “tearing to shreds.” It is a fair bet
that by the time the Germans have left
the northern Baltic States they will have
lost another cool million men or so at
the hands of correspondents and radio
announcers.
The fall of Tallinn was followed swiftly
by the capture of two smaller ports —
Parnu, on the Gulf of Riga, and Haap-
salu, a fishing village, further north.
On the Riga Front
Meanwhile, two other Russian armies
were involved further south. General
Maslenikov’s Third Baltic Army made
considerable ground, and took the cen-
tral rail junction at Valk, which the Rus-
sians had been attempting to approach
since mid-July. The manner in which
this place held out, along with its flank
positions, has been the crucial advertise-
ment of German strength in the Baltic
region. It was only 80 miles from Pskov,
where the Russian northern offensives
began early in June, and its capture
would have settled the whole Baltic front
question in one act. But although the
Russians were able to pour through
Poland for as much as 400 miles, being
credited with killing, on the way, hun-
dreds of thousands of panic-stricken Ger-
mans from Hitler’s broken armies, it was
not found possible to take Valk until
September 20. Had it been possible, the
whole history of the war would have been
altered.
When the town was captured strong
German resistance developed to the west
of it, where the Red Army had created
a bulge along the Estonian-Latvian
border.
Still further south Marshal Yeremenko’s
Second Baltic Army Group and General
Bagramyan’s First Army were pushing the
attack on Riga and the areas north of it.
On September 20 the report was that
the Russians, on a 75-mile front, had
driven 25 miles into the enemy positions
—a statement which makes it clear that
the German counter-attacks in the
previous few weeks had gained much
more ground than was admitted.
General Bagramyan’s spearheads were
said to be only nine miles from Riga ;
the next day they were in the outskirts
of the city, “mounting a mighty attack
with mobile guns» tanks and infantry
before the last German defences in the
southern approaches to the city.”
On September 24 the 'enemy still held
Riga, still had a corridor to East Prussia,
and was trying to break the south-western
flank of the Russian advances against
this corridor with counter-attacks which
at times obviously had made some pro-
gress.
The salient factor is that the Germans
at key points in terrain difficult of de-
fence are still able to put up a tremen-
dous fight along the whole length of the
Eastern Front. But the Russian front
has been considerably shortened, and a
more concentrated attack on East Prussia
should be possible in a few weeks.
At Warsaw
Though it is now clear that the Red
Army made its first crossing of the Vis-
tula more than a fortnight ago and has
had contact with the forces of General
Bor —not Bors, as spelt by the daily press
—for a week, the fight for Warsaw is
bitter and desperate.
Having secured a Polish attitude in Lon-
don more to its liking, the Russians be-
gan to send meagre supplies to the gallant
Poles in Warsaw and to allow Allied
(chiefly R.A.F.) bombers and transports
carrying supplies from Italy to land in
Russian territory.
The Russians were across the Vistula
at the week-end in at least three bridge-
heads and fierce fighting was reported.
In the Cracow region nothing more has
been heard of the drive which was sup-
posed to have pierced the Carpathians
through the Dukla Pass.
Other Parts of the Front
The operations towards the Hungarian
border along the edges of the Hungarian
Plain from the lower Danube region are
still in a nebulous position, with the Rus-
sians within about 20 miles of Hungary
at some points, but with no obvious signs
of a large-scale offensive. On September
24 Rumanian H.Q. reported the Russians
and Rumanians had crossed the Hun-
garian border from Transylvania.
In Yugoslavia Marshal Tito’s opera-
tions died down before they reached any
town of —indeed, the Ger-
mans claimed the recapture of Negotin,
the only town which the marshal held in
the east which could be called a town.
It seems, however, that the enemy is
giving up Greece —Goebbels announced it
early last week, and mentioned that its
garrison, with others withdrawn from ex-
terior zones, would be available for the
defence of the Reich. On much of the
mainland Greek patriot forces, supplied
by the British and Americans, are in con-
trol, but the enemy is adopting the policy
which he maintained in France of hold-
ing on to ports so as to deny the Allies
supply routes from the outside. Greek
transport centres were last week bombed
to delay evacuations.
Athens and the Piraeus, Salonika and
the ports of the Adriatic are still all in
enemy hands. But his troops in such of
the /Egean and lonian Islands as are left
to him must be feeling remarkably lonely.


2JI
\\S Mkf„ NT
I^—[[
7T
\ /
\ /
(T*
T
rr^rr^
CHERISHED POSSESSION
Well might a man feel this kind of carefulness for his
Valet razor. He won’t be able to buy another till the
war ends!... And what a blessing it is stropping
itself and giving weeks of perfect shaving from every
blade so important now that blades are hard to get.
Even if you don’t put it out of harm’s way in the wall,
at least take extra care of it.
Here’s a hint: Always strop the blade before putting
your razor away. A little of the oil from the strop
will come into contact with the cutting edge and so
help to prevent corrosive action. Keep strop clean.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades 3\d. each
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SPRING MEETING 1944
To be held at
RANDWICK RACECOURSE
OCTOBER 7, 14, 21, 1944
FIRST DAY, OCTOBER, 7, 1944.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l5OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER-
SECOND DAY, OCTOBER 14, 1944.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF,
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £3OOO, ONE MILE.
THIRD DAY, OCTOBER 21, 1944.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £4500, ONE MILE AND FIVE
FURLONGS.
6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY. GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
Sporting Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
At Rosehill on Saturday Tea Rose,
Abbeville and Kiaree strengthened their
claims for consideration for important
races at Randwick. Luck did not enter
into Tea Rose’s success, apart from the
fact that a couple of nasty kicks Shannon
received from Vermeil while at the start-
ing post adversely affected his chance,
and, despite his failure to get a place, he
is still a Derby danger. In the straight
Shannon started a run that seemed sure
to land him in a place, but a badly-
twisted hind plate added to his troubles,
and he did well to finish fifth.
Behind Gay King, Melhero and Crags-
man at the turn. Tea Rose took charge
shortly after turning for home, and, giv-
ing her opponents no chance, won in 1.52,
a second and a half outside Rogilla’s
course record. Melhero and Beau Monde
(unlucky at the turn), in the minor places,
ran on fairly, as did Accession, while
marked disappointments included Re-
moval.
Some of Abbeville’s Epsom backers
were disappointed that he did not take
the Theo Marks Camellia Stakes in easier
fashion, but, always fairly placed, he was
an obvious winner when third to Noble-
man and Triad entering the straight. Van
Eyck made a good showing, and John
Halifax, in fourth place, ran his usual
honest race, without ever looking a win-
ner. Panchio did .not exhibit any improve-
ment on his recent run at Randwick.
Soho and Goose Boy were failures, and
Queenslander Bahtheon did not show
Epsom form.
In the Hill Stakes Mayfowl ran up to
his best autumn form, and though
behind the pacemakers (Tribal and Hall
Stand) and Victory Lad at the top of the
straight, won decisively from Katanga
and Victory Lad, the last-named uphold-
ing his trainer’s opinion that he was
likely to stay. The early fast pace did
not help Katanga, and when fifth at the
five-furlong post it was apparent he
would be troubled to make up his leeway.
He made a sharp run in the straight, but
did not make any impression on May-
fowl, and as he is not likely to make
much improvement, w.f.a. wins for him
at Randwick are going to be difficult.
Tribal did not improve his Epsom pros-
pects,
Kiaree’s Rosehill Cup proved that his
recent backing as the second leg of an
Epsom and Metropolitan double was
warranted. Bright Spot (who would be
better placed in a minor race), Kooka-
burra and Brueghelier, set the pace, but
Kiaree, with a strong finishing run, won
by a head from Faust, who carried 71b.
overweight and now trained by his part-
owner, A. Cooper, has evidently improved
a lot since he previously raced in Sydney,
A feature of the finish was Two’s Com-
pany’s good third after being hopelessly
placed three furlongs from home.
Boomanulla and Falcon Knight were
nearest the place-getters. The latter, who
hung out a good deal, is not acting up
to earlier promise and will have to do
something of account at his next run to
justify his support for the Metropolitan.
Haripur was below expectations, and of
the beaten lot Two’s Company really did
most to bring herself into Metropolitan
calculations. She will, however, meet
Kiaree only a pound better.
Prince Verity compensated for recent
failures by easily accounting for the
Novice Stakes. He left his opponents
oyer the final furlong, and won de-
cisively from Paul, who could not have
reversed positions even if Aussie had not
carried him out. The winner, who is a
good-looking son of Midstream and
Verity (daughter of Valwyne, a fair
stayer), will go on to better things,
Heavily-backed Prince Buzzard was never
in a winning position, justifying his
owner’s claim that he was being harshly
treated. Of the unplaced lot only Right
Royal showed form that made him worth
keeping in mind.
T ,'‘, * , ' , ,
Louano and War Effort made a duel
of the first five furlongs of the
first division of the Highweight Handi-
cap, and, when War Effort weakened
in the straight, Louano was equal to
stalling off Eastralia, though there
was not much in it. The popular
choice, Winnipeg, gave his backers a
poor run, but Chinook, after losing a
lot of ground owing to interference at
the start, gave a good account of him-
self in running seventh or eighth. Cock-
crow was also unlucky. Streamford was
always prominent, and his fourth sug-
gested a return to earlier form. Diadem
and Thrax ran fairly, without being
dangerous. Louano’s present owner gave
40gns. for him.
At two years Star Gold did not live
up to the promise he gave when he ran
second in the Breeders’ Plate. In the
second division of the Highweight Handi-
cap he left no doubt as to the recovery
of his early speed. He went to the front
in the first furlong and did not after give
anything else a look-in, winning by
lengths from Babillard and Kimbell in
the same time that Abbeville recorded
in the Camellia Stakes. Star Gold
had only 7.3 in the Epsom, but
will not run, his owners believing
that there are much easier races for him.
And he will probably win one. Bruce
Wood was not nearly good enough with
his weight, and though Bestow was fourth
his chance was not a winning one at any
stage.
* * ♦ ♦
Manstar, better known previously as a
welter performer, surprised by beating
numerous Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
horses in the Ascot Spring Cup at Men-
tone last Saturday. Starting at 20 to 1,
he won narrowly from Cloudy Bay and
Azores, and survived a protest for alleged
interference approaching the turn. Man-
star showed improved stamina, and, all
going well, it is intended to start him for
the Caulfield Cup. He is aged, however,
and his owner fears he may be eliminated
if extensive balloting is necessary.
Leading Man, a four-year-old gelding,
recorded his first win, and gave lessee-
trainer J, Donohoe a welcome change of
luck, by decisively defeating Antos and
Approve in the Nullabor Handicap.
Leading Man has always shown promise,
and Saturday’s win has improved his
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups chances.
He has been backed as the second leg of
a substantial Cups double beginning with
Amana.
Great Idea followed up his Caulfield
win by easily beating Judith Louise and
Minanalaes in the Desborough Handi-
cap. He is a greatly improved galloper,
and, if he continues to progress at the
present rate, might be a Caulfield or
Melbourne Cup possibility. A four-year-
old gelding by Scintillation from Panan-
dra, he is nicely weighted with 7.4 in the
Caulfield and 7.6 in the Melbourne Cup.
Oatcake, medium of a betting plunge in
Saturday’s race, did well to finish fourth
after striking more than his share of
trouble in running,
Carey (Midstream-Sunshine) luckily
defeated Chapter and Various in the Mid-
lothian Handicap. He is engaged in the
Derby, but, having lightened off some-
what, might be given a rest before he
races again. Carey was named after
Randwick trainer Jerome Carey, who
selected him as a yearling. Kintore,
10-to-9 on favorite for the Sutherland
Handicap, was run down in the last few
strides and beaten half a neck by Busy-
body.
Stewards upheld a controversial pro-
test after Scipio had beaten Volt by two
lengths in the Trial Hurdle. Bookmakers
offered 7 to 1 against the placings being
reversed, but the interference must have
been much more serious than generally
thought. Stewards not only awarded the
race to Volt but disqualified Scipio’s
rider, B. Robert, for six months for foul
riding.
* * * *
In their selection before the running
of the Rosehill Guineas of the two colts
and filly most likely to prove stud suc-
cesses, the judges, R. F. Moses, K. Mac-
kay and C. J. Withycombe, chose the
colts Melhero (Melfort-Heresme) and
Beau Monde (Beau Pere-Gay Stepper),
in that order, and as Tea Rose was the
only filly that competed, she took the
prize in ner class. The judges had the
satisfaction of seeing their selections fill
the places in the race with Tea Rose first
As stud propositions, Tea Rose, Melhero
and Beau Monde may also be superior to
those they beat on the racecourse, though
of course, that is uncertain.
* * * *
These big punters are no good to
racing,” remarked a Sydney trainer the
other day. “The trouble is that few
understand anything about the game and
are suspicious when horses do not run
up to expectations. Recently I thought
one of my team was a ‘good thing,’ and
put much more money on it than is my
custom. The big punter was also on.
The horse ran nowhere, and judging from
the punter’s attitude towards me since
then 1 think he has an idea he did not
get a try—that his commissioner, the
jockey, and myself made sure of a fair
win by dividing the money that was sup-
posed to go on.”
* * * *
A newspaper correspondent recently
expressed his opinion that our racehorses
were deteriorating. He attributed this to
early two-year-old racing, and inferred that
breeders bred too greatly for speed, with-
out thought to the horses’ later careers.
Well, horse-breeding is a commercial
proposition, and breeders naturally wish
to cater for the lOOOgns, buyer who does
not purpose purchasing something that
may eventually benefit the country as a
sire or brood mare. He wants a
youngster likely to give him an early re-
turn. Speed is the first essential in a
racehorse. Without it it is about as use-
ful as a motor-car without oil. With our
older horses carrying as much weight
as in distance handicaps of 20 years
ago (or more) and running faster times,
and the younger division doing likewise in
their races, it does not seem as if the
efforts of our breeders have tended to
deterioration. It would be difficult to
convince those who have put a lot of
money and thought into breeding that
such an allegation is warranted.
* * * *
The fastest mile paced in America this
year up to the beginning of July was
2.1 at Cleveland by King’s Counsel, a
four-year-old who was the champion of
his age last year.
Miscellaneous
The strike virus has got among Mel-
bourne’s professional footballers, the
Richmond team threatening to strike
because the rover, Broadstock, was
“outed” for two months after the dis-
turbances in the Richmond-Fitzroy semi-
final. The public must have felt like
striking, too, for thousands stayed awav
from the Richmond-Essendon preliminary
final, and there were barely 30,000 when
the ball was bounced. The Tigers gal-
loped to a 8.2-0.5 lead, and ended with
15.9 to 12.15. Next week ends the
season with Richmond v. Fitzroy.
is * * *
In a lively lightweight bout at Sydney
Stadium Joe Grant was too good for Jim
Fraser. Fraser’s left eyebrow was gashed
open in the first minute, and, forcing the
fight, he ran into plenty of punishment;
gore from eyebrow, mouth and nose
made his face a study in scarlet in the
sixth. In the next round the young man s
other eyebrow was opened, and the
referee thereupon decided that it was a
dressing-room case.
To outward seeming Max Cameron and
George Elliott did not spare one another
when they met for “the N.S.W. middle-
weight championship” (current value.
Is. 6d.) at Leichhardt. A right hander
knocked Elliott to his knees in the thirc
round, and Cameron’s knees were wobbly
before the bell banged. Elliott was down
again in the seventh pushed, not
punched. In the eighth he shot a right
to Cameron’s head; then he wjriced and
shook the member, “retiring” at “corners.
The crowd took it with what passes at
Leichhardt for stoical composure.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Lavaine, 1;
Wheatland, 2 ; Silent, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Prince
Verity, 1; Melhero, 2; Silver
Link, 3.
Quality Handicap: Prince, 1;
Magi, 2 ; Modulation, 3.
Trial Stakes: Marquis, 1 ; Aussie,
2 ; Ack Emma, 3.
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap:
Two’s Company, 1 ; Mustang, 2;
Buzz Off, 3.
Welter Handicap: Chinook, 1;
Active Service, 2; Louano or
Streamford, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Each day finds the strangers within
Australia’s gates a little happier at the
news from the battle fronts. Though
there will be no general celebration
among Dutch residents until Queen Wil-
helmina again sets foot in Holland, there
is already a feeling of quiet jubilation.
This was seen at the Netherlands Indies
Club, when Baron von Aerssen, D.utch
Ambassador to Australia, entertained at
luncheon Rear-Admiral Koenraad and
Commander Kommer. Pat Hoegveld
also had guests, including Mrs. Spencer
MacDonald. Another bright little
luncheon party was given by newly-
arrived American brides of Dutchmen.
Jean Hamling, an Australian lass, has
been hostess at the N.L Club since its open-
ing some two years ago, and to her tact
and charm is due much of the friendly
atmosphere of the place, where Dutch
residents like to meet and discuss the
news from abroad. The portrait of
Queen Wilhelmina, which hangs over the
mantel in the lounge, is each day sur-
rounded by Iceland poppies, a tribute to
the House of Orange.
Fierce rages the battle around the Con-
temporary Art Show, opened by com-
poser Dorian Le Gallienne, So impressed
with this young man’s compositions was
Eugene Ormandy that when he returned
to America he took a number of them
back with him, with the idea of having
them published. The art show has been
called many uncomplimentary names,
among them “The Chamber of Horrors.”
Albert Tucker, who exhibited five pic-
tures called “Images of Modern Evil,”
has entered the lists for the defence.
But he explains nothing. In a catalogue
foreword he asks “What do my pictures
mean?” and his reply is: “Might as well
ask me to play them on the piano. Their
meaning is already stated in the only
terms in which they can be understood.”
Among the visitors to the show were
Mrs. I. Cohnan, whose daughter Alannah
is exhibiting a portrait which has brought
favorable notices from the art critics ;
Mrs. D. Ribush, whose husband Doha is
soon to produce Douglas Stewart’s play
“Ned Kelly” at the Union Theatre;
Adrian Wall, whose remarks on the show
were forceful and amusing; Andrew
Thwaites, legal luminary, earnestly striv-
ing for a little light on aesthetic problems,
and many high-ranking officers of the
Allied services.
No fairer nor more colorful sight has
been seen at the Town Hall than one
staged recently. Five hundred pupils
from the Westgarth Central School gave
a performance to aid the State Schools’
War Relief Fund, for which many thou-
sands of pounds have been raised by
schools. The Victory Pageant was most
impressive. In groups of eight marched
children in the garb of Holland, France,
Belgium, Greece and other nations.
Bravely marched Scots, Welsh, Irish and
representatives of the Dominions. All
these groups formed a “V for Victory”
sign, and then through the base of the V
came flag-bearers, headed by Britannia,
proudly bearing the Union Flag and fol-
lowed by the ensigns of all nations. When
all were in their places the youngsters sang
“Land of Hope and Glory” under the
Eaton of their headmaster. Col. Charles
Denehy, a veteran of World War I. This
xyas followed by “The Fighting Resolu-
tion”—Churchill’s historic message to
the nation, including “We shall fight in
the streets and on the beaches,” and con-
cluding with “We shall never surrender.”
Next was recited in unison “To the
Fallen,” during which the flags were
lowered, to be raised for the National
Anthem.
Some time after the commencement of
the war in Europe a small group of people
got together with the idea of doing some
constructive work to help the war effort.
As the men were looked after by A.C.F.
it was decided to take an especial interest
in the sisters of the Australian Army
Nursing Service, and the group was regis-
tered with the Patriotic Funds Council
the Victorian War Nurses’ Comforts
Fund. Under the leadership of Mrs.
Charles AUum, this group has achieved
fine record of service. Working in close
co-operation with the State’s Principal
Matron there has been no overlapping.
At the outset there was a special job to
<do. 'The first Army nurses leaving for
overseas were each given a pre-embarka-
tion kit, which comprised a hand-knitted
§rey pullover and cap, an electric torch
batteries, an unbreakable cup, saucer
plate and a set of stainless steel cut-
lery in a brown canvas holdall. The
Organisation now looks after one thou-
sand nurses, and all those who have gone
overseas have received the pre-embarka-
Whenever poss i b i e an afternoon tea has
been given to the nurses pr i o r to their
leaving the State, and interest in the wel-
£are 0 £ eac h girl has been maintained
during her stay abroad. Not only those
nurses j n the Middle East and New
Guinea but those in base hospitals
throughout the Commonwealth have had
their share of comforts, the Matron or
sister-in-charge of hospitals or units being
supplied with such articles as electric
£, b “ “ s - One Matron asked for
being
j" “ “/rcTis
«Bht. Every three months a parcel is
seat to Victorian-Army nurses at home
and abroad containing such things
as face powder and a lipstick, hand
'““on, books, .tinned fruit and short-
bread. A special parcel is sent to every
Victorian nurse at Christmas, and these
“dude a Christmas pudding and cake
and many other good thmgs. One Christ-
“as it was possible to include as a gift
a set of dainty floral undies.
®ck nurses in hospital are never for-
-B°tte - The Navy and Air Force sisters
also receive their share of the good things,
and tyben recently R.A.A.F. Headquart
asked for navy-blue knitted polo poli-
ovcrs and caps for the flying unit these
were soon forthcoming.. When the firs
batch of American Army nurses came to
f l,s city they were given a reception by
members of the V.W.N.C.F., and Mrs.
Allum “d her committee also played
their part in the formation of a bust fun
help nurses on their return to civilian
e - n ® xt '°^ Am anc * friends ,e
nurses have formed an auxiliary, and they
work with the mam body in raising funds,
R 18 believed that the V.W.N.C.F. 18 the
on *Y body in the Commonwealth whic
works exclusively for the Army nuises of
_ i- ,
When Doha Ribush knew he
would produce the play Ned Kelly he
began to steep himself m the history of
the Kelly family. He went into the
country and spent days in Glenrowan
and the surrounding district interviewing
the oldest inhabitant and examining
records which he thought would shed
light upon the character of this family.
The cast has been carefully chosen, and
stage properties are correct to the last
detail. Rehearsals are in full swing, and
those of the actors who also appear in
radio are wearing a track from the Union
Theatre to the studio where they are
working. The play opens on September
30 at the Union Theatre, and already
seats are being eagerly taken. Joy Youl-
den, pictured here, assisted, by husband
Des Connor, is acquiring a costume for
her part in the play which will be a
replica of one worn at the period the
Kelly family were living. Des, by the
way, is in charge of the lighting and
stage decor.
From Sydney
Priniinister Curtin has announced the
names of the Duke of Gloucester’s staff
accompanying H.R.H. to Australia. They
are: Chief of Staff, Brigadier D. S.
Schreiber, M.V.0.; Comptroller, Lieut.-
Commander A. W. P. Robertson, R.N.;
aides-de-camp, Major M. B. C. Hawkins
and captain A. A. A. D. Ramsay, Grena-
dier Guards, a cousin of the Duke and
the son of Admiral Sir Alexander Ram-
say and Lady Patricia Ramsay. The
ladies-in-waiting will be Countess Clive,
whose husband was killed on active ser-
vice with the Royal Air Force, and Miss
Eileen Phipps, A.T.S., who is a niece of
the Duchess of Gloucester. The men
have all been on active service in the
present war; Major Michael Hawkins
has lost an arm through wounds received
in Libya; Captain Alexander Ramsay
was severely wounded and maimed in
Tunisia. Brigadier Derek Schreiber
visited Australia as equerry to the Duke
during the Royal tour of 1934-35. Lieut.-
Commander Robertson was on Lord
Huntingfield’s staff in Victoria from
1935 to 1939.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes and
Lady Keyes arrived in Sydney during the
week-end from Brisbane. They had
flown the Pacific from America to Aus-
tralia, and came down from the north
by flying-boat. He is slim, alert and full
of energy. His admiral’s uniform flies
six rows of decorations. Lord Keyes will
be in Australia for about three months
on a goodwill mission, and while he is
here he will tell Australia about Britain’s
war effort. The idea of the Commandos
was his. He was appointed Director of
Combined Operations just after Dunkirk.
Lady Keyes, who acts as her famous
husband’s secretary, has typed the manu-
scripts of his books on the one typewriter
—the same one that she is now busily
using in Sydney. Lady Keyes has been
an emergency transport driver for two
years in London, and has also done a
job of munition-making. The Keyes’s
home in Chelsea has been bombed. One
son was killed in Libya, another is com-
manding a flotilla of torpedo-boats. One
daughter is serving in a naval hospital.
Who can conquer these English?
Mrs. Walter Elliot (a sister of Lady
Wakehurst), alert, smartly-tailored and
vivacious, gives no indication of the five
years of stress which she has spent at
the helm of women’s and girls’ move-
ments in England. Mrs. Elliot came to
Sydney last week, having undertaken the
journey from London at the invitation
of the British Children’s Comforts Fund.
She was distributor-in-chief of the warm
and exquisite garments sent forward from
Sydney by the Francis Anderson lady and
her committee, and, sitting in the rooms
of the British Children’s Comforts Fund,
above the roar of Castlereagh-street, she
told how delighted the receivers had been
with the lovely quality of the materials.
To hear Mrs. Elliot talk is like flying
low over England, It is seeing the cease-
less activity of man and woman. It is
seeing the army of girls traversing the
island from north to south on their way
to jobs assigned for them by the Ministry
of Labor, and, in connection with the
Ministry, is the group of women (three
representing Labor, three non-Labor and
three members of Parliament), of whom
Mrs. Elliot is one. Now the girl who
travels, say, from the north to the Mid-
lands is not housed in barracks; she is
billeted. Then she must not be lonely,
so the National Association of Girls’
Clubs (Mrs. Elliot is the chairman) plays
its part. As 91 p.c. of the women of
England between the teens and 45 have
full-time jobs in industry, the work of
the clubs is very vital.
England used to be called the home of
the brave and the free; now its people
are content to be the brave and the
bound-to-be free, for everyone not infirm
or aged is bound to a job. A strange pic-
ture, like some macabre dream, is visual-
ised when the visitor to Australia tells
of the very deep air-raid shelters which
were built when the rocket bomb seemed
inevitable. Something like the early
Christians descending into the catacombs
sounds the journey to the bunks in the
bowels of the earth. White, almost glar-
ingly so, are the tunnel-like walls. The
place is spotlessly clean, air-conditioned,
and till ten o’clock brilliantly lit. Each
of these shelters houses eight thousand,
and each bay or compartment holds
about eighty people.
The bunks are three-tiered, and the
new-comer finds hers by the number on
her ticket. Each one brings his or her
own blankets. Up till ten radios chirp
merrily. At ten o’clock a penetrating
voice tells all it is time for bed. At half
past ten all lights are out, except blue
pilot lights. About six ip the morning
all depart. Then in come the army of
cleaners, for hygiene is essential. If
blankets are not clean the cleaners
have them sterilised, and when 100 p.c.
pure again they are replaced. A tribute
to the honesty of habitues is that blankets
are never stolen.
Like her husband Colonel Elliot, a
former Minister of Agriculture, Mrs.
Elliot loves the land. They own a sheep
farm just across the Scottish border from
England. Unbounded in her energy, this
splendid Englishwoman is determined to
see as much of Australia as she can. She
will visit all the capital cities, will do the
flying doctor trip, and will go to New-
castle. Wherever she goes she will gather
and glean facts about the youth of this
country, their education, their recreations,
their outlook on life, the sort of jobs
they want, the wages they get. And all
her knowledge she will take back to the
youth of England, who are burning with
curiosity about the boy and girl down
under. Manchester “Guardian” photo.
The Women’s Auxiliary of the R.A.S.
dispensed smiles and sherry from half-
past five onwards last Wednesday in the
Education Department’s Galleries.
Nearly every artist whose paintings were
on the walls disported himself,, if not
with Amaryllis, with the restored “Neme-
sis,” who glared moodily down from the
stage. R.A.S. president Howard Ashton
was there with Mrs. 'Ashton, and the
Henry Braddon lady, who is president of
the women’s committee, wore her frock
of sapphire silk prinked out with a knot
of pink hyacinth. With her were her
sister Mrs. Greenland and Mrs, Tom
Bateman.
Sydney Long was there and must have
overheard much praise of his fine works.
The Erik Langkers, Mrs. Salenger and
daughter Margaret (a very attractive pair)
and Mrs. Jessica Lee, with her pretty
daughter-in-law, artist Dora Toovey
(Mrs. Jimmy Jackson), were a few of the
many in the long rooms. Cards were five
shillings and allowed two sips of sherry
wine, plus sandwich and savory. Red
Cross benefits. Conning the walls a
ready reckoner blithely announced over
two thousand guineas’ worth of canvas
sold. It proves that during times of
stress, such as a five-year war, the human
mind swings to beauty.
The keepers of the portals of the Spirit
of France exhibition are Joan of Arc and
Cyrano de Bergerac. The figures of the
Maid of Orleans and the dashing Gascon
soldier of fortune have been sculped by
Dr. A. Fleischmann. A gripping display
consists of old documents and pictures
relating to the underground movement, the
brave ones who helped to bring about the
rebirth of their nation. That indeed
would have been a cause in which the
quick-witted Cyrano would have revelled.
Newspapermen and -women will handle
with something of awe the newspapers
brought out in deadly peril in the cellars
of France. Groups of dolls in the
national dress of the different provinces
help dress the exhibition, and later
will go to cheer sick little ones in French
hospitals. 'There will be a special show-
ing of paintings by French artists in the
National Gallery. French music will be
played at the Conservatorium, and there
will be radio plays and talks to the glory
of France throughout a fortnight. The
exhibition at the Blaxland Galleries was
opened last Monday by France’s Minister
Roger Monmayou.
From half-past one till a quarter to
five last Saturday afternoon the science-
starved could gorge to repletion. With a
peal of the carillon, the University fete
welcomed the visitor to medical school,
to chemistry department (where Bob
Hope wasn’t in it with fluorescence,
presented by Dr. Adrian Albert in Fun
With Fluorescence”). A thriller called
“Malaria, Public Enemy No. 1,” was
guaranteed to chill the marrow. The
W.A.N.S. backed their canteens into
Science-road and served tea. An organ
recital by Faunce Allman and a play m
the Union Hall by the Uni. Dramatic
Society were other delights.
Don’t forget the Women’s Land Army
Fair in Hyde Park next Saturday.
The British Maritime Royal Artillery
gunners have hung their clubroom on
Schnapper Island with pictures of the
King and Queen. Lady Wakehurst pre-
sented them when she visited their quar-
ters last week, in company with members
of the Victoria League’s hospitality com-
mittee. The portraits were the girt or
the V.L. Captain Peter Casson, officer
commanding the base, received the visi-
tors, and to Gunner Thomas Wilson was
given the pleasant task of handing flowers
to Lady Wakehurst.


CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
w
CVanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Si :« BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
mm
m
iiii
f»ij
mM
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
STRONGER... L I C HTER ...LONGER LASTING
'ioMe
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
TRAVEL
'V
r
3r
( / i\i la\»>/'
“i
T*
r,
*VS
V^A
' \
Doesn’t anybody care
about the man on the land
Too right we do —at Eveready, “Oh, yes?”—
says the man on the land. “Well, why was I
done out of the invasion news? And all our
favourite radio programmes, too, because we
couldn’t get a new set of batteries at any price?”
That’s been giving us at Eveready more than
a few grey hairs, because your goodwill is going
to be all-important to us after the war. It only
stands to reason that we’d do all in our power
to keep that goodwill, doesn’t it?
But, war orders poured in on us. We’ve
been making batteries for everything from
walkie-talkies to mine-detectors.
Now, here's the good news/
We’re catching up on the
terrific pressure of war
orders, but we’re not slop-
ping for breath. We’re con-
tinuing flat-out to try and
catch up on civilian needs . ..
and we know that the civilian
battery that is most urgently
needed is the radio battery
for the man on the land.
But, don’t forget that even
after the batteries leave our
factory there may be delays
in transport, and that’s some-
thing over which w.j have no
control. _
Believe us—we’re going flat-
out!
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
EVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SOMOKE-OH!
Do you know how to re-make an old suit ot
your husband’s into a smart costume?”
— “Woman.”
Some husbands’ suits have even pro-
duced a fur coat.
•b *i• •b *b
“North Sydney Mayor Fowle said he wouldn’t
keep chickens in a ‘sleep-out.’ ”
—Sunday “Sun ”
’Course not; Mum always takes ’em
under her feathers,
•b *b *b *b
“Two Black Ladies’ Umbrellas. Call even-
ing.”—“S.M.H.” For Sale ad.
Presumably the gamps matched their
complexions.
•b *b *b *b
It’s very regrettable when you have to
pay ceiling prices to get plastered.
* *b *b *b
Current Affairs.
“Laughing at his previous vows, the local
electrician had jilted her in favor of a girl
called Mary.” —Magazine story.
’Twas quite a shock to be misled
And learn how love can vary;
The wretch made light of all he said,
And switched his love to Mary!
Nat.
•b *b *b *b
“Melbourne Town Hall to be air-conditioned
after the war.”
This will give the chairs something to
squeak about.
•J#
The Mirror up to Nature.
“Horror-film actor Bela Lugosi is being sued
for divorce by his wife, who alleges he is a
‘cruel, inhuman monster.’ ”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
This infection of home life by the role
of the moment is liable to afflict all of us
great stars. In the days of my promin-
ence in our local dramatic society I too
suffered from it. My wife suffered even
more.
It wasn’t so bad whetf I was play-
ing Falstaff —while the beer lasted. When
it ran out I devoted myself enthusiasti-
cally to a search for the old-fashioned
sack, and finally got it from the foreman
at work. My wife found more to corn-
plain, of in my moody muttering around
the house and my habit of suddenly
plunging a tableknife through the lounge
curtains, crying “A rat!” or words to
that effect. This was when we were
doing “Hamlet.”
Inconvenience of a different kind
struck our lovenest when I was playing
D’Artagnan in “The Three Musketeers.”
My extravagant gestures caused heavy
casualties among the domestic bric-a-
brac, and an unfortunate habit I de-
veloped of running harmless visitors
through the vitals with a curtain-rod
caused us to be socially ostracised for
quite a while.
Finally, there came a time when the
missus could stand no more. She fled
panic-stricken up the stairs to pack three-
fifths of a second after I arrived home
with the news that my next starring role
was to be Othello.
Plum.
4* 4* * ,
“Don’t let either your mind or your looks go
into a slump.” —Weekly paper.
It’s so apt to produce depression.
*!•
“A Fremantle (W.A.) tramwayman was fined
two pounds for keeping a pig in his bathroom.”
— “World’s News.”
He should have put it in a smoking
compartment.
4* 4* 4* *
“At such times many mothers are apt to
talk too much and to interfere, but Pearl kept
silent.” —Short story.
Pearl was the oyster type.
4* 4* •I* 4*
“Other diseases for which rates were respon-
sible were Weil’s disease, food poisoning and
rat-bite fever.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Also enlargement of the gall.
•i* *2*
“Exchange Week-end Block for Piano or
Circular Saw and Engine.” —Melbourne “Age.”
Knowing the eldest daughter’s capacity
as a pianist, the neighbors are hoping
against hope that it will be the circular
saw.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was standing outside the hotel, staring
with an expression of incredulous amazement.”
—Short story.
Bung hadn’t sold him a bottle of wine
at the correct price, surely!
•J*
“Woman’s corsets are too expensive.”
— Woman’s paper.
Yet they are waist products!
+ 4* + +
Pennies from Heaven.
“When heavy rain fell at Randwick several
bookmakers wore two overcoats.”
—Sunday paper.
An oft-told tale. When hairy goats
(Or mudlarks ) heat the certs,
Some bookies wear two overcoats
While punters lose their shirts!
P. M.
4* 4* # 4* 4*
Among Our Civic Dignitaries.
It had started off in a small way.
Alderman Thrust, Mayor of Giggle-
more, had bet Alderman Broodie, Mayor
of Bumbleton, that there would be found
in any given week more dead cats in the
abandoned slit trenches in the parks of
his municipality than in those of his
suburban rival. Mayor Broodie lost by
eighteen furamies, and, as forfeit, had to
give a banquet to the street-sweepers and
wait on them personally while dressed in
red Turkey twill drawers, football boots
and an old lady’s bonnet. It was also
stipulated that he had to wear boxing
gloves while bringing in the plates.
Out for revenge, Aid. Broodie bet Aid.
Thrust that the length of the plaits of
all the Girl Guides and Brownies in his
(Aid Broodie’s) suburb would, if put end
ifaTto ndj handleless b*e down .he
steps of his own Town Ha
in a 1904-style neck-to-knee costume an
a stove-pipe hat and smoking three cigars
simultaneously, after which he had to
jitterbug on the footpath with the fattest
lady ratepayer offering.
Things warmed up in the next wager,
which was to settle the burning question
as to which municipality could boast the
greater area of footpaths across which
the paspalum actually met. Again Aid.
Thrust ran second. This time he had to
submit to being put in the stocks so that
the small boys of both municipalities
might pelt him with stink bombs and old
eggs (if any available), and have his
moustache soaked in treacle.
The defeat spurred on Aid. Thrust,
Rivalry was red-hot in the inter-munici-
pal Ugly Men’s Competition, and Giggle-
more’s civic fathers put everything they
had into it. On the day after the an-
orange zoot suit and a diver’s helmet
holding the papier-mache bottle with
wb i cb he was to crown his opposite
num h e r, who was to appear standing up
on a donkey, dressed in a shroud and
holding a lily in one hand and playing
“Mairzy Boats” on a tin whistle,
Suddenly there was a stir among the
vast concourse attending as Aid. Broodie
arrived dressed in an ordinary grey sac
suit. Aid. Thrust could hardly believe
his eyes. “What’s the game?” he asked,
obviously hurt.
Aid. Broodie looked arch. “Well. I
got the office that ‘Granny’ and the ‘Daily
Yellergraph’ aren’t sending any reporters
or photographers today,” he said. “What’s
the use of us making clowns of ourselves
without them being here?”
80.
Reversal.
■ “Seeking a divorce, the wife of a wild-animal
trainer is asking for the custody of their twin
sons, three elephants and a horse.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Once, when he’d got the lions fed
And put the elephants to bed
After an uneventful day,
One can assume the man would say
Good-bye to the menagerie
And go home to his family.
But now, suppose the lady wins
The custody of both the twins.
And by an odd judicial whim
The fauna are assigned to him,
He’ll bid the family adieu
And go home, this time, to his zoo.
P. M. LUSK.


JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Troubles of a Country Bung
The Bulletin reckons the Trade
should reform from within. I own and
run a small hills hotel a few miles from
Adelaide, and would gladly do some
reforming if the fool licensing laws would
allow me.
They specify that I may keep open
from 5 a.m. until 6 p.m. A number of
workers in a local factory are picked up
on my verandah at 7 a.m. or thereabouts.
Some go in to munition works at an
earlier hour. If I opened at five in the
summer it is pretty certain that some of
these people would be late for work or
wouldn’t get there at all. In the winter
when some men can helpfully start the
day with a hot rum and coffee it is a
different matter, but rum is practically
unprocurable now save on the black
market.
Even without “daylight saving” it is
far too light at six o’clock in the summer
for men working on the land or hurrying
home to cultivate their gardens, as these
sturdy country folk do, even after a hard
day’s work in the factory, to waste the
hours of daylight. When they can knock
off and feel like a well-deserved drink
the pub perforce is closed.
Old hands speak wistfully of the time
when they could meet their pals and yarn
over a drink or two or play a friendly
game of cards o’ nights. Then the little
country pub really fulfilled its mission in
the life of the community as the work-
ing man’s club.
Beer should be drunk leisurely and in
good company, as it was meant to be, not
swilled in a six-o’clock rush. Rationalise
hotel hours and let the pubs be open
when people are at leisure to use them
—not when they are at work and before
they are at work—and many of the
“evils of drink” will disappear.—L. V. G.
(S.A.),
Welcome the Tommies!
The publicity given to the establish-
ment of an entertainment centre in Syd-
ney for the benefit of British troops has
excited* the interest of all who served with
the Tommies in this war.
I was with an Aussie sub-unit which
for several months was attached to the
Seventh Armored Division. The Eleventh
Hussars were the scouts for the Divvy
while we were there—splendid chaps
whose spirit and wry humor live in my
memory. Once when we were huddled
together on a rocky ridge in no-mans
land, with two anti-tank guns mountec
on trucks and three armored cars, 1.
had just started off on guard with
a Tommy when we heard from the lee
of the nearest car a muttered “There’s a
damn’ great rock under me hip, choom.”
A short silence, then “But never mind,
I’ll wear it down before morning.”
That is typical of the Tommy, and I
nope that when he arrives in large num-
bers the Australian people will take him
into their homes and hearts, as he so
richly deserves.— Robby (A.1.F.).
Allowance to Mother
The Australian army cannot be proud
of its treatment of soldiers’ widowed
mothers.
A soldier upon joining, unless married
or having a father living, has to declare
whether his mother is dependent on
him partially or otherwise. If his
mother is partially dependent on him he
is told that a representative of the D.F.O.
v- ill call upon her to ascertain her means.
' r mother owns her house, notwith-
standing she has no income, she gets
nothing. By virtue of owning the house
she is deemed to “possess” 30s. a week!
J II eat my hat if anyone can tell me how
hn owner of a house, with no income,
possesses"’ 30s. a week income by virtue
-i the privilege of paying rates and taxes.
That s not all. If there is a daughter
yarning a few quid a week and paying
oard this is also deemed to be an in-
come to the widowed mother, though the
Usual daughter’s board is barely sufficient
jn lots of cases it is too little) to main-
tain her, let alone represent “income” to
--er mother. The same applies to younger
ons who are earning insufficient to keep
memselves. A widowed mother with a
mall theoretical income from a son or
daughter usually gets no army allowance.
\iru erent status is given to wives.
Vnether the husband is a general, a
ẁ
“Kin y’ plough?”
General Exhibition” across 90 p.c. of
the stuff served as entertainment that
the unsuitability of so-called children’s
films passes unnoticed. Is it unpractical
to suggest that there would be enough
grateful parents in every city to make
possible a Children’s Theatre that would
purvey the right type of films for
children? — Kina (Q.).
Cause of Small Families
A Gallup poll has shown, if these things
really can show anything, that the Child
Endowment scheme isn’t likely to help
Australia’s declining birthrate. Obviously,
five bob a week isn’t sufficient induce-
ment. I don’t think the Russian idea of
doling out medals would have any effect
on Aussie women either, and Hitler's
method of ordering them to “do their
duty” would fall just as flat. The word
“obedience” long since passed out of the
Australian dictionary. '
It’s no use bemoaning the lack of
“maternal instinct.” That instinct can
be satisfied with one child and is smugly
content with two. The fact is that women
decline to return to the days of big fami-
lies and endless drudgery. So many
women have worked by the clock, sat
down to meals that other people have
cooked and gone off leaving the dishes
to somebody else, that now they won’t
face up to the task of slaving all the year
round again.
The institution of “visiting house-
keepers” or a pool of domestic help, sub-
sidised by the Government, might ease
the situation. The woman with the large
family has to rely day by day and year
by year, in sickness and in health, on
the one pair of hands to do everything.
If once every 12 months she could hand
her family over to some competent charge
and go off serenely for a fortnight to
some rest home where she could sit down
and be waited on —and really rest—she
would return to her family revitalised.
Perhaps some day someone with the right
ideas will be clever enough to work out
a practical plan on these lines. — Waltz-
ing Matilda (S.A.).
Trade-unions and Their Aims
At last there seems to be some recog-
nition of the fact that industrial union-
ism has been on the wrong track. The
average man, if left alone, is willing to
do a decent day’s work, but for many
years he has not been allowed to decide
for himself how much he shall do. The
pace of the slowest has been the en-
forced standard for all, and Australians
(particularly the wage-earners) have
suffered great loss of wealth as a result.
It has paid good political dividends to
hold up the wage-payer as a money-
grabbing exploiter, and years of vote-
catching propaganda have made a class
division between workers and employers
which poisons every activity in public
life. Even the war hasn’t been a big
enough issue to break down the bitter-
ness.
There is nothing wrong with unionism
when it functions correctly, but Labor
should recognise that the vast majority of
Australians believe in private enterprise,
with adequate safeguards for employees ;
that to restrict production hurts the
worker most and that most strikes are
vicious and unmoral.
Industrial labor needs a new charter.
This should include divorce from poli-
tics ; no denial of union membership to
genuine tradesmen ; old-age, sickness and
unemployment benefits and, where prac-
ticable, the financing of co-operative
enterprises in which the workers would
reap the full benefit of their industry.—
A. C. Julian (Q.).
Fruitgrowers’ Problems
Apple- and pear-growers in Tasmania
are wondering how their industry will
fare when the war is over. Through
shipping difficulties their export markets
were lost to them for the duration, and
the Commonwealth Government came to
their aid with the acquisition scheme.
Before war broke out many growers
had taken the safer course of selling
their crops ahead to merchants, but were
not completely happy about this method,
as buyers would only do business months
in advance of crop maturity at very low
prices. The alternative was to consign to
agents at markets and trust to luck.
Are we to return to this? Surely some
better system of marketing can be found
for us.
Fruit-growing is a favorable means of
closer settlement, and supports many
good people—for growers are, in the
main, strong individualists who take
great pride in their crops. An orchardist
usually considers his fruit better than his
neighbor’s when he comes to pick it.
Grateful as he has been for the
acquisition scheme, the fruitgrower has
hated producing an unwanted crop. His
farmer friends have often jeered at him
for being a burden on the taxpayer: but
he has known that that was the price of
shipping space for their potatoes, wool
and mutton, and while their industries
are flourishing his will have to be recon-
structed. —J. (Tas.).
Niemeyer
When Sir Otto came to this country
and gave us “excellent advice” (B.
13/9/ *44) I, like many other young Aus-
tralians of that period, had just left
school. After waiting my turn in endless
job queues and squandering much boot
leather on the streets of Melbourne, I
hoisted Matilda and made for the bush.
My first job consisted in loading por-
tion of a perfectly good apple crop on
a cart and conveying as much of it as
could be so used to adjacent pig-farms.
The balance was ploughed in.
Next I assisted a neighbor to plough-in
his potato crop ; perfect, but unmarket-
able at a profit. City or country, where-
ever I strayed, there was no dearth of
production or the fruits thereof.
I have often wished Sir Otto could have
accompanied me on my unwilling pil-
grimage. It would have been a pleasure
to introduce him to fellow-beings, ranging
from laborers to university graduates,
who camped with me under bridges and
in recreation-ground pavilions.
The problem we faced at the time Sir
Otto favored us with a visit we shall un-
doubtedly face again unless our economic
system is overhauled and attention is
focussed on methods of ensuring con-
sumption and adequate distribution of
purchasing power. —A. G. A. (Vic.).
Sydney’s Manners
I salute “Bo” (B. 6/9/’44). For a
Sydneysider to describe so openly and
accurately the turmoil associated with
boarding Sydney’s public conveyances at
rush hour is to claim a place with cru-
saders, or missionaries among cannibals.
In my few visits to the Harbor City
I’ve seen women and children, old men
and cripples, jostled and battered in the
savage rush for places on trains, trams
and ferries. I saw a four-year-old tot
hustled away from its mother and left on
the street crying bitterly while the mother,
struggling frantically to get off the tram
again, was carfied on, wedged in by citi-
zens whose callous indifference would
disgrace a Dyak headhunter. — James W.
(Q - _____
A.B.C. Programmes
Why are A.B.C. programmes so un-
Australian in flavor? At a low estimate
50 per cent, is made up of imported
records. Why should local talent be
passed over for this stuff? In W.A. we
are given a morning “session” of Aus-
tralian music, and the announcer intro-
duces it apologetically.
Australian talent is as good as the best.
It is pleasing to listen to amateur trials,
and these might with advantage be en-
couraged as a means of discovering
talent. — MacF. (W.A.).
Treatment of Aboriginals
The union contention that aboriginal
workers in sub-tropical Australia should
get the award rates paid to white
workers does not appeal to those with
experience of aboriginal life and of the
mentality of these people,
I spent some time on the De Grey,
North Westralia. The aboriginals there
are willing workers. The men, under the
manager and a couple of jackeroos, did
all the station work with the fences and
the stock. The women are trained in
housework, and five gins did the work of
the homestead. The gins were merry,
good-natured creatures; their food was
abundant while at the homestead, and
there was plenty to take away to the
camps near by. Neck-to-knee uniforms,
“Jinna-jin’nas,” were provided, and a
bathroom for their use near the laundry.
On laundry days six or seven would
come to assist.
Instead of cash, ample supplies of sugar,
flour, meat, jam and especially honey
were provided. The men were issued jean
shirts and trousers. These people were
not exploited. They couldn’t be, for if
they didn’t like the conditions the whole
tribe would migrate in a night to some
distant camp.
As a sane alternative to equal wages,
which would certainly lead to intemper-
ance, the Government should establish
abo. settlements in suitable areas. The
abo. chiefs need neither police nor courts
to enable them to keep order and a most
effective discipline. The men and women
from such enclosures might be hired out
to settlers willing to contribute an equiva-
lent for wages in foodstuffs and clothing.
No whites, save one or two accredited
agents through whom hiring might be
arranged, should be allowed to enter the
enclosure.
The mission stations at .Beagle Bay and
Sunday Island furnish examples of per-
fect management of the aboriginals. The
natives are taught farming, and at Beagle
Bay they built the best schooner on the
coast; they also built their own luggers
and fishing canoes. Any move to bring
these fine native peoples, with an ideol-
ogy and a civilisation thousands of years
apart from our own, into a world such
as the present will be nothing short of
cruelty.— Chloe (N.S.W.).


mm
m\
r
ms
m
/-
m
idO
r~ i ‘1 —-f 1
! I i
JaUK
' I
m
m
S
mm
JEARED FOR AUSTRALIA'S
Mechanical Needs...
/N PEACE A A/D WAR
■
: 'V;
CHARLE
DESIGNING MANUFACTURING MININ
£ STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
nr.
no.
VICTORIA ST RICHMOND. VICTORIA
