

o i
The Bulletin
Bulletin,”
Vol. 65—No. 3366
Wednesday, August 16, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
THE LAND’S END: ANCIENT BOLERIAM.
CTOMEWHERE near by, legend says, King Arthur’s “Last battle
the West” took place. These sixty feet granite cliffs mark
the most westerly point of the island of Great Britain. The local
township of Sennem for a long time made sentimental claims to
possessing the last house in England, the last shop, the last inn.
For years Sennem’s “First and Last” Inn was actually the last on
the island, and there is a legend that beneath its floors was a
great vault in which the smugglers of other years were wont to
dump brandy on which excise formalities had not been
observed. A modern hostelry has been erected, and now
“The Land’s End” Hotel may more correctly claim to be
the last house on the island. Detached rocks at the Land’s
End include the Armed Knight to the south and the Irish Lady
to the north, while farther out is the rock of Cam Bras, on which
stands Longships lighthouse with its occulting beacon visible for
sixteen miles. ' v -


Learn '
Story
Writing
at HOWL
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your Pew Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, &
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin"
Uy Same
My Address
SB. 244 AGE
The Red Page
THE MEANING OF HUMOR.
The twelve short stories of Brian
James’s First Furrow (Clarendon Pub*
iishing Co., Sydney) give the impression
that they were written in a special kind
of ink. Not the watery red of the re
tormists; not the commonplace blue-
black ; not the green of fine-writing ; but
the good rich brown of humor that might
be the blood of the earth.
In the first story, “Bungally,” Tully
and his two boys are breaking their hearts
clearing the scrub on sandstone country.
Fhcy’d never make tucker, they said, on
the job. They’d starve on it. But Tully
was afraid of the laws of contract.
Henry, the elder boy, was more enterpris-
He broke out in boils, big painful
bods He grew quite affectionate towards
the boils, particularly towards a livid
specimen under his arm. It grew septic,
and his heart rejoiced in the pain of it
and the danger of it. It was better than
bungally. Besides, his mother and the
girls were at home alone. It wasn’t right
that they should be alone, and they should
know about that boil and have the chance
of tending it. So Henry went home and
stayed there, sending reports from time to
time of new and more terrible boils.
Meeting Henry, his boils and the bung-
ally, one is suddenly back with Henry
Lawson, and Lawson at his best. The old
ruthless Australian humor, the comedy
of the conquest of the land: dry, a bit
crude, earthy and valiant.
The land is maddening. Its immensity
and its obstinacy drive the laborer to
frenzy. It is not a little difficulty to weep
at; it is a struggle so vast that, short of
running amuck with Tully, all the Aus-
tralian mind can do is to collapse in
gigantic laughter.
J us j then Tully appeared near a
smouldering heap of roots. It had been a
very big fire, and the ring of coal and ash
covered a wide area. Tully walked to the
edge of the ring, and then away to gather
an armful of the small roots scattered
round. He lifted these above his head and
threw them savagely into the centre. Then
he rushed into the hot coals and kicked
the new fuel out. He danced around the
hre and through it, and kicked charred
skulls of bungally in, and then kicked them
out again. At last he stopped and raised
clenched fists to the heavens, and the flood-
gates of his wrath were broken. He cursed
the bungally and the land it grew on and
the sky above it. He cursed Henry for v
getting boils. He cursed every soul that
lived in such a district. He cursed the
blacks who once owned the country (but,
in fairness to them, he conceded that they
were more decent than the “cows” who
owned it now). Then he cursed .the an-
cestors of all concerned.
It was a great performance, especially so
as Tully had the reputation of 'being a
religious man.
There is nothing very brilliant about this
particular quotation from Brian James.
It is not wildly funny. But it is certainly
pleasant.
And that, when you come to consider
it, is odd. Here is Tully in a frenzy, and
he is amusing; here is all the heart-
breaking stubbornness of the Australian
earth and one feels that Brian James-
even Tully, perhaps—is somehow proud
of that stubbornness, and pleased with it;
here is a great cursing of Australia, and
the cursing is an assurance that both Tully
and the author love their country.
It is the humor that makes the frenzy
pleasing; humor that reconciles the Aus-
tralian mind to the mulishness of the Aus-
tralian earth.
And that is the great task and purpose
of humor—reconciliation. In The Art
of Growing Old, recently reviewed here,
John Cowper Powys had some words to
say on that subject:
It almost looks as if to Rabelais and
Cervantes and Dickens, as to certain
Chinese philosophers, the secret of life was
to be discovered in a certain quality in
matter itself which were difficult not to
call a humorous one The author of
Don Quixote out of the riches of his
crowded experience and out of his genius
for profound observation disclosed once
for all the startling revelation that the
true reality of life is the humor of life.
Powys would probably be prepared to
maintain that the Australian bush is a
natural clown ; if there is a quality of
humor “in matter itself,” Tully’s bung-
ally roots were probably doubled up and
twisted not with malice or mere obsti-
nacy, but with uproarious secret laughter
As Powys admits, the point is difficult to
prove.
But it does remain true, as he says
that the reality of life is the humor of
hie. The reader laughs at Tully’s frenzy
as the old scrubcutter himself would prob-
ably laugh ten years afterwards. It is the
essence of experience Brian James is pre-
senting ; not the immediate anguish but
(he ultimate delight.
Inevitably, his humor appears ruthless
Just as Henry Lawson laughed at a dog
‘loaded” with dynamite or at a woman
stung by bees, as Steele Rudd laughed at
the troubles of selectors and Tom Collins
at (he woes of bullockies, Brian James
aughs at scrubcutters afflicted with boils
or bungally. Ruthlcssness^—the divin
inhumanity that makes people laugh
men falling off ladders in joke-blocks o
at custard-pic comedy at the theatres—
his most striking characteristic.
In “The Well,” as in “Bungally,” th
joke is in the stubbornness and malice o
the land. On the advice of a neighbo
called Wiseman (whose wife’s uncle hac
been a noted water-diviner) a well is sun
on top of a ridge. When it is proved
useless, Wiseman kindly offers to fill it
again:
Wiseman took his time over the filling
m. In fact, he took two years over it, and
tound the well a very useful receptacle
for many unwanted things. First he tipped
in some drayloads of old tins, bottles and
other rubbish that had littered his place for
years. Then the well proved ideal for dis-
posing of windfalls and fly-infested fruit.
Drayloads of oranges and mandarins were
tipped in. When Dandie died he tipped
in that faithful old plough-horse, too. At
long last he could dump no more, and only
a rough cairn of broken rock was left to
show where the well had been.
In the title story, the comedy come
from the simple ill-will of neighbor to
wards neighbor ; also from Davie and hi
ants;
Down the slope, in another jagged hole
in the scrub, was Davie —clearing on con-
tract. A great worker, but with a weak-
ness for ants. Davie always had a pickle
bottle for staging heroic contests between
red-joes and black-joes—or either of these
against twice their number of road ants.
In “Hawkins’ Pigs” the farmhands
manage accidentally to poison all the pigs
while the boss is away.
Davie looked out, and his eyes goggled.
Many excited moment's passed in convinc-
ing himself that he was really seeing what
he saw. Then at last he yelled “Brid!
Brid! Come and look!”
Brid came. What they gazed upon left
them too terror-stricken to gather the joy
that the sight should have brought to them.
Everywhere pigs. Dead pigs. Unmistak-
ably dead. The lordly boar lay beneath the
very window, looking twice as large in
death. Near by was the Appin sow, if
possible more hideous in her mortality.
Scattered to left and right were pigs. All
the pigs, and all dead.
David could speak only in whispers now.
He felt that the hand of the Lord had
smitten them. A miracle of some sort.
Only the fear of Hawkins made him sorry
it had happened.
This is a scene that Fielding would have
liked. In fact, it might well be the goriest
bit of humor since the bucket of pig’s blood
was thrown in Joseph Andrews. Within
the limits of the short story (necessarily
a minor art) it is Homeric. Only a writer
who looks on life with a true and great
gusto would be capable of presenting
such a spectacle. It’s interesting to
observe that Brian James krfew he was
being Homeric in this scene: the “lordly”
boar is as clearly an echo from Homer
as are Fielding’s parodies of the Homeric
simile.
And it’s also worth noting that this up-
roarious ruthlessness is something that
has become distinctively Australian. It’s
a tough humor. It seemed to go out
of the English novel after Fielding;
America got a taste of it from Mark
Twain; Lawson and Steele Rudd and
Tom Collins brought it to Australia and
made it our own. Eve Langley continued
the tradition in The Pea Pickers. It
is in Norman Lindsay’s novels. Our
earth is hard ; our humor is hard. It
does seem that Powys may have been
right when he said that there is a quality
of humor in matter itself; certainly our
tough, hard humor corresponds to some-
thing tough and hard in the soil.
Brian James’s “hardness” is really as-
tounding. The most priceless moment
in “River Odyssey” (a lovely sketch) is
when the “crew,” having fallen overboard
and been in great danger of drowning, is
casually rescued:
He spluttered and panted and was sick —
which Monty said was “only natural.”
In “Joe and Sandy” there is humor—
and genuine humor —in the deaths of two
ancients, one aged 98 and the other 92.
In “Uncle’s Career,” which deals with
Uncle’s death, there is humor—and genu-
ine humor—in the fact that his widow
still remembers unrelentingly certain
small grievances from the first days of
their marriage.
There is even something daringly close
to humor at the most critical moment in
the tragedy of “Brosie.” A small boy
has been drowned in a dam. The mother
discovers the body:
She looked all round about —and then
she ran frantically to the waterhole.
Brosie was there sure enough. Dead,
in less than a foot of muddy water A
level bough from the grey gum ran out
over the waterhole, a thin, low bough,
and halfway along it was a wagtail’s nest. •
That perhaps accounted. .. But what was
the use? What did it matter now! Brosie
was gone.
This is a moment of the starkest
tragedy (which later, when the mother
goes mad and steals a neighbor’s child
to replace the drowned baby, becomes
extraordinarily moving). Nevertheless
something that if not exactly humor is
certainly very human must be allowed
its place—“ That perhaps accounted ~
Even at that crisis of tragedy the mother'
grief and shock are mitigated for
moment by ordinary human curiosity
She wants to know how her child was
drowned, why he was drowned. The fac
of the death shatters her with grief, one
is left in no doubt about that; yet, be
cause she is human and humanity has an
indefatigable curiosity, she must allow
commonplace interest in the mechanism
of the death to intrude on the flawless ness
of ;the tragedy. For a moment, though
only for a moment here, the event is not
completely tragic; it is interesting, it is
almost entertaining.
This is, in principle, the Drunken
Porter coming in to relieve the tragedy
of “Macbeth.” The author reminds us
just for a moment, that tragedy is not
finally tragic. Humanity can bear its
griefs. The interruption can be only
momentary, or it will spoil the tragedy. 11
the sun breaks through the clouds for
more than a second or two there’s no
more drama in a thunderstorm.
Brian James has handled the scene
perfectly. There is just that moment in
which the mother becomes intensely
human —and when one sees that she
could, if her love of life was stronger
than her love for her child, conquer her
grief—then the clouds close round her
again. The outlook on life which has
enabled Brian James to write good
comedy enables him also to handle
tragedy with perfect good taste; he can
strike the mind with awe.
And that, of course, is the proper
and only use of tragedy. Sentimentality
or depression has no place in it. As
Matthew Arnold knew, tragedy brings
delight. Its purpose is to awe the mind
into the realisation that man is more than
man ; he is under or with the gods.
And comedy, too, though it may seem
paradoxical to say so, has a spiritual sig-
nificance. The purpose of humor is to
reconcile man to life on this earth as a
passing comedy in which he is not finally
involved ; to remind him that he might
as well enjoy being man while he has to
be. Because he views life as a passing
show-looking, as it were, from timcless-
ness into time —the humorist appears
ruthless: especially in an age in which
the sentimental materialism of the Left is
the fashion. But his ruthlessness is to be
deplored only if it is somehow repre-
hensible to love life as it is and people as
they are. What better service can you
do mankind than to make it laugh?
The humorist is the true lover of
humanity to whom Henry and his boils,
the “crew” who falls overboard, the young
couple building their love-nest and then
tearing it down again after a quarrel with
the mother-in-law, old Jacob escaping
from his wife Elizabeth and getting
gently drunk with his friend Herman are
all infinitely precious, all richly and
pathetically human, and all, in the last
analysis, comic. The humorist is the
true lover of life to whom not only the
graceful landscapes of Summerlea are
precious, but also the stubborn bungally,
the rotten windfalls Wiseman tips down
the well and the boar lordly in death.
Cervantes, Fielding, Dickens, the great
names of prose literature are the names
of the great humorists. They survive be-
cause they looked on the life of their times
with timeless eyes. It would be making
altogether too much of a little book of
twelve stories to compare Brian James
with these masters. His first three stories,
too, are curiously faulty in that the
characters are not described; they seem
to walk in from nowhere, or perhaps
from the manuscript of a novel. But
this much can be said: on the evidence
of First Furrow as a whole and of the
many other delightful stories he has
written for The Bulletin (notably “The
Scandal of Cookabundy Bridge”) there is
nothing to stop him doing as well as
any prose humorist who ever lived. He
should obviously be writing novels.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F,S.”; The extraordinary outbreak of
art in factories, workshops and other un-
expected places in Melbourne might be
a good thing if the people responsible
for the movement weren’t going about it
in the wrong way. Citizens of tonnage
offer prizes, gallery directors rush along
as judges, lud mayors and similar art
experts open the shows and the dailies
trot out appreciations which would be
more than adequate if the exhibitors were
Velasquez, Titian and Rembrandt. And
what is it all about? Not one out of
100 of the exhibitors has even the dim-
mest notion of what the problem of paint-
ing is, and if they did they haven’t the
technique to express it. What the inci-
pient artists need is to learn painting and
not to hang their work in exhibitions.
George Colville applies his popular
formula to a series of charming land-
scapes at the Velasquez Galleries, Mel-
bourne. He is less suave and more
excited when he tries to record the con
fusion of movement and light in boat!
dancing on sun-splashed waters by th f
sides of wharves and jetties, and in on
or two of these pictures he gets a great
measure of the feeling. An affection for
autumnal poplars seems to be the distin.
guishing characteristic of L. P, Curtis
water-colors and drawings at Kozinin.
skys Galleries, Melbourne. The f re
quency with which this vegetable appears
in his pictures is equalled only by the
numbers of donkeys in a show of Spanish
etchings by Lionel Lindsay. Artistically
the show wouldn’t hurt anybody’s feel
mgs.
A good exhibition in Adelaide is that
of Howie at the Society of Arts gallerv
The veteran head of the School of Arts
and Crafts (now retired, and succeeded
by Goodchild) has been a tireless worker
at the easel, not well enough known. His
landscapes now shown go as far afield as
Capetown, but are mainly of S.A. scenes.
They have a clean finish and a strongly
distinctive touch, and are selling rapidly,
“A.W.”: Somebody said of William
Dobell’s show at David Jones’s new gal-
that with Dobell the sub-
ject “becomes the main reason and sole
inspiration.” It would be more discreet
to say that any subject Dobell attacks
becomes Dobellian. He has an individu-
ality of outlook, of treatment and of style
unprecedented in the history of Austra-
lian art, and his artistry is undoubted
Such little pieces as “Red Gate,” “The
Dirt Cart” and “The Little Milliner” have
a rare air of distinction, and when the
instinct to be Puckish and grotesque is
restrained, as in “Sleeping Greek” and
the portrait of Norman Schureck, a capa-
city for sincere and understanding por-
traiture is disclosed,
John B. Godson, so many of whose
years in Sydney have been spent as a
teacher of art at East Sydney Technical
College—a school whose art department
has always been notable—has a show of
his own work at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries. A good all-rounder, at home in
oils or water-color, in portraiture, land-
scape or seascape, he exhibits sensitive
color-sense, good drawing and a nice
judgment of values.
After the Borovansky ballet, Sydney
Royal descended to ' a revival of
“Katinka.” Methods for reviving the
obviously drowned include the singing
of Gladys Moncrieff, bright costumes and
sets, the spectacular dancing of Karinski
and Vadie and topical wisecracks by Don
Nicol.
“Tonsi”: Even if the orchestra for the
Borovansky ballet was weak, Sydney was
lucky to have it. Two pianos—well
played, it’s true —were all that was pro-
vided for the successful Hobart season.
At the talkies:
A s in “The Gentle Sex,” the oast of “Cry
Havoc ’ (Sydney St. James) is an all-feminine
one. But whereas in his production Leslie
Howard concentrated on a series of character
cameos, Metro studios have underlined the
story, which has to do with a scratch team of
amateur first-aiders who volunteer to help three
regular army nurses in the last days before
Bataan was overwhelmed. The attempts to carry
on with makeshift gear are done with realism
and heroics are played down.
The innumerable improbabilities in “Texas
to Tokio” (Civic) are muscled aside every few
feet for interludes of melodrama. The daddy
of these is the hero’s effort in taking off from
Tokyo, where he has been doing a spot of
pseudo-Quisling talk, in a Jap dive-bomber,
donging the pilot, summoning up by radio his
old squadron and obligingly crashing in flames
on the deck of a Jap carrier and. of course,
Jiving long enough to see his old pals com-
plete the destruction.
“Les Folies Bergeres” continues
Bourke-street, if not Parisian, traditions
at Melbourne Tiv. Edwin Styles plays
his jew’s-harp, tin whfstle and match-
box with as much goodwill as in more
exalted surroundings he plays Bernard
Shaw, The Kelroys bounce themselves
for a living, and George Wallace keeps
the pot of laughter bubbling. Sydney
Tiv., staging “Artists and Models,” has
Mo as the alcoholic colonel of a tropical
unit —as usual, he is hardly a model, but
always an artist. George Hurd juggles,
Eddie Gordon rides his bike, Joy Nichols
impersonates and Bertini elegantly bows
his violin with a banana and a stiff collar.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121st Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE'
BE PREPARED. ..
Keep a First-Aid Kit Handy
I
a*
& jA®
C#
0°
•V-
- 0% <3©^
J c '
np'
<vP
0 0 -^
x> %
v-
s-°
0°
(jp
v»
V>
Don't deem a First-Aid Kit a luxury—it is a real neces-
sity! In the home, factory, workshop, shearing shed,
office —and out hiking—a First-Aid Kit will always
have its uses. How best to treat a snake-bite is in the
instruction book. Buy a First-Aid Kit now you will
never regret it!
mr
No. 25 FIRST-AID CASE
For the Motorist. Size, in. x 8 in. x
If- in. Compressed fibre. Price, 10/6
Contents: Bandages, Tape, Adhesive
Germicide, Sal Volatile, Kuraburn "Sanax”
Solution, "Sanax" First-Aid Dressings, "Sanax"
Ache Tablets, Absorbent Cotton and Gauze,
Safety Pins.
SNAKE BITE AND SPIDER
BITE OUTFITS. Containing
full instructions and every-
thing required for treatment.
Price 2/11
SNAKE BITE KIT Price, 1/-
V',->
*
No. 10 LEATHER POUCHES
With loops to attach to belt.
For Boy Scouts or Girl Guides.
Price 6/6
Contents: Triangular Bandage, Ij-in.
Bandage, 1-inch Bandage, Germi-
cide, Kuraburn, Adhesive Plaster,
"Sanax" Ache Tablets, Safety Pins,
Absorbent Cotton, Boracic Lint,
Tape, Snake-bite Outfit, Instruction
Card.
S6®
No. II FIRST-AID CASE
For Girl Guides and Boy Scouts.
With runners to attach to belt. Size,
5 in. x 4 in. x If in. Compressed
fibre. Price 8/6
Contents: Bandages, Tape, Adhesive Plaster,
Germicide, Sal Volatile, "Sanax" Ache Tab-
lets, Kuraburn Solution, Gauze, Safety Pins,
• Absorbent Cotton.
‘•‘•to.sv-.ffjiv
V #;V
1
Mil
gi
u - <?
O 4o ■<s 4
Q°% ®.’+ f %■
4V ® i ■• •. ■ 4? ®4
4 ® ®% ■•._ °cw <s)•
o ®4 e <«?/ ‘• • • >a
V X<^; &ss.
C 4? i , °>/ R
V Q7 Ajyi STflr $ Sb C O °
**
• Chemistry Department —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


99
STORAGE EQUIPMENT
is commissioned at Air Bases
I
wmm.
■ ■ -
%
' ■
■ ■
V ■
sSiS
ill
mm
m
.
s
- : v
. *■
■
,
■
Wherever Australian War planes are
based, "Steelbilt” equipment is on active
service. "Steelbilt” lockers equip Air-
men’s quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt” Bins and Shelving; Opera-
tional flight records are protected by
"Steelbilt” Filing Cabinets. "Steelbilt” is
serving every arm of Australia’s fighting
services. Naturally, that means no more
"Steelbilt” for civilian use until after the
war. But while we are working top speed
on Defence needs, we are also getting valu-
able manufacturing experience . . . de-
veloping new design features that will
mean big improvements on all "Steelbilt”
equipment when Victory is won.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doors weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
bancor door hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
0
99
SWMGIIW/PMMr
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3366.
Wednesday, August 16, 1944.
THE GUTLESS WONDERS.
“Portland coalminers, their strike a dud, have asked the Government to open another butcher's shop in Portland."
Master-butcher Curtin: “Sorry, Missus, you’ll have to go to Dargin’s shop. WE only deal in tripe.!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
DOCTOR'S PRESCRIPTION.
Proposals for the alteration of the Com-
monwealth Constitution have been put to
the vote in ten of the 43 years that have
elapsed since the Federal Parliament
began sitting on May 9, 1901. Only three
(Senate Elections, 1906, and State Debts,
1910 and 1928) have been carried by the
required majorities of States and of “all
the electors voting.”
By the second successful referendum
the Commonwealth Parliament was em-
powered to “take over from the States
their public debts,” the words “as exist-
ing at the establishment of the Common-
wealth” being struck out of the Consti-
tution. But this power was not exercised
until it had been amplified by the success-
ful referendum of 1928, which put the
substance of the 1927 Financial Agree-
ment into the Constitution. Fruits of the
Financial Agreement, as ratified by the
people in every State (Commonwealth
voting was 2,237,391 for and 773,852
against), were the Loan Council and the
National Debt Sinking Fund, the Com-
monwealth becoming responsible for the
payment of interest on and “the consoli-
dation, renewal, conversion and redemp-
tion” of State debts.
Mr. Lang, in his last and worst period
as N.S.W Premier, went in for interest-
default as a “policy.” Subsequent pro-
ceedings were recorded in the Common-
wealth Year-Book : —
January 28 to February 5, 1932:
Premiers’ Conference, Melbourne New
South Wales announced its default on
interest payments due in London, New
York and Australia. The payments were
met, after a short delay, by the Com-
monwealth Government.
March to May: The Financial Agree-
ments Enforcement legislation was enacted,
giving the Commonwealth drastic powers
to attach State revenue and other moneys in
the event of failure to pay. The High Court
decided in favor of the Commonwealth on
a writ for recovery of interest paid on be-
half of New South Wales. The New South
Wales Government then contested the
validity of the Enforcement Acts, which
were upheld by the High Court, leave to
appeal being refused.
Dr. Evatt had been a member of
the N.S.W. Parliament (1925-1930), first
as a follower of Mr. Lang and then as
a Labor Independent, and had then been
regarded as a rather ardent specimen of
State Righter. In 1930, at 36, he was
appointed a High Court Justice by the
Scullin Labor Government, and as such
he figured in the Financial Agreements
cases. He was not one of the Judges who
“decided in favor of the Commonwealth.”
If his view and that of Chief Justice Duffy
had prevailed, the fabric of Common-
wealth finance, if not the Commonwealth
itself, would have come toppling down.
On an application for injunctions against
the Commonwealth he and Chief
Justice Duffy were again in the minority.
On the application for leave to appeal to
the Privy Council, refused by five to one,
he was the lone dissentient.
The majority judgments were de-
nounced in the language of the gutter by,
among othefs, Mr. Heffron, then a ser-
vile supporter of Mr. Lang, now the
McKell Minister of Education, vociferous
in his denial of Mr. Fadden’s charge that
there are Communist school-teachers.
But nobody now pretends to believe that
the majority Judges were wrong and their
colleagues, one very old (87), the other
very young, right. In a dark hour for
the nation the judicial power of the Com-
monwealth was wisely exercised by their
Honors Rich, Dixon, Starke and McTier-
nan, and the soundness of their judgment
has been attested by the course of events.
Eight years passed, and then Dr. Evatt
stepped down from the Bench to become
Labor M.H.R. for Barton, and, a twelve-
month later, Attorney-General. Now,
having perforce learned in 1932 that the
Commonwealth Parliament had greater
powers than he thought it had, he is
launching a referendum, in the process
dividing and distracting a nation engaged
in a still-undecided war which should be
absorbing all its energies, on the ground
that the Commonwealth Parliament
should have greater powers after the war
than he thinks it will have.
Greater powers than war brings to it
under the Constitution the Common-
wealth Parliament could not have,
though in this Labor time it does not
exercise them. Its sittings are few, short,
perfunctory and far between; since
July, 1943, the Senate has been open
34 “days” and the House 42 “days,”
a “day” being often over in two
or three hours. Subject to direction
by Caucus, the Government controls this
Parliament, and will go on controlling it
if the powers asked for are granted and
if members of both Chambers are largely
increased—a very probable outcome of a
Yes majority, suggested by the P.M. and
supported with suspicious alacrity by
some of his colleagues—though the
Government itself allows executive and
even legislative powers to be exercised by
non-elected bodies, among them union
executives.
There are two respects in which the
Evatt referendum is peculiar. From 1906
to 1937 the party recommending the' pro-
posed alterations paid its own campaign
expenses, and so did the party opposing
them. Only the cost of printing and dis-
tributing the official pamphlets (add there
was not always an official pamphlet) and
the cost of taking the poll were charged
up to the people.
Now, though the people never asked
for this referendum, and Parliament was
not asked to approve of the expenditure
of either side being debited to the people,
the barefaced admission has been made
that a large part of the Labor bill is
coming out of public funds. Nearly every
newspaper in Australia is carrying Yes
advertisements “authorised by the Gov-
ernment of the Commonwealth,” many
of them playing cruelly and dishonestly
on the emotions of women anxious for
their maternity allowances, child endow-
ment and widows’ pensions, and of ser-
vice men concerned for their future in
civil life. What this offal has cost and
how much more public money has gone in
other ways equally or more discreditable,
it will be the Opposition’s duty to dis-
cover as soon as Parliament meets again.
Precise and detailed information will no
doubt be refused at first, but it cannot
always be concealed.
The other respect concerns the Com-
munists and the way they are throwing
their weight about. For the first time in
the history of the English-speaking
nations, a party which has boasted for
years of its revolutionary origins and
aims, and which glories in its serflike sub-
jection to the ruler of a foreign country,
is strutting before the public as the ac-
knowledged and welcomed ally of a
British Commonwealth Government
which claims to be 100 per cent. British
in everything.
An Australian, Harry Bridges, is under
sentence of * deportation from the U.S. A,,
suspended because of appeals from Court
to Court which have so far been unfavor-
able to him, because it was held by a
Democratic Attorney-General that as a
Communist he was “party to a con-
spiracy to overthrow American institu-
tions by force.” The Labor party in
Britain has rejected every overture
from the Communist party, on the
last occasion in terms so crushing that
the approaches have not been renewed.
But for the purposes of the Evatt referen-
dum Labor politicians and Communists
mingle on the same committees and plat-
forms and in the same processions. In a
Labor “Standard” paragraph about Sun-
day’s Yes “rally” in Sydney a Com-
munist was named as “Chief Marshal of
the Day,” and “Dr. Evatt, Attorney-
General,” and “Mr. T. Wright, secretary,
Sheet-metal Workers’ Union,” were on
the list of speakers.
“Mr. T. Wright (Sheet-metal Workers’
Union, N.S.W.)” was mentioned in a Syd-
ney “Daily Telegraph” report (19/4/’4O)
of speeches made at a conference of union
bosses. Another speaker was Mr. E.
Thorntoß of the Ironworkers, otherwise
notorious for his boast that “we made
strikes our business.”
Mr. T. Wright moved an amendment de-
manding the immediate cessation of hos-
tilities the return of Australian soldiers
from abroad and the negotiation of a peace
settlement by an international conference.
Mr. Thornton said “The British Imperial-
ists are responsible for this war and I
hope they are defeated, just as I hope
Hitler is defeated.
The bit about Hitler was obviously an
afterthought, for the peace demanded by
these Communists must have left Hitler
victorious. Another version had Com-
rade Thornton saying “the scabs of
Downing-street” instead of “British Im-
perialists.” Anyway, it is men like these
who are now Labor’s allies.
Comrade Thornton was not available
for the Sydney “rally,” but if reports of
Dr. Evatt’s referendum speeches in
Westralia reached him during his tour of
U.S.A. (another matter of finance for the
Federal Opposition to inquire into) it
must have delighted him to learn that the
author of the referendum had subscribed
to one part of the Thornton “policy.”
Said Dr. Evatt:
The right to “fire” is characteristic of
the social system against which the Labor
Movement must fight and win.
The first round of the fight was wit-
nessed at Portland (N.S.W.): the entire
union population against one man. But
it wasn’t “the movement” that won; it
was tjhe man. A man with courage and
faith in the justice of his cause will
always beat a mob, even if there is also
in the picture a Labor Government willing
to flatter the mob and wound the man,
but yet afraid to strike.
Whatever the verdict on August 19, no
worthy citizen, man or woman, will benefit
in any imaginable way. War and widows’
pensions, maternity allowances and child
endowment will be paid as now. The dis-
charged service man will go round in his
parody of a suit and derive cynical
amusement from Mr. Curtin’s disingenu-
ous posing as a friend of preference {not
one of the Fourteen Points), while Mr.
Ward and the union bosses fulihinate
against it. “Orderly marketing” (also
Carefully excluded from the Fourteen
Points, Labor having opposed the
emasculating of the inter-State free-
trade section, 92, at the 1937 referendum)
will continue to be a farmer’s mirage.
And the present Commonwealth powers
will not be altered in the slightest degree.
They will remain supreme, for use or
abuse, until we are at peace with all our
enemies, and no man knows when that
will be; in any case, it will be for Can-
berra to determine when war or a state
of war has ended.
But a Labor-Communist victory will
enable the Communists to advance leagues
towards their design of capturing the
A.L.P. branches and central organisations,
as they have captured so many unions.
Partly by reason of the infamous alliance,
it will accelerate Labor’s movement to-
wards Labor’s objective, the socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and ex-
change, which is part of the Communist
programme along with industrial con-
scription and all that industrial conscrip-
tion implies. It will amount to a popular
endorsement of all the sins of commis-
sion and omission of which the crowd in
office has been guilty, and so encourage
it to proceed to fresh outrages when it
should so palpably be halted in its wild
career. And it will give Labor (or Labor-
Communism) an election-cry that is
figured as a sure winner in 1945 or 1946,
if not in 1948 or 1949: “You have given
us these powers—now give us a mandate
to finish the job.” That is what this
referendum is for.
Back to Guam.
The landings were made at two points on
the west coast of Guam, north and south
of Orote Peninsula, a narrow neck of land
which juts out two thousand yards from
the cqntre of the island. There was the
Jap-built Aslito airfield, and there before
the war was the centre of the U.S.
Marine establishment. To all appear-
ances Orote with its steep seaward cliffs
must be the keypoint of any assault.
The bombardment had been heavy.
Battleships, cruisers and destroyers stcod
off the island for a fortnight. Carrier-
based ’planes searched out emplacements
and defence positions. Still the Japanese
held their fire.
During the early morning of July 21
the battleships stood to within a mile of
the shoreline, scourging the peninsula and
Agat village and the range of hills be-
hind with their 14-inch batteries. There
was no answering fire.
The landing ships carrying the assault
waves were in position off the beaches
with the first light. Not far behind them
were the larger transports—President
liners, cargo ships, attack transports—
laden with support-groups, beach parties,
supplies and heavy material of all kinds.
It was soon found that the landing
barges would be able to come no nearer
to shore than the edge of the reef.
The assault waves were already in trac-
tored landing vehicles. At 8.30, with the
tide at the full, their tracks began to grind
on the outer edge of the reef. They
lurched crazily shorewards, plunging into
the deep holes, laboring out. The curtain
of fire from the ships lifted a little and
moved inland. From the beach came a
chatter of machine-gun fire ; from Gaan
Point, a few hundred yards south of Agat,
the bark and flash of small artillery.
Gaan Point, a knoll, became the focal-
point of Japanese resistance on the
beaches. It had already been torn by
shellfire from the ships, but when eventu-
ally it was secured its coral formation
was found to be honeycombed with
tunnels and emplacements reinforced with
concrete. A 75-millimeter field piece, the
wheels still in place, had been “built into”
the rock, its muzzle protruding from one
of the apertures.
Several tractors were disabled off Gaan
Point. Men clambering over their steep
sides to wade ashore were pelted with
machine-gun lire as they were outlined
against the skyline. An amphibious tank
ground its way to within ten yards of
the point before a shell tore a gaping
hole in the front of it. Its crew died
there. But the wreck reduced the enemy's
field of fire.
There were mortar bursts out amongst
the boats at the edge of the reef. A tank-
lighter, its motor and steering gear dis-
abled, swung blindly across in front of
the line of boats till a new crew could
board it and get a towing line attached.
On either side of Gaan Point the first
waves made the beaches. Men pitched
forward on the sand, killed by fire from
the zigzag trench line that edged the
beach just inside the fringing palm
groves. Here was the oft-encountered
series of typical log pillboxes. At points
along the beaches concrete blocks were
slit for machine-guns.
With machine-guns, tommy-guns and
rifles the assault troops fought their way
through the palms to the narrow road be-
yond. The main body of the enemy was
driven on before them, but pockets of
resistance were left in the pillboxes.
Snipers, camouflaged among weeds and
scrub, held their fire till the first waves
should pass. There was still a withering
cross-fire from Gaan Point.
The landing tractors made .out back
across the reef to take on the following
groups of men. Everything that was to
come ashore that day would have to be
transferred from the barges at the deep-
water line.
The fifth, sixth, seventh waves jumped
from the tractors into a hail of small-
arms fire. There was little cover,
and they had to clear the palm
grove and establish the beach. At the
line of the reef there were inevitable
holdups. Medical parties were unable to
get tractors to take them in. There were
hundreds of barges carrying supplies
which had to be transferred on the water.
A lone corpsman tended between thirty
and forty badly-wounded men till a
sniper’s bullet took him through both
hands.
The assault troops had moved on. Be-
yond the road they crossed small open
fields of rice to the cleared, steeply-
sloping sides of the range. A mile inshore
it rose to 800 feet. The treeline was only
a couple of hundred feet from the sum-
mit. Cruisers and destroyers maintained
their bombardment of positions there.
By noon Americans were* fighting
through the burning village of Agat. By
mid-afternoon they were almost across
the open slope's of the range. A 37-milli-
metre gun being towed behind a truck
disappeared in a violent explosion.
Demolition crews had been working
on Gaan Point for hours, but there still
were snipers ip its tunnels. Four men
fell to their bullets during the afternoon.
In spite of all the difficulties on the
reef, supplies were getting ashore. Am-
munition and water had highest priority.
Till at low-tide trucks found a path across
the reef, everything had to be packed up
to the lines. The advance was rapid, but
it meant that the holding line for the
night would be thinly manned. Even
after dark men and supplies that had been
in the barges since early morning were
coming ashore. At last the beaches
were clear of casualties. The last loads
went out to the ships as the sun went
down.
The ratio of killed to wounded during
the early hours had been abnormally
high. Men in the landing tractors swelled
the total. Here and there the dead had
beep gathered together for identification,
and burial parties would care for them
in the morning ; but in the main they still
lay scattered among the holes their com-
rades had dug.
Nightlong there was the rattle apd burst
of machine-gun and rifle fire from the
front lines. Three times the enemy
counter-attacked at different points along
the wideflung perimeter. An attack with
tanks was broken with the help of gun-
fire from supporting destroyers. The
Japs, as usual, were making play with
mortars, but there had been no appear-
ance of their expected artillery.
No single Japanese ’plane had been
seen over Guam. Corsairs, Hellcats,
floatplanes had moved freely, spotting
positions, strafing and bombing wherever
they were required. There was no anti-
aircraft fire that first day. One ’plane
only fell to a burst of machine-gun fire.
Daylight was long in coming. When it
did come the ships were still there close
by the reef. Supplies were already mov-
ing, though it was obvious that the task
of unloading would drag on for days.
The initial southern beachhead was prac-
tically secure. Agat was behind the lines.
There still was fighting for the ridge
which overlooked the entire position.
Orote was as yet untouched except by
the carrier ’planes and the bombardment.
But the Marines were back on Guam.
John Brennan,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Carving Digger Pensions.
If the N.S.W. Railway Department
had its way any ex-serviceman war
pensioner employed in it would have the
war pension deducted from wages. That
is, a Digger drawing a £5 per week screw
and a 10s. per week pension would be
paid by Railways £4 10s. a week.
That any bureaucratic concern should
dare to touch Digger pensions, hitherto
held sacrosanct, will make Diggers appre-
ciate something of the fight that will be
ahead of them if bureaucratic control of
the country should be established by a
Yes vote next Saturday.
They have been given ample further
grounds for fear by the attacks on any
form of Digger preference made by the
leading union organisations from which
the present Commonwealth Government
takes its order in such matters, and still
further by recent action of the Govern-
ment itself.
The N.S.W.. department, trying to do
what none but a Government concern
would dare to attempt, could plead that
the Curtin Government has pointed the
way. The Curtin crowd’s way with ex-
servicemen came out most clearly in its
decision to count a soldier’s war pension
as an asset when calculating financial
benefit under its Unemployment and
Sickness Benefit Act.
Diggers’ protests on this were men-
tioned in the last Canberra session by
Old Digger leader Senator Brand, who,
in effect, asked what the Government’s
reaction was to Digger requests to keep
war pensions sacrosanct. The reply was
a wordy wrapping of “Nothing doing.”
War pensioners are to receive no con-
sideration. A unionist’s fees and contri-
butions to strike funds are not taken
into consideration when assessing eligi-
bility for the full benefit under the Act,
but the Digger’s pension is! Also, as
Senator Brand has pointed out, under the
Act not only unionists but even enemy
aliens with a year’s residential qualifica-
tion have been given marked preference
over returned soldiers who receive pen-
sions for war wounds.
If the attitude towards Digger pensions
here only too clearly indicated should be
endorsed in Saturday’s voting, abandon-
ment of all forms of special Digger pref-
erence should surprise nobody.
He Guarded Us.
From a report of a referendum meeting
ai the Army Minister’s own Rockhamp-
ton (“Morning Bulletin,” August 7):
Mrs. Evatt opened her address by stating
that while she and Dr. Evatt were abroad
their hearts were heavy because there was
practically nothing in Australia to meet the
threat of a Japanese invasion, BUT THEY
HAD THE KNOWLEDGE THAT THERE
WERE SUCH PEOPLE AS MR. FORDE
GUARDING THE COUNTRY AND
KEEPING IT SAFE.
Mr. Forde was on the platform (“Dr.
Evatt and Mr. Forde Present Yes Vote
Case”). Presumably his beaming coun-
tenance was suffused with a rosy blush,
but this the report did not mention.
“Such people as Mr. Forde guarding
the country and keeping it safe”!
Diggers, Doughboys, Birdmen, Mate-
lots —lie down!
"Where There Is .... Vision."
A stirring example of what free enter-
prise can do and will continue to do
unless shackled is afforded by Quantas
Empire Airways’ inauguration of the
longest non-stop air service in the world.
Japanese invasion of Singapore and the
East Indies cut off direct air communi-
cation with Britain in February, 1942.
Hudson Fysh, veteran flier of World War
1 and one of the pioneers of long-dis-
tance commercial flying in Australia
(Westralia’s Norman Brearley, himself a
distinguished World War I pilot, was, of
course, another), conceived the idea of
a Westralia-India air link. He met with
bureaucratic opposition in Australia. Un-
deterred, he went off to see John Bull,
who enthusiastically espoused the project.
Preliminary survey flights were made
by R.A.F. flying-boats in June, 1943.
Eventually the first Quantas Catalina
flying-boat departed from Ceylon on its
epic flight across 3500 miles of ocean to
Westralia on July 10, 1943. The waters
below were Japanese-patrolled, necessi-
tating radio silence and use of astro-
navigation, and, because of the heavy
load of fuel carried, the ’plane could not
land until it reached its destination, which
it did safe.
Other early flights were equally suc-
cessful. Since then Australian crews have
been flying between Westralia and India
to a regular time-table, averaging 27
hours. The service was extended from
Ceylon to Karachi (5087 miles) in
November, 1943, the longer service oc-
cupying 41 hours.
The military importance of the route
was that it established a direct link be-
tween the Pacific, Burmese and Middle
East commands. Three passengers are
usually carried on each trip, together
with important priority mail and dis-
patches.
In effect, a grand forerunner of the
greater things to come after the war, pro-
vided bureaucratic opposition can be
fended off.
Women In Industry.
That “the female of the species is more
deadly than the male” is being proved in
a way this country never expected. There
are women in industry who, far from
being satisfied with jobs at high rates of
pay with all mod. cons., seize on any
excuse for a strike, and as a rule the press
is on the spot with cameramen and
write-up men to see they get every inch
of publicity out of it.
So far the Portland butcher’s girl,
though temporarily in eclipse, the strike
against the butcher {and the busdriver)
having collapsed, has been first favorite.
Her pictures (pen and photograph)
appeared in many papers, and the
harassed Prime Minister, trying to
steer a referendum on its doubtful
course and seeking ways of keeping
coalmines working, without being hard
on anyone except the capitalist, had to
take time off to issue an order “direct-
ing” the strikers back to work after a
conciliation commissioner had found that
the man who sacked her was within his
rights. Had some ingenious writer of a
few years ago forecast such a fantasy
in a country deeply involved in a war
for survival he would have been howled
down as a fit subject for mental specialists.
A fatherly Labor Government set up
a Women’s Employment Board, one result
being that many charming creatures re-
ceived large amounts of back pay (the
taxpayers found most of it). Persuaded
or forced into unions, girls and women
quickly learnt that by downing tools over
real or fancied grievances they could be
sure of enough publicity to rank them
with the minor film stars.
Girls working in an American Red
Cross canteen at Bondi struck because
the man in charge was transferred
to another job. To the Bondi lasses
went the usual illustrated publicity.
Domestics at Royal Adelaide Hospital
went on strike, claiming a flat rate pay-
ment of Is. 6d. an hour. Doctors, nurses
and voluntary helpers carried on the hos-
pital services until the strike was settled
—as it eventually was on a basis which
could have been secured without a strike.
Meanwhile, according to an Adelaide
“Advertiser” report:
Pickets interfered with a sister sweeping
a ward and told a man who was feeding and
nursing a sick wife (she died) that “the
union orders you off the premises” because
he was washing dishes and cleaning the
kitchen so that nurses would have more
time for patients. Nurses and doctors had
to do laundry work so that linen essen-
tial for operating tables and towels for
blood transfusions would be available.
Only emergency operations could be per-
formed because of “possible shortage of
sterile linen.”
It all seems to come down to a question
of discipline. Discipline is not in the
creed of the Australian Labor Govern-
ment, except for people who don’t hold
union tickets, and when to this is added
the certainty of thrilling write-ups and
pictures how could any girl with a glamor
complex miss the opportunity?
The Doubting Thomases.
In Victoria at least, and perhaps in other
States, and possibly altogether, women
will preponderate as referendum voters.
It is playing it very low down on them to
pretend that child endowment, widows’
pensions and maternity allowances will
be in danger unless Labor gets a majority
on August 19. Mr. Chifley, mentioning
child endowment in particular, was the
latest to allege the existence of “serious
legal doubts concerning the validity” of
the payments. He did not suggest any-
thing of the sort when the bill, a Menzies
measure, was introduced and debated in
March-April, 1941.
Neither did Mr. Curtin hint doubts.
On the contrary, Mr. Curtin recalled with
satisfaction that he had recommended a
Commonwealth measure in “the minority
report of the Royal Commission on Child
Endowment, set up in 1927, which pre-
sented its report to the Commonwealth
Government in 1921).” And he made it
quite clear that he regarded Common-
wealth child endowment as a perma-
nency, arrived at by agreement between
Ministry and Opposition, and so far
“beyond the hazards of political contro-
versy that no future Government will deal
with this legislation except to widen and
improve it: We shall not retrace this
step.”
The question of constitutionality was,
in fact, raised by supporters of the Men-
zies Ministry, though all supported the
bill. Mr. Holt, the Minister, said that the
defence power gave the Commonwealth
“all of the legal authority necessary to
keep this measure successfully in opera-
tion against any substantial threat of
attack for the duration of the war at
least,” and that, for the rest, the Govern-
ment’s opinion had, in substance, been
stated in the Royal Commission’s time by
Mr. Blackburn, in 1941 Labor M.H.R. for
Bourke (Vic.).
During the debate Mr. Blackburn am-
plified his view, which, as he remembered,
was shared in 1928 by Justice Owen
Dixon, “then at the Bar.” It was that
“the only authorities who could challenge
this legislation would be the State Gov-
ernments,” and for obvious political
reasons they would never do it. In the
Federal Aid Roads case “the High Court
decided that the Commonwealth could
give money to the States on any condi-
tions it thought fit.”
Mr. Francis had repeated things Dr.
Evatt said in the State Parliament in 1927.
Dr. Evatt himself quoted the High Court
judgment in the Federal Aid Roads case,
and declared that Commonwealth child
endowment could be brought about by
reference of the matter to the Common-
wealth Parliament by the State Parlia-
ments or by passing a law allocating
money to the State Parliaments “so that
the States can proceed with child endow-
ment according to their several consti-
tutions.” During the debate on April 2,
1941, Dr. Evatt, without raising any of
the doubts that are now alleged to tor-
ment his party, invited the Minister “to
consider an amendment that is designed
further to liberalise the endowment
scheme,” and dwelt on “the outstanding
feature of this great proposal,” which was
that “for all practical purposes the mother
will receive the endowment.”
The debate closed with Mr. Curtin con-
veying to the Minister “appreciation, and,
indeed, admiration, for the labor he ex-
pended on this bill, and for the notable
place this monumental legislation will
give him in the annals of Federation.”
Not a word about “this monumental
legislation” fading out and, with it, the
payments which mothers have been
receiving for upwards of two years, for
lack of Commonwealth powers. The
referendum which is “not my refer-
endum” [Mr. Curtin] wasn’t thought of
then.
WATERLOO NEXT STOP.


[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor C^r
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KING, Managing Director.
POPULAR SCIENCE BOOKS.
Entertaining and Informative.
Evolution. The Modern Synthesis. By Julian
Huxley. 42/- (post. 1/-).
Physics and Philosophy. By Sir James
Jeans. 14/6 (post. 5d.).
Habit and Heritage. Lectures by Dr. F.
Wood Jones. 6/9 (post. 3d.).
Men Who Make the Future. A stimulating
book of work in progress on the scientific
front. By Bruce Bliven. 14/6 (post. 5d.).
General Science Made Easy. A comprehen-
sive guide by Louis T. Masson. 12/6 (post.
10d.).
Medical Magic. Marvellous discoveries of
the present-day medical science. By David
Dietz. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
Science for the Citizen. By Lancelot Hogben.
Hundreds of illustrations. 25/- (post. 1/3).
The Story of Science. By David Dietz.
Fourth edition of this excellent volume. 7/6
(post. 6d.).
Mathematics for Everyday Use. By W. L.
Schaaf, Professor of Education, Brooklyn
College. Solves many a problem of calculation.
7/6 (post. 5d.).
This Puzzling Planet. An Introduction to
Geology. The story of the growth and con-
tinually changing structure of the planet on
which we live. By E. T. Brewster. 7/(5 (post.
5d.).
The Science of laving. A practical Guide
to Better Living, By Dr. Adler. 7/6 (post.
5d.).
The Story of Man’s Mind. By Professor
Humphrey. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
The Story of the World’s Great Thinkers.
By B. R. Tratner. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
I’ve Got Your Number. How to Psycho-
analyse yourself and your friends. 7/6 (post.
5d.).
The Story of Medicine. The Arts and
Sciences of Medicine from the Stone Age to
Modern Times. By Victor Robinson, M.D.
7/6 (post. 5d.).
The Art of Growing Old. By John Cowper
Powys. 17/6 (post. 6d.).
Women. By Winifred Holtby. 8/3 (post. 5d.).
The Doctor Looks at Love and Life. By
Joseph Collins, M.D. 7/6 (post. Od.).
AN«US & ROBERTSON LTD., 89 Street Sydney
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
m
FCT A/Bla* 3
POLITICAL POINTS
After speaking in Melbourne and
Adelaide, Curtin had to cancel all refer-
endum engagements, being down with
bronchial ’flu. Before his regrettable
indisposition he cast a postal vote as a
Fremantle elector. It must have been a
change for him to vote Yes at a Com-
monwealth referendum, though perhaps
not so great a change as it will be for
Dr. Evatt.
After shivering on the brink for weeks
“S. M. Herald” has taken the plunge —
“the ‘Herald’ advises all its readers to
vote No.” Curtin, it seems, is still Our
Leader, but Granny can’t stand some of
his Government’s ways and aims and
friends.
Old Digger Wurth is giving up his
Man-power post and concentrating on his
duties as chairman of the N.S.W. Public
Service Board. Subject to the handicaps
imposed on him by Canberra, he did a
good job as Director-General. The prin-
cipal handicaps were Ward and the some-
time Communist candidate Garden (“Re-
volution has stepped on the stage in Aus-
tralia”).
The turmoil in Thornton’s union (now
called the Arms, Explosives and Munition
Workers’ Federation) boiled up in a defa-
mation action in Brisbane, the plaintiff
being Baker, a former Queensland-branch
secretary, and the defendant McPhillips,
Thornton’s offsider. It was alleged that
McPhillips had called Baker “a wilful
and dirty liar” and an “embezzler and
thief.” The jury found that he had not
made these charges, but had asserted that
there was “a shortage of £2O to £3O in
the branch books,” though this was “not
defamatory of Baker.” Counsel for both
sides moved for judgment. Acting Jus-
tice Stanley ruled that McPhillips was en-
titled to it, with costs for eight days;
the trial, he said, had been “unduly pro-
tracted” to 14 days. Presumably mem-
bers of the union will be allowed as a
favor to pay the difference.
Bishop Burgmann, who has been with
the Communists in all their —er —engage-
ments, from the scrap-iron strike to the
Second Front (Churchill and Leigh-Mal-
lory have made it clear that a Second
Front when the Corns., “demanded” it
would have been a certain failure with
horrible slaughter), is with them again
on the referendum ; and in a diocesan
letter he had a mild crack at one of his
aversions:
We never hear of the “Bolshevik” now
unless we read The Bulletin, but the
“Bureaucrat” sends every naughty childish
head under the bed-clothes.
“Bolshevism” is outmoded, being in that
respect like the Bishop’s foreign policy
for Australia. The object of the scrap-
iron strike, if it had any object at all,
was to bring about an alliance against
the Japs. We have had the alliance for
upwards of two years, but only one party
to it is at war with Nippon. The other
is a non-combatant, like the Bishop and
Comrades Sharkey and Miles and Miss
Bella Weiner and Miss Freda Lewis.
“Outside St. Malo an entire battalion
of Russians, a powerful combat unit with
anti-tank and field guns, mortars,
machine-guns, rifles and pistols, surren-
dered to an American private.” Not the first
surrender of Russians in France but the
first case of the kind in which there has
been any attempt to explain why so many
Russians have deserted the Workers’
Paradise and taken service under Hitler,
It is not on record that any battalion or
company or platoon or corporal’s guard
of English-speaking soldiers from any
of the “capitalist” countries has gone over
to the Nazis, The “explanation” was that
about half the battalion were prisoners
forced to serve, and the rest of the 800
Russian emigres” ; but, with the Revolu-
tion nearly 28 years old, why should
there be emigres now? Perhaps Bishop
Burgmann will make a stab at unravel-
ling the mystery.
“What of our position in the future?”
Question asked by Dr. Ross, Dr.
Coombes’s offsider in the Department of
Post-war Reconstruction, and he answered
it thus;
We must hold our ranks firm in sup-
port of a constructive and progressive pro-
gramme for the nation in the post-war
reconstruction period. We have not yet
worked out such a programme, but we are
beginning to formulate it in terms of public
works to absorb post-war unemployment,
enlarge social services, nationalisation of
basic industries and social control of credit.
The gentleman wrote it a few months
before he became Dr. Coombes’s off-
sider, but the programme has been “for-
mulated.” Judging by the agitation
among the doctors, it is feared that a No
majority would spoil it.
NEW MEMBER OF THE ICEBERGS’ CLUB.
“The Sydney ‘Morning Herald’ has advised its readers to vote No!"
ICEBERG MENZIES: “Find it cold in there, Fairfax?”
“N-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-o!”
The requirements at a Constitutional
referendum are apt to puzzle people
voting for the first time, and must be a
bit of a mystery to political-minded
friends from the U.S.A., where amend-
ments to the Federal Constitution have to
be “ratified by the legislatures” or by
conventions (called by Congress) in three-
fourths of the 48 States. To go into our
Constitution the Parliamentary measure
put to the people must be accepted by
majorities in four of the six States and by
“a majority of all the electors voting.”
It could score in five States and yet fail.
Hitherto a big majority, one way or the
other, in N. S. Wales has almost invari-
ably been decisive.
Ten days before R-day many people
looked at the quotation on their desk
calendar and found this, from Gibbon:
“The principles of a free constitution are
irrecoverably lost when legislative power
is dominated by the executive.” That
same day a newspaper correspondent
quoted Woodrow Wilson: “The history
of liberty is a history of the limitation
of the powers of Government.”
From reports in the papers, the first
concerning Curtin’s referendum meeting
at Ivanhoe (Vic.):
A voice: Russia is not at war with Japan.
The P.M.: Russia is not at war with
Japan—yet (Applause).
Interval of three days.
The Soviet Minister to Australia, Mr.
Vlasov, will shortly return to Moscow to
take up another appointment.
It is to be hoped no question of inter-
national politics is involved, especially
as it is a long time since we had any news
of our Mr. Maloney, who is Poland’s Pro-
tecting Power at Moscow.
Keith Murdoch, recently back from a
world tour, has returned to his job of
guiding the multitude through the maze
of politics; but he is not quite in his
pre-war form. He has newspaper in-
terests in four capitals, and on the
“orderly-marketing” referendum in 1937
he was a Yes-man in Melbourne and
Brisbane and a No-man in Perth and
Adelaide, This time he is a No-man in
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth and a Yes-
man in Melbourne. When aping North-
cliffe became the fashion among Austra-
lian newspaper proprietors, the Adelaide
“Advertiser” and “Register” were added
to the Murdoch string. The “Register,” a
fine old paper, was strangled. Murdoch
must have felt like perforated Caesar when
he read the concluding words of an
“Advertiser” leader: “the people of Aus-
tralia must refuse to by Dr.
Evatt and his Yes-men.
“Protect the freedom which the Consti-
tution guaranteed! Defend the seamless
garment of Australian unity! Resist every
attack upon Democracy”! From a refer-'
endum manifesto, of course, but no
U.A.P. or U.C.P, production and, though
very pertinent to the Fourteen Points,
never meant to be so applied. It was
part of the Labor case against the mar-
keting referendum, subscribed to by
Curtin and most of his present colleagues,
and obviously written by Curtin. An-
other sentence was “Those who believe
that responsibility should accompany
power will vote No.” So they should,
and so they did then, and so they will
now.
The first important measure that
Fadden had to vote on as a member was
the bill designed to dish the inter-State
freetrade section of the Constitution by
securing popular sanction for a nullify-
ing clause; “the provisions... .shall not
apply to laws with respect to marketing”
Remembering every incident of this eariv
experience, though Curtin and friends
tried to forget, Artie dug up the booklet
m which Curtin and friends put the case
against the marketing referendum (“Little
by little control over things that matter
is stolen from the people... .delegating
to unrepresentative, irresponsible authori-
ties the reality of power.... .another
attempt to whittle away our self-govern-
ment”), and it delighted him beyond
measure to heave the other crowd’s rocks
at them.
“Commonwealth Government promises
are reaching a high-water level” said
Dunstan. “I shouldn’t be surprised if
before polling day it promises to make
Bendigo a deep-sea port.” Dunstan
shouldn’t be so sarcastic ; if the Govern-
ment is to provide work for a million and
a quarter or so, as it promises to do if
given a Yes majority, feats like running
a ship-canal from Williamstown to Ben-
digo will be mere bagatelles.
Commending the first report of the
Rural Reconstruction Commission to the
W.A. Assembly, Opposition Leader Watts
remarked that a “great number of people
have scoffed at the need for legislation
for soil erosion, but there are areas
where it might become a problem of
some magnitude.” There is one area
where it is a problem of magnitude—
nearly 3,000,000 square miles called Aus-
tralia.
A Sydney daily’s par. about a pug:
He used to ride a bike 40 miles to earn
£1 for a four-round fight. Today, rated
one of the best fighters in Australia, he
rides in a car to the Stadium and never
earns less than £250 for a fight.
Thousands of other Australians, men of
the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Divisions,
have ridden in all sorts of conveyances
and ploughed through desert sands and
sloshed through malarial swamps and
scaled precipitous mountains to fight the
foreign foe. Many were not even
half-fit. Why the pug who “never
earns less than £250 for ‘ a fight”
was spared these experiences the pane-
gyrist did not reveal. In the world
of commercialised sport there is an amaz-
ing number of such cases. Combined
with other notorious matters, they make
it very hard to counteract the impres-
sion in America, referred to in the “Satur-
day Evening Post,” that Australians are
“living the life of Riley,”
From one who was there:
The only thing Mighty about Dr. Evatt’s
Mighty Yes demonstration in Sydney Domain
on August 13 was the indignation of tramway
passengers from the Eastern Suburbs, who paid
their fares to Circular Quay and were dropped
off a mile from their destination so as not to
interrupt what the organisers were pleased to
call “a procession.” The papers’ “3000
marchers” dwindled to 1461, including bands
and kids and 11 dejected seamen, when sub-
mitted to a cold count. The trailing line of
threes was weighed down under a forest
of couponless calico large enough to make
underpants for the armies of Europe. And
the speakers seemed weighed down with a
depression like that of the Antarctic in mid-
winter. Not a cheer when Dr. Evatt and
“Tiger” McKell flitted across the scene and
went through their show like bishops who had
been caught in a Crossing the Line ceremony;
not a laugh when the chairman said that the
mantle of Henry Parkes had fallen on the
shoulders of “Tiger”; not an exclamation when
Mrs. Jessie Street suggested that the Indian
famine “in which millions died while the stores
were full of rice” might have been due to lack
of the beneficent rationing and price-fixing
measures of Mr. Curtin. Not even a snarl of
approval when Comrade Tom Wright, vice-
president of the Communist Central Committee,
admitted that a good principle was to find out
how the boss voted and then vote the other
way. For once, the No platform was the
liveliest part of the Domain. There, the speaker
was one Tony McGillick, whaling into a
turgid boiling of comrades who seethed and
writhed before the platform as he held them
up as the allies of “Hughes the Rat,”


TO JO LIKES YOU TO WASTE MATERIALS
Careless use of your Exide Batteries helps the enemy. It wastes vital materials needed' by
, our Armed Forces who depend upon Exide for over 100 services. Take no chances with
your house-lighting equipment and car and radio batteries. Immediately you suspect the
need for repair, replacement or recharging, consult your Exide dealer. Remember—extra
care of your Exide means months of extra service.
Hxtbc HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
a
: : .
ipu®
PERSONAL ITEMS
That hefty tome the English Who’s
Who will take searching to find a prouder
fighting record than that of Lord Gowrie,
who, after his 10 years of Governor-
Generalship here, with Australian associ-
ations dating back to 1908, has had an
earldom added to the honors already
thick upon him. Starting his soldiering
over half a century ago, he won the
VC. i n the Sudan and was there thrice
mentioned in dispatches. There was
another “mention” before that century
was out; then, in 1914-18, he was on
Gallipoli and in France, was severely
wounded, won the D.S.O. and bar, was
mentioned in dispatches five times, and
ended the war with the C.B. and C.M.G.
also. He continued soldiering—mean-
while becoming G.C.M.G. and K.C.M.G.
—till 1928, when he became Governor of
S.A., next of N.S.W., then started on his
record run as Governor-General
Frith was able to draw only a small
segment of Jack Benny’s smoke, since
the rest of it at the moment was massag-
ing the Benny teeth and tickling the Benny
tonsils. That’s how he likes ’em, an im-
provement on Kipling: “ a good
seegars a meal.” Now moved on for
further troop entertaining round about
the Pacific, Benny denied in Sydney that
JACK BENNY.
he had anything to do with the taking of
his and other topline American radio
shows off. the local air, as had been
alleged. He pointed out that it was hard
w'ork building and holding an inter-
national name as a funnyman, and that,
provided his shows weren’t denied the
fighting men, he didn’t care a darn who
else happened to hear them. When this
page went to the printer Benny’s fell
rival. Bob Hope, was due to lob in Syd-
ney, well assured in advance of the same
hearty welcome that Diggers up North
expressed bawling at Benny “You beaut! ”
When the Seventh Div. men marched
in Brisbane last week their leader in the
New Guinea fighting, Major-Gen. G. A.
Vasey, was given a rousing reception.
He has been very ill, but flatly turned
down a suggestion that he should watch
his men from a wheel chair. Still, though
sparking in something of his old form,
he showed signs of his illness, and Major-
Gen. E. J. Milford led the march. Also
on the sick list, convalescing in hospital
from a bout of malaria, Pte. Richard
Kelliher, V.C., got leave from the hospi-
tal and borrowed a rifle to march with
his old crowd.
Guiltless, 28 years after:
At Mena in 1914 the writer of this par.,
doing routine guard over two of his tent-cobbers
who were in the bell-tent clink for visiting
Cairo unofficially, escorted them, by request
(theirs), to the hessian-enclosed source of all
furphies, so that they could have a smoke.
Nabbed, he was next day, in a trial that lasted
a matter of minutes, awarded 14 days. Severe,
but possibly right enough—except that the
charges made at the trial were for an entirely
different offence! The accused vainly pleaded
his absolute innocence. Hence a perhaps pre-
judiced distrust of Military Courts that has
persisted ever since, and now a special satis-
faction in noting that, after protesting his inno-
cence for 28 years, old First Divvy lieutenant
Arthur Gordon Whitlam has had his name
cleared in Melbourne and a conviction recorded
against him at a court-martial in June, 1916,
expunged from the records. Whitlam’s case
was that a trunk which had been sent from
Egypt to Melbourne had been packed by his
batman. He couldn’t get far till 1926, when he
located his old dingbat in Africa, and through
him and by other evidence has at last been able
to prove that he himself did not know at the
time that field-glasses and suchlike had been
included in the trunk. Though Whitlam wrote
asking that the items be returned to him, this
letter was not available at the court-martial,
and Whitlam was convicted and cashiered. He
now gets his gratuity and war medals, forfeited
as a result of the finding, but has voluntarily
waived all claims against the Government.
Apropos of this matter generally, it was stated
in Court proceedings in America last month
that in Military Courts trying civilians in Hawaii
since the present war started “819 people had
the hardihood to plead not guilty and stand
trial.” “You would be amazed,” said an
attorney, “to know how many were convicted
—819!” The attorney used one odd-sounding
expression: “Such a tribunal,” he said, referring
to the injustice done, “is not even a kangaroo
Court,” whatever a “kangaroo Court” may be.
A record that will take beating is that
of Dr. J. S. Battye, who this year cele-
brates half a century as head of the W.A.
Public Library. First getting among
books in Melbourne as an assistant at
the Library and Museum, he qualified
by after-hours study as a lawyer. In
1894 he went to Perth as librarian on a
three-years’ appointment that h as kept
going. At that time the library had
5571 books; today it holds over 195,000.
F. M. Allsop, new Public Curator in
Brisbane, succeeds the late R. J. S. Bar-
nett, to whom he was deputy. Allsop
began as a clerk in the Insolvency, Intes-
tacy and Insanity Office in 1901, becom-
ing accountant when the office was given
its present title in 1915.
A “Minister close to the Prime Minis-
ter” was quoted as authority for denying
that Man-power Director W. C. Wurth
was resigning for other than health
reasons. According to less exalted
authorities Wurth’s difficult enough job
was at times made so hard by political
interference that it’s a wonder he had the
patience to stay in it as long as he did.
111-health has been given as the cause,
and Wurth certainly doesn’t look the
robusti chap who took the big job on in
January, 1942. Certainly also, on his
performance, there couldn’t have been a
better pick for the post. He’s to con-
tinue in his other role as N.S.W. Public
Service Board chairman.
Flight-Sergeant Jack (John William)
Houseman, one of the young members of
The Bulletin literary staff serving aloft
with the R.A.A.F. over Europe, has been
posted missing after an attack on a tar-
get in Belgium. News received by his
people in Sydney was that he was tail-
gunner in a Lancaster, He started with
The Bulletin in 1940, and had a while
in the Army before joining the R.A.A.F.
R.S.L, Sydney metropolitan vice-presi-
dent J. C. Neagle, who was given a
Government release to look after the
Anzac House appeal, reports a wonderful
public response still going strong.
Officially the appeal will close on Sep-
tember 23, the Diggers responsible for it
holding that even such a good Digger
cause as it is mustn’t be allowed to clash
with a Government loan appeal having
to do with getting the war won. The
closure, however, will be temporary;
efforts on the Digger fund’s behalf are
billed for as far ahead as next Easter.
When the necessary has been duly raised
and the building put up one of the finest
institutions for Diggers so far conceived
will have been established.
From adjoining columns in one day’s
war news last week two striking instances
of the few paying the price for the many:
Died on Guam, Colonel Douglas McNair
(37), only son of Lieqt.-Gen. Lesley
McNair, who was killed in Normandy
when U.S. ’planes by a tragic error
dropped their bombs on forward Ameri-
; can lines. Killed on a non-operational
flight in Canada, L.A.C. Sidney Cleve-
land Turner (20), son of Gunner Milton
Turner, who was killed at El Alamein,
‘ August 5, 1942.
N.S.W, Legacy’s latest president and the
; Country party’s secretary for the past 18
years, Colonel Edward Joy Munro pulled
on a militia driver’s uniform in 1899, was
commissioned in 1908, got into the A.I.F.
in 1914 as a lieut., was captain before
that year was out, served on Gallipoli
in the Senussi scrap and in France, and
won a D.S.O. In the present fight he
commanded First Div, A.A.S.C., 1940-41.
Hailing originally from Scone (N.S.W.),
Col. Munro has been holding Legacy
LEGACY PRESIDENT.
executive posts since 1934, including
chairmanship since its inception of War
Orphans’ Appeal, the generous public
response to which has far outdone the
most optimistic hopes.
Ormandy, after hearing Haydn Beck’s
violin-playing, plumped for him as his
leader throughout Australia. Beck, with
a break for a while wielding the baton
at Brisbane Wintergarden, has been weav-
ing the bow over the strings since he was
a five-year-old in his native Maoriland
(b. Wanganui). His dad, a disappointed
violin soloist, decided to secure musical
success for his first-born, and tutored to
such purpose that at seven years young
Haydn toured M.L. as a soloist, building
up the funds to take him to Europe for
study. On his way there he passed
through Sydney and played as a 10-year-
old soloist at its Town Hall. After Brus-
sels and London, he was back mixing
orchestra-playing and teaching in M.L. ;
then was invited to Sydney by Ver-
brugghen, since when he has been J.C.W.
orchestral leader, had a couple of seasons
with the De Basil Russian ballet, joined
A.8.C., led the Adelaide orchestra for
three years and led in Melbourne, playing
from time to time with Hamilton Harty,
Malcolm Sargent, Beecham and, most
recently, Ormandy. A brother, Harold
Beck, is leading ’cellist in Adelaide.
By Haydn Beck’s testimony Beecham
must have reserved his autocratic ways for
HAYDN BECK.
the general herd. Beck found him excep-
tionally easy to get along with, one who
treated all members of an orchestra, to
the most humble, on an equal footing ;
and he declares that any musician who
played with Beecham here would have
a like good word for the English con-
ductor.
George Ritchie, dead suddenly in
Adelaide —he was sawing wood, although
in his 80th year —was one of those quiet
citizens with a gift for administration.
He was son of a River Murray pioneer,
and himself a steamboat captain till
nearly 40. Then he took to politics, saw
a dozen Premiers come and go, sat in
both Assembly and Leg. Council, held
nearly every office —Treasurer, Crown
Lands, Railways, Mines, Agriculture,
Chief Secretary. He was several times
Acting-Premier, and earned a K.C.M.GL
in 1925.
John Bray, appointed to the Public
Library Board of S.A., is a grandson of
J. C. Bray, a Premier of half a cen-
tury back. Now 33, he earned the rare
degree of Doctor of Laws at Adelaide
Uni, before he was 30, and is an admitted
expert in history and literature.
Old-style Socialist:
ft says enough of Arthur William Ross on
tht personal side that the name he was gener-
ally called by came not from the Arthur but the
William, with the Ross usually added to distin-
guish him from any other Bills about the place.
The Bulletin’s “Ologist” and head-reader,
studiously on the job right up to the day be-
fore his passing last week, he was physically frail
and evidently less well even than he seemed, but
he still didn’t look 68 years old. He was a
Socialist of the old school soaked in the
“Clarion” in its great days. When he came
to The Bulletin 18 years ago Bill Ross
had been most of his life in Labor journal-
ism: with the “Maoriland Worker,” which his
brother, R. S. (Bob) Ross, edited; Brisbane
“Worker”; and then, in Sydney, “Common
Cause,” up to when this passed into the old
“Labor Daily.” The “L.D.” duly passed, along
with its remarkable assortment of editors, one
of whose entire daily policy instructions to the
leader-writer used to be “Lift the roof!” Re-
vived, “Common Cause” has Bill Ross’s
nephew, Edgar Ross, as editor- Lloyd Ross
is another nephew. A son, on The Bulletin
staff, is up North with the R.A.A.F.; a.
daughter is in the A.A.M.W.S. A Queens-
lander, born in Toowoomba, Bill Ross might
have been a sun-worshipper if he’d been given
to worshipping, which he wasn’t; but there
must have been very little he liked better than
to get down on the beach in the sun with a
book.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 63, Thomas Campbell, g.m. of
R. Fowler, Ltd., Potteries, of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane, president of the Clay Products’
Association of Australia, vice-president of the
N.S.W. Highland Society, director of Parramatta
and Granville Electric Supply, Hawkesbury De-
velopment and Associated Hardware Manufac-
turers, and long a leading champion of protec-
tion for Australian industries. He was a coun-
cillor on the Chamber of Manufactures, Em-
ployers’ Feneration of N.S.W. and Building
Industry Congress of N.S.W. Of his three sons,
one is reported missing in air operations over
Europe, another is a member of the A.I.E.
At Roma (Q.), at 76, Charles William Con-
roy, M.L.A. for Maranoa from 1921 till he
retired from politics this year.
In Melbourne, Mrs. H. B. Higgins, widow
of Justice Higgins. Losing her only son in
the last war, she devoted herself to voluntary
work for soldiers. She was convenor of the
Home Hospitals Committee and at her death
was its chairman. Dr. George Morrison, first
principal of Geelong College, was her father
and “Chinese” Morrison her brother. She was
an aunt of Nettie Palmer and a relative of
novelist Mary Mitchell.
In England, snapping a link with early Aus-
tralian history, Mrs. Beatrix M. Sturt, daughter-
in-law of South Australian explorer Captain
Charles Sturt. August 10 was the hundredth
anniversary of Sturt’s setting out on his great
Murray and Darling expedition.
In Melbourne, elocutionist Hamish Wither-
stone Russel, who also taught the violin and
piano in schools and colleges. His father,
George Malcolm Russel, was an outstanding
elocutionist many years back.
In Sydney, at 75, Ernest N. Michaelis, of the
Michaelis Hallenstein clan. A director of the
company of which he had been a member all
his life, he lived in St. Kilda (Vic.), the
constituency represented in Victorian Parliament
by his kinsman Archie Michaelis.
In Melbourne, at 83, Dr. James Booth, who
devoted a long life to public causes ranging
from Broken Hill water supply and sanitation
to Australian literature. He founded the Broken
Hill Art Gallery, organised Australia’s first
London Book Week, formed the Australian
Literature Society and was establishing a
branch of it in New York at the time of his
death. One of his most unusual achievements
was initiating mental tests for delinquent
children when he was chairman of the North
Melbourne Children’s Court' and when psy-
chology was regarded as a disreputable sort of
witchcraft in legal circles.
In Melbourne, at 61, Councillor Edward
Campbell, Lud Mayor in 1937-38 and governing
director of the Edward Campbell engineering
firm established by his father, who was at
one time manager of the C.S.R. works at
Yarraville. A grandson of James Cuming,
founder of Cuming Smith, Cr. Campbell served
in the 1914-18 war, and in 1921 became a
member of Melbourne City Council. Mrs.
Campbell has acted as Lady Mayoress for the
past two years.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 83, Dr. James Cook,
who came from Scotland in 1897 and practised
at Barcaldine (C.Q.) for over 35 years, doing
per buggy a lot of the kind of work now
much easier performed by the Flying Doctor
: service.


INCOME TAX RETURNS
MADE EASY. '
The Shipley Account Book
with Taxation Guide
(Copyright)
Specially prepared for GRAZIERS. DAIRY
FARMERS. ORCHARDTSTS, AND ALL
PRIMARY PRODUCERS.
EVERY ITEM FOR TAX RETURNS
FULLY EXPLAINED. YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. OVER 1,000 COPIES SOLD.
The large number of testimonials received
from satisfied purchasers, prove the inest-
imable value of our Taxation Guide and
Account Book.
DON’T WORRY OVER INCOME TAX
RETURNS. THE READY RECKONER
SHOWS AMOUNT OF TAX PAYABLE.
Order Now—PRICE, £1
1/- extra for Postage and Exchange,
obtainable only from
J. SHIPLEY & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Made hij
FORD SHERINQTON LTD.
OH r
rW £ ’
U<S*
tIOO
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO B I T E Travel Ca ses
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 fidlleS
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purif?
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess! of acids dr poisons in your blood
hre the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting l and burning, nagging back-i
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and fenergy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
laches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 plntd a day 1 and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat*
ter, your body will taka up these poisond
causing serious trouble. Don’t waitl Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE &IDNEY PILLS £OU£ fhemlsS
pr ptoro,
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Post-war Pandemonium?
With the end of the war apparently
approaching, all over the world people are
thinking of the “new order.” It may be
wrong to describe what is going on
within the senses of many people as
“thinking,” but in any case there is some
sort of mental or emotional agitation in
process which is finding expression in
speaking and in writing. *
The end of the war is going to
bring with it many problems of
a political and economic character,
national and international, and writers
and talkers are going to spread them-
selves on these problems. We shall
be confronted with a barrage of contro-
versial printed matter dealing with econo-
mic problems, internal and external,
much the same as the barrage of “inter-
national situation” books and “special
correspondence” which preceded the
present war. We can be sure that there
will be a large proportion of the writing
boys making a play for the wishful
thinker, just the same as before the war.
During the depression there were financial
quacks galore Townsend, Douglas,
Aberhart, etc. —who made wishful think-
ing the foundation-stone of their teach-
ings. The Dean of Canterbury, who in
his Socialist Sixth of the World pays
tribute to Major Douglas, mixed wishful
thinking, views of distant fields and his
own cocksureness in attracting an extra-
ordinary amount of public attention.
There is nothing wrong with sober
thinking about the problems which will
confront the peoples of all lands when
the end of the war comes. Many econo-
mic and political problems arise out of
shock and confusion, and preparedness
for trouble is good insurance against
economic disorder.
In peace-time there will not be
the singlemindedness—such as it is—
that we are seeing in war-time. There
will be more of the principle of every
man for himself. The public mind will
have more liberty of expression, and the
individual more right of acting in accord-
ance with his own wishes and opinions.
Prosperity in the peace will depend con-
siderably on the extent to which public
opinion is based on realities as opposed
to wishful thinking and attractive but
fallacious novelties in the way of econo-
mics, finance or politics.
The foregoing is written upon the
assumption that in the peace public
opinion will be allowed to be a national
and political factor, and that freedom of
individual enterprise will be basically the
same thing as it was before the war.
Over quite a long period of Australian
history the Labor party has preached a
gospel of social friction and financial
fallacy, and as trade-unionism is closely
tied to the party (and the present Gov-
ernment) the influence of these false
teachings has been widespread. Now
that great economic advantages have
been gained for Labor through “solid-
arity” and the like it might be expected
that success would bring a certain dig-
nity and rationalism to the movement.
But instead we see radicalism going to
greater extremes. Union .bosses and party
notabilities are carrying their activities
from the social and economic spheres to
the constitutional. The rights of the
individual, and especially of those indi-
viduals who represent a minority, are
being challenged.
The mass miseducation of Labor ad-
herents has much to do with the prob-
lems of democracy as seen in Australia.
A great many Australians do not seem
to understand the meaning of national
service, or, if they do understand it, they
dislike it. We have seen this expressed
directly or indirectly in matters relating
to military service and in the poor support
given to war loans. Class distrust seems
to have grown during this war, and the
effects of inflationary war-time finance
have added further difficulties to an
already confusing economic and social
situation.
Basically this confusion is as much
due to false Labor teachings and be-
havior as it is to anything else. But the
same sellers of political gold bricks
are first in the field with a different
style of gold brick when the original
buyer realises the deficiencies of the old.
The political party which has placed the
greatest strain on Democracy is first in
with schemes for socialisation of indus-
try as the solution of problems largely of
its own creation.
Labor started off on the wrong foot when
it talked of maintaining “the workers’ ”
living standards in spite of the war, and
it took a long time to drop as “adminis-
tratively impossible” its 4-p.c.-profits
policy and to take a reasonable amount
of taxation revenue from the mass of
lower incomes. The High Court has
been used to an excessive extent during
this war in order to get justice in deal-
ings with the Government. Had there
been no war on many more people would
have taken cases of unfair treatment to
court.
In this atmosphere of confusion and
instability we approach what we are led
to assume is the beginning of the end of
the war. And already a good deal of
writing and political propaganda is
coming forward in anticipation. In the
United States Stuart Chase has written
an engaging book entitled Where's the
Money Coming From? in which the
author takes the internal-debt-doesn’t-
matter-we-owe-it-to-ourselves idea as his
gospel, and advocates the “compensa-
tory economy” theory as the solution
of unemployment problems; controlled
Government spending (and therefore
Government control of most economic
factors) is the remedy for everything.
In the Commonwealth we are being bom-
barded with propaganda from war-era
bureaucrats and high-pressure Ministers
emphasising the necessity of prolonging
the war-time powers of the Government.
It is necessary for Australians to get
down in their minds to the fundamentals
of their life, their living and their Gov-
ernment as they have never got down to
them before. The human mind is the
basis of civilisation, and the befuddling
of this mind has become the art of
propagandists and seekers after power.
Let Australians cast their minds back to
previous political frauds and fallacies
which they have seen in their time. Let
them analyse the new gold bricks which
will be available for sale by politicians
and writers.
It may well be that when the war is over
and when the problems of peace become
only too obvious the incompetence of
bureaucrats in dealing with financial and
industrial matters (the basis of political
economy) will be palpably revealed.
The “planning,” the frustrating red-
tape, the waste and the secretiveness
of bureaucrats now engaged in de-
signing the “new order” may be
seen as a peace-time obstruction as
well as having been a war - time
burden. Private enterprise, in attempting
to deal with the post-war problems, will
suffer the disability of having years of
misguided bureaucratic policy to remedy.
Perhaps nowhere will this be more
obvious than in the shipping and coal in-
dustries. But the private banks, too, may
inherit a tangle of problems resulting
from an ill-advised Government war-time
financial administration.
A continuance of Government over-
lordship of everything in the peace
will be out of the question if the Aus-
tralian standard of living is to recover to
pre-war levels. It will be a good thing
if Australians wake up to this now.
We shall have enough trouble in re-
habilitating living standards after the war
without being in half a dozen minds
about what we should be doing.
Benevolent co-operation, efficient, en-
lightened and real, on the part of the
Government would be of the greatest
assistance to post-war Australian in-
dustry. And the greatest part of industry
is the people who work in it. But our
nation has been built up on the basis of
free enterprise, and that is the natural
foundation from which we should work.
In matters of financial policy we should
be equally realistic. Where we know
problems exist we should try to deal
with those problems as they stand, not
try to alter the financial or social system
wholesale in order to bump over them.
The greatest problems in finance are of
administration and human nature.
London believes that the United States
looks towards an enormous expansion of
its post-war exports to Russia. Eric A.
Johnston, president of the United States
Chamber of Commerce, has visited the
Soviet to discuss the matter and to “learn
how Russia’s post-war position and trade
are going to affect the average United
States citizen.” Russia will require a
great deal of machinery in the post-war
period, and the type designed for condi-
tions in the United States will no doubt
suit Soviet needs ; but the question has
been raised as to what Russia is going
to export to the United States in pay-
ment. An article in the “Times” monthly
trade journal carries a subtle bite in its
comments on the position. Pointing out
that Britain, with its need for raw
materials, could reciprocate in trade with
the Soviet to greater advantage, it said;
“It will be interesting to see whether Mr.
Johnston explains to Russian audiences
that the United States must make equiva-
lent imports in some form or be prepared
to. let Russia have the goods on lend-
lease or similar terms.” Whether Mr,
Johnston did explain this the cables have
not informed us, but the “Times” com-
mentary went on in anticipation; “Recent
statistics show that only a small propor-
tion of Russia’s main exports is needed
by the United States. Some Americans
may think this point is of no great im-
portance, but in the United Kingdom,
with its much greater experience of inter-
national trade, the importance of the ex-
change aspect is never overlooked by
responsible people.”
* * * *
The dollar, according to some opinions,
is destined to come off its perch in the
post-war era. It is contended that living
costs are far higher in the U.S.A. than
in either Britain or Australia, and Aus-
tralians in particular are resentful of the
exchange rate of $3.29 applied to their
currency, especially as U.S. service men’s
money in Australia is mainly spent on
food, clothing, liquor, etc., which are (by
U.S. standards) particularly cheap when
bought on the “white” market. In all
money estimates of lend-lease and reci-
procal aid the dollar-exchange factor is
a distorting element; what we supply in
the way of food and clothing to the
Allied forces is valued cheaply in
terms of dollars, although Australian
labor signed on to American vessels oper-
ating in the South Pacific would seem
to be extravagantly costly. There are other
factors besides the purchasing-power
parity of the dollar to be considered,
however, in forecasting the future rate
of exchange with other countries.
America after the war will revert to the
position of being a large exporter on a
cash basis, and dollar credits will be in
great demand by other countries. Unless
the U.S. tariff policy is altered there will
still be the old difficulty of selling enough
to the United States to build up adequate
dollar credits, and the price of dollars
may be forced up. This premium on
dollars, of course, may not suit the U.S.
economy generally, and—subject always
to the success or otherwise of the world
currency fund—we may again see de-
liberate devaluation of the dollar.
as happened in 1934. It is likely that any
attempt to reverse the war-time inflation
that has occurred in the United States
will be every bit as difficult as it is going
to be in Australia. Politics have entered
into U.S. finance, too. Canada is in
better shape in this respect.
**, * *
The amount of Australian Wool spun
and woven by local mills now totals about
450,000 bales annually. Clothing for the
Australian and Allied forces is a large
item in the consumption. The number of
hands employed in the woollen-textile
industry has increased by over 40 p.c.
since war started. If more plant were
available output and employment would
have been even greater. One unsatisfac-
tory feature of the whole business has
been that civilian cloth has been stand-
ardised. Only officialdom regards the
methods of standardisation used as hav-
ing been unavoidable.
* * * *
Between June, 1939, and the end of
1943 the increase in notes held by the
public was 339 p.c. in Australia, 128 p.c.
in Britain, 190 p.c. in New Zealand, 269
p.c. in Canada and 183 p.c. in the U.S.A.
The comparatively small rise in the
British issue is perhaps indicative of the
comparatively calm and stable political
atmosphere and the small amount of
black-marketing and tax evasion. Britain,
like Australia, has a floating American
population.
* * * *
Lord Woolton has expressed Britain’s
economic problem in a nutshell. “When
the war is ended,” he said, “we shall have
to work very hard indeed in order to
export goods to buy the food and raw
materials which we shall require from
abroad if we are going to maintain our
standard of life in this country. It is in
the interests of the world that this great
market in Britian for goods produced
abroad should be restored and retained;
but unless we export we cannot trade.
We cannot buy unless we sell.” A Lon-
don newspaper commented that “to say
this is to emphasise the obvious, but if it
is obvious it is extraordinary that more
attention is not paid to it.”
* * * *
Very well put, and worth Dr. Evatt’s
notice:
One does not expect a sudden or violent
change-over, for the period following the
war will be dominated by scarcity, empha-
sised by the latent demand which will then
spring to life. For this reason we must an-
ticipate a measure of control, with the exer-
cise of priorities, until the whole machine
adjusts itself to the new conditicms. But
no one will want to see the continuance of
any control which has outlived its purpose,
for, although there must always be safe-
guards to protect the interests of the State
and of the community, the very same inter-
ests are best served by giving full rein to
those priceless assets, individuality and
enterprise, which can flourish only in an
atmosphere of freedom. In this immedi-
ate period after the war we may expect
to see activity and stimulus to employ-
ment, but we must so prepare ourselves
that the prosperity which such a condition
creates does not blind us to the problems
which will follow.
The speaker was Edwin Fisher, chairman
of Barclays Bank, London.
* * * *
It is not only the traditional civil
servant who is sometimes revealed as
having become swelled-headed in a war-
time job. Some co-opted members of
private industry acting as Government
advisers are inclined to be heavy-handed.
A complaint or two have come in from
the mining industry about the attitude
of “experts” formerly on their own or in
private employment. And mining is one
of those pursuits where extreme fairness
in reports and dealings should be aimed
qt regardless of what restrictions may
have to be imposed in the interests of
the war-time man-power and materials
supply.


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men s-ivear shops
and chemists.
'HMT'
*
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED •
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
bp 4 «.
FOR YOUR POST-WAR PLANNING & PRODUCTION
CO
ARCHITECTURE
_fls_
CHEMICAL PLANTS
✓<e
SHOP FRONTS
HOSPITALS
DAIRY PRODUCTS
When the war ends, Australian industry will turn to new fields—
to new products, new materials.
Now —before that day comes —is the time to plan your produc-
tion and processes; to consider, among other things, the almost
unlimited possibilities of Comsteel Stainless Steels.
In aircraft and ships, in hospitals and surgical equipment; in
chemical and explosives plants, textile and food-factories; in
scores of other wartime applications, these steels have proved
their quality in actual service.
They can be used to equip the modern hospital, or a home kitchen;
in architecture, engineering, food-packing, chemical processes,
restaurants, transport, in hotels, shops and offices; the list is
almost endless. So are the opportunities.
Our knowledge of all that Comsteel Stainless JSteels can do is at
your disposal. We suggest.that you avail yourself of it now —
discuss these steels and stainless steel products with our Technical
Staff —-so that both you and' we are ready when the time comes.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS AND
HEAT-RESISTING STEELS
FOR ALL MANUFACTURING. CONSTRUCTIONAL S ENGINEERING
9 REQUIREMENTS
♦-
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED. - - - HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: WARATAH. N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
SS/l.
Inflate, Deflate or What?
With war loans filled only after
desperate appeals from the Ministry and
the Treasury, and only after big second-
ary investments of deposits from the sav-
ings banks, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is perhaps in no favored position
from the point of view of laying down
any clear financial policy after the war.
Its difficulties are largely of its own mak-
ing. It took so long about imposing ade-
quate war-time taxation that it was forced
to introduce an excess of controls on
spending and investment which affected
public reaction to voluntary appeals for
loan money. Not until it was actually in
the grip of inflation did the Treasury
impose taxation on the scale found
necessary in Britain and Canada. By
that time such a false set of economic
and patriotic values had been established
in the public mind that there is now little
cohesion or confidence in the general
financial set-up. The position we are in
has “just growed” from the soil of poli-
tical convenience and claptrap.
In Britain any political division as to
the shape the “new order” should take is
outside the Ministry. Free enterprise is
still predominant in the Government’s
economic outlook —a free enterprise ser-
viced by Government co-operation. One
important factor in Government co-
operation will be that of the status of
the national currency. In Britain the
Bank of England, traditionally a guiding
hand in peace-time in the country’s finan-
cial policy, has been drawn closer to the
Government, so what the Government
fiasco say on the subject is of more im-
portance than usual, especially in view of
its co-operation in the international
currency fund proposals.
Lord Woolton, while not advocating
any policy of post-war deflation, never-
theless appears determined to keep post-
war inflation down to a minimum ; he
has stressed the importance of preserving
the buying-power of war-time subscrip-
tions to Government loans. From Stanley
Christopherson, chairman of the Mid-
land Bank, comes further opinion. He
is more detailed:
During this war the British Government,
profiting by experience, has to a large extent
avoided the evils of inflation, partly by direct
restrictions on the use of purchasing power,
partly by controlled distribution of supplies,
and partly by the use of subsidies to hold in
cneck the spiral of price and wage increases.
The same methods will be called for, on a gradu-
a;r. diminishing scale, in the immediate post-
war period until demand and supply are judged
ikely to be in equilibrium in a free market."
On the other hand, we can be assured that
this rime there will be no misguided attempt
to enforce a decline in prices through measures
of deflation; the authorities are alive to the
inherent dangers of such a policy. Some
adjustments of price will follow naturally from
redactions in transport and insurance charges,
curtailment of overtime working, higher stand-
ards of 'efficiency brought about through renewal
of equipment and restored competition in pro-
duction and distribution. But no one, at this stage
o: our knowledge, would dare subject the nation,
as a matter of deliberate choice, to monetary
contraction, for everyone now sees that such
a procedure would bind burdens upon our
economy in respect of outstanding debts and
taxation which could not be borne and repress
that initiative without which a healthy expan-
sion of economic life would be beyond our
powers. Mankind is not blind to the lessons
or experience; we see clearly that our best
interests lie in building upon an established
equilibrium of wages and prices, avoiding the
perils of both inflation and deflation.
In the period following the transition, as well
as during that process, we shall enjoy the
advantage of a deeper understanding of the
working of the monetary system and fuller
appreciation of its effects upon the economic
life of the nation. In late years the Govern-
ment has expounded in word and deed its
perception of the unity which subsists between
all branches of financial policy—taxation, public
borrowing and repayment of debt, monetary
management and the treatment of private in-
vestment.
To the overriding purposes of full employ-
ment and a rising standard of welfare this
deeper understanding, improved technique and
wisdom ripened by experience can make, I
firmly believe, a great contribution. Who can
doubt that, with goodwill and a common
acceptance of clear ultimate aims, we shall find
the way to a healthful economy which, while
calling forth hard work and high endeavor,
inventiveness and initiative, will assure full em-
ployment and an ever-rising standard of living?
In the Commonwealth the Prime Min-
ister has changed his financial policy as
the political occasion demanded. In a
pre-election speech he professed an
almost passionate attachment to bank
credit as a solution of post-war prob-
lems. A year later, in a pre-referendum
debate, he expressed alarm at the pros-
pects of post-war inflation, especially if
private enterprise were given its head.
The Australian Government does not
appear to be even vaguely concerned
about the real financial problems Aus-
tralia will face when the end of the war
comes, or the necessity of striving for a
solid economic foundation for the country
irrespective of politics. A poor war-time
Administration looks like being even
more futile in the peace.
One of the very serious dangers of the
Federal Government’s present economic
“policy” is that, in journeying half-
way along the road to socialism,
it has got a great deal further
along the road to nowhere. For too
many vital years it has been neglecting
problems which apply to free productive
enterprise in the hope that some
fancy system of post-war government
will do away with the need for private
enterprise altogether, and its problems
with it. The betting is odds on that pri-
vate enterprise will be looked to to save
the Australian economy eventually, regard-
less of what temporary systems operate.
So the neglect meantime of matters re-
lating to private enterprise’s problems in
the post-war period amounts to a danger-
ous neglect of realities by power-seeking
experimentalists. Beggars on horseback
seem to be determined to have their own
way or let industry go hang. Britain and
Canada have both found it prudent to
make provision for plant replacement in
their taxation law, and have otherwise
looked after industry in the post-war
interests of their respective countries. In
Australia the Labor party seems to be
more concerned about doctrines and
party spoils than it is about industry.
And there are thousands of employees
in Government departments who are now
doing little more than wearing the seat out
of their pants who could be put to work
on making goods in short supply—if
the Government knew anything about the
realities of the production of anything.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: At our factory men and
women work together. It happened that
one of the men began to play around with
one of the women. His missus heard of
it and arrived at the place one lunch
hour with a half-brick wrapped in news-
paper. This she applied forcibly to the
erring one’s dome, and then got into holts
with his lady friend. It was a ding-dong,
all-in, anything-goes affair, with blood
and hair flying and the language some-
thing orful. The boss was appealed to
by a distracted foreman, heard the tale
of the battle, then wearily asked “What
can I do? By the time I’ve got through
applying to Man-power for permis-
sion to discharge either or both I’ll be
old and grey. Probably Man-power
doesn’t recognise sex triangles as a rea-
son for anything, and what can I say if
they claim they fought it out in their
own time?” The foreman withdrew with
a deep sigh.
♦ # * *
“Tuart”: The first play I ever saw was
the comic opera “Paul Jones,” and,
though 50 years have fled, lines sung by
the stunning girls of the J. C. Williamson
chorus (to think that those who are left
must be all grandrpas!) have stuck in my
memory:
Maidens of St. Malo who would like to know
Who will marry them....some day.
The Americans driving into the western
departments of France must have been
stirred by patriotic memories, for Paul
Jones, though “born on the estate of
Arbiglarid in the parish of Kirkbean and
the stewartry of Kirkcudbright,” is one
of their national heroes. From Paul’s
time dates the firing of a gun at evenfall
Wherever U.S. warships are at anchor, at
least in peace-time; “the Navy’s good-
night gun”;—
Say good night to all the sleepers. Don’t
you hear the gun, Paul Jones?
Brest and Lorient, as well as St. Malo,
are identified with the exploits of the
Scot whom our indignant ancestors called
a traitor and a pirate, but who was cer-
tainly a wonderful seaman. Still thirst-
ing for fight after the American war was
over, Jones took service with the Rus-
sians, without sacrificing “the condition
of an American citizen and officer,” and
“as a rear-admiral he took part in the
naval campaign in the Liman against
the Turks,” the Liman being “an arm of
the Black Sea into which flow the Bug
and Dnieper rivers.” Broken in health,
he cast up in revolutionary Paris and died
there on July 18, 1792, just turned 45.
No record of his grave was preserved, but
in 1905 it was found in an old Protestant
cemetery, covered with houses, and the
body, cased in a leaden coffin, so re-
markably preserved that the face, though
shrunken, was identified at once (“Mc-
Clure’s” ran a photo, of it), was taken
back to Annapolis for reburial.
* * * *
“Norther”: The Queensland Court of
Criminal Appeal has directed the Crown
to prepare statistics showing the preva-
lence of bigamy and sentences imposed
since the war began. Their Honors were
dealing with an appeal against a sentence
of two years, appellant’s counsel claim-
ing that it was excessive. Acting Chief
Justice Macrossan said that the Court had
a duty to discourage the practice or habit
or pastime or whatever it is, whereupon
Justice Philp wanted to know if there
was such a thing as a standard sentence.
To find out, the statistics were ordered.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne Beak had a point
rare in Victorian legal history to unravel
lately. A trimmer of Launceston, Tas.,
was charged with having stolen or re-
received cigarettes. It was alleged that
they had been found in his possession
when his ship was bumping the waves
some miles outside the Heads, and coun-
sel raised the objection that the search
was made outside territorial waters in an
area where the Court had no jurisdiction.
Remarking that English law had to pro-
vide a special statute to deal with larceny
and similar offences in the Channel Islands
and that a special Act existed in N.S.W.
but none in Victoria, Judge Sproule dis-
missed the case.
* * * *
“Uramao”: As to the hyphen in “New
Zealand,” Johannes Andersen believes
the time has come to make New Zealand
one word, as Newfoundland. Another
authority, while agreeing to the elimina-
tion of the gap, says a more suitable name
“Come outside and I'll eat you alive.”
would be “Sealand,” thus squaring the
title with the Maori legend that an ancient
god fished up the country from the bot-
tom of the sea. It has always been a mis-
take to use the word “New,” as “New”
so soon becomes old.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: There may shortly be
vouchsafed to Victorian railway travellers
a spectacle hitherto confined to China,
The Railways Commissioners have an-
nounced that employees may grow cab-
bages -and cauliflowers along the lines,
in the yards and* adjacent to stations on
areas up to a quarter of an acre rent-free,
water, if any, to be paid for. The land-
hungry Chinese do this without asking
permission, and even put soil on top of
posts if there is room to grow two blades
of oats there.
* * * *
“P.K.”: “M.K.’s” statement that it is
most unlikely that any descendant of
Captain Cook is in possession of the
navigator’s waistcoat (B. 26/7/’44) recalls
that at least two items of Cook’s ward-
robe are still in existence. These are a
bright orange-colored cloak and helmet
made of the feathers of a Hawaiian bird
now extinct. Thousands of birds were
plucked to make the cloak and helmet,
which were presented to Cook by Kame-
hameha I, chief of the Hawaiians, when
Cook first visited Hawaii in 1778. The
navigator passed on the gaudy articles to
the Russian Governor-General of Kam-
chatka in recognition of the warm recep-
tion and great assistance he and his men
received there after their voyage from
Hawaii. The articles when last heard of
were in the Scientific Museum at Lenin-
grad.
*.* * *
“Wagglegun”; Informers did well in
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
William Cox, Esquire, giving evidence be-
fore the N.S.W. Select Committee on
Police and Jails in 1839, delivered the
opinion: “By the late Licensing Act the
fine of £1 for drunkenness goes one-half
to the informer and the other half to the
Queen, instead of, as by Statute 21st
James I, the fine of five shillings going
entirely to the poor. I consider that the
increased power of punishing for
drunkenness has had a very beneficial
effect.” Now all the fine (on taxation,
cases) goes to the Queen’s great-grandson
and merely the pleasure of “putting some-
one in” goes to the informer.
* * * #
“Spokbshave”: Odd occupations? A
Melbourne University professor, a very
learned savant, has a betting system,
goes to the races every Saturday, never
looks at a race, reads a book while they’re
running and stirs from his studies only to
collect when he wins. They say he often
wins, but no punter is more welcome to
the tribe of McShortodds than the man
with a system, be he professor or
plasterer.
* * * *
“Ad.”; S.A. is in dead earnest about
its anti-lottery stand. A local man has
been fined £5 for putting pamphlets
about a Westralian concern in suburban
letter-boxes. He mentioned that he does
it without pay—he was carrying over
1000 when arrested —but would get
threepence for every person who replied
by taking tickets.
* * * *
“Si Anu”; Opening an art show in
Melbourne, Dr. C. O. van der Plas, the
bearded chief commissioner of the
N.E.I. in Melbourne, made the surprising
assertion that the forms of Western
poetry, especially the sonnet, had invaded
the Malay Archipelago and were bloom-
ing so profusely that it was as if the age
of Dante and Shakspeare had returned
under the palm-trees. It may be so. The
Malay has always run to poetry as a
form of expression rather than to paint-
ing or decoration, and his indigenous
pantun is as rigid in construction as the
sonnet, though he uses it impromptu with
a facility that is surprising. At wakes and
weddings rival champions outdo each
other in improvisations in which the con-
ventionality of ideas is equalled only
by the speed of production. A pantun
is composed of two couplets, the first
of which has no discernible connection
with the second, except perhaps in some
vague association of ideas; the second
may contain either an amorous, a political
or a pornographic A really
erudite Malay can converse quite a long
time with another merely by repeating
the two innocuous first lines, the second
couplet with the sting in its tail being
implied. The “pantoum,” in European
verse, is a form made up of quatrains,
two lines of each being repeated in the
succeeding quatrain.
* * * *
“Avon”; A commission which has
been inquiring into the working of the
apprenticeship system at Wellington
(M.L.), and upon which technical educa-
tionists have strong representation, re-
cently had before it a witness, an em-
ployer, who declared that the boys of the
present generation, as a class, were un-
disciplined and lacking in respect towards
employers, equipment and industry gener-
ally. He blamed the schools. Various
pedagogues on the commission rebutted
that idea —the schools, they said, were
strong on discipline. Perhaps the boys
picked it up from the men. The witness
thought there might be something in that
—a reflection of a political atmosphere.
Then the president of the commission,
Judge Tyndall, chipped in and said dis-
courtesy was rampant, particularly in
shops. To his mind it was just the work-
ing of the old economic law of supply
and demand. Goods were scarce, it was
a sellers’ market, and as politeness no
longer had a business value it wasn’t in
evidence.
* * * at
“Chevroford”: Melburnians share the
delusion of Sydneysiders that their cli-
mate is the coldest ever, largely because
the best weather comes out of its appro-
priate season. There is frequently a
halcyon period of still, sunny days in
May and there is always one in October,
and there qre spasms of similar forget-
fulness on the part of Jupiter Boreas in
midwinter. The holiday season is around
Christmas, when it is a toss-up whether
an Antarctic blizzard will move in or a
heat wave with bushfires will occupy the
stage. No Melburnian will believe that
rain falls on fewer days in Melbourne
than in Sydney, whatever that foreign
publication, The Commonwealth Year-
Book, may say about it.
A GOOD BLOKE.
“Senator Keane eulogised the retiring Governor-
General as ‘a good bloke.’ ”
It wouldn’t do in an illuminated
Address or on a churchyard epitaph,
Yet for expressiveness it might be rated
A veritable tribute and a half,
A phrase that calls for no one to enlighten.
Who is there doesn’t like to think he’s spoke
About (colloquially) as “an all right ’un”
Or “a good bloke”?
Packed and precise, what label could convey so
Much in two monosyllables, or reach
So wide an audience, or fill a place so
Firmly assured in homely Saxon speech?
Could ordered eloquence, however swanky,
Give testimony to esteem more high
Than this —or its equivalent on Yankee
Lips, “a swell guy”?
Like Keane, I’ve gathered by experience fre-
quent
That less pretentious terms are better far
Than those professors use, and none so piquant
As those contained in the vernacular,
Crisp summaries that hold a meaning ample
Stored in the barest minimum of space.
If you require a pertinent example, (
Take “a hard case.”
Whether your job’s concerned with laws or
lyrics
And to whatever eminence you win,
Bear it in mind high-sounding panegyrics
Are not invariably genuine.
And even a proconsul, the recital
Of all whose honors would bewilder folk,
Might much prefer to know that, for requital,
He'd fairly earned the unofficial title
Of “a good bloke.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“Hamer”: The literary agent in Eng-
land and America, who is an expert at
his job, is certainly worthy of his hire.
Editors know that he understands their
individual requirements and give con-
sideration to matter he submits that an
unknown writer could never hope to
earn. The market being secured, the agent
can bargain as to payment in a way im-
possible to the average writer. After
Henry Lawson had worked his passage
to England he had a heartbreaking time
until an agent became interested. Sup-
plied with five stories in a series, the
agent asked Lawson to call back in three
days. When Lawson came in, expecting
nothing, a cheque for £85 was waiting
for him. He was told that another five
stories would be taken at the same rate
at least. Lawson was happy, until he
began to ask himself what the agent must
be making out of it —poor Harry was
like that. He decided to make a direct
approach, cutting out the agent’s commis-
sion. He got no bites, and the agent told
Henry never to darken his door again.
Other agents were not interested, either.
And that was why Lawson did no good
in London.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: R. J. Gray, M.L.A.,
has been telling the Victorian Leg.
Assembly that people should be more
parachute - conscious and that the
Government should erect parachute-
jumping towers, from which people could
take jumps. He thinks that parachute-
jumping would become a great sport,
and people would become air-minded
while they were enjoying a healthful
exercise. The proposal seems to have
fallen into oblivion with a dull thud.
* * * *
“Will Lackspear”: “Blue P.’s” sug-
gestion (B. 26/7/’44) that an Australian
stanza should be added to “God Save,”
in lieu of a brand-new national anthem,
has inspired me to reach down my lyre:
God save our gracious King,
Let all Australians sing;
God save the King.
Send him victorious,
Happy and glorious.
Long to reign over us,
God save our King.
Though not unmindful of the daring un-
conventionality, originality and profun-
dity of thought displayed in the past by
the composers of synthetic hymns of this
nature, I feel confident that my contri-
bution should be well in the running.
* * * *
“Pawang”; A Melbourne newspaper
commentator, criticising G. B. Shaw’s tart
rejoinder to the people who wanted to
congratulate him on reaching his 88th
birthday, said we shall never really
know what Shaw thinks until his auto-
biography has been published, which
won’t be until 50 years after his death.
This is not strictly accurate. Apart from
the fact that no writer has told us what
he thinks more completely than Shaw has
in his plays and prefaces, there is the
short but comprehensive and characteris-
tically outspoken autobiography Imma-
turity, which he published when he was
a youth of 78. According to this ac-
count, at nearly 30 Shaw was an able-
bodied pauper. He started writing novels,
but after five years decided he was a
failure and turned .critic, became dis-
satisfied with the plays he had to criti-
cise and decided to write plays himself
which he could sit through without being
bored to extinction.
* * * *
“Matros”: What nationality were the
crews of the 27 merchant ships, not to
mention the two warships, “Behbow” (B.
19/7/’44) served aboard? It is a rank
impossibility to have been with 27 dif-
ferent British or American crews of
modern merchant vessels and not have
heard “on a ship” used. This form is
generally accepted in America now, even
in non-seafaring and pedantic circles.
.The phrase occurs in Frank Laskier's
Log Book (reviewed last year on The
Bulletin’s Red Page), and Laskier can t
be branded as an “absolute landsman.”


“Bo”: A couple of stations down one
of those self-confident canine travellers
hopped on to our afternoon peak-hour
train and took his seat among the feet
in the aisle of our carriage. A lady be-
side whom he squatted clicked her fingers
in friendly fashion, and the little mong
pushed his head up on her lap to have
his head stroked. The lady alighted at
her station and the dog also got off. As
she passed through the barrier the dog
gave a playful leap up beside her and
then trotted through. One of the ticket-
receiving porters, a young fellow whose
arrogant air of officiousness and self-im-
portance is a byword in the suburb, ran
after the lady, “Madam,” he said
haughtily, “you only gave me one ticket.
What about the dog that followed you
out? Did you have” The lady, who
had an argument a day or two before
with the same fellow about a parcel, fixed
him with a cold eye. Then in a voice
loud enough to be heard by the crowd
streaming out, she said “The dog that
followed me out? You flatter yourself,
young man—you’re only a pup! ”
* * *
“Caballer”: The Aussie accent (B.
2/8/’44) is generally easy to recognise
when met abroad, but gives little or no
clue as to whether the owner of the voice
comes from Ayr or Albany. Maori-
landers are hard to spot—usually picked
as Englishmen—but the toughest problem
is the South African. It is sometimes
possible to pick the citizen of Durban or
Capetown, but one can never be sure of
the Afrikander. The English yokel as
played on the Australian radio speaks
like nothing on earth, a mixture of Lan-
cashire, Yorkshire, West Country and
Cockney. The London and Sydney stages
usually make nearly as big a mess of it.
“Cauboy” is right when he claims that
an Oxford baby transferred to Footscray
would speak pure Footscray. A coal-
black pusson of my acquaintance, reared
in Glasgow, spoke with a broad Scots
accent. To hear a voice that called up
visions of heather and haggis coming
from one who looked as if he should
have been “totin’ dem cotton bales” at
New Orleans was, to use his own term,
“awfu’.”
“Nakh”: But would an Oxford baby
transferred to Footscray talk Footscray?
I should say it would be more likely to
become bilingual. A small boy of my
acquaintance with an Oxford parent talks
pure Oxford in the house, but in the street
and at school he says “ain’t,” “bonzer”
and “keow” like his fellows. Thus he
avoids the embarrassment of being re-
garded as an alien talking a foreign lingo.
* * * m
“Pawang”; According to British health
authorities neurotics stand the strain of
the robombs better than normal people,
and in fact are healthier than under ordi-
nary conditions. This is on all fours with
psychological observation. Fear of a fear
is the neurotic’s trouble. The real cause
of his feeling is hidden from him and he
calls it anything but the real thing. If
he has something real to fear he forgets
his unreal fear. Even a man who be-
lieved in bogeys as firmly as did the people
of the Middle Ages would forget them
if he were walking in a cemetery and
heard the sinister roar of the robomb. I
observed an instance in Melbourne.
Almost bent double a middle-aged man
was painfully crawling across the street
when a motor horn tooted. He sprang
upright, and in two manly leaps reached
the safety of the footpath. The moment
he got there he once more bent double
and hobbled off with one hand on the
small of his back, where he evidently
imagined his trouble resided.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Leaning Tower of
Pisa, reported from the Allied side to be
“ D' you still think the bomb bay's a good place for a nice quiet snooze?"
occupied by German observers, was later
announced by German Radio as having
been demolished by Allied gunfire. Sub-
sequently Vichy reported that it was still
standing, or leaning, undamaged, and pre-
sumably as much out of the perpendicu-
lar as ever. It is in itself a beautiful
building, and would look far better up-
right, but its fame rests on its eccentric
posture. Viewed from the train from
Rome to San Remo, which is the only
way I have seen it, it gives the spectator
a much greater shock than it does in the
postcards. It looks like an architectural
drunk in magnificent Renaissance cos-
tume staggering home through a crowd
of respectable citizens after a night out.
Its 16ft. of nonperpendicularity was’ in
process of being emulated by a tower
near the Melbourne markets 50 years
ago. An architect suggested remedial
measures, and, the strain removed, it
gradually assumed a more dignified
appearance.
* * *
“Alumnus”: I can imagine the man in
the street boohooing “Magister’s” denun-
ciation of Britain’s master of oratory (B.
19/7/’44). His par, was an illuminating
example of not being able to see the wood
for the trees. Churchill has been speak-
ing and writing for so long that he has
a much finer appreciation of language and
its effects on the minds and emotions of
men than any provincial pedlar of chil-
"He's just come back from Murmansk, sir, and says the heat's gettin
him down."
dren's syntax could attain to. “Like,” as
used by Churchill in the context quoted
by “Magister,” has a much clearer and
more striking significance than “as.”
“Like” has a much stronger emphasis
on similarity, and that is what Churchill
wanted to convey. He didn’t want to
present the idea merely that the flying-
bomb menace was going to be beaten
just as the magnetic mine was beaten,
but in a manner similar to the victory
over the magnetic mine—decisively and
completely. “Magister” represents the
conventional grammarians who learn by
rote the indefinite definitions of the
Fowler boys.
* * * ♦
“Pip” on some slogans for soldiers:
Some of the organisations which look after
the soldier’s comfort have a passion for slogans.
They stick messages of good cheer in recrea-
tion huts, on tent poles and even on com-
pany notice boards. “Tomorrow is a lovely
day” is typical, negated by the equally favored
“Tomorrow never comes.” “Don’t cross your
bridges until you come to them” is usually
No. 1 in every series, run a close second by
“Worry never did anybody any good.” The
same spirit pervades “When up to your neck in
hot water be like the kettle —and sing” and
“It’s an ill wind that won’t at least dry your
laundry.” Some realist invented “It’s better to
be homesick than sick of home,” but only a
rabid sentimentalist could have thought up
“Your country is proud of you.” Pithy mes-
sages like “Keep your chin up,” “Don’t have
a care,” “Laugh and keep laughing” and “Why
frown?” abound. Gordon’s “Life is only froth
and bubble” verse and Omar Khayyam’s “The
Moving Finger writes” are manna to the
printers. There is one elaborated announce-
ment which proves in some 500 words that life
is good though skies be black. On the board
outside the C.O.’s Orderly Room is affixed
a particularly large sticker proclaiming “Things
could be worse.” Some unfortunate, just
fined a fiver, has pencilled the vehement denial
“Like hell they could! ”
» * *
“Harap”: A war-time innovation
which will carry over into the peace is
microfilm. Use of microfilm in the air-
graph service means that a mail clipper
can carry 9,600,000 letters in place of a
normal 138,000. These miniature photo-
graphic copies have solved the problem
of rapid distribution of information
amongst the Allied scientific services.
The U.S.A. Government Libraries at
Washington, D.C., are the greatest of
their type in the world, and between them
file 80 p.c. of the world’s published
scientific work. Using microphotography
they send out copies of any desired pub-
lication at a cost of cents a page, and
also can provide copies of matter which
is still in manuscript. In Australia the
C.5.1.R., Fisher Library and others are
using the process, and the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Library will soon make micro
copies of all the material in the Mitchell
so that posterity may have it in its present
form long after the originals are dust.
The apparatus used varies with the work
to be done, but at its simplest consists of
a Leica or Contax camera for the photo-
graphy, and a child’s magic lantern for
the projector-enlarger.. With crude appli-
ances such as this about 100 documents
an hour can be copied. More elaborate
outfits can cope with up to 6000 copies
an hour.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” launches an architectural
anathema:
Judging by the results of recent Housing
Commission competitions, the flimsiness, dis-
comfort and unsuitability to the climate of the
Australian house (B. 26/7/’44) is likely to in-
crease rather than decrease, now that official-
dom has taken charge of the proceedings. All
the emphasis is placed on labor-saving de-
vices, though labor-saving isn’t needed when
most young wives have more leisure than they
know what to do with. As every builder
knows, these devices cost money, and as the
cost has to come off somewhere to keep the
price below the £BOO stipulated it comes off the
construction, which has to be flimsy prefabrica-
tion. Our forefathers couldn’t prefabricate
18in. stone walls or slate roofs, so they built
houses much more suited to the climate than
those devised by their descendants are. The
Commission houses won’t be cool in the
summer, despite their light coloring, because
the walls will be too thin to keep out the heat
that is not reflected; but they will be definitely
colder in winter. The dark old bluestone
houses of early Melbourne look colder than the
bright villas of the model suburb at Fisher-
men’s Bend, but they are actually much warmer
because their walls are able to absorb what
little warmth there is in the southern winter.
As for the architecture of the Commission
houses, its inspiration appears to be the pack-
ing case.
* * * *
“Rooibaatje”: Surely “El Madjal” (B.
12/7/’44) is .harking back to the Boer
rising in 1880 when he states that the
first British regulars who went to S.
Africa sweltered in red coats and white
helmets. The first and all other troops
who served in the Boer War of 1899-
1902 wore khaki. As to the Australian
contingents adopting the slouch hat “to
conform with British and other Colonial
troops,” also “the then universal legging
with the spiral strap,” the British
regular’s head and leg wear was, with
few exceptions, the helmet and cloth
puttee, while irregulars in the main wore
the slouch hat and also the cloth puttee.
It is more probable that the hat was
copied by the British from the Austra-
lians than vice versa. The Queensland
Mounted Infantry wore the slouch hat in
the early ’nineties and the N.S.W.
Lancers had worn it some time prior to
that.
* * * *
“Corpore Sano”: Sergeant Miller, of
the first A.1.F., is the finest example
I have heard of of what calis-
thenics can do. A burst of shrapnel ab-
sorbed in France gave him 37 distinct
wounds all the way down his back and
his legs. He wasn’t expected to live a
day, but a magnificent physique pulled
him through. Back in Australia I saw
him limping along—he had just aban-
doned crutches —going the rounds for a
Bondi estate agent. He was using exer-
cises, he told me, to complete his cure.
Two years later he came to say good-
bye: he was leaving for South Africa,
where he had been appointed physical
culture expert to the South African
Y.M.C.As., and he looked the part.
“King’s Pawn”: A desire to be brisk
and up to date has altered the title of the
“Australasian Chess Review” to “Check.”
The name goes back to the game’s be-
ginnings in Persia, before the Christian
era, when 156 pieces rambled over a
much larger board and shah mdb, pro-
nounced “kek mate” and meaning “dead
king,” announced the end of the game.
Chess entered Europe on two sides, one
way being through Russia and Turkey.
In Russia it is still part of the higher
schools curriculum, esteemed as mental
exercise. The Moors taught the game
to the Spaniards, and from Spain it
spread north and east. One of the
grandsons of Charlemagne, enraged by
repeated defeats, caught up the chess-
board and donged his brother on the
head. Brother dying, the donger went into
exile, and thereby altered the course of
European history. Cardinal Richelieu
used the chessboard frequently to im-
press upon ambassadors that what he
didn’t know about tactics and strategy
wasn’t knowledge.
# * * *
“P.K.”; Caen (B. 19/7/’44) contains
the tombs of William the Conqueror and
his queen, Matilda. William lies in the
chancel of the Church of St. Etienne,
built by him in 1077 as a monastery, and
his queen is buried in Ste. Trinite,
founded by her as a convent for ladies
of high rank, to form a companion
church to William’s. In 1867 Napoleon
111 suggested that these tombs should be
presented to England, but the Caen
people kicked up such a rumpus that the
idea was given up.
A LIPSTICK LAY.
“Our lipstick sinks itself discreetly, flattering your
personality by merging with it, instead of shrieking
what it is.”— -Beauty parlor advt,
Phyllis, if your attractions you would stress,
Keep at a distance
Those adventitious aids to comeliness
Which flauntingly their genesis confess,
Shriek their existence.
A touch of color on your lips to boast
Quite orthodox is;
But even those you fascinate the most
May jib at finding them the hue of post-
A 1 pillar-boxes.
Choose, then, some shade that artist's would
■agree
A bit more pat is,
Some tinge of red that scarce will suspect be
But merge into your personality
(Whatever that is).
What’s that you say? And can I counsel you
How to demolish
The doubt your dainty nails are as they grew
And not so plainly, obviously due
To paint and polish?
Well, no. A question such as that might tax
Wiser and breezier
Wits than I carry in my mental stacks.
I have no answer to it. Kindly axe
Me something easier.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE WAIRARAPA.
When spring steps down through the Wairarapa
plain.
Gold gleams the gorse in every rutted lane.
Willows burst' green and the red hares run,
And the spaniels fossick, and the farmer takes
a gun.
The shining-cuckoos work their age-old ruse
On warblers and fantails from Featherston to
Bruce.
The butter’s on the kowhai, and the dew on the
fronds,
And tadpoles wriggle ih the little weedy ponds.
Clematis stars make the girl a bridal train
When spring steps down through the Wairarapa
plain.
When summer walks down in the still hot days,
Rata bleeds red through the hills’ blue haze.
The grey duck fusses her brood on the creeks,
And the snow’s all gone from the Tararua
peaks.
The big trout lift and the pied stilts nod.
The, fleece is gathered, and the farmer takes a
rod.
Udders bulge big in the whitewashed bail,
Water-lilies swoon where the dragon-flies sail,
And a new life quickens and the girl-wife prays
When summer walks down in the still hot days.
When autumn crackles down through the frost-
crisped earth,
There are queer sad notes in the tui’s spaced
mirth.
The honey’s in the comb, and the red stags roar,
And the farmer takes a rifle from the rack by
the door. .
The quail’s in the covey, and the hawk hangs
high,
The pukeko runs where the niggerheads lie,
And the breeze peels gold from the willow each
day.
Magpies yodel from the tall stacked hay,
And the girl is heavy with her near, near birth
When autumn crackles down through the frost-
crisped earth.
When winter comes up for the short cold rest,
The wood's in the shed and the cider’s all
pressed;
And white stand the hills and bleak croaks the
rail#
And cabbage-trees bend in the chill-toothed gale.
The rabbit's press tight in the manuka nooks.
The hack-logs blaze, and the farmer takes his
books.
Alone sings the thrush and wild runs the river,
The sheep are on the turnips and the big pines
shiver.
And the girl puts a baby to suckle at her breast
When winter comes up for the short cold rest.
MAORILAND. TEN DU CHATEAU.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Mac, Mallee cocky,
ran the combine into a stump: the off-
side float frame and three spokes from
the wheel were broken and the axle was
bent. The ground was drying off,
so he headed for Lonergan’s, knowing
that Lonergan was finished cultivat-
ing. Going across the paddocks,
Mac thus communed with himself;
“I s’pose the old cow’ll gimme a black
look when I ask him to lend his machine.”
Half a mile went by. “He’s certain t’ find
some excuse not t’ lend it.” A quarter-
mile passed. “Blast Lonergan! Why can’t
he be a better neighbor?” Mac got
through the boundary fence. “He’ll
reckon he’s always lendin’ his gear t’
blokes that can’t look after their own.”
Mac crossed Lonergan’s crop paddock.
“S’pose he’ll pick me for trampin’
through his crop!” And so it went on,
until Mac finally reached Lonergan’s
door and knocked. “Well,” demanded
Lonergan ungraciously, “what do y’
want?” Mac eyed him ; then, “Y’ know
what t’ do with y’r cultivator, don’t y’?”
he snapped and headed for home.
* * * *
“B.4”; One of the means of escape
favored by snakes is to dive into a handy
waterhple. The red-bellied black is par-
ticularly adept at this aquatic trick, and
it is useless to wait or search for Joe
in a rock or tree-lined hole. One wet
season, with dogs and whip, we galloped
one darky into a rocky hole filled with
clear water. Rocks heaved in made the
reptile cling tighter and squirm under
them for shelter. Obtaining a short-
forked stick, I pinned the diver and
watched him strike the stick several times,
and even hang on with neck swollen with
hate and rage. Breaking his back, I lifted
him out and settled his hash. On the
Cooper I have seen ipulga snakes take to
the water for shelter, and on anabranch
holes of the Burdekin an ugly, thick-set
brown swims in leisurely and then dives.
We could never induce our horses to
drink at or enter one of these bathing
resorts.
• * * * *
“Leo the Lion”: I’ve heard fellows talk-
ing about the intelligence of horses and
dogs, but my money is on the ordinary
rat to beat ’em hollow. One got through
a small hole in the fowlyard netting and
pinched an egg. When it got back to
the hole it seemed baffled, for there.was
no way in which to get through the hole
carrying the hen-fruit. A second rat slunk
along the fence and poked its head
through the hole. They put their whiskers
together, then the first rat turned on its
back, balanced the egg on its four up-
turned feet and its mate reached through,
grabbed its tail and drew rat and egg
safely outside. I had a gun in my hand,
but hadn’t the heart to shoot.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Yes, it’s me again. Just
wanted to ask “Moyhu” (B. 2/8/’44)
whether that Mallee mate of his who put
hen, duck, turkey and goose eggs in a
lowan’s mound dug ’em out when they
were hatched or left ’em to scratch their
own way through the three or four feet
of the mound, as does the lowan chick.
And in what part of the Mallee are the
mounds so thick that the experiment
could be tried “in neighboring mounds”?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Yair,” said the big
fellow. Tm with a gang pickin’ oranges
one year on a big grove near Leeton an’
about the second day a little skinny coot
is put on. He complains he ain’t done
much of that sort of work, but he whales
in, grabbin’ navels an’ fillin’ his bags as
best he could. That night we’re havin’
tea in the hut when the little coot’s hands
start jerkin’ about all over the table. ‘lt’s
me muscles,’ he whimpers. T can’t con-
trol ’em, not bein’ used t’ the work.’
Well, it’s so bad that one bloke has t’
hold his arms still while another feeds
him, an’ when he gets inter bunk his arms
“You may build things like that in Pisa, Tonio, but you're in
Boggabri n ow!”
keep jerkin’ about till he falls asleep.
Next mornin’ he’s no sooner up an’
dressed when away goes his arms again,
so the boss says he better stay in the hut
that day an’ give it another go the next
day. When we get back t’ the hut that
night he’s gorn.” “And did his arms get
right?” I asked. “Yair,” says Mat sadly,
“they got right after he’d cleaned out
our cash, watches an’ other things. He
was certainly a chronic case of clutchin’
hands.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: In defiance of “James W.”
(B. 2/8/’44) I rise to say that I have
personally tried the front-paw grip tech-
nique on several dogs, both friendly and
otherwise, and in each case it worked. It
also worked on a fox caught in a rabbit-
trap and fighting mad.
* * * *
“Ilex”: “Cass” was wrong in attribut-
ing the prickles of the holly-tree to the
shade of the house (B. 19/7/’44). All
holly-trees have prickly leaves up to a
certain height and smooth leaves higher
up. Southey in his “The Holly Tree”
sums up the “reason why” rather neatly:
Below a circling fence its leaves are seen
wrinkled and keen;
No grazing cattle through their prickly round
can reach to wound,
But as they grow where nothing is to fear,
Smooth and unarm’d the pointless leaves
appear.
* * * *
“Betcha”; No, “Gumsucker,” fat-hen
is nothing like sorrel, and, believe me, any
bloke that takes on fat-hen as a vegetable
is a hero. Haven’t tried the sorrel pie
either, and don’t intend experimenting.
What I have eaten though is boiled sting-
ing nettles, and I’ve also drunk a diluted
decoction of the water they were boiled
in because someone got hold of the
cowardly idea it was “good” for me.
The water from boiled horehound is quite
a popular blood tonic also, in some parts,
while carrot or beetroot tops agreeably
substitute for spinach. Another weed
I’ve sometimes consumed is marshmal-
low. The best method is to discard the
stems and plunge the young leaves into
boiling water until tender, when they can
be served chopped up with salt, pepper
and butter. Good to eat? Hell, no;
it’s worse than fat-hen.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Young Joe, home for his
school holidays, was giving the old man
a hand to pick out and dose a bunch of
sick ewes, while Ma leaned on the fence
admiringly. “Look at that one, will y’?”
grinned Joe, pointing to a staggering ewe.
“Prop’ly chivvied, ain’t she?” Ma beamed
delightedly, and the old bloke stood up
and rubbed his pate. “Y’ know, Joe,”
he said with a puzzled grin, “me ’n’ Ma’s
mighty proud o’ all that book lamin’ y’
got at school, but the trouble is we don’t
know the meanin’ o’ them French words.”
“What French words?” queried Joe.
“Chivvied? Gosh that ain’t French, Dad ;
that’s slang, English slang.” The old
man’s jaw dropped several inches. “The
hell it is,” he gasped, his bristles rising.
“An’ whatcha mean usin’ rotten flamin’
gab like that in front o’ y’r mother, eh?
Gripes, the other kids’ll be pickin’ it up
next. That blankety school oughter learn
y’ more dinkum tork, y’ blasted young
shaver.”
* * * *
One sultry night on a Gulf
station was awakened by the restlessness
and moaning of a girl child. Waking
her father we entered the room with a
lighted candle and discovered the trouble.
A huge centipede, bloated with blood,
was wrapped round and clinging to a
great toe, to the top of which' the
creeper’s mouthpiece was attached. The
candle flame applied, the gorger let go,
and flopped to the floor. We booted out
and squashed the horror. Examination
of the still sleeping child’s toe disclosed
a quarter-inch incision from which blood
oozed. Evidently the needle-pointed
fangs had been employed, and probably
some poison injected as an anaesthetic,
for the child still slept despite the iodine
and dressing applied. The father in-
formed me that several centipedes had
vampired this child; but never the
younger sister in the same room. The
house was on the ground level, with a
slab-floored verandah.
* * * *
“Solitude”: In a thin shirt and coat-
less, I was on the back ridge seven miles
from home when the hailstorm caught
me, I took shelter inside a hollow tree,
but the nag soon objected to being pelted
with chunks of ice about the size of hen
eggs, and before I could reach him he’d
broken the bridle and disappeared down
the spur at breakneck speed. I started
to walk, leaning against a piercing merci-
less wind that shrieked across the tons
and through the gullies ; I was wet to the
hide and lacerated with flying hail mv
face a mask of ice, feet and hands with-
out any feeling. Mechanically I stumned
on After a mile or so one of the dogs
left me to crawl into a log, and a bit
later the other also disappeared. It didn’t
matter. Nothing mattered. The light
faded to heavy walls of grey as I went
through a dead world, falling over rocks
and dragging across ridges. After what
seemed a lifetime of misery I reached the
hut to find Seventyfiver sprawled before
a roaring fire, no billy on for tea, and
no wood brought in. “Cold?” he drawled
presently, stirring from his doze. “Y* don’t
call this cold. Gripes, y’ should ’a’ been
with me back in ’B9. Why, it was”
The old cove kept looking back at me
suspiciously after that, wondering
whether the hatbrim of ice that landed
on his pate was an accident.
* * * *
Plankton ; The Adelaide Company’s
Bullara (B. 9/8/’44) had for the saloon
wainscoting a series of beautiful hand-
carved oak' panels depicting incidents
in Sir Walter Scott’s Waverley novels.
In her old age she was sold to Asia,
and Captain Sinclair (now holding a
shore job at Brisbane with his old
company), who was successively quar-
termaster, third, second and chief officer
on her, told me that one of his old deck-
hands spotted her in Chinese waters a
few years ago still going strong. The Bul-
lara was succeeded on her W.A. run by
the ill-fated Koombana, on which Cap-
tain Sinclair probably was the last man
to set eyes, as she disappeared over
the horizon to the north, when he hap-
pened to glance astern from the bridge
of a south-bound vessel which left Hed-
land just behind her. The Koombana
was lost almost exactly a year after the
Yongala disaster, under similar cyclonic
conditions and in the same latitude,
though on the opposite side of Australia.
* * * *
“Mrs. P.”: “Boghi” is rather hopeful
if he imagines “Narrin’s” eyebrows will
raise a hair at a farmer landing a cod
with a stockwhip (B. 19/7/ ’44). I was
in the dinghy when, after the spinner had
done its stuff—confirmatory photo, on
receipt of expenses —he caught one by
jamming the travelling rug—in the dinghy
for wifely comfort —in a 60-pounder’s
gills. Mirth, not surprise—that was the
cod’s province—almost lost us the prize,
as “Narrin’s” missus found difficulty in
keeping the dinghy’s bows straight. It’s
ingenuity one needs for equipment, “N.”
reckons.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The ghosts of the
Danny Delacys who carved their way
into the Southern Highlands fluttered
close as the husky bomber roared closer
to the full moon. As the ’Bidgee showed
clear, lights blinked from around Cuppa-
cumalonga, nestling at the foot of Mt.
Tennant, from which eyrie, that bush-
ranger watched the Cooma road. Nearer,
the double bend by Point Hut Crossing
marked the slopes where Farrer bred his
wheats; the Cotter loomed ahead, while
to starboard lay Belconnen, once part of
a grant to Sturt. Past that a black gully
twisted down to the shallows where the
bullock drays from Tumut way once
forded the river and toiled on to Gunda-
roo, while beyond lay the sullen ranges
that now guard Burrenjuck. At 10,000
feet we head south, with the Brindabella
Range a sinister ocean of murky rollers
far below and, just visible if you knew
where to peer, the Bogongs standing
clear of the cloud. Back over the river
valley, a few short words over the inter-
com., the ship levels out straight and
steady and a small red, light leaps alive
on the dashboard. Seconds pass, then
all eyes turn down. The cold, silver
moonlight through the perspex seems
eternal and serene, then in one blinding
instant the whole countryside is seared
with light as a billion candles burn out
at a predetermined height. In that split
second erosion gutters of warm ochre
wriggle down slopes where the dry grass
lies bleached and bright; houses show
walls instead of mere lighted windows,
and the timbered ridges across the river
shine as green as at midday. Then black-
ness ; but soon the river shows up again,
another run is made, another flash
dropped; then we peel off and drone
down through the broken cloud, down
to the level of the peaks, down still over
gnarled redgums which saw the settlers
building their pise homes, down over
lonely poplars or perhaps elderberry-trees
still standing where the pise walls have
gone. Out again into the frosty night;
engines and ghosts are still, while a
mopoke’s call —still at one with the ages
—floats faint across the flat.


“Esk D.”: “Rusty” Kegg and his off-
sider Sam were on a tour of outback
shows and race-meetings, between times
putting in a night or two where a poker
school was in being or could be promoted.
They turned horse and sulky into the
dusty street of Muckalong one evening
and found it deserted except for the
township’s boss hound lying on the road-
way. Sam’s blue heeler went ahead to
investigate and they at once hopped in
to fight. It was a ding-dong go, ending
in the black-and-tan terror of the town-
ship mongs fleeing yelping to backyard
safety. Of the Muckalong denizens there
was only a small boy hanging over a
picket fence to view the fray. “Gripes,”
said “Rusty” in an awed whisper, “we’d
better keep on going. The mugs in these
parts wouldn’t have enough initiative to
lose their money.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Josh Lewis, fiftyish, frail, with
a perpetually apologetic air and tired,
washed-out blue eyes, had the savagest
dogs for miles around. His Jersey bull
was a mass of concentrated maniacal
fury. Nobody ever borrowed any of
Josh’s horses, for nobody wanted to have
a hand bitten off or the bottom kicked
out of a sulky. Even his cows seemed
to be bitten with the same bug of belli-
gerency which characterised every other
four-legged thing on the place. And his
pet magpie delighted in diving fiendishly
at the ankles of any caller. Yet Josh
moved among his collection of cranks
freely and without fear. It was shortly
after Nick Graham, the butcher, had by
skilfully parrying slavering jaws with his
basket when the half-bred bull terrier
broke the chain that Josh surprised the
district by breaking a ten-years’ widower-
hood. His new wife, whom he’d selected
by advertisement, was a muscular 15-
stoner with a prognathous jaw and an
“Back far enough, Joe ?”
aggressive eye. Someone in the pub won-
dered why Josh had picked a missus of
such menacing proportions. “Cripes,”
opined Nick, who was still wondering
how he had got out of Josh’s place in
one piece, “the poor blankard’s got to
have some protection, hasn’t he?”
*** * %
“Billy See”; The half-cup of metho.
poured on the flames to destroy the
hornets’ nest (B, 5/7 / ’44) must have been
heavily diluted, otherwise the explosion
would have scorched more than the
hornets. Metho., like petrol, is dangerous
stuff to pour on a fire. At a big timber
mill I worked at the blacksmith’s striker
one Christmas eve had collected the tank
drainings of petrol from several trucks.
This, in a bucket, was on the floor of the
smithy when the inevitable practical
joker passed through. “You still work-
ing?” he demanded jocularly of the
smith. “It’s time your fire was out for
the year.” Snatching up the bucket of
what he took to be water he doused it on
the fire. It was the following Christmas
before he and the smith were able to
limp back for a taste of the hogshead
the management always provided.
* * * *
“Zake”: Somebody had started it by
asserting that no two men used either axe
or adze alike. Jeffries went further and
put forward the dictum that the left-
handed post-splitter or sleeper-cutter
would have more up against his name
at the end of the day than would the axe-
or adze-wielder of orthodox stroke:
Which brought “Long” Tim in to drawl
a claim that in a sleeper-cutting camp
he was in once up around Stroud
(N.S.W.) he had seen something he’d
never seen before —on one day the whole
camp finished with exactly the same tally,
and they included left- and right-handers.
Jeffries bit hard. “Y’ can’t tell me that
up to a dozen blokes cut exactly the
same number of sleepers in the same
time,” he said ; “a coincidence like that
ain’t possible.” “It was this day,” replied
the long ’un. “Just as they’d all finished
trimmin’ their first sleeper up and was
on the next someone sees a fire in the
scrub and the wind is sweepin’ it towards
their camp. They didn’t finish fightin’
the fire till after dark.”
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”: Any user of strych-
nined apples or phosphorised pollard for
rabbit poisoning will tell “James W.” (B.
2 1 8 / ’44) that magpies will take baits. The
laying of “dummies” (unpoisoned apples
or pollard) for a couple of days, followed
by the real thing on the third day, catches
scores of magpies and other native birds,
which are not always killed but may be
rendered flightless by the peculiar action
of the poison on their nervous systems.
In such birds leg action remains normal,
and they have been known to live for
years, nesting on the ground. They rarely
raise a clutch, however, because of the
foxes and cats, not having acquired the
natural ability of the ground-building
birds to circumvent attack from these
prowlers.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: After telling us that the
standard bush call round his way is the
blowing through the barrel of a 12-gauge,
“Stanus” (B. 12/7/’44) tops off by say-
ing that the sound has the penetrating
effect of an air-raid siren. Well, I don’t
know how penetrating the alleged siren
may be that rouses him to air-raid alarm,
but the ones that I’ve heard so far in our
capital have a note not unlike the old
Jersey stranded down in the Swamp. I
could sleep on with all the “sirens” in
our suburbs blowing. But a real siren,
which is a thin fluted metal disc spinning
freely in a flatfish cylinder, has a shriek
fit to wake the dead. Back in the heyday
of Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile we had a
couple, both the other side of a range of
hills and quite three miles from my resi-
dence. So loud were those sirens at that
distance that the missus used to set the
clock by the first of them. Those three
miles, too, were acoustically filled with
the roar of hundreds of stamps and ball
mills. Even at Kurrawang, nine miles
on, they could be heard. Bufit takes at
least 100 pounds of steam to raise the
siren’s full note, so one would hardly
raise a whimper with the low air pres-
sure commonly available around our
towns and cities ; an air pressure that
sounds old bull in the swamp effectively
enough.
sfc * * *
“Edjudina”: I suppose “Bonny Betsy”
(B. 12/7/’44) had to have her little joke
about the bagpipes, but it is surprising
how many in the bush will walk towards
them, not least the abos. themselves. I’ve
seen a tribe of abos. walk past a brass
band without displaying the slightest
interest; seen them, too, brought to the
piano, with a brilliant player at the keys,
with the same result; and I have known
“ Don’t be silly, THIS cant be Sydney—where’s THE BRIDGE?”
them to liken the cornet played in the bush
to the wail of the dingo. But when
McKay brought along his pipes on one
prospecting trip they soon found our
camp any evening he opened up. There
they would sit and listen; without, of
course, any sign of appreciation. But
imitation is the sincerest flattery. In due
course, with true natural gentility, they
invited us along to “big pfeller cobba
cobba.” We went, expecting the usual
lulla-lulla, with the gins keeping time
slapping their bare thighs with their open
palms, but they had a real star turn.
.About the middle of the show from the
near distance in the hushed bush we heard
the sound of the pipes. Nearer they
came ; then two young bucks marched into
the clearing. Nature’s finest human
mimics, they were operating the pipes
by holding their big bottle noses and
somehow producing the skirling with the
larynx. McKay reckoned it was an insult
to Scotland, but we reckoned it must have
been that way the pipes originated.
* * ♦ »
“Rooter”: The reason why such a
phenomenon as twins among ’roos has
never been reported in the scientific sense
(B. 12/7/’44) is that anyone making
such a report would be required to pro-
vide evidence. That might prove difficult.
A few years back I shot a doe with
twins, one attached to each teat. I
removed the skin from the inner pouch,
intending to pack twins, pouch and all,
in metho. to send to a museum; but
by the time I got home one of the joeys
had become unstuck. Three times in
the last 18 months I have shot does with
twins around Dajarra (n.-w, Q.). If
“Bumpk” knew of a doe with a half-
grown ’roo in her pouch I’d say it was
quite time for her to have another joey.
A joey about one-sixth doe size is able
to look after itself and has to be handled
forcibly by ma to be made realise its
last flat is no longer vacant.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Thirty-odd years ago a
certain small section in the locality was
known as Perry’s Clearing. It still is.
Even then nobody seemed able to pro-
vide any information concerning the pre-
sumed clearer of the land, and, apart from
the old waterhole and a few scattered
bricks, the only evidence of his former
presence was the old brick well that
some one unknown had filled in almost
to the top. Recently a father and son
bought the block. The first task they
undertook was the clearing out of the
old well. After the first yard or two of
soil fragments of charred timber began
to appear in the debris. From his
squatting position on top Senior care-
fully studied the relics. “Must be out of
Perry’s house,” he informed the toiler
down below. The next curio was a
bucket —minus a bottom. “PeFry’s milk
bucket” was the well-considered opinion.
After that the backyard jewellery came
up in a steady stream, and was promptly
classified, “Perry’s gate hinge; Perry’s
axe head,” etc. Abruptly the steady out-
put ceased, and Junior, from six or seven
feet down, summoned his sire: “Hey,
what d’you make of this?” Laboriously
the old chap climbed down the ladder,
took the mattock and carefully worked
round the small terra-cotta disc ; then,
getting down on his knees, examined the
object closely. “That’s it!” he exclaimed
triumphantly. “Perry’s chimney-pot! ”
“I thought so,” the young bloke said ;
“then we’d better not go any deeper.”
“No deeper! Why not?” demanded
Senior. “Well,” drawled the fed-up son,
“you don’t want me to put the mattock
through poor old Perry’s roof, do you?”
“Even Keel”: Other islands besides
Deal, and between it and the Victorian
coast, belong to Tasmania. One of these,
Rodondo, is only about seven miles from
the Victorian coast, while further east
Cliffy is 15 miles from the coast and be-
longs to Victoria. About 60 years ago a
child was born on this island. The
parents were unable to register it either as
a Victorian or a Tasmania. When the
Commonwealth took over lighthouses it
became Victorian territory.
* * * *
“Sarina”; Despite the opinions of many
botanists that none of our 60 mistletoes
is harmful to healthy trees, I’ve found
them thickest on the biggest trees, where
they reach a higher standard of growth
than the miserable specimens that cotton
on to spindly, overcrowded saplings ; and
I’ve seen them kill magnificent gums,
though mostly they cripple their giant
hosts without kayoing ’em finally. Simi-
larly, the N.Q. parasitical figs are eager
to suck the life out of only the strongest
and best of scrub trees. The cane-killing
weed of N.Q. also hooks its parasite
roots around only the most vigorous
sugar-stools.
* * * *
“G.N.K.8.”; Aboliars seem to be get-
ting quite a circus together, what with
stallions that whistle and blow, rams that
snort, horses that rival goats in their
dietary idiosyncrasies and hounds that
“bell.” As to this last I have a theory.
It is caused by the vibration of the lolling
tongues of a pack in full cry banging
against their teeth.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Regarding that Murray
River black (B. 12/7/’44) who fished out
a number of witchetty grubs from their
“burrows,” I would inquire were those
grubs in the roots of the tree, in that
portion of the trunk just below ground,
or in the earth. Any one of those three
situations sounds odd for the witchetty
to be in, since it commonly rejoices in
the upright portion of the trunk at no
great depth beneath the bark. The
witchetty is a large white grub, much
esteemed as an aboriginal delicacy, but
it has habits common to most wood-
borers, in that it likes a senile tree or a
decaying blackboy stump, or, best of
all, freshly-cut fallen timber with the
bark on. All the witchetty and other
wood borers I have studied, most of them
larvae of the night-flying longicorn beetles,
begin as pinhead eggs deposited in the
sap wood wherever the live bark may be
cut or broken. As pinhead grubs they
bore and eat inward, growing as they
progress until adult size. The gfub then
eats out to open air; but instead of
it retires into its burrow and
constructs a cell by plugging above and
below with masticated wood pulp. It
then enters the chrysalis stage, to change
lastly into its flying-beetle fofm. As a
finish it scratches through the lower plug
to the light and emerges. Some grubs
bury in the earth to pupate, but they are
mostly of a dirty grey, quite unlike the
appetising witchetty.
THE BLACK RANGE.
Where mountains wander north and south,
Deep gullies in between,
Mist-crowned and strange, a long black range
Soars o’er the tumbled scene.
Full well I know that ill bides there
Since, on a cattle-quest
Thereon, sore tried by a long day’s ride,
I camped but found no rest.
For there, while oak and fire-warped gum
Like ghost-trees spectrally
Drooped leaf and tress, came Loneliness
To share my camp with me.
Around about me veiling mist,
And birds with folded wings
That made no stir, she brought with her
A sense of alien things.
Close by my side, with hackles raised,
My dog crouched mute with fear,
As though he felt, felt too, there dwelt
Weird presences anear.
Scorched were the trees on slope and crown
With scant green leafage graced,
For ofttimes there with eyes aglare
The Red Steer, raging, raced.
Not mute was Loneliness that night,
But through the darkness spoke,
As though her choice was but to voice
The woes of voiceless folk.
I tell you this, as there I stretched
Tired limbs upon that range.
Night seemed to me thronged eerily
With utterances strange.
Ears tense, I lay and hearkened them
Till at the dayspring’s glow,
Joy mine, I heard a wakened bird
And cattle lowing low.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


rniiil
M I ■
w
y
r;\
A
S
I
De Havilland Propellers
(j^Cf a
De Havilland Aircraft Pty. Ltd.
Australian Branch of the
DE HAVILLAND WORLD FORMATION
Great Britain Australia India
Canada Africa New Zealand
131 Holes
and no sign
of shattering
THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRLTALJVS LEAD .
mm
msk
.<zjrss,
Wk isS
" ->•
! V* v %v
■-.-<
-
.•>m;
i, . -V 2<* -?? —-. ,
?s
s=4
*£.
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E.
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine l is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941.
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per*-
fection in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Well-fed Normans.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” war corre-
spondent Hanson Baldwin.)
The civilian population encountered in
France is chiefly composed of the young
and the old. Their attitude toward the
Allied troops seemed at first a sort of
shy fear—an attitude rather typical of
the reticent Norman. They wanted to be
sure that we were on French soil to stay.
And their four years under German rule
had made its mark ; they knew well the
penalties of revolt.
Nevertheless some of them, even in the
first few days, brought out jugs of cider
for our troops and tried to converse with
them. At one division command post in
a French farmhouse the farmer had
poured wine for all the large staff. Two
old women near St. Laurent-sur-Mer met
our troops with tears in their eyes and
wine bottles in their hands.
On the other hand, there were many
evidences, in other towns, of seeming
apathy and indifference, even of veiled
hostility—though there were no overt
acts.
The habits into which the Normans
had fallen under the German rule ex-
pressed themselves in incongruous ways.
Children spreading their fingers in what
has become known as the “V-for-chew-
ing-gum sign” unconsciously raise their
arms in the German salute with the “V”
sign superimposed. When one gives them
chewing gum or candy they are just as
likely to say “Dankeschoen” as “Merci”
or “Thank you.”
It is probably fair to make the follow-
ing points: —
The French attitude is mixed. Today
some of those who collaborated with the
Germans, including a number of women
who were mistresses of German soldiers,
have been ostracised by other sections of
the population. In general, the majority
opinion seems cautiously friendly.
The French so far encountered by the
Allies appear well fed. There are sur-
pluses of dairy products and plenty of
garden vegetables, especially cabbage;
there is enough meat; there is consider-
able livestock, including many well-fed
milk cows, horses and goats; and there
is much poultry. There may be some
small shortage of grain, but no severe
shortage. There is some shortage of
clothing and shoes, although the shops
in Bayeux seemed filled with cheap goods.
Normandy’s attitude toward Gem
Charles de Gaulle, like its attitude to-
ward the Allies, appears to be mixed.
General de Gaulle was greeted with much
enthusiasm in Isigny and in parts of
Bayeux ; in other parts of Bayeux there
was only scattered applause ; some people
did not seem to recognise him. He did
not cement cordial relations in Bayeux
when he returned to England without
attending a dinner that had been prepared
in his honor. Probably the majority in
this area like him, but there are still
many symbols of Marshal Henri-Philippe
Petain about.
Hitler’s Stormtroopers.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury ”
article by Herbert Rosinski.)
As the shadows of defeat gather around
Hitler’s short-lived empire, one man
steadily emerges at his side, concentrating
in his hands dictatorial powers to hold
together the crumbling edifice. It is Hein-
rich Himmler, chief of the dreaded S.S.,
the Schutzstaffeln or bodyguard echelons.
The black-uniformed ruffians familiar to
every movie-goer, with the death’s-head on
their peaked caps and the red armlet with
the swastika, the men who have every-
thing to lose and everything to fear for
themselves in the event of Hitler’s defeat,
are there to achieve what the German
Army failed to do in 1918 —to keep the
cracking front together until the Allies,
wearied by their long effort, are willing
to grant the Nazis a negotiated peace.
The S.S. from the day it came under
Himmler’s guidance has deliberately em-
phasised its character as a carefully
selected elite. A rigid system of entrance
conditions has kept its membership small.
Selection has been based primarily upon
rigid racial tests: purity of “Aryan”
blood at least since 1750, proof that there
is no hereditary disease in the family.
Nordic appearance and a minimum
stature of 170 centimetres.
From such “racially reliable blood-
stock” Himmler has systematically striven
to build up anew aristocracy closely
modelled upon the Japanese warrior caste
of the Samurai, for which he has pro-
found admiration and which he has
closely studied. Like the Samurai, the
S.S. is meant to be a closed corporation,
into which a man enters for life.
From the Hitler Youth, where his quali-
fications for Himmler’s “knightly order”
are carefully established, the youngster is
first taken over as an “applicant,” be-
coming a “novice” on the Party Day of
the year in' which he becomes 18.
Having passed through his labor and
military service, the young S.S. man, still
a “novice,” has to undergo a course of
special schooling in the fundamental ideas
of the S.S., after which, around the age
of 21, he is finally admitted as a
full S.S man. In evidence of this he
is given his S.S. dagger as the outward
sign of his readiness to defend his honor
in duel according to the S.S. regulations,
After having reached 35 he may apply to
be transferred to the S.S. Reserve and
at 45 to the S.S. Stammabteilung or S.S.
Basic Section.
To the end of his life, however, he
remains a member of the S.S. Sippe or
Kinship-community and subject to its
rules and law courts. Every year he has
to prove his physical efficiency by pass-
ing a sports test. If he wishes to marry,
his bride must pass similar racial and
eugenic tests. She, too, has to undergo
special courses in S.S. ideology, in biology
and infant care in order to be received
into the blood-brotherhood, of which
R. Walther Darre, Himmler’s friend and
successor as the agrarian expert of the
party, keeps the genealogical register—a
huge studbook.
In thus building up his new aristocracy
Himmler has not excluded the old aris-
tocrats. On the contrary, he has gone
out of his way to gather them in. The
sons of the Junkers and of the old mili-
tary families have found the S.S. a safer
way to a career than the ranks of the
officers’ corps and have given him some
of his most efficient and most ruthless
lieutenants. Now the leaders of the S.S.
come mainly from two special schools,
the Junkerschulen at Toelz and Brun-
schwig.
Since the outbreak of the war the regu-
lations have been considerably modified
in accordance with the changed condi-
tions, as well as with the greatly expanded
ambitions and requirements of the S.S.
Age limits and other conditions have been
relaxed in recruiting the special S.S. front
troops established at the beginning ot
the war, the Waffen-S.S or S S.-m-Arms;
The rise of this Waffen-S.S. is one o
the most significant, and sinister, internal
developments in Germany during the
war. In the Polish campaign only the
few permanently armed S.S. units, such
as Hitler s bodyguard {Leibstanaarte)jpar-
ticipated. In the following winter, how-
ever, S.S. men were withdrawn from then-
army units and concentrated m special
S.S. divisions. In the Russian campaign
they have been used as shocktroops and
suffered very severe losses, but have been
reconstituted again and again. Today
they form a score or more of divisions
of all types: Panzer, panzer-grenadiers,
cavalry, mountain troops. These Waffen-
S.S. units have their separate military
administration, their own recruiting ser-
vice, propaganda organisations, even the
nucleus of a general staff,
For military purposes they are tend-
porarily placed at the disposal of the
military commanders, but their funda-
mental independence has been specially
recognised, and since the spring of 1942
they have been formally established as
a fourth branch of the German fighting
forces equal to the Army, Navy and Air
Force.
The claim of the Waffen-S.S. to consti-
tute the cream of the armed forces is
founded partly upon the selection and
training of their personnel, partly upon
their superior equipment. In contrast to
the army, which is dependent upon con-
scription, the Waffen-S.S. has been until
quite recently entirely based upon volun-
tary recruitment. Such recruitment has


FDS
T
M. his winter s
AUSTERITY MUFFLER
The guns of a fighter plane wear these
mufflers mufflers of Cold Drawn
Precision Seamless Steel Tubes. If
machine guns were not so austerity-
minded, and had their mufflers made
from solid bars instead of steel tubes,
each muffler would require three times
as much high-grade steel, and five times
as much machining time! The Steel Tubes
enterprise is saving valuable time and
material for Australia today . . . and
when peace comes, its
savings will be diverted
to increase the quantity
and cut the cost of count-
less civilian amenities.
MMMO
—
R.ftMc.
B 64
'if
I xn
.
s
*
S'
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue RB.
AGA
RESD.4 trade mark
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. ISS2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
•gaisioa sonia vs ivmoixvm Ana ihhxvi awaas—mow
been carried on not only among the
youngsters coming militarily of age, but
to an ever-increasing degree among the
enlisted personnel of the army itself. Able
to offer more exciting and attractive ser-
vice—and, more important, better pros-
pects for advancement —than the army,
the Waffen-S.S. has tended to drain
the latter to a large extent of its more
adventurous and reckless elements.
Discipline in the S.S. is deliberately
stiff; nowhere has goose-stepping been
developed to such extremes. But the
training, while ruthless, is more uncon-
ventional and includes, in particular,
street-fighting tactics. Compared with the
ordinary German divisions, the S.S. units
are smaller, more manoeuvrable, yet more
heavily armed.
With the S.S. on the home front and
the Waffen-S.S. on the fighting front,
Himmler is today in control of nearly
all key positions. As Minister of the In-
terior he is in charge of the entire inter-
nal administration. As head of A.R.P. he
controls the entire machinery not only
for air defence but for the distribution
of the growing number of bombed-out
or evacuated people. As head of the
police he commands not only the Ges-
tapo (a pure S.S. organisation) but also
the Security Police and the ordinary
police force, both of which are com-
pletely dominated by the S.S. Beyond
all this, his order making all men of mili-
tary age not in the fighting forces liable
to auxiliary police service has extended
his direct power practically over the entire
male population, as well as created the
instrument for the control of the masses
of foreign labor slaves inside Germany.
Also, he is not without friends in the
high military hierarchy.
Thus outwardly his power and his grip
upon the entire German machine are
tremendous. The question remains, will
the instrument which he has been at
such pains to forge remain true in a
supreme crisis? At the end of every
meeting the S.S. winds up with the song:
If all the world forsake thee,
We shall be faithful still.
Foreign opinion has tended on the whole
to endorse this idea unquestioningly.
Certainly the S.S. is too deeply tied lip
with Hitler to be able to pass over to
any other master, even if the majority
were not so deeply implicated personally
in the crimes of the regime. Constant
indoctrination has undoubtedly made
completely unreasoning fanatics of many
of the more honest elements among them.
The Russians generally have found it
unprofitable to make S.S. men prisoners,
as they proved immune to all attempts to
win them over in captivity. On the other
hand, we find no less a person than an
authetic general of the Waffen-S.S. among
the leaders of the Free German Com-
mittee in Moscow. The chances are that
in a supreme crisis we would probably
find the S.S. breaking up within itself,
the comparatively honest fanatics pre-
ferring to fight to the bitter end while
an undetermined number of out-and-out
crooks seek the nearest rat hole.
Above all, and here the limitations of
that glib phrase “Hitler’s last line of
defence” become apparent, even if the
S.S. should prove reliable to the end, it
is, with- a total strength of between
600,000 and 700,000 men, by itself not
strong enough to attempt any last-ditch
stand against superior military force. As
long as a measure of will to fight is still
left in the German home and fighting
fronts, the S.S. can, by its ruthless deter-
mination and command of terroristic
methods, stiffen that will to go on even
in the face of ever-increasing disaster.
Once that will has radically collapsed,
however, the S.S. is too weak to offer
effective resistance and would be left only
with a choice between suicide and uncon-
ditional surrender.
Luftwaffe Flop.
{From a report by the N.Y. “World-Telegram ”
War correspondent at U.S. Invasion Head-
quarters.)
Although the man in the street and
most soldiers were puzzled by Hitler’s
amazingly poor showing in the air in the
first week of the invasion it did not sur-
prise the top men here in headquarters.
It was what they expected.
For months prior to the Allied offen-
sive the most popular war-time bromide
in England was “The Jerries are building
Up their reserves so they can plaster us
on D-Day, That’s why they aren’t bomb-
ing Britain or offering the usual resistance
in the air.”
Yet all the while the few who knew
Vvere smiling up their sleeves. They had
the information, and it was that the Nazis
couldn’t do it. They didn’t have the
’planes. True, the Nazis had a lot of
’planes, but not nearly enough to take
care of their manifold needs.
All this was known at Supreme Head-
quarters long before D-Day. For two
years or more the Allies had been keep-
ing a record. They knew Hitler’s strength
in the air and in reserve. They kept track
of his losses and his output. They plotted
the location of every aircraft factory and
its capacity for ’planes or spare parts.
Then systematically they began to knock
his ’planes out of the skies and pulverise
the shops which turned them out.
Gradually tables and charts were built
up, checked and rechecked against photo-
graphic and other evidence until head-
quarters were satisfied that the margin
of error was very small. Meantime, too,
the Allies multiplied their own produc-
tion.
It is doubtful if in all the history of
military intelligence there could be found
a finer example of keeping tab on the
enemy over so long a period or a better
example of co-operation between allies.
At every stage of the game the R.A.F.
and U.S.A.F. worked as a single team.
On D-Day and thereafter those who
had collaborated on this job looked at
each other and smiled. Things were
working out as expected. Perhaps even
a little better, because in all their calcu-
lations they had taken care to minimise
rather than overestimate the damage the
Allied forces were doing to the enemy.
All the same. Allied spokesmen utter
a warning. The Germans are still strong
in the air, both actually and potentially.
While they may not have all the ’planes
they need for all purposes, they can de-
liver a terrific punch against any chosen
objective. The “mathematical certainty”
of final victory is based on present
figures. If the Allied output of aircraft
is slackened or if the drive against the
enemy is not sustained all calculations
are off.
The road ahead will be long and hard
and bloody.
Montgomery.
[Lately even Montgomery was the object’ of
a smearing attack in the remarkably persisteu*
belittlement of anything and everything British.
The appreciation here condensed from the
“Nation” (U.S.A.) was written by Lieut.
Bolte, a young American who enlisted in the
British Army before the United States came in.]
Viscount Wavell, probably the best
British general of this war apd one of the
great Englishmen of our time, says
generals should be made to pass the same
test for toughness that field guns used to
be put through by the Royal Artillery.
The testing officers would drop’ a new gun
from a hundred-foot tower and then go
down and fire it. If it went off all right
the board would consider it for further
tests.
This test might snap the Montgomery
body, but I can’t believe it would damage
the Montgomery mind or the Mont-
gomery character. It took a tough mind
to carry out General Alexander’s plan of
attack at Alamein, when desert-weary
and defeat-sickened troops were ordered
against the stiffest part of the German
defences, Montgomery knew in advance
that casualties would run high—7s per
cent, in some battalions —but he knew
the victory would be worth the price, and
his army paid it for him,
I first saw him about a month before
the battle, when he reviewed our bat-
talion at Burg el Arab, just behind the
lines. Montgomery had come out from
England unknown except for two things ;
he was keen on spit and polish, and mad
about physical training. To the Desert
Rats, that most casual, cynical and busi-
nesslike of all armies, nothing more
damning needed to be known. They were
prepared to dislike the little general. The
first meeting confirmed their suspicions.
He reviewed the entire battalion without
saying a word to anyone except the
officers, slapped his open palm with a
swagger stick as he walked, and stared
into every man’s face with the brightest
and most piercing blue eyes I ever saw.
I was frankly scared of the man and
what he might do with us. He looked
to me like an old-line general with an
infantry-artillery mind: crush ’em and
walk through ’em. We moaned quite a
lot after he left, and thought him arro-
gant.
The battle made us stop moaning,
although we still thought him arrogant.
In the first place we all knew what was
going on: by his order the plan of battle
was passed down through the ranks, until
the last rifleman knew not only what he
was to do, but what the divisions on his
right and left were to do. Moreover,
he knew why he was to do it. That was
revolutionary, being taken into a general’s
confidence, and it made us feel with a
kind of excitement that we were going
into an adventure that had purpose and
direction.
Taken into his confidence, we gave
him our own. It was a very bad battle,
but no one ran away. The victory
strengthened our belief in him. Mont-
gomery knows what makes our kind of
men operate in battle, and he has said:
“You must give our troops leadership
and establish absolute confidence between
commanders and soldiers.” Then, a little


THE
DEMOCRATIC
PARTY
and the
Referendum
Stripped of all sham and humbug, the
Powers Referendum calls upon the
people to decide one issue and one
issue only. It is whether the Nation is
to sell itself into perpetual bureaucratic
bondage and regimentation or whether
it will remain a free and democratic
people.
The Democratic Parly stands on
the side of Freedom. Its advice, em-
phatically, is to vote “NO.”
R. W. D. WEAVER,
President.
Ifoiiqom
m
m
\
m
: &> v
... and they must be kept roll-
ing because modern warfare
depends on motor spirit and
oil as well as on the men and
machines.
While essential and civilian re-
quirements must still be cared
for, the bulk of the Oil Indus-
try's effort is now placed
behind the needs of the men
"Up North”. Vacuum is doing
its part in supplying the Navy,
Army and the Air Force with
their petroleum needs.
Tremendous quantities of mo-
tor spirit, oils and greases for
every type of service trans-
port-special 100 octane gaso-
lines for fighters and bombers—
fuel and lubricants for the Navy
and Merchant Marine kero-
senes, anti-rust fluids and fly-
sprays, are but a few of the
petroleum products that must
be supplied to our fighting
men.
From the refineries are coming
new lubricants and cutting oils
to increase essential produc-
tion, materials for explosives,
shatterproof glass, synthetic
rubber, anaesthetics and other
products invaluable to the
United Nations at War.
Serving the Nation on Land\ Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY KS;
VI-417 I INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA*
wrily-, he added: “The surest method of
gaining confidence is success.” Successes
at Alamein, at Agheila, at Mareth, in
Tunisia, Sicily and Italy gave the Eighth
Army so much confidence in Montgomery
that they would cheerfully have started
for Berlin on any day he issued the
order. “You can do anything with an
army if its morale is high,” he says.
Tough-mindedness gives him the moral
strength to pay the price of victory.
As for the German soldier, Mont-
gomery calls him first-class and well-
trained, very good technically in the use
of his weapons, with a very good eye for
ground and a sense of complete obedi-
ence. Still—some of them captured in
Italy were “not frightfully intelligent.”
The youngsters, thoroughly indoctrinated
with Fascism, are “very cockahoop”;
the older men, not so well indoctrinated,
are not so cockahoop. In short: “The
German is a good soldier and he will
fight, though I believe it is true that once
you get him down he cracks up.”
This is important knowledge for a field
commander to have. He can prejudge his
opponent’s reactions ; he does not over-
rate the opposition, but he certainly does
not underrate it. Thus forewarned by care-
ful study, Montgomery can utilise his
own flexibility of mind. It is always diffi-
cult to apportion praise for victory
among a commander-in-chief, his chief
of staff and the field commander; never-
theless, I think history will credit Alex-
ander for the African campaign, just as it
will credit Eisenhower for the European
campaign. Theirs the strategy ; but Mont-
gomery’s the application of strategy,
which is tactics.
As the sledgehammer translating first
Alexander’s and now Eisenhower’s plans
into action, Montgomery’s flexibility of
mind comes out strongly. Thus at Ala-
mein he reversed accepted desert pro-
cedure : instead of fighting a tank battle,
he chewed up Rommel’s infantry with his
own guns and infantry. Rommel had
either to counter-attack with his armor to
save his infantry or retreat without them.
He couldn’t retreat because he would have
no troops to hold another line to the
west; so he was forced to fight a tank
battle at Alamein, on ground of Mont-
gomery’s choosing. Since Montgomery
dictated the time and place of the battle,
he could mass his armor and hold it in
reserve until Rommel had committed
himself. Then the Eighth Army’s prepon-
derance of anti-tank guns and its armored
superiority were decisive.
Flexibility gained victory at the Mareth
Line next spring. Montgomery opened
the battle with a frontal attack against
the strongest part of the line, as he did
at Alamein. The line held, and Mont-
gomery sent a force through the desert
around the Germans’ right flank. The
mere threat of its presence behind him
caused Rommel to pull out.
Finally, Montgomery has formulated
and tested the great principle of modern
war: “First you must win the battle of
the air. That must come before you
start a single land or sea operation.”
From Alamein to Normandy he has not
fought a battle which violates this prin-
ciple.
His careful study of the enemy, his
understanding of the importance of estab-
lishing high morale in his troops, his in-
sistence on gaining air supremacy make
him careful. He will not be stampeded.
He says: “I always go for certainty. That
is why preparation must be complete and
without hurry.” This time he has the
benefit of the most careful preparation
ever lavished on a military operation.
I’m not predicting dates or places, but the
Desert Fox will certainly have his brush
taken again by the son of the Bishop of
Tasmania.
Smuts on Post-war Tasks.
(From a speech delivered by Smuts in
Birmingham .)
“I put the problem of Europe, of her
salvaging and rehabilitation, first in our
programme of world reconstruction after
this war. She must not be carved up,
atomised and reduced to a helpless chaos
of fragments.
“Rather should she receive a new
stable structure as a United States or
Commonwealth of Europe. And in the
making of this new structure, Britain
with its unique position should play its
proper leading part.
“Second on our post-war peace pro-
gramme I would place the question of
establishing a world organisation for
security against war.
“It will almost inevitably be an im-
proved and reformed version of the old
League of Nations. That brave and bril-
liant improvisation failed in part, largely
because it was not clothed with sufficient
authority and coercive power to maintain
peace.
“Next time the responsibility should be
placed on those who have power, and the
Great Powers who won the war should
be made responsible in the first instance
for keeping peace—at least for the tran-
sition period until a more permanent
scheme for effective supervision could
be worked out.
“But even more may be needed for a
peaceful world order of the future. A
new world organisation for peace should
also be supported and buttressed by
appropriate regional groupings, or by
other friendly associations among
nations, whose traditiops or comradeships
in the world war would qualify them as
supporters of world security,
“Such, for instance, would be the fruit-
ful association which has grown up be-
tween the United States and the British
Commonwealth of Nations during this
war-v-in many ways the most valuable by-
product of the war. Understandings and
co-operation which have grown up be-
tween these two groups form perhaps the
most promising and lasting development
of this war. It may yet prove the turn-
ing point in history and become the most
valuable force behind a new world organi-
sation and world progress generally.
“But let there be nothing exclusive
about it and let it not exclude close col-
laboration with Russia, Thus would arise
a triple bulwark of Great Powers against
aggression. The phenomenal rise of
Russia need not frighten the world. She
has her part to play in a new comity of
nations. She has arisen from vast puri-
fying upheaval and sufferings and has still
her great contribution to make to human
history.
“But there is a third and no less im-
portant task before us. We must prepare
for the new era —for the age of man, the
common man, the man whom in Lincoln’s
homely, humorous phrase God loves be-
because He has made so many of them.
“From the beginning of this century
our generation has been scourged by one
war after the other. Our conscience is
becoming seared. Our sense of pity and
sympathy is deadened. Whole popula-
tions are decimated and one reads every


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life. ...as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLEKK-7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOEDIER —17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE —12th May, '42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOEDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
f
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are In London.
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully awaie of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz;
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note : Those who do not wish to cut The _ Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 8 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
MIND I,6 ' 386 Bend m8 ’ po6t " free ' » c °Py of “THE EFFICIENT
Name
Address
157
morning, without pausing to think, of the
number shot overnight in occupied coun-
tries.
“After the last war we erected monu-
ments to the Unknown Soldier as repre-
sentative of nameless heroes sacrificed in
bloody slaughters of that war. And shall
we not after this war erect a monument
to the common man, as representative of
the men, women and children of the
civilian populations who paid the penalty
and bore the sufferings for the sins and
shortcomings of our Western civilisation?
And should that memorial not take the
form of a better social order of society,
with higher standards of living, with
more social justice and security and of
better opportunities for life?
“Throughout all the civilised world it
is felt today that much of the unrest
which culminates in modern war origi-
nates in wrong social and economic con-
ditions, and that to combat war and
aggression effectively these conditions
will have to be dealt with in fundamental
reforms.
“Where we failed 25 years ago we may
now hope to succeed after bitter experi-
ence, not only of this war but of the post-
war social and economic troubles which
overtook us in the years between the two
wars.
“And so from the ruins of this war will
arise anew monument to man, the com-
mon man, which will record the passing
of an era—the era of social indifference
and the coming of the new age with its
higher standard of social responsibility
of every citizen born into our society.
“War will thus become but a stage, a
passing stage, for man in his long march
to better society and a richer life. So may
it be. And so the greatest world war
may perhaps further the greatest peace.”
Appealing to Satellites.
C From a report by N.Y. “World-Telegram”
London correspondent.)
A neutral diplomat who left the Con-
tinent recently said the impression in his
country was that the Allies are missing
the boat so far as political warfare is
concerned.
This neutral is pro-Ally and anxious to
see the quickest end of the war. He is
convinced the Allies could smash Hitler
sooner, and at less cost, if they would
put in a more positive form the implied
promises contained in their declaration to
the Axis satellites. He pointed out that
it stated that “the longer they continue
in the war the more rigorous will be the
terms imposed.” The obvious corollary
is that if they drop out now Russia,
Britain and America would be prepared
to grant them easier conditions.
Why not say so in words the common
people of the satellite States can under-
stand and thus gain their active support
the way Woodrow Wilson did?
This diplomat said that, according to
the best information at his disposal. Hitler
stands today pretty much where the
Kaiser stood in 1918. The parallel is
particularly true with regard to Hitler's
allies. They are very shaky and would
like to cut loose, but are afraid. They
fear Hitler, but they also fear what the
Allies may do. To win them over, to
encourage them to risk a break with
Hitler, the Allies should make them a
real proposition, not just issue new and
vague threats of what will happen to
them if they don’t.
Ships on Land.
(From an article by London “Times”
Washington correspondent.)
Today 47 out of the 48 States of the
U.S.A. make parts of ships, which go by
rail to coastal (and some inland) ship-
yards to be assembled. The many new
yards built with Government money arc
not really shipbuilding establishments but
assembly lines. It is this system which
made possible the record of seven days
from keel-laying to delivery.
The coastal yards alone could not have
assembled the 20,000,000 tons of shipping
delivered in 1943, Vessels are built in
many inland places and floated down
rivers to the sea. Ship prefabrication
really began in the Pittsburgh area, where
at the beginning of the war a firm of con-
tractors conceived the idea of building
barges ashore in sections and welding
them together at the waterside. That idea
spread like wildfire, and was soon intro-
duced into every shipyard in the country.
The original prefabrication plant on an
island near Pittsburgh is now a remark-
able sight. Recently on the “ways” there
—that is, on dry land—could be seen no
fewer than 32 ships building, including
some destroyer escorts. In due course a
ship is moved on rollers to the limited
launching facilities on the Ohio River,
towed down the Ohio to the Mississippi,
and thence to New Orleans, a iourney of
1400 miles.
Yet another story which for romance
and ingenuity could be duplicated several
times is that of a contractor in Minne-
sota. His property fronts on a stream
normally containing only three to four
feet of water. Yet he builds vessels of
up to 3500 tons and gets them to the sea.
First he dredged a deep launching pool
while building a prefabricated ship. He
then dredged the stream to a depth of
15ft. for 12 miles to the Mississippi and
down it towed his first completed vessel.
There are as many amazing stories to
tell about aircraft construction as about
shipbuilding. A typical story is that of
the Douglas company. The company did
not merely expand—it exploded. The
number of Douglas employees increased
from under 8000 before the war to
156,000 in 1943, and their weekly payroll
is now well over $7,000,000. Much of
this company’s work is performed in the
open in sunny California, and the visitor
has the impression of countless aircraft in
various stages of construction. It is a
sight that helps an observer to realise that
with six times this number coming off
American assembly lines the skies of
Europe and the Pacific are indeed being
darkened by American air armadas.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
British limies deserve much credit for blasting
Hitler’s Atlantic Wall before the Allies waded
ashore. British Navy had the chief command
in Channel waters, steamed in close and demol-
ished pillboxes, fort's and the works 12 miles
in, as Navy guns should have done on bloody
Tarawa. We learned there that air bombing
can’t do everything. U.S. warships also did a
good Channel job except that Admiral Kirk
got his signals mixed or weather was bad, so
failed to blast one beach. There U.S. troops
got slaughtered in a murderous crossfire. —
Drew Pearson: N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
He * * *
“Those Japs are pretty slick, even though
they are flying tomato crates. Generally, the
individual pilots you encounter in Asia are
a damned sight tougher than the Germans we
meet over here.” — Col. James Howard, Mus-
tang pilot, who has fought both German and
Jap pilots.
H: * He *
The men at the front believe that they are
fighting to save their country: the old patriotic
urge long derided by internationalists, but
nevertheless the final bulwark when a nation’s
fate is at stake. To the fighting man this
means much the same thing as a return to the
status quo, also anathema to some moderns.
He is not critical of his home and country.
They look good to him, “as is,” and especially
so in contrast with much of what he sees
abroad. He hates injustice and is confident
that victory for the Allies will mean a better
world; but his primary desire is to win, and so
to get back home rather than to spread abroad
the blessings of democracy. He is interested
primarily in a peace of victory, as is the man
in the street. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune” letter.
* * * *
Pacific fighting is ahead of schedule. The
war chiefs decided they needed information on
location of buildings inside Japan and called
on Economic Warfare to produce it. Sustained
attacks on Tokyo, Osaki, Yokohama and Kobe
will come sooner than expected. Also, the win-
quick strategists in Army and Navy have won.
They favored by-passing a lot of islands and
Burma jungles, instead of waging a seven-
year-war.—N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
♦ * * *
“If there is a European federation nations
would lose their identity, and a Pan-European
union would be, in the long run, a Nazi-
governed Europe.”— Wyadyslaw M. Besterman,
attache of the French Embassy in Washington.
* * * *
London puts on its war clothes when the
sun leaves, until another morning. The black-
out comes when the light fades. And black-
out it is, as deep and formidable as the
very name of Hitler. A nocturne punctuated
only by the beauty of the searchlights. It is
then that England becomes a fortress in truth
against the envy of less happier lands. The
blackness is absolute. A man is indeed daft
if he is not handy to an underground by black-
out time, for he will never find his way home
unless he is a native. Even they do not ven-
ture far at blackout time. The luckiest soul
in London is one able to flag a cab after black-
out begins. For the blackout is a shroud
dropped upon a city of 10,000,000 —the largest
city in the world —as completely* as the lid of a
coffin or the cap of a well. — London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The world’s largest airplane engine factory—
it’s at Chicago—is producing about 90 p.c.
of the power plants for the new Superfortress,
the B-29, which has bombed Japan. For
nearly two years since ground was broken for
the Dodge Chicago plant of Chrysler Corpora-
tion the city and nation knew that here was
a vast undertaking for building airplane engines
in unbelievable numbers, but the specific pur-
pose, what the engines would be used for, was
a well-kept secret. When reporters visited the
plant on the first press inspection tour per-
mitted they learned from L. L. Colbert, general
manager, that production, which began in
January, is 55 per cent, ahead of schedule. The
production rate still is secret. The engine itself,
which army and industrial engineers ecstatically
described as “a beauty,” is an 18-cylinder, four-
cycle, radial, air-cooled engine with takeoff
horsepower of 2200 and 2000 normal-flight
horsepower. Mr. Colbert said that about
30,000 engineering changes were made before
the final design of the engine was approved
and the plant operators were given the green
light to go ahead on production. Lfeut.-Col.
E. L. Love, resident representative of the
A.A.F. materiel command, told the reporters
that 9000 machine tools were assembled for the
plant. It requires 1,250,000 gauges. The
engine has 900 parts, 168 of which are made
in Chicago. Seven hundred other companies
funnel parts and materials to the plant. On
one part, the master rod, there are 106 machin-
ing operations required.—“ Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
In New York City, the “Daily News” sells
more than 2,000,000 papers * each day, the
“Mirror” 770,000, and the “Journal Ameri-
can” 641,000. Editorially, all of them oppose
any surrender of American sovereignty to
Europe. The pro-internationalist papers are
the “Herald Tribune,” with a daily circulation
of about 249,000, the “Post,” with 182,000, the
“Times,” with 419,000, and with
137,000. —Chicago “Tribune,” which is de-
scribed as “isolationist,” and the circulation of
which was recently put at 1,300,000 daily.
* * * *
The American army is very strict about
saluting in London. Everybody has to salute.
Second-lieutenants salute other second-lieu-
tenants. Arms flail up and down by the thou-
sands as though everybody was crazy.— N.Y.
“'’World-Telegram” war correspondent.
* * * *
We do not know the strength or the political
ambitions of those who are leading organised
resistance in the vast confines of the Japanese
Empire. But that there is resistance is certain.
The Dutch are publishing more and more evi-
dence of resistance to the Japanese im the
Netherlands East Indies. Some of the stories
from Hollandia give good reasons for it. But
the best evidence of all comes from the Japa-
nese, who are continually describing the anni-
hilation of guerrilla forces they had claimed to
have destroyed over and over again.— “Atlantic
Monthly.”
h= * * *
Stalin’s claim to eastern Poland up to the
so-called Curzon Line, whether sincere or a
trading stratagem, obviously could not be
accepted by any Polish Government in exile —
however pro-Russian. That is, not if that Gov-
ernment wished to survive or have it's decision
ratified by the people at home. Thus Stalin’s
territorial claim is a good way to destroy this
Government in exile. For if it accepts his
claim he knows it will be kicked out by the
Poles; and if it does not accept it may be
pressured out of office by the big Powers on
the ground that the impasse endangers the
war effort and a compromise peace. Meanwhile
Stalin has counted on two developments playing
into his hands: One, British support, and, two,
factionalism within the Polish Government.
Churchill has publicly blessed Stalin’s terri-
torial demands —this isolates the United States
as a helpless minority in the big three, and
makes any modification of the Curzon Line
dependent on Stalin’s big-heartedness.— N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”


INVITATION
TO COMFORT...
r
(ol KJ
i
INSULATION WITH
CANE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
The restful beauty of modern wall and ceil-
ing treatments is important . . , and the
attractive finish of Cane-ite, whether in its
natural state or coloured to your taste,
assures this. But Cane-ite does more than
this. Cane-ite insulates against heat and
against external noise giving you comfort all
the year round. When you plan your post-
war home ... use Cane-ite Insulating Board.
c Ami
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Materials Division
MARKETING; CA N E-I T E • C.S.R. SLAGW.OOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
CA36-44
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo-fly.
“M.T.A.”: Tanners have suffered con-
siderable loss for many years through
the damage done by the cattle tick—a
bloodsucking parasite that lives on
animals and not only devitalises and
annoys the animals attacked, but often
carries serious diseases. When tick-
damaged skins are made into leather the
grain shows the damage, which lowers
the value and appearance of the leather.
If tick had been checked when it first
made its appearance in Australia the
country would have been saved tremen-
dous economic loss.
Queensland is now faced with another
bloodsucking pest, the buffalo-fly. In the
last two years fly-infested cattle have
been found as far south as Mackay and
west to Clermont. From this country the
northern meatworks draw most of their
cattle. Queensland tanners are now find-
ing a lot of the hides from affected cattle
damaged to such an‘extent that they are
practically useless for many classes of
leather. Every week a large number of
hides is reduced in value by Hide Board
appraisers (through buffalo-fly) by |d.
per pound. This means a loss of 2s. 6d.
per hide to the grower; tick infestation
means a further Id. per pound loss, or
an average of 4s. per hide.
If something is not done to arrest the
buffalo-fly Queensland will be faced with
another big loss and the country deprived
of a large quantity of good-quality hides,
for on the hides from fly-infested cattle
a large part of the grain is rubbed com-
pletely off and the perforations go right
into the flesh, making the hide practi-
cally useless.
Sheep Feeding.
“Hux”: Over dry periods class the
sheep according to strength. Using small
paddocks divide them into (1) hospital
mobs, (2) weak mobs and (3) strong. If
each group is then fed according to re-
quirements, wastage of supplements is
avoided, labor is reduced and a higher
percentage of stock saved.
Before and after lambing drought
rations of ewes should contain three times
as much digestible protein and twice as
much digestible carbohydrates and lime
as that of dry sheep; two days a week
feed both ewes and lambs roughage only.
Lambs minus roughage don’t develop in
the paunch, and food-storage capacity is
affected for life. Don’t feed roughage
and concentrates together.
Feeding the lambs with their mothers
in drought time is uneconomical. Use a
creep feeder or wean them early. Lamb-
ing of the whole flock taking six to eight
weeks, full-scale weaning can’t take place
until at least 14 days after lambing ceases.
The only possible rations on which the
lambs can then be reared are (1) bright
lucerne and maize or other suitable
meals ; (2) good-quality wheaten or oaten
hay, together with a good growing mash
or its equivalent. Whole dry maize is
injurious to lambs. Feed it as maize-
meal or after 12 hours soaking in water.
Trough feeding in dry periods con-
serves the strength of the stock, saves the
ground being powdered into dust and
prevents disease and waste.
Wool Bales.
“Green Ink”: “Murrawong” (B.
12/7/’44) advises putting 3301 b. average
weight in bales, instead of the usual
3001 b., showing a saving of one bale in
ten. In normal times growers were ad-
vised by the brokers to keep their bales
light, as tightly-pressed bales opened up
showing the wool dull and a dead color,
especially if at all damp. This advice still
holds good.
All appraisers agree that appearance
on the show floor, under a good light,
may mean a difference of id, to id. per
pound, and 3301 b. at id. is 6s. 10id. pos-
sibly lost. Cost of a pack is about Bs.
(one in ten), and the other charges saved
would be trifling and would probably be
offset by the breakages “M.” warns
against. Any press will stand up to odd
heavy bales, but all heavy ones means a
broken press.
Fluky Pastures.
“Myrrhee”: To treat fluky pastures
mix 251 b. of bluestone dust with 1001 b.
of sand, sufficient for an acre. Sprinkle
the mixture around swampy areas and
the edges of pools, dams and streams
where the fluke snail congregates. The
faintest trace of bluestone, one part in a
million, will destroy snails, but won’t hurt
sheep or other animals.
Eggs are deposited in jellylike masses
about half an inch long, each mass con-
taining about 40 eggs. The masses aren’t
affected by bluestone, so that the snails
must be destroyed before they lay their
eggs. To catch the snails, broadcast the
mixture at intervals from October to the
end of November, and from beginning of
May to end of June. Efficiency of the
bluestone is lost in about a week, hence
the need for frequent applications.
You can pick the fluke snail (Limnea
brazieri) by the fact that, when placed
face downwards on the palm of the hand
with the point of the shell upward, the
final coil of the shell curves to the right,
whereas in snails not known to be car-
riers of fluke the final coil of the shell
is to the left.
Overstocking.
“E. 2”: Dairymen on rich land are slow
to understand that carrying capacity is
heavily taxed during the milking season,
hence insufficient fodder is conserved for
the off season. Cows are generally not
in best condition prior to calving, and it
is often well into the season before pro-
duction is at its top. Seasonal conditions,
too, play havoc with production.
It’s an exceptional district that does
not experience one poor season in five,
often one which may be written off as a
dead loss. Avoid this by keeping the herd
within reasonable bounds. Assuming 100
cows to be the capacity of a property
through normal seasons, in most cases it
would be best to run about 90 head and
conserve the surplus feed for lean times.
A herd of 90, well-fed throughout the
year, will soon outpace production of 100
under feast-or-famine conditions.
Killing Bunny by Disease.
“Molecule”: The C.S.I.R. has com-
pleted investigations begun 10 years ago
with a virus-borne disease of South
American origin, fatal to wild rabbits,
but not affecting other domestic or wild
animals. The tests showed no hope of
complete success, and only very little
hope of even limited assistance in con-
trolling bunny.
The disease killed rabbits living in a
limited area, quickly spreading where
close contact prevailed. Even where there
is not close contact it can be spread by
the stickfast flea and by some types of
mosquitoes. But neither fleas nor mos-
quitoes can be relied upon, more often
than not the rabbits are not infested with
fleas and mosquitoes don’t go far from
water. Under natural conditions the
disease quickly dies out, even though
it is comparatively easy to keep
on infecting fresh rabbits with the
virus. Sick rabbits either isolate
themselves or are driven off by their
fellows, to be quickly gathered in by fox,
dingo or eagle before infecting others.
Transmission of the disease from warren
to warren occurs only through the
medium of fleas or mosquitoes.
Disease spreads most rapidly when (1)
the area is small and rabbits somewhat
crowded; (2) fleas or mosquitoes are
present to aid its dissemination ; (3) there
are no foxes, eagles, etc., to pounce upon
sick subjects. Such a set of conditions
rarely obtains where rabbits abound.
Two points emerge: (1) There is no
easy solution to the rabbit problem;
(2) those optimists who have talked about
controlling the dingo by spreading dis-
temper or other disease can now think
of something else.
Chick Sexing.
“Bahb Dwyer”: It is done usually
within 12 hours of hatching, frequently
much earlier. That the handling involves
some degree of shock to the baby chick
nobody disputes—witness the fact that
any but expert sexers kill a proportion,
varying according to their degree of skill.
It is feasible that surviving chicks suffer
a disturbance of some internal organ
which manifests itself in later life.
Though poultry farmers are beginning
to think that sexing may be harmful, I
do not know anybody who has made a
proper test. To do this one would have
to rear, under identical conditions, sepa-
rate batches of hundreds of sexed and
unsexed chicks from the same flock,
making careful records of mortality, com-
mencement of laying and laying perform-
ances for at least one full year, as well as
detailed costs of rearing for each batch,
returns from sale of cockerels, etc.
Most poultry-farmers are far too busy
these days to attempt anything of the
kind. Still, the matter is worth some
thought, especially as poor egg produc-
tion has been the general experience for
some time past, hitherto taken for granted
as due to war-time changes in composi-
tion of feeds. With the attractive prices
now obtainable for cockerels, one could
do worse than return to the old practice
of rearing both pullets and cockerels,
always provided that ample brooder space
and feed are available.
Kurrajongs.
“B.”: The new N.S.W. Department of
Conservation might do worse than find
out why farmers haven’t planted more of
them, offer them advice regarding their
culture and supply seedlings free.
Omitting the elevated tablelands,
kurrajongs will grow anywhere. This
Australian native will flourish on the
coast where the rainfall varies from 40in.
to 80in.; as far north as Maryland, on
the border, where the rainfall’s 33in.;
as far south as Albury, with its 28in. rain-
fall ; as far north-west as Wanaaring,
where the rainfall is 9in. per annum.
Western farmers know that, given a good
start, the kurrajong will yield 40 to 80
years’ benefits. Around Ungarie, where
sugar-gums don’t outlive 17 years and
trunks of yarrans planted in 1871 only
now average the size of a man’s calf,
kurrajongs develop into fine trees at a
fairly fast rate.
Second to climatic adaptability is the
kurrajong’s easiness regarding soils. Lime-
stone formations are its preference; fairly
rocky ridges—basalt hills in particular—
suit it well; many trees have done well in
pure rock formations. In coastal clays it
makes splendid growth. Heavy black
soil is its pet aversion. In dry areas it’s
a slow grower; at Baradine the trees de-
veloped at the rate of 10 feet in three
years. Any kurrajong needs plenty of
water at the start.
Hints for the Farm.
“B-gar”; On a station in Queensland
it was a rarity to find the hospital pad-
dock empty. During those periods when
a few hundred badly-blown or ailing
sheep were in the paddock two men did
nothing else but attend to them. Not
until a complete cure had been effected


n
re
I
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost ia
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone; 81053.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS ...8N.5.44
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
.4.:
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD..
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
Into the land
that is to he.....
\L
X:
V
■v, ' O
I •
, ‘ ;-i ■
'
3^033^
PPiiis
KJ
SSiR
V' ' \
One day peace will come again to
Australia and with it new purpose and
new obligations. If we are to take our place amongst the nations
of the earth ... if we are to deserve a leading part in world
prosperity, then we must modernise our methods.
We must lake water to the fruitful earth through large-scale water
conservation and irrigation schemes. Our soil must he conserved
and cultivated. Roads must be formed in record time to transfer
the products of the land to our cities and to docks for export.
Airports must be built.
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Equipment will be ready to do their part in peace as they have in
war, at a record saving of time and record low cost.
CATERPILLAR DtESSI
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS Zd” 'WAUGH » JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOV,NG EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Tveedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone— 2889. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. Phone —Innisrail 475.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
JT4-33-43
was any sheep taken back to the mob
where it belonged. As a result, hundreds
of sheep throughout the year recovered.
A big percentage of them would assuredly
have died had they not have been drafted
off and given attention.
“Sarina”: It’s an offence to feed raw
offal to pigs in Q. (B. 7/6/’44). It’s just
as well to keep grazing pigs away from
cattle paddocks, too. Lungworm and
bovine tuberculosis are two complaints
that pigs are apt to pick up from dumps
of cattle manure. Suspect lungworm
when pigs sniffle and snort, t.b. when they
breathe roaringly and abscesses break out
on their necks.
“Hux”: Easiest and quickest way to
clean up lice on pigs is to spray an emul-
sion over the hair. Use a spray-pump
with a fine nozzle. To make up an oil
emulsion mix two teaspoons of washing
soda or four teaspoons of soap powder
in two quarts of water ; stir into one
quart of neatsfoot oil. This mixture
spreads quickly and evenly over the skin,
isn’t sticky and is pleasant to smell.
“B.”: Giving the dry cow balanced
rations plus the same care as when she’s
on the milking line means higher milk
production when she freshens. Over
her dry period Strawberry stores up the
reserves that make her a good milker.
These periods vary from 30 to 60 days.
Less than 30 doesn’t give her sufficient
time to build up the strength that will
help develop a strong calf. More than
60 serves no good purpose.
“Soapy”: If you’ve a spare paddock
of milk thistles, save them. About the
end of September, when cows and other
stock are finding it hard to shed their
winter coats, turn them into the thistles.
They’re a wonderful laxative, make the
cows healthy, put them back on their
milk and, in the case of shy breeders,
bring them in season.
“Bill C.”: Secret of poisoning crows
is to dope the things they’re eating.
Special baits are generally ignored until
all the favored fodder has been cleaned
up. I wiped out crows of both kinds by
carefully stuffing lead arsenite into bird’s-
eye chillies on the bushes, but it can also
be done with pellets of pollard and
arsenic. Don’t use strychnine against
crows, for they’ll throw it up.
“Hux”: Pepperinas flower profusely in
December and April, and the bees work
the flowers freely for nectar and pollen ;
in good seasons they fan up the pollen
from the surface of the ground beneath
the trees. Autumn flowering gives the
stimulation and supply of pollen needed
to put the bees into good condition for
the winter. Between 200 and 300 pepper-
trees will maintain 100 hives indefinitely.
“Myr”: Imperfect healing of the cut
surface permits the entrance of soil fungi
which rot the potato “seed.” Healing
occurs naturally if conditions of humidity,
temperature and ventilation are congenial.
The process normally occurs in the soil,
but during the warmer months poor ger-
mination is common. Best results are
obtained from seed “healed” before
planting, and to do this cut the potatoes
into clean, wet bags—not manure bags,
as the chemicals may cause burning.
Stand the bags in a warm, open position,
and if they dry out splash them with
water. With the temperature at 60 or
70 deg. F. and with proper ventilation
healing will take about 48 hours, when
the “seed” will be ready for planting.
“Plane Creek”: Give sunflowers a trial
along the Central South Queensland shore
this spring. Sunflowers aren’t hard to
grow, they make excellent silage,
and the seeds are valuable. Several
Queenslanders, growing ’em as a sideline,
made over £4OO last year. September
sowings grow fast.
“M.”; In cool districts with a yearly
rainfall of 25 inches or more the insignis
pine thrives best. In coastal soils mari-
time-pine (Pinus pinaster ) is to be pre-
ferred. Mahogany-gum ( E . botryoides )
is one of the best broad-leaved species
for moist lowland soils. In warmer and
drier inland country and on dry plains
the sugar-gum ( E. cladocalyx ) is a reli-
able shelter tree. Young trees must have
protection from stock. Plant at right-
angles to the prevailing winds or in the
shape of the letter L. This will give pro-
tection from almost any quarter.
“B.”: Green manure crops planted
during winter will stop orchard soils erod-
ing. On the coast, slopes and most parts
of the tablelands N.Z. blue lupins, field
peas, purple or hairy vetches provide the
best covers. Oats or other cereals can
be used in combination. Use subter-
ranean clover on the southern table-
lands. Ploughed in before spring, they
won’t compete with the fruit trees for
moisture.
“Gip”: There’s no need to ringbark
trees to kill ’em. A very effective method
is to bore a half-inch hole about four
inches into the base of the tree, fill the hole
with carbide and plug it. The sap of the
tree will cause the carbide to burn and
the tree will die within a few days,
Furthermore, it usually kills right to the
roots, which ringing seldom does.
“Bennie”: The cardboard squares used
for packing glassware and eggs can be
placed on top of a garden-bed and indi-
vidual seeds dropped into each square,
When seedlings are about two inches high
remove the squares. If the weather is
hot the squares can remain as a protec-
tion against the sun for a while.
“E. 2”: Where ample water is avail-
able grow a few tobacco plants for deal-
ing with aphis or vermin. They do well
on rich soil. Cut when approaching
maturity and dried by hanging under a
shed roof they may be steeped in cold
water for 24 hours or more to make up
a solution of the required strength. Don’t
use hot water, as nicotine volatilises
easily.
“Will C”: Dirty stables and yards
are bad for nags. Thorough drainage is
necessary, but will avail nothing if clean-
liness is not practised as well. Horse
manure containing a lot of urine can
cause all kinds of foot troubles, some of
them of a very serious nature. White-
legged horses in particular are affected by
dirty conditions.


INVEST IN WAR BONDS
“We're all set
to fly ahead"
declares Frank Ward
Aircraft Welder
if
“F*
aive years ago, you’d have
laughed if anybody had sug-
gested building aeroplanes in Australia. Nobody laughs
today—least of all Tojo. Now that we can afford to speculate
on the future, it’s worth knowing that here at Richards
we have the men and machines ready to do a big job
when Australian enterprise gets
down to handling its peace-time
plans. We’ll put wings on ‘Body by
Richards’!”
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
■■
FDS
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
£
SMOKE-OH!
“Pskov, one of Russia’s oldest cities, is near
the bottom of Lake Peipus.”— “Sun.”
No doubt Reuter’s correspondent is
sending his dispatches from a diving bell.
*l*
“Frock, new flame, s.s.w., as new.”
— “S.M.H.”
So he’s gone back to the old one, eh?
4* 4* s*J* 4*
“A leap-year proposal leaves a woman open
to a charge of disorderly conduct.”
—Weekly paper.
But often results in a life sentence.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Stretch your limbs a little more.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
A bit of legpulling is good for every-
one.
Constancy.
Well I remember his first overture, the
stealth of his approach in the night, bare-
footed lest his wife should awaken, and
the gentle caress of his fingers as we met.
1 recall the times when his wife was
absent, recalls his savage grip and my
involuntary cry—particularly when he
was slightly oiled and I was not. Some-
times he would clasp and. unclasp me
hurriedly ; sometimes he would linger.
It is 2 a.m. and I expect him at any
moment.
I am the bedroom doorknob.
J. B. C.
“A milking cow needs from 10 to 15 gallons
of water a day.”— “World's News.”
But any deficiency can be added later
to the finished article.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Carpenter, Axminster, almost new, 10.6, x 9,
fawn background, pastel tonings. Sat. after-
noon.” — Melbourne “Age.”
Employers who don’t draw the color
line are expected to roll up to secure
this sizable specimen,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Was Estelle Taylor Jack Dempsey’s first
wife?” — Sydney "Sun.”
Certainly not! She was his sparring
partner.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Odd that the Russians have their most
pronounced successes in the most unpro-
nounceable districts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“That day her husband had received a
massage from the office that seemed to have
upset him.” — Divorce report, "Sun.’'’
It must have rubbed him up the wrong
way.
4* + 4* 4*
“When Ruby’s husband came in a blight
seemed to fall on the gaiety.”— Woman’s paper.
They referred to him, of course, as
“that blighter.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women work as architects.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Paradoxically, they claim they are not
designing females.
Zipping-up Sport.
“Latest innovation in U.S.A. sport is a cir-
cular boxing and wrestling ring.”
It has some advantages. The pug who
stops a heavy right cross to the snout
won’t notice the ropes going round him
so much, for they were going round him
from the moment he stepped into the
ring, though not so fast. It also benefits
him when, on hitting the canvas, wonder-
ing whether the women and children got
away safe from the wreck and meditat-
ing whether to resume on the count of
eight, his opponent steps back into what
he expects to be the traditional neutral
corner.
While the perpendicular pug is pon-
dering the problem of where they keep
a corner in a circular ring his opponent
has a chance of rising from the horizon-
tal to wallop him a grouter for a k.o.
The equipment of circular wrestling
rings with strong elastic ropes will make
it possible for the matman who is hurled
at them to come rebounding with greater
momentum and perhaps getting a direct
hit on his thrower, knocking him un-
conscious and enabling him to register a
snap fall. On the other hand, if the
wrestler who has flung his opponent hard
and accurately enough sidesteps smartly,
he can then lean at his ease against the
referee until the other stops bouncing.
Provision of detachable rubber posts
which can be uprooted instantly by a
berserk matman and bounced off the ref.’s
dome should he give a questionable de-
cision is a long-overdue stadium improve-
ment.
The imminent conversion of Randwick
and Flemington into triangular courses
will, it is felt in turf circles, add a much-
needed variation to what has become too
stereotyped a form of handicapping. The
fact that to negotiate an acute angle of
about 28 degrees a bunched field will
have to skid to a stop before turning to
gallop off in different directions will
mean that the tail of the field will, in
the scramble, stand a good chance of
then being in the lead, unless they happen
to get run over in the scramble. The out-
come over a two-mile classic like the
Melbourne Cup, with about nine sharp
angles to negotiate, would give punters
a far better run for their money than
the present monotonous system.
The spectacle of Badger and Breasley,
in heavy going, leaning back with their
heads almost touching the rumps of
their mounts trying to put on the
four-wheel brakes approaching a “turn”
would be something to keep punters
happily reminiscent as they walked
home. Also, the moth-eaten apologia
for the existence of the fiddle-faced
blue-bloods that they improve the
breed of horseflesh might, by the
development of lolly-legged nags with
goat-sure hoofs, be given a new twist.
After all, you never know when blood
racing stock might be needed to traverse
steep mountain tracks.
A proposal now before the inter-
national tennis authorities to play the
next Davis Cup series on kunai-grass-
covered concave courts will be greatly
welcomed by all those who, viewing big
tennis from the sides, have gone partly
cockeyed through trying to follow a ball
back and forth across the net in endless
rallies. The attainment of an uncanny
degree of accuracy on billiard-table-even
courts has made this change necessary.
A spokesman for the L.T.A. said that
body would also put forward the sugges-
tion that Davis Cup players in future be
attired in zoot suits, with divers’ leaden
boots, bowler hats and boxing gloves,
playing with stringless rackets with
greased handies and octagonal balls.
So many Melbourne people have been
in danger of ricking their necks trying
to sight among the low clouds the ball
punted by Australian Rules footballers
that it has been decided that only the
substitution of a cast-iron football will
discourage this phase of the game, to
which far too much attention is devoted.
Sponsors of the idea consider that the
cast-iron ball will greatly develop the
passing rush, with the jboot then being
used only in rare emergencies, such as
kicking out of bounds or the umpire
afterwards. Cleaning up of a nine-gallon
keg instead of lemons is another innova-
tion that is expected to yield amazing
results.
The Hockey Association is considering
alterations to the rules to allow opposing
captains to crack each other on the shins
before chanting “Hockey 1, hockey 2, ! '
etc. The standardising of spring-steel
sticks and the compulsory wearing of
shinpads only on the chest are expected
to assist in developing a race of ironbark-
shinned players who will thus be better
fitted to enter bridge tourneys.
Bo.
Nightmare Item.
(Composed while under the influence of a
horror film, etc.)
When the vampire that revelled in blood
through the night
Returns to its coffin as morning draws
near,
We will hide in the vault in the dim
ghostly light.
Though the wail of the werewolf may
fill us with fear.
With garlands of garlic to counter the art
Of its murderous magic, we’ll creep on
it there,
And we’ll hammer a slake through its
horrible heart.
And we’ll cut off its limbs with a reso-
lute air.
Then we’ll batter its head till it’s utterly
fiat.
And a couple of stabs for good measure
we’ll give;
A nd if the Un-dead isn’t dead after that —
Well, I reckon the darned thing’s
°ntitled to live !
T. W. NATHAN.
Salvage.
“A woman victim of a shooting incident said
she was interested only in recovering her girdle,
which the police kept as evidence because it had
a hole in if.” — “Daily Telegraph."
The incident, perhaps, took place
At cards, where tempers often flame,
And if she trumped her partner’s ace
She’d no one but herself to blame.
The garment was her only claim.
Yet who for this request would snub her?
Since bridge was probably the game,
She didn’t want to lose the rubber.
PLUM.
Skater’s Downfall.
“An American couple were married on a
skating rink, where they had first met.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Once, when we skated side by side.
She was the partner of my dreams.
And I her counsellor and guide;
But things are different now —it seems,
Since what / call my biggest fall,
I don’t cut any ice at all.
P. M. LUSK.
New Order.
“Some husbands become very sarcastic when
their wives speak on the subject of feminism.”
— Woman’s paper.
Still, as for wives receiving wages,
Though such a quaint idea enrages
A lot.of husbands, it should be
Entirely satisfactory.
So long as husbands win the day
By taxing wages ere they pay.
T. W. N.


£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost. The "National'* Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
B*.i, mirtly in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
. SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ~
Your
For
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
SSf-
mtl
i mm
SAF£ LANDINGS for AJRM
F
RUBBER FOR VICTORY
In every branch of the Fighting Services,
RUBBER is playing a vital part.
Never has the need to conserve our depleted
rubber stocks been more urgent.
It is every motorist’s patriotic duty to SAVE
RUBBER by careful driving and constant tyre
maintenance.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
w
itedl),
-ESg
INSULATED
CABLES
Olympic TVRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA |
( ADVERTISEMENT)
YOURS...
for the Asking
&
They’re really a very nice pair of
shackles.
You can acquire them on Refer-
endum Day.
And you’ll probably get used to
them in time—if you’re willing to
settle down to an “ordered” life.
That is to say, “ordered” by some
bureaucrat, who relieves you of the necessity of thinking and
initiating anything, chooses your job or runs your business,
provides your wife with a mass-produced house to live in, and
selects a career for your youngsters.
If you like it that way then by all means be a
Yes-man on August 19.
But if you still have a lingering love of liberty and initiative—if
you’d like to design and own your own home if you believe your
brains and abilities ought to find their own reward if you
think the youngsters should be free to carve out their own way
in life—then v
DS
Put your
THE Bottom Square
Authorised by John Hedge, Australian Constitutional League, Australia House, Sydney
Phones: 86402, MA4JO2, MA4JI3
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Parents’ Manual (Wolf) and
Sherbon’s The Child. —3501. . .
To buy The Promotion of the Admiral, etc.,
by Morley Roberts. —3502.
Information Sought.
Is the wife of a seaman reported missing
permitted to remarry? If she remarries and the
first husband returns, who is entitled to custody
of the children? Would adoption of the
children by the second husband affect the post-
tion? . , , ...
A person is not presumed to be dead until
he has not been heard of for seven years by
those who, if he had been alive, would be likely
to have heard of him. Until he is proved
or presumed to be dead his wife cannot re-
marry. If after seven years the wife remarries
and her first husband returns he is entitled to
the custody of his children. Adoption of the
children by second husband would be rendered
void by return of first husband.
* * * *
How to polish mulga wood ?
Wood should be slowly dried and the ends
coated with linseed oil or grease of some kind
to prevent splitting. * If using wax, the wax
should be thinned with turps, applied very
thinly, and polished by friction or rubbing.
Thin coats of french polish or shellac look
well; apply with a brush and leave for a con-
siderable time between each coat to allow for
drying.
* * * *
Is the executor of a will entitled to a per-
centage of the estate for his trouble?
The Court may allow the executor out of
the assets of the estate such commission or
percentage as is just and reasonable. This
applies in all States.
* * * *
How to raise daphne from seed and cuttings ?
(1) Thoroughly dry pods, remove seeds and
sow in boxes of soil made from equal parts
of sand, loam and rotted leaves. Manure must
not be used. (2) Use short pieces of last year’s
wood, preferably those which have just flowered,
and set in tins or pots in a glass frame or under
glass cloches.
* * * *
Method of cleaning out an iron tank ? How
can the water be purified?
Run all water out, scrape scale off iron and
wash down with scrubbing brush and hot water
in which a liberal quantity of washing soda
has been dissolved. Finish off with clean water.
Tablets of alumino-ferric floated on the surface
will purify water.
*** ■ *
How to pluck a duck?
Tie a piece of string to bird’s legs and lower
into boiling water for a few minutes. Feathers
may then be easily removed. Another way is
to immerse in cold water for a few moments,
place in a tub and pour a kettle of boiling
water over it. Remove after half a minute and
pluck.
* * * *
Details of “Salt’s” Birthday Literary Com-
petition ?
Prizes to an aggregate of £5O among the best
contributions in each of the following sections:
Active service descriptions, articles on post-war
topics, articles on any subject up to 2000 words,
short stories up to 2000 words, verse, drawings
and cover drawings. Entries are invited from
all Australian Army and Navy personnel. Con-
tributions should reach “Saif” office (at 245
Latrobe-street, Melbourne) by September 11.
* * * *
How to prevent and treat chilblains?
Development may often be prevented by
wearing thick socks, solid shoes, and warm
gloves and by vigorously exercising. Chilblains
should be immersed once or twice a day in
warm water, with subsequent gentle friction of
parts affected. Painting with flexible collodion
often relieves.
* * * * *
What songs did Maggie Moore sing in
“Struck Oil” ?
“His Fader Keeps de Brewery,” “Lizzie’s
Farewell” and “I Am a Little Dutch Girl.”
* * * *
Where and when did Melba sing in Sydney ?
She,sang in concerts at the Town Hall in
1902 and 1909 and appeared in grand opera at
Her Majesty’s Theatre in 1911, 1924 and 1928.
» * * *
Recipe for a cement paint ?
Mix 141 b. cement with one gallon of boiled
linseed oil. Keep thoroughly stirred and apply
in warm weather. White lead paint can be
applied over it.
* * * *
What type of football is reckoned the
most strenuous ? Reasons ?
Rugby Union, closely followed by League.
Union is played with two extra forwards
(breakaways) on each side, and as the game is
mostly confined to virile forward play it is
more strenuous than League. Another point is
that when a player holding the ball is tackled
he is not allowed to retain it as in League, but
must remain on the ground while several hefty
forwards attempt to heel it back over his body.
* * * *
What quantity of linseed oil should be mixed
with 1 cwt. white lead to make a paint, and
how much paint would be produced? How
could a cream paint be obtained ?
Five gallons of raw oil and terebine
added to lewt. white lead would make about
seven gallons of paint. One pound Oxford ochre
used in the oil will produce a cream color.
What is the best type of rat-trap to use for
rat-catching ?
The common spring-back trap, used in
numbers and attended to daily, gives excellent
results, as it can be placed in a limited space
and almost inaccessible positions about the
buildings.
* * * *
What is the average protein, fat and carbo-
hydrate content of white bread?
American authorities give it as protein 10.8
p.c., fat 1.1 p.c., carbohydrate 74.8 p.c.
Brief Answers.
G.F.P.: Unprocurable in Sydney... .A.W.R.:
Taxation Department will communicate with
y0u....D.D.: Use wattlebark solution....
A.G.M.: Write to Forestry Commission
W.J.Y.: Try Australian Museum.. . .R.D.V.:
Obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney A.J.8.:
Organisation has been disbanded J.W.H.:
Penicillin J.C.: Could not be done without
damaging parchment. Suggest you apply coat
of fresh color over whole design L. 0.; Fee
for registration of copyright is 5s F.Y.:
Weekly deduction should be £1 8s H.K.:
Yes.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions 'voluntarily
submittedj and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.C.E.: Patchy J. 8.8.: There is no sin
like the rhyming of “sin” with “rim”
E.J.F.: You’ve made a hash of the Portland
butcher J.W.: That sort of alliteration be-
longs to the Anglo-Saxon and Middle English
periods L. 8.: “Who Comes?” is so slight
and so elusive that nobody comes W.C.;
“He visioned fecund fields of home.” Poetry
isn’t an excuse for clumsiness of language....
G.M.: “Ever” never... .J.G.McC.: Illegible.
A.N.S.: Trite J.C.: Pleasantly dreadful.
R.M.: “Skiers” not far off. “Night Ex-
press” and “Gold” are short stories gone wrong.
J.C.: “Circumspect” is so circumspect that
it’s meaningless H.C.W.: Not a hope
L.T.: If Canberra were as flat as your poem
on it they’d be*able to play billiards on Red
Hill R.S.H.: “How bad are the enclosed
lines?” Very A.M.A.: “We gird our moral
sword belt and press upward to our goal.”
Off with you, then!


M
D
OTQ
mm
m
mo
n
*9
53
&
5k
ft
m
CO
50
&
I
H
mam
mm
m
s
*
n
C 3
yo
«P*
o
~-fc
fer
38
■i
S 3
IA
C 3
90
*o
Co
**
W
ft
mC
ft
CO
ft*
r-S
&
ft
VI
&
ft
ft.
VI
Om
So
|HS
*o
S 3
N
m
ft
Si
35
s
O
i
o
sr
O
JU
*o*
Ui
so
ss
90
C-*
§1
o
95
i
Si
m
N
r_
CO
rs
a
s
HI
©
ad
S
»
38
fi?
id
«Pb
o
\ N
pj
ii
m
m
SI
<5?
S'
ft
&
P>
CO
Co
S 3
£S
**
jjjf
m
o
CMC
c>
\
tn
m
jgi
\
<s>
5*
1*
i?*
0m
ii
ft
sS
Sfl!
Q>
sx
ft
fife
sSS
ft
U
s&
S 5
ft
Us
o
ii
o
ft;
£
ft
m%
What caused the last depression? All the theorising about
it boils down to one simple fact —it was due to lack of
intelligent planning and control.
What do we know of the future? We know that after the
war the demand for all kinds of goods will heavily exceed
the supply. We know that if left entirely unregulated,
prices will rocket to prohibitive heights, and this inflation
of prices we know to be only the stage before restricted
production, wholesale sackings and economic collapse.
This must not and need not happen! A “Yes” vote will
give the Commonwealth power over profiteering which,
together with the related proposals for Repatriation,
Employment, Housing and Social Security, will bring order
to the change-over from war to peace and ensure a better
and happier future for all.
VOTE 'U&d FOR AUSTRALIA
BY VOTING
S YES
0 No
YOU WILL SECURE
Full employment for all.
Economic security for ser-
vice men and women.
Stabilised prices and
markets for primary pro-
ducers.
Modern, hygienic homes.
Family endowment and
widows’ pensions.
Free health and hospitali-
sation and other social
services.
Stabilised cost of living by
eliminating profiteers and
black markets.
National development
instead of economic
depression.
Authorised by the Government of the Commontveath of Australia,
WEB.IB-17
The Wattle Tree and the Fox
By E. GOLLSCHEWSKY.
TO her immense surprise the wattle-
tree which leaned over the scattered
woodheap had burst into a fortune
overnight—gold spilled from every
twig of it.
She stood at the open-shuttered kitchen
window, beating eggs for breakfast, not
noticing that a trail of yolk had slid over
the basin’s edge on to her checked apron.
The color of the wattle against the dark,
sparkling green of the bush made her ache.
There were a step behind her and the
thump of firewood being dropped into a
box. “Breakfast ready?”
She was still beating rhythmically.
“Not quite, Sam. Come and see the
wattle-tree.”
“Blow the wattle-tree; I want my
breakfast.”
He settled himself at the table while
she was busy at the stove, and in a few
seconds she had a platter of scrambled
eggs and slices of cold pork in front of him.
Passing his chair, she dropped her
fingers on to his dark, crisp hair.
“Thanks for the wood, Sam.”
He began to eat, unaware of her near-
ness or the wistful quality of her voice.
Her forefinger traced the muscle at the
back of his strong neck.
“Aren’t you hungry?” He edged away
from her hand, and she went back to the
stove to pour boiling water into the teapot.
“Not much. Not since I got like this.
I’ll be all right later on.”
“A nice baby you’ll have if you don’t
eat. We don’t want a rat! ” He laughed.
Funny, she thought, how pleased he was
about the baby ; and funnier still that
his unconcealed pleasure jarred on her,
angered her even. Because she tried so
hard to please him always, and now that
he was delighted it only hurt her, in a
queer unexplainable fashion.
She hadn’t wanted a baby. She was
only eighteen—she wanted to be free, to
dance at the socials, to ride her old bay
mare, to roam through the bush, to run
and have fun. But she couldn’t tell Sam
that. There was a lot she wouldn’t tell
Sam —like the ache in her this morning
because the twisted, gnarled old wattle-
tree had been given a new lease of life
and beauty.
“Like to come with me to get the
sleepers?”
“Oh, Sam, can I?”
He didn’t see the joy that lit the plain
little face. He was busy collecting odd-
ments and stowing them about his person.
Tobacco, matches, notebook and pencil,
marking chalk.
“I asked you, didn’t I? You’d better
pack a smoke-oh for us both. It’ll be
late by the time we get back.”
She flew to obey. Bread, butter,
tomatoes, tea and sugar went into a
small box. She forgot that Sam wasn’t
very good company on a picnic. She
forgot everything except that the drive
through the early morning bush was an
exhilarating, breath-taking experience.
Up the mountainside the big dual-
wheeled truck would crawl, to slip effort-
lessly down into valleys where the treetops
were still wreathed with fog. The roads
were rough enough, but she didn’t mind.
WHEN Sam got up beside her in the
truck she snuggled against his side.
“Like me going with you?”
He changed gears with slow delibera-
tion, surveying the sky.
“Might rain before we get back.”
Soon they were in the real bush. Great
gums linked hands across the road.
Here and there wattle splashed itself
against the vivid blue of sky and
dazzling green of bush. The air was
thick with garish little greenies, shooting
like feathered arrows among the leafy
treetops. Rosella parrots, too, were about,
and here and there clusters of snowy
cockatoos, quarrelling and screeching,
nodding their mustard-colored crests.
When the big truck roared briefly
through sudden gullies, the water would
dash up and around it, a crystal wall on
all sides for a split second.
With every “smoosh” of upflung water
the girl laughed.
“Can’t you smell it?”
“What?”
“Everything-Mhe bush, eucalyptus, rain
in the air, wattle, sun, everything!”
“H’m.”
Neither spoke for a space. Then he
said gruffly: “Look! don’t say things like
that in front of anyone. They’ll think a
fellow married a coot.”
“All right, Sam.”
“A bloke feels a fool.”
She squeezed his arm. She was sorry
she made him feel like that it was
something in her she didn’t understand.
It made her feel oddly ashamed, just as
did her abhorrence of the little body she
carried within her. It wasn’t natural not
to want a baby. Perhaps it wasn’t natural
to feel stormed by color and movement
and beauty.
Passing a patch of burnt country they
put a mob of kangaroos to flight. For
an instant the leader’s delicate nostrils
upthrust to the breeze ; then he was away
bounding, darting and swerving, followed
by the entire family. A doe grabbed her
baby and thrust him, with frantic haste
into her pouch. Then she followed the
mob and disappeared into the bush.
Once, a fleeing bandicoot fell foul of
the great truck wheels, and several times
they saw groups of thin-flanked, long-
horned cattle that flung up startled
heads and set off at a mad pace, their
speed lacking all grace. Clumsy, awk-
ward creatures, with little empty udders
swinging beneath their bodies.
Soon they began to pass scars in the
forest—great fallen trees with the trunks
removed, and only the widespread tops,
withering and brown, lying where they
fell. Chips lay all around the smooth-
topped stumps,
THE sleeper-cutters’ camp seemed to
* leap out of the bush at them as they
topped a steep rise: three tents, from
which dogs flew barking, racing out at
the truck with ferocious red mouths
dripping saliva.
Sam climbed down among them, aim-
ing kicks at the nearest jaws. The dogs
slunk back.
“They won’t bite y’,” called a voice
from one of the tents.
“Where’s your boss?” Sam always
spoke belligerently. It made the girl feel
vaguely ill at ease.
A boy of about twenty hobbled to the
open tent flap and stood there on one
foot. The other was heavily bandaged. He
wore a navy cotton singlet and drill shorts.
“George is up at the Five-mile. The
others are with him. Munty’s got ’em
mostly hauled out. George said for you
to go right up.”
Sam frowned. “To hell! I told him
Dabbs’s Paddock!” He turned to the
girl. “You better hop out and wait here.”
He was climbing back into the truck.
The girl colored self-consciously. “I’d
rather go with you, Sam.”
“For Pete’s sake do what a feller tells
you to! It’s rough going from here. I’ll
be back by dinner.”
She came down reluctantly, the crib-
box in her hands, and stood watching
while he started the engine.
“Hooray, Sam.”
“S’long.” He roared into the track
without turning his head. The walls of
bush closed in on the cloud of smoke and
dust he left behind.
ll \\l ILL you come in? I was just
* * cutting up the stew for dinner.
This is our living-room.”
She was acutely conscious of her
approaching motherhood and desperately
shy. But she went into the tent. It
smelled fragrantly of freshly-chopped
vegetables and meat. The boy gave her
a box to sit on.
“You must be Barney,” she said shyly.
“Sam said you hurt your foot.”
“And you’re Sam’s wife.”
They measured each other. His face
looked fresh and clean; the lips tucked
in at the corners as if he carried a secret
joke. He thought she looked like a
possum—small, shy, plain of face, ready
to draw back into herself. Uncomfortable
because she was showing up so plainly.
“I found a fox’s lair down by the creek,”
he told her, keeping his eyes away from
her bulk. “Would you like to see it?”
“Your foot?”
“Oh, it’ll carry me. Just wait a jiffy
till I put this saucepan on the fire.”
She followed him while he hobbled
over the narrow track, smoothed by
countless trips to the creek for water.
When he veered off into the bush the
going was harder, because of the dry
bracken and tough growth of fern. Under
the roots of an old dead ironbark was
the lair.
Cautioning her to silence, he investi-
gated first, then thrust his arm into the
hole. When he withdrew it he held a
ball of rusty, squirming fur, all teeth and
claws. Breathless she bent over his hand.
The cub was not pretty exactly—there
was a look of incarnate wildness in the
pointed face, and the baby eyes already
had the cunning slant peculiar to foxes.
“Cunning little swipe, eh?” The boy
slipped it into her cupped hands. She
laughed when its milk-white teeth sank
spitefully into the flesh of her forefinger.
It was so small, so futile, so helpless!
“It’s lovely,” she whispered.
She glanced up to meet the boy’s eyes
on her. But she wasn’t shy of him now.
The wattle-tree of the morning with its
new gold upon it seemed Jo be burgeon-
ing in her mind ; the ache had gone from
within her, leaving peace and happiness.


■
'c
a
&
/y
&
z
here
is a “Fifth” Freedom
/T
jr
s.
■/
z
/
M
/
m
sm
mi-
THE FREEDOM TO DEVELOP
OUR MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
Australian manufacturing industries
have developed under the impetus of
war’s demands. To-day, we are a great
manufacturing nation, able to produce
in our own Australian factories and
engineering shops products which
would have been considered impos-
sible in the days before war forced us
to depend upon our own resources.
No longer can Australians be made to
believe that anything is impossible to
our engineers, designers and technolo-
gists, or to our Australian workmen,
who have proved that in knowledge,
initiative and skill they are inferior to
none anywhere in the world.
In the development of our manufac-
turing industries is one of the most
important factors in post-war pros-
perity, both for the nation and for
the individual. That is the “Fifth”
Freedom, which is vital to Australia.
«s
CnmumweaStiu
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
Ci-44
MAKING SOMETHING OF ETHEL
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
ETHEL was our “girl” in the house.
She became our girl because there
was no one else to get. Most of the
others had rushed off to marvellous
jobs in the city, and Mother said it was
scandalous the high wages they were getting.
Ethel was the last resort. No one
wanted Ethel. It was common gossip in
town that her four elder sisters had either
married under suspicious circumstances
or had left town under suspicious circum-
stances ; and her brothers were always
stealing sheep or putting bolts on the rail-
way line or causing a disturbance, at the
Saturday-night community singing. Once
her father had almost died of the d.ts.
after a metho, bout; and everyone who
employed her mother to do the washing
reported things missing from the laundry.
Everyone warned Mother against Ethel.
They said there was bad bldod in the
family.
Mother talked it over with Father in
bed. Talking things over with Father in
bed always followed the same routine.
Mother would lie on her back talking
steadily, humping an*d unhumping her
knees and letting in the cold air ; and
Father would turn a sleeping back towards
her and unconsciously twitch a shoulder
in agreement every now and again, be-
cause it was expected of him. The fol-
lowing morning I learned that we were
installing Ethel. Mother said it was her
duty as a responsible member of society
to try to “make something” of Ethel.
P THEL was big and plump and very
" dirty. She had hair like unravelled
binder twine, and her eyes reminded me
of two pale, wet marbles that you could
have knocked off with a stick. She was
always wiping them with the hem of her
dress or apron. Mother said she had a
running tear-duct and should do some-
thing about it.
She disapproved of Ethel’s running
tear-duct. She disapproved of Ethel's
manner of speaking. She had a way of
saying “Aw, come orf it” to almost every-
thing one said to her, and it was amaz-
ing the different meanings she could put
into the same words.
There were a lot of other things
Mother disapproved of in Ethel, and she
gave her a “good talking to” on her first
day with us, and told her if she were a
sensible, obedient girl she thought she
might be able to “make something” of her.
Ethel said “Yes, Mrs. Maxwell,” very
obediently, and Mother told Father after-
wards that she was very pleased with
Ethel’s servility, and she wouldn’t be at
all surprised if she found excellent
material hidden deep somewhere in
Ethel’s interior. She became very en-
thusiastic about her, and on Red Cross
day, when the ladies of the town met at our
place, produced her as a competitor pro-
duces his prize exhibit, and told them that
she was going to “make something” of her.
They all told Ethel she was a very
lucky girl, and hoped she would take
advantage of Mother’s kindness.
After that, each week when they called,
they would always inquire how Ethel was
“coming along,” and Mother would close
her mouth firmly and say very little, be-
cause Ethel didn’t seem to be coming
along at all. She still went on repeating
all the bad habits Mother so disapproved
of. She was given a great many “good
talkings to.” Appeals were made to her
sense of decency on the “what-would-
people-think” line.
I couldn’t see why Mother was so set
on “making something” of Ethel. I liked
her just as she was. I liked to get out
with her in her small room built off the
back verandah. Her bed was always un-
made, so that it didn’t matter if you sat
on it, and her clothes were always hang-
ing untidily about the room, so that if
you dropped orange peel or carried in
mud on your shoes it went unnoticed in
the general litter.
Mother did not encourage my going
there. She said Ethel’s room was a bad
influence for any child. Before Ethel
moved in it was a stiff, unmaty room
with a single bed, an odd dressing-
table and a curtained-off corner for a
wardrobe. It was clean and neat, and
was supposed to have a toning effect on
Ethel’s flamboyancy. She was encour-
aged to keep fresh flowers about.
This was to foster culture in her, but
as the flowers stayed there untjj the petals
died off and the stalks rotted and smelt
like bad cabbage water Mother had to
remove the vase. As part of her culture
training Ethel was then given two good
etchings of different views of Parliament
House, but as they were used as frames
for the film-star cigarette cards she col-
lected Mother had to remove those, too.
U/HEN Ethel had her day off she
always went home. I used to sneak
down with her when I was supposed to
be at my music lesson.
She lived just out of town in a small,
pug house with a roof of dry mallee
branches. It had a dirt floor, and her
mother would sprinkle it with water to
settle the dust, so that it always smelt like
a rainy day.
Ethel’s mother was terribly fat —I used
to wonder how she got through the
narrow doorways of the pug house. She
never wore stockings. Her legs were
covered with knotty blue veins, and she
had two red bunions that stuck out
through holes in her slippers. They
fascinated me. She was always soaking
them in hot boracic water and threaten-
ing to have them cut off. She had a baby
just about every year (Mother always
talked it over with Father in bed, and said
that Ethel’s father was just a lazy good-for-
nothing), so that the place was always full
of Ethel’s young brothers and sisters.
Her grandfather and two grandmothers
also fitted in somewhere.
The grandmothers were never on
speaking terms, and would say nasty
things about each other behind each
other’s back. No one took any notice
of them. The grandfather used to roar
out every now and again that he was
head of the house. No one took any
notice of him.
At mealtimes, and it always seemed to
be mealtimes at Ethel’s place, he sat at
one end of a long stool, drinking tea and
grumbling to himself because everyone
talked at once and no one heeded him.
When he wanted another cup of tea he
would cough loudly, throw the dregs over
his shoulder on to the dirt floor and hold
his cup towards the teapot. It was the
only time he got any attention.
There was something warm and
friendly about Ethel’s place. I loved
going there. I looked forward to it more
than anything else in the week. Then
Mother found out. She was hurt and
worried. She talked it over with Father
in bed until her voice became just a blur
through the thin T partitioned wall, and I
couldn’t sleep for thinking up ways to go
down to Ethel’s without Mother finding out.
ETHEL had been with us for about
two months when she started going
out with Ernie. Ernie called her Hethei,
and she called him Hernie. They were
very much in love with each other.
Ethel used to tell me how good Ernie
was to her. She was always knitting high-
necked jumpers for him, and she liked
me to inquire about each one. I’d say
“What are you knitting, Ethel?” and
she’d say, proudly, “Another jumper for
Hernie,” and then I’d admire it, and she’d
be as pleased as Punch.
Mother disapproved of Ernie. She
called him “that fellow,” and said he was
a lazy, good-for-nothing who did nothing
but hang around the billiard-room and
hotel all day. She gave Ethel a “good
talkjng-to” about him, and told her she
should try to better herself, instead of
lowering herself to Ernie’s level. She
said Ernie’s level was very low.
Ethel said “Yes, Mrs. Maxwell,” very
obediently. But she still went on seeing
Ernie.
I loved Ernie. He had black, oily hair
parted in the middle and two front teeth
missing where one of Ethel’s brothers had
knocked them out. His trousers always
hung on his hips and looked as if they
might fall down any minute, and he wore
patent-leather dancing pumps that shuffled
along with hardly any noise. He came
around to our back gate on Saturday
nights to wait for Ethel. I was always
there, and he used to give me steam-
roller peppermints and talk, to me about
racehorses until Ethel came.
He always won a lot of money on the
horses, and once I gave him my week’s
pocket-money to put on a dead cert.
Someone told my mother. She cried
about it. She said she had alvyays tried
to bring me up decently, she didn’t know
where I got my liking for low company,
unless it was from Father’s relations, and
what would people think?
She spoke to Ethel about it. She said
she would not have “that fellow” hanging
around her back gate on Saturday nights
putting wrong ideas into my head. After
that Ethel would meet Ernie under the
pepper-trees at the back of our place. • I
sneaked down whenever I thought
Mother would not miss me, and Ernie
would lift me up on to a low branch so
that no one could see me.
IT was when a visiting minister asked
me if I liked Sunday school and I said
“Aw, come orf it,” that Mother first
talked about sending me away to school.
I didn’t want to go, I didn’t want to
leave Ethel and my visits to the pug
house. Above everything, I didn’t want to
leave Ernie and our Saturday-night talks.
Mother talked it over with Father in
bed. I lay straining my ears to catch what
she was saying, but she was talking so fast
it was just a drone. I knew, anyway, by the
tone of the drone that I would be going.
For a long time after I went away to
school I asked after Ethel in my letters
home, Mother was always non-committal.
The last I heard was that Ethel had dis-
graced herself and married “that fellow.”
Mother was bitter about it. She said she
had been very good to Ethel, but now
she had made her bed and she would
have to lie on it.


The I Anti~T.ll • Appeal
One Australian in nineteen dies from Tuberculosis ! Help fight
this national menace! Support the Anti-T.B. Appeal for £50,000.
Help towards the building of an up-to-date Clinic and provision of
* Mobile Service to Country Districts. Send all donations to the
Honorary Treasurer, Anti-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
si
=. 1
The basis of
MAN’S SECURITY
]\ ft OST of us are apt to forget how dependent we are on the
A saving of other people. We enjoy the food, shelter,
services and recreations available to us, without stopping to think
that, at bottom , they are the product of the saving and self-
denial of others.
Before any post office or any railway is built; before any
factory is established in war or peace, or men put to work
anywhere, the necessary new capital for the task has to be saved
by someone, or by some group of people, out of their earnings.
Saving and self-denial are the BASIS of our material progress and of
our future security. The more new capital created and put wisely to work
the better for all of us.
When a man (or a woman) invests part of his earnings in A.M.P. Life
Assurance, he not only provides Security for his family (and his own old
age), but he helps to provide security for all his fellow members. He does
more: he creates new capital for the good of the people as a whole.
This new capital is loaned to the Nation for War (or, in peace-time, for
public works) and to the Society’s members for the building of homes, or
i for use in productive industry.
Are you thus building up protection for yourself and capital for the
lf you would like to know more about how to do it, consult
any A.M.P. office or representative.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
- Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Eeq„
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Oilico: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
SOUTH AFRICA your post-war EXPORT MARKET
KEE'NE & COMPANY
( Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONAVEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias.
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY —or write direct. _____
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
Mortgage
, —Dividends—Shares,
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Mar., Profit. Divs. 10 p.c. 71 p.c. Reserves.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 875,000 49,219 3,918,609
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
1936.. 565,181 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,914,100
1937.. 600,008 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,939,889
1938.. 583,209 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,948,880
1939.. 585,941 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,960,602
1940.. 580,926 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,967,309
8 p.c.
1941.. 461,909 112,500 300,000 49,219 3,967,499
71 P-c.
1942.. 426,746 98,125 281,250 43,681* 3,971,189
7 p.c.
1943.. 380,435 87,500 262,500 43,066* 3,958,558
1944.. 383,410 87,500 262,500 43,066* 3,948,902
* After deducting N.Z. Social and National Security
Tax (Id. for every Bd. or part thereof).
“There is not the slightest doubt that
pre-war New Zealand was heading
straight for the financial rocks, despite
favorable Weather.” So said Leslie
Lefaux, ex-governor of the N.Z. Central
Reserve Bank, a few months ago. The
principal cause was the rate at which new
money in the form of central bank credit
had been poured out to finance, or help
finance, such Government undertakings
and ventures as guaranteed export and
other prices. State housing, various public
works and social security benefits. War
has aggravated the position, of course.
N.Z. primary producers have had bitter
experience of their price returns being
stabilised, while costs moved rapidly
upward. One trouble about Government
determination of prices is the influence
exerted by political considerations. In-
stead of prices being determined by
wholly economic influences, political ex-
pediency becomes an influencing factor,
and unfair concessions are made to pres-
sure groups. Under existing conditions
the British Government determines the
export price of practically all N.Z. pri-
mary products, but the Dominion Gov-
ernment, which acts as monopolistic
middleman, decides the price the pro-
ducer receives. The Farmers’ Union re-
cently made bitter complaints against
extraordinary and “tragic” Government
delays in coming to finality in price dis-
cussions, and also asked the Government
to make its stabilisation policy flexible
enough to enable producers to be com-
pensated for increased costs. There has
been a steady shrinkage in primary pro-
duction in the Dominion over the last
few years. This has been the cumulative
result of seasonal conditions, scarcity of
labor and fertilisers, mounting costs and
delays and uncertainties arising out of
Government controls.
Manufacturers and other traders de-
clare that the present is not too early for
the Government to relax taxation suffi-
ciently to allow accumulation of reserves
specifically for post-war reconstruction.
If business is to have sufficient financial
padding to cushion the bumps likely to be
met with in a competitive post-war world,
there is much to be said in favor of the
claim. Taxation receipts per head of
mean population in the Dominion have
shot up from £23 9s. 2d. for 1938-39 to
£6l 1 Is. 7d. for 1942-44.
The cruel dangers of inflation and the
need to use economic stabilisation as a
weapon with which to fight it were the
keynotes of chairman A. T. Donnelly’s
recent address to shareholders in the
B.N.Z, He said, among other things;
If the day comes when the ordinary man
runs away from his currency and wants to
get rid of it at any price, for anything at
all, then we will have panic, disorder and
perhaps revolution. One of the surest ways
to destroy a civilisation is to debauch its
currency so that a people loses faith, first
in its money and then in its society If
we are over the brow of the inflationary
precipice we can stop and climb back, or
at least stop where we are. There will
never be an easier time to stop than the
present. We most certainly must stop if
we hit the bottom, and we will stop there
for good.
There is a wide acceptance of the prin-
ciple of stabilisation, namely, mainten-
ance of the purchasing power of the cur-
rency. What are not so generally ac-
cepted are the methods, especially politi-
cal, employed in interpreting the prin-
ciple.
The downward trend of the B.N.Z.’s
net earnings over the last decade has been
due to economic, political, seasonal and
latterly war conditions. For the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
gross earnings (£1,893,330) improved
£12,308. Including rates and taxes
(£777,903, up £38,141), exes. (£1,509,920)
took £9333 of the increase. They made
off with 79.7 p.c. of gross as against 44.6
p.c. in 1929. The net result (£383,410,
up £2975) was enough to pay the Gov-
ernment and mortgage-share divs. and
show 6.7 p.c. on the £3,750,000 of ord.
capital. The ord. div. was kept at 7 p.c.
Of the £6,238,125 of share capital, the
Government owns £2,109,375 and the
public £4,218,750, including the ords.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the general
trend in banking:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1934.. £4,259,149 £3,437,612 £54,328,004
1939.. 627 5,275,957 33,328,479
1940.. 627 5,003,950 36,422,293
1941.. 627 4,895,935 39,590,874
1942.. 627 5,530,729 42,534,133
1943.. 5,088,446 50,742,752
1944.. 5,052,470 54,634,345
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1934.. £29,971,471 £22,370,341 £667,490
1989.. 21,415,461 27,202,740 738,023
1940. . 28,405,000 22,959,956 753,159
1941.. 29,464,659 24,495,719 791,285
1942.. 34,196,623 23,503,269 817,118
1948.. 43,394,127 22,202,134 818,577
1944.. 47,492,969 21,999,192 811,287
Last term a growth of £3,891,593 in
deposits was accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £202,944 in advances and expan-
sion of £4,098,842 in low-interest-bearing
liquids. When the books closed advances
were equal to only 40.3 p.c. of deposits
as against 81.6 p.c, in 1939, and liquids
amounted to 79.5 p.c, of liabilities to the
public. The bank is obviously well
equipped to extend its lending connec-
tions,
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 21,598 6 p.c. = 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund. £l5OO .. 41,534
1935.. 23,314 5J p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 5i p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £5OO .. * .. .. .. 51,101
1937.. 30,106 6* p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO 62.087
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939'.. 24,859 6 „ ~19,360 ) . , QO 9PQ
Staff fund, '£looo .. 4 ’ 499 70 ’ 269
19 |?aff & 4 , 82 £2 A P - C T. 19 ’ 5 ! 2 IM3O 80.699
"staff K 1 £2500 ” IMB6 } 5 - 895 86 > 594
16 Staff fund 6ol £2soo P ' C 7. 18 ’ 665 { 3 ’ 436 90 ’ 030
16 Staff fuid, 4 °£2500 P ’ C, :. 18 ’ 7 !°} 9 ’ 970 100 > 000
1944.. 29,997 5 p.c. = 18,887 ) a , na
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. | B’6lo 8 ’ 610 108 . 610
This co. handles more of the Northern
State’s wool and livestock than any other
broker operating there. And most of
those on the share register, who are also
clients, have fared better than the divi-
dend column in the table suggests. That is
because the co. makes substantial rebates
of scheduled handling and selling charges.
These rebates were 40 p.c. wool, 30 p.c.
fat stock and produce and 20 p.c, store
stock for each of the last three years.
The amount thus credited back to con-
signors isn’t mentioned, but it probably
exceeds the 5 p.c. dividend charge.
The British wool contract, which is for
the duration and one season thereafter,
has eliminated risks so far as the price
factor for the staple is concerned —a flat
rate of 13.4 d. per pound was paid until
mid-1942, when the figure was lifted to
15.4 d. to help offset rising costs. Also,
the British meat contract and service
requirements for Allied forces in the
S.-w. Pacific were very helpful in main-
taining livestock prices at satisfactory
figures. And nature was kind, too. The
number of sheep in the State at the end
of March, 1943, was a record 25,650,000,
or 10.7 p.c. more than at the beginning
of 1939. Over the same period cattle in
the State (6,466,300 at March 31, 1943,
including dairy herds and calves) in-
creased by over 6 p.c. Seasonal condi-
tions for the 12 months to June 30 last
were fair to good, with a dry patch along
the N. S. Wales border.
The next table shows the quantity of
wool and livestock handled by the co.
at Brisbane:
Year Wool, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1934.. 82,556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
1936.. 98,278 28,479 82,881 2,538,797
1938.. 109,626 34,344 109,492 3.170,570
1939.. 122,709 37,361 83,309 2,865,275
1940.. 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
1941.. 155,382 32,647 81,746 4,124,873
1942.. 172,016 42,193 107,467 4,378,420
1943.. 166,065 33,043 180,501 5,074,105
194 4.. 161,88 2 19,029 198,039 5,314,034
In addition a quantity of livestock was
handled at the Rockhampton and St.
Lawrence yards. Turnover stepped up
£239,929, reaching a record £5,314,034.
After providing for taxation, deprecia-
tion, etc., and allowing for the commis-
sion rebates referred to, the amount
available for shareholders was £29,997
(down £1243). That was 7.9 p.c, on capi-
tal as against 8.2, 6.4, 7 and 8.5 p.c. back
to 1940. The dividend was kept at 5 p.c.,
£2500 was sent to the staff fund and
£B6lO was put on the shelf, lifting the
lay-by to £108,610.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1940. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £330,621 £377,949 £379,195 £379,825
Liabilities* .. 481,068 581,552 529,706 505,911
Freeholds and •
leaseholds.. 199,401 252,634 276,672 274,509
Plant, etc. .. 40,378 46,085 34,947 38,585
Advances . . 683,775 706,335 575,749 524,821
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 602 75,397 163,939 203,115
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Advances (down £50,928 last term) and
outside liabilities (down £23,795) are
interrelated. Obviously much depends
upon the extent to which advances are
self-liquidating. When the books last
closed there was a shade over 235. of out-
side money at risk in the business for
every pound, belonging to shareholders.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£222,025) was
£12,043.
While good seasons and prices have
improved the cash position of graziers,
maintenance and improvement of proper-
ties have been deferred, owing to short-
age of labor and materials. Failure of
the Government to recognise the position
thus created means that much money
that cannot be spent now but will have
to be spent later is being taken in taxa-
tion. It is a shortsighted policy for
which the country might have to pay
dearly in the long run.
What will happen to prices for the
staple when the British contract runs out
remains to be seen. Accumulated world
stocks, held mostly by Britain and U.S.A.,
are estimated in excess of a year’s world
clip. If satisfactory figures are to be
obtained by growers for post-war clips,
an organisation with international rami-
fications will be needed to regulate feed-
ing of stocks on to the market. Also com-
petition from synthetics promises to be
keen.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 333 Nil 333 9,225
1935.. 10,473 4 p.c. = 6,625 3,848 13,073
1936.. 12,248 5 „ „ 8,281 3,967 17,040
1937.. 15,189 6 „ „ 9,938 5,251 22,291
1938.. 16,952 74 „ „ 12,422 3,530 25,821
1939.. 14,979 74 ~ „ 12,422 2,557 28,378
Unexplained reduction, £3260 .. 25,118
1940.. 9,255 5 p.c. = 8,281 974 26,092
1941.. 11,567 6 „ „ 9,937 1,630 27,722
1942.. 11,087 6 „ „ 9,9 3 7 1,150 28,872
1943.. 10,716 5 „ „ 8,281 2,435 31,307
1944.. 9,983 5 „ „ 8,281 1,702 33,009
A satisfactory showing, all things con-
sidered. The co. specialises in the sale
of sporting goods of all descriptions, and
does a large turnover in tobacco, radios,
haircuts and a variety of oddments. It
runs a chain of shops throughout the
city, and has strong connections among
suburban retailers and sporting bodies.
Though rationing, price-fixing and
other controls eliminated much of the
cutthroat competition that was a feature
of this class of business pre-war, they also
more or less anchored turnover. Demand
for tobacco and cigarettes has continued
to run ahead of production, which is
governed largely by the man-power posi-
tion. To meet heavy service requirements,
including releases to the Red Cross, Com-
forts Fund and special classes of workers,
a basic cut of 25 p.c. of 1940 supplies
was made in the quantity available for
civilian consumption. Distribution to


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sidney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
STOPvou ß ßupture
Worries/
Mark© locaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney,
do oot experiment with imitations,
a ss.axda.dk a 00, u*, sisuxbohau, eno
PENS
Every point
guaranteed*—
Public Notice.
I, GUNTHER MARTIN SCHINDLER, of former
German nationality, born at Berlin and resident five
years and six months in Australia, now residing at
528 New South Head Road, Double Bay, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, LILLI HALL, formerly of German nationality and
now Stateless, born at Berlin, Germany, and resident
seven years in Australia, now residing at Nattai
River, via Camden, New South Wales, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, GIUSEPPE DI GAETANO, of Italian nationality,
born at Lipari, province Messina, Italy, and resident
16 years in Australia, now residing at 150 South
Parade, Auburn, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JACK ALEXANDER LESLIE formerly of 57
Studley Street Abbotsford in the State of Victoria
and VX47457 but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JOYCE LAURA LESLIE of
57 Studley Street Abbotsford in the State of Victoria
Married Woman has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts William
Street Melbourne in the said State on or before the
Sixth of September 1944 the said suit will proceed
in your absence and a Decree Nisi for dissolution of
marriage may be granted If you intend to defend
this suit you must file an answer in the said office
on or before the Sixteenth day of September 1944.
JOHN WILLIAM GALBALLY, of 118 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the said State, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
INFORMATION is sought as to the whereabouts of
JOHN BERTRAM BELL, son of Dorcas Bell, of
Reade Park, South Australia. The wanted person’s
last two places of residence some years ago were
Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, and Yunta, South Aus-
tralia. Any information can be communicated to
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S.A.,
LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
The VENUS 2 LATHE
Ideal for the Small Workshop and
Garage Serviceman
Manufactured by
MARS MACHINE TOOL
FDS
MANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
Bridge St.. Valley. BRISBANE
Sole N.S.W, Distributing Agents:
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
For Victoria:
Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.
28 Market Street, Melbourne.
STURDY - - - QUICK
ACCURATE
Sole N.Z. Distributing Agents:
A. M. SATTERTHWAITE
& CO. LTD.
Hereford Street, CHRISTCHURCH
Wyt Commercial Panfemg Company
of g>pbnep Hhmteb
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS, Deputy Chairman.
GEOFFREY F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS, DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT,
Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX.
General Manager : C. DARVALL.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1944
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable)'
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
Street, Sydney, on Friday, 18th August, 1944.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised £12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
s. d.
s. d-
Issued —379,121 shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0 0
Less : Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the
Bank)
Final Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
4,739,012 10 0
4,300,000 0 0
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions for
contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
1,280,146 16
205,619 18
531,250 0
0
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc.).... £1,349,131
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £4,565,439 15 8
Cheques and Bills of other Banks
Balances with and due from other Banks....
Money at Short Cali in London
Treasury Bills —Australian Government 10,220,000
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at
or below market value (including £4,000 lodged
with Public Authorities)
Australian Government Securities 14,496,224 12 9
Special War-time Deposit Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia 23,399,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit.... 3,403,316 2 7
Loans, Advances and Bills discounted—after deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amounts written off
All other Assets
8. d.
£58,100,997 6 4
81,413,371
1,101,441
439,710
£91,055,519 13 2
Contingent Assets (as per contra). ..„.««*>•••• £1,349,131 2 1 (
ORWELL PHILLIPS \p. t E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
G. F. HUGHES > Directors. c daRVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the
Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and
counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explana-
tions we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as
to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the
best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of
the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required
to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
F. W. HIXSON.-I Auditors
C. H. DOYLE,
Sydney, 20th July, 1944 ■
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1943,
at the rate of 7J per cent, per annum, paid on 28th January,
1944
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows :
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1944, at the rate of 7£ per cent, per annum £177,712 19 5
„ Amount carried forward 122,233 11 2
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1943 •
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1944, after payment of all
expenses of management (including Directors’ Fees, £3.750)
and provision for taxes and for rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies
£177,712 19
25,000 0
299,946 10 7
£502,659 9 11
£122,836 18 3
RWELL PHILLIPS
, F. HUGHES
379,822 11 9
£502,659 9 11
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
retailers, supervised by a State committee,
fluctuates from month to month. For
the current month of August civilian sup-
plies have been cut by 5 p.c., reducing
them to 70 p.c. of average monthly pur-
chases for the base year. This because
of a strike of female factory operatives.
Sales of sporting and other goods have
been affected by service call-ups, restric-
tions on the use of rubber, disappearance
of some lines, such as firearms and am-
munition, and scarcity of others, includ-
ing fishing tackle. At the same time, tax-
ation and costs have continued to climb.
Still, by strict supervision and control
and the stopping-up of outlets, the board
has been able to show net earnings aver-
aging £10,521 over the last five years
as against an average of £13,768 for the
preceding quinquennium.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the contraction in gross earn-
ings (£127,014) was £22,688, due mainly
to lighter sales in the sporting-goods de-
partments. However, including some-
thing for taxation and £3964 (down £289)
for depreciation, exes. (£117,031) were
pulled back £21,955. That left the net
result only £733 lighter at 6 p.c, on capital
as against 6.4, 6.6, 6.9, 5.5 and 9 p.c.
back to 1939. The div., from which
a point was chipped in 1943, was main-
tained at 5 p.c., and the £1702 that re-
mained lifted the lay-by £33,009 in excess
of goodwill (£22,110), not treated as an
asset herein.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures illustrates, among other
things, the difficulty the co. has in main-
taining stocks —down £5629 last term,
making the contraction £61,624 over the
last two years:
1938. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £166,008 £166,004 £166,004 £166,000
Mortgages . . 130,207 118,664 118,664 118,664
Other liabilities 102,981 91,553 54,851 62,301
Tax reserve . . 9,053 17,387 33,887 31,220
Freeholds . . 212,915 191,212 191,340 191,431
Plant, etc. . . 19,288 11,577 9,572 6,109
Stocks.. .. 102,433 123,774 67,779 62,150
Book debts . . 105,517 98,224 44,002 29,347
Cash, etc. ... 543 3,490 96,489 127,126
Last term’s surplus earnings and reduc-
tion in debtors’ balances (down £14,655)
and stocks are reflected in a growth of
£30,637 in cash, etc. Still, leaving tax
provision out of the reckoning, there was
18s. 2d. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound of tangible
assets belonging to shareholders when
the books closed.
Mt. Morgan (Q.).
Shareholders are disappointed with the
reported working deficit of £6944 for the
four weeks to July 23. It leaves out of
the reckoning overhead of £l7OO and the
pref. div. (£1231) for the period, and no
allowance was made for depreciation.
No. 1 (ore reserve) mill was not fully
supplied, owing to interruption of open-
cut operations by drilling for ore-break-
ing, which was held up for a couple of
days by rain. Also, head values decreased
during the last half of the period. No. 2
(overburden) mill operated continuously,
and so did the smelter, but the latter was
not fully supplied with concentrates.
For the year to June 30, 1943, net
return from mining was £79,947 (down
£14,963). For the five-odd months to
Dec. 11, 1943, a deficit of £47,276 showed
up, after providing £21,232 for deprecia-
tion and £14,238 for Federal gold tax,
of which “a substantial part” is expected
to be refunded. Losses continued until
April, since when working surpluses were
claimed (before allowing for depreciation,
etc.) until the deficit for July showed
up. The losses were due to treatment of
a smaller quantity of lower-grade ore in
both No. 1 and No. 2 mills. Over-
burden, which had previously showed
a handsome profit, has scarcely paid
for cost of handling over the last
12 months. The improvement fol-
lowed installation of an electric shovel in
March, 1944. Another Ruston Bucyrus
c.y. electric shovel recently arrived
from overseas, but was immediately im-
pressed by the Commonwealth Coal
Commissioner. The co. has protested, Is
claiming compensation, and has ordered
another shovel. Until ore deliveries to
the mills are increased, there appears
little hope of reducing costs sufficiently to
show anything worth while in the way
of profit under existing cpnditions.
Mt. Coolon (Q.) netted £7861 (up
£5610) for the 12 months of 1943. Divs.
received from Morning Star (G.M.AO
Mines, Vic., totalled £7657 (up £5105)
and interest £568. Exes, took £364.
When the books closed the liquid surplus
amounted to £26,096, equal to 10.4 d. per
share. In addition the co. held 102,100
f.-p. 4s. shares in Morning Star and
90,000 shares of 35., paid to 9d. each, in
Atlas Gold. Plant is in at £3l, the
balance having been sold at a loss of
£306,992. Coolon was a good mine while
it lasted, but drilling and exploration
failed to disclose downward continuation
of the ore-body below 450 ft, and opera-
tions ceased in Feb., 1939. All told,
shareholders have received £405,000 on
a paid capital of £300,000, which is in
10s. shares. The last div. (6d. a share)
went out in 1941. Hopes are that some-
thing worth while will turn up post-war.
* * * *
While the big Wellington Alluvials
(N.S.W.) and Harrietville (Vic ) dredges
are laid up by shortage of man-power,
Victoria Gold Dredging, working shallow
alluvials at Newstead, contrives to carry
on. The land-reclamation programme
has slipped into arrears. Still, the
co. has done well for its backers, as the
following dredging results from the be-
ginning show:
Operating
Year. Treated, Gr., Costs, Net , Divs. N
Mar., C.y. C.y. Pence. Profit. Share. Amt.
1939*.. 1,217,750 4.27 4.08 £73,410 4/- £50,000
1940 . . 2,286,297 4.34 3.68 157,591 11/- 137,500
1941 .. 2,570,082 3.70 3.28 150,808 11/- 137,500
1942 ..2,670,038 2.81 3.30 107,201 7/6 93,750
1943 . . 2,061,281 3.16 4.27 88,468 0/- 75,000
194,4 . . 2,115,888 2.67 4.08 70,752 6/- 75,000
* 8J months.
With the richest part of the property now
behind, net earnings have lately shrunk
to half their fortner dimensions, and
further decline is to be expected. Whereas
gold yelds have averaged 3.43 gr, from
ground dug to date, bore value of the
7| million c.y. ahead is only 2gr., say,
85 p.c, recoverable. At March 31 more
or less surplus liquids, including stores,
covered approximately 4s. of the present
20s. market for the shares. The dredge
stands in the books at £87,700, and, with
Gold Exploration and Finance seeking to
equip adjoining areas after the war, the
unit might be worth something more than
scrap when the Victoria property is ex-
hausted. A new bucket line has just been
fitted, and a long-sighted policy has been
maintained in respect of spares.
* * * *
London - controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines (W.A.) closed down in Jan., 1942,
following disappointing results at depth,
and most of the plant was sold to the
Government. At June 30 last net assets
had a book value of approx. £84,500,
equal to 3s. 4-|d. per pref. share. But most
of the money is in Australia, and it is
doubtful whether authority to remit to
London will be granted until the war
ends. Issued capital is £599,300 in
500,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. of 10s. each
and 3,493,000 2s. ords. London direc-
tors called an extraordinary general meet-
ing of shareholders on June 29 to con-
sider liquidation. H. E. Nicholls, the co.’s
director in Australia, still awaits advice
of the result. He asked the board to
defer liquidation until end of the war
when prospects of profitable mining
could be more accurately determined.
» * * *
Speaking in the Westralian Legislative
Assembly the other day, L. F. Kelly,
member for Yilgarn, which takes in
Southern Cross, Bullfinch and a number
of other gold-digging places, boomed
prospects of a sulphide zone said to extend
for over 50 miles in portion of his elec-
torate. He claimed that “high values
were already proved, and thousands of
tons of high-grade ore exposed at depths
from 50ft. to 100 ft., with the formation
and values going down.” High rail
freight and treatment costs were big
obstacles to the profitable working of this
zone, he added, and he asked the Govern-
ment to foot the bill for a nearer and
larger treatment plant.
* * * *
Until conditions become more settled,
London-controlled Paringa (W.A.) has
decided to pay its div. annually, after
accounts to end of Aug. are made up,
instead of half-yearly. Current year’s
earnings have been adversely affected by
shortage of labor and by the firewood-
cutters’ strike, which shut the mine for
five weeks.
* s*e sfc ♦
“O.B.”; Some mines go on for years
after they are reported to need an under-
taker. For instance, South Kalgurli has
carried on at a good profit for years after
being theoretically doomed; and its ore
reserves are now larger and of higher
grade than for some time past. Another
Golden Mile case where life was con-
sidered to be at an end is the group now
profitably worked by Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, Ltd. There are other mines in
the west which were expected to give out
years ago, but they still live and pay.


CADBURY
means
QUALITY
m
3
*sf
Despite the requirements of the Services for
Cadbury’s Chocolate, you can still occasionally
obtain a block of Dairy Milk Chocolate or
Energy Chocolate (except in New South Wales
and South Australia, where transport and ship-
ping regulations do not allow us to distribute).
EC5.1.15
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Imported by the Government to ensure efficient rood transport.
A "Permit 1 to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
• CAPACITIES: Up to 4H TONS.
$ REAR AXLES: Sturdy, Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
• CABS : Imported, ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
• IMPORTED PLATFORM with steel skid strips,
Front Loading Board, Coaming and Rope Hooks.
9 IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
@ DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
® OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase and immediate delivery may be obtained
as usual from our branch house in the capital city
of your State, and also from any Authorized
Metropolitan Distributor or Country Local Agent
for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
A-no
INT OF AUbTKAUA
VICTORIA)
NE ADELAIDE' * PERTH
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
m
u
3T
:
PROTECTION
KM
The lines of supply in both the Pacific
and Atlantic theatres of war stretch
for thousands of miles, and on every
mile of their journey to forward areas
supplies need PROTECTION.
In tropical jungles and Arctic Seas,
SISALKRAFT, the water-proof, damp-
proof, dirt-proof, pliable wrapping
material, is playing a vital role in pro-
tecting precious cargoes of food,
medicines and all kinds of military
equipment
After Victory is attained, SISALKRAFT
will be available to Australian manu-
facturers and merchants to protect
interstate and overseas commerce.
Once again we shall profit by the
lessons of total war.
5 \3A LK FT
N.S.W.; F. W. Williams & 00. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & 00. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnanee & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnanee & 00., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . . .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT YOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”; President Roosevelt’s visits
to Honolulu and Pearl Harbor and the
Aleutians mark the end of an era in the
Pacific war. General Mac Arthur went
to Honolulu to meet the President, and
Admiral Nimitz was there.
The President, in subsequent talks, did
not give much away. He spoke of new
attacks “soon,” but remarked that “soon”
was a relative term. He said that General
MacArthur was going back to the Philip-
pines (“I promised him when T ordered
him to leave Corrigedor that he would go
back”), but added: “You cannot say
whether the general is going back directly
or via North Africa, but he is going back.
We are going right through to clean up
the Japanese... .going to get the Philip-
pines back as fast as the Lord will
' allow.”
Signs of the new era were in plenty in
the mid-Pacific and East Indian areas.
The centre of the operational amphi-
bious command of the Pacific was moved
to Saipan. It was announced that Lieut.-
General Richardson, U.S. Army, had
been appointed to a new military com-
mand of Pacific forces from Maoriland
to the Aleutians
The B. 29’s had been used for the first
time against the East Indies.
Old Glory floated once more over
Guam, in which only pockets of the
enemy were left.
One of the disturbing factors in all this
is the absence of Australian effort in
it. The Australian people are full of
latent eagerness to pull their weight, and
the Seventh Division, A.I.F., had a, record
ovation when it marched through Bris-
bane last week. But the feeling grows
that Mr. Curtin and his colleagues mis-
conceive Australia’s role as that of a
dairy farm rather than that of a warring
nation in the front rank.
August 8, 1944, 26th anniversary of
Germany’s Black Day, saw the Canadians
and Tommies going forward grandly in
France, but not Australian soldiers,
though they would have given their ears
to be in it.
Three outstanding facts about the
operations in the Pacific: —
Attacks on Japanese bases in the Bonins
and Volcano Islands and the Philippines
no longer need to be made from carriers.
Operations against these targets are
already under way from the Marianas.
The drive southward of B. 29 Squad-
rons of the 20th U.S. Air Force fore-
shadows capital action in the East Indies
zone—not necessarily immediately but
“soon,” Super-Fortress raids during the
week included attacks on the Nagasaki
industrial area in Japan, and on the
Pladjoe oil refinery, the largest in Asia,
at Palembang, in Sumatra,
The mysterious Japanese 18th Army on
the Aitape sector in New Guinea con-
tinued to go under at the rate of 1000 a
day, without making any major attempt
to save itself. It was calculated on Aug.
10 that 18,000 of the enemy had died ;
more than 3000 were reported killed later
in the week. '
Elsewhere in the South-west Pacific
bombing of enemy objectives continued.
There were heavy attacks on Halmahera,
particularly on shipping. On August 9,
10, 11 eight Jap ships of 10,000 tons were
sunk, and five of 9000 tons damaged.
On the three days previous to this the
first concerted attacks on the aerodromes
of Davao, southern Philippines, were
made from New Guinea, as a first preli-
minary to further moves.
It has been here contended from the
first that the obvious strategic target in
the main drive on Japan was not the
Philippines but Formosa.
This view apparently is adopted in
Washington, from which “S. M. Herald’s”
able correspondent, A. D, Rothman, last
week cabled: —
Navy experts looked on, all but the
Formosa movement as “eccentric” opera-
tions, and particularly they felt that the
recapture of the Philippines was not a
necessary preliminary to an attack on Japan,
despite its important moral effect Naval
circles increasingly tend to advocate that
this attack (j.e., on Formosa) should con-
tinue direct.
If it could be achieved with anything
like the same startling celerity that marked
the subjugation of the Marianas, it would
be the biggest thing that had yet happened
in the Pacific war. It would sever the
life-line of the southern Japanese con-
quests and leave them at the mercy of
British-American forces,
Australia should have representative
forces in the main operations.
On the Manipur front in Assam the
Japanese were back over the Burmese
border, and ground had been gained in
the Myitkina area.
In China fighting was confused along
the Canton-Hankow railway. With Hen-
yang, the Japanese captured five Chinese
generals.
Clearing Western France.
“Ek Dum”: Last week one central
strategy in France had divided the battle
into three separate operations:
(1) The series of engagements for the
mountain region from Mortain across the Caen-
Falaise road to the east of “Norman Switzer-
land.” This was the battle in which the bulk
of forces on both sides were involved.
(2) The American drive westward into the
Brittany Peninsula —Brest, Lorient, St. Nazaire,
Nantes.
(3) The advance from the central focus of
Rennes, on the Breton borders, towards the line
of hills and heights which stretch virtually from
the high coastal cliffs south of Lisieux, on
the Bay of the Seine, to the river Loir (not the
the Loire) and the forests south-east of Le
Mans. This high land, full of fertile hills,
valleys and —in the north —roughish country,
is the “Perche,” home of sturdy men and
sturdier Percheron horses whose stock has
spread all over the world.
Over the Loire
The week saw exciting developments
in the drive in Brittany. One U.S. spear-
head took Nantes (pop. 200,000), after
having been delayed only by minefields
in its environs, and crossed the Loire
heading for Bordeaux. Another fetched
up outside St. Nazaire, wTiich it invested.
A third scraped every Hun within sight
off the coast round Quiberon Bay. Still
another invested Lorient, which lies on
the north side of a narrow estuary, and
prepared to break into it. Far away to
the north-west it had taken a spearhead
only 48 hours to make the last 155 miles
to Brest, whose garrison refused to sur-
render.
Brest is not easy to attack because it
is on the southern side of a 17-mile-wide
peninsula neck, 17 miles from the sea on
the west, and guarded on the south by
the Rade de Brest, which is a harbor
somewhat like Hobart’s Devonport with
a wide diameter and a narrow entrance.
There were elements of three divisions
and some naval units in Brest.
The surrounding seas were busy with
naval chases as Allied craft pursued run-
ning Axis vessels.
There was no difficulty in finding any
of the great U-boat ports, for columns of
smoke rose thousands of feet above them
from burning dumps and installations —
some set on fire by demolition gangs,
some by Flying Fortress or R.A.F. heavy
squadrons.
On their way to Brest, a few U.S. de-
tachments had broken off main forces
to piop up such hardshelled pockets as
St. Malo and Dinard. There was not
much resistance except at St. Malo, where,
after the town was taken, the fortress
to which generations of engineers since
Vauban had added inner skins continued
to resist. Late in the week the comman-
dant sent out, under a white flag, a novel
proposal: he would exchange prisoners
for Red Cross supplies. The exchange
was made, after which shells and bombs
once more began to bounce off the hard
carapace of the citadel.
By August 7-8 the 13,000 square miles
of Brittany was almost empty of Ger-
mans save for the defenders of the ports.
From Rennes westward U.S. forces
travelled almost unmolested. Not many
prisoners were taken. Of 3000 caught in
the approach roads and towns near St.
Malo, a battalion were Russians.
North of Mortain
Further northward the picture was dif-
ferent. The 90 miles of front from
Avranches to beyond Caen had been
lengthened somewhat by the creation of
salients, but here there was fierce fighting.
The few days before and directly after
the American break-through in the west
had seen vast activity on the eastern
British-Canadian 50-mile sector. The
Canadians’ original division had grown
to be a full army, commanded by Lieut.-
General Crerar. The British front had
been considerably strengthened. Poles,
with their own strong armored support,
and French had been linked with the
Canadians and were apparently part of
the Canadian Army.
Tank Thrust at Avranches *
About 14,000 tons of ammunition and
supplies had been moved forward. It
must have been obvious to the enemy that
something was about to happen. The
evening of August 6 was cloudy and un-
suitable for air observation, so this appar-
ently seemed an opportunity to him to
create a diversion and steal a march on
the Americans in the west by driving to
the coast at Avranches. He decided to
do this in style with the tanks of'at least
four divisions in a suitable piece of
country between Mortain and Sourdeval,
five miles to the north. He no doubt
intended to play General Montgomery
at his own game.
A main road runs westward along the
ridge from halfway between Sourdeval
and Mortain, through the village of
Juvigny. There are also many tracks and
leafy lanes thereabouts, all leading to
somewhere near Avranches, which is 24
miles from the Sourdeval-Mortain road.
|
lyphoons at Work
Unluckily for the enemy he was caught
on the sneak Rocket Typhoons were
ordered out. They had fired 1800 rockets
in the opening gambit of the Caen batt e
in a single day.
A rocket is a deadly weapon. It was
invented by Sir William Congreve, In
point of fact, all the rockets used in this
war—including the U.S, bazookas and
the much-advertised ones of the Russians
and Germans—-had their origin in 130
years of British experiments which were
brought to fruition in Jamaica m April,
1939, and gave Britain the first anti-air-
craft rocket barrage ill.theworld and later
the first rocket-armed flghter-a Hum-
cane, from which the Typhoon achieved
?„ e ., b^m C Z„emv
Each rocket-armed Typhoon is powered
with a Napier Sabre engine, which has
about twice the h.p. of the most power-
fnl British exnress eneine Its hittin*
MWM- fa that St I liSht Nruiser or heaw
destroyer* o/ the “columns sneaking
towards Avranches from the Mortain
road, 81 were bombed to pieces, 27 left
smoking and 18 damaged-some ot these
f. , r a*
E°HS y pFo ufo n / P a" leS
nnt hrnW>n The
But the Germans were not broken, me
fight see-sawed in and out of Mortain all
the week, while battle raged further
north-east round two sides of the salient
through which the Orne ran its winding
way among the gorges and crags of
“Norman Switzerland,"
South Towards Falaise
Two roads run southward—roughly—
from Caen bn either side of the Ome.
On the high ground on the right flank,
the British, having taken Villers Bocage
and the hills to Aunay, s.-east of it, to
the highest point (365 metres) on Mt. Pin-
con, were faced with two tasks: (1) driv-
ing further south-west to clear out the
pocket of Germans dividing them from
the American front towards Vire, and (2)
driving east across the Orne to clear the
southern part of the space between Caen’s
two southing roads and junction with the
Canadians at Potigny on the Falaise road,
Thus they proposed to give the front
unity across the troublesome river.
The Canadians were some miles up
the Caen-Falaise road. They had to fight
their way down to Potigny, as well as
to clear the east bank of the Ome to a
British bridgehead above Thury Har-
court, which is 17-odd miles from Caen.
They started the ball rolling at mid-
night on August 7 with a grand armored
drive, motorised infantry following the
tanks closely through the German for-
ward zone of fixed defences, which were
first badly knocked about by heavy air
and artillery bombardments. The British
moved in perfect timing.
It took the whole week of bitter fight-
ing, during which the Allies reduced point
after point, turned into fortresses, with
88’s, heavy mortars and Spandaus, to
carry out the operation.
Gradually the British and Canadian
armies came together. The British front
fanned out as was planned. Aircraft
blasted to pieces German tank reinforce-
ments hurrying from Lisieux and
knocked out 61 tanks. The whole 90
miles of front were knit into a single
whole. Mortain, on August 12, was re-
ported again in Allied hands —apparently
for good. The Canadian Army was bulg-
ing out into the tank country of the plain
towards Lisieux.
Germans in a Bag
This reconstructed Avranches-Falaise
front formed the northern side of a bag
of Germans on the southern edges of and
below the “Norman Alps.” The bag was
40 miles wide at the mouth from Alen-
?on to the Canadian positions above
Falaise, and wider to the west. East to
west it was 60 miles long.
The British-Canadians had four or five
miles to go to reach Falaise, which is in
a strong position for a delaying fight, and
they would have to cross the main ridge
of the watershed on their way to Argen-
tan, 15 miles from Falaise.
At that stage developments came
quickly. The pressure was too much for
the enemy. He began to escape in a
torrent of vehicles rushing eastward
through the gap.
Then it was announced that the Ameri-
cans had reached Argentan, thus cutting
the main road and railway out of the
Norman Alps pocket. The Germans who
had not then escaped had more than an
even chance of death or captivity.
Capture of Argentan means that
British, Canadians and Americans are
on the main road to Mantes and the
great crossings of the Seine, on the sea-
ward side of Paris. And the possession
or artillery control of “Jolly Mantes”
would mean that the Paris main roads
and rail would not only be cut to parts
of the north-west, across the river, but
between Paris and Rouen and Le Havre.
Possession of the Argentan-Dreux-Paris
road was a vital issue with the Germans.
Le Mans and After
The third operation of the Battle for
Western France was the U.S. advance
from Rennes to Le Mans and points
beyond.
The capture of Le Mans was an his-
toric event. It may be said to be the
border town between far-western and
mid-France. It has been recognised
always as a strategic pivot.
It was across the Sarthe river from
here, in January, 1871, that the gallant
Chanzy, with the Second Wing of the
French Army, in the very twilight of the
Franco-Prussian War, might have altered
the course of history but for the flight
of his Breton levies. It was here on Sep-
tember 29, 1914, on the black day of
Mons, that it was planned to establish a
British advanced H.Q. against the contin-
gency of a long retreat. It was to the
Chateau de Blanchardiere at Le Mans
that Lord Gort moved his H.Q. from
Camberley, travelling via Cherbourg, on
September 14, 1939, setting down the
nucleus of his First Corps a week later
at Laval.
It is an adventurous town associated
with the beginnings of flying in Europe
—with Leon Bollee and Wilbur Wright’s
flights of 1908, and with the*dusty annual
excitement of motor races. It is the gate
to the country of the Seine.
To the south-west, by the week-end, a
U.S. column had pushed down the 50
miles of largely straight road through
Chat Gontier to Angers, just above where
all the waters of the Mayenne, the Sarthe,
the Huisne and the Loir pour into the
wide Loire.
Into “black” Angers, with its sullen,
slated houses, and across the shady walks
which now hide the foundations of “the
flinty ribs of that contemptuous town,”
rolled the first Allied tanks on August 10.
Alencon Falls
Next day it was reported in Algiers that
further columns had fanned out to the
north-east of Le Mans and had taken
Alenin. The rumor was all too true for
German comfort. The town caused
General Bradley less trouble than it
did William the Conqueror 900 years
ago William secured its surrender
only by cutting off the hands of
30 prisoners, and sending them to the
garrison with his compliments as an
earnest of things to come for those who
persisted in holding out.
U.S. troops now had a loose front of
80 miles along or east of the lower Sarthe
and along the Alen?on-Le Mans-Flech6-
Angers road. It reached from the fringes
to the forests of the Loire to the southern
slopes up towards the Orne watershed.
Approaches to Paris
By rail from Le Mans to Paris is 131
miles, via Chartres and Rambouillet; by
road about the same. Beyond Le Mans
the country ascends into the fertile hills


What Is Your Answer?
mm
Do you want to see Australia in
a nosition to keep the promises
to the fighting forces?
YES or NO?
Do you want to avoid the chaos and disaster
which followed the last war?
YES or NO?
Do you want to prevent a recurrence
of depression? YESNO?
Do you want to see every Australian in
full employment? YES or NO?
THERE IS ONLY ONE ANSWER
The ease for eonstifufional revision is in realify the ease for
self-preservation . A "YES" majority will weld Australia into
a strong dynamic nation, capable of survival . capable of
assuring the welfare of all its people .
SAFEGUARD YOUR STANDARD OF LIVING
VOTE
Put your number (1)
in the TOP square •
Q
[2
YES
NO
Authorised by J. B. Chill ey, H. V. Evatt, Parliament House. Canberrai SOY
of the Perche. Forty miles onwards, on
the river Huisne, at Nogent-le-Rotrou,
headquarters of the old Counts of Perche,
is an important crossing place. Still a
few miles nearer the capital, the spires
of Chartres from on the river Eure.
Chartres is 54i miles from Paris. From
here to the Paris environs all routes are
over the flat Beauce Plain.
The hill belt of the Perche, which,
with the river Eure and with the high land
of the Orne on the north-west and Loir
on the south, is a good defensive area
on which a determined army could form
a line all the way fro'm near the Seine
estuary to the Loire forests.
Outflanking Paris
Once in Chartres the Allied forces
will find themselves with as many roads
to choose from as there are bullock tracks
from a Northern Territory waterhole.
From Chartes, three roads run south
through the forests to Orleans —the west-
ward one at an angle through Chateau-
dun. Thus it is the gateway to the routes
along the Loire; to the lower Seine
Valley and the gaps of Fontainebleu,
Sens and Auxerre, and beyond to the
open country of the Champagne —to
Chalons, to Rheims, to the Sedan Gap.
A second series of roads leads via
Etampes to the wide Seine Valley in the
Corbeil-Melun area. Corbeil is 30 miles
south of Paris.
To by-pass the capital by these routes
would be as important as taking it. It
would threaten the whole German
northern flank east of the Seine, and
divide the enemy’s northern and southern
forces in the heart of France. At Chartres
the Americans would be only 100 miles
from the junction of the Marne and the
Ourq—from the region of La Ferte and
Chateau Thierry.
“Going Well”
At the week-end General Montgomery
issued an order in which he said that the
battle was going well; that Allied armies
were moving relentlessly and swiftly into
France and that complete victory lay
ahead.
But the Germans are very powerful.
They still have most of six or seven
armored divisions at least, somewhere
near the western front. There is no sign
that they have been victims of a rout.
Their withdrawal, though forced, is yet
awhile strategic and under control, even
though it is costing dearly. Since June 6
115,000 prisoners have been taken by the
Allies.
Correspondents and commenators who
believe the enemy is about to col-
lapse may be right. If they are, they
must have some evidence which is not de-
ducible from the fighting.
More will be known about it when the
crossing places of the Seine in the north
—Rouen, Mantes —are fought. for, and
when it can be seen whether Paris can
be outflanked on the south, or whether
it will be abandoned as Rome was aban-
doned ; also whether the rumor is true
that the Hun is forsaking southern France
as he has abandoned western France.
It was here written (B, 9/ 8 / ’44) that
the way should now be open for a new
landing in southern France, Consistent
bombing for 11 days suggests prepara-
tions for this.
Florence Evacuated.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Churchill followed
the King to Italy, whither General Mait-
land Wilson moved the H.Q. of the Medi-
terranean Supreme Command. Marshal
Tito also visited Italy. In the meantime,
the squeeze on Florence pushed the enemy
out.
He did little damage to that glorious
city of 400,000 people save to destroy all
the bridges but the Ponte Vecchio, and
retired to the hill positions northward.
The British and Maorilanders, Indians
and S. Africans on the'south side did not
hasten across the river, not wishing to
court artillery fire amid the palaces and
galleries and streets which, far more than
those of Rome, are the birthplace of the
modern arts, modern culture and science.
On the Adriatic front, however, there
was bitter fighting in bad weather. There
the Poles, with some fighting Italians for
support, cleared all the enemy from the
area south of the Cesano River. They
have some rough country ahead as they
approach the region of the little isolated
republic of San Marino and break into
the plain of Rimini beyond the coastal
mountain spurs.
But they have done a fine job.
The U-boat Campaign.
Mr. Churchill and President Roosevelt
in their joint monthly statement for July
declared that Germany had lost 500 Ü-
boats and 20,000 skilled*U-boat men in
this war. In July the number of Ü-
boats destroyed was “substantially greater
than the number of merchantmen sunk.”
The enemy lost 17 while trying to inter-
fere with traffic to Normandy.
In the last six months the kill was 60,
and the numbers do not approach the, 30-
a-month bag of last summer.
Effective U-boats operating were
reckoned at 400, including 100 based on
Brittany, which soon will be without
homes. New building was considered to
be not more than 60 in the past six
months ; it is now confined mostly to
midget craft.
Germans Stand in Poland.
“Ek Dum”: The Germans have come
to bay in Poland very much where it was'
suggested here nearly six months ago that
they would probably stand to fight (B,
23/2/’44), save in the centre, where they
have not yet moved back beyond the Vis-
tula to their main defences along the
Upper Vistula-Posen-Cracow line.
What they gave up to the Russians in
a month in 1944 was almost exactly the
same main area which the Russians sur-
rendered in a month in June-July, 1941,
without suffering final defeat.
Now, for the first time since November,
1942, the Germans have reached main
lines —in the north and south, at any rate
—from which there can be little or no
retreat without great danger of disaster
except in Estonia and Latvia, where the
Russians are now pushing them back.
Curiously enough, the terrain is such
that for land-war purposes it would have
suited them to fall back considerably
further on the centre of the front. But
they have to consider air power.
And the ports of East Prussia and the
Polish “Corridor” and the northern Baltic
States are too valuable to sacrifice with-
out a struggle.
The Germans’ plan is somewhat as
follows:
They are trying to hold the isolated
Baltic coast from Riga north-eastward, to
deny the Russians the use of ports and to
keep them away from Finland, which lies
only about 40 miles across the Gulf from
the Latvian coast. They also have a
strong interest in keeping the Leningrad
railways to East Prussia cut off. This
assures considerable congestion on the
lines feeding the Russians further south,
along the Kaunas-Augustowo front, and
deprives them of a good supply route.
General Bagranyan’s troops have, of
course, broken through to the sea, south
of Riga, but up to the week-end they had
failed to break northward into Riga,
which was almost within the reach of
their heavier guns and they had failed
to break far south-west following the
direction of the coast, towards Memel.
The Germans had hung on to almost all
the road from Shavli to Tilsit, the vital
crossing-place on the Niemen inside the
northern part of East Prussia.
East Prussian Defences
The East Prussian claw of the German
defences consists of 14,000 square miles
of intensely organised country, served by
five ports, with magnificent double rail-
ways and roads and deep-water canals
connecting it with all the great armament
centres of Germany proper. The furthest
away of these is the Ruhr, two days’
motor drive from Konigsberg.
The Russian main supplies have to
travel at least 2000 miles from beyond
the Urals,
The approaches to East Prussia are:
(1) The 45-mile-wide Insterburg Gap, be-
tween the Eichwalder Forest and Angerburg.
The Angerapp River runs across it; the
Kaunas-Konigsberg railway through its
centre.
(2) The 50-mile-long Masurian Lakes
position adjoining, from Angerburg, on the
north, to the Johannisburg Forest, on the
south. This is a continuous chain of sunken
lakes, surrounded by timber, with narrow
gaps between. The main gap is that through
which the railway from Bielystok and Lyok
runs to Lotzen.
(3) The Johannisburg-Soldau front 75
miles along the southern border. It is
flanked on the German (western) side by
the Warsaw-Danzig railway via Deutsch
Eylau junction. It was across the railways
from Insterburg and Warsaw, junctioning
at Deutsch Eylau, that the battle of Tan-
nenburg was fought in August, 1914. At
the eastern end of this line is the Johan-
nisburg Forest.
West of that, on the German side, the
roads are excellent and the country is less
sparsely inhabited, wooded with plenty of
cover, save in the short space between the
Deutsch Eylau-Warsaw railway at Soldau
and Niedenburg to the east. This forms
the main gap. The rest of the border on
the South is covered on the German side by
the forest, and by a belt of sunken lakes,
long from north to south and presenting
maximum interruptions to the lateral com-
munications of an army advancing from
the direction of Russia.
The approach of the Russians to the
labyrinthine East Prussian, defence posi-
tion, which is about one-third bigger than
Belgium, follows the lines of the
approaches of the last war. There are a
force, trying to work down the coast ana
across the Niemen at Tilsit to reach the
inner perimeter of the Konigsberg de-
fences, cut the railway to the Insterburg
Gap and form a pincer with forces com-
ing up from the south; an army attack-
ing the Insterburg Gap from Kaunas:
another army linked with it attacking the
Lotzen and adjacent gaps in the Masurian
Lakes area, from Grodno and Bielystok.
The south front (Johannisburg-Soldau)
the Russians will not be able to prepare
for attack until they have captured War-
saw and have pushed northwards tar
beyond the Novegeorgievsk (Modhni
fortress area at the junction of the Bug
and the Vistula, 23 miles above the capi-
tal, and Ostrolenka further north-east.
The Fight for Warsaw
At Warsaw, though they claimed a river
crossing north of the town, of which
nothing has since been heard, the Rus-
sians appear still to be fighting for the


TROJAN SEA HORSE...
'J’HESE mighty engines of war “ dock ” where there are no
docks. They just push up to the shore and unload their
troops and tanks, reminiscent of the Trojan horse of Greek
mythology.
Unfaltering performance from engines is required in such
war service. To get such performance, Caltex Lubricants
are universally used.
Caltex engineers and laboratory chemists have rendered
Caltex lubrication unfailingly reliable. Insist on Caltex ...
There is the correct grade of oil for every purpose.
m
LIMITED
Serving the Nation
Importers of Calf ex Motor Spirit, Kerosene and Lubricating OH
s S
I i L*j 11 * I
- Biifi
&
/ 4?
Victory is on the way. Make sure it is not delayed by your
default.
Perhaps you cannot fight, but you can save and you can lend
your savings to Australia.
Don't wait a day—make an advance subscription now to the
Second Victory Loan, opening soon. All arrangements v/il!
be completed for you by any Bank, Savings Bank or Stock-
broker.
MAKE m ADVANCE SUBSCRiPTON TO
THE LOAN
KEEP ON SAYING.
Buy 5/- National Savings
Stamps. Paste them in the
free National Savings Stamp
Book to buy more Victory
Bonds.
2PV-4-I9
far outer perimeter of Praga, the suburb
on the east bank of the river. But General
Bors’s Polish troops appeared for a time
to hold large sections of the city, which
they gamely occupied. Silence fell on
them, and Berlin claimed that their gal-
lant bands had been wiped out, but
General Bors was heard from at the
week-end in a stirring report of the re-
pulse of attacks.
Further south, the Russians were busy
consolidating their bridgeheads across the
Vistula in the Sandomierz area. It was
claimed that spearheads were within 25
miles of industrial Kielce and less than
60 miles from Cracow. But here, as in
the Carpathian area, the headlong rush
of the Red Army stopped so soon as it
reached main defence lines.
Here, in fact, the Germans are prepar-
ing to defend the lines of May, 1915.
German Preparations
All the turgid German reporting which
helped the Moscow correspondents to
believe a month*ago that the Russians
would be in Berlin in a fortnight or so
has ceased. Moscow reported that 16 new
German divisions had been poured from
the west into the Polish-East Prussian de-
fences. East Prussia’s arteries were
chocked with inflowing material and there
was a great influx of German aircraft.
On August 9 Field Marshal Model
issued an order of the day:
After weeks of withdrawals the time to
stand has come. I am relying on total
mobilisation to make our bulwark against
the Russians impenetrable.
Moscow correspondents reported counter-
attacks, which the Russians were “success-
fully warding off.”
Even Reuter’s correspondent, who has
never during 1943-44 pictured the Ger-
man armies as anything but a disorga-
nised mob, wrote of the battle further
north in Latvia, where the enemy is cut
off from his bases except by sea;
The Russians are throwing more and
more forces into the Latvian battlefield to
deal with the mangled, but still formidable,
left wing of the German Army cut off in the
Baltic States... .This struggle may last for
weeks and no forecasts are made here.
The intensity of the defence already,
before main lines have been reached, is
advertised by Moscow’s announcement
that in the week ended August 7 740
German tanks and 643 aircraft had been
destroyed.
The Fighting Poles.
“Ek Bum’s” tribute to them:
The man who has commanded longest in
action on the Allied side in the present war
is General Anders, Polish G.O.C. in Italy.
He began his war on September 1, 1939,
leading a cavalry brigade in the Modlin army
which had been thrown across the Allensfein
approaches from East Prussia.
He saw action that day. He was in the
battles in which 38 divisions of Poles, without
armor and motorised divisions and with only a
tiny air force, sought to save their country against
an invading force of 61 divisions, 16 armored
or motorised, advancing under the umbrella of
the most powerful fighter and bomber force
in Europe.
The next two years were painful years for
General Anders. Beginning his war in Poland
fighting the Germans, he ended it severely
wounded and a prisoner of the Russians. His
eldest son was dead in battle.
It was August 4, 1941, before M. Beria, of
the Russian Foreign Office, called at the Lubi-
anka prison in Moscow and released the general,
one of 12,000 Polish officers and 1,000,000
Poles who had been deported to the U.S.S.R.
and interned by the Russians. M. Beria in-
formed him that he was to be Commander-
in-Chief of the Polish armies in Russia.
Then came a heartbreaking wait while the
Poles sought to find the Polish officers whom
the Soviet Government declared that it had
released. They turned up only In 1943 in the
10,000 graves of Katyn, murdered, according
to a Russian Commission, by the Germans.
Eventually the question of rations, which
were limited to a few thousands by the Russian
Government (food was, of course, then a great
problem), led General Anders and his en-
listed Poles to secure permission to leave Rus-
sian soil for Iran, where the Anders force be-
came known as “The Polish Army in the East.”
Poles in Tobruk
In the Middle East they found the so-called
Carpathian Brigade (General Kopanski). This
prime body of troops-+-three battalions of
infantry, a regiment.of motorised cavalry, an
artillery regiment, flak batteries and all ancil-
lanes-amved in Palestine from Syria after the
ranCe as a pleasant surprise for General
Wavell. They were put to the task of covering
Alexandria while their fliers worked off steam
against the Italians.
They were embarked for Greece, but their
order to sail was countermanded. M the dark
of one anxious night in August, 1941, they
sailed on their way to Tobruk.
a Tt?[ e became Wood-brothers of the
A.l.P.s Ninth Division. There was never any
need to invite them to join in a fight. At the
relief, in the battle of Sidi Resegh, Polish
ack-ack batteries did great work. The brigade’s
troops fully earned their share of the cheers
buc to the first fortress garrison in this war
withstood direct German assault.
When the Germans retreated, the Poles were
hard on their tails. Their charge, without
artillery support, at Gazala over open ground
against concentrated m.g., mortar and field-°un
fire was one of the epics of Libya.
When fortune turned against the Allies the
Poles were among the fiercest and deadliest and
™ st persistent of the rearguard formations.
When heads Were counted afterwards it was
discovered that the Germans in the whole cam-
paign had taken 14 of them prisoner. Their
, own bag was 1800 Germans.
Greetings from the Ninth
3 ’ 1944 i Fieut.-General Morshead
lr eengratuiations of the veterans of
the Nmth Division, A.1.F.:
Cordial greetings to all our comrades of
Tobruk. We retain the happiest recollec-
tions of our close association with them
and unbounded admiration of their fighting
qualities. It was, indeed, a privilege to
serve with them.
To the Ninth the Polish Order of Military
Valor had been awarded.
This, then, was the “Brigade,” back in Pales-
tine to be reorganised and armed as a division,
which set a fighting standard for General
Anders’s prison-bleached soldiers from Russia.
It was months before these latter were fit to
fight again.
From Sangro to Ancona
On February 17, 1943, the Polish Corps,
complete with all its trimmings, joined the
Eighth Army in Italy. General Anders com-
manded its two divisions —the Carpathian and
the Border. It was British-armed throughout.
Its men wear the Crusaders’ Cross of the Eighth
Army with their own eagle insignia.
They were blooded in the snows of the
Sangro. They were given the Monastery flank
of the Gustav Line flank to tackle at the
Battle of Cassino. They had what would have
been to most others the misfortune to pounce
on the German Green Devil Parachute Divi-
sion in process of a relief, so that they
met twice as many Germans as they expected
to meet. Their only variation in their set pro-
gramme seems to have been that, in process
of enveloping the German flank and taking
Monastery Hill, they killed twice as many Huns
as expected.
In attack and counter-attack casualties were
heavier than anywhere else in the battle.
Then, filled with enthusiasm for their work,
the Poles pushed on from the anchor of the
Gustav Line and tore up the anchor of the
Adolf Hitler Line at Piedmonte, in fighting
of which those who witnessed the savage on-
slaught speak with bated breath.
Since then, the Poles have kept the fight
flank of the armies of General Alexander,
scouring up the Adriatic coast, adding one
town after another to their captures.
Poland at Sea
There are other Poles in Britain ready to take
part in the European campaign—100,000 were
in process of organisation in France when that
country surrendered.
They were not in the invasion landings, but
many are now in Normandy under General
Montgomery’s command. And two Polish de-
stroyers were in action off Cape Ushant on
June 9, as others have been in many a his-
toric action since war broke out —one last week.
One Polish destroyer was sunk in the epic
fight off the Hel Peninsula in 1939 after having
sunk a German destroyer and several other ships.
One was lost at Narvik.
The Kujaiak lies in the Mediterranean off
Malta, the Orkan in the Atlantic. Another
perished guarding a Murmansk convoy.
One Polish submarine between May, 1943,
and January, 1944, sank 18 enemy vessels total-
ling 49,000 tons; another sank 15 totalling
42,000 tons. It was the little Piorun which
first sighted the German battleship Bismarck
on May 26, 1941—and actually attacked the
monster. Though the Polish Navy numbers
only 3000, its personnel have been awarded
16 D.S.Os., 12 D.S.Cs. and 16 D.S.Ms.
Mr. Alexander, First Lord of the Admiralty,
said;
In view of its small size the number of
operations in which the Polish Navy has
taken part is almost incredible.
The total acknowledged bag of the Poles at
sea includes an auxiliary cruiser, three enemy
destroyers, eight submarines and 49 other
vessels, including a large troop-carrier loaded
down with troops.
The Eagle at Bay
Of the original Polish Air Force of 1939,
80 p.c. of the members are dead. But the
force is very much bigger than when war
began: in May there were 14 squadrons, with
personnel of 14,000, attached to the R.A.F.
The nucleus of these boys had shot down 195
enemy bombers during the London blitz. In the
Tunisian battle their small force shot down 79
enemy machines.
Even Poles who stayed at home have been
fighting. Their rising in Warsaw is one of the
heroic incidents of the war. Previously a
force struck in Vilna ahead of the Russians
and made a very good job of its stroke.
Poland has a bad press in Australia, Sydney
papers in particular championing the Moscow
claims, which would mean Russifying 35 p.c.
of the population and nearly 50 p.c. of
the territory as at August 31, 1939. Mr.
Churchill did well to remind such papers and
persons in a recent speech that “it was for
the right's and independence of Poland that we
entered the war against Germany.”


V
S 3
4
Ih. T-
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
V;>;
: :
mm
c
111 Pig
■9
.
s»3hs : :
M
mm
m &
smm
mmmm
I N
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Zalmon, generally believed to be a
doubtful rupner until the day before the
race, defeated Winterset and Highway
King in the Australian Steeplechase at
Caulfield on Saturday. D. Mcßae, trainer,
was of opinion that 3i miles under 10.13
might be too much for Zalmon, who is
not a big horse, but owner Mrs. J. Fal-
kiner was anxious for a run. Easing on
the course from 10 to 1 to 20 to 1, Zal-
mon indulged in a battle for the lead
with Winterset, and, with 211 b. in his
favor, outstayed the latter to win by seven
lengths. He is the outstanding jumper
this winter, with wins in the G.N. Hurdle
and Australian Steeple, and a second in
the Australian Hurdle.
Doubles bookmakers were saved a sub-
stantial payout when Highway King was
beaten into third place. The G.N. Steeple
winner had been heavily backed in
doubles with the Australian Hurdle win-
ner, Benghazi, and four furlongs from
home he looked like seeing his supporters
through. He had come from a bad last,
however, and lack of strong work, fol-
lowing a heel injury, told on him at the
finish.
Val Curl (Valiant Chief-Curlis) and
Silver Rocks (Brueghel-Silver Sequin) re-
corded decisive wins in the divisions of
the Chatsworth Plate, a mile race for
three-year-olds. Val Curl, 20 to 1, led
practically all the way to win by almost
three lengths from New Yorker, while
Silver Rocks wound up with five lengths
to spare from Verdict. Val Curl and
Silver Rocks are definite improvers, but
it is questionable whether either will im-
prove as much as New Yorker. Last-
named, a fancied Derby and Cups candi-
date, was impressive at his first start after
a spell.
Huntingdale, 7-to-2 favorite, enhanced
his Caulfield Cup prospects by defeating
Spearmain and Sunrocks in the Malakoff
Stakes. He won well, and seemingly will
be better this spring than when he fin-
ished fourth in Skipton’s Caulfield Cup
division last year, T. Lewis, trainer of
Huntingdale, is well off in respect of Cup
horses. Neutron, winner of his last two
races, and Fairway Freddy, who has been
backed for a substantial sum at long
odds, are among other Caulfield Cup can-
didates in his team.
Codicil, a candidate for the Cups, de-
feated Sir Enfield and Lucifer in the Cam-
bria Plate. He was the first leg of a win-
ning double for apprentice H. White, who
piloted the 25-to-l chance, El Marko, to
a narrow win from Lugano in the St.
Aubin Welter. Pantheist, third, ran on
well, and he and Illyrian, who weakened
in the straight, impress as certain to
improve.
Sic * * *
Moorefield track was heavy on Satur-
day, and John Halifax took 1.16 for the
six furlongs in the Flying Handicap
against Pentheus’s long-standing record
for the track of 1.14*. Rag Eater, at
50 to 1, made the day satisfactory for the
books. Her tote dividend was at the rate
of nearly 67 to 1.
John Halifax (Cook) continues to im-
prove with hard racing, and though only
fifth, and conceding the pacemakers
Brazier and Bruce Wood a long start
approaching the home turn in the Flying
Handicap, he led half a furlong from
home, and won by half a length from the
consistent High Flight. Though suited by
conditions. Brazier and Bruce Wood
weakened in the straight, and backers
now have their measure. Cradle Song
was never dangerous.
Bonne Terre (Moore) had an easy win
i n the Moorefield Handicap, in which he
headed Lord Spear three furlongs from
home. Cadger was second, without being
able to trouble the winner. Cockcrow
(fourth) was not suited by the going, and
it was seemingly the same with the
favorite Beau Timide (fifth), who was
x as t for the first seven furlongs. Bought
by owner-trainer J. T. Kenny, with the
idea of sending him to Melbourne for
hurdling. Bonne Terre has won four flat
races j n Sydney in less than seven months,
•••••*,
Form pointed to one of F. T. Cush’s
pair. Gay King (Cook) and Princeton,
as the probable winner of the first divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap, and,
when the latter was withdrawn. Gay King
touched odds on. He did not give his
backers any cause for anxiety, as dis-
posing of Corisande (one of F, W.
Hughes’s large team) immediately after
entering the straight he scored comfort-
ably. Prince Galahad, Briany and St.
Joseph did best of the others. The
1700gns. yearling Princess Annabel, who
was having her first race, did not show
form consistent with the booming she
has received on the strength of track
work.
Accession, stable mate of Gay King,
and talked of as a Derby possibility,
had every chance in the second divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap,
but though he shared the lead with Rag
Eater (Tomlinson) at the turn the latter
was too good for him over the last fur-
long. Royal Tip, who was prominent
throughout, was a fair third, and The
Flame and Rectifier headed the others.
Dominion showed pace. This was Rag
Eater’s second race. She is by Midstream
from Larmen by Seremond.
In a poor field Royal Janette (Cook)
finished too strongly for the favorite
Eastralia, who looked a winner a fur-
long from home. Silent Flyer, in third
place, was the only other to show any
form leading to the straight entrance.
Air Link (Mulley) returned to form in
the St, George Handicap, in which he
commenced smartly, and got up in the
last few strides to beat the topweight
Haripur, who did all the pacemaking.
Grand Prodige, running better than in
his recent races, was third, while what-
ever chance Davinia may have possessed
was completely settled when she stumbled
badly near the three furlongs. Code ran
fairly, and is improving.
Diadem (Gollogly), after being out of
the winning list for over two and a half
years, pulled off the Rockdale Handicap,
in which he was eighth into the straight.
He was much too good at the finish for
St. Elmo, who was in a nice position
throughout. Cooringwang, Estborough,
Denton and Louano ran sufficiently well
to bring themselves into notice, while
Burlington, after showing his customary
pace for five furlongs, dropped out in
the straight. Valoroi’s third was good
enough to make him worth following,
while The Beacon was again disappoint-
ing.
s * * * *
* Luck did not favor E. Smith in con-
nection with the recent English Derby.
When Lord Rosebery withdrew Honey-
way it left Smith free to accept the ride
on Tehran, owned by the Aga Khan.
In ordinary circumstances Honeyway’s
scratching would have given Smith the
mount on Lord Rosebery’s other repre-
sentative, Ocean Swell; but Nevett had
a long-standing engagement for that colt.
Ocean Swell won narrowly from Tehran,
which gave Smith the unpleasant experi-
ence of being downed by a runner from
the stable by which he is retained,
About a fortnight before the Derby
Ocean Swell was quoted at 33 to 1. Only
for being wanted for Mustang, Gordon
Richards would probably have ridden
Tehran, which might have made the dif-
ference between defeat and success. Smith
is good, but Richards is better.
* * * *
It occasioned surprise when it was an-
nounced that A. Knox and F. Shean had
been disqualified for two years by the New-
castle stipendiary stewards for allegedly
approaching McGrowdie, rider of Abbe-
ville, with a substantial bribe to stop that
horse in the Cameron Handicap. Both
are riders of long experience, and have
recently done so well that it was difficult
to associate them with such dangerous
procedure, but the Newcastle stewards,
after a comparatively short inquiry, de-
cided that the charge was warranted.
The appeal by A. Knox and F. Shean
against their Newcastle disqualification
will be heard by the A.J.C. committee
tomorrow (Thursday).
* * * *
Whether alleged market positions of
candidates for important handicaps should
be published before the appearance of
the weights is a matter of opinion. Natur-
ally newspapers wish to keep the racing
public as well informed as possible, but
it has always struck me as being rough
on owners that, with little in the way of
business being transacted, bookmakers’
ideas of what should be favorites—for
that is what it amounts to —should be put
forward as authentic news.
*
In its past financial year, which ended
on June 30, the Victoria Racing Club
(Melbourne) made a profit of £50,580.
Over the same period the A.J.C. (Sydney)
did even better, its profits totalling
£86,494 —testimony to the popularity of
racing at Sydney’s headquarters. The
A.J.C. gave £117,500 in added money,
sweepstakes increasing the distribution to
£138,288. In taxation the club paid the
Government £281,795, of which £180,132
came from the tote. The machine turn-
over at Randwick for 26 days was
£3,306,407, against £1,620,831 15s. for 20
days the previous financial year.
« * * *
There is at least one lucky tote cleric
in Melbourne. On the first day of the
Caulfield meeting he overpaid £69 on
Burberry in the Moondah Plate. It was
notified by the press, and an Allied ser-
vice man returned the amount mentioned
to the Automatic Totalisator Co.
* * * *
The urge to bet early and heavily on
the two Cups is as strong this year as at
any previous time. Irresponsible backers
are said to be doing the business. There
are few trainers who, leaving out the pos-
sibility of accident, would care to say
definitely that between two and three
months hence their horses were sure to
be thoroughly fit. For instance, Amana’s
second with 8.4 to Skipton in a division
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap: Beau
Monde or Calgary, 1 ; Liberality,
2 ; Princeton, 3,
Encourage Handicap: Abydos,
1 ; Paul, 2 ; Commando, 3.
Greenhills Handicap: Easter
Time, 1; Streamford, 2 ; Merrimba,
3.
Flying Handicap: Industry, 1 ;
D. 5.0., 2; John Halifax or
Majesty, 3.
Warwick August Handicap:
Royal Peer, 1; Orderly, 2; Bon
Terre, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Kimbell,
1 ; Rylstone, 2; Brueghelier or
Boorchief, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROY WOODS KELLY—TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA ROSE KELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1715 of 1944 against you on the ground
of your desertion If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Thirtieth day of
September next and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from CURTISS DEZARNAULDS &
EDWARDS Solicitors of 67 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD WILLIAM PAYNE late of Moor Creek
near Tamworth.—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE RUBY
PAYNE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1230 of
1943 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Second day of October next and. obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from WILSON &
CLAPIN Solicitors 14 Martin Place Sydney. —(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO PAM EVANS. —TAKE NOTICE that IRENE
VERA OLLIVER has filed her petition No. 1801 of
1944 praying for a Divorce from DONALD OLLIVER
on the ground of his adultery with you You may
apply to the Court to be allowed to defend ' A
copy of the petition may be obtained free of charge
from CLIVE DAVIES & SHARPE Solicitors for the
Petitioner 14 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED LAMB late of 52 Glasgow Avenue
Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY SIDNEY LAMB
of Hillview Soldiers Settlement via Liverpool has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 417 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 25th
September 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from GOULD & SHAW 72 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK WILSON formerly of Rockwell Crescent
Potts Point.—TAKE NOTICE that RUTH WILSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2284 of 1944 for
dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the Second
day of October One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from R. J. L. HICKSON Solicitor 15 Bligh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY ALEXANDER WINNER formerly of 35
Rawson Street Enmore—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE ELIZABETH JEAN WINNER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2308 of 1944 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 15th September
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from NORMAN DAWSON THOMAS Solicitor
of 51 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAROLD WATT (also known as HAROLD VOGT)
late of Wedderburn near Cambelltown. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALICE ROSE WATT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1226 of 1944 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance on or before the First day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred 'and forty-four at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors of
39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCIVAL THOMAS FAGG late of Mudgee in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that GLADYS MAY FAGG has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1906 of 1944 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Sixth day of October 1944 and obtain a copy
of the P etiti °n free of charge from A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & MCDONALD Solicitors 17 Bolton Street
Newcastle or JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Is this your Problem?
\
A
r
7
c\\o&
conne
in
wot
post
out
W*
COtl
ate
23
we
ed
plans
itinsi
ne
trie
\&cn
wlik
led
w
neute
iron
utol e
otnP°
acc
c
and
eitaxn
ed
lot
todnc
P
clsxou
pte
ncß
be
an
ox
0001
to
ST
IS
H
<3g
OTO
ATIC ToTALISATORS LIMITED
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
I
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
BRISBANE
_ ATLJ-D
A.T.L offers you without obligation constructive
advice in connection with any post-war production
problem involving tools, gauges, instruments or
components which must be engineered to limits of
super-accuracy.
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THkOATS
Thrift is a weapon that
defeats the enemy—save
and invest all you can.
CRAVEN
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
Is!*.
1
<v
■ V
I
W
yr
4
55648
of the last Caulfield Cup was an excel-
lent effort, but he has 141 b. more to carry
this time, and his autumn form left doubt
whether the coming spring would see him
as good as last year. Lawrence’s early
selection for the Melbourne Cup is not
surprising, but, good as he proved himself
last autumn, he is not thrown in with 9.1.
Dark Felt is receiving mention for the
Melbourne Cup, but though he won well
with 8.4 last season success with 9.7 is a
very different proposition. It would prob-
ably be wiser on the part of backers who
fancy any of the Melbourne Cup top-
weights to wait until much nearer the day
than take the prices now on offer.
MlSCelicillOOUS
When Fitzroy and Richmond ran on
th e pjtzroy ground on Saturday both
had to win, ’Roy to stay in the “four,”
the Tigers to hold its chance of being
minor premiers. But it wasn’t a race —
Fitzroy 16.10-7.14. The same sort of
thing happened at Carlton, where the
locals, swamped Essendon, 14.20 to 6.9.
The game of the day was Footscray v.
North Melbourne at Footscray. North
needed the win to get in the ’“four”;
’Scray to get to the top. ’Scray romped
away with a five-goals lead, but North
was two points ahead when a great kick
by Hickey gave Footscray the match,
12.6-11.8. Other games: Melbourne 8.21-
8.8 v. Geelong, South Melbourne 16.10-
8.22 v. Collingwood, Hawthorn v. St.
Kilda 12.16 #
Undeterred by Randwick’s winning
sequence the St. George forwards furi-
ously battered the ’Wick flyers to score
four tries to three and have Randwick
sighing thankfully when the bell clanged
for a draw, 16-16. Uni. scraped home
from West, 14-11. Randwick leads two
points ahead of Uni., with West third
and Drummoyne and East (equal) fourth.
8; North 8, Manly 6;
Parramatta 27, Gordon 3.
Tommy Ward, son and pupil of an
old-timer, fought pluckily against George
Elliott at Leichhardt, but was a clear
loser at the end of 12 rounds. Elliott
knew to ° much for him-
......
Said to have scored consecutive knock-
outs in 19 contests, Les Dittmar, a naval
man, struck a snag when he met Steve
Norrish at the Sydney Stadium. He
could have been in much better shape;
as jj. was? jj e ran second in each of the
rounds. Joe Grant defeated Denny
J’Dea in the other 12-rounder, O’Dea
doing more dancing than fighting.


. Missing Friends.
PATRICK BURKE KENNEDY and MICHAEL
BURKE KENNEDY.—WouId the abovenamed, whose
father died in America, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with the under-
signed to their advantage. They are believed to be
members of the Australian Military Forces. —GAVAN
DUFFY & KING, Solicitors, 95 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
SNOWDEN.—Particulars required of the whereabouts
or death of WALTER SNOWDEN, from Epworth,
England, known in Shepparton (1935), Trawool
(1936), Dandenong (1938), 54 Abercrombie Street,
Sydney (1989). Required for English estate. —
MAUGHAN, Solicitors, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Three hundred attended the buffet
dinner dance at the Australia organised by
the Originality Group, which works for
patriotic funds. This function had a very
special appeal, for it was held to aid the
Red Cross P.O.W. Fund: Dominating the
scene, which was almost pre-war in fes-
tive appearance and atmosphere, was a
replica of a grim German prison camp
encircled by barbed wire. Attractive
lasses stood beside this and appealed for
money, which was freely and generously
given.
Many high - ranking officers were
present. Air Marshal Jones and Mrs.
Jones were the centre of an Air Force
group, and a general of the U.S.A.
Army was with a party of Australian
officers. The uniforms of the various
services were everywhere and made a
background for smartly-frocked women,
many in black, with gay bits of nonsense
as hats.
Tivoli and radio performers, as their
gesture of appreciation of the cause, en-
tertained the guests, Betty Laver, presi-
dent of the organising group, and mem-
bers of her commitee were overjoyed at
the success of the party. Takings in-
cluded two unexpected cheques which
totalled £lOO.
The R.A.A.F. Locker Fund is adminis-
tered entirely by voluntary helpers
and is one of the few war organ-
isations in Melbourne which have never
made a public appeal for aid. The fund
was formed in October, 1939, by the
Air Force Officers’ Wives and Mothers’
Association, which has been running for
16 years before the war. This group of
women works quietly and unobtrusively
under the leadership of the wife of Air
Marshal Jones. The object is to supply
comforts for members of the R.A.A.F.
both at home and in forward areas. The
organisation takes an active part in the
care and education of airmen’s orphans,
and has provided a bed in an After-care
Home for the duration of the war.
The rooms present a very busy scene.
In one corner the making of tennis nets
to go to forward areas engages the atten-
tion of three women ; more members are
repairing library books ; others are sew-
ing articles for a shop which will open in
the near future.
Most interesting of all is the prepara-
tion of wool for the knitters. It is teased
out, combed and carded and then washed,
and'will later, with much of the natural
oil still remaining in it, be used to knit
sweaters for men of the Sunderland
Flying Boats. These sweaters go also to
England for reshipment to men in the
Arctic regions. Since its inception the
Locker Fund has raised £15,000 for com-
forts sent to airmen serving everywhere.
When Dorothy Kennedy, wife of
’cellist Lauri, wears her most notable
headgear Australians will be interested.
Dorothy, after her last visit to Australia,
took away many koalas as mementoes.
They were used as ornaments around the
house until one day she took them to
Francine, Hollywood’s leading milliner,
who made them into a hat that took
Hollywood by storm and created a de-
mand that couldn’t be met —there were
no more koalas. Maureen O’Sullivan and
her Australian husband John Farrow, just
before the Kennedys’ departure, bought
their collection of Australian bird paint-
ings. These pictures were lent to the Los
Angeles Art Museum, and created much
interest.
Pat Marks, daughter of Mrs. Humphrey
Clegg, designed a toy elephant and called
it “the pink elephant which never for-
gets.” Many of these attractive toys are
scattered all over the globe, being favored
as mascots by men of the services—there
is a legend that General MacArthur has
one. At the fair for funds to aid the
W.A.T.C. there will be a stall stocked
with toy elephants. Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy is emerging from her well-
earned rest to stock another staff with
toothsome delicacies. Four hundred not-
so-new hats are being renovated by Henri
Cabouret.
With the Bowen Paines enjoying the
ballet recently was Madame Cockerton,
for many years honorary secretary of the
Melbourne branch of the Alliance Fran-
f aise. With the liberation of France almost
in sight, fresh vitality has entered into
this body, and under direction of the
French Provisional Government Madame
has been appointed secretary of the
Fighting French movement and is now
occupying her own office. She has made
plans for fostering a more intimate
knowledge of her country, and the first
step is the presentation of plays which
will tell the story of France down the
ages.
The highlights of last week were the
Marjorie Lawrence concerts. The critics
have found no fault with this singer’s voice
or artistry, and her audiences have taken
her to their hearts and given her most
enthusiastic and heart-warming recep-
tions. The singer presents and retains a
most regal poise. A small listener at
the first concert was heard to say
“Mammy, she looks like a fairy queen.”
The ethereal appearance was achieved by
a lovely frock cf white tulle. The very
full skirt was patterned here and there
with feathery sprays sprinkled all over
with green, petal-pink and gold sequins
which shimmered and gleamed in the
light. Tiny pink sequins patterned the
tight-fitting bodice, and wrist-length tulle
sleeves were attached to the off-the-
shoulder heart-shaped neckline of the
tight-fitting bodice. Miss Lawrence (pic-
tured here) wore her golden curls dressed
high in front and finished her coiffure
with a white osprey.
Sitting on a gilded settee the soprano
declaimed “The Erl King” in a manner
that roused the audience to wild enthusi-
asm. It took a posse of policemen to
clear a way for the car in which Miss
Lawrence left the Town Hall after being
carried down the steps, so that all could
see her.
Two enthusiasts at the first concert
were Mrs. Michael Hall and Mrs. Eve
McLeod. Both favored black, topped,
off with saucy flower hats. Rudolf Ben-
jamin accompanied his wife, a musician
herself of no mean order.
A group of Brahms lieder showed how
this singer’s voice has improved since
she last visited her native land. One
song was applauded so enthusiastically
it was repeated as an encore. Bruno
Hahn’s setting of “Invictus” was a happy
choice, for Marjorie Lawrence has
demonstrated her superiority to circum-
stance. For one concert the singer chose
a gown with a wide electric-blue skirt
draped to show a pink tulle underskirt,
the pink being repeated on the bodice.
From Sydney
Australia’s popular Governor-General,
Lord Gowrie, will arrive in England an
earl. The King has approved the con-
ferring of this title, and so do the citi-
zens of this Commonwealth. This is the
second title bestowed on him in this
country. He was made a baron in 1936.
September, the prettiest month of the
year in Sydney, has been chosen by Lady
Wakehurst for the fair that is to help
the Land Army Girl. This will be held
in Hyde Park, and at the meeting last
Wednesday morning at Government
House such a grand campaign was
planned that not only the friends of the
Land Army girls but the general public
will come just begging to be allowed to
spend money. To begin with, the stalls
are to be brightly awninged and decked
with wheat and poppies. Well, wheat
will not be in; but only an expert will be
able to discern the difference between the
real thing and the cleverly-woven grasses
in what ballet programmes call the decor.
There are to be bands and strolling
players. The Alexander Gordon and
Anderson ladies are running the lucky
packets, and the former, who never thinks
under four figures, has decided, so rumor
says, on £lOOO. Lady Wakehurst will
crown the queen at a quarter-past one.
This time is chosen so that the girls in
city shops and offices can sprint around
in time for the ceremony. This will be
no banal, ordinary queen in satin and
jewelled diadem. Something special is
required. Clever Jane Bernays, one of
the organisers, favors the vision of an
erect young Ceres crowned with poppy
and wheat.
At Government House the meeting
went to the heartening accompaniment
of leaping woodfire and the heady scent
of stocks. Poet Hugh McCrae’s daughter,
Mrs, McWilliam, offered to make draw-
ings of suggested queens and their ladies-
in-waiting. Miss Mary Fairfax solved
the problem of string to tie the packets
by offering some balls of this getting-
rarer commodity. There are to be strings
of pearls in the lucky packets —not the
forty fathoms deep kind, but the best de-
partment store lines. Mrs. Robert Dix-
son, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland, Mrs. Jimmy
Bancks, Mrs. O’Malley Wood, Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. Johnson and, of course,
Mrs. Lynch, chieftainess of the A.W.L.A.,
were in the company who sipped tea and
munched the W.A.N.S. birthday cake,
made specially for the Governor’s wife,
their president.
Lady Wakehurst will soon welcome her
sister, Mrs. Walter Elliot, to Australia.
Mrs. Elliot, whose London home was
damaged by blast from a flying bomb,
has had, during the war years, a close link
with Australia. As chairman of the
National Association of Girls Clubs in
England, she has distributed all the cloth-
ing sent from this country by the British
Children’s Clothing Fund. During her
visit Mrs. Elliot will give talks on the
future of education, youth movements and
post-war problems.
Australia’s Red Cross will soon be
represented in London by some of its
most experienced workers. Among the
first to leave Sydney will be Noreen
Dangar and the Owen lady. These two
have worked in close harmony almost
since the outbreak of the war. Miss
Dangar, pictured here by Norton Tre-
vaire, has been for some time assistant
Divisional Commandant for Women Per-
sonnel.' The Australians’ work in Eng-
land will be a link with that of the British
Red Cross.
Wal Taylor’s Grosvenor Galleries,
massed with flowering peach, the curtains
on the end windows crisply-white, made
the right setting for the opening of the
Wilfred Peisley show. The young man
from Bathurst, who paints in meditative
mood and wears a beard, last year won
the N.S.W. Travelling Art Scholarship.
His present show of landscapes and por-
traits proves that the judges backed a
winner. Clive Evatt was applauded for
his opening speech, which dealt with the
cultural necessity of the exchange of
painters, writers and musicians between
nations.
Mrs. Clive Evatt, her frock and hat of
hyacinth-blues, talked to Howard Hinton
aboqt the paintings he has given to the
Armidale Teachers’ College. Howard
bought one or two more pictures, and
has lent one that he bought for Armidale.
Peter Evatt is also a lender. Dr. Elsie
Leonard was a buyer. Her quick eye
picked out the two she desired almost as
soon as she was in the room. Vernon
Treatt and E. Campbell, who lent
their Peisley treasures, were in the
crowd. Mrs. Harry Showers was one
of the admired. Pianist Vera Bradford,
from Melbourne, was a notable. At the
end of the room the galleries’ proudest
possession, a music-box, tinkled gaily and
softly throughout the afternoon. The
show will remain open till August 25.
Over the Tasman from Maoriland came
the honiton-lace veil (a family heirloom)
worn by Inez Goldberg with her pearl-
embroidered white marquisette wedding
frock. Inez is the youngest daughter of
the Frank Goldbergs, of Bellevue Hill
Her bridegroom is Harry Woolf, of Rose
Bay. The wedding ceremony was in the
Great Synagogue; the reception in the
Pickwick Club.
Whatever censors may be doing,
the girls and the boys of the P.M.G.s
department are attuning their ears to the
whispers of the Muses. Not long ago
they put on quite a good show of paint-
ing, drawing and photography. Now
Norine Blayney, who helped organise that
display, is busy scouting round for musi-
cal talent. She declares she’s found such
an abundance of it that the whole work
of the department might be done in the
style of grand opera.
The entries for the talent quest are
pouring in, and Norine is hoping that
some beginning Caruso or Peter Dawson
may be brought to light—former con-
spirator with her (Bert Pain) was to
have been an entrant with the male quar-
tet from the drawing department, but the
four are down to three. There’s talk of
trying to start an orchestra. Before the
war the department had such a splendid
choir that it rivalled an aviary of song-
birds. On August 21 the finalists in the
present contest will be heard in the
Assembly Hall, Margaret-street.
Sydney’s newly-formed ballet club has
700 members, and there was a pretty full
roll call of these at Bryant’s playhouse,
last Sunday. Turning their backs on the
silken softness of the afternoon, these
enthusiasts filled the little Phillip-street
hall and imbibed dreamfully the ballet
music of “Swan Lake,” “Prince Igor” and
other such colorful works. Against the
dark velvet curtains of the stage Stephanie
Edye took graceful stand, read the story
and made commentary on the recorded
music. This was the first of the monthly
functions which the club is launching as
forerunners to, the exhibition of ballet
art which will, be held at the end of the
year.
Carole Landis dropped in on Sydney
last week with comedian Jack Benny and
other members of a company who have
been entertaining troops in New Guinea.
Carole twinkled, but she’s not a little
star; neither does anybody have to ask
her what she is. The pretty blonde crea-
ture is one of the film’s No. 1 glamor girls.
Carole has a friendly smile and manner.
Also to be remembered are her ring with
the square-cut topaz lit with rubies and
diamonds (gift from husband Major
Thomas C. Wallace, now in New York),
her nylon stockings and the fine black
veil that meshed her shoulder-length fair
hair. Martha Tilton, another blonde, and
June Bruener, of the soft brown hair (the
accompanist of the group), completed a
good-looking trio. What about the men?
Well, Jack Benny’s a comedian and Larry
Adler (Sydney’s old friend) is a har-
monica-player. And where’er they walked
o r drove the crowds gathered and stared,
and when possible stuck them up at
pencil-point for autographs.
Fortune handed out another ace to the
City of Culture in Lyndall Hendrickson,
who was acclaimed a child prodigy of the
violin before she was 14. Since then the
Adelaide girl has played under the direc-
tion of Sargent and Beecham, has studied
a great deal—philosophy, art, econo-
mics. She is now in the early twenties,
and is as familiar with the works of the
great composers as with her own reflec-
tion. Come to think of it, they probably
are a reflection of herself. At the Con-
servatorium last week Lyndall made strik-
ing appeal and appearance. Her dark
hair, cut pageboy style, with straight,
heavy fringe, emphasised the pale, intense
face. Her frock of blue-bouffant net
suited her slimness. Lawrence Godfrey
Smith was the pianist. The two will give
another concert at the same address to-
morrow night.
A bit of Conrad appeared within the
Heads: a four-masted barque, the Law-
hill. With the skipper sail his wife and
teen-old daughter. A contrast to their en-
vironment is that of the two Canadian
girl radio operators in an Allied tanker
now in Australian waters.
Speaking on the subject of local color
at a meeting of the Fellowship ot
Australian Writers, novelist William Hat-
field said that many writers were under
the impression that local color meant
dragging in gum-trees, emus, kangaroos
and bandicoots particularly the last-
named. Chairman Bartlett Adamson re-
called reading a story in an overseas
magazine in which the beautiful heroine
was pursued by the villain when su
denly an animal sprang from a tree above
and clung round the bad man s neck.
This gave young love a chance to
ahead and rescue the maiden on the brink
of a cliff. In answer to her shockea
inquiry as to the villian’s fate, he replie
“Heaven help him, it’s a bandicoot.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Soldier Settlement
There will be no excuse this time for
such failures in the settlement of dis-
charged soldiers as were witnessed after
the 1914-18 war if the Cabinet sub-
committee will make use of the experi-
ence of Diggers who were settled then.
Many failed to make good for various
reasons, chiefly:
(1) Unsuitable land was subdivided into
too small properties to make a living.
(2) The high capital value of the land
(plus interest charges) gave small oppor-
tunity to even the most persevering of
toilers ever to own their own holdings,
clear of debt.
(3) Isolation and the accompanying lone-
liness. Those settled had been for years
in the army sharing each other’s daily trials.
Such men, especially those unmarried, were
mentally handicapped by being placed on
blocks completely cut off from their
cobbers.
Most acquired properties were sub-
divided into more or less irregular rect-
angles, according to topography, and each
settler isolated from his pals. A far
better scheme would be to cut holdings
into the shape of segments of a circle,
each point of the segment to converge
on a large central reservation of land. A
good road could be made from the main
road to this centre.
Settlers could build their homes as near
as desired to the reservation and thus
be able to have the companionship of
other settlers. Mutual help and exchange
of ideas would then be possible. The
children would be able to have young
friends, and conveyance to and from
school would be easily arranged. Cost
of electrical installation would be low
with the homes contiguous, and the store-
keeper would be able to deliver supplies
expeditiously.
As the settlement grew the central
reservation could be developed, a hall
built and a library established. Tennis
courts and playing fields might follow.
It should be possible, too, to establish a
community service station and repair
shop which would give the chance to lads
with a mechanical bent to develop their
talents without going to the city.— Fair
Play (Vic.).
Army Releases
According to Federal Ministers further
releases are to be made from the fighting
forces to relieve man-power shortage. It
seems to be taken for granted that the
bulk of releases will come from the
militia ; but why? If there is one section
that should be released it is that compris-
ing the veterans of the infantry battalions.
It is nearly five years now since these
men joined up, and if ever men deserved
a rest they do. If every infantryman with
over four years’ service were released
there would still be thousands more
wanted for the labor market, for there
are very few of the old hands left. Death
and wounds and disease have taken their
toll. The age question should not be con-
sidered in this case, for any man who has
been in the infantry for four years is old.
I served over four years in a field
ambulance, beginning with the first
Libyan campaign and ending in the Fin-
isterres; so I’ve picked up my share
of dead and wounded men, and I
want to say there are no braver
men in the world than Australian
infantrymen. I’ve seen them storm the
Pimple on Shaggy Ridge, and I’ve seen
them walk right into a Jap 75 firing over
open sights. They deserve release if
anyone is to get it. —X-VX (S.A.).
Pay-as-you-fight
Since returning to Australia recently
and finding I was due for taxation, I con-
sulted the press reports of the “pay-as-
you-go” taxation discussions. Thorough
and careful reading failed to discover any
mention of the effect of the new method
on the fighting men. But, behind our
backs, taxation was imposed, and a more
dastardly and dirty trick I have yet to see.
From the time the first embarkation
from Australia took place until this “pay-
as-you-go” racket came into being, the i
A.I.F. abroad has been exempt from
income tax, its personnel being considered
non-residents” (true enough). The
understanding was that on return to Aus-
tralia tax was not to be applied until
after three months, which meant that the I
soldier actually was not liable to pay
until 15 months later. After all, that was
small enough compensation for fighting
men.
Now, however, we return from this,
our fourth, campaign, somewhat weary,
lots older in mind and body, a little
irritable perhaps (but who wouldn’t be?),
to discover that, after three months free
of taxation, the weekly exchequer is re-
duced by the prescribed amount. Of
course, if we embark again within 12
months a refund will be made, provided
we spend at least six months abroad or
a shorter period if evacuated wounded
or fever-stricken.
But—and here lies the root of the
trouble —because a man gets wounded or
so sick (after three to four campaigns)
that he can do only a base job he pays
taxation the same as anyone else. Is he
not entitled to some monetary considera-
tion? Should he not get at least 12
months free? The time when he needs
money is the first year after his return
so that he can try to rebuild the broken
home. But he suffers. — Pay-as-you-
FIGHT (A.1.F.).
Air Crew Decorations
Your contributor ‘Tear,” in suggest-
ing “mentioned in dispatches,” evidently
does not realise what a dud award this
now is.
Air-crew members who receive it are
invariably entitled to something better.
Its value in the Air Force, particularly
overseas, has been ruined because
about 90 p.c. of such awards are to non-
“I Want a book called ‘ How to Make Friends and Influence People .'”
flying personnel, mostly located at base,
and sometimes thousands of miles away
from any action.
The D.F.C. and D.F.M. should be
divided into three classes, with different
design in ribbon to distinguish them.
First Class for personal courage and
effort, such as a fighter pilot or a bomber
pilot, navigator or airgunner who does
an individual act of bravery.
Second Class for all members of a
crew doing an outstanding job.
Third Class, on completion of a “din-
kum” operational tour, with a clasp for
each subsequent tour. — Bofin (R.A.A.F.).
Waaafs and Their Pay
The Waaafs aren’t badly off. Apart
from the publicity the flapper press gives
them (with photographs) they’re on a good
wicket compared with civil servants work-
ing alongside them.
I’m 19 and a typist; wages, £5 11s. a
fortnight, three weeks’ annual recreation
leave and a sick-leave credit on pay of
14 days. On the debit side I have to pay
board, 9s. a pay taxation and 4s. for
superannuation benefits, clothe myself
and pay full fares on trains and trams.
The lowest-ranking Waaaf, an A.C.W.,
same age, doing similar work in
an adjoining room in barracks, gets £3
10s. a fortnight, plus two guineas if not
accommodated in palatial Toorak resi-
dential quarters.
And there is a multitude of perks. No
income tax, half-fares on public trans-
ports (fares refunded if accommodated in
quarters), free train travel home on leave
(inter-State twice a year), free clothing
from head to foot with replacements, un-
limited sick leave on full pay, hospital,
medical and dental treatment, concession
prices to amusements if not provided free,
canteen and welfare organisations, repat-
riation benefits (pension automatically if
pulmonary disease contracted), priority
on cigarettes, sweets and two bottles of
beer a week, if a married woman await-
ing an interesting event provision of
maternity hospital care with an allowance
from the Social Services Department, and
deferred pay at the rate of a bob a day
(minimum). And she’s at the foot of the
ladder! — Oenone (Vic.).
The Indivisible Referendum
If anyone votes “no” on the referen-
dum, although he agrees with one or
more of the questions put before him, he
is violating his conscience. If anyone
votes “yes,” although he disagrees with
one or more of the questions, he is
equally violating his conscience.
The only people who escape are those
who agree or disagree with all the ques-
tions. Unfortunately thousands of people
will vote “yes” or “no” because they
desire to see one or two of the proposals
carried or rejected. It is possible that
they will not even read the remaining
questions, not being concerned with them.
These people are not really casting a
vote but only a fraction of a vote, which,
most unjustly, counts as a vote.
In these circumstances, it seems quite
evident, whether the referendum is car-
ried or not, that the result of the voting
cannot possibly represent the true opinion
of the people of Australia, seeing that
they have had no opportunity of voting
upon each question separately after due
consideration of its merits.
These arguments appear to me to be
so simple and so irrefutable that I am
almost ashamed to write them down. The
remedy is just as simple—vote “no” as
an expression of entire disapproval of the
form in which the referendum is being
presented.— Hamilton Fletcher, M.A.,
Croydon (Vic.).
Nationalised Medicine
Is “Pawang” (B. 19/7/ ’44) quite correct
in his assertions re nationalisation of
medicine? Many young doctors would
welcome the proposed new order. A
salaried medical service eliminates the
profit motive from medical practice. To
the practitioner it offers greater freedom,
reasonable hours and pay, and facilities
for research and “refresher courses.”
In the forces many doctors have already
been introduced to a “salaried medical
service” and like it. The chief objectors
are mainly older men, disliking change,
and specialists who are satisfied with
existing conditions and monetary returns.
Australia is looked upon as the patent-
medicine manufacturer’s paradise. There
is an enormous annual expenditure on
newspaper and radio advertising to in-
duce the public to go in for self-medi-
cation. Isn’t it more desirable that medi-
cine prescribing and taking should be in
medical and pharmaceutical hands? The
war has brought to light many capable
administrators in both fields.
Health is one of the public services
that could be nationalised to good effect.
If we are to have social security, the
socialisation of medical services must be
one of the first steps. As to the ultimate
success of the scheme —well, our neigh-
bors over the Tasman appear to think
well of it. —A. M. C. (A.1.F.).
Free medicine under a doctor’s pre-
scription, irrespective of income, is going
to hurt chemists. Even now they have
difficulty in making their business a suc-
cess, for grocers and most small stores
sell patent medicines.
An excellent move on the Govern-
ment’s part would be to see that only
chemists sell patent medicines and let
grocers and other shops adhere to their
own lines of business. — Bennie (Q.).
In the Red-tape Jungle
On a recent visit to Man-power I was
cross-examined and third-degreed to an
extent and thoroughness that would have
become any Grand Inquisitor, Gestapo
or Ogpu extractor of voluntary confes-
sions. 'After a lengthy session with two
officials I was handed a ticket which en-
titled me to a position in a three-hour-
standing queue in the corridor leading to
the real voice and directing agent of Man-
power. Even after admission to the sanc-
tum there was a delay of 15 minutes
whilst the heads partook of morning tea.
At the War Housing Commission’s
headquarters I was referred from office
to office until I was eventually informed
that the commission had no accommoda-
tion of any kind to offer to either re-
turned service men or essential war
workers, though advertisements appear-
ing that day exhorted the roofless and
bedless to apply.
Sub-Treasury officials occupied most of
the only morning I have had off in three
months filling in statutory declarations
concerning improvements made on and
reasons for disposing of a house I was
selling because of a Man-power direction
to work 200 miles away. Already I had
paid a valuer four guineas to value the
property in accordance with National
Security Regulations, and a solici-
tor two guineas for drawing up a
statutory declaration as to the improve-
ments carried out by me. Why have
these authorised valuers if their figures
are not accepted by the authorities? In
any case, their work in connection with
the valuation is not worth the price the
Government decrees that they be paid.
All the foregoing departments occupy
floors of the best city buildings (from
which businessmen were evicted), and
their very comfortable offices are
equipped with the most modem and ex-
pensive commercial machines. Tele-
phones are on every desk ; many heating
appliances are in evidence ; there seems
to be a member of the staff for each of
the sinister-looking and multitudinous
files. These people are helping to carry
on a system that destroys their own
initiative and aggravates all unfortunates
who have experience with it.
Bureaucracy is a cancerous growth that
must be eradicated from our social sys-
tem or we shall be reduced to a race of
form-filling and queue-enlarging auto-
matons. Until recently I was disposed
to regard newspaper anti-bureaucratic
articles as anti-Government propaganda,
but my recent contacts with red-tape-
strangled departments have converted
me. — Maranoa (Q.).
The Pioneers’ Advantages
In reminding us that the pioneers didn’t
look to the Government for pensions but
relied on the “fruits of their hands and
brain,” A. Daly (B. 12/7/’44) forgets
that in these days about all we get of
those fruits is the core.
Taxation slugs us in a way the pioneer
didn’t dream of in his worst nightmare.
If the average modern man paid into life
insurance what he pays in taxation, direct
and indirect, at the age of 65 he’d be
able to retire in comfort.
The argument that you and I pay taxes
for the other fellow’s pension is like the
contention that you and I pay taxes to
keep a patient in a public hospital. There
is not an adult patient who hasn’t paid
enough in taxes and duties to cover his
hospital expenses for life. And so with
the old-age pensioner—what he gets back
is what he himself paid in, not what you
and I paid ip. •
In war-time people are paying heavy
taxes as part of a patriotic effort, but if
a man has to give up half his earnings
after the war then we’ll hear something
about pensions and endowments.
Enveen (Tas.).
Agricultural Committees
Are farmers going to accept serfdom
under agricultural committees in post-
war days? The writing qn the wall points
to post-war retention of these committees
as permanent governing bodies.
Scientists at recent conferences in Syd-
ney and Melbourne were in agreement on
the need for retaining them. R. A. Boyle,
president of the Victorian branch of the
Institute of Agricultural Science, said that
need would be great. H. Parry Brown, in
his address, “The Trend in Agricultural
Organisation,” in Sydney, said the com-
mittees had “discharged great responsi-
bilities.” This view might not be univer-
sally shared by farmers, many of whom
have been disappointed at the non-supply
of essentials and are not impressed
with the value of the war-time regulatory
work of the committees.
Farmers will find, if they are not vigi-
lant, great difficulty in emancipating
themselves from the tyranny of war-time
organisations.— Ager (Vic.).


I
11
m
s
V'
'
ii y _
ipi
Mi
MW
i
; x : ;
J
/i
8
.
¥
V : . ■ ' ■■'•: 7
■ ■
..; ’ :
7
: .: ::
'
mm nmiihhh
8
• v-Xv.-:
»:
.•
•-
V'J
■
m
: ■:
Mi
.
■
■...-•■ ■ : ivi ; w:/
SX ■'% :■ ! '7; : ‘- : ' .... -' "'■ : '
The Bridges of To-morrow
can be PLANNED To-day
As a municipal engineer or a member of a Local Authority you have a double
responsibility. Not only will you want to make your plans to provide employment
for service men and war workers, but these plans must fit a post-war world, the
pattern of which is not yet cleaB
You can find a practical answer to your post-war bridge problems on both these
counts by specifying ARMCO Multi-Plate Pipe and Arches. They give you a
strong, durable, basic structure that can be easily installed by even unskilled
. labour. At the same time you assure a flexibility in design and appearance that
will enable you to conform to post-war standards.
Ease of transportation, quick assembly on the job site, and freedom from main-
tenance costs are additional features of ARMCO construction.
ARMCO
7
M
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
