

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65 No. 3382
Wednesday, December 6, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper. /
Seppelts
BYRON'S ELM-HARROW.
A TOP a hill that gives it prominence for many miles is the
1 church of Harrow, known as St. Mary’s. Most of the
buildings is fourteenth-century work, but a doorway and a window
on the west of the tower are remains of the first building by
Lanfranc in the reign of the Conqueror. In the churchyard, south-
west of the church, is an altar tomb enclosed and protected
by an iron railing, on which Byron was very fond of sitting during
his school days and which is repeatedly mentioned by him both
in letters and in his poems.
Close to this was a noble elm. which may even still be there, and
known locally as Byron’s Elm, from beneath which is one of the
finest views in all England.


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Ram«
My Address
S.B. 244 AGE.
The RedPage
A MUSICIAN LOOKS BACK.
If ever the history of music in Aus-
tralia comes to be written the historian
will be able to delve in two rich mines
for his material —Thomas Brentnall’s My
Memories (1938), which surveys the
musical development of Melbourne over
60 years, and Dr. Arundel Orchard’s The
Distant View (Currawong), which covers
musical Sydney from 1903, when the
author arrived from England to join the
staff of "Sydney Con., to 1934, when,
after having been Con. director for
eleven years, he retired, having reached
the age limit. It may be added here that,
feeling none the worse for his years, he
straightway betook himself to Hobart, to
become Director of Musical Studies at
the university there.
Dr. Orchard will not soon be forgotten
in Sydney. *He succeeded to Ver-
brugghen’s mantle, and proved himself
quite adequate to the role. A sound
musician, he had the true teacher’s en-
thusiasm, and Sydney Con. owes him a
great deal. Moreover, he was a public
figure. He and Gerald Marr Thompson,
the “S.M.H.” music critic, were for years
Sydney’s best-known first-nighters. The
little doctor’s snowy aureole and keen
eyes twinkling through pince-nez were
looked for at concert, opera or play.
In his first year in Sydney Dr. Orchard
fell under Holman’s spell, and these
memoirs touch upon a side of that gifted
man not touched upon in Dr. Evatt’s
picture {Australian Labor Leader). The
head of the N. S. Wales Government
that founded the Con. was keenly in-
terested in music, possessed a good musi-
cal library, and, as Dr. Orchard records,
“read his musical books as a diversion,
late at night, and in bed.” Holman loved
and understood Bach and Beethoven and
hated Wagner and all the Moderns.
“Many others think likewise,” remarks
Dr. Orchard.
Dr. Orchard’s relations with Ver-
brugghen were evidently of the happiest,
for the great Henri backed the doctor’s
application for the directorship. Dr.
Orchard himself was an excellent con-
ductor, and during his directorate he not
only introduced to Sydney nearly one
hundred important compositions but he
waved his baton over some of the very
greatest figures in the musical world.
Among these were violinists Kreisler (in
the Beethoven Concerto), Heifetz (in the
Brahms and in Chausson’s “Poem”),
Erica Morini, Balokovic and Szigeti.
Heifetz gave the profits of his concert
with orchestra to the Con. to buy
orchestral music, and his £4OO founded
the Heifetz Library. Among pianists who
played with the Con. band were Back-
haus, Mark Hambourg and William
Murdoch.
There is a characteristic story about
the eminent Mark. He had to play the
Tschaikowsky Concerto just after a rough
passage of the Tasman, with only the
sketchiest of rehearsals and very little
sleep, and on the night, after about five
minutes, his memory deserted him. Dr.
Orchard, conducting, noticed he was im-
provising, but went ahead, hoping for
the best. Sure enough, presently Ham-
bourg tipped him a wink and slid
smoothly back into the score. The
audience and even most of the orchestra
noticed nothing amiss.
The Con. Orchestra played for Melba
on several occasions, and the diva won
the director’s heart by promptly admitting
her mistake when she came in on the
wrong bar at rehearsal, “May we have
that again, gentlemen?” she asked the
band. “Poor old Nellie’s memory is
going.” Different was an experience with
Clara Butt. Told she had made too
early an entry in “Softly Awakes My
Heart” she retored “Rubbish! I have
sung this with the composer ! ” And she
repeated the error two or three times
before she would condescend to refresh
her memory from the score.
In 1927 Dr. Orchard toured Europe—
in every sense a musical pilgrimage. A
visit to Broadwoods’ showrooms sent his
memory back to earlier visits in the ’nine-
ties, when the showrooms were in
Golden-square, behind Regent-street. In
those days Algernon Black was the man-
ager. Then in his old age. Black used to
recall how when he was young he car-
ried the frail Chopin in his arms up the
wide stairs, to save him from exhaustion,
on the composer’s last visit to London
• —he died next year in Paris. Which
recalls that when Grove and Sullivan
went to Vienna in 1867 to hunt for Schu-
bert MSS. they met an old chap who had
frequently talked with Haydn, Beethoven
and Schubert. Broadwoods still cherish
the piano Chopin practised on for his
London recitals. Dr. Orchard tried it and
found its tone “small and delicate.”
In England Dr. Orchard met Arnold
Dolmetsch, whose life has been devoted
to the study of the musical instruments of
the sixteenth century, and who, in the
Jesses Workshop, at Haslemere, in Sur-
rey, supervises the making of all these
instruments and gives instruction in their
use. Dr. Orchard, who had given a vir-
ginal recital in Sydney years before,
wanted the N. S. Wales Government to
import some of the Dolmetsch instru-
ments, but the Government was not
sympathetic.
Summing up his Sydney experiences,
Dr. Orchard considers that in the last
forty years Sydney has travelled a long
way along the road to musical culture
and appreciation—due, of course, to “im-
proved musical education.” He pays a
tribute to the gramophone as an educa-
tive factor—as, of course, it has been, and
still is—but gives no thanks to radio. And
he has this to say of “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair”:
To continue with the song is a blunder.
Not only is it musically weak in every way,
but out of the range of the average singer,
covering, as it does, a compass of an octave
and four notes Is it too much to hope
that something official may be done to
give Australia a song worthy of her?
A. W.
"A Girl with Red Hair."
There are sixteen stories, most of which
first appeared in The Bulletin, in
Douglas Stewart’s A Girl with Red Hair
(Angus and Robertson). Three, includ-
ing the title-piece, have been selected
for the successive issues of Coast
to Coast. In length they range from
thirty-eight pages (“A Girl with Red
Hair”) to three (“The Man in the Hut”
and “The Eel-Fisher”). The quality,
however, is all but consistent. Writing
and technique remain on a high level
almost throughout a book which, in sum,
constitutes a picture of small-town and
country life in New Zealand.
Strangely enough, it is in the first story,
which the author obviously values and
the publishers suggest is his masterpiece,
that the technique seems most at fault.
Mr, Stewart has here tried to write a
“long short-story,” but the effect is of a
compressed novel. And in the life-cycle
of Leila there was ample material for
a novel.
Growing up in a squalid home in a
little town, she becomes the chief beauty
of the place, condescends to old school-
fellows and new acquaintances succes-
sively ; then, having touched the impass-
able limit of her social career, marries
one of the former. After the birth of her
first child she realised that “life had shut
its doors upon her. Her hair had duped
her, her destiny had evaded her ... all
her worst fears of marriage were realised
in this squalling child, this dull routine of
housework, this stolid unimaginative hus-
band who was far more interested in his
son and in his work than in her . . . Leila
recognised with apathy that she was com-
ing to resemble her mother. There was
no help for it. That was the meaning of
life; dull, sordid repetition, never the
glory like the sunset which she had
glimpsed in the hidden sky of her mind.”
But with the coming of her second child,
a daughter, with her own red hair, she
perceived in this new cycle of life her
own life beginning again.
In order to cover this period of full
physical and conscious development and
yet keep within the bounds of his space,
Mr. Stewart necessarily compresses inci-
dents and marks stages. It was difficult,
too, without deserting Leila’s lifeline, to
show the people around her keeping pace.
Thus we get unexpected summaries.
One has the impression of steady growth
and change in Leila, along with irregular
spurts of speed in others. The times are
thus not the same.
Of course, management of time is a
major problem for the novelist, and most
Australian novelists seem to rely on occa-
sional parentheses to bring events up to
date. The problem is even more vexa-
tious for the short-story writer, who has
the tighter space-limitation. The solu-
tion for Mr. Stewart would have been to
make a novel of “A Girl with Red Hair,”
developing her lovers’ lives while keep-
ing her in the forefront; and a very good
novel it might have proved to be.
Obviously from experience, he has a
close knowledge of New Zealand Country-
town life, and in this story and others he
shows his knowledge to good effect.
People, talk and environment seem true —
so true as to be characteristic, with small
changes of detail, of Australian country-
life as well.
There is, however, curiously little con-
sciousness of sex, that grand bucolic in-
terest which Norman Lindsay, in his
novels of small Australian communities,
rightly recognises. Except in “A Girl
with Red Hair,” where Leila successfully
preserves her purity almost to the end,
“The Wild Duck” (just a touch) and the
felicitously named “Carnival,” in which
the problem of a town’s light ladies is
lightly handled, Mr. Stewart turns his
attention elsewhere.
The result is such stories as the perfect
study of senility in “Give Us This Day”
and the semi-horrifying picture of semi-
insanity in “He’s Going to Use that
Scythe” (which, however, declines into
anti-climax).
When the writer leaves the village for
the countryside he depicts, with finish,
“The Man in the Hut,” “The Dogs,”
“The Whare” and “The Mountain Farm,”
while in “The Eel-Fisher” he touches
subtlety in a Freudian fancy made fact.
Perhaps the best story is “The Bishops
Shoot a Godwit,” the titillating title of
which sums up a concerted effort by Mr.
Bishop and an experienced hunter, with
Mr. Bishop’s son tagging along behind.
One godwit is bagged, but, though they
get the credit, neither of the Bishops has
shot it —and this Mr. Bishop knows. The
setting, on a cockleshell island, is most
beautiful. Nature and human nature
blend completely here, in the climax, into
a harmonious and ironically-glancing
whole. The more Mr. Stewart does of
this kind of work the closer he moves to
the front rank of short-story writers in
Australia.
R. G. H.
On the Aborigines.
Citizenship for the Aborigines: A. P.
Elkin (Australasian Publishing Co., Syd-
ney). “Political opinion is not now
opposed to a uniformed form of Abo-
riginal Administration.” Professor Elkin
puts forward a detailed and practical plan
for effecting this, either through com-
plete Commonwealth control or through
the collaboration of the States with the
Commonwealth.
From Spears to Spades: T. T. Webb
(Book Depot, 288 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne), Reprint of a book first
published in 1938. Formerly chairman
of the Methodist Mission in the north,
Mr. Webb gives an interesting account of
the aboriginals of Arnhem Land as well
as suggestions on mission policy.
Aboriginal Art Galleries of Western
N.S.W., Part 3: Lindsay Black (Bread
and Cheese Club, Melbourne). Mr. Black
deals here with rock carvings and cave
paintings. Mainly for anthropologists,
but the photographs are fascinating.
Vocabularies of Four Representative
Tribes of South-eastern Queensland: F. J.
Watson (Supplement to the Journal of
the Royal Geographical Society of
Queensland), With the vocabularies are
notes on “Rites and Ceremonies,” “Mar-
riage,” “Disposition of the Aborigine,”
“Superstitions,” “Food,” “Amusements” ;
also descriptions of a fight about a
woman, and of corroborees. There is a
list of Queensland place-names, giving
translations and derivations.
Some of the names are interesting
examples of the corruption of aboriginal
words into English: for instance, Humpy-
bong—“This name has been presumed to
be derived from an aboriginal word
ngumpin, corrupted to humpy, meaning
a house or hut, and the word bong, an
introduced word presumed to mean dead,
dispersed or vanished. It appears to be
a mixture of aboriginal and English
slang.” Similarly, Wall-eye, name of a
creek, is supposed to derive from walai,
meaning cool; and Tin-can, name of a
bay, from tinchin or tindhin, the abo-
rigines’ name for a species of mangrove.
It does not seem kind to have named
any place Kurilpa, “Place of Rats” ; but
the word is worth bearing in mind in
case the neighbors ever ask,for sugges-
tions for a hpuse name.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Adelaide Repertory ended a busy year
with four crowded Tivoli houses for
Lionel Hale’s “Festival Time,” apparently
intended at first for a musical comedy.
An inn in Austria, hotelkeeper with
flirtatious wife, eccentric English visitors,
comic locals, even to a cheering crowd.
A cast of 30, many of them merely orna-
mental, and a lot of clever acting, as
about a dozen of them each got a chance.
The song into which they seemed liable to
burst at any moment, would improve the
mixture, but the Repertory doesn’t sing.
“Cauboy”: The film of Shakspeare’s
“Henry the Fifth” has left London critics
complimentary but undecided. One said
it was too long and doubted whether
the Bard’s “mighty line does not
strangle the freedom of the screen and
bottle up the camera.” Much the same
was said of “Pygmalion,” but it had such
a record run throughout the world that
for another Shaw play which is under
production the sponsors don’t mind pay-
ing a leading actor £50,000 for the labors
of six months.
At the talkies:
Whereas “Halfway House” (Sydney Embassy)
is t a.q. spook stuff, with a spot of mild philo-
sophy on the side and a few purple histrionic
patches, the supporting “For Those In Peril”
is a well-knit semi-documentary, understated
in the British manner. Adapted from the fine
“T he Last Enemy” by the late Richard
Hillary, it tells of a disgruntled grounded pilot
of the R.A.F. assigned to the Air-Sea Rescue
Service, and winds up with a miniature naval
battle with an armed German trawler and an
air attack in a North Sea minefield, whither the
rescue boat has gone to pick up three airmen
who have bailed out. Having the same authen-
tic touch as “Coastal Command” and “In
Which We Serve,” it’s shot through with the
clipped humor of navy men.
Somerset Maugham provides solid dramatic
fare in his “Christmas Holiday” (State), and
there is a strong male cast to interpret it, with
Gene Kelly as the scion of an old family with
a vicious weakness, Richard Whorf, the voluble
reporter—an authoritative portrait, this —and
Dean Harens, the young lieutenant who by
chance is caught up in the tragic denouement.
Deanna Durbin in her first dramatic role is
not exactly out of her depth, but she’s stand-
ing on tip-toe with the wafer up to her chin.
Good singers rarely hit the dramatic peaks,
and Deanna is a good singer.
It is difficult to say whether or not “Once
Upon a Time” (Lyceum) set out with the object
of debunking ballyhoo. There is a delightful
bit of fantasy connected with a small boy’s
affection for a dancing caterpillar, but as the
film progresses the director himself becomes
caught in ballyhoo toils. Cary Grant, smooth
as silk as a busted theatre producer who ex-
ploits the phenomenon for his own ends, and
Janet Blair keep a tight hold on the romantic
reins. James Gleason turns in some good
comedy as the producer’s tight-lipped, hard-
boiled stooge..
Cinesound and Greater Union have done a
valuable job in filming as a newsreel the soil
erosion and its tragic effects in the nor’-west
Victorian Mallee. It’s a stark pictorial record,
with no punches pulled, of sand drifts piled
20ft. over roadways, mallee roots exposed like
bones of prehistoric monsters, cattle and
sheep dying pitifully, and one courageous, far-
sighted farmer who maintains an oasis in the
wilderness.
The most poignant incident in “The Life
and Death of Colonel Blimp” (Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne) is where the young wife says to the
old general as they are sitting over the fire in
the evening: “Don’t hum!” “I wasn’t hum-
ming.” “Yes, you were.” “I didn’t know I
was.” Long pause. “If I can’t hum, what else
is there to do?” Another war comes along to
rescue the general from his boredom. In the
film the character Low created is a Boer 'War
V.C. who, while on leave, defies a lethargic
War Office and goes off to Berlin to counter
the scoundrelly anti-British propaganda of a
German spy, and gets entangled with a girl and
involved in a duel with a Prussian officer for
allegedly insulting the German Army. He gets
a cut on the lip to explain the walrus moustache
of the celebrated colonel, enlivens the peace
years by an incredible amount of slaughter
of bison, bears, tigers, elephants and rhinos,
whose heads make his aunt’s apartments in
London look like an abattoirs, becomes a briga-
dier-general in the Great War, returns to his
hunting and shooting, and when World War
Two occurs is given a command. Retired as
too old-fashioned, he makes good once more
by organising the Home Guard in Britain’s
crisis. It is doubtful if Low would recognise
his creation in this kindly portrait in techni-
color, occupying the full length of a three
hours’ programme. If Roger Livesey is indeed
the colonel throughput, how he succeeds in
doubling his issue of adipose tissue in the
course of the picture is a mystery. As a caval-
cade of the fashions and customs of the Eng-
lish over four decades it is a fascinating pic-
ture.
“TOPIC”
Short Story Contest
£50
A prize of £5O is offered by
“Topic” for the best original short
story of not more than 3000 words.
Entries close on January 31,
1945, with the Editor, “Topic,” 97
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Stories of all types will be considered:
humorous, romantic, mystery, adventure,
war stories or stories of home life.
Write on the subjects and environments
which most interest you, remembering
that power to arrest and bold the
reader’s attention will be factors which
will influence the judge.
Copyright in the winning story shall
become the property of The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd., which company
shall have the right to purchase for the
sum of £3 3s. exclusive Queensland publi-
cation rights of any other story sub-
Copy should be typed if possible, but
clear, legible handwriting will be accepted.
Writing must be on one side pt the
paper only. Contributors are asked to
forward an addressed envelope with each
entry, which must be accompanied by a
signed declaration that the story is the
original work of the entrant, and has
not previously been published. . „
The decision of the Editor of Topic
to be final in relation to all matters
affecting or arising from the contest.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE'
tfv
l/TT-d
"THE SENIOR
(2a£
A. —Coaiport Vase. Height, 14 inches. Dark
Blue, Ivory, and Cold, with two Painted Medal-
lions. Loch Katrine, by E. Ball £2l
B. Doulton Figure of a Moorish Minstrel.
Height, 14 inches. Dark rich glazed, £l6/16/-
C.—Bronze and Ivory Madonna. Height, 111
inches. With Green and Gold Satin Finish.
Price £47/10/-
D.—Fine Old Sheffield Coffee Pot—Period
King George 111. Height, 9 inches £35
E. —Old Sheffield Salver, 111 inches diameter.
Price £2l
F.—Bretby Pottery Vase. Black and Bronze
Pottery, jewel decoration. Height, 12 inches.
Price £l6
G.—Chinese Brass Warrior Mounted on tray,
91 inches by 61 inches £7/7/-
• Fine Art Gallery—Fourth Floor.
I*l fa
*3,0
i
iF^
\
//;/
■S'
k
V
II
A .
N!
vT°
\
mi
w
Mil.
S'
v,
// '
XV //■•
■ /
■m
a
P-
(XS\
Q&
:
'W
S
r>
XiV
a
r
9
(</
V. £4
Jj|
I
X
1
R
i
T.
n
V-
A
w
m.
V<*
V
'V
VHV
A
ANTHONY HORDERNS
I
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


SHIP’S BOYS
By “STANDBY.”
I DON’T suppose the elder of the two
was any more than sixteen, though
each claimed to have turned eighteen
last birthday. As mate, I was not
greatly concerned with their age.
“Flop” was the first to join us. He
shipped as galley boy in Brisbane, and
where his nickname came from I don’t
know, but from the first day he joined
he was: never known by any other name.
The other lad joined us in New Guinea
several months later and just naturally
acquired the name of “Flip.” Even the
skipper and I fell into the habit of
addressing them as Flip and Flop after a
while. Both lads came of seafaring families.
Flop having a father and an uncle who
were both master mariners. His parents
had done their best to keep him away from
the sea, but somehow Flop got his way.
He was not a good galley boy, and
proved a sore trial to the chief steward
and the cook. When he was supposed
to be peeling spuds or washing dishes
he’d usually be found helping some sea-
man with a splice or any real job of
sailoring. At night when he should have
been in bed he’d come up to the bridge
and beg me to let him learn to steer. I
hadn’t the heart to refuse him, particu-
larly as the helmsman was always willing
-to stand by the kid and teach him. Soon
he was equal to standing a trick at the
wheel without any help, though I failed
to see what pleasure he got out of it.
Ours was the worst steering ship afloat,
and steering her was hard work even
for a grown man.
Apparently, as his seamanship im-
proved so his work in the galley deterior-
ated. Repeated threats from the steward
and abuse from the cook just didn’t seem
to affect him, though a harsh word from
the Old Man or me would bring tears to
his eyes.
Eventually the stewarcfi gave up the
struggle, and asked the Old Man’s per-
mission to fire the kid as useless. He had
his eye on another likely lad, he said, and
anyway, no one could be as useless as
Flop. Well, we were short of a seaman.
I asked that Flop be allotted to the deck.
I sent for him the following day, and in
a surprisingly short time he knocked on
my cabin door.
“Yes, sir. Did you want me, sir?” I
looked up from my writing and saw Flop
standing respectfully to attention.
“Flop,” I said. “The steward says
you’re the worst galley boy he’s ever
had, and he’s asked to have you fired.
All right, you are fired. But as I happen
to be short of a deck boy I’m going to
give you a try, but, by heaven, if you
don’t make a smart seaman I’ll have you
put ashore for keeps. And when I say
smart I mean smart. Understand?”
“Yes, sir. Thank you, sir,” and Flop
disappeared below looking as if he’d just
won a thousand in a lottery.
Shortly afterwards Flip joined us in
place of an ordinary seaman who’d been
sent to hospital, and from that day it
became a race between these two kids
to see who’d be the better seaman.
FLIP proved as keen and intelligent
as Flop. Each, wanted to learn
everything, and in their thirst for know-
ledge they gave the bos’n and the A.Bs.
no rest. They never became swelled-
headed or “cocky.” The A.Bs. saw to
that. One Sunday morning I heard an
uproar, and on inquiring into the cause
of it I learned that the A.Bs. had pre-
sented the boys with a “going-over.”
This “going-over,” the bos’n informed
me, consisted of giving each of them a
dozen of the best with a rope’s end. I
inquired whether the kids had been get-
ting a bit out of hand in the fo’c’s’le, and
was told “Oh, no, sir. This is just to
keep them from getting cocky.”
These Sunday mornings became a
ritual, and I really believe the youngsters
enjoyed it as much as the men did. It
always took place immediately after
morning “smoko,” As the last mug of
tea was finished the two lads would bolt,
the seamen would rise as one man and
the chase was on. If they achieved no
other result they taught the kids to climb
and move smartly around the ship.
I remember one such occasion in par-
ticular. We were made fast alongside a
wharf in New Guinea. It was a small,
miserable sort of a wharf, where we could
discharge only one hatch at a time. This
morning we had No. 1 hatch to the
wharf, and the skipper and I were lean-
ing over the rail yarning. The skipper
was never a man to forget his dignity
at any time, and as we talked we heard
the unmistakable sound of the hunt.
Came a patter of bare feet as Flip
shot up the companionway and raced for
our side of the ship. To us his intention
was obvious. In thought and movement
he was just two seconds ahead of his
pursuers. If he could gain the rail with
his present lead he could, by a supreme
effort, leap to the starb’d lifeboat painter
and slide down it to the wharf. The bow
of the starb’d boat was just behind the
skipper, who hadn’t forgotten his early
days at sea.
As Flip raced astern of him the skip-
per’s foot shot out. Only for a fraction
of a second, but poor Flip hit the deck
without ever knowing what tripped him.
The skipper went on talking to me as if
nothing had happened. Flip scrambled to
his feet, looked around in a dazed fashion
and then leaped for the lifeboat painter.
But those two seconds’ delay had been
sufficient. Flip slid down the painter into
the arms of two burly seamen.
DISCIPLINE? Respect for their offi-
cers? Those kids never needed any
lessons. They were a jump ahead of me
all the time. There was something very
likeable in the way Flip would draw him-
self up smartly and say:
“Excuse me, sir. May I go ashore for
the mail, sir?”
I think the young devils knew I never
had the heart to refuse them, for before
I’d finished giving my consent it would
be “Thank you, sir. May Flop come
with me, too, sir?”
One day I heard Flop giving Flip a
lesson in ship discipline. We had one
ship’s cat —which, in my opinion, was
quite enough—and this day, when we
were taking on cargo, a very diseased and
mangy-looking old tom walked aboard.
Flop was on watch, and I told him to
put the visitor ashore at once.
Three times he put that mangy old tom
on the wharf, and three times the tom
walked back.
We were due to sail within the hour,
and I’d made up my mind that diseased
animal was not going to sail with us, so
I raided the bos’n’s locker for a bag and
a quantity of old rusty shackles. I
handed these to Flop with instructions
to dispose of the cat once and for all.
I was up on the boat deck when Flop
committed the body to the deep, and
evidently Flip came on the scene just at
that moment, for I could hear their voices
plainly.
Flip looked over the side, saw the
bubbles coming up and guessed the worst.
“You crool cow,” he said to his pal.
“Did you drown that poor old cat?”
A few seconds’ silence while Flop made
sure that he’d done a thorough job, and
then:
“Yair. Orders is orders. The mate
told me to, and if he’d told me to put
you in a bag and drop you over the side
I’d of hadter do it.”
FLIP was incapable of telling a lie.
One night during a severe air raid
I made the rounds to check up on the
crew. Every man had his particular job
and station in an air raid, and I wasn’t
quite sure how these lads would react.
This was their first time under fire.
The first stick of bombs was wide of
the target (if we were the target), and
the lads were loudly enjoying the show.
For several weeks they’d been wanting
to see an air raid, and now they were
having one. Great fun. Something to
write home about now. And then the
second lot of bombs rained down. One
struck a ship quite close to us, and she
began to bum. Not quite so good this.
It was then I decided to check up. The
third and last lot of bombs was definitely
a near miss. Without doing any real
damage, it rocked the ship.
It was some time before I managed
to locate Flip. The “All Clear” had gone
when he showed up.
“Flip,” I said when he arrived at the*
bridge, “where were you when that last
lot of bombs .fell?”
He drew himself up and looked me
straight in the eye before answering.
“Sir, I really couldn’t say.”
IT was hard to say which was the better
' of the two lads. Each made sure that
he could do a job just as well a£ or, if
possible, better than his mate.
One port that we visited fairly fre-
quently had a narrow reef-bound channel
at its entrance. It was the skipper’s habit
to have the best helmsman on board sent
to the wheel when we were entering or
leaving, and I could see that both Flip
and Flop hated handing oyer on these
occasions. If one of them was at the
wheel when we approached this port he'd
wait till I came into the wheelhouse and
say;
“Excuse me, sir. Could I take her
down the channel, please sir?”
I’d usually tell him he’d have to put
in a couple more years at sea ; but there
came a day when Flop got his wish.
Our best helmsman was sick, and,
partly because I couldn’t spare another
man, partly because Flop was as good a
helmsman as any on board, I allowed
him to stay at the wheel. I told the
skipper what I’d had to do, and added
that I’d stand by in the wheelhouse in
case I was needed.
I needn’t have worried. Flop did a
perfect job, and as I left the wheelhouse
I said:
“Nice work. Flop. You did well.”
After we’d got the anchor down I was
standing on the fo’c’s’le-head talking to
the bos’n when the two kids met outside
the fo’c’s’le door just below me. Neither
of them saw me, but I could hear the
conversation plainly.
Flip evidently suspected that his pal
was one up on him, for he immediately
asked:
“Who brought ’er down the Channel?”
“I did,” said Flop.
“Garn, you never did. The mate
wouldn’t of let you stay at the wheel.”
“He did, too, and when we was through
he said ‘Flop, you done a wonderful job.
As good as any A.B. could do. In faht,’
he says, ‘I couldn’t of done better me-
self.’ ”
WHEN heaving-up anchor it is always
the duty of the junior member of
the watch to descend into the chain-
locker and stow the cable as it comes
inboard —one of the dirtiest and most
unpleasant duties that a seaman has to
perform.
As the huge rusty cable comes in, very
often covered with slimy mud which the
hose has failed to remove, the seaman
stands in the dimly-lit cramped locker
and sways the cable to and fro so that
it is “flaked down” in even lengths. If
he stops for a couple of seconds the cable
starts to pile up in a heap, and he can
never get the kinks out of it without
yelling for the winchman to stop while
he straightens out the mess.
It’s dirty, back-breaking work, but
neither of these kids ever complained.
Sometimes one would express great glee
when he found his pal had to stow more
than the usual amount of chain, but that
was all.
For several weeks Flip had had an
unusual run of bad luck. Every time we
had orders to heave up it seemed to be
in Flip’s watch. In fact, it became so
marked that instead of my usual inquiry
to the bos’n “Have you sent a hand to
.the locker?” I found myself asking “Is
Flip in the locker?”
One afternoon we had to drop anchor
in a particularly deep patch while await-
ing Navy’s permission to proceed. The
75-fathom shackle was well in the water
before I gave the order to “screw up.”
Now, 75 fathom is a hell of a lot of
cable if you happen to be the poor bloke
that has to stow it. It’s 450 feet of heavy,
rusty, dirty chain.
It was some time after three when the
anchor went down and Flip was standing
on the fo’castle head watching fathom
after fathom rattle over the windlass.
When the bos’n screwed up Flip fboked
over the bows and said “How much chain
was that went out, Sir?” and when I
told him he asked “What time is it, Sir?”
“How the hell do I know?” 1
answered. “Go and have a look at the
clock if you want to know.”
As he scrambled aft I realised what
was on his mind.
This was Flip’s watch, and if the Navy
signalled “You may proceed” at one
minute to four he’d have to stow that 75
fathom of cable. If the signal was re-
ceived after four Flop would have to
stow it. As it drew near to the end of
the watch I think we were all interested
in the result. The skipper and I were
having tea in his cabin, and he was relat-
ing some experience. About halfway
through the yarn he broke off and said
“What the devil do you keep looking at
the clock for?”
“Sorry,” I said. “I didn’t realise I was
doing it. Finish the yarn and I’ll tell
you.”
By ten minutes to four the men were
laying bets on the event, and I don’t
think there was a man on board who
didn’t have one eye on a clock and
another on the Naval signal station.
Never was the finish of a Melbourne Cup
watched with more interest, and never
was there a closer finish.
A roar of applause from the lower
deck announced the end of the watch just
as the signal station began calling. It
was undoubtedly a popular win for Flip.
POOR Flip. Although he did enjoy a
brief half hour of popularity that
day, it was more than offset by the un-
popularity he achieved a week or so later.
For a whole night I think he was the
most unpopular boy on the ship, perhaps
on the whole New Guinea coast.
We usually landed our cargoes at some
port well behind the front line, and from
there it was loaded into landing barges,
which ran it the rest of the way under
cover of darkness. On this voyage we
had some heavy stuff that was urgently
needed right at the front.
We received our instructions, and times
were carefully worked out. A picked
gang of dockside troops was sent aboard,
and we were ordered to make this bay
under cover of darkness, discharge as
much of the cargo as the gang could
possibly get out and be well clear of
the port by daylight. Everyone knew
the risks if we were caught there in day-
light, We would have been visible to the
Jap observation posts, and they’d prob-
ably have wasted no time in getting a
couple of bombers on to us.
Like most other cargo vessels, we had
our own ack-ack guns, and, in addition,
the ship was fitted with parachute-rocket
guns as a protection against low-flying
aircraft. two guns were mounted
up on top of the bridge—one on either
side, and the wires for firing them led
across the top to amidships and then
down into the wheelhouse.
The guns were always kept loaded and
cocked, so that the officer of the watch
had only to stand in the wheelhouse and
pull the wires to fire both rockets.
It was a beautiful night when we
steamed into the bay, and the skipper
was naturally anxious to lay the ship as
close to the beach as possible. I was on
the fo’castle head calling out the sound-
ings while a seaman swung the lead.
Like most bays on the New Guinea
coast, this one proved “steep to.” The
ship’s head was a bare thirty yards from
the beach, and I was still calling “No
bottom at 20 fathoms.”
The skipper was up on Monkey Island
on top of the bridge conning the ship
and nosing her gently in, while the second
mate stood-by on the lower bridge. The
dock gang had the hatches off and were
all ready to begin discharging, and I
could see a crowd of men on the beach,
evidently the shore gang told off to assist
in landing the cargo.
I’d just reported “Bottom at ten
fathom” and asked the skipper for a
touch astern when I caught sight of some
one calling with an Aldis lamp.
The second mate was the only man
in a position to answer, as he was stand-
ing right alongside our Aldis. When he
failed to answer I yelled out “Second,
answer that signal.”
The answer was spectacular, to say the
least. There was a crash and a blinding
sheet of flame as the port rocket roared
into the air and then burst in a shower
of sparks.
For a few seconds the silence was in-
tense. Men disappeared as if by magic.
At one moment the beach had been
crowded with troops, and now there was
not a man in sight.
The dock gang had dived for the alley-
ways as one man. The bos’n had gone
to earth behind the windlass, and the
seaman with the lead line just vanished.
Only two men realised what had
happened and where the infernal erup-
tion had come from. One was the
skipper, who had been standing about
twenty feet from the gun when it ex-
ploded. The other was Flip, for he was
the “man behind the gun.”
The skipper was the first to regain his
speech.
“What the hell are you doing here,
you —!” he roared. “Get out
of here or I’ll break your flaming neck.”
But Flip had vanished.
It was nearly half an hour later when
I learned what had happened. When
I’d got the and town .and seen the
cargo work . r I went in search
of the se He explained. It
seems tha t 1 \in his Aldis lamp
on the sign sh Tie bridge super-
structure w, so he decided to
get up on to. j.uc 1 .om there.
Flip was man, and as
the Aldis was v fit k the second
ordered him to .op and take
the lamp while re ]. ■ p.
Flip “nipped’ and in his
hurry he tripped ease wire.
Apparently the gun m /ithin two
feet of his head, a Mo scared
to move until the skip): brought
him to his feet and ' ting for
refuge behind the fdpnei


The Bulletin
Vol. 65 —No. 3382.
Wednesday, December 6, 1944.
IN CHARACTER.
“Mr. Calwell’s attack on two High Court Justices, to whom [?]d bias, was dismissed by Mr. Forde as merely ‘some comparisons in his characteristic style.’”
“Don’t b[?],lady—it’s only his good clean fun!”


The Bulletin
Tlie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. £. Webb
P> H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
, London, E.C.4.
BLACK MARKS.
In Sydney daily journalism it is conveni-
ent to have a short memory and to be
humorless and incapable of introspec-
tion ; and this has come to be recognised
in the calling. All the same, newspaper-
men not so “endued by nature and by
learning taught” were mildly astonished
when Mf. Warwick-the-Kingmaker Fair-
fax, of “S. M. Herald,” came out with
an article in which he surveyed Australia’s
war record and found on it “two black
marks that can never be effaced”:
The first [chronological objections waived]
is the national blindness and complacency
in the years before the war and the state
of unreadiness with which we entered it. .
The second is the terrible record of in-
dustrial disturbances during the war, par-
ticularly in the three key positions of food,
transport and power.
Priceless, old top, as we used to say at
Oxford. Who so blind in the years before
the war and who so complacent in the
presence of “unreadiness” as the “Herald”
and its close ally the “Telegraph”? .
In 1938, when Australia had a few air-
craft (largely Wirraways), a few ageing
cruisers and a few thousand militiamen
“trained”a few days a year, these Sydney
journals were in favor of war on behalf
of Czechoslovakia, alleged to be a great
military power, though half the popula-
tion consisted of rebellious Germans,
Poles, Hungarians and Slovaks. That
war for Czechoslovakia might mean tak-
ing on Italy and Japan as well as Ger-
many didn’t cause them to bat an eyelash.
The civil war in Spain was going on
then, and the “Telegraph,” at least, would
have been delighted to be in it from a
long way off, if the effete Chamberlain
could be badgered into giving “H.M.S.
Unriskables” the “open-fire” order. The
certainty of reactions among Catholics
in the U.S.A., Canada and Latin America
was lightheartedly dismissed. With com-
mercial sport booming and the nearly-
naked flapper the stock subject for press
photographs, the world went very well
then, and war, figured as a romantic puni-
tive expedition, would be another thrill.
In those years of blindness and com-
placency the “Herald” and the “Tele-
graph” were bankrupt of proposals for
putting Australia in a state of prepared-
ness, It never occurred to either to sug-
gest that Papua and the Mandated Terri-
tory, from north-east New Guinea to the
Solomons, should be defended on a com-
prehensive plan by a strong force with
modern equipment and an efficient medi-
cal service, all the fever areas having
been plotted out. With the League in
being there was no need for any sizeable
defence effort, which would be a circula-
tion-loser anyway.
The “Herald” was ardent in its support
of a U.A.P. Prime Minister who vowed
that he would go out of public life rather
than reintroduce compulsory military
training. The “Telegraph” had great ex-
pectations of Russia and an equally great
contempt for Japan. Russia, it declared
in article after .article, was preparing for
war against Germany and Japan, and
could knock both rotten single-handed.
But it would be unfair to lay this dual
burden on Russia’s shoulders, and if the
senile Chamberlain could be shocked into
sanity long enough to sign up with Moscow
the Japs would be wiped in no time. From
Vladivostok, “only 570 miles away,” a
huge fleet of Russian submarines would
sink their “top-heavy” battleships and
overpowering Russian sky battalions
would down their “pushover” air force
and blast and fire their “paper cities” into
ashes and dust. That accomplished we
could all go back to picking winners and
barracking for Stadium bruisers and vot-
ing for “Telegraph” bathing beauties with
our minds and hearts at ease.
A “Telegraph” young man, writing for
the Sunday issue, sneered at U.A.P. mem-
bers as “Anglophiles.” Sunday sheet and
parent paper are so Russophile that, re-
gardless of all other considerations, even
the peril in which their own country
stood, they supported the mad and bad
communist agitation for a second front in
Europe, notably in July, 1942,
The war was then going ill. The
Japs, masters of Malaya, Burma, the
Philippines, the Dutch East Indies, Lae,
Salamaua, Rabaul and the surrounding
territories, were about to thrust towards
Port Moresby. Milne Bay had not been
fought, nor had the Americans landed in
the Solomons. Cyrenaica, with Tobruk,
had been lost, and the Eighth Army was
standing on a line 50 miles from Alexan-
dria, The provisioning of Malta was en-
tailing bloody sacrifices. Hundreds of
Allied ships were being sunk by U-boats.
And in Russia the Germans, with
Italians, Hungarians, Rumanians and
Finns helping, had partly encircled Lenin-
grad, were within striking distance of
Moscow, had defeated the Russians in the
Kharkov region, taken Sebastopol and
Voronezh and crossed the Don.
That was enough for the “Telegraph.”
Dr, Earle Page had been calling for ener-
getic action against Japan, pointing out
that “one blow in the Pacific this year
will be three times as effective as a blow
of the same strength next year.” No,
said the “Telegraph,” throwing its weight
behind the communists, whose cry was
that there were 4,000,000 British soldiers
idle and eating their heads off in Eng-
land. While allowing that “Britain and
American would have to pour out men
and resources on a colossal scale to open
a second front in Europe this summer,”
the “Telegraph” “argued” that “any risk
is worth while that would divert a sub-
stantial portion of Hitler’s military
strength from the eastern front.” The
“Telegraph’s” favorite boast at that
period was that it was “giving Australia
leadership” ; and, accepting this “leader-
ship,” the “Herald” came in with the
bleat that “even if a second front failed
in itself, at least it would help Russia to
fling back the invader,” And as out-
rageous in its insolence as the com-
munists, the Sunday “Telegraph” had a
crack at the British Army, saying that
“from the west” it “offers no more fight
than it would were it conquered and dis-
armed.” All in all, a black mark on
Fairfax-Packer journalism that can never
—well, hardly ever —be effaced.
A landing on the coast of France was
tried in August, 1942. It was a swift and
bloody failure. Had D-Day, magnificently
prepared for as it was to be, been
attempted that “summer,” with the air-
craft, landing craft, warships, merchant-
men and divisions then available, it must
have ended in a frightful, and probably
irretrievable, catastrophe. Even after the
glorious events of the past six months,
which have resulted in the placing of the
promised 60 Anglo-American divisions on
Germany’s western frontier, the Russians,
though they have overawed Rumania,
Finland and Bulgaria, and thus gained
decided political advantages, have been
unable to take Warsaw or to advance
beyond the fringes of East Prussia. But
this, though important to the general
situation, has not been stressed in any of
the Sydney dailies. Though Alexander
and Montgomery are considered fair
game (the “Telegraph” scornfully advised
the British to get Russian generals for
Egypt instead of duffers sporting the Old
School Tie), it is not in order to state or
even to hint that any Russian general has
been defeated or has suffered a check.
Russian generals and armies always win.
This sort of reporting has been of the
utmost service to the communist con-
spiracy ; indeed, it has been a principal
factor in the spread of communism in
these parts, though not, of course, the
only factor.
The record of “industrial disturbances”
is “terrible,” but here, again, are Mr. Fair-
fax’s paper and Mr. Packer’s paper with-
out sin? Didn’t they increase the capa-
city for mischief of union leaders, parti-
cularly the communist variety, by giving
these fellows an amount of attention
denied to Australians of immeasurably
greater importance and worth, by mak-
ing public characters of mob leaders
practising the methods of the mob?
Didn’t they strengthen the position
of those who are communists by turning
on Mr. Menzies, who, as Prime Minister,
had outlawed communist organisations
and publications, for heaven knows what
reason except that their politics are based
on likes and dislikes and they disliked
himl Didn’t they run candidates against
his party (“outstanding” they called the
candidates, who were badly sold) and
egg on supporters like Mr. McCall, who
were making it difficult for him to carry
on? And all this when the man from
Melbourne (ghastly place, old fruit!) was
bent on forming a national Government,
which these journals professed to desire ;
and if he had received the backing to
which he was fairly entitled he might
have brought it off.
Had that happened the “record of in-
dustrial disturbances” would assuredly be
less “terrible.” With a national Govern-
ment and united action against com-
munists and union larrikins, the record
might conceivably have been as creditable
as it is in Britain, where national unity
prevails, and where Labor Ministers, sup-
ported by the leaders of the trade-union
movement, have had strike promoters
from one of the communist groups sent
to jail for salutary terms.
Capricious as a “Telegraph” flapper,
these papers threw their support to Mr.
Curtin, whose Government’s first pro-
ceeding was to remove the ban on com-
munists, and was against a national Gov-
ẃ
Canada's Conscription.
Canada has again been going through
what it went through in the last war;
what Australia then went through, also,
and might be now going through again
if the war in the Pacific was being fought
differently. Because Canadian casualties
in Europe have been severe, Canada’s
leaders have had to choose between let-
ting down those who volunteered to fight
or supporting them with reinforcements
compulsorily enlisted.
Though complications come into it
later, the basic issue is a simple one.
Where the compulsory-service principle
is adopted—as in Britain, the United
States, vast Soviet Russia and little New
Zealand —a country, having decided that
it must go to war, goes in as a single,
unified whole. Once the war gong has
been sounded every man understands his
liability to serve. On one ground or an-
other—mostly boiling down to being
scared stiff —some refuse the liability, and
the different countries have different ways
of dealing with them. What happens to
them in Russia is one of those fascinat-
ing topics that correspondents in that
country and Kremlin crawlers out of it
unanimously avoid. Elsewhere the few
are usually dealt with by tribunals and
either driven to serve or put into concen-
tration camps or fitted into jobs not offen-
sive to their scruples.
These are everywhere a very small
minority. Where the compulsory prin-
ciple operates the great majority of the
nation goes to war as one. Accordingly,
the war effort can be organised and
directed from the beginning. The fit
manhood in essential industries, from
munitions to farming, can be kept there.
The available can be called up as re-
quired. The numbers that can be spared
can be worked out and decided on by
the Government. The anti-conscription
cry always raised in Australia —that the
country’s whole manhood will be sent
away—is patently false. That is entirely
a matter of Government decision. A
main point is that the called-up go into
camp and eventually to do their part for
their country in its war as a matter of
course. Moreover, they go in knowing
that the nation is behind them.
They know, too, that they will not be let
down in the matter of reinforcements, or
that if they are it will not be their coun-
try’s fault. Their share of the fighting
will not be dependent on the whim of
slackers to come to their aid. It will
depend entirely on what man-power
effort their country is capable of making.
If this leaves them —as the A.I.F. in
France was left in the last war —disas-
trously short of reinforcements, it could
still be accepted, being unavoidable. The
difference is that under the voluntary
system everything depends on the deci-
sion not of the country but of individuals.
When both the country and the indivi-
dual failed in the last war men of the
A.I.F. who had been wounded as many
as four and five times had to go into the
line again and again, until at last they
were killed. Battalions only a few hun-
dred strong had to be stretched out over
areas that made their fighting part all but
impossible., and often suicidal. Units
with great battle records had to be broken
up to keep others partly up to strength.
For security reasons little of this pic-
ture, and none of the dreadful reality of
what it meant to the men, reached Aus-
tralia. The anti-conscriptionists were able
to brag of their great victory, and by
general misrepresentation are still able
to brag of it. The cold fact is that in
the last war the A.I.F. men were let down.
It could happen again in this war,
with the present anti-compulsion Gov-
ernment still in office and the A.l.F.’s
part very different from what it has lately
been. Casualties might yet be such in
the Pacific war that either the A.I.F.
will have to go through what the First
A.I.F. went through or else there will
have to be a great change in this country.
In the event of that position arising
here —and anything can happen before the
still scarcely-damaged Jap army is beaten
—there could be an ironic point of re-
semblance to what has been going on
in Canada.
In Canada, as in Australia, the pre-
dominant party is the political group
which in the last war and afterwards
opposed compulsory service. The Borden
Government, which, in 1917, imposed
conscription in Canada, was Conserva-
tive. Mr. Mackenzie King is a Liberal,
and generally, though there are big
differences between the Australian and
Canadian political scene, it is almost
as ironical for Liberals in Canada to be
forced into resorting to conscription as
it would be for the present Australian
Government to adopt it.
One Canadian feature for which there
is no Australian parallel is Quebec, where,
among other reactions to the Govern-
ment’s decision. Union Jacks have been
burned. A writer in the American
“Foreign Affairs” points out that “no
Canadian party can hold lasting power
without support in Quebec, where a third
of the nation clings resolutely to the lan-
guage, the faith and the folkways of the
pre - revolutionary colony of New
France.” The writer contends:
French-Canadians are naturally isolation-
ist. Owing no loyalty to a France which
deserted them and which thereafter became
revolutionary and anti-clerical, and regard-
ing their conqueror England with feelings
which vary from a mildly benevolent neu-
trality to an active dislike, they want no
part in Imperial wars. That they, as
Canadian citizens, should be conscripted
against their will to fight in such wars im-
presses them as tyranny.
Regarding the effects of the imposition
of conscription by the Borden Govern-
ment in the last war, the writer declares:
Since then Conservatives have not stood
a chance of election in Quebec. They
were ruined there as a party, and have
since virtually disappeared. The Liberals
for 25 years carried Quebec in every
Federal election by waving the bloody shirt
and incanting the magic word “conscrip-
tion.”
Up to his writing there was “none of
the violent opposition of 1917, when
Quebec was openly rebellious and had to
be held down by machine-guns,” but the
writer found that even the imposition of
compulsory service for home defence had
made Quebec “sullen and resentful.” That
the Government led by Mr. Mackenzie
King should have now introduced con-
scription for overseas service would seem
to indicate something close to despera-
tion.
On November 27 cables had a corre-
spondent in Italy declaring that “the
news that conscripts were ‘going to get
their issue’ was received with mixed feel-
ings” by Canadian fighting troops.
Against this, a N.Y. “Times” correspon-
dent in Holland reported on November


5 that “there has always been deep re-
sentment among overseas troops that the
so-called ‘zombies’ have stayed at
home,” and that “the majority of
the troops here feel that the zom-
bies’ should be sent to fight.” And
on November 4 the N.Y, “Times’
Ottawa correspondent attributed to re-,
turned Canadian officers repetition of
“alarming statements that reinforcements
were inadequate and insufficiently trained,
and that men fighting in the Nether-
lands were being killed as a result of the
Government’s policy.” Also that Colonel
Ralston—since replaced by General Mc-
Naughton as Defence Minister —had been
“subjected to some boisterous treatment
by the troops during his visit to Italy
and France.”
The choice made by the Canadian
Government, however it may work out
as an internal political issue, is
without question the one in keeping
with the country’s great war effort. In
similar circumstances —they may yet
come if the A.l.F.’s fighting part against
the Japs becomes as all-in as the Cana-
dian fighting part in Europe evidently has
been —how will the Australian Govern-
ment choose?
PLAIN ENGLISH
"The Larrikin Mind."
“No man enjoys the confidence of this
Parliament to a higher degree than Chief
Justice Latham.” So saicl Mr. Forde,
speaking as Acting Prime Minister and
leader of the House in Mr. Curtin’s
absence; and he had another compli-
ment for his Honor; “The undoubted im-
partiality of our distinguished Chief Jus-
tice.” These words were uttered during a
debate on a Menzies censure motion.
The first and second paragraphs of
the censure motion challenged the
Government on the score of (1) “its
public attack, made through a Minister
speaking from his place in the House”
(Mr. Calwell), “on the integrity of
Justices of the High Court” (Justices
Starke and Rich, of whom the Minister
had said, apropos of the censorship case,
that “they threw away their wigs and
openly barracked for the press”), and (2)
“its attempt, made through Ministers who
still retain office” (Mr. Forde and Sena-
tor Collings), “to intimidate a public
officer” (Commonwealth Railways Com-
missioner Gahan) “in respect of court
proceedings to which the Minister for the
Interior was a party.” Those proceedings
ended in Justice Rich not only rejecting
“the case presented by the Common-
wealth” for the removal of'a secretary
whose appointment had been gazetted, but
declaring that the Crown Law officers or
he himself could institute contempt-of-
court proceedings against Senator Cei-
lings, it being “against the law for any
person who has any authority or means of
influence over a witness to use it for the
purpose of affecting evidence.” That the
Senator had done by communicating a
Forde letter, addressed to himself, to the
Commonwealth Railways Commissioner
when the latter had become a party to the
case and was about to give evidence for
the rejected secretary. The Crown Law
officers have advised against proceedings.
The occasion may be held to have
added point to Mr. Forde’s tribute to the
Chief Justice. Especially as the Chief
Justice had on the previous day, address-
ing the Brisbane Rotarians, stated as
“Australia’s fundamental problem” the
production of “people who are moral,
intelligent, high-spirited, well-behaved,
industrious, self-respecting and with a
real and active enthusiasm for Australia:
people with the opposite of the larrikin
mind.” “The larrikin mind”! Excellent.
But though the report appeared in one
of the Sydney papers the Acting Prime
Minister may not have read it.
There were three other counts in the
Opposition-leader’s indictment:
By its attempt to put the Coal Tribunal
beyond the control of the High Court,
(made in obedience to Mr. Wells, the com-
munist president of the Miners’ Federation,
who, when the High Court, in the exercise
of the judicial power of the Common-
wealth, pronounced wage-increases to coal-
miners inconsistent with the wage-pegging
regulations, attacked it in his fashion
as “vindictive and loaded against our
union; the High Court has always been
against the workers”).
By its interference with the discretion
reposed in the Maritime Industries Commis-
sion, presided over by a Judge (Mr. de
Baun, who resigned when the Government
“directed” him to “review” the commis-
sion’s decision reducing war bonuses to
seamen operating in “certain waters” and
paid when the mariners are on shore leave).
By its feeble failure to enforce the law
against war-time strikers the Government
is undermining the authority of the Courts
and of the law and is therefore injuring
the basic structure of Australian democracy.
To all which Mr, Menzies could have
added Sydney Labor’s effort to scrape
Cantor, J., off the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission because some of his deci-
sions were unpalatable to union bosses.
At that he had an easy brief, and made
out an unanswerable case, which Mr.
Fadden supplemented by listing some of
the larrikinisms of Mr. Ward —his efforts
to constitute himself a court of appeal
over Judge Drake Brockman as chair-
man of the Coal Reference Board (pres-
ently “transferred”) and to interfere in the
arbitration side of Westralian Justice
Dwyer’s job to the extent of being
warned that his remarks might be con-
sidered contempt of court, and his de-
scription of Judge Piper as “a servant
of the Government” who was expected
to do its bidding.
But there had to be a shot at answer-
ing the unanswerable; so Dr. Evatt, very
ill at ease, distributed compliments among
his former colleagues and Judge de Baun
and pleaded that Senator Collings hadn’t
mqant it. And Mr. Forde blithered
that Mr. Calwell had “immediately
jumped in to defend the Chief Justice and
then proceeded to make some compari-
sons in his characteristic style, which I
will not repeat here.” And, touching the
“comparisons,” Mr. Calwell had the face
to assert that “all I said was that Justice
Starke,‘Justice Rich and Justice Williams
had given a decision which, on the weight
of evidence, should not have been given.”
Whereupon he threw a heap of mud at
Mr. Spender.
The larrikin mind! It was concerned
chiefly with policemen till our rude fore-
fathers had the daylights batoned out of
the “pushes.” Now, grown bold and
powerful, it aims at the rule of law and
attacks the very citadel of justice.
No Luck.
Australian Labor Ministers have no
luck at conferences held in the U.S.A.
Mr. Beasley, going there with a beauti-
ful plan for committing all the countries
which finance the International Labor
Office, a shadow of the dead League, to
a full-employment policy regardless of
institutions like Congress and the State
Department and the Commons and the
Foreign Office, was severely snubbed,
getting support only from a few Latin-
American republics.
Mr. Drakeford took a ready-made plan
to the World Air Conference. His only
supporter was the gentleman from Maori-
land. Five “air freedoms” were pro-
posed ; only two were adopted. The
Americans failed to secure support for
a sweeping proposal for the right of an
international airline to pick up traffic in
countries along its route.
Incidentally, Russia refused to be
represented at either set of pala-
vers: in the first instance, because it
was expelled by the League; in the
second, because delegates had been invited
from Spain, Portugal and harmless, useful
Switzerland, which 64 other countries
have named as their Protecting Power.
Check!
In Brussels last week “steel-helmeted
British troops paraded outside Parlia-
ment,” prepared to support the city police
against another of those threatening
“demonstrations” which have convulsed
unhappy Belgium since the Pierlot Gov-
ernment decided to take arms out of the
hands of the communist-led resistance
forces. In the approaches to the legis-
lative building were armored vehicles and
barbed-wire entanglements. It was re-
ported that “armed, motorised convoys
of rebels were on the way from Mons to
the capital,” and a correspondent aver-ed
that Tommies had been ordered to dis-
arm them, but this was denied.
Not denied was the fact that Belgium
was in turmoil. “Irresponsible elements,”
said M. Pierlot in the Chamber of Depu-
ties, “are trying to create an atmosphere
of civil war.” And strikes are part of
the set-up.
M. Pierlot is leader of the Catholic
party. M. Spaak, his Minister of Foreign
Affairs, is a Socialist. After the last elec-
tion, held in April, 1939, there were in the
Chamber 73 Catholics, 64 Socialists, 33
Liberals, 17 Flemish Nationalists, four
Rexists and nine Communists. Trading
on misery, as they do, exploiting the
Russian successes, to which Britain and
America contributed enormously, and
blaming “the capitalists” for the crimes
of the Nazis, to whom their part of the
resistance movement offered no recognis-
able resistance till Russia was forced into
the war, the communists have gained an
influence out of all proportion to their
Parliamentary numbers. This may be
said of communists in all countries occu-
pied for so many years by the Germans,
and for the most part left in the dreadful
state in which wretchedness is apt to turn
to ruffianism for a remedy.
So far the Belgian Government has
stood firm; and from firmness the
European communist, unless the odds are
immensely in his favor, is apt to sneak
away. In a situation even more threaten-
ing in some respects the Greek Govern-
ment of M. Papandreou has stood firm.
To both Governments and others which
may be in, like case the British have given
assurances of protection and support
which will bring hope to the hearts of mil-
lions of steadygoing Europeans, to whom
civil war would be a calamity even worse
than Nazi invasion and occupation.
Our leaders have made it clear that
Americans, British, Canadians, New
Zealanders and South Africans went into
Europe to whip the Germans, to bring
their warmongers to trial, to place it
beyond the power of the guilty nation to
wage barbarous war again, at least in this
generation, to relieve the miseries of the
peoples it oppressed and to put these
peoples in the way of leading a full
national life again, first relieving their
condition —not to clear the way for Red
risings and new Communes.
“THEY’LL NEVER GET ’EM OUT!”


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
39-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Uudjord , Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 lor particulars
BOOKS FOR ALL TASTES,
Einstein. An Intimate Study of a great man
An outstanding work. By Marianofl and
Wayne. 18/6 (post 6d.).
The Standard Opera Guide. By Upton and
Borowski. The plots, musical themes, roles
and lives of the great composers of 151 world-
famous operas. 8/6 (post 6d.).
The Standard Concert Guide. By Upton and
Borowski. Explains 436 symphonic composi-
tions by 112 composers. 8/6 (post 6d.).
Dictionary of World Eiterature. Criticism,
Forms, Technique. Edited by J. T. Shipley.
The only book of its kind in any language.
All new material—by 260 authorities. 50/-
(post 1/3).
The Practical Outline of High School Sub-
jects for Home Study. 24 basic subjects
written simply and clearly. 1034 pages. 250,000
copies sold. 17/6 (post 1/6).
The Story of the Moon. The most complete
book ever written on the subject. By Dr.
Clyde Fisher, illustrated. 21/- ((post 10d.).
A Popular History of Philosophy. Lives and
Thoughts of the greatest Thinkers. By
M. M. Kaurltz. 10/6 (post 6d.).
Front Line Airline. The war story of Qantas
Empire Airways. By E. B. Bremner. 12/-
(post 4d.).
Fights and Furloughs in the Middle East.
By A. S. Helm. Soldiering in Greece, Crete,
Libya; also adventure and sightseeing. 13/6
(post 6d.).
A Pictorial Guide to Many Lands. A beauti-
ful book with 48 coloured plates, and 173 other
illustrations. 36/- (post 1/-).
Gardens in Colour. By Richard Pratt, with
numerous colour photographs. A lovely book.
16/6 (post 1/-).
Lend-lease. What it is, and how it works.
One of the most important books of the day.
By B. B. Stettlnius, Jun. 30/- (post 9d.).
The Biography of Gilbert Keith Chesterton,
By Maisie Ward. An outstanding success.
31/6 (post 9d.).
Australia Week-End Book No. 3. Edited by
Sydney Ure Smith. 224 Pages of lively and
interesting entertainment. 7/6 (post 3d.).
The Young Lincoln. Early days of Lincoln.
By Esther Meynell. 8/6 (post 3d.)-
They Are People. Modern Short Stories of
Nuns, Monks and Priests. Selected by Sister
Mariella Gable, 0.5.8. 24/- (post 6d.).
Man Against Madness. By L. S. Selling, M.D.,
Ph.D. A thrilling story of the fight against
mental diseases. 7/6 (post 5d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
"~k
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
LOAN Weekly
inc. Disci. Instal.
£lO 3 II
£2O 7 9
£3O 117
£4O IS 5
£5O 19 3
£lOO I 18 £
Fortnightly Monthly
Instal. Instal.
7 9 16 8
IS 5 I 13 4
131 2 10 0
I 10 10 368
I 18 6 4 3 4
3 17 0 8 6 8
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
No session of the Commons would be
considered complete without a debate on
foreign affairs. Eden’s practice is to set
apart two full days, and to give any
amount of notice, Evatt has drifted into
the bad habit of reading a prepared state-
ment which is not debated, because
“everybody,” as Menzies says, “is in a
terrific hurry to get home.” Last week
Bob objected to the procedure, so Bert
tabled a long statement —on “acts of
criminality committed by Japanese,” the
conference at Wellington, the European
Advisory Commission, the South Seas
Commission and so forth —and Makin
then moved the adjournment of the de-
bate, which was carried over the votes
of the Opposition, Hughes, Spender and
Coles. And members caught the 4.15.
The Government has a grand new fleet
of 1942 Chryslers which were imported
by other persons for other purposes ; but
for the present the 4.15 retains its pre-
dominance.
The R.A.A.F. has an air-crew surplus
of fully-trained men, and the*'training of
many air-crew recruits must be slowed
down or temporarily suspended. Laz-
zarini, Drakeford’s locum, said that in
the House, “in reply to several questions,”
after he had flung a gibe at Justices
Starke and Rich in Calwell’s vein; and
Tommy White, the only man in the
House with many years of air-force ex-
perience, tried to extract some informa-
tion as to the Government’s proposals,
particularly as to “the many Australians
returning from abroad.” While he was
speaking Hadley (Lilley), one of the
many accidental members who will never
get in again, “drew attention to the state
of the House.” There were only 23 mem-
bers in sight, and “the presence of at
least one-third of the members shall be
necessary to constitute a meeting.” The
other two couldn’t be got, so “the Speaker
adjourned the House to a date to be
fixed.” In effect, a short and disgraceful
session petered out disgracefully.
Menzies sees in the “Government’s”
recent proceedings, notably the “taking
over” of airlines, the powwows at Wel-
lington, and the recourse to gagging, the
possibility of “an unprecedented attempt
to evade the decisions of the people.”
The people Ifave refused Labor power
over aviation and employment, but by
making international agreements on these
and other matters, preferably with
Maoriland or with some Latin-American
country if Maoriland should be “un-
available,” Labor, in Labor’s present
mood and with its present majorities,
could embody the substance of the agree-
ments in legislation regardless of the
referendum vote. It would be an unspeak-
able outrage, but a party that could
sweep its own leader’s pledge into the ash-
barrel must be considered capable of
anything in that line.
During the Sydney newspaper strike
Weaver tabled a censure motion in the
Assembly. McKell, no longer an idol to
the dailies, had the thing delayed for six
weeks and then “amended.” This did
not prevent Weaver delivering a fiery
attack on the alleged Government —and
he can be a very fiery article indeed —
and McKell’s reply was of the feeblest
description. Properly disgusted, his pre-
decessor Mair told him that if he did
nothing to stem industrial anarchy there
would be bloodshed and revolution. “For
gangsterism is coming here,” Mair pro-
ceeded ; “you can feel the atmosphere.”
The warning derived greater force from
the fact that Mair had gone part of the
way with Labor, and had come to be re-
garded as the mildest-mannered man that
ever led a Ministry.
Roosevelt, in the speech which was
held to have made his fourth term a cer-
tainty :
I never saw, and I do not welcome,
the support of any person or group com-
mitted to communism or fascism or any
other foreign ideology which would under-
mine the American system of government
or the American system of free competitive
enterprise and private property.
Would any of the 19 Canberra Ministers
care to make a similar declaration, alter-
ing only one word? None? Then, for-
ward, comrades, to the socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and
exchange and to hell with the banks and
8.H.P.!
Billy Bertram, who was Speaker of
Queensland Parliament for many years
until he lost his seat, has a job tin the
War Organisation Department, a few
hundred yards from Parliament House.
It has been noticed that he looks the
other way when he goes to the Botanical
Garden for a lunch-hour stroll.
AND THAT’S THAT!
“Why should racing men be able to
obtain a truck of bran without any
trouble when milk producers can’t get a
single bag?” 'The pertinent question was
asked at the Australian Milk Producers’
conference in Melbourne. One delegate
answered it by suggesting that perhaps
racing was a vital industry. The votes
it draws are a vital necessity to some
politicians.
Now very wild with corns., “S. M,
Herald” has committed itself to the
statement that “communists or near-com-
munists,” though a “small minority,” are
“exercising a strong and persistent influ-
ence in the Journalists’ Association,”
presumably the one in its own wen. The
article in which this appeared was headed
“Propaganda in Guise of News,” but it
doesn’t refer to Russian-war reporting.
Still, having lifted the veil thus far, the
“Herald” might mention whether any of
its unfriends has had anything to do with
the Russian-war reporting as served up
in Sydney.
Forde’s letter to Collings in the affair of
the disputed Commonwealth Railways
secretaryship, and Collings’s transmission
of the salient paragraph to Commissioner
Gahan in such a way as to suggest to
the Commissioner and Justice Rich that
Gahan was expected to “cook” his
evidence, was to have been debated in
both Chambers. In the Senate, however,
the President, Brown, blocked Leckie on
the ground that the case was sub judice.
Some of Rosevear’s proceedings as
Speaker have been criticised, but he knew
too much to raise such an objection. That
it had not a leg to stand on was shown
during the debate in the House, when Dr.
Evatt announced uneasily that-it “did
not appear” to the Crown Law officers
that proceedings, mentioned by Rich, J.,
as an alternative to the initiative coming
from the Bench, should be taken against
Collings. Then there was a cry from the
Opposition: “We wondered when you
were going to say that.”
Par. from the “United States News,”
published at Washington two months be-
fore Cordell Hull resigned:
President Roosevelt hit the ceiling when
he was given State Department plans for an
“easy” peace for Germany. As a result,
Henry Morgenthau, and not Cordell Hull,
now is the White House adviser on post-
war plans for treating Germany.
The “United States News” is generally
well informed, and in other quarters it is
accepted that high approval has been
given to the Morganthau proposal for
making the Germans a race of small
farmers. So there may have been more
in Cordell Hull’s resignation than age
and “throat infection.”
McKell is not a man to let the grass
grow under his feet. With N. S. Wales
suffering the worst drought since 1902,
with its topsoil blowing away in millions
of tons, with the coal position disgraceful
beyond expression, with the sick turned
away in hundreds from hospital doors,
with the city’s population facing shortages
of essential foods, like milk, eggs and
most vegetables, McKell took his deci-
sion. He went out and bought a race-
course for the peepul.
Doubtless influenced by a report that
it was all arranged for Ward’s offsider
Garden to become Lord Mayor of Sydney
if Official Labor got a majority, the muni-
cipal electors of Sydney saw that it didn’t
get a majority. The Garden ticket was
beaten 2 to 1 in Macquarie Ward, the
only one of the five in which Citizens’
Reform and Official Labor were matched,
and in Philip, where C.R. was expected
to throw its vote to 0.L., it was a ques-
tion whether one or more of the O.L.
aldermen (Senator Armstrong, ex-Mayor
Stokes, O’Dea, M.L.C. and Molloy)
wouldn’t lose to Lang Labor. In other
municipalities neither Labor group rfW
as well as either expected, nor did the
communists, though the corns, had suc-
cesses in coalmining districts, particularly
Kearsley. Which was to be expected.
Returned soldiers are neither allowed
to build homes nor to open small busi-
nesses. Bui the Portland Co-op. has been
granted authority to build a butcher's
shop (cost of installations unstated) in
an effort to put Peter Dargin out of busi-
ness, and Dedman, adding cant to the
political cowardice of his crowd, said it
would “advance the war effort.” It will
advance the notion that work-stopping
bullies can get anything they want in
this country. Dedman is Minister for
W. 0.1. or W.O.E.
Accompanying the announcement that
W. 0.1. had given the go-ahead signal to
the union opposition at Portland (N.S.W.),
where a strike and an attempted boycott
of Peter Dargin, the butcher, fizzled out
with dark threats from the strikers, is a
statement that Dargin will be deprived
of one of lt won't
be easy to deprive Dargin of anything.
A determined man standing on his legal
rights may still be too much for union
mobs and their servile instruments at
Canberra.
“Balance-Sheet” Thornton, back from
a trip to the U.S.A. at other people’s
expense, seems to have had another lot
of photographs taken—realising perhaps
that his serfs are tired of the two he
puts in his monthly—and has given him-
self a new label. He has become the
National Union Leader of the Steel
Industry, Essington Lewis and his
associates must laugh. The National
Union Leader of the Steel Industry has
never led anything but strikes (“we make
strikes our business”) and the communist
“Stop - the - Imperialist - war” agitation,
which was prolonged till almost the last
minute before the war became holy. And
he wouldn’t know billets from blooms.
At the beginning of the German war
there were 4384 persons in the Queens-
land Government teaching service: 2513
males and 1871 females. By June 30,
1944, 1161 males and 52 females were on
war service—a record that would be hard
to beat anywhere. Down as “left” were
127 males and 785 females (lady teachers
will marry), and “admissions” numbered
1591—407 males and 1184 females. In
effect, the staff has been carrying on
short-handed throughout the war. The
education vote has been substantially in-
creased, which is as it should be.
If Red and Pink writing boys can bring
it off (one is operating from a snug Aus-
tralian Government press-agent dugout)
there will be another civil war in Spain.
But what was to have been a promenade
from the Pyrenees to Madrid has been
halted in those forbidding mountains, and
the writing boys are dashed wild with
the Allies, particularly Churchill, for not
seeing that it goes forward, especially as
he has given the Spanish Government a
£5,000,000 foodstuffs contract. What is
worse, the U.S. State Department has
entered into a reciprocal airline agree-
ment with Madrid. Trying to work up a
favorable public opinion, the writing boys
trotted out the Asturian miners, the
“dynamiteros,” again. A sad mistake in
Australia, for these persons are coal-
miners, and nobody can now feel roman-
tic about coalminers.
Historical discovery made in 1942 by
Rupe Lockwood, billed in Sydney as “a
leadihg Australian journalist”;
Dunkirk was no miracle, but the result
of intelligent and courageous guerrilla
action by Britons and Spaniards.
Led, presumably, by those famous guer-
rilla chieftains La Pasionaria and Alex-
ander, the latter disguised in the Old
School Tie. Nothing has been heard of
Pas. for a long time, but the effete Eng-
lish have made Alexander a field-marshal.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-UCHTIHC BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the bushels of 70th birthday con-
gratulations that piled up on the Churchill
doorstep on November 30 one the P.M.
would make time to read himself would
be that from Smuts, They first met on
December 11, 1900, when Churchill in
Smuts’s description, “very young, un-
shaven, dirty-looking” was brought
before the Boer leader. Churchill had
been captured after having taken charge
of British troops on an armored train
when their commanding officer had been
killed, but he insisted to Smuts that he
should be treated as a war correspondent
and allowed to return to his lines. Smuts
decided to keep him as a prisoner of war ;
Churchill escaped, and, as Smuts has put
it, thereby “gained a world-wide notoriety
which in many ways formed the begin-
ning of his public career.” They next met
in 1906, when Smuts went to London to
urge the claims of the two defeated
republics to self-government—in effect,
that they should be returned to the Boers.
This time the roles were reversed, Under-
secretary for Colonies Churchill sitting in
judgment, and Smuts found him “rather
stiff in considering the request.” But
Campbell-Bannerman, P.M., favored the
plan, and Churchill then had to make the
speech which moved the Commons to
agree.
W. N. Oats, head of King’s College
(S.A.), now taking charge of the Friends’
School, Hobart, has some unusual ex-
perience packed into his 32 years.
Graduating with first-class honors at
Adelaide Uni. in 1934, he taught at Adel-
aide High, then (1938) went abroad and
was appointed to the staff of the Inter-
national School in Geneva. In 1940 the
school was evacuated to France, and the
British members escaped to England in
a Dutch cargo ship a week after Paris
fell. Later Oats was second in charge of
500 children who came to Australia.
After a year at Koornong School, War-
randyte (Vic.), he became head of King’s
College in 1942,
“Rotide”: Frank Hatch must hold an
Australian, if not a world, record for
administrative service in one cricket club.
In the past 60 years he has held every
executive position in the St. Kilda (Melb.)
Club. At present he’s auditor,
Stettinius steps up;
Edward Reilly Stettinius, named by Roose-
velt U.S. Secretary of State, replacing Cordell
Hull—forced to retire by throat infection —is
comparatively youthful for the job. Though
he’s had white hair for the past 10 years,
Stettinius is on the right side of 44; Hull is
over 73. Born in the town Colonel McCormick
regards as the capital of the universe, Stettinius
is the great-great-great grandson of a Lutheran
minister of Stettin, Germany, and himself bad
a minister’s career in view when, while attend-
ing the University of Virginia, he taught Sun-
day school, led the Y.M.C.A. and did mission-
ary work among the mountaineers. Sub-
sequently he got into General Motors, became
its vice-president inside seven years, then
switched to United States Steel and became
chairman of the board at 37. Successor to
Sumner Welles as Under-Secretary of State,
Stettinius’s most notable work to date has been
done as lend-lease administrator. He has three
sons, including twins, and is a collecting addict,
his taste running to such things as autographed
books and rare vehicles, among these an ancient
fire engine. Hull, affectionately referred to in
U.S. papers as “the old Tennessee mule-skinner.”
must have done his mule-skinning young—he
got himself admitted to the Bar at 19 and
elected to the Tennessee Legislature at 21. He
went off to the Spanish-American War, having
recruited his own company of sharpshooters,
and served in Congress and the Senate, with
only one break of two years, from 1907 to
1933. It is recorded of him that he used to
play a devastating game of poker, “looking
sad and beautiful and humble while he held
four of a kind, timidly and carefully betting
against full houses.” Odd front names must
have been a family fancy, Cordell Hull’s
brothers including an Orestes, a Sanadius and
a Wyoming.
Holder of the Australian Governor-
Generalship record (1936-1944), Lord
Gowrie, V.C., is keeping Australian in-
terests. He has gone on the boards of
directors of the Union Bank and
Dalgetys.
Another Government record is right
on the cards with the extension of
Queensland Governor Leslie Wilson’s
term for anpther year, ending next June,
by when he will have held the job for
14 years. Like Lord Gowrie, Governor
Wilson is a Boer War veteran. Severely
wounded in that war, he won the D.S.O.
In World War I he served in Gallipoli
and in France, where he was again
severely wounded.
Britain’s latest-announced field-marshal,
Harold Alexander, has one singular dis-
tinction —all the scribes and radio strate-
gists seem to be agreed that he’s above
their criticism. Montgomery comes in
for plenty, particularly in America,
where that dashing leader’s besetting sin
is held to be over-caution; but nobody
has yet voiced a vitriolic word about
Alexander, though some went close to it
when, in their smart fashion, they saw
the invasion of Italy as a flop. Dating
Alexander’s field-marsfyalship back to
June 4, the day Rome was taken, makes
him Monty’s senior.
“QX”; “Friday Island” should have
included Brig. Eather in listing officers
above the rank of colonel who went per
hoof over the Kokoda Trail (B. 1/11 / ’44).
We others who went over it were in-
clined to include the whole way down
to Gona as part of the Trail, which would
bring in also our former esteemed Divi-
sional Commander, General Vasey. He
walked with us from Kokoda onwards,
F. H. Moran was born in Melbourne,
graduated from its Upi. in 1914, and did
a spell as Resident M.O. at the Mel-
bourne and Children’s hospitals. After
serving in the last war, winning the Mili-
tary Cross, he practised as a children’s
specialist in Wimpole-street, London, and
held the post of Senior Clinical Assist-
ant at the Children’s Hospital in Great
Ormond-street. Giving up medicine to
manufacture fog lamps and spark plugs,
he married the American stage star Polly
Walked; then, early in this war, returned to
Australia to join up, looking after a ship-
load of evacuee children on the way out.
Now knight Alan Newton’s right hand
man on the Medical Equipment Control
COLONEL F. H. MORAN, M.C.
Committee and Executive Officer of the
Surgical Instrument Panel, Dr, Moran
used to be a good amateur scrapper.
Owning a £2OOO copra plantation, Ken
Spanner, an Old Digger, verging on 80,
decided to stay on it when the Japs were
heading that way in January, 1942. When
the Japs arrived one of their officers, who
claimed to have been .in Australia with a
tennis team, interrogated Spanner. Taken
next before a Jap Court of Inquiry,
Spanner asserted that he was a German
and would radio Hitler if any harm came
to him. The Japs asked for his papers.
Spanner said Australia was a free coun-
try and nobody carried papers. They
asked him what he did in 1914-18.
“Fought with the A.1.F.,” he replied. The
Japs were astonished at this, but he re-
minded them that Australia and Japan
were on the same side then. “That
stumped them,” he said. TThey asked if
there waa anybody who could identify
him. Ho referred them, hoping for the
best, to a German acquaintance. The
German said Spanner had lived so long
in a German colony that he might well be
a German subject. Satisfied, the Japs
allowed Spanner to go back to his plan-
tation. He lived there for 10 months,
then was transferred to a leper colony.
After a pretty dreadful time, he escaped
with some nuns and priests. The old-
timer holds the 1914-18 medal and a
long-service medal.
Since he became City Mutual secre-
tary in 1932 Charles Albert Ralph has
certainly been moving. In 1933 he was
assistant manager in Victoria, and in
1937 manager there. In June this year
he became the co.’s assistant g.m.; then
last month moved to Sydney to succeed
William Bennett as g.m. Born at East
Malvern in 1902, he’s been with the co.
since he was 15, Away from it he played
CITY MUTUAL HEAD.
cricket for the Brighton Union Club for
the tidy total of 21 years. Since moving
to Sydney he confesses to finding a new
hobby—looking for a house.
As well as a fine bit of color illustrat-
ing by him, “Collier’s” lately had
an interview article on old Bulletin
artist Percy Leason. Asked what are his
interests outside his art work these days,
Percy is reported as saying: “Of course,
my primary interest is doing research to
support my theory that the cave artists
of 15,000 years ago painted dead animals
rather than live animals.” Percy went on
to say that this theory of his “stirred up
such a shindy in British scientific circles
that the secretary of the Prehistoric
Society of London appealed to a master
butcher for an opinion.” “Master
butcher” didn’t hesitate. “Dead ones,” he
said ; and so Percy’s disturbing theory was
published. Percy “lives placidly in Staten
Island, New York,” where three of his
daughters, as well as Mrs. Leason, have
shown paintings along with his in the
Staten Island Institute. Son John, musi-
cian and composer, is in the U.S. Army.
C. P. Mountford, the Adelaide man
appointed to tour the U.S.A., Canada and
Britain, talking about the Australian abo.,
has spent all hfe leisure from his job in
the P.M.G.’s Department on private ex-
peditions to the Never Never. He will
use the remarkable color films he took
of tribes outside the touch of civilisation
to illustrate his sensitive understanding
of the native. A friend of Albert Namat-
jira, the last time he met him the abo.
Rembrandt had just struggled home from
a painting trip with his pupils, having
nearly died of thirst through lingering so
long over a landscape that the water-
holes were dried up over a two-days’
journey. Mountford will take with him
examples of the remarkable work started
by Rex Battarbee, of Melbourne, when
he taught his camel-boy painting. In
Namatjira’s tribe everybody paints these
days, and, though the desert artists have
never heard of Velasquez or attended a
Contemporaries’ exhibition, by some pro-
cess all schools are represented, from the
realistic to the post-expressionistic,
Namatjira is shortly to hold a show in
Sydney. After his overseas tour Mount-
ford is to film Arnhem Land for the
Department of Native Affairs with an-
other old N.T. hand, Bill Harney, author
of Taboo, as his companion.
C. M. Calder has gone from Queens-
land Main Roads Commissioner to be
first assistant engineer to the Harbors
and Mdrine Department. While with
Main Roads he supervised several big
jobs and was construction engineer of the
new graving dock at Cairncross. A
Queenslander by birth, he was educated
at Nambour and Ipswich and graduated
from Queensland Uni.
From John Brennan:
If the Australian Navy wants t'o find its Lieu-
tenant Eric Howitt we know where he is. He’s
running round with the American torpedo-boat
squadrons in the Philippines. Howitt was
attached to the P.Ts. officially a couple of years
ago, but his job was pilotage in New Guinea
waters, and he isn’t sure himself whether the
assignment meant his going to the Philippines.
Anyway, he came along for the ride. In his
two years he’s been on 107 combat missions;
more, it is claimed, than any of the crews
which run the boats. A Bananalander, born at
Wondai 39 years ago, Howitt had his bringing-
up on Thursday Island. He went to New Guinea
in 1930, looked for gold, then traded along the
north coast with the schooner Roaner. In 1937
he took over as skipper of the N.G. Administra-
tion’s patrol craft Sirius, and had her in Rabaul
when the Japs made their first large-scale bomb-
ing there. That put the Sirius out of commis-
sion, but the day the Japs landed Howitt got
the remaining Administration personnel and
Mrs. Boles, of Waterfall Bay—the last woman
to leave New Britain —out of the harbor on the
sister ship Leander. Five days later, after hiding
in small bays and inlets by day ; travelling at
night, the Leander ran smack' into a Jap
carrier, which opened fire, but lost the fugitives
behind a small group of islands. They ran
across to Samurai to pick up some more
people, getting to Moresby 12 days out from
Rabaul, with 60-odd passengers, a Chinese
engineer and two native boys on the 70ft. boat.
Howitt shipped next as second mate on the old
ship Mako for a run to Tulagi, in the Solo-
mons, to rescue Chinese. A Jap task force
turned them back to Sydney the first timd they
tried it, but they made it eventually, and,
though bombed out of the harbor, got back
to Australia. One early morning in November,
1943, Howitt was on one of the two P.T. boats
patrolling off Cape Pehoe, New Britain, when/
they were jumped on by 35 Jap bombers and
fighters. After an hour of it the P.Ts. had
downed four ’planes, and two others had made
off trailing flame (later confirmed to have
crashed). Then Thunderbolts called up by
radio got all the rest, with one exception
which lit out for home. Two Thunderbolts
were downed, but the P.Ts. gathered in
one of the pilots. The boats were torn and
splintered from the bombing and strafing, but
they had only three men wounded. Off Rabaul
on April 29 this year Howitt was in it again.
There were 32 ’planes this time, and they pressed
the attack for three hours. It was a hopeless
sort of fight. Both boats were lost, and of
the crew of 16 on the boat Howitt was in only
six were saved. When the Catalina picked them
up five hours later Howitt had bullet wounds
in both legs and had five busted ribs. It kept
him almost three months in hospital, but he
was right again in time for Morotai and Leyte.
Into the silence:
At Manly, Sydney, at 60, Rugby Union stal-
wart T. H. Bosward. For many years a
selector of Australian and State teams, he
managed Australian teams in N.Z., 1921 and
1923. He was a civil servant.
At Burra (S.A.), at 73, Isaac James Warnes,
pastoralist, councillor for his district for 40
years and a leading member of the Stock-
owners’ Association. His interests included Old
Koomooloo, Sturt Vale and North Koomooloo.
At 71, Grosvenor Francis, former M.H.R.
for Kennedy (Q.) —he was elected without oppo-
sition in 1925 because Charles McDonald,
member for quarter of a century, had died be-
fore polling day, and had a second term,
1928-29. For quarter of a century he was a
solicitor at Charters Towers and for half a
century in Freemasonry, becoming one of its
leading figures. Latterly he had been senior
partner in the Francis and Francis legal firm in
Sydney.
In Sydney, at 72, comedian Sid Doody, who
in the long-ago toured Australia’s vaudeville
circuits for years in a comedy act with his wife.
They were the last performers to appear at the
old Tiv.
At Pymble (N.S.W.), W. G. Kither, 66,
managing director, till his health broke down,
of Goodyear Tyres. He joined the co. in Adel-
aide, where the Kither family is well known.
The widow is a sister of Clem Hill.
In S.A., at 73, I. J. Warnes, a noted stock-
breeder. He was a sort of squire of the Burra
district, owning several stations between there
and the Murray, and president or chairman of
nearly everything in sight locally.
At 65, in Melbourne, Pastor E. J. Thomas,
who preached his first sermon at 14 and 36
years later led the Australian delegation to the
World Convention of Churches of Christ at
Washington. Born in S.A., he studied for the
ministry in Kentucky, and later preached at
Grote-street, Adelaide, and Lygon-street, Mel-
bourne. One son is a missionary in India and
another is p.o.w in Malaya.
In the dressing-room at Melbourne Majesty’s
while getting ready to take his part in the
performance of “Ruddigore,” Arthur Mayes
(65), of the J.C.W. Gilbert and Sullivan Co.
An Englishman, Mayes served in the last war
and was a army instructor in the present war
until released this year.
In Sydney, at 86, Rev. Joseph Bryant, who
came to Australia after training for the Wesleyan
ministry in England, was minister in various
parts of N.S.W., acting master of Wesley Col-
lege, Sydney University, and from 1924 to 1941
book steward at the Methodist Book Depot.


Socity
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; Having seen on a newsreel how
the sound-effects man at a broadcasting
studio works his maze of gadgets, my
mind’s eye, on hearing a cloppety clop,
cloppety clop coming from my set during
a radio play, will now see not a galloping
prad but an earnest cove banging two
hoof-shaped things rhythmically on a
sounding-board. When the horse snorts
I shall conjure up visions of a fellow
pursing his lips out and blowing hard.
Strangely enough—for this world is
chock-full of weird inventions—the slam-
ming of a door is perfectly imitated by
slamming a door. But one thing intrigues
me: when the author of a radio play
makes a character “grind his teeth in
insensate rage” what do they do, especi-
ally if the player sports top and bottom
sets of crockery and won’t risk breaking
’em? So far as I know, no inventor has
devised a gadget to simulate this sound.
I think the best thing for the studio would
be to make a recording of a Sydney tele-
phone subscriber who is connected to a
manual exchange waiting to have his ring
answered.
* * * =K
“Lawnston”: The Speck’s Government
is bringing down an appropriation bill to
save the old Theatre Royal in Hobart,
which, if it survives, will celebrate its
108th birthday this year. There shouldn’t
be any question about it. Too many of
Tasmania’s old buildings have come
under the wrecker’s hammer regard-
less of the fact that artists and
tourists go to the island to see
relics of a past era which, whatever
its penal horrors, at least built beauti-
fully. Nellie Stewart, Melba and a host
of other famous histrions and virtuosi
sang or acted in the picturesque old play-
house. A plan to save the building by
turning it over to the Musicians’ Union
for a decade with a subsidy of £250 a
year was rejected by the Legislative Coun-
cil, though these enthusiasts offered to
buy the theatre, renovate it and grant
free use of it to schools for a number
of days each year.
* * * *
“Arter”: A Melbourne newspaper
writer who has a great admiration for
“modern” tendencies in art has been hav-
ing a look at Sydney Gallery. He says
it is the worst in Australia, and that “if
all but about 20 pictures were taken out
and burned it wouldn’t matter twopen-
north of crimson lake.” Among the pic-
tures he includes in the under-tuppence
valuation are Luke Fildes’s ‘The
Widower,” De Neuville’s “Defence of
Rorke’s Drift,” Seymour Lucas’s
“Armada in Sight” and Luminais’s “Sons
of Clovis,” which have been in the gallery
for half a century. “The Ambuscade,”
“The End of a Dream” and “Les Felins”
are also roundly despised, and Lord
Leighton is put in his place with the sneer
that “even” his “Wedded” is better than
the other pictures mentioned. Yet these
artists were all very highly-trained men,
who had devoted years to the study of
their profession, in which they stood
near the head. Their pictures have given
pleasure to two or three generations of
Australians, and to blame these painters
for jnot realising that the time would
come when it would be considered smart
to jeer at any painter whose works could
be understood by ordinary people seems
slightly unreasonable. The best antidote
to such impudence is that applied, when
he was alive, by Sydney’s J. S. Watkins.
“Watty” said he wouldn’t swap one
square inch of a canvas touched by
Leighton for a million square miles of
“modern” ga-ga art.
* * * *
“Si Anu”; A development that has
come out of Burma may curb the evil
done by the malarial mosquito, which saps
the vitality of millions of natives and
thousands of white men all along the
steamy coastal belt of Asia, from India
to China. Flying at 150 ft., Mitchell aero-
planes in North Burma and Hurricanes
in the Chindwin district are spraying
danger areas with an oil solution of DDT
powder. It is claimed that one ’plane
fitted for this work can in ten minutes
destroy 95 p.c. of the lame over
an area of 800 acres. The ’plane’s
function now is to dust fighting areas
ahead of advancing troops, but there is
no reason why the method shouldn’t
prove just as effective in peace-time.
"If you're going to be away for three Weeks perhaps I could collect the
ninepence from you now!”
“Pitt St.”: I am intrigued by the Syd-
ney system whereby artists are commis-
sioned by daily papers to criticise the
paintings of their fellows. It not infre-
quently happens that the critic gets busy
on a show which includes his own work,
Two shows which opened the week this
was written were described by one critic
thus; “The former spells adventure; the
latter represents the patient plod-
ding of honest souls.” Need I
say that the critic’s work was part
G f the “former.” This same critic’s
work, coyly ignored in his own paper, got
a mention in a contemporary—“So-and-
so at his gayest.” I rather hope the idea
spreads, and that we may be treated
to one surgeon criticising another’s knife
work, a traffic cop passing judgment on
the acrobatics of a mate, or a jockey-
writer letting himself go on the riding
ability of the other mannikins. Our
fathers reckoned that do shouldn . t eat
d but we . ye travelled * long way be .
vn „d nnr Grpc
y n * bires ’ * * *
“Avon”: Some time ago a party of
children from Poland passed through
Maoriland on their way to a temporary
sanctuary in Mexico. Many Enzedders
who saw the youngsters (among them Pri-
minister Peter Fraser) experienced a
heart-throb of sympathy, and it was de-
dded to offer to receive in the Dominion
the next batch available. The offer
was gladly accepted and a company
of 838; mostly children and including
621 orphans, has landed at Wellington.
Originally from Eastern Poland, they
had been transported to Siberia and later
offered refuge in Persia, where the
Maoriland invitation reached them, they
are organised to form a community in-
eluding 42 school-teachers, two medicoes,
a dentist and some tradesmen. The group
is to be settled on a sizeable block of
land near Pahiatua, where good housing
accommodation is available. A com-
mittee headed by Mrs. Peter Fraser will
look after the welfare of these refugees,
who, when Poland is itself again, will
return to their own land. Maoriland and
Mexico are not the only lands which take
Polish refugees —Britain gives them sanc-
tuary in Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda and
India, as well as the U.K.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: A youngster of my
acquaintance had somewhat puzzled his
parents as to which avocation in life
would best suit him. The boy did rather
badly in an examination, which resulted
in his father expressing to me his dis-
gust at what he called “the kid’s prize
stupidity.” It transpired that the lad,
answering an historical question, opened
with the statement that “The Duke of
Marlborough always commenced a battle
with a fixed determination to win or to
lose.” I assured his parent that the boy
has the makings of a far-better-than-aver-
age foreign correspondent or radio com-
mentator. Even when he flounders round
playing for safety he comes out with a
statement well based on fact,
* * * *
“Traymon”: Clement Wragge (B.
22 /11 / ’44) was far from being univer-
sally honored in his own country. Forty
years ago an old chap gained a lot
of fame in the Tamworth (N.S.W.) dis-
trict by his accurate short-range weather
predictions, but firmly refused to dis-
close his methods. Wragge visited the
north-west and while lunching at Tam-
worth heard the local expert’s name men-
tioned. Without revealing his own name,
Wragge arranged a meeting ; and, flattered
by the eminent visitor’s attention, the old
fellow revealed his closely-guarded secret.
“It’s this way, mate,” he chuckled;
“there’s a Government bloke named
Wragge in the weather business. If he
says rain I say drought, and if he says
drought I say rain. Never fails.” ,
* * * *
“Zake”: The dread word “collabora-
tionist” which had hung over the head of
Maurice Chevalier has now been lifted,
and the singer who rose above the handi-
cap of having one of the world’s w'orst
voices is free again to exercise the person-
ality which has been a goldmine to him.
Luckier still was Commendatore Benia-
mino Gigli, considered by many to be
the best robust tenor since Caruso, who
has also been given a clearance after
having been a suspect for singing too
heartily to Germans in Italy. Failure
to obtain that clearance would have
been tough on Benny, for he would have
forfeited the £lOO,OOO marble palace
which he built for himself in 1933. The
opening of the show place moved one
wit to remark that it contained the sort
of halls that so many singers have dreamt
that they dwelt in.
* * * *
“N a k h”; Melbourne University’s
Standing Committee of Convocation de-
cided the other day to limit the Arts
course to eight years, too many students
having shown a tiresomely Chinese de-
votion to learning. One ardent seeker
after knowledge who began in 1921
turned up this year to finish his course,
only to find that some of the sub-
jects he had passed for his first year were
no longer in the curriculum. In pre-
Republican days in China passing exami-
nations was a passion and villages corn-
peted with one another for the honor of
being the birthplace of some old joker
who, after 50 years of effort, had passed
the Imperial test at Peking and become
the Celestial equivalent of an M.A. The
Melbourne record is held by a woman
medical student who spent 15 years at
her Alma Mater, at an expense to her
parents of approximately £7OOO, before
she concluded she wasn’t cut out to be a
physician. In most of these cases it is the
life at the university that these long
stayers like.
* * * «
“Melbn”: Two parsons who took
up a vigil on the verandah of a Mel-
bourne suburban villa to remedy what
they considered to be a defect of the law
regarding landlords and tenants found
themselves at last in much the same pre-
dicament as did Gandhi when he started
on a fast and officialdom took no action.
Premier Dunstan denied that the clergy-
men were breaking the law, inasmuch as
a breach of the law is constituted in these
cases only when there is a protest from
the aggrieved party. No such protest was
made, so that police action was not
called for.
* * * *
“Hist”; Philatelists who make a prac-
tice of laying aside a stock of Australian
commemorative stamps at the time of
issue have 'reason to rejoice at their fore-
sight. The latest edition of Gibbon’s
Catalogue, standard guide to values,
prices at 10s. the purple MacArthur
ninepenny stamp of 1934. (It com-
memorates John the merino sheep
pioneer, not Douglas the general.) The
2s. Jubilee stamp of 1935 is also worth
half a quid, and the Sydney Harbor
Bridge ss. stamp of 1932 has soared to
50s. When the ha’penny war tax was
added to postal rates in 1941 the current
fivepenny stamp was overprinted
as a temporary measure until a new de-
sign could be prepared. The overprinted
issue now sells for 2s. 6d. used. How
many of us threw these potential half-
dollars into the waste-paper basket at the
time?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Board of Works engi-
neer Borrie has been investigating the need
for extension of Melbourne’s sewerage
services, and has come to the conclusion
that in the year 2000 the wen’s population
won’t exceed 1,500,000. Twenty years
ago sundry private individuals were much
more optimistic. They bought up huge
tracks of the environs, sub-divided them
into building allotments and made for-
tunes by selling them on very long terms.
Some optimists are still paying off,
and you can still go 15 miles from Mel-
bourne and see suburban streets laid out,
complete with nameposts, in the midst of
vast empty paddocks.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: It has been suggested in
Melbourne that erosion in the Malice
might be checked on lines adopted in
Turkmenia, where the Kara-kum desert
has features not unlike the Mallee. The
Turkoman farmer has found that there
is moisture a few feet below the surface
even in the most arid district, and digs
deep trenches, at the bottom of which he
lays a little humus. In this humus he
sows his seed, getting good yields of vege-
tables and root crops. The sloping sides
of the trenches prevent slides and sand-
ing, and the depth protects from frost
and wind. It remains to be proved that
the Mallee lands harbor subterranean
moisture.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Some time ago I suggested
that the mana of “Ern Malley” might
survive his exposure by his two creators.
It looks as if my prophecy is coming to
pass, A writer in a Melbourne daily’s
literary supplement recently hinted that
“Malley’s” stuff might have more in it than
the writers consciously intended. “The
‘Durer’ poem,” he suggested, “despite an
occasional lapse which criticism might
cavil at, is a very fine effort, which would
do credit to any anthology and to most
poets.” Later he remarks; “Whatever
the deficiencies of Max Harris as critic
and poet, it is very difficult indeed to feel
that he erred in his estimate of these
poems.” It is more difficult to believe
that two irreverent jokers who set out
to write nonsense verses could have been
inspired by the gods without knowing it.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: It is claimed that the
application of stereoscopy to moving pic-
tures has been achieved in Russia, and
without the use of colored glasses.
Whether this will be an advantage
remains to be discovered. I doubt if any
movie frequenter has ever noticed the
absence of the third ’dimension, any more
than he has noticed that faces on the
screen are sometimes ten or twenty times
lifesize. Ability to accept a convention,
however absurd, is one of the most re-
markable qualities of human nature.
THE TOY CENSORS.
“The N.S.W. Toys Advisory Committee has
banned the manufacture for the Christmas market
of dolls with ‘stupid or distorted expressions,’ and
birds or animals with no resemblance to living
things.”
Watch out, you chaps who manufacture figures
To gladden kids and hang on Christmas trees!
Shut down on dolls that look like sozzled
niggers
Or ludicrous Dobellian fantasies,
Sphinxes or harpies, or such gruesome jiggers
As gargoyles are—and all such things as these.
The dials of your dolls must now present
Something that’s passably intelligent.
And should your fancy turn towards the native
Things of the wilds, framed with a comic
twist,
Remember to confine your urge creative
To birds and animals that still exist.
Henceforth your mission’s to be educative;
Which clearly means expunging from your
list
Griffins and unicorns. You must eschew
Dodos and moas, I conjecture, too.
The time has come to batten down the hatches
On myths and fakes of every degree.
Whatever curious allure attaches
To things you read about but never see,
To snarks and leprechauns and bandersnatches
To oozlum'birds (whatever these may be),
Take notice that officialdom forbids
Delineating such as gifts for kids.
Dolls with the chivs provoking mirth or pity,
Misshapen Maisies, sad and sullen Sals,
Puppets the sheer antithesis of pretty
Are likely to be poor synthetic pals.
It’s out, our Toys Advisory Committee,
For features modelled upon real gals,
The sort at any time and turn one meets
And not defamatory counterfeits.
N.S.W.
T. THE R


“Wodgil”; Having the sort Of mind
that rejects short-cuts and cure-alls, I
have been mistrustful of the claims made
for sulfa drugs and penicillin. Beyond
doubt valuable additions to medical
science, they are not panaceas, nor have
the modest men who gave us penicillin—
one an Englishmen, the other an Austra-
lian —presented it as such. Take the
case of Wendell Willkie, who was young
as men of affairs go and a good physical
type. He had colitis, not an uncommon
complaint, and entered a New York hos-
pital for treatment. At the end of a
month, with the colitis apparently cured,
he contracted a streptocdccic throat infec-
tion, complicated by a slight congestion
of the lungs, and his temperature soared
to 104. Penicillin was administered, and
in a few hours the temperature was down
to 102, whereupon his doctor said (a
throat specialist and a heart specialist
were also in attendance), “I think I will
take him out of the critical category be-
cause he has shown marked signs of im-
provement.” They were not maintained,
and in 24 hours or so a fine fellow had been
lost to his nation and the world. Apropos,
I read on the authority of “a Canadian
scientist,” so-called in our engaging
press, that a Russian wonder-worker has
been restoring dead men to life at a great
rate ; but it doesn’t shake my scepticism
in these matters. Somehow Russian
wonder-workers are always trotted out
in our engaging press when ngs are
not going particularly well 0.. me mili-
tary front.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A link wfth early Australian
exploration snapped when a pistol found
by the dead body of Robert O’Hara Burke
was stolen from the National Museum in
Melbourne. It was restored when a man
was charged with larceny and being in
possession of an unregistered pistol. He
said he had given it to a U.S. soldier.
An American Army hunt was started, and
the missing weapon was discovered on
a vacant allotment in Carlton. There
is a story hanging on that pistol. Burke’s
last words to his companion, John kaig,
were: “I hope you will remain here until
I am quite dead. It is a comfort to
know that someone is by. I am dying,
and it is my wish that you should place
the pistol in my right hand and leave
me unburied as I lie.”
*** f *
“Eureka”; When the Duke of Glou-
cester arrives he will find institutions
already named after him. One of these
is the Prince Henry Hospital at Little
Bay, Sydney, known as the Coast Hos-
pital until the brother of two Kings
came. Now one of the most modern
hospitals in Australia, it began as a
colony of tents. In 1881 there was an
outbreak of smallpox, and a camp of
floored tents was pitched on the oppo-
site side of the bay to the leprosy colony.
The hospital now has its own golf course,
beach, fishing grounds, even its own
cemetery. Some years ago it also had its
dairy and vegetable garden.
* 4= * *
“Kestrel”: That part of the Sulu Sea
in which H.M.A.S. Australia recently
fought is not unknown to ships of the
R.A.N. In World War I an Australian
destroyer flotilla patrolled those seas,
nearly wearing a groove in the water be-
tween Palawan and Mindanao. Our pres-
ence near Manila caused a local pro-
German newspaper to ask with large
banner headlines “Must We be Bluffed
by the Big Bully of the Seas?” followed
by “British Destroyers in Manila Bay.”
It was never admitted that we were in
Manila Bay, but a little while later we
turned over some German p.o.ws. to the
French at Saigon. Newspapers from
Manila, which provided us with much
entertainment, were brought aboard by a
mysterious Englishman who arrived and
departed in the dead of night. Doubtless
he was interested in other things besides
newspapers. Our patrol job involved
stopping and searching all ships sighted,
including many American craft —that was
in 1916, when Uncle Sam was neutral.
The Yankees mostly took it in good part.
One facetious skipper, on being asked
his nationality, megaphoned that he was
Irish, but could speak a little English.
“I’d like to see HIS pedigree!”
Another skipper (not an American), run-
ning a ship fitted with diesel engines, said
he’d stop 0.K., but if he did we’d have
to start his engines again —he couldn’t.
When our engineers re-started them with-
out any trouble he looked at us as if he
thought we might win the war after all.
* * * *
“Pip” explains the ins and outs of
“local pattern”:
Every army camp abounds with “local pat-
tern” articles. The ingenuity of the soldier
is unlimited, and as soon as a camp is estab-
lished l.p. objects appear, to make life more
comfortable. A shower is regarded as a most
desirable luxury, and petrol drums with holes
punched in the bottom and suspended from a
tree by a rope make quite good l.p. ones. More
elaborate designs have a plug to regulate the
flow of water. Construction of an l.p. stone
fireplace ensures hot water —not a sissy touch,
but best for cleaning away the sweat and sticki-
ness of the jungle. When there are anthills
around, ovens are made by breaking an open-
ing in the side of the hill, scooping out the
centre and cutting the top away. The resulting
miniature volcanic mountain takes a fire that
.will cook anything. Boxes used for bringing
in supplies are very promptly converted into
food bins, wardrobes, seats and tables. An
electric battery scrounged from Sigs, the globe
from a car headlamp and a couple of pieces
of-wire make an electric lighting system, where
these are unobtainable grease from the kitchen
is poured into a shallow tin, a wick inserted,
and a slush lamp is the result. Water pipes
built from hollow reeds, “ice chests” from damp
canvas around a frame and fish traps from
oddments of wire are all popular l.p. construc-
tions and help to make life pleasanter. One
of the simplest but most ingenious is a beer
bottle with the upper portion removed to make
a drinking utensil.
“Give me my sub-machine-gun , caddy!”
“S.T.S.”: “Glassy’s” discovery (B.
15/11 / ’44) that weeping willows at two
named places in Australia, aqd one in
M.L., came as slips from Napoleon’s
grave at St. Helena does not excite me.
I have always understood that every such
willow in Australia had that origin, either
direct, or as a later cutting from such a
cutting. Before the Suez Canal existed
pretty well every ship coming to Australia
called at the island for water and other
supplies. Bonaparte was almost a living
memory then, a visit to his temporary
grave was part of the programme on
shore, and the canny natives did their best
to sell the sentimental and useful souvenir
to every visitor.
“Feng-Shui” on some Celestial subtle-
ties :
Reports are coming out of China that Chinese
and Japanese traders are exchanging goods and
even munitions supplied to China at great cost
and effort by the Allies. This is quite according
to Flowery Kingdom traditions. During the
various civil wars that ravaged the country
after the Revolution the spectacle was often pre-
sented of both Manchu and Republican authori-
ties levying taxes on the same populations,
each increasing its exactions until in some
districts merchants and landowners were paying
income tax 30 years in advance. I met an Aus-
tralian officer of the Imperial Maritime Customs
collecting excise on goods in a country under
rebel jurisdiction and receiving protection for
his cashbox, the contents of which he regularly
remitted to Peking, on the principle that “old
custom” was sacred. The International Settle-
ment in Shanghai used to be the meeting-
ground where the parties amicably shared the
spoils, often depositing fheir takings in the
same British bank. The complete severance of
relations between warring countries is a modern
European conception. During the Napoleonic
wars Sir Humphrey Davy, inventor of the
miner’s safety lamp, was invited to demonstrate
his invention before the French Institute in
Paris, and nobody thought there was anything
out of the way about his doing so.
*** . *
“Strict Veg.”; Touching the Dry belief
that alcohol is a deadly poison,
the Mayo Institute of U.S.A. recently
examined the stomachs of nine drunkards.
Eight of them were as healthy as those
of children. The ninth was diseased, but
its owner had picked up his complaint
elsewhere than from the beerpot.
“Ear Punisher”; The great are apt to
be afflicted with trifles. The American
Council of Ministers indignantly protested
because President Roosevelt swore at a
voting machine which refused to record
his preference in the recent election. The
President explains that he said “This damn’
thing won’t work”; a reporter recorded
the sinister word to have been “goddam.”
Personally, I can’t see the difference. Who
else could damn the thing except the
Almighty? Moreover, didn’t an Arch-
bishop of Canterbury once say “God
damn the Sultan of Turkey”? And dur-
ing one of the worst droughts in Vic-
torian history an Archbishop of Mel-
bourne told his flock that it would be
better if the people “prayed less and
dammed more.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: That machine which sucked
fluff out of a suit and sent up the chim-
ney banknotes as well (B. 15/11/ ’44),
wouldnit have been in it with Nature’s
effort as shown in a blow I met in Wales.
Scene, a hotel in a stormy midsummer,
sea front room, open fireplace, with tall
fender. Dressing jacket hung on it mys-
teriously vanishes. Sheet of brown paper
offered as a test bait is instantly sucked
up the chimney, too. The pub’s gardener
said the jacket must have gone inland in
the direction of Plinlimmon at 40 m.p.h.
“The maids wass telling me of it,” he
said ; “but inteet I thought they wass pull-
ing my leg.” However, as a fact, the
missing object was, like “Uramao’s”
banknotes, found on an adjacent roof.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The youngest accused person
ever to stand in a Victorian dock charged
with murder had the shortest trial on
such a charge in the State’s history.
Under Victorian law a child under seven
is regarded as being incapable of com-
mitting a crime. Between seven and 14
he is presumed not to have sufficient
understanding to be capable of wilfully
committing a crime. In the case which
came before Justice Macfarlan the child
was nine, and jurymen gazed at him in
amazement. They hadn’t to gaze long. After
the Crown Prosecutor had described how
a boy of six had been found shot dead
with a comic paper near him, in which
was an illustration which was almost a
duplicate of the situation, counsel for
the accused submitted that there was
no evidence to negative the presumption
that the boy was incapable of committing
a crime. The jury was directed to return
a verdict of “not guilty.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah” remembers Borneo:
A place-name recently in the war news was
Brunei. This British-protected native State
alongside Sarawak used to be described as the
Venice of Asia. Its claim to the title lay in the
the fact that the capital (pop. 12,000) was
built entirely on the water. The sultan’s palace,
looking rather like a dilapidated woolshed,
stood with its feet in the river, surrounded by
the houses of the pangirans or nobles. Ringing
these were the better-class suburbs, and on the
outside were the slums of the lowly, which
weren’t as unhealthy as most slums are be-
cause the tides provided a sanitary system.
A picturesque sight was the floating market,
with women, sheltered by huge umbrellas,
clustered in boats loaded with the produce of
the ocean and the jungle, and shoppers paddling
about in tiny dugouts. When the British resi-
dent’s brassbound launch steamed down the
main street on it's visits of inspection its wake
would upset countless babies, who laughed and
dived for coconuts or melons, and with an
expert shake of the hand emptied their dugouts
and climbed aboard again as if nothing had
happened. The official visit involved squat-
tings for six hours in the sultan’s silent presence,
smoking the famous Brunei cigarette (two feet
long and bedecked with ribbon), swilling coffee
as vile as the tobacco, stuffing curry and watch-
ing the potentate’s corps de ballet, composed
of his own daughters, who numbered about
100, while giggling mothers looked through
holes in the tattered curtain that walled off
their zenana. The principal decoration of the
throne-room was a bicycle some misinformed
Government had presented to the sultan, un-
aware of the fact that he hadn’t a mile of
road in his kingdom. The royal launch was an
ancient motor-boat in which the ruler was
paddled about on state occasions—nobody in
his entourage knew how to start the engine.
The sultan, like most Malay rulers, traced his
descent from Iskander Shah, in whom may be
recognised Alexander the Great, and his an-
cestors were a thorn in the side of Rajah
Brooke when Brooke was fighting Dyak head-
hunters on the one hand and Illanun pirates on
the other. There is an account in Brooke’s
journal of how he sat in the royal presence
ringed around by warriors armed to the teeth,
drinking coffee that might be poisoned.
His calmness on that occasion was probably
what got him the peaceful cession of a native
kingdom twice the size of Tasmania. Brunei
is now reported to be a Japanese seaplane base.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: “Hartifat’s” axiom
that nobody can say what will make an
enduring hit in the theatre, or why, applies
equally in other artistic spheres. A few
years ago Beethoven became a fashion,
and no symphony concert programme
was complete without other of
the Immortal Nine. Then he went out
and Bach came in, to be supplanted in
due course by Wagner. Now it is the
turn of the Russian composers. Most
people would say that Rembrandt’s place
in painting was on an unassailable
eminence, but he is just as much a
creature of fashion as a Landseer or an
Orpen. For 150 years after his death no
history of art mentioned his existence.
Then Sir Joshua Reynolds, another great
artist, rediscovered the great Dutchman.
Twenty years ago he had been relegated
again, and Velasquez became the god
of Paris. The “moderns,” however, now
refer slightingly to both Velasquez and
Rembrandt and glorify El Greco.
UNMASKING.
“The Federal Government is determined to put its
policy into effect, not only in respect of airlines
but in respect of banking.”— Mr. Calweu.
It matters nothing what they said
Or didn’t say aforetime,
Or just how often Curtin vowed
Plans such as these were what his crowd
Would never try in war-time.
When once to place and power you’ve won
And contemplate a caper,
Your pre-election pledges come
To mean no more —at least to some
Than worthless scraps of paper.
When doubtful votes you aim to sway
’Tis tact to roar (like Bottom)
As gently as a nightingale ;
But there’s a very different tale
Td tell when once you’ve got ’em.
Things shelved as dangerous until
You found yourself in clover
Become desirable again.
It seems, as soon as you obtain
A chance to put them over. •
Jove laughs at lovers’ perjuries,
’Tis said. What ebullitions
Of boisterous mirth and cynic glee
On high Olympus there must be
At those of politicians!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The new horse-breaker
was a dark, brooding sort of cove, given
to wearing highly-colored shirts and
scarves which gave him a foreign look.
He’d been with us about a week when
old Bill came in from the back station,
sighted him and whispered “Gripes, who’s
the ruddy pirate?” Young Hall, who’d
read a lot of romantic fiction, winked at
us and replied “Sh-h ; he’s one of them
gipsies. Y’ don’t want t’ get him worked
up. He carries a knife, an’ can stick the
point through the ace of clubs at twenty
feet.” Old Bill looked hard at young
Hall and said “Gam, watcher givin’ us?”
Hall was trying to think of a suitable
reply when the horse-breaker left the
yards, and came towards the hut. Old
Bill was sitting on the step and Hall was
leaning against the wall. Close to Bill
the swarthy bloke suddenly propped,
stared at Bill, then his right hand moved
quickly to his belt and there was a flash
of metal. Old Bill fell over backwards
and Hall leaped to one side. The horse-
breaker, drawing a cigarette from a nickel
case, eyed them, then said “Gripes, you
blokes got the gripes or somethin’?” Then
Bill recovered and fell upon young Hall
with sound and fury.
* * * *
“Waltzing Matilda”: However much
their mud-slinging habits may cause them
to be disliked by housewives, red hornets
may be classed among the gardener’s
insect friends. I broke a small nest which
contained 18 large caterpillars. Before
sealing them up in the larder the hornet
had apparently doped them with her
sting, as, though very groggy, they would
move slightly when prodded.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Dialogue between Mat
and a cove in a sulky at a crossroads in
the Victorian Mallee. Mat: “Which is
the road t’ Danyo?” Cove in sulky:
“Dunno,” Mat: “You live round here?”
Cove: “I might.” Mat: “Whatd’yer
mean? Do y’ or don’t y’?” Cove: “I
might.” Pause. Mat: “Where y’ makin
for?” Cove: “Home.” Mat (cunningly);
“You live Danyo way?” Cove; “I
might.” Mat (heatedly): “Can’t y’
answer a civil question?” Cove: “Dunno.
What is it?” Mat (holding himself in):
“All I want t’ know is which is the road
t’ Danyo?” Cove; “Take your pick.”
Mat (wildly): “Listen, whoinell are y’,
anyway?” Cove (mockingly); “Wouldn’t
y’ like t’ know?” Mat sits down in the
shade. Cove: “You the rabbit inspec-
tor?” Mat growls a curseful denial.
Cove: “Whyn’t say so? Thought y’ was
lookin’ for my place. If y’ ain’t the
rabbit bloke, that’s the Danyo road.” And
he drove away while Mat still fought for
breath on the ground.
* * * *
“S.G.”; A cane cocky out from
Mackay (Q.) had a 20-acre block, mostly
lantana and turkey-bush, and called
tenders for clearing it. The lowest he got
was £5 an acre. He thought the price
too steep and decided to let the block lie,
until a couple of chaps blew in with an
offer of £2 10s. “You’re on,” he said,
and invited them to start at once. But
they dillied around, saying they needed
equipment, and put in some time borrow-
ing a horse and some chains. Then the
“wet” arrived, and, when the ground was
well soaked, they ran their chain around
the bushes, hooked the nag on and
pulled them out roots and all, doing the
job inside a week. The cocky paid, but
he has growled ever since about not
having enough sense to do it that way
himself.
“We don't do another stroke till we get an extra zack for danger-money."
“M. 8”: An Adelaide youth, locating
a fox’s den in an old clay hole, took a
mate and a ferret to the spot. The ferret
went down but came back suddenly, so
the lad pegged a set rabbit-trap on the
hole. Next morning he saw the fox limp-
ing to its hole with the trap on one leg,
so he grabbed a claw-hammer, got be-
tween fox, and hole and prepared for
battle. Sighting him, the fox snarled
and showed fight, thought better of it
and turned away. The youth chased it,
and it turned and faced him. Boy and
animal eyed each other awhile, then the
fox turned again. The boy threw his
hammer and donged the fox behind an
ear, then ran in and finished it off with
hammer blows. The kid was only 10,
and can be forgiven ; but what a way to
kill!
* * * *
“P.A.”: That 75-year-old Valencia
orange (B. 22 /11 / ’44) is an infant com-
pared with the pear-trees growing at
“Brucedale,” historic home of the Suttors
near Bathurst (N.S.W.). These veterans
are nearing 120 years, and are about 80
feet high. And they still bear good
fruit.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; Yes, I, too, thought that
the dog’s eyes being lower than mine con-
tributed to his inability to see a squat-
ting rabbit (B. 22/11/ ’44), until I made
a test. Waiting until Rowdy was well
away, I stepped close to a big tree but
not behind it, and whistled him up.
Rowdy charged back, galloped madly
past the tree for about half a chain,
baulked, ran round in circles, then
stopped and analysed the wind. Then
he came shambling back past the tree,
nose to ground, and went beyond me (I
was standing like a statue), though I could
have kicked him. Try it on your mong.,
“Long ’Un.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: I’d like a bite at “Cou’s” cast
(B. 8 1 11 1 ’44). When I was a joey-tailer
on our greenhide station the customary
preliminary to boarding a bucking
broncho was to grab the near ear whilst
holding the reins in the left hand, and
give it a severe twist. The pain diverted
the nag’s attention to the outraged
auricle, giving the breaker a chance
to grip the monkey and fork the leather.
Consequent on a buster, the same organ
was grabbed again, but this time the sen-
sitive tip was bitten hard by the spilled.
This procedure was repeated till it
dawned on the moke that the rider didn’t
bite when aboard; then it became tract-
able and amenable to further tuition.
Only saw the method fail once, and that
was when an enthusiastic jackeroo broke
his fangs on a brumby’s lug while taking
his nineteenth nip.
# * ♦ m
“Herbert Dawson”: I’ve been waiting
for someone to K.O. “The 0.D.” with
the wood duck —more correctly called the
maned goose. Go to any isolated dam
and watch the wood ducks when they
rise at your approach. After circling
madly four or five times they • will do
one of two things—streak off in a bee-
line for some other waterhole or slacken
pace and “soar” to the high limbs of dead
trees, green gums or apple-trees. As for
better ease in landing, they avoid heavy
foliage or closely-grown limbs ; they very
often do land on the very top of a tree,
flapping their wings for a moment to get
their balance. Wood duck nest in the
hollow limbs of trees, as in some in-
stances do black duck, presumably to
escape the depredations of foxes.
* * * *
“No. 5”: Sam had the floor: “When a
fox can’t get fresh fish he’s not above takin’
on a bit o’ tinned stuff. F’r instance,
Jones the hawker has his van busted up
at the Nine Mile Bend. The stuff’s shot
all over the place, so when the John takes
Jones to horspital he asks me to keep a
eye on things so that no one don’t pinch
any. I’m sittin’ on me blue under a tree
half asleep when I see a big fox come out
o’ the scrub and go to a busted case
of salmon. He paws it about and gets
out a tin. ‘Now what’s he goin’ to do
with a tin?’ I thinks, for I can’t see him
gettin’ it open. But foxes is brainy, and
the first thing he tries is droppin’ it from
a big high rock alongside the road. But
though he drops it half a dozen times it
only ends in the tin bein’ dinted. Then
he seems to do a hard think, for he takes
the tin and lays it out on the road, right
in a wheel rut. And sure enough when
the next car comes tearin’ along that tin
is busted both ends, and Mr. Fox just
squats there and licks it clean.” “Not a
bad yarn,” drawled Scotty, “but one
thing you forgot—how did that fox know
there was fish inside that tin? It mighter
been jam or honey.” “That’s easy!”
Sam countered. “There was a big salmon
on the label.”
* * * «
“A.E.W.”: W. McDonald, a Numur-
kah (Vic.) farmer, won the local show
championship with a large white boar.
When the call came for winners to join
the grand parade somebody bet Mc-
Donald £1 that he wouldn’t lead “Bonnie
Leslie” around. McDonald took him up,
put a halter on the pig, and the animal
lumbered around with the rest. It prob-
ably made history as the first pig
champion to pose in a grand parade. But
country show organisers aren’t pleased—
they fear that a precedent has been estab-
lished and that if future pig exhibitors
insist on joining in the local pipe band
will have to give up its performance. The
pipes have a dreadful effect on pigs.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: The youngsters at our
small S.A. country school should make
good station managers in a few years’
time. In the schoolroom window-sills are
a dozen or so jars of water swarming
with life. No outback sheepman receiv-
ing reports from his boundary-riders ever
showed more concern than do these kids
on their daily inspections of their glass
“paddocks.” One jar is alive with the
tiny crustacean Cyclops, and the feed’s
getting low. Someone draws up a pipette
of water, full of darting specks of life,
and holds it to the light. “Gee, Stinker,
that ’un’s got eggs—an’ there’s another.
Whip ’em over here. There’s been
nothin’ in this jar since we took them
snails out.” A further consultation de-
cides that one of the water beetles, the
diver, the boatman or the backswimmer,
is getting low on feed, and someone is
told off to bring a raft of mosquito eggs
—very carefully, on wet blotting paper—
from an exposed jar. Someone suggests
transferring algae to a jar that’s “gettin’
pretty bare” through the activities of its
thousands of Cypris or Estheria. Then
there’s an argument as to whether the
caddis should or should not be given cut
grass-stems to make a bigger house. The
only element lacking is a complete
absence of discussion on the price of
wool.
“Rover”: “Salama” (B. 15/11/’44) is
right: the bush mechanic is certainly a
world-beater for improvisation. When
the Marree-Birdsville mailman, who does
a 600-mile round trip by motor truck, was
about halfway on his return trip from
Birdsville the truck broke down when a
clutch disc snapped. With the aid of a
portable radio transmitter and receiver
the mailman got in touch with his head-
quarters at Yunta, 350 miles away, to
see whether a new disc could be
sent. As this was impossible the
resourceful fellow set to work,
and in less than 24 hours manu-'
factured a clutch disc from the
bottom of an oil drum. It worked,
and the mailman completed his
run without further mishap.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”; One stormy
evening in the Great North-east
Channel, which gives access to the
Coral Sea through Bligh Channel
at the northern end of the Great
Barrier Reef, we were forced to
shelter in the lee of Aurid Island,
a circular sand cay about a mile
across, lying at the north-western
end of a treacherous reef. Land-
ing on the uninhabited speck next
morning we came across four
graves in front of the remains of
a hut, behind which stretched
acres of neglected coconut palms
set out in regular rows. Only one
of the graves was marked; its
headstone of coral roc£ bore the
carving “Francis Garcia.” As we
subsequently learned, Garcia, a
half-caste Frenchman, settled on
Aurid in the 1880’s with his
family. A couple of years later
they were all found dead, their
fate a mystery that was never solved.
The reef off Aurid is a veritable
haven of sea miracles; because of
its astonishing variety of beautiful
corals, its brilliant anemones and amaz-
ing crabs, it is worth travelling miles to
see. One of our ardent shell-collectors
had a narrow escape from a painful death
on the reef; he had picked up and was
examining one of the prettily-marked
Conn textile shells when the deadly
animal shot out its long proboscis, studded
with tiny sharp-pointed teeth, which for-
tunately struck his leather wrist-watch
band. The teeth are hollow, and at the
base of each is a poison gland ; when the
teeth strike a victim the poison is dis-
charged by pressure into the wounds. It is
death unless prompt medical aid is avail-
able. A few years back one Barrier Reef
visitor was hurried to the mainland when
stung by a C. textile, but he died before
reaching hospital.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: At one time every creek
and inlet of the North Westralian coast
swarmed with dugong, and in the weaving
and working of dugong nets the native
of those parts reached the pinnacle of
abo, ingenuity and industry. With a mesh
about that of an ordinary pig net, many
of the seines were six to eight feet in
depth with a length of a hundred yards
or more. The dugong’s habit of seeking
shallow water to feed on the weed there,
as well as to evade the sharks, made net-
ting fairly easy. In quiet waters the sea-
pig made its presence known by big air
bubbles. Running the net around the
quarry was done exactly as whites would
do it. A haul to the beach followed, the
dugong lumping in helplessly to the sand.
According to ancient abo. chronicles, up
to half a dozen dugong, large and small,
might be netted in the one haul, and with-
out the disturbance which harpooning
caused, in which the wild flurry of the
struck “fish” invariably scared away every
other dugong within a mile,
OUTLAW’S END.
The word came up the river with the rising of
the sun:
“There are dead ewes out on Kulkyne and a
dingo on the run;
He’s heading for the timber and the lignum in
the bend;
So muster all the men you can —this time we’ll
make an end.”
We knew the long red record of the warrigal
we sought,
And we’d not leave the saddle till we had the
beggar caught. <
He had killed in homestead sheep-yards and in
camps upon the plains;
He had slipped past drovers’ road-dogs, leap-
ing madly on their chains;
And up and down the country, when the nights
were dark and still,
He’d strike with deadly swiftness and make his
silent kill;
But now we had him running for the shelter
of the brakes,
Where lignum laced the twisted creeks and hid
the tiny lakes.
Our tiring horses splashed across and struggled
in the bogs;
Our spurs sank in to urge them on, behind the
eager dogs.
From the high banks of the Horseshoe to the
sandy curve of Brinn,
The riders strung, a broken line, and pressed
the cordon in.
Our mounts went down in hidden holes or
slithered to their knees;
They galloped o’er the open parts and jumped
the fallen frees.
At last we cleared the tangled swamps, and now
there lay before
A plain that ran a mile or so to meet the river’s
shore.
Halfway across, close pressed to ground, a
fleeting shadow ran,
That paused not - at our wild salute as the last
fell race began.
Now three of us were running clear, myself and
Steele and Smayle,
With a greyhound on the dingo’s flank, another
on his tail.
We saw the outlaw’s ranging tongue, we saw
his white teeth flash,
We saw a greyhound reel away from a deadly
sideways slash.
Then Steele’s big grey pitched on its nose, its
rider pitched beyond;
We galloped on and gave a yell and heard the
chase respond.
We ran him to the river bank, which there was
ten feet high;
He turned and bared his teeth at us, at bay
against the sky.
A moment stood he, fierce and bold, as though
cut out of stone.
And looked beyond the snarling pack, aloof,
erect, alone.
Our dogs rushed in; ’twas short and sharp, for
they were twelve to one;
The outlaw lay with throat torn out, his glazed
eyes to the sun.
And so we proved that law must run for every
living thing,
And we had brought a rebel down; but our
dogs had slain a king.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Sou’-west”: When Long Bob offered
to bet that fresh-water fish could be called
to dinner much the same as a cat or a
dog I, being cautious, only laid drinks on
it. For proof we journeyed a few miles
into the ranges east of Perth to where old
Tom Boucher owned a few acres at- the
bottom of an immense gorge and ran
many goats and more fowls than he could
count. By diverting a fraction of the
stream, which in winter roared along the
bottom of the gorge, Tom had created
a. sort of billabong, well shaded by
banksias and casuarinas. • This billabong
was his fish farm. Years before when
the W.A. Government was fish-conscious
and anxious to assist farmers and others
to stock dams and other private waters
Tom had obtained his issue of small fry,
perch and carp. The perch had died out,
but the carp were flourishing. And just
as Long Bob had said, the big old fellows
of the pool would come at the call to
dinner. This was simply a piercing
whistle by their owner, reward for atten-
tion and attendance being a share in the
handfuls of soaked wheat that was cast
upon the water. But even without the
bribe the owner’s whistle any time could
call the older fish to the spot. Old Tom
reckoned it was nothing wonderful—-
carp all the world over could be trained
to come to the sound of a bell or a-
whistle. When he wanted a fish dinner
he angled at the far end of the pool.
* * *
“Bo”: The dust storm sweeping from
the west had reduced visibility to less
“Bowyangs a bit slack, Brewster !”
than 100 yards. Old Tom Bartlett had
got his waggon team half across the-
single-track line when Murray hailed him
from the bottom end of his paddock.
Tom got up on the shafts and was con-
centrating on what Murray was saying
jvhen a train came round the bend. The
driver jammed on the brakes, but it was
too late to avoid a collision. The engine
cut between the wheelers and the leaders ;
the latter, freed, lit out for the horizon,
and by the manner of their going had
obviously suffered no harm. The
wheelers were thrown back into a culvert,
also unhurt. The shafts were cut from
under Tom’s feet and the force of the
impact hurled him into the air. He
described an ungraceful parabola and
miraculously lobbed flush on his feet and
remained upright, also unhurt. It was
then that Thomas looked down and
saw that a gap had been torr
out of the toe of his right blucher.
Suiting the action to words, he
pulled off the old felt that had still
clung to his skull, hurled it in the dust
and began describing, with great viru-
lence, the engine-driver, who had climbed
down from his cab expecting to have to
wipe what was left of Tom off the near-
front wheel. “Look at me trilby—
rooined!” wailed Tom. “I on’y got the
pais last week after waitin’ munce! You
an’ y’r blanky engine not lookin’ where
y’r goin’!”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Wheelbarrows were
common in early W.A. gold rushes, but
the barrel barrow was a shade unusual.
A stout hogshead served as the wheel,
an axle, generally of wood, passing
through the centre of the ends. On top,
carried by brackets fixed to the axle,
would be a sizable platform. A pair of
shafts, back and front, made it a two-man
vehicle. A handle at each corner made
it a four-man job, and big loads could be
carried. But the prize went to the “go-
devil,” a Californian invention. The
main item of this was a discarded rear
wheel of a buckboard. A short length
of Uin. pipe, flanged at both ends, served
as the axle. To these flanges a pair of
light shafts were bolted, running well
past the wheel, back and front. So one
partner took the front, his mate the rear.
Swags, tools, stores were lashed on the
shafts. The “go-devil” was especially good
in rough and hilly country, tracking up
gullies and along ridges where a two-
wheeled vehicle would have been blocked,
also bumping over ruts and stones that
would have foundered the wheelbarrow.
But it couldn’t compete with the barrel
barrow in crossing long stretches of sand.
* * * *
“Aratta”: The visitor, leaning over
the bar with a half-emptied pot in front
of him, remarked to Grogan, the publi-
can, “It’s 25 years ago since I was last
in these parts. You weren’t here then.
Dooley had the place in them days.”
“I bought it from Dooley 20 year ago,”
said Grogan, “an’ have been here ever
since.” “I see,” remarked the other;
“well, the place ain’t altered any in all
them years. The township’s just the
same sleepy ole hole it uster be. Even
this joint ain’t altered —the same ole
fittin’s an’ the same ole pitchers on
the wall.” He strolled to the door and
stood gazing outside. An there s the
same ole gum-tree where the fellers useter
sleep it orf when they got a skinful Not
that they ever got any outa me. Not on
y’r life! If a feller wants booze let him
pay fer it himself is my motter. There s
“It's the R.A.F.’s new invincible flying formation."
a coupler blokes over there now. Cripes,
they’re gettin’ up an’ cornin’ on the bot.
Must ’a’ spotted me.” Grogan grinned
sourly at him. “Y’ needn’t be afraid
they’ll touch yer,” he said. “As soon as
they reckeraise yer they’ll know it’s useless.
‘The same ole tightwad drinkin’ with the
same ole flies,’ they’ll tell each other.”
The pair tramped into the bar, and the
visitor hurriedly finished off his pot and
made for the door. “Hi!” cried Grogan
after him, “there’s still a same ole custom
we same olesfoller here.” “What’s that?”
asked the other. “Payment fer the licker
y’ drink,” replied Grogan. The other
parted up with an attempt at apology
and made for the door again. As he
passed through it he heard one of the
old-timers say to Grogan “Still the same
ole schemer, I see. That’s the same ole
dodge he useter try on Dooley. Yes, he’s
the same ole !”
* # * *
“Narrin”: For the Paternal Pride
Stakes my cash is on W. Wagtail and
Mr. Blue Wren. The former put on such
airs this season that we knew at once
when he’d begun to furnish his domicile.
And when the youngsters arrived he was
übiquitous —on a bush in the garden,
perched on the woodheap or, if we went
inside, swaying on the wire fence out-
side the kitchen window, always as near
to one of us as possible, swelling with
pride and carolling “Sweet-pretty-crea-
ture.” The blue wren, who con-
trives to make shaving almost a pleasure
by watching the process from the creeper
outside the bathroom window, came and
told me when his youngsters made their
first flight. Landing on a twig a foot
from my nose, his alarm clock going
madly and his blue forehead feathers on
end with excitement, he hopped and flut-
tered till he was sure I’d seen the four
short-tailed brown babies in the hedge.
The whole family, including last year’s
male baby, now come to help me shave.
* * * *
“Pookie”; The Arabs don’t breed from
white horses, and they have an even
more rooted aversion to piebalds and
skewbalds. The desert sheik doesn’t
ride a “milk-white stallion” as the
mush novelist depicts more likely
he’d be riding a grey mare. The pukka
horse-breeding tribes rarely sell an animal
of ancient lineage, although one is some-
times given to a distinguished foreigner.
Such animals as “Bombay Arabs” are as
remote from the aristocrats of the desert
as a bottle-oh’s nag is from a Melbourne
Cup winner.
* * * ,*
“Wang”: “Y’ hear a lot about the
mateship of swag-carriers,” remarked
Dan, “but a sample. of it one time
spoiled the easiest money-makin’ stunt I
ever struck. One mornin’ I’d just pulled
up alongside the road t’ make camp when
a coupla fat chaps in a big motor-car
stops in front of me an’ sits eyein’ me
off for a minit or so. Then one of ’em
asks me if I would like t’ earn some easy
money. ’Corse, 1 ses yes. Then the bloke
ses he’s a candidate for Parliament an
is boldin’ ’lection meetin’s in all the
townships in the ’lect’rate. What he wants
me t’ do is dead easy —just bog me frame
in when he’s makin’ a speech an let
him score off me. He offers me a quid
a time. I dump meself an’ me swag in
the back of the car an’ off we go. He
drops me half a mile outside the first
township, an’ I wait for awhile an then
stroll up t’ where he’s addressin’ an open-
air meetin’. He spots me, an’ beefs out.
‘Gentlemen, if y’ let the other side get
in you’ll soon be humpin’ yer swags like
our friend there! ’ an’ goes on with some
smart-alec talk at my expense. The crowd
laughs an’ I mumble somethin’ an’ slink
off. Well, we turn on the act at halt
a dozen places an’ it goes big; it s
worth hundreds of votes to him, he
reckons. One afternoon he’s at me
again, as usual, when a voice behind me
ses ‘Lumme! Y’ ain’t goin’ t’ take
that from that fat goat, are yer?’ an' I
look round an’ see a little runt with a
swag up just behind me, I mumble some-
thin’, an’ then the runt yelps ‘Gripes, if
you ain’t game t’ I’ll fix the cow, talkin
about us blokes like that’; an’ he ups with
a lump of mud an’ lands me employer
fair on the dial with it. That tore it. Be
the time we wus both outer clink the elec-
tion’s over.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Ferrets!” Aub exploded
in his three-mile voice. “I had one of
them (blue-pencilled so-and-sos) once.”
Pause for spitting purposes. “The (ver-
million) thing stuck me up for hours one
day. I poked me head down the burrow
and nearly whistled me teeth out givin’
the signal I’d trained the (gory, father-
less thing) to come to, but the only thing
interested was a bull-ant that died
bitin’. Then I try to smoke the (illumined
this-and-that) out. A nasty little bloke
rides up and wants to know what the hell
I’m startin’ a fire on his property for, I
ask him is he blind or something. He
reckons he’ll punch me on the nose; and
I ask him what he intends to stand on.
On second thoughts he sools his (blood-
stained) dawg On to me instead. The
mong makes a couple of them encirchn
movements ; then rushes in with a pantsei
attack in the rear. Success goes to his
head, and he tries a frontal assault, but
the old blucher boot meets him with a
daisy Limerick uppercut. His boss
tries to urge him back, but he seems to
have got kind of war-weary. The bloke
rides away a bit, then yells a few things
about me parents’ carelessness, ana
reckons he’s cornin’ back with four big
sons and a (sanguinary) shot-gun. it
comes on to rain; I’m soaked t
the skin and goin’ to turn it up when
the ferret pokes his head out of a P°P*
hole, I try to grab him, and he ducks
back. Four times the (highly-colored so-
and-so) does that, but when I do get him
he hooks his teeth into me. I’ve had all
I can stand, add I give him a cuff that
sends him flying. Then, when I go t°
pick him up I find after all I’ve been
through I’ve broken me ferret’s (censored)
neck!”
STRIKE AT EVENING.
The bombs have gone, and now,
Steep in their curving fall,
They scream to other ears than ours.
Their short-lived racing flight must end
In distant flowers of the night
That bloom and die,
A swift red glow that flickers and is gone.
The strike is done, and now
Grey sea, dark land, swing out
And turn about in slow, smooth flow,
And we are homing down the sky s
Grey twilight, with the day above
And night below,
Alone and lonely through the sliding clouds.
There is no night up here;
It lies below, straight down,
Where mists a-smoke are creeping slow
Across the grey rain forest, while
The crocheted hem of sand and sea
Has disappeared,
Its lace a-smear with black Papuan night.
From out the wisps of dusk
She comes, and hangs beside.
Sleek sisters of the bombing flight,
They glide together through the night.
Their straining wings like outstretched arms
Are holding halids .
Across the chasm of nothing in between.
And I am tired, as slow
The lights that rim the world
Come up and beckon through the dusk,
Then sweep beneath, a chandelier
Of friendly gleams swung upside down;
A carnival
Of sparkling eyes that cry ‘Come down to
us.”
R.A.A.F.
E. J. WALKER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR .SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
v SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLBVILLB, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Cm
c
_ D BONE
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Sterilised
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
■ All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 688 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ŵ
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Your Dog ArC |Tls Health ?' g
if your dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged —if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powders and apply
BARKO Ski n Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
ẁ
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION - - -2/»
lODINE DOG SOAP - 9d.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lambing Losses.
“Bungaree”Every sheep-breeder takes
it as a matter of course that lamb losses
will occur and it is only when they reach
alarming proportions that much notice is
taken of them. If the actual figures
were available the country would get a
shock. Compared with other countries,
sheep raising in Australia is a haphazard
business. Australian breeders owe much
to nature, not so much to good farming
methods.
Overstocking is, of course, the chief
cause of lamb mortality, as it is of other
evils. Unless the ewe has sufficient nutri-
tious feed, particularly in the two months
before lambing, she will be unable to
rear a good lamb, and if she is carrying
twins the chances are that pregnancy
toxaemia may kill ewe and lambs. But
even if lambing is safely accomplished,
if there is insufficient feed the ewe will
most likely desert the lamb. It has been
the custom in many districts where feed
is scarce to kill all but one of multiple
birth lambs.
During the past two seasons, which
have been adverse on the whole. lamb
losses have been particularly severe. A
marking of 70 p.c. is hailed as excellent,
but loss of practically every lamb
dropped is only too common and in
many cases graziers did not even bother
to join the rams. This means a short-
age of young sheep in the immediate
future.
A set of figures compiled by a grazier
in north-west N.S.W. this season is illu-
minating as to what is occurring on a
carefully-managed property. Although it
is almost impossible on a large property
to ascertain the exact number of lambs
dropped, the ewes were handled twice in
this instance and all dry ewes were taken
out, while constant supervision during the
lambing period resulted in a fairly re-
liable account. Naturally, lambs dropped
and survivals varied with the class of
sheep. Among young ewes the percent-
age of lamb losses was practically 50 p.c.
Over a total of 2500 ewes which actually
lambed the lambs lost between the birth
and a month after marking averaged 23
p.c. The ®wner estimated that with one
other man available he could have saved
500 lambs, and his argument is that it
would pay every sheep-breeder to err on
the side of overstaffing, particularly at
lambing time, rather than to run a prop-
erty on the smallest number of men
possible.
It may be argued that closer settle-
ment and the cutting up of large estates
would result in the raising of a larger
number of lambs, but would it? The
solution lies with each individual breeder.
A man with 500 ewes to lamb will lose
more if he is the happy-go-lucky type
than the man with 1000 ewes who is pre-
pared to look after them. The answer
lies more in educating sheep-breeders by
making them realise the extent of the
losses that have occurred in the past, and
are still likely to occur unless drastic
steps are taken to prevent them.
Sprays and' Bees.
“Malpas”: When introducing the
Apiaries (Amendment) Bill, the N.S.W.
Minister for Agriculture said that the
value of bees as pollinators of fruit,
vegetable and farm crops exceeded their
value as producers of honey. In view
of that, it seems strange that the bill
makes no provision for preventing the
wholesale annual poisoning of bees result-
ing from the use of arsenical sprays in
orchards while fruit-trees are in bloom.
The problem was recently discussed at
a conference at Hartford (U.S.A.), which
was attended by chemists, beekeepers.
“.... Then as soon as the ol' rogue bogs down you dash in and slip the
winkers on ’ im , Ma .”
fruit-growers, entomologists and makers
of insecticides and sprays. It was there
pointed out that bees have a partiality for
arsenic, though a minute dose is fatal,
and that the most hopeful means of com-
bating the trouble was by the use of re-
pellents, i.e., the admixture of some sub-
stance to the spray to make it distasteful
to the bees.
It was stated that the following had
been used with some success; To dust
sprays add 20 p.c. sulphur dust to 80 p.c.
arsenical dust, and to liquid sprays one
pint of creosote to the gallon. It is
possible, however, that the addition of re-
pellents to arsenical sprays may, in pre-
venting the bees from drinking the
poisoned nectar, also prevent them carry-
ing out their valuable fertilising work
or at least limit its effectiveness. The use
of arsenical sprays and poison baits has
imposed upon the Australian apiarist,
and the producer of crops as well, serious
losses. There aren’t so many bees that
wie can afford to poison them every
blossom time. It’s time some effort was
made to discover a means of saving them.
The Military Horse.
“Pookie”; “Clyde” (B. 4/10/’44) com-
ments on deterioration of our horses,
mentions the importance of the “waler”
as an export article in the past and states
that the chief role of the Australian horse
in the future will be with stock. The
general opinion is that increasing
mechanisation of warfare has nullified
the horse as a military factor, but has it?
I have talked with men from the North-
west Frontier of India who were con-
vinced that no tank or armored car could
ever completely supplant the horse in
those regions.
In northern Greece I was astonished to
see horse-floats in armored divisions. The
Germans then had the most efficient
mechanised army in the field. The horses
soon demonstrated their utility. When a
track or wheeled vehicle became bogged
in ground which made it impracticable to
rescue it by tank or truck the horses did
the job with efficiency and celerity, then
returned to their floats and continued the
journey till their services were again re-
quired. Nor was their use confined to
this. Mounted parties were sent south-
east from Fiorina in outflanking move-
ments over mountain trails. Owing to
our lack of air support and weak hold on
Greece generally, these auxiliaries were
not necessary in their main strategic pur-
pose, but they were eminently successful
in cleaning up guerrilla bands.
When Britain began to mechanise her
army one of the buyers of her horses was
Germany, which also took over the
cavalry of the occupied countries. One
obvious advantage of such a move was
the conservation of fuel by use of horse
transport; in addition, during this war
every training area in Germany and the
occupied countries has riding schools for
officers and n.c.os. Whether this is
merely tradition or not, it is a phase of
contemporary German, and therefore of
European, military life which will be of
interest to the horse-breeder of the future.
Mixing Cement.
“B-gar”; If the correct proportion of
suitable materials is used and mixing
done in a thorough manner on a clean
floor or mixing board* there is no reason
why any weak patches should show up
in concrete. Poor results are generally
due to careless mixing.
Stone, sand and cement should be
carefully measured and cleaned of soil,
grass or other unwanted materials. The
stone should be spread out first, followed
by the sand and the cement on top.
Mixing must be thorough, a certain test
being the uniformity in color of the mix-
ture. Merely turning the mixture won’t
do ; each shovelful should be thrown with
a turn of the wrist so that the contents
are well spread. Pockets of stone or sand
must be avoided, and any balls of sand
broken with the back of the shovel. With
an ordinary batch two or perhaps three
turnings will be sufficient before getting
ready for mixing.
To prepare for mixing the dry
materials should be shovelled into the
shape of a saucer and of such a nature to
prevent overflowing of any water, which
should be sprinkled into the middle. Mix-
ing should take place from the edges to
the middle, adding water when necessary.
The wet material should then be
shovelled and turned to another part of
the mixing platform and then back again,
the test of a thorough mix again being in
the uniformity of the color. Best results
are obtained by making batches of a size
that will permit of quick handling.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hux”: Cobbler’s wax is best for
heavy stitching in harness repairs. To
make, heat 11b. pitch with 4oz. of resin
until thoroughly and mixed;
pour into cold water and store. If it
proves too hard and brittle for winter use
make a second mixture of 11b. pitch,. 3oz.
of resin and 3oz. of mutton fat. When
the thread’s too hard and sticky to run
well smear the fingers with raw beef or
mutton fat and run the thread between
them.
“Jumbuck”: The mixture of wool fat,
resin, karnauba wax, etc., which “Mac-
kay” (B. 8/11/ ’44) recommends for
branding sheep is practically the same as
that suggested years ago by the research
people at Torrington (Eng.). I saw the
mixture used and it did no more than did
several other reliable branding fluids that
were then on the market, and which, in-
cidentally, were more economical. At
present there are half a dozen or so
proved branding fluids on the market that
will scour out without any trouble. Any
grazier requiring a reliable branding
fluid should get in touch with his wool-
broker.
“L.C.”: For an economical filler that
will stop cracks around windows and
doors of sheds and outbuildings, mix to-
gether equal parts of fine sand and
asphalt ‘roofing paint. It dries hard, is
water- and weatherproof and takes paint
readily.
“B.”: To make timber white-ant proof
for life leave it in the sheep-dip bath for
five to eight weeks. Stir at least once a
day and turn over every few days so that
the whole is well soaked.
“Bennie”; When sowing seed in tropi-
cal areas, particularly in summer months,
dip the seeds in kerosene for at least 24
hours before planting them. Apart from
maturing quicker* the odor of the kero-
sene will prevent various types of tropical
ants from eating the seeds.
“Myrrhee”: Hessian or sacking makes
a good covering for a poultry house when
treated with the following cement mix-
ture; Hgal. water, 121 b. cement, 21b.
lime, lib. salt, |lb- alum. Put salt and
lime through a fine sieve and add to the
water ; then add cement, stirring while
adding, and finally the alum. This is
enough to give three coats to eight square
yards of sacking. Nail the hessian firmly
to the roof timbers and dampen it about
half an hour before applying the wash.
Apply outside and inside. Before the
mixture sets, but after the initial wetness
disappears, apply a second coat on the
outside. Do it on a cool day and keep
the surface damp for three days.
“C.S.”: Drought, dust and bushfires
ruined the Sydney R.A.S. idea of a spring
show of fruit and veges. It was listed
for December 7-9, but has been aban-
doned.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Plain Talk War.
(From a N.Y. Daily Mirror urncte oy muiK
Hellinger.)
Since I returned to the U.S. from the
Pacific battlefronts, by way of India, I
have encountered such smugness, such
blindness to actualities that I shiver
about the dream world in which so many
of our citizens are living and about the
remarkable over-optimism that exists in
connection with the Japanese war and
about the sickening propaganda that the
Japs are just pleasant little kiddies after
all.
The war with Japan is so far from over
that unless Russia steps in—and I hate
to think of the price if she does—it can
easily take from two to three years, plus
landing millions of men on Japanese soil,
to accomplish the victory.
Let’s not kid ourselves. The Jap is a
fantastic creature in warfare —cruel,
treacherous, barbaric, inhuman. To con-
quer him you have to kill him.
But, so many people ask, what about
Germany’s collapse? Won’t that make
the conquest of Japan fairly simple?
When, working harmoniously with the
Chinese, we throw all our ships and
’planes against that one target —when
Britain does the same —how will Japan
be able to hold out more than a month
or two?
My answer Is, the actual winning of
the war must rest on the shoulders of
the infantry. Dying in battle is a basic
element in the Jap religion. I doubt all
the ’planes and ships in the world will
make the Jap quit. He will be conquered
by overwhelming land forces, nothing
else.
Britain? Well, about all we can do in
that direction is hope for the best. Time
alone will provide Ihe answer to Chur-
chill’s promise that England intends to
go all th,e way with us in the battle
against Japan. But if our partnership
situation in India today is any demonstra-
tion of that promise, may the Lord have
mercy on our bond of friendship.
Admiral Mountbatten, supreme com-
mander in south-east Asia, has all the
qualities of a fighting leader, is unques-
tionably the best English friend we
Americans have in that part of the globe.
Unfortunately, his hands are so tied that
he’ll never get into action unless he digs
up Houdini. Mountbatten is able, ener-
getic, brilliant —but the political overtones
in India today would stifle the greatest
warrior that ever lived.
China? Very sick. The picture is
gloomy, the graft incredible. Corruption
and double-dealing blur the canvas
wherever you look. For our own pro-
tection we have done everything possible
to keep China in the war. 'That has been
expensive. It’s going to be a hundred
times more expensive to keep China in
the peace.
Here at home, what can we expect
when Germany folds? If there is dancing
in the streets right now what will we
have when the European war is over?
Politicians will gobble votes on a “bring-
the-boys-back-home” platform; a severe
let-down in the war effort is certain. The
propagandists will be working. They’re
working diligently now —and if we’re not
very careful they’ll have us in a negotiated
peace with Japan before we realise what
is happening.
They’ll tell us about the lovely cherry
blossoms, about Japanese-Americans who
have been doing such a swell job in Italy,
how we are all really brothers under the
skin and it’s not the fault of the Jap
people—only the leaders.
Leaders, my foot! The Jap is the
dirtiest, the most despicable torturer the
world has ever known. He has no sense
of honor, no sense of decency, no sense
of humanity. He is the scum of a warped
civilisation —and we should wage such
ruthless war against him that he will be
crushed for all time as a potential world
Power.
And beware of the lofty soul who tells
you otherwise. Beware of the idealist
who tells you we must be kind to the
Germans and the Japs—because we will
educate them into being better people in
a better world. We face many grave
problems, but I know of no greater
danger than the romantic dreamer who
permits lofty theories to overshadow
incontrovertible facts.
Roosevelt on Germany.
(From a speech by President Roosevelt to the
U.S. Foreign Policy Association .)
“As for Germany, that tragic nation
which has sown the wind and is now
reaping the whirlwind, we and our Allies
are entirely agreed that we shall not bar-
gain with the Nazi conspirators, or leave
them a shred of control —open or secret
—of the instruments of government.
“We shall not leave them a single ele-
ment of military power—or a potential
military power.
“But I should be false to the very foun-
dations of my religious and political con-
victions if I should ever relinquish the
hope—or even the faith —that in all
peoples, without exception, there live
some instinct for truth, some attraction
toward justice, some passion for peace—
buried as it may be in the German case
under a brutal regime.
“We bring no charge against the Ger-
man race, as such, for we cannot believe
that God has eternally condemned any
race or humanity. We know in our own
land, in the United States of America,
how many good men and women of Ger-
man ancestry have proved loyal, free-
dom-loving and peace-loving citizens.
“But there is going to be a stern pun-
ishment for all those in Germany directly
responsible for this agony of mankind.
“The German people are not going to
be enslaved. Why? Because the United
Nations do not traffic in human slavery.
But it will be necessary for them to earn
their way back—earn their way back into
the fellowship of peace-loving and law-
abiding nations. And in their climb up
that steep road we shall certainly see
to it that they are not encumbered by
having to carry guns. We hope they, will
be relieved of that burden forever.”
Post-war Jap Trade.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times" report.)
Will the United Nations permit Japan
again to dominate world markets with a
tremendous volume of cheap cotton
goods produced by low-cost labor?
Before the war Japan, like Great
Britain, produced cotton textiles mainly
for export. In 1938 Japan exported
approximately 2,181,000,000 square yards v
of cotton piece goods. Great Britain ex-
ported only 1,386,000,000 square yards
in that year. In 1939 Japan increased her
exports to a toltal of 2,445,000,000 square
yards and at the same time was able to
sell other countries more than 82,000,000
pounds of yarn. The figures illustrate
how Japan flooded world markets with
cheap goods.
U.S. textile men argue that the United
States must step in and cut herself in for
a large slice of this business.
The countries in Asia imported
1,500,000,000 square yards of Japanese
textiles in 1939. British India alone took
approximately 31 per cent, of Japanese
output in return for the export to Japan
of upward of 1,000,000 bales of cotton.
The United States, of course, would
hardly be in a position to accept the huge
amount of the staple that British India
formerly sold to Japan, but, textile men
say, an arrangement might easily be
worked out under which Indian cotton
could be pooled with quantities from the
U.S. for use by China, Netherlands
Indies, Australia, Russia and Great
Britain with the understanding that the
U.S. would be permitted to supply these
countries and India with staple textiles in
amounts sufficient to make up for their
own production deficiencies.
The statement of President Roosevelt
that we will occupy Japan after her defeat
brought forth the suggestion that wage
levels there might be pegged high enough
to protect our export markets. However,
if there is no intent of interfering with
Japanese internal affairs to that extent we
can still prevent Japan from becoming a
major cotton textile producer for export
by insisting that the United Nations with-
hold the staple from her.
Such sanctions would not spell the ruin
of her textile industry, because she could
concentrate on rayon production for her
own use and silk manufacturing for
export.
The Big-Powers World.
(As seen by the well-informed “United States
News.’'')
The United States, long dominant in
the Western Hemisphere, is coming out
of this war with her responsibilities en-
larged. On the Atlantic side, she will
have long-term leases on a string of bases
in British territory. On the Pacific side,
she expects to be guardian of a new net-
work of islands lying between Hawaii
and the Philippines. In the settlement of
Western Hemisphere questions, the U.S.
regards the Latin-American countries as
partners. Jf policing is necessary under
the United Nations plan, such countries
as Mexico and Brazil might be invited
to take part. But Britain, France and
Russia are not regarded as having a
primary interest in this hemisphere, nor
would they be asked to take part in police
measures.
The British-French sphere, as it is ex-
pected to work out, would be largely the
same as before this war. It will include
Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Bel-
gium, Spain and Portugal in Western
Europe. It will include all of Africa, the
countries along the Mediterranean and
the Middle East. In these areas Italy’s
former influence will be gone, and will
be replaced by British-French influence.
The British-French sphere will include the
Indian Ocean, India and .all of South-
eastern Asia, except the Philippines, and
will extend as far as Australia and New
Zealand. It will touch Canada as part
of tire British Commonwealth of Nations.
Most matters arising in that sphere would
not call for U.S. intervention, and, except
in certain cases affecting U.S. interests,
the U.S. would not expect to take part in
police measures.
If Russian ideas are accepted, the
former British, French and German influ-
ence in Eastern Europe will be replaced
by that of Russia. This means that Rus-
sian influence would be dominant in Fin-
land, the Baltic countries, Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Rumania and
Bulgaria. In Asia, the ultimate extent of
the Russian sphere may depend on the
part she plays, if any, in the war against
Japan. Questions coming up for settle-
ment in the Russian sphere presumably
would be handled by Russia and her
small neighbors. Any policing action
under the United Nations in this area
would fall largely to Russia to carry out.
These broad outlines of the three pros-
pective spheres of influence might make
it appear that the big Powers easily could
keep out of one another’s way. Actually,
the different zones overlap at a number
of points. There will be several import-
ant areas that do not fall clearly in any
one of the zones. It is from these situa-
tions that trouble could generate. Among
the cases of probable overlapping influ-
ence or gaps in influence are the follow-
ing :
The three big Powers —U.S., Britain
and Russia —all are to take part in occu-
pation of Germany. Perhaps France will
help. The result may be to divide Ger-
many into zones of influence, with Russia
dominant in the East and Britain-France
in the West. Eventually, when occupa-
tion forces are withdrawn, Germany as
a whole might become an object of rivalry
among the big Powers, and might suc-
ceed in herself regaining power by play-
ing one off against another
Russia regards Poland within her zone,
but Britain, having entered the war in
1939 because of Germany’s invasion of
Poland, feels she also has a stake in what
happens there.
Britain is seeking to include both Yugo-
slavia and Greece within her power zone
because they border on the Mediter-
ranean. In the case of Greece, Britain
is influential with all Greek factions, and
Russia thus far is not openly interven-
ing. In the case of Yugoslavia, however,
Britain is finding that, despite her long
and earnest efforts to cultivate Marshal
Tito, it is the Russian armies that are
helping to liberate the country. Mr.
Churchill is interested in clearing up the
respective British and Russian roles in
the Balkans and in preventing Russia
from having complete domination of that
area.
Although classed as one of the big
Powers in the new United Nations plan,
China, like Germany, could become an
object of rivalry, with Britain-U.S. on
one side and Russia on the other. Also,
Japan after defeat could become a pawn
in an international power game, or could
herself line up with China or Russia or
some other Power.
Argentina is linked more closely with
Britain than with the U.S. in a commerc-
cial way. Any action involving Argen-
tina, therefore, probably would have to
include Britain.
A unique case of overlapping influence
is Canada, linked with Britain by ties of
sentiment and by membership in the
British Commonwealth, but even more
closely linked with the U.S. in commerce
and falling idefinitely within the U.S.
defence zone. Canada also is more and
more conscious of her geographical
proximity to Russia. Because of her
unique location, Canada’s approach to
world problems is more purely inter-
national than that of most other coun-
tries. .
Other examples of overlapping spheres
are Iceland, between the U.S. and British
zones ; Dakar, in Africa, regarded by the
U.S. as essential to Western Hemisphere
defence; and Indo-China, regarded by
the U.S. as vital in defence of the Pacific.
What appears to be ahead is a com-
bined balance-of-power system and col-
lective-security system —a kind of wed-
ding of the two, if one can be had. inis
opens up many possibilities for manoeuvr-
ing on the part of the five big Powers
and six smaller Powers that are to make
up the proposed Security Council. Ihe
U.S. would have in her corner China and
any Latin-American nation that might be
elected to the, Council. Britain, m her
corner, would have France and any other
Western European nation or member or
the British Commonwealth that might be
chosen. Russia would stand alone among
the Big Five, and would have to get one
or more of her Eastern European neigh-
bors on the Council for voting support.
It is because Russia sees the possibility
of being isolated among the Council
members that she is reluctant to give up
her veto power in case she herself is
accused of aggression.
All this raises the question as to why
the big Powers, at the same time they
are preparing to join hands in the United
Nations, are insisting on consolidating
their own spheres of influence. The
answer, as officials see it, is found in their
desire to provide their own security
in case the collective-security plan of the
United Nations should fail to keep the
world at peace. They are willing to join
the new league, but at the same time they
are keeping their powder dry.
Britain and Poland.
(From an article by the editor of London
“Ninenteenth Century.”)
The Anglo-Polish Agreement, signed on
August 25, 1939, was concluded because
Great Britain and Poland desired “to
place on a permanent basis the collabora-
tion between their respective countries.”
The agreement is one for mutual defence.
It does not refer specifically to Germany
or to Russia, though it was understood
at the time to refer to Germany alone.
But it was accompanied by assurances
that no agreement with any third party
should prejudice the territorial integrity
and independence of Poland and Great
Britain.
Whether it was just or politic on the
part of Great Britain to support Russia
in her claim —a claim without a legal
basis—for the eastern half of Poland is
highly questionable, but the British atti-
tude has at least been juridically correct,
in so far as the British Government,
having failed to secure the consent of the
Polish Government to the surrender of
half of Poland, has not recognised the
Russian claim.
Great Britain is pledged to support the
Poles in their struggle for independence,
and it is a mere sophistry to argue that
Great Britain never guaranteed Polish
independence “east of the Curzon line” —•
a line which was never even proposed as
the final frontier of Poland and never
had any juridical, political or economic
validity. Nor was the pledge to Poland
given for any ideal reasons —it was im-
posed by necessity, the necessity, for
Great Britain, that Europe should not be
dominated by any one Power.
The conviction that Polish indepen-
dence is a safeguard against the domina-
tion of Europe by one Power is nor new
—it was strongly held by Burke, Sheri-
dan, Pitt, Castlereagh, Palmerston,
Clemenceau and by the greatest of
Prussian statesmen, Hardenberg, who did
not have his way at the Congress of
Vienna, although he had the support of
Castlereagh. He was tricked by his
king, Frederick William, and by Czar
Alexander. Had he and Castlereagh
been successful the history of Europe
might have been very different: a strong
and independent Poland might so have
helped to tip the Balance of Power
against Germany that she would never
have been able to achieve such exorbitant
might; a strong and independent Poland
would have made war between Germany
and Russia impossible—and would have
given security to both, to the inestimable
advantage of both.
Russia has repeatedly declared the in-
corporation of eastern Poland in the
Soviet Union, and has, ever since the end
of 1941, endeavored to secure a
“friendly”—that is to say submissive —
Polish Government, thereby making it
quite clear that she has no intention of
allowing what will remain of Poland to
have genuine independence. Although
Poland has been, and still is, fighting the
Germans on Russia’s side, Russia has
interfered drastically in Polish internal
affairs —she has her own Partisans on
Polish soil, she has created the Polish
Workers’ party, which exists to promote
not Polish, but Russian interests, and she
has not ceased in her endeavors to over-
throw the legitimate Polish Government,
so as to set up a submissive Govern-
ment of her own choosing, and to dis-
credit the Polish Commander-in-Chief,


MONEY
ZisiUtzvkcct\.&
BUILD HOUSES
\
NATION raises its standard of living in only two ways:
By producing more of the goods and services that it
wishes to consume or use, or by exchanging its goods and
services for the goods and services of other Nations, There
is. no other way.
If the need be more houses, or more factories equipped
with modern machinery, or more ’bus services, or more play-
grounds, or better roads, the first step is to secure the capital
for the task. There are other steps (such as to engage efficient
workers) but the first absolute essential is capital .
Now, capital cannot be created by wishing. It cannot
be got by whistling it out of the sky. Somebody has to save it.
Life Assurance is one of the great providers of capital.
At the present time the Australian people hold 4,500,000
policies of Life Assurance, assuring them in the sum of
£720,000,000, Before the War the savings they put into these
policies were lent to the people for the building of homes; to
Municipalities for extending electric power and other com-
forts for the people; to manufacturers for extending their
plants; and the like. The Life Offices in Australia have lent
about £150,000,000 to the people for the expansion of their
enterprises and, during the War, have lent about £100,000,000
to the Government.
The time is coming when the Life Assurance offices will
be able again to make their members’ savings available for
building homes and for other ways of raising the standard of
living.
When you put your money into Life Assurance it not only
gives protection to your family and yourself: it helps to raise
the standard of living of the whole community.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
¥■ :$»
...so protect it with the highest-quality lubri-
cants-fresh Mobiloii in the crankcase, gearbox
and differential, and Mobilgrease for the
chassis. Short runs, frequent starts and
stops, cause wear. Minimise this wear with
M 4414
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
Mobiloil
The Wee/ds Qt/ahty 0/7
General Sosnkowski, a soldier of the first
order, and to replace his authority by
that of “General” Berling, an obsequious
exalte.
By a decree of the Presidium of the
Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union all
who are serving in the Polish forces in
Russia or are “collaborating” with those
forces—these and their families have the
right to adopt Polish citizenship. Many
in the Polish forces in Russia are Russians
of Polish ancestry. But the category of
those who are “collaborating” with them
can be made to include anyone whom
the Russians wish to include, and in this
way Polish citizenship can be conferred
upon as many, whether Polish or not, as
the Russians may need for the admini-
stration of a Polish vassal State.
The decree is itself evidence of the
Russian attitude towards Poland. No
State has the right to confer upon its
own citizens the citizenship of another
State. The truth is that Russia regards
Poland as a prospective vassal, even now.
The new * Poland that will come into
existence after the Second World War, or
perhaps even before then, is, apparently,
to resemble the Kingdom of Poland.
which was created by the Vienna Con-
gress. The Czar was Emperor of Russia
and King of Poland. But the Polish
electorate did not always return members
who were acceptable to the Czar —mem-
bers who would be conducive to the
existence of a “friendly Government.”
The result was ever-increasing inter-
ference by Russia in the internal affairs
of the kingdom, ever-increasing unrest,
then open rebellion, and, in the end, the
complete extinction of Polish indepen-
dence.
It would seem that “the Polish ques-
tion,” which was solved at the end of
the last war and reopened at the be-
ginning of the present war, when the
Fourth Partition was carried out by Ger-
many and Russia, will not be solved at
the end of the present war, but will again
take on one of its historic forms and
become a source of future trouble.
Palmerston intervened twice on behalf
of Poland, but without avail. England
today is much stronger than she was in
Palmerston’s day, and has a contractual
obligation towards Poland, which she did
not have then. Even so, there is a limit
upon what she can achieve. If it is
physically impossible to carry out an
obligation it is best to admit the fact and
to face the consequences. Even if Eng-
land cannot do as much as she might
wish to do on behalf of Poland, she can
do something. Merely to withhold de
jure recognition of the status which
Russia is, step by step, preparing for the
Poland of the future is not enough. That
England is bound, on a point of honor
and as a vital interest, to promote a
strong and independent Poland compels
her, or should compel her, to do what
she can, to do her best. To do nothing
at all is to abdicate as a European
Power.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
In considering whether Russia will remain
neutral in the Far East one of the essential
points to recall is that Russia’s sea frontier
on the Pacific constantly grows in importance
as the rapid development of Siberia proceeds.
Moscow undoubtedly has an intense concern
over security from attack in the Pacific area in
the future, just as America and Britain have,
which means that the Soviet Government will
• have a major interest in the post-war Pacific
settlement. If the Russians take part in the final
assault on Japan they will have a stronger hand
in seeking what they want in the Far East
after the war. For that reason it seems prob-
able that Russia will join her European allies
in the fighting in Asia following the complete
defeat of Germany.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune:”
* * * *
A congressional committee was told that
several American firms,- through pre-war cartel
ties with German interests, were prevented from
selling aviation instruments to Britain and
Canada while supplying Germany with infor-
mation for their manufacture. James S. Martin,
chief of the Justice Department’s economic war-
fare section, stated that one United States firm
may even have circumvented the British blockade
to get blueprints of its aircraft and diesel
engine starters to Robert Bosch, a leading
German manufacturer. — N.Y. “Journal of
Commerce.”
* * * *
The problems that have'begun to emerge in
France are typical of the complex situations in-
volving property rights that will be encountered
everywhere in liberated Europe and ultimately
in Germany itself. For more than a year now
a committee of experts has been at work in
London devising ways and means of meet-
ing these situations. Prodigious difficulties
will be encountered in stripping the Nazis of
their ill-got gains. The United Nations will have
to carry out a revision of ownership claims
greater than that which, accompanied the revo-
lution in Russia. Individual problems will range
from finding the legitimate owner of the under-
sized tiara adorning the Briinnehildian brow of
Frau Schmidt, wife of the former Assistant
Gauleiter in Brussels, to an equity in some long-
vanished business. Doubtless it will take many
years and special courts to thresh out some of
the knottier claims and counterclaims. — Homer
Metz; “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * * ,
Even if the resistance of Germany s hotch-
potch western armies succeeds in prolonging
the war, the result will only be a more crush-
ing burden on the German people. Germany’s
supply depots of food and equipment in the
once occupied lands are gone. She is almost the
sole target for artillery shells and aerial bombs,
Before El Alamein, when the
British had been pushed back
toward Cairo, Montgomery queried
Alexander: “What casualties can I
take?” Alexander, with the Suez
Canal at stake, replied: “One hun-
dred per cent.” —Drew Pearson;
N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
She can be blockaded closely ; she must go
hungry and shiver, while her cities are ravaged
from the air and on the ground.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
Eastern Europe extends from the Arctic to the
Aigean and at the two extremities British and
Russian imperial interests meet. A northern
federation, consisting of Norway, Sweden, Fin-
land and Denmark, access to the Atlantic for
Russia, access to the Baltic for Great Britain —
these three things are needed for stability in
northern Europe and for a harmonious relation-
ship between the British and Russian Empires in
that region. The project of a northern federa-
tion appears remote because Russia, it would
seem, is determined upon the elimination of Fin-
land as an independent Power, and because
there is a great reluctance in Norway to enter
any sort of federation. —London “Nineteenth
Century.”
• * * *
Access to the Atlantic, or, rather, an access
more extensive than she has at present, is a
growing Russian interest, but it can be achieved
without' territorial acquisitions, just as Great
Britain does not need territorial acquisitions for
future free access to the Baltic. The Baltic
must not become a closed sea, both for com-
mercial reasons and strategic. The contribution
to international trade of the independent Baltic
States (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania) and Finland,
with a total population of less than 10,000,000,
was bigger than that of the entire Soviet Union,
with a population of more than 180,000,000.
London “Nineteenth Century , v
* * * *
We advocate; (1) That all so-called members
of the imported foreign labor battalions, refu-
gees, war prisoners or those who have
been given temporary sanctuary, employment
or haven during the present state of war, shall
be returned to the land of origin, which the
Legion believes should be accomplished with-
out delay; (2) that all immigration be barred
from the U.S. from the date of cessation of
hostilities of the present war until such time
as unemployment in this country shall drop
to less than 1,000,000 and all veterans shall
have been afforded the opportunity of gainful
employment. —Resolution carried at the 26th
annual American Legion convention.
* * * *’
There is similarity between the German
“treaty” with Russia at Brest-Litovsk and the
Russo-Finn armistice in the harshness of the
victor’s terms, and the acceptance of those
terms by the vanquished. We know the sequel
of Brest-Litovsk. But there are less than four
million Finns in Finland. This time it looks
as if the struggle by Russia over two centuries
to settle with Finland is terminated. It will be
interesting to see what kind of a “settlement”
results—and whether it will finally settle. Fin-
land s Scandinavian neighbors and century-old
friends will have every reason to watch the
course of events. — “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
“At the front we af’e asked to give blood to
comrades wounded in action. 1 have seen
GI Joes strip off their shirts, give a pint, go
back into action. Our hospital moved up
toward the front and received several wounded.
The blood supply failed to arrive. The entire
medical staff, after working all night, volun-
teered to donate blood.” —Letter from France,
quoted in N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Of all moves in the direction of increased
“stability” in Soviet society, of all changes
made in the period between the war crisis and
victory, none is more fundamental in the scheme
of things here in Russia than the July decrees
affecting marriage, motherhood and divorce.
Not since the adoption of the anti-abortion law
has there been a reform which so vitally con-
cerns the institution of the family—and which
at first glance seems so abrupt a departure from
earlier theory. A former Soviet law took the
view that “marriage and divorce are purely
personal and private affairs.” But the new
ukase, while still recognising all children as
legitimate, certainly creates formidable obstacles
to divorce. Conversely, it attaches handsome
premiums to fecundity, and penalities to sterility.
It establishes both marriage and divorce as
matters of concern to the State and to the
public in general. —Edgar Snow; “Saturday
Evening Post.”
* * * *
If the Ruhr were internationalised and taken
from Germany the core of German economic
life would be removed. From what was known
of Germany before this war it would leave
that country without the means for the re-
establishment of a military machine capable of
conducting swiftly and immediately another
modern war. From that standpoint the par-
titioning of Germany will attract support among
many Americans who resent bitterly American
participation in the recurrent wars of Europe.
—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.’''
* * * *
Germany can’t make peace. The Nazis can’t,
the German people can’t. They can only sur-
render. Surrendering, they do not know what
will be done to them. Their enemies have not
made up their minds. Beaten but still powerful
armies are all that stand between the Germans
and a fate which they have been told will be
Carthaginian in everything except physical ex-
termination and demolition. At that, they have
been told that many million able-bodied workers
will be carried to Russia to rebuild what was
destroyed. They did the same to many of the
peoples they overcame. Imitation will not be
flattery. Their cities will not be razed, but many
of their industries will be. The Nazi party
knows what to expect. Its head, his associates,
and all their agents know that they are to be
tried as felons. The people do not know what
will be done with the country. It may be sub-
divided. It may be rearranged into its old
States. German life may be in custody in every
respect, completely subjected to .supervision
in indhstry, in schools, in culture, in politics,
in all human relations. These prospects make
for a hard finish. To die fighting may seem
the better thing. Yet there is a limit beyond
which fighters cannot go. It soon may be
approached. —Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
Initial steps toward outlining zones of “in-
itiative” in the Balkans were agreed on by the
British and Soviet Governments some months
ago. Greece was definitely recognised by Mos-
cow as Britain’s military sphere of influence,
and Rumania was likewise recognised by London
as within the Soviet’s military sphere of in-
fluence. Thus, just as the Rumanian armistice
parleys were under Soviet guidance, any future
surrender of the Germans from Greece would
have to be extended through the British. —
Cairo correspondent N.Y. “Times.”


NOTICES.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which, the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1944.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1945;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary and Executive Officer,
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, retups showing
the total amount of the premiums' received by
or due to such conlfianies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1944, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to . any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1945; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners!
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary and Executive Officer.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
0
Z
.A'/'
Just as “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors are
singing a paean of Victory, building airfields
and roads, feeding bombs to bombers and
clearing away the debris of war ... so are
they ploughing, sowing and harvesting mil-
lions of acres to feed the fighting men and
civilian populations of Allied and liberated
countries. Food in war plays a part as impor-
tant as shells or bombs, so “Caterpillar”
Wl
k'Vl
u
*JL
■ m^r~
diesel power will help produce it with the unmatched speed, fuel
economy and minimum maintenance that has made a standard by which
all other tractors are judged
ẃ
ẅ
CT.B.SS-44
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
CRAVEN I
*
Thrift' is a weapon that
defeats the enemy—save
and invest all you can.
w
ŵ
Our Service Department.
Wants.
Shorthand-typist, living in Melbourne* wanted
for story dictation.—3ss3.
To buy Christmas 1916 and 1919 numbers
of The Bulletin and Christmas and Show
numbers of Sydney “Mail” and “Queenslander”
for same years.—3ss4.
To buy A. Huxley’s The Art of Seeing. —
3555.
Information Sought.
What regulations govern the purchase of land
in S.A. ? •
National Security Regulations: Capital Issues,
Economic Organisation and Land Transfer.
How is a license for trading as a real estate
agent obtained in N. S. Wales, and what fees
are payable? Where can detailed information
be obtained?
Application forms for a license are obtainable
from nearest Clerk of Petty Sessions. Court will
issue a license if the police report on character
is satisfactory; fee £l, and £1 p.a. Secretary
Real Estate Institute of N.S.W., 30a Martin-
place, Sydney, could give further information.
Does the area in which the militia may serve
include all New Guinea?
All New Guinea is included. The area runs
north to the Equator but cuts off part of the
Solomons.
Was Jimmy Wilde killed in the ring?
Although he was injured and in hospital for
a few days after being knocked out by Pancho
Villa in New York on June 18, 1923, Wilde is
still alive. When last heard of he was boxing
critic of London “Daily Herald.”
Brief Answers.
R. 8.1.: Auction solo, as played in Australia,
is a hybrid unknown to Hoyle. Bidding does
not disclose suit, and may be solo (five tricks),
little misere (lose all tricks but one), six, seven
or eight tricks, misere (lose all tricks), abun-
dance (nine tricks), open misere (lose all tricks
and lay hand face up on table after first card
has been played to) or abundance declared (13
tricks). In four-handed game any player may
propose a partnership which another player may
accept. Stakes are usually one chip less than
the bid (i.e., four chips for solo, five for six
tricks, etc.), four for little misere, nine for
misere, 12 for abundance, 18 for open misere,
24 for abundance declared, these amounts being
forfeited to each opponent if contract is not
filled. Over tricks one chip each.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.R.: Genuine feeling clumsily expressed
J.D.S.: Hollow and sing-song R.S.L.: If
you hadn’t pulled the flax in such elementary
rhymes H.M.: Just a bubble G.H.L.:
Lightweight G.H.S.: Knock the monkey out
in a paragraph L.D.; Reads as if it were
dashed off in two minutes L.H.C.: The
debbil-debbil’s good; the cosmic stuff crude
and forced L.L.: There’s no such word as
“blissness,” and the concluding “hiss” is comic.
A.J.W.: Remove the pips J.M.; At
least it has a sort of villainous vitality....
G.H.8.: “Solidarity Day” is disjointed....
M.P.P.: Thin/to emaciation F.A.: Bits of
satire and bits of poetry among many empty
words W.C.: You haven’t described the cus-
tard-apple... .L.W.: Not a nibble S.McK.:
“This is an attempt' to repeat in words the
song of the butcher-bird.” Try your hand
on frogs T.P.: Every line is out of step....
F.W.D.: We know there’s no beer; but do
you have to make a song about it? 8.C.J.:
“Now doth the honey bee begin to flit from
flow’r to flow’r.” He’s flitting back to the hive.
W.A.: Why stop at the poetic jargon of the
eighteenth century? You could write ’em in
Anglo-Saxon..W.J.: In turning you down,
Maisie isn’t as crazy as you think.


w.
The Greater
Your Estate
The Greater Your Responsibility
Those who carry the responsibility
of property ownership owe it to
themselves as well as to their depen-
dants to share that responsibility
with others worthy of their trust.
They should draw upon the pooled
wisdom and advice of experienced
men to guide them while they live;
they should so make their disposi-
tions and appoint their executors to
ensure that their intentions will bo
correctly and faithfully interpreted.
The Union Trustee Company, after
over 50 years of trusted service, and
the handling of tens of millions oi
pounds worth of assets, completely
meets all these requirements.
The Union Trustee is a manager who
knows by mature and varied experi-
ence, an executor who never dies nor
grows old nor weary, who is always
independent and favours none, yet is
friendly and approachable.
The greater your estate the greater
your responsibility, and the greater
your need of expert and permanently
dependable service.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITER
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager ; Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman)
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust,); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.1.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager),
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
v/lil
tote tL cut
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels, tut different to
every otter in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noiset and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
S.
7
my-
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
i
B
YEs;: t k^
had everything
while he lived
. ... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
l tun r.FMERftL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
B. V. PEKKINS, General Manages,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re— Re—
Sept. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1934.. 567,119 9| p.c. =533,957 ) 9R Q , 7 7na
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO J 28,162 947,708
1935 .. 628,699 12| p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 696,028 10 689,017 I 10fi 011 q7Q R . 9
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO f 106,011 979,843
1937.. 774,695 10J p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 ll| ~,,711,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939. . 855,709 12 „ „ 741,919 1 108 7qo , „ 44 983
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO f 108 > 790 1,344,980
1940.. 870,299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1941.. 809,036 12 ~,,741,919 67,117 1,540,480
1942.. 763,438 12 ~,, 741,919 1 Ifi i <mo
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO j 16,519 1,556,999
1943. . 789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1,604,121
1944.. 839,623 13 „ ~ 803,746 35,877 1,639,998
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
The improvement (£50,582) in last term’s
net earnings was the outcome of service
demands and compulsory curtailment of
some items of expenditure. Civilian con-
sumption is pegged, and has been since
the beginning of March, 1942, at two-
thirds the immediately preceding Jan.-
Feb. level. Before that it stepped up with
lengthening pay-rolls and wage-lifts.
Though the services aren’t subject to the
public rationing scheme, they have their
own machinery for regulating demand,
which has been substantially strengthened
by requirements of Allied troops. Also,
service demands aren’t entirely confined
to N. S. Wales, where Tooths and
Tooheys share all but a fraction of the
trade, Tooths taking the lion’s portion.
Some idea of expanding consumption,
as well as what the amber liquid is worth
to the Treasury, can be gathered from
Commonwealth collections in excise on
beer;
Year to Year to
June 30. June 30.
1939.. £7,342,257 1942.. £14,199,411
1940.. 8,838,926 1943.. 19,632,695
1941.. 11,836,870 1944.. 21,615,974
Lifts in excise were 3d. per gallon 1939,
9d. 1940, 3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942, a
total of 2s. 10d., making excise 4s. 7d. per
gallon. Since 1939 only increases in selling
price of beer by the breweries have been
those corresponding to lifts in excise. The
increases have been passed on by hotel-
keepers to customers by a combination
of price lifts and adjustments in the size
of containers. Breweries hand the Gov-
ernment in excise about 73 p.c. of the
gross receipts for bulk beer. The other
27 p.c. (approx. ss. sd. in the pound)
covers production, distribution and other
costs (including taxation) and profit.
Other chief source of brewery earn-
ings is returns from the hotel section of
the business. During the decade to the
close of accounts in 1940 Tooths added
nearly £2,000,000 to the book value of
fixed assets, largely on account of hotel
properties. The general experience in
hotel business over the last couple of
years has been one of improvement. Still,
since the outbreak Government control
of capital expenditure has restricted pur-
chase, improvement and maintenance of
these properties, which will call for heavy
outlay when labor and materials become
available. Tooths has specially ear-
marked £475,000 of reserves for this and
other rehabilitation purposes.
Nothing is said concerning the special
plant for canning citrus-fruit juices for
troops in the tropics, installed a couple
of years ago. Here financial results are
in the lap of the Prices Commissioner,
for the present at any rate.
After allowing £148,162 (down £6086)
for depreciation of plant, the spring m
last term’s gross earnings was £61,140:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept. Earnings. etc. Gross. Profit.
1938.. £1,819,421 £977,582 53.7 £841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,562 58.1 855,709
1940.. 2,251,584 1,881,285 61.3 870,299
1941.. 1 2,612,593 1,903,557 69.0 809,036
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 763,438
3943.. 2,540,068 1,751,027 68.9 789,041
1944.. 2,601,172 1,761,549 67.7, 839,623
A growth of £10,522 in exes, left the net
result £50,582 stronger at 13.5 p.c. on
capital, as against 12.7, 12.3, 13, 14 and
13.8 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
lifted a point, making it 13 p.c.
The already solid financial structure
was further strengthened;
Assets:— 1941. 1943. 1944.
Breweries, etc. £6,880,511 £6,691,888 £6,509,934
Book debts. . 1,298,996 820,798 657,357
Stock .. 540,282 552,764 . 525,609
Liquid .. 1,328,559 2,713,910 3,180,015
£10,048,348 £10,779,856 £10,872,915
Sundry creditors 1,874,133 2,538,142 2,566,631
Net assets . . £8,174,215 £8,241,214 £8,306,284
Paid capital.. 6,182,657 6,182,657 6,182,657
The year’s contraction of £181,949 in the
book value of fixed assets and of £163,441
in debtors’ balances was accompanied by
an expansion of £466,105 in liquids,
largely Government securities. The more
or less liquid surplus (£1,796,350) was
£247,020 stronger than at the previous
balance.
War-time activity in the trade appears
to have reached its zenith. As for the
future, dammed-up savings and rehabili-
tation activities, including public works,
promise a high level of employment and
spending during early post-war years.
Meanwhile, much will depend upon how
the Government handles the vexed ques-
tion of controls and upon the level of
costs and taxation.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends N To Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.! serves. Deficit.
’34.. 226,460 9 „ 6 „ 168,083 ) 19 077 ono
To tax reserve, £46,000 . duy > 4<4l
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
’35.. 261,402 9 p.c. 7|p.c. 194,237 67,165 392,847
’36.. 289,664 9 „ 8J „ 211,582 f - , fi7 „„„
To staff fund, £3OOO .. j 75,082 467,929
’37.. 321,011 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 7„ 7 s -
To staff fund, £3OOO .. J 97 > 801 565,730
’38.. 319,369 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 1
Written off freehold, £20,000 1-74,159 639,889
To staff fund, £5OOO
’39.. 305,080 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210]
Written off freehold, £20,000 69,870 699,759
To staff fund, £5OOO ..
’40.. 312,476 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210"
Written off freehold, £20,000 1-67,266 767,025
To staff fund, £5OOO ..
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 ’
Written off freehold, £20,000 12,658 779,683
To staff fund, £20,000 ..
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 7* p.c. 194,335 778,873
43.. 189,564 9 „ 71 „ 194,335 774,102
43.. 190,762 9*, 71 „ 194,335 770,529
t Including- employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
This big department store is the
largest thing of its kind in Australia.
The shop runs through two city blocks
from Bourke to Lonsdale streets, and,
together with the vigorous subsidiary
emporium at Adelaide, is fed from the
co.’s own buying office in London, from
a string of nearly 50 locally-controlled
workrooms and factories and from the
Myer Woollen Mills, another subsidiary,
at Ballarat. These mills, to which a
modern worsted-spinning plant was added
a couple of years ago, have been a pillar
of strength to the organisation. Although
now given over largely to defence needs,
they have been very helpful, together with
the co.’s other internal supply lines, in
providing substitutes for scarcities and in
stepping up production of essentials: this
at a time when imports have been cut off
owing to shipping and other difficulties.
The strength of the manufacturing and
workroom section of the undertaking also
helps to explain the low margin of gross
profit at which the co. sells to the pub-
lic-only 24.8 p.c. (down 0.9 p.c.) last
term, which the management claims is
lower than for any other similar store it
knows. It is a salutary factor in keeping
the cost of living down.
Clothes and drapery rationing, the
price ceiling, and a host of other controls
and restrictions have stifled free compe-
tition, reduced service, the keynote of
successful retailing, to a minimum, and
repressed exes. The reverse trend can
be expected in exes, as conditions be-
come more normal, as controls are re-
laxed and as .the sellers’ market which
developed under war conditions is re-
placed by a buyers’ market again. De-
ferred buying is likely to boost sales for
awhile, too. Insufficient lead from the
Government as to its intentions is
seriously handicapping traders in develp-
ment of their plans for post-war activity.
On these plans the general level of gain-
ful employment will mainly depend.
Last term turnover shrank a fraction
owing to shortage of imported goods,
stocks of which were exhausted. Still,
the contraction in gross earnings was
more than offset by savings of £llO,OOO
in exes., making the reduction £400,000
below the 1941-42 peak, the chairman
says—these p. and 1. details aren’t in-
cluded in the published accounts. Pro-
vision for taxation (£155,000) was £lO,OOO
heavier, and for depreciation (£78,729)
£6951 lighter. The £190,678 (up £1108)
of profit was enough to pay the pref. and
staff divs. (together £64,960) and show
7.3 p.c. on the £1,725,000 of ord. capital,
as against 7.2, 7.4, 12, 14.3 and 13 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 7}
p.c., reserves being drawn upon for £3573
to pay it.
Combined net earnings of parent and
subsidiaries was £220,812 (up £2069).
That was after allowing £253,350 (up
£12,350) for taxation and £161,079 (down
£12,241) for depreciation, and includes
outside, interests, which figure at £453,875
in shareholders’ funds, totalling £4,279,567.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that the
management is preparing to take ad-
vantage of cash buying in overseas and
local markets immediately opportunity
offers:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 2,479,950 2,479,950 2,479,950 2,479,950
Mortgages 408,000 408,000 408,000 353,000
Creditors . . 1,422,929 1,025,368 801,363 789,171
Tax reserve 160,000 200,000 164,955 ' 166,482
Freeholds,
etc. . . 2,084,560 2,013,076 1,982,966 1,853,486
Plant, etc... 21,850 193,043 158,934 132,814
Shares .. 441,309 441,309 441,309 446,810
Stocks . . 1,818,063 1,854,832 1,534,498 1,318,696
Debtors . . 846,878 464,176 162,264 177,526
Cash, etc... 93,614 73,928 497,472 778,873
Last term reductions of £155,600 in the
book value of fixed assets and £215,802
in stocks enabled £55,000 to be clipped
off mortgages, £12,192 off the amount
coming to trade creditors, and cash, etc.,
to be strengthened by £281,401 and book
debts by £15,262. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,413,252)
was £38,934.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept.- Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 8,962 6 p.c. = 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937 . . 12,762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12,180 10 „ „ 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ ~ 11,000 1232 72,360
1940.. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73,841
1942.. 11,177 10 „ „ 11,000 177 74,018
1943.. 10,90-0 10 „ ~ 11,000 73,918
1944.. 12,170 10 „ „ 11,000 1170 75,088
With their moderate corpus and commis-
sion charges anchored by legislation,
these trustee cos. have been unable to
pass on increases in taxation, wage and
other inflated-cost factors, all of which
have been substantial since war began.
At the same time controls have forced
down interest rates, retarded the realisa-
tion of estates and affected values, and
therefore corpus and other earnings,
while the almost complete absence of
home and other building has largely
dried up the supply of suitable mort-
gage investments. Since 1931 yields from
Government securities have declined from
5i p.c. to 3i p.c. and even 2\ p.c. for
short term. Interest on fixed deposits has
fallen from 4\ p.c. to If p.c. for a two-
year period, on savings bank deposits
from 4 p.c. to 2 p.c. up to £5OO, on utility
co. debentures from, say, 6i p.c. to 3|
p.c., and on first mortgage from 6i p.c.
to 4| p.c.
At the end of September last the Per-
manent’s own funds (capital and reserves
combined), together with £16,849 coming
to outsiders, were represented by free-
hold £51,921; mortgages, etc., £75,724;
Government securities, £47,991 ? cash,
etc., £28,495 ; and shares in subsidiary,
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra),
£5009.
So, despite steady expansion in the
volume of business entrusted to the co.s


VAHDKUff
60£S/
a
.
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
ing the scalp_ clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon's Is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's' Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd,,
Sydney.
grtt’
HAIR RESTORER
m
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
A Record of
Service and Progress
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1944 SHOWS THAT THE
T. & G. HAS ACHIEVED AN UNRIVALLED RECORD
OF SERVICE AND PROGRESS.
i
SERVICE— The T. & G. is a Mutual Life
Society. In the forefront of its ideals it places fair
dealing and service to its Policyholders. All Claims
are settled with the utmost promptness. £3,285,000
was paid to Policyholders last financial year more
than £10,500 every working day in the year.
POPULARITY —The esteem in which the
Society is held is shown by the fact that during the
year many thousands of existing Policyholders, in
addition to new members, purchased protection for
themselves and their dependants. In all, 106,271
new Policies assuring £13,485,325 were effected,
while the total Assurances in Force increased to
£119,157,842.
SECURITY —The Assets now total more than
£45,-430,000 invested in first-class securities, and are
held in trust to meet Policy liabilities.
WAR EFFORT— 1 ,800 members of the
Society’s Staff have enlisted for War Service. The
Society has continued to invest to the limit of its
capacity in the various VFar Loans in Australia and
New Zealand, £15,070,000 having already been
subscribed. Every premium paid and every new
Policy effected strengthens the Society’s support
to the War Effort.
GROUP ASSURANCE The Society
specializes in Staff Superannuation and Group Provi-
dent Schemes on terms most advantageous to
Employers and Employees. Many hundreds of such
schemes have already been entrusted to the Society.
THE T. & G. SERVES THE NATION.
PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
&
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited,
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
expert care, the average rate of growth in
gross earnings over the last five years was
only £1937 p.a., as against £2219 p.a. for
the preceding quinquinmum. The nex
table shows what has happened in more
detail: ~ Exes. p.c.
Gross °f Cross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings,
1920 0 349 568 24,948 15.689 C 2.9 p.e.
SS;; »:»&« «>» jwg «•;
193 r i 19 613.027 54,410 44,700 ~
1936!! 20/191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 „
1938 21 117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 ~
1939*.’. 21,890,250 72,998 <>M66 82.4 „
1940.. 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 ~
1041 09 §54 436 78,087 60,818 84... ~
94V • 23 656 504 80 195 68,418 85.3 „
1943" 24 352 657 82,035 70,535 86.0 „
1944!! 24,768,652 82,680 69,916 84.6 „
Because of heavy distributions to bene-
ficiaries, last term’s net growth of £415,995
in the volume of trusts on hand is more
satisfactory than is apparent, the chair-
man says. The improvement in gross
earnings was £651 and exes, were pulled
back £619. After deducting £6OO struck
off the book value of premises, the net
result was £1270 better at £12,170, equal
to a shade over 11 p.c. on the £llO,OOO
of paid capital as against 9.9, 10.1 10.6,
10.7, 11.1, 11 and 11.6 p.c. back to 1937.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and, subject
to Government interference, there is
nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that it is likely to be interfered with.
Burlington Mills (Aust.), Ltd.
It used to be Tapitex Pty., Ltd., formed
in Sydney in 1939 with the object of mak-
ing furnishing tapestries and other cloths.
The name was changed to the above title
by arrangement with Burlington Mills
Corporation Inc., of Greensborough (N.
Carolina); and the American concern
was to acquire a half interest in the new
co., as well as furnish certain plant and
technical aid in order to start weaving
rayon on a large scale.
The co. has rented a Government muni-
tion factory at Rutherford (N.S.W.), and
the weaving, dyeing and finishing of rayon
wifi commence there when necessary plant
and other arrangements are complete. At
present, the co. is operating a weaving
and spinning mill at Alexandria (N.S.W.),
which produces a variety of defence and
civilian cloths.
Nominal capital is £1,500,000 in £1
shares. Issued capital is, or soon will be,
£350,000 in £1 shares, of which 58,333
are now f.-p. 116,667 are called to ss.
each, and 175,000 have been issued, or are
soon to be issued, to Burlington Mills Corp.
At the head of the board table is R. J.
Webster (managing director of Bradford
Cotton Mills, Ltd.). Other directors in-
clude H. Van de Velde (managing direc-
tor, Felt and Textiles, Ltd.), M. M. Clair-
mont, who has had extensive wearing ex-
perience in Europe, M. Solomon (manag-
ing director, W. Taylor, Ltd.), Britt M.
Armfield and W. Klopman (vice-presi-
dents, Burlington Mills Corp.), W. S.
Coulter and W. E. Rettew. Mr. Clair-
mont, at present abroad, is represented on
the board by alternate director L. Law-
rence, a textile technician.
The site of the co.’s factory at Ruther-
ford affords room for expansion, and the
board does not anticipate insuperable dif-
ficulties in obtaining adequate man-power.
Aberfoyle Tin (Tas.) netted £35,501
(up £2289) for the year to June 30 last.
Divs. totalled £19,792 (31.6 p.c.) as
against £35,334 (56.5 p.c.) for the previ-
ous term, and £17,250 was appropriated
towards cost of the new mill. The 16,553
tons mined and treated yielded 328 tons
tin concentrates and 66 tons wolfram
concentrates. Corresponding figures for
1943 were 16,503 tons, 333 tons and 69
tons. There was little change in the grade
of concentrate; tin firsts 74.38 p.c. and
wolfram 71.36 p.c. WO3. The im-
provement in net result was due
to lighter provision for taxation, £6973
(down £13,546). The main shaft was
sunk a further 236 ft., taking total
depth to 641 ft., and two new levels,
Nos. 5 and 6, were opened up at 507 ft.
and 627 ft. Ore reserves are put at 58,500
tons (up 17,565 tons) positive and 5412
tons (down 6215 tons) probable. Develop-
ment of the main lodes on the two new
levels is expected to augment ore reserves.
The drill disclosed no new veins of eco-
nomic working width on Nos. 2 and 3
levels. The switch-over to the new mill
early in August was made without inter-
ruption to operations, and the current
term’s figures should benefit from in-
creased plant capacity and efficiency. The
mine figures at £48,444 and old plant at
£9277. On the new mill £10,027 was
spent and written off. There was £44,466
in Government securities and £17,042 in
current assets to meet commitments total-
ling £31,882, including divs. payable
(£10,417) and tax provision (£7200). Paid
capital is £62,500 in ss. shares, of which
50.000 are 10 p.c. cum. participating.
* * * *
London-controlled Goldfields Austra-
lian Development, Ltd., holds the entire
issued capital of Moonlight Wiluna Gold
Mines,. Ltd., which operates the Moon-
light goldmine at Wiluna, owns the now
shut down Mt. Ida goldmines at Mt. Ida,
has a 25 p.c. interest in the option held
by the Wiluna Co. on the Mt. Charlotte
group, Kalgoorlie, and a large share hold-
ing in Yellowdine Gold Development,
Ltd. Moonlight Wiluna showed a profit
(in Australian currency) of £41,997 for
1943. The 117,325 tons ore treated
yielded 18,653 fine ounces gold. Working
costs at 225. a ton compare with
345. 5d., decrease being due to absence
of redemption charges. No exploratory
work was done. Including 31,000 tons
oxidised ore, reserves are estimated at
71.000 tons, averaging 4dwt., compared
with 115,000 tons of similar grade a year
before. For the first six months of 1944
46,522 tons, averaging 3.2dwt., were
treated. Reduction of tonnage and grade
is due to shortage of labor and continu-
ance of falls underground. Results show
a small profit. At Yellowdine 55360 z.
fine gold were extracted from 16,513 tons
during 1943, for a surplus of £4OOO. At
Mt. Ida a profit of £8563 was earned
from treatment of 5922 tons, and was
applied in reduction of past expenditure.
The labor position prevented any work
being done at Mt. Charlotte. No divs.
were paid by the holding, operating or
subsidiary cos.
* * * *
Blue-asbestos production from the
Hamersley Ranges (W.A.), where
Colonial Sugar and De Bernales interests
are active, was worth £lO,OOO in 1943.
C.S.R. operates through Australian Blue
Asbestos, Ltd., which took over the Han-
cock co.’s interests at Wittenoom Gorge ;
the De Bernales interests control the old
Asbestos, Molybdenum and Tungsten
Co.’s leases at Yampire Gorge. Both con-
template large-scale operations. The new
mill of Australian Blue Asbestos is de-
signed to crush 1000 tons of rock a
month on one-shift working, and eventual
fibre production of 350 tons a month is
predicted. Provision has been made for
duplicating the crushing unit and other
sections of the plant. With Hamersley
Range crocidolite, north-west chrysolite
and south-west anthophylite, Westralia
might eventually be able to supply the
whole of Australia’s asbestos require-
ments —given capital for development.
* * * *
Prospects of Ora Banda Amalgamated,
at Grant’s Patch (W.A.), depend on further
high-grade developments to sweeten the
low-grade material in the bottom of the
McKenzie workings. To the end of 1943
recorded production from the co.’s prop-
erty was 66,2000 z. gold, of which
56,6000 z. has been obtained by the
present co. from 152,200 tons since
1936. Recoveries, however, have de-
clined from lldwt. to an unprofit-
able sdwt. a ton, and because of
labor difficulties the mine is at present
on the Government dole. In the past
10-12dwt. values were broken over a
width of 4ft. on No. 6 level. Nicholson’s
shaft and a winze went down for 30ft.
in 3ft. of 15dwt. stuff. The ore then cut
out. After a look at the mine geologist
Hobson reports that there is “no geolo-
gical reason” why this prospect shouldn’t
be further explored.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.


ThM>
LtiL
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
.THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business. Rollery. Ete.
Danger in Banking Policy
Talk by Ministers Calwell, Ward and
Lazzarini, as well as other reports from
Canberra, indicate that strong pressure
is being brought to bear on the Govern-
ment by Labor Caucus to take action
whkii ,- *• f
mea ” th . e n ?tio“aUsauon .o£
banking. By methods indicated Labor
can achieve its objective without incur-
ring any of the inconveniences of pay-
mg compensation whilst avoiding the
o mm, or expropriation. Two such
couises of action are held in Labor
esteem.
The first is the perpetuation of the
banking-control regulations now in force
under the National Security Act. The
main effect of these regulations is to
make the trading banks subject to direc-
tion by the Commonwealth Bank on all
basic matters. Permanency of this con-
trol could be achieved by passing legis-
lation to replace the present regulations,
which must lapse when the National
Security Act expires.
Tiic. novt f . •
.• f , P . f , 18 the ic-
k S SM hC ° £
wealth Bank. At present, although its
members are appointed by the Govern-
ment, the board is really autonomous and
not subject to Government direction. It
is suggested in Labor circles, however,
that the direct powers of the Treasurer
over the bank board should be extended,
or that the board should be abolished
and replaced by an advisory committee
? Government, or that the bank
should be controlled by a governor under
Treasury direction.
Any one of these moves would give
the Government dominating power over
the policy of the Commonwealth Bank,
As the banking regulations allow the cen-
tral bank the widest directional powers
over the trading banks, the set-up now
envisaged would give the Administration
absolute power over the policy of the
private banks, through the Common-
wealth Bank, as well as over the Com-
monwealth Bank directly. This would
mean that the Labor Caucus, operating
through the Government, could become
the real arbiter on matters of national
banking policy. '
With control of both Houses, it would
be easy for the Government to convert
the banking regulations into banking
legislation, and to amend the Common-
wealth Bank Act as required. It is clear
also that the more radical members of
the party are insisting upon the manage-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank being
recast.
The control of credit and of the
people’s savings in the banks—both trad-
ing and savings banks—is one step neces-
sary to, carry out the pledged policy of
the Labor party to socialise industry, pro •
duction, distribution and exchange of
ooods
° There are nine main Australian private
banks. These are owned by mo£ than
70,000 shareholders with an average
shareholding capital of about £5OO. The
election of the directors of these banks is
entirely in the hands of such shareholders,
who are mostly prudent Australian citi-
““ of moderate means. The net profit
of the banks on total shaiehoiders funds
over the last few years has been scarcely
more than 3 p.c. a year ; good service
is thus being rendered for a minimum
of profit.
Though there are several Government
and public banks in active competition
with the “private” banks the people of Au#
tralia have entrusted some £536 million
to the care of the “private” trading banks.
It is probable that the depositors owning
these funds number more than 900,000.
It is apparent from these figures that the
trading banks have the confidence of the
public. Yet the A.L.P. idea is that con-
trol of these institutions should be virtu-
ally taken out of the hands of the direc-
tors elected by the shareholders and
placed under political management,
through which neither depositors nor
shareholders would have any real voice
in the control of their own funds.
Judged on current history, the most
likely end to such a state of affairs would
be the dissipation of the people’s savings
in uneconomic Government schemes and
socialistic ventures, with the country’s
external credit drifting to the dogs.
Joseph Lyons, when Prime Minister, said
in 1934: “The banking institutions of
Australia were the sheet-anchor of this
country during the depression. They
saved us from absolute and complete
failure.” Professor Copland, the present
Prices Commissioner, made much the
same statement in 1931. The continuance
of that prudent and intelligent banking
policy enabled Australia to face the finan-
cial strain of this war upon a firm basis.
But since the beginning of Labor’s rule
towards the end of 1941 the trading banks
have had little say in the financial destiny
of the country, and the results have not
been happy.
Past Government banking experience is
hardly inspiring. The Government Sav-
ings Bank of New South Wales was
forced to close its doors because of poli-
tical associations. The Agricultural Bank
in Western Australia has lost millions of
pounds of taxpayers’ money. The Gen-
eral Banking Department of the State
Bank of South Australia, although hav-
ing no taxation to meet or shareholders
to satisfy, has a very poor record, its
losses being a charge on the taxpayer.
(The position is set out fully in the annual
report of the State Auditor-General.)
Private banks also have made losses —
their broad and enterprising policy some-
times makes losses inevitable. But these are
a charge against shareholders’ funds, not
against the depositors or taxpayers. Dur-
ing the period 1939-43, the private banks
in South 'Australia wrote off £99,047,
made up of amounts irrecoverable from
primary producers in connection with
adjustments made under the Primary
Producers’ Debts Act. This amount
was quite apart from other losses
written off both for primary and other
industries. All of these losses were
debited against shareholders’ funds.
Three points essential for the continu-
ance on trustworthy lines of the banking
system which, generally, has proved so
sound and satisfactory in the past are:
1. The direction of the central bank (in-
cluding the management of the Common-
monwealth Savings Bank and the control
of the note issue) should be left in the
hands of a competent board, selected in
conformity with Section 11 of the Com-
monwealth Bank Act.
2. No discriminatory or unjust legislation
should be levelled against the private banks.
3. The private banks should be left free
to manage their own affairs, as they have
done so efficiently in the past to the
satisfaction of their depositors, their bor-
rowers, and their shareholders. The
general credit policy of the nation should
revolve round an autonomous central bank
consulting closely with the trading banks
and acting as adviser to the Treasury.
Competition among the trading banks
themselves promotes efficiency combined
with good service to the public. His-
tory has shown time and again that kings
and Parliaments are not to be trusted
with complete access to, and control of,
the people’s savings.- Canada recently
made an important decision, A motion
calling for national ownership and com-
plete public control of the chartered
banks was defeated in the House of
Commons by 112 votes to 15. Instead,
the banks have had their charters extended.
Another motion seeking to give Parlia-
ment the sole right of the issue of credit
and currency was rejected on a vote of
107 to 20.
Mr. Forde, in saying that he could not
yet indicate the precise nature of the
Government’s proposed banking legisla-
tion, added that there was “absolutely
no justification for the fears engendered
by propaganda being distributed through
the community by the banks and other
people for party political purposes.”
Later F. M. Daly, Labor member for
Martin (N.S.W.), urged an -investigation
into “the campaign being conducted
against the banking proposals.” In the
course of the discussion in Canberra
there was the usual Labor charge that
vested interests were trying to upset
public confidence at a critical stage of
the *war. Such a charge is pure cheek in
view of what the Labor party has done
to confidence by its waste, inflationary
finance, attitude towards the Militia,
grossly political dilly-dallying with illegal
strikes and otjier evidence of anarchy, and
its friendship with the Communist party.
Long before there was a murmur from
the direction of the banksl as to the
damage that would result from political
control of banking policy there were wide-
spread indications that people were afraid
of the effects of the war-time financial
programme laid down by dud politician*
at Canberra. There was such a rush to
convert currency into real estate, shares
and other non-monetary investments that
the Government brought into force a
multitude of regulations restricting the
purchase of investments other than Gov-
ernment stock. And, notwithstanding
these regulations and a favorable press,
there has not been adequate support for
war loans. The Government itself has
for some time now been stressing the
danger of inflation. Yet it was H. P.
Lazzarini, at present Assistant Treasurer,
who said—when the worst of the inflation
was being created —that “this talk about
inflation is all insidious propaganda—an
attempt to stampede the Labor people
against the And so, now
that various Australian banks feel that
Labor’s politically white-anted economic
and industrial policy can be allowed
to go no further without protests, their
reasonable protests are dubbed “party pro-
paganda,” It is significant that the dub-
bing is done by those whose business in
life is mostly that of party politics. The
present Labor Government has been em-
barrassing the credit of the country ever
since it took office, and it is indeed high
time that Australian citizens expressed
their alarm at the way things have been
drifting.
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber, Papua, is paying 10
p.c. for the year to June 30, following
resumption of operations after army
occupation of the property finished on
July 1, 1943. Rubber trees, particularly
the young ones, had suffered from
neglect, but as native labor again became
available the plantations were restored
to a generally healthy condition. Claims
have been lodged against the army and
War Damage Commission for losses sus-
tained. Negotiations are proceeding, A
tentative price has been received for
rubber, which, as from July 1, has been
reduced. Representations are being made
for an increase.
* * * He
War expenditure in the Commonwealth
during the four months to the end of
October was £155 million, of which 40
P-c.— an improving ratio —was met out
of revenue. It is officially estimated that,
though the present rate of outgo is lower
than the Budget average, by the end of
the financial year the forecast of £505
million will be approached. Overseas
payments are usually heavier towards the
end of the period.
5jC 3|C
Almost simultaneous remarks by Aus-
tralians, though with the breadth of the
Pacific between them:
H. D. GIDDY, of the National Bank of
Australasia: I strongly urge that Govern-
ment claims, by taxation or otherwise, on
the post-war national income be made with
the utmost regard to the importance of a
healthy growth of private investment. I
urge that in any post-war economic plan
provision be made for reasonable oppor-
tunity for the individual to save. I hold the
strong conviction that the free invest-
ment of voluntary savings will be the life-
blood of the revival of our trade and indus-
try, both primary and secondary.
SENATOR KEANE: According to a
New York cable this Minister said that as
soon as possible the Government wanted to
get back to lower taxation to promote an
incentive to business. “After all, men don’t
go into business for a hobby. The em-
ployer is very highly taxed, his war profits
are taxed, and the price of his commodi-
ties is pegged. The Government feels we
have gone far enough with him.”
The essential difference in the character
of these remarks is that the bank chair-
man has been consistent in what he has
said in this connection, whereas the Sena-
tor has just as often scowled at private
enterprise in the true party tradition. In
any case, the Senator seems to be a little
behind with his mail when he says “the
Government feels we have gone far
enough with the employer.” Hasn’t he
heard about the airline cos. and the
banks?
* * * *
Comrade Ernie Thornton has brought
back with him from the United States
the idea of collective bargaining in place
of industrial arbitration. In- the United
States collective bargaining has often had
emphasis laid on the “collect” part of it.
Australians need to be very careful that
what they might accept in place of a
judicial arbitration system does not throw
them, in the course of time, into the arms
of a trades-union racket. Comrade
Thornton is reported as saying that em-
ployers and employees were encouraged
to make the Arbitration Court a battle-
field. Recently communist influences
succeeded in making the Sydney news-
paper industry a battlefield outside the
Arbitration Court. The present method
of fixing wages, Comrade Thornton says,
is hopelessly obsolete and a barrier to
post-war prosperity. What does Com-
rade Thornton suggest as an alternative?
Piecework rates that reward according to
results? Ten to one in either roubles or
kopecks that he does not!
Thornton deplored the “fears of unem-
ployment and depression when peace
comes.” Neither employee nor employer
had any confidence in what was going to
happen after the war. The question of
preference to returned soldiers implied
that there were dangers of post-war un-
employment. Australians needed to be
inspired with a rosy picture of living
conditions ; but such a picture required
the “real unity of good Australians.”
The alternative was chaos, “even before
the war ended.” This apostle of “real
unity” and all the other ear-tickling stuff
is the gentleman who, as secretary of the
Federated Ironworkers, wrote that “we
have made strikes our business. # He is
typical of so many of those trade-union
bosses who are trampling down Australian
living standards and employment pros-
pects in their advocacy of excessive and
unecohomic demands by unionists upon
their country. The chaos Thornton men-
tions may be in sight; but he cannot
whitewash himselt by pious words and
“rosy” hopes at this stage of our decline.
His attitude is in keeping with the hum-
bug of the official A.L.P.: “A depression
is coming because you didn’t vote ‘yes’
at the referendum.” Thus the leading
hands in the economic decline that has
accompanied Australia’s war effort seek
to throw off the scent people growing
daily more disillusioned aqd angry.
♦


V ■'
ẁ
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
PTV. LTD.
BRISBANE, Q 10.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® locat-ion
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 87), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Tur
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas'
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
ffffi
Some day your boy
WILL NEED MONEY
SOME day your boy will need money with which
to seize his opportunities and to solve his prob-
lems. Probably he will need it most on the threshold
of manhood. At that critical time a little money of
his own will give him that handgrip on Opportunity
that a youngster needs.
Through the A.M.P. you can arrange now that
the money will be available then. Moreover, the
money that you store for this purpose now will go
straight into War Loans so it will serve a double
purpose while your boy grows up.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A, W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W,
♦fife
%
«r
i&VS
,*g*; v&
-V''
art
■i :
A ■
fei. >fe
v:
9M»
■V
l£&i£9k. A&aa. ik&r*
'•-• ----
Bombers for War —Airliners for Peace. For 30 years Handley Page aircraft have
be'en conspicuously successful in the “ heavy ” class. Latest of the line is the Halifax
night bomber —now in quantity production—shown above in its Mark HI version
equipped with four Bristol Hercules engines
BOMBING IS A TRUCKING PROBLEM
It would be considered an astonishing feat to deliver by
road, exactly to schedule, thousands of tons of goods to a
point hundreds of miles away.
Complicate the problem by the factors of total darkness,
unknown territory, a speed of hundreds of miles per hour
plus the effect of intense cold and the destructive endeavours
of a determined, ruthless and powerful enerriy—and such a
feat becomes the more astounding.
Yet such conditions as these apply to the finest concerted
actions in engineering history—the wholesale “ trucking ”
of bombs night after night from Royal Air Force bases.
Continuously since 1915 the British Industry has built big
aircraft to handle the manifold problems of efficient trucking.
The industry produced the world’s first four-engined air-
liners—many of them in uninterrupted service for ten years.
To-day British four-engined bombers carry destructive
, load far in excess of any other aircraft in service in the
world, with proportionately a minimum of crew.
In good time the British aircraft industry will apply this
wealth of experience in design, manufacture and operation
of big aircraft to the problems of world transport in peace.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
The Financial Agreement
The Financial Agreement Amendment
Bill though criticised by three former
Prime Sisters who were also Treasurers
fn thek day, passed through committee
without amendment last week andl was
read a third time. A. W. Fadden asked
(unsuccessfully) for a Royal Commission
to investigate the new agreement between
the Commonwealth and the States where-
by the contributions to a sinking fund
towards repaying State depression deficit
debts (£53 million) were to be reduced
from an agreed 4 p.c. a year (never hon-
ored) to 1 p.c.
The States, said Mr. Fadden, had
contributed only £1,181,700 to date,
the shortage on June 30 last being
£17.6 million. The Commonwealth, un-
necessarily, had put up an amount
equal to the States. The figures were
exclusive of any accumulated interest.
He said certain official reports on the
matter had been compiled on an illegal
basis. The States should be able to honor
their obligations, in his opinion.
Earle Page, who feels keenly on the sub-
ject (he was Treasurer when the Financial
Agreement was framed in 1927), regards
the Bill as a repudiation of a contract
rather than an amendment. “If it is car-
ried,” he prophesied before the vote was
taken, “we shall find in 10 years’ time that
it has done so much damage to our credit
and has so impaired interest rates on
money for new development and loan re-
demption that we will lose in interest
more than the amounts we intend to save
by this subterfuge.”
Mr. Menzies said he regarded the
arrangement, “if there were no Financial
Agreement,” as being reasonable, State
cash accumulations not being all actual
surplus, but the real matter for con-
tention was that pointed out by Mr.
Fadden —on the basis of the original
Financial Agreement, which it was now
proposed to discard, loans had been
issued both abroad and in Australia.
It was said here last week that the pro-
posed amendment of the agreement
amounted to a breach of contract, and
that it seemed to fly in the face of the
“compensatory-budget theory,” which is
to the effect that, in order to smooth out
booms and slumps, money should be
spent freely by Governments in times of
depression, and the debt should be re-
deemed in times of financial affluence.
Labor, it is now entirely clear, hates hav-
ing to pay off debts regardless of theories,
“compensatory” or otherwise, and regard-
less of affluence or otherwise.
Aluminium Bill
The Tasmanian aluminium project
sponsored by the Federal Government
and announced just prior to the last elec-
tion has arisen to political prominence
in Canberra. Optimistically set down as
a £3 million undertaking, the Federal
Government to find half the money, the
other half to be Tasmanian money (“if
there is such a thing,” quoth R. G.
Menzies), there was a demand by the
Opposition for a Tariff Board inquiry,
followed by a request for a Royal Com-
mission.
Mr. Menzies pointed out that there
were no figures offered to show whether
the finished product would cost £BO
or £BOO a ton, or whether a duty of
up to 200 p.c. might not be needed to pro-
tect the industry. No responsible Min-
ister had given Parliament any of the
information which an investor would
insist upon having before he would invest
£lO in such a proposition. Mr. Menzies
inquired whether the Opposition was to
understand that Tasmania’s contribution
of a million and a half “will be put on the
claims for State grants by Tasmania?”
Later, in committee, H. L. Anthony,
former Minister for Commerce under
Fadden, said that “the indications are that
the aluminium world combine is selling
to the Commonwealth about £2 million-
worth of junk plant that will be obsolete
in no time.” Previously Dr. Evatt had
denied that W. S. Robinson, of the Zinc
Corporation and other London-Aus-
tralian enterprises, was interested, directly
or indirectly, in the establishment of the
aluminium industry by the Government.
The single-mindedness and public ser-
vice of Mr. Robinson were vouched for in
the other shop by Opposition Senator
McLeay and others. McLeay said that
references had been made to “Collins
House,” but men like Essington Lewis,
the late Colin Fraser and Harold Darling
had given valuable service to war indus-
tries. The bill passed through both
Houses.
In the best of circumstances, it
appears that an Australian aluminium
industry will be uneconomic (in its early
stages, anyway), but defence factors must
carry some weight. The Government’s
plan could have been much better pre-
sented, and the request for a Tariff Board
inquiry was not unreasonable.
The manufacture of aeroplanes and
the building of ships in the Common-
wealth in present circumstances were
described as ambitious and unnecessary
by C. A. M. Derham, president of the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures
at the annual conference. Conditions in
the two industries were so attractive at the
present time that they drew labor away
from more essential work. Referring to
our limited labor resources and “the ease
with which we could obtain our aircraft
and shipping requirements from England
or America,” Mr. Derham said it was
estimated that 22,000 people were em-
ployed in shipbuilding and 40,000 in
making aircraft and aircraft parts. He
emphasised that he would not criticise
these developments in normal circum-
stances.
* * * *
On Nov. 24, during the discussion of
a motion by Archie Cameron to disallow
the Press and Broadcasting Order of May
18, Information Minister Calwell said;
Mr. Justice Starke and Mr. Justice Rich
threw away their wigs when they took their
seats on the High Court Bench and openly
barracked for the press. It is a matter
for very great regret that - the decision was
not made in judicial calm.
On Nov. 30 Opposition-leader Menzies
commented:
Having read with great care the short-
hand transcript of the proceedings in the
High Court in the newspaper litigation,
which was put in by the Attorney-General
during the censure debate in the House of
Representatives yesterday, I notice that Mr.
Justice Rich made no interjection or re-
mark of any kind whatever during the pro-
ceedings.
He must be regarded as the most silent
“barracker” in history.
The Minister for Misinformation appears
to have done it again.


THE SERVICE MAN
Kalewa Falls.
“Ek Dum”: Again there were import-
ant developments in Burma, where the
British spearhead 36th Division drove
south of Pinwe, along the Irrawaddy
railway. The Japanese blew up bridges
ahead and seemed to be concentrating on
the eastern flank of the advance at
Bhamo, where Chinese troops still in-
vested, but had not taken the town.
Meanwhile, the East Africans, forcing
a way down the terrible Myittha gorge
country west of the Chindwin on the very
rough continuation of the Tiddim Road,
cleaned up Kalewa, on the west bank of
the river, 300 miles from the railhead at
Dimapur, Assam. The enemy fought
with great tenacity and resource among
the bamboo and teak forests, but Kalewa,
when last heard from, seemed to be firmly
held. With its capture the Assam forces
of the 14th Army are now only 60 miles
from the Irrawaddy railway, and about
100 miles from Schwebo, where the dry
belt of Burma begins. By crowfly to
Mandalay is about 130 miles. But the
Chindwin is a big river to cross, the
tracks are bad, and nothing has been
heard of the force which was supposed
a week ago to have established a bridge-
head to the north.
Rain on Leyte
In the Philippines drenching rain—
over 30 inches in the month—has virtually
brought the Ormoc Peninsula fighting
to a standstill. It has so far isolated
some of General MacArthur’s troops
that they have had to be supplied by. air.
But it hasn’t always impaired air visibility
to the point at which lethal bombing of
convoys has been impossible, though on
Dec. 3 it was announced that air activity
had been considerably reduced.
Earlier in the week General MacAr-
thur reported that attempts to reinforce
the Japanese forces at Ormoc from the
sea had proved abortive. Estimates of
the enemy’s losses on Noveniber 24, when
he attempted to bring in a convoy, were
revised. A heavy enemy cruiser, three
destroyers, a destroyer escort and 15
other vessels were now claimed as sunk,
87 aircraft as destroyed and 28 ships as
damaged.
Another attempt at reinforcement on
November 28 was reported to have cost
the enemy 4000 men, three transports of
5000 to 8000 tons, four of 1000 to 2000
tons, three of 750 tons, three escorting
destroyers and seven aircraft. Two dam-
aged freighters were admitted to have
reached port partially loaded. Next day
the general announced that another land-
ing attempt the seventh had been
foiled, and that Allied aircraft had sunk
a 9000-ton transport, and three small
freighters and left a 6000-ton freighter
and a destroyer in flames. It was reck-
oned that 6000 of the enemy were in the
transports, so that the total damage
claimed in seven attacks on convoys
making for Leyte beaches was 29 trans-
ports with an aggregate of 103,750 tons,
27,000 men and about 350 aircraft.
The Japanese were more active in
the air than they have been since early
in the war. It was admitted on Novem-
ber 28 that a raid on Allied naval ship-
ping in Leyte Gulf, including battleships,
by dive-bombers and torpedo-bombers
had caused damage and casualties. The
Japanese claims were as usual: a battle-
ship, three 10,000-ton cruisers and four
fully-laden supply ships sunk, and an-
other battleship and four supply ships
set on fire. They were laughed at, as
was a Tokyo report of a surprise landing
and fierce fighting on Morotai.
Peleliu has been finally cleaned up in
hole-and-corner fighting.
U.S. casualties on the island between
October 20 and November 26 were given
as 92 dead, 622 wounded and five
missing, while 1300 Japanese were killed
and 142 captured.
Tokyo Bombed Again
Despite several attempts by Japanese
aircraft to interfere with operations from
Saipan and adjacent islands, raids by
sizable forces of 829 s against Tokyo
and the Japanese mainland continued —
up to December 3 there had been four
attacks, apart from some on the Volcano
and Bonin bases.
After the fourth raid it was re-
ported that a large aircraft factory out-
side Tokyo had been attacked, among a
number of objectives, and that one Super-
fortress was missing. Tokyo alleged that
70 were used, and that 15 of them were
destroyed, “despite the fact that fighters
were impeded in their onslaughts by a
high wind at crucial altitudes.”
Irritating as the raids must be to the
enemy, they are not on a capital scale.
Dangers in China
The position of China becomes more
precarious every day, with a Japanese
corridor driven through to Indo-China and
with the enemy threatening to turn north
towards Chungking. But it still seems
difficult to induce the Allied world to
take the Japanese war as seriously as it
might, despite an official American esti-
mate that the enemy has 4,000,000 men
under arms, and that in the two years
which have just passed (tomorrow is the
third anniversary of Pearl Harbor) he has
had an almost uninterrupted run of pro-
duction, and must have piled up tremend-
ous war resources.
Britain evidently believes the Asian war
far from won, judged by the fact that the
world’s largest and most powerful war-
ship launched recently in the U.K. is in-
tended to be used in the Pacific. It will
take a year at least from the date of
launching to put such a ship into commis-
sion.
A.I.F. War Prisoners
The acting Minister for the Army,
Senator Fraser, on November 28 gave
the locations of Australian war prisoners
in Japanese hands;
Officers. Other Ranks.
Japan 81 948
Manchukuo .. .. 1 16
Ambon .. .. 36 752
Borneo .. .. .. 150 1,362
Burma .. .. .. 3 4
Java 65 1,030
Malaga .. .. 440 6,861
Sumatra .. 32 19
Thailand .. .. 193 6,089
Timor .. .. 7. 18 176
Formosa .. .. 17 16
Unspecified .. .. 399
Total .. .. 1046 17,672
Hard Pounding in the West.
“Ek Dum”: Hard facts point the warn-
ings repeatedly given in these pages
against the danger of accepting stories in
which the Germans were represented
as a beaten, broken nation, saved only be-
cause the frightened and ragged armies
in the East still had space in which to
run away, and due for a knockout blow
so soon as the western Allies could land
in force on an ill-defended continent.
It has always been a fetish with these
storytellers that the moment the Allies
appeared in France Europe would rise
and throw out the Fascist beast. Events
in France, Belgium, Italy, Greece and
elsewhere suggest that what the forces
of “liberation” are mostly concerned with
is keeping themselves armed to imple-
ment “the Revolution” and settle old
grudges against their political enemies.
There is little sign of “liberation” armies
burning to kill Germans.
On the German border itself it has been
found that the enemy does not give way
except when his defences have literally
been blasted off the surface of the earth,
and when there is such a blanket of artil-
lery fire and aerial bombing that nothing
can live in it, .
The intrusions into his frontal screen
defences —no main defence line has yet
been fully penetrated—have been costly
in blood and equipment. They have been
slow. They have yielded comparatively
few prisoners—on the U.S. First and
Ninth Army fronts 15,000 in 16 days.
The industrial plants which flourished in
the occupied areas have been battered
flat by the retreating enemy. And the
population has been found relatively pros-
perous where conditions are best and well
above starvation level at the worst.
There is no reason why the Germans
should have starved. Their armies have
stripped invaded countries and themselves
virtually lived off the land. In Germany,
Austria and Czechoslovakia, even before
war broke out, there was little waste land
—travellers who were in Germany in
1939 reported railway embankments
planted with grain and much grassland
turned over to wheat and rye.
The Ammunition Problem
The western Allies won their victory
in Normandy with less difficulty than
they might otherwise have done, and this
for several reasons. One was a local
superiority in the strength of their armor.
Another was nearness to main bases. A
third- was overwhelming air and artillery
power. They expended gun ammunition
and bombs on a scale never before known
in history.
They have done the same in the battles
in the Netherlands, in the Vosges and in
the region of Aachen. But every day
evidence accrues that the cost in ammu-
nition, if not in men, of the advances,
small as these advances have been, points
to an unanticipated demahd for shells
and weapons.
Both General Eisenhower and General
Somervell, Chief of U.S. Army Supply,
have stressed this factor. Armament
plants in the United States, which were
being switched to civilian production be-
cause it was believed that the mountains
of shells and the acres of field guns in
existence would outlast the war, are being
told to get back to war-production work.
Correspondents are being allowed to send
home reports from artillerymen who
claim that, where they were allowed in
June to throw shells by the hundred at
the enemy from certain types of gun, they
are now rationed to 50 a day. General
Somervell said on Dec. 2: “The Army
is 35 per cent, short on heavy artillery
ammunition, 24 per cent, on tyres and
40 per cent, on cotton.”
The Story of Casualties
The casualty lists speak for themselves.
According to Mr. Churchill recent opera-
tions, including the battle for Walcheren,
cost the British and Canadians, of which
only relatively small proportions were in-
volved, 40,000 in dead, wounded, miss-
ing and prisoners.
Canadians on “all fronts,” which
means the West Front and Italy, lost
9338 in August, 8445 in September and
7821 in October—their total for the war
is 58,943 to the end of October.
But it is the United States figures which
tell the tale. Comparison of the lists
issued last week shows that between Sep-
tember 28 and November 28 the U.S.
Army lost 23,372 killed, 80,872 wounded,
10,179 missing and 6873 taken prisoner
—123,315 battle casualties in two months,
during which there was supposed to be
relatively little fighting on the German
border compared with the fighting in the
Battle of Holland until after mid-
November, and none outside France to
account for more than a tithe of the
figures.
An estimate received at the week-end
declared that “the total (German) losses
in the west to the beginning of November
may be reckoned at 1,100,000, the equiva-
lent of 85 full divisions ; but “German
divisions are mostly at half strength.”
Some authority said it was unlikely that
more than 100 divisions, far below full
strength, were covering the Westwall.
Then if Russian figures are accurate Ger-
many has lost roughly 500 divisions at
“half-strength” since June 6, while still
able to maintain nearly 300 divisions
east and west, apart from troops in Scan-
dinavia and Italy, and reserves and com-
munication troops.
Such statistics only make sense when
it is known that the divisions destroyed
on the western front have consisted to a
surprising extent of Russians and other
foreigners and labor troops. That the
position on the Russian front is some-
what similar is suggested by the readiness
with which large blocks of the German
Army turn on Hitler when captured.
To see the figures for France, Hol-
land and Germany in their true perspec-
tive they need to be placed beside the
official British estimate of German casual-
ties in Italy. There, from May 11 to the
beginning of November, the German
losses among 30 divisions engaged were
reckoned as 34,000 killed, 104,000
wounded and 56,000 prisoners, total
194,000, the equivalent of 15 full divi-
sions. But here again a large proportion
of the enemy troops were foreigners—the
Poles before Rimini found themselves
pitted against Tartars —and 50,000 at least
must be deducted from the definitive
casualties for wounded returned to the
field, leaving a total loss of about 140,000
in six months of hard retreat, during
which four major battles were fought.
These sober facts need not discount the
tremendous gains of the British, Ameri-
cans and French in the west. They have
liberated about 232,000 square miles of
France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Hol-
land, with a population round 54,000,000
in peace-time. But only about 5000 square
miles of this has been freed since the end
of the last week in September, at a cost
which now must approach 200,000 casual-
ties. Since September 12 American
spearheads have advanced 16 miles into
Germany.
Conservation, Not Recuperation
Throughout the estimates over radio
stations and through newspapers at the
weekend ran wonder at the “recupera-
tive” power which the enemy has shown
since the Allied race into Belgium and
the Vosges. It obviously is not a case of
recuperation, but of conservation. The
sudden development of great tank battles,
the violence of the enemy’s artillery fire,
the strength of his local defences, the few-
ness of his prisoners captured in the latest
advances, the increase in the number of
his aircraft in action, his power to with-
stand ffie bombing of his communication
centres close behind the battle line with-
out marked diminution of his resistance —
all these things indicate that he has chosen
his battleground or battlegrounds and
stocked his fighting lines so that he might
be to some degree impervious to attacks
on his main roads and railways.
The battles so far ate only battles of
screen areas.
Inching Forward
The British Second Army and the
American Ninth and First Armies, which
have inched forward in mud, blood and
ruin and reached the Roer, are now only
face to face with the first main line of
defence running between them and
Cologne. The towns of Linnich and
Jtilich, into whose ruins they poured at
the week-end, are on the wrong side of
the Roer; Diiren, further south, whose
environs the First Army was reported to
have entered on December 1, is on the
other side of the river, on the west bank
of which the Allies are ranged for 15
miles. North of that the border is the
Maas, on which the British on December
3 opened a new attack at the Venlo
bridgehead.
The Third Army of General Patton,
far away to the south of Luxembourg and
the Ardennes, is reckoned one of the most
powerful armored forces ever assembled.
In rain, snow and mud it has pressed on
from Metz to the German border, reach-
ing the Saar outer line. The German de-
fences in this region are framed as follow
—or were in 1940:
(1) A line inside the border from the
Moselle above Trier, running east of the
Saar River and its attendant railway and
east of Saarbourg through the Ostburger
High Forest. It emerges from the forest
near Merzig, where General Patton’s forces
are holding a front about 10 miles long on
the west bank across the river.
(2) South of Merzig the defences divide
into two lines. One follows the east
bank of the Saar, but some distance to its
rear; the other sweeps back behind the
Saar Basin, rejoining the main line near
Hassel and Rohrbach, 28 miles onward.
It thus turns a great part of the Saar
Basin into an island of defence. But the
island does not include the kernel of the
industrial basin, the Saarbriicken and St.
Johann areas. These form an island of their
own, defended by a special line in front
of the others.
The Americans have a 16-mile front
along this section. On December 3 they
were in Saarlautern and Saarlouis, which
are roadheads on the west bank of the
Saar, and a surprise manoeuvre at Saar-
lautern was to have taken them across the
river. But they had not reached the main
line there or south of Saarbriicken, or
opposite to it, where, frontally, they were
12 miles from it.
(3) Leaving Hassel, the border defences
meander inside Germany through several
forests, covering Zweibriicken and the main
railway to Landau. Emerging from the
Bien Forest, they cross the Rhine south-
west of Karlsruhe. From then onward to
the Swiss border the main defences are on
the east bank of the Rhine, which the
enemy uses as a moat.
In the Hassel —Rhine sector, though
General Patton’s army has taken Saar-
union after bitter street fighting, the main
defences had not been reached on Dec. 4.
In the area south of Strasbourg
advances have been made only at the
cost of lives, ammunition and tanks on a
considerable scale. The tasks of the
Americans and the French armies here
have been, in effect, a damming opera-
tion to stop the Germans still in the
Vosges from escaping,'combined with a
fight for the sluices with a desperate
enemy below the dam wall. The Ger-
mans were making use of artillery, tanks
and road blocks and putting up a vigor-
ous resistance. But the French and the
Americans were gradually working their
way up the main roads and fighting their
way from the west through the high
passes of the Vosges.
Estimates of the Germans trapped
in the area are gradually diminishing.
The Sixth Army Group, below Stras-
bourg —First French and Seventh U.S.
Armies —took between Nov. 13 and Noy.
30 3600 square miles of French terri-
tory. The U.S. forces had taken in that
time 11,254 prisoners; the French 11,226.
Strasbourg Free
An advance on a 25-mile front by the
Seventh U.S. Army itself—it includes
Leclerc’s French —in the region of Stras-
bourg was reported at the weekend, but
the details seemed more like those of an
earthquake than an advance.
“S. M. Herald” announced that the
Seventh Army had “reached the Rhine
at Kehl,” and that “when the Germans
gave up their bridgehead on the west
bank at Kehl they destroyed three
bridges.” Kehl, a sizeable customs town,
used to be on the east bank —on the Ger-
man side of the Rhine —but somebody
seems to have transferred it to French
territory. The bridgeheads were actually
in Strasbourg, which seems now to have
been completely liberated. But, with the
bridges blown up, the German bank xs
a long swim away.
Relief in Britain
Britain continues to suffer under the
impact of the new rocket-bombs, but


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WAXjES—In Divorce.
TO HENRY HAYDON MeKERN.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOYCE ASHLEY MeKERN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 601 of 1942 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upward If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 21st day of
January 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. W. REILLY, Solicitor 79
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODA,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORMAN JOHN NEILL formerly NX31017
A.I.F. —TAKE NOTICE that MILDRED ANNIE
NEILL has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4038 of
1944 on the grounds of desertion without Just cause
or excuse for three years and upward If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the Ist day of January 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN JHE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JOSEPH BAILEY late of Forbes.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN MAY BAILEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3454 of 1944 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Twenty-ninth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from 0. P. WHITE & CO.
Solicitors 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY KARL DeLANEY.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALICE LILLIAN ELLEN DeLANEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3453 of 1944 on the grounds
of desertion without Just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-ninth day
of December One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from O. P. WHITE & 00. Solicitors 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT EDMUND SPENCE SMITH.—TAKE
NOTICE that HAZEL JEAN SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4072 of 1944 on the
grounds of desertion without Just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Nineteenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred and
Forty-five and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from C. P. WHITE & CO. Solicitors 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
f . ; r effect is localised in a section of
Sern England. The damage which
Sjfhave dole in several weeks cannot be
* y gr eat as that achieved by the acci-
denfal explosion o£ a huge R A-Rbomb
dump at Burton-on-Trent. It blew hun
dreds of people into thin air, stnppe
square mile clean of even the grass,
wrecked dozens of buildings and caused
houses several miles away to collapse.
And whatever she may be suffering,
Britain can look back on a & st
past. The Home Guard held its last
narades on December 3 —it formed the
bulk of the “4,000,000 idle British
soldiers” during the period when Austra-
lian communists were demanding a
Second Front early in 1942. When
Britain stood alone tens of thousands ot
its members did an 18-hour day for
months on end, working 11 hours and
putting in the rest on drill or patrol duties.
Gone, too, are the years in which Allies
and neutrals had 5758 ships, aggregating
22,161,000 gross tons, sunk by U-boats
and enemy aircraft —mostly British ships.
The peak year was 1942, when 1859 ships
of 8,538,000 tons went down ; the figure
was reduced to 812 ships of 3,646,000 tons
in 1943.
Britons in a year or so may even have
something like a normal ration —perhaps
even half the ration of the average Aus-
tralian, a quota which they do not at
present approach.
The Germans are now doing the main
suffering. Heavy bomber operations over
German oil, communication and indus-
trial centres are now continuous. In one
48 hours during the past week 10,000
Allied bombers and fighters took off for
Germany, and the week’s air operations
have been marked by great air battles, in
which batches of 500 Thunderbolts and
Mustangs have been opposed by 300 to
400 Luftwaffe fighting craft. At times
there have been substantial losses op both
sides.
Italy and Crete.
“Ek bum”: The Eighth Army made
good progress to the east of Faenza,
between the Montone, which runs into the
Adriatic south of Ravenna, and the
Lumene, which reaches the sea north of
Ravenna. Indians have made their way
five miles north-east of Faenza, where
they were threatening the road communi-
cations of Germans in the Faenza region
and, also, the main road and rail from
Ravenna to Bologna. On the western
flank of the Faenza sector, the adjoining
flanks of the Fifth and Eighth Armies
had made some progress in the hill
country on Dec. 3.
Almost the whole of Crete has been
freed of the enemy, except for the penin-
sula areas round Suda Bay, on the north-
western end of the island. On the Maleka
Peninsula about 15,000 German and
Italian Fascist troops were reported on
Dec. 3 to be cut off, though they have
strong artillery and plentiful supplies
hidden away in the caves.
The Eastern Front.
“Ek Dura”: The Russians are across
the Danube oh a considerable front south
of Budapest. “Shattered Germans Reel
Back Across Danube” was a headline
artist’s way of putting it. Simple, but
insufficient.
The enemy must know what the
Danube is like in the New Year (some-
times earlier) when the snow breaks
higher up. Millions of Austrians and
Germans have seen its waters creep yel-
low and muddy over the flats on the edge
of Mohacs Field. (So has the writer,
marooned on a bank in a car with a broken
crown-wheel for an anchor.) They would
be mugs if they were not moving into de-
fence lines on their own side of the
Danube. In the south also they are
climbing to the right defensive side of
the fence.
Within a week it was asserted that 20
Russian infantry divisions and half a
dozen tank brigades had crossed the
Danube “under a blizzard of fire” —“in
small flat boats, weaving their way in and
out of swamps.” The boats, of course, were
impervious to blizzards of fire, and when
the Russians reached the western bank
they did not need mortars, machine-guns,
field guns or any of the accessories vital
to British and Americans when they force
their way across a stream and have to
deal with a “blizzard of fire.” The Ger-
mans upon seeing them turned and ran
for something like 50 miles in two days,
and were still running when last heard of
in the week-end.
Actually, any war-wise Russian gen-
eral encountering a German force
in Hungary capable of a blizzard of fire
would have prayed for it to fight it out
on the eastern bank of the Danube.
The Germans were falling back to the
line formed of the hills which reach Buda
to the north, the 40-mile-long Lake Bala-
ton in the centre, and the Drave in the
south. This front extends beyond the
great Danube bend further north, through
the Slovakian mountains to the line which
the Russians so far have been unable to
break, east of the Dukla Pass. West of
Lake Balaton is the Bakony Forest. Behind
that are the River Raab and the Vienna
Gap (Lake Neustedl in its centre),
with the Little Carpathians and the
Danube on the north. On the south are
Semmering and Oldenburg, at the north-
eastern end of the Austrian Alps, which
thence form a barrier to Tito’sifA.rmy of
Liberation all the way to the Isonzo and
the Italian border.
And behind the Gap is Vienna, in 1939
the only military centre in the Greater
Reich, except Berlin, which could boast
of being the headquarters of two Army
Corps —XVII and XIX. From the Gap
there are perfect communications and fac-
tories all the way to Bohemia and
Bavaria.
To get the Russian front into perspec-
tive it needs to be viewed as a whole.
Its contrasts are striking. It was alleged
in the last week of November that 52
divisions were being hurled at 30 sur-
rounded German divisions in Latvia,
whose only communications were over a
wintry sea. But a week brought no news
of the impression made. A similar silence
attended the attempts to reach the
little Angerapp River across the Inster-
burg Gap, a few miles from the East
Prussian border.
South of the Carpathians in Slovakia,
where Russian communications must be
abominable and where the passes in their
rear are covered with snow, the Red
Army is represented as “hurtling on” in
terrific fighting, swallowing hundreds of
“inhabited places.” North of the Be-
skidens, in Poland, where the advantages
of communications have been on its
side, its several attempts to continue the
dozen miles necessary to capture the
northern mouth of the Dukla Pass have
failed so far. And the Russians have made
no progress towards Cracow, though
have several times tried from two direc-
tions —from the east and from the north-
east down the Vistula from Sandomiercz.
At the week-end Moscow was discuss-
ing the assembly of huge forces at War-
saw.
In Rumania there seems to be consider-
able internal disturbance. For some
weeks Moscow has been railing at the
Rumanians for not carrying out armis-
tice terms. There followed the resigna-
tion of the Rumanian Premier and a
protest by Mr. Eden against the removal
of Rumanian oilfields equipment, the
property of British interests.
At the same time he made a request
that Finland, where the Russians have
seized the Canadian-owned and -de-
veloped Petsamo nickel-mines, promising
to pay compensation, should be allowed
to export timber to Britain.
It transpires that a Russian column in
Yugoslavia was bombed in mistake by
U.S. 15th Air Force fighters, and apolo-
gies have been sent to the Russian com-
mander.
In Five Years.
“ Voices have been raised in this country call-
ing for Soviet aid to Australia. What right
have we to ask for Soviet aid while Britain re-
mains a vast military camp of men DOING
NOTHING?” — From a leading article in the
“Ironworker,” published ten days after Darwin
was raided.
“Ek D.”; A White Paper has shown
what lying stuff was circulated by men
who placed the salvation of Russia be-
fore the defence of the British Common-
wealth at a time of imminent peril.
Britain early in 1942 could not have
put 40 divisions, even partly armed, into
the field in the U.K. itself. She could
not have sent 10 fully-armed divisions
to the Continent, having regard to her
obligations in Africa and elsewhere. Her
war effort was on the greatest scale the
world had ever seen, but she had stripped
herself almost clean of arms in the last
months of 1941 to save Russia and civil-
isation.
It was British seamen who kept the
seas open. It was the British Navy that
defeated the U-boats. It was British
science and industry which developed
radio location, the tank and the guns
which beat the German guns ; the rocket,
the Spitfire, the heavy bomber, the jet
’plane, de-gaussing, penicillin and a hun-
dred more factors.
It was British engineering which built
and transported across the Channel the
great artificial harbor of Port Winston
and its 13 miles of piers which grew in
a month along the Normandy coast and
made the invasion of France possible—
the surprise weapon without which there
could have been no invasion.
And it was British shipping, gloriously
surviving service in submarine and mine-
infested seas, which made it possible in
time to bring America fully into the war
by 1944. Admiral Land, of the U.S.
Navy Transport Service, said in March,
1943: .
Our troop movements would not be pos-
sible but for Britain’s large troop-carriers.
And it is now shown that British ships
carried 865,000 American troops across
the Atlantic in the year to August
30, 1944, and that the Queen Eliza-
beth and the Queen Mary alone
brought a large proportion. The Daily
Mail” wrote truly that “at the time of
El Alamein the Queen Mary played per-
haps the biggest part of any individual
fighting unit” in making the victory pos-
sible. We in Australia know how well
these great ships and their officers and
men served this Commonwealth.
The effort of “capitalist” Britain,
camped in the middle of a sea, sur-
rounded by U-boats and harassed from
air bases a few miles away, on an area
exactly one per cent, of that of the
Socialist Sixth of the World,” is without
parallel in world history.
Twenty Million Mobilised
To maintain it between June, 1939,
and June, 1944, the total number of
persons mobilised —men aged 14 to 64,
women aged 14 to 59 —rose from
3,500,000 to 22,000,000: just on half the
population. The 4,000,000 fighting men
available for overseas service whom Mr.
Churchill was charged by communists
like Thornton in January, 1942, with
timidly restraining from the invasion
of the Continent, were not an actuality
in all services put together till June,
1944, or a little before it. They repre-
sented a nearly tenfold increase since
the outbreak of war, when Army, Navy
and Air Force totalled only 477,000.
Altogether 5,500,000 men have served or
are serving overseas. Of all men between
18 and 40, 57 per cent, were called up for
some service, and by June, 1944, seven
women in every sixteen between 14 and
59 were in the forces, in civil defence or
in industry, representing a call-up of 55
per cent, over the war, period.
In the armed forces 176,081 have been
killed, 193,788 wounded, 38,725 are miss-
ing and 154,968 prisoners of war. In the
merchant service, 29,629 killed and 4173
interned. Among the civil population
57,298 killed (27,375 of them women and
7250 children) and 78,818 injured. Ser-
vicemen to September 3, 1944, others to
August 31.
The jobs which have been done are
staggering, though the bald figures do not
in some cases convey much to the lay-
man. Since 1939 722 major naval vessels
have been built, plus 700 smaller naval
vessels and 280 mosquito craft per annum
—more than three ships a day, and one
large naval vessel every days.
The 10,018 heavy bombers, 17,782
medium bombers, 38,025 fighters, 6208
naval aircraft and the transport ’planes
—they service 50,000 miles of civi-
lian air route —and the reconnaissance
craft involved the production of power
plants capable of developing 480,000,000
h.p. at a minimum reckoning. The 2889
heavy bombers produced in the first six
months of 1944 alone would call for
trained crews of nearly 25,000 and ground
crews and service staffs of 150,000. For
every 40 bombers which could be kept
in the air there would be needed a
vast aerodrome with miles of runways,
more miles of concrete-road approach,
special defences, huge ground crews,
bombproof dumps and stores and great
petrol-storage facilities. But all these
have been provided, apart from the im-
mense provision made for the United
States Air Forces. These roads and run-
ways would form a concrete highway
from Britain to Australia.
For every single expedition of a heavy
bomber there must be furnished at least
four tons of bombs, apart from the petrol
and ammunition for 10 quick-firing guns.
The figure of field, medium and heavy
artillery—l3,sl2 guns—might appear
small at first glance until it is known
that the guns include railway monsters
which weigh up to 300 tons and large
numbers of mobile heavy guns which
weigh up to 38 tons on wheels. The guns
in the 25,116 tanks produced were not
included.
And the 3,729,921 machine-guns are
only seen in their right proportion when
their ammunition requirements are con-
sidered. They would be capable of some-
where round a rate of 50,000,000 shots
a second. The 22,000 ack-ack guns may
not seem astonishing, but they represent
the production of 70 miles of barrels,
hair-breadth accurate and capable or
withstanding enormous pressures.
The figures are huge besides the
thousand guns of all calibres which the
B.E.F. lost in the days of Dunkirk, then
practically the whole artillery armament
of the nation.
She Fed Herself
Britain was under blitz or threat of
blitz for nearly five years. The people
were on less than half rations most of
that time —meat Is. 2d. worth a week,
an egg a month, no oranges or bananas,
sugar measured to the grain, few or no
sweets. And millions of them were living
under bad housing conditions because ot
the blitzes ; 13,000,000 houses at the out-
break ; 4,500,000 damaged by enemy
action ; 202,000 totally destroyed or irre-
parably damaged ; “a substantial number
in the damaged list still unhabitable.
Nevertheless shipyards turned out
4,"717,000 tons of merchant shipping-
-2600 tons a day, including Sundays —
apart from 6000 naval vessels, and sea-
men brought the materials of war suc-
cessfully through U-boat-infested seas,
despite the fact that the ocean-going fleet
was reduced from 17,500,000 gross regis-
tered tons at the outbreak of war to
13,500,000 tons at the end of 1943.
Britain produced 70 per cent, of the
total supply of munitions for the whole
Empire. In one way and another she
assisted all her allies, U.S.A. and Russia
enormously, as Mr. Roosevelt has gener-
ously testified for his nation. And with
all this effort she succeeded in providing
a haven for the armies of every con-
quered country which cared to use her
soil and in finding room for enough
Americans almost to repopulate Scotland
or Ireland. She increased her net output
of human foods, in spite of the demands
on rural spaces for aerodromes, dumps,
factories and manoeuvre grounds, by 70
per cent, and the area under the plough
from 8,813,000 acres in 1939 to 16,617,000
in 1944.
It is a performance of which Austra-
lians, and particularly Australian union-
ists, should take note. It represents the
achievement of a united nation, which
has confidence and pride in its King and
country, its race and tradition and sys-
tem ; a nation which is prepared to fight
for them to victory, whatever its sacri-
fices and sufferings and however long
victory may be delayed.


■
m
:
i
2 ■ : :■
'
f
'
v m
GIN
Personal and Missing Friends.
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill, Vic-
toria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
by writing to TRUMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill.
WOULD WILLIAM CHARLES, husband of Eliza-
beth Charles, formerly of Warwick, Queensland,
and believed to have resided at 48 Ocean Beach,
Manly, New South Wales in about the year 1939 or
any person knowing his present whereabouts please
communicate with MESSIEURS FREDERIC B.
HEMMING & HALL, Solicitors, Box 1133 P, G.P.O.
Brisbane.
we B °ioG^*
-r*rCrrsSss
tte uoe* -
%e 1- *, GOO?
t&*
cy
sH
cy
o;o
% \
SPOTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
No matter what bookmakers may say
about “big money” at Sydney meetings
having decreased there is still plenty of
“little money.” This was further proved
on Saturday at Moorefield by a tote turn-
over of £61,625- —a record for the course.
The attendance was 24,000.
An interval of three weeks and a couple
of races will do a lot for some horses.
Craigie (Duncan) fairly beaten with 7.6
by Haripur at Moorefield on November
11, had the Brighton Handicap won with
8.6 at any part of the last three furlongs.
Bruce Wood paced it with him for half
a mile, and Davinia and Annie Laurie,
in the minor places, ran respectably, but
did not impress as favorably as Allan Veil,
who was fourth and is: an improver,
Craigie is now receiving marked atten-
tion for both the Villiers Stakes and-
Summer Cup, in which his respective
weights are 7.9 and 7.12.
Dick Whittington’s (Kelly) second to
Liberality at Randwick pointed to an
early return to his best form, and his
Moorefield win was not a surprise. After
he headed Winsome Lad nearly half a
mile from home he never looked like
being defeated, though Bestow hung on
well to run him to three-quarters of a
length. Etching’s third was good enough
to suggest a win in the near future. Out-
side the place-getters nothing threatened
danger. Air Link running below his
Randwick form, and it was again demon-
strated that Neta Linette is not a weight-
carrier.
Flowers ran well at Randwick the pre-
vious Saturday, and backed down to 6
to 4 she won easily after Doubloon had
led into the straight. She is by imported
Greenwich (Fairway-Rose Red) from
Maypole, by David from Queen Carni-
val, and was a 160gns. yearling. Of the
unplaced runners Milong and Trianon
did best.
Another decisive win was that of Ver-
meil (G. Moore) in the Three-year-old
Handicap. He was behind Oriental and
Beltana at the bend, but in the straight he
quickly put the result beyond dispute.
He carried 9.5, and when he moves into
open company will hold his own. Fel-
bridge surprised by running third, and
Oriental’s pace should enable him to pick
up a race, though he does not stay well
up to the present.
Kitalurgy ran up to her country repu-
tation for pace, but in the Trial Stakes
just failed to overhaul Cargeonel (Fag-
gotter), who had a long lead at the half-
mile. Though third, Goya was not dan-
gerous, and Lavaine, in fourth position,
again ran fairly, though without ever
really raising his backers’ hopes. Mas-
sena, who promised well when he won at
Rosehill in May, merely added to what
he has cost his owner since then.
Brazier (Sawyer) was in a generous gal-
loping mood in the first division of the
Sans Souci Welter, and after getting to
the front at the half-mile retained that
position to the end. Martheus had every
chance, but Brazier was too good for
him, while, though Brueghelier’s third
was only moderate, it suggested that but
for losing many lengths at barrier-rise
he would have won. Constable, in fourth
place, did much better than generally anti-
cipated, while though Milanja was third
at the home turn, he lost ground in the
straight.
Grand Prod ige (Munro), now raced by
M D L Clayton, proved that his holi-
d h d benefi , ed him. Heading the pace-
yk Bangster, in the straight he beat
. c ’ sily „ ith Valiant Garde, who was
runnjng £ a distance short for him> in
lk j d p | ace Long-priced runners in The
Gong £ nd wtatune made a good showing,
while though Clarion Call’s smart
track work gave him an excellent chance
and tended to his favoritism, it went for
nothing, as he was never galloping well.
Mintage was also a disappointment, but
will dojnuch better.
e . * . .
Simmering, after disappointing this
and some races whM backed was
f m the £I(W Wrap at
Ascot last Saturday, She fairly ran away
Wlth the raCe ’ her ™ bem £ com P ut f d
at from five to eight lengths. It was the
easiest win recorded in any important
handicap in Melbourne this season. An-
other good performance was that of the
two-year-old Irish Gem in the Macaulay
Handicap. He was nearly ten lengths
behind the leaders three furlongs from
home, and then scored by a head from
the favorite, Carngham.
Royal Peer has not raced since he won
the Sydney Handicap with 7.0, but as he
is again working well his Summer Cup
chance should be excellent. He has 91b.
more than when he won the Sydney
Handicap, in which he beat Nightbeam
(7.1) and Orderly (8.3). Nightbeam sub-
sequently won the Metropolitan with 7.2,
and Orderly was fourth with 7.9. In the
Summer Cup Royal Peer has 7.9, but
though 91b. may sound a substantial rise,
it should not greatly inconvenience an
improving four-year-old. A race before
the 26th of this month should bring him
to his best.
*K* * *
Larnbem made a good showing in the
Warwick Handicap, and, like Royal Peer,
has a very handy weight. In fact, as
second legs of a double those two at
present appeal to me more than any
others in the Cup. At his last run Lam-
beth gave the impression that a race would
improve him, and he has proved that he
is suited by Randwick, having won there
at a mile and three furlongs with 8.0. A
repetition of that form should put him
a long way in the Summer Cup with 7.8.
♦ * * *
Twenty-four days will give Randwick
its full share of racing next year. Some
trainers have subjected the condition of
Randwick to adverse criticism, but, con-
sidering the lack of rain the course has
come through this year wonderfully well.
* * * *
The Sydney Turf Club made a forward
move last week when it arranged for the
purchase of Canterbury Park. There are
unlikely to be any obstacles. Moorefield
may be next 'in line, but Rosehill, one
of the courses selected for purchase, has
not found the terms acceptable. H. Jen-
kins has been appointed assistant secre-
tary, and as present possibilities point to
at least 18 days’ racing by the S.T.C.
next year he will have his hands full.
However, his experience with the A.R.C.
qualifies him for the job.
* * * *
On Monday the most popular horses
in the Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup
quotations were:
Villiers Stakes.
Liberality.
Modulation.
Beau Head, Haripur, War Eagle.
Bahtheon, Craigie, Grand Prodige, Hall
Stand, Nobleman.
Summer Cur.
Craigie, Kiaree.
Falcon Knight, Royal Peer.
Beline, Cordale, Veiled Threat.
* * * *
The “Australasian’s” list of winning
sires for 1943-44 further emphasises the
necessity for the importation of English
stallions to keep up the standard of our
racing stock. In the dozen heading the
list the only Australian-bred stallion is
Spearfelt. He was fourth with 26 win-
ners of 58 races and £21,314 in prize-
money, while Manitoba was on top with
32 winners of 48 races and £31,036 in
stakes It is not due to lack of opportu-
nity that Australian sires do not fare
better ; but when year after year imported
sires oeat them so badly it is not sur-
prising that the latter receive so much
more attention at the yearling sales.
# * * *
Seven-year-old Tranquil Star has
proved herself good and consistent, but
though she has earned over £22,000 it is
improbable her racing standard will ever
quite equal that of Wakeful, who won
from five-and-a-half furlongs to two miles.
Wakeful’s handicap wins included the
Oakleigh Plate (6.9), Newmarket (7.6),
Doncaster (7.10) and Sydney Cup (9.7),
but probably her best handicap effort
was her second with 10.0 to three-year-
old Lord Cardigan (6.8) in the 1903 Mel-
bourne Cup. A few months later Lord
Cardigan easily won the Sydney Cup
with 8.7.
» * ♦ •
Pavot (by Case Ace-son of Teddy) is
generally credited with being the best
two-year-old in America. Up to the
beginning of October he had not been
beaten and his winnings totalled $180,350
(about £A54,855). At Belmont Park
(New York) on Sept. 30 he won the
Futurity with 9.0, conceding from 71b. to
121 b. to each of the other 12 starters, and
ran the six and a half furlongs in 1.15 f
First money was $55,200 (£A16,790). The
tote turnover on the race was $544,955
(a little over £A 166,180) and backers only
wanted one horse, Pavot’s dividend being
at the rate of about 7 to 4 on, the most
fancied other dozen runners being at 10
to 1.
• * * «
Mrs. H. H. Whitney (Greentree stable),
the most prominent woman breeding and
racing horses in America, died at the end
of September. Her great winners this
season included Devil Diver, Shut Out,
Stir Up and Four Freedoms, the last-
named being a son of Phar Lap’s sister,
Nea Lap.
* * * *
Yearling buyers will have plenty to
chose from at W. Inglis and Son’s annual
sale at Randwick in April. The lots cata-
logued total 438, representing 86 sires,
the newcomers including Fligh Caste,
Beau Vite and Beau Son. F. W. Hughes
Pty., with 38, are the principal contri-
butors to the total, and there will be no
difficulty in selling Titan’s progeny. P.
Miller is next on the list with 35, and
then conies H. S. Thompson 30. Others
high up are: St. Aubin’s stud 25, A. W.
Thompson and Co. Pty. 20, and H. S.
Thompson and P. C. Basche 12.
* * * *
The Blood Horse Breeders’ Associa-
tion of Australia is anxious that such
races as the A.J.C. Derby, Spring Stakes,
Breeders’ Plate, Craven Plate, Gimcrack
Stakes, Sires’ Produce Stakes, Autumn
Stakes, All-aged Stakes, Champagne
Stakes and Cumberland Stakes should
again carry breeders’ premiums, and has
communicated with the A.J.C. to that
effect. Little exception can be taken to a
premium coming out of a rich race for
young horses, but opinions differ con-
cerning weight-for-age races, in which
rarely more than two or three horses
have any chance. The association is also
of opinion that races confined to
mares up to four years of age should
receive more consideration in order to
enhance the stud value of some.
Miscellaneous.
In two hard-fought contests at Leich-
hardt Stadium Sid Knight beat Leo Robbo
for the N.S.W. featherweight champion-
ship, and Eric McCready won the State
bantamweight title by defeating Freddie
Graham. Robbo and Knight gave and
received heaps of punishment— too much,
perhaps, for their future well-being.
Knight was landing at will when the final
bell banged. McCready was also too
clever for Graham, who attacked reck-
lessly, as Robbo had done. Graham
could not “take it” like Robbo, and was
stopped in the fifth.
Two pugs from Melbourne had engage-
ments at the Sydney Stadium. One,
Hamilton, outfought Kimber in at least
nine of the 12 rounds for which they
were billed, but the thing—willing enough
—was declared a draw. Man* was faster
than Clingan in the early rounds of their
encounter, but Clingan got the verdict.
A draw would have been nearer the
mark.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Trial Stakes: Nepean River, 1 ;
Loyal March, 2; Courier or
Goya, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Huamight,
1 ; My King, 2 ; Doubloon, 3.
Flying Handicap: Clarion Call,
1 ; Hall Stand, 2 ; War Effort, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Betza, 1 ;
Lady Hamilton, 2 ; Royal Peer or
Bestow, 3.
High weight Handicap: Brue-
ghelier, 1 ; Vanity Lady, 2 ; Min-
tage, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; Allan Veil, 2 ; Etching, 3.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Menzies’ housed the late-afternoon
party given in honor of Admiral and
Lady Keyes by the Belgian Consul-
General, M. Rene Vanderkelen. Hostess
Madame Vanderkelen wore a smartly-
tailored navy-blue afternoon frock topped
by a small matching hat swathed in
flowers and veiling. In his speech of wel-
come M. Vanderkelen thanked Lord
Keyes for vindicating the honored King
Leopold and the Belgian army in the eyes
of the world. In reply, the admiral told
the guests why he defended Belgium’s
king and his story earned thunderous
applause.
Lady Keyes met the hot winds of an
extremely unpleasant day in a beige
ensemble, and looked as though she had
seen many Australian summers. Lady
Cross was cool and summery in a pat-
terned silk frock. Lady Mayoress
Campbell chose black, high-lighted with,
deep cyclamen accessories. Jill Lambert,
who was with husband Raymond, erst-
while a subject of King Leopold, was
cool and attractive in primrose crepe.
Her tiny hat featured a twist of burgundy
velvet as color relief. Blonde and statu-
esque Mrs. R. Dulieu, set off her color-
ing with a black frock and small tri-
corne hat of glittering black sequins.
President of the Tin Alley Players,
Maurice Belz, was accompanied by his
wife and other members of the Belgian
community in this city. Mr. and Mrs.
Gutwierth, the latter wearing royal blue
with a small hat of cyclamen and royal-
blue feathers, were among the guests.
Most attractive was the aqua-blue frock
and large flower-wreathed Leghorn straw
hat worn by Mrs. Le Plastrier.
After days of serious conference with
delegates from all over the Common-
wealth, the president of the Travellers’
Aid Society, the Harrison Moore lady,
and her committee served afternoon-
tea at headquarters to give members
from the various States an opportunity
to meet socially. Harrison Moore’s
widow had as co-hostess Miss Nest Mal-
colm, secretary of the Melbourne branch
of T.A.S. Miss Malcolm brightened her
report with the story of the 15 years’ old
lass, who, when asked if her mother was
not afraid of her arriving by a late train
in a strange city, replied,“Oh, no, mother
knows I have a good Scots tongue in
my head.”
Among the tea-party guests was Mrs.
Cumbrae-Stewart, to whose energy was
due the formation of the Brisbane
branch of the Travellers’ Aid Society
with herself as first president. In recog-
nition Mrs. Cumbrae-Stewart was elected
a life member. Kitty McEwen, a braw
lass in her uniform of a Land Army
superintendent, took a few minutes off
from her official duties to sip tea. Also
enjoying tea and talk were Mrs. Claude
Couchman and Mrs. Herbert Brookes, of
the N.C.W. Guests of honor were two
American Red Cross workers, Elinor
Donner, of New York City, who was
wearing the summer uniform of the Red
Cross, a smartly-tailored grey seersucker
suit, and Cathryn Henna, of Richmond,
Virginia. Elinor says that since she came
to Australia she has been working mostly
among “Johnny Rebs” and is fast de-
veloping a southern accent.
Pianist Mary Kiernan gave her recital
on the evening of one of the most un-
comfortable days this city has experi-
enced. Sweltering heat took most of the
energy from the audience, but there were
still lots of enthusiasm for this lass, for
whom great things are predicted. For
her recital Mary wore a mist-blue dinner
gown which set off the ripe corn color
of her shoulder-length hair. Leslie Potter,
who stage-managed the recital, chose a
short black lace dinner frock. Over her
blonde curls she draped a sari of black
net embroidered in pastel flowers. Mar-
garet Miller, who combines beauty cul-
ture with caring for a soldier husband,
set off her English rose complexion with
a smartly-tailored black frock and wore
her auburn locks in the new semi-
Edwardian style.
All the fun of the fair was enjoyed by
those who visited the carnival in aid of
Melbourne Children’s Hospital. It was a
gay scene, and no setting could have been
lovelier. The Henley lawns, with their
background of trees and the river flowing
near by, were dotted by gay booths which
displayed many tempting wares. There
were a merry-go-round for the children,
and, most entertaining of all, a dog show.
Many of the youngsters brought their
pets, and dogs of all descriptions ambled
about having as much fun as their young
owners. Out again in full force, Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell’s Younger Set worked
valiantly for the two days of the fair.
Some helped to serve- afternoon-tea, while
others sold tickets for the many prizes
offered.
Toni Fitzpatrick, in a most fetching
green and white sports frock, and with a
saucy white crochet cap setting it off,
roamed the crowd with batches of tickets,
and each time disposed of the lot.
Gabrielle Livingstone was another hard-
working lass who did a good job. Mar-
jorie Spry, summery in a gay floral frock,
brought her three youngsters with her to
enjoy the fun, while she did her part with
husband Norman aiding her. In the seat
of custom was Gertrude Cottrell, who
swore the sun had melted her complexion.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, calm and un-
ruffled, announced that her girls had taken
over £2OO.
The American Women’s Auxiliary
took charge of the catering for the two
days of the fair. Its members cooked
and served luncheon and afternoon-tea,
and on the concluding day provided a
dinner fit for a king. The dining-room
of The Palms, set in the Henley lawns,
was gay with holly wreaths tied up with
red ribbons, a gaily-trimmed and lighted
Christmas-tree and a mantel backed with
holly wreaths and Christmas lilies. Mrs.
Wilfred Race and Mrs. Walter Hill were
co-organisers for the two days’ task of
catering for a large public. It was a big
job, cutting up salads, baking cakes and
doing all the chores necessary, and it was
well done.
Mrs. C. W. McKay, who supervised
the dining-room, had not only tem-
porarily lost her husband (on a nine
months’ trip to the U.S.A.), but had, at
the end of the second day, lost her voice.
Mrs. Jud Holt left her work at the Ameri-
can Canteen for the time being, tied her-
self into a blue overall and looked after
seating accommodation. Mrs. Eardley
Wilmot, another member of Melbourne’s
American colony, was an able assistant,
and girl students from the University did
a turn of waiting on tables.
To welcome home friend Rene Searles-
McGiness, Rita Findley gave a luncheon
party in her Collins-street abode. A lass
with ideas, Rita has decorated her dining-
room in pastel-blue and amber, and the
result is tasteful and charming. Gathered
round the table, another striking feature,
for it consists of a sheet of glass
set on wrought-iron legs painted white,
were Vera, sister of the hostess, a charm-
ing guest to these shores from lovely
Edinburgh, Mrs. Val Robeson, a well-
known Red Cross worker, Mrs. Etta
Hughes and the guest of honor Mrs.
Searles-McGiness (pictured here by Athol
Shmith). A member of an engineering
firm in this city, Rene went to America
for six months to investigate the newest
methods of canning and dehydrating
food. Work was made easy for her by
members of American firms interested in
the same type of work and by the fact
that she was a visitor from Australia.
Cars were put at her disposal, and all
arrangements for railway transport
attended to.
American interest in Australia is great,
and businessmen asked many questions.
The main one was “are there openings in
your country for my type of produce?”
The visitor found that most of the books
about Australia being sold in the U.S.A.
were about bushrangers and convict
settlements. Australian girls are just as
pretty as their American cousins, but the
American lasses are smarter because they
have so much more than Australian girls
in the way of accessories. There is no
clothes rationing, save in certain types
of shoes.
From Sydney
In addition to her silver coin for ad-
mission Lady Wakehurst took two charm-
ing Piper prints across to the Phillip
Park Children’s Library last Saturday.
The Governor’s wife, who went to open
an exhibition of children’s art and craft
work, as usual showed keen interest in
the display and was quick to notice the
improvement in the different sections —
pottery, woodwork, painting and so on.
.This library is one of the pleasantest
spots in Sydney. Set in the cool green-
ness of the park it must prove irresistible
to the small girls and boys of the neigh-
borhood. From January 6 to January 20
a special holiday library will be open to
all children. Founder and organiser of
the movement, Mrs. M. Matheson has
done another grand year’s work for Aus-
talia.
This is how McPherson’s studio,
Albury, sees Jocelyn Henderson, the Hol-
brook girl who has stirred the citizens and
councillors of both sides of the Murray
and the legislatures of three States with
her community-forests idea. Those who
have listened to her —at Rotary Club and
C.W.A. meetings, at public gatherings, at
conferences and so forth, all the way
from her home town to the Trinity
Women’s annual dinner at Melbourne
Uni. —have seen the steady-eyed lass de-
livering a message that the nation can’t
ignore. Jocelyn aims at having a forest
established and managed by each com-
munity, and has interested local-govern-
ment bodies throughout Riverina and
Northern Victoria,
The N.S.W. Government has accepted
her idea and put it in an amendment to
the Local Government Act; she is con-
fident Victoria will do the same, and S.A.
has a Forestry Reserves Bill going through
for the same purpose. Her idea is that
the community forest would provide its
owners with shelter against dust, cool-
ness in summer, a playground and a
source of profit, at the same time restor-
ing local streams to permanency and
stopping soil loss. She has an impressive
array of argument and an impressive way
of presenting it. When the big forestry
conference was held in Sydney recently
Jocelyn received a special invitation to
come and talk to it, and she was also
starred to speak at the Murray Valley
development conference in Yarrawonga.
Her articles on the subject have been
widely published.
From the window displays arranged by
Amie Kingston to the Adrian Feint
border around the catalogue, the Ballet
Exhibition is a thing of cheerfulness and
grace. It was the big affair of last week,
and the opening on Friday drew
crowds of artists, dancers and musicians
to Cowell’s White House in George-
street. Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. R, J.
Bartley, blessed the opening with civic
presence and courteous words, and organ-
isers Mrs. Ben Edye (who had a new hat
for the occasion, exotic in straw and
shape) and Trafford Whitelock smiled
with satisfaction tinged with a little relief
that they had actually pulled off a cracker
event.
The showrooms designed as a bunga-
low which hold the display of paintings,
and drawings, of ballet-costume designs
and stage decorations, have the further
advantage of leading out on to a
little artificial lawn adorned with a
rockery. The whole has an air of gay
inconsequence. Over all floated the music
of ballets that Sydney has learnt to love:
“Swan Lake,” “Carnaval,” “Les Syl-
phides,” bringing back memories of pre-
war care-free nights .
Atmosphere runs riot: Spanish cos-
tunes and shawls and castanets are
backed by a miniature bullring, realistic
even to splashes of gore. Stephanie Edye
and Tamara Techinarova are responsible
for this tableau. Paul Furness dug into
his treasure chest for the jewels worn
by Ida Rubenstein and Nijinsky in the
original Diaghiletf production in Paris
in 1909. make a glittering display
of diamonds, rubies and emeralds. There
is a taffeta frock said to have come from
Pavlova’s wardrobe; and everywhere
about the room are spirited and fluent
sculptures by Dr. Fleischmann,
Fitting prelude to the great feast
itself was the Christmas Carol Festival
held in Pitt-street Congregational Church
last Sunday afternoon. This was another
outpouring of the Sydney Folk Song
Choir, colorful in the costumes of the
lands whose carols they sang. Clement
Hosking arranged the programme, and
before the singing of “Adeste Fideles”
he recited the Christmas Night letters
from Libya (in sonnet form), taken from
the story poem “1940-1942” by Nora
Kelly. Gwen Selva sang, and pianist
Jessie Webster, organist Lilian Frost and
the Pitt-street Church Choir helped in
the telling of the evergreen story. The
Red Cross benefited.
The main hall of the Y.W.C.A. made
the mouths of women suffering from
coupon shortage water last Thursday.
Dresses and hats, smart and picturesque,
were displayed v/ith just the right air of
cunning. This was due to the display
manager of one of the big city stores,
who had given much time and thought to
the lay-out of the 1600 exhibits from the
busy hands of Y.W. Arts and Grafters.
Pottery and posters supplied bright color,
and the place buzzed with comings and
goings throughout the two days and
nights of the display.
Blue delphinium and yellow rosebuds
had been woven into a posy for Lady
Wakehurst, who made the opening
speech. It was the work of one of tjie
students of floral design and deserved
the smile with which it was received.
The room was gay with flowers and
shrubs. The only disappointing thing
about the whole affair was that nothing
was for sale. Vice-president Mrs. H.
Pratt and director Mrs. Hope Gibson
received Lady Wakehurst, who was ac-
companied by Mrs. Skene and Mrs.
Wynne. Later the Governor’s wife, plus
all the Y.W. importants present, plus the
instructors and all who had active part
in the arranging of the show, gathered
together for tea. These Y.W. classes are
so popular that already 1000 students
are enrolled for next year, and there is
a waiting list of 600.
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, was the
meeting place on the evening of Nov. 27
for many folk wishing to see the mar-
riage of June, only daughter of the P. J.
Graces, of Vaucluse, to Lieut. Russell
Wallace, of Balgowlah (ex-A.1.F.). The
bride’s frock was satin embossed taffeta
and her veil was mellow Limerick. She
carried a shower bouquet of gardenias.
Best man was Noel Martin, and matron-
of-honor Mrs. Kenneth Quin. The 70-
odd guests were afterwards entertained at
the Pickwick Club. Bride’s father, P. J.
Grace, is a nephew of artist Fred Leist,
Remember the carnival in Springfield-
avenue, Darlinghurst, on Friday, the Bth.
Carrie Moore, whose name still
twinkles in the memories of Australian
theatregoers, was farewelled by friend
Mrs. Florence Taylor last week. Carrie
goes overseas at some not too distant
date to fill a theatrical contract. More
than 60 of her friends had been bidden
by Mrs. Taylor to a dinner held in her
honor, and the hostess’s flat was filled
with men and women adinirers of this
clever little actress. After dinner came
music. Carrie sang her old favorites like
“Lily of Laguna” and “Rosie” with great
verve. Dorothy D’Orn and George
Nasoor were other singers. Carrie turned
a completely deaf ear to Dorothy’s
appeal “Do Not Go, My Love.” Mrs.
Taylor and her sister Annis Parsons were
the complete hostesses.
There is quite a ripple of excitement
at the Conservatorium over the marriage
of Marjorie Hesse next Friday. Mar-
jorie, a well-known pianist, is on the
staff of the Conservatorium. She will
become Mrs. Tibor Kereny at St.
Stephen’s Church, Macquarie-street. That
other well-known pianist and member of
the Conservatorium staff, Frank Hut-
chens, will give the bride away.
Pyrex dishes and a glittering array of
kitchen utensils were banked around Mar-
jorie Hesse’s place at a morning-tea last
Saturday. There were 56 guests, so it is
easily guessed how many gifts were there.
The pianist was squired by her groom-to-
be Tibor Kereny. It was a very musi-
cianly party. Hostesses were Mrs. Roland
Foster, Mrs. James Brash and Mrs. Carl
Lorenz.


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
EYE LOTION
i
lnflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply- Lid.. King Slreet. Sydney.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happy relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood, i Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
Of Urea Kidneys
One Australian in nineteen dies from Tuberculosis ! Help fight
this national menace! Support the Anti-T.B. Appeal for £50,000.
Help towards the building of an up-to-date Clinic and provision of
Mobile Service to Country Districts. Send all donations to the
Honorary Treasurer, Anti-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The I Anti-T.B. £Appeal
Please use less
6*
BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
fu 1 of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yes! you can use the last drop.
Lay-by for Victory. Buy 5/- National Sayings Stamps.
ẃ
SMOKER-OH!
“Betty Grable tied down by new contract.”
—Film weekly.
But didn’t they claim she was pinned
up?
♦F *F *F *F
-'“Tailors alarmed over new fixed suit price.
—Melbourne “Herald.”
It nearly gives them a fit.
“In this modern world materialism has
dimmed the appreciation of beauty and cul-
ture.” — “Argus. v
I’ll never see, where’er I roam
A tree as lovely as a pome.
Trees are doubtless very fine,
But pomes are paid for line by line.
Tray.
•F *l* »F *F
“More Units in Mining Industry.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
But they still come to naught.
“Cook, over 45, adult family, liberal outings,
light household duties, goo wages.”
—Hornsby (iV.S.IT.) “Advocate.”
But isn’t 45 a bit old for “gooey”
stuff?
4* *F 4* *F
Drama in the Pyrenees.
“Every one of the 2000 inhabitants of the
town of Andorra, in the independent State of
Andorra, is engaged in espionage.”
—“Sunday Telegraph ”
I met the Baron in the foyer of the
Hotel Politico. We sat down and he
ordered two double absinthes and lemon.
“You have news from Catalonia?” I
whispered eagerly.
“Pssst! ” said the Baron, emitting a fine
spray of absinthe. He pointed to the
waiter, who was leaning over the back
of my chair with one hand cupped to his
ear and an English-Spanish dictionary
open in the other. We went up to my
room.
The Baron closed the door and stuffed
a copy of an Order-of-the-Day to the
Hungarian Fleet into the keyhole.
“About this Catalan business,” I began.
“Wait! ” cried the Baron, and strode to
the window, where a window-cleaner was
standing on the sill with one ear pressed
to the glass and a shorthand notebook
in his hand.
“Go and clean the windows of the
German Embassy,” ordered the Baron,
handing him a five-centavo note. With a
brief “Aye, Aye, sir,” in fluent Andorran,
the man disappeared.
I then pointed out to the Baron that the
papers in the keyhole were being drawn
through to the far side. He opened the
door.
Outside was a sizeable queue, compris-
ing three maids, four waiters, a horsey-
looking man in riding breeches and the
manager of the hotel, who was feverishly
copying the Baron’s documents on a port-
able typewriter. He flung them a handful
of ten-centavo notes and closed the door
again,'this time blocking the keyhole with
a large piece of red sealing-wax.
“You ask of Catalonia” —he began, but
was interrupted by the sneeze from
behind the ottoman. He tiptoed over to
it and pulled out a small man in a gay
purple uniform.
'“Who the hell are you?” he grated.
“I am the City Building Surveyor,”
replied the man with simple dignity.
“Spying, eh?”
The small man shrugged himself more
or less all over. “My salary is inade-
quate, and one must live,” he explained.
“I do not see the necessity,” said the
Baron offensively, and poniarded him in
the solar plexus.
Plum.
•F *F *F *F
“The woman brought a pat dog with her to
the flat.” — “D.T.”
An Irish terrier?
•J* *l* *l*
“There is a tendency for women of middle
age to become loud in their denunciation of
their husbands’ shortcomings.”
—Psychology lecturer.
The roaring forties.
•F *F *F *F ,
“Elephants like onions as much as they do
peanuts.”— “World’s News.”
In fact, they make their eyes and
mouths water.
“Tailoress, over 45. wanted f&t minor altera-
tions and repairs.”— “S.M.H.”
Provided the figure is reasonable?
“You Will Now Hear. . . . ”
“This is your national programme. You
have just heard —or partly heard—
Brahms’s beautiful waltz in A major,
played by Alfred Cortot. It will con-
siderably add to your enjoyment of the
rest of this classic if you realise that the
Minister for Judicial Suppression (Sena-
tor Kidneybean) is constantly stressing
the need for communal listening centres,
It is the Minister’s contention that every
member of a union should get an hour off
every day, at double pay, to improve
his cultural education. Even those who
bold divergent shades of political opinion
from Senator Kidneybean frankly admit
that he is a true friend of the
masses, and one of Cabinet’s most self-
less workers. Now stand by while we
play the remainder of the Brahms
classic.”
“Ding, dong, ding. Before we present
our uplifting play, “The Blood-drinkers,”
by Sergei Gobuslov, which
by the A.C.T.U. because of the favorable
light in which the author shows the work-
ing-class movement,, we will hear a state-
ment by the Minister for Financial Insti-
tutions (Mr. Bonedome). It is this: Don’t
jeopardise the Government’s good record
by becoming thrifty. Remember, when
you are too old or too tired for toil the
Government will keep you. Mr. Bone-
dome, whose record of service to the
nation is a justly proud one, is working
hard for the lowering of the pension age
to 35 ”
“ now as the field swings into the
home turn Courtship leads by half a
head from Civic Pride, with Tactician in
third place a nose behind and moving up
fast. It looks like a ding-dong finish, with
—hullo, hullo, everybody. We interrupt
this race broadcast on behalf of the Min-
ister for Gambling Encouragement (Mr.
Paunch). Remember, it is the bets you
make which help to swell the nation’s
coffers. Make the Ministry’s slogan
yours: Bigger and Better Bets with Books,
To the administration of his department
Mr. Paunch has brought a mellow, broad-
minded tolerance born of his 24 years
as a shop steward in a baby’s rattle fac-
tory. Installation of totalisators in
schools is the aim this popular
Minister.”
“ now, one, two, up, down ; one,
two, up—now, while you have your left
leg raised why not relax for a minute
and ponder the important decision made
by your friend the Minister for War-time,
Socialisation (Senator Deadwood)? Sena-
tor Deadwood, known among his col-
leagues as the Man who Doesn’t Spare
Himself, has, by a stroke of pure genius,
made industrial history by nationalising
the fish-and-chips industry. From now on
the horny-handed son of toil when he
buys threepennorth of chips will rejoice
that instead of the profits going to a
private octopus they will go to himself
as a national shareholder. Moreover, he
will now get for fourpence the same
quantity of chips that blood-sucking
private industry charged him thrippence
for. Don’t forget to thank for this great
boon Senator Deadwood, the Miracle-
worker, without whose valuable services
the country could not carry on.”
“ and fat prices eased at Flemington
sales today due to the prolonged drought.
Speaking of drought brings to mind one
of its underlying causes—soil erosion,
Here is a statement from the Minister for
Soothing Statements (Mr. Blather).
Farmers, your soil worries are virtually
over. Mr. Blather, stout friend of the
farmer, has this problem almost solved,
He intends calling a conference some
time next year of State Ministers. The
decisions arrived at will, he hopes, be
referred in due course to a special Cabi-
net sub-committee, whose recommenda-
tions will be further deliberated by each
State Parliament. If and when every
State approves the proposed measures
another conference will be called with
leaders of the interested agrarian unions,
and the measures then okayed will be
referred to a gathering of experts for con-
firmation before finally being submitted
for full Cabinet consideration. Mr.
Blather is a man of boundless energy,
and it is not for nothing that he is known
among his legions of admirers as ‘Honest’
Herb.”
80.
To an Egg-thrower.
“Eggs were thrown at Frank Sinatra when
he appeared at New York’s Paramount
Theatre.”
Sharpen your pencils, sonneteers,
For one, far-sighted and astute.
Who salvaged several cackle-fruit
From the abundant pre-war years,
And treasured them, so it appears.
To furnish forth at last a mute
And chaste ovarian salute
From several million tortured ears.
Now music-loving listeners know
The way to gag at least one crooner —
A ripe and gaseous egg would so
Anaesthetise the demon swooner
That he would be compelled to throw
His welcome faint a little sooner.
P. M. LUSK.
To a Publican.
I have abused you oft with bitter names ;
Have said you sold drip beer; have
made a stir
And volubly consigned you to the flames,
Calling you vile, black-marketeering
cur !
But let us grow forgiving and be friends
Now that the festive season’s drawing
near.
Give me your hand, and we shall make
amends . . .
Well, how’d I be for half a dozen beer ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Inconsistency.
When you fiercely upbraid me for telling
you lies
Regarding Rosita, Lolita and Jean,
I think your behavior is very unwise,
Unfair, and unjust, and despic-ably
mean.
Why rave at me now, when you didn’t
protest
For a moment that night when I put on
the hold
And called you the rarest, the fairest and
best ?
’Struth ! That’s the worst lie that I ever
have told!
NAT.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed hrst is paid
4Jd. per line; ail others 2|d. per line.
Stock Exchange and Racecourse
The buying and selling of shares nas
been restricted by the Federal Govern-
ment under “ceiling prices” which have
stifled trading, except when parcels have
to be sold to pay income tax or benen-
ciaries in a dead person’s estate ; and
then in almost every case a grossly un-
fair sacrifice is exacted. The avowed aim
is to stop gambling in shares, and by so
doing compel people to invest in war loans.
But instead of going into war loans a lot
of the money has gone in huge betting on
horse- and dog-races. I cannot buy 100
shares for £250, but I can bet £2500 any
time on the races and no questions asked.
To be logical a “ceiling” should be put
on racing odds — say evens all favor-
ites and 2 to 1 all others. You can
imagine the howl from the punters.
There are about 500,000 shareholders
in the Commonwealth. They represent
a section that has financed all the trading
banks, B.H.P., C.S.R., Mt. Lyell and other
financial and industrial giants. The only
tangible result of 150 years of racing is a
stuffed skin of Phar Lap in a museum.
If restrictions on share-trafficking were
lifted subscriptions to war loans would
increase and all loans would be over-
subscribed. — Shares (S.A.).
Tax Evasion
“Poker” (B. 8/11/ ’44) makes out a
good case for the auditor; not so good
for the small business man. The little
fellow thinks he’s got too much on his
hands already in the way of returns and
the endless filling-in of forms. Because of
a singularly unpractical education system,
the average shopkeeper possesses but the
vaguest notions of book-keeping, and the
Taxation office does little to help him in
compiling a statement of his year’s
transactions. Its demands appear to be
compiled by taxation experts for taxa-
tion experts. It would be helpful if the
department included an explanatory
sheet, and, among other features, a
“model” return.
“Poker” seems to overlook the fact
that the small trader, in many instances,
fails to claim allowable deductions be-
cause it is not always clear what items
are and what are not allowable. All this,
of course, adds up to the conclusion that
the small trader, on balance, loses more
than he gains by not employing a taxa-
tion expert. —Obelist (Tas.).
Comrades in Arms
I feel impelled to say a word or two
about a grudge which seems to be
cherished by many Australians against
American servicemen. I speak from the
point of view of one who in five years
has seen his wife for about 80 days. I
think what I have to say will be endorsed
by other members of the A.I.F. who have
been in similar circumstances.
The average American came to Aus-
tralia in much the same way as we went
to the M.E. He was well cashed up. So
were we when poor old Tommy was
struggling to make both ends meet.
Prices rose in Palestine after our arrival
as much as 250 p.c. It was not we who
complained; on the other hand, we did
not pretend that the Australian felt hat
was a halo.
Most of the U.S. servicemen that I
have met, both at home and in action,
have been fine types with very human
characteristics. They only want to get
this war finished and go back home to
their folk.
Don’t blame Americans because they
go after the girls. Remember you
probably do the same when you are away
from home. — Fair-minded Digger
(A.I.F.). _____
Maori land and Ex-servicemen
Not only Britain and Canada (B.
15/11/ ’44), but Maoriland, too, can
teach Australia points in the treatment
of ex-servicemen.
Every member of the Maoriland forces
receives on discharge £25 to buy an out-
fit of civvies, a free pass covering railway
travel on all lines for a month, and, if
he wants it, full or part-time technical
training, with a living allowance during
training of £5 5s. to £6 a week. The
universities co-operate in training on a
far more generous scale than Austra-
lian universities do, and recent legislation
provides for advances of up to £3000 to
buy a farm, £1500 to build a home, £500
to set up a business and £IOO to buy
furniture.
In addition, M.L. has adopted the prin-
ciple that all disablement or incapacity
arising during service is the Govern-
ment’s responsibility, thus relieving the
applicant for a pension of the onus of
proving that his misfortune is the direct
result of war service. Traymon (N.S.W.).
Slum Clearance
Had enemy bombers blasted Sydney
slums politicians would have deplored the
resultant loss of human life, property-
owners would have been recompensed
from the War Damages Fund and per-
haps housing worthy of the city would
have arisen from the rubble. That didn’t
happen and the slums remain.
Stern measures are needed to destroy
them. Owners should be forced either
to demolish and rebuild or to sell the
land to a housing authority at ruling
valuation. If private owners refuse to
rebuild the Government should step in.
The building scheme could be correlated
with assisting returned servicemen to
homes and would provide a valuable post-
war employment avenue. The work will
be costly, but what of it? If Tojo had
blasted the slums the cost would have
been much heavier, and hundreds of lives
would have been lost. But at least death
would have been quick. Today slum-
dwellers face a living death, not only for
themselves but for their children. — Leo
(N.S.W.),
“You understand 'ow it is after you’ve 'ad a skinful yer Honner."
Brighten Country Towns
After a dreary trip along the Western
Line (Q.) I am moved to utter a heart-
felt prayer. When reconstruction starts,
for the love of Mike let something be
done to brighten up our country town-
ships. One after another, endlessly alike,
they squat by the roadside, a warning to
all-comers —“All hope abandon ye who
enter here.”
The color scheme could not be worse.
The station buildings are invariably cov-
ered with a salmony, smoke-tinged pink
(perhaps here there is some dim associa-
tion with red-tape). The school and
police station are mud-colored. All these
buildings are constructed on precisely the
same plan. Sometimes the school and a
few private houses attempt gardens, even
trees; but the township as a whole scorns
the aid of Nature.
The worst features are the squalor and
ugliness. If the Government had planned
a model township, a really well-designed
one, and repeated it throughout the State,
the monotony would be depressing, but
uniform ugliness is a lot worse.
Why cannot just a little originality be
displayed? Each town should suit the
special tastes and requirements of its in-
habitants, and harmonise with the natural
surroundings. Admittedly, many of these
townships were established hurriedly in
pioneering days, when makeshifts were
unavoidable. Now it is time to plan
buildings that will last—-and are fit to
survive.
The advice of artists should be taken
before a building is attempted. Even in
the worst areas some native trees can sur-
vive the drought, so there is no reason
why we should not have shady, tree-lined
streets. It will cost money, of course, but
nothing worth having is cheap. Austra-
lians do not dress shabbily—why should
they live shabbily?— Nibs (Q.).
Adult Education
Adult education is the need of the age.
But this year hundreds of people clamor-
ing for admission to W.E.A. and Univer-
sity Extension lectures have had to be
turned away. Lack of space and lack of
lecturers —both caused by lack of money
—was the reason.
Why were these lectures so popular?
Because instead of the outdated school
curriculum they deal with current affairs,
psychology, Australia and the Pacific,
the training of children, American his-
tory, public speaking, civics and other
live subjects.
It is to be hoped that Education Week
will mean a revival of interest and a far
bigger grant to adult education ; for with-
out tolerance, wide knowledge and the
habit of thought there can be no democ-
racy. All these gifts are imparted by
adult education.
Study should not end with schooldays,
but should continue through life. Indeed,
the high lessons can best be given to
adults. If we want to preserve our
democracy we must educate, not a
sprinkling of the population, but all.
Nellie Stewart, M.A. (Vic.).
More Sea Apprentices
“M.N.’s” suggestion (B. 20/10/’44)
that Australian shipowners should each
be obliged to carry a certain number of
apprentices in their ships is an excellent
one, but one or two points should be
given careful thought. Many English
shipowners have used apprentices to man
the deck department of their ships—a
very good thing for the owners, since
apprentices get £3 a month, the owners
at the same time receiving a substantial
premium. This system put many regular
sailors on the unemployment list.
To obviate a similar state of affairs in
Australian ships, I would suggest that
apprentices be limited to four in the
10,000-ton-class ships, or some similar
scale based upon tonnage; the regular
deck department manning scale to remain
the same.
Before receiving a commission in the
R.A.N. I was responsible for the manning
of the biggest and finest transports in the
world while they were based on Sydney.
Calling for as many as 300 men of all
ratings for one ship, I was amazed at
the number of young fellows who de-
sired to go to sea, and who were very
often placed as “first-trip” deck-hands
and cleaners in the engine-room. The
fact that these ships were operating in
Australian waters gave many a young
man his opportunity to follow the sea,
but not, of course, as an apprentice.
The superintendents and their assist-
ants of the Mercantile Marine Office at
the main ports do their utmost to give
youth its opportunity, but their scope is
limited. It should be widened. Why
not make a start by placing one appren-
tice, at least, in every ship of 1000 tons
gross operated by the Shipping Control
Board? — Ex-Purser (N.S.W.).
Employee Dictatorship
You can buy a car, a house, or thou-
sands of other assets, and provided you
do not break the law you can do what
you like, how you like, with those assets.
But when you buy a business it is a dif-
ferent story. If your employees become
•* disgruntled they can hold you up as effec-
tively as the highwayman does his victim
when he holds a pistol at his head.
First of all the disgruntled employees
refuse to carry out their normal duties.
If you can get enough assistance from
employees who disapprove of the action
of the disgruntled ones or from. other
sources to enable you to carry on pro-
ducing your wares the disgruntled em-
ployees go a step further. They call on
workers in other industries who normally
handle your wares to refuse to handle
them. Your goods are stolen or destroyed.
Your loyal employees are abused, insulted
and in some cases physically ill-treated.
Intending customers are intimidated. It
matters not that these tactics are against
the law of the land.
In any industrial dispute there will be
found in the ranks of the strikers decent,
reasonable men, who prefer to arbitrate
about their differences with the employer.
They disapprove of the idea of direct
action, but join the strikers through
loyalty to their fellow workers, or because
they are intimidated and fear the conse-
quences if they were to follow their own
consciences. The moderate man in any
group of workers is usually the quiet
chap. He keeps irf the background, and
doesn’t seek to dominate his fellows any
more than he seeks to dominate his em-
ployer. The loud-mouthed domineering
man usually is anti-employer all the time,
always looking for some excuse to cause
inconvenience, trouble and loss for the
employer. Thus we have with us always
a latent dictatorship, always ready to act
as opportunity occurs, a dictatorship
which is no less iniquitous than totali-
tarianism and all the other “isms.” —A. E.
(N.S.W.).
German Orphans for Australia
While I was reading “T.P.V.’s” par. ob-
jecting to German orphan immigrants (B.
8/11/ ”44), the A.B.C. broadcast an inter-
view between William Winter and a
Dutch naval man.
The sailor related the experience of his
countrymen. After the last war many
Dutch people took into their homes starv-
ing German children and looked after
them for years. In May, 1940, those chil-
dren, grown to manhood, returned to
their benefactors, not as grateful friends,
but as invading paratroops, and among
their first victims were those men and
women who had befriended them years
before.
Those paratroops had not had the seed
of Nazism planted in them as children,
so what might we expect in the future
from children of Germany today?—
E. R. S. (Vic.).
Jericho Isn’t Portland
I was interested to see the feverish
rush of politicians to provide another
butcher’s shop in Portland. As one of the
councillors, I have been trying to get a
butcher’s shop and iceworks in the town
of Jericho (Q.) reopened. They have
been closed for 18 months now, allegedly
for lack of man-power. Meanwhile a
community of some 200 souls has its meat
brought by rail 35 miles, and you can
guess what that means in summer.
So far our efforts have brought forth
letters from politicians and it looks
as though that is all we might get this
summer. We haven’t got a coalmine,
unfortunately.—J. R. Lewis (Q.).
Status of N.G. Natives
Extremely interesting was the article
(B. 8/11/ ’44) “New Guinea’s Future,”
culled from the “Times.” Having served
for over a year in that sphere I appreci-
ate the vast changes brought about by the
needs of war in communications and
native administration.
Places like Milne Bay and Wau have
become healthy, habitable centres. In
Papua the firm bond of sympathy exist-
ing between the native and the Digger
will go far towards solving the problems
associated with the use of native labor.
Under the indenture system the native’s
status was not raised much above that of
a coolie. If that status were raised the
problem of labor would solve itself. The
natives willingly supplied most of the
labor required for anti-malarial measures,
having the incentive of being treated as
equals. This was mainly brought about
by the Diggers, whose praise for the
magnificent work of their dusky allies
has always been unstinted.
New Guinea needs (1) a proper edu-
cation system for natives and sympathetic
administration of native welfare, (2)
special training of young, keen Austra-
lians in native psychology and study of
the modern N.G. background, (3) the rais-
ing of native status. The lesson of Malaya
should illuminate developmental schemes.
It has yet to be thoroughly learned. The
native soon becomes lazy and diffident
if downtrodden or neglected. Raise his
self-confidence by treating him as a
fellow human being and at once he takes
an interest in his work. He is quick and
keen to learn.
Years of patient toil will be needed
' to develop N.G. fully, but already a good
start has been made. Potentially the
island can absorb many thousands of
white settlers. As a bastion of defence
it must be developed.— Rooster (A.1.F.).


Fine AUSTRALIAN-MADE
Precision Machine Tools
w “MARS”
★ All necessary rotating parts oi
EVERY “Mars” Machine Tool are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
All surfaces are MACHINE
GROUND. All Gear Teeth are
GENERATED. Every “Mars”
Lathe is tested for accuracy to
Dr. Schlesinger Standards and a
Test Results Chart attached to
each Lathe.
mm ws§, I
n
9J" High-Speed Engine Lathe
I
M
;: r*
uni
I II Pm
>p~ a i
.
Karas*
i *MM
IMIS
\
Si
;' : 't
The “Mercury” s|” Lathe
“The little GIANT of the Lathe WorldV
I
»fT SgfeW
, WW iq
"if r•' i '~ -w iti- WiF^Sr
jC
■fe>
H:;:;
s» ~ ■
& :
TW*
mm
&m.
The “Mars” 6" Lathe
All Machine Tools offered subject
to release by Ministry of Munitions
i
1
Tl/HEN the “MARS”
* * organisation set itself
the task of making Machine
Tools to satisfy Australia’s
dire need, it was merely the
culmination of 25 years of
rigid adherence to the most
exacting standards of Precision
Engineering. To-day “Mars” Fine
Precision Machine Tools reflect
that quarter century of steadfast
observance of the highest accuracy.
The 44 Mars ” range of Machine
Tools includes , 8”, T , 6 and
5J Lathes, and Millers, Shapers,
Planers and Paper Guillotines.
Special Lathes, Planers or
Boring Mills built to order
Send to the makers or to any of the
Distributing Agents for full details of
the Machine Tool in which you are
interested.
m
\V
J
: :
The “Atlas” 8" Lathe
w
7” Lathe
rrr~~2
The “Mars” Radial Drill
Heavy Duty — B speeds Forward, 8 Reverse
4' 6" arm. Weight {approx.) 2j tons.
r~t
s
9
■ ,
“Mars” Horizontal Plain Miller
iE» I™
m a i lil*
* ' ™
... *
m— * ■* %
't'lWsf' »|Jr-
IfeV, JPli
a’*lll
—'^MKiHbg
-m f
V ji^*"
mm-
■
■M
mm
■ y -
■
.
991
The “Mars” High-Speed Planer
. : f.
* ■ M
r
'
The “Mars” Shaper
MARS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
MACHINE TOOL
Manfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Precision Machine Tools; Marine, Diesel
and General Engineer’s; Specialists in all classes of Gear
Cutting: and in Heat Treatment of Steel; Manufacturers of
all kinds of Parts in Repetition; Specialists in Precision
Heavy Engineering.
Distributing Agents :
New South Wales: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria: Thompson &
Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne;
New Zealand:
A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd.,
Hereford Street, Christchurch.
Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty.
Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
J. & O'S
