

OAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.-~No. 3335.
Wednesday, January 12, 1944.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N..5.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
WINGFIELD MANOR.
\X/INGFIELD MANOR, eight miles from Matlock, Derbyshire,
was granted by William the Conqueror to one of his knights,
William Peverill. He sided with William Rufus against Robert,
and two generations later his grandson, William Peverill, upheld
the cause of King Stephen. In the reign of Henry VI the property
came into the hands of Ralph, Lord Cromwell, Treasurer of the
Exchequer, and he began the building of the house. Over the gate-
way are several bags and purses carved in stone, which are sup-
posed to refer to Lord Cromwell’s office. He did not live to see
the completion of his building. The reversion was sold to John
Talbot, second Earl of Shrewsbury. Maty Queen of Scots was
detained at Wingfield for nine years ; first under the guardianship
of George, sixth Earl of Shrewsbury, then under Sir Ralph Sadler,
from whose care she was removed to Tutbury.
At the outbreak of the Civil War the property belonged to the Earl
of Pembroke by marriage with Mary, one of the daughters of
Gilbert, seventh Earl of Shrewsbury ; and he held it for Parliament
until 1643, when the Royalists took it after a desperate assault; but
it was soon won back by Sir John Cell, and three years
later a decree was passed for dismantling the manor house. In
1678 it passed into the hands of the Haltons, an old Cumberland
family, and traces are still to be seen of the alterations made by
Immanuel Halton. In 1774 a descendant of the Haltons demolished
a great portion of the old house, in order to have material for
building a new house at the bottom of the hill. The tower on the
south side is the only part which is still tolerably perfect, except
the cellar under the great hall. The hall measures 72 feet by 36
feet; but it is so dismantled that little idea can be formed of its
original grandeur.


“S«ceJ»«S?
G
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.’*
My Name
My Address
S.B. 144 AGE
The Red Page
Fifty Years of "The Bulletin."
In 1893 I had, as a young lawyer, more '
leisure time than was welcome, and
so embarked on freelance journalism. ;
Although I was 30 and had won sundry ;
essay and verse prizes at school, I had
not earned by my pen as much in my !
life as has come in for any month since.
Leader-writing for Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” was easy; to catch the peculiar
style of The Bulletin not so easy. It
had started as a model of the terse and
had doubtless overdone this. Macleod
showed me in 1921 the earliest volume
with a bald statement such as “So-and-so
went to Melbourne on Thursday” making
a paragraph.
Wasn’t it James Edmond who changed
all that? At any rate, by my time he had
become a model to copy. My very first
appearance was in the “Answers”
column: “S.T.S.: You cavort too
much.” The dictionaries don’t fancy the
word, but probably it implies showy effort
such as the prancing of a horse. (I first
met it in Mark Twain as describing a
darting toothache.) So the criticism was
really quaint if it did come from J.E.,
for his own speciality was the saying of
the same thing over again in three
different ways—all witty, but obviously
“cavorting.”
But one kept on and gradually came
to be depended upon for dramatic, art
and sporting notes from Adelaide ; be-
sides the miscellaneous ideas not suit-
able for expanding into leader or review.
And so began an association which has
lasted for a half-century, with hardly a
break for any week, except during a holi-
day in England in 1927 ; which, for an
absolute freelance operating more than
a thousand miles from the base, may,
perhaps, be unique.
There were some acid comments on
other papers and their ways. Long ago
all our papers had the same cable ser-
vice, cut to the bone. When Australia
sent a natural history item, truthfully
but tersely, “Bishop Adelaide found
dead seaserpent Coffin’s Bay,” London
“Times” took it as two sentences,,
scrapped the last three words as not im-
portant and turned the first four into a
glowing obituary of the bishop.
Searle, the sculler, was doing Australia
much credit in England. Joe Thompson,
the bookmaker, and others gave him a
gold watch and chain and, to give it more
publicity, made the presentation on the
stage of the Oxford, ope of London’s
chief variety theatres. This was the cable
we got, “Searle presented jewellery
Oxford music hall.” And this was the
glorious nonsense one Sydney paper
made of it; “Searle, the famous oarsman,
who” —six lines about his wins—“has
made a valuable present of jewellery to
the music hall at Oxford in commemo-
ration of, his visit to the university town.”
And when little Montenegro first came
into notice an Adelaide paper credited
its actions to “King Monte, a negro.”
So with the cable “Constantinople
fire harem next room t Sultan’s” one
paper carelessly put in “which is” after
harem ; and The Bulletin’s comment
was “When that sub.’s salary gets bigger
he will grow out of the idea that a harem
is one room.”
I always liked the plea for reform in
woman’s dress. “We do not advocate
Total Abstinence —merely Temperance” ;
if all women were compelled to dress
alike, then “every cat would start from
scratch.”
In early days there were many
Japanese women in Queensland ; morals
dubious, and deportation was suggested.
A Brisbane paper argued earnestly
against this, urging that so long as we
allowed Jap men here there should be,
to keep our own race from contamina-
tion, a certain number of their women.
But The Bulletin, neatly and unkindly,
called this “the anguished wail of a
northern journalist suddenly deprived of
his little brown Flossie.”
Odd how some things stick in the
memory. At Federation time a cartoon
of a pilgrim toiling up a rocky ascent and
in the path a lion (with the face of a
man, of course). The title, “Another lion
in the path” ; the pilgrim’s remark, “Now,
dash it, this is too bad.” And if one can
smile over the memory of a drawing 45
years after date, with no recollection of
who the parties were, it must have been
a pretty effective one at that date.
Does anyone now remember the
Fusion Ministry? It was a coalition that
served its purpose for the moment; but
The Bulletin dismissed it with the dis-
covery that “Fusion” is made up of
lOU and N.S.F.
Similarly acid was the comment that
“8.5. A.” for British South Africa was
cynically appropriate as signifying also
the Birmingham Small Arms Co., with
the Chamberlain family prominent in it.
And this brings in an important fea-
ture, not to be forgotten. When The
Bulletin started Australia was just a set
of “colonies,” mainly quite satisfied so
to be and remain. “Imported” was the
badge of excellence for anything from
iron to blankets, from horses to beer ;
“colonial” the corresponding badge of
inferiority. Statesmen and Judges who
had been born here were occasional in
N.S.W., but in the other colonies almost
unknown. There was no national spirit,
or next to none. So the A.N.A. was
formed as one good sign, and The
Bulletin threw itself fiercely into the
work. What it did in those years should
never be forgotten. Federation was just
one outcome.
Difficult, at this distance of time, to
criticise its chosen methods. But cer-
tainly they were amazingly strenuous.
Everything English was under suspicion,
from royalty downwards. The “Old
Country” was the Cold Country ; a visit
to London was “going fogwards.” A
knighthood being a badge of the old
system, the word “Sir” was banned —a
trifle which might be dropped today, the
difference between the current “knight
John Jones” and the official “Sir John”
being surely immaterial. A Labor party,
then just beginning to imagine itself pos-
sible, was encouraged in every way. The
red paper—though that color had not
then the political significance it has
acquired since Russia came to the front
—was welcomed in every shearers’ hut;
while in the station-manager’s house it
was quite likely to be banned as a Dis-
loyal Rag. We have moved a long
way since then.
As one earnest of good faith, the Boer
War was bitterly opposed. Every war
being popular at the start, this was a big
blow to the paper’s circulation ; yet that
was survived, a warm working for the
difficult progress of Federation turning
the scale. But it is a solemn fact that
for many years it never had a good word
to say for Kipling, even as an author.
He was an Imperialist, a follower of
Joseph Chamberlain, and that was
enough.
And the oddest outcome of all this
was the Woman’s Page, the Fashion
columfl. Logically, it shouldn’t have been
possible ; but it was wanted as an aid
to circulation. Government House was
a badge of continued servility to Eng-
land ; yet “Society” centred round Gov-
ernment House. So all its doings were
recorded—yet with a permanent sneer.
A debutante was the So-and-sos’
“youngest fluffy chick.” At a fashionable
wedding “the voice breathed for” So-and-
so. The arrival of a new A.D.C. in Ade-
laide was recorded: “He,is kept on the
chain at present, but on still nights his
barking can be heard.” This was felt
(locally) to be really too much, and the
demure spinster then responsible for the
Adelaide Letter had to protest, tearfully,
that it had been added to her copy “in
the office.” It was about that time that
S. H. Prior —himself originally - a South
Australian, and with charming
manners —said to me “The trouble with
you Adelaide writers is that you can’t
forget you are ladies and gentlemen.”
It was a particularly clever woman
journalist who started that incredibly in-
consistent but highly readable page, and
her influence remained visible for many
years.
Yes, they were great days, with Phil
May or “Hop” doing the cartoons,
Edmond the witty comments, A. G.
Stephens the Red Page. When I came
back from England at Christmas, 1885,
on the old Orient I was editor of the
ship’s newspaper, May its cartoonist. He
showed there a “classical” brand of
humor which one didn’t see in his work
afterwards. A portrait of Dr. Cater, the
ship’s surgeon, was labelled “Cater Non
Se Sic.” And dear old Ralston of the
A.M.P. was “Themos T. P. Opul Arma
Non Theo Rient”- 1 - which is just
chopped-up English if you look at it
carefully.
A. G. Stephens did one thing that
deserves to be remembered—but is not,
so far as any inquiries of mine go. He
had sought—he said —for the very finest
last line possible (regardless of meaning)
for a sonnet. After exhaustive analysis
and refining it worked out as this (or
thereabouts);
On crested crag in mountains of the Moon.
Well, this ideal being found, a pity not
to use it. And there had lately been a
big fire—Sydney? or Melbourne?—in a
theatre tenanted by Bland Holt. So it
was imagined by the poet that all the
fruity old melodramas had been con-
sumed and that the ashes had floated
away into space and had at long last
came to rest on crested crag, etc. ,
And does anyone remember the
obituary notice of Victor Daley that
appeared when he was travelling in the
islands some years before his actual
death? Really wicked, but funny-if you
were smart enough to spot it as
burlesque.
As for Low’s cartoon bringing Hughes
and Lloyd George together, that is a
matter of political history.
As a detail, one has always admired
The Bulletin’s firm barring of the
exclamation mark, used elsewhere by
poets mainly to add a fictitious appear-
ance of strength to their last line, by
prose-writers as a cackle to warn you
that they have laid a joke.
Well, there have "been changes, of
course. Payment by the line instead of
space (Prior told me that I was allowed
a trifle extra for super honesty in trim-
ming head and tail of a par.). We have
introduced puns, formerly regarded with
shuddering horror—perhaps as being an
English trait. We have tried serial
stories, formerly proclaimed “not accept-
able even if written by Homer and
Dickens in collaboration.” And we are
nibbling at the idea—which London now
swallows whole —the lamentable idea of a
century back that bad drawing is in itself
funny.
The financial page has been built up
into an admitted authority. The latest
innovation is the last page, allowing the
Other Fellow to hold forth on serious
topics. Farmers are catered for more
than ever before. But what I miss is the
old Dramatic Page, plus anecdotes of
players: not the modern amorous trivi-
alities of Hollywood, but the greenroom
yarns of people we had seen and known.
Perhaps they will “come again,” as
theatre and variety show do so.
The “Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean”
critical articles are quite in the old vein.
So was a recent burlesque of Neville
Cardus, mixing up his elaborate analysis
of music with his metaphors from cricket.
And, though I care little for politics, it
is all to the good to have as cartoonist
an artist who is famous as an artist in
other spheres.
And The Bulletin has never been
rude to me except once ; and that was —
I am sure—a very new and smart young
sub-editor. I had just found with sur-
prise that our old friend Anthony Trol-
lope is still treasured and that in England
his followers take his Barchester as
seriously as if it were Hardy’s Wessex,
and argue, for instance, whether the
bishop could really have got from the
parsonage to the cathedral in the time
stated. This was good news, and I passed
it on, but evidently it didn’t penetrate
the skull of this sub., who gave it a smart
slap in the Correspondents’ Column:
“S.T.S.: You can’t make a paragraph out
of the fact that other people like an
author you don’t like.”
Finally, one odd incident I feel bound
to record. At one time I had failed to
cut out my pars, for the accountant.
Arrears accumulated, and, after seven
years, the task of going all through the
old files became a terror. So I wrote and
asked if some sort of estimate could be
made instead.
A payment of £5O would have been
accepted as a graceful act —though,
doubtless, I had in the accumulation
earned more. But I received promptly a
"cheque for £175. Could one name any
other paper which would have done that?
And is there any other paper, anywhere,
whose accounts, are paid by cheques
illustrated with a comic picture?
S. TALBOT SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A pallid essay in the tradition of “The
Man Who Came to Dinner” (with a wise-
cracking columnist who rearranges every-
body’s life as the hero), Sydney
Minerva’s “Separate Rooms” develops a
good situation for mechanical farce. A
spendthrift and selfish actress marries the
columnist’s brother and proceeds to make
his life a misery ; the columnist digs up
the facts of her scandalous past and
threatens to publish them unless she be-
comes the perfect wife ; he comes to live
with the married pair so that he can keep
his eagle eye on the lady while she is
reluctantly reforming. Mechanical and
trivial though it is, the situation has pos-
sibilities for comedy. Rut it lasts only
ten minutes, at the end of the second act.
All Act I is a tedious leading up to the
situation ; Act 111 is a welter of vulgarity
and sentimentality in which everybody
has a baby and lives happily for ever
after. Wayne Froman proves that the
butler in this play is the same character
as the Marx Brother of “The Man Who
Came to Dinner,” the tenant of “My
Sister Eileen” and the sailor of “Janie” ;
Barrett Fleming clowns dismallyand
Harvey Adams, Dick Bentley, Neva Carr-
Glyn, Hal Thompson and Sheila Help-
man struggle manfully but without suffi-
cient verve to redeem an extraordinarily
poor play.
To make the plot and grind out the
laborious wisecracks of “Separate
Rooms” it took four collaborators,
Joseph Carole, Alan Dinehart, Alex.
Gottlieb and Edmund Joseph. Since all
it amounts to is a reshuffling of the stock
characters of playwright, actress and
newspaperman, and since an Australian
play, “Interval,” by Sumner Locke-Elliott,
is a much more dramatic and much wittier
reshuffling of those same characters, it
really seems pointless to have imported
the effusion of Messrs. Joseph Carole,
Alan Dinehart, Alex. Gottlieb and
Edmund Joseph. Sumner Locke-Elliott’s
play has been successfully staged by Syd-
ney Independents and Adelaide Reper-
tory.
At the talkies:
“Dixie” (Sydney Prince Edward) revolves
around the turbulent life of Dan Emmett,
maker of the song from which the film takes
its title. Bing Crosby actually sings, and sings
quite well. Also Dotty Lamour is photo-
graphed without: sarong and hibiscus, sarongs
and hibiscuses being incompatible with Missis-
sippi cottonfields and buck niggers, even in
Hollywood. Nicely mounted and kept on the
move.
A surprising Christmas box in Mel-
bourne was the revival of that onetime
light operatic favorite “Rip Van Winkle,”
by Planquette, the composer who achieved
fame with “Les Cloches de Corneville” in
1877. “Rip Van Winkle” deals with
Dutch settlers on the River Hudson in
the days when George Three bossed
America. , Its political references are
probably out of tune with current
fashions, so Adele Lycoudis was doubt-
less wise in revising the libretto. What
remains is a fairy story so artless that
it eludes description, but it was a good
enough vehicle for John Noble, Josie
Kean, Tom Minogue, Etta Bernard and
others to display their melodic talents
and for the ladies and gents of the chorus
to vent some really admirable singing.
The Assembly stage is more adapted for
a theological debate than for the presen-
tation of haunted glens in the Catskill
Mountains, but nobody fell on top of the
orchestra while The Bulletin was
present.
Pantomime producers in Melbourne
have been so consistently attacked in the
past for putting into the mouths of
their wisecrack merchants jests of the
Rabelaisian variety that they have evi-
dently taken the rebuke to heart in the
Firm’s revival of “Aladdin” at His
Majesty’s. The result is that the critics
now complain of boredom, and demand
a brighter if not bluer libretto. How-
ever, the avalanche of kiddies which over-
flows the three tiers of seats daily doesn’t
notice any difference. Nor is any dif-
ference to be noticed in the rest of Alan
Chapman’s production. Don Nicol as
the Widow Twankey works tirelessly in
the cause of juvenile entertainment, and
principal boy Joy Youlden’s legs more
than come up to expectations even if her
vocalisation doesn’t. The show is hand-
somely upholstered in the J.C.W. tradi-
tion, and the emperor’s garden is reminis-
cent of grand opera. The Rose Ballet,
invented and arranged by Hazel Mel-
drum, with choreography by Joan Burnett,
makes new panto, standards.
Hector Crawford, the young Melbourne
conductor who has made a success of con-
certs in the Botanic Gardens, had ap-
proximately 25,000 people, ducks, geese
and swans for his second of the
season. The Orpheon Choir, Heidelberg
City Choir and the Melbourne Conser-
vatorium Orchestra conspired to give such
a good performance that the crowd made
the traditional gesture and unanimously
rose to its feet in the “Hallelujah” chorus.
A show sponsored by Martin Hannah
and the Tree Planters’ Association at the
Melbourne Town Hall gave an inkling of
what might be done by Australian crafts-
men with the beautiful Australian timbers.
Principal exhibit is a shield-back elbow-
chair in Hepplewhite taste, wholly made
by G. E. Jelbart, of Ballarat. The joinery
is magnificent, the wood is superb if a
trifle too noisy in the matter of polish,
and the lyrebird design is an ingenious
attempt at an Australian motive.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
of Service
X) J2p
\
Portrait 1 of a
Summer Commando /■
M
m
sd
fs
df
THE MOSQUITOES OUT
OF THE SKIES WITH
DAIMOS INSECT SPRAY
Daimos, concentrated insect spray. Kills moths,
mosquitoes, insects, cockroaches and others.
Contents of tin, 8 fluid ounces, to be mixed with
one gallon of kerosene, which makes a gallon of
insect spray. Price, tin . 2/9
/
o
W
9
if
o
. :
Lyrol Mosquito Repellant. Lyrol gently
applied to the surface of the skin repels
mosquitoes. It is effective and may be used
on the most tender skins. Price, cake, 1/-
Mosquito Coils. Pre-war stocks. Genuine
pyrethrum floues content. Each coil will
burn for four hours. Boxes of 12 coils, lOid.
Skeeta, the Mosquito and Insect Repellant.
Packed in glass screw-top jars. Prepared
from the formula by the late R. J. Tillyard,
F.R.S. Send a bottle in your next parcel to
the serviceman “up north”. Price .. 1/
fir,
Oil of Citronella Compound. Perfect oil and
of full aroma.
Sizes; 1 oz. Price 101 d.
2 ois. Price 1/5
4 ozs. Price 2/41
Potter tr Moore’s Mosquito Repellent, in
tubes. This compound contains concentrated
lavender which leaves no stain and is a
sure mosquito repellant. Price, tube 1/2
m
yßk
Celebrity Equator Mosquito Cream. An
effective repellant. It contains a high per-
centage of medications compounded into a
smooth, pleasant base. Price, jar .... 2/3
BRIGGS’ IMPORTED BLACK BITUMEN PA I NT.-1 deal for Iron and
Composition Roofs and Gutterings. Durable, elastic and anti-corro-
sive. In 5 gallon drums. Price, drum 42/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


OUT OF THE PAST
THE SENIOR-SERGEANT
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
TWENTY years ago, when I first met
him as the licensee of a Blue
Mountains public-house, Senior-
sergeant Michael Rourke had long
been retired from the New South Wales
Mounted Police. He was a stiff, wiry,
flat-backed old Irishman, and what he
didn’t know ajbout the people of the bush
on the western side of the Dividing
Range and on its south-eastern slopes
was hardly worth knowing.
Ben Hall, he used to say, was one of
the best men who ever lived—not a bit
like his old father. Tommy, who’d bred
him at Breeza, on the Liverpool Plains.
He himself had put a bullet into Ben’s
body, over towards Binalong—but that
was all in the day’s work, arid he wasn’t
a bit prejudiced against Ben on account
of it.
“Ben was a gentleman,” he told me.
“And that’s more than can be said of
one or two of the damned young rap-
scallions he had with him —though he
always did his best to keep ’em in order.
He was a much better sort of chap than
Frank Gardiner —or Christie, to give him
his right name. That lad was what they
call a ‘go-getter.’ ”
I’m going to tell you two bushranging
stories —they are both in the police
records of N.S.W. —as Mick Rourke told
them to me.
<<PjN a moonlight, frosty night in the
month of June, 1864,” said Mick,
“Cobb and Co.’s mail coach from
Bathurst to Orange had reached about
halfway when the five passengers—under
the care of a driver named Jimmy Nairn
—heard a gruff voice shout:
“ ‘Bail up!’
“Peering out into the bright moonlight
they saw three arm6d and masked men
—one stood near the horses’ heads
with a revolver pointed at the driver on
the box, while the other two were facing
the coach, on each side of the road.
“The usual procedure was carried out
—one to which travellers were more or
less hardened on the western roads of
New South Wales in the ’sixties. The
passengers were ordered out, searched
for valuables and then compelled to stand
or sit in a group at the side of the track
while their luggage and the mailbags
were ransacked.
“When one of the passengers asked on
behalf of the company for leave to go on
he got this pretty sharp answer;
“ ‘We’re going to keep you here all
night, until the down coach arrives, as we
mean to kill two birds with one stone.’
“They were allowed to talk to one
another and to take a.pull occasionally
from a big flask of rum which one of
them had in his overcoat pocket. But
’twas a weary wait.
“The monotony was relieved by a
couple of incidents,
“An hour or so had gone by slowly
when the hoofbeats of a cantering horse
were heard ringing on the frosty surface
of the road, and presently a youth on
horseback came along. He was riding
. home from Bathurst and was close to the
turn-off to his father’s homestead when
he came upon the row of huddled
prisoners roosting on the log. Before he
could do anything his reins were grabbed
by one of the bushrangers and he was
told to dismount and join the others.
“Another miserable hour dragged
along, when another horseman was heard
coming along the road from the opposite
direction. This was the lad’s father,
who’d become anxious about him and
had ridden out into the cold night to
find him. He, too, was added to the
squad on the log—but came very near
being shot when he made some show of
resisting.
“For seven perishing hours the
prisoners crouched and froze and cursed,
until, getting oA towards dawn, the rattle
of the Orange to Bathurst coach, driven
by one of the best-known of the old-time
whips, cheery Johnny Fagan, broke the
stillness of the night. Being stuck up
wasn’t any sort of a new experience to
Johnny. There was only one passenger,
and he was added to the miserable crew
on the log. The mailbags were quickly
thrown out on to the road.
« AT last the bushrangers’ job was
**done, and just before daylight they
mounted their horses and made off into
the bush with their booty, which wasn’t
nearly as large or as valuable as they’d
hoped.
“There was no end of excitement in
Bathurst and Orange when the two
coaches arrived at their destinations with
rifled mailbags and looted passengers,
and our fellows —the mounted police—
from both centres were soon scouring
the bush between the two towns in hopes
of picking up the bushrangers’ tracks.
But for weeks they had no luck —and
then a clue was unexpectedly dropped on
which resulted in the arrest of a young
fellow named Thomas Kessy and two of
his mates, all living close to Bathurst.
The troopers searched Kessy’s home and
found in his box a couple of shirts, one
of which was marked with the name of
a passenger on the Orange mail, together
with a guernsey and a couple of pairs of
boots. This property was afterwards
identified by two of the passengers who’d
been robbed.
“The three bright lads were tried before
Judge Milford at the Bathurst Assizes,
and a clear case was proved against Tom
Kessy—whom three of his recent victims
were able to swear to —but the evidence
against the other two was pretty weak,
and the jury acquitted them. Young
Mister Kessy was rewarded for his enter-
prise that frosty night with ten years’
hard labor on the roads.
“At the same sittings a brother of
Kessy was placed upon his trial on a
charge of robbery under arms, a little
way out of Bathurst, of a farmer named
McKinnon, who lived at Limekilns. He
had been bailed up a few days after the
sticking-up of the mail coaches and
robbed of various articles, which were
found under Jim Kessy’s bed on the day
his brother’s room was searched. The
jury convicted, and Jimmy was sent to
keep his brother Tom company, also for
ten years, in assisting to maintain Queen
Victoria’s roads in good order. However,
by ’64 such sentences as this usually
meant hard labor on Cockatoo Island,
and it’s likely enough the brothers
Kessy enjoyed the sight of the sunrise
on Port Jackson for a good many years
to come.
li \\ 1 ELL, lad,” said Mick, “that’s one
VV o’ me yarns —and here’s another
that happened about the same time, and
also in the western country of New South
Wales across the mountains. ’Twas a bit
bloodier than the Orange-road affair,
though.
“About the same time as I’ve just been
telling you about, there was a small gold-
field in the Mudgee district known as
Pyramul. Like every other diggings, it
had its allowance of bad hats.
“One of the miners, Tom Sharpe,
worked a sideline in storekeeping, and
carried on a fairly profitable business
which was looked after by his wife. In
a little slab annexe to his home he kept
goods in request by his fellow-diggers,
and while Mrs. Sharpe was attending to
the shop one evening and her husband
and his mate were eating their supper
she was startled by the sudden entrance
of a stranger, ‘who called out:
“ ‘Bail up! Bail up, and hand over all
the money you’ve got!’
“‘You’ll get no money here!’ the
woman responded. ‘So you’d better clear
out.’
“Just then she heard the reports of
firearms behind the house, and before she
knew what was happening she was being
led by the robber from the store to the
kitchen, outside the door of which two
other men were waiting, one of them
carrying a shotgun. Her guardian
handed her over to the others and went
back into the little shop ; but before he
had time to loot it he was interrupted by
the sound of shots outside. Seeing his
two companions making off into the
bush, he hurried after them.
“Sharpe’s mate had been killed, whilst
the man who shot him was seriously
wounded in the shoulder, though not
badly enough to hinder him from making
his escape with the others. Sharpe after-
wards supplied the police with particu-
lars concerning the murder of his partner.
“He and Alec Musson, his mate, he
told them, were sitting at their evening
meal, when they heard the sound of the
fellow bailing up Mrs. Sharpe in the
store. Sharpe at once jumped up from
the table and sprang to the kitchen-door,
where he was faced by two men wearing
crepe masks, one of them carrying a gun.
“‘Hullo, what do you want?’ he cried
—when he was struck across the face with
the gun barrels, and his assailant shouted
at him:
“ ‘Stand back, you or I’ll brain
you!’
“Half-blinded with blood and stupe-
fied by the blow, Sharpe staggered back
into the kitchen, whilst Musson ran to
the door- to close it in the face of the
man who was following his mate.
Instantly the bushranger fired at him,
and next moment he was writhing in his
death agonies on the floor of the kitchen.
The charge had tom right through his
body.
“In the meantime Sharpe had snatched
up a loaded double-barrel pistol from
the mantelpiece and had fifed at the
murderer standing in the doorway. He
discharged both barrels at once, hitting
the fellow in the arm and shoulder. With
a curse he dropped the gun and cleared
off into the bush with his companions.
Smothered in blood, Sharpe ran after
them, shouting out:
“‘You cowardly bastards, come back!
You’ve shot one man —come back and
fight it out!’
“I needn’t tell you the poor fellow’s
invitation wasn’t accepted, and the men
disappeared in the scrub. Sharpe groped
his way back to the hut, meeting his
wife running to his assistance with the
gun the bushranger had dropped near
the kitchen-door.
<<'T'HE Coroner held an inquest on
i Musson’s body, and returned a ver-
dict of wilful murder against some per-
sons unknown. Three weeks went by
without the police being able to drop on
to any clue as to who these unknown
people might be, when another store-
keeper—a widow —was robbed at Coo-
yal, a small digging centre, also in the
Mudgee district. For this affair two men,
named McQuirk and Campbell, were
arrested, brought to trial, convicted and
sentenced to seven years’ hard labor.
“Whilst doing his time, and with an
eye to his own advantage, Campbell let
out certain things to the prison authori-
ties which led to inquiries being made
by the police as to the whereabouts of
two former residents of the district,
James McGrath and George Gibson,
otherwise known as ‘Paddy Tom.’ They
were eventually located in the Dubbo
district, and were arrested on suspicion.
Charged at the Mudgee Police Court
with the murder of Alexander Musson,
they were committed for trial at Bathurst.
Gibson, it had been found, had unhealed
shot wounds in his shoulder.
“When the trial came on the evidence
of Sharpe and his wife established the
fact that it was Gibson who carried the
gun and fired the shot that killed
Musson. His own wounds in the shoul-
der made the case against him blacker
still, although he asserted and insisted
that they were the results of boils. But
the prisoner Campbell’s evidence was
very damning.
“When he was put in the witness-box
he testified to the effect that two or
three days after the Pyramul affair he’d
seen Gibson in bed at the hut of a digger
known as ‘Yorky’ and that he was com-
plaining of pain in his shoulder and side.
Afterwards, when they were discussing
the job they were going to do at Coo-
yal, Campbell stated that they wanted
Gibson to go with them, but he wasn’t
having any, saying he had had enough of
it for a while. He was occupying him-
self with making bullets in a mould and,
when he was asked how he was, he said
he felt more comfortable now that he’d
got the lead out of his shoulder, but he
had to keep his arm in a sling. The in-
former —Queen’s evidence, he was —also
swore that, four days before Musson met
his death, he’d seen Gibson with the gun
that had been dropped near the kitchen-
door at Sharpe’s place.
11 tD Y way of putting up a defence,
Gibson claimed to have been 200
miles away from Pyramul at the time of
the murder, and called evidence to show
that the wounds in his shoulder were not
of the sort that could have been made by
pistol bullets. But the jury didn’t hesi-
tate about a conviction —though McGrath
was discharged on the grounds of insuffi-
cient evidence. Sentence of death was
passed by the Judge, and Gibson was
removed to the condemned cell in
Bathurst Jail.
“During his last night, which he
passed wide awake, about 4 o’clock in
the morning he asked the warder who
was watching him if he might have some
tea and toast.
“ ‘My time’s getting shorter,’ he said.
‘lt won’t be long before I’m in another
world.’
“They got it for him and he made a
good meal, remarking as he wiped the
crumbs from his lips:
“ ‘That’s the last I’ll want in this
world.’
“Right up to the end —though I think
he was a liar—Gibson protested that he
wasn’t guilty, and at the foot of the
scaffold the chaplain looking after him,
Father Keating, informed those present
that the condemned man had signed a
written statement which had been for-
mally witnessed by the governor of the
prison and himself, and then read it
aloud. ’Twas a queer bit of work, and
I kept a cutting from the Bathurst paper.
It’s in a drawer in the bar. I’ll get it and
read it to you. Won’t be a moment.”
Presently Rourke returned with an old
scrapbook under his arm. He sat down,
found the place, and read me the follow-
ing statement by the late Mr. Gibson:
Gentlemen, —I am now about to
suffer death in a few moments for
the murder of Alexander Musson.
I now call God to witness that I
never committed that crime, nor was
I aware of it until I read the account
in one of the newspapers three days
after it took place. I never in my
life received a gunshot wound. The
scars on my back, shoulders and
arms are the effect of scurvy boils,
which I had on board ship when
coming out from England to Aus-
tralia. There are two scars on the
back of my right hand; one was
done with a knife and the other, I
think, was done with vitriol. I never
had in my possession the identical
gun exhibited in court against me.
Murder I never committed in my
life, but I accept of my death and
offer it to God as an_ expiation of
many other crimes. —( Signed) George
Gibson.
“Do you believe it, Mr. Rourke?”
“No, I don’t. But I believe that Gib-
son did.”
Trapped Dingo.
So here, twisted in steel, and spoiled with red
your sunlight hide, smelling of death and fear,
they crushed out of your throat' the terrible song
you sang in the dark ranges. With what crying
you mourned him, the drinker of blood, the
swift death-bringer
who ran with you many a night; and the night
was long.
I heard you, desperate poet. Did you hear
my silent voice take up the cry? Replying,
Achilles is overcome, and Hector dead,
and clay stops many a warrior’s mouth, wild
singer.
Voice from the hills and the river drunken with
rain
for your lament the long night was too brief.
Hurling your woes at the moon, that old
cleaned bone,
till the white shorn mobs of stars on the hill
of the sky
huddled and trembled, you tolled him, the rebel
' one.
Insane Andromache, pacing your towers alone,
death ends the verse you chanted; here you lie.
The lover, the maker of elegies is slain,
and veiled with blood her body’s stealthy sun.
N.S.W.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
“A Tale That Is Told.”
A ghost from the future comes to the savages’
camp
And stands in the flickering glare of the bear’s-
fat lamp;
A flaw in the bubble’s surface lets him through
Into the circle round the crocodile stew;
They are as scared and mystified as he,
The half-finished men that fools should never
see;
They in their stinking skins clumsily lapped,
He in his elegance booted, cloaked and capped.
He fits their bowstrings into a frame of bone,
Plays them a rollicking tune as he sits on a
stone.
“Drink to me only” he sings with affected ease;
With fear and amaze the whiskered visages
freeze.
He is gone, gone like the flame of a wasted
wick,
He awakes in the street with his brain heavy
and thick;
While, hardly believing the tale of their eyes
and ears,
They embroider the wondrous thing for a thou-
sand years.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3335.
Wedneday, January 12, 1944.
NEMESIS APPROACHES.
....As a lion, creeping nigher,
Glares at one that nods and winks behind a slowly-dying fire.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Placet 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
FIGHTING FIGURES.
Intuition should have told Hitler — and
Hirohito, too —that, as wars are fought
these days, it was a shade risky to start
throwing hardware in the direction of
specialists in that particular line of goods,
Uncle Sam especially.
Since the day Hitler gave the signal
to start tossing ironmongery Uncle Sam
has knocked together some 160,000
’planes—more than 85,000 of them in
1943. At the middle of last year Uncle
Sam, with assistance from his borderless
neighbor, was turning them out at the
rate of one every 4| minutes around the
clock; he now reckons his aircraft pro-
duction at twice the volume of Britain,
Germany and Japan combined. For this
year U.S.A. plans an output of over
100,000 ’planes, lifting the December,
1943, monthly figure of 9000 to 10,000
within the first six months.
Uncle Sam’s warship production is now
estimated at five times that of the rest of
the world, and his production of mer-
chant ships at five to ten times that of the
rest of the world. With Canada lending
tidy assistance, the present rate is
reckoned at over 22,000,000 deadweight
tons a year. In the first quarter of this
present year U.S. shipyards have the
handling of a nice order in landing craft
—BO,OOO of them. Hitler has had a fore-
taste around Sicily and Italy of what these
may augur for him, and there’s been a
foretaste for Hirohito in the three big
American cross-sea invasions in 19 days
—at Arawe, Cape Gloucester and Saidor.
By now Uncle Sam and his nearest
war partner between them have knocked
up about 200,000 larger-calibre guns for
the ground fighting, leaving out the fair
sort of guns the ’planes carry these times
and the somewhat larger ones used on
warships. Small hardware items run up
to astronomical figures. Machine-guns
from those factories alone must now be
over the 2,000,000 mark; rifles and sub-
machine-guns anything up to 10,0(X),000.
Last July U.S. War Production Board
chairman Donald M. Nelson stated that
the combined U.S.-Canadian plants had
up to then made 200,000,000 rounds of
artillery ammunition and “about 25 bil-
lion rounds of small-arms ammunition —
enough to let us fire over 1500 bullets at
every soldier in the Axis armies.” An
“incredibly high” rate has been attained
since.
Adding to these figures tanks numbered
by the scores of thousands —U.S.A.-
Canada figures at last July, 60,000 —
trucks and suchlike items of assembled
hardware by the million, and not over-
looking that J. Bull is also a hardware
specialist in a fair way of business, with
such places as Australia and Maoriland
weighing in with a share, and Hitler and
Hirohito would appear to be in the way
of having some tough digesting ahead.
At any given moment J. Bull has more
than 600 naval vessels at sea, many of
them decidedly weighty items of iron-
mongery. These grand craft have done
a lion’s share of the jobs of convoying
some 150,000 British and Allied vessels,
with losses given out as less than one ship
in every 200 convoyed, and of protecting
more than 3,000,000 soldiers, moved all
over the world—slightly over 1000 of
these troops had been lost at sea up to
the invasion of Sicily.
It was those splendid ships which chiefly
guarded the convoys taking the supplies
round the terrible Murmansk route to
meet Russia’s desperate need of hardware
and other supplies, a huge tonnage of
which J.B. manufactured —a story yet to
be fully told, and a job that is still being
done. J.B.’s home-built navy weathered
the crisis of the disastrous couple of
months at the end of 1941 when the
British battle fleet covering Singapore and
the Bay of Bengal (thereto shield Aus-
tralia) was sunk and the American battle
fleet covering the Pacific was crippled.
In the Mediterranean J. Bull had three
cruisers left, but they fought on and per-
formed wonders. So did J.B.’s merchant
ships and the men in them. Though he
has lost many of his own building, J.B.
still turns out tonnage in a big way, and
has the tidy total of 2000 merchant ships
at sea at a time. But some of his sacri-
fices have been severe. Two great con-
voys that were headed for Malta in that
island’s desperate days did not get
through, and of four others at that time
only some of the ships in each got
through. Of the fighter aircraft used in
holding Malta 700 were transported close
to the island on British-built and -manned
aircraft-carriers; Uncle Sam delivered
111 by the same process.
That tale has not yet been more than
half told, nor has the tale of the rest of
J.B.’s fighting performance in the Medi-
terranean. One significant piece of in-
formation was given out some time back
by First Lord Alexander —that prevent-
ing Hitler’s desperate efforts to supply
Rommel across the Mediterranean cost
J.B. 41 submarines. But his ships and men
sank 1,335,000 tons of Axis shipping, and
an untold quantity of hardware and other
goods did not reach Rommel.
Fighting figures of this sort under-
line one aspect of such statistics that
needs to be brought into the reckoning
—that colossal as U.S., British and other
production is, it gets used up, and will
be used up on a hitherto unapproached
scale in the offensives now mounting
against Hitler and Hirohito, In the great
R.A.F. raids on Germany, not only are
bombs of British and U.S. make used up
in thousands of ton lots, but losses of
upwards of 20 of the big British-built
bombers on any one raid are now taken
as a matter of course. Warning against
any slackening in the prodigious U.S.
home-front effort, Mr. Nelson has stated
that “one thousand airplane workers will
have to work 40 hours a week for a year
to replace the 60 bombers the American
Air Force lost in one day in the raid on
Schweinfurt.” In Sicily in 30 days, Mr.
Nelson said, hundreds of American
105 mm. howitzers were worn out, though
one of these guns can fire 7500 rounds
before the barrel has had enough. He
added that in the same fighting the
American forces lost or used up—mostly
used up—more than a third of their
75’s and just under half their 57mm. guns.
Some other figures have to be taken
into this side of the accounting. When
100 men are sent overseas with 100 rifles
60 extra rifles have to be shipped to re-
place those that will be lost or damaged
within a year. For every 100 machine-
guns 85 replacements have to be shipped.
These figures grow somewhat with troops
numbered not by hundreds but by mil-
lions. American troops alone are now
getting on towards 8,000,000.
Other figures, too, need to come into
the reckoning—some of them grim.
Admiral Nimitz announced that U.S.
casualties for the three-days’ fighting to
take the pinpoint atoll of Tarawa were
1026 killed and 2557 injured—upwards
of 80 per cent, of the attacking force.
That was in November —close on two
years after Pearl Harbor. And Tarawa
is 3200 miles from Tokyo.
As the advances by invasion on New
Britain and along the New Guinea coast
suggest, the 3000-or-so miles still to
Tokyo might not be quite so far as it
would seem, and meanwhile the Japs
have to keep communications going over
these same distances, defending a peri-
meter 8000 miles long. Behind that de-
fence arc the Japs are held to have from
200 to 300 million people who can be
drawn on to work for them, as well as
their own total of 70-odd millions, at
least 4,000,000 of whom are under arms.
The Jap estimated losses so far are put
at about 200,000 men. They are reckoned
to have still 2,000,000 men of military age
who have not yet been called up because
they have not been needed, and nearly
as many more in the 17-20 age group
who are not now subject to call up. The
Japs’ distant partner is reckoned to have
300 well-trained divisions.
Even through the rosiest possible brand
of spectacles these man-power numbers
are steadying. On them, if the war was
to be decided by ground fighting alone,
it might well go on for ever. Against
them, in weight of numbers, must be set,
for the European end, the huge Russian
numbers, with the combined American
and British, and, for the Jap end, the
20,000,000 armed men which the British
Empire and America are expected to
have between them when —everything
going as it promises—the fighting in
Europe has ended. Nothing like that
number will be needed for the final crush-
ing of Japan. What will be needed—•
and has been promised—is the great
naval and air strength that J. Bull and
Uncle Sam will be able to mass together
when they have done with Hitler.
It will then be the world’s two greatest
hardware merchants —if there are not
three —bearing down on the Japs with
the same line of goods that the Japs, in
their nation’s most reckless moment,
heaved treacherously down on Pearl
Harbor. There can be no doubt what-
ever about the outcome of that contest,
and once Hitler is ditched there will be
no doubt about it even in Japan. Most
likely there still will be, as U.S. Secre-
tary of War Stimson expects, “setbacks
which may seem more serious than any-
thing we have so far experienced.” But
the balance of fighting figures now
weighs decisively against those who
started throwing the ironware.
On March 25,1941, members of the regime
then in control of Yugoslavia signed a
protocol to the Axis Pact in terms already
adhered to by Rumania, Hungary and
Bulgaria. Because of this it was blood-
lessly overthrown next day, and young
King Peter, whose powers had previ-
ously been exercised by a Regency Coun-
cil, ascended the throne. General Dragol-
jub Mihailovich had a hand in those
proceedings, and the U.S.S.R. forthwith
approved of them—so much so that it
invited the new Government to send a
delegation to Moscow to enter into a
treaty, of which this was the vital clause:
The two contracting parties mutually
undertake to desist from any aggression
against each other and to respect the inde-
pendence, sovereign rights and territorial
integrity of the U.S.S.R. and Yugoslavia..
In the event of aggression against one of the
contracting parties on the part of a third
Power, the other contracting party under-
takes to observe a policy of friendly rela-
tions towards that' party.... The present
treaty is concluded for the term of five
years it comes into force from the
moment of its signing.
It was signed on April 5. On the very
next morning the Germans invaded Yugo-
slavia and on April 18 they announced
that the army had capitulated. On May 6
“Stalin informed the Yugoslav, Belgian
and Norwegian Legations that their status
could no longer be recognised, their coun-
tries having lost their sovereignty.”
The Yugoslav Government fled the
country. Mihailovich stayed behind and
organised military resistance. On January
11, 1942, he was named Minister of the
Army, Navy and Air Force, and a foot-
note in the Statesman's Year-Book for
that year says “General Mihailovich is in
the mountains of Central Serbia at the head
of the remnant of the regular army which
is successfully defying all attempts of the
German and Italian forces to destroy it.”
Up to April, 1942, Communists every-
where supported Mihailovich. Said Lon-
don “Daily Worker” (14/4/’42):
German authorities in Yugoslavia have
arrested the families of the guerrilla general
Mihailovich and several of his commanders
as hostages, but the Serbian patriot is de-
termined to fight the Axis to the end.
After Alamein Moscow’s interest in
Yugoslav affairs revived. Moscow Radio
frequently asked what Mihailovich was
doing. The reply was that he was organ-
ising for the day of an Allied invasion,
when his forces would strike.
Some time before this Tito had be-
come a factor in Yugoslav affairs.
How he arrived is indefinite —just as
indefinite as who he is. Some say he is
a Croat patriot who has been in the
country since 1940. Poles allege that
he is a Hungarian Communist who was
dropped into Yugoslavia from a Red
Army aeroplane with a companion.
There are several other stories. Any
group of Yugoslavs and Poles gathered
together can be guaranteed to disagree
as to whether Tito’s real name is Broz,
Brosch, Brosz or Broszovich. Anyway,
he at once became the hope of the Com-
munist side, and the comrades turned
savagely on Mihailovich.
On July 26, 1942, the “Daily Worker”
denpunced the “treachery” of that gen-
eral, and “the traitor Mihailovich”
became a standing line in the Australian
Communist press. Writers on other papers
convinced themselves as easily that Tito
or Brosz was the goods; Alexander
and Montgomery rolled into one.
In September, 1943, a Mr. Luce found
his way into Dalmatia as correspon-
dent of the “Christian Science Monitor.”
He arrived there at a moment when
King Peter had issued a radio message
calling on the Yugoslav peoples to “forget
their ancient grudges”:
The day of deliverance is not far off.
Have patience! Obey General Milhailo-
vich and the other national leaders!
Mr. Luce was welcomed by brigade
commanders. These gentlemen had
Soviet Red Stars on their uniforms and
the hammer and sickle painted on their
H.Q. They declared that Mihailovich was
“financed and armed by the Axis,” while
they themselves were fighting the Ger-
mans, Italians and Ustachis (Axis
Croats) “with little more than bare
hands,” and all in the cause of the people
(“We want no King!”).
A Luce report, and another;
New York “Times,”
October 8.
A commu niq u 6
from Partisan H.Q.
broadcast by Free
Yugoslav Radio said
that [Tito’s] Libera-
tion forces, supported
by tanks, apparently
for the first time, re-
pulsed a German tank
column that' attempted
to break through Par-
tisan lines from Trieste
to Fiume. Ten Ger-
man tanks and one
’plane were destroyed.
The Partisans lost four
tanks Stockholm
reports that Zagreb,
a city of 180,000, was
encircled by the forces
of General Josip Broz
[Tito].
“Christian Science
Monitor,” October 8.
When 12 Italian
divisions disintegrated
on Sept 9, claims
that Partisans con-
trolled all the coast
were fantastic but
two German divisions
had their hands more
than full in attempting
to restore the situa-
tion Partisan com-
manders have won
notable temporary vic-
tories and withstood
heavy reverses. They
are fighting today
without a single tank,
’plane, anti-tank gun
or ack-ack gun.
Enter a Partisan “general in the north”
amid great excitement among corre-
spondents at that period (October 7). He
had “in the last ten days” earned for him-
self by daring exploits under difficult
conditions the name of “Monti Due-
Montgomery the Second”:
The most brilliant exploit personally led
by Monti Due was a raid from Bormio to
the Stelvio Pass with 250-odd Partisans,
where he surprised the German garrison.
Mr. Cy Sulzberger, Cairo correspon-
dent of the New York “Times,” essayed
to clarify the situation.
He declared that Tito’s army was
“more than 250,000 strong, and opposing
more enemy divisions than are the Fifth
and Eighth Armies in Italy... .Tito has
26 divisions fighting on a 350-mile front.”
There was a lot more rubbish of the
kind, in essence insulting to the British
Empire and American effort in Italy.
Mikailovich was heard from in his own
defence, and he passed from defence to
attack. He attributed “all the unfounded
assertions” to
the foul desire on the part of our enemies
to prevent the creation of a truly demo-
cratic Yugoslavia and perfect harmony be-
tween all the different communities The
Yugoslav Army in this country has, and
will always have, a Yugoslav outlook.
He accused the Tito regime of having
passed to the Germans information which
had enabled them to seize some of his
principal lieutenants, of having combined
with the Croat Ustachis in the service of
the Germans —“the men who in the years
1941-42 put to death 300,000 to 700,000
Serbs” —and of having spoofed the
world: —•
The Partisans have at their disposal the
radio station Slobodna Yugoslavia. Con-
trary to common belief, the station is in
Tiflis, in the Caucasus.
Strong support for Mihailovich came
from Ruth Mitchell, sister of the U.S.
General “Billy” Mitchell, after whom the
Mitchell bomber and Mitchell Field are
named, and to whom Congress paid a
striking tribute after his death. Back in
the U.S.A. after having been in Serbia
during most of the period of occupation,
Miss Mitchell wrote:
I went through the bombing of Belgrade,
and while proceeding to Dubrovnik with
Serb troops our train was four times am-
bushed by Croat soldiers under their own
officers. About 90 p.c. of the Croat officers
and men of the Yugoslav army went over
to the Axis by prearranged plan.
In a telegram published in the Scripps-
Howard papers Miss Mitchell said that the
Allies by supporting Tito were “betray-
ing the Serbs, who were with us in the
first and second world wars ; the Croats
were against us in both.” She insisted
that Communist bodies in Yugoslavia
must be suspect even on their behavior
after Russia’s entry into the war.
Another of Miss Mitchell’s assertions
is that the Croat Government at the end
of 1942 staged a “constituent assembly”
at Bihac, in western Bosnia, “to which
supporters of Tito, including the septuage-
narian Ivan Ribar, somehow came and
went through the enemy [Axis] lines on
an enemy-controlled railway.” M. Riba:
is head of the new “Government” ol
Yugoslavia which has declared King
Peter “black.”
Moreover, Miss Mitchell accuses tht
Partisans of having “seized a group oi
six British officers, including my friend
Terence Atherton, and executed them on
the ground that they were bringing ‘un-
desired influence’ from Cairo. These
same Partisans urged the inhabitants
of Fiume to resist the invasion of the
Allies and wait for the Russians.”
Terence Atherton was editor of the lead-
ing English-language paper in Yugoslavia
and the Balkans.
It is impossible to believe that the
British Government would give moral
and material support to savages guilty
of such an atrocity. However, the Ameri-
can lady did well to remind us that
Mihailovich and his Serbs have been on
our side in the two wars against Ger-
many and the Croats on the other side.
Australia is concerned to the extent
that, along with the other Dominions
and Britain, it is committed by the League
covenants to protect the political inde-
pendence and territorial integrity ol
Yugoslavia as it was when invaded. It
is likewise committed to protect the poli-
tical independence and territorial integrity
of Poland and the Baltic States as they
were when invaded, and since the Rus-
sians expelled the Polish ambassadoi
from their country it has, in the jargon
of diplomacy, been Poland’s Protecting
Power. A difficult function in any cir-
cumstances, it has been made doubly
difficult for Mr. Slater’s successor, Mr.
Maloney, by the Russian claims to eastern
Poland (and all the Baltic States), pre-
sented in terms which have startled not
only the editors of papers like the New
York “Times” and the Sydney “Morning
Herald,” but that eminent Russophile Mr.
Wendell Willkie. These worthies should
have known what was coming, but there
are none so blind as those who won’t see.


PLAIN ENGLISH
In Poland and Australia.
After the raptures occasioned by the
Hull-Eden-Molotov and Churchill-Stalin-
Rooseveit conferences, reactions to the
Russian entry into central Poland were
most unpleasant. It would almost seem
that the Germans drew their lines back
in that region, while holding grimly to
points like Vitebsk, Mogilev, Krivoi
Rog and Nikopol, in the expectation that
the Russians would march into a poli-
tical hornets’ nest. Certainly the hornets
went into action immediately, and their
buzzing has been heard round the world.
The best that the “Economist” could
make of the Russo-Polish situation was
that neither Moscow nor the Polish Gov-
ernment in exile had ordered its fighting
men in the disputed region (the Poles
claim to have an active underground
movement there) to pitch into one
another. The Soviet Embassy at Wash-
ington referred in a public state-
ment to “the yoke of the Polish usurpers”
and a mild expression of hope for an
amicable settlement led to Mr. Wendell
Willkie being attacked as a meddler and
double-dealer by “Pravda,” which said
“Russia knows how to deal with Poland
and the Baltic States without Mr.
Willkie’s help.” Awfully embarrassing
for the author of One World, who, as a
candidate, was merely trying to make the
most of the two worlds in which Ameri-
can Poles and Russians move and vote.
The Polish vote is much the bigger.
Suspicious people may see in the
strange and sinister strikes which have
broken out again in Australia —and more
are threatened —a possible connection
with these developments overseas. In
all the strikes and threats, Communists
are concerned. Russia, which they call
their “fatherland,” is a neutral in the war
against Japan. Since the much-advertised
abolition of the Comintern they have
been more mischievous and arrogant than
ever.
So far the Government has been ad-
dicted to crawling to these people and
to wailing during the repeated strikes
that it has “given the men everything
they asked for.” Long overdue are a
close watch on the communications and
activities of Communists and a firm an-
nouncement, backed by action, that (1)
there can be no such thing in Australia
as neutrality in the war against the Jap
and (2) saboteurs of the war effort will
forthwith be placed where they can do
no further harm.
Passing the Coal Buck.
Apparently it’s assumed that the ordi-
nary run of Australians are so gutless
that they’ll take anything. They have
just been subjected to an advertising
campaign of baseless insults and com-
pelled to pay the cost.
In daily newspapers the Common-
wealth Coal Commission has run a
series of advertisements aimed at bring-
ing about a saving in coal. The purpose
was reasonable enough, though the
expensive campaign would have been
unnecessary if coalminers—and coal-
miners alone —had not brought about the
shortage by their damnable strikes —■
strikes which moved the Prime Minister
nearly two years ago to declare that “men
who are not in the fighting forces and
who at the same time will not work are
as much the enemies of this country as
the directly enlisted legions of the
enemy.”
What was not reasonable was the
choice of targets in the advertisements.
The targets were not the guilty parties,
miners, but housewives and breadwinners.
One advertisement had two housewives
menacing a surprised-looking coalminer,
who actually had a pick on his shoulder.
Appropriately, he was not using the pick,
but that subtlety obviously was uncon-
scious. One of the housewives was trying
to get at him with a rolling-pin. The
theme was that housewives should not be
angry with miners ; they, the housewives,
were blameworthy if they didn’t save coal.
Another of these insulting efforts had
a housewife with a bag of coal over her
shoulder carrying it to a delighted Jap.
This insult was underlined by the word-
ing : “Don’t carry coal to Tojo! ” Coal,
said this insulting ad., must be saved. The
ad. did not say why. It didn’t say to
the victim of its implications: “Listen,
missus, the reason you’ve got to saYe coal
is that miners have let Australia down.”
The housewife alone was depicted as the
villain of the piece.
In another ad. the villain was a man
who “hides in his bathroom and pilfers
coal,” by taking hot baths and suchlike.
“He’s a fuel-waster —a coal waster!”
shouted the ad. He, the citizen, the
breadwinner—never the miner—was the
villain.
Another of these advertisements spread
insult on wholesale lines over a number
of ordinary citizens of both sexes. They
were having a great time, enjoying them-
selves, wasting coal, throwing it into a
monstrous sink. The theme was that
“40,000 tons of coal a year could be
saved if people would be careful in the
use of hot water,” etc.
The tonnage figure turned out to be
very apt to the reverse side of the picture
—the side covered over by these buck-
passing insults. The advertisement
appeared on January 4. On January 6
it was given out —not, of course, in adver-
tisements —that, because of current
strikes, loss of coal “for the week” was
expected to exceed 40,000 tons —the
week that succeeded the nine days off
granted to N.S.W, coalminers by Mr.
Curtin’s Government. Actually the pro-
duction-loss for the week exceeded 60,000
tons.
When the too-familiar-sounding piece
of information came out, 17 N.S.W. mines
were idle. That, as every Australian
knows, is the whole reason why coal
stocks are low. Passing the buck to ordi-
nary Australians and accusing them of
carrying coal to the delighted Jap is com-
ing it just a bit too brazen, both in insult-
ing the innocent and screening the guilty.
Middleton and Maxie.
Wing-Commander White in the House
on September 28:
The Royal Air Force in defeating the Ger-
mans over Britain showed by its example that
not only Britain but also Europe and civilisa-
tion could be saved. The flower of our young
nation’s manhood rallied to the Air Force, and,
while the Army and the Navy did their indis-
pensable part, the results of that great Empire
air-training scheme unfolded.
Today young Australians who played their
part in that struggle are serving in hundreds
of unite of the R.A.F., as well as in their own
squadrons, flying against the fiercest flak, defy-
ing all the defences that German ingenuity can
devise... .holding their own in fighter sweeps
along the Channel measuring up in enthusi-
asm and efficiency as second to none. It is
wrong that some of these men, some of whom
are commanding four-engined bombers, should
still hold only the rank of sergeant.
I instance the late Sergeant Middleton, who
was posthumously awarded the V.C. I met him
at a station in England, where I saw that he
had two decorated R.A.F. officers in his crew.
He- was captain of a four-engined Stirling
bomber and had done 22 raids into Germany.
He asked me what was Australia’s policy on
promotion, and I brought his case under notice.
I do not think it is the Minister’s fault, but it
is a fact nevertheless that Australians in many
of these squadrons have been forgotten.
Mr. Drakeford (the Minister): He was not
forgotten.
Wing-Commander White: He was to this
extent, that he should have received his pro-
motion long before Any man who commands
a four-engined bomber should hold a commis-
sion. A man must be at least a sergeant be-
fore he can be a member of an air crew,
Therefore if Middleton remained a sergeant it
meant that he had received no promotion.
As captain and first pilot of a Stirling
bomber Sergeant Middleton took part in
a raid over Turin in November, 1942. He
never returned to English earth, having—
with devotion to duty “unsurpassed,” as
the citation read, “in the annals of the
R.A.F.”—sacrificed himself to save
The ’plane was badly battered by anti-
aircraft fire. Both pilots were wounded,
and one of Middleton’s eyes was shot
away. But his spirit did not fail, nor did
his skill.
With a damaged aircraft and insufficient fuel
he determined to try to make the English coast
so that his crew might bale out, though be-
cause of his wounds, as he knew, he would have
little chance of saving himself. Over the French
coast intense anti-aircraft fire was met. After
the Channel was crossed there was only suffi-
cie K n ™ el . for « five mates’ flying.
Middleton flew parallel with the coast. He
ordered his crew to abandon aircraft, intending
himself to head to sea. Five of the crew
jumped to safety. The front gunner and the
flight engineer remained with Middleton. Ihe
Stirling crashed into the sea, and all three lost
their lives.
In Britain Middleton is regarded as one
of the supreme heroes of the war-a
, . , ~ , . , , 1,-
kmghtly character who having in his
agony saved the lives of his companions,
deliberately turned his doomed plane
away 'from the haunts of men to save
~ J .• tt ~ + . „ „„„ UavU
other fives He was 26, the age of Maxie
Falstein when that incarnation ot sin-
cerity, progressiveness, steadfastness of
purpose, brilliance, integrity, intense
loyalty to his constituents and ability to
grasp and analyse the most complex prob-
lems” became the “outstanding” member
for Watson (see the authorised Chifley-
Beasley election circular). All that for
Maxie, and Middleton only a sergeant!
A sergeant when the waters closed over
his stricken body and noble head, but
something else when, nearly a twelve-
month later and a month after the
Minister assured the House that “he
was not forgotten,” the Cross was
handed to his father by the Gover-
nor-General. It then came out that
Middleton had been named pilot-officer.
In other words, he had been promoted
to the same rank as Falstein, who, with
an expressed determination to “go into
action with the R.A.A.F.” unrealised, has
had himself placed on the reserve to at-
tend to “inquiries and requests for inter-
views,” the referendum, Lease-Lend, the
Atlantic Charter ; in short, “the obliga-
tions and duties I am bound to discharge
as a member.”
Voices Against Tyranny.
Professor F. A. Bland, of Sydney,
has pointed out with some asperity that
some trade-unions and trading associa-
tions are attempting to enforce laws with-
out legislative authority. He warned
Australians that there “can be no greater
tyranny than the tyranny of non-elected
persons.” His examples were the Miners’
Federation and the U.L.V.A., and he
wanted to know whether either was so
constituted as to enable it to exercise
judicial functions.
It’s a question which Australians
should keep on asking not only them-
selves but their Parliaments. They’ve got
seven of the darned things, which ought
to be more than enough to see that no
association of union bosses, publicans or
anybody else shall take unto itself powers
to which it is not entitled. Remarked the
professor:
It is one thing to allow these bodies to
decide their own domestic matters, but
when they affect the law of the land and
the public a very close examination of the
position is required before the transfer of
jurisdiction is permitted.
A statement which gives point to the
Tamworth (N.S.W.) decision to seek the
support of every municipal, shire and
county council in the State for “restora-
tion of power to the people and develop-
ment of Australia by means of greater
local government.”
THE PIED PIPER OF CANBERRA TOWN.
“Mr. Scully proposes the wholesale catching of rabbits to supplement the butcher’s-meat ration.”


AROMATIC
Agents:
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
m&L m
( 5i
P; -
-.-< ■-
r.v
C.S.R. HAHDWALI PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PL
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division), _
MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
SYDNEY
P, 1-48.
POLITICAL POINTS
“The party was in control of the Gov-
ernmental and semi-Governmental posts.
All Government officials were forced to
join it on pain of dismissal. Others —in
effect, every person who had not inde-
pendent means—had to become members
in order to earn their living.” Extract
from a history of Australia under Labor-
unionism, to be published after the war?
No ; a statement of the position in Italy
under Fascism. It was made by Badoglio
in a very frank interview with a “Times”
correspondent.
The long-drawn-out meat mystery has
been unveiled at last —officially, at least.
Everybody over nine is to get to
41b. a week, according to cut, butchers
presumably included; and they protest
violently that they will get apoplexy as
well. Rabbits, brains, sausages, livers
and tripe are to be coupon-free— if
available. The best thing about the
thing is that its introduction is aimed to
give the British people more Australian
meat. They’ve earned it!
Dr. Evatt was moved to protest
against the alleged punishment imposed
by Sydney magistrates in black-market
cases and the like, and he must have been
angry when he read that the licensee of
a North Sydney pub had been fined £2O
for selling muck labelled as wine. The
fine would be only a fraction of the profit
made on the sale of the muck, which was
described by a Government analyst as
“unfit for human consumption.” “A son
of the licensee,” a woman, said the stuff
“had been bought from the M.1.A.”
Grower, licensee and son should at least
have been expelled from the Trade for
the duration, and this consideration may
prompt the Attorney-General to have all
such cases dealt with in special courts.
Hats off to J. C. Valentine, secretary
of the Queensland Locomotive Engine-
men for 24 years, and re-elected last June
for a four-year term, who was not found
wanting when “I had to choose between
my principles and my job.”
The executive lost control of the union by
allowing a committee elected by a “mass”
meeting of about 15 members of the union
and of the A.R.U. to usurp its authority
and propose a holdup of railways when
the Queensland service was unable to trans-
port all the materials required by the army.
Three motions to declare a strike —one
demanded a 71b. a week meat ration for
railwaymen—were lost. It’s to be hoped
the steadygoing members of Valentine’s
union will induce him to stay on. Aus-
tralia and unionism sorely need men like
him these days.
Premier Cooper, telling Queensland
reporters what he thought of the Federal
A.L.P. conference, said there was evi-
dence of a “lack of knowledge by dele-
gates of what is happening outside their
own States.” He should have said “out-
side their own cities.”
The Man Whom Dedman Would Have
Whipped is going to Bengal as Mr. Casey,
and one of the new army of “diplomatic
correspondents” avers that this is without
precedent. Actually Bengal’s first Gov-
ernor (called Governor-General) was a
plain mister. And he was the greatest
of all —Warren Hastings.
“War and the Working Class,” the
Moscow paper which recently moved the
mild Eden to irony by declaring that “the
English workmen” didn’t begin to “sup-
port the English war effort” till “after
Hitler extended his aggression to the
U.5.5.R.,” has published what is called
an “outspoken comment on the war in
the Pacific.” It is to the effect that “the
Japanese blundered in deciding that the
strategic position of the democracies had
so weakened that they could safely and
profitably cast off their original policy of
non-interference in the world war,” and
that, having “lost the strategic initiative,”
their temporary advantage is now a thing
of the past. That was the cabled version.
For some strange reason, it did not in-
clude a statement, vouched for by 8.8. C.
and A.8.C., that Tokyo’s relations with
Moscow had been “sensible.”
Seeing that the New York vote is
likely to decide whether or not the U.S.A.
MALONEY TO STALIN.
“Speaking as Poland’s Protecting Power, Marshal, I propose that we bring Mr. Alby Willis
from Sydney, where he has been settling all the coal strikes, to attend to this boundary
dispute.”
is to have a Republican President and
Congress, a statement of newspaper cir-
culations is politically interesting. Of
eight N.Y. daily papers, the “News”
heads the list with 1,923,838 copies and
the “Post” bottoms it with 225,900. The
“News” sells 300,000 more copies than
the “Times,” the “World-Telegram,” the
“Herald Tribune,” the “Sun” and the
“Post” combined. The “Times” belongs
to a Jewish gentleman who has been
attacked by U.S. Zionists for his part
in “the withdrawal of the Jewish Com-
mittee from the Jewish Conference,” and
for having printed “accounts of the prose-
cutions of alleged gun-runners in Pales-
tine, conducted for the sole purpose of
smearing the Jews.” The “Post” is owned
by a Jewish lady, and is so keen on
Jewish politicians of the Left that it is
sure to make a hero of Falstein when it
hears of him.
General MacArthur hasn’t answered
“S. M. Herald’s” demand that he should
state his political intentions. It may be
because he has been otherwise occupied
in New Britain and in New Guinea, or
because he prefers to keep young Mr.
Warwick Fairfax guessing or balancing
on one foot. Meanwhile the position of
an American who receives a call from a
great body of his countrymen has been
pithily stated by one George E. Sokolsky.
No man can refuse a nomination for the
Presidency if it comes to him. He may not
seek the nomination, but if it comes he
must take it.
As for the Governor of New York,- “it
does not make the slightest difference
what Tom Dewey says or how often he
repeats his determination not to run. Tom
Dewey will take the nomination.”
Most of the stuff coming out of Yugo-
slavia is obviously propaganda nonsense
of Communist origin. Anyone who fights
Germans should receive Allied support,
but it should not be unconditional.
The internal situation of the unhappy
kingdom strongly suggests Communist
inflaming of Croat-Serb antagonisms for
Communist purposes.
Gandhi’s son Devadas is no slouch as
a critic, though his style is totally unlike
the old man’s. Dev’s greeting to the new
Governor of Bengal must have brought
a grim smile to the Dedman dial:
Mr. Casey, it is said, is pleased with his
appointment. If so, the pleasure is entirely
his.
And there was a horseshoe in the glove
for Australia:
Imperialism has a new way of renewing
itself. If Britain follows the policy implied
in Mr. Casey’s appointment she will hand
over India, not to the Indians, but to Aus-
tralians and Canadians. Instead of Aus-
tralian wheat, we are to have a new species
of caretaker. Instead of Australia allow-
ing Indian settlers, India will provide jobs
for Caseys.
The gentleman stopped there, otherwise
it might have occurred to him to demand
that Lord Wakehurst, reappointed for an-
other twelvemonth, should be succeeded
by the Aga Khan.
Scully is blithely arranging his Sydney
conference of “trappers, controllers of
freezing-works and others” to plan the
“releasing” of men to trap and cart
rabbits as an addition to the meat ration.
J. B. Cramsie, who knows far more about
the meat industry than Scully will ever
learn, coldly reminds the Minister that as
“much man-power is needed to trap a
rabbit as to kill a sheep,” and reiterates
what has been obvious for a long time
except to such as Dr. Clunies Ross —the
need for country killing works.
“An interesting sign of the times,” ac-
cording to a departmental expert in
N.S.W., “is the hay-press mindedness of
many farmers.” Well, it was only to be
expected in a country with a Govern-
ment gone haywire on land matters.
Beasley, one of “the Big Four,” bleated
last week that the Seamen’s Union boycott
of his Government’s Maritime Industrial
Commission was “beyond his under-
standing.”
Union officials have failed to attend a
sitting of the commission for several
months.... Because of their boycott the
views of the seamen themselves, whatever
they might be, could not be conveyed to
the commission. It has, therefore, been my
practice to consider many cases myself.
The arch-boycotter is a Communist. He
and his gang could have been settled long
ago by a law forbidding union office to
Communists ; but Australia’s tragedy is
that its alleged strong men haven’t the
intestinal fortitude of a wrist-watch.
Room—plenty—for Senator Keane;
A forecast of confusion when meat
rationing is introduced has been made.
Exactly the same prophecy was made in
some quarters when clothes rationing was
introduced. You know how wide of the
mark that forecast was.
Too true. The confusion was a darned sight
worse than anyone would have forecast.
If Watts, the Westralian C.P. leader,
decides to nurse the Forrest Federal elec-
torate it will be a soft thing for him next
time. Though it went Labor by a mas-
sive majority in August, six of the sub-
divisions (there are ten) declared heavily
against Labor in November, and they had
nearly double the electoral population of
the four subdivisions now Labor —in one,
Nelson, Smith, a Nationalist M.L.A., was
unseated by a mere 26 votes in an effec-
tive poll of 4704. Watts’s own majority
in Katanning was nearly 3 to 1. The
safety-for-Alfie issue, everywhere power-
ful in August, is unlikely to move masses
of silent (very silent) voters again.
Odd as it may be for Scully to go for
trapping of rabbits in midsummer to
supplement the butcher’s-meat ration, it
is scarcely fair to dismiss him as a failure
on the broad-acres front. Dog-racing
men whose hounds course the broad acres
swear there never was a better judge.
Falstein, the Pilot Who Dropped Him-
self, is a sore point with Labor sup-
porters, and an A.L.P. branch in Min-
ister Drakeford’s electorate is out with
an objection. Drakeford will no doubt
reply that it was wholly a matter between
Falstein and the Air Board. Fortunately
for him he took this stand when Falstein
was court-martialled and sentenced to
28 days in the clink ; and it is due to him
to say that he defended the officer respon-
sible for the proceedings when the officer
was savagely attacked.
A man a.w.l. from the Allied Works
Council was “found working as a cook
at Parliament House, Canberra.” Fined
£2O, he took his gruel without disclosing
why he had chosen that particular refuge
—whether because it was the place to
which politicians bolted when the Japs
were bombing Darwin and Broome or
because he thought that to be near Maxie
Falstein was to be safe.


r
D
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Victoria has had 51 Ministries since the
advent of responsible government, but
only four ex-Premiers remain on deck
Watt, Lawson, Hogan and Cain (if
his brief reign entitles him to be called
an ex-Premier). Hogan, who may re-enter
public life, is rarely seen in Melbourne,
but Watt and Lawson are familiar as
company directors. Sartorially immacu-
late, they cut notable figures as they stroll
the Block.
“O’Yen”: Padre Rex Dakers, who
looked after Footscray (Vic.) Methodist
circuit before going overseas in 1940 and
proved himself such a good boxer and
wrestler with the A.I.F. that he had a
job finding opponents, is maintaining his
reputation as a sporting cleric. At a
German p.o.w. camp he has improved the
morale and physical fitness of our men
there by organising regular glove and mat
tourneys ; as usual, wading in himself.
The padre has been granted a measure of
freedom to pursue these activities. He
was captured in the Crete campaign. His
liking for scrap has had at least one odd
result. Having been in a glove battle
shortly before, he turned up to his wed-
ding with a black eye.
Lloyd’s War Medal, which the old
London underwriting institution hands
out for special acts of bravery, has been
awarded to Dr. John Hyde, of Sydney,
“for bravery as surgeon of an Australian
ship which was bombed by the Japanese
earlier in the war.” Though the ship,
carrying a cargo of explosives, was on
fire, Dr. Hyde went calmly on with his
treatment of wounded men, and got
many away from the ship before it blew
up. He’d previously been handed the
0.8. E. for the same brave job.
“Ek Dum’s” congratulations:
The War Office earns them by asking for
the services of Major-General Sid Rowell, one
of Australia’s best staff men, to act as Director
of Tactical Study on General Eisenhower’s in-
vasion staff. It is the most important staff
appointment held abroad by an A.I.F. man
since Birdwood called for the services of
Brudenell White fo head the staff of a British
army. Rowell already had a growing reputation
at the end of the last war and was one of
the first picked for oversea service in the
present one. It was largely due to his work
and to that of his friend George Vasey that
the evacuation of Greece bitterly disappointed
the Germans, who had hoped to bag the whole
A.I.F. It was Rowell who stopped the Japanese
advance in its tracks at loribawa, and Rowell
who held the operative command during the
Milne Bay affair, a historic operation which
the recently published R.A.A.F. Log describes
as “invested with the same quality which per-
petuates such names as Gallipoli and Villers-
Bret the first time a Japanese invasion force
was defeated on land, the first time Australian
land forces had received adequate air support
in action, the first time air force squadrons
fought alongside, instead of behind, infantry
and artillery.” A few weeks after the enemy
passage of the Owen Stanleys Rowell came
south, and was next heard of as Australian
liaison officer in Cairo. His appointment fo
this seemingly unimportant post was a mystery
to his fellow-soldiers, who appreciated his
brilliance and resource in a tight corner. His
latest appointment suggests that the title
“liaison officer” was mere cover for prepara-
tion for his present important job, the fruits
of which may later be felt to our advantage
in the Pacific campaign.
Former Senator and Federal Minister,
one of Melbourne’s leading lawyers and
a journalist of distinction, Thomas Cor-
nelius Brennan, K.C. (lately passed on in
Melbourne), came of one of those
families in which talent seems to be en-
demic. One of his brothers, Frank, turned
to politics, and was Attorney-General in
the Scullin Government; W.A. was a
leader-writer and commentator on Mel-
bourne “Argus” ; sister Anna became a
successful woman lawyer apd a promi-
nent social worker. The father farmed
on the Upper Emu Creek near Bendigo,
and members of the family began their
education at the local State school.
“C.R.”; Dr. T. C. Brennan, K.C., who
had a State funeral in Melbourne, did an
unconventional thing for a legal luminary
of his standing. Having defended Colin
Ross in one of the most sensational
murder trials in Victorian crime history,
and disagreeing with the verdict, Bren-
nan subsequently wrote a pamphlet about
it called The Gun Alley Tragedy, Gun
Alley being the lane off Little Collins-
street where the girl’s body was un-
pleasantly disposed of. The publication
had a considerable sale, a lot of people
buying it under the belief that it was a
new mystery thriller.
As Anti-Aircraft Defence Commander
of Sydney, Colonel P. L. Moore has under
his wing both the A.I.F. gunners and the
V.D.C. gunners who have become an
important part of the home defences and
are shaping towards being the mainstay
in this particular branch. He has himself
been a gunner for the best part of his 47
years, with a variety of sport to help use
up an extra issue of energy. Born at
the old Hunter River town of Singleton,
he played lacrosse for St. George while
COLONEL P. L. MOORE.
still at Sydney High, and he captained the
first schoolboys’ team against Queensland
(1913). Graduating from Duntroon in
1918, he headed overseas to the A.I.F.
and was later with the R.F.A, in Eng-
land, where he took to Rugby Union,
playing for Brighton. Back in Australia
in 1920, with an interval on the North-
west Frontier of India, he had seven years
of further soldiering in S.A. and nine in
Victoria. In S.A. his sport was hunting
and steeplechasing ; in Victoria he tried
golf. In 1937 he went over to ack-ack in
Sydney, and, on the formation of the
Seventh Military District, was appointed
C.R.A., Darwin (1939). He took a lead-
ing hand up there in football, hockey,
baseball and golf for the troops and
others, and was also a steward —a very
hard-worked steward —of the N.T. and
Adelaide River racing clubs. There when
the war started, he was back in Sydney
on coastal artillery in 1941, and has held
his present job since 1942. Lately he’s
been casting a critical eye over combined
A.I.F. and V.D.C. shooting with the
heavies and Bofors.
“S.T.S.”: Charles Turner (B. 5/1 /’44) was a
glorious bowler; Wisden ranked him with Spof-
forth, and said he need not fear the comparison
—and there could be no higher praise than that.
He was distinctly useful as a bat, too. So good
a judge as Ranjitsinhji said about him when
here: “I have never seen a finer innings than
one by—you would never guess—your Turner;
a century, on a truly awful wicket.” I have
just looked this up: 103 against Surrey, on the
damp turf of an English May, just after Turner’s
first arrival in 1888. It is an odd fact that
the genial Turner started an unholy row
exactly 50 years ago. First to return from the
English tour of ’93 he told interviewers that
it had been marred by the behavior of some
of the team to Blackham, the captain; and he
seemed rather to indicate the S.A. four, Lyons,
Jarvis and the two Giffens. Naturally, when they
came back there were recriminations. George
Giffen and Turner —I knew them both well —
could never be quite congenial. George knew
that he was relied on to get wickets where no-
body else could, when his figures, seven for 150,
for instance, would be a match-winning effort,
and he was a bit jealous of the limelight that
fell on the other man’s seven for 50 on a sticky
wicket during their only tour together (1893).
Although then in his prime, Giffen did not go
to England in ’BB or ’9O, when Turner did the
big things.
A. H. Traeger, New Year 0.8. E., de-
serves well of the outback. About 17
years ago John Flynn, of the Australian
Inland Mission, with Traeger’s technical
help, put plans in train which resulted in
hundreds of lonely stations being linked
by pedal wireless. As early as June, 1929,
Traeger put his inventions to practical
use at Cloncurry, and his system since
then has not only made Flynn’s Flying
Doctor Service effective but has enabled
the lonely people of outback plain and
desert beyond the telegraph lines to have
a normal telegraphic service.
Of two Master of Science degrees
lately conferred at Melbourne University
one went to Flying-Officer Harold White,
B. who had to obtain leave from an
operational base to receive it. He is a
son of Percy White, the Melbourne artist,
who, though little known to the general
public and seldom represented in exhibi-
tions, has painted more official portraits
of Victorian citizens than any other local
painter.
H. T. M. Angwiu, who got the
C. in the New Year honors (B.
5/1/’44), has done tremendous work for
S.A. from the time when, 30 years ago,
after Prince Alfred’s and Uni., he went
abroad with an Angas engineering
scholarship. He has had a lot to do with
the locks on the Murray, the barrage at
its mouth and the Mt. Bold water scheme
for the city; and is now, as engineer-in-
chief, busy on the Leigh Creek coal
scheme.
“El V.”: The first time I saw “Bill” (W.E.)
Harney, now native patrol officer in the
Northern Territory for the only part of the
continent in which there’s still a sizable help-
ing of abos. in the raw, he was sitting on the
side of a small boat several miles down the
MacArthur River from Borroloola, fading into
a background of long grass, almost indistin-
guishable in color and texture from his impos-
ing whiskers. That was nearly quarter of a
century ago, when Bill was lord of all he sur-
veyed round the Arnhem coast, master and
owner of the spotless lugger “H. Majesty’s Har-
ney Ship lolanthe,” chief mate the tall, silent
Horace Foster, who was to die at the Wearin,
whence the smoke fires told the news.
Bill was then full of reminiscences of the late
war, in' which he had served with enjoyment in
the Ninth Battalion —pioneers of Anzac Beach.
He also spoke of his “university course” at the
MacArthur Institute, a library the Carnegie
Trust kept up in Borroloola (N.T.), which then
had a population of six, all over 60. Bill and
his mate made eight, but Bill, as he hilariously
related a few days ago to a gathering of the
Australian Fellowship of Writers, “was doing
time.” He and his mate had been handed six
months for alleged “poddy dodging.” This
“slight accident,” which might have happened
to anybody in- those parts, resulted in Bill
being immured in the MacArthur Institute, since
there was no jail to put him in. A fortnight
before his “time” expired an Appeal Court
HARNEY IN ABO. DISGUISE.
found him cleared —“without a stain on my
handkerchief, and I had six beautiful months
reading everything from Voltaire to Hakluyt —
the only man in Australia who ever got any-
thing out of the Government for nothing.”
For many idyllic years Captain Harney was a
sort of ambassador to the tribes of the Arnhem
coast in the days when Japs used to be mur-
dered there ad lib. He is one of the few who
know the local languages, who can reproduce
the legends of the Arnhem coast —he knew Old
Men of the tribes who went away on the
praus and sailed to the Arctic seas beyond
Japan. He is an expert on the tale of the two
lost women of the Douglas Mawson. Above all,
he knows Binghi and likes him. The Gov-
ernment made a good move in choosing him as
a patrol officer in the Arnhem Reserve.
Recently, the Red Page (15/12/’43) highly
praised his first book, Taboo. He has two
others on the stocks.
There will be shrieks of laughter round the
campfires of Arnhem at Frith’s reconstruction
of W.E. in Binghi fancy dress.
“Mat’s Mate”; So they’ve made old
John Cowan (S.A.) a Knight Bachelor
(B. 5/1/’44). I hope it catches big Mat’s
eye. We lobbed into Cowan’s place,
Glen Lossie, near Murray Bridge, cashed-
up from the Victorian harvest in 1920,
and, though we didn’t want it, took a
Job haymaking. A stern female informed
us that we were now working for “the
Honorable John Cowan” in a voice that
suggested we should pull our forelocks
or something. Up in the Victorian wheat
we’d got a quid a day and tucker (the
cockies got 9s. a bushel for their wheat
that year), and we naturally thought
something like that would run at Glen
Lossie. After throwing a lot of hay
around, we went back to the homestead
for lunch, there to be informed that
“keep” wasn’t in it —we had to “find”
ourselves. “Is that so?” Mat roared.
“What’s the screw?” “Ten bob a day,”
said the foreman or manager or whatever
he was. An hour later we were heading
across the bridge. “I’d like to tell that
‘Honorable John Cowan’ what I think
of him,” muttered Mat. “Aw,” I said,
“p’raps it ain’t his fault. He might leave
the runnin’ of the joint to that bloke
back there.” Mat pondered, then he said,
grudgingly, “Well, I s’pose there must be
somethin’ about the old coot t’ make
him an ‘Honorable.’ ” Later, when I
found out how well Cowan had served his
State, I realised that Mat had guessed
aright.
A memorial to Monty Grover which
his widow is establishing will add to
Australian literary prizes. It will be an
annual award for a one-act play, short
story or poem, the P.E.N. Club in Mel-
bourne managing the competitions. A
maker of daily journalism in two cities,
Monty wrote verse and pars, for The
Bulletin before and after the Boer War,
and long years afterwards was its Mel-
bourne man.
The estate of Catherine Fink, sister-in-
law of Theodore Fink, of Melbourne
“Herald,” cut up for £114,919, most
of it left to relatives. Mrs. Fink
spent most of her life in London, where,
at a cost of £lOO,OOO, she founded a hos-
pital in memory of a son. A daughter
married Rear-Admiral Banbury, who
took a hand in the Jutland Battle.
Into the silence:—•
At 79, in Melbourne, Captain John Percy
Chirnside, C.M.G., 0.8. E., of a Western Dis-
trict pioneer pastoral family famous in Vic-
torian history. He was the last surviving son
of the late Andrew Chirnside, of Werribee Park.
One of Capt. Chirnside’s sons is serving with
the R.A.A.F. and another with the British
Army.
At Hurlstone Park, Sydney, J. R. Cameron,
former director of the N.S.W. Lottery for six
and a half years. He was about to be honored
by the St. Vincent de Paul Society for long ser-
vice in its interest when he collapsed and died.
At Turramurra, Sydney, at 91, Lewy Miall
Pattinson, founder of the extensive Washington
H. Soul Pattineon and Co. chemist firm. He
lately gave £5OOO to the School of Pharmacy
at Sydney University.
In Adelaide, at 57, John Frank Beesley, judge
of the S.A. Trotting Club since 1926 and latterly
acting secretary. In his younger days he
played football for B.H. and Adelaide.
In Adelaide, Mrs. Emily Williams, mother of
Air Marshal R. Williams, Commander of the
R.A.A.F. Overseas H.Q., who prior to this
assignment was Air Member for Organisation
and Equipment on the Air Board. Squadron-
Leader Melville Williams, of the R.A.A.F., is
another son.
In the U.S.A., the wife of ex-President
Hoover. They were fellow-students in Cali-
fornia, and were married in 1899, Hoover
having proposed to her by cable from Perth
(W.A.) on one of his visits to that city from
the goldfields, where he was a Bewick, More-
ing man. Miss Lou Henry she was then, and
the marriage was blessed with two sons. Going
to the White House when Mrs. Hoover was
First Lady, a Young Australia League party,
headed by J. J. Simons, found with delight that
she knew more about parts of Westralia, par-
ticularly one charming spot in Perth —a garden
theatre at the back of a pub!—than the
youngsters did.
At 75, William Charles Humphris, for 50 years
a figure on the Melbourne Inky Way. He re-
tired last November from Melbourne “Herald”
with a testimonial signed by 268 men and
women who had been his colleagues. Some of
them are on the lighting fronts as service men
or correspondents, and there were names of
men in prison camps in Asia.
In Melbourne, Miss Emlier Raphael, prima
donna of Australia’s first opera co. Born on
the Apple Island, and 17 when she first
faced the footlights, she was one of the leading
songbirds in the first Gilsullivan tour of Aus-
tralia and M.L.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Pitt St.”; Be cheered, my brethren
of the city—all hope of remaining carni-
vorous isn’t lost. Sydney’s Granny
“Herald,” after announcing Scully’s plans
for supplying us with.rabbits —the man
is calling the inevitable conference-
placed underneath the item another an-
nouncing that Badly, “in reply to many
inquiries,” stated that flying foxes, star-
lings and bulbuls might be killed with-
out permits. The inference seems to
be that so long as the missus can
get a bit of flour, some dripping
and a clove or two, and so long as
the coalies will dig enough coal to pro-
vide gas, there will be nothing to prevent
the family sitting down to a pie of fruit-
bat and small poultry. Any tendency to
flap wings or chirrup afterwards can be
easily controlled by a glance at the latest
income-tax assessment.
* * * * •
“Blue P.”: It must be pretty dreadful
to be a correspondent in such places as
Cairo and Stockholm, where rumors are
thicker than Melbourne fogs and the
conscientious reporter daren’t ignore any-
thing lest it have a germ of big news in
it. I’m impelled to this note of sympathy
by the activities of King Peter of Yugo-
slavia. The efforts of British and Ameri-
cans to maintain some sort of balance
and to keep Tito and his P&rtisans and
Mihailovich and his Patriots off each
other’s necks and both at the necks of
the Germans, with other things, have
made the movements of the king worthy
of note. Consequently, when he left
Cairo and a Reuter man there described
it as a “secret mission,” the world could
be pardoned for expecting anything to
happen. All that did happen was that
young Peter did a solo flip over the
Western Desert and gained his R.A.F.
wings.
* * * *
“Lively”; Obviously “Frunter” (B.
29/12/’43) is not a trammie. If Dad
got ticket 55666, Dave might have re-
ceived 55665, but not 65665. That
wouldn’t come along till 9999 more tickets
had been issued.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; I read this in my morn-
ing paper:—
The “Times” correspondent in Moscow
says it is clear that General Bagramyan’s
offensive is only in the first stage of a
series of complicated operations which,
besides being complementary to General
Rokossovsky’s campaign in Southern White .
Russia, hardly fails importantly to reper-
cuss on the deep salient the Germans hold
in the vicinity of Leningrad.
By “hardly fails importantly to repercuss”
I suppose the writer means the offensive
will have an important effect. If Basic
English could drive queer, contorted
jargon from the home front it would be
doing a national service.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: If it be true that in order
to cope with a food shortage in Java
the Japanese are stripping the vast forest
reserves of the island and turning them
into ricefields, it will be an entirely dif-
ferent Java that the Dutch will eventu-
ally recover. Long experience convinced
them that native agriculture had to be
rigidly organised or Java might become
a desert island. So every available spot
from the swampy lowlands up the sides
of precipitous volcanoes was terraced,
and each rice sawah was connected with
the next by a system of gravitation so
that the turning of a water cock high in
the mountains by a Dutch official could
either irrigate thousands of plots or cut
off water from them. Under Dutch ad-
ministration the forests were carefully
guarded and developed to prevent erosion
and maintain the rainfall. If the Japanese
have reversed this policy harm could be
done which would take years, if not cen-
turies, to repair.
“R. Volt”; Washington announces
that the Army Air Force and Signal
Corps have solved the problem of the
aurora borealis and its interferences with
radio communication. If so, they have
downed something that has defied tele-
graphic experts since the early days of
the submarine cable. The aurora aus-
tralis is an electro-magnetic phenomenon
said to be closely related to the incidence
of sunspots. When a particularly bril-
liant display is manifest in the skies of
southern Australia it is impossible to
“They say the REAL trouble will start after the Wars over—when We get
our men home again.”
work the cables for as far north as
Banjoewangie in Java. Until now the
method used to circumvent the auroras in
the case of radio was to use directive
wireless, but it was only a palliative. The
new American method involves the in-
stalling of six long-wave stations linking
the U.S., Newfoundland, Labrador,
Greenland, Iceland and Britain. With
the short wave it is sometimes necessary
to throw a girdle round the world in the
opposite direction to normal.
* * * *
“C.V.E.”: Tell “Petermac” (B.
29/12/’43) that proficiency in heading ’em
or tailing ’em does come with practice ;
not absolutely certain, of course, but I
have met scores of followers of the game
who could be relied on to head ’em any-
thing up to four times. After that prob-
ably their nerve went. As with horseshoe
quoits the idea is to get the correct
height and swing with an even balance.
Ordinary tossers of the browns simply
heave ’em up and trust to luck; the
shrewdies study the set of the pennies on
the kip, note the height they intend to
toss ’em and plan for the forward pace
or two as they sky them.
* * * *
“Clooter”: “Wowser” was used by the
sober New York “Herald Tribune” to
describe the U.S. Postmaster-General
when he revoked the mailing privileges
of “Esquire,” a magazine devoted to legs,
leers, lavatory “humor” and Leftism. This
has stimulated Melbourne “Herald” to
claim that the word originated on the Vic-
torian goldfields, where tub-thumping
evangelists were, it alleges, called
“rousers” and became “wowsers” when
a member of Clunes council couldn’t
pronounce his r’s. That’s a long-dis-
credited theory. Nowadays it is accepted
that John Norton coined it in the days
when “Terewth” was something to read
in secret. John himself had no false
modesty about claiming the distinction.
“P.S.”: A slang word that seems to
have outlasted most of its contempor-
aries is “joiqt,” used to describe any-
thing from a house to a boat. Thirty
years ago “two-up joints” and “sly-grog
joints” were common, gamblers set up
their “joints” on racecourses, obstreper-
ous fellows set out to “wreck the joint,”
youths full of wanderlust surveyed the
home and announced they were “sick of
this joint,” a town would be described
as a “decent little joint” and Murray
steamers were referred to as “pretty fast
joints.” I once camped with a mate in
a church during a wet day ; he described
the edifice as a “handy joint.” Today the
word is as popular in use and as wide in
application as ever it was.
* * * *
“Physh”: Genius is seldom a “capacity
for taking infinite pains.” More often it
is a capacity for achieving without any
effort whatever results that could never
be equalled by a non-genius no matter
what pains he took. A case in point
cropped up in Melbourne, where a radio
studio staged a “Figure Wizard Cham-
pionship.” The winner, a 16-year-old
youngster named Owen Gill, from Bris-
bane, was able to do mental arithmetic
at prodigious speed. In one second he
announced the correct answer to “What
sum will amount to £517 10s. in four
years at 3i p.c. p.a.?” In seven seconds he
knew “the perimeter of a room whose
area is 405 sq. ft. and whose width is
four-fifths of its length.” He answered
14 questions like that, taking an average
of four and one-fifth seconds to a question.
Find the conditions under which such
brains are born and there is some chance
of understanding how Mozart at five
could possess a better grasp of musical
art and science than did contemporary
practitioners of twelve times his age who
had spent a lifetime in study.
* * * *
“Petermac” presents a Black Market
scenario:
Scene, Sydney bar. Characters, two lean,
brown Diggers and a flashly-dressed young
civilian. Civilian remarks he’d like to get
hold of some petrol. “Would you?” inquires
the taller Digger with gratifying interest.
“Would I not?” exclaims the civvy, his eyes
gleaming with anticipation. “I’ll give five bob a
gallon for it —here, have a drink.” The con-
versation lapses a little after the Diggers have
downed three more. “Now, about this pet-
rol” “Oh, yes,” says the long one. “You’d
like a 44-gallon drum, I suppose?” The
civvy’s eyes nearly pop out. “Here, have an-
other couple on me.” The conversation lapses
again and the flash gent, coos, dovelike: “Now
about this petrol, where can I get it?” The
two soldiers casually drain their glasses and
smack their lips, and then the long Digger gives
utterance. “That’s where you’ve got us tricked,
George—we don’t know either.” The civvy
seems stunned for a moment; then, glaring
ferociously and muttering something about the
war not lasting for ever, makes his exit.
* * * *
“Avon”: A Maoriland soldier, on
furlough, pleaded guilty to a charge
of “causing actual bodily harm” to an
18-year-old civilian. The youngster, it
was admitted, had been playing up with
the soldier’s wife. Quoth Chief Justice
Myers:
When a man goes away to fight for his
country and suffers all the privations and
restrictions incidental to active service he is
at least entitled to have the right's of his
own domestic life respected during his
absence. There can be no feeling but pro-
found disgust and contempt for any person
who violates those rights.
His Honor admitted the prisoner to pro-
bation, warning him, of course, that no
matter what the provocation he must not
take the law into his own hands, and
winding up with “You must understand
that this nonsense must cease,” which
may have been taken to apply as well to
the complainant as to the prisoner. The
soldier’s name was suppressed by the
Court.
* * * *
“Billjim”: “Deadline” (B. 1/12/’45)
may well ask the whereabouts of early
printing presses which accomplished
miracles of Australian journalism. Many
have been acquired by the Army Ameni-
ties Branch, and are now turning out
excellent little weekly, bi-weekly and daily
news-sheets for troops in remote areas,
But I deplore the passing of many ol
the weekly journals.
“Late again! You're fined next Sunday's pay or tuppence, whichever
is the greater!”
IN JUNGLE GREEN.
“The Sixteenth Infantry Brigade, which marched
through Sydney last week in jungle-green, has been
in everything from Bardia to New Guinea.”
What memories clung about them as they swung
From street to street in soldierly array,
Of other marches over fields far-flung,
Of shores and seaports half a world away!
What changing views, from Libyan deserts
parched
To Syrian snows, full many must have seen,
Aye, and what perils faced of those who
marched
In jungle-green!
War held for such as these no borderline;
They went wherever there were foes to meet,
To stormy Africa from Palestine,
Anon to stricken Greece and hapless Crete.
Stubborn the obstacles they battled through
To leave an J honored name where’er they’ve
been.
And khaki-clad returned —to fight anew
In jungle-green.
’Tis but their due our hearts with pride should
glow
For such, remembfering the Odysseys
Of lads we gave God-speed four years ago
To do their bit in other climes than these;
They who have borne the burden and the heat
Of war’s grim toll in many a distant scene,
The men who marched from cheering street to
street
In jungle-green.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
TO A RABBIT.
“Plans are being made for rabbits to form an im-
portant part of the Australian menu. They will be
sold coupon-free.” —Commerce Minister Scully.
It staggers one almost beyond expressing,
It sets all past ideas in reverse,
To think our land may find a precious blessing
In what it long has deemed a noxious curse,
To muse that soon we may be feeling grateful,
Whether we play the part of hosts or guests,
For what our dads and grand-dads found most
hateful
Of all imported pests.
Rabbit, to me and doubtless many another
You’ve always seemed, precisely like the hare,
More dry and tasteless than your British brother,
And far less appetising table fare.
That may be fancy, though. You sure were
fashioned
Interstices in any frame to fill
Where mutton-chops are definitely rationed
And beef is off the bill.
What blistering anathemas, my furry
Friend, on your head men have been wont to
heap!
What ceaseless and immeasurable worry
You’ve caused to the proprietors of sheep!
What costly fences have been budded wholly
Your trail of devastation to prevent
Before you spread, relentlessly if slowly,
Across our continent!
And now, elusive and prolific bunny,
Scully expects from you a quid pro quo,
Some adequate return for all the money
You’ve cost us and the thumping debt you
owe.
What points you lack let expert brains deter-
mine
Compared with animals that moo or bleat
Or grunt. But though you’re classified as
vermin,
It’s just as true you’re meat.
The butcher’s job is not all beer and skittles,
These days of dwindling wares and tightened
belts.
So, coney, we must look to you for victuals
As well as for remunerative pelts.
And, very obviously, one allurance
For calculating purchasers will be
Officialdom’s quite definite assurance
That you’ll be coupon-free!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pip”; “Write Home First,” says
the notice on the near wall, and,
touched with remorse, you’re about to
comply when “Idle Chatter Sinks Ships,”
flanked by “Don’t Discuss Troop Move-
ments” and “Think —Then Don’t Say It,”
hits the eye. Morale cracks completely on
the discovery of “Your Maker Is Looking
at You.” Deciding to do the job in your
tent you move off, but a sign near the
door, “You’re Not the Only One Short of
a Pen—Put It Back,” brings a dead halt
and a guilty return to the table. Taking
comfort from the injunction “Don’t
Waste Paper” you think you’ll wait until
next day when there’ll be more news,
but “Do It Now” cancels that plan, and
“Tell Her You Love Her” finally does the
trick. Eyes cast down from the walls
you write two frantic pages, then escape
in blessed relief to the cool air outside.
Next day the letter comes back —you’ve
put your own address on the envelope.
* * * *
“El Bofin”: A new adjutant had taken
the place of one who had been un-
popular, particularly with the Australian
air crews on the squadron. A flight-
sergeant who did his job very well but
always saluted in a very slovenly manner
was rebuked by the newcomer: “Look
here, Flight, you have the worst salute
on the squadron.” The sergeant looked
at the adjutant hard. “That may be true,
sir, but you always get one, and that is
more than the other so-and-so did.”
* * * #
“Arma”: Among places which have
defied the wrecker is the old home of
Jimmy Munro, onetime Victorian Pre-
mier. With one or two slight improve-
ments it still stands today in Armadale
(Vic.) as it did when Jimmy occupied it
50 years ago. Teetotalism was a fetish
with Munro, and when he gave the land
on which the Armadale bowling green is
situated it was made conditional that no
intoxicating liquors should ever be
brought upon it. When Munro stood for
the newly-created constituency of Carl-
ton the only halls available were owned
by a hotelkeeper, who refused to grant
the candidate the use of them. Nothing
daunted, Munro bought a block of land,
and within 14 days had a hall of his own
erected at a cost of £2500. He won the
seat; majority, 31.
* * * *
“P.A.”: N.S.W. teachers say that the
subject of history, with its wide coverage
of past world’s events, takes time out of
proportion to value. They could come
nearer home, at least, and get implanted
in the kids’ minds a grounding of Aus-
tralian history—especially that part
played by pioneers in opening a land
“unfit for white settlement.” From that
let them expand to Empire and world
study at will. Most European (and even
American) nations know their home his-
tory pretty well. It’s time we discarded
outworn tradition and followed suit. I
was shocked recently in reading the
annual progress reports of two girls from
a swanky school. Asked about the omis-
sion of Australian history, these sophisti-
cated youngsters replied airily “Oh, Aus-
tralia has no history!” Shades of Phillip,
Banks, Hume, Sturt, Flinders, Bligh and
Macarthur!
“Hamer”: A professional man com-
plains that not sufficient interest is taken
in classical writers, and says means
should be taken to stir it. It should be
easy enough.’ In my childhood a careful
mother was doubtful about encouraging
an indulgence in Byron. She said he was
“fast,” but compromised by buying for
me one of those “family editions” of his
works with a foreword saying it was safe
for children’s reading. These hedges placed
round the poet naturally made him desir-
able. I had read “Don Juan,” unexpur-
gated, before I was halfway through my
teens. Pick out your classical English
authors and bar them, and their popu-
larity will be assured.
* * *
“Uramao”: A traffic cop patrolling
the Hutt-road, Wellington (MX.), spied
a car doing well over 30. He gave chase
and sounded his siren for the fugitive
to stop. Instead, the offender fled, and
the cop’s best speed, somewhere near 70
m.p.h., did not diminish the distance
between chased and chaser; they
passed through Upper Hutt like the Devil
going through Athlone on a historic
occasion. The cop then used his nut, dis-
mounted at the post office and telephoned
the police at the next town to intercept
the runaway. But that astute speedster
saw the ruse, pulled up, doubled back,
stopped at the cop’s car, removed the
ignition key from it, and leisurely drove
back to Wellington.
* * * *
“Mac”; “P. Pawnticket’s” reference to
old George-street and the Town Hall
(B. 27/10/’43) brings to mind another
Sydney building well known to confi-
dence men. When one of these desired
to rid himself of his victim he escorted
him to the front of the London Assur-
ance Building in Bridge-street. Excusing
himself “for a moment” he entered the
building and made his exit through a
door leading into Dalley-street at the
rear. A few minutes later he could take
a peep at the mug from the seat of a
George-street tram.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Old wives’ remedies still
flourish in many districts. Aq elderly
man told a country doctor less than 15
miles from Melbourne that he was
putting a salve on his skin to cure cer-
tain dangerous symptoms. “What sort of
salve?” asked the doctor. “Well,” said
the patient, “I place a rusty iron nail in
a cup of water every night and next
morning apply the solution.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: I started to make a study of
Basic English but gave it up when I read
an American professor’s attempt to put
the provisions of the Atlantic Charter
into the new language and came on the
phrase “Nazi cruel government” for
“Nazi tyranny.” If that is the best it
can do it must be a very inexpressive
lingo.
* * * *
“Toreador”: The three-card trick is
not as dead as “Pip” suggests (B.
22/12/’43). The wog con. man with his
three cards is a familiar sight in the
winding lanes of Jaffa, and the boys
willingly did their dough just for the
pleasure of being so skilfully swindled.
The operator works with an offsider.
While he turns his head to engage in
a gesticulating conversation with an on-
looker the offsider, with a sly wink,
peeps at the cards and, revealing the
“lady,” creases up one corner. The
"No, not this one , Admiral —it must he the other Warship that's
expectin' you."
operator shuffles the cards around, and,
of course, all the money goes on the
card with the turned-up corner, which
invariably proves to be a blank. As the
other two cards may be turned up to
find the “lady,” the way in which they
turn down one corner arid turn up
another during the shuffling remains
another of those Oriental mysteries.
* * * *
“T.H.M.”: Though many South Aus.
towns had their German names altered
during the last war and afterwards re-
stored, the little township of Blumberg,
in the Adelaide hills, chose a sobriquet
that will never brook change—Birdwood.
The place is at present renowned chiefly
for its high school, which is endowed with
three annual scholarships by the old
field-marshal and his lady, and the school
in 1942, among other successes, won
seven of the 12 bursaries awarded to
country high schools in the State. Last
year “Birdy” sent to the school a
copy of his autobiography Khaki and
Gown, inscribed “July, 1943, to Birdwood
(High) School, with the hope that all
attending it may find something of in-
terest in the doings of a very old soldier
who never forgets the glorious days he
spent with those best of fellows, his old
Anzac comrades. —Birdwood of Anzac,
F.M.”
“S.T.S.” : The similarity of some of
our place-names must give visitors a
headache. One would think that Medin-
die, an Adelaide suburb, and Meningie,
at the Murray mouth, were sufficient, but
N.S.W. has Menindie, on the Darling.
There is not much excuse for S.A.’s
honoring great men of the past to the
extent of Morphettville and Morphett
Vale (not far apart) or for forcing people
to address either to “Kingston (S.E.)” or
“Kingston (on Murray).” The Federal
P.M.G., when he came into it, wisely
refused to be bothered with Port Victor
and Port Victoria, both in S.A., and Port
Victor has to use the alternative, Victor
Harbor.
aj: »}• Jfc
“H.W.M.”: Keith Murdoch and ex-
Senator Bob Elliott, both trustees of the
Victorian National Gallery, are waging
a brisk little war over the proposal to
spend £2,000,000 on a new national
gallery. Murdoch wants the Govern-
ment to advance the money. Elliott
is opposed to any such doings while
the housing position remains so acute.
Murdoch proposes to interview the
Premier some time this month to press
for the £2,000,000; meanwhile, Elliott is
using his provincial press to stir up oppo-
sition. But Murdoch has more readers
than Elliott, and so far is ahead on points.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Though patients aren't
fed four courses simultaneously on the
one plate like “Strait Pirate’s” sailor (B.
22/12/’43), the cooks at a Sydney hospi-
tal aren’t cramped by recognised a. la
carte or table d’hote rules. In the wards
dinner may take a complete somersault,
stewed fruit and custard or jelly and
blancmange being slipped into the
hatches well ahead of the meat and vege-
tables. And at breakfast I remember
washing down boiled egg, toast and mar-
malade with porridge and milk more than
once.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Durable as many a war
memorial is tar on sandstone. Many
years ago a fisherman who regu-
larly fished off the flat rocks at the foot
of the steep cliffs at North Bondi was
washed off the rocks and drowned. His
mates painted his name and date of death
on the sandstone cliff-face with tar. The
sea has worn away the sandstone, leaving
the inscription standing out several inches
from the face, so that it now can be seen
from quite a long distance out to sea.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: A brochure of the Aus-
tralian Congress of Friendship with
Russia fell on my table, and after read-
ing the preamble, which stated that,
“stimulated by the amazing fighting
strength and skill of the Red Army, Aus-
tralians have today a lively and growing
interest in their Soviet Allies,” I perused the
list of committee members. It included
a bishop, a K.C.M.G., several university
professors, the deputy-chairman of a
housing commission, the dean of a
faculty of education, an M.L.A., an
M.L.C., a cathedral organist, a Collins-
street specialist and a society lady. Look-
ing out of I saw a girl balanc-
ing on her forehead a queer hat which
she wouldn’t have been seen dead with
before it became the fashion.
* * *
“Strict Veg.”: When meat-rationing
comes in there may be upwards of 30
horseflesh shops in Melbourne, that num-
ber of butchers having informed the Dog
and Cat Defence League that they will
open shops exclusively for the purpose.
In fact, some of them think it may be
more profitable to sell horseflesh for pets
than rationed meat to human beings,
especially in the poshier suburbs. I know
at least one citizen, a connoisseur in food,
who wouldn’t feel that the worst had
come to the worst if he had to patronise
the horsemeat depots. He asserts that he
always preferred the Parisian cafes where
horseflesh was openly served, because,
although the French are the finest chefs
in Europe, they don’t know how to cook
beef and mutton.
“Bootless” discusses a vexed aspect of
tropical life:
Since the C.O. told us he would begin to
worry about our morale if we stopped grum-
bling, morale has been higher than ever. Par-
ticularly about 1830 hours, when we conform
to R.Os. and climb into shirts buttoned at the
wrist, long trousers and anklets. It grows still
higher as we smear greasy mosquito-repellent
lotion on our faces and hands. It reaches an
enthusiastic apex as sweat stains begin to appear
on our nice clean clothing. The M.O. has told
us many times how anopheles come out to play
about sunset. He has painted lurid pictures of
the ravages of malaria. At first we were im-
pressed but now we are bored. Clothing is no
protection against the anopheles’ probosces. The
mosquitoes score easily through pants tightened
by a sitting soldier. Lying is worse. Even stand-
ing the clothing still hangs too close to the
skin. If the fellows who bred the horns off
Herefords would tackle the mosquito there
might be a ray of hope on the horizon. Then
there is the mosquito cream. Long experience
has proved that anopheles love it —at least the
ones that are noisy about it do. If it even
makes them mildly bilious they dissemble most
successfully. We have never seen a bilious
mosquito.
* * * *
“Peter”: Despite the exigencies of
war England still insists on decorum in
its law courts. A factory girl was
recently reproved by a London magis-
trate for appearing before him clad in
slacks, being told it was an insult to
the Bench. However, the “J.P. and
Local Government Review” pertinently
commented:
It is high time that magistrates and others
remember that they hold the King’s com-
mission for dispensing justice, not for airing
views which are impertinent in both mean-
ings of the word.
Nevertheless, I’m a bit with his Washup,
seeing how ghastly most women look in
trousers.
“P.McM.”: Bravely withstanding
the elements an old weighing
machine is much in request among
the sporting fraternity out our way,
on race days especially. Puzzled
by this I joined the throng, and was
astonished to hear a race descrip-
tion issuing from its solemn face.
There is a radio station near by,
and because of some peculiarity or
other the penny-in-the-slot machine
faithfully catches and transmits
everything broadcast on that par-
ticular wave-length.
* * *
“Bo”: I like that report from
the Eastern front that “German
suicide squads were found with
their ankles tied together to prevent
their retreating.” It must have
posed a pretty problem for the offi-
cers. Prussian thoroughness would
urge the officers to tie the squads’
hands as well, so that they couldn’t
untie their ankle ropes, though they
wouldn’t be able to use their
weapons. Or was it decided that,
as only the dopiest squareheads
would agree to join a suicide squad
for the glory of Adolf, it would
be safe to bind only their ankles,
they having insufficient nous to
realise that they were capable of
setting themselves free whenever they
chose?
“Pawang”: Alan Newton, an eminent
Melbourne medico, has dashed the hopes
of those who were looking forward to
miracles of relief from penicillin (B.
29 /12/ ’43). The drug is extracted from a
medium oh which a mould is grown, and
if that mould could be grown from Mel-
bourne to Sydney it would not provide
sufficient penicillin to supply the urgent
needs of the profession. Much progress
has to be made in the method of manu-
facture before it will be available to the
public, and that can’t be done until the
war is over.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; The successful launching
of the Borovansky Australian ballet on
the professional boards at the Comedy,
Melbourne, found me sitting next to an
old entrepreneur of the fleshanblood days.
“I didn’t know you liked the ballet,” I
said. “What do you fancy about it?”
“I like it because you can just sit and
look at it without having somebody
squawking at you,” was the answer.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The ancestor of a now-
wealthy Sydney family got his start in
the old days as a sanitary contractor. His
descendants are proud of him, for he was
a generous character, but they always
refer to him as having been a “health
officer.” True, of course, and how nicely
put!
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: I see that the powers
that be are contemplating making medi-
cines free. Why not make beer free?
There is no evidence that a moderate
allowance of beer does people any harm.
Overindulgence does; but then overin-
dulgence in anything, does harm, includ-
ing overindulgence in moral indignation.
There are many authenticated cases of
beer-drinkers living to great ages but
hardly any of drug-takers, De Quincey
(74) being one of the rare exceptions.


ABORIGINALITIES
Matter o’ fact, I slung him ten bob for
his tip only half an hour ago,”
* * * *
“Pip”: Crossing a log bridge the leader
of our party was brought up dead by the
sight of a six-foot black snake on the far
bank. About ten yards away it suddenly
flipped about, then came straight towards
us. Retreat on the narrow bridge was
impossible with the pressure of men be-
hind. The obvious alternative was to drop
into the river. Instead the boss capered,
clapped his hands and started barking
like a dog. Not dignified, but it brought
Joe Blake defensively to a smart halt,
head poised ready for action until a stick
passed up from the rear of the column
settled him. It was like taking a bottle
from a baby.
* * * *
“Herbie”; I’d lost a good job at
Linger-and-Die when old Peter Pork-
fattener sold out to a brace of land-
minded jokers from the Jordan Valley,
and I’m headin’ south in the hope o’
linkin’ up with an old cobber who I
expect to find fryin’ a slice o’ cod along
the ’Bidgee. I’ve got a bit o’ scrub-
turkey and some onions stewin’ nicely in
the old quart pot when I hears a lot o’
“Old-timer”; “Curyo” Chaalie, broke
and hungry, drove into Willenabrina
(Vic.) the night before the sports.
Since he hoped to impress the townsfolk
with his apparent affluence, thus persuad-
ing them to venture their coin on one or
other of the various illegal devices with
which he proposed to entertain them, he
couldn’t be seen seeking a handout, so
went to bunk with his stomach empty,
enviously listening to his buggy-horse
cropping the grass. Next morn, prowling
round the pavilion, “Curyo” came across
an open door, entered and found himself
among heaps of tucker stored there in
readiness for the day. He wasted no
time and was still chewing when a couple
of blokes entered the shed. Charles
looked round and sighted a set of scales.
“What are you up t’?” demanded the in-
truders. Whipping odt a notebook
“Curyo” put a weight on the scales, eyed
it closely, then said coldly “I’m a weights-
an’-measures inspector. You want to get
these scales adjusted.” And, pretending
to write in his book, he went loftily out.
Five minutes later a quid changed hands
as “Curyo” promised to forget the dis-
crepancy in the scales.
*** * •
“Afrikander”: “Oxmead” (B. 29 /12 / ’43)
is correct in his assumption regarding the
Westralian triple-spiked burr, except that
the Afrikaans word is not “debbilje” but
“duivelje.” The word is used not only
by the JBoers. We children of British
descent born in S’Africa, who are usually
bilingual, used it long before the war of
1899-1902. “Duivel doornjes” (little devil
thorns) was the name used by us, which I
frequently heard contracted to “duiveljes.”
* * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was coming up to
the house for the evening meal when
the swagman approached from the drive.
“G’day, boss!” said the swagman. “I
see you’re harvestin’, D’y’ want t’ know
what the weather’s goin’ t’ be for the
next few days?” “Aw,” said Bill, “I don’t
reckon anyone can tell.” The swagman
put his head on one side like a wise old
bird. “Oh, yes they can,” he said. , “I
been studyin’ the weather this last forty
year, an’ I know what it’ll be. Tell y’
what. I’m camped along the scrub there.
If I give you the oil, I reckon it’s worth
ten bob to you.” Bill nodded. “Right!
Now, you don’t need t’ worry about y’r
harvestin’—there won’t be any rain for
this week at least. If I’m wrong y’ don’t
pay me. But I know I’ll be right. I’ll
be along at the end o’ the week an’
collect.” Bill nodded again. The
prediction really confirmed his own
opinion, so he took the harvesting a bit
more leisurely than he otherwise would
have, and, anyway, the weatlier was per-
fect. The job was half-finished when
black clouds appeared on the horizon.
Bill worked like a galley slave, but the
rain came in a deluge, and the unhar-
vested crop was beaten to the ground.
After the storm Bill went furiously along
the road towards the scrub, but the
swaggie had gone. On his way home
Bill met Murphy, his neighbor. “I see
the storm caught you with only half y’r
crop harvested,” Murphy said. Bill
nodded. “What about you?” Murphy
smiled. “Oh, I had a bit of luck. A
swaggie that come to the joint forecast
rain and advised me to get my crop in.
I worked like hell, an’ just beat the rain.
“ Cellophane, sir — I couldn’t bear to get me hat Wet!”
yabber goin’ on over the other side o’ the
long hill on the Boggabilla Flat. Peelin'
hospitablelike I stokes up the fire and
await the arrival of the dinner guests.
Blime if the gang don’t include
“Mat’s Mate” and his big cobber, “Bo,”
“Solitude,” “Seventy-fiver,” “Wippegong,”
“Naturala” and a few more, and they’re
all loaded up with adzes, traps, feather-
pluckers, crosscuts and shingle-hammers.
I asks ’em did the C.C.C. catch up with
the Abolying mob at last. It was
“Seventy-fiver” who enlightens me.
“We’re food-producin’,” he says as he lifts
the lid o’ the quart pot and sniffs appreci-
atively. “We’re headin’ for Queensland
to open a chain of goat-and-galah caffees
on the inter-State track t’ fill the empty
gnawin’ void in fellers who’re goin’ t’
feel the pinch o’ beef-rationin’.” I tell him
I’m a good bird mimic. That’s how it is
I’m on me way back to Bananaland as
official decoy for the expedition.
* * * *
“Brian”: Mud Island in Pt. Phillip Bay,
despite the sand-bottomed sea that sur-
rounds it, is no misnomer (B. 17/11/’43).
Anyone trying to wade across the en-
trance to the lagoon on the south side at
low tide would find himself sinking to
his waist in the slimiest, smelliest mud
possible to encounter.
* * * *
“Co-prosperity” in the Solomons:
A strange and tiny cavalcade wound its way
down one of the narrow, broken trails leading
from the mountainous country at the back of
the Empress Augusta beachhead and in through
the American lines. An old man, the chief,
was at its head; a few other old men followed
him; behind them were the women and
children, the younger men coming at the end
of the column. In the party there were about
150 natives who had at last decided that their
greatest hope of safety in this war which had
come to their island was in throwing in their
lot with the Allies. In their weariness they
were a pitiful sight, the gaunt scragginess
of the children contrasting so noticeably with
the usual full, plump-bellied appearance of native
youngsters, though they were typical of refu-
gees the world over. They had been hiding out
in the mountains for more than a year, away
from their gardens and villages and their fish-
ing. The women and children carried all the
party’s belongings wrapped in woven grass mats.
On Bougainville and on the other islands in
the northern Solomons, as in New Britain and
New Ireland, the position of the natives has
been of much greater difficulty than in the
islands to the south. The Japanese have been
in occupation for a long time. They have had
need of native labor, and the methods they
used to ensure that the natives would remain
in the districts where their help was required
have been harsh and cruel. The natives’ ration
of food was the meagrest; they were in most
places left with only one lava-lava. The only
signs they have had that the previous 'Adminis-
tration would ever return have been in the sight
of Allied bombers flying overhead and in the
bombs they have seen rain on Jap positions.
There were stories that natives in the north
had been co-operating so wholeheartedly with
the Japs that they would not welcome Allied
invaders. It would seem that their co-operation
was a matter of dire necessity.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That cocky who stocked
his iron tank with fish and then used a
line to get ’em out (B. 5/1/’44) must be
a genius, for not only did he catch ’em
in a drum-net in a lake, but solved the
problem of keeping ’em alive in the air-
less, dark and decomposing water of an
iron tank!
* * * *
“C. Joe”: Since most of the older
station hands who left either to join the
services or seek more profitable jobs have
been replaced mainly with young and in-
experienced hands the manager has done
some tearing at his hair, but it wasn’t
until last week that he started frothing
at the mouth. The Rupert well water
wasn’t too good, and with the warmer
days here he gave instructions to clean
out the trough every other day. Because
of an emergency the trough had to be
left for three days, and in the evening of
the fourth day the manager rang up and
asked whether the job had been done.
Back came the reply: “When I went to
take the plug out of the trough the water
felt too cold, so I’m going to leave it until
tomorrow when the sun warms it up a
bit.” Yes, it’s great being manager of a
big station with a makeshift staff.
* * * *
“Nepean”; On Tmara estate, near Nar-
racoorte (S.A.), the magpies are com-
pelled to meet on the bare ground be-
cause of the scarcity of trees. Inciden-
tally, on those crab-holey, wind-swept
plains the black-and-white carollers are
so plentiful they outnumber all other
birds, though each mob has its own
domain, and heaven help any maggie that
intrudes on another’s beat. The sentries
at Tmara homestead, on seeing a strange
magpie approach, intently set him until
they call out the home guard with their
screeching; then they charge the invader
en masse. Black-and-white plumes
sprawled elsewhere about the run are
evidence of this feather-world trespassing
and policing.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: “Plankton” misfires
when he says the bird known, to Victorian
fishermen as the “black mollyhawk” is in
reality the “dark southern skua” (B.
15/12/’43). The “mollyhawk” is jet black
all over, gooselike in size .and con-
spicuous by its bill, which, always yellow
and at least four inches long, is more
strongly reinforced than any I know. It
is triangular in shape both from the top
ridge downwards to the sides of the
mouth, and from the slightly-hooked end
it runs back to the middle of the head as
well as to the top of the forehead. And
this hawklike flier doesn’t only kill
“weaker species” ; I’ve seen it while on
the wing, with a well-directed peck or
two, finish off every kind of albatross
except the larger model with double-
jointed wings. Belcher, in The Birds of
Geelong and District, a fine local book,
mentions seeing two —he refers to them
as the “Great Petrel.” These lone
scavengers worry Bass Strait shark fisher-
men, and are caught on baited hooks
when the set-lines are . going over
the side, so I’ve been promised a speci-
men. That won’t be till next autumn in
all probability, as this big flier is only
seen in the strait in continued bad and
cold weather.
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped at a
road junction overshadowed by a huge
sign advertising somebody’s motor oil.
“By cripes,” said Mat, eyeing it off, “if
I ever won Tatt’s or come inter money
I’d hire a team of blokes an’ go round
an’ cut all them blasted things down.
What right have they got stickin’ their
flamin’ signs up all over the country?
Y’ see ’em hangin’ on trees, an’ some-
times they paint the tree or plaster post-
an’-rail fences with their advertisements.
How’d they like it if somebody stuck up
a big sign in Hyde Park or the Fitzroy
Gardens sayin’ ‘When in Forbes stay at
Flannery’s Hotel’ or Mildura, 350 miles.
Eat Sarnia Currants’? They’d run a man
in f’r it, I reckon. That’s the trouble in
this blasted country; anythin’ a city cove
does t’ the bush is all right, but no bush
bloke’d get away with it in the city.”
And he carried the red coals from our
fire carefully to the foot of the upright
holding the sign, adjusted them nicely,
and then, calling to me, grabbed his
swag and started up the road.
* * * *
“Betcha”; What does a fellow do with
worn-out nags? One I know prescribes
a bullet as soon as he decides they are of
no further use. Others turn them out
where they wax fat or poor with the,
seasons until the inevitable drought
brings a slow and miserable death.
Others again jam their tired
nags into trucks and take a
quid for lion tucker. I struck
one chap who helps keep him-
self poor by buying chaff each
winter and through the bad
spells for his varied collec-
tion of ancient mokes. It’s
right enough to turn, a moke
out while grass is plentiful,
but when he starts downhill
a bullet is the best medicine.
Reminds me, I’ve got a bunch
of decrepits myself, and feed
is getting scarce. Better go
out tomorrow and fix ’em;
only—well, not old Bob. A
bloke just couldn’t shoot Bob.
And, hang it, not Paddy, Why,
me and Paddy used to camp
out back for months on end,
and —and Cripes, no not
Paddy, nor me old cobber
Mick, nor Aw, well, what does a
bloke do with worn-out nags?
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: It’s no use splitting hairs
over what A. L. Gordon might have in-
tended in his reference to songless bright
birds and scentless bright blossoms.
The fact remains that he brought atten-
tion to these defects while ignoring our
scented blossoms (which are legion) and
song birds which literally lead the world’s
songsters. Did he ever hear the rufus
whistler in full-throated song, our native
larks, the butcher-bird, magpie, shrike
thrush, white-throated warbler, bellbirds
—to mention only a few? If so, Gordon
could not have been much interested in
birds and their songs, and was apparently
only impressed by those of brighter
plumage, such as the parrots, of which
we have endless variety. And the deli-
cate perfume of vanilla flower, boronia
and lysinema or the stronger scent of
native daphne ( Pittosporum ) must have
eluded him.
* * * *
“M. 8”: “Hist” (B. 29/12/’43) has
never seen a dog catch a rabbit if he
believes the canine goes for the bobbing
white tail. The fleeing bunny is almost
invariably picked up across the back of
the neck or across the small of the back.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was giving me
a hand to monogram a bunch of bought
stock when Sandy arrived full of Bung’s
monthly issue and his own importance.
“Thash no way t’ brand calves,/’ he
scoffed, transferring a large bottle to the
back of-his waistband so he could lean
more comfortably against the crush.
“Beshides, y’r fire ain’t hot ’nough.” The
old bloke glared, gulped, then to my sur-
prise he turned away. “Mebbe y’re right,
Sandy,” he conceded. “ ’Coursh I’m
right,” bragged the newcomer. “Better
show y’, I sh’pose. Gripes, y’r bran’
ain’t even shtraight.” Again, instead of
the expected outburst, the old chap took
the gibe and went on working. “Wonder
nobody ain’t ever showed y’ afore,”
Sandy continued, “Y’ve got to jam y’r
beashts tighter’n that.” Presently, passing
behind Sandy to pick up a rail, Seventy-
fiver stopped, then a flood of language
burst its restraining wall. When he’d
finished his opinion of ignorant, shiftless
so-and-sos who barged in on a man’s
work, he coursed Sandy off the place with
the hot iron, threatening: to demonstrate
its correct usage. “Blime!” I grinned as
he returned, “what made you fly off the
handle so sudden?” The old bloke
pitched the iron into the fire and kicked
the gate shut. “Aw, hell,” he spat dis-
gustedly, “his whisky bottle wus empty’’
THE NIGHT FLIGHT.
A flight of ’planes went by tonight
As by a still lagoon,
Whereon black swans moved lazily,
I camped beneath the moon.
As flying high in ordered lines,
I watched them northward fare,
Their urging engines tumult made
That shook the tranquil air.
Swift shapes on some grim quest, perchance,
They sped o’er sea and shore,
A moment seen, a moment’ heard,
Then seen and heard no more.
They passed, but left the scene perturbed,
Like to a sleeper when
By some dread dream aroused at night
He cannot sleep again.
For straightway in a near-by glen
Dark oaks began to croon.
While o’er white dunes I heard far waves
Grow plaintive ’neath the moon.
And strange above all else it was
To watch with ’wildered eyes
The black swans, voicing mournful notes,
Take sudden wings, and rise.
Take wings, and follow on the track
The ’planes had ta’en before;
A moment seen, a moment heard,
Then seen and heard no more.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Slow down, pilot—this is my first try!"
“Wippegong”: A little river on a stony
bed sings much the same tune the world
over, but here that is the only sound or
sight which is familiar. Joe and I are
sitting on a log a few feet off the track ;
the air is so calm that the extreme tips of
drooping palm fronds are still as stone
and if a shadow flickers you know a
bird has shaken a branch above. Soft
steps step near by ; a wireless operator off
duty opens a tin, takes out a couple of
gorgeous blue butterflies and lays them
on a sunlit fern for decoys, then with his
net settles beside the track. A green limb
seems to move, and a 2ft. emerald
lizard is seen slipping out of our sight,
something red in its mouth ; but we fol-
low it, and, dropping its catch, it shoots
up a palm and disappears. The morsel it
dropped was a half-eaten rat; Joe
promptly produces a line, baits it with
the liver and, heading for the river, is
lost to sight in a few yards. A huge,
black, white and yellow butterfly flits
down the track and the collector says
“Want him?” I say “Thanks,” and,
swish! the insect is taken. The expert
picks it from the net and tosses it straight
back into the air with the single sufficient
comment, “Ragged! ” Peace settles again
on this spot of jungle, as it will in a wider
field when the whole show is over.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Look here,” said my
ancient English friend, “I’ve fished in
salt and fresh water all over the world
and mostly eaten whatever I caught. But
of all fresh-water fish I’ll hand the award
to the Murray cod as the tastiest and
most satisfying of them all. One of these
days you fellows will wake up to the
value of the cod as an attraction for
wealthy epicures and you’ll insist on your
Governments putting a proper cod-protec-
tion policy into force. Then you’ll see
that it is advertised far and wide. My
boy, I can see after the war a stream of
chaps arriving here by air for the cod-
fishing, and they’ll go home with gastro-
nomic memories such as they couldn’t
get elsewhere.” After which he some-
how managed to get another half pound
or so of baked cod into himself and went
off under a handy gum to sleep it off.
# « * *
“Esk D.”: Two dogs I once owned
made* plenty of kills among wallabies,
although neither would take up a deter-
mined chase without the other. When
a wallaby was put up Toby would set
off in hot pursuit, yapping noisily, while
a silent Lass would short-cut across the
spurs and gullies. When she took over
the chase Toby would cut across\to work
in closer for his next run. Nearly every
time they drove their quarry into a gully
ambush for an easy kill. How they were
able to anticipate each other’s movements
remains a mystery, but I have noticed
similar tactics used by dingoes working
in packs of five or six. Their success lies
mainly in driving the dark hopper off his
regular beat and getting him confused in
strange territory.
“Feng-Shui”: I agree with “Anthropo”
(B. 29/12/’43) that the imposition
of clothing on native people with
thousands of years of nude ancestry
behind them could produce t.b. and ac-
count for their decimation, but there are
other factors much more fundamental.
Early in the history of European contact
with the South Sea Islands a French mis-
sionary wrote home to his superiors full
of admiration for the kindliness, gentle-
ness and friendliness of his new charges,
which, he said, was in sharp contrast.to
the behavior of the white population. He
modified his opinion when a few weeks
later the full moon arose and he saw the
natives rush out of their houses and in-
dulge in an orgy which shocked him.
When with the returning daylight they
went quietly back to their wives and be-
came once more the gentle, kindly people
he had first found them, he concluded
that they had momentarily become pos-
sessed by the devil. But repeated in-
stances of the same behavior forced him
to the conclusion that their morality
wasn’t exactly like his own. In due
course he and his fellow-workers changed
the habits of the people; but the change
didn’t produce any better results than
paternalism has done in Australia.
“Anthropo”: The abo. is generally
credited with the possession of a perfect
digestion ; actually he (and she) suffer just
as much. from stomach trouble as the
average white. So when the buck, usually
existing in a state of semi-starvation,
gorges to overrepletion it is the genera-
tion of gas in his interior that brings him
such pain. And his remedies are quite
commonsense: the application of heat
and massaging of the abdomen with the
idea of getting the “wind” to move along.
In a slightly unwary moment my long-
haired mate treated a gin to a dose of
carbonate of soda. “My dinner come up
alonga my throat like fire,” commented
the child of nature. Ever after that we
had visits from all members of the tribe
for a dose of “that good, good bellyache
cureum.”
* * * *
“Bo”: He mooched into the little post
office-cwm-general store at Holy Joe,
draped his long figure over the counter,
chewed his straggling mo as his eyes roved
over the shelves, evinced not the slightest
interest when the storekeeper asked him
what he wanted, and after another minute
or so slowly announced that he thought
he could do with a pair of boots. In
reply to the storekeeper’s query about the
size of his trilbies the prospective cus-
tomer stated, after mature cogitation, that
he reckoned they’d go about a couple
o’ corncobs in length. A pair of size
10’s were trotted out and were held up
before the customer’s critical eye. After
a few minutes’ twisting and turning of
the hock-encasers the elongated buyer-
elect drawled: “Ain’t y’ got any with an
iron band around the heel? I see Tom
Gibbons wearin’ ’em once, an’ they
looked gdod-oh.” Boots with heel-plates
were brought forth. Followed another
lengthy inspection; then the customer
seemed to have a wrestle with his word-
producing organism, finally blurting out:
“Yair, these ain’t bad, but I seen a pair
once with steel studs all over the soles
and a iron band across here.” The store-
"keeper vanished into a back room and a
few minutes later came back, dusty but
triumphant, holding up, not without
exerting some effort, a pair of bluchers
weighing about 41b. each. “Here are the
very things,” he purred. “I suppose you
want them for heavy farm work, eh?”
The customer fished out ration book and
cash from his moleskins and looked sur-
prised. “Gripes, no,” he said, speaking
at 17 w.p.m. “There’s a dance on at the
School of Arts tonight, an’ me ole pair
is just about wore out! ”
* * * *
“Moyhu”; “These jokers with their
short memories, always talking of the
seasons changing of late years, make me
laugh,” said Bill. “Once, when old-timers
told me of the long, hot summers of their
youth starting in October and ending in
April, I used to believe them. They had
me beat; but when youngsters of about
eighteen began to put the same tale over
me about the summers of six or seven
years ago, summers I remembered just
as well as they, I jibbed.” “Yair,” Ted
said; “but time seems to pass more
slowly when you’re a kid. I remember
the Christmas holidays used to seem an
age, and yet we only got five weeks. It’s
the same with objects: paddocks, trees,
buildings all seemed bigger then, and the
big boys at school weren’t so big either.
They only appeared large to us little
cov .” “That’s where you’re wrong,”
Bill broke in. “When I was a nipper the
big boys were as big as men, big enough
to give the teacher a hidin’ if they wanted
to. There aren’t any like them at school
these days. Breedin’ a lot of runts now,
that’s what they’re doin’.”
* ' # * *
“Billy See”: That yarn about all hands
and the cook sweating, swearing and
panting in the effort to get the old cart
mare out of the laundry door (B.
8/12/’43) reminds me of seeing similar
s.s. and p. persons trying to get a middle-
aged donkey up a rather steep ramp to
the stage entrance of a Perth theatre.
They were so long about it that the coster
comedian came out to see what was the
delay. “ ’Ere, ’ere, stow it! ”he said.
Stepping to a near-by greengrocery, he
procured a carrot. In the hope of secur-
ing the dainty the hitherto stubborn donk.
walked unurged up the ramp and right
into the caverns of backstage. Similarly
a crust of bread or a handful of sugar
would have brought the old mare out of
that door without any sweat or swearing.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Don’t know so
much about a man sucking at a water-
bag until he’s done (B. 10/11/’43); but
if the days are hot enough you get to a
stage where you can’t drink. Worst
“Now you watch ME!”
scorcher of my memory was on January
25, 1932 ; it struck us coming down the
Darling on Nelyambo, and the burning
north-westerly gale compelled us to
dinner-camp the mob on the river before
8 a.m. Official reading at Wilcannia
was 120.5 in the shade, with station read-
ings as high as 132. It was almost sun
temperature in the shade of the wagon-
ette-fly, from where we watched birds
drop dead off the trees and crows
flying the river nose-dive in. About mid-
day the red-dust-filled sky lent a terri-
fying red aspect to everything, and the
furnacelike blasts dried your mouth up
like a paper bag if you opened it to talk,
Pouring water down your gullet was of
no avail; it didn’t grip the parched gums,
and besides we hadn’t the capacity. The
only relief was to gargle, which we did
by the gallon until night brought the
not-so-hot “cool change.” Afterwards all
the way south no one needed a drink ex-
cept at meals, not even the following
day, which was comparatively cool at 105.
* * * *
“Ballista”: “The 0.D.” makes a com-
mon mistake in referring to a .12 gun
when he apparently means a 12-gauge
shotgun (B. 8/12/’43). The method of
designating calibres in decimal points of
an inch applies generally to pistols and
rifles, but not to smoothbore guns. The
basis of the method of calculating shot-
gun sizes is interesting, because it goes
back to the early nineteenth century, when
manufacture of sporting-guns was in its
infancy. Then the practice was to make
a leaden ball which just fitted the bore
of the gun and then see how many balls
weighed one pound. This gave the size
of the gun and accounts for the fact that
the larger the gun the smaller the gauge.
For a 12-gauge gun 12 balls weighed a
pound; for a 28-gauge gun 28 went to
the pound. Until Greener arrived little
supervision was exercised over the pro-
duction of sporting weapons, but as
Greener wrote in his weighty tome
Gunnery in 1858 “the heavy denuncia-
tions which I felt bound to visit on the
defective working of this miscalled proof
of guns opened the eyes, not only of the
sportsmen but also of the Government.”
As a result, very rigid rules were enacted,
many of which still apply today.
Amongst other things the actual sizes of
all guns were standardised from 1 to 50
gauge. In standardising these sizes a
slight variation was made on the old
method, and instead of 12 12-gauge bails
weighing one pound they weighed 6400
grains. The old type had weighed 583
grains, but the new one weighed only
535. The bore size for a 12-gauge
was set at .729 in.
* * * *
“Kai Kai”: Apropos of the drinking
of sea-water (B. 10/11 /’43). After a hard
day in New Guinea we drew a little dixie
of water from an estuary, boiled it and
made tea. It proved to be pure sea-water,
but all were so thirsty that they drank
the tea, with no worse result than a bit
of profanity about the taste. It is the
practice here to put a daily quota of salt
in the drinking water to replace what is
lost in perspiration. Men who went over
the Kokoda Trail tell of frequent “black-
outs” experienced when extra salt was
not available to be used in this way.
* * * *
“Bass Strait Pilot”: Another interest-
ing thing about barracoota (B. 22/12/’43)
is that unless the eyes are cut out of them
when they are used for crayfish-pot bait
the crays will jib at going into the pots.
So even a dead ’coota seems capable of
giving them a stare that will scare the
daylights out of the crustaceans.
* * * *
“Botano”: Those explosive grass-trees
(B. 8/12/’43) must be a different species
to the Xanthorrhaea preissi of Westralia.
Our favorite campfire in winter was two
big grass-tree trunks side by side, with
a roof of green jarrah bark. Under such
cover the resinous trunks would burn
quietly all night and provide a good
breakfast fire in the morning. And I
once had a mate whose eccentricity was
to set alight to the bone-dry portions of
the grass-tree, so inflammable that a
wooden match would suffice as ignition.
Like a great torch the head would flare
up for a minute or so. But there was
little danger of such fire spreading. The
green fronds were perfectly fire-resisting,
while the dry fringes burned to the
lightest ash, perfectly dead as it floated
to the ground. And though I saw hun-
dreds of such palm-lilies set alight 1
never once saw the fire take hold of the
gum-laden trunk. Finally, all through
the W.A. xanthorrhoea country one may
come on hundreds of grass-tree trunks
charred on the outside by bushfires, but
with growth quite unaffected.
ON LEAVING SYRIA.
We left our dead where moving moonbeams
stray
Along the ageless crags of Hermon’s height;
Where pencilled poplars stretch towards the
light
Like spires unbuttressed thrust in Heaven s way.
We left the shadows in the valley grey
To mourn the lonely graveground in the night
While simple stars wept sadly at the sight
Of death that takes a soldier’s strength away.
Yet in our hearts the living suns illume
Their valor which has climbed from earth again:
The dead dull earth shall give dead clay its
room
And make death dreary as the wind-blown rain,
But thus a sacramental grace shall bloom
And living men fake courage from their pain.
EX-SIXTH.
R. S. BYRNES.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTO
OUiCKand DEADLY
EnBBEBHSSi - kill those rabbits
*“ CYANOCtAS manpower
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE AND DAIRY STOCK
TO
gki-Gd.-Of
BONE FLOUR
REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4055, Melbourne.
0.P.0. Box 712 F, Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Breeding Better Sheep.
“Jumbuck”: In spite of taxation and
pessimists, the stabilised wool market
should be an incentive to graziers to im-
prove their flocks, for there is no reason
why wool should not remain payable in
the post-war years. Independent of high
or low values, however, it is essential for
graziers to get, their flocks to the highest
pitch. Cull out inferior ewes and get
good rams of a type that will nick with
the best ewes.
Good wool is always in demand, but
inferior wool, though it makes good
values in boom years, is a drug on the
market when demand is restricted. With
normal seasonal conditions favorable,
and with the best studs in the world from
which to draw merino ram requirements,
Australian graziers can easily get unifor-
mity in their flocks if they want it. “Like
begets like” is a true axiom in the sheep
world —prove it by taking stock of the
poor types of lambs that inferior ewes
produce.
Far too many graziers breed from in-
ferior ewes, and hope by using good rams
to counteract the shortcomings of the
ewes. This fallacy breeds inferior sheep,
and the sooner it is realised the sooner
will a lot of inferior wools disappear
from brokers’ floors. Aim for better
sheep and better wool.
Pigs and Wheat.
“Hux”; K. Giles, a Doodlakine (W.A.)
farmer, has kept two years’ records of
returns from pigs and wheat, beginning
in January, 1941. Feed of dry sows and
a boar consisted of grazing and crushed
grain; when grazing was off they got
crushed grain and chaff twice daily. From
pigging to weaning sow and litter got a
mixture of 88 p.c. crushed wheat, 10 p.c.
meatmeal and 2 p.c. lime, supplemented
with grazing. As the weaners grew
older the percentage of wheatmeal was
gradually reduced; by marketing time
they were on crushed grain only.
Throughout 1941 crushed oats were
mixed with wheat.
In the first year the sows had two
litters of six piglets each —36 pigs. All
were sold at heavy porker stage.. Average
liveweight was 1501b. and time from
birth to marketing 165 days. Gain per
day averaged .921b. Over the year the
total net return was £96 4s., cost of
meatmeal £7 10s, and 382 bushels of
wheat were fed. Counting the oats as
wheat and excluding labor costs, the
value of the wheat per bushel rose to
4s. 6d.; the annual profit per sow was
£11.
In the second year 50 pigs were sold
as baconers at average liveweight of
1671b., birth to marketing age was 182
days and gain per day was .891b. In
addition, there were 15 pigs on hand at
the end of the year. Return, less cost of
meatmeal, was £183, quantity of wheat
consumed 650 bushels; price per bushel
worked out at 5s. 6d. Annual profit per
sow was £21, an increase of £10 on the
first year’s figures.
The proportion of meatmeal was low,
so the fast rate of growth indicated that
they benefited by the protein from the
cereal crops. Over the two years each
breeding sow required approximately 50
bags of wheat for herself and two litters,
provided she and the piglets received
some protein concentrate as well. Six
is about the number marketed per litter
in the wheatbelt.
Horse-breeding.
“Breaker”: Whilst cattle, sheep and
pigs have increased in numbers there are
now only about 1,500,000 horses in the
Commonwealth, whereas 25 years ago
there were nearly a million more. Obvi-
ously motor transport brought about a
decline in horse-breeding, but Australia
has found since the outbreak of war how
great is the need for horses. Hundreds
of breeders went out of business, believ-
ing that motor transport and new farm
machinery would cause horse values to
drop, but many of them now wish they
hadn’t been so hasty, for a good horse
will always find a buyer at a price pay-
able to the breeder.
The decline in horse population is ac-
companied by a decline in quality. Before
“Y'll 'ave t ’ take us as y' find us—We Wasn't expectin' y' till Toosday."
the 1914-18 war all or most of the big
sheep and cattle stations had reason to
be proud of the Walers they bred, but
now one would have to travel far to find
a station breeding many horses of that
splendid type.
As far back as 1928 I travelled with a
horse-buyer through part of Queensland.
“Ten years ago,” he said, “I could have
bought from 1500 to 2000 horses in this
district suitable for my needs and all
quality. Now I can’t buy fifty.” Many
of the horses in my old Light Horse regi-
ment came from that district, and I
realised how breeding had declined when
1 saw some of the poor types mustered.
Few of the old horse-breeding stations
are likely to go back into the industry
again. It seems that some encourage-
ment from the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is necessary if the decline is to be
stayed. We’ve good Australian-bred
sires in both light and heavy sorts, and;
given the necessary impetus, quality, if
not quantity, will once more be a pleas-
ing' feature of Australia’s horses.
Lantana Control.
“Plane Creek”: The lantana bug has
done a certain amount of good in a few
parts of Queensland, but it doesn’t look
as though it will ever be important in
eradicating the pest. Fortunately, lantana
isn’t a hardened pest, and much can be
done by landholders to limit its spread
and even clear their lands of it, except in
the very wet districts.
Brushing is a good form of control.
Do it at the driest period of the year and
burn the rubbish quickly. Under hot,
dry conditions it’ll burn a couple of days
after brushing, and regrowth isn’t likely.
Very thick belts crammed with dead stuff
can be partly destroyed by fire during
hot, windy weather. Simply brush a few
green stems on the windward edge of
the clump and let ’em dry, using the dead
stuff later as a starting-point for a mid-
day fire.
Lantana wood burns like oil-soaked
pine, and green stems go up in smoke.
Even big trees growing from the lantana
are completely killed by the heat.
A flame-thrower is useful for spraying
fire into the centre. Charred stems and
the remains of the tangle should be
tackled with a brusher or cane-knife
within a few days before they get too
hard to cut. Heaped up with a few billets
of dry timber for fire-starting, the rub-
bish will burn right away.
Spraying with, say, lib. of arsenic pent-
oxide to the gallon of water is also effec-
tive if done during dry weather. The
spread of lantana in grazing paddocks can
be prevented by annual burning.
I
Trees on the Farm.
“Kenwood”: Kurrajongs on the farm,
by all means (B. 27/10/*43), but surely
the business of cultivating them in a
nursery for seven years, then cutting 4in.
trunks through and transplanting in post-
holes, is a laborious method. The best
results will come when the seeds are
sown where they are to grow, in irregular,
grove formation, not in straight rows.
If set in an area among existing gums so
much the better. But if they are to grow
in open, treeless paddocks, learn first that
baby trees, like baby animals, human or
otherwise, need constant attention, and
that dryness and frost are their chief
infantile troubles. There is no substitute
for water. Lacking the shade of the
natural bush, the water-cart must be used
to restore the loss by evaporation and the
capillary attraction of surrounding soil.
In a district such as Goulburn the
odds are 100 to 1 on the young tree
being blackened to the ground with frost
the first winter. But it will shoot again,
and with moisture assured will possibly
grow to 3ft. in one season. The second
winter is an even-money chance that the
three-footer will be frosted back to about
one foot Meantime the root system is
developing, and the third summer you
may get your tree 6ft. and above the
coldest of the air strata. I have seen at
Queanbeyan a kurrajong thrice cut back
with frost, but thereafter, when about
6ft, well set to grow and develop as well
as those in some of the Goulburn streets.
Poisoning Timber. #
“Bitten”: “Plane Creek’s” method (B.
6/10/’43) is right, but a word of caution
is needed. Frilling is very important and
it should be done as close to the ground
as possible. The axe should go right
through the bark well into the sapwood,
making every cut meet and lap, giving
the axe an outward twist at each stroke
to open the frill, so as to let the mix-
ture well into the cut.«
The problem is to know when you
have put sufficient poison on each tree
to make sure of an effective kill. An
unsuccessful kill means endless years of
suckering below the ground, at least on
gums in the western portion of N.S.W.
I suggest the “collar-ring” system, done
by taking a strip of bark about a foot
wide at waist height from the tree.
Do not let the axe go through the bark
into the sapwood. This is most import-
ant, for the sap rises upwards through
the sapwood and comes down through
the bark, and once it passes the “collar”
it is trapped and cannot get back to the
roots again. If the sapwood is cut in
the ringing the sap cannot get up the tree.
When it does get up and in the autumn
comes down again it comes through the
bark, gets as far as the top of the “col-
lar,” and, as it cannot get past that, a
process of fermentation is set up, thus
gradually killing the tree.
I have killed gum by this method.
Some of it has died in one year, some
takes two or three years, but thfe suckers
are light and easily knocked off. The
time to ring is when the sap is up,
generally March or April in this locality.
Hints for the Farm.
lnk”: The decoy sheep (B.
10/11/’43) is a good idea on a dull day
or at night when getting sheep into the
back pens. Hang a hurricane lamp right
at the back about 6ft. high. This seems
to have an attraction for the woollies,
and they straggle in without much urging.
“Sarina”: Don’t leave ladders and
wooden-handled tools out in the sun or
they’ll crack. Good handles for rakes
and hoes can be improvised out of bush
saplings free from knots. Bloodwood is
a durable timber. If hoe-heads don‘t fit
securely on the handles place a piece of
boot-leather under them or secure with
nails. If a discarded chaffcutter knife
is sharpened and bolted on to a worn-
out hoe-head a Dutch hoe for shallow
chipping is devised.
“H.C.”: Willows will protect sloping
banks of streams against erosion. Drive
the cuttings into the creek bed about 3ft.
apart and layer against the slope to the
top of the bank. Bury most of each
cutting with earth. Place brush over the
whole of the bank and hold it in place
with horizontal planks of wire attached
to driven stakes. A thick growth of
young willows will protect the banks
within a year. To lace a river bank
build a wire fence along it and drive
vertical willow stakes in closely between
the wires. Keep willow pruned. Over-
large ones cause obstructions, divert flow
and bring about flooding.
“G. Ink”: If the catching pen self-
closing hinges break, get two pieces of
old car inner tube about a foot long.
Nail one end of each to the post and the
others on the gate. Result, a silent, effi-
cient and cheap self-closing hinge.
“Myrrhee”; Empty nitrate of soda
bags are risky things to leave about unless
they are thoroughly washed. Unwashed
nitrate bags stacked in a warm, dry atmo-
sphere or exposed to sun and wind are
likely to go up in spontaneous combus-
tion. Paper bags and packets are best
destroyed as soon as emptied.
“L.C.”: When pumpkin runners reach
4ft. in length, cut out the centre growth.
This induces laterals to develop and in-
creases the crop. Large, heavy pumpkins
inclined to rot while resting on the
ground should have a board placed under
them. Curling, withering or browning
of the leaves indicates that aphis are at
work. They should be dosed with nico-
tine sulphate spray or dust. Pumpkins
make vigorous growth if given weekly
doses of liquid manure.


frfS
v _
n
*
U
r
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write tor illustrated catalogue R
AGA
MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 7852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
KODAK L
ACHIEVEMENT!
M
| AIRGRAPH
« (REG'D TRADE MARK)
I THE KODAK INVENTION
THAT SPEEDS YOUR
EMPIRE MAIL
enquire at any post office
I KODAK (A'ASIA) PIT. LTD.
SMESES»B* BBaßaa AMaKutt M «.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Belief in England.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century.”)
There is one secular belief that still
persists—belief in England. Without this
belief the unconditional surrender of
Italy at so early a date would have been
inconceivable. It is no mere chance that
the Italians surrendered to England and
not to the United States. This belief is
partly a heritage and partly a present
hope—the only hope for Europe.
The German myth is dead, and not
only because Germany is about to lose
the war. It is dead because of the incon-
ceivable barbarities the Germans have
perpetrated and because, although able
to make war, they have been unable to
make peace. Throughout Eastern and
Central Europe the Russian myth is dead,
despite the decisive part the Red Army
has played in the defeat of the Germans.
Too ,much is known today of life in
Russia for the .myth to live. Too much
is known of the deportations of Estonian,
Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish Ukrainian
and Rumanian men, women and children
to the Russian interior and of their
terrible fate. The death by hunger,
exposure, disease and overwork of little
children deported to the Russian interior,
many of them separated from their
parents, is one of the most awful,
tragedies of modern times. The silence of’
the British press in the presence of this
tragedy, which is by no means beyond
alleviation, is an indelible disgrace to
British journalism, to those journals,
above all, that have in the past prided
themselves on their humanity, courage
and independence. The public does not
knovy of these things. The press does
know, or has the means of knowing. The
public is, therefore, absolved. The press
is not.
But the English myth lives —because it
is not altogether a myth. With varying
degrees of vagueness there is throughout
Europe a belief that somehow or other
England stands for justice. There is
hardly a country in Europe that does not
pray for a British, or at least an Anglo-
American, occupation. The scenes of
welcome in Sicily would be repeated
almost everywhere. In the Balkans,
in Czechoslovakia, Poland and the Baltic
States the scenes would be delirious.
The faith which all Europe has in Eng-
land confers great power and an immense
responsibility. That faith would be
destroyed if England were to promote
revolution. Europe has a horror of revo-
lution, not only because it means blood-
shed, ruin and disorder, but because no
revolution ever keeps its promises. Not
even successful revolution achieves what
its original promoters meant it to achieve.
Today all revolutionary leaders appear as
false prophets and deceivers and every
revolution as a lie.
The people of England reject revolu-
tion. So do the people of all Europe.
They want to be left alone, they want
some hope of security for themselves and
their children in a stable world, they
want work that will not be undone by
constant crises, wars or revolutions. They
want a little property and a little profit
and some protection against the all-
devouring State. They want no more lies
—and therefore no more propaganda.
And, above all, they want justice.
This is what is expected of England.
To accept no more than the responsibili-
ties which victory will impose, to make
peace, to interfere only as much as is
necessary to enforce peace, to refrain
from propaganda, to be just—and to see
justice done.
It is not the impossible that is expected,
only the obvious. But unless it is done
there will be no security for Europe or
anywhere in Europe. Nor will there be
any security for Great Britain and the
British Empire.
Headaches for the Victors.
(From an article by the “Wall-street Journal’s ”
Washington correspondent.)
The United Nations are getting ready
for the task of controlling the Nazi in-
dustrial and financial empire after the
war. Because the existing Nazi business
empire sprawls all over Europe and ex-
tends its influence around the world, a
maze of problems arise. Here are some
of them as defined by U.S. Government
agencies:
1. Who rightfully owns the enterprises
of satellite and conquered countries?
Rooting out all Germans will not be a
solution. The Nazis have played off one
group of nationals against another.
Properties have passed through so many
hands that the true claims of ownership
are almost indistinguishable. Many
proper claimants have been killed or
scattered. The detective and legal effort
needed to untangle such puzzles is not
likely to be less than for prosecuting war
criminals.
2. If Germany is to be dismantled as
an industrial power, what shall be done
with her urban population? It would be
difficult and perhaps impossible for Ger-
many’s present population to live from
agriculture alone.
3. If she is to remain industrialised,
what people are to be given control? As
in the rest of Europe, rightful ownership
will be in dispute, and there will be a
troublesome additional question: Are the
legally proper owners of each firm to be
trusted? Or will they try to prepare
future aggression?
4. Are owners of property destroyed
in the course of war to be compensated?
If so, by whom?
5. The Germans have developed greatly
the pre-war European cartels. Shall they
be continued? Some officials here
[Washington] advocate running the Nazi-
sponsored unity of organised cartels very
much as it is now, but under Allied
control, for the sake of “efficiency” in
restoring Europe. Others desire to smash
the cartel system, partly for the benefit
of competing American industry. The
Office of War Information, in what may
be the nearest thing to a statement of
the official United States position, ex-
pressed fear of the European cartel sys-
tem, as a means by which the Germans
might retain control despite defeat.
6. Germany has moved industrial
facilities from occupied countries to Ger-
many proper. Machinery from French
plants has been taken to Germany.
Power-generating equipment has been
’ taken from northern Italy. Identifying
these properties and restoring them to
their rightful owners will be difficult.
Some of them probably will be destroyed
by Allied bombers.
7. A subsidiary problem is in our lap
now. The alien property custodian
manages $5OO million worth of alien
property and 41,000 patents and patent
applications—mostly German—which are
currently placed at the service of the
United States. The peace conference will
have to determine their ultimate disposal.
The job of unscrambling Nazi business
will be complicated by unseen controls
and complicated manipulations disguised
with an appearance of legality. In
France, for example, Germany bought up
businesses, sometimes sold them to
Frenchmen, then rebought them and re-
sold them—setting Frenchman against
Frenchman and making the true claim
almost indistinguishable.
British-U.S. Rivalry.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” report .)
Mr. G. M. Garro-Jones, Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Production,
addressing a meeting at Liverpool on
“The challenge of peace,” said that the
greatest danger to Britain and the world
in the post-war situation was that the
United States productive capacity would
be geared to a greater volume of exports
than homeland world markets, as now en-
visaged, could absorb. In addition, its
accumulated wealth was bound to seek
foreign outlets.
“Although I have great faith that
America will ultimately adopt policies
worthy of her greatness,” he said, “we
should be foolish if'we closed our eyes
to the strong nationalist sentiment which
exists in the United States. There is a
school of enterprise in the United States
which is bold enough to think that the
great stream of visible and invisible ex-
ports can, to their great benefit, be let
loose like a deluge upon the earth when
peace comes. On this occasion the dove
of peace will herald, not the falling, but


Are you shackling this man ?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
Inserted by the Proprietors of TOP DOG MEN’S WEAR
BREKS TROUSERS - SOVEREIGN HATS
Missing Friend.
PERCY VICTOR MARTIN (brother of Ernest Thomas
Martin, deceased), last heard of at Charlton (Vic-
toria) and Deniliquin (N.S.W.) about 1936, will
hear something to his advantage if he communi-
cates with the undersigned. Reward for informa-
tion as to his whereabouts.—CßAWCOUß <& HOLLY-
HOKE, Solicitors, Geelong, Victoria.
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty„Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
mamma's,
>■
1
1
2^
Wm
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh
smoo
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
Carreras Ltd 154 Years’ Refutation for Quality
SOW B
the rising of the flood. Fortunately,
powerful and enlightened forces are
working on both sides of the Atlantic to
apply correctives in advance to this
situation.
I should like to make it perfectly
clear that the basis of our post-war
negotiations with the United States is
not a request for favors. If we are driven
to a system of bilateral arrangements of
the Ottawa or Schacht kind all will suffer
grievously, but it does not follow that
Britain will suffer most, because we have
an enormous market for primary pro-
ducts and great bargaining strength.
“We have costs of production substan-
tiaily lower in many important spheres
than those of the United States, and we
know that,- whereas the nominal rate of
exchange is $4 to the pound, the real rate
is different, I have heard suggestions
that ]f present trends continue the pound
wiu be worth $6 or $7 jn , h( . t . war
j Q( j
p '
* confident that if both countries
examine these problems with two eyes,
even if both eyes are on their own
interests alone, they will find it possible
to reach monetary and trade arrange-
ments which will lead the world for-
ward.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The average doughboy regards the war
against Germany as a job, not a crusade. He
doesn’t have the same sentiment toward his
enemy as British troops, who have seen British
cities bombed. The doughboy, however, does
have; a genuine hatred of the Japanese. These
same men would fight without any thought
of home leave if they had Japanese troops
in front of them instead of Germans. They
have a real feeling about that area of the war.
The fighting in this area is just a job.— U.S.
Asssociated Press war correspondent in Italy.
* * * *
Mr. Roosevelt has 13 months 16 days [from
4/12/’43] left of his third term. It is by
no means certain that he will have a fourth
term. If he is not re-elected and if the Cairo
agreement and similar agreements have not
meanwhile been ratified by two-thirds of the
Senate, we cannot see how they will have any
force or effect as regards the United States
after Mr. Roosevelt leaves the White House.
Such is the impermanence of personal govern-
ment. — N.Y, “Daily News.”
**■ $ *
A sudden turn in the international situation
might force Turkey to take military action, and
President Ismet Inonii is continually warning
his people of such a possibility. But the Tur-
kish nation, while deeply sympathetic to the
United Nations’ cause, wants peace, and it
feels that it is rendering a great service to
Britain and the United States by maintaining
its present policy of armed neutrality. There
are many reasons for Turkey’s present attitude.
The first is that Turkish foreign policy is now
dominated by one factor —Turkey’s relations
with Soviet Russia. Until the foundation of
the Turkish Republic by Kamal Atatiirk, some
20 years ago, Russia had always been the
hereditary enemy of Turkey, and even today
the average Turk is haunted by fear that
Moscow may one day demand the Dardanelles,
and all the recent assurances given to Ankara
by the United States, Britain and Soviet Russia
have not completely allayed this deep-rooted
notion. For this reason, every responsible
Turkish leader will tell you that Turkey must
remain a strong neutral in order to help main-
tain order in the post-war world and to defend
her own territorial rights.— “ Christian Science
Monitor” staff correspondent.
* * *
We may be mistaken, but it is our belief
that we are about to enter one of the most
unrevolutionary periods of European history.
We venture to doubt whether there will
be another German revolution. A change
there will be, but not, in our opinion, a revo-
lutionary change—the undoing, rather, of a
revolution, or partial undoing, for no great
revolution is ever quite undone. Something
of the German revolution of 1933 will remain,
just as something of the French Revolution
has remained. There is no revolutionary opposi-
tion in Germany—almost everything published
on the subject of the German underground
movement is spurious. There may be Germans
here and there who meet and even Conspire,
but they cannot be more than a few isolated
handfuls. There is no evidence that there is
anything that can be called an underground
movement in Germany.— London “Nineteenth
Century.”
* * * *
We may now tell how the highly secret
Roosevelt-Churchill-Chiang Kai-shek conference
became world news 12 days before the delegates
reached Cairo. The “Egyptian Mail,” a Cairo
newspaper, largely British Army staffed, carried
an obscure paragraph—the kind an editor tucks
away and forgets about, usually—that told of
a local hotel being evacuated and refurnished
for a conference. With the speed of a cyclo-
tron the news reached Turkey. It was boxed
prominently on Page 1 of the Turkish press.
Every correspondent in Cairo filed the item
for transmission abroad. But only one piece
—that written by Henry Gorrell of United
Press—got on the wire and to America before
the British censor was alerted by the military
command in Cairo. By that time if was too
late. Berlin had the story via Ankara. At
the same time a Washington writer cabled
London, whence it was relayed over world cir-
cuits that a momentous conference could be ex-
pected in the near future. Two and two still
make four. It didn’t take any great minds to
add or draw conclusions. It was a secret no
longer. By the time Prime Minister Churchill’s
warship called at Gibraltar, Malta, Algiers and
Alexandria and appeared in public there, every-
one knew what was up. Travellers arriving
from America reported that before they left
for Cairo the conference, its location, its com-
position was known in every hamlet in America.
— N.Y. “Daily News” Cairo correspondent.
* * * *
The British, gracious hosts, paid for every-
thing [at the Cairo Conference], Someone has
estimated it set them back $1,000,000. Dele-
gates and privileged bureaucrats allowed in the
hotel had to sign chits for dinners in the dining-
rooms and drinks at the bars, but no bill ever
will be presented. Rent chits delegates ran
up at villas were picked up too. — N.Y. “Daily
News” Cairo correspondent.


Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence ;
ENGINEERING COURSES: Motor
Mechanics, Fitting and Machining, Engineer-
ing Trades Drawing. Steam Engine Driving
and Boiler Attendants, Diesel Engine Opera-
tion, Suction (Producer) Gas, Motor Mainten-
ance (for owners and drivers motor vehicles).
TRADE COURSES: Electrical Trades (Elec-
trician’s License), Carpentry and Joinery,
Building.
PRINTING COURSES: Composing, Printers’
English and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES: Sewer Plumbing,
Water Plumbing, House Drainage.
RURAL COURSES: Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Sheep and Woolclassing, Station
Bookkeeping, Farm Mechanics (including
Farm Machinery, Farm Science and Farm
Arithmetic), Pig Raising, Poultry Farming.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
COURSES: Accountancy, Auditing, Com-
mercial Law, Cost Accountancy, Bookkeep-
ing, Business Principles, Shorthand, Com-
mercial Correspondence, Typewriting.
ART COURSES: Elementary Art, Dress-
makers’ Art, Ticket Writing, Short Display
Card Writing.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES : Dress-
making and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES: Health Inspection,
Meat Inspection, Local Government (Town
and Shire) Clerks’.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES: Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists’ and
Intermediate Certificate (see “Secondary
Courses”).
PREPARATORY COURSES: English, Mathe-
matics and Mechanics (to approximately
Leaving Certificate standard).
SECONDARY COURSES: English, History,
Geography, General Mathematics, Mathe-
matics I (Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathe-
matics II (Geometry and Trigonometry),
French, Latin, Art, Business Principles and
Bookkeeping (to Intermediate Certificate
standard).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PERSON-
ALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES AT
SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHNICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES
25/- a year or 10/- a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to student's under 21 years and
receiving less than 30/- weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Officer in Charge, Correspondence
Teaching Division, Sydney Technical College,
Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name
Address
WAR-TIME HOURS
and MEALS sometimes
spell ILL-HEALTH
HERE'S A WAY TO REGAIN
THRILLING GENERAL FITNESS
Irregular hours, broken rest,
meals, plus war-time
worries, often result in faulty
elimination and its attendant
disorders kidney and liver
troubles, rheumatism, joint
and muscle pains, lumbago,
sciatica, fatigue and just plain
weariness and a feeling of be-
ing out of sorts.
A simple corrective is to take
R.U.R. regularly for a while.
R.U.R. gently nudges kidneys
and liver, and gets them on
the job again.
It aids in reducing uric acid
accumulations, and keeps bile
flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of faulty
elimination are corrected.
Normal functions are re-
stored, and glowing health, is
a speedy result. Pain and dis-
comfort disappear.
Your chemist or store usually
sells R.U.R., but if you can’t
get R.U.R. locally, send 4/-
for the smaller size, or 7/6
for the money - back guar-
anteed full treatment to
R.U.R., 841 George Street,
Sydney.
RIGHT YOU JIBE
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
m.
u
mm
H
:
1
i
Caterpillar D 8 with logging winch, handling
65,000 feet of timber per 8-hour day.
fatten,
for a fighting nation
Out in the Australian forests our timber men Have helped to lay
the foundation for victory. In fair weather or foul ceaselessly, tire-
lessly, day in and out, they have hauled the great logs from valley
and mountainside to the mills. Timber to build hangars and docks
. . . timber for the thousand and one needs of a fighting nation.
Among timber men Caterpillar Diesel Tractors with their brutish
strength and safe track-type tread, have become the accepted means
of getting the logs out in record time at record low cost. When
peace comes again, Caterpillar will once more
pJay its part in helping to build the wealth and
prosperity of Australia. In the meantime, the
whole of our resources are devoted to help
in winning the war as quickly as possible.
sd
CATERPILLAR D/£S€L
BEG. U.S. PAT. OFF
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH
& JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland;
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
sss i%s;A s, j. 'AZTh'ssstaz
‘Phone—Port Macquarie it. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. Phone—2BB6. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. ‘Phone—lnmsfail 475.
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
CT6-33-43
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
*the Editor,
The Muse aroused:
B.B.;
Unworldly scent of clover’s bloom.
Exciting ground of the Domain
Where several hours ago did loom
Inquiring groups, and who could blame?
A lady screamed “The Bible’s true,
I’ve proved l its worth throughout my life.”
A man succeeded her whose cue
To ridicule New Order’s knife.
A onetime boxer, so he said,
A man despoiling lung by shouts,
A course massage he sold instead
Of combat in the ring of bouts.
The sun was hot —beneath a fig
That grew a hundred years or more
I squatted under branches big
And there I heard a Commo. bore.
N.MacP.: You should try to be kinder to
brigadiers J.W.: Still doesn’t quite make
a story A.E.C.: One line, anyhow: “Don’t
go down the mine, daddy, though the Japs are
at the gates” J.V.M.: Put “Secret Life” to
a secret death B.McF.: If you’re young,
there’s some hope for y0u....H.F.; Hope
rhymes with soap and folk; rhymes with yolk,
but hope does not rhyme with folk
J.G.A.: Two or three good lines among many
words A.A.H.: Harmless trifle H.H.:
Harrowing H.G.: Rhymes pretty rocky.
....M.McL.: You’ve populated the empty
spaces with adjectives, usually twins J.H.P.:
You’ll have to struggle a lot harder than that.
E.B.: C105e.... J.W.T.: “Nay, I say
again,” And nay say we.... J.L.; Lightweights.
C.O’D., D.R., P.H., M.H. and T.L.M.:
Missed... .T.E.C.: Yarns about prospectors
who kill their mates went out with reach-me-
downs J.G.A.: Try a woman’s paper
C.H.: Try it on a daily about two months
before next Christmas.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
I have some five-year-old navel and Valencia
orange-trees. Both varieties bear poorly, and
the fruit, though of good flavor, is very small.
Can this be improved 3
Trouble is probably due to soil-moisture
conditions. See the frees have ample nitrogenous
fertiliser by late winter, and that soil does not
become excessively dry at least until December
to the depth of most roots. A few generous
waterings are better than frequent light ones
and should be made only when the trees are
approaching a wilting condition.
* * * *
(1) Which planets and asteroids are visible
to the naked eye? (2) Are meteorites visible
before they enter the earth’s atmosphere ?
(1) Planets: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn and Uranus (Uranus only just visible).
Vesta is the only asteroid ever visible, and then
only barely. (2) No.
* * * *
How to make popcorn?
Pick cobs when grain is ripe and shell ker-
nels. Melt two tablespoons butter in a pan,
add i-cup corn and shake over low heat until
kernels pop. Shake rapidly till popping stops,
then roll corn in fine salt or sugar until coated.
* * * *
What were Frank (Paddy) Slavin’s main fights
hefdre he met Peter Jackson in London ? Did
Slavin ever fight John L. Sullivan ?
Slavin had 24 fights (19 wins, four draws and
one no-decision) before he lost to Jackson in
London on May 30, 1892. Among those he
beat were Jim Fogarty, Mick Dooley, “Buffalo”
Costello, Bill Farnum, Bill “Chesterfield”
Goode (in London) and Jake Kilrain (in
Floboken, N.J.). He also had Jem Smith beaten
in round 14 of their fight for £5OO aside and
the heavyweight championship of England
under London prize-ring rules at Bruges, Bel-
gium, on December'23, 1889, when toughs in-
vaded the ring. No decision was given, but the
London Pelican Club afterwards paid Slavin,
and acclaimed him champion of England.
Slavin never fought Sullivan.
Brief Answers.
J.P.: The Sydney Conservatorium of Music
opened on March 6, 1916 G.D.: Write to
Imperial Army Paymaster, Canberra... .Toni:
Books are now out of print C.D.W.: An
Easy Guide to Southern Stars, by M. A. Orr
(3s. 4d., post 2d.), and The Constellations and
How to Find Them (Southern Hemisphere), by
W. Pe;ck and J. G. Inglis (10s., post. 6d.), are
available at Angus and Robertson, G.P.O. Box
1516 DD, Sydney R.P.: Plums, prunes,
bread, eggs, fish, meat, oatmeal and rice are
acid-forming; but you would be wise to see a
doctor or write to the Department' of Public
Health on the matter W. 8.: The chickens
might have coccidiosis; see your District
Veterinary Officer or Stock Inspector.


p
I
I
1
urn Inl Q
1
_JL
SECURITY
FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF TRUSTS
The appointment of The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Company
Limited as Executor of your Will, en-
sures ample security for the perform-
ance of the trusts;
Paid-up Capital £140,000
Uncalled Capital 660,000
Reserves .. .. 160,645
In addition the Company offers more than 65
years’ specialised experience, also continuity, im-
partiality, accessibility, secrecy, continuous audit,
moderate charges and sympathetic treatment of
beneficiaries.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free explana-
tory Booklet detailing the advantages of the
Company’s services.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, CBJB.;
G. S. Colraan, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
£960,645
m
TTT.'f
J
&
J
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends s
Net Pref., To Be- Re-
June, Profit. -6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ ■■■ £ £ £
’36 194,702 10J p.c.= 135,760 58,942« 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p,c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.5 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 . . 424,794
’43 255,096 60,000 7.5 p.c.=165,500 29,596 454,390
After nearly 10 years of research and
experiment the board decided to make
from Australian timbers much of the
pulp it previously imported. Land was
acquired and a mill erected at Maryvale.
To meet the outlay shareholders put up
an extra £2,028,000 of capital and share-
premiums. That was during the five years
to the close of accounts in 1941. Lately
the ords. have had less, but the div. is
still satisfactory and the co. has been able
to make substantial contributions to the
war effort, as well as render its post-war
position as sure as anything of the kind
can be so far as Kraft and paper board
are concerned.
War gave the co. practically total
protection in the local market. Hence
requirements for the services, including
manufacture of special substances for
explosives, caused demand to run ahead
of production. Paper-board output
expanded from 89,000 tons in 1939 to
128,776 tons in the 1942 term. For the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
production was about 6000 tons short of
the higher figure, partly owing to man-
power difficulties and partly to shortage
of raw-material supplies. Certainly
long-fibre pulps are being provided under
lend-lease and inferior grades are being
made from local salvage, but the now-
over-70-p.c. cut in the pre-war supply of
newsprint has severely curtailed the
quantity of waste paper available for re-
pulping—the co. requires over 70,000
tons annually for this purpose.
Considering these and other shortages,
and the inevitable technical problems
associated with the running of new plant
and switches in production for war pur-
poses, the surprising thing is that the
drop in output was not more pro-
nounced. The munitions annexe at
Maryvale has been extended; and to
meet service requirements for food
wrappings, etc., a new semi-greaseproof
paper is being turned out on a commer-
cial scale. Also, the research department
recently overcame the problem of making
high alpha cellulose board, production of
which for war purposes will soon be in
full swing. This interesting development
has post-war possibilities of considerable
promise, the chairman says.
After setting aside £329,585 (up
£83,031) for depreciation and amortisa-
tion of war-time equipment, the year’s
gross earnings (£653,077) were £54,082
better. Exes. (£395,458, including some-
thing for the taxgatherer) took £43,567
of the increase. Allowing for minor
adjustments, the net result stepped up
£11,542, reaching £255,096, sufficient to
pay the pref. div. and show 8.8 p.c, on
ord. capital as against 8.3 p.c. for the
previous term. The div., lowered from
9.4 p.c. to 7.5 p.c. in 1942, was kept at
the lesser figure, which represents little
more than 6 p.c. on the holding cos.’ ord.
capital. Australasian Paper and Pulp and
Cumberland Board Mills own 77.6 p.c.
and 22.4 p.c. respectively of this operat-
ing co.’s ord. shares, and they have
accordingly reduced their ord. distribu-
tions to 6 p.c. A scheme for distribution
of the operating co.’s ords. among those
on the holding cos.’ registers was shelved
on the outbreak of war.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the operat-
ing co.’s financial structure:
Paid capital— 1941. 1942. 1943.
Pref £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,200,000
Mortgages.. .. 16,319 16,290 12,832
Loans, etc. . . 16?,984 109',673 30,850
Other creditors . . 427,717 628,947 285,443
Tax reserve, etc. .. -200,000 200,000 300,000
Freeholds and plant 2,943,973 2,785,020 2,575,310
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,240 ■ 23,240
Stock .. .. 1,002,012 1,178,743 1,038,488
Book debts . . 544,305 670,492 680,777
Cash, etc 45,727 58,208 80,199
Last term’s heavy allowance for depreci-
ation is reflected in a net reduction of
£209,710 in the book value of fixed
assets. This and the extra provision for
taxation, etc. (up £100,000), enabled
£343,504 to be lopped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, and loans,
etc., were reduced by £78,823. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus * (£1,470,339) amounted to
£317,806.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£> £* & £
1933.. 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1 , 7(1 o ift o
Written off premises. £40,000 | 13 > 752 U703.40J
Unexplained addition# to reserves,
£263,681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 18.3 p.c.=187,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 ) QQ Qafi 9 ■.70 jo 9
Written off premises, £30,000 | 9S ’ 986 2 ’ 178 ’ 4d2
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.: 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 . . 2,534,509
1939.. 335,014 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 .. 3,256,711
19 40. 442,103 17.1 p.0,=176 239 1 21g 8M 3^3,575
Written off premises, £50,000 J ’
Unexplained reductions, £74,042 .. 3,398,533
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3,822,472
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 . . 3,714,109
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,388 3,956,492
Unexplained reduction, £1,440 .. 3,956,052
1943.. 512,299 20 p.c.=206,328 305,971 4,261,023
Fish swim into the net of this pros-
perous 71-year-old Auckland-controlled
fire and marine office from all quarters
of the globe, except enemy and enemy-
controlled territories. With Japan’s ad-
vance southward, the co. lost some of its
branches and agencies, scattered from
Tokyo to Rangoon, and £108,363 of re-
serves disappeared in 1942 without com-
ment. Last term £1440 of lay-by was
similarly treated. Still, there is no need
for anxiety in this connection. Reserves are
heaped over four times higher than paid
capital (£1,031,640), of which £940,000
came from accumulated profits, and war
conditions have provided, temporarily,
at any rate, a volume of business greater
than ever. Yet it is necessary to remem-
ber that over the last four years the
figures are in N.Z. currency, and there-
fore inflated in relation to earlier ones,
which take no account of exchange.
The co. wins over one-third of its
profits in Australia and approx, one-fifth
in the Dominion. The balance comes
mostly from risks accepted in London,
Africa, India, Middle East, Canada and
U.S.A. It is thus a handsome contributor
to the Dominion’s invisible exports.
Last term a large volume of marine
risks, at inflated war values, together with
more fire business, put a spring of
£185,959 in net premium income, despite
loss of the East Asian business, the Com-
monwealth Government’s monopoly of
marine war risks on the Australian coast,
and continued contraction of motor-
vehicle insurance:
Net i Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums* Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 p.c. 30.2 p.c.
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9,, 33.8 „
1938. . 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 62.8,, 23.5 „
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 „ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022,962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
1941.. 2,145,516 1,039,776 628,818 48.4 „ 29.3 „
1942. . 2,235,471 1,361,333 593,704 60.9 „ 26.5 „
1943.. 2,421,430 1,366,966 710,192 56.4 „ 29.3 ~
Outstanding feature of the latest figures
is the low loss rate, which was £4 10s.
p.c. less than for the previous term. But
settlement of marine risks is a long-
winded business, and much of what looks
like profits now might turn out to be
losses later on. The increase in the ex-
pense rate was £2 Bs. p.c. That left the
underwriting surplus £63,838 stronger at
£344,272, equal to 33.4 p.c. on capital.
Investments turned in £168,027 (down
£250), equal to 16.3 p.c. on capita], thus
making the net return from all sources
48.7 p.c. on capital. Capital, however,
has the support and assistance of
£4,261,023 of reserves, which include
£1,330,000 for unexpired risks. On capi-
tal and reserves combined, the net
return was 9.6 p.c. The div. was kept
at 20 p.c., and nearly half as much again
was put on the shelf as was distributed 1 !
Balance-sheet movements indicate
concentration on public securities, up
£475,954 last term, making the increase
£1,090,381 over the last three years:
1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £1,031,640 £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* .. 625,691 1,136,858 1,503,002
Premises .. .. 473,250 527,856 527,439
Mortgages . . 246,000 335,303 401,547
Deposits, cash, etc. 971,101 1,005,843 1,009,752
Stocks, debentures, etc. 818,754 781,314 794,770
Municipal debentures,
etc 469,373 731,593 829,456
Government securi-
ties . . . . 2,125,260 2,739,687 3,215,641
Book debts . . 129,331 132,351 146,014
* Including reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
Liabilities (up £366,144) include an un-
specified provision for taxation. Another
feature is the co.’s strength from both
shareholder’s and policy-holder’s point
of view. When the accounts closed, net
tangibles had a book value equal to 218
p.c. of the year’s increased net premium
income, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate. And assets are well
worth their book value, too.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 126,243 5 p.c. = 116,257 9,986 460,468
1934.. 149,489 6 „ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ „ 162,759 10,244 600,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ „ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74,. ~174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 6J„ „ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 64 „ ~ 151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 64 „ ~151,134 40.118 648,759
1943. . 190,938 6j „ ~151,134 89,804 688,563
Although steady profits continue to be
shown by shipowners in the Common-
wealth, the post-war outlook is anything
but encouraging. There hhve been strikes
and holdups and high-pay demands, the
general result being to slow down war-
time sea transport on the Australian coast
and inflate freight costs.
The reduction in working hours at sea
from 56 to 44 has meant that heavy over-
time has to be paid. The war-risk bonus
is a general rate of 33J p.c., increasing to
50 p.c. after an employee has been on the
one ship or in the service of more than
one employer for more than six months.
The 50 p.c. rate operates whether a ship
is at sea or in port.
The Government is mostly the em-
ployer, with concerns like Adelaide Steam
managers only. The co. owns 30 vessels
—six passenger and 24 cargo, aggregating
77,227 tons gross—representing the largest
merchant fleet on the Australian coast.
One small cargo vessel was lost last term.
Management and charter fees, income
from those intra-State vessels still left with
the co., pickings from tugs, engineering
workshops, etc., and divs. and interest
from investment appear to have been
maintained last term. There was little
movement in the claimed profit
(£190,938, down £314), to
insurance account and repairs, renewals
and replacements reserve were together
unchanged at £40,000. Net profit as per
introductory table was equal to 8.2 p.c.
on capital, compared with 8.2, 7.7, 7.8 and
8.6 p.c. in the four preceding years. The
div. remained a steady p.c., ahd
reserves rose to £688,563, all but the final
£63 represented by the insurance, etc.,
reserves already mentioned.
Investments outside the shipping in-
dustry are responsible for a considerable
proportion of the profits. Government
securities, debentures and fixed deposits
are m the books at £1,061,181, up
£112,197. Shares in subsidiaries figure,
unchanged, at £136,500, and shares in


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an*i Trade Marks. —Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
LET
fm&r
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
V
W
4
•'s.iX
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
» battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
' ( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.VV.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager lor Australia & New Zealand.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—rNo Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2 M).243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
BRAN DAL ERrS
I*s
o*'“*
I*'*
PENS
nt
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BEAHDADBE A Co, U*. WKMIKUHAM. KHO
IF ITS »
e MHSW
problem
s
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
<7s9/H $ U 0 9(fj 9 00 if
s.i 3 imoam
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11l YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
leather
BELT! N G
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T 1 N G
GEARS & HANGERS
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
r/i yu r p
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
It’s your fight — your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
19S5D-11.4*
other cos. are lumped with sundry debtors
at £760,175, up £57,047. Shareholdings
include over half a million shares in
J. and A. Brown and Abermain-Seaham
Collieries (div. unaltered at 5 p.c. last
term), control of the Waratah lug and
Salvage Co., interests in NeWstead
Wharves and Stevedoring (Brisbane),
National Airways and the carrying busi-
ness of Treleaven and Brown (Port Pirie).
Last term the book value of shipping
and real estate fell by £137,886:
1935. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
S'undiy creditors.. 74,236 240,677 304,026
Provident fund .. 239,656 97,614 99,402
Steamers, properties,
etc 1,322,532 1,450,293 1,312,407
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores.. 42,729 83,377 83,652
Book debts and in-
vestments . . 408,520 774,411 904,768
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 948,984 1,061,181
Apart from depreciation allowance, the
loss of an 846-tonner figured in the re-
duction in working assets. The financial
position remains exceptionally strong,
strength for a number of years having
been built up at the expense of dividends.
But as a trading enterprise in the post-
war period the co. will be subject to
extraordinary political, economic and
other conditions now building up in the
industry, .•
Electrolytic Zinc, Risdon (Tas.), has
supplied Australia’s munition industry,
etc., with very cheap zinc. In Aug., 1939,
the London price of zinc in Australian
currency was £2O 2s. 6d. p.t. In Feb.,
1940, the price in Australia was fixed by
the Government at £22 p.t. But the co.
continued to sell to the authorities at £2O
p.t.; this concession figure was later lifted
to £2l p.t. and then to £22 p.t. Mean-
while the rise in costs considerably out-
stripped the rise in local price, leav-
ing practically no profit on sales to the
Federal Government. Dividends have
come largely from sales under contract to
the British Government, which delivers
zinc at buyers’ works at the equivalent of
£A34 p.t., and has done so ever since
Feb., 1940. In U.S.A. present standard
price of g.o.b. spelter is equal to £AS7
p.t.; on this basis electrolytic zinc would
be worth about £A64 p.t. The co.’s con-
tracts with the Federal Government for
the supply of zinc and zinc base die-cast-
ing alloy have now been fulfilled. The
contract with Britain (which will take up
the slack) has been renewed until the end
of Aug., 1944, on the old terms. Share-
holders can thank the British taxpayer for
most of their div.
* * * *
Soviet geologists are whooping about
the discovery of millions of tons.of high-
grade ore in the Ural Range, in Eastern
Siberia, and elsewhere in U.S.S.R. Vast
deposits of vital ores and minerals, they
say, have lately been exposed, also
dozens of new coal seams and big de-
posits of a new kind of vanadium,
London capital is hopeful of getting con-
cessions from Stalin after the war, but its
chances of success aren’t thought much
of in the City.
s{: * H* ♦
“Forty Years On”: There are now
eight cos., one Australian (the Kalgoorlie
Enterprise) and seven London (Lake
View, Gt. Boulder, Boulder Perseverance,
North Kalgurli, South Kalgurli, Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie and Paringa) operat-
ing along the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
In 1903 there were 25. Starting at the
north —and nearest Kalgoorlie—end and
going south there were Hannans Brown-
hill, Paringa, Brownhill Extended, Asso-
ciated Northern, North Kalgurli, Brook-
mans Boulder, Kalgurli, Oroya South,
Hainault, South Kalgurli, Associated,
Boulder Perseverance, Central and West
Boulder, Boulder No. 1, Ivanhoe, Gt.
Boulder, Lake View, Lake View South,
Golden Links, Golden Horseshoe, Gt.
Boulder Main Reef, Chaffers, Boulder Deep
Levels, Hannans Star and Ivanhoe South
Extended. Lake View has absorbed Asso-
ciated, Hannans Star, Golden Links,
Boulder Main Reef, Boulder Deep Levels,
Chaffers, Golden Horseshoe, Ivanhoe and
Ivanhoe South Extended; Central and
West Boulder and Oroya South (under
lease from North Kalgurli) are included
in Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s holdings.
South Kalgurli has Hainault, Boulder
Perseverance is the biggest shareholder in
Boulder No. 1 (now part of the Kal-
goorlie Enterprise group), and North Kal-
gurli has Kalgurli, Brockmans Boulder,
Associated Northern and a slice of
Hannans Brownhill. There are some in-
terested Londoners who advocate further
amalgamations and absorptions until only
three cos. are left to carry on. They
argue that Gt. Boulder could well be
taken over by Lake View, Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie, Kalgoorlie Enterprise and
South Kalgurli by Boulder Perseverance
and Paringa by North Kalgurli.
* * * *
From Jo’burg:
“Johnnies” (the Jo’burg Consolidated Invest-
ment Co.) is the latest of the big Kaffir houses
to acquire an interest in the potential new gold-
field on the Vaal River boundary in the Orange
Free State, the proving of which has been inter-
rupted by the war. No reefs, it is stated, have
yet been found to outcrop on the surface, but
very encouraging borehole results have been
obtained before and since the war. The gold-
carriers are in a different geological formation
from the nearest Transvaal auriferous deposits,
which are many miles north, and south-west
and west of the old Rand.


mm
HM
W.
.. '**'' ’ m
• C'i • .. '
mm
mm
mm
V : ;; .
ii
it
Witt
The Bridges of To-morrow
can be PLANNED To-day
«
As a municipal engineer or a member of a Local Authority you have a double
responsibility. Not only will you want to make your plans to provide employment
for service men and war workers, but these plans must fit a post-war world, the
pattern of which is not yet clear.
You can find a practical answer to your post-war bridge problems on both these
counts by specifying ARMCO Multi-Plate Pipe and Arches. They give you a
strong, durable, basic structure that can be easily installed by even unskilled
labour. At the same time you assure a flexibility in design and appearance that
- will enable you to conform to post-war standards.
Ease of transportation, quick assembly on the job site, and freedom from
, maintenance costs are additional features of ARMCO construction.
ARMCO W
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
kss
DUPLICATOR
I has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
EY AND BRISBANE
only Acam'
£l7/10/- xrs«
But/t entirety in Australia by
JACKSON &
SYD
Business, Rollery, etc.
Mariboi (Papua) Rubber
Three years ago to the month Mariboi
(Papua) Rubber Estates, Ltd., which was
formed in February, 1937, issued a book-
let which said “John Smith is the average
type of Australian, casual in outlook,
who lives for the day, with no thought
of the morrow. It is intended to show
him how he can acquire a brighter out-
look on life. While he has health and
strength and is earning good money it is
his duty to make provision for the pro-
verbial ‘rainy day.’ ” It was indicated
that he should make this provision by
buying “beneficial interests” of an acre
each in Mariboi’s plantations. The cost
was £6O an acre on terms. Estimated
income was £25 a year (for 90 years)
for each £6O put up. This, in the co.’s
own words, was its “astounding offer for
the year 1941.”
Following custom in the case of specu-
lative plantation flotations over the
past 20 years, two classes of people were
involved in Mariboi—shareholders and
certificate-boldprc As Thf Rtittk-ttm
ceruncaie-noiaers. As IHE BULLETIN
pointed out at the time, shareholders got
in early ; the others were let in later.
There were relevant dealings also that
, , i ~ . „ & , .
went beyond the Mariboi float in 1937.
Tropical Products Ply., was in existence
before then ; it was to Tropical Products
that Mariboi issued 23,875 £1 ords. in
r m nA r „„
part consideration for 9000 acres of 99-
year Papuan leasehold. Peter J. Egan
was to get 2500 Mariboi shares from
Tronical Products for services To
L£ oa V. CtS r IOr ,J5 VlC f' 10
Steamships Trading Co. 3000 ords. were
handed for 3000 acres. In cash Tropical
Products was to get £1125 immediately
and £16,875 over a period-at the rate o£
£1 17s. 6d. an acre as each certificate
of allotment” was sold and after one-
third the purchase price was paid.
At the beginning only £3OOO was put
into Mariboi by shareholders in cash ;
lotholders were looked for to provide
most of the money for development and
cash payment to the vendors. By 1941
the co. had 14,000 acres of land at its
disposal. It sold lots, with a break in
1942, until June, 1943, when total sales
reached 2400 acres—l4oo lots at £5O each
and 1000 at £6O. Cancellations have
totalled 208, leaving 2192 certificates in
force at Sept. 30 last, cash consideration
£118,400.
About 1500 acres represent trees from
four to six years old ; the most-recently-
planted 1000 acres have trees one to two
years old. Although, as mentioned, sell-
ing continued until June, 1943, under
date of Nov. 17, 1943, Mariboi’s directors
had a plaintive tale to tell:
The advent of the war in Papua was a con-
tingency that never entered into the calcu-
Rations of the co. when it embarked upon
lts sellin S campaign. The prospectus, the
literature, the wording of the contracts,
etc., were based on the continuance of
normal trading conditions. Consequently
* he calamitous state of affairs which
forced the directors to relinquish the direct
control and working of the plantations was
entirely unexpected and has caused them
the gravest concern.
> . v ' ew of , th f. fac * tbat * he control
of rubber production for the duration of
the war, and probably for some time after-
wards, has now been handed over to a
board constituted by the Federal Govern-
ment> y° ur director s find that they are un-
able to carry out their original programme,
especially as that board’s regulations give it
the right to tap the trees as. and when it’
considers the necessities of war demand
come to
the conclusion that the interests of the
holders of certificates of allotment and the
interests of shareholders (all of whom, inci-
dentally, are certificate-holders) should be
merged on an equitable basis.
It appears that by National Security
Regulation the co.’s leases have been
suspended as from Feb. 11, 1942.
Certificates of allotments were sold by
the co. as recently as seven months ago ;
here are reasons now given by the direc-
tors as to why one should get rid of these
certificates by exchanging them for
shares: —■
(1) You will be a member of the new co..
which will control the plantation, and there-
fore be entitled to attend annual meetings,
etc. (2) It is intended that the new co.
apply for listing on the Stock Exchange,
which would not accept Mariboi as at
present constituted. (3) Shares will be
easier marketed. (4) Shares are easier to
deal with in the case of death. (5) Share-
holdings are more easily divisible than cer-
tificates. (6) Shares entitle participation in
any future issues of capital. (7) Any new
capital can be raised more cheaply by share
issue than by certificates.
The new co. to be formed, Mariboi
Rubber, Ltd., will acquire the cer-
tificates of allotment and the assets of
the present co., excluding cash (£8000),
which will be applied towards payment
of liabilities and the purchase of more
shares.
It is proposed to issue to lotholders
135,060 shares—earliest plantings 65
shares per certificate, B series 62T shares
and C, D and E series 60 shares. There
will be an uncalled liability on some of
these shares equal to present amount un-
paid on the certificates —£35,844. The
increase in the face value of shares issued
in comparison with the amount paid or
payable for certificates will be 14 p.c.
To the old co., present capital of which
is £44,120, there will be issued 67,631
fully-paid £1 shares, which roughly
represents three shares for every two old
—a 53 p.c. writing-up of shareholders’
capital.
It is proposed that the new co. will be
registered with an issued capital of
£202,691, less £35,844 unpaid by present
lotholders. There will be 11,200 acres of
uncleared land, in the books “at cost,
£3 10s. per acre,” £39,200; 300 acres
cleared ready for planting, at £l4 an
acre, £4200 ; 2500 acres planted, “at valu-
ation,” £153,750, less reserve for culti-
vation, maintenance, etc., £35,844,
£117,906. Buildings figure at £3771,
plant, fittings, etc., at £699 and cash at
£lO7l. It is held out that if the scheme is
adopted the co. will have “cash re-
sources” (apparently including money
unpaid by lotholders) of “approximately”
£40,000. “It is estimated that under nor-
mal trading conditions a total of 3750
acres could be brought into production
without the issue of any further capital.”
The board goes on to say that “this
will mean that lotholders generally, on
becoming shareholders in the new co.,
will participate in the profits earned from
3750 acres instead of the present 2500 —
an increase of 50 p.c. of the production
area. In addition, they will also have a
pro rata interest in a further 11,500 acres
of uncultivated land, which will be de-
veloped later at a probable cost not
exceeding £35 an acre.” There are two
questionable statements there. To start
with, the extra 1250 acres that it is be-
lieved can be brought into production
without the issue of further capital do
not come into production merely on “lot-
holders becoming shareholders in the new
co.” There are Government regulations,
war-time labor, time, money and other
problems to be taken into consideration.
And, secondly, 3750 planted out of 14,000
acres leaves only 10,250 acres of “uncul-
tivated land,” not 11,500. The treatment
of unpaid lotholders’ money in the pro
forma balance sheet is also confusing, and
to some people it might be misleading.
The main advantage which lotholders
may expect from the proposed recon-
struction is that of incorporation as
shareholders. They paid expensively
to become lotholders, and, on book
values, their areas rejpresent by far the
most costly part of the undertaking.
They are adding little or nothing to their
asset backing by conversion.
It must hurt particularly to be told
now that future acres can be developed
at a “probable cost not exceeding £35
an acre.” This figure, as The Bulletin
pointed out in July, 1941, is the amount
at which the plantations of Koitaki
Rubber, a’ successful, established Papuan
rubber-grower, stood in its books. It was
then shown that Kitaki shares were a far
better proposition than Mariboi lots at
£6O an acre.
Mariboi directors declare that “it is
impossible to discuss fully every phase
of the project in this circular, but lot-
holders may be assured that existing con-
ditions in Papua make this reconstruc-
tion of the co. imperative.” Probably
some reconstruction of the co. is impera-
tive, but this paper is sure that the
authorities would not demur if share-
holders got less out of the new setup and
lotholders got more. As it is, though
shareholders put up 27 p.c. of the funds
(and much of that in land, not cash), they
are increasing their equity in the capital
of the new co. to 33| p.c.
The plantations, according to the co.,
have now enough labor to keep them
properly weeded ; “the depredations of
a giant convolvulus plant were serious,
but this has now been checked.” In
spite of military control the co. says the
plantations received no permanent
damage. But a claim is being made for
reimbursement of expenditure made
necessary by alleged official neglect.


KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
Xk
Commonwealth °f Australia
RATIONING COMMISSION
MEAT RATIONING
HOW TO GET YOUR MEAT
"G" COUPONS MUST BE USED
I.—On and after the introduction of rationing on January 17, 1944,,
you must surrender “G” coupons from your Ration Book to obtain
supplies of meat.
All butchers’ meat will be couponed with the exception of the fol-
lowing non-couponed meats:—Sausages, sausage meat, tripe, liver,
tongues, brains, ox heels, ox cheek, cow heels, calves’ heads, calves
feet, sheep’s heads, sheep’s trotters, pigs’ heads, pigs’ feet, pigs’ hocks.
No coupons are required to purchase these meats or the following
goods Poultry, rabbits, bacon, ham, and canned meat, cooked meat,
and all small goods, including frankfurts, sausages of all types, potted
meals, ham loaf, and similar goods.
2—AVAILABILITY OF “G” COUPONS.
Four coupons will be made available at the beginning of each fort-
night and can be used for that fortnight only—thus coupons Gl, G 3,
G 3, and G 4 may be used in the first fortnight. Coupons G 5, G 6, G 7,
and G 8 may not be used until the second fortnight.
3.—AMOUNT OF THE RATION.
Couponed meats will be divided into four groups, A, B, C, or D, and
each G coupon will be worth Jib., 11b., l|lb., or 21b. of meat according
to the group of the meat purchased —as set out on the Meat Coupon
Scale. A copy of the Meat Coupon Scale has been issued to every
butcher and will be prominently displayed in his shop. You are advised
to study it and plan your meat purchases carefully.
The amount of the full ration will vary from IJlb. to 41b. per week,
according to the type of meat purchased.
4.—CHIEDJIEN UNDER 9 YEARS ON 13/6/1943.
Children who were under 9 years on 13th June, 1943, are
entitled to a half meat ration only. Parents or other persons
having: custody of the Ration Book of a child under that age
must draw a diagonal line in ink across all the “G” coupons
in the child’s bock. These coupons will then carry a half
%
ration value.
5. NO NEED TO REGISTER.
There is no need to register with any butcher, and you may obtain
your meat supplies from any butcher you please,
6. COUPONS TO BE CUT OUT IN BUTCHER’S SHOP.
Coupons must be cut out of the Ration Book or Ration Sheet in the
butcher’s shop when making the purchase. In order to save the
butcher handling your Ration Book, you may cut out the coupons in
his presence. Loose coupons must not be tendered except in the case
of special service coupons. Sheets of coupons must not be left on
deposit with the butcher.
7. COUPON CHANGE DOCKETS.
As far as practicable, you should buy to the full coupon value. In
cases where this is impracticable, the butcher will issue a coupon
change docket, which will show the amount of meat due and the date
to which the docket is available. Coupon change dockets will be
available for a fortnight from the date of issue only, and will be
negotiable only with the butcher who issued them.
8. HOUSEHOLD PURCHASES.
One member of a household may obtain meat on behalf of other
members of the household by using their Ration Books or alternatively
the page of “G” coupons may be removed from their Ration Books
and used for making purchases. If this is done, the name and Ration
Book number of the owner must be entered on the sheet in the space
provided, and a receipt should be given for the sheet on the inside
back cover of the Ration Book.
9. RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS & INSTITUTIONS.
Persons residing in boarding houses, residential hotels, hostels, board-
ing schools and institutions must surrender to the proprietor or person
in charge meat coupons to provide for the amount of meat supplied.
Residents, who obtain full board, must surrender 2 meat coupons per
week, while those who obtain only a proportion of their meals should
come to some mutual arrangement with the proprietor as to the num-
ber of coupons to be surrendered.
A person is deemed to be resident if he resides in the establishment
for a period of 6 nights in a fortnight.
A resident may—
(a) Present his Ration Book to the proprietor, who may cut out
the appropriate number of coupons. Coupons collected are to
be pasted on sheets of paper with the name and address of
the establishment clearly set out and presented to the supplier
within each current meat period, or
(b) Remove the sheet of “G” coupons from the Ration Book and
deposit it with the proprietor not omitting to enter his name
and address and Ration Book number in the space provided.
The proprietor may cut out coupons as required from time
to time, and paste them to sheets of paper as set out under
(a) above, or may use the sheet to make purchases.
If a resident leaves the establishment, the proprietor or person in
charge must return the balance of the loose sheet to him.
10. —MEMBERS OF THE SERVICES AND C.C.C.
Members of the Services, who are on leave or who are living out
of camp, and members of the C.C.C. on leave, will be provided through
Service or A.W.C. Authorities with special meat I coupons. These
coupons may be presented loose to the butcher, and may be used
at any time.
11. PATIENTS IN HOSPITAL.
Patients must surrender two coupons for each week spent in hospi-
tal in excess of 28 days.
12. PRODUCTION OF CIVILIAN IDENTITY CARD.
Butchers have been asked to assist in ensuring that coupons are
not improperly used, and are entitled to ask any customer to produce
his Civilian Identity Card or Alien Registration Card. If you are asked
to produce yours, do so graciously.
13.—AREA OF RATIONING.
The whole of the Commonwealth will be subject to meat rationing
with the exception of certain areas in South Australia, Western
Australia, New South Wales, Queensland, and Northern Territory.
Unrationed areas will be announced by the Deputy Director of
Rationing for the State, concerned.
14.—SPECIAL ALLOWANCE OF COUPONS FOR MEDICAL
REASONS.
Extra coupons will be granted to persons suffering from the following
complaints only:—Diabetes mellitus, Ulcerative Colitis, Nephrosis, or
nephrotic type of 'Nephritis, Steatorrhoea (Cceliac disease), and Tuber-
culosis (certain cases only). Application must be made on the pre-
scribed form obtainable from the Deputy Director of Rationing with
the certificate signed by a legally qualified medical practitioner.
Diabetics who have been issued with extra butter coupons need not
make any application for meat coupons, as the Deputy Director of
Rationing will post extra meat coupons to them prior to the introduc-
tion of rationing.
CUT THIS OUT FOR REFERENCE
The gravity attending the concentra-
tion of great power, income and pro-
duction in the hands of the Federal and
State Governments can scarcely be over-
stressed. The weakness of the position
arises from the poor quality of the Minis-
terial material available amd the enor-
mous powers possessed by jumped-up
Government departments and their ad-
ministrators. The Federal Ministry
bowed to the unions on the one-army pro-
posal, and it is politically scared of the
unions in any case. The outlook of many
unions is extremely sectional. In their
selfishness and lack of co-operation they
have no national outlook. The Govern-
ment which kotows to them is corre-
spondingly deficient in national policy.
The huge departments which have sprung
up or expanded since the war clash with
each other as much as they co-operate
with each other, and between them they
are dangerously lacking in national
policy. The Prices Branch sets a price
ceiling ; it may be broken by the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement, a section of
the Customs which has plunged with a
great economic splash into profit-making.
The taxation departments, now collecting
a huge amount of the national income,
have long admitted their disregard of the
effect of taxation policy on the national
welfare. It is a tragedy for this coun-
try that the extraction of £715 mil-
lion from the people (as against under
£lOO million pre-war) by the Common-
wealth, and the spending of it, should be
left in the hands of the existing Govern-
mental and departmental set-up, which is
plainly unequal to the task of handling
what is at the one time such a colossal
and yet delicate job. Government waste,
bad planning and inflation must have a
deep' and grave effect on the Australian
economy when nearly 70 p.c. of the
national income passes through Govern-
ment hands and the entire financial and
industrial management of the country is
subject to Government control.
Eric A. Johnston, president of the
United States Chamber of Commerce,
addressing British businessmen:
In America today there is great interest in
seeing what can be done to build up the earn-
ing power and thereupon the buying power of
those regions of the world where today the
local buying power is scanty.
At least thirty countries in our present world
all need an impetus upward. And please know
I am not talking about philanthropy. I am not
talking about gratuitous expenditure either by
you or by us for parting the hair or brushing
the teeth of so-called backward peoples. I do
not want to make those peoples info wards of
the great nations. I am against the arbitrary
economic power which would exploit them;
but I am equally against the condescending
economic power that would pauperise them.
The undeveloped regions of the world want
our American and British capital, but they want
to mingle it with capital and representation of
their own. Businessman after businessman in
country after country in the course of my recent
South American trip volunteered the same sug-
gestion and the same proposal, namely:
We need technological advice and assis-
tance from outside. We need money from
outside. But we have money of our own
also. Sometimes a little. Sometimes a lot.
We would like to see your money and our
money operated together to lift us up from
being economic colonies to being countries
with an economic independence of our
own.
I welcome that kind of talk. I think the
more a country passes from economic back-
wardness to economic forwardness the more
it will buy. You are one of the most industri-
alized countries in the world and our best cus-
tomer in the world. We today have more
capital than you. But you have more know-
ledge than we have of the management of capi-
tal internationally in the mazes of credits and
currencies and exchanges. You have the
greater skill. We have the greater weight.
Let us pool them, but on these terms:
The capital employed shall be private
capital and free capital and competitive
capital. In its British-American interming-
ling it shall include an intermingling with
whatever capital may volunteer itself in the
regions of new investment.
•J* »f» H*
Senator Cameron, Minister for Aircraft
Production, has stated that since the war
began more than 2500 aircraft have been
made in Australia. At the same time he
pointed out that it was due to the research
and energy of B.H.P. that Australia re-
ceived its first supplies of locally-pro-
duced magnesium in September, 1941,
this country now providing all its own
requirements of the metal. Senator
Cameron added that the aircraft indus-
try’s achievements resulted from the Gov-
ernment’s “far-sighted policy,” assisted
by “big business,” the “wholehearted co-
operation of organised Labor” and the
adaptability and enterprise of small manu-
facturers,
* * * #
There is something singularly wrong
with the Federal Government’s attitude
towards the wine industry. It may be that
unrestricted war-time sale of fortified
wines is not desirable, but there is little
reason why opportunity should not be
taken to widen the market for light bever-
age wines, such as hock, chablis, claret,
sauterne, etc. Essentially table wines,
they are not likely to encourage drunken-
ness. It may be that the Government,
having rationed the sale of beer and spirits
to civilians, feels in honor bound to
breweries and distilleries to control all
wines correspondingly. But there is a
special case for light wines. Upon them
depends to a great extent the future of
the Australian wine industry. To too
many people the only wines one drinks
are port and sherry.
»i» H*
Where the Government has taken over
an industry, such as inter-State shipping,
or where it pays in another industry
wages in excess of “pegged” rates, the
peace-time owners of those industries
have their problems none the less. The
Federal Government has given in again
and again to unjustifiable demands by
trade-unionists, and when peace-time
comes the danger is that these war-time
concessions will have become an estab-
lished custom.
* * * *
The Prime Minister has told investors
that the rates of interest which the next
war loan will carry will be unchanged—
-2\ p.c. for the short-term issue, 3i p.c.
for the long-term. The amount of the
loan may be £l5O million, compared with
£125 million for the Fourth Liberty
Loan. At the end of 1942-43 the net
increase in the national debt arising out
of the present war was £731 million. The
interest bill thereon was about £2O mil-
lion a year. Before the war began the
interest cost on our national debt was
£46 million, the average rate per cent,
being £3 16s. So the comparatively
moderate rise in the interest bill on the
1939-43 war debt is due to the 2\-2>\ p.c.
rates being paid on public borrowings
and H to U p.c. on Treasury bills, of
which there was £259 million outstanding
on Commonwealth account at June 30.
Treasurer Chifiey declared in his last
Budget speech that the national interest
burden, in spite of war-time borrowing,
had fallen to 5£ p.c. of the national in-
come compared with 7 p.c. in 1935. As
R. G. Menzies was quick to point out,
however;
The truth is that the national income,
properly considered, is far more a sum of
payments than it is a sum of true profits
or receipts. The greater the war expendi-
tare the greater is the national income,
because war expenditure itself is income
in the hands of someone.
We are paying heavily for war ; inflation
and waste have sent the cost soaring, and
growth in our national income, away
from the actual waste of war that accom-
panics it, is partly an inflationary myth.
A period of substantial inflation is no
time to become chirpy about the reduc-
ing incidence of interest burdens \ when
the pendulum swings the other way we
know how heavy the burden can be-
come. The best feature of our present
war debt is the moderate rate of interest
which it bears
I * * *
New Zealand sharemarkets apparently
anticipate the early payment of divs. on
the pref. shares in Whakatane Paper
Mills Buyers recently offered 225. 6d.
for the scrip, sellers asking 255. There
are 148,569 prefs. issued, 7 p.c. cumula-
live, participating with the ords. up to
10 p.c. There is roughly 10s. a share
(£70,000 altogether) accrued in div
arrears on the prefs. The ord. capital
totals £1,925,211, aitd the £1 iully-paids
are quoted at about 9s. Earnings have
averaged £40,000 net over the last two
years, after providing £45,000 for depreci-
ation on each occasion, and the financial
position is rapidly improving. Though
the prospects of ord. shareholders are
still only visible through a telescope,
present earnings of the undertaking are
sufficient to cover the minimum prefs.’
annual requirements four times'. Quite
a lot of Whakatane shares are held in
Australia.


THE SERVICE MAN
Closing-in in New Guinea.
“Ek Dum”: On January 1 the whole
of the Maklay coast between Sio and
Madang on the New Guinea mainland
echoed with detonations as bombers went
to work, with fighters racing in their rear.
About 200 tons of bombs were dropped.
The hullabaloo must have been heard
30 miles across the strait in Long Island,
which towers up about 4500 feet, startling
its unsophisticated inhabitants. It must
have brought down cascades of lime-
stone from the 13,000 ft, walls of the
Finisterre, on the main island behind
Saui Point.
Later the rumbling changed its note.
The R.A.N. closed in to a point about 45
miles from Australian troops up in the
Uria headwaters on the Ramu track, and
50 to 60 miles from Madang. Here was
Saidor.
It is a pleasant enough place. The
tropic water lashes up lazily on a beach
of shingle like those of the English
Channel. There are waving fields of
kunai, bits of jungle, strips of rain-forest
and an idyllic-looking stream rambling
hurriedly down from the mountains in
just the right place. There are fairly
large coconut plantations, a little rubber
and an airstrip, which must have become
overgrown of late—the enemy has made
little or no use of it.
On this picture-book scene —it looks
like a colored frontispiece torn out of a
de luxe edition of The Swiss Family
Robinson —shells began to hail from the
Australian naval guns.
Before long the few “wily Oriental
gentlemen” who were breakfasting in
Saidor out of frugal rice bowls were off
through the bush, leaving behind rifles,
a couple of m.-gs. and other lovely
souvenirs. This was just as well for all
of them, except two, one of whom was
too severely wounded to run ; the other
was caught in a foxhole by a tempes-
tuous American landing behind a smoke-
screen.
The landing was actually controlled
by Brigadier-General C. A. Martin,
U.S., well known to Australians who
fought at Buna-Gona, and was made
by the usual helping of special units and
Sea Bees, with a strong force of Michigan
and Wisconsin infantry.
There was only a desultory firing of
shots by the retreating patrols. And
within a few hours the remnant of the
enemy who had fought at Finschhafen
and Sattelberg, and who were retiring
before the Australians working up
towards the Maklay coast, had an eight
or ten square miles coastal bridgehead
thrown across their path, with its occu-
piers busily turning the airstrip in the
middle of it into something from which
strafing fighters could take off comfortably.
Round this obstacle the enemy could
find his way by plunging into the foot-
hills of the Finisterre. But this is a ter-
rible path for wounded and weary men
in retreat, unless the Japanese at Madang
decided to take advantage of the good
track which runs down the coast to
Saidor —good enough for cars and
bicycles before the war —and essay a
rescue.
This seemed at the week-end unlikely.
The attitude of the enemy to the Saidor
landing was listless. It was several hours
before his air force began to bomb the
landing force. His effort was limited and
half-hearted.
The Australian advance had by that
time passed through its most unpleasant
stages. After passing the Cape Bliicher
region, the country had begun to open
out. The silver-terraced fields of kunai
Bbcame broader, the visibility so expan-
sive after the confinement of the Sattel-
berg Range that many a lighthearted
Digger, trained in the wide-open African
spaces, almost felt as if he had returned
to the desert. The landscape becomes
even more open when the corner is turned
at Sio and the march continues through
the Maklay country.
Desert route formations began to be
adopted—a company in extended order
in front, a company in arrowhead forma-
tion behind it and next a company of files.
They rolled along carefully, but at a
great rate on a grim paperchase, the scent
being provided by a woebegone trail of
abandoned equipment and litter, diversi-
fied every now and then by a miserable
Jap, wounded or unwounded, who had
dropped in his tracks.
By the week-end the vanguard of the
advance was within artillery range of
Sio, astride the Dallmann River near
Scharnhorst Point. But it was again in
contact with strong Jap rearguard forces
along the Ueneja River or creek just
north of the Dallmann. The enemy seems
to have established a line of resistance
here.
Sio in the early days of the Huon
operations was an important barge port
and bivouac ground, a base from which
the enemy fed reinforcements and sup-
plies along the coastal trail to his Finsch-
hafen area garrisons.
The Americans moving towards the
Australians were 8| miles south-east of
Saidor at Sel and 70 miles from the
nearest Diggers.
In the meantime, on New Britain, the
enemy had begun to fight.
Little happened at Arawe apart from
patrol actions. At Cape Gloucester the
Americans were well established before
enemy gups opened on them from the
direction of Borgen Bay to the east. The
fire was concentrated mostly on Target
Hill, citadel of the area which was seized
and a grand observation post. By the
time the enemy had acted the Americans
had possession of the whole of the north-
east peninsula bounded by a line between
Sag Sag and a point east of Target Hill,
and the defences of their perimeter were
well consolidated.
When, following the earlier part of the
bombardment, the occupants of Borgen
Bay area decided on a counter-attack
they were too late. The Americans drove
them off in a fierce little combat, killing
200; then, backed strongly by artillery
and tanks and air bombing, U.S. forces,
chiefly Marines, went on the offensive.
At the week-end they were encountering
fierce resistance.
It was clear that, after having sur-
rendered the Gloucester area easily. To jo’s
men had determined to fight for Borgen
Bay, which is a fine and deeply indented
harbor. But the Americans were going
forward.
The communique of January 9 an-
nounced that ground forces attacking
from Silimati Point, on the east of the
U.S. perimeter, had made progress against
the Japanese and had reached Hill 660
another 200 of the enemy were killed.
Warships Damaged
An important development of the
South Pacific Naval Command’s opera-
tions was the extension of carrier-based
fighter attack to Kavieng on the northern
tip of New Ireland, as reported on
January 4.
Here the bombers and fighters dis-
covered two heavy cruisers and two
destroyers. The cruisers were hit by
bombs and torpedoes and both were soon
on fire. The destroyers were raked fore
and aft from the air with cannon-fire,
and one of them was fired by a bomb.
The enemy put up considerable air
resistance, but 11 of 30 fighters which
attacked the Allied force were shot down
for certain and four others probably
during the main battle, and a bomber
and fighter on reconnaissance later were
wrecked by U.S. fighters. Medium
bombers again*raked over the Kavieng
and Mussau Island areas with explosives
and gunfire.
The whole of the responsibility for air
attack on the Rabaul-New Ireland area
now seems to have been handed to
Admiral Halsey, who announced on
January 6 that two Japanese aircraft-
carriers, as yet not located, were operat-
ing in the South Pacific.
Admiral Nimitz’s forces continued
their serial attacks on the Marshalls.
The Bombing War
The major New Guinea war continues
to be in the air, and there are probably
considerably more men on a daily aver-
age engaged in it than there are in actual
ground fighting.
It was announced from South-west
Pacific H.Q. that in the eight days to
December 30 129 enemy ’planes had been
destroyed for certain and another 146
Jap fighters probably. In the Admiralties
(reported 3/1/’44) a 9000-ton vessel was
sunk at Hyane by a direct hit with a
10001 b. bomb, and a 5000-ton vessel was
damaged. An enemy destroyer was hit
with a 5001 b. bomb at Kimbe Bay. Later
two destroyers and another cruiser were
hit off New Hanover. The Maklay coast
and Madang and surrounding positions
were attacked throughout the week by
medium and heavy bombers. On one
day 243 tons of bombs were dropped in
the Rabaul area. R.A.A.F. Vultee
Vengeance dive-bombers, whose crews
met a heavy barrage, swooped on a large
dump after feinting at the airfield. Con-
siderable damage was done and large
fires started. The attack was later re-
peated.
Several raids were made from the Solo-
mons on Rabaul aerodromes, where 18
enemy fighters were claimed as shot out
of the air in a single day. In one
R.A.A.F. Beauforts dropped 32 tons of
bombs. Kavieng, the New Guinea barge
traffic, Wewak, Dutch oil centres on
Ceram and a port or two in Celebes
came in for a ration of explosives
and cannon shell; and two freighters
exploded and a troopship was left on
fire when an Allied expedition covered by
the R.A.A.F. visited Koepang. Squadron-
Leader R. L. Gordon (Rose Bay, Sydney)
brought his score of enemy machines to
six by there shooting down a two-engined
bomber.
It was announced on January 7 that
a 5000-ton Jap freighter had been sunk
and a 1500-ton ship left on fire in
Isurnrud Strait, off the New Guinea coast.
Strategic bombing continued in the Solo-
mons.
Though over 50 enemy fighters were
claimed during the week, the loss of only
five Allied machines was mentioned.
General Arnold’s Summary
There is still a great way to go before
the Pacific war is won, but a review by
General Arnold, Commander-in-Chief of
U.S. Air Forces, made it clear how much
progress had been made in the last two
years.
The general declared that for three
weeks before the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor —from November 15, 1941
—an alert had been maintained in the
northern Philippines. On December 7,
when the attack came, there were 526
’planes deployed to meet possible attacks
on the Philippines and on Hawaii, These
in a few hours were reduced to 170.
After the first day of the war General
MacArthur reported that in the Philip-
pines, out of 35 heavy bombers, 30
medium bombers, eight light bombers and
220 fighters, plus 23 other ’planes—3l6
machines —he had only 17 heavy
bombers left, of which 14 successfully
reached Australia, and 70 fighters. These
“went astray one after another.”
On December 31, 1943, the U.S. Air
Force, which had had a total of only
1157 machines suitable for combat service
when war broke out, had grown until it
included 2,385,000 men, who had flown
250,000 combat sorties, destroyed 8478
enemy ’planes, probably destroyed 2555
and damaged 2834 in all zones.
But General Arnold issued a warning
on the lines of warnings which have fre-
quently appeared here:
Those who think that after the costly
and time-consuming defeat of Germany we
can, by a simple order, fly ’planes to China,
bomb Tokyo and bring Japan to her knees
do not understand the need of vast' supply
lines, well-equipped bases and ’planes built
to fight under entirely different conditions
from those in Europe.
There is at least a year’s work ahead
before preparations for attack on Japan
are anywhere near complete, unless
Japan, by caving-in on the home front,
gives the Allies a chance they do not now
anticipate.
Army Losses.
Last week Mr. Forde stated them as
follows:
CASUALTIES REPORTED IN 1943.
Killed in Action,
Died of Wounds Wounded in
and Other Causes. Action.
Other Other
Officers. Ranks. Officers. Ranks.
Middle East .. 12 235
Malaya and Java 6 78
Timor .... 3
Darwin .... 4 62 29
New Guinea .. 108 1179 196 2931
Papua .... 89 1197 85 1467
Australia.. ..66 1175 2 32
Total ... 285 3929 ' 283 4459
Prisoners of
Missing. War.
Other Other
Officers. Ranks. Officers. Ranks.
Middle East ....
Malaya-Java .. .. 879 16,537
Timor 18 305
Darwin
New Guinea.. ..13 61
Papua —•—
Australia .... 1
Total .... 14 61 897 16,842
TOTAL CASUALTIES,
SEPTEMBER, 1939— DECEMBER, 1943.
Other
Officers. Ranks.
Killed in action, died of
wounds and from other
causes 740 10,144
Wounded in action .. .. 927 14,405
Missing 163 3,616
Prisoners of war .. .. 1322 24,573
Total 3152 52,738
Monty's Farewell.
“Ek Dum”: General Montgomery
bade farewell to his Eighth Army in a
characteristic spirit before returning to
London to take up the British Invasion
Force Command.
The new G.O.C. of the Eighth Army,
Sir Oliver Leese, is “a very experienced
commander who has fought with us ever
since El Alamein,” General Montgomery
said. “I could not want to hand over to
a better man.”
General Leese began his reign by tell-
ing war correspondents that he “did not
want any bombastic advertisement; it
is unnecessary in the British Army.” He
is a baronet, a Coldstreamer who doffed
his Eton tie and topper to go straight
to the last war in 1914. His 30th Corps,
which included the Maorilanders, was
Churchill’s “ball of fire” which actually
broke Rommel’s front and brought the
Eighth Army and the British Empire a
glorious Guy Fawkes celebration. He
was, at 45, Deputy Chief of Staff of the
B.E.F. in France.
General Leese took over when the Ger-
mans were “fighting like hell” in the
bitter Italian winter on the line north of
Ortona to the Chieti Road at Orsogna.
At the week-end the Eighth Army had
pushed its way up the coast to Foro, half-
way to Pescara, but the enemy was still
athwart both the road from the coast and
the road from Isernia on the wrong side
of Orsogna.
On the other side of Italy he had been
pushed out of the San Vittore stronghold
on the Cassino Road, and Giusta. The
Germans have fortified every peak flank-
ing the road to Cassino, from which the
Allies are five miles away.
Whether the Allies are making an all-
out effort or merely marking time so as
to dovetail Italian operations at the right
time into something larger and more wide-
spread remains to be seen. But there
is no doubt that British authorities still
regard the Italian sphere of first-class
importance.
The Germans in Italy are fighting as
if their lives depended on the outcome.
New Zealand reports describe the coun-
tryside as having been pounded by bomb
and shell till it looks like a bit of the
Western Front in the last war,
Berlin, while claiming to have broken
the Partisan forces and taken their JLQ.
town of Banjaluka, of which they admit
the abandonment, showed nervousness
after the reports of landings by British
detachments on the Yugoslav Adriatic
coast. They were denied by Algiers Radio.
There was a good deal of Allied raid-
ing of north Italian war factories and
Balkan objectives during the week.
Germany's Painful Week.
“Ek Dum”: Europe seems to be ex-
periencing a winter almost as abnormal
as our summer. It appears to offer
remarkably little difficulty to raiders.
Defence of Germany from the west is
daily becoming a larger order. It is now •
clear that the enemy High Command is
dealing not only with a strategic air force
whose function is to deplete resources
preparatory to land attack, but with a
tactical force which is actually imple-
menting the first phases of the invasion
attack. This, although naval and land
operations, which must await a proper
season and suitable tides, moon and
weather, may still be weeks or even
months distant.
In two raids (Jan. 1-3) 2000 more tons
of bombs were dropped on Berlin, mak-
ing 14,000 tons since November 18. After
every raid fresh ruin on a large scale is
reported—Hitler’s great Chancellery a
smouldering shell; all the Berlin theatres
closed; the tremendous buildings of the
Tempelhof aerodrome ip flames ; the fire
brigades defeated and decimated. But it
is early days to hope that Berlin is “nearly
a complete ruin.” It is a city covering
over 200 square miles. In the raid
on January 2 its defences were still so
strong that pilots had to “fight their way
in and fight their way out,” and 27
bombers were lost.
Little Malta stood up to 3000 raids and
13,000 tons of bombs and was still there
to turn the tables at the end.
The Berlin raid was followed by the
usual complementary visits by the fast
and deadly Mosquitoes and by major
attacks on large military objectives.
On Jan. 4 the U.S.A.F. made what
Berlin described as a “terror raid” on
Kiel. In this, despite heavy cloud over
the target, fires, smoke columns and ex-
plosions told the tale. The raid took
place at midday. Berlin said that a large
quantity of phosphorus bombs was
dropped and that the university and the
hospital quarter and Kiel Castle were
damaged. Eight German fighters were
shot down by the escort and four by the
bombers, and in supporting sweeps other
Allied fighters added five more fighters
to the bag. Eighteen U.S. bombers and
three fighters did not return.
Stettin, capital of Pomerania and one
of the main supply ports for the German
front in Russia, had a visit from the
R.A.F. in bright moonlight, part of an
all-round air attack over Germany and
Northern France which was among the
heaviest of the war. Berlin had another
Mosquito raid. Kiel was attacked for the
second day running, and attacks on
Tours and Bordeaux were a peculiarly
interesting departure from the regular
fields of operation. The R.A.F. lost 15
machines in the Stettin raid. U.S. losses
for the day were 37 machines, but their


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN GEORGE MILDON late of Herne Bay and
a member of the Mercantile Marine.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAUD IRENE MILDON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1938 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 10th day of
April 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition from
CLIVE CLARKE Solicitor for the petitioner 79
Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
u)
am
pilots claimed a bag of 95 German fighters
in battles over Kiel against rocket-armed
Me’s and aerial bomb towplanes.
Again the hurtling Mosquitoes fol-
lowed up the heavy bombers and kept
the enemy fully occupied at a number of
points while the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.
prepared to blast Ludwigshafen and
Mannheim on January 7. The Germans
officially admitted heavy damage.
The week’s attacks on Northern France
and the West Wall area of Germany
were the heaviest in history. On the cul-
minating days up to 750 machines were
engaged. Over 8000 sorties were made
over Europe during the week, and until
January 7 little enemy opposition was
reported except over Berlin, Stettin and
Mannheim. On January 7, however,
enemy fighters appeared. That day
Fortresses and Liberators reported having
wrecked 33 enemy fighters, and ? their
escorts another nine. Twelve U.S.
bombers and seven fighters were reported
missing. Berlin alleged that the wee Us
fighting had cost the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.
261 machines, mostly four-engined
bombers.
Russians in Poland.
“Ek Dum”: The new Russian drive, as
reported by Moscow correspondents who
never see the front line, is proceeding
according to Jheir formula. For the
umpteenth time hundreds of thousands
of Germans have been “trapped” in the
Dnieper Bend —with, of course, “only a
single line of railway over which they
can escape.” As usual, official Russian
reports make no such claims.
Indeed, this easy exuberance and
elation are absent from the writings of
men like Maurice Hindus. In a Moscow
dispatch to the New York “Times” on
the 26th anniversary of the Soviet regime,
Hindus, himself a Russian, noted that
“there was no shouting, handclapping or
dancing, no movement at all only
silence, almost as at a solemn religious
service because of the physical and
emotional strain of the war. Heavy casual-
ties have only intensified the strain.”
Calculations of the number of Ger-
mans “trapped” depend on the taste and
fancy of the calculator. There were two
in the same issue of a Sydney paper;
Page 1. Page 2.
Other Soviet forces A far greater danger
to the south are than the Red Army’s
approaching the crossing of the old
Odessa-Cracow - Berlin Polish border is the
railway—main avenue threat to the great
of escape for 500,000 German armies
German troops trapped grouped in south
in the Dnieper Bend Russia. There are 90
and the Crimea. enemy divisions
(1,350,000 men) in this
area, and as the Rus-
sians advance these
armies are threatened.
The “trap”—as a glimpse at the map
of the line shows —consists of a salient
into the Russian-held territory embracing
nearly all of the southern Ukraine west
of the Dnieper. From east to west it is
anything from 50 to 250 miles deep, and
the mouth through which the Germans
must “escape,” if they can, is 250 miles
wide from just south of Berdichev to
Odessa.
But the greaf Morley Richards, of the
London “Daily Express,” declared him-
self convinced that
Unless Von Manstein can stage a full-
scale counter-blow he has practically no
hope of preventing the Russians closing
their vast trap round the huge German
armies in the Dnieper Bend and the
Crimea.
On the Italian front it is different.
There, on the indisputable evidence of
General Leese, new G.O.C. of the Eighth
Army, “the Germans are fighting like
hell.” In Russia, going on correspon-
dents’ tales —but not on official reports —
they are merely scared mobs, given to
doing things hastily, desperately, fever-
ishly, frenziedly and, when
these measures are of no avail, running
likes hares. In October, for example,
after Melitopol, the Red Army “surged
irresistibly across the steppe to Perekop
Isthmus,” allegedly wiping out one Ger-
man army in a single morning.
Another army also was in jeopardy:
The campaign in the southern Ukraine
is developing into one of the most fright-
ful slaughters of the war. The battle
for the Tauride Steppe will probably go
down in history as one of the most disas-
trous defeats the Germans have ever
- suffered. Russian armored and motorised
units are cutting deeper and deeper into
the heart of the fleeing Germans, leaving
tens of thousands to the mercy of the on-
coming cavalry and infantry, who are cut-
ting them to pieces. The Russian advance
has become a flood below Nikopol.
The congestion at the Kherson cross-
ing was described as “appalling.”
The scale of the German disaster between
the Lower Dnieper and the Crimea grows
hourly.... The arrival of General Tobulk-
hin’s forces on the Lower Dnieper on a 50-
mile front confirms reports that he intends to
force the river without delay, while at the
same time continuing the offensive into
the Crimea. The Germans streaming back
to the Lower Dnieper are now in a hope-
less plight. Once the Russians cross the
Dnieper they will be able to close the
southern jaw of the enormous pincer aimed
at Krivoi Rog.
As it transpired, the enemy was then
within a few hours of bringing his re-
treat to a sudden stop. Where the front
was on the day of the catastrophe
described on November 3, there, save for
alterations of three or four miles in odd
sectors, it remained on January 7, 65 days
later. And this is at a crucial point on
the road to Odessa, capture of which
would mean the fall of the Crimea,
through cutting off of supplies, in an
area which the Russians must covet more
than any other, and the evacuation of
the whole Dnieper Bend by the enemy.
If they could have made the 100 miles
to Odessa by crowfly distance, even at the
cost of great sacrifices, the Russians
would have made it.
After Kiev
The enemy announced that he had left
Kiev. Forty-eight hours afterwards Mos-
cow reported its capture by assault, with
15,000 Germans killed and 6000 prisoners
taken. Afterwards the Russians made an
almost unresisted advance south-west —
of 40 miles in the first 36 hours —pushing
on to take Zhitomir and Korosten. But
to return to the correspondents:
Things are going from bad to worse for
the broken, disorganised Germans south-
west of Kiev. The Russians have already
driven 45 miles beyond Kiev. A tremen-
dously powerful tank force is smashing
across country beyond Fastov, while fierce
clashes are going on in the gap between
Krivoi Rog, as the Germans have rushed
up panzer reserves. With swift, fierce out-
flanking thrusts the Russians are striking
numbing blows against the German lines
of communications....
The railway system behind the German
lines is in chaos. A great accumulation of
traffic is jammed at junctions, and the
whole supply organisation has broken down.
Russian bombers are constantly attacking
this confused mass, while guerrillas behind
the German IMes are blowing up bridges
and supply dumps, adding to the confusion.
The Russian pursuit so far beyond Kiev
suggests that a rout is developing. Rus-
sian tank columns are surging round
junctions and slicing communications.
Next day General Vatutin’s.army was
“still sweeping all before it,” and
“Hitler’s Ukrainian army” was “running
for its life across the open plains ; its
plight becomes worse every day.”
Actually, it was already beginning to
develop what was presently to be described
as “the biggest counter-attack since the
Russian offensive began last July.” Gen-
eral Vatutin’s army was pushed back
over 50 miles. Elation now changed to
perturbation ; the opposing army was rep-
resented as being on the offensive along
200-300 miles of front, with a nucleus of
“20 tank divisions” —five short of the
number on the whole Russian front in
July, 1941.
On the scene of the supposed debacle
the enemy held the initiative until the
end of December; but meanwhile the
“rout” had been transferred to another
sector.
Gomel and Vitebsk
The Germans announced that they had
evacuated Gomel. The Russians did not
confirm, this for some days, but on
November 28 it was reported officially
in Moscow that the remains of this city
of 150,000, which had ceased to be the
“joint” between north and south with
the reshaping of the front, had been
captured after fierce fighting. The official
Russian claims were moderate and some-
what cautious, but correspondents soon
changed the complexion of the battle:
November 28: Red Army forces which
on Friday captured Gomel are now racing
from the north and south to cut off the
retreating garrison, estimated at 500,000.
The escape gap is being repeatedly nar-
rowed and the Russians are already shelling
the only railway open to the Germans be-
tween Gomel and Jlobin, 50 miles north-
west of Gomel.
The fall of Jlobin was imminent. The
Russians had broken “completely through
the enemy defences on the Beresina,” and
the Germans were “routed” —fleeing,
abandoning heaps of equipment. Gen-
eral Dietmar —or Dittmar —was in de-
spair. Reports reached Stockholm that
Germans in East Prussia, 600 miles away,
were rolling their swags and leaving for
Berlin in a cloud of dust.
But the usual happened. Jlobin, “a
vital German key base,” from which the
Russians were said to be seven miles on
November 28, was still in German hands
on January 7.
For three weeks after this German
Radio reported* Russian offensive opera-
tions on a large scale in the Nevel-Vitebsk
area. Four days before Christmas corre-
spondents got to work;
The Red Army is storming forward on a
50-mile front between Nevel and Vitebsk
after the biggest single break-through the
Russians have yet achieved. At least 20,0UU
Germans have been killed in five days
fighting. Massed Russian artillery has shat-
tered the iron wall of the German defences
between Nevel and Vitebsk. Russian
troops [Reuter] are only 3\ miles from the
town. ,
A couple of days later the Russian
army was “pushing on relentlessly on
the Nevel front, and is now only 12 miles
from Vitebsk,” described as “Hitler’s
strongest fortress in Russia.”
But the victory to date has had its
usual outcome.
Winter Comes
At this stage two important events were
reported. It was told unobtrusively that
The freezing of the Pripet marshes has
altered the Russian and German tactical
situation, permitting the deployment of tank
and infantry forces over the thousands of
square miles of the marshes.
Almost contemporaneously came the an-
nouncement of the appointment of a
command for the invasion forces in the
British Isles.
This earnest of the coming offensive
in the west, accompanied by the continu-
ous blasting of northern France as if
in preparation, along with the gradual
wiping out of Berlin, was the signal for
another of the German retirements which
have become standardised to take place
every time the British and Americans
make an important forward move.
Thus, with nothing much happening
in the north —though on December 28
experts opined, apropos of the Baltic
front, that “the Germans’ only hope now
is to make a last stand inside Vitebsk” —
the correspondents were able to carry the
war back to the south. Von Manstein’s
movements had returned to normal, it
seemed, and in four days the Russians
had taken over 90 per cent, of the coun-
try which he had recaptured during his
Korosten - Zhitomir offensive 7000
square miles.
What had happened was that, in ac-
cordance with the invariable policy of
the German army, the marshes on the
north flank of the southern armies and
on the south flanks of the northern ones
had never been fully occupied. No at-
tempt was made to prevent the Russians
overrunning them when the freeze came,
the Germans moving cautiously back to
the hill country out of the way of the
thaw which will be due in six weeks
or less. The Russians, very naturally,
knowing that this situation would de-
velop, are doing their best to punish the
enemy as heavily as possible during the
retreat. They have mopped up several
of his bases and occupied towns, includ-
ing the important railway junctions of
Korosten and Berdichev, also Byelaya
Tserkov, nearer the Dnieper. Berdichev,
taken after five days’ fierce fighting, was
described by Marshal Stalin as “this large
rail junction and key centre of the
enemy’s defences.” The front in the
sector to which it was a key has, how-
ever, ceased to exist with the retirement
southward towards the Bug and the hills
of Germans.
Entry into Poland
Meanwhile, driving westward 'from
Korosten across the southern part and
borderlands of the frozen marshes, the
Russians took the key town of Novograd
Volynsk and crossed 35 miles into old
Poland towards Sarny, on the road to
Brest-Litovsk. That started a political
rumpus which surged across the Channel,
where the British Government was
pointedly reminded of its engagements to
the Poles, and across the Atlantic, where
the integrity of pre-war Poland found
even more vigorous championship.
Enter the optimists again:
From Byelaya Tserkov, in the south, to
the Nevel sector in the north, the Russians
are thrusting deep into German positions,
but their most serious threat at the moment
is the encirclement of Von Mansfein’s
500,000 men in the Dnieper Bend The
fall of Berdichev splits wide open the Ger-
man defences protecting the approaches
to the River Bug and the Odessa-Rovno-
Wilno railway.. . .It also deprives the Ger-
mans of winter cover, and they are now in
open country, where there are no natural
defence positions before they reach the
Bug 30 miles south The Russians are
smashing through German defences in the
greatest offensive of the war.
And so on.
Kirovograd Falls
On January 7 Moscow reported that
Kirovograd was surrounded and the next
day that it had been captured “with enor-
mous losses to the enemy; many Ger-
man units laid down their arms.” The
fall came so quickly that the term “enor-
mous” may have only a relative signifi-
cance, but the statement that “many Ger-
man units laid down their arms” is worth
acres of correspondents’ speculation.
Stalin announced in an Order of the Day
that seven German divisions —strength
about 90,000 —were involved in the fight-
ing for Kirovograd.
German movements then began to sug-
gest a general 300-mile-long enemy move-
ment towards the Bug River line or the
Dniester in the Dnieper Bend. A large,
difficult, even critical, operation, fraught
with certain risk and the possibility of
substantial loss, but not in itself supporting
an unofficial claim that the German armies
are “collapsing like a house of cards.”
While German propaganda for foreign
consumption is trying to persuade the
world that Germany is beaten on the
Eastern front —presumably in the hope
of creating slackness in preparation on
other fronts —the enemy High Command
shares with the Russian High Command
a cautious attitude. On January 9 it
asserted that a “grim struggle continues
with unabated violence in the Kirovograd
area,” and that “German counter-attacks
in the western part of the town drove the
Russians back and knocked out many
tanks.” It declared also that the Russians
were beaten off south-east of Vitebsk,
after “a bitter and bloody struggle” in
which 84 Russian tanks were knocked
out. And Berlin referred to another
Russian attempt to land on the Kerch
Peninsula in the Crimea —Moscow had
not spoken up to January 10.
Russian Advantages «
The Russians have the advantages with
them for the moment. They are better
inured to the weather. The seas are
open to bring them enormous British and
American supplies—and how enormous
they are can be gleaned from Mr. Roose-
velt’s statement to Congress. They have
the encouragement of knowing that Berlin
and Baltic supply ports are being wrecked
and that as spring breaks a Germany torn
to bits by the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. will
have to try to fight off a gigantic attack or
attacks in the west and possibly in the
south. But it is not all roses.
The meagre bread ration, which for
some classes of workers is scarcely above
subsistence line, has been cut once more
in Moscow. Every yard the Germans
retreat brings them a yard nearer to a
fine system of canal and railway com-
munications, so far little damaged, with
great arteries feeding their fronts at half
a dozen points by straight, short, capa-
cious all-weather routes from east Ger-
man manufacturing centres. These are
difficult for the Allied a'ir forces to reach
on any scale till spring.
The enemy is a powerful, deadly foe,
who possibly even yet has not shown him-
self at his greatest strength. To represent
him as a contemptible figure in Russia
when he is most obviously a grim fighter
in Italy is delirious folly.
Mr. Forde announces that awards won by
Australian soldiers in the present war are:
A.I.F 3450
Militia .. .. 179
Total .. .. 3629
The A.I.F. decorations —2391 in the M.E. and
1059 in the Pacific —include six V.Cs. in the
Middle East, four in the Pacific zone, 112
D.S.Os., 247 M.Cs., 482 M.Ms., 80 0.8.E5. and
67 M.B.Es.
* * * *
U.S. and Brazilian units sank a surface raider
in the S. Atlantic on its way home from Japan.
* * * *
The R.A.F. Fighter Command reports that
in 1943 it sank three times as many enemy
ships as in any previous year—2so in the
Mediterranean alone.
’ * * * *
U.S. Navy reports that U.S. destroyer Turner
(1700 tons) exploded and sank six miles off
Sandy Hook near the mouth of N. York
Harbor. The casualties included 113 injured.
The U.S. submarine Pimpano (1998 tons) is
reported lost off the Japanese coast.
* * * *
U.S. Army bombers attacked Paramushiro,
in the Kuriles, off Japan’s north-eastern end,
on Dec. 31. All the bombers returned, but
it was impossible to observe results because of
bad weather.
* * * ♦
“We know that the Japanese will defend them-
selves with fanatical zeal. Only 377 prisoners
have been taken by the United States forces.”
— Under-Secretary-for-War Patterson, who was
in Australia last year.
• * * *
On January 9 it was reported officially
that the sloops H.M.S. Starling (Capt. F. J.
Walker, R.N.) and Kite (Lt.-Com. W. F. R.
Segrave, R.N.), joined by other ships, had sunk
two U-boats within eight hours off the Azores.


y&JHI WZmsm
(TODAY... as in the 15th Century
\
\
m
mm*
€*£
■
Leonardo da Vinci, probably the most versatile
man who ever lived, invented, among many other
devices, a pile-driver which is identical, except
for motive power, with the huge pressure
hammers in use to-day.
IJERE was a basic idea which had
1 'survived over four centuries, because
da Vinci's inventive genius saw clearly a
long way ahead. So, in the evolution
of a great engineering plant, when the
foundation is right, its development must
be right, too. To-day A.T.L., in response
to the demands of war, has developed
an organization equipped to handle the
most intricate and delicate precision
engineering
When you think of precision engin-
eering, precision tools or gauges—
think of . . .
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
OT
FROM YOUR
CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
Can Cripple You
if Beware of this crippling
infection. You may be infected
without knowing it. The first
signs are cracked skin and itch
between the toes. These danger
signs call for prompt treatment
with lodex to kill the germ and
to soothe and heal the damaged
tissues.
★ In severe cases see your doctor
MO-STAIN iodin
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at Moorefield on Satur-
day was estimated at 28,000. Too great
a number for comfort, and pointed to
extensions in both reserves being neces-
sary to cope with similar crowds at
future meetings.
The result of the Peter Moore Cup
upset backers’ calculations. Hesione was
in charge from Tahmoor after going a
couple of furlongs, with Arahura next,
but, though the first-mentioned two led
into the straight from Kimbell, neither
ran on, nor did Kimbell after momentarily
looking a winner. Tuokool (McGrowdie)
appeared on the scene opposite the leger
and won nicely from Arahura, while old
Salivant plugged along to run a good
third.
Nightbeam dashed up to finish fourth,
and a winning turn for him should come
shortly. It was not surprising to see
Tahmoor stop at the end of a mile under
his big weight, but Hesione’s showing
suggested she had gone off during the
previous week. Tuokool’s form was
a considerable iftiprovement upon any-
thing he had shown recently.
The Flying Handicap was generally
voted “a good thing for Lagoon,” and he
won after making practically all the run-
ning from Cradle Song, Industry, Babil-
lard and Silverelda. However,, he had
nothing to spare at the finish from Cradle
Song, defeating that mare a neck, with
Silverelda a fair third. Industry was
fourth, and he either did not find the
downhill run in the straight to his liking
or is getting a little tired. As usual, Mar-
theus’s backers were betting on a double,
the first leg being whether he jumped
away at barrier-rise. He didn’t. Knox
rode Lagoon,
Early in the Encourage Stakes Marquis
set up a useful lead from Kookaburra,
but, though first into the straight, he had
nothing to do with the finish, Etching
(Cook) scoring easily from Thanks
America and Kookaburra. Thanks
America is an improving three-year-old
by Constant Son from Farfadet (dam’ of
Ellison). Of the remainder Mannawonga
was the only runner reasonably close to
Ihe place-getters.
The Crowley was in the ascendant
in the Juvenile Handicap. Twice Royal
(J. Thompson) commenced smartly, and
was not headed. Prince Galahad (by
Medieval Knight) and Philgita (by Picca-
dilly), who filled the minor places, were
her nearest followers entering the straight.
Supreme Lady and Pax were failures, and
the unplaced division was headed by the
Winooka-My Veronica filly My Win.
Twice Royal is by Royal Step from Prin-
cess Reine (Magpie-Bonnie Reine).
Bronze Orchid had to be driven along
from No. 18 to take the lead in the first
furlong of the first division of the Three-
year-old Handicap, and was unable to
stall off Prince Hua (Knox) when tackled
by him at the home turn. Prince Hua
was a winner early in the straight. Win-
tune (by Winooka) and Bronze Orchid
dead-heating for third. Star Gold, under
his big weight, never got in it. Quite So
and Royal Janette doing best of the un-
placed lot. Prince Hua is a gelding by
Hua from Bonheur de Pere.
Denton (N. Wilson), who raced un-
luckily last season, opened his winning
account in the second division of the
Three-year-old Handicap. He had to be
hard ridden early in the race, and, though
behind First Battery, Newfield and The
Beacon entering the straight, finished too
strongly for that trio. It was against The
Beacon that he did not jump away
smartly, but he subsequently had a clear
run. Turn Again, in third place, made a
good showing, as did Newfield (by Nuf-
field) and First Battery (by Melfort).
Denton, who is by Melfort from Heroina
(Heroic-Bimbil), was bought privately by
his owner-trainer, W. Kelso, as a year-
ling,
Tel Asur (D. Munro) ran up to his
best form to win the Welter Handicap.
When he lost a little ground going up the
hill, and was behind Valiant Garde, Gigli,
Edigram and High Flight entering the
straight, his prospects did not appear
bright, but Munro’s vigor told in the
run home. Gigli looked dangerous when
a sharp run took him up second at the
turn, but he weakened. Louano did not
get near the front at any stage. Boor-
chief, Warbird and Tennessee came home
best of those nearest the winner.
* * * ♦
Kintore, fastest two-year-old m Mel-
bourne, outclassed his rivals in the first
Infants’ Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. Starting at 2 to 1 on, he led
throughout and won pulling up by five
lengths. With three wins and £1630 in
stakes, he is a bargain at his yearling cost
of 725gns, Kintore is a fine stamp of a
colt, and, all going well, will be hard to
beat in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Cabonne, runner-up to Kintore in the
Stradbroke Stakes a week earlier, failed
to justify his 10-to-9 favoritism for the
second Infants’ Handicap. He veered
away from the rails entering the straight,
and Bold Scout went through to beat him
a head. Bold Scout, like Kintore, is
trained by T. Lewis. Costing 550gns. as
a yearling, he is the first winner sired by
imported Kinderscout.
Odds were laid on the 33-to-l chance
Contact after he and New Warrior had
flashed past the post in the Hospital
Handicap. There was nothing in it, how-
ever, and the judge declared a dead-heat.
New Warrior, second favorite at 11 to 2,
finished the better, and would have won
outright in another stride or two. New;
Warrior did not score out of his turn,
and Contact, once a well-known metro-
politan performer, had been racing with
mixed luck at country meetings. Neu-
tron, 2-to-l favorite, ran considerably
below expectations. Excuse was possible
for him, and he should improve.
Regency’s win in the Relief Handicap
was his first since his surprise defeat of
Hesione in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes almost two years ago. He has
since been gelded, and, well-backed on
Saturday, outstayed Denko after the latter
had looked to have a winning lead round-
ing the bend. Both will improve and
might show up well in the rich autumn
sprints. Stewards inquired into the
running of Naval Revue, a 20-to-l chance
who finished ninth, and disqualified M.
Crossey (owner-trainer), H. Olsen (jockey)
and the gelding for 12 months.
Prince Danilo (25 to 1) led through-
out the 13 furlongs of the Appeal Trial.
A four-year-old who cost lOOOgns. as a
yearling, he had not won before Satur-
day. Pickway, 3 to 1, ended an unlucky
sequence by winning the Charity Welter ;
and Donor,*a 60gns. yearling, starting at
7 to 1, won the Benefit Plate for maiden
three-year-olds. Donor is owned in
partnership by R. Bradfield, former
leading trainer, and his son D. M., and
is trained by the latter,
* * * *
Panchio, with a brilliant finishing run,
so narrowly missed winning the Carring-
ton Stakes that if it were not for his
customary slowness as a beginner it might
be unnecessary to look beyond him for
the winner of the Challenge Stakes. He
is up 51b., but still has a weight he can
handle, and, though only 21b. better off
as compared with Trimmer, that may be
sufficient to enable him to turn the tables
on the latter. Only that she ran disap-
pointingly at Moorefield Hesione, on 81b.
better than Carrington Stakes terms, might
reasonably have been expected to give
Trimmer a deal of trouble at every stage.
However, Moorefield running discounted
her chance, as it did that of Industry,
though the latter may be better suited by
Randwick. Gold Salute has 21b. less
than when he won last year.
Lagoon will assist in setting a fast pace
early in the race, but he will be meeting
Cradle Song 71b, worse than at Moore-
field, and there was not that much be-
tween them at the finish of the Flying.
Tahmoor is likely to run well, but does
not appeal as much as Soho, who has
only 31b. more than when he won last
season’s Carrington Stakes. He ran fairly
at his latest appearance at Randwick, and
looked as if he could be improved.
Hydra, at his best, would have a first-
class chance with 7.3, and Silverelda ran
sufficiently well at Moorefield to put her
among the possibilities. However, at this
stage it'looks unnecessary to go far be-
yond Panchio or Soho for the winner.
* * * *
Moorefield has five more meetings this
year, and if returns for the next two equal
last Saturday’s attendance of 28,000 and
tote turnover of £43,382 owners and
trainers will be justified in looking for
special liberality in prize-money for the
concluding three or four. Chairman C. I.
Moore has already announced an in-
crease for next month’s fixture.
* * * *
The Prime Minister refused the Lord
Mayor of Sydney’s request for permis-
sion to hold a race meeting in Sydney
thds month in aid of the Australian Com-
forts Fund, The regulations did not per-
mit it.
* * * *
Tattersall’s Cup place-getters—Grand
Fils, Cream Puff and Two’s Company—
have not been punished in the Anniver-
sary Handicap. They are up 61b., 31b.
and 21b. respectively, and on those figures
Grand Fils is possibly preferable to the
other two, even allowing that Two’s Com-
pany finished strongly in the Cup. The
extra poundage should not greatly affect
Grand Fils, who was fourth in the last
Sydney Cup with 8.8. Only that he has
not run well recently Abspear, who won
that race with 8.9, would appear parti-
cularly well treated in the Anniversary
with 8.13.
The handicapper has discounted Modu-
lation as a stayer. That horse failed
rather badly in Tattersall’s Cup, but if
there was any justification for his favorit-
ism for that race he has a fair oppor-
tunity of proving it in the Anniversary
with 8.5, a drop of 51b. Veiled Threat,
who won last year with 8.12, is nicely
in with 9.1, and only that Marcondis
has not raced for some time he would
be entitled to consideration with 7.8,
which is only 21b. more than he carried
when third in Mayfowl’s City Tatter-
sail’s Cup, and was a little unlucky in
not going closer to winning. As matters
stand Grand Fils appears to have an
excellent chance of adding to his winning
record.
* * * *
Breeders are evidently much more opti-
mistic in connection with the sale of their
yearlings in Sydney than they were last
season. W. Inglis and Son then cata-
logued only 331, but this year the total
has advanced to 419 for the sales to be
held on April 11, 12 and 13. As usual
the Kia Ora Stud will have the strongest
numerical representation, its contribution
being 49.
* * * *
Looks as if racehorses will have diffi-
culty in getting away from their own
States in future. The recent barring of
shipment of racehorses to Tasmania was
a shock for several owners and trainers
who purposed having runners at the
Launceston Cup meeting. Until the war
is over it seems as if inter-State compe-
tition is off. Minister for Transport Ward
threatens owners who defy the regula-
tions with severe penalties. Well, it is
easier to deal with horse-owners than
other sections of the community who
seemingly please themselves how far they
go—and no further —in observing laws
and regulations.
Miscellaneous
The . poet notwithstanding, East and
West met at Sydney Stadium in the per-
son of Rush Milling and Bill Hebberd,
and these welterweights were vigorous
enough. Early in the second Milling
twice floored Hebberd with low lefts, and
Joe Wallis called that round short. In
subsequent rounds Hebberd’s right leads
beat Milling’s left, aqd he scored a
knockdown —for “four” in the sixth. Now
settled down, Hebberd added to his lead
in the seventh, but in the eighth a left
well below the beltline floored him for
“seven,” another dropped him again, and
he was declared the winner on a foul.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT
Opening Novice Handicap: Great
Scot, 1 ; Buzz Off, 2 ; Alertful, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Union Jack,
1 ; Beltana, 2 ; Gay King, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Van
Eyck, 1 ; Sir Francis, 2; Tennessee
or Felbeam, 3.
Lord Mayor’s Cup: Modulation,
1 ; Faerie Queene, 2 ; Flight or Lord
Neith, 3.
Sydney Turf Club Handicap:
Glendower, 1 ; Two’s Company, 2 ;
Thrax, 3.
Highweight Handicap; Silverelda,
1 ; Cradle Song, 2 ; War Effort, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The jungle came to Sydney last week.
As the men of the 16th Brigade swung
down the city streets, civilians (mostly
women and children and older men)
watching them in the steamy heat of the
sultry day, with the burning sky above,
got some idea of the atmospheric hard-
ships endured by our warriors in the
north. The 2000. who marched wore
their jungle-green, their slouch hats.
Their bayonets and decorations blazed in
the sun. Each company has its heroic
history. The men in the march had been
face to face with German and Italian as
well as Japanese foes. Now they were
home, and the city roared and clapped
and wept its welcome.
There was a frenzied storm of white
paper that swirled and tossed and some-
times, be it owned, looked somewhat
slatternly. But the heart behind the
deluge was in the right place. Small girls
and boys waved flags frantically, and all
honor to the lad who brought his gift of
a free shine-up to the boots of the men
about to march. Heaven knows what
thoughts of Bardia and Buna and places
in between lay behind the tranquil and
alert gaze of some of these men. The
thought behind the admiring eyes of the
massed crowds was: “These men have
saved us from slavery!”
At the Town Hall Lord Cowrie took
the salute. With him was General
Blarney, and later, when the column had
reached the saluting base, Brigadier Roy
King, D. 5.0., stepped out and joined the
group on the dais. Here were Minister
for the Army Forde, Sydney’s Mayor
and other notables. Later there was a
morning tea-party in the Mayoress’s
rooms,-when the Governor-General, to-
gether with the civic host and hostess,
greeted the guests, among them the Iven
Mackay lady, Mrs. Roy King and Mrs,
F. M. Forde, with daughters Mary and
Lucy. General Blarney’s brother and his
wife and Mrs. A. S. Allen were others.
The informal style of the invitation
to the wedding of Mary K. Woods and
Cliff Gearin strikes a very friendly note.
It starts: “Dear , Mary and Cliff are
being married on February 2 at St.
Mary’s, Ridge-street.” Then follows in
easy style the invitation to be present.
The simplicity, however, does not banish
silver lettering and silver bells entwined
with a true-lover’s knot on the outer sheet
of the cream notepaper. Mary K. will
have three bridesmaids: Patricia Parsons,
Julee Helen McGrath and Margaret
Fagan. Late-afternoon party at the Aus-
tralia will follow.
Kay Grant-Cooper, whose lighthearted
verse has cheered the troops on many a
battle front, has just heard of another
American publication of her works. Her
last American edition was a composite
of her two first books. This time her
latest, It’s ’Ard to be Good in the
Blackout , will appear direct from the
pen, as she compiled it. Doubleday
Doran are bringing out an American edi-
tion of Ernestine Hill’s My Love Must
Wait. And Xavier Herbert’s Capricornia
has for months been a best-seller.
The tall bowl of white agapanthus just
inside the porch of St. James’s last Wed-
nesday gave welcome to Joan Sterling-
Levis when she came to wed her Sergeant
John Ferres. There were about 80 family
friends in the guest pews and a con-
course of young friends at the back
of the church, and all agreed that
Joan made a pretty and dignified bride.
Her white chiffon frock with its pearl
embroideries had been made for her
curtsy at Buckingham Paiace at one of
the last presentations before the war, and,
shorn of its train, it was just right for a
wedding-dress. Father, Dr. Sterling-
Levis, handed his only daughter over to
the young soldier from the north on
demand from army padre Mathers.
Mother in moth-greys and carrying a
pretty posy presented mothers-in-law in
a most attractive light. Old friend
Clement Hosking had a word to say
about that when he proposed the bride’s
parents at the reception in the Forum
Club. Judy Buckley was the bridesmaid,
Colin Conacher was best man and
Clement Hosking lifted his voice in song.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
all the butchers in the shop she deals at
are going around looking like Hamlet,
as though each might at any moment
burst forth: “The time is out of joint,
O cursed spite That ever I was born to
set it right.” And no wonder! The par-
titioning up the meat coupon cuts is going
to be something in the nature of the
higher mathematics. Young men and
women who live on a vegetarian diet are
going to be the eagerly sought prizes in
the marriage and the woo markets. Think
of what a carnivorous young woman
could do with the coupons of two vege-
tarian admirers! The old saying of “two
strings to her bow” will be changed to
“two bean strings to her bow,” uttered
with hungry envy.
Just as surely as Peter Pan would not
grow up, Peter Pan will never die. He
is immortal. For two performances all
last week children packed into the
Minerva to clap loudly and in great agita-
tion to show that they believed in fairies
so that Tinker Bell should not die. They
also applauded Peter the magnificent
when he foiled the pirates, and they
clapped Wendy. Ah, how they clapped
Wendy, the little mother! Lesley Pope,
the girl in this picture, was the Wendy
of the Minerva production. She is the
younger daughter of Commodore and
Mrs. Pope, and she is spreading her
dramatic wings with earnestness and
success. She is featured in two radio
hits —“Digger Hales’s Daughters” and
“Forever Young.” Bryant’s Playhouse
was her training-ground, and she had
finished a season of Barrie there (“Mary
Rose” and “Quality Street”) previous to
her Minerva engagement. Photograph
by Noel Rubie.
Kenn Brodziak, now pilot-officer, sends
a letter full of theatre news from London,
where he is stationed after a long
spell in Africa. His five weeks’ leave
before settling down was spent as the
guest of Elsie and Doris Waters in their
home on the Sussex Downs. Elsie and
Doris are great hits in England’s screen
and music-hall world. Plays are boom-
ing, and every playhouse is booked out
weeks ahead.
Here are some of the shows: “Lisbon
Story” ; “Something in the Air,” starring
everybody’s favorites, Jack Hulbert and
Cicely Courtneidge; “It’s Time to
Dance” ; “Sunny River” ; “The Dancing
Years” ; “Strike a New Note” ; “Lottie
Dundass,” with Sybil Thorndike the star ;
“Mr. Bolfry,” a new play by James
Bridie ; “Pink String and Sealing Wax.”
Sydney’s old friend Coral Browne was
making a hit in “My Sister Eileen.” By
now Ivor Novello’s “Arc de Triomphe ’
will be in full swing; also Daphne Du
Maurier’s “Return of the Soldier” and two
plays by Emlyn Williams. Ada Reeve
has a part in J. B. Priestley’s “They Came
to a City,” and Australians who hold
their own perennially are Cyril and Madge
Ritchards and Robert Helpmann, star of
the ballet at Sadler‘s Wells.
The flag of Canada, the country of
bride Gloria Moore Cosgrave, and that
of Holland, the homeland of her ’groom,
Lieut. Henry Moquette, of the Royal
Dutch Air Force, were a striking part of
the church decoration at their wedding in
St. Philip’s last Saturday. Gloria’s father,
Lieut.-Col. Moore Cosgrave, is Canadian
Military Attache in Australia. According
to Dutch custom the two exchanged wed-
ding rings, her circlet being platinum, his
gold. The wedding dress was of white
satin, long and trained. The veil was a
• cascade of tulle. Mrs. Carleton Kelly
and Mrs. Gordon Scott were the matrons
of honor, and wore frocks of white lace
and specially-designed Dutch bonnets.
The reception was at the Pickwick Club,
and was a very Consular affair.
In the early autumn Sydney is to have
a grand opera season. The Minerva will
ring with the crystalline note of the
soprano, the melting sweetness of the
tenor, as well, of course, as the more
sturdy baritone and contralto and the
tweenies. With the fresh and melodious
voices available in Australia (many of
them polished by study abroad) it is a
wonder a season of opera is not arranged
every year. The public, as well as
vocalists and musicians, is keen to
hear the names of the complete com-
pany. It will possibly be the first time
in Australia that an opera season has
been attempted without imported singers.
From Melbourne
Meat-rationing plans are stirring the
average household’s mathematical brains
(if any) in an effort to plan a workable
“system.” Problem is no easy one, be-
cause when calculated by poundage and
couponableness such usual “buys” as a
week-end joint or a stewing shinbone are
out of the picture. Swapping of recipes
for meatless but satisfying dishes is rife,
but it seems likely that the providing
of several main meals per week along
these lines will tax the cook’s imagina-
tion even so.
Everyone who could make tracks
beachward made them during the New
Year week-end, and the non-answering
telephones of a variety of offices showed
that prolonging the vacation for several
weekdays was very frequent. The sun
that was hidden so often during Decem-
ber has been really doing its best lately,
and this much-rained-on city felt it
should take advantage of the fact. Wel-
fare organisations reported a very slack
period, as service men had mostly made
their plans well in advance, and were
spending leave where the waves were
lapping.
•Keeping a close eye on beach fashions
has become a thing of the past with most
women, and there’s no longer the feeling
that last year’s togs and sandals are as
out of date as crinolines and powdered
hair. The necessity for home-made
swim suits now. that commercial manu-
facture is out created a changed sil-
houette. Most women favor “Bali girl”
suits, like very abbreviated sarongs,
partly for the graceful line they give and
partly because they are decidedly easier
to make successfully than the clinging
type of garment. The effect in bright
cottons is particularly pleasant.
The Yugoslav community here is very
active in keeping alive the cultural tradi-
tions of its homeland and the bringing
together of songs, singers and musicians
of their race. One of the enthusiasts for
this cause is Emi Pikulich, here pictured.
The group links up with any needy
charity and will play and sing whenever
called on in a good cause. As Yugoslav
music is attractively different, they are
much in demand. Obtaining the correct
instruments has been difficult, and at
present there is still need for a gula, a
kind of one-string fiddle. A full orchestra
is the ultimate hope of the group.
Folk with a mechanical bent found any
excuse good enough to take any child of
their acquaintance to see the models ex-
hibition at the Town Hall last week. In
fact, parents and grandfathers, uncles and
aunts considerably outnumbered the
young. The most popular exhibit with
all ages was the railway system of the
Model Railways Society. This boasted
a very lively little train, with all the right
gadgets and accessories, winding in and
out among model hills and stations, hoot-
ing wonderfully as it went. The show
brought to light the existence of hordes
of clever model-makers.
The show was for merchant navy wel-
fare, and was arranged by the Mission to
Seamen. Lud Mayor Nettlefold in an ora-
tion at the opening confessed to having
been a monopoliser of his family’s model
toys in the past, and suggested that the
failing was rife amongst parents. How-
ever, the young seemed to be having a
very good time on this occasion. A kindly
thought on the part of the organisers
was a soft-drink stall, enabling juveniles
to imbibe gaseous liquids through a straw
while watching the model ships sail round
and enlightening grandma’s ignorance
about the innards of battleships and the
ways of traction engines.
Jill, the Healesville Sanctuary platypus,
is nursing the first platypus baby born in
captivity. It looks like being a rival to
London’s baby panda that caused a wave
of panda toys to circle the globe and
brought crowds to the London Zoo. The
event is a well-deserved feather in the
cap of David Fleay, the sanctuary’s
curator, and a tribute to his predecessor,
Robert Eadie, who urged the formation
of the sanctuary in order to preserve
wild life here in the same way as Kruger
Park (with which he was once connected)
has done for South African animals.
Departing in Christmas week Red
Cross Aids bound for Magnetic Island
are going to “make holidays” for others
as a year-round job. They are staffing
the newly-opened Convalescent Hostel
for service women on this delectable
spot. A spacious wooden building with
wide verandahs overlooking the sea, the
house was forlnerly the Magnetic Island
Hotel, and is well-supplied with comfort-
making equipment. Half-hourly trips by
Red Cross launch to Townsville make
contact with the outside world an easy
matter.
Among the R.ed Cross staff are several
who’ve taken oh the work as a war-time
task only, and have had no previous links
with nursing or welfare work of the kind,
though they’ve undergone hospital train-
ing since the war started. The hostel will
be under the charge of Matron Hesse, of
Queensland, and Victoria’s quota is four
Red Cross aids. Capacity of the estab-
lishment is 35 patients and staff.
Pat Weetman had hardly time to pack
her topee and her fly-net before rushing
off at a few hours’ notice to New
Guinea. Being posted to the north was
a tribute to her success as a hospital
visitor during the months she’s Keen on
the job at base hospitals. One of this
city’s best-known women journalists,
she’s full of enthusiasm for work among
the troops, and has the ability to make
any lad feel at ease, a legacy, no doubt,
from the scores of travellers and notables
she’s interviewed in presswoman days.
Country travel during the holidays gave
food for thought. No longer is there the
slightest difference in type between the
people travelling first-class and those
more frugal-minded sitting up in discom-
fort in second-class on northern over-the-
Divide trains. Newly-rich seem those who
have invested in leather or “as-good-as-
leather” attache cases and valises —all
complete with owners’ initials in gold;
they are often boys in munitions taking
mother for a trip to the old home town,
mother having a nice new costume and
fur necklet. Only plebeian note in first-
class compartments is the eating of hot
meat pies out of brown-paper bags and
ice-cream from the cone. Well-brought-
up people at first blush decide that they
never could do it, but when far-apart re-
freshment-rooms at country centres keep
on saying “No eggs, no toast, no coffee,
only tea and pies,” the spirit weakens.
If Judge Moule, who nominated the bottle
as Australia’s national weapon, were now
alive he would no doubt be moved to
suggest a meat pie rampant as a suitable
candidate for inclusion in the country’s
coat of arms.
Among recent engagements is that
of Ruth Clerici to Dion Johnston,
R.A.A.F. Ruth is the daughter of Mrs.
C. J, Clerici, of Sandringham, and the
late Major Clerici, C.1.E., 0.8. E., some-
time Postmaster-General of Bengal and
also Assam. After completing training at
the Alfred Hospital, she is on the Caul-
field Military Hospital staff as a member
of the A.A.N.S. Fiance is son of Mr.
and Mrs. F. Johnston, of Gawler, South
Australia. Matrimonial plans are at the
moment undecided, as service duties have
prior claim on the pair.
With the atmosphere of a comfy if
slightly eerie inn on Dartmoor as its
background, “World’s End,” St. Chad’s
Little Theatre Group’s latest play, has
faint whiffs of “Dear Brutus,” “Hotel
Universe” and other plays of the fantasy
type in its make-up, though it’s not by
any means an echo of those. Comedy is
the dominant note inside a framework of
the really dramatic. As the Group's
scene-painter is now in Air Force blue,
producer Irene Mitchell put hand to
brush and creditably did the job herself.
Contrary to usual short seasons, the play
will run for a month nightly.
For a high standard of citizenship the
country town of Castlemaine would be
hard to beat. Civic pride is evinced by
the splendid array of Australian artists
represented by characteristic pictures in
the town’s Art Gallery. Hilder, Minns,
Griiner, Longstaff, Quinn and even old
Louis Buvelot are a few whose work
glorifies the delightful little gallery. In
the space of the gallery’s ground floor
there is an epitome of all that Australian
artists have achieved since the days of
the gold diggings. Downstairs in a
museum are precious relics, including a
fine old oxen yoke from a near-by sheep
station. Dozens of citizens, alive and
dead, have contributed, and not a few
have helped by leaving money in trust
to buy pictures.


Public Notices.
I, PRIVATE HENRY AUBURN, N 221661, of German
nationality, bom at Cologne (Koln), Germany, and
resident five years and two months in Australia,
now a soldier in the 2nd Aust. Empl. Coy,, P. 0.,
Mascot, N.S.W., intend to apply fon naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JOHN OTTO JANSEN, of Finnish nationality,
born at Nagu, Finland, and resident 15 years and
11 mouths in Australia, now residing at 27 Liverpool
Street, Rose Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JERKO M. ZAHIJA, of Yugoslav nationality, bom
at Vrbnik, Yugoslavia, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at Yittoria Road, North
Ryde, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, LUIGI BIGONTINA, of Italian nationality, born
at Cortina D’Ampezzo, Italy, and resident 15 years
in Australia, now residing at 176 Crown Street,
East Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ZOLTAN EUGEN SCHONBERGER, Doctor of Law,
University of Vienna, of Austrian nationality, born
at Vienna, Austria, and resident over five years in
Australia, now residing at 88 Cavendish Street,
Stanmore, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, SIDNEY SIEGMUND LIPTON, of former Austrian
nationality, born at Kottingbrunn, Austria, and resi-
dent five years in Australia, now residing at 111
Macleay Street, Potts Point, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, HERMAN FULOP, of Hungarian nationality, born
at Hajdudorog, Hungary, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 111 Macleay Street, Potts
Point, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
the Nationalty Act 1920-1936.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairmanj F. W. Dueshury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
df
NO SMELL. NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board*of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£ 17/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including 12*% Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
For Australia at War . .
r O.
'O
O
O
D
*
*0
D
■
*CF TO'^
Qfe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
■
m
■ m
m i
■■■l
m
mm
-
m
asl
I i f* i^W
. . ?f< ; ,
il
rn§m
<*&
* ■
to.
Hf
: ' »•
Hi
■
riJJ A POST WAR
WORLD OF FLIGHT
m
Today our every
thought and plan is
ceaselessly devoted to
the service of martial
production but just
sometimes our
thoughts turn to the
possibilities of the
future a future
world of flight a
future when the accur-
acy that our skilled
engineers are building
into precision parts
for the war planes of
today, will become the accuracy that makes
for a greater factor of safety in the com-
mercial planes of tomorrow.
Every starter, generator, magneto—in fact,
all aircraft equipment units, now being
produced by Tecnico for the needs of war,
are in themselves factors in the march
towards the fulfilment of those ideas of
a post-war world of flight.
When victory is ours, high standards of
precision engineering and craftsmanship
achieved during war will still characterise
“A Tecnico Product” in peacetime industry.
ecmco
TC.3.4
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST..
MARRICKVILLE. N.S.W. PHONE LL3211
SMOKE-OH!
“Is it bad luck to keep old love letters?”
—lnquirer in “Sun."
Yes, if your wife finds them.
•J*
“Baroque Peals, 500 carats. Genuine.”
— “S. M. Herald” For Sale ad.
They must ring true.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Our standing army—tram travellers.
4* 4« 4* 4*
“From the dock Poole said he had a few
drinks, which had gone to his head.” — “Sun.”
“For Women Only.—Owner of 1940 Model
Ford Car would like to correspond with widow
who owns four good tyres; view matrimony.
Send photo, of the Tyres when replying to
Ajax, c/o ‘Advertiser’ office, Crow’s Nest, Q.”
The original Ajax defied only the
lightning.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Naturally.
“Face smacked by wife at a dance. Woman
who waltzed off.” — “Truth/'
She led him a dance, then she just
smacked his face. Some say women like
that are a curse. Still, if men like to
prance let them set the right pace. In a
waltz you’d expect a reverse.
Yair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Adams’ Express Transport Co. requires
stenographist.”— Advt.
An Eve for Adams’ express company.
It’s no use expecting the milk of
human kindness from an old cow.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Male Milliner Weeps on Mother’s Shoulder.”
—Court item.
His nerves must have been in ribbons!
4* 4* *l* 4<
“Doctor says whisky is not a cure for influ-
enza.”
That’s because we have to cough-up
too much for it.
4> 4* 4* 4*
Getting Hard.
“Charged with disorderly conduct, a soldier
said he was being sent home on leave too
much.” —Army trial report.
“What’s this?” exclaimed the adjutant;
“another application for cancellation of
leave?”
“Yes, sir,” said the orderly-room ser-
geant ; “that’s the fifth this morning.”
“But we can’t have everybody staying
in camp,” exploded the C.O. “The wet
canteen can’t stand it!”
“That’s right, sir. These chaps don’t
seem to realise there’s a war on,” put in
the adjutant. “If I had my way every
man would be sent on compulsory leave
for seven days.”
“Could you make an exception of Pte.
Hodge’s application, sir?” asked the ser-
geant ; “he’s applying on compassionate
grounds—his wife’s now living at her
mother’s, and naturally he’d be ex-
pected”—
“Granted in that case. But we’ll have
to clamp down on all the others. In
future, any man caught in camp when
he should be on leave goes on a charge.”
No. 48607.
To An Idealist.
You state, with a wild ebullition of soul,
And while banging the table with
menacing fist.
That the world is a perfect, harmonious
whole,
A nd that sorrow and strife do not even
exist.
In a system so perfect, where nothing is
ill.
You say that by sense we are sorely
misled.
But I cannot help wondering whether
you still
Would believe in this harmony had
you been wed!
T. W. Nathan.
Well, wouldn’t it ? Once placid, cool,
He probably received a shock.
A few pints added, and this Poole
Had overflowed into the dock.
T. D. F.
Modern Strategy.
“Cigarette wedding.”— “Sun.”
The gay spark offered cigarettes,
And Love’s bright fire awoke.
But soon she found there was a catch.
The spark said “Have you got a
match ?”
Then Love went up in smoke.
EVE.
Education for Peace.
“Four children at the Great Ormonde-street
Hospital, London, refused to eat bananas be-
cause they did not know what they were.”
—“Daily Telegraph.’''
It was about the tenth year of the war
that my Tour youngsters, born at varying
intervals since 1940, began to give
trouble.
When I thought to cheer young Win-
ston, performing his morning task of
rubbing two sticks together to light the
kitchen fire, by telling him how easy it
used to be with matches, he gave me the
lie direct.
On another occasion a friend sent me
an orange, registered and insured, and I
gave it to little Franklin without first tell-
ing him what it was for. His expression,
seen through a mask of orange pulp, after
he tried to hit it for six in the backyard,
was Jhe cause of our synthetic milk turn-
ing sour.
When he was five Josef was lucky
enough to get a scrambled egg for break-
fast. It was only a small egg, because
our parrot wasn’t very old. But poor
little Josef wept bitterly when he saw
the savory mess, and accused me of try-
ing to poison him with mustard gas.
Chiang, fortunately, was too young to
suffer any of these horrors while the
bickering was on, but he caused quite a
stir after it was over by pouring a bucket
of water over my father, who was enjoy-
ing his first pipe for fifteen years.
However, they are young and resilient;
they will recover. Myself, I can’t get out
of the habit of cringing with an ingratiat-
ing smile in the presence of anyone from
a tobacconist to a taxi-driver.
PLUM.
New Version.
Tell me not in mournful numbers
Life ip but an empty dream —
The thing has now become a nightmare.
Ration scheme on ration scheme.
MRS. P.
Variation.
“Heat invariably put her in low spirits, and
her stay in the tropics was marked by numerous
attacks of depression.” —Biographical item.
In humans young and old ■
What varied types we meet!
While most get blue with cold,
Here’s one got blue with heat!
NAT.
The Humor of It.
“Charged with punching his wife in the face,
he pleaded that he had only done it as a joke.”
—Divorce item.
Our home has long been permeated by
this type of domestic humor. Only last
Friday I* arrived home short-weight in
the pay. I thought this was very funny.
Myrtle must have been tickled, too, for
she threw the flat iron at me. Realising
she was in the mood for a little badinage,
I flung it back and caught her in the
midriff. She literally doubled up with
mirth.
But Myrtle always liked to make the
last sally. It came sizzling back .at me
and just grazed my ear. It was nearly a
case of unconscious humor. After that,
the comedy rose merrily to a climax, and
Myrtle seized the carving knife.
Seeing the point, I realised the joke
was on me, and suddenly remembered
an appointment. I haven’t been back
since.
T. W. N.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
A. and S.D.
We, Administrative and Special Duties
men of the R.A.A.F. on active service, are
weary of reading civilian opinions of our
pampered existence and of our apparent
unworthiness of the King’s commission.
Some little ignorance of the facts is
shown in the outbursts of “Per Ardua
Astra” and “Commonsense” (B.
177.11/’43) —-a long way back, but our
Bulletins are old by the time they reach
here.
In the first place, most of us A. and
S.D. men, being too old for air crew, to
be in which we would give our ears,
threw up comfortable jobs in civilian life
to undertake tasks assigned to us anywhere,
at home or abroad. There were no re-
servations about soft jobs in Melbourne
or Sydney. We ask no bouquets for this
—Australia was threatened, and it was
our duty—and, by George, we are get-
ting none!
We knew there would be none of the
glamor and adulation attached to a pair
of silver wings. After all, who has seen
a pictured hero of flapper-press fiction
with an empty space above the left breast
pocket? However, we did not expect
it, and we begrudge our air-crew pals not
a whit of it.
Do those correspondents imagine that
a bombing raid over enemy territory is
simply a matter of jumping into an air-
craft, flying till a target is found, drop-
ping the bombs and flying home? A
visit to a squadron briefing before a raid
would perhaps open their eyes as to
the tremendous amount of meticulous
preparation necessary, most of it by men
who seldom or never fly, except as pas-
sengers. Security reasons forbid my going
into detail, but surely even a Fireside
Fusilier must realise that accurate and
detailed information on the target chosen,
opposition likely to be encountered, up-
to-the-minute weather information,
friendly shipping likely to be sighted and
a host of other details must be on tap.
Bombs and torpedoes must be on the
spot just when they are needed, and the
aircraft themselves have to be 100 p.c. fit
and ready, not to mention the highly-
complicated instruments and apparatus a
modern aircraft farries.
All these are jobs for experienced tech-
nicians, “gentry who never fly” ; and most
of them A. and S.D. Incidentally, Mit-
chell and Messerschmitt were gentry who
never flew.
Have you, “Per Ardua Astra,” never
heard of the complicated signals organ-
isation and its ramifications, vital to air
operations, and the appliances which bring
the aircraft home when lost or in bad
weather?
It is true that the pilot, sometimes a
sergeant, is in command of an aircraft
worth many thousands of pounds. But,
apparently, there are many who do not
seem to realise that a mistake by the
lowliest ACI fitter, rigger, armorer or
W/T operator, to mention but a few of
many, may result in the loss of that air-
craft and its crew. Responsibility in-
creases with rank, and on the efficiency
with which an A. and S.D. man carries
out his allotted task depends often the
success or failure of an operation, the
safety of a squadron. Is not this respon-
sibility enough?
Incidentally, we find that malaria,
scrub typhus, elephantiasis, tropical skin
diseases and the like do not discriminate
between air and ground staff any more
than do enemy bombs. Also bully beef,
and chlorinated water taste the same to
all palates, flying and non-flying—even
unto A. and S.D.
If such correspondents would take the
trouble to find out just what jobs are
being carried out by A. and S.D. men
and where they are serving, and if they
could realise that wherever the R.A.A.F.
goes there are A. and S.D. men in the
front rank, they perhaps at last would
come to the understanding that air opera-
tions depend on Teamwork (cap, please!)
and that an integral and vital member of
that team is the A. and S.D.— Sperry
(New Guinea).
Soldiers at 18
The experience of “Toreador” (B.
15/12/’43) differs from that of the
majority of the First A.I.F. In my ex-
perience the place of boys in their teens
was not in the Army. Every infantry
officer with whom I have discussed the
question has been emphatic in his con-
demnation of the use of boys. For a
few days they were all right, but they
could not stand up to the gruelling con-
ditions of infantry warfare. They went
to pieces quickly, and the effect of long,
continuous bombardment was in many
cases pitiable. They had neither the phy-
sical nor mental strength to endure.
The youngster may have more dash, as
“Toreador” says, but he cannot sustain
it. In any case, he has no more dash than
a man in his mid-twenties, who combines
dash with staying power.
The R.A.A.F. is a different matter. The
airman is not subjected to the same long,
continuous strain as a soldier in the front
line. His strain is great while it lasts,
but when it is over he goes into living
conditions which help to restore nerves
which may have become frayed. In any
case, the Air Force seems to prefer older
boys for the bombers, where the strain
is greater and more continuous; most
of our aces are men in their late twenties.
—A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. Father (N.S.W.).
Out of the Army
If men discharged from the army
are to be given a fair deal the present
system of handling deferred pay will have
'to be altered.
Soldiers proceeding to General Details
Depots for discharge are now granted
any leave due to them and allowed to
"Something wrong, Bert —he seems to be suspicious !”
draw any amount in credit in their pay-
books, plus a £lO advance against de-
ferred pay should length of service be
sufficient to warrant this.
Personnel are free to take a job as
from the date they leave General Details
Depots, but are seriously handicapped
in that they have to wait two to six
weeks for the balance of deferred pay to
be paid into, their banking accounts.
Surely it would not entail a great deal
more labor for the soldier’s account to
be finalised before leaving G.D.D., thus
allowing him to use his deferred pay in
re-establishing himself in civilian life
instead of waiting weeks for the money
to come to hand— Peter (N.S.W.).
Poultry-yard Tragedy
To my neighbor, proud possessor of
27 adult female fowls, came an official
minute. Should he keep more than 19
he must register them, pay per dozen
on all eggs sold and be subject to inspection.
Decapitation, followed by a series
of poultry menus, speedily reduced his
flock to the free-from-official-interference
number. Then came the ukase that back-
yard poultry-growers might, with Minis-
terial blessing, keep up to 40 hens.
“But who,” asks Smith mournfully,
“will bring my prime Leghorns back to
life again?”— Groper (W.A.).
Veges.
Having ploughed-in acres of beans
and several thousand cabbages I am
one of many who have cut their losses
on the “Grow More Vegetables” gag. The
sorry part is not the pecuniary loss or
even the wastage of good food (for it’s
better to have had and lost than never
to have had at all), but the thousands
of working hours wasted by growers who,
belonging to no union, “scab” on them-
selves by working 60-70 hours per week.
The first general productive effort, ably
assisted by Nature, after 18 months’ talk
of providing for ourselves and others
sees chaos in the absorbing of those pro-
ducts.
Why Australia with its large irrigable
areas and big farm machinery is exhorted
to bring forth its hoes and rakes to tickle
backyard areas is beyond all understand-
ing.
Mr. Scully’s claim that dumping from
city markets of vegetables is practically
negligible may be quite correct, for it is
infinitesimal compared with the dumping
on the farms.
The time is now opportune for growers
to have a nine days’ recess (at their own
expense) to bury plums and peaches not
wanted. —A. M. S. (N.S.W.).
Why Not Australian Motor-cars?
Paragraph from an Australian weekly:
“The state of overseas motor-car produc-
tion is such that there is no likelihood of
there being new cars available for Aus-
tralia from abroad for at least two years
after the end of the war.”
Why should that be cause for worry?
Since the outbreak of war Australia has
produced ’planes, tanks and guns, to say
nothing of high-precision instruments.
Surely the production of an Australian-
made motor-car is within the bounds of
possibility. We have the labor and the
market and all the raw materials except
rubber, and in that respect are no worse
off than our prospective competitors.
No doubt importing interests will
come forward with the old catch phrases
“economic production” and so forth. It
has taken a war to make us realise how
dependent we are on overseas manufac-
tures. Witness the shocking scarcity of
hardware, china and everyday household
utensils. Here is an opportunity for what-
ever Australian Government may be in
power after the war. It can give us inde-
pendence in all essential industries. The
luxuries can look after themselves. —
Stooge (Tas.).
Post-war Road Transport
The greatest need in this country after
the war will be cheap transport so that
produce can be carried long distances
to markets at the lowest possible cost. To
secure this, the free importation of all
transport vehicles and accessories is
essential.
There is a story going the rounds that
all lease-lend goods (including aircraft
and motor vehicles) not required by the
Commonwealth Government will be de-
stroyed when hostilities cease. It would
be a tragedy, as there will be a desperate
shortage of all types of trucks and cars,
and all surplus over Government require-
ments could be used in commercial work.
After the last war perfectly good
aeroplanes which had never been taken
out of the crates had petrol poured over
them and burnt. To permit such a waste-
ful policy to be carried out again would
be criminal— Recco (N.S.W.).
Tyres for Farmers
The man on the land appears to be
regarded as a sitting shot for officialdom.
Take the prescribed use of one utility
on a community basis to cart products to
roadside. It means that perishables from
several farms lie for hours before being
loaded by a general carrier. Farmers are
refused tyres to assist their efforts to step
up production, and when they have tyres
they are mostly limited to four gallons of
fuel monthly. Yet in my locality repre-
sentatives of two firms whose products,
many synthetic, mainly luxury table
delicacies and non-essential cosmetics and
hair oils boast that they are obtaining
sufficient petrol to run over 100 miles
weekly; and they don’t worry about
tyres.
Neither does one of my neighbors
—a garage employee. He recently re-
shod his car and can strap on a couple
of spares and put sufficient fuel into his
tank to enable him to make pleasure trips
three week-ends out of four to another
town, each run aggregating just on 200
miles.
In other directions there ought to
be a drastic tightening up on tyre wear
and petrol consumption. Four or five
army officers whose duties take them
from one camp to another could use the
one car instead of five cars and five
drivers to make a procession. And from
what has recently been noted in my town
it is apparent that C.C.C. truck-drivers
may use C.C.C. trucks for any purpose
of their own. One wonders if there is
any supervision in this organisation when
truck-drivers, on days when they are re-
puted to be on Allied Works Council
work, can deliver loads of firewood to
their homes, take the kiddies for drives,
travel somewhere and load on a three-
ton truck half a ton of material and take
a siesta at home before returning to the job.
Supervision of trucks over the five-
day Christmas break obviously didn’t
exist, for one driver of a huge C.C.C.
truck was able to burn up enough fuel
on sheer pleasure-running to have met a
harassed farmer’s requirements for a few
months. Tyre conservation, too, does not
appear to be of concern in this outfit.—
N. H. (Q.).
Italians
Allow me a brief reply to your two
A.I.F. students, “A.G.McC.” and “D.H.”
(B. 15 /12/’43).
(1) I have known of all Italian activi-
ties in Australia. The main objections
lodged against them are: (a) they work
too hard, ( b ) they want to own land and
work it. Their thrift, industry, sobriety
and integrity render them outstanding
and dangerous competitors.
(2) So the Italians don’t fight hard
enough? Well, then, let us import Prus-
sians or Japs.
(3) A lower standard of living is a lot
enjoyed by many in our peace-time
economy. But a high spending on
luxuries is not a high standard of living
at all.
(4) As to army sentiment and guidance
in the government of a country, never
in all history has an army done even
moderately well in trying to govern the
country to which it belongs.—M. L.
Kelly (S.A.),
Birth Control
Only a man could write such nonsense
as “I.I.” (B. 1/12/’44). Certainly we
should have birth control; then perhaps
there would be no need for laws relating
to abortion.
Birth control provides for many people
the only solution to the domestic and
financial problems of married life. Why
should any mother be expected to have
a baby every year or so with the atten-
dant drudgery and suffering entailed?
Some women may stand the strain ; many
would not.
If a mother can space the births to
about every three years or so she has
more chance of keeping better health and
to recover from one confinement before
being called upon to undergo another,
and is better able to give her children
proper care and attention.
Consider a few countries where high
birthrates prevail and note their low liv-
ing standards and frequent famines.
Where the birthrate is high the infantile
deathrate also is high.
Hitler banned the sale of contraceptives
and even encouraged unmarried women
to bear children. No woman will
be coerced into bearing a large family
against her will. I think the time
of large families is past and will not be
revived, do what you will. But if con-
ditions were made better for mothers
and children —better housing with reason-
able rents, facilities for mothers to travel
with prams, and the confidence that their
children will be able to receive decent
education and be able to secure and hold
jobs—we may see families of more than
the usual one or two children. — Mrs.
G. C. (Vic.).
Coupons and Prices
Futile are these efforts to reduce the
wave of extravagant spending.
Conspicuous is the way in which
clothing prices have run amuck. More
money than ever is being spent on a
smaller amount of clothing, the inevitable
result of our way of coupon rationing.
Rationing could be made to control
prices if the coupon-value of an article
was made to vary with the price. If
more coupons were required for an
extravagant line than for the reasonably-
priced one I am sure that the coupon-
conscious public would spend more
sanely.— Toreador (A.1.F.).


nmethinq to
look forward to ...
i
T
r .„.
XT'
if//
X
ih
h
V\
A
T
\ Wx\\
A
\l
/
V/
*ri
/
*
fA
# j*
w
So 3
f
w.
&
mr.
*4
■'
if
f ■
i' ,
mm
i
sst*
vT
VES, you and yours have something to look
forward to . . . The gladsome news of peace
—permanent, stress-free—a new home worthy
of the name ... a steady job in which a man may
realise ambition . . . go-as-you-please freedom cleft
of wartime’s cramping shackles, freedom of thought,
action and leisure, to be enjoyed as your way of life
prescribes.
All these joys are of the future . , . held in
abeyance by war’s cruel demands.
But certainly they’ll come, and so much faster
because war s impelling circumstances have forged
a resolute partnership ... of those who
furnish the weapons and the men who
fight with them.
You and yours are in this partner-
ship, you share its toils and you’ll share
the profits, the happier life that waits
on victory.
Australia has the will to win. Our
fighting forces have proved this, and our
armies in overalls have buttressed such
proof by their amazing production of
war-winning munitions.
No. 1 production army comprises
the men of the steel industry. They’re
the shock troops of the munition front.
Theirs is the task of winning the metals—iron and
steel—that will win the war!
They needed little specialised training for their
wartime posts. War found them prepared, effi-
ciently manned and equipped so that in the switch
to wartime conditions no dislocation of output
occurred and Australia’s steel industry continued to
make great tonnages of steel available at prices
which even in peacetime were the lowest in the
world.
Chief contributor to Australia’s preparedness in
steel is The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Through this company’s enterprise, Australia
obtains the steel which enables the construction of
3.7 anti-aircraft guns and the 23-pounder gun
howitzers. Its metallurgists gave the nation bullet-
proof armour-plate, and enabled tank production
in Australia to become a reality
For the whole gamut of munition production
from shells to ships, anti-tank guns to aeroplanes,
B.H.P. Steel forms the all-essential material. The
steel industry which assures its supply gives Austra-
lia the fighting chance . . . the speeding victory.
It does more than that. Thie steel industry gives
Australia’s working thousands the promise of
something to look forward to, that happy age when
steel’s versatility is devoted to the peacetime welfare
of you and yours.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
: - '■ ■. ■ .
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street,
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
.
Melbourne,
shipbuilding and Blast Furnace
B.H.P. Steel gives our fighting men the weapons needed to win the war and
eace.
win
rovtae
e ma
wi
ee
