

GRAPE
AR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3357
Wednesday, June 14, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN NEW BRIGGATE’S “ST. JOHN’S.”
LEEDS, in Yorkshire, great industrial centre as it is, is also
famous as a city of pioneers. It was a Leeds stonemason,
Joseph Aspdin, who discovered Portland cement; and one of its
citizens, the Frenchman Augustin le Prince, took some of the first
motion pictures, his apparatus still being in London’s Kensington
Museum of Science. In Leeds, Matthew Murray had steam engines
working long before George Stephenson’s “Rocket” amazed the
world. And the father of modern chemistry, Joseph Priestley,
was born at Leeds, as also was John Harrison, who owned immense
estates in Leeds and devoted much of his wealth to the welfare of
others.
Among John Harrison’s gifts to Leeds is the city’s most interest-
ing church, that of St. John’s in New Briggate, completed in 1634,
of which is shown here the superb chancel screen, massive enough
to last a thousand years. The interior of the Gothic-style edifice
is one of the most remarkable in England. Its fine gabled roofs
have plaster panels adorned with birds and flowers, and the moulded
beams, with dependent golden bosses, rest on quaint painted angels
with gold wings.
In the church chancel, under a simple monument, rests the
man whom Leeds so gratefully remembers, John Harrison, whose
memory is preserved also in a near-by retreat with seats made from
the timbers of man-of-war and sundial which says:
Alone he stands among the flowers,
And only counts the sunny hours;
Dull days for him do not exist.
The brazen-faced old optimist.


II lb
sJJJMI
’o'
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB. 144
AGE
The Red Page
THIS "BACKWA
When “S. M. Herald” made the state-
ment recently that Australian artists had
been “revolving in a small Australian
backwater,” it was not the “Herald’s” art
critic who spoke in a fit of frolic, but
“Granny” herself, solidly and solemnly
in one of her leading articles. And, I
confess, the assertion had me worried.
Nothing, not even a “Herald” leader,
could shake my faith in Australian paint-
ing. On the contrary, I believe that
artists will one day come from their
European “backwater” to study the Aus-
tralian masters, especially Streeton,
Gruner and Norman Lindsay. No one
today, anywhere in the world, can claim
to be fully aware of the history of art —
fully civilised, indeed —until he has seen
what these artists have done.
Australian painting is established. And
yet I would feel with the “Herald” a
certain uneasiness if it could be proved
that, “revolving” in their own continent,
Australian artists were not acquainted
with the French Impressionists and con-
temporary European painting generally.
Only the “Herald” would demand that
Australians should imitate European art,
but everybody would like them to know
what has been going on ; to borrow, if
they thought fit, what has been good in
the various movements, and to reject,
with a full knowledge of what they were
doing, anything they might find bad.
It’s not absolutely necessary that a
man should know what his contempor-
aries or immediate forerunners have done
in the arts. Yeats, for instance, giving
advice to young poets, said that all read-
ing of contemporaries should be avoided.
But it’s clear from his works that Yeats
invariably read his contemporaries.
Though he never imitated them, he bor-
rowed considerably from three genera-
tions of them. It’s probably desirable,
then, for an artist to know the fashions
of his time.
It might be argued, in defence of our
waterlogged Australians, that so many
prints of recent European works have
floated into our ports that even the
children in the schools know something
about the movements. Surely, if the Old
Lady of Hunter-street has heard about
Van Gogh or Picasso, Australian artists
have known all about them for 20 years.
Even so, I would concede “Granny”
a point. One can learn a good deal more
from originals than from prints. And,
though studio talk is much the same all
the world over, perhaps an Australian
artist would find some profit in mingling
with practising European contemporaries
for a season or two.
Consequently “Granny’s” leader had
me worried: Gruner, Heysen, Lindsay,
Lambert, Streeton and the other leaders
of the Australian effort had been “revolv-
ing” here when they should have been
spinning overseas.
How many a darling theory has been
ruined by remorseless fact! One cotfid
have a theory that the moon was made
of green cheese, and as long as nobody
was unkind enough to point out that it
is not, in cold fact, made of green cheese
one could go on believing it for ever.
One could have a theory that Aus-
tralian artists have been “revolving in a
small Australian backwater,” and one
could go on believing it for ever and per-
suade all one’s readers to go on believing
it for ever—-if only a ruthless Who’s Who
in Australia (which is not apparently in
the “Herald” library) did not confirm
one’s suspicion that Hans Heysen
spent four years in Europe, first under
Jean Paul Laurens, Benjamin Constant
and Bonnat in Paris, and afterwards in the
art schools of Italy.
Gruner, too, departed for a time from
this “backwater” to study European art
at firsthand. So, I am afraid, did
Lindsay, Lambert and Streeton.
And so, too, I fear me, did Longstaff
and Mclnnes and Will Ashton and B. E.
Minns and Penleigh Boyd and Syd Long
and Max Meldrum and Mary Edwards
and Arthur Murch and-—l’m hanged if I
can think of any artist of note who hasn’t
made the voyage to Europe! Even the
younger school has done it—Lance Solo-
mon, for example, the young landscapist
who looks most likely to carry on the
great Australian tradition.
Since all these artists, though un-
questionably influenced for their good by
their contact with European art, rejected
the oddities of it favored by the “Herald,”
the facts seem to indicate not only that
“Granny’s” theory is all moonshine, but
that there is a formidable body of opinion
against her views on art in general.
I am sorry to have to write this article.
I hate to spoil a theory with cold facts.
But I am afraid the facts do show that,
instead of “revolving in a backwater,”
Australian artists have been leaping to
and fro across the oceans; or, in short,
it is not Australian art that is up a gum-
tree but “Granny Herald.”
MACHOOTS.
Playwrights in Australia.
In the art world, as in the commercial
world, if people really want anything they
are prepared to pay good money for it.
A private buyer in Melbourne has recently
paid 500 guineas for a landscape by
Streeton. It’s probably significant, there-
fore, that there happens to be at the
moment £375 on offer for Australian
plays.
The A.B.C.’s competition for radio
plays (first prize £lOO ; other prizes total-
ling £150) closes on June 30. The Play-
wrights’ Advisory Board, Sydney, has a
first prize of £lOO (second prize £25) on
offer for a stage play by an Australian
or New Zealand writer, the competition
closing on December 31, 1944.
The A.B.C. might reasonably claim
some of the credit for the Playwrights’
Advisory Board’s competition as well as
its own; for by consistently buying and
producing Australian plays and by run-
ning a series of competitions in recent
years—each time, significantly; increas-
ing the prize money—it has given a lead
to the theatrical world as a whole. In-
stead of being, like the commercial
theatre, afraid of plays with an Aus-
tralian setting and terrified of verse plays,
it has fostered and made a success of
both.
The dozen or so amateur dramatic
societies in Sydney, most of which at one
time or another have staged Australian
plays, can also fairly claim that their
years of patient endeavor are at last bear-
ing fruit in these competitions. They
have not been able to offer the play-
wright the most soul-satisfying reward
of all (playwrights having very human
souls): production on the large scale with
sizable royalties. But they have done
what they could; and, while the A.B.C.
has brought the radio play into being,
they have kept the stage play alive.
Over the past five years, the Play-
wrights’ Advisory Board has been doing
most valuable work.
Working in an entirely honorary capa-
city, it has read and criticised some hun-
dreds of play manuscript's, has arranged
for over 60 productions of Australian plays
in various cities and has collected royalties
on behalf of the authors in respect of
every one of these productions. It has also
arranged for the publication of 15 stage
plays in 10 separate small volumes.
These published plays have been re-
viewed in The Bulletin as they ap-
peared. New titles shortly to be published
are Six Australian One-act Plays, by vari-
ous authors; Wives Have Their Uses, a
comedy by Gwen Meredith ; Quiet Night,
a comedy by Dorothy Blewett; and
George Landen Dann’s Fountains Be-
yond.
Much has been done ; but much more
remains to be done if, as eventually it
must, Australian drama is to become
established in the way that painting,
poetry, the novel and the short story are
established.
Before the Australian play can really
be said to have “arrived,” there must be
professional playwrights in this country,
making a satisfactory living out of their
profession. Doctors make a living in
Australia; wharf-laborers, coalminers,
butchers, lawyers, bottle-ohs and black-
marketeers make a living.
And, curiously enough, professional
painters make a living. Novelists do
pretty well; and, if only they were pro-
fessional novelists, turning out a book a
year, would make a very comfortable
living.
No dramatist, from one end of the
country to another, makes an annual in-
come that would keep even Mahatma
Gandhi alive.
The usual practice of playwrights, con-
fronted with this situation, is to roar at
the commercial theatre. And, it must
be said, there is probably some reason
for roaring. It has been noted that the
only Australian play staged by The Firm
for 20 years was set in London. (Inci-
dentally, though it wasn’t advertised as
such, “The Wind and the Rain,” which,
strikers permitting, should be running at
Sydney Royal by the time this article is
printed, was written by a,New Zealander,
Merton Hodge. It is set in Edinburgh.)
And it has also been noted that no Aus-
tralian play has ever been seen at Sydney
Minerva.
The Minerva’s policy of tempting the
public back to the legitimate theatre by
a series of American light comedies
seems sensible enough. The Firm’s policy
of revivals has seemed fantastically un-
adventurous: there are crowds for any
sort of show, Australian books —even
poetry —are booming as never before
and, whatever war-time, difficulties it is
experiencing, The Firm could surely have
found something more enterprising than
“The Merry Widow” and “Lilac Time.”
In the circular sent to The Bulletin
by the Playwrights’ Advisory Board it is
announced that the money for its com-
petition was donated in equal amounts
by Austral-American Productions, W. H.
Paling and Co., Ltd., Nicholson’s Pty.,
Ltd., David Jones, Ltd., and F. S. Walton
and Co. (Caesar Fabrics). Not a penny
from either of Sydney’s commercial
theatres.
But playwrights starving in their
garrets or, what is far worse, writing as
amateurs in their spare time with a tenth
of their full energy, should pot roar only
at the commercial theatre.
Both the amateur societies and the
A.8.C., admirable though their work has
been, could do more than they have done.
A point for the A.B.C. to consider is
that competitions will give them plays
but not playwrights. From its verse play
competition a while ago the A.B.C. got
about 12 producible plays; but did it
create 12 professional playwrights?
The only way to create professional
playwrights is to make the game worth
while; to pay adequately for what is at
least six months’ and probably a year’s
heart-breaking toils One play a year is
all that reasonably can be asked from
any man ; and few men will work joy-
fully for £2O a year or even for double
that sum. Competitions may encourage
the winner of them; but, failing an
adequate payment for producible plays
that don’t figure on the prize-list, their
general effect may turn out to be posi-
tively discouraging.
The A.B.C.’s goodwill is unquestion-
able ; but its ordinary payments for plays
—probably an average of £2O, sometimes
more, but never as much as £4O; and not
for a single performance but for the Aus-
tralian broadcasting copyright are
clearly inadequate. And inadequate for
only one reason: radio drama is new.
Pioneers live on damper.
That the playwright can supplement
the A.B.C.’s payments by reselling his
work overseas and by publishing it' in
book form is irrelevant. The playwright
should make his living from the perform-
ance of his plays. That the 8.8. C. does
not pay a great deal more and that New
Zealand pays less is irrelevant. Aus-
tralia has, it is true, a comparatively
small population; but if among that
population one man will pay 500 guineas
for one painting by Streeton the A.8.C.,
which, after all, is a Government con-
cern —in effect, the whole people of Aus-
tralia —should be able to do rather more
than it does to support its playwrights.
As a nation we do not err on the side of
generosity when we offer our playwrights
a living of round about £2O a year.
Then there are the Little Theatres. It
would be asking too much of human
nature* to suggest that the dozen or more
groups in Sydney should amalgamate;
but if, while the separate groups retained
their identities, they could all belong at
the same time to some sort of central
organisation, they could do far more
than at present. They could stage plays
in a reasonably large way, offer from
subscription members alone quite a toler-
able return to the playwright, and act as
a testing ground for the commercial
theatre. There is a great need in this
country for something like the Theatre
Guild of America.
But whatever responsibilities may be
placed on the A.8.C., the commercial
theatre and the amateur societies, the
matter of improving their conditions rests
chiefly with the playwrights themselves.
When there are enough plays written and,
more importantly, when there is a body
of writers who, in spite of the difficulties,
have had the courage and the persever-
ance to make themselves into professional
playwrights, the rewards will inevitably
come.
Before anyone is really entitled to roar
at the commercial theatre, to ask the
people of Australia for a better price
from the A.B.C. or to invite the repertory
theatres to combine, there must be plays
and professional playwrights, and both
must be genuinely good.
The need, it seems to the present com-
mentator, is for comedy. The com-
mercial theatre is perfectly entitled to ask
for box-office successes, and A.B.C. plays,
too, should be for a wide audience. The
tendency has been towards serious-
minded, semi-epical historical plays and
towards earnest-minded reformist plays.
Both may have their places ; but they will
never win the battle for the Australian
playwright. The eminently sound advice
, J. B. Yeats gave his son W. B. Yeats,
quoted on last week’s Red Page, is very
much to the point:
Theatrical audiences are bent on amuse-
ment. There is something about the theatre,
something inevitable when people come to-
gether in holiday mood and in crowds,
which makes deductive purpose and moral
effort an irrelevancy and ridiculous. That
is why English writers approach the theatre
shorn of half their strength—and that is
why we, the mere Irish, having escaped
Puritanism, and so bent on making pleas-
ure a serious concern succeed where they
fail and write the plays.
It’s perhaps a good omen that two of
the plays about tp be published under
the auspices of the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board are labelled comedies. The board’s
address for details of its competition
is Fifth Floor, Scot Chambers, Hosking-
place, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On originality in painting:
Tom Garrett’s monotypes and oils at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries and Donald Friend’s paint-
ings and drawings at the Macquarie Galleries
make an interesting contrast. Tom Garrett,
who paints with something of Hilder’s poetry,
leaves the impression that he loves what he
paints; if he had no talent at all —though he
has a lot—he would still be a lover of mountain
blues, of the rush and sparkle of remote
streams in the bush, of the movement and
mystery of leaves against the sky and, more
than anything, of old stone in the sun. His
oils are not satisfactory, inclined to be pretty-
pretty. Some of his monotypes (though Hilder
would have loved the warm, hazy sunlight' of
No. 34, “West”) are a trifle cold and remote,
as if he did not see Nature directly, but always
through a pane of glass—the weakness of this
medium. But the best of these are unfor-
gettably lovely: in particular, No. 10, “Up-
lands,” where the. combination of a stony hill-
side and a road, a gum-tree in the fore-
ground and blue mountains in the distance
gives him everything he likes best and paints
best. If, as by definition it must be, originality
is an individual concept of life or nature ex-
pressed in an individual style, Tom Garrett has
it. No individual concept, or only a slight
trace of one, can be found in Donald Friend’s
work. There are drawings of negroes, but
negroes are a convention of the times, dating
probably from Baudelaire; there are tubular
soldiers without faces, but these too are a con-
vention of the times; there are squat red
buildings in Australian country towns where
apparently the sun never shines, but these are
indistinguishable from the lightless satires of
Russell Drysdale. Individuality must’ be looked
for in the straightforward pen-and-wash draw-
ings, which, if not strongly distinctive so that
one could recognise a Friend drawing any-
where as one could recognise a Garrett mono-
type, are capable and attractive. One is left
with the impression of talent only—a talent
lacking direction, probably because the artist
has been misled into imagining that originality
is achieved by repeating the conventions of
the age.
Landscapes, mainly sound work in a
sound tradition, dominate the show of
the Fifteen Group at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney: Robert Johnson’s
richly-colored “Clay Road,” a typical
Syd Long harbor and sky, James R. Jack-
son’s “Evening Quiet,” Fred Leist’s subtle
“The Return,” Eric Langker’s “Autumn
Evening” and “Middle Harbor”; and,
among Dattilo Rubbo’s many exhibits,
his “Pig Farm” and “Downpour,” Be-
cause they extend and deepen the tradi-
tion, Lance Solomon’s landscapes are the
most interesting. Lacking light, they are
on the cold side, but, notably in “Mount
Hemming,” the real feeling is in them —
the earth if not yet the sky. Apart from
the landscapes, Sherman’s flower pieces
stand out; the lushness of his emotion
notwithstanding, his violet-colored orchids
in the opulent, round-bellied vase make
a striking piece of work. The water-
colors are lit by Margaret Coen’s “Pan-
sies” and her “Terry’s Creek,” a lyric
of the sun in the gum-trees: two paint-
ings which seem to strike the right balance
between Charles Emery’s inclination to
the conventional —pleasant work, never-
theless —and G. K. Townshend’s always
competent but latterly not very exhilarat-
ing statement in grey.
“G.S.”: George Benson sold £4OO
worth of his water-colors within half an
hour after the opening of the “private
view” of his show in Perth. “Scorched
Earth,” a picture of burnt bush, was out-
standing amongst his pictures.
Nobody has put more of old Mel-
bourne on pictorial record than Dora
Wilson, whose first show for five years
has been gathering red tabs at the Athe-
naeum. No. 1, “Kilmore Township,” is
a sort of epitome of that quaint village.
“F.S.”: One of the greatest of French
sculptors, when he couldn’t get marble,
used to whittle at a piece of stick with a
penknife. Swinton Diston’s palette-
knife paintings at the Park Galleries,
Melbourne, may have the justification
that WiO.I. has almost put brushes off
the market; but they are laborious stuff
for the most part, “Queen’s Bridge,
Melbourne,” being an exception.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
<£*>•
mk..
, v
N.'VA .
RoVAn
SHOWER CURTAINS
made from substitute
Waterproof Sheeting, eye-
letted at top to hook on
to rods. Width 36" 72"
Prices 25/ 457-
No coupons required
s
e^° rtS «tv<J 6 S» eS .••■■■ ,
G°^ d . • • ■
dd®' 8 ' o o s e '
n/ fed'
t&l
A o*.
I d^ e
o^ a ...•
& WAR m
CERTIFICATES
WO&M
mm
. O-O'
V* ‘ 9 ; co^\^ d
Wii
, b,9!i ' WS wi * loop fr .
d / f
m
ClJ Stilo
m
s AT Ilf
sh ope s , “ f " ? Vcf d e f y
* ain abl e iri Y Ashing 1°? the
Rust, Bh, a n r ®en r 1 ?. in, Dj k
JUe or R n „ ' d ' o£ ’-
J. ao Se . -° ro nz©
° c ° u Pons •*;••• SOA
re qujr e d
&lGlr r*
ond pn/fT witij J Af FE
Quality fI d w °hs fitted t c
p 08 °nd r?“ and (£ . < *«4
GoW ' Sd®"<
- ooup °™^^
JUfV*
atv A 10 t eq^ to
\-°P .oO» S
! 8 a
Furnishing Drapery
Third Floor.
w?
"HO
3k
G°^ d \ s V sd
e V ei .•••> d
, VO. '■ AeS- ... • • , e o^
Go W-, s y
V 5 Vf-
c °" '
V-'A.:
SUBSTITUTE WHITE
WATERPROOF SHEETING
suitable for bed or cot
undersheets, also ideal for
pram lining. 36 inches
wide 8/11 yd.
No coupons required
'Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
Telegraphic Address: Kordernia, Sydney
FAMOUS. LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


NO SMOKING ALLOWED
By J. C. SHELLEY.
J HE prolonged drought began to
f worry McGrogan. He’d never seen
anything like it before in all of his
fifty-odd years.
Droughts, like fire and too much rain
and low prices, were something definite
that you had to grapple with and beat.
There had been droughts before, of
course, but never one that went on for
years and seemed to be getting worse
each season.
Some fools talked of the seven years
good and the seven years bad, but Mc-
Grogan scoffed at such tripe, “Dammit,
man, it’ll end! ”
But the drought went on into the
eighth year,
McGrogan would stand on the back
verandah of the homestead up on the hill
and look down across the listless garden
at the creek and northward to the rich
flats that had made his name in the dis-
trict. Eight years of drought had made
a tremendous difference to those flats!
Sometimes he wondered vaguely if the
land was receiving a visitation, but he
never let that thought linger ; he was a
realist.
For many years the realist in him re-
membered the good seasons when those
flats up the creek, had been lush with
clover in the spring, carried good feed
through the rest of the year so that the
herds of his three dairymen had been the
pick of the district; With the loss of the
clover he had planted lucerne, which had
done well for a season or two.
But even lucerne won’t last without
water. It was looking patchy and
stunted.
McGrogan hung on, buying his share
of the feed for the herds when the time
came. He believed from his life study of
the land that Nature knew best; that she
sent the droughts to kill the fungus and
barnacles that encumbered the ground
after seasons of plenty. But he had
never seen a drought like this one.
It wasn’t that it hadn’t rained in those
eight years. It had rained heavily at
times so there had been floods. But they
had been quick floods, running away
quickly; so the soil had dried up
and lost its grip on the plant life. It
looked like a starved dog waiting
patiently on its chain for a decent meal.
K 4 cGROGAN smoked a lot more than
IVI h e should and even went so far as
to throw some hastily ill-chosen words at
old Peter Connell, who’d worked for him
close on thirty years ; and that in front
of Bums, one of the share-dairymen, a
comparative newcomer to the station.
They’d been fixing the ball-cock on the
water trough that, filled from the over-
head tank by a windmill on the creek,
had jammed open so that a lot of water
had overflowed and run away into the
ground. McGrogan had been away in the
city for a week, and returned to find a
great spreading pool of shallow soft mud
with a tinge of green growth round its
edge on the downhill side of the dairy.
He hadn’t said much, but had fussed:
getting the fools from the shed, instruct-
ing Burns and old Peter what to do, stuff-
ing his pipe up almost before the last
bowl was empty. In the middle of his
forehead was that heavy crease which
signified annoyance. They’d wasted a lot
more water getting the cock fixed, so that
McGrogan had had to hop about from
stone to stone like a frog to keep his
shiny tan leggings and boots clean.
“Dammit!” he exploded at last, his
little grey moustache bristling, “you’ll
have a blasted boghole here in a
minute! ”
Old Peter straightened his back, shifted
his pipe with his teeth from one corner
of his mouth to the other, looked at the
soft pool of earth and the great expanse
of dry country for miles around, said
shortly “Pity it all wasn’t a bloody
boghole.”
He looked meaningly at the green
tinge of growth. “Down the creek they
are pumpin’ water on to the land to make
the grass grow.”
“Dammit, man,” McGrogan exploded,
“you are as big a fool as the rest of
them, talking about watering land! What
in the hell do you want me to do —go
bankrupt?”
Thoughtfully the old man looked Mc-
Grogan up and down and remarked
simply “You’ll be bankrupt if you don’t
water.”
“Dammit,” barked McGrogan, “you
and your fool cobbers and your talk of
watering land.” He walked away.
Peter looked at his retreating back,
made as if to speak, thought better of it,
threw the stillson in the mud and stalked
off towards the house.
cGROGAN came back and helped
1 the dairymen finish the job. But
when it was completed he walked
thoughtfully down the hill to the fence,
rested his foot on the bottom wire and
frowned over those barren flats. Old
Peter’s suggestion had irritated him.
He knew that irrigation was the only
answer to the problem of the barren
flats. Vaguely, at the back of his mind,
he fought with something gigantic in its
possibilities, a greater test of endurance
than all other plagues that beset a man
on the land.
Fires were things that came and went;
finance was a lest of your own capabili-
ties or quite easily handled by a bank:
but drought, prolonged drought like this
—the immensity of the thing appalled
him! It seemed that something had a
stranglehold on the country, draining its
very lifeblood drop by drop.
But it was not feasible or right to be
thinking of watering land to grow grass.
Grazing land! It wasn’t farming at all;
not what the land was meant for.
But what was he to do? Have his
life s work, his father’s and his grand-
father’s work put at naught in the dust
of barrenness. “You’ll be bankrupt if
you don’t water.”
He looked at the reaches of the flats
and on the instant made up his mind.
He’d go in for irrigation, then, but in
no piffling manner. He’d do the thing in
a proper way, not like the rest of those
tuppenny-ha’penny cockies down the
creek.
The idea grew in magnitude. He’d irri-
gate forty acres of those flats at least and,
storing the surplus, corner the market
when feed was scarce—as scarce it would
be in a couple of years’ time if the
drought kept up.
Going up the hill with a spring in his
stride, he cut across the kitchen garden,
where old Peter knelt stiffly at work, went
into the garage and headed off for town
in the utility.
“Makin’ a fool of you in front of a
cow cocky,” Peter muttered resentfully
as he stood up and refilled his pipe, which
was as much part of his face as his nose.
I ATE in the afternoon McGrogan re-
—' turned from town.
He came across from the garage to
where the old man still worked away
among the vegetables, stood awhile with
his legs wide apart, lit his pipe deliber-
ately and said through the cloud of smoke
“Well, I’m going in for irrigation, Peter.”
He let that sink in, watching the old
man get stiffly to his feet. “Bought a ten-
inch pump and an engine in town, and
they are bringing it out tomorrow to
install it.”
*He looked at the flats with the silver
ribbon of the creek winding through
them like a snail’s track across a con-
crete path. “I’m going to put the pump
over there on the bank by the she-oak,”
he said, “and flood all that lucerne.”
“It’ll grow like mushrooms after rain,”
Peter said happily.
“I’ll get three or four cuts each year,”
McGrogan said with conviction, “and I’m
going to plant another twenty acres on
each side.”
They leaned on a rail, contemplating
the future. Burns, the share dairyman,
on his way from the bails to his cottage,
came and leaned on the other side of the
rail near them. “Keepin’ dry,” he said.
McGrogan began all over again to out-
line his scheme. It suddenly occurred to
Peter that they’d have more feed than
ever the herds would need, and he asked
in all sincerity “What are you going to do
with it all? Stack it or make ensilage?”
“I’m going to build a shed over there
and stack it,” said McGrogan with a nod
of his head towards the bottom end of
the flat. “A shed that will hold a hun-
dred tons of hay.”
“That’s the way to talk,” said Burns.
“When we get that full we’ll be sittin’
pretty.”
“Ah,” said Peter, resentful of the “we”
from Burns, “it’ll rot! With irrigation
on them flats we won’t need much hay
in store. The fellers down the creek
aren’t storin’ their hay.”
“Dammit,” snapped McGrogan, his
moustache bristling above his pipe, “you
and your fools down the creek! I’ll be
selling them feed at my price when they
are out of it.”
Peter jerked upright away from the
rail and stumped off across the garden
puffing angrily on his pipe. Callin’ a
man a fool twice in the one day in front
of that cow-cocky Burns! A man ought
to take McGrogan down a peg or two!
THIRTY acres of lucerne lay green
on the dry flats. It was the second
summer after McGrogan had bought his
irrigation plant—dry weather still, except
for casual showers.
The lucerne lay in bars of color, almost
white, with a hint of green underneath
where the mower had been working the
previous day; a lighter, emerald green
where it had been cut a week before; a
dark, rich green, almost a velvet green,
where it was ripe to be cut.
Looking down on it with the morning
heatwaves dancing and shimmering off
the corrugated-iron roof of the hayshed
and the dry brittleness of summer air in
his nostrils, McGrogan could see the hay-
rake going backwards and forwards, leav-
ing the raked-up lucerne in long, uneven
rows where the full tynes rose ; see old
Peter walking towards the hayshed at
the side of a horse in a dray loaded with
the new-cut crop and Burns following
with a pitchfork over his shoulder.
McGrogan went along the fence to
the shed.
He was proud of that shed, of its
spaciousness. He liked to do things in
a big way. But he was also vastly afraid
for its security add the security of its
contents: last year’s cuts drying mel-
lowly, ready to flare in a twinkling at
the touch of a carelessly-tossed match or
a cigarette butt.
He’d been very emphatic about smok-
ing in the vicinity of that shed, and so
when he found Burns forking hay off the
dray to Peter on the stack, and the old
man with his pipe in his mouth, Mc-
Grogan’s moustache bristled and the
furrow between his brows deepened.
“You are smoking in the hayshed,
Peter,” he snapped.
The old man stopped his work, stuck
the fork prong-deep in the stack. “I’m
not smoking, Mr. McGrogan.”
“Dammit, man, don’t lie! You have
the pipe in your mouth.”
The old man took the pipe slowly out
of his mouth, tapped the bowl lightly on
the palm of his free hand. “It’s not alight,
Mr. McGrogan.”
McGrogan moved uneasily; he’d seen
as much the moment he had spoken.
“Dammit, man, how was I to know?
You might forget yourself and light it.
Leave it in your pocket in future when
you are in this shed.”
He walked away, out across the new-
mown paddock, stuffing tobacco angrily
in the bowl of his own pipe.
('"NLD Peter placed his pipe carefully
in his trouser pocket, a thing he
hated to do because of the danger of
forgetting and breaking it. He was angry,
too, anger yeasting up over the years.
It seemed that always he must be chipped
in front of Bums. Chipped in front of
a flamin’ cow-cocky!
They unloaded the lucerne, drove out
into the paddock and forked up another
load without a word being said between
them. On the way in McGrogan walked
ahead with Burns while the old man
drove the horse and thought resentfully
of all the times he’d been chipped in
front of that cow-cocky. A man ought
to put the boss in his place.
Peter frowned heavily, knocked the
dottle out of his pipe against the shaft
of the dray as they came near the shed,
took the horse by the bit-ring and guided
it into place beside the stack.
As he went to pull the pitchfork out
of the back of the dray something at-
tracted the old man’s attention to Mc-
Grogan standing a bit to one side with
his legs wide apart and a deep furrow
between his brows while he puffed heavily
on his pipe and listened to something that
Burns was saying.
Something suddenly entered the old
man’s heart, so that it made his eyes
glow and his mind tremble with antici-
pation as he went eagerly across to Mc-
Grogan and tapped him lightly on the
shoulder.
“You are smokin’ in the hayshed, Mc-
Grogan!” he said sternly, and the be-
wildered, astounded look that came over
McGrogan’s face gave him a satisfaction
as profound as either of them had ever
felt in the sight of the lucerne springing
on the flats.
VARIOUS VERSE.
The Old "Fences.
It’s a sorrowful thing to see the old fences pass;
It’s a terrible thing to watch the men tear them
apart
Post by post, rail by rail, and cast their grey
bones on the grass.
For the men never dream that a fence has a
life and a heart.
But children and poets know. And perhaps
young lovers
Wandering home through the paddocks have
paused in walking,
Sensing the sound, when behind their grey-
bearded covers
Of lichens the tongues of old fences wagged
with talking
As neighbor gossiped with neighbor, bringing
to mind
Memories of parakeet brightness before the
boss
Saw cause to gird up their sagging backbones
with kind
Limb crutches. Before the years had grizzled
their shaggy moss,
Before they were weary, they strode down the
headlands freely;
The hills were hurdles for leaping then, and
youth never cared
A mopoke’s hoot if the dawn broke sharp and
steely
Over the land where frost with white fangs
bared
Snarled at the sunrise. Before they grew tired
with time
They raced with the old man ’roo, and, amazed,
he stared
At the speed that outstripped him, running
in fluent rhyme.
I know of a man who has his farm on the
marshes.
He made his fences from living willows, and
cut
The smooth green boughs for posts where the
bittern harshes
The calm of gloaming and arrogant baldcoots
strut
In eternal food quest. Nursed by old midwife
mud
The posts endured, and shrill in the following
spring
The wood cried out in green rapture of leaf
and bud.
Thus fences were changed to trees, and a glori-
ous thing
It is to imagine them now with the cattle pent
By emerald walls, and the rough old brood
mares rocking
Through shoals of buttercups to the dark con-
tent
Of shadowed coves where osiers lush and dense
Mount to the sun from the posts and rails of
a fence.
Let it harp in the wind as it will, let the
tautened gut
Fiddle the wild blast waltzing, I will not come
To a shrine of wire and a gate that will
open and shut
With miraculous ease. For me the long slip-
rails of gum
Polished like moonlight from intimate touch
of my hand;
And the old fences throwing mauve shadows
over my land.
TASMANIA.
Norma L. Davis.
The Idler.
The treasure islands were his desired landfall:
past the grey discipline of streets and past
the minatory towers with their. clocks
the sails rose bannering on the salt-white mast.
The islands ran like emeralds through his
fingers
(Oparo, Manahiki, Tubuai)
till he turned truant, cleared the heads at dawn,
and half-forgot the seasons, under that sky.
But time sprang from its coil and struck his
heart,
and all the world shrank small as a grenade.
Over the sun of an idle afternoon
a doom of ’planes drew darkness like a shade.
Now trapped in a mad traffic, he stands and
sees
the map ruled off in squares of black and white,
and all his islands vanished with their palms
under the hostile despotism of night.
QUEENSLAND. '
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Birds’ Breakfast.
The morning is cold,
The cover is spread
But the food is beneath
And the guests are unfed.
The sun has not risen
To master the dawn,
And Frost is the monarch
That rules on the lawn.
The yellow legs wait
For what comes- to pass
When out of the white
Emerges green grass.
Be, Sun, hot and quick,
Let the day hasten forth:
The worms and the seeds
Are under that cloth.
E.


The Bulletin .
Vol. 65—No. 3357.
Wednesday, June 14, 1944.
JUNE 6, 1944.
He that outlives this day and comes safe home
Will stand a-tiptoe when this day is nam’d.
He that shall live this day and see old age
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors.
Old men forget; yet all shall be forgot,
But he’ll remember with advantages
What feats he did that day.
—Henry V of England at Agincourt, Pas de Calais, October 25, 1415-


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westsalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : , Nathan's Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE IMMORTAL HOUR.
As the niighty fleets of ships and ’planes
bearing the hopes and fortunes of the
United Nations sped forth on their mis-
sion of liberation, the solemnity of the
hour impressed itself on all English-
speaking men capable of human feeling.
The King, in a message charged
with emotion, summoned his people to
“prayer and dedication,” and many Aus-
tralians were among the multitudes who
complied. Mr. Forde himself, rising
above his pedestrian level, spoke a few
sentences touched with honest sentiment.
And the stern De Gaulle struck a deep
note: —
After so much struggle, fury suffer-
ing the immense means of attack that
is of succor for us has begun to unfurl
from the shores of Old England. The tide
of German oppression was arrested pre-
viously before this vast bastion of Europe
in the West. Today it is the base from
which has been launched the offensive of
liberty The Battle of France has begun.
Only Communists and N.S.W. coalminers
seem to have remained unmoved.
On the day when, as Mr. Forde said,
“the flower of the manhood of the
allied nations, including our Australian
airmen, are laying down their lives,” he
said also, addressing a party of trade-
union bosses, all A.C.T.U. delegates, in
Melbourne, that “the stoppages now
taking place are threatening to eat out
all coal stocks, and as a consequence to
interfere seriously with the war effort” ;
and he gave the substance of an official
report on Monday stoppages in fifteen
mines, “only two of which concerned the
management.”
Five were idle as a protest against butter
rationing; three as a protest against fines
imposed by the Miners’ Federation; one
as a protest against taxation; one as a
protest against a decision by an industrial
authority; one because a youth lost a pair
of boots and refused to wear a second-
hand pair of the same size offered to him
by the lodge officers; one because the
lodge officers refused to hold a pit-fop meet-
ing; one because a bus bringing the men to
work broke down and arrived late.
On that day, the report said, “seven
northern mines” were “idle,” and on
Wednesday, when “the grim battle for
Normandy” began, there were four stop-
pages. Simultaneously, Comrade Wells,
president of the Miners’ Federation, one
of the union bosses addressed by Mr.
Forde, was heard on the theme that “the
launching of the Second Front” (always
so-called by Communists, although Britain
has had “a front on every wave that
breaks”) would “probably inspire coal-
miners to speed up production and
abolish absenteeism.”
Himself a Communist, Comrade Wells
has been active in the “Second Front”
agitation ; indeed, long and lusty howls
for “a Second Front now” came from the
N.S.W. coalfields when it would have
meant a vast and useless effusion of better
men’s blood. From Communists N.S.W.
coalminers have learned to despise their
country and its institutions. When
“many were asked” by the Rev. Alan
Walker, who spent five years among
them, “which country they admired
most, Russia easily took the lead.”
Their conduct during the present war
may be ascribed to the demoralisation
produced by Communist teaching.
While Comrade Wells was tempering
his prediction with the word “probably,”
the Central Committee of the Commu-
nist party, “with which is amalgamated
the State Labor party of N.S.W.,” was
at work on a manifesto which was pub-
lished in the “Tribune.” In this produc-
tion there is no trace of feeling for any-
one but Russians “standing between
Hitler and world domination” (when
Britons were doing that for twelve dread-
ful months it was a cursed “imperialist
war”), and the familiar brag and bluster
reappeared.
The Australian Communist party had
the distinction and honor of urging from
the first the opening of a Second Front.
Opportunities for ending the war victori-
ously by invading the West existed earlier,
after the battle of Moscow
The Battle of Moscow took place in
1941, the year in which the Greeks and
Yugoslavs were defeated, in which Crete
was lost, in which the Tobruk garrison
alone withstood the victorious march of
Rommel’s armies, in which Malta was re-
duced to dire straits, in which the Royal
Air Force was superior to the Luftwaffe
only in fighting quality and in some of
its greatly outnumbered machines, and
in which the Royal Navy and the Mer-
chant Navy suffered frightful losses in
men and ships.
On November 12, 1941, when the Battle
of Moscow was nearly over, Mr.
Churchill said “We lost just over
2,000,000 tons of shipping in the four
months to June 30.” In the ter-
rible month when the Japanese—
with whom the Russians have a
neutrality pact, and also fisheries agree-
ments recently renewed for five years—
took Singapore and were rapidly extend-
ing their conquests (they were already
in Rabaul) Mr. Churchill said “Our ship-
ping losses since the outbreak of war
have been very heavy, and in the last
two months there has been a very serious
increase in these losses.”
For the first of the landing operations
last week the Allies assembled “up-
wards of 4000 ships with several thousand
smaller craft,” a great protecting fleet
of warships, from battleships down, and
for air cover “about 11,000 first-line
’planes.” By no possibility could more
than a fraction of these forces have been
mustered “after the Battle of Moscow.”
Had invasion been attempted then it
would have been a swift and bloody
failure. At Dieppe in August, 1942,
3500 Canadians were lost in a few
desperate hours. The thanks of the
British Commonwealth are due to the
Government which refused to sacrifice
its gallant forces to ignorant and heart-
less clamor, reinforced by great names
and powerful influences, and, above all,
to the Prime Minister who, going to
Washington from Quebec in September,
1943, spoke these words:
We have heard a lot of talk in the last
two years about what is called establishing
a second front in northern France The
lives of our soldiers will be considered in
accordance with sound military plans, and
not squandered for political considerations
of any kind.
Actually D-Day was planned and was
in process of organisation long before
the U-boats were mastered and the Italian
Navy forced to surrender, although these
victories and the vast deliveries of fully-
manned merchant ships thereby acceler-
ated were essential preliminaries to the
landings. To its great part in the mighty
task, the Royal Navy brought its historic
bent for and skill in amphibious war-
fare, sharpened by recent experience,
shared with the United States Navy and
bought inexpensively by neither —in
French North-west Africa and Sicily and
at Salerno and Anzio. For the actual
invasion there were great numbers of
brave men splendidly trained and
equipped (the Canadians in particular
were trained for years) and with leaders
of proved quality; and the air umbrella
was and is magnificent. Everything
seems to have been thought of and pro-
vided for. Superlative organisation was
required, and it was forthcoming.
But it could only reduce, it could not
remove, the hazards. Sixty days of bomb-
ing, as was at once made evident, had
not wrecked the German war machine
nor weakened the German will to resist,
nor even materially damaged the German
communications. For the most part, the
enemy’s formidable defences, full of
devilish devices which tested the un-
surpassed courage of sweeper-men and
sappers, withstood the terrific bom-
bardment, and behind them he showed
himself, as always till he abandons
hope, a cunning and determined fighter.
It is not necessary to believe the
half or the tenth of the stories he
has told to realise that the landings
were not made good without desperate
combats and cruel losses. On that Nor-
man coast, where friends and foes alike
travel in the print of ancient wars, rich
blood has flowed already, and more will
flow. But in the majestic picture of em-
battled democracy on the march and in
the greetings of such of the grateful
French people as have been freed —they
were to have been silent, sullen and
resentful in the enemy’s expectation—
there is assurance that the rich blood will
not have been shed in vain.
Banned McCormick.
Very briefly reporting the refusal of per-
mission to Colonel Robert McCormick,
owner of the Chicago “Tribune,” to pub-
lish here what the original urger of the
ban at Canberra described as “a tabloid
paper for distribution to the American
forces,” the Melbourne “Herald” put it
this way:
America’s notorious' anti-British and iso-
lationist newspaper proprietor, Col. Mc-
Cormick, will not be permitted to publish
a paper in Australia.
Announcing this today [June 2] the
Minister for Customs (Senator Keane)
disclosed that an application had been made
by Col. McCormick's representative in
Australia for the necessary permission.
The Minister said he had refused to
make an authorisation, without which
publication would be impossible.
Other papers which published the item
used the “anti-British” and “isolationist”
terms, though without directly linking
them to the Minister. Accepting that the
“Herald,” which was first in the field, put
the matter correctly, those terms must be
taken as the Ministerial explanation for
the banning.
Apparently this was quite satisfactory
to papers which had only recently figured
to the point of boring monotony as the
high and mighty champions of freedom
of expression, called in editorial excite-
ment “sacred.” Perhaps suppression is a
different thing if the suppressed bears the
remotest resemblance to a potential com-
petitor. Or it may have been that the
immaculate champions were feeling in an
indulgent reciprocal mood towards Min-
isterial interference with “sacredness,”
seventeen censorship charges against
local newspapers and their executives
having been the day before withdrawn.
Or perhaps consistency and principle only
apply in daily journalism here if the
injured party by ill-luck happens to be
yourself.
Whatever the reason, the freedom
champions who had just previously
moaned on the suppression theme till
their readers must have wished they
would come out with a special moan
edition and get it over regarded the re-
fusal of Col. McCormick’s request as
having the same news value as a rise in
the price of onions. Editorially they stood
resolutely and unanimously mute. More
remarkable still, nothing of what the
colonel or his paper had to say on the
matter enlivened their pages, though it
can be taken for granted that this would
have reached a high standard in abuse,
if in nothing else.
The position therefore was that per-
mission had been refused because of Col.
McCormick’s “notorious anti-British and
isolationist” tendencies and that this was
O.K. with the late vociferous champions
of press freedom. As to the first charge,
there is no question that a substantial
case could be made out in support. From
time to time when the Chicagoan rage is
on them both the colonel and his paper go
in for tugging violently at the most-
tugged and least-damaged tail in Christen-
dom. For example, as an “American
Mercury” writer lately put it, the “Tri-
bune” in 1943 made the spectadular “dis-
covery” that “Rhodes scholars were
dangerous agents of the British Gov-
ernment, hapd-in-glove with the arch-
conspirator in the White House, who,
of course, intended to give America
back to the British anyway as soon
as the war ended.” More recently
—and more typical—when the Toronto
“Globe and Mail” commented that Wis-
consin was unfavorable to Mr. Willkie
“because the large German element in the
State remains infected with isolationism,
and must have resented Willkie’s vigorous
championship of support for Britain,” the
“Tribune” naturally headed the item
“British Issues Hurt Willkie, Toronto
View.”
And, as the Americans say in such cir-
cumstances, so what? Apparently we are
to take it that Australian-British ties are
so tenuous that such anti-British views as
Colonel McCormick might think fit to
inject into a “tabloid paper” for the
American forces in these parts could snap
those ties in two. Perhaps the colonel,
whose “overwhelming ego” is considered
by many of his fellow-countrymen cap-
able of anything, might be credited with
that opinion of his own influence, but if
any Australian other than a Minister des-
perate for any old excuse thinks on the
same lines he should be captured at once
and exhibited as a curiosity at the Zoo.
The plain fact is that this “reason” for
the banning is a reason only in the sense
that childish folly is its own sufficient
reason. The colonel is in his moments
capable of acts some as silly as those of
Australian Ministers. It is on record—
perhaps apocryphal—that when some
piece of Governmental work on the dis-
tant side of his continent annoyed him he
roared into the “Tribune” Tower and cut
a star out of the American flag displayed
there. Even so, the colonel does not con-
trol a paper which, now within three
years of its centenary, has more than a
million daily circulation without knowing
enough about newspaper production not
to make a “tabloid paper” for circulation
among American troops here a mere anti-
British propaganda rag. But even if he
did so, and even if he converted every
one of his readers to his own peculiar
way of thinking, the ties between this
country and Britain would not be up to
much if that could sever.them.
The “isolationist” charge is more ridi-
culous still. The vital fact here is that
neither the banning Minister nor any one
of the newspapers apparently echoing his
“reasons” is an inch further removed
from “isolationism” than Col. McCormick
and his “Tribune” in regard to the Pacific
Wan The emphasis is important, since
both colonel and “Tribune” strongly
held the “isolationist” views shared by
more than half the colonel’s countrymen
prior to the Japs getting busy. A differ-
ence is that the colonel and his paper —
and perhaps his readers, though mere
views never yet held a newspaper circula-
tion together—still feel somewhat that
way regarding the war in Europe, The
colonel and his “Tribune” operate in and
very importantly represent the American
Middle West, which has never been
wildly enthusiastic about European in-
volvement.
Towards the Pacific War —if his readers
take any* notice of the colonel at all —
the Middle West must today be one of
the very least “isolationist” parts of the
whole United States. Partly because the
colonel and his paper are that* way natu-
rally inclined, but certainly not without
significance in this context, no more
violently anti-Jap, pro-Pacific War edi-
torials and other matter appear in any
other US- publication whatever, not even
the “isolationist” New York “Daily
News,” whose regularly dispensed pre-
scription for the Japs is to gas them.
The Chicago “Tribune” vigorously cam-
paigns for the hanging of Hirohito. It
holds General MacArthur to be the
greatest general on earth, partly because
he is a great general and an American at
that, but very largely because he is en-
gaged in winning the war in the Pacific.
F.a.q. samples of the “Tribune’s” alleged
“isolationism” regarding this particular
war have already appeared in The Bul-
letin. One should suffice to make the
charge look as silly as it is:
The American people knew instinctively
on the day of Pearl Harbor that the
Japanese are our first, most bitter and
dangerous enemy. Nothing has occurred
since to change that feeling. It is deep in
our hearts.
Certainly the charge that “London
papers are apathetic towards the Pacific
War” —cabled to Australia on the very
day of the banning here of the Mc-
Cormick proposal—would not be made
against the “Tribune” these days by the
colonel’s worst enemy. Even the charge
of “isolationism” towards the other end
of the war does not hold anything like as
good now as it did a couple of years
back. The “Tribune” recently stated as
the McCormick house policy; “We face
in the future the task of dealing not
merely with Hitler and his gangsters but
with a race of Hitlers who have made
gangsterism their State religion.”
It is still for the Pacific end of the war,
however, that the colonel and his paper
reserve their most vigorous outbreaks;
and the plain truth about these is that the
Minister responsible for the banning of
McCormick, and all who agree vocally or
in silence with that banning, can be
quite safely challenged to produce,from
current issues of the “Tribune” a single
news item or sentence of editorial com-
ment supporting the “isolationist” charge
regarding this end of the war.
It all boils down to both “reasons” for
the banning being as ridiculous as the
banning itself —even as ridiculous as the
“freedom” champions make themselves
by their approval of silence. It could be
that the real nigger in the woodheap is
that the colonel and his paper are far
more violent critics of a part-war asso-
ciate —Russia —than they have been of
even Britain. If that is the true “reason,”
then notice has been served on practi-
cally all leading American newspapers
that they, too, are ruled out, along with
the colonel and the “Tribune.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Defence Power.
In an exciting week for the Government
temporarily led by Mr. Forde, the Full
High Court upset the State Full Court
decision quashing the conviction of two
Sydney persons for refusing to be directed
by Man-power to private employment.
The State Full Court held that the
direction, made under Man-power Regu-
lation 15, went beyond the powers con-
ferred by the National Security Act, and
that, “read according to their natural con-
struction,” Man-power Regulations 13
and 15 would “reduce the population of
Australia to a state of serfdom more
abject than any which obtained in the
Middle Ages.” The Full High Court
rejected the parallel, as well as the judg-
ment, saying that the “provisions of Aus-
tralian law described as amounting to
serfdom are, in fact, based upon and
actually copied from the provisions con-
tained in British legislation.”
While allowing that the exercise of a
power so far-reaching “is capable of great
abuse,” their Honors, in a unanimous
judgment, held that Regulation 15 is
within the powers conferred by Section
13A of the National Security Act for the
safety and defence of the Commonwealth
or the efficient prosecution of the war.
The judgment has a bearing on the
referendum with which the electors who
in ten months have voted in the Com-
monwealth and four States are now


threatened. In effect, the direction of
persons into private employment is pro-
nounced a valid exercise of the defence
power. This the High Court has always
construed broadly. It may be fairly con-
cluded that the defence power will be
available for all measures pertinent to
“securing the public safety, the defence
of the Commonwealth or the efficient
prosecution of any war in which nis
Majesty is or may be engaged” so long
as war or a state of war exists. And it
should be within the competence of a
Parliament empowered to make laws for
“the peace, order and good government
of the Commonwealth” to determine
when war or a state of war has ended
as did Congress in 1920.
General Smuts has suggested that this
time there will be no peace treaties. In
this country while war is raging there
should be no. powers referendum. The
defence power is all that is necessary until
the important question of a separation of
functions, national and provincial, with no
five-years’ limit, can be put to the people
when their minds are unclouded by fears,
party spirit and the claims or imperti-
nences of sophisters, economists and
calculators.
Nevertheless, the Government is going
on with the referendum (August 19 is the
date), hoping that the people won’t notice
or won’t mind what sophisters, econo-
mists and calculators have been saying
and what snoopers have been doing.
The Lily-fingered Law.
From an old police-court reporter:
Justice Philp is inquiring into the grievances
of Queensland growers of food and vegetables
as chairman of a royal commission. A
Charters Towers witness having complained
of the chronic theft of goods carried on the
Government railways at owner’s risk-insisted
upon by the department —his Honor said “Un-
fortunately, the punishment meted out for pil-
laging is so light that it has become a joke,”
the “punishment” often being a fine of £5.
This species of “joke” is by no means con-
fined to Queensland. N. S. Wales has a full
issue. A few days after publication of Justice
Philp’s remarks Sydney “Sun,” quoting “trans-
port officials,” stated that “goods valued at
more than £100,000” had been “stolen from
railway trucks in N. S. Wales during the past
12 months.”
About 200 railway employees, according
to officials, have been convicted of theft
during this period, and have automatically
terminated their services in the Railway
Department.
After that it was not surprising to read
that “thefts are continuing at the same alarm-
ing rate as during the past 12 months.”
Meat worth £12,000 was stolen from the
Government abattoirs at Homebush last year.
So said a sergeant of police, introducing a
prosecution of three Homebush employees for
stealing meat. He said also that export lambs
and beef were ruined by the thieves, and
that the State Meat Commissioner had to
ask for “extra” police at the abattoirs and to
compensate carcass butchers for damage and
loss.
The three men pleaded guilty and were
each fined £5. That was on a Friday, always
an early day for Government slaughtermen.
When work or what passes for work at the
Government abattoirs was resumed on Monday
the trio presented themselves for duty again as
large as life, following an old Sydney water-
front custom. On the waterfront, pilfering,
always bad, has become worse than ever, and
nowadays no pilferer ever seems to be caught
and fined (possibly the energies of the police
were exhausted during the 10 years in which
they tried to establish the identity of the
Pyjama Girl); but if what is increasingly im-
probable happened the union would see that
he was employed again straightway.
The Meat Commissioner, baited into despera-
tion by many outrages on his authority, refused
to take the three fellows on the strength again
and maintained his stand when the villainous
record of this Government enterprise was added
to by a two days’ strike. Of course he can
still be overruled or declared “black” or sacked.
The fact seems to be, though so far legis-
lators, police and magistrates are unconscious
of it,* that the war has bred a new criminal
class. How daring it has become was illustrated
when a concerted attempt, successful in at least
two cases, was made to “lift” masses of the
new ration books and clothing cards by break-
ing and entering. Ration books and clothing
cards can, of course, be sold on the black market.
So can a hundred other articles, from bottled
beer to petrol tickets, genuine or forged. For-
gery of petrol tickets has become so rife in
N. S. Wales that Dovey, K.C., appearing
against the proprietor of a “Drive yourselt
car service found with 31 forged two-gallon
petrol tickets in his possession, said it threatened
to frustrate petrol rationing altogether. As
usual, a fine was imposed.
The new criminal class, like the old criminal
class, is emboldened by the weakness of Author-
ity. Its opportunities are increasing with the
widening of the black market, and it can be
deterred only by fear. In this respect it is
probably more susceptible than the old criminal
class, but in N. S. Wales at least this has never
been tested. Yet a few stiff sentences would
at least rid the community of flagrant thieves
and racketeers, the vilest of whom make ser-
vice men their special victims, and might
frighten a lot of the less flagrant specimens
back into ways of decency.
Tribute to Poland.
Men from at least ten countries are con-
tributing to General Alexander’s splendid
campaign in Italy. It was reserved
for the Poles to take that toughest of
propositions the Cassino monastery hill.
In a correspondent’s account, “with all
the hatred of nearly five years of Nazi
occupation in Poland welling up inside
them, the Poles attacked north of the
town in blood-crazed waves against posi-
tions which were considered impreg-
nable.” Their valor cost them dear, but
it was crowned with success. When they
stood victorious on the ruins, their
General Anders was personally congratu-
lated by General Alexander.
The Polish part in the campaign, and
in those to come, is of political as well
as military significance. The Polish Gov-
ernment in exile and General Anders and
his army have been the victims of a smear
campaign designed to support Russian
claims to the half of Poland as it existed
in August, 1939, the half in which some
of the most famous Poles in history were
born. Australian newspapers have been
placed at the service of the smearers, and
Mr. Jimmy Aldridge, so scornful of the
British soldier before El Alamein, stooped
to the meanness of attacking the Poles
on the score of the behaviour of Polish
refugees in Iran. The Polish Minister
for Social Welfare replied with a specific
and indignant denial, saying “our rela-
tions with the Iranian Government, as
well as with the British and American
authorities, were and are good and cor-
rect, and no complaints have been made
about them.”*
On the other hand the Poles have warm
English-speaking champions, among
whom are our own Middle East veterans.
Diggers were in Palestine when 150,000
Poles, men, Women and children, arrived
from Russia. They were in such poor
shape that our good-hearted fellows pitied
them and helped to relieve their neces-
sities. In Tobruk and other places the
Diggers found the Poles of the Eighth
Army stout soldiers and good com-
rades.
Mr. Curtin himself is numbered among
the friends of Poland. He said at the
Guildhall on May 10 that “when Ger-
many marched into Poland, Poland was
as much Australia’s business as if the
very port of Sydney had been bom-
barded ; the pledge of honor given to
Poland by Great Britain was espoused
and supported -by the people of Aus-
tralia.” At Wellington a week previously
Acting Prime Minister Sullivan had said
“We think of Poland as the very bulwark
of Christian civilisation, and the Polish
Constitution embodies the very thing for
which the Allied Nations are fighting
today.” And the retiring Mayor Hislop
said “One of my last requests during my
term of office was that a picture of the
Mayor of Warsaw should be hung in
the mayoral office as a mark of admira-
tion for his heroic behavior, when, despite
overwhelming odds and certain military
defeat, he fought to the end.”
Among the reasons why the Poles have
had such a bad press is that they revere
the memory of Neville Chamberlain and
make no secret of it. In their view, he
not only refused to accept the dismem-
berment of Poland and the abandonment
of the little Baltic States as the price of
a Russian alliance, but, by giving Poland
a British guarantee, wrecked a Hitler
plan for gobbling iip all the Slav nations
west of Russia, which would have made
Nazi Germany impregnable.
It should now be clear, except to the
wilfully blind or one-eyed, that much of
the hatred of Chamberlain has been bred
by those clever, bitter Jews who have
had the ordering of so much propaganda
and who have found such servile copy-
ists in newspaper offices and radio stations.
It goes back largely to his Spanish and
Palestinian policies, chiefly the latter.
Events have obliged the present British
Government and the American Govern-
ment to continue those policies, and
events may see Chamberlain’s champion-
ship of Poland vindicated at every point,
which- means without dismemberment
and without the fatal gift of a traditional
part of Germany, to which people more
or less important, anxious to placate
Moscow, incline, though it would
assuredly plant the seeds of another war.
Certainly a people which has shown
such fortitude in adversity and unimagin-
able suffering, and such high courage
when the signal to go forward was given,
well deserves a free and separate national
existence, without being humiliated and
coerced and plunged into new perils.
Leigh Creek Coal.
Towards the end of last month S.A.
Premier Playford showed about 70 State
and Federal politicians, businessmen and
heads of industry over his State’s just-
opened coalfield at Leigh Creek. Their
expressions of approval must have been
balm to his ears, for his Government had
to fight all sorts of opposition, not the
least of it from Canberra, to get the
thing going.
However, achievement brings its own
reward, and Deputy P.M. Forde has an-
nounced that machinery to increase pro-
duction on the field will be given No. 1
priority. B.H.P, (which- has already had
a sample of S.A. co-operation in the big
Morgan-Whyalla pipeline) has given an
initial order for 10,000 tons of the coal,
Adelaide Tramways Trust has booked 88
tons a week, and there are others.
The visitors saw preliminary excavators
digging out the stuff at 800 tons a day,
workers’ houses being erected and the
beginnings of a million-gallon water
supply. Smith, talked wildly of
electrification of the Alice Springs and
Port Augusta areas, with freezing works
and everything.
Mr. Forde made his announcement
prior to going before the trade-union
conference to plead that N. S. Wales
coalies should dig a bit of coal now
and then. He might have got more
notice if he’d mentioned Leigh Creek
and told the union bosses, particu-
larly the Miners’ Federation, that the
S.A. effort was largely inspired by the
strike festivals in N.S.W., and that other
States, also fed to the back teeth with
N.S.W. coalies, were watching the S.A.
development with thoughtful eyes.
CLINCHING ARGUMENT.
“Surely, gentlemen, you can’t rebuff a P.C. when he asks you to Produce Coal?


f
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
forced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
held ol application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY.. LTD.
R efrigeratiun Engineers,
McEVOY STREET ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES: LA5034-5-6
Established 1890. Agents and Service Mechanics jn all States of the Commonwealth.
df
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
9 In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
Two State elections were cleaned up
last week. McKell Labor lost Newtown
to Lang Labor, but the capture of Lane
Cove from the Democrats, (FitzSimons,
the old member, did not stand) evened
the score, and the Government will again
have 56 of the 90 Assembly seats —a con-
siderable feat, in part attributable to the
daily papers’ liking for the Premier.
Bondi, given up as a bad job for a week
after polling-day, was held by Landa,
though with little more than a tenth of
Cunningham’s majority in Coogee, never
a Labor seat till 1941. The Country
party gained a seat, Oxley, at the expense
of Major Mitchell, who would have won
had C.P. headquarters had its way.
By holding Angas, B. H. Teusner, a
Tanunda solicitor, gave the Playford Gov-
ernment a small but clear majority over
the Labor Opposition and three Inde-
pendents, whom the L.C.L. did not
oppose. Teusner succeeds Schultz, who
died on campaign, and who had four
son's in the A.I.F.
In the fierce pursuit of portfolios when
a Labor Caucus chooses a Ministry there
is little room for sentiment. Carlo
Camillo Lazzarini, who as an M.L.A. is
of the same vintage (1917) as McKell, was
voted out of the McKell Ministry and
C. Evatt got in by the skin of his teeth.
Yet C, Evatt had the biggest of all the
Labor majorities at the polls. Possibly
he was mistaken for his brother.
C. Evatt was Minister of Education
and No. 6. McKell has given Education
to Heffron (still No. 3) and reduced Evatt
to 14th position as one of the assistants —
Dickson, M.L.C., is the other. In other
days there would have been an immediate
resignation, but contemporary N.S.W.
politicians are not sensitive.
June 6 was D-Day in Europe, August
19 is to be R-Day in Australia. Issue of
six-guinea (not fifty-bob) suits to service
men and appointment of a committee
to vet. war-time regulations are signs
of the approaching storm, and there will
be others. Civilian electors may even
enjoy a few bacon-and-egg breakfasts.
Witnesses at the communications cen-
sorship inquiry gave their evidence in
secret, but a summary of the proceedings
at one sitting has been published. It
shows, among other things, that ration-
ing prosecutions have been based on in-
formation taken from letters to service
men, and that a secret formula was
extracted from an American’s letter to an
Australian concern, though the know-
ledge, it was said, had been confined to
“three senior permanent officers,” and
neither used nor disclosed. Archie
Cameron, M.H.R., is on the inquiry. At
the beginning of the week it was expected
that he would explode at any moment.
From W. M. Hughes:
Norman Lindsay’s cartoon in The Bulletin
of Wednesday, May 24, 1944, entitled “Who
Put Australia on the Map?” makes a powerful
appeal to me. I should like very much to
include the original in my collection; for, quite
apart from the merits of the picture and the
fame of the artist, it would comfort my friends
and confuse my enemies to be able to point
to this conclusive proof that at times, at all
events, I moved in the very best company.
In effect, in the company of Ned Kelly,
Phar Lap and an idealised
and Billy Murdoch. The cartoon has been
sent to Mr. Hughes, with the compliments
of Norman Lindsay and The Bulletin.
Cry of anguish attributed by an oppo-
nent to Bruxner, the N.S.W. Agrarian
leader: “All the young squatters are join-
ing the Labor party! ” Whether Bruxner
said it or not, Graham, the member for
Wagga, was elected to the N.S.W. Min-
istry ahead of some of the old hands as
well as of a host of aspirants from the
rank and file ; and, on the evidence of
one of the Sydney Labor dailies, Graham
owns “the largest stud-pig farm in Aus-
tralia,” He is also a show judge of cattle,
sheep and pigs and was a Rugby League
player and administrator. N.S.W. Labor
gets the Rugby League vote, and shows
its gratitude in various ways.
Now as-good-as-Labor, “S. M. Herald”
agrees that “the trade-unions are entitled
to be consulted over war-time measures
affecting their special sphere,” and that
“they are often able to give valuable help
and advice.”
To say that the Commonwealth should
consult the unions on industrial matters
does not mean, of course, tf|rt it should
bow to their decisions, still less that it
should follow their fetation on matters of
national policy. \
However, the bowtng and following
can be taken for granted.
It transpires that when Clarey, presi-
dent of the A.C.T.U., said in New York
that Australia could support a popula-
Nearly a million yards of lend-lease flannel, needed for winter pyjamas and babies’ wear,
arrived in January. The Rationing Committee has tried to have it released.”
—Stated in evidence at the ‘‘Quota Sold” inquiry.
“Look here, Shiny Pants, our mums and dads vote, so come across with that issue
of Referendum Flannel.”
tion of 150,000,000 to 200,000,000 he
spoke at “a luncheon in his honor under
the auspices of the Freeland League, an
organisation seeking to facilitate the es-
tablishment of an agricultural community
for Jewish refugees in Kimberley, North-
west Australia” (New York “Times”).
And “among those who greeted Mr.
Clarey were David Dubinsky, president
of the International Ladies’ Garment
Workers, and Adolf Held, chairman of
the Jewish Labor Committee.” Not among
them was a certain Peter Bergson, born
in Lithuania, and fresh from Palestine
with the news that he and other gentle-
men, mostly emigrants from Poland and
Russia to Palestine, had formed a
Hebrew Committee of National Lib-
eration and “proclaimed the existence
of a< Hebrew nation, with Palestine
as its territory.” Mr. Bergson was “met
with hostility by leaders of the Zionist
movement.”
Cooper, the Queensland Premier, has
announced that his Government expects
to spend £10,000,000 a year for five years
on post-war work. Where’s the money
coming from? “Reserves, special funds
and Federal loan allocations”; in short.
from the Commonwealth. Because of
Commonwealth Government complais-
ance the N.S.W. Government will be in
as affluent a situation, or more so. It is
all wrong, especially as the Westralian
and Tasmanian Governments may be
“in the red.”
First on a long list of King’s Birthday
honors reported in the papers:
P.C.
Privy Councillor.
Mr. Francis Michael Forde, Acting
Prime Minister and Acting Minister for
Defence.
And lo! Bill Adams’s name led all the
rest!
The “West Australian,” leading paper
in a State which has an active anti-
referendum league already:
Friends of Dr. Evatt might do him no
better service than to endeavor to accept
the West Australian legislation as a fair
reference of powers meeting all anticipated
needs. If he would do that and apply
his persuasive powers to inducing the Tas-
manian Parliament to enact similar legisla-
tion he would be able, without further
palaver and risk of rebuff, to use those
Acts as the foundation for uniform Federal
policy pending full review of the consti-
tutional relationship between Common-
wealth and States.
In point of fact, the doctor tried his
“persuasive powers” in Tas. This doesn’t
mean that there was no alternative to a
referendum with dim prospects.
“Pawang”: Dunstan made what de-
serves to be regarded as a classical re-
tort to a deputation protesting against
the excision of the word “secular” from
the Victorian Education Act and object-
ing to the extension of religious teaching
in State schools. “If we believe in
Christianity,” said Dunstan, after listen-
ing to their arguments, “why shouldn’t
we tell our children so?” Most of the
deputation were rationalists.
A facer for Corns.:
The Communist effort to get control of the
N.S.W. Labor organisation was dished, rather
neatly, at the latter’s annual conference —by
the president,” F. D. Kelly, M.L.C., ruling all
“affiliation” motions (there were five) out of
order. Kelly’s ruling was challenged by Corns,
and fellow-travellers and upheld by 271 to 77;
“about 94” delegates, among whom were
“moderates” instructed to vote for “affiliation”
by Com.-controlled unions, absented themselves
from the division. After that, the conference
said something about a 10-year plan of sociali-
sation, instructed McKell to do something
about the hairdressing industry, re-elected its
officers and declared business at an end before
business could clash with the King’s Birthday
holiday. Just as there would be a coal strike
at the back of Newcastle if Nobby’s were in
enemy hands, so Sydney would take a public
holiday if an invader were on North Head.
Last week Sydney Labor Council de-
clared the Theatre Royal “black” on the
recommendation of Actors’ Equity, the
Left Wing union running a strike of men
and women, mostly young and healthy
persons who were exempted from ser-
vice duties to keep up morale on the
entertainment front or something. Pre-
viously Maltby, M.L.A., had drily sug-
gested that, since the young men and
women weren’t carrying out their con-
tract, they should be requisitioned for
work in hospitals and other essen-
tial institutions. In the end Minister
Holloway “settled” the nasty business on
characteristic terms: all non-union actors
to join the union within 14 days.
The fury of a woman scorned is noth-
ing to the wrath with which one union
boss regards another union boss whom
he suspects of trying to get away with
members. Queensland Industrial Court
got a sample of it when Dawson, of the
Carpenters and Joiners, alleged that
Fallon, of the A.W.U., was seeking an
award so as “to sell more A.W.U.
tickets.” “I say you are a liar,” shouted
Fallon. Unmoved, Dawson went on to
say that it would be a “disgraceful breach
of faith” if carpenters came back from
war to find that some other union had
caused a lowering of wages and “stolen
their trade.”
Fallon: I say you are a mongrel.
Dawson: I ask the Court to compel Mr.
Fallon to withdraw that remark.
Fallon: I apologise to the Court, not to
Mr. Dawson.
Fallon must have been still enraged when
he resigned as Federal "president of the
A.L.P., declaring that he was fed up with
Joe Silver Collings’s handling of a strike
of Civil Construction Corps cooks.
Relieved by the decision of the Full
High Court that his department had
power to direct people into private em-
ployment, Director-General of Man-
power Wurth asserted that
No control vested in the Directorate of
Man-power has been used with more
scrupulous supervision and care than the
power of direction.
This may or may not have been in the
mind of the Man-power man who said
“I could send you to Bourke if I like.”
A conference of housing and Treasury
officials from all over Australia was held
in Canberra. Result, six new housing
division officers, at salaries ranging from
£6BB to £509 p.a., to supplement the hous-
ing authorities which aren’t building
houses in all the States. A problem after
the war will be where to house the hous-
ing officials.
With surprising bluntness Chifley told
the A.C.T.U. in Melbourne that he
wouldn’t interfere with wage-pegging.
Whereupon there arose a seer from
Queensland, Moroney:
I object to the undue pessimism of the
Federal Government. Inflation can only
affect investors and will not affect the
workers. It is the duty of the Labor Gov-
ernment to ensure that the investing public
doesn’t pass the buck to the workers.
The workers who have their savings in
savings banks, war loans, war savings
certificates and insurance cos. must be
thrilled to the back teeth with the Moro-
ney’s stand for inflation.
The question of hospital accommoda-
tion is acute in Melbourne. The B.M.A.
secretary. Dr. Dickson, told a State con-
ference on health that it was silly to say
hospital beds could not be provided
for expectant mothers when extra
accommodation had been provided for
taxation officials. Taxation officials don’t
give birth to babies.
At the Health Conference in Mel-
bourne it was stated that Forde wanted
another 5000 women enlisted for the ser-
vices as an urgent measure. A more
urgent measure would be an inquiry into
what work is being performed by some
of the women already enlisted with a
view to some of them being released to
relieve the hospital situation.


f
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Invasion figures,;
The King. —Heard in a fine brief broadcast.
Slightly hesitant at first and subsequent minor
hesitations, but incomparably better over the
air than in early broadcasts as King. The
message—with “We need a revival of the spirit,
a new unconquerable resolve” —largely a direc-
tion to the Empire to prayer. The only
monarch whose throne stands like stone. Ot
the 10 others, King Haakon, also heard here in a
stirring broadcast to his people, these days lives
in an unpretentious house outside London.
Dines at the Norwegian Club, and is there,
and likes to be, treated as an ordinary member.
Solid back in Norway, when he gets there.
Also in England, Europe’s only woman sove-
reign, Wilhelmina of Holland. Has been Queen
since she was 10. Her neighboring Leopold of
Belgium has regarded himself as p.o.w. since
the Germans took his country. Christian X of
Denmark is in “protective custody.” Easy-
going, he went into a shop in Stockholm on a
visit and ordered a fish. Gathering he was a
Dane, the lady shopkeeper said she’d give it
to him for nothing if he’d deliver a message
to relatives in Copenhagen that “John is out
of the army on account of flat feet.” Fish and
message delivered. Italy’s Victor Emmanuel,
who has stood aside, as he said he would, after
nearly half a century of kingship, is 75. Oldest
of the lot is Gustav of Sweden (86); youngest,
Simeon of Bulgaria (seven). Add Peter of
Yugoslavia, George of Greece and Michael of
Rumania. The invasion means a lot to every
one of them.
Eisenhower. —Another heard here over the
air, and good, too, for one of the most silent
of generals; he has no time for what he calls
“talking generals.” Apart from kings and
conquerors, the only foreign general ever estab-
lished in London as supreme commander of
the British Army. And that as a matter of
course. Foch was supreme commander of the
combined Allied forces, but stayed on his own
French soil. America Las an American-Japanese
unit in Italy; Krueger, who came to Australia
to take command of the U.S. forces under
MacArthur, was born in Prussia; Poletti, who
has been U.S. Governor in Sicily and Italy,
is the son of an immigrant stonecutter from the
northern end of Europe’s “boot”; Garand, in-
ventor of the topnotch U.S. semi-automatic
rifle, is a French-Canadian; and Eisenhower
comes of a German family that went to Swit-
zerland in the seventeenth century and moved
on to America several generations ago. When
he was in England in 1942 working out de-
tails of the African operations the part of
Grosvenor-square he inhabited was known as
“Eisenhower Platz.” He relied on one journal-
istic tradition which still holds good in spots
when he told correspondents in Africa a month
in advance that the Sicilian campaign was
coming and when. None spilt the beans.
Eisenhower started out as a professional foot-
baller, broke a leg at it, and so out of it and
to where he is now. One who wasn’t happy at
his appointment was his mother, who said it
made her sad to think “the responsibility was
delegated to Dwight on the eve of the coming
of Christ.” He himself believes everyone wants
the war finished “so we can all go fishing.”
The Germans have said of him that he “never
launches an attack until he is 90 p.c. certain
of success,” which seems to hold good for other
Americans also.
Churchill. —Of course, also heard over the
air. After Tehran he had a grim battle with
pneumonia, and has not been his hearty old
self since. Even so, he is still the world’s
greatest reporter. No correspondents’ accounts
have compared in breadth of view with his re-
ports to the Commons and in world broadcasts.
Though his “Commanders report that every-
thing is going according to plan—and what a
plan!” was the only bit of the old authentic
Churchill, no other reporter got within coo-ee
of it. The Churchill family motto, Fiel Pero
Desdichado, has been translated “Faithful and
firm in misfortune”; not so true of an earlier
member, perhaps, but made to order for
Winston C.
Montgomery. —Despite eager claims to the
contrary, on the lines of those which claimed
a Russian general as the great Irishman Tim
O’Shenko, “Monty” is a Cockney. Son of a
parson who was Bishop of Tasmania, he has
a parson brother who, as chaplain, held many
pre-invasion services among “Monty’s” troops.
“Monty” himself’s a short, spare, ascetic man
of Spartan tastes; neither drinks nor smokes;
reads anything on military strategy he can get
his hands on, including the stirring fighting
passages of the Bible. Can hardly be called
as modest as Eisenhower or as his own suc-
cessor in charge of the magnificent Eighth
Army, Leese, whose great job in the taking of
Rome seemed timed to help the Normandy in-
vasion. Cockneys under Leese rate him as good
as their old boss, though their pronunciation
makes a mess of his name.
Bradley. —Senior American ground com-
mander. A classmate of Eisenhower at West
Point, and set a record there for the longest
baseball throw. Like Eisenhower, an infantry-
man. Wears glasses under the stars on his tin
lid and is a fraction short of 6ft. Eisenhower
said of him that “his most prominent charac-
teristic is getting there.” Is very much more
popular with his men than one or two of his
fellow-generals; in fact, is known as the
“Doughboys’ general.”
Tedder. — A quiet, sardonic Scot, whose
manner suits Eisenhower to a “t.” Second in
command to the American, his most striking
personal characteristics are his bright, piercing
eyes, a sharp cutting humor and a most decep-
live air of utter weariness, since*he’s an almost
inexhaustible worker. Shares Churchill’s
hobbies of water-color painting and smoking,
though not as good as the P.M. in the one
and an easy winner, with the pipe, at the other.
It has been noted of Churchill that though
he always has a cigar in his mouth it is seldom
alight. Tedder puffs heavily.
Leigh-Mallory. —Commanding the air effort.
Like Montgomery, son of a parson. His
brother George lost his life in 1924 trying to
scale Mount Everest. Yet another of the quiet
ones, Leigh-Mallory fought in the Battle of
Britain and did the organising for the ditching
of the Luftwaffe in the Dieppe raid.
Ramsay. —lt has been said of the Allied
naval leader in the invasion (under Cunningham
as First Sea Lord of the Admiralty) that he
could come out got up as Malvolio and still
look what he is, a traditional British naval
officer. His invasion leadership has the
appropriateness of his having mobilised the
vast armada of little boats that got the gallant
Dunkirk boys safely home.
Only one civilian figured in the Birth-
day list for Australia, acting P.M. and
ditto Minister for Defence Forde, a P.C.
The British list included the three civilians
mainly responsible for the development
of penicillin, Professor Alexander Flem-
ing, Dr. Percival Hartley and H. W.
Florey, the last formerly of Adelaide. All
three got knighthoods. For the job he’s
done as Ambassador in Uncle Sam’s
country Halifax has become an earl.
Youngest Air Vice -
Marshal in the R.A.F.,
D. C. T. Bennett, who
was born in Too-
woomba and leads the
Pathfinders, had a C.B.
added to his C.8.E.,
D.S.O. In the Aus-
tralian list Brigadier
Combes, who put mobi-
lisation plans into oper-
ation here at the out-
break, and Air Commo-
dore De La Rue, who’s
been with the R.A.A.F.
since its formation in
1921, and was in the
Australian Air Corps
before that, C.B.Es.
When the N.S.W.
Parliamentary Labor
party balloting for
Ministers in the new
Government was over
Premier McKell still
had Clive Evatt on his
hands. McKell took the
hurdle by demoting
Evatt to Assistant Min-
ister and giving the
Education portfolio to
Heffron, who’d been
practically worked out
of a job as Minister for
N.E.S. The new mem-
ber of the team, E, H.
Graham —C. C. Lazzarini, of the old
lot, having been the only one outed
becomes Minister for Agriculture,
with qualifications including having been
born out Wagga way and starting Kinila-
bah, the biggest pig stud in Australia.
Dan Clyne retained the Speakership,
though he beat Shannon —not the horse ;
the member for Phillip—by only 29 votes
to 27.
“H.W.”: The passing of Judge Lukin
at 77 again draws attention to what a
healthy calling the law is. Of Federal
Judges who have passed on Powers was
86, Gavan Duffy 84, Higgins 78, Griffith
75 and Barton 71 ; and Isaac Isaacs is
just on 89. Victoria has an excellent
record in this respect, as witness the ages
of these Judges; Holroyd 88, Hartley
Williams 86, Molesworth 84, Irvine 84
and Moul© 81. Incidentally, the Earl of
Halsbury, Lord Chancellor and editor of
The Laws of England, reached 98.
The late Judge Lukin’s son is a lawyer,
and one of his daughters married another
lawyer, the Victorian P. D. Phillips, whose
father and grandfather before him also
chose the law as a profession. Phillips
is rapidly gaining a foremost position at
the Victorian Bar, where he’s retained in
nearly every important cause.
The Scottish Com. Gallacher, who
figured in the invasion news for having
greeted the announcement that it was on
by bursting into tears in the Commons,
speaks with a burr so thick that press-
men from other lands need the help of
an interpreter. One of Gallacher’s ques-
tions to Churchill some time back: “Will
the Prime Minister see that the clear
Scottish pronunciation is used, thereby
avoiding the fluctuating and irritating
noises made by the English?” There was
strong enough cause for Gallacher’s
tears, and that question indicates a sense
of humor ; but generally Corns, look the
most humorless of mortals.
Reported missing in Sumatra, Pilot-
Officer Neville H. Oddie, of Ballarat,
whose father, a grazier of Stockyard Hill,
died leaving an estate valued for probate
at £49,000. After various legacies have,
been paid £25,700 remains for the missing
airman.
The music of the old songs of the
Australian bush must be collected and
printed before it is 100 late ; that is Dr.
Bainton’s message to anyone who is in-
terested. Purpose —the creation of a dis-
tinctively Australian tradition in music.
At first, when the notion was put to him
by a Bulletin man, Dr. Bainton doubted
that a distinctively Australian music was
possible; because, he said, we have no
folk songs. As amiable and as animated
in his silence as in his conversation, he
listened to a theory that the pioneering,
goldrush and bushranging days are our
(Modelled by Frith.)
DR. BAINTON.
folklore period, and their songs, even
if not Australian in origin, our folk-
songs ; and, having heard how a desperate
search once for somebody who could
sing “The Wild Colonial Boy” revealed
that Tom Mutch seemed to be the only
man in Sydney who remembered it all,
agreed with enthusiasm that the tunes
must be preserved. He said, incidentally,
that he had once heard “The Wearin’ o’
the Green” played on a pipe by a native
on top of a mountain in India. As a
man who tramps the bush with the
passion that lesser men trudge from No-
Beer sign to No-Beer sign, Dr. Bainton
grew lyrical about the possibilities of Aus-
tralian bird-songs in Australian music.
As to his own opera, which had just
concluded a highly successful season at
Sydney Con., he admitted with awe and
some justifiable pride that, though the
fireworks are all in the second act and
the conclusion is quiet contemplation,
audiences had listened to the end with
only the mildest fits of coughing.
Appropriately enough, the Victoria
electorate in South Aus. is represented by
a Victorian, Vernon Gordon Petherick,
who has held the seat on and off for
many years. Melbourne-born and -edu-
cated, he started out with A.U.S.N., but
in 1909 went into business as Naracoorte
(S.A.). Onetime coxswain of the Yarra
Yarra Rowing Club, he steered over a
hundred winning crews, including the
intercolonial eights in Sydney (1890) and
Melbourne (1891).
Reached the allotted span and still
going strong, Nathan F. Spielvogel,
author of five books of prose and two of
verse and well known to earlier genera-
tions of Bulletin readers. Born at Bal-
larat, he began his schooling at the Dana-
street State School, and, becoming a
teacher, saw a lot of Victoria before
retiring from the headmastership of his
old school. He’s president of the Bal-
larat Historical Society and the honorary
curator of Ballarat’s museum.
H. S. J. Somerset, general manager and
a director of Electrolytic Zinc, who be-
came president of the Australian Mines
and Metals Association, vice the late
Colin Fraser, is another of the early
band of Mt. Morgan engineers to make a
mark in mining. He was born and edu-
cated 1 in Brisbane.
Two months back New York papers
reported the arrival there of “16 Aus-
tralian Army officers, fresh from the
mountains of New Guinea, en route for
the United Kingdom, where they will
assume stall’ and regimental appointments
ih. the British Army.” They included one
with a record that might take some beat-
ing—Lieut.-Col. W. T. Robertson, who
has fought in 14 countries. Winner of
the M.C. in the campaign in Greece,
Robertson was a student of chemistry at
Oxford when the war got going. After
all his expedience, he described the jungle
fighting in the Huon Peninsula campaign
as “quite the hardest that can be con-
ceived.”
In B. 17/5/’44 mention was made of
the cricketing feat of Otago (M.L.) Uni.'s
Professor of Education Dr. R. Lawson,
who, playing for the Uni. staff against
students in a match in April, stumped six
and caught one. In one important par-
ticular the performance was even more
remarkable than reported, Dr. Lawson
being not 59 but 69.
Melbourne barrister Reg Hain, who
had a leg, arm and collarbone broken
when he was knocked over by a car the
other day, is known as a journalist as well
as a practitioner at the Bar. He is
a son of the late Richard Hain, one of
David Syme’s men, who went abroad
with Deakin on one of his overseas mis-
sions, and his wife is the social editress
of the “Argus.”
The estate of Colin Fraser, of Electro-
lytic Zinc and many other mining and
business concerns, cut up for £48,597.
The life interest goes to his widow and
ultimately to two daughters.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, Gerald Halpin, over a stretch of
years Australia’s champion amateur cyclist.
He represented this country at' the Olympic
Games at Antwerp in 1920.
In Adelaide, at 77, J. S. Guidi, who got in
early as a businessman at Broken Hill in 1890,
and ultimately became chairman of directors
of the Gas Co. there, and also proprietor of
the Tivoli Theatre. Latterly he had done a
lot of breeding and racing with trotting horses
in Adelaide.
Brian Wibberley, of Adelaide, 77, had been
in Australia from youth. He studied for the
ministry in Melbourne, and later was president
of the Methodist Conference in both Perth
and S.A. Music and authorship were his side-
lines, and he had the unusual degree, for a
parson, of Mus. Bac., taken at Adelaide Uni.
In Melbourne, at 57, James Alexander Toiler,
racing journalist, breeder and trainer. “Snow-
den” of the “Australasian” and later “Beacon”
of the “Leader,” he had a high reputation for
thoroughbred breeding ana raced some of his
own horses, notably Air Play, by Windbag-
Your Lead. His articles were valued by Lon-
don “Bloodstock Breeders’ Review.”
In Sydney, at 84, James Noble Stedman,
founder of the old confectionery firm, in
which he took a leading hand for upwards of
60 years.
In Melbourne, Doris Boake Kerr, novelist
and poet. Under the pen-name of Capel Boake
—Barcroft Boake, the poet, was an uncle —
she published quantities of verse and three
novels. Painted Clay, The Romany Mark and
The Dark Thread, and had just completed a
historical novel on the Victorian early mining
days under a grant from the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. Born at Summer Hill (N.S.W.),
she moved very young to Melbourne, edu-
cated herself in a public library in the
suburbs, and made the leisure for her writing
by working as a typist, a librarian and a shop
assistant.
At Lismore (N.S.W.), at 80, Spencer M.
Cottee, who arrived in that part as a pioneer
70 years back and was revisiting it to arrange
for a trial shipment of its milk to Sydney.
He founded the casein industry in Australia
and had been a prime mover in most North
Coast advances in scientific farming and
marketing.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: Most army cooks I have met
used words as bludgeons rather than as
rapiers. I rejoice to be able to record
an exception in the field of repartee. It
was “cookhouse” for a bunch of just-in
18-year-olds. The babbler frowned as
no dixie was pushed eagerly under his
nose to take his poised ladleful of stew.
Looking up he beheld an unmistakable
mother’s boy looking down his nose with
obvious disapproval at the offered con-
coction! “Not to your liking, mate?”
asked the ladle-holder genially. The m.b.
shook his head and registered nausea;
then he said “I have never been accus-
tomed to partaking of such food.”
The bab patted the youth on the shoulder
with his free hand. “I understand, son,”
he said in deeply sympathetic tones that
could be heard at the end of the line.
“People at home a bit on the lousy side,
eh?”
“C.0’8.”; That par. about Andrew
Barr, of Doodlakine (B. 26/4/’44), re-
awakened memories. On his trips to Perth
Andrew always stayed at our place, the
Court. Early in the last war —I was a
schoolboy then —he asked me to do a
drawing ‘ for him of a land-mine which
could roll itself across to the enemy
trenches and then explode. Another
matter in which he was ahead of his
time ; the Germans have been trying the
same idea today, but, of course, with
caterpillar traction and radio detonation.
I have a photo, of Barr shaking hands
with Bob Ramage, Carbine’s Melbourne
Cup jockey. He figured in “Dryblower”
Murphy’s merry jingles, one of which be-
gan with the lines
Andrew Barr, old friend of mine,
Meandered down from Doodlakine
To pass the time away.
Andrew read the composition with mixed
feelings—his watch had been lost or
pinched.
* * * %
“Spasebo”; An Australian official con-
cerned with putting Australian culture
before the American public wrote from
New York requesting examples of our
literature and painting. For art he got
back a catalogue of Italian and other old
masters in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne. For literature he received a
miscellaneous assortment, including 12
volumes of Victorian “Hansard”!
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In days when economy of
words is widely advocated, if only for
the time saved in writing, the “South” in
New South Wales seems superfluous.
There is a New Wales somewhere in the
sub-Arctic regions, but I doubt if any
squeal would come from there. Cook is
vaguely supposed to have sponsored this
part of Australia because of some fancied
resemblance to the coast of South Wales.
(Do the cliffs of North Wales show any
difference from those of South Wales,
anyhow?) But isn’t it possible that the
idea of a New Wales in the south, as
distinguished from the one in the far
north, was in his mind? Some of his
earlier biographers use only “New Wales”
in reference to his discovery.
“Cauboy”: A unique aspect of the
actors’ strike cropped up in Melbourne.
Eric Reiman, of the “Kiss and Tell”
company, got a notice threatening a writ
if he continued to give public appear-
ances outside the J.C.W. management.
J.C.W., after an attempt to fill the gap
with a flesh-and-blood play, decided to
put on films, and one of them was “Forty
Thousand Horsemen.” As Reiman is one
of the principals in that picture he was in
the strange position of refusing to appear
in person at the theatre and being unable
to prevent himself appearing, so to speak,
in shadows.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A cordial manufac-
turer who supplies a considerable part of
the country with its soft drinks holds the
local record for economy. He takes home
half a dozen oranges every week-end for
family consumption and brings the peel
back for the factory on Mondays.
* * »
“Pip”: Sydney’s suburban trains (B.
31/5/ ’44) mightn’t be so hot, but com-
pared with the Brisbane versions they
are ultra-modern. Bananaland’s capital
has no electrified system, the work being
done by Puffing Billies, which shower
city and suburbs with soot. From
“She WOULD sing boogie-woogie !”
Brunswick-street to Central the trains
run underground, filling every car-
riage with a thick smoke pall and
bringing on incipient asphyxiation. The
carriages have no inside handle, and
opening the door necessitates letting down
a window and reaching outside. These
windows have a habit of jamming, so
there are frequent overcarriages to the
next station —or even the one after. Be-
yond the three-mile limit most lines are
single track. Resultant delays make the
official timetable about as valuable as
Woolcott Forbes scrip.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The cranks who find some
mystical significance in numbers have
fastened on the invasion of Europe. They
point out that the initial landing took
place at the sixth hour of the sixth day
of the sixth month. The First World War
terminated on the 11th hour of the 11th
day of the 11th month.
* * * *
“Norther”; A Queensland Red Cross
official has cheered a lot of people up
with his statement that most Australian
prisoners of war in Thailand have re-
ceived at least one letter each from their
homeland. The statement was qualified
by the addition that it was made through
Japanese censorship, if not composed by
Japanese authorities. But it should serve
to remind this country again of the plight
of its Eighth Divvy—little imagination
is required to see the pathos of one letter
in 2\ years of captivity. Prisoners
are said to amuse themselves with bur-
lesque race meetings, and the shortage
of reading is illustrated by the statement
that a book is broken into eight or ten
parts so that several can read it at once.
The Japanese have allowed two alleged
prisoners to announce that card games,
football, basketball and badminton are
played and that rice rissoles and veges. fried
in peanut or pork oil are the staple diet.
* * • * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne National Gallery
has got its Yam Eyck back. Two Allied
soldiers with aesthetic leanings were re-
newing acquaintance with it, having seen
it in New York, when a new attendant
approached. “Anything I can tell you
about the pictures?” he asked, and with-
out waiting for an answer continued:
“Now that picture there cost 33,000 quid.
It’s a lot of dough to pay for a picture,”
he added pensively,
JS' * * *
“Youngbuck”; Aged 24, and on a
tenner per 40-hour week, with not-too-
awkward shifts, and in a romantic mood,
I determined to seek a long-haired mate.
It was a bit early in the evening for the
quest, so I turned on the wireless. Bang
went my illusions. It was made clear
that my health was poor, because I was
not taking enough roughage in my tucker;
that the lass I might meet was unlikely
to be a “change-daily girl” ; that I myself,
though my friends would not tell me,
was a distressing case of b. 0.; that the
inexpressible she would have halitosis;
that the particles of food left between
my teeth after tea were a mass of putre-
faction ; and that, in the unlikely event
of the young woman boasting a school-
girl complexion, my hands, hardened and
roughened by having to haul, maul and
spall, would offend her. I returned to my
other weakness —two-up.
“Spoke”: Melbourne’s squab industry
has entered on a new phase. It used to
be a means of livelihood for small boys
who wangled their way into the good
graces of night watchmen in city build-
ings and got unofficial permission to
conduct their trapping operations on
Melbourne’s skyline after office hours.
The pigeons were sold to hotels for the
free counter lunches which are now a
dim memory or to “sportsmen” for
pigeon-murdering. The current shortage
of meat has pushed the pigeon-hunters
further afield, and they’ve invaded the
Fitzroy Gardens, The only objectors
are the bird-lovers who have fed the birds
there for generations.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: I thought betting in Sydney
was confined to the races and the s.p.
and two-up joints until I went to a Sunday
League match —a good, kind Labor Gov-
ernment allows Sunday football with all
the trimmings. Having paid sixpence, I
walked on to the sideline, when a barrage
from the crowd perched on wooden seats
behind (“Sit down, y’ mug!” “Think
y’re made o’ glass?”) caused me to squat.
Entry of players on the field is the
signal for about a hundred spectators
to go into a huddle and lay their bets.
Pound notes, fivers and, occasionally,
tenners change hands. Knowing gents
wander among the sports, hoping to find
a newcomer who doesn’t know the
form. The Reds kick off and score a try
near the corner. You can get 2 to 1
about “Snowy” kicking the goal. In-
fringements are frequent they bring
hoots and howls from backers of
the side penalised. At half-time the
Reds lead seven-nil. More betting goes
on —6 to 4 the Greens won’t score the
first try, 4 to 5 they won’t score at all,
evens the Reds will have a 10-point
margin when the bell clangs. They win
11-nil. On the whole, the bookies haven't
cleaned up as much as they expected ,
but there’ll be another roll-up of mugs
next Sunday. Presumably they and the
astonishing crowds that attend the Satur-
day League matches are all doing “essen-
tial war work.”
* * * *
“Cruiser”; Linguistic puzzles for
Allied soldiers (B, 31/5/’44)? A Digger
in a Melbourne pub invited his com-
panion to have another pot. “Waal, per-
haps I’ve had enough,” his friend said.
“Another wouldn’t hurt you,” said the
Digger. “Anyhow, have a Shetland.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The dictum of O. Henry's
pair of grafters that the world is full of
suckers and come-ons, most of whom are
Big-City dwellers, is as true now as when
it was written 40 years ago. In our own
land Sydney easily leads in containing
the biggest proportion of mugs to the
square mile. Peculiarly, it isn’t the
obvious dumbbell who is the first to fall
for anything—invariably it is the “shrewd
mug.” Not so long back a Sydney
punter going up to Rosehill races came
straight back to town without getting on
to the course —in the train he had done his
wad on the three-card trick. But then
punters lead all Sydney mugs by several
lengths in every event. Yet, apparently,
there are mugs of even greater density,
for I note that speculators on the London
Stock Exchange “from as far afield as
Palestine” are paying up to £9 for Ger-
man Government bonds normally worth
10s. in the hope that “as Germany’s de-
feat draws near other buyers will take
the bonds off them at a higher price”—
that is, presumably, when the Nazis are
bankrupt. I now expect to hear of a
Tel Aviv pawnbroker allowing £l5 on a
top set of crockery because one tooth has
been covered with gold paper,
« * * *
“C.Q.”: That British merchant seaman
(B. 31/5/’44) had no more adventure
crammed into his life than a youth in
Melbourne, Joining the M.N. in 1940
at 13, the youth was torpedoed, rescued
by a destroyer and landed in Australia ;
then he joined the A.I.F. He fought in
Timor, went to New Guinea, fought
there and was wounded and was finally
discharged in January—at 16. He is now
waiting for the age at which he can
begin again.
Vf. * * *
“Clooter”: The casualness of the aver-
age Australian was demonstrated in a
Sydney court when a woman sought pos-
session of a ring. Nine years ago a friend
had suggested that it needed cleaning,
so she gave it to him to take to town
for the job, together with a watch belong-
ing to her sister. A couple of days later
she received a note saying the ring had
been left at a bank and enclosing an
authority for her to collect it. The man
hasn’t been heard of since, and the
claimant somewhat vaguely said she
thought her sister was in New Zealand.
The bank handed ring and watch into
court, the Judge handed the woman the
ring and the watch was returned to the
bank, presumably to lie there unless it is
claimed.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A woman who asked for a
search through 100,000 returned ration
books for a £5 note alleged to have been
left between the leaves of her old book
gave Prahran (Vic.) officials a facer,
especially as 5000 books had already been
sent to the pulp mills. Touched by her
appealing expression, however, they set
to work. Within half an hour they had
handed her the fiver.
* * * *
ON THE HOME FRONT.
“Senator Keane said that the ration year might
not only be the victory year but the year of ‘shiny
pants and frayed cuffs,’ and that such details would
mark the patriot.”
Forbear the worried glance
You cast aforetime
At over-shiny pants.
Bethink, in war-time.
Far from affording ground
For criticism
In strides like these are found
Proofs eloquent and sound
Of patriotism.
Fear no more mute rebuffs
Nor take it badly,
The consciousness your cuffs
Are fraying sadly.
These are a higher test
Than loud effront’ry
To make it manifest
You’re doing your level best
For King and country.
No need your brows to knit
Or feel uneasy
Because your tile’s a bit
Floppy and greasy.
It stamps you for a true
Worker for victory, brother,
Better than if you blew
Your cash (and coupons too)
Buying another.
Ever, till wars are through,
More must be waiting
The end than those who do
The liquidating.
But each a helping hand
Gives to his native land
Who shuns displayment
And, when his clobber’s scanned,
Conforms to Keane’s demand
For rusty raiment.
N.S.W.
T. the R.
ON THE TRAMS.
Tram travel grows a bit less drab and drear
Since uniformed conductresses began
To operate in yet another sphere
So long reserved for man.
A pleasant change it seems, to pay the pennies
Destined for yawning departmental tills
Into the hands of Phyllises and Jennies,
Instead of Jims and Bills.
And tripping daintily, there’s no denying,
And smiling lips or eyes and comely curves
Have ever been accounted satisfying
Sights for the optic nerves.
But when the wintry winds their prey are catch-
ing ...
And hose become expensive luxuries,
One notes the disabilities attaching
• To skirts so short as these.
The shapeliest calves of regimented dressers
Art apt to look a trifle blue when bare
And set one mildly wishing their possessors
Had a bit more to wear.
But cruel officialdom, they tell me —whether
Broadmindedness or commonsense it lacks
Forbids conductresses- to garb their nether
Extremities in slacks.
When women do men’s work, as we require
them,
Service that hardihood like this entails,
What nonsense to suggest they shouldn’t attire
them
Like bifurcated males.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


“Pip”: “Give it a name” is the average
soldier’s first thought when a new piece
of equipment joins the war establishment.
Drivers name their vehicles after the cur-
rent girl friend, and a painstaking bit of
signwriting announces to the world that
the 15cwt. truck is officially “Nellie” or
“Joan” or “Kay.” Artillery name their
guns after familiar places: “El Alamein,
“Syrian Sue” and “Buna Betty” are fairly
typical. Tent-naming is the initial task
on moving in ; you see “Sleepy Hollow,”
“Sludgers’ Retreat” and “The Harem”—
prize example of wishful thinking. Small
arms, which need so much cleaning and
get dirty so quickly, receive lurid and
mostly unprintable names, but the tried
soldier admits that his rifle is a “pretty
blanky good old blankard.” Places
around the countryside also have com-
mon names, and “Bill’s Gully” and “Red’s
Tower” are official in all unit communi-
cations and orders. Bill fell down the one
and Red fell off the other. Most appro-
priate name I’ve met was bestowed on the
mobile shower, “The Louse Browner.”
* * * *
“Pons”: “The place where we give
battle will be unknown, and, being un-
known, the enemy will have to prepare
in many places; and because he has to
make preparations in many places he
will have the fewer men where we attack.
If he strengthens his front he weakens
his rear, and if he strengthens his rear he
weakens his front, while if he reinforces
his right he weakens his left. As he has
to prepare everywhere, he is not in force
anywhere.” Thus Eisenhower at a con-
ference with Winston Church ; no,
hold on! These are the words of Sun
Tz’, a general in the service of King Ho
Lu Wang (514-496 b.c.), who reigned
over the kingdom of Wu, on the Yang-tz’.
The old soldier’s remarks have been trans-
lated from the original by Professor
Sadler, of Sydney University.
* * * *
The fighting McKells:
A Sydney daily has published a two-page
biography of N.S.W. Premier McKell without
mentioning the fighting uncles who inspired his
youthful studies in gymnasiums and his en-
during love of The Game. There were three:
Herb, Billy and Jack, not only good boxers
but interesting fellows, with intelligence much
above the pugilistic average. Herb 1 never met,
but I have heard tales of his prowess (he was
welterweight champion) and of his great fight
with a Melbourne middleweight, Jennings. One
of the men he whipped was Jim Barron, lately
dead, who drew with “Griffo” and, conceding
lumps of weight, with the great “Kid” McCoy.
Herb was his own press-agent, and an old
Bulletin furnishes evidence that he could
sling ink as well as gloves. Billy became bantam
champion by beating Bert Weekes, brother of
a tine old sporting character still on deck in
Sydney, and lost it to “Paddy” King, one of
the Lang Labor candidates at the recent
election. I was nominal stakeholder when Billy
boxed Frank Thorn in Perth. He took a hiding
with stoical composure, and at the division
of the offertory—.all sovereigns, half-sovs. and
silver, though not nearly enough, the veteran
protested—he entertained us with reminiscences
of an outback tour with his own boxing show,
unfortunately, though accidentally, pursued from
place to place by a greater “draw,” Cardinal
Moran’s antagonist, the Rev. Dill Macky. Jack,
seeking matches, came into the Kalgoorlie
“Miner” office when I was a cub. I remember
saying to the sporting editor, Billy Milton —who
himself, when young and slightly sober, took
on one Pablo Fanques at Larry Foley’s—that
he seemed too good-looking and well-spoken to
be a pug. On Jack’s record, however, were
draws with two very clever lightweights of the
period. Cocker Tweedie and Hock Keys. But
he failed to find a suitable opponent on the
goldfields, and I never heard of his boxing
again.
* # * *
“D.8.K.”: In “Indaba’s” reference to
the place where Wing-Commander
Whittle got the inspiration for his jet-
propelled ’plane (B. 24/ 5/ ’44) “m” was
somehow substituted for “n.” Cranwell,
the R.A.F.’s Sandhurst, dates from 1916,
when it was R.N.A.S. training ground for
aircraft and personnel. I arrived there in
1917 on a day when a wing-commander
and two petty officers fell to their death
from a broken-loose semi-rigid airship—
no happy introduction for a youngster
with flying aspirations. With the forma-
tion of the R.A.F. Cranwell came into its
own as Britain’s No. 1 Flying School.
The Luftwaffe must hate the very name.
* * * *
“Exdig”: A fellow-worker explained
his unshaven condition as due to lack
of a mirror during the process of moving,
and I found by taking a cross-section of
office opinion that a mirror is re-
garded as essential to shaving. I
never use one myself; my face is
an old acquaintance—we have lived
together for 60 years and I can go
over it on the blind without getting into
bunkers or cutting off corners. And I
shave the back of the neck, generally
considered a barber’s job. I formed the
habit in Flanders. Out on a strongpoint
possy at Hollebeke (3011 was the map
reference number), we used an old Ger-
man pillbox for our daytime hibernation,
and it seemed safe enough to indulge in
a shave in the sunken approach to it.
But the shaving process had scarcely
begun when the air about my head seemed
to buzz as if with wasps, and bullets and
pieces of concrete began flying about. I
grabbed the little steel mirror I had
propped up in front of me —the helio-
graphic gleam from it had invited the fire
—and finished my shave in the Stygian
darkness*;of the pillbox. It was quite
easy; and from that day to this it has
seemed curious to me that anyone should
regard a mirror as a shaving necessity,
“Kayem”: Even in operational areas
“up north” men must shave and have
their thatch lopped at more or less regular
intervals. This is an opportunity for
some willing souls to make themselves
good fellows and at the same time add a
“I would ask you when taking the plate round to desist from saying
'Fares, please!' "
little extra oof to their service pay. Most
camp “barbers” are the rawest of tyros,
but their operations are submitted to gal-
lantly, The most elaborate “saloons”
boast scissors, clippers, powder —even
hair oil. Any style of haircut can be had,
one of the most popular being the “tropi-
cal,” which leaves a dome almost as
dehaired as a Tivoli baldhead’s. Inci-
dentally, one enterprising chap has his
tent-pole colored with the traditional red
and white of the “profession.”
* * * *
“Scotia”: War-time Government offi-
cialdom is a well of English defiled. I
hadn’t got over “finalisation” when I had
to answer a complaint about “the canni-
balisation of trucks,” “cannibalisation”
having occurred when parts of trucks in
process of being scrapped were trans-
ferred to other vehicles. Any reputable
lexicon insists that eating is essential to
cannibalism, and the inventor of “can-
nibalisation” should be compelled to eat
the word.
* * * *
“Pawang”: War-time exigencies have
forced on Wesley College, Melbourne, a
new order. Fifth- and sixth-form boys
“Now, girls, let's give the admiral a REAL sailors' farewell."
have turned their tuckshop into a co-
operative unit, profits going to the col-
lege. Each boy spends one spare lesson
period a week in the tuckshop as cook,
waiter or assistant, and the menu would
make an Old Boy’s eyes pop out. Three
hundred Oslo meals at ninepence are
served daily, requiring 20 wholemeal
loaves, bottles of milk (450 half-pints),
cocoa, fruit drinks and large quantities
of carrots, celery, lettuce, tomatoes anti
ice-cream. J. Rush, an Old Boy turned
teacher, is responsible for the notion.
* * * *
“X.Q.X.”: Mention of Harry Peck (B.
24/5/’44) reminds me. In Palestine one
day the orderly sergeant poked his head
round the door and asked “Who’s duty
driver?” “Harry Peck,” the runner re-
plied. A stentorian hail receiving no
response except the raised eyebrows of
all within earshot, the orderly sergeant
rapped out ‘‘Where is he?” “I think
he went to the pictures,” said the runner.
“Well, when he comes back you can tell
him he’s under arrest,” snapped the sarge,
reaching for a crime sheet. The C.O.
kept the sheet as a souvenir, but it wasn t
safe to mention Harry to that sergeant
afterwards. Another memory is of an
army-built bridge somewhere in Aus-
tralia. It bore a sign, inspired by the
multilingual notices of the M.E.;
HARRY PECK’S BRIDGE
SLOW DOWN
PONT DU HENRI PECQUE
RALENTIR
Below came a line of pseudo-Arabic
script, then a few sham Japanese char-
acters ; lastly:
HONOURABLE BRIDGE HARRY PECK
SLOW PLEASE
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” remembers:
When the Macquaries came to Sydney in
1809 they found the 21-years-old town of about
9000 people not a bad little place. Below
Government House, where Phillip and Bridge
streets now intersect, were the homes and official
addresses of the Judge-Advocate, the Commis-
sary-General, Chaplain William Cowper and the
Surveyor-General, on ground now occupied by
Education and Lands departments. Simeon
Lord’s large stores were in what is now Mac-
quarie-place, near the town houses and business
establishments of Thomas Reibey and Andrew
Thompson. A stone bridge crossed the Tank
Stream close to where the Royal Exchange
sprawls now,, and across it, on the left-hand
side of Bridge-street going west, was the big
lumberyard where convict artisans worked at
their trades. The junction of Bridge and George
streets was the centre of the town, while a little
way up the hill stood the original St. Phillip’s
Church, with its queer round tower. The
dwelling of Garnham Blaxell, one of the
builders of Sydney Hospital, was where Union
House now stands, and the Military Barracks
stretched along the ridge above the present Wyn-
yard-square, the old parade ground. Ihe resi-
dential suburb of “1 Rocks” lay north of it,
and southward the town stretched to Park-street,
its eastern boundary Hyde Park. That was
Sydney 135 years ago.
J|: 'l' *
“Craiser”: Melbourne’s Savage Club,
just having a jubilee (B. 31/5/ ’44), got
the cruellest rebuff of its history from
H. G. Wells. Wiring to Perth on the
eve of his arrival, it invited the great
man to be an honorary member, and
waited anxiously for his advent. One
afternoon a thickset figure walked into
the clubroom, went straight to the most
comfortable chair, sank into it and fell
asleep. Having finished his nap, the
confector of new Arcadias walked out
without so much as a nod to his fellow-
members.
* * ♦
“X.Q.X.”; English spelling may be a
puzzle, but Arabic transliterated to the
Roman alphabet seems to have no rules.
Our brigade was blooded at a place
shown on the French maps as Merdja-
youn. The “Palestine Post” called it Mer-
jayoun. Most Australian papers made two
words of it. On mileposts in the district
it was Merjiyun, Marjiyun, Mardiyun and
several other variants. The oddest speci-
men, though, was a railway siding in
the desert near Alex. One end of the
station building was labelled Amria ; the
other, Amiriya.
* * * * .
“Melbn”: Melbourne, like Perth, is in
the throes of a controversy on shifting
the Town Hall. One school wants a civic
structure on the Western Market site,
another on the Eastern Market site, an-
other at the Exhibition and still another
on a new area to be erected if and
when the Yarra is diverted. The market
sites already have buildings on them
which, in my judgment, are better than
anything put up in Melbourne in the last
two decades and, with minor alterations,
could be made beautiful, while preserving
the material they are made of. But pro-
jectors want a vast edifice with a plane-
tarium on top for popular astronomical
observations, a helicopter landing-ground
and other features, including a 130 ft-
. Brown Spanish onion growing out
of the top storey. Lud Mayor Nettlefold
protests that the present Town Hall is
a beautiful, dignified building in a cen-
tral position which, with small additions,
would provide all the required accom-
modation ; and he is right.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Conrad was another
writer who disliked the misuse of sea
terms (B. 31/5/’44). His pet aversions
were the “cast-anchor” chaps, writers of
seafaring yarns who made their naviga-
tors commit this unnecessary action.
Ships “come to anchor” or just simply
“anchor.” They “cast anchor” only in
novels.
“Sphalerite”: Niceties of “on” and
“in” aren’t limited to freighters and sail-
ing ships by any means. When I first
arrived at Norseman (W.A.) I ran into
a Queensland mate who was a first-class
hard-rock machine miner. He asked if
I had a job to go to, and when I told
him I was to start at the Phoenix he
replied he was working “on the Butter-
fly?” This worried me, as I thought if
such a good man could get only a surface
job I wouldn’t last long underground.
But I found out that all over the West
working thousands of feet underground
was, in the miners’ lingo, on that mine.
* * * *
“El Madjal”: So far from being an
invitation to ro-mance, the letters “5.0.5.”
sported by that trim Allied service woman
(B. 31/5/ ’44) stand for “Services of
Supply.” Female civilian drivers em-
ployed by the U.S.A.S.O.S. wear a brown
uniform with the letters “5.0.5.” in gold
on the sleeve. These girls are Australians
and are not service women.
* * * *
“F.S.”: If you wait long enough every-
thing about a great man eventually be-
comes interesting, so it is not surprising
in these days of clothing shortage to find
the trustees of the Melbourne National
Gallery debating the acquisition of a
waistcoat, not for use but for preser-
vation as one of the gallery’s treasures.
The waistcoat is said to have once been
worn by Captain Cook. It is to be hoped
that there is more evidence on that point
than there is that the charming little
dwelling in the Fitzroy Gardens, known
as Cook’s cottage, was his cottage —the
only certain evidence is that he some-
times stayed in it. The cottage, however,
happens to be a gem of English rural
architecture, and could be an inspiration
to the Post-war Reconstruction planners,
so it doesn’t matter much. The waistcoat
is probably just a waistcoat. Still, it was
Cook’s vest. It is in the Agent-General s
office in London, and was offered to
Melbourne years ago by the Hon. Diana
Cook, who is married to a descendant
of the navigator. The offer was forgotten,
but it is likely to be accepted if the price
isn’t excessive and if the Customs doesn’t
object to its entry on the ground that the
trustees may have secret intentions of
operating on the black market.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: We struck the swaggie grilling
a couple of chops on a bent bit of fenc-
ing wire just off the roadside. At our
“Good day,” he gave us a none-too-wel-
come nod and turned the chops with a
sharpened stick. To my remark about
the weather he swept us both with an
uneasy glance, told his nondescript
mong to be quiet and turned again to
the sizzling chops. After a few seconds
he glanced around quickly to see where
we were looking, as if he were anxious
that our eyes didn’t light on something
he had. Then he burst out: “I suppose
you blokes are lookin’ at me billy!” We
did look around then, and we saw it—a
blackened, dented thing of vast capacity.
“I’m ashamed o’ that billy,” the swaggie
went on. “Got it a few munce back at
Trappers’ Crossing—storekeeper didn’t
have no other.” “Well, it is a bit on
the big side,” I agreed ; “but nobody cares
much these days how things look.” “Oh,
I don’t give a damn about that,” he
said, “but it looks so blasted silly
pullin’ a pup his size” —here he hoisted
from under his coat a small, fat pup—
“out o’ that thing, an’ the trouble is it
don’t fit him like a billy should!”
* * * *
“Zake”; It was Saturday afternoon,
the time when, by the cussedness of
things, a toothache will start. This one
was giving Alec the horsetailer particular
gyp, and he implored the mob to come
to his assistance, the town’s dentist being
unavailable until Tuesday. Big Con the
cook offered to have a go at it. He fast-
ened a length of thin, strong cord around
the molar, led Alec to a6-x-2post, tied him
securely to it and made the cord taut to
a tree about ten feet in front of the vic-
tim’s face. Then he took off his coat,
rolled up his sleeve, set his jaw and went
snd thrust his face up in front of Alec’s.
‘ You bin cartin’ Jenny Barnes out a few
times, ain’t y’?” he asked savagely. Alec
nodded, scared. “Then what makes you
think y’ own her? She’s my sheilah,
see? Take that, y’ cow!” —and Big Con
swept a terrific punch a few inches from
Alec’s jaw. Alec’s head jerked back —and
the tooth was out. Big Con reached for
the knots holding Alec and grinned ami-
ably. “Thought you’d fall for it,” he said.
“See how easy it comes out that way?”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Pawang’s” idea (B.
10/5/’44) that “there is no such thing
as a vicious horse” any more than there
are basically vicious children is very
pretty, but it’s not true. Children of
very bad parents, taken away by the
State and brought up under ideal condi-
tions by chosen foster-parents, do some-
times revert to type. And as for horses,
if “P.” has ever had anything to do with
the—fortunately rare —sort of colt which
from the moment it comes into the break-
ing yard until someone shoots it has just
one idea, plus the cunning to wait an
opportunity to carry it out, to kill, he
wouldn’t talk of horses never being
vicious.
* * * *
“Stanus”; “H.A.L.” (B. 10/5/’44) is
correct in claiming many virtues for the
longbow, but he overstates the case when
he claims it as equal to any weapon in
jungle warfare. The rifle is not a jungle
weapon except for sniping, where its
extra range and scientifically designed
sights put it in a class far above the bow.
After a week or so of tuition the raw
recruit makes a passable rifleshot. An
archer takes at least months to train. A
fair rifleman will get away five aimed
shots in ten seconds, with a decent group
at 100 yards; it would take a William
Tell to do the same with a bow. The
true jungle weapon is the tommy-gun,
and I’ve yet to hear of any dozen archers
whose combined efforts would get the
same shattering effect as a couple of one-
second bursts from Thompson, Sten or
Owen.
“Narrin”: A few gun-shy city bush-
men were shocked at the fact that I shot
tiger snakes from a moving dinghy—l
didn’t say it was moving at speed—
although this was a common occurrence
during my more or less amphibious life
on the Murray. Now (B. 10/5/’44) a
bloke claims to shoot swimming fish with
a bow and arrows —and there’s not a
murmur from the Council, Is “The 0.D.”
getting old, or what?
* * * *
“Old-timer”; “Curyo” Charlie, travel-
ling by train, had a rural youth for com-
pany until two ingratiating blokes en-
tered the compartment and suggested
euchre to pass the time. After a while
one of them said euchre was a bit dull,
and suggested penny nap with all the
small cards in “to make it interesting, an’
anybody who goes nap an’ gets shot
doubles the centre.” Charlie’s mouth had
compressed itself slightly under his mous-
tache when the euchre began, and he’d
been steadily taking precautions. When
the novel form of nap s was introduced his
“Just say it's Non-commissioned Officer Perkins and friend!”
lips relaxed in a slight grin. Presently
the centre was doubled three times by
three weak nap hands held by the in-
gratiating blokes, and when the rural
youth lost a nap it rose to £3 10s. Then
“Curyo” was dealt ace, king, queen, jack,
nine of spades, but he wasn’t quite ready
and went four. The i.bs. consulted each
other with a quick flash of eyes, and one
of them increased the bait by getting shot
on nap. Then Charlie went the lot and
put down an ace-high straight flush in
hearts to collect the pool. The i.bs. went
white, glared at each other and left the
compartment. You see, Charlie couldn’t
go in spades because he’d only collected
three tens up to that time. He knew it
was no good going with a nine while
one of the i.bs. had four rags to the ten —
he’d lost things like that before.
* * * *
“Wester”: If pepperinas are spreading
on the light and sandy soils of south-west
Queensland (B. 7/6/’44) it may not be
wise to go for them with the ringbarker’s
axe. They have a big root system which
is good to hold light soil against wind,
they aren’t bad as shade and shelter for
stock, and horses, at least, will nibble
their leaves in a lean time. I’ll admit
that no grass will grow under them, but
then this country has suffered irreparable
damage because of the fallacy that grass
is more important than trees.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Only a couple of points
separated the teams in the last quarter,
and both sides were tearing into it, with
pretty well all hands on the ball and the
barrackers encroaching on the field. A
high punt .drifted in the wind and landed
among a crowd of barrackers near the
Undowangie goal, and Mat, surging after
the ball, almost knocked a shrieking
young women over, caught her, held her
with one arm, and grabbed the ball with
the other. Then the opposition fell upon
him, and, what with the woman and the
ball, he couldn’t get his kick in and the
whistle shrilled. Mat handed the ball over
and ran towards the umpire. “Hey, what
was that for?” he roared. “Holdin’ the
ball,” came the answer. Mat calmed
down. “Aw, I thought it migh%have bin
for holdin’ the girl,” he grinned. “Y’
had me a bit rattled, I reckon.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland has a queer
collection of place-names in Central
Otago, the ironical invention of a Chief
Surveyor in the days of langsyne. He
had submitted a list of Maori names for
Central Otago streams. Officialdom
vetoed the lot on the ground that they
were hard to pronounce. So the surveyor
drew up a list which he thought might
appeal to the Scottish founders of the
province, which is why there are streams
bearing the names Hogburn, Eweburn,
Wedderbura, Gimmerburn and Kyeburn.
There were a Cowburn, a Sowburn and
a Pigburn, but the residents tumbled to
the joke after a while, and refused to
accept it in those flagrant instances.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m convinced that the
canine mental process is largely governed
by association of ideas, A dog primarily
obeys a command because it is associated
with pain or pleasure, according to the
methods used by the trainer. Once saw
a sleeping pup wounded by a ricochetting
.22 bullet. The source of the sudden
agony must have been a mystery to the
stricken little animal, but his mind
obviously connected a report with the
pain, for, though he lived 11 years, he
never overcame a cringing fear of any
explosive sound, whether it was caused by
a thunderclap, a whip or a penny hunger.
Even the sight of a youngster blowing or
pretending to blow up a paper bag invari-
ably sent the otherwise game little tyke
cowering into a hiding place. My “Tiger”
conducted a feud on the instalment plan
for years. Every time we passed a neigh-
bor’s place a blue cattle-dog rushed out
and the fight was on —until in the course
of a wild melee against the fence a loose
end of wire became hooked under
Tige’s eyelid, not damaging the eye, but
holding the old warrior a painful cap-
tive. Bluey, having no sporting instincts,
was making the most of it —until dis-
suaded by a couple of size nines. But
since then Tiger will detour a quarter of
a mile across paddocks rather than meet
his old sparring-partnef near the scene
which is associated with unaccountable
pain. Yet when the two dogs meet else-
where mine is the first to leap into the
fray!
* * * *
“M. 8”: I’m with “Old Camp” in his
claim that the average bushman has good
nocturnal sight (B. 7/6/’44). Many trap- ''
pers take a hurricane lamp around their
traps at night, but just as many don’t.
Anyone who has ridden a bike by night
on bush roads admits that it’s easier with-
out than with a lamp; and if you’re
walking over to the next camp for a yarn
after tea you don’t bother with a torch.
And what about the bloke who can turn
out in the middle of the night, catch a
horse, harness it, yoke it in the sulky and
start for the doctor, all without striking
a match?
* * * *
“Propalong”: The last time I had
gone to see old Joe it was just plain hell.
I had sat on the edge of a sofa that was
polished till its maker wouldn’t have
recognised it, miserably conscious that my
boots had deposited a few grains of seed
on an unbearably clean carpet, and that
my elbow had disturbed a carefully ar-
ranged pile of Florence Barclay novels
on a fussy little table. And with all
the family portraits staring down their
noses at me I’d have sooner tried smok-
ing in a powder factory. But this time
it was different. There was a pile of
newspapers on the sofa whose shine
seemed to have worn off; there were
sand and tobacco ash on the carpet;
there was dust on the American organ
and over the faces of the ancestors ; the
little table affair was quite homely with
two of Joe’s pipes and a couple of library
books keeping it in order. And Joe s
missus bustled in with cups of tea and
the sort of smoke-oh you get only on a
farm. “I’m so sorry the place is in such
a mess,” she*said, “but Joe’s got no one
t’ help him now, an’ what with the milk-
ing an’ feeding an’ giving him a hand out
in the paddocks there’s never time for
housework.” “Thank God!” added Joe
behind his hand as she went out into the
kitchen.
* * *
“0.P.”: “Moyhu” (B. 7/ 6 / ’44) seems
to have got the meaning of “gone to
seed” wrong. As he says, in the animal
and vegetable world the “bearing of seed”
is the time of fruition, but the colloquial
“gone to seed” refers to the after-harvest
when the seed has fallen and only the
withered stubble remains. As applied
to man, it means that the days of his
rich productivity, whether of children,
ideas or work, are over and he’s drifting
into the sere and yellow.
He * * *
“C.E.”: They were preparing for their
quarterly shopping trip to town. “I’ll
need some money, Dad,” suggested Mum,
putting the list of needs into her hand-
bag. The old man counted out £4, con-
sidered it for a moment, then added
another note. “Y’ better get me a couple
more pair o’ them strong pants. Mum,”
he decided. “An’ while y’re at it, I need
another flannel or two. An’ don’t fer-
get a new lock f’r the back door, will y’,
an’ the twine f’r them bags.” “All right,
Dad. An’ I’ll get more , wool for y’r
socks, an’ some boot protectors; an’
young Dave better have a new coat.”
Six hours later. Dad, emerging from the
pub on Main-street, ran into Mum drag-
ging along with an armful of parcels.
“He|lo, Mum,” he called heartily.
“Havin’ a good time? I been in talkin’
t’ Tim Brady most o’ the day. Well, we
just got time t’ slip round t’ that cafe for
a cup o’ tea before we start back.
Cornin’?” Mum shook her head wearily.
“You go, Dad,” she urged. “I’ve got to
call round for Joe’s boots yet and see if
I can get a new part for the separator.
Er—Dad, I —l s’pose you haven’t got any
more money?” “Money! But, Mum, I
gave y’ five quid. As much as I had me-
self, and I ain’t run out. Aw, cripes”—he
dipped reluctantly into a pocket—“there’s
no doubt y’ can’t beat women when it
comes t’ blowin’ up cash.”
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: I blush for
“Squeaking Tree” (B. 17/5/’44). We of
the Upper Dawson (Q.) may put some
hot ones over round the fire of the
mustering or droving camp, but really
there are limits. And to quote his inci-
dent as happening on an Upper Dawson
run! There is just one such run where
a colorable imitation of such a feat
might have occurred —Juandah in the
hectic days of the Lawtons. Tom Law-
ton was known to throw a charging scrub
bull by a thrust down on the horn with
one hand and a tripping catch of the fore
foot on the same side with the other —
a highly dangerous yard trick he had
evolved —but he was on his feet, and his
toes, when the bull arrived. However,
truth may still be stranger than fiction,
but, just to be darned curious, what were
those four men supposed to be doing
when they were “squatting on their heels
yarning” just after a pen-up? Or is it
that the boss, who otherwise would have
seen that they were doing drafting or
other work, had collapsed with shock?
* * * *
“The Heel”: “M.U.R.” (B. 17/5/’44) is
rather sceptical of my “Hoi” as a typical
bush hail. Admittedly it has a strong Cock-
vney flavor, and doubtless echoed through
the First Fleet. But why scorn it in favor
of the “wahoo” of the Texan cow-
puncher? Stone the crows, isn’t it bad
enough that the buckjumping show of my
youth is now a “rodeo,” with competitors
biting the dust in “chaps” and five-gallon
Stetsons?
“R.H.P.”: The echo of this argument
about the carrying capacity of various
sounds has just reached across Bass Strait.
I think that the daddy of all human
yelps is the unearthly, strangulated wail
that Tarzan of the films sends echoing
through the Hollywooden jungles. The
youth hereabouts have achieved a good
imitation of this uncouth noise that is
strangely reminiscent of a thousand ban-
shees with digestive trouble. Although my
hearing is not of the best Tarzan’s Love
Call, echoing along a beach or through
the bush, never fails to rouse me with a
jerk from the deepest sleep. It beats to a
whisper all the coo-ees, yahoos, boohoos
and all other sounds that the human
larynx is capable of.
LEND-LEASE.
Our mascot is a comeback kangaroo
Whose name is Haggis, since at Hogmanay
He volunteered to join our tropic zoo.
We don’t know why he left his world that
day; .
But in he hopped; we passed inspection, and
Haggis became a legend in the land.
Americans crave anything exotic
From pin-up prints to prickly porcupines.
And spend their dollars with a zeal quixotic*
Purchasing native fauna for their lines.
For wallabies the price is always high;
A tortoise brought a demijohn of rye.
Haggis’s name and fame were noised abroad
By grapevine. Huckstering Yanks could not
The ardor that impelled, the urge that gnawed
Within them to embark on a New Deal.
Haggis changed hands —though he did not in-
tend
His taking-off to go beyond lease-lend.
For, three days later, at the dinner gong,
Eyes mischief-lit, his funny tail a-swish,
Haggis excitedly hop-hopped along
To plant his snout deep in the gravy dish —
Right then we saw a weekly fortune made
By placing Haggis in the lend-lease trade.
Every few days a different crowd of Yanks
Attends a business conclave, strikes a deal,
Takes Haggis for enlistment in its ranks
And sickens him with over-pampering zeal.
Haggis hops off, and lobs back on our range
To act once more as medium of exchange.
N.T.
SCOTIA.


“Ken”: That talking cat (B. 10/5/’44)
reminds me. I had made an inspection
visit to a Brisbane brewery —that was in
the days when visitors were lavishly
treated with free samples. As I passed
out —I mean, as I walked out —the driver
of one of the brewery’s flat-top horse
wagons offered me a lift into town. I
climbed aboard and joined him and his
dog on the seat. Near Roma-street
station the horse stopped and said “This
is as far as we go.” “This’ll do me,
thanks,” I said, and climbed down off
the wagon. Then the bolt struck. “Hey!
Did I hear that horse talk?” I asked.
“The horse? No, the horse can’t talk,”
the driver replied casually; “it’s that
darned dawg again—he’s a ventriloquist.”
« * * *
“Arev”: Shortly after a prisoner had
escaped from the Bungaroop lockup a
drover reported that his horse, which he
had left outside the pub, had been stolen.
Constable Carney, after some brilliant
deduction, decided that the two inci-
dents were related, and in pursuance of
this he was coming along the Gumba-
gumba road. He pulled his mount up
as he saw Bill Jupp mending his fence
beside the road. “Good day, Bill,” he
called. “Did y’ see a man go by riding
a horse within the last hour?” Bill
nodded. “A bay horse, was it?” he said.
“Yes, I think that’s the one,” said Carney.
“It passed by about ten minutes ago,”
Bill said. “It had a circle brand on one
shoulder, white stockings on three legs,
but the near hind leg was unmarked. It
was about 16 hands and looked to have a
wall eye. Seemed to have been broken
in for trotting at some time. Threw its
front off leg well out. It must have tra-
velled a good distance because there
were mud marks on its legs where it had
come through a swamp. And there’s no
muddy spot within miles of Bungaroop
after all this dry weather.” The con-
stable nodded, well pleased with Bill’s
powers of observation. “And what was
his rider like?” Bill scratched his head.
“Well, to tell ybu the truth, I never
noticed,” he said.
* * * *
“Golly”: Can’t agree with “Caballer”
(B. 24 / 5/’44) that tree-climbing animals
leave trees when the trunk is hit with an
axe. I’ve felled a lot of scrub and seen
squirrels climb out on the boughs, but
not one left the tree until the warning
cracks came. Possums nearly always
“They’re poor conversationalists but comfortable to travel with.”
come down with the tree and promptly
shin up another. The goanna will stay
with the tree until it is about 6ft. from
the ground, when it shoots out, feet
going? like propellers to get a flying start
when it hits the ground.
* * * *
“Meke Zinama”: Master belong Bul-
letin. Me lookem altogether talk along
this fella mission boy shootem mouth
Queen Vikitoria Day. Name belong him
Taloa no more. White man call him
Hepatorki for all time he makem plenty
talk talk nothing. Me ask along master
belong me which way this white man
Eddie Ward he Big Fella Master. Master
belong me say him Big Fella Master
allmyeye. Altogether soldier killem
Japan man —no Eddie Ward. Me
work along soldier all a time and me
savvy soldier fight all a time for this
business belong him. Eddie nother kind —
him he talk all a time, me think might be
fashion belong him. Me and altogether
boy carry everything for soldier, plenty
time no too much kai-kai for eat; no
tabac, no matches, but soldier he say no
matter, and he say come on you boongs,
which way—-you think you coalminer?
Then he talk along mate belong him.
Push on Bill, let’s out the slant-eyes and
hurry back home for catchem one fella
zoot soot. Soldier good fella too much.
» * *
“Harry Innes”: “The storekeeper’s get-
tin’ a hit better,” said “Mallangaree”
Fred. “He’ll sell y’ these here glass cups
without saucers now, but one time
he got dead cocky and’d make y’ buy
the saucer as well. We never wanted
saucers out at our joint.” “What! Don't
y’ use ’em?” asked the new postal assist-
ant. “Yair, but it’s this way,” said Fred.
“We had a big surplus o’ saucers, caused
through the blasted fowls —they’re always
knockin’ the cups down when they hop
up on the table!”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Hobbs was having a bad
time trying to keep the birds out of his
orchard. “There they are,” he yelled
savagely, “at it again. The blasted rob-
bers. I’ll fix ’em.” Followed around by
the pet cockatoo he spent the next hour
running an extension from, his wireless
set out to the big apple-tree and rigging
up a loudspeaker. “That might stop
’em, Ma,” he remarked, “though if y’
ask me. I’d say that flamin’ cockatoo eats
nearly as much fruit as the parrots. He’s
out there now helping himself. Well,
we’ll see if this thing works,” and turn-
ing to the wireless he switched on the
market reports. Out in the orchard there
was a crackling in the speaker, then
“Best Jonathan apples selling at nine
shillings per case” came a loud voice,
“making a rise of two shillings on last
week’s rates.” A couple of feet away
the astounded cockatoo dropped his
apple and his crest rose. “Five Crowns
rose two to three shillings, while
Delicious sold steadily on a rising
market of” The voice was drowned
in a raucous outburst. “At it again,”
screeched the cocky indignantly. “At it
again. The blasted robbers!”
* * * =s=
“Blimc”: It was nearly dark, and old
Steve plodded wearily towards the house
as Mullins came along the road from
town. “Steve,” he called, “Bung said t’
tell y’ Phil Smith come in on the mail
this afternoon. He’s got 14 days’ leave.”
Steve came to life. “Phil? Gripes, that’s
good. Thanks, Mullins.” The old man
broke into a run. “Can’t wait for no tea,
Mum,” he yelled at the kitchen door.
“Phil Smith’s home on 14 days’ leave.
Down at the pub.” Mum scurried inside
and, coming back with his other coat and
hat, crammed Steve hurriedly into them.
“You get the truck,” she urged, “and
I’ll open the gate.” Steve reached the
shed only to find the truck wouldn’t kick
over. Hastily he explored the engine, and
was pottering worriedly with it when he
heard Hackshaw’s car drive past. He
dropped his tools. Cursing the truck,
Hackshaw and dark nights, he grabbed a
bridle, fell over his mong and dashed for
a hack. The saddle was half buckled
when another horseman clattered down
the road, and in a few seconds more
Steve was galloping in pursuit. He
stepped through the back door of the pub
as Bung came down the passage. “Too
late, Steve,” informed the publican.
“You’re the sixth. Davis got him. In-
vited him for the whole fortnight, I be-
lieve. But pheer up, old man,” he added,
turning SteVe invitingly towards an inner
door, “there’s sure to be others, and so
long as you get help with your lucerne
crop by the end o’ the month it won’t
spoil.”
He * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: All this talk about
cats chewing tobacco and the like (B.
17/5/’44) spurs me to take an Aboliar’s
risk. At Caloundra, near Brisbane, I
once saw a sleek hotel milker enjoying a
“Wot with me oV man a miner, me son a Government slaughterman
and me daughter on the stage, 1 never ’ave the ’ouse to meself these
days.”
meal of cooked mullet, thrown out by
the cook. This, I have since been told,
is not unusual about the coastline. In
Gundagai (N.S.W.) X saw a well-fed horse
chew up what I was given to understand
was his favorite titbit —the freshly-severed
head of a fowl. On Clifford station
(Upper Dawson, Q.) I saw an old
“rumper” possum in broad daylight eat-
ing the skinned carcass of a cow. This
was in the 1902 drought. The nearest
pub was 40 miles away.
* * * *
It isn’t quite clear whether
“Lik Lik Liar” (B. 31/5/M4) sees some-
thing unusual in the fact of a two-year-
old filly being used as a packhorse or
that she should be working at all. If his
criticism is based on the animal’s sex, it
might carry some weight in South
America, where there is a prejudice
against working mares or fillies, but none
here. If he finds cause for criticism in
the animal’s age I would remind him that
the term “two-year-old” does not neces-
sarily mean exactly 24 months of age. A
young horse is usually regarded as a two-
year-old until he reaches 30 months, after
which he is referred to as “rising three.”
The trip referred to in my par. was made
in January, when the mountains were
clear of snow, and if “L.L.L.” knows the
date from which the age of a horse born
in Australia is calculated he can easily
determine the exact age of the animal in
question.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Wippegong’s” par. on
the unbending austerity of war-time rail-
way officials (B. 24/5/’44) rang true
enough to raise some misgivings. I wonder
whether the “Hilltop Express” has
ceased to be the friendliest little train in
the Commonwealth. Plying on the loop
from Picton —the main line before the
short cut made it a backwater —the little
“mixed” picked up shoppers and brought
them to Mittagong. A typical Friday’s
return trip: Having deposited its pas-
sengers before noon and fussed about the
siding for two or three hours, the train
is now standing at Mittagong station.
The junior porter tosses parcels and chaff
at the guard with equal facility, and is
promptly countered with brilliant repar-
tee. Their nonchalant handling of
“breakables, with care” savors more of
light-heartedness than customary railway
ruthlessness. The last package aboard,
the guard supposes “We’d better be
pushin’ off,” but suggests that the junior
look up the street to see if there are any
stragglers. None being reported, he
hollers to the driver “Give ’er a toot and
let ’er go!” “You can’t,” chips in the
junior ; “you’ve lost your fireman! No-
body seems perturbed. Five minutes later
the truant returns carrying a black billy
and a brown paper bag. He climbs
aboard, the engine toots triumphantly
and we race away at a good 10 m.p.h.
Pausing only while the guard pulls over
some points we career along our away.
Suddenly the train stops, miles away from
anywhere, to all appearances; but a
woman and child alight, wave to the
guard, and we resume. Two or three
times this occurs. Time seems to have
no importance when we stop at the little
stations; the main object seems to be to
establish friendly relations. By this time
the stranger who wants to catch the ex-
press at Picton is fast becoming a ner-
vous wreck. He has nearly worn out his
watch when we skirt a bare-topped mount
and puff into Picton station —on time to
the second!
* * * *
“Solitude”: I’ve been noting Seventy-
fiver’s efforts to fit his sore-footed tripe-
round with a set of boots. First a wool
cap was sacrificed, then a worn horse rug;,
and still the mong wore through his trap-
pings at their first trial. An ancient felt
hat followed suit, then the old cove got
to work on a side of leather. The result
showed a flat sole, curved front about
three inches high, with side pieces that
fold up into position and lace together
across a smallerNback flap. Two large
punch holes allow the front claws
through, smaller ones at sides provide
ventilation, while slots around the top
hold the lace which is carried round after
lacing the flaps. Except for occasional
grass seeds working through the slits the
boots were a great success, but this morn-
ing I came on the old chap adding an-
other improvement. Painstakingly he
stitched a piece of flat leather on the
outer side flap, slipped in a two-bob
piece and fastened the top. It had me
guessing till he explained with a satis-
fied grunt that it was insurance against
loss. In future any lost boots will be
hunted for, and Seventyfiver reckons it
will come out cheaper than making
others.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Primitive Binghi was quite
high on the moral scale ; he had consider-
able respect for the marriage tie, was not
given to the killing-off of his aged parents,
nor largely to cannibalism, nor even to the
torturing of his enemies. But he was low
on the anthropological scale ; actually, he
and his Tasmanian brother represented
a type of human that had disappeared
completely from all other parts of the
globe. That he was of this primitive type
is shown by the fact that he did nothing
to develop Australia, though he owned
the entire continent, and had been here
possibly 50,000 years, certainly before the
Torres Strait cut through. Excuses that
he lived in a country which didn’t invite
agriculture, etc., merely go to prove how
primitive he was —that is, low on the
human-development scale. When the
whites arrived they immediately bent the
country to agriculture and stock raising,
which shows that it wasn’t the fault of
the country.
THE HAWK.
I saw Death on the cliff-fac.e,
Smelled Death in the salty air;
Or was it Life on the cliff-face
With the sea hawk hovering there? —
Poised, readying, high o’er the cliff-face,
Steadying now for the kill;
And not a sound on the cliff-face,
But the sob of the sea at the cliff base
And the sigh of the sea-wind chill.
I saw Death on the cliff-face,
Smelled Death in the clean-washed air.
I saw Life on the cliff-face
In the sea hawk diving there;
Diving with mocking, sinister grace,
Stone-dropping down for the kill;
And not a sound on the cliff-face,
But the laugh of the sea at the cliff-base
And the song of the sea-wind chill.
A.M.F.
D. L. HALL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
... n lrn SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE
.^J° W ? SVILLE ’ CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
df
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of ftnv other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”; Demand and prices were
disappointing. Leading merino studs
fared well, but unless private sales were
negotiated a lot of rams must have been
taken home again. Smaller and lesser-
known studs, with ope or two exceptions,
met a poor demand. Some good rams
went at bargain prices and will probably
return dividends to their breeders in
future.
Haddon Rig made the only four-figure
sale. The price, 1400gns., was the best for
ten years, and the Queensland buyer got
a beautiful ram. The merinos showed
the trend of requirements, most being
strong-wools or. mediums on the bold
side. Fine and superfine types have been
dwindling in demand for years ; only one
major stud of this type had rams for sale.
The S.A. studs Koonoona, Collinsville,
Catarpo, Stradbrooke, North Bungaree
and Bungaree, Bungaree for the first time,
had rams for sale. They covered a wide
variety of types, and chief interest was
centred in the Koonoonas, which sold up
to 450gns. Some of them carried extra
strong fleeces. Bungaree rams sold well.
A Collinsville ram topped the last day’s
sales, but some of the newer S.A. studs
weren’t sought.
Average prices for merinos were lower
than last year, and clearances were not so
good, but fairly good compared with
those of the year before. Most of the
rams were plain-bodied, with notable
exceptions among the Wahwoon and
Burrabogie rams. The demand for these
rams showed that studmasters still be-
lieve that development and density go
together. Bundemar made good average
prices. Second-highest price was 750gns.
for a Wahwoon ram.
There were many sales round 300gns.,
400gns. and 500gns. in which better-
known studs participated Boonoke,
Uardry, Mumblebone, Bungaree, Wan-
ganella, Austin-Wanganella, Wahwoon,
Burrabogie, etc.
Buyers bid freely for good Corriedales.
They were an excellent lot, but a tail
was in evidence, A Wellwood ram made
a record auction price of 870gns. He was
a beautiful ram with well-defined, even
wool on the fine side of 50’s and with
great scale and very wide through the
heart. All Wellwood offerings brought
good prices.
A Guthrie Corriedale made 500gns.,
and the stud averaged well. Some re-
serves were too high, and would not meet
the market. Over 60 p.c. of offerings
were sold at an average of over £5O.
A solitary Southdown all the way from
S.A. represented a breed that was eagerly
sought for fat-lamb raising a few years
ago. Southdowns are suffering a tempor-
ary eclipse because of J*igher values for
bigger lambs and the present advantage
of dual-purpose sheep. Only one Romney
stud was there, and demand was poor.
Most of the 200 Border Leicesters came
from Victoria, and over 150 were sold at
an average which, while lower than last
year, was well ahead of previous years’
figures. Kelso Park (Vic.) made top price,
270gns. There were not many Dorset
Horns, but they were in good demand,
and breeders had reason to be satisfied.
Best prices were 60gns. for a Newbold
(S.A.) and 50gns. for a Marylebone ram.
The average was about £3O.
—7 , —-
' he Neighbor s Bull.
Rob’ : When the neighbor’s bull be-
comes too frequent a visitor don’t weary
yourself with whip, dogs and language.
Try strategy and treat him like a cobber
until you get a rope around his horns,
After which 24 hours tethered to the yard
fence assures him that he is not welcome
ar, d he’ll not hurry back.
A better feeling is maintained with the
neighbor, too. Nobody likes to see his
animal subjected to harsh treatment; but
he’s a cove not worth knowing who
moans because his erring bull gets a calm
and peaceful lesson.
However, don’t give your own bull the
chance of a crack at him while he’s on
“You're awfully considerate. No other taxi will take us — We get car-sick !”
the rope or you may have a carcass to
explain to your neighbor. Bulls are mean
devils when they realise they have an
advantage.
Feeding Wheat to Horses.
“Myrrhee”: Grind coarsely and mix
in a proportion of chaff to aid masti-
cation. If not mixed with some coarse
foodstuff ground wheat tends to form into
a paste in the mouth and becomes un-
appetising. Avoid the tendency to over-
feed, which is common when giving a con-
centrated ration. Too much means
danger of food-sickness.
Allow only 31b. of crushed wheat for
every 51b. of chaff displaced from the
original ration, but never put out a full
day’s ration in one feed or there’ll be
trouble. If a day’s feed is put out in the
morning use hay or chaff but no wheat.
An ample ration for a medium draught
horse on moderately heavy work is 121 b.
chaff, 41b. oats and 81b. crushed wheat
divided into four feeds daily. For a
medium draught in a stable or bare pad-
dock 71b. chaff and 71b. ground wheat
would be sufficient. As pastures grow
these quantities could be reduced.
Swards for Erosion.
“Pat Ater”; Colonel H. F. White, of
Bald Blair, Guyra (N.S.W.), holds that
good grass swards control erosion better
than trees. In his district there is good
annual rainfall, and careful stocking and
pasture improvement maintain the soil.
Without such management there is
danger of sheet erosion when storm rains
follow drought. The temptation to over-
stock in good country is often irresistible,
and that’s where the trouble begins. No
strong, matted system of grass roots can
resist a sudden deluge if hungry sheep
have scratched below the surface after
burrs and roots during bare months. Two
instances: Near Dalton (N.S.W.), “fine-
wool” grazing country, there was drought
two years ago. It broke in May, sud-
denly and heavily, with dire results.
Along the eroded gullies and creeks fine
topsoil came and silted up the beds. Hun-
dreds of tons must have gone into the
Lachlan, already covered in silt and run-
ning “underground” hereabouts. There
are no trees worth while on the rises
where the water rush begins. In the
Gilmore Valley, Tumut (N.S.W.), 10 or
12 years ago bushfires ravaged heavily-
timbered hillsides. The following winter
on the lower slopes and flats topsoil went
and gullies formed. Some are filled
again. Those trees and the forest floor
of dead vegetation had held erosion in
check.
Some maintain that erosion begins on
timbered hills where cattle pads give
the water its first run. One man claims
he has controlled erosion better on
Cowra’s slopes with proper contour
ploughing than have others with wooded
hilltops. He points to treeless hills in
grazing land that carry well year in and
year out.
Only a good grass sward, maintained
incessantly on heavily-grazed, cleared
slopes, will hold against water rush. But
it must be very carefully managed and
no effort spared not only to maintain
the pasture but to improve it.
Haney Trees.
Richest output comes from
the yellow box (E, melliodora ) of the
western slopes and plains of N.S.W. Vic-
toria boasts that 300 y.b. trees have pro-
duced 150 tins of honey in one season.
The tree takes 20 years to come to full
honey-producing capacity. In the cool,
high districts best suited for bee-farming
it blooms from Feb. to Sept., when the
bees make the most of the honey flow ;
tn warmer areas from June to July. It's
short of pollen and, to correct this,
apiarists plant wattles with it; they pro-
vide bee feed high in nutritive value.
White box ( E. albens ) ranks second to
the yellow. Hives working strenuously
on a heavy honey flow over a wide area
in winter may dwindle and should be
moved to other flora. Flowering is
regular from March to May or June. The
red (river) gum (E. rostratd) produces
first-grade honey in dry periods. Grown
with yellow box, a good blended honey
results. Mugga or red ironbark (Ei
side foxy Ion) proves a good stand-by from
the coast to the plains. When it blooms
in winter hard-working hives are relieved.
As it’s often short of flora, good ground
pollen should be planted in the same area.
Sugar gum (E. dadocalyx) is a fast-
grower that reaches flowering stage within
six years. Goodacre recommends it as
a tree that will improve the quality of
honey in other flora. It blooms regu-
larly from Jan. to Feb. and flourishes in
irrigation areas. Most species of mallee
are valuable bee trees.
On the coast the ironbarks rival the
inland yellow box as honey-producers.
Few serve as nectar-suppliers under 25
years. What they lack in pollen coastal
flora provides. Spotted gum ( E. macu-
latd) carries an abundance of pollen and
good winter stores for bees. Lucerne
trees are valuable for pollen and honey,
and are drought-resistant.
Most honey trees can be planted to
serve as shade and shelter trees on the
farm. Some form good windbreaks or
shelter belts. Others make fine ornaments.
Bees are one of the best agents for the
fertilisation of fruit-trees, clovers and
lucerne.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gip”: Get rid of marauding ants in
the feed-shed by placing lump carbide
in their holes. Cover with dirt and leave
a few days so the fumes will penetrate
into all corners of the nest. Even white
ants can’t stand it. Carbide ash is also
a good fertiliser if used sparingly.
Sprinkle a little around the fruit-trees,
well out from the trunk. Don’t let it
touch the roots or it will burn ’em when
you water the tree.
“E. 2”: To sharpen it, fix the crosscut
firmly in a sawhorse —two boards in a
vice or clamp will do. Joint the saw by
running the file flat along the tips of the
teeth, lightly, to bring them even, then
gauge a guide mark along just below
the base of the teeth. File the teeth with
smooth, even sweeps, carefully, so that
the teeth and points will be uniform. Set
may be applied by hammer and punch
with the saw on a block which slopes off
abruptly at the correct angle. Take the
chill olf a saw before setting or use
during frosty weather.
“Barolin”: Eyeworms cause eye
troubles in poultry. They are usually
hidden under the third eyelid and so may
be missed on casual examination. Place
a few drops of turpentine or 2 p.c. creolin
in the eyes of affected birds and then, a
half-hour later, wash out with lukewarm
boracic water. The worms then can be
easily removed with a small, soft brush,
such as a child’s school paintbrush. Pre-
vention consists in keeping down cock-
roaches.
“Nedher”: Why waste time burning a
broken handle from the axehead? Use
the brace and bit to bore a couple of
holes into the handle-plug which fits into
the head. The handle will drop out with
a few taps from a hammer or billet of
wood.
"B. Don’t cut down old native trees
that are good seed-bearers. They re-
afforest their natural areas ; distribution
by birds helps regeneration further afield.
Many native tree seeds will be needed
in reafforestation schemes in post-war
years.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Are there any commercial plantings of wal-
nuts in N.S.W. ? What conditions and soils
are suitable for these nuts, and could they be
grown near Sydney?
There is a small area under walnuts at Batlow
and a few more on the Murray River. Batlow
conditions are, however, not really suitable,
as walnuts require deep soils of a rather open
nature and irrigation water. There are no
suitable areas near Sydney.
Mixture suitable for feeding chickens over
five weeks of age?
Pollard 61b., bran 31b., meatmeal £lb., bone-
meal Tib., milk or buttermilk powder |lb.
For a wet mash 2oz. of fine common salt
should be dissolved in the mixing liquid, and
for a dry mash IJoz. A kibbled grain chicken
mixture should be given for the last meal of
the day. This may be obtained from produce
merchants or made up from kibbled, hulled
or skinless oats Hlb., linseed meal £lb., kibbled
wheat 5Fb., kibbled maize 31b.


UnCABLED ADDITIONS
Behind the Headlines.
(Extracts from “Review of World Affairsf”
which is written by Kenneth de Courcy and
published by a London committee under the
chairmanship of Mr. W. Nunn, M.P .)
The German High Command thinks
that a successful defensive in the south
and the west will have a more important
influence on future events than any
other practical policy because (a) it will
make the Russians still more annoyed
with the Allies at the moment of their
own greatest success and at a time when
there is less incentive to continue on the
offensive because of the clearance of
German troops from Russian territory;
(b) the condition of public opiniqn in
Britain and America (for different rea-
sons) is such that lack of decisive action
in the west would cause a reaction ; and
( c ) the one thing which the German
masses still believe in is their power to
stand on the defensive. Physical proof
of this would thus be a godsend to the
Nazi Government.
He * * *
In the event of further big enemy re-
treats on the Continent there will be
vast destruction. The deliberate plan is
to leave a desert behind. With this, the
already weakened peoples of Europe are
being constantly threatened. The enemy
thinks not only that this threat will be of
immediate political use, but that the
policy of destruction is sound. The idea
is so to weaken all the non-German races
that, whatever the military outcome of
war for Germany, racially she will be rela-
tively stronger than her neighbors at the
end of it.
* * * *
European politics are in chaos. There
is growing a vast general anti-war senti-
ment. Much depends upon which side in
the last phase of the straggle that immense
anti-war party supports. Here is another
issue of great importance for the political
warfare chiefs. How can we gain the
sympathy of the anti-war party? It con-
sists of millions and millions of simple
people who have no strong political feel-
ings and don’t much understand what is
happening but who are utterly and fear-
fully sick of the war and to whom the
future prospect if it long continues is
appalling. Every reliable report shows
that the intensity of this hatred of the
war, and all the savagery, is immense.
This may create quite new political
forces, sweeping away many a calcula-
tion.
* * * %
The object should be to direct all anti-
war sentiment against Hitler, who let
loose |he terrible forces. At present our
appeal seems to be more on the lines that
Hitler is a failure —a losing gambler—
that it pays to be on the winning side. It
would be much more effective to present
him as the man responsible for the
calamities now weighing most heavily
upon the peoples of The fact
that he is in a mess is less impressive to
thef anti-war millions than the fact that
he is the prime obstacle to peace and is
the chief and quite deliberate originator
of the hated war. Direct the pent-up
forces of war hatred against that one
man and it would prove more effective
than anything else.
* * * *
Up to the Alamein battle the Egyptian
ruling class and the Court were by no
means pro-British or pro-American.
There were notable exceptions but they
were few. The King had many personal
friends amongst the Italian colony and
he had other foreign contacts, too. Some
time before Alamein a very important
Egyptian official actually made an attempt
to escape to enemy territory by airplane,
taking some important information with
him. Luckily he was caught at the last
minute and detained. He is not a very
w'ell mentally balanced man, but there it
was. The fact is that the attitude of
many important Egyptians right up to the
moment of the Axis collapse was a con-
stant nuisance. Axis propaganda was
often spread. Objections were made to
the presence of Allied forces, though they
saved Egypt from abject slavery under
Axis tutelage. During some of the bad
times there was gun-running.
* *
The war has been a great boon to
Egypt. Many vast fortunes have been
made. Cairo has become a very rich
city. It is the headquarters of large
armies and (he locals are making a great
deal of money. Even during the worst
times the Allies allowed the importation
of luxuries like silk stockings and cos-
metics to keep the Egyptians happy.
Cairo has never been fully blacked out
and life has always been maintained in a
most luxurious manner. The Egyptians
have no cause to complain at all. Cer-
tainly they have no moral claim to an
exaggerated share in post-war affairs.
* * *
Up to now there has been less effective
resistance to the Germans in Bohemia
and Moravia and other parts of the old
Czechoslovakia than almost anywhere
else in Europe. There are several rea-
sons for this. Some time ago the rather
small underground movement was be-
trayed to the enemy by a gross indis-
cretion. Then at least the Slovaks and
other racial groups are bitterly opposed
to the pre-war and present policy of the
Czechoslovak Government in London.
Moreover, that Government is not very
popular even amongst Czechs.
* * * *
At the time of Dr. Benes’s last visit to
Moscow the Association of Czech Youth
organised a meeting in Prague of a most
hostile kind. This may, of course, have
been German inspired and controlled,
though some observers say it was not. On
December 5, 1943, however, a Pastoral
Letter, hostile to important aspects of
Dr. Benes’s foreign policy, was signed and
circulated by Czech Catholic archbishops
and bishops. This was read in all
churches throughout Bohemia and
Moravia. The Germans would not have
the power to compel the clergy to this
extent. There can be no doubt at all that
the occupying authorities very much wel-
comed these protests and encouraged
them. But many observers believe that
the Germans did not originate them.
* * a
The lesson to be learned from every
report reaching us is that the withdrawal
of the paramount Power in India would
be followed by one of the most terrible
civil wars in history, probably ending
with the establishment of autocratic gov-
ernment of the worst kind.
■ • * ♦ m
False propagandists in Britain, America
and elsewhere will say that our observer-
on India is wrong. But time will show
that he is absolutely right. He knows
the situation from A to Z. And he has
the courage to write the facts. He says:
“Congress, the only well organised party
because of the money subscribed by
financiers and vested interests, aims at
driving out the British community alto-
gether. The Hindus have no faith in
democratic institutions because Demo-
cracy is the antithesis of their faith,
which is a religious caste system based on
origin of birth. The Hindus appear to
accept Democracy in order to wrest
power from the British, but if that
should be achieved India under Congress
would go more or less Fascist. The Mos-
lems know it. They frankly say so and
are strongly opposed to any federation
with the Hindus. The Moslem religion
is more adaptable to democratic ideas be-
cause their doctrine is that all men are
equal in the sight of God, but they are
not yet ready for democratic government.
Their elections are run on personal lines
and they have a tradition of autocracy.
The real India, the rural masses, from
whom-the Army and Police are recruited,
are loyal to British rule not because of
any special respect for its large institu-
tions or the Government in London, but
because they have a personal trust in
British officers, from whom they get a
greater measure of justice and fair play
than from anyone else.” The 80 million
Moslems can’t be ignored, especially as
they are fighters and have influential
connections throughout the vital Middle
Eastern zone where British and Ameri-
can strategic interests steadily increase.
v * ■■■.■■ *
The Bengal famine was only a warn-
ing. Avery grave one. A shortage on
a much larger scale is to be expected
throughout the greater part of India. This
will become persistent unless something
very vigorous is done to develop agricul-
ture. The urgency of this can be illus-
trated thus: The population has in-
creased by 27 per cent, in the last 20
years. The total area under cultivation
has only increased by 10 per cent. But
the total area under food crops has in-
creased by only 1 per cent, against the
increased population of 27 per cent.
These are startling figures.
* * * *
The issues of foreign affairs are once
again coming into the field of political
controversy in Britain. The failure to
bring Turkey into, and Finland out of,
the war has not only disappointed a large
section of all parties, but, more import-
“Mr. Fordo, Australian Minister of War, teaching the young
idea how to shoot.”
(Reprinted, joke and all, from London “Telegraph.")
ant, has ruled out possible war plans
much liked in many quarters. It is hard
to know how Turkey could have been
induced to change her policy and how
Finland’s desires could have been met
without upsetting the Russians in such a
way that they would have refused to
negotiate at all. The failure to settle the
Polish question in a satisfactory manner
and the fact that Russia outwitted Anglo-
American diplomacy in Italy have not
helped Mr. Eden’s career in Parliament.
Then very disquieting reports have been
drifting in about the effect on Anglo-
American prestige of the confused deal-
ings in Yugoslavia and Greece. Mem-
bers of Parliament have become worried
and there is a searching and cross ques-
tioning of a new kind. There is wide-
spread conviction that if we abandon any
principles now, when Europe is so war-
weary, there may be a fatal weakening
and tendency to give up.
For Comparison .
The Ministry of Supply states
that when the British soldier is de-
mobilised he will go home sma r tly
dressed in the best possible
materials. There will be no austerity
suits.
The soldier will receive the fol-
lowing articles: One felt hat {with
a wide choice of shape and colors );
one suit {seven or eight styles will
be offered, in a wide range of colors
and over 100 patterns ); one shirt
{choice of over 100 designs); two
collars to match ; one tie {choice of
over 50 designs); two pairs of
socks; one pair of shoes {black or
brown); one raincoat {high-grade
yarn dyed Egyptian cotton self-
lined).
To ensure proper fitting 40 sizes
of each suit will be in stock at
depots all over the country. Where
special fittings are needed measure-
ments will be taken, the suit made
to order and sent on by registered
post. —London “Times.”
Pacific Strategy.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Walter Lippmann.)
The, controversy about the support of
General MacArthur is by many supposed
to turn on whether he should have re-
ceived reinforcements that have been
assigned to the European theatre.
The real controversy, on which strong
men have differed, has not been whether
to put more force behind General Mac-
Arthur, or General Eisenhower. It has
been whether the war against Japan was
to be directed by the Navy in accordance
with its long-established plan' for a cen-
tral Pacific offensive to the Philippines
and China, or whether the main effort
against Japan could and should be made
by General MacArthur from Australia
upward toward the Philippines and to
China.
In this argument the Navy has pre-
vailed. It has prevailed in the sense that
General MacArthur’s campaign, and
Admiral Mountbatten’s as well, has been
fitted into the dominating strategy of the
Navy.
Much perplexity and a lot of mis-
directed political agitation would dis-
appear if this were clearly understood.
Europe Will Help Itself.
(Condensed from the ",Saturday Evening Post.”)
In talking about what will happen after
the war, a good many begin with the
assumption that rebuilding Western
Europe will be long and arduous.
One group draws the comforting con-
clusion that American industry may count
on large orders for supplies. Another
group takes equal pleasure in regarding
the task as a huge project in global
charity. It seems a pity to suggest that
both may be disappointed, but the record
is against them.
The point is: How much can indus-
trial nations like France and Belgium
afford to accept? With their own em-
ployment problems, with new industries
created by the war and old ones deeply
modified, it seems highly unreasonable to
expect them not to build up barriers
against overseas imports which would
throw their own people out of work.
Western Europe and the British Isles
form a complex economic unit so deli-
cately balanced that after the last war
the reparations in kind demanded from
Germany by the peace treaty had in some
cases to be cancelled. German coal sent
to France destroyed a traditional British
market; and the German offer to rebuild
the devastated areas with labor and ma-
terials sent from the Reich had to be
declined, because it would have meant
temporary ruin to French labor and
French employers.
Only on the supppsition that the end
of the war will see Western Europe a
wasteland can any reasonable person
imagine that the space of one harvest
will not see the occupied nations well on
the road to re-
covery.
On the industrial
side, we tend to
forget that the de-
struction of war
merely hastens the
normal process of
decay. It is curious
to reflect that the
blitz raids over
England in 1940-41
knocked out only
2 per cent, of the
buildings then in
existence, less than
a conservative ac-
countant would
allow for deprecia-
tion.
Among them, the countries of Western
Europe, including Great Britain, want to,
and can, do their own rebuilding, with
only such aid as the food and seed grain
necessary to carry them to the next har-
vest.
Europe Looks to England.
(From an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
Europe sees in England the only hope
that the moral law will be re-established.
Europe does not want to be dominated by
any one Power. Europe rejects the pre-
ponderance of any ideology—indeed, the
European spirit as such is incompatible
with every ideology as such, for every
ideology in itself is a violation of the
moral law.
Europe has resisted the German revo-
lutionary eruption. Europe will resist a
Russian, revolutionary irruption no matter
how great the sacrifice.
Europe looks to England as the one
Power who does not herself desire to
dominate and will not tolerate domina-
tion by others, the one Power that can
preserve the balance of power and so
perpetuate the liberties of Europe.
To say that England is Europe’s only
hope is not to express a shoddy sentiment
or to register some misguided ideal, but to
state a fact which millions of Europeans
will corroborate. Indeed, if the elite of
Europe could be consulted today—allied,
neutral or hostile —it would concur, by
an overwhelming majority, in the belief
that for Europe England is the only
secular hope left in the world.
Treatment of Germany.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” letter by Aus-
tralian Geoffrey Knox, who was chairman
of the Saar Governing Committee after the
last w\ar.)
It was primarily British policy that
installed Prussia west of the Rhine in
1814 and that kept her there in 1919—a
historical responsibility on which we
would do well to reflect in all earnestness
before we decide a third time to leave
this eternal aggressor within easy striking
distance of Britain’s shores.
In reality there is little to show that
the German peoples, except in the first
flush of military triumphs, have them-
selves desired their submergence in the
Prussian Reich, and in times of depres-
sion and defeat they have openly come
cut against it. Thus in 1918, immediately
after the Armistice, a serious and un-
doubtedly spontaneous demand for the
creation of a separate Rhenish State was
put forward by representative Germans
of unblemished character. This received
little attention in England, since the Gov-
ernment there was already bent on main-
taining the authority of the Prussian
Reich in the German Rhineland.
At the end of this war, when Prussia’s
latest and most hideous assault on civi-
lisation has collapsed, there will undoubt-
edly be a far more widespread impulse


Ruwolt
ill
i
m
: m
m
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essentia]
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.I
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
a
Sm
fl
/
Infer A tfcr
I
The big stuff our anglers are fishing of late
Call for salvos to sink ’em and convoys for bait.
But they’re thinking of post-war week-ends when their hauls
Will fill up with flathead the wells of their yawls.
And even should hammerheads suddenly- swoop
They’ll know how to land them athwart o’ the poop,
For they’ll all have a Masse to power their craft—
They’re such tigers for work in no matter what draught.
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 5-U-43
d
among the German peoples to break free
from Prussian domination and military
servitude. When this happens it is to be
hoped that we shall not again be guided
by a tradition of policy that should have
been discarded a hundred years ago, and
condemn them, in the conviction that we
know their real wishes and interests better
than they do, to remain in Prussian bond-
age as a perpetual menace to ourselves.
Those who see the danger of leaving
the Prussian Reich entire generally advo-
cate splitting it up again into its com-
ponent States. Is there not, perhaps, a
simpler and better policy— to decide in
principle to impose on trans-Elbian
Prussia crippling terms of peace but to
allow the German States and provinces
that were included in the Reich of 1920
(except Westphalia and the Rhineland,
which could in no circumstances be per-
mitted to continue under Prussian rule)
to choose whether they would remaili in
it or not? Those opting for secession, as
well as Westphalia and the Rhineland,
could themselves submit for approval of
the Allies their proposals for a Constitu-
tion, whether as a unified or federal Ger-
man State or smaller units. They would,
of course, be barred from any form of
union, political or economic. With Prussia,
and to prevent camouflaged Prussian con-
trol they would be obliged to exclude
from their territories all Prussians in posi-
tions of influence, and to liquidate Prus-
sian interests in their industry and man-
agement.
The result would be a Prussia deprived
of the natural resources necessary for
large-scale manufacture and reduced to
the agricultural State that she was before
the Great Elector set about organising
the national industry of war. In this
condition she could be left, except for a
stringent military control and a sharp
eye to check intrigues with her neighbois,
to reflect over the disadvantages of a cult
of barbarism and perhaps in the end to
mend her ways.
Between us and this goal there stands,
however, that body of opinion which
maintains, in spite of all the lessons of
the past 30 years, that the Prussian Reich
is necessary to us as an element of balance
of power and a buffer, or that we must
keep it economically intact as a valuable
trading unit and a good customer. If,
lulled by these illusions and conscious
of post-war weakness and weariness, we
allow ourselves, like France in 1919, to
be pressed or jockeyed, whether by allies
less exposed than us, or by ephemeral
movements of public opinion, into accept-
ing vain guarantees as a substitute for
the reality of strategic security, it is prob-
able that we shall ultimately suffer the
same fate.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Moscow will not support any halfway house
of idealistic—but impracticable—Liberalism.
Stalin would far rather deal with Churchill
t| ia n, say, with Sir Stafford Cripps; with
Badoglio rather than with idealists such as
Croce or Sforza, who never could, and show
no promise of ever being able to, control the
politics of their own country.— Negley Parson;
London “Daily Mail.”
* * * *
Sir Robert Craigie, British Ambassador in
Japan until the outbreak of war, told the Over-
seas League that the Emperor of Japan was
never in favor of the present war. During the time
Sir Robert Craigie was in Tokyo the Emperor
showed many indications of his personal desire
to avoid plunging his country into war. The
Army secured open and full control of Japan’s
destiny in July, 1941, against a strong opposi-
tion which had postponed for three years the
efforts to make an all-out alliance with Ger-
many. That was something perhaps worth re-
membering. General Tojo, the dictator in
Japan, had the support of the most extreme
pe9ple in the country, and would fight to the
finish. Sir Robert Craigie suggested that
British newspapers could render good service
by devoting as soon as possible more of their
valuable space to the Far Eastern war. The
result would encourage our own men engaged
in it.— London “Times.”
* * * *
Robert Sherwood apostrophised the Finns in
a play called “There Shall Be No Night,” now
playing in London, the Finns having been
changed to Greeks to meet the demands of
ideology.— “ Saturday Evening Post.”
* # * *
The United States is mobilising some
11,300,000 of its men for its armed forces.
This amounts to about 8.4 p.c. of the total
population of approximately 135,000,000. The
8.4 p.c. figure contrasts strongly with what
America did in 1917-18. At that time its popu-
lation was about 103,000,000, and it mobilised
for the armed services a total of 4,355,000, or
4.2 p.c.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
It looks as if the defeat of Germany will
produce not a balance in Europe but a domi-
nance by Soviet Russia. It looks as if Joe
Stalin will succeed where Hitler failed. Great
Britain cannot" like that. The United States
fought the war in vain if that should happen.
—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun:”
* * * *
Struck by a Jap torpedo, the U.S. cruiser
New Orleans had her bow sheared off. The
torpedo explosion on her port side detonated
the magazines, which in turn set off 7000 tons
of aviation gasoline. This triple explosion
severed the bow completely and prevented it
from dragging the rest of the ship to the
bottom. Fitted with a tempprary bow in
Sydney, the New Orleans arrived at Puget
Sound Navy Yard. Now modernised and
with a new bow, she is faster and deadlier than
ever. — “Collier’s.”
* * * *
How do you think our buddies over there
feel to read of factory strikes and walkouts
while they live every minute of the day in lousy
swamp holes, always on the alert for attack
from the air or from land or sea, eating what
your thoughtless hands don’t squeeze from
the rationing privileges and your lusty purses
don’t buy in the black markets. — Letter from a
U.S. staff sergeant in N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’’’
* * * *
Among the armed forces is a growing bitter-
ness against all the evidences of greed and
selfishness and shortsighted “business-as-usual”
at home, which happen to be most dramatically
symbolised in war-time strikes and strike
threats; a bitterness which helped lend vehe-
mence to the sudden denunciation, in a very high
quarter, of the U.S. rail and steel strike episodes
as “the damnedest crime ever committed against
America.” This bitterness is real and signifi-
cant, for it springs from the knowledge of the
front-line soldier that every instance of disunity
or grasping narrow-mindedness at home is
directly prolonging the soldier’s struggle and
adding to the toll which he must pay in toil
and life.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * s ♦
In the bad old pre-1914 days, as is well
known, secret agreements were secretly arrived
at by certain sinister professionals known as
diplomats. That reprehensible situation has
long been done away with; we now have
“agents” instead of diplomats, the amateur
has replaced the professional, the discreetly
whispered conversation has yielded to the press
conference and the political gossip column. Yet
the results are at times disappointing; too often,
in place of secret agreements secretly arrived at,
all we seem to have got is secret disagreements
openly arrived at, in a fine blaze of publicity
and popular bewilderment. It is a real ques-
tion as to whether this is any great improve-
ment. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* s= *
It was not Willkie the noble and lovable
gentleman who was defeated in the Wisconsin
primary. It was Wiilkie the politician and his
internationalist principles. He made those prin-
ciples the issue, and orated for them up and
down Wisconsin for 13 days before the primary.
When the showdown came, the Wisconsin Re-
publican voters snowed those principles under.
— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
We got to talking about soldiers who crack
up in battle or before; the ones who hang back
or who think they’re sick and report in to the
medics as exhaustion cases. I personally have
great sympathy for battle neurosis cases, but
some of the soldiers themselves don’t, have.
For example, Sgt. Adams was telling how some
of the replacements, after only a few hours
under fire, will go to the company commander
and say; “Captain, I can’t take it. I just can’t
take it.” That makes Sgt. Adams’s blood boil.
He said to me, “They can’t take it? Well,
what the hell do they think the rest of us
stay here for —because we like it?” And it’s
that spirit, 1 guess, that wins wars.— U.S. war
correspondent in Italy Ernie Pyle.
S'- S= * *
On the first day of the Somme in 1916 the
British artillery fired 13,000 tons of ammuni-
tion. In the opening attack on July 31 at
Ypres it fired 23,000 tons and on two suc-
cessive days a total of 42,000 tons. Over a
period of two weeks in August and September,
1918, the British artillery fired 11,000 tons per
day, and its total for- the three days’ battle on
the 27th, 28th and 29th of September was
65,000 tons. None of these figures includes
the tremendous amounts of small-arms ammuni-
tion expended daily. It can be seen that in
World War I the three Allied armies taken
together averaged daily, without interference
from weather, several times the tonnage of fire-
power yet' handled by the bombers over Ger-
many m a single day. It is also apparent that
the Allied artillery of World War I was cap-
able of delivering 10 to 20 times as much in
any one day.— U.S. “Infantry Journal.”
* * * *
An American official back from duties in Eire
tells of a German bomber chased by British
fighters who high-tailed it until he was over
Ireland, and there dumped his bombs to lighten
his getaway load. Sole damage was done in
Dublin’s South Circular Road, centre of the
Free State’s small (2000 to 3000) Jewish com-
munity. There, chance or the gods of war
brought the Nazi bombload down on the syna-
gogue, and utterly demolished it. The De
Valera Government protested sternly to Hitler,
demanded apologies and prompt reparations.
Both were forthcoming, and promptly. Now,
thanks to the cash of Jew-baiting Hitler, a
bigger and better Dublin synagogue replaces the
ancient structure. — N.Y. “Daily News”
columnist.
* * * *
In terms of econopric power the Nazis can
still wage a tough fight, but another year’s
resistance will produce an exhaustion of Ger-
many without parallel since the Thirty Years
War and load terrible economic privations on
the German people.— U.S. Foreign Economic
Administrator Leo T. Crowley,
* * * *
Bad as this war in Italy is, the average U.S.
soldier hopes he’ll never be sent to the Pacific.
He hates the Japs more than the Germans,
but he has heard about the horrible jungle
fighting and the Jap beastliness, and he prefers
to fight somebody of his own kind.— U.S. War
correspondent Ernie Pyle.
* # *
One important group of U.S. officials is
taking the line that the United States in post-
war should make good the shipping losses 6f
Great Britain and Norway out of the vast
pool of ships that the United States will own.
Another equally important group is suggesting
that these losses be made good out of ships of
the German, Italian and Japanese merchant
marines while U.S. keeps its ships.—“ United
States News.’ 1 ’
* * * *
An Australian bomber captain who took part
in the attack on the Gnome-le-Rhone aero-
engine works at Limoges on the night of Febru-
ary 8, when, so far as is known, the R.A.F.’s
biggest bomb, the new 12,000-pounder, was
used for the first time, has described its de-
vastating effect. “Even at a height of many
thousand feet the blast is sufficient to rock
the aircraft,” he said. “The whole sky is lit
up just as though you have created a new sun.
The blast seems to linger for a while and spread
out. After I had dropped the 12,000-pounder
on the Gnome-le-Rhone works 1 went out with
my leader to reconnoitre the damage and take
photographs. All I can say is that the damage
from one of these new bombs looks like the
concentrated attack by numbers of aircraft with
the small-type bombs that we used in the early
days of the war.” The rear-gunner of this
pilot’s aircraft said: “The effect is just the
same as you gel' when hitting a big petrol dump.
A terrible flash lingers for a while, far longer
than even the flash from an 8000-pounder, and
then slowly spreads out. When you release the
bomb your aircraft jumps into the air. It feels
like pressing the button of a lift and finding
yourself 10 storeys up before you cafti take
your finger off the button.” — London “Times.”


Missing Friends.
GRACE (otherwise Constance Grace) BOOKING or
BOOKIN', deceased.—lnformation is requested as to
the whereabouts or date of death of ARTHUR
BOOKING or BOOKIN, believed to be a brother of
this deceased, and a son of John and Elizabeth
Boekin, of Bottesford, Leicestershire, England. If
he, his issue, or his personal representatives will
communicate with DAY, WHATELY & CO., Solici-
tors, Godaiming, Surrey, England, they may hear of
something to their advantage.
ANY person knowing the present address of MRS.
HENRY GERRARD, formerly Kathleen Beard, who
was married to Henry Gerrard at The Manse,
Liverpool Road, South Strathfield, New South Wales,
on the 26th March, 1925, is asked to communicate
with ADAMS & TUCK, Solicitors, of 13 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Divorce Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
CO DONALD MILTON BLAOKSTONE late of 18
Jrchard Street Croydon New South Wales.- —TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN MARY BLACKSTONE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. .1972 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Su-
preme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist August
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. SHAW MCDONALD & CO.
Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JEAN MAUD BULLUSS late of 29 Macquari'e
Road Auburn New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN BULLUSS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 862 of 1944 on the grounds ofl. deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
jpwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
ippearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Tenth July One thousand nine
Hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. A. N. HARD-
ING & BREDEN Solicitors Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY) Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALfis— ln Divorce.
TO AVIS ANNE COOPER formerly of 18 Jeffrey
Street North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GILBERT
SVLLLIAM COOPER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 753 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Ist August 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from NORMAN
DAWSON THOMAS Solicitor 51 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAURENCE FARRUGIA late of Sydney—TAKE
NOTICE that IRENE LOYCE FARRUGIA has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1314 of T 944 on the
ground of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Seventeenth day of July next and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from C. L. SHEEHY
petitioner’s solicitor Wingello House Angel Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
jfyam/Hi/-/
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . . . banishes scurf, Itch-
ing and dryness . , . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
f
df
d
i
%
m
/
T 1
'm
3
C!
s
MEASURE YOUR HOT WATER
Heat only as much water as you really need. Measure it into the
kettle or jug before boiling it for tea. You need less tea and get
greater strength and flavour if you use less boiling water.
Use the minimum of water for cooking vegetables or meat. That
retains the full food value, too.
Use a dish, not the sink, for washing up. Give the dishes a cold
rinse first to save hot water.
Don’t use the hot water system for less than a pint of water. It’s
more economical to boil small quantities.
SAVE FUEL BY SAVING HOT WATER
3111V8
CUT DOWN ON
GAS
ELECTRICITY
AND
HOT WATER
Issued by the Commonwealth Coal Commission •
GB 37/19
■
Ms
k
10 for
20 for 2/2
IT
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 s
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy a complete set of Rider Haggard s
novels and some early Victorian and S. Aust.
stamps.—3473.
To buy National Geographic Magazine ior
February, 1931, January, 1935, February, 1937,
and March, 1944. —3474.
To buy a pair of pinking scissors.—3475.
Information Sought.
(1) Essence of the N.S.W. Returned Soldiers
Preference Act ? (2) Is it still enforced ?
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained m the
Industrial Arbitration Act or in any award or
industrial agreement every employer shall give
preference in employment in any profession or
industry to a returned soldier or sailor who is
capable of effectively performing the duties
of such employment, is registered at a labor
bureau and is not excluded from the benefits
of the Act, as against any other person offering
his services at the same time. (2) It is en-
forceable.
* * * *
What is the difference between a statute mile,
a nautical mile, a geographic mile and a knot ?
The statute mile is 5280ft. in length; the
nautical, 6080ft.; the geographic, 6087.1ft.
(equal to one minute of longitude at the
Equator). A knot is a nautical mile.
* * * *
How to soften a razor strop which has be-
come hard and shiny?
Soak strop in warm water and soft soap for
four to six hours. Melt one cup neatsfoot
oil and half-cup saltless dripping in a tin over
slow heat and mix well. Brush into dry
leather while still warm. Repeat till pliable.
* * * *
My tank has been fouled by red oxide paint
washed off the roof before drying. Can the
tank be cleared without draining or pumping
out the water?
Try floating cakes of alumino-ferric on the
surface; it attracts all foreign substances to
itself, leaving the water clear.
* * *
How to stop boots squeaking?
Pierce a hole through centre of squeaking sole
with a fine awl and drive a wooden peg or
piece of toothpick through, hammering the top
flat.
Brief Answers.
N.R.G.: Shares are apparently not listed
in Sydney or Melbourne. Consult a share-
broker J.K.: He is looking at a photo, of
his son A.R.S.: The Bulletin Reciter, 2s. 9d.
from Angus and Robertson, Ltd., G.P.O. Box
1516 DD, Sydney T.R.: No information avail-
able T.H.L.: The diggers’ Southern Cross
flag was first flown on November 28, 1854.
Ross’s Eureka summarises the rebellion from the
diggers’ standpoint J.A.T.': Such appliances
are sold in Australia but do not cure the
deformity. Plastic surgery can often help;
consult an ear specialist or G.P S.M.K.:
No H.W.R.: The First Brigade A.F.A.
(1914-18) reunion wil be held at the Legacy
Club, 188 George-street, Sydney, at 8 p.m.
on June 24. Communicate with L. Wood,
M 6508 (Ex. W 27) or FW5724... .J.E.W.: (1)
Call a meeting and move a motion of no-
confidence in the president. If it is carried,
he is out. (2) Will be answered later
M.H.W.: The Hood was a battle-cruiser much
larger than the Dreadnought. She was about
42,000 tons and carried 15in. guns; was the
flagship of the Atlantic Fleet, and visited Aus-
tralia in 1924... .M.E.G.: None obtainable in
Sydney; try arsenite of soda W.O’G.:
Nothing available in Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. mil be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
L.H.M.: The usual prospecting yarn
R.R.: Featherweight L. 8.; Magazinish
R.L.R.: Style whiskery R.S.E.; Unreal and
pointless... .E. A.: “Overheard at Rand wick”
would make bookies faint, horses bolt and
strong men rush for the bar... .G.GJ.: “The
very trees seemed inanimate, fear-crazed.
Birds, customarily felicitous, were gloomy, de-
pressed, in a state of trepidation.” You weren’t
reading that story aloud, were you? L.A.8.:
At the point where her tears burst like a dam
we gave up the struggle H.C.F.: “Still on
the gay side of forty, still rich, handsome and
powerful, he would show them he could still
be as daring as any young cockerel.” Try him
on a pullets’ paper J.8.W.: “Wilfred Luke
opened the fourth bottle of whisky.” The
fourth ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Black: But not, black-and-white Pen
and Oily: The ideas are not new....K.N.:
Well, you did get a humorous expression on
the beer-drinker M.G.: Sorry, can’t use —
we don’t take composite drawings R.L.:
Dad’s arm is growing out of the middle of his
chest... .M.E.: The land girl scything some-
thing within 10ft. of the seashore would hack
her leg off if she used it like that Mac:
’Plane not badly drawn, but the navigator’s
face is the only joke W. 8.: Spread your-
self more and let us see what you can do.


0
WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR DIES
-Will YOUR ESTATE SUFFER
If you appoint an individual as Executor Ins
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devoted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
$
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST„ SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE. .
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) i D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading. K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS!
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
f
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories,
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident; Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Oontingen- to
Den., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383.344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
>34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
>35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 ,3,449,606
>36.10,747,661 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 1 , n7s - 80
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO .. J ’ >*
>37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 7 4910744
From conting. reserve, £lOO,OOO .. j > >
>38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
>39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671,168 L-., 9 0 7
Additional tax provision, £175,000 \
>40.12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 | 4 18 g 735
Additional tax provision, £175,000 ) > >
>41.13,113,267 6,638,662 1,523,970 207,226 4,748,409
>42.13,299,107 7,428,662 1,493,428 85,010 7 4 204 507
Additional tax provision, £87,500 ) ’ ’
>43.13,691,791 7,431,300 1,333,818 528,757 4,397,916
Industrial Department.
W bitten Added
Ex- Off, to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Etc. Funds.
>33.. 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 7,359 810,493
>34.. 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 5,651 917,851
>35.. 2,460,767 964,512 582,580 4,280 909,395
>36.. 2,679,507 1,095,085 641,792 1,658 941,072
>37.. 2,943,122 1,162,121 753,995 15,124 1,011,882
>38.. 3,220,576 1,233,996 791,728 13,298 1,181,554
>39.. 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 1 j 030 og2
Provision for taxation, £25,000. . f > ’
>40.. 3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 7
Provision for taxation, £25,000 J > ’
>41.. 3,866,840 1,632,056 907,385 38,508 1,288,891
>42.. 4,079,872 1,526,080 933,175 16,474 1 , ,- q „ fl4 o
I’revision for taxation, £12,500 J > >
>43.. 4,294,091 1,562,482 939,028 16,214 1,776,867
Australia’s largest and oldest life office
continues to gather strength and make
progress, despite the crop of actuarial
and managerial problems that war, finan-
cial controls, cheap money, higher taxa-
tion, rising costs and man-power diffi-
culties have brought about. Healthy mar-
gins in matters upon which soundness
depends, as well as all-round growth of
the figures, are again disclosed in the
latest accounts.
New business completed last year
totalled no less than £26,293,330 (up
£3,216,707), of which £20,662,439 (up
£2,853,801) was in the ordinary and
£5,630,891 (up £363,906) in the industrial
section. Astonishing figures, all things
considered, and a fine testimony to the
quality of the service the co. renders
policyholders. Life assurance bought
from a sound office is an unrationed com-
modity on which people can continue
to spend to both their own and the
nation’s profit.
Since war began the co. has channelled
practically every pound that became
available into the public Treasury:
1942. p.c. 1943. p.c.
Public securi-
ties ..£91,322,008 04.4 £101,686,070 68.2
Mortgages . . 31,463,541 22.2 29,670,037 19.9
Loans on poli-
cies . . 14,889,207 10.5 13,553,646 9.1
Premises .. 1,530,717 1.1 1,429,394 .9
Other assets.. 2,519,770 1.8 2,387,360 1.9
Total assets £141,725,243, 100.0 £148,726,507 100.0
Liabilities*.. 2,686,000 2,812,781
Net assets £139,039,243 145,913,726
* Other than under policies.
Public securities now account for 68.2
p.c. of total assets as against 58.1 p.c.
five years back. Over the same period
net growth in book value of said securi-
ties was £30,451,399, of which £10,364,062
was in respect of last term, when expan-
sion of net assets was only £6,874,483.
Further evidence of support of the war
effort is to be found in rigid economy in
use of man-power and materials. Pity
is that similar care has not been exhibited
by the Government to protect purchasing
power of savings thus represented.
Combining the figures of both sec-
tions, last year’s total income was
£17,985,882 (up £606,903), of which pre-
miums accounted for £12,113,720 (up
£507,980) and interest, etc., £5,872,162
(up £98,923). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., including the tax bill
(£518,028, up £70,371), and sending
£500,000 to investment and contingencies
reserve (£3,500,000), £200,000 to special
tax reserve (£800,000) and writing
£101,702 off the book value of premises
and other assets, £6,174,283 was added
to assurance and other funds
(£141,607,069).
Including the investment reserve, etc.,
and provision for taxation, the rate of
interest earned last year on mean funds
was £4 Is. 7d. p.c. as against £4 3s. lid.
p.c. and £4 6s. 2d. p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The assumed rate of earning is
3 p.c. To help offset future effects of
this downward trend and other contin-
gencies, special actuarial reserves totalling
£6,732,213 have been set up. They are
hidden away in the £141,607,069 of assur-
ance funds, etc., which also have the
support and assistance of the £4,300,000 ;
of other reserves already referred to, plus
inner reserves created by writing down
the book value of assets by £948,698 over
the last five years.
Immediate effect of all this has been
reduction of the surplus available for dis-
tribution among policyholders as bonuses :
—a common experience:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary- Industrial. Total.
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3,148,444
1937.. 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3.444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
1941.. 1,055,801 192,514 1,248,315
1942.. 1,791,984 210,796 2,002,780
1943.. 1,826,367 309,735 2,136,102
In the ordinary department last year’s
bonuses were 21.4 p.c. of premiums on
participating policies, compared with 21.7,
13.2, 26.3, 26.7 and 43.5 p.c. back to 1938.
Despite the contraction, bonus additions
to sums assured under policies are still
handsome.
The year’s war-death payments
amounted to £1,070,334, making total
payments on this account since war began
£2,616,489. But all mortality last year
was only 67 p.c. of expectation under
tables used. So the war strain —difference
between the sum mentioned and actuarial
reserves held against policies concerned —
hasn’t been very significant.
A tight hold has been kept upon out-
goings. Excluding taxes, the ratio of
commission and management exes, to
premium receipts was 10.06 p.c, in the
ordinary and 24.66 p.c. in the industrial
section last year. Corresponding figures
for 1942 were 10.97 p.c. and 25.64 p.c.
respectively.
Mark Toy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ Di vi dends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 54 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£> £> £i £/ £>
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills, £16,734.. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13,209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229' 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 2,897 173,762
1944.. 74,228 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 8,817 177,579
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
It has been a seller’s market, and retail
outlets like Toy’s have been concerned
with getting goods rather than with secur-
ing price concessions and service as in
pre-war days. Many lines of merchan-
dise are now most others
are in short supply ana their delivery
irregular, while quality has fallen and
prices have risen. Afraid of what might
happen, the Government brought down
its top-price plan a little over a year ago.
Further, deliveries to customers and other
features which went to make up service
to shoppers—the keynote of pre-war re-
tailing— have beers compulsorily cur-
tailed. And the co.’s woollen and knitting
mills are engaged mainly on Government
work, from which there is little profit;
materials for civilian manufacture have
not been available.
The co, doesn’t broadcast its turnover ;
but here are percentage changes in aggre-
gate sales of a number of the larger Syd-
ney stores compared with the correspond-
ing period a year earlier:
Average Three Months Ended.
r —* — V
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 —2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6
Although aggregate sales slipped 12.6 p.c.
for the year to June 30 last, they were
still about 6 p.c. above the 1939-40 level.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the contraction in
gross earnings (£486,028, after allowing
£26,893, up £479, for depreciation) was
£10,460. But exes. (£411,800, including
an unspecified allowance for taxation)
were pulled back £22,188, partly by
economies in administrative costs and
partly by savings in interest —a reduction
in mortgages was made possible by em-
ployment of less funds in stocks and by
a higher ratio of cash sales. The
£74,228 (up £11,728) of profit was enough
to give the prefs. their full contract rate
and show 10.7 p.c. on the £540,367 of
ord. capital as against 8.5, 9.9, 9.6, 8,
8.4 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1938. A couple
of points was added to the div., making it
10 p.c.
It was the co.’s best showing since re-
construction of the main premises in the
late 1920’5, when the work was financed
largely on bank overdraft, which reached
£349,000-odd in 1931. The debt pressed
heavily on attenuated earnings during the
difficult slump years that followed, and
the ords, went without for the five terms
to the close of accounts in 1935.
Here is the present financial set-up,
with comparisons back to 1940:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities* .. 432,740 515,617 513,341 408,766
Property . . 728,044 723,970 720,982 717,918
Plant, etc. .. 118,125 91,673 72,721 49,120
Stocks .. 456,462 600,287 626,407 567,336
Book debts . . 105,228 91,941 70,023 37,096
Cash, etc. . . 13,876 21,680 40,040 68,752
* Includes tax provision.
Last term the mortgage (now £100,000)
was reduced by £107,000, the overdraft
(£14,172 at the previous balance) was
wiped out, and £16,597 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes something for taxation.
Stocks and debtors’ balances were re-
duced by £59,071 and £32,927 respec-
tively and fixed assets by £23,601 net.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£264,418) was £41,289.
Trading conditions promise to become
more competitive when present controls,
or most of them, are relaxed and a
buyer’s market develops again, with con-
sequent demand for more service. Subje'ct
to the problem of stocks, the co. is well
equipped to meet difficulties as they arise.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1934.. 12,469 7 p.c. = 6568 5,901 108,879
1935.. 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125,615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146,947
1939. , 27,366 < p.c, = 6662 \ v(\a 165 151
To contingencies, £2500 ( 4 >
1940. . 30,077 7 P- c - = t lnnnf 20,060 185,211
To contingencies, £2500 \ ’ >
1941.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 | lg 194 203,405
To contingencies, £l5OO )
From inner reserves, £25,000 . . 228,405
1942.. 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
1943.. 44,024 71 „ ~10,960 33,064 294,081
1944.. 35,674 8 „ „ 11,691 23,983 318,064
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
The business of 18 Asiatic and Island
agencies was lost following enemy occu-
pation, but the resultant gap in premium
income was more than filled by growth
in Indian and Egyptian business, and by
rapid expansion of Australia’s war-time
industrial output, growth of traders’ in-
ventories and rise in prices and therefore
in insurable values. Further, no capital
loss in connection with vanished agency
business has shown up in the accounts.
So, despite the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s monopoly of war marine risks
on the Australian coast and shrinkage in
motor-car insurance, premium income
stepped along nicely. Last term, how-
ever, there was a contraction of
£73,611 in gross premiums (£574,470),
due partly to the generally lower level of
merchandise stocks. But reinsurances
(£240,307) were £72,886 lighter, leaving
net premiums only £725 short of the pre-
vious year’s:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1926.. £97,486 £55,048 £33,890 56.5 p.c. 34.7 p.c.
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 .. 32.3 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1934.. 105,781* 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
, 1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 ~ 36.2 „
1939.. 224.287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „
1940.. 251,039 145,280 90,180 57.9 „ 35.9 „
. 1941.. 266,267 148,269 110,931 55.6 „ 41.6 „
1942.. 302,454 154,324 130,222 51.0 ~ 43.1 „
> 1943.. 334,988 160,267 156,276 47.8 ~ 46.6 „
r 1944.. 334,263 165,249 161,379 49.4 ~ 48.2 „
; Losses and exes, each made off with an
; extra 325. p.c. of net premiums. The


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Anvr.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
d
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
HCTS
LIKE THE HHIIO
BARRERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2X). 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Mi
'Wi
VW'SW
s&s
CHARTS
For oil types ot
Recording Instruments lor any close
oi Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our qaotatas
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, Q‘U>.
LET
r ATLAS )
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
V
S 3
is
h
Established 1808 la Kelgn of Georere 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas" has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, '
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNIFY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbvry; SvAnrij Sampson.
E. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, Gineral .Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 P.'.t Street, Sydney.
m f
I i J
#
ff i
'Si
m
-r j
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
STATE EXPRESS
///
I
STM.
3.
&Va
t*P?
SWS
It's your fight your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/~ National Savings Stamps.
199 90*11.41
growth of £5103 in exes, was due entirely
to taxation (£58,270, up £7273). After
charging the whole of the tax bill and
£6803 for rates, repairs and maintenance
against net premiums, the underwriting
surplus was £lO,BlO lighter at £7635.
Gross return from investments was
£28,039 (up £2460). Thus the net return
from all sources (£35,674, subject to un-
expifed risks) was £8350 less than the
previous year’s at 24.4 p.c. on capital as
against 30.1, 29.3, 19.5, 21 and 18.6 p.c.
back to 1939. The div., lifted from 7
p.c. to 8 p.c. p.a. for the last half of the
1943 term, was kept at the higher figure,
and then twice as much was put by as
was distributed, lifting reserves to more
than double the size of paid capital.
The policy from the start has been to
build up strength. No divs. were paid
for the first three years; then 6 p.c. was
handed out, followed by a steady 7 p.c.
until the 8 p.c. distribution already re-
ferred to was made. And for the most
part more has been put by than has been
distributed, while interest, rents, etc., have
approximated or exceeded the dividend
charge, thus leaving the underwriting sur-
plus, or most of it, available to swell in-
vestments and returns therefrom. Here
is the investment portfolio in tabloid
form:
1939. 1940. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £95,175 £120,825 £146,138 £146,138
Sundry
creditors*.. 124,161 247,274 379,511 348,747
Public
securities . . 204,958 221,073 315,328 358,579
Fixed deposits 23,500 32,500 65,000 69,250
Cash, etc. . . 48,323 57,262 88,641 99,884
Shares subsid. 4,996 4,996
Book debts, etc. 40,328 54,590 149,609 84,084
Freeholds . . 74,041 195,401 202,000 202,000
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Last term £43,251 was added to public
securities (they account for 43.8 p.c. of
total assets) and £11,243 to cash, etc.
When the books closed, reserves, mostly
liquid, were equal to 95.1 p.c, of the
year’s net premiums, whereas 40 p.c, is
usually considered adequate to cover un-
expired risks.
Revival of activity at Wolfram Camp,
Queensland’s premier field of wolfram,
molybdenite and bismuth ores, is a reflex
of present war demand for rare metals.
Production of wolfram began about 50
years ago and of molybdenite in 1900.
Output increased during World War I,
following which the market collapsed,
and most mines on the field closed down.
The operative field, some 30 chains wide,
extends for a couple of miles along an
intrusive contact zone, with quartz pipes
and flat lodes. Commercial minerals are
in low percentage and irregularly distri-
buted, and various sulphides (chiefly
arsenopyrite and pyrite) and scheelite and
fluorspar accompany them in unimport-
ant quantities. Although payable values
are believed to persist to greater depth
than has yet been worked, ore reserves
are difficult to estimate, because percent-
ages can only be determined by breaking
down and separation. Mineral recovery
from the field from 1894 to 1943 aggre-
gated 7351.5 tons, with a wolfram-
molybdenite ratio of between four and
five to one. Bismuth is a subordinate
product.
* * * *
Decline of Westralia’s goldmining in-
dustry, as mirrored in the yields of lead-
ing producers, during two years of war
with Japan:
/ t -Calendar Year.
1941. 1942. 1943.
Mine. Fine Oz. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
Lake View .. . . 170,550 127,149 87,196
Great Boulder .. . . 93,216 81,057 63,302,
Wiluna 72,586 65,738 52,377
Central Norseman .. 53,913 39,994 27,089
North Kalgurli . . . . 45,415 40,965 25,721
Big Bell ;. . . 45,984 46,117 4,220*
Sons of Gwalia . . 42,520 31,135 24,003
Boulder Perseverance . . 38,145 32,757 22,985
O.M. of Kalgoorlie . . 43,053 30,278 21,610
South Kalgurli . . 27,467 22,696 19,136
Moonlight Wiluna . . 26,141 24,798 17,790
Paringa . . . . 22,460 22,185 17,104
Kalgoorlie Enterprise . . 22,495 19,911 16,110
Comet G.M 12,221 13,324 13,265
Norseman G.M. . . 26,220 18,731 11,734
Golden Horse Shoe .. 12,421 13,029 10,732
Hill 50 10,688 11,533 10,054
Emu G.M. . . . . 3,119 7,792 7,049
Phoenix G.M 9,631 7,942 6,695
Yellowdine G.D. . . 13,711 8,430 5,536
Tindals 13,175 8,252 5,127
Ora Banda Amalgamated 6,649 5,262 4,109
Edna May Amalgamated 9,367 5,684 3,332
First Hit . . . . 5,397 3,849 3,099
Youanmi .. . . 17,023 2,825
* Two months.
Including “protected” personnel in under-
takings being worked primarily for
strategic minerals associated with aurifer-
ous pres, the industry’s man-power has
been depleted to a quarter of pre-war
strength. But, because development has
been neglected and rich shoots drawn on,
the fall in the gold yield has been little
more than half.
* * * *
From London: There is talk of ample
capital being provided after the war for
further search for gold and other minerals
on the “up-north” Pilbara (W.A.) field.
Gold, as well as tin and tantalite, of sub-
stantial worth has been got there in the
last 50 years. Also a little asbestos, mica
and a few diamonds, the latter in the
Nullagine auriferous conglomerates, have
been found. One lead outcrop was de-
scribed some years ago by a visiting
Government geologist as something big,
and it nearly reached the flotation stage
in London when the market for the metal
was £4O a ton. So far the snag at Pil-
bara has been reefs and lodes that don’t
go below shallow depths.
* * * »
The heavy fall in the price of quick-
silver in both London and New York is
the result of an earlier overestimate of
probable war requirements. Restrictions
on the commercial use of quicksilver in
U.S.A. have now been removed. Last
month the price of the stuff per flask in
London and New York was £33 13s. 4d.
and $l3O respectively, compared with
£69 7s, 6d. and $196 at the end of last
year.
* * * *
Yukon Consolidated (paid capital
$5,698,065), in which Australian investors
are interested and whose president is
G. Goldthorp Hay, who is also chairman
of Lake View, paid six cents per dollar
share in March last in respect of 1942.
No div. was paid for 1941 ; 10 cents,
1940 ; eight cents, 1939. Co. holds large
areas of what remains of the creek allu-
vial gold deposits at Klondyke, Canada.
From the richest of these gravel deposits
old-timers are estimated to have taken
£40,000,000. Best claims, each 500 ft.
along the creeks, yielded from £lOO,OOO
to £200,000 apiece. From the treatment
of the leavings, Yukon Consolidated
gets a revenue of between $2,000,000 and
$3,000,000 a year. For 1942 the co.
netted $511,317, after providing $300,000
for taxation and $449,827 for deprecia-
tion, etc., of its eight electrically-driven
dredges. Gravel reserves are estimated at
about 130,000,000 c.y., with an approxi-
mate gold content of $45,000,000.


:■
The World follows Britain’s lead . .
.Z >'
m/tStS
o'd
X
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise, shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY,
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager,
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office: '
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Standard of Living
If there is one thing to which wage-
earners are entitled to devote close and
intelligent attention it is their living
standard and that of others in the com-
munity around them. No smothering-up
of factors relating to possible improve-
ments in living standards which at the
same time give recognition to the security
and future needs* of the country should
be tolerated by anyone. Improvement of
one’s economic condition is«a legitimate
aim in the life of anybody, and it is a
great pity that this aim has ceased to be
recognisable in the practices of many
trade-unions at present. War-time is cer-
tainly not the moment to seek immediate
improvement in living standards, but it
is an occasion when we can do much to
establish the basis of a higher post-war
plane, at the same time, by the elimina-
tion of waste and a sensible application of
surplus energies, keeping the burden of a
maximum war effort down to a minimum.
If we set our eye steadily in the direc-
tion of improving the national level of
living we are being guided by a good eco-
nomic star. Not that economics are
everything; in the present bloody world
a national character accustomed to hard-
ship is serving Australia well in lonely
and unhealthy fighting areas. But so far
as economics go—and they go an in-
creasingly long way as civilised people
become more and more interdependent—
the aim of improved living standards is
a progressive one for all. Where it is
rationally followed the brain-scrambler
and the strife-creator who thrive on in-
dustrial unrest are soon left without an
audience or a following. Go-slow, waste,
frivolous strikes, purposely-reduced pro-
duction and other national sabotage have
no place in the industrial outlook when
it is realised that a growing, fairly-
distributed national income is the basis
of improved standards of life.
The greater production per head, the
better the standard of living where that
production is available for civil use. The
more the country is developed, the more
our production methods are improved,
and the more favorable the basis on
which we can exchange our export pro-
duction for desired goods from over-
seas, the better will be the prospects of an
improved living standard. In proportion
to our national income the standard of
the average Australian is a particularly
high one. It follows that further improve-
ment must of necessity come mainly from
increased national production, not merely
from new methods of distributing or con-
trolling it.
In Australia at the present time we see
many interests which profess to be the
champions of the wage-earner. We have
a Government made up of the Labor
party. But it is unhappily true that the
majority of these interests can see little
or nothing for the improvement of the
lot of the masses other than new forms
of political or bureaucratic control. They
are more engrossed with doctrines than
they are with production and its distribu-
tion. Some of the interests represent
actual “rackets,” depending upon strife
and friction. Their “policy” concerning
living standards and “rights” is mostly
sophistry.
One of the greatest illusions in the
matter of living standards is a wage rate
taken at its face value. Money alone is
no measure of economic well-being, a
fact which has lately caused the Can-
berra Government to juggle around with
the old-age pension rate in an extraordi-
nary manner. In between money-wage
and pension rates and living standards
there is the cost-of-living factor. A rise
in living costs may make a rise in wages
entirely fictional. Since the outbreak of
war, in fact, the Australian basic money
wage has risen from 795. to 975. without
any improvement in living standards.
Money has merely depreciated in terms
of buying power, this depreciation being
partly due to too-high wages paid in
certain key industries (thus increasing
the costs and taxes to be paid by other
wage-earners) and partly because the
inroads by war into living standards have
not been fully represented by taxation
charges against incomes, thus resulting in
an inflationary supply of money when
contrasted with the available supply of
civilian goods.
In spite of the questionable value of a
rise in the mere money value of wages
and similar incomes, we find that often
the attitude of trade-unions is all for such
increases regardless of the ultimate result
to living costs and production costs. It
would be all too easy if living standards
could be raised simply by putting up
wages. Where increased wages produce
substantially greater costs there is a real
danger of decreased living standards as a
result of the dislocation caused to pro-
duction by the uncertainty on the part of
the producer as to whether he can turn
out his goods for either the home or
overseas market with any profit to him-
self. Reduced production and unemploy-
ment, of course, become a drain on the
national standard.
The present Australian Government is
devoting a lot of its time to secu-
rity,” “free medicine” and similar meas-
ures. Such social services it proposes to
finance on a “non-contributory basis” —
that is, by taxation entirely instead of
partly by direct contribution. Except so
far as it is proposed to take from the
“rich” to give to the “poor,” and so far
as a pension scheme may tend to spread
over a natural life the income of a work-
ing life, no increase in living standards
of wage-earners is implied by such
schemes, and no general increase is indi-
cated at all. On the contrary, administra-
tion by bureaucrats may be excessively
costly, and where schemes have been
badly planned there is always the possi-
bility of the destruction of initiative in
the case of both the heavily-taxed em-
ployer and the oversocialised wage-
earner. Where any social planning does
not give full regard to the possible blunt-
ing of the tools of enterprise and indus-
try it is more than likely to be a failure.
While social-security provision may be
necessary, it has nothing to do with the
fundamentals of improving living stand-
ards. We come back in all our examina-
tions of the position to the fact that in-
creased output per head is the key we
seek, plus a staple money—that is, costs of
production kept at a level where produc-
tion can be planned ahead with confidence,
and where our export trades are not un-
necessarily hampered by internal inflation.
Whatever means we adopt to spread the
benefits of our production among indi-
viduals as between themselves and over
the life of each person separately we
should see to it that our plans have a
basis which takes regard of the practical
economics of the position, and that they
are not based on mere political eyewash.
In Australia it is time that both the
owners of and workers in industry de-
cided unanimously that an improved liv-
ing standard all round is an aim which
would produce much more harmony in
economic relationships and increase the
material well-being of everyone. Adher-
ence to such an aim would overcome
much of the frustration which we too
often see in industry—frustration which
at times breeds the germs of anarchy,
economic revolution and depression. The
more straightforward our attitude in im-
proving our economic lot the better will
be the results. Devious methods mean
waste of time, waste of opportunity,
waste of man-power through red-tape
and waste of money. Such waste means
disappointment, and frequently the defeat
of the purpose as well.
One of the basic necessities in a
nationally co-operative movement to-
wards a better living standard is a wider
understanding of the present income and
productive resources of the Common-
wealth as a whole. It has been only in
recent years, for instance, that much pub-
licity has been given to the fact that in-
comes of £8 a week and under represent
70 p.c. of all the incomes earned in the
Commonwealth, and that variations in
incomes are less pronounced in Aus-
tralia than in any other part of the world.
It is necessary for such facts —and many
more —to be known so that too much
time should not be wasted in political
efforts to bring to a common level the
comparatively few tall poppies which this
country possesses. Improvement of the
lot of the man in the street will not come
by that method. Tall poppies such as
Henry Ford have been worth far more
than their weight in gold to wage-earners
everywhere.
In order that Australians should under-
stand the potentialities and problems of
their country better it might be well
worth while if a pocket compendium of
Australian statistics, with a few explana-
tory observations, were dispatched yearly
to every person over 10 years of age.
Perhaps not a fifth of them would be
studied intelligently. But even that pro-
portion of the population possessing a
background of the actual facts of the
nation’s economics would be a pillar of
political and intellectual strength when
industrial problems arose. Knowledge of
realities, combined with a capacity to
reason with others, is a great asset in the
overcoming of problems which require
mass co-operation. Modern industry calls
for that kind of co-operation.
E. J. Kenny, N. S. Wales Mines Depart-
ment expert, says that all the estimated
oil-bearing shale deposits in the State, if
fully worked and exhausted, could not
keep Australia supplied with much more
than ten years’ ordinary peace-time
oil consumption. He added the belief
that if Australia is to become indepen-
dent of overseas oil it will be coal that
will supply the need, not shale. Kenny
was not hopeful of the discovery of flow
oil in the Commonwealth. Referring to
the evidence of A. C. Smith, of the De-
partment of Supply, given at the previous
day’s hearing of the joint Parliamentary
committee, A. J. Gibson, of Julius, Poole
and Gibson, said that the Baerami de-
posits of shale could be well over 20 mil-
lion tons, as against Smith’s estimate of
seven million tons. (A few years back,
when associated with the Standard Oil
Co. of Australia —B. S. B. Stevens was
also in it—Gibson supported the idea that
Baerami was potentially a bigger show
than Glen Davis.) At the inquiry Gibson
also claimed that there was no compari-
son between the Glen Davis and Baerami
fields from a mining point of view. A. C.
Smith estimated the potential oil content
of the Baerami field at 400 million gal-
lons, with the Glen Davis potential at
2000 million. The grade of Glen Davis
shale was far higher than at Baerami. If
Baerami was to be developed, his view
was that it must be a Government job,
because private enterprise would be re-
luctant to put up the capital, Gibson
gave the opinion that petrol could
be produced at Baerami at about
Is. oyd. a gallon. The committee
was told that production at Glen
Davis was expected to reach four million
gallons a year by the end of 1944, and
the target of 10 million gallons was ex-
pected to be reached by June, 1945.
* * * *
In Britain Lord Portal and Ernest
Bevin are at work on a 12-year plan for
post-war building, guaranteeing steady
employment. It is aimed to have
1,250,000 workers in the building trade
within three or four years after the war.
Sir George Burt, chairman of the Build-
ing Research Board, hopes that the pre-
fabrication of the outside structure of
houses will be unnecessary except as a
temporary expedient, but prefabricated
materials for the inside of homes are a
different matter. Sir George Burt does
not think that pre-fabrication will per-
manently solve any problems. He recom-
mends instead improved planning, while
costs up to £5O a house could be reduced
by eliminating the “fads and fancies”
of local-government authorities. Real
savings in the principal building materials
will be the best method of making home-
building cheaper, he believes.


INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Imported by the Government to ensure efficient rood transport.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
® CAPACITIES: Up to V/ 2 TONS.
• REAR AXLES: Sturdy. Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
O CABS : Imported, ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
® IMPORTED PLATFORM with steel skid strips.
Front Loading Board, Coaming and Rope Hooks.
• IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
© DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
o OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase and immediate delivery may be obtained
as usual from our branch house in the capital city
of your State, and also from any Authorized
Metropolitan Distributor or Country Local Agent
for International Trucks.
Ask us to Kelp you with your application.
A-110 _______
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
<INCOHPORAT6t> VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
BMW
jF
" PAY MY
WHAT ABOUT
A SHOPP/N6-
ok&v r
Don't play into
the hands of the
SQUANDER BUG!
Just when you’re feeling flush —that’s when
the shadow of the Squander Bug creeps closer,
tempting you to spend your hard-earned
money on things you don’t really need. Give
him the slip by putting all you can into War
Savings every week.
BUY 6d. War Savings Stamps, from any
Money Order Post Office. OR War Savings
Certificates, from any Bank, Savings Bank, or
Money Order Post Office. OR 5 /- National
Savings Stamps, from any Savings Bank or
Money Order Post Office.
sm m w*o**
AL-9-M
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Maoriland Dairying
Recent offer of MX. Government to
increase the price of butterfat from
August 1 next by 1.21 d. a pound as a
wage-cost allowance has been received
with very mixed feelings by dairy-farmei s.
Faced with the triple burden of fertiliser
shortage, man-power shortage and rising
costs, the farmer has been fighting a
losing battle, and production has slumped
seriously at a time when Britain is seek-
ing all the butter and cheese the country
can turn out. So drastically has the cow
population fallen that some authorities
claim it will take three years to build up
herds. Heavy culling of dairy cows has
taken place, and the increase in bobby
calves sent to freezing works last winter
shows that insufficient heifers are being
reared to provide replacements.
Until recently big money was earned
on the wharves and in American estab-
lishments by unskilled laborers, and
dairymen, who by comparison were on
slave wages, became restive. Despite its
stabilisation measures (which seem to
become more elastic each day), the Gov-
ernment was bound to boost up farm
workers’ payrolls or else have the labor
position deteriorate further. Dairy
spokesmen who have made their voices
heard since the Government added the
1.21 d. per pound to the butterfat cheque
contend that the sum is too little and too
late. One estimate is that the farmer gets
additional revenue of £3O ss. a year, and
he has to pay the employee who obtains
the butterfat an extra £45 10s. a year.
As long as unskilled workers on a 40-hour
week or less continue to command high
wages, while the skilled farm worker on
a 50- to 60-hour week gets, compara-
tively, a pittance, man-power problems
will continue to afflict MX. farmers.
Hundreds of dairy-farmers are known
to have changed over to sheep-rearing
and woolgrowing in the last year or two,
but the exact number is unknown. Regu-
lations to prohibit this are under con-
sideration.
Although Treasurer Chifley told the
trade-union conference in Melbourne
that he would stand for no unpegging of
wage rates, as Australia could not hope
to compete in the world’s markets after
the war if inflation swept the country, a
gentleman named Moroney, from Queens-
land, objected to what he described as
“the undue pessimism of the Federal
Government.” Inflation, he contended,
could only affect investors, and would
not affect the workers. It was the duty
of the Government to see that the in-
vesting public did not pass the buck to
the workers. Workers! Support the war
loan and help to save your country by
becoming an investor! Workers! Bear
your share of the war burden like your
fighting cobbers! How helpful towards
the achievement of any such decent objec-
tive is the bum philosophy of Mr.
Moroney. And how little he knows
about who are the ultimate pitiable vic-
tims of inflation!
* * *
The Federal Treasury has decided to
allow persons who do not own land to
buy a home for subsequent use
without their being required to in-
vest in war loans if cost of the
property does not exceed £2OOO and
no borrowed money is required in
the transaction. At present home-buying
is free from contribution to war loans
only if the buyer contemplates immediate
occupation of the property. The Treas-
ury has now decided that investments in
war loans as a condition of property pur-
chase will be “unfrozen” upon the close
of the war or when the property is sold.
Where necessary, bonds will also be re-
leased for the payment of death duties.
* * * *
A Government spokesman estimates
that 1943-44 will close with 4,000,000
bales of wool stored in Australia. This
would represent an increase of 1,000,000
bales over last year. All this wool has
been paid for by Great Britain, which
indicates the value of the purchase agree-
ment to the Commonwealth, and makes
clear our obligation to provide Britain
with all the food we possibly can, food
being more urgently needed than the wool
which is nevertheless being so promptly
paid for.
* * * *
In spite of the advances being made by
nylon and other synthetic fibres, con-
sumption of wool in the United States
during 1943 was reckoned to be equal to
about one year’s Australian clip, and
over 60 p.c. more than the average from
1936 to 1940. From January 1, 1940,
to Dec. 31, 1943, approximately 12 mil-
lion bales were consumed. In these three
years the weight of wool imported into
the U.S.A. was equal to nearly all the
wool bought overseas during the preced-
ing 20 years. Consumption in 1944 will
exceed all stocks held on behalf of the
British or United States Governments.
At present there is a tendency for civilian
production to displace Government orders
in the U.S.A., and greater quantities of
Australian wool are being used. There
is a really extraordinary demand for
woollen goods in America at present
apart altogether from military require-
ments. It provides one of the contradic-
tory circumstances in the story of post-
war synthetic supremacy.
* * * *
With over £75 million assured for the
present clip, a record wool cheque is
coming to the Commonwealth this finan-
cial year. The clip has kept close to
record proportions, which is more than
can be said for any other Australian land
product. And the industry has not been
free of its man-power and similar war-
time troubles.
* * * *
It is being suggested in the press that
the Australian Government may be ad-
vised to drop lend-lease arrangements with
the United States and go back on to a
cash basis in its dealings, there being now
a nearer approach to equality in recipro-
cal aid by each country. The idea is not
that Australia might possibly give the
U.S.A. more aid than it has received, but
that lepd-lease assistance inevitably in-
volves politics and bureaucrats, which
interfere with the speedy exchange of
needed goods and services. There has
been a considerable amount of American
political and commercial criticism about
the nature of lend-lease goods, and dark
suggestions from time to time that they
were being used by the receiving coun-
tries for re-export. On the Australian
end the goods coming in have to go
through that labyrinthine and elephantine
war-time setup the Division of Import
Procurement. If trade with the U.S.A.
were restored to a cash basis there would
be little need for D.I.P. control over im-
ports apart from the granting of credits
and licenses. Many people have been
interested to hear that South Africa has
terminated lend-lease arrangements as
from the middle of February, “and from
the same date lend-lease books between
the two countries covering earlier trans-
actions will be considered balanced.” It
seems to establish the principle on which
all lend-lease transactions will ultimately
be settled.
* * * 4C
At the annual meeting of General
Motors-Holden’s chairman E. W. Holden
said: —■
There can be no question of the unstinted
support given to the national effort by Aus-
tralian industry in all its branches, and the
fact that approximately 85 p.c. of the total
employed in the supply of war materials and
services were, and are, engaged in the fac-
tories of private enterprise indicates that
industry was responsible for the bulk of the
nation’s war production. Neither can there
be any question that industry will have to
make the major contribution to the national
objective by providing gainful employment
in the period of reconstruction to many
thousands of workers and ex-service men.
The co. itself has “upwards of 10,000
employees” to think about.
* *• * *
“We have the tin-mining engineers who
were driven out of Malaya,” said J. A.
Gibson at the conference of the Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers.
“Why don’t we use them?” Possibly
because there is only one important tin-
dredging concern in Australia (Table-
land Tin, Return Creek, N.Q.), and the
equipment of other dredging concerns
would be given a low priority by the
Government. Tableland’s equipment was
long delayed. So far as geological sur-
veyors are concerned there are few in
Australia to beat Malcolm Newman, even
though his supervision of the equip-
ment of the Tableland property was
a disappointment to shareholders. There
are other alluvial tin-bearing properties
in the Mt. Garnet (Q.) area, but
the majority of our known tin areas
are either lode or sluicing propositions.
Malayan practice is almost entirely
dredging.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Treasury-bill debt
on April 30 was £373 million, an in-
crease of £ll4 million in the first 10
months of the financial year. This com-
pares with a Budget estimate of £lO3
million for the full year. In view of the
fact that tax revenue has been higher
than estimated and war expenditure
lower the Treasury’s greater recourse to
bank credit is hard to understand. Per-
haps some of the Treasury bills will be
retired out of proceeds of the recent
Victory loan.
* * * *
The Belgian Congo is now producing
rubber at the rate of 12,000 tons a year,
against a pre-war output of 700 tons.
Only a drop in the bucket still, but a
remarkable effort nevertheless. In New
Guinea efforts are being made to hasten
the production of more rubber. Trees
nearing maturity are being tapped earlier.
The price is good—for the duration, any-
way. It remains to be seen what effect
the war and Eddie Ward have on the
attitude of native labor.


THE SERVICE MAN
Lightning on the Horizon.
Where there is any land fighting in
New Guinea area it has been fierce and
small.
Headway has been made on Biak
Island. Mokmer airfield was at the week-
end in Allied hands and being netted and
generally prepared for Allied use. But
there were still pretty strong forces on
the little island, dug into the cliffs and
corrugations and equipped with high-
velocity naval guns, mortars and m.-gs.
commanding the coastal roads, and tanks
for support.
These forces, though outflanked in the
main direction towards Bosnek, have been
fighting fiercely. Biak is obviously the
outpost of a main line of resistance.
Japanese warships tried to intervene,
with unfortunate results for the enemy.
In one engagement four destroyers were
sunk and a fifth damaged by our air-
craft, five Jap fighter ’planes being also
destroyed. In another, five Jap destroyers
were tackled and pursued by Australian
and U.S. destroyers, but got away ; one
was thought to be hit. And a barge laden
with troops was sunk by our naval
patrols.
A heavy cruiser in Warparin Bay, on
Waigeo Island, off Dutch New Guinea,
had previously been hit by two 5001 b.
bombs. And Babo, D.N.G., suffered a
night raid in which three 1000-ton cargo
ships and a barge were sunk, and another
coastal vessel was sent to the bottom
off Cape Waros.
In all the northern perimeter the air
has the stillness of the hours when a
storm is rising. The bombings and the
local fighting are merely the lightnings
of its approach. On June 12 it was
announced that a heavy air attack from
carriers was being made on Saipan,
Tinian and Guam, but there were no
details.
The Allies in Normandy.
_ „ , . v.
“Ek Dum”: After nearly six months
of final intensive preparation British,
Canadian and American forces have
opened what is referred to in Australia
as a i? ec< ?. n 5 P ront * n Eur°Pe-
. To Englishmen, whose first shot was
fired by a destroyer on the m g ht of Sep-
tember 3, 1939, and who have been en-
gaged in a fierce struggle for the rntegr y
of their island ever since, it is far from
being secondary. The landing represents
merely a phase in a series of operations
which have been continuous and directed
throughout to a single purpose for almost
five years. It needed the clearing of t e
trade routes to make it possible.
The final touches began to be put on
t\T]S n we?k a the con£
tne i&st wccic oi tnc oiu year iiie coiti
manders for the invasion of northern
El Rv P t e the air offen
sive, p?eUm"na?y- to the aftack across the
Channel, had begun and was expanding.
On March 15 General Montgomery, who
actually commands the invasion forces on
French soil today, said:-
People ask me when the “Second Front”
is going to begin. I always say it has
begun already.
And General Eisenhower said “Our air
arm is softening up the enemy.” By the
beginning of April a belt of coast from
the Wash round to Bristol Channel had
been closed to visitors and the seas south
of Ireland declared out of bounds,
General Montgomery had uttered his
Cromwellian war cry:
Let God arise and let his enemies be
scattered!
In May England became a sealed com-
partment from which there was neither
incoming nor outgoing, save on wax
business. The 3.ir attack reached its peak.
Launching the battle of Cassino on
May 15 General Alexander said in his
Order of the Day:
- B l ows fi ar f a b( ? ut fa^ w .u ic \wl re r!
in the final destruction of the Nazis, lo
us in Italy has been given the honor to
strike the first blow.
Berlin declared that the Allied “master
plan for invasion” was in operation. Ger-
man bombings of British ports later
showed the enemy’s awareness of what
was afoot. There could have been little
element of surprise in the attack, except,
perhaps, as regards its weight and fury.
Western Ports Crucial
The possibility of a landing in the
western area was several times discussed
in articles on these pages. In B. 15/12/’43
the chances of invasion from the Bis-
cayan end of France or from the Medi-
terranean or from both were mentioned.
At the beginning of the war, when equip-
ment was relatively light and next to no
armor was going to Gaul, the sending of a
limited British expeditionary force called
for the use of all the big western ports ot
France. Any invasion which is made
across the Channel must, as in Sicily, cover
a long area of coast. Bridgeheads a few
miles wide are useless. A corridor must
be created deep enough and wide enough
to make the central core free from artillery
attack.
The foregoing conditions defined pretty
accurately where the main attack would
come, even though a drive might be made
at some stage for the Pas de Calais
peninsula, as a flank beachhead from
which to attack enemy communications
and in which to organise another Anzio
to flower at a later date.
The time of invasion was set by the
season —in April it was here written that
the weather could not be expected to be
favorable before the end of May.
These facts being known to every
general, it was obvious that the assault
would be made against a German army
with its forces disposed for action and
its plan of defence drawn up. German
concentration of bombing against British
ports round the Isle of Wight and Wey-
mouth and Plymouth and Bristol showed
that the enemy knew where the hub of
preparations was. If nothing else, weight
and nature of the bombing in some areas
would give a few hours’ warning.
Ports the Objective
The Allied High Command chose for
its objective one in keeping with the
necessities of the situation. The first
phase of its campaign must be to acquire
ports through which to handle the huge
paraphernalia of armies on a Continental
scale. This cannot be done from unde-
veloped beachheads otherwise Anzio
would have been the main battle area in
Italy instead of Cassino, which was
served by rail and road from Naples.
The only big port in north-eastern
France is Dunkirk, and it cannot take
ships over about 12,000 tons, which have
to be brought in through locks one at a
time. Boulogne and Calais are both use-
ful, but on a small scale.
All the great main ports of France in
the north are those which stand at her
gateways to the world at large—Le
Havre, Cherbourg, Brest, Lorient,
Nantes, Bordeaux and the naval port of
La Pallice, where the Scharnhorst lay
camouflaged for a time, and St. Nazaire.
These and more are spread along 500
miles of Biscayan and Channel coast, be-
tween the Seine and the Garonne, so
that they could not be encompassed in
one operation. All will be needed.
The nearest of them is Cherbourg, 83
miles from Portsmouth and hard by the
occupied Channel Islands; the second-
nearest is Le Havre, on the La Heve
Peninsula, just north of the Seine, half-
way between Paris and Portsmouth, 105
miles from the English shore.
Cherbourg is not only the nearest but
the best port, since it can take liners
like the Queen Elizabeth —it is the
Atlantic liner’s gateway to Europe.
It was decided to land along the inland
shore of the Bay of the Seine, between the
Seine River and the jutting square penin-
sula on which Cherbourg stands. This
peninsula, known as Cotentin, is 30
miles deep and 25 miles wide. From
within it sprang in centuries past the
flower of great English and Scottish
families Bruces, Carterets, Granvilles,
Grevilles, Beaumonts, Harcourts, Nevilles
and Bohuns.
The front along which the landing was
to be made was the ancient Norman
shore, almost every yard of which is
associated with. English, Scottish and
Canadian history.
Edward 111 had for a port Honfleur,
on the Seine side, a quaint old winding
town with slate roofs. From Honfleur
Champlain went forth to Canada, and
Gonneville, 440 years ago, to the South
Seas, where he might have touched Aus-
tralia. From the cliffs near St. Vaast,
below Barfleur, on the other side, 18 miles
from Cherbourg, James II watched Rus-
sell’s wooden walls wreck the fleet of
Trouville, and with it Stuart hopes of
regaining the throne of England.
Along the Bay of the Seine the land is
mostly low, though rising towards the
Seine River. On that side the cliffs some-
times stand up 400 feet above the sea.
Little towns and fishing villages dot the
edges of the bay, shielded from Channel
turbulence by the Calvados reefs —named
from a ship of the Armada, as was the
whole department.
The Rich Norman Land
Inland is the rich land of Normandy,
centring in the city of William the Con-
querer, Caen, eight miles back from the
coast. Each of the little seaside towns
along the western half of the bay front-
age has its little strip of yellow-sand
beach, sometimes with a pebbled strip as
well, and rock pools. Each has its “plage”
and its light railway, sucking tourists
backwards to Caen, and to Bayeux to
see the tapestries, 70-odd yards long,
which depict the Norman conquest of
England. Napoleon sent the tapestries
through France as propaganda for his
invasion of Albion which never came off.
Round about, dripping richness, are
farm lands, with cattle and poultry
packed into every yard, and little
rivers like the Vire pouring down
through green woods (“Vaudeville”
gets its name from the 4 ' singing of the
Vire Valley); ancient pear and apple
orchards, from which came the original
William pears, and butter and cheese
and cider and brandies and wines beyond
compare, all in the staple Norman ration.
It is the best-fed bit of agricultural
land on earth, ordered and perfect. From
here came horse-racing and -breeding to
England ; here originated the earth’s agri-
cultural shows, as we understand them in
the British Commonwealth.
Invasion Begins.
The invasion of Normandy virtually
began at 10 p.m. on June 5. It had been
delayed 24 hours by bad weather.
On that Monday evening, while it was
still twilight in England, but while the
darkness was beginning to settle over the
French coast, minesweepers went out
from the English ports. The little ships
formed a screen round their operations.
There was scarcely any enemy interfer-
ence, and what there was was soon dissi-
pated. The sky was heavily overcast with
a cloud blanket 5000 ft. thick.
The bay along the Norman shore, how-
ever, was sheltered to some extent by its
banks and shoals.
All night the sea’s surface along the
shore was busy, according to a well-tried
technique. Beacons and markers had to
be laid, barbed wire and obstacles across
landing beaches cleared away, mines de-
stroyed and a path opened for the land-
ing parties.
King Neptune’s Might
While these preliminaries were in pro-
gress the Air Forces were already at work.
They began a terrific bombardment with
1200-odd machines about midnight or a
little earlier. They kept it up on a thun-
derous scale till dawn.
Meanwhile, all the might of Allied in-
vasion craft in 4000 ships was piling up
behind, great ships and little ships.
There was H.M.S. Nelson, flagship of
the squadrons which guarded the convoys
from Gibraltar through the worst of the
war in the Mediterranean; there was War-
spite, Admiral Cunningham’s former flag-
ship, which has been round the world on
her lawful occasions since war began, and
which bears the scars of Narvik and of
Crete and the Libyan coast; there was
Ramillies, which convoyed our Sixth
Division from Sydney; and there were
three great American battleships, the
whole covered by a powerful screen of
cruisers and destroyers under Rear-
Admiral Vian, one of the boldest de-
stroyer captains of modern times.
There were great merchantmen and all
the varieties of landing craft. There were
P.T. boats, corvettes, frigates and heaven
knows what besides. And there were
almost as many correspondents as there
were ships, some of whom got mine-
sweepers across from the English coast,
nearly 100 miles, in two hours, and in
other ways lent confusion to accounts of
the ensuing events.
The Air-borne Van
In the early hours after midnight, para-
chute and glider forces began to be
dropped in advance of daylight and of
the switch-over from the heavy night
bombers to the day bombers.
These specialised forces were thrown
against previously plotted objectives. It
was their task to create diversions and to
wreck heavy batteries and redoubts which
might prove a nuisance to landing troops
or menace warships standing in to bom-
bard German communications and points
of concentration.
They are sacrificial units. Some of
them who dropped in the narrow, heavily-
defended Cherbourg Peninsula were soon
gasping out their gallant lives. They
came down in trees or in the swampy
ground and were wiped out. But more
kept coming and gradually the air-borne
men achieved their objectives and held on
until sea-borne forces could get to them.
The sacrifice was pitiful, the achieve-
ment grand. Vital bridges were blown
up, road blocks were established, and the
Germans of Cherbourg were at least
hampered and probably from the re-
sults —prevented from sending armor
hurtling down the road through Caren-
tan to sweep the beaches.
On the Cherbourg Peninsula itself
landing would have been infinitely more
costly to the infantry had there been no
parachute and glider troops falling into
the opulent dairy fields of the ola
Norman-English families, compelling the
enemy to disperse his strength. And
they, save for the marker units which had
crept ashore earlier, had the proud honor
of forming the vanguard of the attack
on Europe.
It was of the air-borne forces dropped
from Dakotas in the darkness that the
first word came in a German message
just before 6 p.m. Australian time (8 a.m.
Greenwich). It said British parachutists
had landed in force but were already
angeschlagen —“up for sale.” The work
of those on the Seine Bay shore was
advertised by the silence of powerful
forts. The arrival of others was advertised
by the presence of hundreds of para-
chutes on the “prairies,” the owners
silently stolen away to bide their time.
Though many died in that first early
morning, their perilous tasks were done.
Others waited hidden —there are many
hideholes.
Bombardment and Landing
Dawn came up literally like thunder.
The fleet was revealed at sea. Ships
were streaming across the Channel along
a 10-mile-wide, closely-guarded lane.
At 5.30 a.m. on June 6 the bombard-
ment from the sea began with every gun,
from the four-inchers of the corvettes to
Nelson’s nine 16-in. monsters, which each
throw a 20001 b. shell. All the beautiful
Norman shore, along which horses from
Sully racecourse at Bayeux used to exer-
cise in the dawn, mushroomed in the
sickly colors of shell and bomb burst
hiding the spires of Bayeux.
An hour later came the landings. They
began round the mouth of the Orne, near
Ouistreham, whence the canal runs in-
land for miles to Caen, through murky
ironworks suburbs, formerly full of
Moroccan laborers. The spearhead
troops were the 50th (Northumbrian)
Division, heroes of Libya, and the First
American Division.
Hereabouts the sea at low tide recedes
a couple of miles. The little seaside
villages bear names like Lion-sur-Mer
and Douvres-la-Deliverance and Luc
(which has an asphalt promenade), and
are joined to the inland towns by light
railways.
British, Canadians and Americans
landed at a dozen other little ports to-
wards the Cherbourg Peninsula: at Cour-
selles, seven miles inside the Calvados
reef ; at Arromanches, at the foot of the
cliffs inside the reef, known as Fosse
d’Espagne; at Port au Bessin, Grand-
camp, and before Isigny, which is off the
Vire estuary.
At the same time, attacks were re-
ported on the peninsula itself —at St.
Vaast, off the sea battlefield of La Hogue.
Early in the afternoon the first report
came from Mr. Churchill;
Commanders report that everything is
going according to plan—and what a plan!
He said that there had been mass air-
borne landings behind the enemy lines
and that the landings on the beaches were
being covered by about 11,000 front-
line aircraft.
German Admissions
By June 7 the landings on the Orne-
Vire line of beach were established.
On some beaches there had been heavy
casualties; on others the invaders had
got off lightly. Marshal von Rundstedt,
in command of the German forces, issued
his first communique.
He said that the Allied beachhead was
20 miles long and six miles deep be-
tween the Orne and the Vire. He de-
clared that strong naval forces continued
to support the attack and that air-borne
units had succeeded in throwing them-
selves athwart German communication
lines, temporarily blocking the passage
of reserves until they were wiped out in
a short, hard struggle. He claimed that
larges losses had been caused to descend-
ing sky troopers by flak batteries, and
that many Allied footholds, secured for
a time, were smashed by counter-attacks.
He claimed also that German naval
units and coastal batteries had damaged
many Allied naval ships and that 104
Allied aircraft had been shot down over
the landing area. Heavy fighting was
taking place on both flanks of the Orne
leading to Caen and north of Carentan,
the doorway to the peninsula along the
Cherbourg road and rail.
The moment was approaching which
would decide whether the Allies would
stay on the mainland even temporarily
or not.
A supplementary German communique
declared:
German tactical reserves last night
[6/6/’44] made touch with the British-
American forces. There were dramatic
engagements with British, U.S. and Cana-
dian air-borne troops. American losses
during the first 36 hours of operations
are estimated to have been three times
those of the British.
In the dusk of June 6 long trains of
Allied gliders flung waves of specialised
infantry into the key points of the low-
lying dairying land across the Cherbourg


Divorce Ndtice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce,
TO EUNICE HELLEN ALEXANDRIA SMITH late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT SMITH
has filed his Petition for Divorce No. 1798 of 1944
on the ground of your desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the First day of August next and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from HAROLD MUNRO
Petitioner’s Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—
(i,.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
<7)
am
Peninsula base, on the western flank of
the beachheads already established.
The weather had improved. A fresh
south-westerly piling up three-foot waves
blew up the Channel. The blanket of
cloud overhead began to lift.
The Navy’s Grand Job
It was June 7 which marked the transi-
tion from naval to land operations. Thus
Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay, C.-in-C.
of the Allied naval fleets, their noble
preliminary job done:
We expected to get 90 p.c. of the invasion
troops safely across the Channel, but to
date we have put 100 p.c. ashore. There
have been ship losses but they did not
affect the landings. We have got through
the defended beach zone and made it pos-
sible for General Montgomery to fight the
land battle. We started off on the right
foot and caught the enemy on the wrong
foot. Now, we must try not to give him
time to regain his balance. The lack of
German resistance to the landing operations
was amazing.
A continuous perimeter still had to be
assured. Battleships headed by U.S.S.
Texas, wearing the flag of Vice-Admiral
Carlton Bryant, with H.M.S. cruiser Glas-
gow well in the picture, had turned their
attention to inland targets—tank concen-
trations, crossroads, dumps, batteries.
Allied aircraft filled the air, blowing up
every kind of target for 50 miles inland.
The Allied communique issued late at
night on June 7 told that German de-.
fenders had now been cleared from the
beaches. Some of the isolated units
had linked up. The first enemy naval
force had been met in sweeps off the
coast and put to flight after suffering
loss. The last of the enemy coastal
batteries had been silenced, but inland
fighting was heavy. The Germans had
for the first time begun to throw in some
weight of armor in an endeavor to break
the flank of the beachhead and stem the
advance on the Caen side ; but the fight-
ing was bearing fruit.
Bayeux Falls
Bayeux fell some time on the night of
June 7. The Bayeux-Caen road was cut
in several places.
Isigny was in British hands. Barges
were crowding into the estuaries of many
little streams—the Orne, Seullese, Aure,
Vire along the base of the bay.
A fight was in progress halfway
between Bayeux and Carentan for the
approaches of Fromigny village, over the
bones of those who died where, six years
short of 500 years ago, an ancient of
Agincourt was taken in the rear, his Eng-
lish host thrown out of Normandy and
the Hundred Years War ended. Mont-
gomery, however, was showing himself
a much tougher and more wary leader
than Sir Thomas de Keriel. Nobody gave
history a thought. Fromigny is long for-
gotten. The Allies rolled over its battle-
field.
Beachhead Established
By the week-end the Allies had a
beachhead, continuous and consolidated,
51 miles long and, on an average, 11
miles deep. It swept for 30 miles from
the Orne and Caen up the eastern side of
the Cherbourg Peninsula. Advancing
forces along the eastern base of the
peninsula, delayed by the German flood-
ing of the low dairying flats, seemed
about to engulf the triangle of roads
which form the gateway to the peninsula
and of which the angles are at St. Lo,
Carentan and Coutances. A general
saturation of the areas along the base of
the bay on the western side and along
the eastern coast of the Cherbourg
Peninsula had been achieved in the first
four days. Up to June 10 5000 prisoners
had been sent across the Channel and a
few of them driven through the streets of
London.
And on June 11 General Montgomery,
whose H.Q. had now been established
ashore, described the beachhead as a
good, firm lodgment providing a good
position from which to exploit the pre-
liminary successes.
But it could not be said that an opera-
tive base had been obtained until Cher-
bourg fell.
Two new phases of the operation were
developing. In the north forces had begun
to close in on Cherbourg itself. They
had cut the main road at Montabourg,
just south of Valognes, the great road
junction of the northern part of the
peninsula.
Airfields had been laid down off the
Seine Bay beaches. Spitfires had soared
off French soil for the first time since
1940. No doubt Sully Racecourse is
doing duty.
It was reported on June 11 that an
American force had driven inland five
miles south of St. Lo and had taken the
road junction of Torigny. Here the
Americans are 20 miles from the beaches
of the Norman Bay. Obviously they are
on the way to Vire to cut the second main
railway of the region, which runs from
Granville through Vire and Flers and
Argentan, where it links with the main
line to Caen, to Paris. They were 10
miles from this dine. The British, mean-
while, had taken Tilly, 12 miles from
the coast, on the road from Torigny to
Caen. These moves seriously threaten
the German rear at Caen, where General
Eisenhower reported furious enemy
attacks through the week-end.
The Germans were throwing in armor
in great quantities and taking and giving
heavy punishment. Caen is a valuable
base, with its star of roads and its three
railway stations feeding lines in all direc-
tions and its canal and iron mines and
works.
Twenty Divisions Ashore
On June 11 the Germans said that 20
Allied divisions were ashore, but as a
large proportion of these were air-borne
it was likely that this did not mean
150,000 men. In the initial operations
British were three to two American in
land forces and ten to one in naval forces.
Five divisions of Canadians were said
to be in the invasion groups in England,
but the proportion which joined the first
forces is not stated.
Communications Bombed
With the transfer of the H.Q. from
ship to shore fresh patterns of bombings
began. These mainly were aimed against
communications with the Biscayan ports,
from the egresses of Paris through
Orleans, Tours, Rennes and Le Mans.
And there were signs on June 11-12 that
a move was coming to control the Seine
estuary and push up the river to Rouen
towards Paris and across the main roads
to Biscay. Le Havre, which is on the
northern bank of the river, a town of
squarely laid-out streets with one great
avenue through its centre and a great
group of harbor basins and docks inside
its two moles, was bombarded heavily
from air and sea.
Sea and Air
The Germans made several small
attempts to enter the naval invasion area,
but these had no more than a nuisance
value. Off Ushant a force of British and
Canadian destroyers and small patrol
ships headed by H.M.S. Tartar intercepted
a force of enemy destroyers, Tartar
passing through their lines. One enemy
ship blew up and another went ashore in
flames at 30 knots and was finished off
by aircraft. Two others escaped,
damaged; only Tartar suffered damage
and casualties among our ships.
Up to the fourth day, the U.S. Navy
announced, two destroyers sunk consti-
tuted the total U.S. loss apart from a
landing craft.
The Germans claimed to have sunk
two Allied cruisers, three destroyers, six
3000-ton transports and five armored
landing craft totalling 16,000 tons, and
seven smaller landing craft, besides
damaging a heavy cruiser, three light
cruisers and other vessels.
Air Force operations were a record
for all time. In the first four days 1000
transport machines landed two full air-
borne divisions, the greatest feat of its
kind to date. From dawn on June 6 to
midday on June 8, Allied machines flew
approximately 27,000 individual missions,
destroyed 176 aircraft and lost 289 of
their own aircraft, including many in-
volved in the landing of troops,
German Policy
Apart from the sea operations, fighting
on land did not at any time during the
week reach either the scale or intensity
of Cassino fighting. It might be said that
though the Germans did their utmost to
inflict heavy casualties and disorganise
the landing parties they made no major-
scale attempt to prevent them landing.
Their course has been interpreted as the
result of weakness or surprise, which may
be a dangerous fallacy.
The Wehrmacht is a land-fighting
organisation. The enemy no doubt has
based his defence of France upon two
zones —one heavily defended along the
coasts nearest German borders and inside
the strategic Somme-Mame lines, because
landing to the rear of these would entail
an immediate battle for German border
defences towards the Meuse. The other
sections of the coast to the west would be
more lightly defended. But there would
be a great central reserve of armor, infan-
try and artillery on the plan of the Rus-
sian front, ready to fight according to a
preconceived plan at points and in sec-
tors which best suit the Germans’ purpose.
All their western defence will be based
on this central strategic reserve, movable
anywhere.
Actual landings from the sea in the
western French area would not be so easy
to ward off because of Germany’s lack
of naval power and the length of the
coastline along which the Allies could
choose their objectives. To fight there
on a grand scale would put a maximum
strain on German resources and air-
power and fuel supplies and an unneces-
sary strain on the human element.
The Germans, therefore, might reason-
ably prefer to fight a main battle inland
before Allied communications are fully
established and supplies in full flood. They
will be anxious to make it a decisive
battle —one which will not merely fend
off beachhead landings but which will
smash large Allied forces in such a way
as to affect morale throughout the world,
especially in the U.S.A., where the enemy
has his eye on the Presidential and Con-
gressional elections in November.
German policy has to consider fronts
round every point of the compass. The
Wehrmacht’s High Command is impli-
citly following the policy of Clausewitz,
who argued that an enemy in a central
position could make himself stronger than
enemies completely surrounding him, be-
cause he could choose the direction of
his blow and best co-ordinate an over-
whelming force with which to strike it.
And the further he can afford to draw in
on his centre, the greater his concentrated
power and choice of direction.
Thus the enemy troops who have been
encountered on the Norman beaches have
been a mixed lot. Those in areas which
were not important included Russians,
Czechs and dissident Poles, some of
them supposedly prisoners of war. But
at Caen and in the Cherbourg Peninsula
the enemy soldiers are up to the quality
of the Italian front divisions.
Paris a Key
There are many limitations to the Ger-
mans’ policy.. They will ultimately be
compelled to put up a fight for the Bis-
cayan end of France, since its possession
by the Allies means their ultimate doom.
When the weather clears —it is still bad —
they may have to diffuse their forces to
meet other heavy landings. And the
Allies are only 120 miles from Paris.
Who holds Paris holds the bulk of
France, since it is the strategic and com-
munication centre.
The enemy will have to fight for Paris
—and long before the Allies approach it.
And the result of that battle will deter-
mine the result of the first major cam-
paign.
The Germans will try to make it deci-
sive at an early stage if they mean to fight
in France at all and not to retire to their
own lines.
The Allies will try to avoid it until their
communications are perfect.
Much depends on the power of the
Russians to engage the attention of large
enemy forces.
General Alexander's Triumph.
The fall of Rome was marked by the
complete defeat of Kesselring, though
not by his absolute rout or the
smashing of his divisions. Thanks to the
comparatively short distance from skil-
fully chosen Garigliano lines to the Pes-
cara highway, he has been able to with-
draw his troops beyond Rome in time
to avoid the Eighth and Fifth Armies
crashing through his flank from the Alban
Hill area and creating a trap for his
advanced formations.
The strength of his rearguards and the
tenacity of their resistance proves that he
was able to save or acquire sufficient re-
serves of comparatively fresh units —
some came from Denmark —to defend
his tail successfully and to carry out
heavy demolitions which are preventing
the Allies from coming firmly to grips
with him. Moreover, he has been able
to keep his retreat for the width of Italy
pretty even.
The Adriatic line in the Ortona region,
from which the Eighth Army’s main
strength had been withdrawn to Cassino,
is well up the peninsula from the direct
east-west line through Rome. The enemy
did not begin to withdraw from his posi-
tions there until the retreat had come
level with them in the west. On June 9 it
was announced that the Germans were
moving backwards along the Adriatic
and had lost Sulmona and Avezzano.
Small Allied ships entered Porto Jan
Stefano, 80 miles n.-w. of Rome and
south-east of Elba, to find white flags
flying. .
Generally speaking, the Fifth and
Eighth Armies are now following Kessel-
ring’s divisions at a steady pace while the
air forces are harassing his rearward com-
munications, without great interference.
Air attack of this sort achieves consider-
able damage when the conditions are
favorable; but it is necessarily not
so favorable by night or in country where
traffic can spread to any extent and where
ack-ack defence can be concentrated.
It is inevitable that there will be checks
on the way north, due to transport neces-
sities and to the fact that the enemy has
prepared lines to allow him pauses for
consolidation, as new phases of terrain
and new road systems are reached which
call for switching of his heavy columns
and caravans.
One of these possible lines was being
approached at the week-end along the
road which runs laterally from the coast
through Orvieto to Spoleto and Foligno
in the Tiber headwaters country, a few
miles from the ancient battleground near
Lake Trasimeno.
Another is the Florentine line, across
the peninsula, from below Leghorn,
through Tuscany, to Rimini. But the
chances seem to be that the enemy will
get back to the Po and perhaps even
further —certainly far enough to enable
him to abandon Italy in quick time if his
Tenth and Fourteenth Armies are needed
in France or elsewhere. Both will need
refitting and reorganising.
Genoa and his northern Adriatic ports
are now the objectives of greatest
strategic value to the enemy. Great
ports, indeed, are the key to Europe
everywhere. The Allies must have them.
Shaping Up in Russia.
Conflicting reports continue to come
out of Russia. The Germans, after
announcing that they had gained the
strategic objectives in the Jassy-Jab-
lonica areas which they had struck
to gain, but which the Russians
denied had been gained, declared \that a
full-scale Russian offensive had begun
in the Vitebsk region.
Moscow said nothing of this, though
this is no indication, since it is Russian
policy never to announce actions until
they are well on the way. The Red
Army communique mentioned that it
had fought to improve its posi-
tions, and that it had secured im-
portant heights from the enemy near
Jassy, at the same time inflicting losses of
about 200 killed and 150 wounded.
It may be that there will be no large-
scale offensive in the south before the
end of the month, when the Russian rear-
ward areas, flooded last month, have
dried up.
But the northern part of the line is in
motion. There came over the air on the
same day a Finnish statement that Rus-
sians were attacking in the Karelian
Isthmus, and a Moscow expression of
gratitude for the great supplies received
from the U.S.A., Canada and Britain.
There followed an order of the day an-
nouncing substantial , gains at the expense
of the Finns.
American air forces are now operating
from Russian fields against German com-
munications, but as yet not on a very
large scale.
“Allied shipping losses in May were the
lowest for any month of the war and only a
fraction of those inflicted on enemy shipping.”
— Churchill-Roosevelt report.
*■ * *
The Admiralty announced the sinking of
four German trawlers off the Dutch coast
during the week-end. A British torpedo-boat
was .lost, but with only two casualties. On
the night of June 9 a German destroyer was
sunk in the Channel and 140 survivors picked
up by H.M.S. Ashanti.
* * ♦ *
Chungking declared on June 11 that 70,000
to 80,000 Japanese troops were converging on
Changsha. The Japs claim its capture.
* * * »
In Burma the Japanese Continue to retreat
miserably through the increasing rains on the
Kohima-lmphal front. The British have closed
in on Myitkyina, inside which Chinese troops
were reported to be fighting on June 11.


fm
U9co c-Ar
&£isfruey
PO
CNQ
*o;
fni
m
2
T£
/
c
-J
S
/
[-"o
PARDONABLE PRECAUTION
Yes, there are better places to keep your Valet razor,
but the safest place is none too good! Your Valet razor
today is an irreplaceable treasure. Irreplaceable because
no more will be made while the war lasts; and a
treasure because in these blade-short days the self-
stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect shaving
from every single blade. Take every care of both
razor and strop!
For instance: Hang your strop on a hook at breast
level. When stropping, keep the handle at right
angles to the strop. Don’t let the strop sag or twist
—keep it taut and straight
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Despite first-class football matches being
a strong counter-attraction on Satur-
day there were 40,000, inclusive of 9000
service men, at the S.T.C.’s meeting at
Randwick. The tote turnover was
£127,225.
In the Flying Handicap High Flight
(Thompson) was not troubled by his
91b. rise for his win at Rosehill the previ-
ous week. He was in charge as soon as
the field settled down, with John Halifax
next, and though a furlong from home
the latter looked like being troublesome
High Flight did the better over the last
bit. Magi, with luck in running against
her, finished well to get third, followed
by Kingsdale, who will be improved by
the race and will be well in the market
at his next start. Industry also ran fairly,
while Tribal completely disappointed.
Never closer than third, he dropped right
out in the straight.
Boomanulla, who was a trifle cramped
in his preliminary, lost ground at
the start, and was second-last at
the five-furlongs post. He then made
up his leeway so smartly that he
was one of the leaders just after
commencing the final furlong. How-
ever,’ he was unequal to stalling off
Shining Night (Bartle), though only a
head separated them at the winning post.
Running his best race since he won in
the spring, MacArthur was first into the
straight, from Phalaran, but then ran
wide, spoiling his own chance and that
of Russia as a result of his rider acciden-
tally hitting the latter on the nose with
his whip. Russia was the closest of
fourths, and then Tidal Wave, who is
returning to form. Beau Timide, who
could not have looked better, was in a
stubborn mood, and lost so much ground
at barrier-rise that he practically took
no part in the race. Wellesley never got
in it.
Two-year-old stable-companions Cor-
diality (White) and Invictus (Swinton)
won the Juvenile Handicap and Nursery
Handicap respectively in similar fashion.
Both got away badly, were last at the
half-mile post and seemingly had no pos-
sible chance, but won with brilliant finish-
ing runs. Topline and Victrix each had
a turn in front in Cordiality’s race, but
neither is quite as good as previously
supposed—though Victrix was a little un-
lucky—and probably greater possibilities
attach to good-looking youngsters in
Depredation (Hall Mark-Cry Havoc) and
Golden Rule (Golden Eagle-Heremoa).
Cordiality is by Coronach, whose two-
year-olds are doing well in Maoriland.
After getting to the front in the straight
in the Nursery Handicap, Invictus had
his work cut out to beat Wellington and
High Tide, both of whom struggled
gamely to the finish. Until Invictus made
his run Wellington was leading. As High
Tide was unlucky, blundering badly at
one stage, a win for him should not be
long in coming. Mazzara (by Brueghel)
and Insolvent (by Defaulter) are others
worth noting.
Leading all the way over the last half-
mile in the Three-year-old Handicap, St.
Quentin (Mulley) scored by a head from
Cockcrow, who when making a run on
the rails in the straight seemed to be
squeezed by St, Quentin, However, the
stewards decided that the protest for the
former did not warrant any change in
the placings. All Scot and Steadfast were
fourth and fifth respectively, and the
former looks sturdier than a little while
back. Highgate was never dangerous,
and neither Clarion Call nor Kardinia
ever flattered their backers.
Goshawk (Mulley) had run so indiffer-
ently in his two previous races that there
did not seem much hope for him in the
Novice Handicap. However, he empha-
sised the occasional difficulty of follow-
ing form, as, well placed from the start,
he led into the straight from Bright Idea,
Wansey and Allan Veil and scored com-
fortably from the last-named. Com-
mando, doing a little better than in his
recent races, headed the unplaced
runners, next being Generator, who is
sure to improve. Goshawk is by The
Buzzard from Seredel (Seremond-Delhi
Queen), a smart galloper as a two-year-
old.
Haripur (Moore) ran up to his best
form in winning the Welter Handicap.
Omapo was the early leader, but gave
place to Haripur after going three fur-
longs, and the latter was a sure winner
from the top of the straight. Prince was
so slow in finding‘'his legs that he was
fourth-last starting along the back, and
in the circumstances his second was a
good effort. Ron Rico, who looked as if
racing would do him good, should not be
long in returning to the winning list, and
the same applies to Marcondis. Mer-
rimba and Glendower did no better than
at Rosehill the previous week, and it is
doubtful whether they will improve.
* ’ * * *
Exception cannot be taken to the
A.J.C.’s decision that the owner or
trainer of any placed horse must accom-
pany the rider to the scales to weigh in.
It has been suggested that an official
should be at hand to see that placed
jockeys should go to scale, but stipendiary
stewards have much more to do than wet-
nurse owners, trainers and jockeys after
a race.
Unfortunate for the owner of Grand
Idea, but the V.R.C. rule is too definite
to permit of that colt being raced in Vic-
toria by a bookmaker. The idea that, be-
cause his owner is not registered with the
V.R.C. as a bookmaker, he might be
treated as an ordinary individual and
allowed to run his horse was far-fetched.
Adoption of that procedure would make
it possible (though improbable) that the
whole of a Derby field could be made up
of horses owned by bookmakers registered
in other States, but not in Victoria.
a s s s
Publication of Grand National weights
has not greatly affected the market in
Melbourne on either race. Cape Hero
remains favorite for the Hurdle and
Winterset for the Steeplechase. Cape
Hero, however, has paid the penalty for
three successive wins. His list, repre-
sents a rise of 51b. for his success in the
York Hurdle at his last start, whereas
Hullabaloo (second) drops 21b. and Ben-
ghazi (third) drops 51b. Silgaro, a stable-
mate of Cape Hero, ran a creditable fifth
in the York Hurdle, and drops 61b. Cape
Hero has been backed as the second leg
of doubles beginning with Silgaro, but
as far as his trainer is aware he is a
certain starter for the Hurdle. His prin- •
cipal dangers at present appear to be
Benghazi, Hullabaloo and Anpapejo.
It is difficult to go past Winterset for
the likely winner of the G. N. Steeple.
He has never looked better, and judged
by his Hopetoun Steeple success at his
last start is staying better than previously.
His chief dangers may be Victory March,
winner of the G. N. Steeple last year.
Gold Watch, winner of the Australian
Steeple last year, and Quixotic,
* * * *
Kindergarten again gives the V.R.C.
handicapper a Melbourne Cup topweight,
and presumably the Maorilander’s impost
will differ little from the 10.6 allotted him
last year. Good as is Kindergarten, he
could not be regarded as a good betting
proposition with that weight. Since Peter
Pan won with 9.10 there has been only
one place-getter with over 9st., that
being Maikai (9.4) when second to Old
Rowley, Kindergarten’s last run was
with 10.9 in the Wellington Cup, two
miles, last January, Lameness affected
him after going a mile, and he finished
a long way back. He carried 10.2 when
he won the Auckland Cup,
* * ♦ *
Coronach’s Maoriland-sired two-year-
olds raced this season for the first time,
and did remarkably well. Up to the
middle of last month they led in prize-
money with three individual winners and
several minor-place getters, their total
earnings being £3BOO. Coronach, who
was foaled in 1923, won the English
Derby and St. Leger, and was second in
the Two Thousand Guineas. In number
of two-year-old wins, however, Ring-
master was leading in Maoriland last
month, one of his winners being Sub-
dued, unbeaten at five starts.
* * * *
In respect of prize-money Sydney
owners were never better off than at
present, and it is not now repeatedly
pointed out how this city suffers by com-
parison with Melbourne, Large attend-
ances and a corresponding increase in
tote business are mainly responsible. Em-
ployment in war industries has given a
large number of people more money than
they previously had in their lives, and,
with restrictions debarring them from
spending it in other directions, nothing
appeals to them more than to “give it a
go” on the racecourse. It is the same in
America, where betting was never heavier
than during the past nine months. At a
recent Saturday meeting at Belmont
Park (New York) an attendance of a
little over 40,000 put £A 1,068,800 through
the tote —an average of about £27 per
person. Racecourse betting in New York
is restricted to the tote, but, though it is
illegal, there is a huge volume of “off
the course” business.
The Metropolitan Race Club Associa-
tion is campaigning vigorously against the
reported Parliamentary move to borrow
money for the benefit of the Sydney Turl
Club. A large portion would be devoted
to taking over a couple of existing Sydney
racecourses, the building of the S.T.C. s
own course being a long way off. It is
pointed out in an advertisement that in
the way of prize-money the metropolitan
clubs have reached a high standard. The
protesting clubs say that purchase of their
courses would merely mean change of
management, and it is inferred that an
inexperienced body could scarcely be ex-
pected to do more to benefit racing than
those of long standing. And there is a
lot in that idea.
* * * *
It has been decided by the Victoria
Racing Club to permit the use of betting
boards by bookmakers on the Hill at
Flemington. That practice is still barred
in the paddock, though many book-
makers say they would appreciate such a
concession.
* * * *
W. Cook is probably riding better now
than at any previous time, and his sub-
stitution for some other rider beaten on
a horse at a previous meeting will assure
it solid backing. Like any other jockey.
Cook at times rides an indifferent race.
While apprentices are allowed up to 71b.
one cannot help wondering how many
pounds Cook is superior to most of our
licensed jockeys. Still, good as is Cook,
many excellent judges prefer Munro
when it comes to a really hard finish and
ability to overcome trouble that is likely
to occur in any race.
* * * *
New York racing clubs’ contribution to
charity and war funds last year totalled
$1,218,837 (approximately £A320,721).
♦ * * *
Miss Dorothy Paget made 45 entries
for this year’s five English classics, the
Aga Khan coming next with 25, and then
I. V. Rank 21.
Miscellaneous
Light-heavyweights Ern Clingan and
Ai Walker infused plenty of action into
their disagreement at Leichhardt. Walker
tried hard to rough his way to a win, but
Clingan was always too clever, and he
beat Walker by a wide margin of points.
On occasions each was groggy, or so it
seemed.
According to custom. Tommy Johns
was as wild as a hawk when he fought
Kid Delaney (10.1) at Sydney Stadium,
and, as usual, he missed with many
riotous rights. But one landed on the chin
in the second round, and down went
Delaney for “nine.” In the ninth a left
to the body dropped the Kid for the re-
quired time. He had meanwhile boxed
rather well.
* * * ♦
Half the 85,000 who turned out to
watch the V.F.L. games split their
interest evenly between the St. Kilda-
Essendon and Richmond - Footscray
matches. They got their money’s worth,
for each game ended in a draw, 9.17 each
at St. Kilda and 19.11 (Richmond)-
18.17 (Footscray). The Tigers had to
overhaul a Footscray 27-point lead in the
last quarter, and Essendon had to go flat-
out, only Saints’ poor kicking giving
them the draw. Other matches:
Fitzroy, 14.7-10.17, v. South; Carlton, 13.25-
5.10, v. Geelong; North Melbourne, 21.16-
17.12, v. Hawthorn; Melbourne, 15.9-10.9, v.
Coilingwood.
♦ * * *
Living up to the traditions of the old
A.I.F. Rugby Union team. Army played
grand football to rout N.S.W. 30-19 on
Saturday. Veteran full-back Tom Pauling
dovetailed into three-quarterline moves
whenever possible, and scored 10 of
, Army’s total —two tries and a field goal.
: In an earlier match R.A.A.F. beat Navy
19-11.


Women's Letter
From Sydney
By strenuous planning and dovetailing
her appointments until their arrange-
ment looked like a railway timetable,
Lady Gowrie was able last week to do
something she had set her heart on:
entertain members of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra and its committee. The
party was a late-afternoon affair and,
despite the shortness of notice, everybody
asked was able to come. Poinsettia,
roses, chrysanthemums and camellias,
massed in great bowls, glowed in the fire-
lit reception-rooms. There were drinks
and all the other accessories without
which a party is not a party.
Even though no one played for his
supper, music was in the air. Shop was
talked, in particular the coming Gowrie
Scholarship Trust Fund concert. Among
the importants were Eugene Ormandy,
who will conduct, and Lieut.-Col. E. T.
R. Wickham, leader of the British Par-
liamentary delegation.
Lord and Lady Gowrie received the
guests. She wore pearls and a white
gardenia with her black frock; Lady
Wakehurst also wore black with distinc-
tion. Mrs. T. H. Kelly’s hat was small,
her black velvet frock long. Banded in
pale blue was Mrs. C. L, Jones’s large
felt hat; her coat was of black Persian
lamb. The A.B.C. was represented by
general-manager Charles Moses and W.
J. James. Lady Gordon, Mrs. Walter
Swinson, Mrs. Hope Gibson and Mrs.
Robert Dixson openly preened themselves
on the success the concert gave promise
to be.
Government House parties are always
friendly affairs. That given during the
week by Lord and Lady Wakehurst to
the visiting Parliamentary Delegation
seemed to strike even a more friendly
note than usual. Lady Wakehurst’s grace-
ful dark head and vivid glance rose above
pearls and a lagoon-green afternoon
frock. Dr. Summerskill’s black tailorings
were the envy of all. Her blouse was
trig-pUfect and _ her skit longer than
her Australian sisters wear them. Lady
McNicol, there with her Administrator
husband, was seen talking to the Earl of
Listowel about his wife’s book I Saw It
Happen.
This slim young man, who is deputy
leader of the British Delegation, and him-
self a writer, has a quiet manner and a
very quiet voice. Knight Tom Gordon
and his wife, A.B.C. Commissioner W. J.
Cleary, Dame Constance D’Arcy, smiling
in a black suit and sables and a tiny
toque smooth with ermine, were there. In-
vasion was in the air, and there was a
feeling of uplift that had nothing at all
to do with the real drinks that were
served. In these days of sherry shortage
the passing of the dry and the sweet must
never go unheralded.
Another item almost of headline value
was the flowers. Now, when even the
poppies have a rationed look, the bowls
of chrysanthemums, roses and poinsettia
were real news. State Premier McKell
and Mrs. McKell came to the party. The
Andre Brenacs and the Hugh Poynters
hobnobbed. Dame Mary Gilmore was
surrounded by friends. Canadian farmer
John Gordon Ross, looking like the
genial squire so often described in Eng-
lish novels, was sighted. So also was the
tall Canadian physician T. F. Donnelly,
who is an authority on wheat. Everyone
wanted to meet the leader of the British
Delegation, Lieut.-Col. E. T. R. Wick-
ham, whose speaking voice is the envy
of all.
Eugene Ormandy’s expressive hands
led the big audience to the heights
when he conducted the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra concert at the Town
Hall on Saturday; the packed hall
was electric. Maybe hia work was
a little inspired by the fact that
he had just agreed to share the baton of
the American National Broadcasting
Company’s Symphony Orchestra with
Toscanini.
Lady Gowrie brought a party from
Admiralty House. It was a musicianly
audience. U.S. Consul Ely Palmer and
his wife were among the appreciative,
she proudly displaying the spray of white
hyacinths that the conductor had sent her.
Eileen Ralph and Walter Matthews were
front-seaters ; so were the Roland Foster
couple. The T. H. Kellys and the Charles
Lloyd Joneses were there. The Alex-
ander Gordon lady’s long coat was of
wine velvet. Mrs. Sep. Levy and Mrs.
Roy Buckland talked together in the in-
terval ; Mrs. Hope Gibson and Mrs.
Robert Dixson each wore gardenias with
their black frocks.
Margaret Rankin, N.S.W. women’s
golf champion since 1939, was married
on Saturday to Charles Shoppee. Vows
were exchanged at St. Mary’s Basilica.
The bride, who is a daughter of the
Archie Rankins of NeW castle, wore
frock of white sheer wOO , xhe
weddi fl of white , ace was lent b
Lady Go wrie, who, with Lady Wakehutst,
wa / among ’ the wedding g u Kts , The
brid . groom b is a son of Mrs H. shoppee,
of w b , defe , Garden s, and of Squadron-
Leader L. C. Shoppee, R.A.F., a prisoner-
of.war ; singap ", Mrs , DuV al, sister
o( , h brid » * matron . o f-honor. The
tion as held at her home at
£) ol^j e g av
, . . y ‘ r ,
Looking at you from this page is the
most-talked-of and -hstened-to woman
of the week Dr. Edith Summerskill,
M p _ , he on , y woma „ wjth , he Britjsh
Parliamentary Delegation. Tall and slim,
with dimples, she has hair of a deep auburn
& boaTshared
f f ’, b k u boat sha P ecl
hats look as thoush the >' have )Ust been
taken from their pristine tissue-paper
wrappings.
Dr. Summerskill is a member of
the Women’s Consultative Committee
of the Ministry of Labor, which advises
on employment of women in war jobs;
she is also on the Parliamentary Woman-
power Committee. Her interests, how-
ever are not confined to women, for, as
she says, there are quite a number of
men in her electorate of West Fulham.
She believes in equal pay for equal work,
in equal compensation for war injuries,
and looks forward to the time when
housewives will be paid salaries. The
doctor is interested in our child-endow-
ment scheme and in Tresillian, the like of
which is unknown in England, and she
is going to see for herself the work done
by the Flying Doctor and the Bush
Nurses. Whether you agree with her
ideas of not, you get the feeling that she
is sincere in all her plans for bringing
about a newer and a better world.
Last week, as earnest of their war-
mindedness, a group of Land Girls volun-
teered to do domestic duties at R.P.A.—
this was the way in which they elected to
spend their leave. The domestic prob-
lem in hospitals has long been acute, and
no doubt Matron uttered a devout halle-
lujah at sight of their ready hands and
smiling faces. It’s not going to be flick-
ing a duster or even polishing the hand-
rails ; it is a job of scrubbing from 7 a.m.
to 3 p.m., and if chairman of R.P.A.
Bertie Schlink doesn’t think this worthy
a double issue of honey-and-almond for
soap-worn hands he’s not the man The
Bulletin has always thought him.
The party given in honor of Lady
Gowrie by the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Flying Doctor Services was held at the
home of Mrs. Marie Irvine at Double
Bay. Wattle, the only flower used in the
decorations, cascaded in glorious gold
from large bowls in the lounge and
dining-room. Little fluffy balls of gold
also decorated the large, round mahogany
table and the small tables at which tea
was served. Marie brought out some of
her very best blue china for the occasion.
All this and the blazing fire made the
gathering a very happy and informal one.
After tea in the lounge, president of
the Flying Doctor Services Colin Sinclair
presented Lady Gowrie with an album in
tooled navy-blue leather cover telling in
picture the story, through every phase, of
the Flying Doctor’s activities ; its inscrip-
tion is an appreciation of the interest
shown by Lord and Lady Gowrie in this
work. Among the importants of the
afternoon was that man of imagination
Rev. John Flynn, who first saw the possi-
bilities of such a service, and who never
rested until it was put into action. Mrs.
Flynn was also a guest. Others of note
were Dr. Rossel, who was one of the
early Flying Doctors, and Mrs. Colin
Sinclair. Mrs. Malcolmson, president of
the auxiliary, received the guest of honor.
Lady Gowrie went to the 50th concert
of the Lunchtime Music Club, and car-
ried away a huge basket of violets made
up of small bunches brought by members.
Marjorie Hesse, Oliver King (founder of
the Assoc. Music Clubs of Australia),
Jean Oranz and Joyce Hutchinson were
the music-makers.
From Melbourne
Last week the thoughts of all women
turned to the French coast, where, as the
Queen said, our race’s menfolk “manned
the ships, stormed the beaches and filled
the skies.” Crowds poured into churches
and the Town Halls where services were
held. Rain and cold didn’t lessen the
numbers. The cynical might point out
that most prayers are sent up in times of
affliction, but the point that moved the
onlooker was that these women were for
the most part praying for other women’s
sons —for the British and American lads
who were facing death.
“Sister Susie’s one today” doesn’t
mean that someone’s infant has just
made the one-candle stage. It means
that Sister Susie’s Airmen’s Club has
entered its second year. The club
is staffed by W-A.T.C. members,
rooms are small, and furnishing was
done on a bargain-hunting basis, but
the effect is light and very comfy for a
lad who’s been walking around the city
wondering what to do next. Shirts can be
pressed, socks darned and stripes sewn on
—in fact, anything that mother would do.
Orders j;or shopping, too, are carried out,
both for men on the spot who doh’t
know their way about the shops as well
as for men on far-away stations.
The feature which attracts so many
Air Force lads (there have been 5000 of
them in through the year) is that there’s
a personal touch about it. A motherly
soul or a bright young lass to iron one’s
shirt is very different from the hand-in-
with-a-ticket laundry. Executing personal
commissions is done in the same friendly
way. When wife or sweetheart tied up
in hospital is sent a bouquet via the club
it goes with a card and message attached,
and often a club helper goes along just
to say how-do if the lass is lonely. After
one new-made father had provided for
a stream of flowers and chocolates to go
hospital wards the club decided .that he
merited a little something himself, so
it sent a bottle of ale trekking north-
wards for him to wet small son’s head.
Looking round the door of the National
Theatre Movement’s hide-out up Eastern
Hill way ond saw ballet-minded Jean
Alexander wielding the scissors with a
sure hand on rainbow-colored clouds of
georgette that will make the costumes of
a ballet of the “heavenly virtues” in the
coming season, which is timed for July.
It seems that everyone had ideas for
“deadly sins” costumes, but the
didn’t strike anyone’s imagination very
strongly. Music for this bit of the ballet
will be the Pathetique Symphony.
N.T.M.’s present show is the English
play “Heart of a City,” and pictured here
by Ronald Esler is Nell Martin, who is
playing one of the leading roles. In
private life she is Mrs. Adrian Lamond,
whose husband is in the R.A.A.F. She’s
had quite a lot of acting experience, and
has been in a number of the Movement’s
most successful shows, among the more
recent of which were “Bats in the Belfry,”
“Rookery Nook” and “You Can’t Take
It with You.” Nell’s a Shepparton lass,
though she’s been a city resident for
some time.
W.A.T.C. gathered its members and
well-wishers together on Friday night to
meet the Brookes lady, who is the corps’
new commandant, and to give support
to the planned drive for lots more girls to
take part in its activities. Specially
yearned for on the part of commandant
and organisers are one-time members
who had left for matrimonial and other
reasons but who might lend a hand
with the training of new recruits. A
good turnout of Waafs who’d been
W.A.T.C. members was a stimulus to
the recruiting of uniform-inspired young.
Women journalists who’ve been keeping
remote Air Force stations and Air Force
House library stocked with books for
several years are asking for more dona-
tions of the right sort. It is pointed out
that one book will do the rounds of an
incredible number of lads and will be
put to much better use than on the home
bookshelf. One problem that all such
book-collectors have to face is the giver
who appears seriously to believe that ser-
vice lads will revel in the Elsie Books or-
the speeches of a defunct and obscure
Parliamentarian.
To bring feminine influence to bear
on the problem of preventing fires in grass
and forest areas was the aim of A. B.
Lawrence, of the Forests Commission,
when he addressed the National. Council
of Women the other day. Subject is of
vital moment to country women, who, as
the speaker said, go through every
summer in fear of a home-gutting blaze
and the chance of losing everything
they’ve struggled to achieve. The speaker
pointed out that about 95 p.c. of fires
are man-made. Women, therefore, will
soon be educating the public against the
danger of the carelessly-tossed match.
Hats that owe their being to wool and
the crocket hook have caught on here
very quickly since American and British
fashion magazines introduced the idea.
Styles vary from “Juliet” cap and grand-
ma’s shawl effects to Breton sailors with
stiffening inside them, and they’re orna-
menting some very smart heads. Origi-
nator of the idea seems to have been
that exotic “Vogue” model Helen Bennett,
who’s been on the pages of most journals
at some time or other, usually advertising
furs and other glamorous items and look-
ing about the last woman on earth to be
wielding a crocket hook. Nevertheless
she does it, and some of the best designs
are hers.
The Wackett name and flying lore just
naturally connect themselves in every
Australian’s mind, so it’s fitting that
Arlette Wackett should have chosen her
future husband from the R.A.A.F. Arlette
is daughter of Wing-Commander L. J.
Wackett, manager of Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation, and Mrs. Wackett.
Betrothed is P.O. Barton Edmund Per-
kins, son of the R. W. Perkinses, of Kil-
lara, Sydney. Families are old friends.
Arlette spent school years at Firbank,
Brighton, then went on to domestic arts
course at Invergowrie Homecraft Flostel.
Wedding plans are as yet indeterminate.
Melbourne Philharmonic’s performance
of “Faust” at Melbourne Town Hall has
been given “a deb on the neb” by at least
one critic for the propensity of soloists
and choir to bury the nose in the book of
music which each and all of the 300-odd
carried. It is funny to hear Mephis-
topheles “ha-ha-haing” from the back
of a voluminous score, but, after all, isn’t
the book a sign of the oratorio tradition?
As a result of the unkind remarks the
choir is talking earnestly to itself about
learning its music and words so well that
it won’t need its music. If it had to take
a job in an operatic chorus, the argument
runs, the conductor would take a poor
view of the books. ,
The opening of the Woollies Appeal
Kindergarten at Corsair-street in the
Opportunity Club area on Saturday
marks a new phase in co-operative work
between different sections of social ser-
vice. The Woollies Appeal- dealt pri-
marily with the making of woollen clothes
for babies and the very young, but its
profits have grown so much that this sub-
sidiary undertaking has been entered
upon. As usual, one success has led to
another, and Mrs. J. F. Key, honorary
organiser of the appeal, states that as a
result of her recent entry into the exhi-
bition-of-pictures business for the appeal
she has not only netted about £4OD in
commissions on sales, but has been asked
to try her hand at exhibitions of other
objets d’art.
The boys in navy blue coming back
from northern and Middle East seas have
been welcomed joyously, especially by
the girls to whom they had given engage-
ment rings. One of the first to marry was
Chief Petty-officer John Taylor Anderson,
who, among other experiences while
abroad, took part in some of the sequences
for Noel Coward’s film “In Which
We Serve.” Son of veteran Captain J. T.
Anderson (a Scot by birth but Australian
by years of navigating in our seas) and
Mrs. Anderson, of Camberwell, C.P.O.
Anderson married at St. Mark’s, Camber-
well, Dawn Foster, tall, fair and very
pretty indeed. Lots of fellow naval men
helped to make the wedding reception at
Wattle Park Chalet a memorable get-
together.


Made hy
FORD SHERINQTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
The MERCURY 5iin. LATHE
“THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World
AVAILABLE FOR'CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by . .
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.Pty.ltd:
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE,
For Victoria ;
fdf
SoteN.Z. Dist. Agents:
«. M. Salterthwaite
- & Co. Ltd.
Hereford St. Christchurch
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 38 Market St., Melbourne.
'Sole N.S. W. fast. Agents:
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
F
c
e e i r ° m
ORD H
r
O N C
Alkali
k r D w A L L
O
r L i m e
plaster
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Juie Sags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER ,
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
X
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
CHOCOLATE
HAS SAVED MANY LIVES
32
at
5
Thousands of heroic survivors of enemy action at
sea have owed their lives to the rations which form
part of every lifeboat's regulation equipment.
Chocolate is always included. Large quantities of
Cadbury's Energy Chocolate have been supplied to
our Merchant Navy for this purpose.
Such vitally important uses for chocolate naturally
absorb a large portion of Cadbury's output, and
make civilian supplies uncertain. Still, occasion-
ally you will see a welcome block or two of
Cadbury's Energy Chocolate or Dairy Milk Choco-
late in your confectioner's.
New South Woles
** and South Australia
we are unable to dis-
tribute Cad b u r y's
chocolate owing to
transport regulations.
SMOKE-OH
“Seven Black Australorp Pullets and Rooster,
coming on to lay, Judson strain.”
—Suburban paper.
He will have something to crow about.
4* 4* 4* 4* ..
“Farm animals are often good weather
barometers.” — "World’s News.”
Hence the expression “a fair cow.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Vegetarian, ladies, exchange 5 pounds meat
weekly, part payment Flat.”
—“ Gt. Northern,” Sydney.
This will give property owners some-
thing to chew over.
4* 4“ 4* 4*
“Right down the ages, with woman twas
ever thus.” —Serial story.
But now a statutory sworn declaration
must be made as they write down the
ages.
•J* *l*
“In these days of ‘new order’ chatter our
politicians should forget party and together
employ some simple horse-sense.”
— Woman’s letter in “Watchman.”
And she may have added stable govern-
ment.
“With a few exceptions the members of the
Curtin Cabinet team are pulling their weight.’
—“ Worker.
The hauling-power of Dick Keane
should counterbalance the defection of
a few jibs.
•J*
“Millions of men have gone to perdition
straight from the racecourse.”
• —Collingwood (Vic.) parson.
Yet if horse-racing were abolished the
same millions would go straight to the
dogs.
Cupid in Blue.
“Chicago police have been instructed to
cough, whistle or croon softly when approach-
ing parked cars on dark roads.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The kind intention of the Law
Contains perhaps a minor flaw —
A whistle, although softly fluted,
A sudden cough, however muted,
Would surely give a nasty jar
To both the contents of the car.
But there remains a better course
For tactful members of the Force .. .
It would delight a lover’s ear
From the surrounding night to hear
An obbligato to his spooning
From a policeman, softly crooning.
P. M. LUSK.
Classification.
“Whenever I ask my girl-friend for a kiss she
demands some of my ration coupons.”
—Correspondent in daily.
If coupons I was forced to pay
For osculation’s blisses,
My sugar ones would go to Mae,
Appropriate for her kisses.
For others that are not so sweet.
Like those obtained from Fifi,
I'd give the coupons meant for meat —
For she’s so very beefy !
T. W. N.
Retribution.
“The sale of ‘dud’ boomerangs is the latest
black-market activity.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
My Uncle Athelstane, back from ten
years’ trading on the Congo, decided to
cash-in on this. He felt that his experi-
ence selling collar-studs, linoleum squares,
washing machines and inlaid smokers’
stands to hard-headed Africans would be
an advantage in any racket.
He opened a large factory in a Surry
Hills back room, and, under the pretext
of making propellers for aircraft, secured
the release of all the timber and labor he
wanted. Everything went without a hitch
until a whole consignment of timber
turned out to be plywood. However, his
native ingenuity rose to the occasion. He
taught his salesmen a convincing history
of aboriginal craftsmanship, including a
circumstantial account of how they glued
thin sheets of wood together with what
he called blue-gum gum.
When sales began to fall off he de-
signed an improved model, complete with
inscriptions in the vernacular, such as
“Go Walkabout,” “Boomerang Belonga
Jacky” and “Gibbit Tickpence.” These,
of course, sold at double the price.
Uncle Athelstane’s end was unfortu-
nate, though perhaps inevitable. Fired
by memories of his Congo days he took
a trip to the back country with a truck-
load of superior hardwood boomerangs
to sell to the aborigines. We heard later
that he died messily, attacked at short
range by irate boongs armed with his
stock-in-trade.
Having inherited the business I am
taking no risks. I’m using nothing but
balsa wood.
PLUM.
Escape.
The Man-power held me captive,
All tabulated too —
Sex, age and occupation —
* So what was Itodo ?
In vain I sought exemption
To tend my home for him,
My brave ex-soldier husband,
Safe back from battles grim.
But now I am triumphant;
I’ve bested them, you see.
I’ve slipped my leash and left them,
A proud mamma-to-be.
V. MAY COTTRELL.
Specifications for a Digger Suit.
It was first decided that there should
be only two sizes—large and larger. Large
suits were to be for men between sft. 2in.
and sft. llin.; larger suits were for men
from 6ft. to 7ft. All suits were to fit
anyone up to 2ft. thick through, either
from back to front or from side to
The suit was to be, as it were, “built”
around the trousers. For the purpose of
trouser-designing the navel s was to be
taken as the centre of gravity. To give
this organ free play the top of the trousers
was to be made to come at least four
inches below it. In view of the danger
that those wearers who preferred belts
to braces might cough or sneeze and
find themselves arrested, an inside button,
to fit into the buttonhole in the inside
vest pocket, was allowed for. For belt-
wearers the two garments became, in the
words of the French revolutionaries, one
and indivisible.
It stood to reason that, as the space
between the top of the leg and the top of
the trousers would be shorter than in the
usual civilian suit, compensation was
made by making the legs correspondingly
longer. This meant that unless the wearer
was at least 7ft. tall he’d have to tuck
up the legs about nine times so as to
avoid walking on them. Thus the cuff
problem was automatically solved. The
designers reasoned logically that the few
discharged men over 7ft. tall would be
so far off the bottoms of their trousers
that they'd never know whether they had
cuffs or not, anyway.
The foresight in making the seat a set
circumference of 51 hammer handies
(eight inches more than the average belly
measurement —a retired alderman was
used as a model) meant that the wearei
could ride elephants without feeling
cramped in his clothes. To give a neater
finish it was decided that the trousers be
cut out with a blunt bandsaw and sewn
with cutty hunk.
The vest, made from circular cloth,
presented little difficulty. The designers
simply allowed two stamped-out Sin. arm-
holes, with a V nick top and bottom. Thus
the vest could either be pulled on oyer
the head or pulled on like trousers, being
the same top and bottom. Cutting it very
high across the throat enabled the wearer
to dispense with a shirt in midsummer
a very desirable feature —by simply put-
ting on a tie over an athletic singlet, as
only an inch of tie would thus be visible.
Nobody could possibly suspect that the
wearer wore no shfrt unless he doffed
his coat.
And who would want to doff such a
garment? Designers decided to make the
coat a freezer and use cornsacking as
lining, thus saving 3s. 7d. per suit. Mov-
able shoulder-pads that could be slid
easily from shoulder-edge in right -
lapels would, they found fit both broad
shouldered and narrow-shouldered men,
and would occasion no trouble
broad-shouldered man to become na
shouldered on re-entering civilian Me. uy
putting one jigger button on the coat,» *
somewhere on the other side to a button-
hole, the coat could be made reversible
for use in wet weather, the cornsacking
making it ideally waterproof.
A scarecrow was brought specially
from the Victorian Mallee to be used as
a coat model, scarecrows from that dis-
trict being noted for having one shoulder
much higher than the other.
Sleeves six inches longer than the coal
and serrated every few inches made it
easy to rip off unwanted lengths. To
ensure accuracy, coats were to be cut out
with a restaurant knife and fork, and, to
make a neater job, sisal lashing was to
be used in the sewing.
It was also decided to put in the pocket
of each suit issued a printed warning
that it should not be worn in wet weather
or in strong sunlight, and was best
adapted to such duties as hod-carrying
and cement-mixing.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
The Egg Issue
Why pick on Egg Board people when
employees of every manufacturing or
trading firm in Sydney are allowed the
privilege of buying its products direct?
Why is nothing said about brewerymen
and their beer or railwaymen with their
holiday-travel passes?
As an Egg Board employee I should be
charmed to see baying newshounds put
in a few days keeping up supplies to the
boys in the front line on £3 25., less tax,
per week. And would these young gentle-
men and ladies like to handle damaged
eggs? In summer whole cases are fly-
blown.
We carry on and do the job because
it means food for the services, yet be-
cause we get a few eggs —we pay full
price—which, if released to the shops,
would be of no assistance to the public,
we are slated as overindulged parasites.
—Candler (N.S.W.).
War Pensions
It looks as if we Diggers are going to
have to battle for our jobs again. Very
well, we’ll battle. But not all of us. What
about the sick, disabled and incapaci-
tated?
A mate of mine was discharged after
having been ravaged by meningitis in the
Middle East. He was granted a pension
—4s. 2d. a week. Another, a married
man, veteran of the Middle East and
New Guinea, riddled with malaria
unfit for any regular employment, has
been written off at 14s. 3d. a week. And
there are many others. They must be
looked after, and now is the time to think
about them, not after the war, because
they won’t be remembered for long when
the war is over.
So far there has been only talk in this
country, no action. England has already
taken steps to revise her war pensions ;
so has New Zealand, where 200-300 p.c,
increases have been made. The U.S.A.
has gone even further with an insurance
scheme. But what has the Australian
Government done?— Toreador (A.1.F.).
I am one of those unfortunates who,
after over four years’ service in Australia
(like so many others, I was willing to go
anywhere), have been discharged with a
D pass, unfit to do even light work. I
get no pension, being told by Authority
that lam not entitled to one. The few
pounds I’d saved while in the Army I
am now spending with doctors and
chemists —a 3s. 6d. bottle of medicine
every five days.
I enclose a short history of my army
career and hospital interruptions.—
I. D. S. (N.S.W.).
Service Medals
“C.M.” (B. 24/5/’44) could not have
been very keen to replace his medals.
Mine were forwarded to me automati-
cally as each was prepared. The 1914-15
Star was engraved with my rank on en-
listment, 2/cpl., and the British War
Medal and Victory Medal with my rank
on discharge, captain.
When I lost my medals in the sinking
of the ship in which I was leaving Singa-
pore I applied to Victoria Barracks, Syd-
ney, for replacements, and was referred
to A.I.F. Base Records Office, Canberra.
Base Records soon replied, sending par-
ticulars of the cost of replacement,
and, this sent, the medals were pre-
pared and forwarded to me. It was
regretted that supplies of Oak Leaves for
mention in dispatches, to which I am
entitled, but for which I had not asked,
were not available.
It is a pleasure to be able to record my
appreciation of the promptness and effi-
ciency of Base Records. Regret is that
all three replacements arrived engraved
“Captain” instead of the rank of 2/cpl.
being on the 1914-15 Star. This, for me,
had sentimental value. —D. A. M. (Q.).
Seamen’s Wages
As an officer in a British snip em-
ployed in a war zone, I should like to
point out at least one error in “Interested
Seaman’s” article (B. 31/5/’44).
I am English. The company to which
my ship belongs is the largest in the Far
East and is registered in London. The
war-risk bonus paid to the master is £l2
stg. (£AIS) p.m., and to officers and engi-
neers £lO stg. (£AI2 10s.) p.m., flat rate
irrespective of service ; not 100 p.c., as
“LS.” states.
Another thing “LS.” forgets is that
w.r.b. to Australian seamen is paid on
total earnings, which include overtime,
payment in lieu of time off, etc. —B. and
S. (Aust.).
Military Maps
“Gip” (B. 31/5/ ’44) is thousands of
miles out when he says that military maps
from aerial photographs checked by
ground surveying cover practically the
whole of Australia.
Training an artillery unit I couldn’t
take the battery more than 50 miles from
a Big City without running out of the
area mapped by the military. In practice
shoots it might be fatal to go beyond
the areas covered by contour maps ; con-
sequently we were very restricted.
On my close acquaintance with mili-
tary maps in the State in question, not
5 p.c. of it has been done. — Gunner.
The Mentally Afflicted Soldier
The service man admitted to a mental
institution immediately loses his status
as “Digger” and is absorbed into the
general hospital population.
Apart from gazettal of National Secu-
rity, (Supplementary) Regulation 47, which
empowers the heads of Medical Services
to direct State authorities to receive and
treat in State mental hospitals, without
“When ‘Wages for Wives' comes in, Henry, I shall expect overtime
and double rates for Sunday."
certification under State laws, members or
the forces suffering from mental disorders
(similar authority is vested in Repat.
Commission in respect of discharged
members of the forces), nothing has been
done for this class of war patient.
Commonwealth law in this matter is
just one step ahead of the position in
1914-18. In 1915 the Victorian Par-
liament passed an Act on the lines of the
present N.S.R. 47, and Digger patients
were segregated in a special block of old
No. 116 A.G.H., Mont Park. N.S.W.
had its Broughton Hall. There was no
uniformity in other States. Today there
is uniformity of law throughout, but
there are no special institutions, or wings
of existing mental hospitals, in which
Diggers are treated.
State authorities, perhaps with some
justification, never favored special accom-
modation for soldiers. They reason that
the various types of mental disorder
require different treatment and the best
results are obtained by treatment of the
patient at the hospital specialising in
that class of case. This may be so, but
there is a strong bond uniting the men
who fought together that should be re-
spected.
In Victoria late in 1920 it was arranged
to transfer the patients from the mental
block at No. 116 A.G.H. to State insti-
tutions. All the inmates were “certified”
and all was set to effect the transfers.
Lister, M.H.R. for Corio, himself a Dig-
ger, learned of the proposal, and in the
early hours of the morning, Parliament
then being in session in Melbourne, ex-
tracted a promise from Millen, the Repat.
Minister, to cancel the arrangements.
Afterwards, a special ward was erected
within the Mont Park area for ex-soldier
patients and it was staffed by ex-soldier
mental attendants. But that’s a long
time ago.— Rapide (R.A.A.F.).
Defence
Edgar Wallace wrote a*yarn, “The Mer-
cenaries,” telling of an African tribe
which supported a standing army.
The “workers” grumbled greatly at
being compelled to keep such a large
number of apparently useless hangers-on,
and when a man of genius, one Bosambo,
came along with sweet words they were
easily induced to part with their expen-
sive protectors.
Whereupon, the “workers” became the
victims of marauders, to such an extent
that they had to get their wandering
soldiery to return and protect them once
more.
Every politician whose fancy turns to
the brotherhood of mankind and such
fairy tales should read and study that
yarn. — Gwan (Vic.).
Unholy Deadlock
Victoria is said to be right up against
it as regards the dairying industry. Butter
is rationed and rationing of milk is threat-
ened. These facts don’t seem to have
penetrated into bureaucratic circles
apparently.
A friend has a small herd and contem-
plated an increase. He wanted a grazing
paddock, and he wanted to raise crops
for silage to tide him over the lean
times. A man offered him one for £4OO.
The business was duly handed to the legal
gentry and started to amble through the
departments.
After three months the Treasury be-
came interested in the transaction. It
demanded a fresh valuation, and the fresh
valuation fell £5O short of the price
asked. The owner refused to come down
—naturally enough, because, after the
war, the land, subdivided, would, as a
site for semi-suburban villas, be worth
two or three times the price he now
wants.
My friend is quite prepared to pay the
full price, and, for his purposes and the
nation’s, the land is worth it; but, owing
to some regulation, the Treasury won’t
allow the owner to make what it regards
as an unconscionable profit. It won’t
budge, the owner won’t budge, and my
friend can’t get another paddock except
at an uneconomic distance, so his herd
will have to remain restricted. Six months
passed, and the affair is still meandering
about somewhere.
Only a small instance, but, as abiding
by the rules is a characteristic of bureau-
crats, I suppose it could be multiplied
many times and go a long way to explain
the butter shortage.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
The Birthrate
It is entirely a biological question, as
coldly scientific as that two and two make
four.
A decline in the birthrate of a mecha-
nised civilisation is a natural reaction to
an increasingly artificial environment. The
human urge to reproduction of the species
—the philoprogenitive instinct —is not as
vulnerable to denaturing influences as
are some of the natural animal instincts
which man has already lost, but in the end
it, too, must go the way of all there
is in human nature that gets out of step
with universal nature.
It is fruitless now to speak of a saving
return to nature, whereby alone the philo-
progenitive instinct could be revived, be-
cause the craving of the modern human
nervous system for excitement is ever
growing and demanding more and more
artificial means for its satisfaction. Con-
sequently on the data available to him
the biologist can predict only racial
extinction.
While there is life, however, there is
hope. Before it is too late the data may
change so much that a wholly different
prediction may become as rational then
as a prediction of racial extinction is
rational now.—l. W. R. (Tas.).
Faith in Australia
Why is it that so many Australians fall
into an apologetic tone when speaking of
Australia to visitors? “Don’t expect a
New York or a London here,” or “Of
course you won’t find anything like that
in Australia.” One hears this stuff often.
Enough'of these wretched apologies!
Our country is no mean country. Let us
have faith in it and work out an Aus-
tralian destiny.— Jayeff (S.A.).
Why the Brand?
Publishers of Australian magazines and
newspapers are accepting increasing
quantities of material from Australian
writers. As a practical form of en-
couragement, all to the good ; but why
must many of them use the heading “A
Short Story by an Australian Author”?
It may be intended as a build-up, but
to me it reads more like an apology.—
Ergo (R.A.N.).
Miners and Strikers
Allied troops continue to advance and
N.S.W. coalminers to strike. A particu-
larly disgusting feature of recent strikes
is that they have not been “normal” dis-
putes blit trivial, childish domestic
matters.
We have been told often by all hands
and the cook that the worst disruption-
ists are a minority who lead “the rest”
of the workers astray. If this is the case,
apparently “the rest” cannot be greatly
interested in the future of Australia. We
have had words innumerable. Action is
the only remedy. In effect, military
control. —S. G. B. (R.A.A.F.).
Charity at Home
So Mr. Ward is concerned about the
natives of New Guinea and Papua. As
an Australian woman who has spent 20
years in the bush and seen the neglect of
our own natives, it leaves me cold.
Does the gentleman ever give a thought
to our aborigines and their future?
Charity in the way of blankets, tobacco
and tucker is a nice conscience-soother,
but it scarcely takes the place of educa-
tion and better living conditions. — Eva
C. (W.A.).
Protect Our Cod
Fishing for Murray cod is a fine sport
with an ardent following, and it surprises
me that anglers have not banded into a
formidable body to prevent any poach-
ing of the fish. More cod are taken by
unlawful than by lawful means.
Cod may be shy of baits for long
stretches; when they come on the
bite it is hard to keep them off the hook.
There is no bag limit. I have seen boat-
loads of fish taken off for sale from set
lines and otherwise by gentry who would
never deign to hold a rod. It will mean
extermination in the long run.
Fisheries inspectors to police all the
waters would need to be legion ; rural
police have their hands full with other
business. It is angling clubs with the right
spirit that could protect the cod, as do
the trout societies their inferior pets. An
eight-mile stretch of water near my place
is a fair example of their enthusiasm.
There are three honorary inspectors in
this area, and woe betide the angler who
takes a trout a half-inch short or by other
than approved methods. —E. 2 (Vic.).
Flat Roofs
There seems to be a fixed idea in
“G.A.B.’s” mind (B. 31/5/ ’44) that a flat
roof must necessarily fetch the ceiling so
low that he’d have to crouch to clear it.
Not so. A flat roof can be high enough,
and if there’s a 2ft. strip along the top
of the walls that can be opened plenty of
air must circulate between roof and
ceiling.
A house in hot country should be open
at the top and the roof put above as a
fly is put above a tent. My experience in
the Centre was that the dust and sand
made strong non-perforated ceilings
necessary unless you were to keep the
shovel and broom going, but it is not
as sandy and dusty as that everywhere
the sun shines hotly. In any case, the
high ridge keeps only the middle part of
the roof well above the ceiling. And
don’t forget there’s more area of iron
to get hot, and that the slopes catch the
rising and declining sun. — Enveen (Tas.).


/
%
k
&
1
6 Submarine on
the starboard quarter”..
In his book "Heroes of Fighting R.A.F.”, Leonard
Gribble tells a thrilling story of the rescue of
thirty-four of a ship’s crew by flying boats of
the British Coastal Command.
The freighter "Kensington Court”, deep laden
with wheat was ploughing through heavy seas
towards the British coast.
Suddenly the cry: "Submarine on the star-
board quarter”.
The "Kensington Court”, unarmed, ran for it.
And out went an S.O.S.
Overhauling the freighter, the U-boat began
shelling at short range. The "Kensington Court”
was doomed. As the crew was taking to the
boats, two flying boats roared out of the clouds.
The U-boat crash-dived.
Within minutes of the sending of the S.O.S.
the rescue of the "Kensington Court’s” crew was
being staged in a fresh sea. The sailors in an
inflated rubber boat were hauled from their
lifeboats to the tossing planes.
Another chapter in the history of the part
radio plays in this war.
* * * * *
Aeroplanes, ships, guns and radio. Australian industry to-day
is producing everything for her own defence. But radio makes
them into one powerful striking force. We owe much to the
Australian resourcefulness and courage which made possible
the building of all such equipment in Australia.
Whilst Australian enterprise is free to build and plan tve
need never fear being cut off from our sources of supply. —
Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
