

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3344
Wednesday, March 15, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BURNS’S COTTAGE, SCOTLAND.
A YRSHIRE, the “Land of Burns,” is one of the most interesting
features not merely of Scotland, but'of Europe, to those who
love to visit places hallowed by the genius of illustrious men. The
little town of Ayr abounds in memorials of the poet, one of which
is this humble cottage in which Robert Burns was born in 1759.
The little bedstead in which he slept was once bought for a mere
trifle by a slableboy, who afterwards sold it for twenty pounds.
FvervtHincr in t i v rS
for exaZe is mam "* poems. Not far away
Tam o-ThU, , A V^- AlloWay ® Wl,ch haUD, u ed K '. tk > th t c SCe " e ot
lam o Shanters ludicrous adventure on that night when Bums
etls us Even a child might understand the De il had business on
ms hand. Near here also are the “banks and braes o’ bonmc
Uoon, that lovely stream of which the poet has so sweetly sung.
It was while pacing up and down the banks of this river one
winter’s afternoon in 1790 that Burns -composed his poem of Tam
o’ Shanter ; and one may see now the very bridge o'er which the
terrified Tam rode from the witches for dear life on his grey
™ are Maggie! It was also while standing beside this stream that
, B , u , r , ns and hl * Highland Mary held a little Bible between them
™ the Bums Museum at Ayr) and pledged to
other et " nal faithfulness Between the faded leaves of that
Bible now rests a little tress of her hair, and who can forget the
saj Hnes of her , owr as afler dcalh hc wrote that poem com-
mending ‘Ye ,u braes o' bonnie Doon, How can ye bloom
sae fresh and , aw can yc chant> little birds And , sac
weary, fu’ o’ ca- he name of Burns is a household word in
Scotland, and mortally enshrined in the affections of his
countrymen. i an 30,000 strangers visit this birthplace of
Wnrns every y at:


Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
iiooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, <U
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin."
My Name
My Address .... • »».< u ■■. »■»««»•••»•*•*
S.B. 244 .... .-AGE.
The Red Page
Pattern of South Africa.
South Africa is a place where in 1816
one Chaka became king of the Zulus by
means of the timely murder of the legiti-
mate heirs to the throne. With sixty
thousand fighting men behind him Chaka
liquidated three millions of his neighbor-
ing tribesmen within six years. He is
said also to have killed eighty thousand
of his own subjects for the fun of it. If
a European trader came to his kraal
Chaka would execute two hundred citi-
zens to show he was an important man.
Also in South Africa there lived a man
called John Dunn who became a chief of
the Zulus and lived among his subjects
in the style of a squire of England. He
would attend the races in Durban in a
top-hat, morning-coat and spats, but he
would not enter a house in which there
was a white woman.
There was a trader who was accused
by a native chief of making advances to
his daughter. The trader had only one
eye, and he told the chief that all his
family for generations had been similarly
afflicted; wherefore if the chief’s
daughter had a child and the child was
the trader’s it would be born with only
one eye. When a coffee-colored infant
arrived with two eyes the chief and all
his tribe came to the trader and humbly
begged his pardon.
There was an aged couple of the
Basutos, living away from their birth-
place, who desired to return. They were
too poor to hire an ox or a horse, and
they were too feeble to walk, but they
had a vigorous daughter. When Deneys
Reitz came upon the trio they had been
three years on the road and were travel-
ling their twelve-hundred-miles journey
in this way: the girl carried her mother
forward for twenty or thirty yards, set
her down, returned for her father and
carried him to the old woman’s side,
made two more journeys for the sleeping-
mats and cooking pots, then carried the
mother another twenty or thirty yards
forward . . .
There was also Lobengula, king of the
Matabele. Lobengula kept tame croco-
diles and delighted to watch them devour-
ing anyone who offended him. When he
was first presented with a rifle he amused
himself taking pot-shots at his subjects.
There was also a missionary who had
a magic coat. For the natives observed
that every time he was seen wearing his
mackintosh it rained.
Then there are the pygmies. In addi-
tion to their ordinary hunting bows the
pygmies carry, as a sort of “revolver”
for emergencies, a bow about two iriches
long, made of rhino horn. The arrows
are the size of a safety match, made of
heavy wood, and the points are covered
with a poison brewed either from some
plant or from putrid caterpillars. The
arrows are carried in a leather quiver
and the point of each is sheathed in grass.
All of which should be enough to in-
dicate that Deneys Reitz’s No Outspan
(Faber) has an outstanding collection of
anecdotes about the native life of South
Africa. There are also elephants:
A friend of mine, Nat Harvey, said he saw
the elephants in his dam one hot morning.
They were drawing up the water with
their trunks, sluicing their bodies with
obvious.enjoyment. He swears that an old
bull started to squirt the sloping wall of the
dam until he had a mud slide. He clam-
bered out and went along the top of the
wall until he reached the top of the chute
he had made and, sitting on his hams, he
slid down. He hit the water below with a
tremendous splash, and he was so pleased
with his performance that he began afresh
and before long the other elephants fol-
lowed his example, each making a slide
and tobogganing into the dam. They con-
tinued at their game for more than an hour;
then they marched off into the bush, flap-
ping their ears, waving their trunks and
pushing and jostling each other in high
good humor.
There are lion stories by the dozen:
“Our guides were squatting a few yards
away by their own fire, when suddenly
a tawny form leapt almost over our heads
and there came the bloodcurdling bellow
of an animal in mortal terror. A lion
had seized an ox only five or six yards
away from us.”
There are crocodile stories. A search
for the rare “bontebok” antelope and the
saving of the species from extinction.
And the hippo who knew that man would
save him from the lion:
A three-quarter-grown hippo had been
attacked and mauled by a troop of lion
10 miles down the river. He had managed
to escape, and, strangely enough, some in-
stinct had moved him to seek the white
• man’s protection, for when I saw him he
was standing on the sandbank just below
the head warden’s house, where he had
been for over a fortnight. His sides were
lacerated and the poor brute must have
suffered agonies; the tish tote at his wounds
when he entered the water, and when he
climbed out the tick-birds and the flies tor-
tured him. He allowed us to approach
within a few yards of him and eventually
he made a complete recovery.
The native life and the wild life, those
are two threads in the South African
pattern. No Outspan is equally vivid in
its background, the landscape on which
that native life and wild life are lived.
My father came on an old Boer lady
standing disconsolate by the road. “Oh, sir,
the elephants and the grubs got into my
fields last night.” The largest of quadrupeds
and the smallest of Insects had combined
to ravage her crops, and this - is typical
of how extremes meet out here.
The most dramatic of the landscapes in
this land of extremes is that of a vol-
cano in eruption—a river of lava in
which forty-yard bubbles welled and
heaved. Less violent scenes of drought
and flood are of particular interest to
Australia. There is even a scheme, now
shelved, Reitk.says, for the diverting of
rivers into their ancient channels to make
an inland sea. Reitz reported on the
scheme for the Government and came to
the conclusion that, though the full plan
would probably succeed in creating only
a Dead Sea in the vast salty depression
he explored, a limited application of it,
involving the draining of swamps into
the Kalahari Desert, could be successful.
As far as he is able, Reitz has avoided
writing of politics in this book ; but of
course no picture of South Africa could
be complete without the Boers, and no-
body could mention the Boers without at
once jumping into political controversy.
What really lies at the root of our
troubles is not hostility between the two
peoples [Dutch and English] but the difficult
psychology of our Afrikaans-speaking com- .
munity. For nearly three centuries they
have been individualists, roving the interior
far from constituted authority, every
man a law unto himself, and to this day
they resent discipline and ordered rule.
No sooner have they set up a leader or
a Government but they start undermining
their own handiwork, and all our history
has been one of hiving off into bickering
factions and of internal quarrels among
ourselves. We are like the Irish; when
we have no external enemy we turn upon
ourselves.
A soldier of the Boer army at the age
of seventeen, and now Deputy Prime
Minister of South Africa, Reitz speaks
with authority. He has been a follower
of General Smuts all his life, was recon-
ciled to British rule by Smuts, and be-
lieves with him not only that the Boers
should co-operate with the English but
that they can and will.
He describes at length the fateful meet-
ing of Parliament at which General Hert-
zog’s motion for South African neutrality
in the present war was defeated, and be-
lieves that, although “the Nationalists,
who comprise more than forty per cent,
of our European population, stand sul-
lently aloof,” the good sense of the
friendly Dutch and the steady inter-
marriage which is going on between the
two, races will keep South Africa peace-
ably within the Empire. He says that
thirty-five per cent, of South African
casualties in Abyssinia and Libya have
been Afrikaners ; also that the pro-Nazi
“Ossewa Brandwag” movement has
“practically fizzled out.”
No Outspan continues the series of
autobiographies Reitz began with Com-
mando and Trekking On. A man of
action, a statesman and a great lover of
his country, he has drawn a notable self-
portrait, and at the same time given an
unforgettable picture of South African
life in all its jnost interesting aspects.
N.Z. "Best Poems."
Coming upon a really good poem is
rather like hooking a snapper. You may
sit on the rocks for hours (and usually
you have to) hoping for a bite and try-
ing to persuade yourself that the tug of
the waves or the knock of the sinker on
the sea floor is a fish ; you may pull in
your line, find the bait stolen by the small
thieves of the water and tell yourself
that a real fish has called on you ; but
when the snapper does bite at last it’s
something quite different, unequivocal as
the kick of a mule.
On the first page of C. A. Marris’s New
Zealand Best Poems of 1943 (H. H.
Tombs, Ltd., Wellington) there is un-
mistakable quality:
White birds scream,
Soften the skies where noon’s fierce smithies
shone;
The lion dunes shake out their manes: for
ever
Darkness and wave gleam on.
A poem by Robin Hyde which reached
N.Z. Best Poems some time after her
death, it would have been better for some
smoothing into shape, but it is full of
power and beauty;
The salt drink wakens
White boats to bubbling talk.
There is one line, app ! cd to a landscape
in noonday heat, that some Australian
poet should have thought of;
Shadows of things are lovelier than their shape.
Eve Langley’s “Feast Where You Will,”
first printed in The Bulletin, is another
poem one can have no, doubts about:
Oh, Ratana sent two shepherds old to me:
Through the fernhills by the hawthorn road they
came,
Riding on dreaming horses, knee to knee,
Their dyed rugs mingling like the gorse aflame.
And another Bulletin poem, J. R.
Hervey’s reminder that ordinary man in
his battle* against life and time may show
the courage of the heroes, also stands
out:
We, isled in calm, consider
Ulysses matched against magic seas,
Or we are dumb with Scott in the white danger
Of the Pole looking on the flag of a stranger.
But we do not follow
The old man, canoe in a roaring hollow:
We, chasing wisps of glory,
Leave him to his duel with the universe—
That is no story.
It is worth noticing that, of all the
poems in the anthology, these three, the
best, are the most strongly stamped with
New Zealand imagery. Hervey’s verses
are not obviously so, but it’s probable
that the Antarctic comes within the New
Zealand sphere of awareness just as New
Guinea and other islands of the Pacific
have their place in the Australian mind.
And only a writer with the Maofi tradi-
tion in his mental landscape would have
thought of that image, “canoe in a roar-
ing hollow.”
It is a pity that this year’s Best Poems
doesn’t contain more poems of the
strength of Robin Hyde’s, Eve Langley’s
and J. R. Hervey’s. Dora Hagemeyer
writes well, as always, but writes small.
Arnold Wall is not well represented;
Anton Vogt is somewhat conventionally
indignant about “flashy generals and dis-
honest kings” and too easily optimistic
about the New Order. The rest of the
book is patchy. There are gleams of
promise, moments of hope; but a
national anthology needs something more
than promise—a shoal of twelve-
pounders to tug at the hooks of the
world.
Naming the Home.
Many of the queries that come in to
The Bulletin’s Service Department are
concerned with aboriginal words suitable
for naming a home. Consequently, if
all Australians married or about to marry
will buy Sydney J. Endacott’s A ustralian
Aboriginal Native Words and Their
Meanings, Robertson and Mullens will
have done a signal service not only to the
nation but to the office abo. The booklet
is a reprint of a work first published in
1924.
As an indication of its usefulness to
those about to marry, the following words
(Mr. Endacott’s list has been selected
with a view to house-names) seem highly
appropriate: Carinya, a happy, peaceful
home; Yallambee, to dwell at ease;
Lumeah, here I rest; Alkooele, nice;
Kerabin, “Maiden’s Blush” tree; and
even Moondak, squeeze.
All one needs afterwards is a pot of
paint and a copy of Mr. Endacott’s in-
valuable little volume, and Carinya can
be changed to whichever seems most
appropriate of: Pulyara, long-snouted
rat; Caulyoo, prickly acacia seed ; Gal-
lang, snake; Goodoo, codfish; Irtaie,
Queensland giant nettle ; Kafkalla, pig-
face ; Koongun, scorpion; Arutchie,
native ferret; or (particularly recom-
mended to wives of politicians) Bimbiang,
large flathead.
Even for ordinary domestic conversa-
tion, this little book is indispensable.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Jesse Martin and Justin O’Brien, two
young Australians who were able to pur-
sue their art studies in a prison camp in
Poland, show at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, some of the work they did in
such circumstances. The exhibits consist
most importantly of portraits in oils, ex-
hibiting a fair command of the medium
and some facility of expression. Why
both painters should have adopted as a
convention or article of faith a belief
that the human head is five times as long
as it is broad is not explained. Artisti-
cally the best things in the show are
O’Brien’s pen drawings of prison grounds
and interior, simple, lucid and expressive,
and Martin’s chalk study “Wounded Sol-
dier,” which shows an intelligent, un-
affected approach to the job in hand.
An ex-Chinese laundry in George-
parade, off Collins-street, is the latest
addition to the art galleries of Melbourne.
It is opposite the Henry George Club,
where earnest devotees still debate the
economic theories of the author of Pro-
gress and Poverty. The new gallery is
directed by Mrs. .Pegg Williams, who has
converted the picturesque old wash-shop
into a sort of domesticated salon with
pictures in the dining-room, on the stairs
and in the bedrooms. The pictures dis-
played are mainly of the traditional
schools, and include works by James
Quinn, Charles Wheeler, Dora Wilson,
William Rowell and others.
The opening concert at Sydney Town
Hall of a series of four, dealing with Rus-
sian music, raised once again the question
as to what interests the Australian Broad-
casting Commission, which sponsored
these concerts, is supposed to be serving.
There were three programme items—
Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Scheherazade,” the
Tschaikowsky violin concerto (soloist
Jeanne Gautier) and the “Francesca da
Rimini” fantasia overture. An orchestra
showing terribly the inroads of Man-
power responded but sluggishly to Prof,
Heinze’s baton, and the tales told by the
Caliph’s lady were dull and their repeti-
tions almost unbearable. Mdlle. Gautier
is a very gifted violinist, and to watch
her is to realise the poetry of motion,
but otherwise the Tschaikowsky concerto
was not a pronounced success. The really
worth-while offering of the evening was
the fantasia overture, which, apparently,
the conductor liked, the band liked, and,
most unmistakably, the audience liked.
But this item wasn’t broadcast.
At the talkies:
When Barry Pain was justifying his parody of
A. S. M. Hutchinson’s best-seller of the last
war, If Winter Comes, he made the excellent-
point that fictional stories of a current war take
their emotions ready-made. The enemy is auto-
matically the villain, not because he is a vil-
lainous man, but because he is the enemy.
Consequently, one may get good -propaganda,
but one rarely gets good art. That criticism
applies to the four Occupied-Europe stories
among the latest Sydney talkies. The more they
conceal the fact that t'heir emotional situations
are ready-made the nearer they come to con-
vincing.
Notable in this regard is “First Comes
Courage” (Mayfair), an engaging tale of a Nor-
wegian girl, ostracised by her village as a col-
laborator, who sends on to England optical
lenses containing vital information she gleans
from her German major-lover. Merle Oberon
is undemonstrative and restrained, and the
Austrian actor Carl Esmond adequately por-
trays a man swinging from Teutonic efficiency
and ruthlessness to, in his off hours, poetic
thoughts and musical longings.
The ceaseless hunt by the Gestapo for the
slayer of the Czech “Protector” Heydrich is
the theme of “Hangmen Also Die” (Plaza),
but overdramadsation of Himmler’s men
spoils an ingeniously-contrived plot in which
the “underground” frames a Quisling whom
the Germans, wishing to close the affair, cyni-
cally accept as the scapegoat. Brian Donlevy
is unimpressive, but a tenacious, handle-bar-
moustached Gestapo inspector demonstrates a
soul-satisfying love of wassail in a nice bender
scene. There is apparently far more beer avail-
able to the downtrodden Czechs than to the
Sydney citizen.
“This Land Is Mine” (Century) has a role
out of which Charles- Laughton wrings the last
drop of juice—that of a shy, timid, French
schoolmaster, dominated by a whingeing
mother anxious to appease the Germans, who,
forced by circumstances into a heroic role,
uses the civil court in which he is arraigned as
a soapbox for the delivery of a stirring speech
on freedom. Walter Slezak as the German
official anxious to stamp out sabotage by peace-
ful methods speaks with a refreshing absence
of gutturals.
“Bombers’ Moon” (Hoyt’s Theatres) appears
to demonstrate that the remarkable ease with
which an American airman escapes from a Nazi
prison camp with a Russian girl medico and
outwits the pursuers in a chase across Germany
is largely due to a Middle-West accent one could
slice with a razor. Even when he dons a Ges-
tapo uniform and doesn’t change his accent
the other S.S. men see nothing strange in one
of Himmler’s men liberally studding his speech
with “waals” and “guesses.” As an actress
Annabella just makes up the required number
in the cast.
Anyone attending “His Butler’s Sister” (State)
for a holiday from Occupied Europe will find
a finely sung aria from Puccini’s “Turandot,”
showing that Deanna Durbin’s operatic soprano
has greatly improved. Alan Mowbray and his
team of suave gentlemen’s gentlemen add zest
to the otherwise trivial comedy.
“Cauboy”: The Hollywood single-star
system has its drawbacks, but it isn’t as
bad as the constellation system. There
was a constellation of stars iij “Forever
and a Day,” recently -on view at the
Plaza, Melbourne, and although the film
was quite a good one the dazzle of 78
Hollywood favorites in one go was rather
confusing. To see Charles Laughton try-
ing to make the part of a butler as im-
portant as a major role such as Henry
the Horrible was as embarrassing to the
onlooker as Sybil Thorndyke’s efforts
when she was obliged by the exigencies
of approaching old 'age to take small
parts and play them as if she was St.
Joan. The producer of “Forever and a
Day” must have had as difficult a job as
Bernard Heinze would if he had to con-
duct an orchestra composed of Kreislers,
Heifetzes, Hubermaqs and Kurtzes, with
the triangles being played by Paderewski.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
m
A.NTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
Double - breasted Topcoat,
tailored by Anthony Hor-
derns' from quality all wool
cloth in Navy Blue. Two
outside pockets, lined sleeves
and shoulders, all seams
taped. In Regular, Long,
Short and Stout fittings. 105/-
30 # Coupons
SENIOR
All Wool Fancy Tweed Coat
in Brown, Tan, or Green. The
' Coat is tailored with three
outside patch pockets and
one inside breast pocket.
Sizes for men from 9 to 16
stone 59/6
12 Coupons
mm
m
m
m
I
rm
ouR
TOlf* aoK
f A*OVS SOOK
V£PT-
m
i
•v
■
An l*—* bert Solla“ s
BY G - ”, ol (he <*»“"
*X>* „ Ken'
PX 9/6
ttO A CttA-D rtia tacWO so ’l° 1 '
OTO° US g . d.a»»W *®j.
R eenous novel ?osM e. %
P OBtBR« ° F BY
Hew Guinea • •
T»®
A p osto ge,
THO tARSI« CRBE Bv « luCe Co^/«
C?ED . ***•■-
A «««* se ';„sto,e. « d -
-„.C. MOSCOW E^ ani
. °°
. UveW GOVSI SSI Po staq6 ' 44 ’
GUIANA qe H- C ° xe
A ri. »* WI Tg«-- 0g „
Pos'«-
, \eiii ng ° i poudou •
fBOSSIA
dto<3 etv
ar
Rn^ol^^u/6
in^ usSl ’
Postog®- s^d '
wo
,rae n
15 Y , i"u e ait aT
pVi© si° 0 3/6
in^Gu*eaa
POSW3®' « a
™ , nXe d
M o a le *P
,S G o.^“
"1^ e (he Sou*
*i*W * 10/3
A» can ccaS 4*
PosW<3 0 ' 440
\\ *
ANTHONY
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


MONDAY’S WASHING DAY
By MARGARET TRIST.
Dawn was
breaking with
u n n e cessary
s w i f t ne s s.
Mrs. Bryant peered
at it angrily
through her bedroom window, then con-
centrated on wrapping a cumbersome
pink corset around herself, her work-
blunted fingers fumbling with the lacing
in the grey light.
No lady went without corsets about the
house, even though the house was a
dishevelled structure of brick, weather-
board and fibro, contrived with numerous
outjutting bedrooms, occupied by home-
less wanderers who paid the sum of thirty-
five shillings a week for the honor.
Mrs. Bryant looked towards the still
form in the bed.
“Here, you! You’d better get up.”
It did not stir.
“Harry, did you hear me? Get up.”
Mr. Bryant stirred. “What’s that?” he
asked sleepily.
“It’s time to get up.”
“What’s the hurry? It’s not light.”
“It’s light enough, and it’s Monday.”
“All the same to me”
“It’s not all the same. I got to get
the copper going, and there’s not a stick
of wood chopped.”
“Now, if we had a gas”
“Well, we haven’t,” snapped his wife,
struggling into a loose garment which she
called her morning dress. “You jump
up and cut the wood while I get Mr.
Best off.”
She went out of the bedroom, along a
narrow passageway and up a flight of
stairs that landed her in the kitchen. She
filled the kettle hastily and put it over
the gas, then went and knocked loudly
on Mr. Best’s door.
A sound of untroubled snoring came
from within. As it did not stop she
sighed, opened the door, advanced deter-
minedly and pulled the portly Mr. Best
from his lumpy couch. “I’ll throw a jug
of water over you next time,” she threat-
ened.
She retreated to the kitchen muttering
to herself. “All the blooming time you’ve
got to waste getting people out of bed.
I’m the only one in the house who gets
up without being shouted at or punched.
And Monday’s the worst. You’d think
they’d have some consideration knowing
what I’ve got to do Mondays. And if
that Sawyer fellow’s worn six shirts again
this week I’ll just stick one of them under
the copper, see if I won’t.”
BREAKFAST at Mrs. Bryant’s was
distinctly unorthodox. It was par-
taken of by each boarder in turn, sitting
in lonely state at the end of the kitchen
table, with the remains of his predeces-
sor’s meal surrounding him to remind
him that all joys are fleeting, and with
Mrs. Bryant herself impatiently proclaim-
ing that she had only one pair of hands.
The breakfast cavalcade started with
Mr. Best at 5.30 and continued through
the morning till nine, when Mr. Mul-
laney, a gentleman of eighty and up-
wards, took his position and was given
two softly-boiled eggs and a quantity of
bread and butter. Mondays were to be
distinguished from other mornings by
Mrs. Bryant’s frequent references to light-
ing the copper. This morning she kept
listening for the sound of the axe.
“That man’s the limit,” she grumbled,
slicing the tops off Mr. Mullaney’s eggs.
“Now, see you eat them. You’re the
only man round these parts getting two
eggs all to himself.”
“Don’t tell me he’s at it at last!” she
added as the sound of chopping came
to her ears. “I’ll make myself a good
strong cup of tea, then go .and light the
copper.”
“What’s he chopping?” asked Mr. Mul-
laney.
“Wood.”
“Wood,” said Mr. Mullaney lovingly.
“I used to be a good hand at a bit of
wood-chopping myself.”
“What’s the use of that? It’s always
the way. People have either been good
wood-choppers or are going to be. You
never strike them at the right moment.”
Mr., Mullaney looked hurt and ladled
a teaspoon of golden syrup into his egg.
“Here, look what you’re doing,” ad-
monished Mrs. Btyant. “You’re ruining
that egg.”
“Isn’t it for eggs?”
“No, it is not.” She rescued the golden
syrup and took it to the-other end of the
table. “My, but this tea’s good. Why’s
it always Monday, do you reckon?”
The sound of chopping ceased. Some-
where, in the depths beneath the stairs,
an armful of wood was thrown on to a
concrete floor. Harry came lumbering
up the steps.
“Any breakfast, love?” he asked
cheerfully.
“You fossick around and get some for
yourself, and take the raspberry jam
away from near Mr. Mullaney or he’ll
muck up the other egg.”
“Oh, leave it,” said Harry. “He likes
it that way.”
HARRY was a small, neat man of
forty, with a glistening black
moustache and a merry twinkle in his
dark eyes. He had a dislike for any
regular form of employment, but made
himself useful around the place, cleaning
windows with vim and rapidity when
they had reached the stage where it was
impossible to see through them or charm-
ing the spinsters of the establishment so
that they found it inopportune to com-
plain that the bathroom hadn’t been
cleaned for a fortnight, and finally
cleaned it themselves. Once a fortnight
he made it his business to escort Mrs.
Bryant to the local hop, where he made
a point of kissing her on the dance floor,
thus acknowledging her before the world.
Harry had a heart which did not beat
the way it ought to, and, though no
doctor would ever actually commit him-
self upon the matter, it brought him to
being an interesting invalid once every
so often.
“I’ll cook myself an egg,” said Harry now.
“At threepence-ha’penny the one,”
warned his wife.
“Threepence-ha’penny,” scoffed Harry.
“Pooh, chicken feed!”
Mrs. Bryant sighed. “Have it your
own way,” she said. “You nearly
finished, Mr. Mullaney?”
“Oh, let the poor old devil be,” said
Harry. “He won’t be finished for
another hour.”
“He’ll eat us out of house and home.”
“That’s all he’s got, is food. Now,
you and me”
“I got to go and strip the beds,” inter-
rupted Mrs. Bryant, rising.
She left on a whirlwind tour of the
place, leaving a mixture of dust and
kapok bedizening the air of the poky
bedrooms, arriving back in the kitchen
overloaded with sheets and pillowcases
and limp striped pyjamas. She laid two
orange pips and a chocolate wrapper
triumphantly on the table. “There,
Harry, what do you think of that? He’s
been feasting on the sly,”
“Goodness,” said Harry.
“That’s gratitude if you like. But
what else can you expect from boarders?
Wear your fingers to the bone for them
and what thanks do you get? Selfish
things. Never think of anyone but
themselves.” Mrs. Bryant pointed an
accusing finger at the pips and wrapper.
“This is how they reward you. Eat in
their rooms and don’t say a word to
anybody.”
“Who?” asked Harry.
“That Sawyer fellow. I knew there
was something funny about him. He had
these hidden in the top right-hand drawer
of the dressing-table. Hidden, mind you.”
“Hmmm,” murmured Harry. Mr. Mul-
laney cleared his throat deprecatingly,
hesitantly took another slice of bread
and pushed his cup towards Mrs. Bryant.
She took no notice. •
“I’ll give him Sawyer,” she said
threateningly. “Last night at tea he gave
me an old-fashioned look. ‘l’m fond of
steak and kidney pudding,’ he says, ‘but
I can’t eat it three times a week.’ Did
you ever hear the like? I just gave him
one look and walked inside like this. I
knew he was hiding something. If people
are hungry they can eat anything. They
don’t know what they’re eating. But
fancy anyone being able to remember
they’d had steak and kidney three times
a week. I decided to look round this
morning. See what I find?”
Harry looked at the exhibits with
ostentatious boredom and said nothing.
“Well I never,” said Mr. Mullaney.
MRS. BRYANT
turned on
him. “D i d you
change your under-
shirt?” she thun-
dered.
Mr. Mullaney cowered. “Maybe I
didn’t” he began.
“Well, you’re going to, and what’s
more you’re going to have a bath.”
“Cut it out, Lucy,” cried Harry. “You
know he can’t bear bathing.”
“He’s going to, all the same,” declared
Mrs. Bryant.
“Not so soon after his breakfast,” ad-
monished Harry.
“Right now. I’ll have him bathed and
his undershirt off him before he knows
where he is. I’m sick of having my wash-
ing held up because of his undershirt.”
“I’ll light the bath-heater after,”
placated Harry.
“You won’t,” snorted his wife.
“What’s the use of that? You get the
copper going and we’ll fill the iron tub
from downstairs. He’s going to be bathed
from top to toe or my name’s not Lucy
Bryant.”
“Come off it, Lu. You’ve got the devil
in you this morning.”
“And who wouldn’t have, with people
sneaking off and feasting in their rooms!
It’s got me real upset.”
“But you’ve no need to take it out on
the old codger.”
“Well, it’s either him or you,” cried
Mrs. Bryant belligerently.
“’Struth, I’ll light the copper,” said
Harry, swallowing the last of his egg and
washing it hastily down with tea. He
disappeared down the stairway. A
moment later his voice rose in a lusty
song as he gathered kindling. Mr. Mul-
laney stretched his hand for another
slice of bread.
“No, you don’t,” Mrs. Bryant said.
“You go in and take your clothes off.”
“But” objected Mr. Mullaney.
“Did you hear what I said?”
“Yes. Yes. Perhaps I did,” answered
Mr. Mullaney gently.
Fifteen minutes later Mrs. Bryant bore
down on his room, staggering under the
weight of the iron tub. She went away
to return with a kerosene-tin of hot
water. “Now, out of those clothes,” she
ordered.
“All of them?” asked Mr. Mullaney.
“Every last inch of them,” she thun-
dered.
His protests thickened the air, but at
last Mrs. Bryant emerged from the room
triumphantly bearing the undershirt. She
threw it on the accumulated pile, and re-
turned to keep an eye on Mr. Mullaney’s
ablutions.
“I can manage,” he told her distantly.
“Maybe you can. But I’m not having
good soap and hot water wasted. Don’t
you know there’s a war on?”
“What, again?” he asked incredulously.
“Oh, don’t be silly. It’s the same one.”
Mr. Mullaney regarded her angrily.
“That war’s getting too much of a good
thing,” he said.
“You’re telling me. Of course I know
what you all think. You think I’m arrang-
ing it special just to nark you. It’s no
such thing. Just take a peek into the
papers now and again. Hurry along
now ; don’t be scared of the water.”
‘‘ I UCY, L-u-c-y,” floated Harry’s
*■—' voice from somewhere beneath.
“What is it?”
“Do you stick flannel shirts in the
copper?”
“Whose is it?”
“Sheldon’s.”
“Yes, put it in. He docked me two-
and-six because he was away for dinner
one night last April.”
“And what about silk?”
“Hang on a minute, I’ll be down.”
She lowered her voice. “You get a move
on. I don’t want you on my hands with
pneumonia.”
“I’ll do my best,” said Mr. Mullaney
gravely.
She passed through the disordered
kitchen, whipped the soiled cloth from
the table and descended the steps. In
the laundry Harry was pushing clothes
indiscriminately into the copper.
“There’s a black sock I can’t clap eyes
on,” he told her. “It’s maybe mixed with
Sawyer’s shirts.”
“That’s Sawyer’s business, not mine,”
answered his wife loftily.
Harry paused. He regarded the over-
loaded copper, the crowded’ tubs, the
disordered piles strewn about the floor.
“ ’Struth, love, I’m tired.”
Mrs. Bryant snorted. “Go on, get your
back into it.”
“There are parts of marriage I don’t
hold with,” remarked Harry.
“You just have to lump those,” re-
torted his wife.
Upstairs, in the tub, Mr. Mullaney
wallowed unhappily.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Remittance Man.
The spendthrift, disinherited and graceless,
accepted his pittance with an easy
only surprised he could escape so simply
from the pheasant-shooting and the aunts iri the
close;
tramping the backtracks in the summer haze,
let everything but life slip through his fingers.
That pale stalk of a wench at the county ball
sank back forgotten in black Mary’s eyes,
and past the sallow circle of the plains’ horizon
faded the rainy elms seen through the nursery
window.
Blue blowing smoke of twigs from the noon fire,
red blowing dust of roads where the teams go
slow,
sparse swinging shadow of trees no longer foreign,
silted the memory of a greener climate.
The crazy yarns, the hatters’ crazy secrets,
the blind-drunk sprees indifferently forgiven
and past all these, the track to escape and no-
where
suited his book, the freak who could never settle.
That harsh Biblical country of the scapegoat
closed its magnificence finally round his bones
polished by diligent ants. The squire his brother,
presuming death, sighed over the documents
and, lifting his eyes across his inherited garden,
let a vague pity blur the formal roses.
N.S.W.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Small Talk.
The body and her senses so control
Figures of thought, the motions of the soul,
And set so firm the idiom of the mind,
That when men strive in terms of universes
Largely to think and speak, >urely they find
Their language and its modes fail of their aim,
Being only fit for mothers and for nurses;
While the small talk of astro-physicists
Sounds like the innocent child’s unmeaning game,
Beating the piano-keys with random fists.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
The Magpie.
That wild woman’s waiting on the steps of her
shack —
The magpie said sit down.
I’ve come so far that I daren’t turn back
And a wild woman’s waiting at the edge of the
night
With a snake at her left hand, an eagle at her
right.
And the magpie says sit down, sit down,
The magpie says sit down.
Look, she is combing her long black hair —
The magpie said sit down.
And the sparks from the comb are the stars in
the air.
There is food for my tuckerbag, there’s water
for my thirst
And the last two miles are always the worst
Where the magpie says sit down, sit down,
The magpie says sit down.
Who was it taught that bird to talk?
The magpie said sit down.
Let him bounce on a branch where the kooka-
burras squawk.
Let him fly to the devil with his scorn and his
sorrow,
Let him shriek it at the wombat where he snores
in his burrow —
And the magpie said sit down, sit down, *
The magpie said sit down.
There is desert all behind me, there is darkness
all ahead —
The magpie said sit down.
I could sit and be quiet with the quiet bony dead
But it’s only two miles and the long trek’s done
And her body glows gold in the setting of the sun
Though the magpie says sit down, sit down.
The magpie says sit down.
A shadow glides before me over plains and over
hills
Where the magpie says sit down,
And a shadow walks behind me and their names
are Burke and Wills.
Supposing 1 were Leichhardt and I never did a
perish
But stumbled through the desert for your white
arms to cherish —
And the magpie said sit down, sit down,
The magpie said sit down.
If I were Cook could you hear me from the
foam
Though the magpie says sit down?
The crew are sick with scurvy, the bosun yearns
for home,
Worms are in the biscuits and worse in the pork,
But my soul she is a flying-fish, my heart he is
a cork —
And the magpie said sit down, sit down,
The magpie said sit down.
Dim grows my darling as the night grows colder
And the magpie says sit down.
Who was it perched that devil on my shoulder?
Let the snake come and strike him, let the eagle
come and eat him.
Let the last shaft of sunlight be a golden stick
to beat him —
And the magpie said sit down, sit down,
•The magpie said sit down.
If I were Thunderbolt and you were Yellow
Long—
The magpie said sit down.
I’d be riding home to love you by the lonely
billabong.
The firelight’s our cave in the darkness and the
gums
And the possum’s doing sentry till the bitter
morning comes
When the magpie says sit down, sit down,
The magpie says sit down.
Some say that Paterson, some say McCrae,
Though the magpie said sit down,
Rode to the shack at the end of the day.
Some say that Smihty came, grinning in his ’plane,
Some say that no one did, you comb your hair
in vain
While the magpie says sit down, sit down,
The magpie says sit down.
Let him shriek it at himself when I throw him
in the fire,
Let the magpie shriek sit down.
For the snake is her flute and the eagle’s wings
her lyre
And the firelight is falling on the wild woman’s
face
And it’s only two miles to the end of time and
space
Though the magpie says sit down, sit down,
The magpie says sit down.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3344.
Wednesday, March 15, 1944.
THE RELUCTANT LION-TAMER.
“There are Hons in the path what they are I have hinted at. If the miners want some order lase to be the head of the Government that would not prevent me from
standing aside to permit more coal to be produced.”— Prime Minister,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
* P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE ONE THING WANTING.
On August 21 Mr. Curtin became the
first Labor Prime Minister to win a
general election as such, and the people
gave him majorities so sweeping that, bar-
ring palace revolutions and Acts of God,
his party will control the House till near
the end of 1946 and the Senate till the
middle of 1950. During the election
campaign he was supported by the
Miners’ Federation with voice, pen and
picture (usually that of a handsome
N.S.W. coalminer in the customary atti-
tude of repose), and Mr. Wells, its Com-
munist president, was moved to a special
outbreak (with portrait) of promises and
claims, “Under Curtin’s leadership,”
Mr. Wells boomed, “the miner will never
let Australia down. Curtin has got what
it takes! Back him up!”
Communist pledges are equivalent to
dicers’ oaths. Between August 23 and
September 29 there were 111 stoppages
in N.S.W. pits, with a production-loss of
coal reckoned at 106,000 tons. Mr. Curtin
feebly protested that this was “detri-
mental to the war effort.”
Doubtless the men have grievances but
possibly they use some of them for other
purposes.
He was sharply reminded of what he
had said when the Japanese were in
Rabaul, and were preparing to bomb
Darwin and Broome, having completed
or being about to complete their con-
quests of Malaya (for us so terrible a
memory), British Borneo, Burma and the
Dutch East Indies, and he was urged to
apply action to his statement that “men
who are not in the fighting forces and
who at the same time will not work are
as much the enemies of this country as
the directly enlisted legions of the enemy.”
He preferred to go on remonstrating and
pleading, though now and then he issued
a few police-court summonses which had
not the slightest effect. Mr. Wells also
made an occasional show of recalling
the workstoppers to their duty. One of
his pleas to them was in this strain;
The policy of the Miners’ Federation is
the defeat of Fascism. This is a people’s
war and the highest phase of the class
struggle. The defeat of the Fascists will be
achieved as the result of plans laid at the
Cairo and Tehran conferences.
Such a “policy,” implemented as it
has been during the war that was “im-
perialist” to Mr, Wells and his fellow-
Communists till June 22, 1941, and
divorced of any appeal to pride of race
and history and love of country —to which
the Russians themselves appealed and
appeal still —couldn’t beat a coalition of
blind asylums;
When the Seamen’s Union, under Com-
munist direction, was holding up ships at
a great rate Mr. Beasley complained that
it was not fair, seeing that his Govern-
ment had given the seamen “everything
they asked for.” So has his Govern-
ment given the coalminers “everything
they asked for.” One of the gifts was a
new tribunal to rectify their “grievances,”
with Mr. A. C. Willis to do the rectify-
ing—Mr. Willis, a former Miners’ Feder-
ation secretary and strike leader and a
Labor Minister and Agent-General be-
fore he fell out with Mr. Lang. Of Mr.
Willis Mr. Menzies has said dryly that
he would be “very upset if any coalminer
accused him of being impartial.” Another
gift was the closing of the N.S.W. coal-
mines for nine days at Christmas, when
the chiefs of every coal-burning concern
in Australia—munitions factories, trans-
port departments, irrigation undertakings,
steelworks, gasworks, foundries and sup-
pliers of current for power and lighting
—were worrying about the depletion of
their stocks.
N.S.W. miners returned from their fish-
ing, boating and bathing so full of the
joy of life that they forthwith plunged
into another and gayer orgy of strikes.
This sequel to the Christmas loaf was
mentioned in Parliament on February
12, together with some facts about the
effect on industry, and Mr. Menzies gave
a short history of the Government’s
methods of dealing with larrikinism, dis-
guised as unionism, whose target all along
has been the nation fighting for its life.
There are hard and strong words and
threats of penal action, louowed a wceK
later by a few quiet words, as quiet as a
cooing dove. Then, another week later,
a batch of anti-strike regulations, with a
list of penalties of great substance for
people who absent themselves from work.
A fortnight later the Prime Minister is
saying that penalties won’t get coal.
What is the use of making laws if you
don’t expect them to be enforced? What-
ever proposal the Government intends to
bring in, and whenever it is adopted, if
should be enforced, since in the long run
the issue is not coal but who is in charge
of the country—the Government or a few
men on the coalfields of New South Wales.
The Prime Minister intimated that the
Government was preparing another bill.
“With candor,” he said that “we need
2,000,000 tons a year more than we are
now getting,” and that “it is the business
of the coalminers’ unions to do what they
can to get it.” With ever-increasing war
demands, not only in Australia, but also
in the United Kingdom, the United States
and New Zealand, which had asked his
Government for coal, output had fallen
800,000 tons in 1943. Penalising men for
not working would not produce coal, nor
would nationalisation produce rriore.
I wish there was someone in this country
who could tell me how to get more. If I.
leave this office tonight, I leave it with the
firm conviction that I have failed to get all
the coal needed. I don’t know how to get
more and I don’t know anybody else who
does.
After this cry from the heart the Gov-
ernment produced a measure conferring
dictatorial powers on Mr. Coal Com-
missioner Mighell and (for the rectify-
ing of “grievances”) on Mr. Willis, Fear-
ing that Mr. Mighell might be too hard
on the gentle coalminer. Caucus fashioned
a velvet glove for his fist, placing him
under Ministerial control. Meanwhile all
the N. S. Wales South Coast miners came
out on strike, and coke workers joined in.
Young fellows among the strikers were
summoned to the colors. After weeks of
indecision, spent in trying to discover an
easy way out, Comrade Wells “ordered”
the strikers back to work, with instruc-
tions to let the Government or somebody
somehow fill the places of the called-up
men —a characteristic bit of Communist
double-dealing. The strikers accepted it
as a hint to continue the strike, and con-
tinue it they did. It is now in its
fifth week, and among the first fruits
are compulsory idleness for employees
in other South Coast industries, all con-
cerned with the war effort.
The South Coast is a district to which
Communists have always paid special
attention. It was there that they began
their “fight against Fascism” which was
called off as soon as real fighting started,
it being discovered that Ribbentrop and
Matsuoka were "not bad fellows after all.
The twenty-third day of the strike
found the Prime Minister in another
despondent mood. “Today, for what are
avoidable reasons,” he said, “17,000 tons
are being lost.” And the “avoidable
reasons” were fabricated by miners who
“not only refuse to respect the wishes
and policy of the Government but also
refuse to respect and heed the advice of
their leaders.” With results so evil
that “over the whole field of industry the
insecurity of production because of the
decrease of stocks and the uncertainty of
those stocks being renewed is a matter
of grave anxiety to every enterprise.”
Widespread unemployment will be un-
avoidable unless there is increased produc-
tion of coal. Without coal this nation’s
war effort must be impaired. I am not
going to give the enemy comfort by saying
that our war effort will be grievously weak-
ened; but facts are facts and I will not
evade them. I have confessed to this House
—perhaps a sorry confession for a Prime
Minister to make —that I have done my
best. I know that I have done my best.
There are lions in the path—what they
are I have hinted at. I frankly say that
I regard the production of coal as so in-
tegral a part of the war effort that con-
tinued failure to produce coal would make
me reflect very seriously on my personal
capacity to be responsible for the conduct
of the war effort.
At this members gasped, but the peni-
tent without sackcloth and taper was not
finished.
If the miners want some other man to be
the head of the Government, that will not
prevent me from standing aside to permit
more coal to be produced, but if the rank
and file of the miners want to run this
country there must be a contest between
them and the rank and file of the Aus-
tralian people. I know the miners believe
that so long as there is a Labor Govern-
ment in office they will have advantages in
their disputations which they would not
have if an anti-Labor Government were in
office. I will warn them not to place too
much reliance on that belief, because this
Government places the safety of the
country on a much higher level than any
other consideration.
Certainly a unique contribution to poli-
tical history. Mr. Curtin is carrying a
burden of care and responsibility, and it
may in charity be supposed that he some-
times finds it almost too much to bear ;
but other men have been carrying greater
burdens for longer periods without wilt-
ing, much less offering to efface them-
selves so that a dissatisfied or ill-condi-
tioned element may be placated.
It is within the Government’s power
to squelch coalfields anarchy in any of
a dozen ways. It could place the coal-
fields under military control or such con-
trol as is exercised by the Allied Works
Council; it could extend “work or fight,”
so tardily introduced, to “work, fight or
go hungry” ; it could veto strike pay from
the funds of the Miners’ Federation
and “sympathetic” unions ; it could de-
register these organisations and dis-
franchise persistent offenders; it could
call up and train young men for
mine work, as has been done in Britain.
With the defence power at its disposal
there is no legal limit to what it may do
in the way of encouraging production
and stamping out larrikinism disguised as
unionism and poisoned by Communism.
The one thing that has been wanting is
guts.
Backing for a Pact.
Some extraordinary-looking ammunition
is being hurled at the Australia-New
Zealand Agreement by snipers whose
main inspiration appears to be that they
would prefer a vacuum. One really
serious omission from the Agreement
none of the snipers seems upset about.
That is, the practical backing of per-
manently-functioning armed strength for
controlling and defending the regional
area which the two Governments have
agreed is of vital and special importance
to their countries’ interests.
There is no sign anywhere of proposed
practical action on the lines of Dr.
Evatt’s declaration that Australia will
have to continue to support a strong
navy, army and air force. The most con-
crete proposal has come from the R.S.L.
—the formation from the present fighting
forces of a standing army of 100,000 men.
These, apparently, would be regulars, and
it might be doubted whether there would
be enough Australians offering who
would be willing to make soldiering a
career unless rates of pay and other con-
ditions were made equal to those prevail-
ing outside the proposed standing army,
and also whether a permanent force of
that size would be needed, even if Aus-
tralia was willing to support it on the
scale of the implied terms.
Probably the R.S.L. proposal will be
ruled out. The size of it —and also the
state into which the Empire’s armed
strength degenerated through reliance pn
the false fa?ade of the League of Nations
and “collective security”—can be meas-
ured by the fact that the whole regular
establishment of the British Army before
the war was only 218,000. This —on the
assumption that “collective security”
made a major war impossible—was held
sufficient for defending J. Bull’s three
main strategic areas: the Far East, the
Middle East and Britain itself. It meant
that, when the war that was never to
come again on earth inevitably broke
out, the defensive armed strength in each
of the strategic areas was ludicrously
inadequate for the job it was supposed
to do. It meant, also, that the thin lines
had to hold—or try to hold—their respec-
tive areas, trying to gain as much time
as possible while the needed millions
were being hastily, and therefore only
partly, trained.
Australia’s standing army at the time
was a similar bad joke. If it had been
all grouped in the one spot, instead of
being divided up in minute parcels
around all the States, it would have been
inadequate to defend two miles of the
Australian coastline for as many hours.
It totalled less than 3000, having never
recovered from the sweeping blow
struck at the whole Australian defence
establishment by the only Labor Govern-
ment that held office, briefly, in the
whole period between the wars. As with
Britain, it meant that a section of the
community—here the willing ones that
were prepared to volunteer —had to be
hurriedly shaped into an army and sent
away hastily, and therefore only partly
trained, to try to hold the defence lines,
and to be, in only too many instances,
literally sacrifices.
The danger with the Canberra Agree-
ment, as with the wider agreements to
which it is merely a tentative sectional
preliminary, is that another false facade
will be erected and, like the League and
“collective security,” will come to be a
substitute for practical defence measures.
The R.S.L. proposal is probably imprac-
ticable as it stands, but nothing else has
so far been suggested, other than Dr.
Evatt’s general and vague mention of a
strong navy, army and air force. Even
this is Dr, Evatt’s proposal only. The
Canberra Agreement is even more bank-
rupt of anything approaching a concrete
plan. It proposes that
within the framework of a general system
of world securiiy, a regional zone of de-
fence comprising the South-west and South
Pacific areas shall be established, and that
♦his zone shall be based on Australia and
New Zealand, stretching through the arc of
islands north and north-east of Australia to
western Samoa and the Cook Islands.
The Agreement does not —as sniping
critics have suggested, apparently with-
out even bothering to read it—finally
“fence off” the projected area and warn
America and others to keep out. It sen-
sibly names the area as the one, under
any world regional defence setup, which
is obviously of the greatest direct im-
portance to Australia and New Zealand,
and of greater importance to these than to
any other countries. These surely are
propositions beyond dispute by anybody
except those, like Mr. Keith Murdoch,
who would apparently prefer to give away
parts of the area in which a controlling
interest is already held or those who,
like Senator McLeay, appear to think
that it’s a form of heresy for the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Governments
to dare to state what they agree to be
the first interests of their countries in the
future Pacific, and that everything should
have been left for decision by Washing-
ton and London.
The Agreement, however, does not in-
dicate how it is proposed to contribute
towards “policing” the rather vast area
envisaged as a special-interest zone.
Neither the makers nor the critics of the
Canberra Agreement have given any
evidence of having even thought of this
aspect. Yet if Australia and New Zea-
land are to represent jointly the Pacific
Power which they implicitly assume them-
selves to be in the Canberra Agreement
each will need to evolve an entirely dif-
ferent outlook on its own home-defence
arrangements from that existing when the
war started.
As far as the Australian Government is
concerned, there will have to be an even
more prodigious somersaulting than its
Ministers and Parliamentary supporters
have already managed. It will have to
be realised that a strong permanent de-
fence establishment is absolutely vital to
apy country with pretensions, however
ambitious, to be regarded as a Power.
Perhaps, despite its wretched defence
record, even this Government now ac-
cepts that a strong air force will have to
be maintained—the risk with it' is that
that is probably all it would regard as
necessary. It began the war by opposing
the revival of the A.1.F., and it has given
ample reason for the suspicion that it re-
gards the whole existing ground forces as
something of a necessary evil. This last
is pointed by the calling up for the army
of non-working coalminers, apparently
considered by the Government, and
strangely by many others besides, as the
most drastic of punishments!
With this sort of outlook, together with
the past record of its members, this Gov-
ernment, at least, would most probably
not continue the compulsory military
training of Australian youth a day longer
than actual war made necessary. Though
it has been only too glad to continue the
compulsory training which another Gov-
ernment reintroduced against its strenu-
ous opposition, it is still wedded to the
“voluntary system,” and there is nothing
surer than that it will revert to it wholly
at the first opportunity. Because, owing
to what is actually a poorly disguised
compulsion to volunteer, the “system’’
is working now, it will be argued that
it will continue to work for all necessary
purposes in time of peace. That, of
course, will prove ■ fallacious, as it did
when Mr. Parkhill sought the answer to
Australian reluctance to do voluntary
soldiering in peace-time in decking the
forces out in sundry varieties of fancy
dress, including kilts. But if the fa?ade
of false security is once more made pre-
tentious enough the probability is that
nobody will notice the hoax.
Accepting that air strength and pos-
sibly naval strength as well have a reason-
able chance of being ensured, even by
the present Government, an army of
considerable dimensions, adequately
trained and equipped, will still be neces-
sary if the Canberra Agreement is to
be carried through to its logical end.
Part of that army should be formed on
the lines suggested by the R.S.L., though
perhaps it could be done less am-
bitiously. The balance should be ensured
by the thorough compulsory training for
a fixed period of all Australian youth on
reaching the age of 17 or 18. To be
thorough the training would need to be
carried out in part in the forward areas
that are eventually decided upon and
agreed to by the other nations as this
country’s special defence domain.
With some such arrangement as this
backing it the Canberra Agreement could
well be one of the wisest acts of states-
manship ever accomplished by the coun-
tries concerned. Without some such back-
ing it will be merely another false fa?ade
—like the League of Nations and “collec-
tive security,” an actual menace in the
pretension of affording security where
there is none.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Zionist Claims.
Professor Julius Stone, now unofficial
leader of the New Zionism and an
Army Research Directorate lieutenant-
colonel (at £lOl2 p.a.) in his (very
recently) adopted country, has published
an Open Letter to Isaac Isaacs in which
the former Governor-General and Chief
Justice is compared, greatly to his dis-
advantage, with the late Justice Brandeis
(U.S.A.). On the other hand, Mr.
Churchill is extolled on the score of
utterances made as a freelance. Mr.
Lloyd George is also mentioned.
In The Truth About the Peace Treaties,
Mr. Lloyd George said a great deal about
Justice Brandeis and Mr. Churchill in
relation to the Palestine Mandate.
Mr. Brandeis, on behalf of “myself and
all those associated with me in the
Zionist Organisation of America,” caused
a message to be sent to Mr. Lloyd George
demanding the inclusion in Palestine of
parts, of Lebanon, Syria and Trans-
jordan.
On north, Palestine must include Litany
River watersheds of Hermon; on east, must
include Plain of Jaulan Hauran.. ...These
boundaries must be conceded to Palestine.
It prompted the French delegate, M.
Berthelot, to say that Mr. Brandeis had
“a much exaggerated sense of his own
importance.” Mr. Lloyd George’s own
comment was that “the Judge’s geo-
graphy was at fault, and it might be as
well if he studied more authoritative and
accurate maps.”
Mr. Churchill was then Secretary for
War. In a statement to the Imperial
Cabinet he reminded it of the “equal
pledge that we would not turn the
ATab off his land or invade his
political and sociaT rights,” and pointed
out that “the idea the Arabs have in
mind is that they are going to be swamped
and overwhelmed by hundreds of thou-
sands of Bolsheviks from Central
Europe.”
None of these quotations appeared in
the newcomer’s Open Letter.
With the elections due in November
U.S. politicians have been actively sup-
porting the Zionist claims. A bill de-
manding continued Jewish immigration
into Palestine was, it seems, to have been
introduced in the Senate. It was scotched
by General Marshall, who told the
Foreign Relations Committee that the
measure would disturb relations with the
Arabs and hamper the prosecution of
the war.
And now, perhaps, Mr. Stone will
write an Open Letter to General Mar-
shall.
Elegant Extracts.
They are all from speeches and pro-
ceedings in the seventeenth Common-
wealth Parliament; period February 10
to March 1. Pride of place naturally goes
to Mr. Ward, the Minister of Transport
and External Territories:
Shortly after the outbreak of war I pointed
out that it was unwise to denude this country
of its man-power, because by doing so we were
actually rendering a disservice to the Allied
cause. Members opposite were clamoring for
the dispatch overseas of a number of divisions
of Australian troops. We then pointed out that
the most effective role Australia could play was
that of the great supplier to the Allied nations,
and that we should devote our efforts to build-
ing up supplies to that end. That view has
been proved to be correct.
No A.1.F., Bardia, Tobruk or El
Alamein. “We’ll take the cash and let
the credit go.” Said Darlinghurst’s own
Ed. on the Empire’s armageddon, “H’m,
we’ll supply the duff and pie the comba-
tants are fed on,”
One of our great disadvantages has been the
fact that the native peoples over whom we had
control —and I now refer to Great Britain —
were not so enthusiastically pro-British as one
would imagine after experiencing many years of
the alleged benefits of British colonial ad-
ministration. Some doubt also exists as to
the loyalty of great numbers of Indians to the
British cause. In Malaya, troops had to be
withdrawn from the firing line to discharge cargo
from ships because native laborers at Singapore
deserted. The natives- saw no reason to be en-
thusiastic in defending a form of government
which had kept them in a state of illiteracy and
semi-starvation.
Is it not a fact that cocktail parties were
continued even when the enemy was getting dan-
gerously close to Singapore? I have heard it
said that the military caste in that theatre of
war spent the bulk of their time at such parties,
and were in a semi-drunken state when they
should have been attending to their military
duties.
More progress has been made in Soviet Russia
in 25 years than has been achieved' by any
capitalist country in ten times that period.
British and American imperialists are alarmed
at what the success of the Soviet armies may
bring. There has been a widely shared opinion,
not only in Australia but also in other countries,
that certain of the United Nations tend to try
to withhold their strength, and to build it up
while allowing the Soviet to bleed itself white,
so that when the conflict terminates they will
be the strongest military influence at the Peace
Conference.
We in this country must ourselves prepare
to give to the workers of Australia some re-
ward for their efforts. What do the opponents
of the Labor party propose? Why do they
talk about preference to returned soldiers? If
employment i-j to be provided for everyone
k
who is able to work, why is there any need for
preference to returned soldiers?
Mr. Ward to Mr. Curtin:
I am surprised and regret that anyone has
misconstrued the meaning intended to be con-
veyed by me. 1 can assure you that it was not
my intention to reflect adversely in any way
whatever upon the Government, either of Great
Britain or any other allied country.
Mr. Curtin: I accepted the statement of the
Minister as constituting a withdrawal of any
charges that might have been made. I also
accept his statement as a clear indication that it
was not his intention to make charges against
the Government of the United Kingdom. 1
was therefore quite ready to allow the incident
to close.
Pilot-Officer Falstein, M-H.R., and
others; —
Mr. Falstein: After qualifying as a pilot
and again successfully contesting the elections,
1 asked several times for an operational posting.
I was informed by the Minister for Air that
no opportunity would be available to me to serve
operationally for a long time He, together
with other members, advised me to seek a
transfer to the R.A.A.F. Reserve, and he gave
me to understand that this would be approved.
Mr. Drakeford (Minister for Air): I abso-
lutely refute the statement that I said no oppor-
tunity would be available for him to serve
operationally for a long time. The only basis
that the honorable member can have for making
such a statement is in his own imagination. The
statement is entirely incorrect, and he knows it
as well as I do. I told him there were two
courses open to him —either he could go on with
the duties that he had been trained for or he
could transfer to the reserve. He made his
choice, and he should not now try to put the
responsibility on someone else for the action
he took.
Abridgment of a Ministerial reply to
questions asked by Senator Sampson, one
of wTfich was “Is it a fact that Pilot-
Officer Falstein won the Watson seat with
the prestige of an officer destined for
operational duties against the enemy?”
On August 21 [election day], as in the case
of all flying personnel, he was subject to post-
ing for operational duties against the enemy.
He applied for transfer to reserve on December
11. Average cost of training in such cases
approximates £3OOO. In pay and allowances, in-
cluding dependants’ allowance, Pilot-Officer Fal-
stein has drawn £365 Is. 6d.
A Coal Bill interlude;
Mr. Menzies to Mr. Conelan (Griffith):
Whatever the Government does you will vote
for it cheerfully?
Mr. Conelan: Of course! What am I here
for?
A compliment from Calare:
Mr. Breen: The Prime Minister is about to
go abroad. On previous occasions I have
praised the right honorable gentleman for his
work in Australia’s war effort. No other man
could have rallied the nation as he has done.
As my benediction to him before his departure,
I say that in 1917, when they sent him to gaol
for his war activities, he did more for humanity
and for Australia than he did in 1944, when
the people cheered him.
Such are our rulers, or some of them,
such the movements of their minds.
C. Evatt Under Fire.
Not for the first time, Mr. C. Evatt, the
Sydney Minister for Education, has been
compelled to answer public criticism, and
not for the first time he has tried to
bluster his way out. A C. Evatt speech in
the Leg. Assembly ended a month during
which his administration of child welfare
has been flayed to death.
It began with the publication, in “S. M.
Herald,” of two dreadfully pertinent,
articles by Mrs. Tenison-Woods, a mem-
ber of the Child Welfare Advisory Coun-
cil. They horrified people without inside
knowledge of the administration, but
ten organisations arose to support Mrs.
Tenison-Woods.
As an answer to the charges Mr. Evatt
waved a list of buildings planned or being
constructed and additions to old build-
ings. Child-welfare people acidly pointed
out that buildings, like patriotism, were
not enough; what was needed was a
careful and scientific approach to the
problem of orphaned, neglected and de-
linquent children by specialists in the
work and, above all, separation of the
three classes of children for special
treatment.
After that the Child Welfare Advisory
Council, a statutory body whose function
is to advise the Minister, expressed its
lack of confidence in the “present depart-
mental administration,” said that its
“patience had been tried long enough”
and urged that control of child welfare
be entrusted to “a commission of three
expert persons to be chosen for their
knowledge, vision and capacity to make
that vision a reality.”
Instead of acknowledging that an
appalling case for reform had been made
out, Mr. C. Evatt produced a “Child-
care Committee,” or maybe it just hap-
pened. Two gentlemen named as mem-
bers hurriedly disowned the show. Mrs.
Jessie Street, of the “Sheepskins for
Russia” lottery (now frowned on by
Mr. Badly in Mr. Badly’s way), revealed
that the “Child-care Committee” was
. actually the progeny or adoption of
the “Care of the Child in War-time
Committee,” and that its stationery
bore the imprint of the “Secretariat,
National Fitness Building, Macquarie-
street.” Two church groups ex-
pressed their amazement at finding their
names on the letterhead, and denied any
connection with Mrs. Street’s outfit, as
did the acting-chairman of the National
Fitness Council.
In his Assembly speech Mr. C. Evatt
chose to treat the whole thing as a pre-
election stunt, making the usual fulsome
claims. To which Mrs. Tenison-Woods
replied coldly that “not one voice has
been raised in praise of Mr. Evatt’s ad-
ministration but his own.”
Wheat Looks Up.
“8.C.” on a national headache:
Melbourne “Age” published a- sober article
on the inferences to be drawn from the latest
sale to the British Food Ministry of 40,000,000
bushels, which isn’t far short of the normal Aus-
tralian annual consumption. The new sale is at
ss. 4RI. bagged and 4s. lid. bulk f.o.b. east of
Suez, and 4s. lOfd. and 4s. sd. respectively west
of Suez. This is something new on a buying
basis for Australia and suggests a holding in
the Middle East for the present and future re-
lief of Europe, Russia, India and China. The
prices are up 3Jd. to sd. a bushel on the
previous sale of 44,000,000 bushels.
The change seems to follow the trip made by
C. J. Perrert, of the Australian, Wheat Board;
orders for more than 80,000,000 bushels have
come from the B.F.M. since he went to Britain.
The “Age” remarks that wheat interests are
confident that prospects were never brighter
since the war began, adding that Russia has
probably suffered so much damage in the
Ukraine th&t it may have to import for some
years, that home consumption in America has
increased by 360,000,000 bushels a year, and is
still rising, and that China, with its rice supply
from Burma cut off and much of its rice and
wheat land overrun by the Japs, is likely to
need a lot of our wheat.
All of which, though it doesn’t mention ship-
ping, makes very good reading and gives some
ground for optimism. A section of growers
has put in a claim for a guarantee of 4s. a
bushel for all wheat grown. But it remains to
be seen whether Russia and China are pre-
pared t'o pay the same price as the British Food
Ministry, and futures based on Lend-Lease
ideas are, at the best, open to doubt.
In the mechanised world which will un-
doubtedly follow this war production of grain
will be on a colossal scale in U.S.A. and
Canada the minute they think they have a
market. And what a revived Russia —situated
between Asia and Europe—will do with Wheat
is worth thinking about.
Meantime, though Commerce Minister Scully
is hinting that farmers should grow more wheat,
he hasn’t said how they’re to do it without
super., fuel and man-power, let alone work out
the multiplicity of forms with which they're
plagued
THE NEW ADMIRAL OF THE ADRIATIC.
"O. Sole Mio-sky.”


TH47-
: :
w
£re *
HAVE JOB
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sol© Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BT* 9-44,
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
"Si
C
V...
mmm
7
i,. *t.
: I s m
' - - ..••• ' '“'<M
df
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
POLITICAL POINTS
The excited speculations of Canberra
commentators were shattered when Dean
Maitland Hughes broke his silence. So
far from dramatically parting company
with the U.A.P. and seeking Labor mem-
bership again, as one young gentleman
forecast, Billy merely added another to
the hundreds of speeches he has made
over 35 years on the need for greater
Commonwealth powers. But the pith of
it was in the last sentence: “I shall vote
against the taking of a referendum in
war-time, but if it is decided to do this
1 shall recommend it to the people.” And
with the wisdom that-comes of sad ex-
perience, he knows, as Page does and has
said, that the answer will be in the nega-
tive.
In flat contempt of Parliamentary privi-
lege, already under discussion, a com-
munications censor tampered with another
letter addressed to A. G. Cameron,
M.H.R., and this after it had been passed
by a military censor, Cameron suggested
that the snooper should be called to the
Bar of the House “to answer for his im-
pudence.” Cut-and-Run said it was “not”
his “business” to “interfere with such
practices until the committee of privi-
lege has presented its report.” A typical
Cut-and-Run reply Cut-and-Run had
previously offered to resign if it would
please the coalminers. What’s become
of John Curtin?
Clauses .providing for “freedom of
speech” and “expression,” “free exercise”
of “religion” (in effect, extending Con-
stitution Section 116 to the States) and
Parliamentary review of regulations are
to go into the referendum measure. For
weeks past sundry little editors and
lawyer-politicians have been urging this
addition and trying to show that each
of them thought it up spontaneous-like.
If accepted at the polls the clauses will
operate for five years. Eyewash!
Remarks of Dr. A. R. Callaghan, on
resuming his job as principal of Rose-
worthy Agricultural College (S.A.):
Most of my grey hairs came while I lived
as a nomad between Melbourne, Canberra
and Sydney, exercising my priority privileges
in a vain attempt to do something that
would ultimately prove to be politically ex-
pedient. I was relieved when directed to
return to the college, being satisfied that
unless I could serve with freedom of de-
cision as Commonwealth Director of Agri-
cultural Organisation my serviced might be
better outside that organisation than within.
They were written while Scully was pro-
claiming himself a wizard of food-pro-
duction and -control.
Queensland Labor thought it was as
smart as paint when it abolished prefer-
ential voting. Now it is not so sure. In
Bulimba and Enoggera it has to run can-
didates against men it expelled for “Aid
Russia” activities. That means vote-split-
ting, from which the Q.P.P. will benefit;
and both electorates have been anti-
Labor.
An Eire request for U.S.A. ships was
refused at Washington, it being drily
pointed out that the Allies, when short
themselves, had furnished two, each of
which had been “wantonly and inexcus-
ably” sunk by U-boats without an offi-
cial protest from Dublin. There followed
a request for the expulsion of Axis diplo-
matic and consular representatives from
Eire ; and that was refused. With great
operations impending, the Allies hate the
thought of Germans and Japs hanging
round Eire with diplomatic privileges,
and they are naturally keen on an arrange-
ment with that country such as they made
with Portugal, without any unpleasant
consequences to that country. All the
same, political reactions may be bad for
the President, whose post-Tehran policy
has been criticised in quarters previously
favorable, and whose party continues to
lose by-elections.
From “S. M. Herald” C4/3/’44);
The Chief Secretary, Mr. Baddeley, said
he had received a police report on the find-
ing of •’art-union” tickets some time ago on
a vacant allotment at Camperdown. The
police had questioned the extent of his
powers, and he had referred the papers to
the Crown Law authorities for a ruling.
In the meantime no further “art unions” of
the description would be permitted.
The “art union” was “Sheepskins for
Russia.” You could still buy tickets in
it last week, if you wanted to.
NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
“The time will come when almost every one of the present restrictions will be removed, to be
replaced by regulations.”— Dedman.
“And as soon as we let you out we’ll clap these on you.”
According to Senator Keane, a 2 } 2 in.
lizard was found pickled in a bottle of
black-market wine labelled “Very Fine
Old Sherry.” It is not stated that the
black-marketeer made any extra charge.
In a well-ordered country there would be
an extra bit of soap on his rope.
Premier Cooper (Q.) has been returned
unopposed for the Bremer seat, which he
has held for nearly 30 years, once more.
Others must wait till the voters have
their say on April 15. The Labor Gov-
ernment in the last Parliament held
38 of the 62 seats, and says it will
hold them all. Lud Mayor Chandler’s
Q.P.P. is after 30, mostly metropolitan,
and the C.P. reckons on winning 15. So
everybody is full of optimism, except the
electors.
With an election in sight Playford is
not pulling his punches. Pointinc out
that his State’s Leigh Creek coalfield,
opened up in spite of Canberra opposi-
tion, now has over 130,000 tons of coal
ready for delivery, he said that Common-
wealth authorities had objected to its
use in a wheat distillery on the ground
that the coal would not be available when
the boilers were installed. “Evidently,”
he remarked, “South Australian methods
are not understood. The coal is ready
and waiting, while the distillery is far
from complete.”
It must have hurt a lot of writing boys
to have to profess sympathy with the
Finns when a neighbor with 55 times
their population attacked them. “Now the
Finns are about to get their ears pinned
back,” exults the Tommy-scorning Ald-
ridge. “Gallant Little Finland!” sneered
Sydney “Sun's” Sunday issue. Washing-
ton, very wisely and generously, is treat-
ing Finland as a little nation which de-
serves to be saved from the consequences
of a mistaken foreign policy. The sneer
at its courage came from a paper which
had no defence policy, and whose wor-
ship of flappers and Hollywood morons
left it in such a state of mind that when
its editor visited Malaya he could report
only that the A.I.F, needed, not more
air cover, but more picture shows, leave
and leave pay, “material for sport” and
removal from the sight of rubber-trees to
mountain scenery, complete with pubs
and rest-houses and the things that go
along with them. And that was only a
couple of months before the Japs charged
in.
Said W. J. P. Stack, of the Allied
Works Council, on his return from a
U.S.A. tour;
One of the greatest difficulties Australia
suffers there is the lack of first-hand and
authoritative information in the right
quarters.
Grossly unfair, considering that there is
a branch of the Information Department
which sees that newspaper editors are
kept in touch with the thrilling doings
and sayings of Messrs. Curtin, Forde,
Chifley, Evatt, Beasley, Makin, Keane,
Holloway, Drakeford, Scully, Ashley,
Dedman, Codings, Fraser, Frost, Lazza-
rini, Cameron, Calwell and —with dis-
cretion —Ward.
Claims presented to the War Damage
Commission have reached £10,818,000.
They have come, not only from Papua
and mainland New Guinea, but from
New Britain, New Ireland and the Solo-
mons —for islands like Bougainville and
Buka and the Admiralties also were held
under Australian mandate, though the
fact is not paraded at Canberra. By the
irony of events, the “responsible” Minister
is Ward, who crowned a career of virulent
hostility to defence preparations by try-
ing to get a legal prohibition on the pro-
tection of the external territories by
called-up men. Had Australians, with
their great fighting qualities and since-
proved ability in the construction of war
machines and weapons, been properly
organised for a tropical war, the country
very probably would have been spared
most of these claims and most of the
calamities and humiliations that came
upon it for lack of preparedness.
First among the union bosses listed as
being “alarmed at the imminent prospect
of widespread idleness among heav>-
industry workers at Port Kembla” were
Thornton’s mob. Alarm on such a score
is a new experience for this crowd. In
October they called a one-day stoppage
at the steelworks and threatened another,
with a strike to follow, if their claims
were not conceded. Previously Thornton
boasted that strikes were the policy of
the union: “We made strikes our busi-
ness.” That, though in the no-balance-
sheet period, was before he turned
Second-Fronter with the rest of the home-
keeping brotherhood, being on his own
showing a hot-gospeller against “the im-
perialist war” and proud of it.
A Sydney case reported in a union
paper shows how union power grows
even on the legal side while power to
restrain union bosses and union mobs
guilty of sabotaging the war effort falls
out of nerveless hands. The boss of the
Furnishing Trades, one Schreiber, had
two night-shift cabinet-makers haled to
the Industrial Court for having done a
casual day job at 3s. 3d. an hour for a
small manufacturer who was ill. As the
award prescribes a full day’s pay for any
work done during a day they “failed to
receive the correct award rate” and be-
came lawbreakers:
The defendant employees were each con-
victed. Davidson was fined £7 10s. or 15
days’ light labor and £1 4s. costs; Mc-
Donald, £5 or 10 days’ light labor, and 14s.
costs. The magistrate further ordered that
half the fines be paid to the union, a pro-
vision of the recently amended Industrial
Arbitration Act.
So in this Labor-union country it can
be a jailing or a fining and union-enrich-
ing matter to help a sick man out of a
hole.
Mr. Man-power Bellemore to The
Bulletin :
I am asking persons with cookery training
to volunteer as cooks in N.S.W. hospitals.
I shall be glad if you will provide me with
information (name, address, identity-card
number and age) concerning any person
with cookery training employed by your or-
ganisation.
The Bulletin has no one with the neces-
sary qualifications. Such cooking as is
done on the premises is confined to geese.
Victoria’s first consolidated school on
the Education Department’s new plan is
now in operation at Murrayville in the
Mallee. All small schools in the area
have been closed and children 15 miles
away are taken by bus to the consoli-
dated seminary. Murrayville escaped
the bushfires, so the scholars are free to
study political science and other subjects.
One of the first lessons ought to concern
Dunstan’s admission that a Parliamentary
session to discuss bushfires would be
useless.


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
WO.
■f&i
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
uponfExide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipnient. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
BATTERIES
STILL ¥ TNG WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Major-General H. J. Kippenberser,
G.O.C. of the N.Z. division in Italy,
having been so badly wounded that ne
will not be fit for further active service,
Maoriland has lost a brilliant and daring
soldier. Both the general’s feet were
destroyed by a mine explosion in a for-
ward battle area at Cassino, Only lately
promoted, at 46, on the appointment of
General Freyberg to a corps, he served
2\ years in the last war, and enlisted for
the present one in September, 1939. He
sailed as a lieutenant-colonel with the first
N.Z. echelon, and commanded the rear-
guard in the epic retreat from Olympus
and the brigade in Crete which held the
Galatos-Malemi, area. Promoted briga-
dier in 1941, after being wounded, he has
won the D.S.O. and bar. He was cap-
tured in a dressing station while
wounded, but made a gallant escape with
20 others—in open daylight he rushed an
enemy truck, haled his comrades aboard
and drove hell-for-leather to safety. A
barrister, he hails from Rangiora, North
Canterbury.
As deputy-director under the late
Group-Captain W. A. Robertson and as
director, Group-Captain R. R. Radford
has seen and helped the A.T.C. grow to
the stage where it has 12,000 prospective
airmen in training, after having already
supplied 7000 fine y*6ung fellows to the
R.A.A.F., 5000 of them for air crews
and the rest to technical ground
HEAD OF THE A.T.C.
jobs. Those who have already gone
through are now flying everything fly-
able on all fronts. A Leicestershire-
man who came to Australia in 1911 and
got into the W.A. Railways, Group-Cap-
tain Radford has one of the most notable
birthdays in all the lists of such occa-
sions—he was 21 on the morning of the
Gallipoli Landing, and was at the Land-
ing that morning. On Gallip. till Decem-
ber 19, with a mention in dispatches, he
was subsequently in France and Belgium,
being twice gassed and at Messines win-
ning the M.M, After that scrapping he
happened on to McGill’s agency for
technical books, with his h.q. in Mel-
bourne, and so was well set when the
present war led him to the R.A.A.F. and
so up to his present post, which covers
the whole of Australia.
Reached his 80th milestone in Mel-
bourne, Archbishop Mannix. He still
keeps up his episcopal duties, and there
has been no falling-off in his command
of terse English, Last year Dr. J. D.
Simonds, of Tasmania, was made coadju-
tor archbishop, a position Dr. Mannix
held for five years before the death of
Archbishop Carr.
A particularly good choice has been
made in picking Dr. Thomas Wood to
come and tell Australia the story of
Britain’s contribution towards winning
the war —a job that seems to need doing,
though most honest-minded Australians
have a fair general idea of the strong
facts in J. Bull’s favor. The big thing
in Dr. Wood’s favor is that when he re-
ported to J.B. on Australia in his excel-
lent little book Cobbers he did it with
a fairness that will ensure Australians
now having complete confidence in what
he’ll have to say for J.B.
Charles Barrett is adding to his long
list of books The Island of Mountains —
Tassie, to which Barrett paid a three-
months’ semi-official visit, travelling 6000
miles without anywhere near exhausting
the possibilities. In one country house
which has been in continuous occupation
by the same family for 130 years he dined
at a table that used to accommodate 80
guests in the spacious pioneer days. Two
cottages that specially interested him as
a Melburnian were Batman’s and Fawk-
ner’s, which he’d like to see bought and
transported to the mainland. When some
years ago an offer was made for Fawk-
ner’s original dwelling, the owner replied
that Victoria could have it for six koalas.
Payment in that currency was then out
of the question, but it might be done
now, since the Fisheries and Game De-
partment is considering distributing the
bears of Phillip Island to areas more
secure from bushfires. Barrett com-
menced his literary career when with the
Aus. Camel Field Ambulance in Egypt
and Palestine in the 1914-18 war. He
was editor of “Kia-ora Coo-ee,” official
organ of the A.I.F. and N.Z. forces,
Melbourne has what is reputed to be
the third largest Braille library in the
world, due mainly to Miss Minnie Crabb,
who has been connected with it for 37
years. When she started the library was
in small private rooms. She retires on
March 31, having accomplished a monu-
mental work on behalf of the blind in
Victoria.
Without question knight Colin Fraser,
who passed on in Melbourne last week-
end at 69, was Australia’s foremost
mining man. What specially distinguished
him was his practical approach very
strong on the technical side, he always
believed in looking at a mine or mining
country personally. Even late in life,
when he was director of a host of mining
and other concerns, he made a long ’plane
journey to examine a prospective mine
on the spot, though the trip must have
put a severe strain on him. Originally
a Maorilander, born in a mining centre
—Coromandel —he took his M.Sc. at
Auckland University by spare-time study
while working in the Bank of N.Z. Head-
ing abroad, after working for several
years as mining geologist to the M.L.
Government, he’d already made a big
name for himself when he came to Aus-
tralia in 1914. A year later he was joint
managing director of Broken Hill Assoc.
Smelters, and subsequently took a leading
hand in guiding the affairs of a long
string of successful Broken Hill and
other concerns. When the present war
started he was one of the real experts that
Government found very handy to have
about the place—from 1940 he did a
great job as Director of Materials Supply
to the Department of Munitions.
General manager A. J. Johns has bid
good-bye to New Zealand Insurance after
half a century with it, g.m. since 1929.
His successor, F. R. Baker, joined the
company about 40 years back, had four
years’ service in the 1914-18 war, and
managed the co.’s branch in Buenos
Aires for many years before returning to
Maoriland last June to become acting
g.m.
Award of the D.F.C. to Flight-Lieut.
Richard David Lucas was a sequel to
an exciting bit of scrapping. Lucas was
captain of a Sunderland which destroyed
a U-boat 200 miles off the West Ireland
coast. The sub. tried to fight the Sunder-
land off with a dense box barrage. Feint-
ing at climbing, the pilot kidded the
Fritzes to raise the barrage, then dived
down to 50ft. for the ’plane’s front gunner
to mow down the sub.’s gunners. Two
depth charges then blew the sub. to pieces.
While the duel was at its hottest the
Sunderland’s cook threw the crew s
dinner overboard, either from excitement
or perhaps to make a certainty of sink-
ing the sub. Flight-Lieut. Lucas, educated
at Randwick Intermediate and Sydney
High, was a first-grader at hockey before
taking to the air when he turned 18. His
folk Jive at Bondi (Sydney); his father,
Aid. J. A. Lucas, was the original state
f p or
organiser lor me j5..0.1.
’ At 46, C.O. for the R.A.A.F. recruit-
irm ronfro in S A Cecil Molle Feez be-
mg centre in a.a., cecu iviot e reez oe
longs to a well-known Queensland lamily
of lawyers and polo players. Friends
R.A.A.F. RECRUITING C.O.
have converted his first handle to Bill,
and the unusual surname is pronounced
“Fates.” Himself a Queensland polo
rep., the" airman owns 1400 acres of the
Darling Dpwns. In the 1914-18 war he
went away as artillery, but took to the
air, was shot down nine months before
the Armistice and for that time was
p.o.w. in Germany. Three years later he
was fit enough to captain the Pilton Club,
polo champions of Queensland.
Richard G. Watson, the Beaudesert
(Q.) man who represents Australian pig
harvesters on the Australian Meat Board,
hasn’t made as much money out of his
herd of Large White grunters as big
American pig man Mr. Walt Disney, who
made a fortune out of three little ones ;
still, Richard G. W. is convinced that
Large Whites are the best. Breeders
of Middle Whites, Tammies, Berks.,
Poland Chinas and Wessex Saddlebacks
are convinced that their fancy is the best.
Average Australians no doubt reckon
that if they live long enough to get their
teeth into a hunk of bacon again they
R. Q. WATSON.
won’t give a darn whether it’s a Beau-
desert Pole or an Artesian Bore. Watson,
a chartered accountant, used to play golf
and billiards, but has given both up,
which shows what getting mixed up with
a lot of anilnated bagpipes can do for a
man. Always craving for the land, he
took on pigs in 1926, and, with the aid
of irrigation and, lucerne, has made a
do of it.
From W.A., on airmen M.C. winners:
Another airman besides Squadron-Leader
Fowler, of the R.A.F., to win the M.C. was
the late Squadron-Leader R. C. Phillipps, for-
merly of the Australian Flying Corps, who was
awarded that decoration during the last war
“in recognition of gallantry and distinguished
service in flying operations against the enemy,”
and a little later the bar to it for “conspicuous
gallantry and devotion to duty when engaged
with hostile aircraft... .particularly on one
occasion when he flew through a heavy barrage
at a low altitude behind the enemy dines and
brought back accurate and valuable informa-
tion.” For further gallant services later he
was awarded the D.F.C. The intention of King
George V, who originated the M.C. and M.M.
and personally decorated Squadron-Leader
Phillipps at Buckingham Palace, obviously was
not that the M.C. should be restricted to honor-
ing army or other services on the ground,
but should be open to any brave soldier, airman
or military, who could win it. Squadron-Leader
Phillipps offered his services again on the out-
break of the present war and was given com-
mand of a training school. He was killed over
two years ago in a night flying accident. [An
explanation given to The Bulletin by a high-
ranking airman who also won the M.C. in the '
last war is that at that time airmen in the
British service were army, and not a separate
arm as at present. That accounts for the M.C.
having been won by a number of airmen in the
last war, whereas in the present war airmen
winners of both M.C. and M.M. have done their
decoration-winning service where the army
operates.]
A world’s record is claimed by H. T.
Tuwhangi, of Kawhia, North Auckland
(M.L.), for shearing 417 ewes in nine
hours. The shearing was done on H.
Robinson's farm, Putaruru, and the per-
formance was supervised by a TP.
From his first public service appoint-
ment as assistant postman, “Horrie”
Jarman, an old Digger, has gone up to
chief area finance officer in Brisbane. In
his war service, in which he way seriously
wounded, he took part in the historic
march from Tel-el-Kebir to Moascar,
and \yas one of those who finished the
course.
When Montgomery found an Aus-
tralian among three officers of the 7th
British Armored Division presented to
him in Tripoli, he said he wished he had
the Ninth back under him again. The
officer was Major John Godsell Foreman,
M.C. In the first R.A.A.F. training
school in 1926 he went from there to the
R.A.F., returned to civil life on the
death of his father two years later and
became Town Clerk of Cottesloe, keep-
ing up military training with the militia.
When war broke out he joined the A.1.F.,
was one of several A.I.F. men selected
for battle training in the Middle East
and was attached to the 7th 8.A.D.,
which made a name for itself in North
Africa and had a habit of constantly
meeting and beating the 16th Panzers.
Foreman was with the 7th at Salerno
and got an M.C. for. his part in the
Mondragone attack. Kalgoorlie-born, he
is a product of Perth Modern School.
Due to retire last August, J. J. Keogh,
chief of the C. 1.8. in N.S.W., hung on
because of police shortage, but has now
decided to call it a day, after service
dating from 1906. The job is being
taken by T. Wickham, a while back in
charge of the Parkes police district and
since then getting a close-up view of the
seamy side of things as head of the Drug
Squad.
Into the silence: ‘
Padre “Jack” Harper, of the Anglican
Church, first Maoriland padre to be killed in
action in this war. He left Christchurch with
the artillery and served with them in Syria, at
Alamein, through the North African campaigns
and in Italy with the Eighth Army. He was
killed by an h.e. shell while talking to artillery-
men in a forward position in front of Cassino.
At 52, J. E. Martin, former Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Taxation and for a time secretary of
Melbourne’s Stock Exchange, of which he later
became a member. Among the many flotations
in which he had more than a finger were
Manton’s, Davies Coop, Olympic Tyre and
Prestige. He raised more than £1,000,000 for
these concerns.
At 85, in Melbourne, knight Henry Maudsley,
an Englishman who made for himself an out-
standing name in Australian medicine. Nephew
of a noted specialist in mental diseases, he took
his M.D. in London, came to Australia in 1888
and held the position of hon. physician and
pathblogist to Royal Melbourne until the retiring
age of 60. In the official history of the Aus-
tralian army medical service he gets extended
mention for his work with No. 1 A.G.H. at
Heliopolis. Towards the end he collaborated
with his son, Dr. Henry Maudsley, in a
psychiatrical clinic in Melbourne.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”; In warning wine-drinkers that
much black - market “bombo” and
“plonk” was being sold Senator Keane
instanced a bottle described on an attrac-
tive label as “very fine old sherry” in
which a lizard was found “pickled.”
What of it? Though personally not a
bombo connoisseur, 1 contend that such
honesty in advertising deserves praise
rather than censure. Here is a manu-
facturer, perhaps a sad-eyed exile trying
to struggle along on a tax-free £5O a
going to the trouble of catching
lizards to put in his bottles just to prove
to his prospective clients the potency of
the beverage he purveys. Obviously
pinky that will pickle a lizard should
assay at six fights or \\ homicidal attacks
to the bottle. Can any of those vintners
who purvey a liquid clear enough to see
through, and containing no reptile
corpses, guarantee that the drinker will,
after the first gulp and fight for air, see
a multitude of bigger and better and
more ferocious lizards outside the bottle?
Let us be fair!
* * * *
“Par Avion”: Mention in the news of
a giant passenger ’plane designed in Eng-
land “to carry 200 passengers England-
New Zealand non-stop in 40 hours” —it
is not so very long ago-since such a jour-
ney, by sea, was a six-weeks’ affair —
brings home the shrinkage of the globe
very vividly. In Maoriland, the Ultima
Thule of the Empire to most Englishmen,
I watched, less than 40 years ago, the
attempts to rise into the air of a pioneer
experimenter who had attached a motor-
cycle engine to bamboo-and-canvas
wings. We onlookers were aware the
Wrights had flown some years before,
but we could see for ourselves that fly-
ing % was an utterly fantastic, hazardous
and impracticable business. “Aviation
in New Zealand!” we chuckled sardoni-
cally to each other. But the Maorilanders,
like the rest of the world, have taken to
the air. Last year a R.N.Z.A.F. crew flew
a big Dakota transport ’plane 3704 miles
in 23 hours 31 min. “chock to chock” in
the S.-W. Pacific. It’s a record, if not a
very sensational one in these days—but
what would the Maoriland sceptics of 40
years ago have said to anyone who sug-
gested its possibility?
* * . * *
“Pitt St.”: Helpful suggestion by Syd-
ney “Sun,” to do with the calling-up of
women for canneries. Man-power Direc-
torate is advised that
There is a considerable class of women
who follow service men from camp to camp,
2nd form little colonies in country towns.
Added to these are the ladies who, not
employed in other directions, supply danc-
ing partners and hostesses and other noc-
turnal solace for service men on leave. Also
those who seem to find ample time to relax
in hotel lounges daily. These women should
be called up for more useful work.
vVell, Mr. Wurth, what are you waiting
for?
♦ * * *
“Arter”: The future of Sydney’s Art
Gallery has been decided. In an article
on the subject in the “S. M. Herald,” I
gather that an introductory and most
necessary step is to get rid of the pic-
tures, the value of which, especially the
Australian ones, is “extremely small.”
These paintings may either be sold or
stored away. Then, presumably, will
follow a process of restocking with
examples of “modernistic” and “impres-
sionistic” art of the sort represented by
Braque, Matisse and Modigliani, backed
up by some of the pre-impressionist Euro-
pean masters —though on this plank of
the platform there seems to be fainter
enthusiasm. The present trustees, under
whose auspices such acts of sacrilege as
the removal of the loan collection of
“modern” art to the cellar have taken
place, are to be deprived of their powers,
and (it is to be inferred) the present old
fogeys must be got rid of, Cezanne- and
Dali-minded ones substituted (Lionel
Lindsay need not apply), and a new auto-
cratic director, sound on Derain,
appointed. All very fine, and not at all
surprising to those who have watched
Granny gradually unfolding under the
influence of the ballet and the wilder
forms of art, but the case for making
the gallery a permanent repository of
three-eyed men, ladies suffering from
JOIN THE
A»rTrAIINIIIIN!&C®RIPS
AND
LEARN TO
FLY
elephantiasis and guitars in vortices is
rather weakened by the disclosure that in
recent years the products of such heaven-
directed brushes as were wielded by
Gauguin, Matisse, Derain, Renoir,
Cezanne, Boudin, Modigliani and Monet
have been going cheap at London
auctions. Indeed a collection embodying
works by all these tremendous geniuses
could have been accumulated for under
£6O0 —and the gallery trustees' just
before the war paid £l5OO for one Gau-
guin (“his early period”).
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Should this item in Adelaide
“Advertiser” of 1 /3 / ’44 have been under
Sporting Fixtures, Matrimonial or
Amusements (the paper cautiously classed
it as Miscellaneous)?:
Fred, you’ve been wanting to tell my
husband. O.K. He will meet you in front
of Theatre Royal, Friday night, 7.30. Jean.
* ♦ * *
“Ken”: Many of Shakspcq re’s _ barbs
are still topically sharp, though time may
have slightly altered of their
flight. Rosenkrantz’s lament “ but
there is, sir, an aery of children, little
eyases, that cry out on the top of ques-
tion, and are most tyrannically clapped
for’t....and so berattle the common
stages... .that many wearing rapiers are
afraid of goose quills, and dare scarce
come thither” is a fair sample. The Bard
was referring to the child actors who stole
shows and jobs from the professional
players, but the remarks might well fit
the boys and girls who can tell you over
the radio the derivation of “zither” or
the name of the potentate of Popcorn in
66 b.c, but who are usually stumped by
questions that would be sodks to the
six-year-olds of Darlinghurst or Bandy-
wallop,
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Manufacturers evidently have a
motto which is that of the coalminers in
reverse : “One in, all in.” I gather this
from the unanimity with which the “war-
time pack” boast is put forward. The
last bottle of tomato sauce we got was
so labelled. To my unpractised eye the
bottle, label and screw top were exact!,
the same as those of pre-war vintage. 1
was wrong, of course. The top of the
bottle possibly had one thread less. My
shaving stick made the same boast. Yet
so unobservant am I that I could not
appreciate that its fancy paper wrapping
is 1-125th of an inch in thickness instead
of the substantial l-124th-inch stuff per-
missible in the old carefree days. My
cellophane-wrapped pyjamas and hand-
kerchiefs also claim to be in war-time
pack; I cannot recollect that they ever
came encased in fine-beaten gold. How-
ever, the spirit of the thing is praise-
worthy, and I’m pleased to see the prac-
tice is spreading. Yesterday 1 saw
Gloomer, our suburb’s undertaker, com-
ing out of the local printing works with
a bundle of “war-time pack” stickers in
his hand.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Now that a photograph of the
Pyjama Girl is available the “recon-
structed” portrait can be compared with
the original. Like the reconstructions
from a tibia or a tooth of a prehistoric
monster, it doesn’t resemble anything
living. If this is the picture the police
used during their investigation, no wonder
their search was a long one.
* * ' * He
“Craiser”: A Melbourne social worker
with a house on the outskirts was fired
by the posters on the railway platforms
to do her bit on the food front. She
paid a farmer to fence and plough
up a plot of good soil and plant it with
sweet corn, peas, beans, red and silver
beet, swedes, turnips, onions and every-
thing in season. The farmer took a
friendly interest, and every now and then
dropped in and did a bit of cultivating
and liquid manuring. The crops flour-
ished beyond the lady’s expectations, but
she seldom had time to go and see her
garden. One day the farmer dropped in
to see if it was time to lift the carrots
and found everything in ruins. Every-
thing edible had been eaten, and what
wasn’t had been pulled up. “It looks
as if a herd of cows’ve got in, Missus,”
he said to*the owner. “Oh, no, it wasn’t
cows,” said the social worker brightly ;
“my children came home from boarding-
school on holidays, and I let them play
in there, I didn’t think they could pos-
sibly do any harm to vegetables.”
* # * *
“Avon” on the fixed delusion of a small
town:
Christchurch (M.L.), flattest town on the
globe, affords evidence every now and then’
in support of Strindberg’s gloomy notion that
life is not a soaring -ascent but a dreary circuit
round a well-worn track. The town is separated
from its port, Lyttelton, six miles distant, by a
thick range of hills, about 1000 ft. high, and a
tunnel, bored 80 years ago, gives railway access
by the shortest possible route. There’s an
ancient grudge about that tunnel. It was built
by the Provincial Government, and Canterbury
Province reckons it paid for it before the
Provinces disappeared and the central Govern-
ment took over the railways. And so, all down
the years, Christchurch has hated that tunnel.
Freight rates have been loaded with the cost of
the tunnel —that’s one grievance; a single-track
line slows up traffic at critical seasons —thafs
another. So the “Cathedral City” is continually
stirring uneasily and striving' to throw off its
tunnel. It has spent thousands on getting great
English consulting engineers to plan breakwater
harbors on near-by open beaches and on
schemes of dredging an estuary (with an
average present depth of less than 12in.), and
about once every three years the harbor board’s
engineer has to tell members that to make a
great open cut through the hill for a motor road
would cost more millions than it would be
worth. For the last 30 years a recurrent pro-
posal has been to cut a new tunnel to take that
motor road (roads take traffic free; railways
charge freight). What the Christchurch folk
ought to do is to pay off (again, but what of
it?) the original cost of the tunnel to secure an
unloaded freight rate and get the Railway De-
partment, as a quid pro quo, to widen the
tunnel to take another track. But no —I see
that quite recently, in the midst of war, Works
Minister Semple was taken tramping over the
hill to see where a “tunnel road” might go in
and where it might come out.
* * * *
“V.C.”: He’s three years and three
months old and he came through the
house this morning reciting:
Six in the pond;
The boat runs down the water.
Jumps, jumps, jumps in the pond,
The boat runs down the wafer.
Much struck by this we made judicial
inquiry and had to conclude that it was
his own original composition. Thus early
is the problem of his future settled, for
there can be but one career for him, and
as soon as we can get him across the
water we’ll do it. His effort undoubtedly
has a better lilt than
Lay that pistol down, babe,
Lay that pistol down.
Pistol-packin’ momma, lay that pistol down.
That is said to be making its composer
.millions of dollars, while another master-
piece beginning “Mair zee doats” is
rapidly becoming a best-seller. “Six in
the Pond” licks ’em both.
“They tried to push me into a coming factory, but I'm hanging out for
a bottling job in a brewery!"
SCOTCH.
“Senator Keane said that he had evidence of moon-
shine spirits, poisonous enough to lay a man out
for days, being retailed to the credulous as ‘Scotch.’ ”
O it’s tough on the land where the right sort of
stuff
Is pretty well always on hand
To be barred by the war from producing enough
To cope with a world-wide demand;
And it’s tougher perhaps that the hooch from
the stills
Where moonshiners bungle and botch
Should be vended in bottles adorned with the
f ills
That certify genuine Scotch,
Should come masquerading as Scotch.
■ For centuries Erin injustices bore
But, whatever her wrongs may have been,
There was never a stigma so foul and so sore
To rest on her native potheen.
What wrath would consume Caledonia stern
And wild could braw Highlanders watch
The stuff with the poisonous bite and the burn
Retailed to the trustful as Scotch,
Mendaciously labelled as Scotch!
There’s a ballad of Villon’s —a spirited lay,
A torrent of curses malign
Discharged at the conscienceless Bungs of his
day
Who doctored their customers’ wine.
And the measure of torment he wished them I’d
not
Abate by as much as a notch
For the moderns who bottle —the devil knows
what!
And shamelessly sell it for Scotch,
Invite you to gulp it as Scotch.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
CORNISH COMPLIMENTS.
“The strange assortment of reading matter in the
libraries of service units is largely attributed to
donors getting rid of books they have no use for.
’Twas on a distant goldfields track
When I was yearning for a smoke
I met a grizzled Cousin Jack
And to my query thus he spoke:
“I never use the stuff. I’m not
Too partial to the taste or scent.
But here’s a plug that’s somehow got
Into my kick. Catch hold! It’s what
We call a Cornish compliment.”
I never heard the phrase again—
I wonder if it lives today—
But often think about it when
I read of chaps who give away
Those things for which they have no use,
Inexplicable accidents
For keeping which they’ve no excuse.
Whereby their bounties, I deduce,
Are merely Cornish compliments.
A side of bacon from a Jew
Or ultra-strict Mahometan,
A flask of Bums’s “mountain dew”
From some teetotal clergyman.
Gifts such as these, bestowed by men
As riddances, would represent
Perhaps what any citizen
Whose name begins with “Tre” or “Pen”
Might call a Cornish compliment.
Tastes differ, though, a startling lot.
You never know some will not see
Merits of rare account in what
Others have rated n.b.g.
So scan your shelves, and don’t forget
Each little helps, you generous gents,
Whether the books aside you set
Are those you’ll lose with mild regret
Or merely Cornish compliments.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mac Hoots”; I owe Sydney “Daily :
Telegraph” an apology. Every time it ;
has come out with a full-page article I ■
have groaned in agony. Full-page edi-
torials on the Powers Bill, full-page
stories of the invaluable work performed '
by our C.C.C., full-page arguments for '
the reform of education, full pages of
letters from Our Readers on praise- 1
worthy subjects—all these led me to the
awful suspicion that the “D.T.” was
campaigning for a New Order of a per-
fection inconceivably dull. The popular
press is a mirror of the popular mind,
and the public, I feared, was becoming
inhuman. How charming then to find
that, though the Powers Bill was worth
a whole page to itself, the discovery of
the identity of the Pyjama Girl was
worth double the space, a two-page
spread with five photographs of the de-
ceased and headlines big enough for the
announcing of the end of the war! Even
in the New Order, I rejoice to learn, the
wickedness of humanity will be rated
twice as interesting as its virtues,' and
the victims of crime (I do not think there
was more than one photograph of the
Archibald Prize-winning portrait) five
times as interesting as the victims of art.
The great heart of the public is still
moved as it should be by violence and,
of course, pyjamas.
* * * *
“Pip”; In my experience baccarat has
been the most popular gambling game of
this war, followed by “swye” dice, three-
up (although it is always called two-up)
and pontoon. Baccarat gives a good run
for the money and is fast enough to
satisfy any gambler, while card games
have the advantage that they can be
played quietly any time, anywhere. Toss-
ing the pennies must be done in the open,
and is usually accompanied by a din that
attracts the jacks. The dice need a smooth
surface for play and are sometimes re-
garded with suspicion, but inveterate
swye players, debarred from the joys of
the three-up ring, find in the cubes a
logical alternative. Pontoon ( vingt-et-un
to Hoyle), of course, has always been in
favor in the army, especially among the
smaller gamblers, who kid themselves it
requires skill. The popular games of
1914-18, two-up and crown-and-anchor,
are now rarities. Old-timers tried to popu-
larise crown-and-anchor early in this war
but it never took on. The pleading of
“a little more weight on the ’ook, gents,”
has not been heard in the last four years
and is not likely to return ever again.
Poker is, and always will be, popular, but
it requires a certain amount of concen-
tration and the soldier wants to relax.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: At the observance of the
13th anniversary of Melba’s death in
Melbourne a relative recalled a poignant
incident of the singer’s lying-in-state.
Going into the chapel to pay her respects
to the departed she was struck dumb at
seeing a figure in the half light apparently
rising out of the coffin. Momentarily she
thought the diva was rising from the
dead and was about to flee when she
recognised Walter Kirby, one of Melba’s
proteges, who had been kneeling in
prayer on the far side of the coffin.
* * sf: „ *
“Jachris”; There’s wry humor in a
notice on the side wall of the Commu-
nist party’s headquarters at North Syd-
ney: “Billposters Will Be Prosecuted.”
I’d long been under the impression that
experience in the surreptitious pasting of
handbills on telegraph posts and shop
windows was a highly important quali-
fication for gaining admittance to the
party.
* * * *
“8.A.”: That frequent outcroppage of
British names in Argentine affairs (B.
1/ 3 / ’44) probably dates back to July 6,
1807, when General Whitelocke attacked
Buenos Aires with 10,000 -British regu-
lars and, after 24 hours’ street fighting in
which he lost 3000 men, killed and
wounded, was forced to surrender to
General Liniers and his nondescript army
of gauchos and Spanish regulars. Several
thousands of British prisoners were in-
terned in the Andine provinces, the major
part being allotted to San Juan (recently
destroyed by earthquake) and Mendoza,
where the stupendous barrier of the
Andes on one side and 600 or 700 miles
of desert and pampa, infested with hos-
tile Indians, on the other rendered escape
impossible. The captives, decently
treated and allowed to mix freely with
the settlers, soon became reconciled to
their fate, married Spanish women and
settled down to found families. Their
descendants have made their mark in
Argentine history, and the present genera-
tion has become more confirmed in
Argentine nationalism than citizens of
pure Spanish descent. Nowadays when
an English-speaking wayfarer in the
Andine provinces encounters a citizen
with a name such as Arundel, Davies,
Houlihan or MacTavish and hails him
in our mother tongue the almost inyari-
able response is a lift of the shoulders
and a request that the conversation be
carried on in Spanish.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; Description of an
offender as a “smooth-faced rogue” in
Sydney police-court proceedings reminds
that the phrase, almost forgotten nowa-
days, was common in an era when hair on
the face was regarded as some sort of
guarantee of honesty in men and the
clean-shaven were viewed with suspi-
cion. The prejudice finds its parallel in
Judaic law; orthodox Jews still cling to
whiskers, and there are Christian cults,
basing their practice on the Old Testa-
ment, which have tabooed the cutting of
hair. The Jews probably favored ziffs
as an aid to military conscription. A
bearded lad who skulked in the tents with
the women when the trumpets blew for
battle was as conspicuous as a bandage
on a sore thumb.
sjc
“Melbn”: A bottle of beer of standard
shape and capacity will shortly be sold
publicly in Melbourne, and although the
price expected will far exceed the figure
fixed by Prof. Copland no prosecutions
are expected to follow. The beverage
was brewed by the hands of Edward VII
on February 22, 1902, to commemorate
a visit he paid to Bass’s brewery, and a
bottle of it was presented to billiardist
Walter Lindrum at the same brewery in
1931. Lindrum has given it to the Blinded
Service Men and Women’s Appeal for
"Now, Bessie , don’t act the goat!”
auction. A bottle of the same tipple
fetched £460 at Christie’s in London last
year.
* * * *
“Hist”: “Tuart” (B. 1 /3/’44) omits an
intriguing detail from his story of the
Wrights’ first flight on December 17,
1903 —there were no reporters present.
Even in the Wrights’ home town, Day-
ton, the newspapers ignored the doings
of these local lads; while residents of
Kittyhawk, freely invited to view the
trials, turned up just five strong. Press
and public were entirely sceptical —“just
another pair of flying fools trying to kill
themselves.” It was five years before
the American papers woke up to what
was happening on their doorsteps. In
1908 the New York “Herald” timidly
published a roving reporter’s story of the
Wrights’ achievements; other papers
sent their men to check up. Within a
week flying hit the headlines, and has
been there ever since.
* * * *
“Lawnston”; Add to leap-year coin-
cidences two babies born on February
29 at the Queen Victoria Hospital,
Launceston, whose mothers were them-
selves leap-year babies.
* * * *
“Dido”: Some of those catchy words
and phrases like “Zake’s” “no good to
Gundy” (B. 2/2/’44) are found all over
the Empire, and are older than they
seem. There was a time when self-pityers
would refer to themselves as “poor old
Phil Garlic.” Who P.G. was and why he
was always a subject for sympathy I
have never been able to fathom. I found
a reference to him in the Letters of Dr.
Collie (Swan River surgeon, 1830-35,
after whom a township, river and coal-
field were named). Another catch-phrase
of perhaps later date was “All Sir-
garnie” or “All Sigarnio.” This is usually
linked with Sir Garnef Wolseley, a
British military hero of the mid-Victorian
period, conqueror of King Coffee of
Ashanti, Louis Riel and Arabi-jabers.
Possibly when they brought him in
the last fuzzy-wuzzy or the final rebel-
lious half-breed a terse sarn-major
announced “All, Sir Garnet.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The Melbourne Uni-
versity official who announced that the
regrettable scenes which took place last
year at the annual welcome to freshers
wouldn’t be repeated when the 900
quota’d griffins turned up this year,
because ample preventive measures had
been taken, didn’t know much about
his Alma Mater. Among the methods
adopted to prove to the newcomers
that they were entering a really
superior institution were (1) the releas-
ing of a large number of white mice,
(2) applause in the wrong places, (3)
interruption of speakers, (4) other mani-
festations in what the “Argus describes
as “typical student style.” These aca-
demic boys, of course, will be boys. When
Sammy Way, C.J., was Chancellor of
Adelaide University it was given out that
the students couldn’t get out of hand at
commem. But every time the diminutive
figure of the loquacious Sammy arose
from its throne a bell commenced ring-
ing and only ceased when he sat down.
A button sunk in the seat of his chair
Switched on an electric bell concealed in
an inaccessible part of the building.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Anent the centenary of A
Christmas Carol (B. 22/12/’43), I spent
three months in Genoa several years ago,
and visited the houses where Dickens
wrote that fantasy and The Chimes. It
was at the suburban Villa Barabino that
Dickens created Scrooge and Tiny Tim —
a secluded place with a fine outlook over
the Gulf of Genoa, approached by a
narrow right-of-way the walls of which
are overgrown with climbing flowers and
grapevines. Over the door is a tablet
with an inscription, part of which reads:
“Carlo Dickens, geniale profondo rivel-
tore del sentimento moderno, 1844.”
Later the novelist moved into the city to
the Palazzo Peschiere, where he wrote
The Chimes. After finishing the story he
said he was racking his brains for a title
one Sunday morning when up from the
city and down from the hills crashed the
bells of all the Genoese churches and
gave him his inspiration. I wonder
whether these Dickens vestiges in Genoa
survived the pounding the R.A.F. gave
the city over a year ago.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The “pin-up girl” craze is
no new thing. I lived in quarters in Java
with ten fellow-Australians long before
Hollywood was thought of. One of my
companions had postcards of all the lead-
ing ladies of the variety and musical-
comedy world of London of those days,
including Phyllis and Zena Dare, and
he solaced his bachelor loneliness by
dreaming of the night when he would be
at the with a bouquet to in-
vite his favorite beauty out to supper.
He was the thinnest and saddest-looking
individual I have ever encountered, and
about the least likely ever to realise his
dream. Another had a different kind of
pin-up. A lover of good food who
turned the scale at 17 stone, though he
was under 20, he would make up menus
out of Mrs. Beeton and study the colored
plates depicting all sorts of heavenly
dishes. ' was to be in London
and ord ect dinner. Neither
realised ; dive. The amorist
married lady and settled down
to life i . ' scs, and the epicure died
ten yea too much buffalo and
tinned Tib ; better.
“J.H.M.A.” removes an aspersion from
“The Gap”:
Visitors to Port Jackson’s South Head have
been told over at least 60 years that the
Dunbar, wrecked there in 1857, was lost be-
cause her captain mistook the depression in the
line of cliffs known as “The Gap” for the
entrance to the harbor. Like the story explain-
ing how the port got its name, this Is untrue
and, indeed, impossible. According to Francis
Jlayldon, who records the affair in The Aus-
tralian Encyclopedia, the Dunbar’s commander.
Captain James Green, “attempted to run into
the port on such a night because he knew trom
the leeway the ship was making that she could
not possibly weather the land, but must in-
evitably be blown ashore and wrecked within
a few hours; hence his only chance for safety
was to run into port and anchor. Had he con-
tinued only one mile further to the northward
before running for the entrance, he would have
taken his ship safely in, and this slight error m
reckoning was most probably due to the cur-
rent setting to south-south-west.” Bayldon s
view is that which the jury took at the inquest,
held four days later, their rider being; The
jury considers there may have been an error
in judgment in the vessel being so close to the
shore at night in such bad weather, but they
do not attach any blame to Captain Green or
his officers for the loss of the Dunbar.”
* SJC * *
“Carboy”: One of the strangest
affairs in Melbourne theatrical history is
the announcement of one Joseph Schepsi,
tenor, of Armadale, that, being an un-
known singer, he has booked the Town
Hall, Melbourne, for April 20 for a con-
cert at the price of four guineas a seat,
his avowed intention being to prove that
the musical metropolis of Australia is
sufficiently mature to make or damn an
artist who has not acquired a foreign
reputation. If the public
shows it thinks he isn’t worth
the money he won’t give a
second concert. Something
different happened years ago
at the old Playhouse. A
pianist with a French name
was billed as a famous virtu-
oso, and the critics attended,
with a sprinkling of the
general public. The critics
were polite, but cold, and
some of them were caustic,
and they were certainly right
that time, for it turned out
that the alleged foreign virtu-
oso was a young pianist from
Sydney with a name like
Jones or Hicks, with no
special talents and a far from
faultless memory of the
classics.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: The National
Gallery of Adelaide is bring-
ing back its art treasures
which, to the number of
about 500, were removed
three years ago. Adelaide
always considered itself about
the safest city in Australia,
from the point of view of
invasion or bombardment,
but, with handy unused rail-
way tunnels in the hills close by, no risk
was taken. So back on the walls now
are some of Streeton’s best, with Heysen,
Roberts, the older McCubbin, Lambert
and Power. A number of things of less
importance which have enjoyed an air-
ing meanwhile have come down.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Woe to any misguided
individual who wants to increase the food
supply of the nation. A friend of mine
wanted to buy a grazing paddock for his
daughter, who is building up a dairy
herd and required more pasturage. My
friend paid a deposit and left the trans-
action to his lawyers. It did an elabor-
ate journey round the departments. The
department interested in food production
passed it and sent it on to the depart-
ment concerned with finance, which sent
it back and demanded a revaluation. The
valuation was less than the price agreed
on, so the sale was blocked on the ground
of excessive profit, and there the matter
has been at a deadlock for six months.
My friend’s daughter wants more cows
and the country wants more milk and
butter, but the regulations prevent
increased food production.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The Archibald Prize
controversy has produced some bitter
remarks but few sallies as spiteful as
Manet’s concerning Meissonier’s “Retreat
from Moscow.” Manet was young,
though with a rising reputation ; Meisso-
nier was old and had become an insti-
tution. Moreover, Manet, called up for
military service, was a corporal; Meis-
sonier, the colonel in command of
Manet’s battalion. The crowds always
followed Manet about at the salons to
hear what he would have to say about the
pictures, and when he paused in front of
Meissonier’s picture they expected some-
thing respectful, especially regarding a
military subject on which Mcissonier was
regarded as an expert. Manet looked for
a long time at the acres of snow and the
tottering figures. Then he bellowed “The
only things that look soft are the swords.”
Meissonier’s reputation has survived the
impertinence.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; For the Sophistication Stakes
my entry, nominated in the supreme con-
fidence that his neck is already stuck out
awaiting the blue ribbon, is Ben Nimmo.
When Flystrike was agog over the news
that Tom Bradley’s Jersey cow had
calved twins for the third time and set an
all-time record Ben merely sniffed and
opined that if they’d been triplets it might
be something to get excited about. His
drawled comment when Ted Carroll, the
district’s strong man, carried two bags of
barley, each weighing 2001 b., for quarter
of a mile uphill was to the effect that
barley, being loosely packed, was no
test —“let him try liftin’ a bale o’ tops
straight orf the ground!” Then to Fly-
strike came “Narrow” Ned, accompanied
by his pet magpie. For free beers he put
the bird through his vocal capers ; an
imitation of Churchill in his best de-
clamatory style was followed by some
snappy patter between the bird and its
owner. Then “Narrow” borrowed a fork,
struck it on the bar counter, said “That’s
the note, Mag,” and the bird immediatelv
burst into “The Bells of St. Mary’s.”
Word-perfect, it went through verse
and chorus. “Well, what do y’ think o’
that, Ben?” asked Mick Summers. Ben
chewed his drooping moustache. “Aw,
he ain’t much of a bird,” he said. “On’y
bein’ able to sing one verse of it! ”
* * * *
“Sartor”: Rabbit-shooting outside
Cunnamulla (s.-w. Q.) I got a veritable
Methuselah amongst coneys.^His senility
was most evident in his two buck
teeth, which had grown out in almost a
complete circle about three inches in cir-
cumference. The circle terminated under
Methuselah’s chin, impinging on the
flesh, which must have caused acute
agony to him every time he opened his
mouth, and doubtless accounted for his
dog-poor condition despite the thick
herbage on the sandhills.
* * * v
“Old-timer”; “Curyo” Charlie, well-
dressed and cashed up, had awarded him-
self a holiday from the strenuous profes-
sion of separating rural sports from their
cash, and was aboard the train for Mel-
bourne when the two coves entered his
compartment and at once began a
friendly game of two-handed crib. After
a couple of quick rounds they invited
Charles to make a third. He obliged.
Presently the one next to “Curyo” said
“Wish it was poker.” His mate replied
“Why, you got somethin’?” The other
slightly turned his hand so that “Curyo”
could see four aces and said “Somethin’!
I’d shoot the works on what I got.”
Whereupon his mate challenged him, “I’ll
back my hand for a quid or two.” “Do
me” was the response; then to “Curyo”
he said “Want to be in on it?” “Well,”
responded “Curyo” slowly, “I wouldn’t
mind havin’ a tenner with y’.” “All
right,” crowed the challenger, “I’ll see
that.” “I hadn’t finished what I was
sayin’,” said “Curyo” mildly. “I said I
wouldn’t mind havin’ a tenner on it if I
didn’t know y’r mate was boldin’ a
routine flush. Y’ see, I was puttin’ this
stunt over before you blokes was born
an’ not nearly so clumsily. Now, if the
pair of y’ want t’ stay on the train an’
look f’r real mugs it’ll cost y’ twenty
notes t’ shut me up.” They left the train,
loudly complaining that the country
wasn’t what it was cracked up to be.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Wandering around the
district horse and cattle sales I struck
Ab, my neighbor, staring fixedly at the
mokes. “What do you reckon the chest-
nut’s worth?” he asked. I estimated a
tenner. “H’m, I might have a bid for
him,” he said. When I returned the prad
was under the hammer. From five quid
the bidding was lively up to seven-ten.
At eight pounds the bidders were four.
“Nine pounds I’m offered!” left one
behind, but when a tenner was passed
the affair became a duel. Ab raised it
ten bob, was kicked another half-note
and promptly came back. I thought it
time to take a hand, but by the time I’d
edged through the crowd “thirteen-ten”
was offered. “That fellow’s running you
up,” I hissed. But “Fourteen!” shouted
Ab. “Fourteen-ten!” came the opposi-
“Six pound ten a Week , six pound ten a Week —any advance on six pound ten?”
tion. “I bet that fellow owns the horse,”
I argued. “Fifteen quid. And that’s my
last word!” Ab hollered. “Well,” I said
as the sulky jogged homeward, “you got
your moke, but he’s not worth fifteen
quid.” “I really didn’t pay fifteen quid
for him,” was the reply. “If a horse is
worth ten pounds and I pay ten pounds
for him I’ve actually paid nothing—l’ve
merely changed my assets from paper
currency to livestock of equal value.
Therefore I only paid a fiver for that
chestnut —and do you mean to tell me
he’s not worth that?” But such finan-
cial bush-lawyerism was a bit too in-
volved for my not-over-bright mentality.
# sfc * &
“Hist”: “Kenwood’s” imported nui-
sance the wild briar rose (B. 1/3/’44) has
an emergency use, after all. At Bathurst
(N.S.W.), where some of the country is
thick with it, a factory has teams out
gathering the seedpods (hips) for the
extraction of a syrup rich in the anti-
scorbutic vitamin C. Service dietitians
w'ant it now, and it will be used in the
post-war period to fight scurvy among
the undernourished populations of Asia
and Europe. With a concentration of 2.2
milligrams per c.c. rose-hip syrup is more
potent than the recognised orange juice
(.66 milligrams).
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Bill Harpur, a fossicker in
the Victorian Alps, was prospecting the
country between Mt. St. Bernard and Mt.
Jim at the height of the 1939 summer
when he came on two narrow, snow-
packed ravines running due north and
south in a sheltered dip between the two
peaks. Water being short, Harpur
camped near the ravines and helped him-
self to the snow as required. On the
evening of the third day he uncovered a
Shorthorn steer 3ft. below the surface,
evidently a straggler from the previous
autumn’s muster. Moved by the true
prospector’s urge Harpur dug deeply
into the tightly-wedged snow and dis-
covered the well-preserved remains of
numerous cattle. Near the surface the
breeds represented were Hereford, Red
Poll and beef Shorthorn, lower a few
nondescripts and still lower several fine
specimens of the shaggy Hebrides cattle,
a breed running on the mountains down
from the N.S.W. side more than a cen-
tury ago and originally brought to this
country by Neil McLintock, of Mull.
They had not been known on the
Victorian highlands for upwards of
80 years. The flesh of these cattle
when found by Harpur was in excellent
condition, although somewhat rank in
flavor. To avoid loss of meat through
exposure to the warm outer air Harpur
opens his beefmine twice a week only,
selects his requirements and carefully
refills the opening.
» * * *
“Bogaduck”: Anyone who thinks that
the platypus is in danger of extinction
should visit the Atherton Tableland
(N.Q.). There are thousands of them
there ; in one walk along a creek at dusk
I saw 11 in less than 400 yards.
Naturalists in the district say nearly every
creek is the same. One evening at dusk
I.sat on a bridge hoping to hook a cat-
fish or an eel for supper. From under
the roots of a near-by tree a platypus
emerged and gazed around with the air
of an elderly gentleman having a look at
the weather. It then scratched one eye-
lid with its foot, hen fashion, and fol-
lowed this by crawling to a level bit of
turf, where it turned on its back and
rolled about as a cat does. Then it
felt out all the itchy spots on its body
with its hind legs and gave each one a
good scratching, monkey fashion. That
little job disposed of, it slid into the
water and did some fancy swimming, like
a trained seal showing off before a
crowd. And that is the outstanding
characteristic of our quaintest animal:
whenever the opportunity offers it plays
like a well-fed puppy.
* * * *
“Louden”: “Some men’ll never learn,”
said Sam as he put the finishing touches
to his handpiece in the break before the
cutout run. “I know a shearer who
always goes to Mother Mulligan’s pub
immediately after a cutout. When she
sees this joker come into her joint with the
knot up she passes him a couple of pots
on the house and suggests he leaves his
cheque with her for safety, which the
mug always does. About a week later
Mother Mulligan tells him bluntly his
room is wanted and he’d better get on
to his next shed.” As the shed engine
was restored to life the boss came in and
gave the “bell” a terrific blow with a
spanner. “Ah, well!” said Sam as he
made for the catching-pen door, “I sup-
pose I’ll get the usual couple on the house
at Mother Mulligan’s tonight.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: Does “Gumsucker” (B.
23/2/’44) find that hessian pig-bucket of
his works as well in winter as in sum-
mer? In other words, does the “hash-
magandy” bag attract the cod or does it
entice the shrimps in such quantities that
even the most blase of the spotted blokes
have to unfurl their serviettes? If the
latter is the case the lure would work
Only in the shrimp months: September
to April,
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: It was said by
those who knew “Hungry” Jardon that
the broken leg he suffered when a log
rolled on it and the loss of a brace of
digits on the breaking-down bench
caused him less pain than having to dive
his hand into his pocket. One day a
grizzled old bloke arrived at “Hungry’s”
sawmill with the news that he had bought
the local saw-doctor’s business and had
called to give the mill’s saws their usual
truing-up. “Hungry” led him to a pile
of limp and buckled circular saws, and
for three days the old expert tapped
away ; when he’d finished every saw was
as true as the day it left the factory.
He put the cost at £9. The mill-owner
tried for half an hour to make him
break the price down, but the expert
wouldn’t knock a penny off. Finally
“Hungry” gave in. “It’s daylight rob-
bery,” he snarled, “but I suppose I’ll
have to pay. Put in a bill and I’ll send
you a cheque at the end of the month.”
The old cove demanded cash down, but
“Hungry” was adamant cheque or
nothing. Presently the knock-off whistle
blew, the shrieking of the saws died away
and to the millowner’s ear came the
sound of a hammer ringing on steel. Full
of dire forebodings he rushed out, but
he was too late; the saw-doctor had
picked out all the big saws, had placed
them on the anvil one by one, and by a
few swift hammer blows in the right
places had made them saucer-shaped.
“There, damn you,” he growled. “If y’
want y’r saws right again it’ll cost y’
eighteen quid in cash, paid in advance!”
Glancing at the clock on the boiler-room
wall he added that the bill would go up
by ten bob for every minute he was kept
waiting for his money. Knowing that
there wasn’t another man capable of
straightening those saws within 300 miles,
“Hungry” paid up.
“Botano”: The
grass-tree of W.A.
may resemble that of
N.Q., as “Sarina”
suggests (B. 2/2/’44),
but I wouldn’t accuse
it of wiping out the
native grasses. It
grows much too slowly
for that—about one
foot in a hundred
years is the scientific
estimate. So, since
Nature couldn’t per-
mit such sluggards
to monopolise vast
tracts and turn them
into wastes, she has
achieved a grass cap-
able of growing
among the grass-trees,
though not too close
to the stem. For
around each tree is a
bare patch, sterilised
by the gum that
exudes from the lami-
nated trunk. Also, in
the West there are two
varieties of grass-tree,
X. preissi, commonly
called blackboy, and Kingia. Kingia isn’t
anything near as gum-bearing as Preissi,
nor does it throw up the tall, annual flower
spear which in Preissi may reach six feet,
four of it rich, honey-filled blossom.
Kingia is content with a couple of knobs
dangling on short, flexible stems and
much resembling the fruit of the horse-
chestnut. With such poor seed-bearing
development Kingia, naturally, is much
scarcer than its sister-plant, which from
its tall spear-blossom may throw a thou-
sand seeds every season.
“Naturala”: I suppose it is permissible
for bushmen to say they were bitten by
a centipede; though actually the centi-
pede’s bite, if it could bite a human,
would be harmless. The centipede stings
—with its feet. Along with the spider
and the scorpion, the centipede belongs
to a side family of the crustaceans. And,
curiously. Nature seems to have been un-
able to endow the crustacean bite with
venom. The spider more than any of its
relations appears to bite, though actu-
ally it injects its poison by means of a
pair of fangs in front of its mouth, really
modified antennas. With the scorpion
Nature has gone completely into reverse,
giving it a curved fang on the end of its
tail. When on the kill the scorpion grips
with its claws like a lobster, at the same
time whipping its tail over its back and
plunging home its sting. In my childhood
it was a common trick for us to unearth
a 4in. scorpion from under a rock, hold
it down with a twig and then annoy it
with a feather until in its rage it exuded
its drop of crystal-clear venom. The
centipede is endowed with a pair of legs
to every segment of its body. Its mouth
being harmless, the front pair of legs
have been transformed into fangs. So
it may happen that a man will receive a
number of “bites,” for as the creature
walks over his tender skin these fangs
may plunge in again and again.
WHEN I COME HOME.
When I come home from warring
Next (or some other) year
I’ll waste no time deploring
The time I’ve wasted here.
I’ll have no time hereafter
For griefs the war-god sends, .
For anything but laughter,
For anyone but friends.
Swansea Heads are umbered
And ochred here and there,
And splashed with greens unnumbered,
And Swansea Heads are fair.
And I shall call my neighbor
To come away from care,
Men’s mad affairs and labor,
And we’ll go fishing there.
And oft at Merewether
On Sundays I shall surf,
Or, with some mate, together
Swap yams upon the turf
Until from grass and shingle
The sun’s last beams shall fade
And sights and sounds all mingle
And merge in silent shade.
And I’ll go down to dances
At Lambton and Wallsend:
I’ll watch the maidens’ glances
And know what they portend.
And, maybe, there some maiden
Will chance to glance at me
And send me home full-laden
With dreams and ecstasy.
And oft to Harry Carroll’s
At Lambton I shall go
To sit amongst the barrels
And bottles, row on row.
For verily I’m thinking
That friendship best prevails
When friends have time for drinking
Good wines and good brown ales.
Good wines, good ales, enhancing
Good friendship, sunny days . . .
Good cheer, glad song, gay dancing,
The old, the well-loved ways—
These are the things I’ll treasure
Beyond all toil and pain,
Till I return my measure
Of dust to dust again.
A.I.F.
T. S. BROWNING.


“S.G.”; The mob got a bit fed-up with
the elderly lady who ran the store
in our part of the sugar country and tried
to run everybody’s business as well —at
least she never missed a chance to find
out all about it. So the camp hard-doer
agreed to try a cure. When the store was
full of customers, he walked in and
loudly announced “ ’Day, Mrs. Longnose.
I’m Peter Boyle. I work on the railway
at the Leap Cutting. I’m powder monkey
there, on a fiver a week. Live in a tent.
It leaks. I’m 38 and single. We bach
at the camp an’ it costs me 25 deeners a
week. Packet o’ tobaccer, please. That’s
all. See y’ later.” And before the stricken
woman could command her tongue he
was gone.
* % * *
“Sarina”; You can’t beat our Queens-
land dairy cattle. They’re all adepts in
their particular line, be it fence-passing
or bail-dodging. Take, for example, a
fine Jersey, bred and owned by C. Row-
land, of Bundaberg (Q.). Around Nov.
10 she gave birth to a heifer calf. They
were running together on January 5, when
Strawberry calved again. The bull calf
is doing well.
Hi % % %
“Pip”: With the “wet” northern jungle
and mountain have become infested with
leeches. Mostly they are big fellows, a
couple of inches long and capable of a
six-inch stretch. Many of them crawl on
to the leaves of bushes or trees and attach
themselves to anybody passing by. They
drop off when full of blood—and a leech
can hold quite a lot. Pulling them off
leaves a hole which will bleed for an
hour, and brushing them is liable to de-
tach the head from their bodies, leaving
it in the wound and resulting in a sore.
Best method we’ve found is to singe them
with a lighted match or the tip of a cigar-
ette ; the suckers let go smartly and set
out for fresh -fields.
* * * *
“Tracechain”: Gone with the Walers
is the old Mallee-day spirit of co-opera-
tion, if our district is any guide. Went
along recently to help a few old pals
with the harvesting: communal help I
think our leaders call it. Standard equip-
ment for that help is cheque-book, time-
sheet, stop watch and ready reckoner. Bar-
ring the few, cockies and cockies’ sons
lined up with outstretched hand for pay-
ment at top prices—half-axes and mere
tommies at full rates, of course, A soul-
less business, for each was utterly de-
pendent upon the other for help. Heard
Joe Graball whining to old Sparrow for
higher rates —“he’d done the tractor
work.” Three days later heard the same
whine from him at old Spud’s. Thirty years
ago when Joe G. could not arrive with-
out expert assistance, it was Sparrow
who swam the river and the creeks and
gullies and squelched ten miles to ring
up for the doctor; and it was Spud who
drove the buckboard over trackless .coun-
try, in the foulest of pitch-black nights,
that 20-odd miles to a spot where the
doctor and matron could conceivably
cross. All told it took about 20 people
to get Joe Graball into this world, gratis.
Joe, of course, is now on the committee of
this and that and a bit prone to threaten
“Look out. Surge — cannibals!”
what the farmers will do unless the Gov-
ernment or somebody does something
else: a modern farmer out for his rights.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Too right I’ve seen bad
erosion along the tops of ridges in forests
and grassland (B. 8/ 3 / ’44), especially
after the forest cover has been removed.
The Victorian Mallee is a shocking
example ; ridges have disappeared after
the pine was cleared from them, and if
“Graz” wants another example let him
have a look along the N.S.W. South
Coast dairy country or in the sheep
country up around Merriwa. Water isn’t
the only agency ; in the Mallee it’s mostly
wind. How does “Graz” suppose the
crests of bare mountain ranges become
broken and ragged if not by erosion? As
to where my “proper authority” would
burn breaks against bushfires, that would
depend on many things, not the least
being the prevailing hot winds. In a vast
proportion of our timber and grass coun-
try it’s the fire racing up the gully, not
along the crest of the ridge, that does
the damage.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”; Because black cocka-
toos find that the gumnuts somewhere
are ready for eating the bunk is beefed
abroad that a deluge is in the offing. I
number in thousands the downpours that
haven’t occurred after the sable screechers
have passed. Nor are the black ants any-
where within cooee of man when it
comes to meteorology. But I’ll hand the
palm to the termites. Their frantic ac-
tivity immediately prior to the heavens’
opening can be traced in the blisters of
damp “mortar” newly appearing on the
rock-hard termitoriums.
* * * *
“Solitude”; We were nearing the yards
and Seventyfiver sent his mong forward
to turn the leaders as Sandy rode up.
“The pup’s shapin’ pretty good,” re-
marked the Scot. “You’ll be giving me
the quid for him?” “What makes y’
think that?” glared the old bloke belliger-
ently. “The arrangement was I’d give y’ a
quid if he turned out any good, wasn’t
it? Awright, an’ don’t think I’m goin’t’
argue with y’. But just because the silly
cow does one thing right, that don’t mean
he’ll make a dog, does it?” Sandy
shrugged, dismounted, and strolled across
the yard, closely followed by the old
bloke. “Look here, Sandy,” Seventyfiver
persisted, “y’ know I’m willin’ t’ pay for
a decent worker, but what have you ever
bred but a bunch o’ useless, bitin’ curs,
eh? Well, I ain’t going to argue, but I
bet no sensible bloke’d waste time with
those tripehounds you breed.” “Awright,”
nodded Sandy lazily, “y’ don’t have f
take him.” “Who said I ain’t going to
take him?” snapped Seventyfiver.
“Trouble is, y’ come round pesterin’ a
man an’ makin’ a fuss over a flamin’
brute that ain’t worth it. But, as I sez
before, I ain’t goin’ t’ argue the point,
no matter what y’ say.”
* * $ *
“Louden”: Camped with a mate at Lake
Fyans, near Stawell (Vic.), I set out one
evening to do a bit of fishing while my
mate, gun in hand, went off in the oppo-
site direction. Some time later, as I
was sitting quietly beside the lake, a
hawk swooped from a dead tree in the
water, snapped up a duckling that had
just swum out of the big area of rushes
near by and, mounting slowly, came
towards me. When it was nearly over-
head I jumped to my feet and hurled a
stick at it, whereupon the flapper-snatcher
jettisoned its cargo, which fell almost
at my feet. Taking the duckling, which
was more frightened than hurt, back to
the rushes to give it another chance, I
was hailed by my mate, who was carry-
ing a 41b. English perch which he had
shot in shallow water.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: That hoop-net of “Lower
TopsTs” (B. 2/2/ ’44) is no novelty,
being the common pot-fisherman’s method
of catching crabs around most south-
west W.A. estuaries. I have even seen
it used for catching whitebait, found in
schools millions strong in the same
waters. The hoop was about 4ft. in
diameter, and covered with |in. prawn
netting. With four bridle cords it was
hung over the stern of a boat, or even a
jetty, suspended from one end of a light,
strong pole, preferably a bamboo. The
bait was a few boiled potatoes or even
a lump of soaked bread. The idea was
to lower the hoop about 4ft. down, wait
until it swarmed with tiny fish, usually
only a matter of minutes, then slowly
raise, ending with a sharp lift that brought
the net and the catch clear of the sur-
face. My instructor was a Chinaman,
and we filled kero.-tins full in very little
time. It being impossible to clean such
small fry, they were dumped by hand-
fuls into the pan of hot fat and fried
for a few minutes. Method of eating was
to separate the head by means of a fork
or chopstick ; most of the tiny gut came
with it, and what trifle was left gave an
added piquancy to the dish. A hundred
such fish were considered a fair-sized
snack, the flavor being rich and oily.
“It’s all right, dear—I've found the meat coupons!”
“Gumsucker”; In a continent as
ancient as Australia all sorts of natural
objects are likely to be found under the
soil—with the exception perhaps of oil.
When I : ■ mmgster the older diggers
used to n :lvo sightless fish coming
up in th IL ed from the Common
and the i deep alluvial mines
of Nort They reckoned the
flood in L its vas a veritable under-
ground river flowing from some subter-
ranean lake, wherein aquatic life by some
freak existed. In South Ballarat the
deeper reef mines encountered a similar
flood ; two of the largest beam pumps
then in Australia barely sufficed to keep
the pits workable. Added to their giant
efforts were the nine- and even twelve-
inch Cornish lifts with which a dozen or
so other mines were equipped. Many a
time I watched the water flowing from
these pumps, and, although I never found
life in it, it was so fresh that algse grew
along the sides of its earth watercourse.
* * * *
“R.D.D.”; When the floodwaters from
the river invaded Dinny’s homestead,
he sent his wife and family to a
neighbor’s, where they milked Dinny’s
dairy herd and brought back skim-milk
to feed pinny’s Tammy porkers. The
rapidly rising water flooded the cow-
bails in which the pigs had taken refuge ;
soon it was around their ears, and they
were all swimming. All, that is, except
Dinny’s purebred boar Bonnie Leslie.
He was standing on his
hind legs, with his front
feet resting on the third
rail of the cow yard.
Dinny maintains that it
was seeing the boar in that
position that inspired him
to try to save the whole
herd. Quickly he had the
whole four dozen of them
propped up similarly
around the yard, resem-
bling somewhat a bunch of
cow cockies at a clearing
sale. He managed to keep
them like that for three
days until the floodwater
dropped. He fed them
throughout on the skim-
milk morning and evening, and not a
pig was drowned or died from exposure ;
Dinny himself kept watch and ward from
the roof of the cow shed.
* * * *
“A.K.8.”: Tell “G.M.” and others (B.
19/1/’44) that a turkey hen mated to the
male for one week will produce a full
clutch of fertile eggs, but to be quite
certain for stud breeding two to three
weeks with the male is an advantage.
* $ * *
“C.E.”: For a long time Mum had
been saving petrol in the hope of getting
the ancient towrer the 60 miles to town
where she could visit the dentist. When
the necessary quantity was reached she
tackled Dad on the subject. The argu-
ment lasted over half an hour, but as he
remembered more and yet more things
he wanted in town his opposition
dwindled, and finally he decided to go
the following week. The news spread,
and three days later Dad announced:
“Old Bill and the missus is cornin’ t’
town with us. They’re takin’ the
youngster in t’ git christened. And young
Sanders wants t’ come, so I said we’ll
keep a seat f’r him.” Early the next
week he again mentioned the trip. “That
little Mrs. Williams from Dead Horse
Flat has t’ take her old man to the doc-
tor, Mum. She wants a ride down with
us.” Mum looked worried. “But, Dad, if
Aunt Kate comes, too, like you said
yesterday she could, we won’t all fit in.”
“Well, what’s a man t’ say when they
ask him?” bellowed Dad defensively.
“Anyway, I’ve promised ’em now.” On
the morning of the trip Mum was up at
daylight. She pressed Dad’s suit, found
his boots, fastened his tie and packed eat-
ables into the corners of the car. Then
as the bulging car chugged out of sight
she closed the gate and returned to the
kitchen for more toothache cure, wonder-
ing how long it would take to save the
petrol for another trip.
THE LOG-BOOK.
“Here begins this day;
August the first,” it runs.
“At dawn, four miles away
A pod of whales —big ones.
We lowered, but soon they turned.
We lost them. Light was bad.
There’s something whales have learned
Which once they never had.
“The third mate, in the hoops,
Sighted a mighty bull,
Bearing”—the curling loops
JTf letters have gone dull.
“The boats were soon away,
Two starboard and two port.
A fairish sort of day,
With big seas breaking short.
“The mate’s boat soon was fast
And flying east behind.
The whale —his bulk was vast,
He seemed to travel blind.
He turned and, through the glass,
I saw him rush the boat.
And all that came to pass:
Only the crew afloat.
“One, two —I counted heads.
One missing? No, I see .. .
The big whale, turning, spreads
His flukes to thrash the sea.
Now came the second boat;
The third mate’s boat, McMinn,
Steering, a fleck afloat,
To get a harpoon in.
“Again the whale turns tail.
The wind is south-by-east,
Rising. Will blow a gale
Before they get this beast.
He turned again, a rogue,
Then flies, the boat behind,
Racing. They drop a drogue
To drag her; break his wind.
“There goes the second now,
To head him miles away.
Sailing, her blunted bow
Showering clouds of spray.
And now he turned again.
Gone! It’s the third mate’s boat.
The waves were white teeth then,
Men in the water’s throat.
“I sent up the ‘recall.’
No use to waste good light
And maybe men qnd all
Our gear in such a fight...
At noon the wind was east,
The boats were coming near.
Two smashed by that mad beast.
The men are silent. Queer!
“At dusk we buried him .. .
McMinn was always game.
Nobody saw him swim
After the great whale came
And wrecked the boat. . . The wind
Is still due east. . . They say
That these old bulls are blind.
Maybe ... So ends this day!”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


&
■LV
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH "WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
QUICKand DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
(Regd.)
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Wool.
“Bungaree”; If “Flock Ram” (B.
16/2/’44) were handed dictatorial powers
to increase the Australian average wool
cut how and where would he start?
Presumably by wiping out the type of
sheep responsible for dragging down the
average—old v/orn-out ewes that cut only
a hatful of short, wasty wool but are kept
so long as there is a prospect of their
breeding another lamb; nondescript
animals bred from the culls of culls by
any sort of ram ; miserable, stunted sheep
that are found in thousands, particularly
on the tablelands.
In a fair season it is a poor flock that
does not cut an average of 101 b., includ-
ing crutchings. District and climate cause
wide variation in weights of greasy wool
cut. Nevertheless, an average of 131 b. all
round for grown sheep is common on
many runs, and the records of stud flocks
are a standing example of what can be
done.
What causes sheep to cut 121 b. one season
and 51b. the next? In 99 p.c. of cases the
answer is feed. Few starve their sheep
deliberately, but many starve wool pro-
duction unconsciously. Far too many be-
lieve that the more sheep they can pack
on to a property the bigger wool cheque
they will get. This fallacy has been ex-
ploded, but it will take a long time to
bring its vanity home to all graziers, and
therein lies one of the chief obstacles to
increasing the average cut over all Aus-
tralia.
Years ago experiments in New Eng-
land showed graziers the truth. Where
they used to carry 1250 weaners on 1000
acres they are now running 1000 or less,
and with rotational grazing and an intel-
ligent drenching programme are not only
cutting more wool than they got from
1250, but the weaners are Bigger, better;
healthier and evener than was previously
deemed possible in that country except
in an occasional favorable year.
The idea that grazing on natural
grasses is necessary to produce the best
superfine wools was blown out years ago.
Who believes that the superfine rams and
ewes seen at sheep shows are bred on
corkscrew? A hard tableland winter fol-
lowing a poor autumn will turn wool
light and hunger-fine. If the same
sheep are properly fed their fleeces may
appear a count stronger in quality, but
will gain so much in extra length, strength
and handle that it may make all the dif-
ference to the appraiser between a weft
and a spinner’s type, and the monetary
return per head will be sufficient to settle
the argument. Unfortunately, too many
people can’t see beyond the price per
pound of their top lines. Cut per head
and average price are more important,
but the best criterion of all is return per
acre.
Greasy Heels.
“B.”: Symptoms are stamping heavily
in the stall, rubbing against stumps or
fences. When infestations affect several
horses damage to fences is heavy. Worn
or ruffled feathers on the hind fetlock
are other signs of the disease. Continued
stamping can result in injury to bone or
hoof.
Clip the hair from heels, feathers and
legs so that the preparation will pene-
trate to the affected part. Applications
as hot as the animal can comfortably
stand are more effective than cold. One
of the best dressings is one part sulphur
to four parts lard, mixed evenly. Heat
till warm and rub well into the part.
Others: loz. spirit of tar and Iqt. lin-
seed oil or one part of lysol, creo-
sol, creolin or kerol in 50 parts of water.
Any of these should be applied warm and
gently scrubbed in with some soft, old
brush. Treatment should be repeated a
week later.
For a dipping fluid, slake 121 b. lime
and make into a paste with 301 b. sulphur ;
place in a cloth and boil for two hours
in 15 gallons water. Discard the residue ;
“Who, ME?”
the fluid’s ready for use when made up
to 100 gallons with water. Good ready-
made lime-and-sulphur dips are on the
market. Depth of water in the bath
should be about 2ft. 6in., and the horse
should be held in it from five to ten
minutes according to the amount of
feather. Treat all horses, and spray
stables and posts at the same time to pre-
vent reinfection. Don’t clip the horse
to be dipped.
Phalaris for Tablelands.
“Pat Ater”: What paspalum and
Rhodes grasses are (B. 16/2/’44) to moist
and dry climates, Phalaris tuherosa
should become to the tableland and
other cool-country areas. Paspalum is
not of much use during winter in any
but the warmest sub-tropic belts, and it
has to be skilfully grazed to prevent its
taking charge and running to tussocks and
seed-stalks, later to become ergot-in-
fested. Paspalum is at best a mixed bless-
ing to many South Coast (N.S.W.) dairy-
farmers, who rely on it to such an extent
that they neglect even elementary pas-
tures improvement.
Phalaris will spring to life and grow
rapidly with the first autumn rains, and
in any normal season will become a mat
of succulent green fodder. Any grass
that gives a green feed on these cold
highland pastures in the winter is worth
its weight in gold.
That goes for Phalaris particularly,
which, strangely enough, got its common
name of Toowoomba grass (canary is
another) from the good work it did on
the South Queensland highlands. From
there it spread to N.S.W. uplands and
slopes. A. T. Brown has a stand of it
at Exeter (N.S.W.) in volcanic soil com-
ing along nicely and thinks highly of its
prospects as winter dairy feed in con-
junction with sub. clover. Tom Dowling,
of Gunning—sheep country—after a ten-
years’ trial is more enthusiastic than ever
about it. He is convinced that nothing
can approach it for autumn and winter
grazing on cool highlands—again with
sub. clover to balance the ration.
Considering that Phalaris can be grazed
from autumn through winter till spring,
then used for dry feed or silage—
where well established —it is “permanent”
enough on any count. Certainly its peren-
nial nature warrants that claim, anyway.
Dairymen on the South Coast (N.S.W.)
are using Phalaris, following its pheno-
menal early sprang growth in those areas,
for silage.
Sow it thickly in a small paddock, pref-
erably with irrigation or where moisture
is not lacking. Year-old root-pieces can
be planted out in pastures 3ft. apart in
rows, with 4ft. spacing. Autumn is the
best time for sowing and planting. Along
the river and creek beds or banks Phalaris
romps from broadcast seed after rain or
in good seasons.
Mulberry-trees.
“B.”; In U.S.A. they provide fodder
for pigs, turkeys and fowls, which harvest
them from the ground. In many States
orchards of mulberries are planted for
the pigs to grow in. The berries form
an important addition to the diet; animals
thrive on them as when turned in on
wheat.
They’re easily established and make
rapid growth, propagate quickly from
cuttings, are easy to transplant, hardy
and drought-resistant. They have un-
usual powers of recovery when attacked
by frosts, frequently put out secondary
buds and produce fruit, bear with great
regularity, have a long fruiting period
and their wood is serviceable for farm
use.
In dry areas grow the white mulberry
(Morus alba). It has a larger leaf and
wider spreading crown, casts magnificent
shade that is eagerly sought by stock.
Groves are invaluable for sheep ; wind-
breaks can be made of it for crops. For
wet areas try the Black English ( M'orus
nigra) or the Hicks variety. Either will
commence bearing from one to three
years after planting. Black English
doesn’t like humidity ; Hicks crops twice
a year.
Lucerne in the Mallee.
“Myrrhee”: As a pasture plant for dry
areas it is coming into its own, also as a
first-rate soil binder in the Victorian and
S.A. Mallee for drift control. Although
lucerne requires plenty of water and a
well-drained soil for its best develop-
ment, it will grow well in dry areas, too,
because of its deep-rooting habit.
It needs careful treatment in the seed-
ling stage. Sow in a clean, firm seedbed,
preferably a carefully-worked fallow.
Use good seed —as little as 21b. per acre
will suffice in the sandy loams of the
S.A. and Victorian wheat areas. Under
border-Mallee conditions quite good
stands have been established under cover
of a light seeding of wheat. The com-
bined lucerne and wheat make a nutri-
tious fodder.
Don’t overgraze the stand. Allow it to
develop by giving it regular resting
periods in which it may be allowed to
grow even to the early flowering stage.
Topdress with lewt. of super, to the acre
per year. The plapt will keep down such
weeds as stinkwort.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Most grasses propa-
gate rapidly, and the best way to obtain
plenty of roots and / or runners for plant-
ing big areas is to set a few plants or a
handful of seed in a damp, fertile spot.
When the plants are well established it
is a simple matter to cut off sections as
required. Most favorite grasses come
away splendidly when planted during
winter, spring and summer, though an
excess of damp may cause failure. Some
growers prefer to hoe the roots in on
lightly cultivated country, but where a
long-lasting stand is desired go to a bit
of trouble breaking up the land and
plant ’em along furrows.
“Hux”: Dogs with tick paralysis need
housing in a quiet spot. Avoid
cold floors and draughts. Give them
thick bedding and, keep them warm,
but don’t place them in the sun.
Too much warmth may cause over-
heating, chills and pneumonia. If
a dog’s throat isn’t paralysed give him
small doses of water from a shallow
saucer ; if he’s badly paralysed he’ll have
difficulty in swallowing, and the water
may get to the lungs. Small doses of
brandy (1 in 4) maintain strength, pre-
vent heart collapse and relieve thirst. As
the dog recovers, feed gruel, soup or finely-
shredded cooked meat for some days.
“Bill C.”: Lucerne requires plenty of
nitrogen (B. 8/12/’43), but unless the
seed is properly treated with nitrogen-
fixing bacteria just before sowing it may
not draw this element out of the atmo-
sphere as it should. The result will be
mat the soil is called upon for the nitro-
gen essential to the legume’s growth
Poor soils deficient in nitrogen will not
be able to nourish a thick stand for
many years. If seed is doctored with
bacteria, however, there is no need to
bother about nitrogen, but lucerne does
better if the land is first dressed with
super, at the rate of from Newt. to 3cwt.
per acre.
“Liss”: Try this for a good home-
made saddle soap; 2qts. water, Hqts.
warm, fresh milk, Iqt. draught castor
oil, 2qts. fresh dripping free from salt,
Ipt. kerosene and one large bar common
soap, flaked. Simmer the lot together for
at least 12 hours, stirring occasionally
to prevent burning and boiling over; it
does so very easily. Stir occasionally as
it cools and store in airtight containers.
“Green Ink”: When boring holes for
wire try this: A large jam-tin, three pans
full of soapsuds. With this the bit can
be lubricated the full length of the
thread. It doesn’t get hard in winter like
fat; also the hound won’t lick it up while
you’re boiling the billy.


■nil
V.\' : VS
;:■ X\
'W-m
T77Tva S t ana 6t «»'
iblishmg a Airways a 9. ~ v i a tion wVI the
iaw Rational A« * civd ' ia A . has
1 * «rar exP ai:i!s « fact, , i, v an?
st post-* a mat tet * ra operated K
come- eternal a n it, A--N* , at
. n °* . , rjepeivd ap efficiency *
i,;tn the «orW With *® g w ffl g |«
S’'«• f *£ 5 air
AUSTRALIAN
National irways
FIRST IN PEACE . .
PTY. ltd;
FIRST IN WAR . .
. . FIRST IN FUTURE
RRY LlSfff
■: •
*
LIGHTING TAKES OVER !
This cool, glareless, virtually shadowless light, pene-
trating to every corner of factory or work room,
maintains continued daylight conditions so necessary
for the eye-comfort and morale of employees. The
even glow of Fluorescence merges with daylight and
also gives perfect daylight lighting at night.
“Cold Cathode” Fluorescent Lighting steps up produc-
tion and reduces maintenance.
WHY NOT TEST A FLUORESCENT UNIT IN YOUR
FACTORY AT OUR EXPENSE? War production
plants can enjoy this man-made daylight right away.
Our quota for stores, hospitals, offices, etc., is, at
present, small. Earliest enquirers get first priority.
Consult
INTERIOR FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
Division of Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
) HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY - ’Phone: FL 3132
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Pal Joey”—and Others.
(John O’Donnell, in N.Y. “Daily News.”)
Our worthy statesmen and distinguished
students of international affairs are a be-
fuddled and goggle-eyed band these days
as they grope around trying to figure
out what good old Pal Joey has con-
cealed up his Soviet sleeve.
There is something touching and
poignant in their childlike feeling of
hurt surprise.
After all, here was good old Uncle
Stalin, the jolly old pipe-smoking host,
always willing to throw a vodka and
caviar party at the drop of a Lend-lease
hat, tipping over the parlor table and
giving the trusting innocents a boot in
the pants—accusing the British of conniv-
ing with Hitler for a separate peace,
giving a hot foot to Pal Wendell Wilkie,
pulling 16 republics and 16 ambassadors
and 16 foreign policies out of the Rus-
sian puzzle-box and then taking a rous-
ing slap at the Vatican.
And all this to the great embarrass-
ment of the butts of his Slavic humor,
those two ever-trusting colleagues,
Brothers Roosevelt and Churchill, whom
Pal Stalin has made into a couple of
diplomatic cuckolds, thereby providing
the comic relief and belly-laughs in this
greatest of global tragedies.
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment .)
Of all the incendiary literary bombs
manufactured in Moscow since the
Tehran conference and thrown with such
light-hearted recklessness into the unity
of the Allied nations, none is likely to
do greater damage than “Izvestia’s” un-
just and intemperate attack upon the
Vatican as “pro-Fascist.”
The palpable insincerity of this docu-
ment may be judged by one of the accu-
sations it presents. It denounces the
Vatican for having kept silent when Italy
launched her '“stab-in-the-back” attack on
France in June, 1940. And where, may
we ask, was “Izvestia’s” own protest on
that occasion? Where was the protest
of the Soviet Government? History
records that at the moment when Musso-
lini stabbed France in the back the Soviet
Government was selling war supplies to
Hitler.
There is no profit in recalling matters
of this kind or in raking over the old
coals of what ought to be bygone disa-
greements. “Izvestia” makes it necessary
to do so, as the only available means of
measuring the good faith of its own
attack. “Izvestia” is the official news-
paper of the Soviet Government. It
ought to be 'well enough informed to
know that the Vatican, as a temporal
Power, is a neutral State with which
Russia’s two great allies, Britain and the
United States, have friendly and confident
relations.
These nations have no doubt where
the real sympathy of the Vatican lies in
this struggle. They recognise the inescap-
able neutrality of the Pope’s position ;
hut they have had no -difficulty in find-
ing in his eloquent declarations clear evi-
dence of his detestation for those who
have violated the rights of the little
nations, who have committed bestial acts
from one end of Europe to the other,
and who have attempted to elevate the
dogma of totalitarianism to the dignity of
a new religion.
“Izvestia’s” attack is damaging to the
unity on which victory depends. It is
all the more disconcerting because it
comes at the very moment when an Allied
army stands at the gates of Rome and
when an Allied commission, in which
Russia is a full partner, must soon accept
new responsibilities for salvaging what
can be saved in Italy.
( N.Y. “Daily News” comment .)
The Tehran conference of Messrs.
Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin was sup-
posed to have birthed nothing but sweet-
ness and light. But its melodious echoes
were still batting loudly around the world
when Stalin slipped into his Moscow
“newspaper” “Pravda” that rumor that
the British were dickering with Germany
for a separate peace. This followed close
on the heels of the Russian rebuke to
Wendell Willkie, a slavish admirer of
everything about Russia, for not being
quite slavish enough.
Then “Izvestia,” another of Stalin's
“newspapers,” accused the Pope of
dickering for a separate peace with Spain,
or Something like that. Stalin’s Govern-
ment mouthpieces haven’t got round as
yet to accusing Roosevelt of dickering
for a separate peace with Japan, but who
knows what may happen next?
The most striking of these Russian
moves to date, though, is the announce-
ment that Russia is now not one country
but 16 republics. Some of these repub-
lies are still in possession of the Germans,
Rumanians or Finlanders; but that, the
world is assured, will be taken care of
after the Allies win the war. It is evident
from its recent cavortings around that
Russia is confident its part of the war
is virtually won.
Everybody is entitled to his or her own
guess as to what that dear Russia really
is up to. Our guess is that Stalin is up
to nothing more than getting ready to
draw Russia’s post-war western boun-
daries exactly where he wants to draw
them, with protests or interference from
the western Allies ruled out.
This, of course, will make the Atlantic
Charter look pretty sick. Under this
document, inspired by Mr. Roosevelt and
subscribed to by Mr. Churchill (with
tongue in cheek, we imagine), the Allies
were not going to do such things as Mr.
Stalin is doing. There was to be no
territorial aggrandisement, and small
nations were to choose by plebiscite their
own forms of government.
Stalin now. moves to aggrandise Russia
territorially, and to gobble up a variety
of small nations and pieces of small
nations in the process. This not only
rocks the Atlantic Charter back on its
heels, but hangs an unlovely shiner on
the Four Freedoms as well.
The episode is made all the more pain-
ful in view of the billions’ worth of Lend-
lease goods we have shipped to Russia,
and for which we are apparently not
going to be paid even in Russian lip ser-
vice to the Atlantic Charter and the Four
Freedoms.
'lt looks like Pal Joey had taken a
certain party for a long sleighride on the
snowy steppes of Muscovy.
Futility of Military Alliances,
(Condensed from a “Collier’s’'' article by former
US. President Herbert Hoover and Hugh
Gibson.)
Various proposals have recently been
made that there should be an immediate
British-American military alliance or a
military alliance including other Powers,
such as Russia and China. Military aln-
ances have produced many wars but never
a lasting peace.
Thp United States has never accepted
an ag reement of military alliance in its
history. Attempting to preserve peace by
a military alliance with Britain alone
raises special anti-British prejudice.
The wor i d has centuries of experi-
ence with military alliances. The last 150
y eai -s have seen hundreds of them. Be-
tween World War I and World War II
tbe re were over 50 signed and sealed
treaties or pacts having military provi-
s j ons? a j] a imed, in reality or ostensibly,
at preserving peace and preventing ag-
greSsion.
Such written agreements, whatever their
specifications may be, must commit their
members to future action, the precise
circumstances of which cannot be fore-
seen Their concept necessarily leans to
tbe status quo and, in the meantime, the
unexpected happens.
World currents, the interests of nations
and centres of political strength are con-
stantly ‘shifting. Nations with all their
changing economic, ideologic and nation-
alistic pressures cannot be kept in an iron
mould. It is folly to assume that nations
will not follow their interests, despite
treaties. The application of the alliance
gets thrown out of gear and gives rise to
distrust and resentment among the part-
ners.
Any analysis of the mass of human
experience shows that military alliances
have no long endurance and therefore
are wholly an ineffective machinery for
maintaining lasting peace,
A very particular danger lies in a single
alliance between the United States and
Britain. The English-speaking peoples
comprise only ten per cent, ofi the world,
At once the other 90 per cent, will fear,


There are great advancements ahead in the world
of radio reception. Wartime research has resulted
in developments that will create new standards of
peacetime entertainment.
“His Master’s Voice” can be relied upon to present
these developments in a manner befitting the
Empire’s leading manufacturers of Radio Receivers
and Radiograms. Knowledge gained in serving the
armed forces, plus the traditions behind the world’s
most famous trade mark, are assurances of continued
leadership after the war.
His Master’s Voice
Radio Receivers Radio-Gramophones
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R3/44
mmm
mm
mm
■
1
i s iM-MMM - Si ■
:
S:=.;SJ
mmm
mm
kx
k
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HI T
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 8
and many of them will cry out, that the
intention is to dominate the world. It
will again be interpreted as building up a
“master race,” no matter how benevolent
our purposes really are.
The world would build counteraction
and counter-alliance eventually. It envis-
ages more wars, not peace.
N.Y. “Times” Backs Willkie.
[From a remarkable editorial in N.Y. “Times”
of February 3. Mr. Willkie has long had the
fcackmg of N.Y. “Herald Tribune,” while the
Times” has as staunchly supported Mr. Roose-
velt.]
It is Mr. Willkie’s particular asset,
among all politically available Republi-
can candidates for the Presidency, that,
sound on domestic issues, firm in his own
faith in the free-enterprise system, clearly
aware of the immense importance of
steering a liberal middle course between
dark reaction on one side and the false
dazzle of a Government-directed eco-
nomy on the other, he is at the same
time the great leader of his party on
international issues.
On the great issues that really matter,
on the fundamental choices in the field
of major policy, on the life-or-death
questions in the fate of this Republic, on
the decisive steps that have called for
courage and foresight, Mr. Willkie is,
and consistently has been, right.
If there is reason today to hope that
the people of the United States will have
an opportunity to work out, in the peace
and security of a safer world, a promis-
ing solution of the various domestic prob-
lems with which we shall be confronted
when the fighting ends, it is largely
because four great policies have been
brought slowly, with patience and with
insight into the lessons of history, at last
to full fruition.
The first of those four policies was the
fundamental policy of aid to Britain in
the hour of her need, on the sound prem-
ise that a free Britain is indispensable
to the security of the United States.
The second policy was Lend-lease,
which sealed our pact with Britain and
laid the basis for the whole present struc-
ture of the United Nations.
The third policy was the achievement
of a closer understanding with the two
great nations on the Eurasian Continent,
Russia and China, which must be our
close and confident allies if the peace
for which we fight is to rest on sound
foundations.
And the fourth policy was, and is, a
recognition of the fact that we are indeed
living in One World, a world too small
for the United States ever to return safely
to the paths of political and economic
isolation.
To each of these four causes Wendell
Wilkie was giving gallant and successful
leadership long before it became poli-
tically fashionable to do so in the circles
in which the Republican party moved.
As early as May, 1940, even before the
fall of France, he was hammering at the
doors of the State Department, trying to
prod the Administration into further
efforts to aid Britain, appealing to Sec-
retary Hull “to ask the democracies
openly and publicly what help short of
troops the American people can give
them.” As early as February, 1941,
within three months of his defeat in the
election of 1940, and with a statesmanship
that rose unforgettably above party lines,
he was driving home to the Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, in the face,
of bitter and almost solid opposition
from his own Republican party, the ines-
capable arguments in favor of Lend-
lease.
The interest - that took him subse-
quently to Russia and China has paid
dividends for the whole American people
in what it has done to help foster a better
understanding with two indispensable
allies. More than ahy other single man
he has brought his party from isolation
to co-operation on the stage of world
affairs, never stopping to weigh the poli-
tical risks involved in the policies he has
urged, never calculating nicely the small
advantages of caution and evasion, never
waiting for a straw vote to mark the
course or point the way, but always
speaking generously, openly and from
the heart.
Where is there another available Re-
publican candidate who can match that
record?
Wendell Willkie is head and shoulders
above any other man in his right and
title to the Republican nomination.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Today, more than 300,000 French officers and
soldiers in North Africa—organised in 10 to 11
divisions, some of them mechanised —are ready
lor immediate action. If the French mobilisa-
tion plan is carried out, Free France will
have an army of more than 500,000 men,
including first-line troops and territorial re-
serves. When the Allies invade France they
will be joined by several tens of thousands of
French irregulars who played an important role
m the conquest of Corsica.— “ Christian Science
Monitor.’’
* * * *
A pilot of a commercial airplane flying across
the Atlantic in the military contract service
dropped low to look at and report an iceberg
lying directly in a convoy route. Suddenly the
iceberg began to shoot at the airliner. It was
an enemy ship using a new camouflage.— N.Y.
‘ Times.’’
* * !f: *
Senator Chandler thinks the U.S. should pick
up such strategic spots as we need to establish
and maintain a strong defence line; his Mili-
tary Affairs sub-committee has asked the navy
to recommend which of the thousands of Pacific
islands it thinks should be fortified. That seems
like a good start. The plan should be carried
through. Let anyone who wishes call it imperial-
ism. We know from Tarawa what it means to
have key islands occupied by an enemy. They
must never be again. And if some of the
British-owned, or -claimed. Pacific islands, which
the British were too weak to defend, are neces-
sary to us, we should have them, too. They
could, as Senator Chandler suggests, be chalked
up on the black side of the Lend-Lease ledger.
— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Many of the children in occupied territories
who for four years have suffered a starvation
diet are war orphans. Yugoslav officials esti-
mate there are 400,000 in their country alone.
Hundreds of these orphans had their identifi-
cation papers taken up by Germans, with the
result that now no one, least of all the
youngsters themselves, have any idea who they
are or where they came from. — London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Times.”
$ :je
Globally, the prospects are exotic —world feed-
ing at the Planners’ troughs, a levelling down
of Americans by semi-starvation to prove that
they are equal to all other men, a restoration
or donation of all unfree colonials to the Eng-
lish and Dutch democracies, a restoration of
Finland, Poland, Germany, etc., to the Soviet
democracy, an unlimited export of capital on
the lend-lease basis (all lend and no lease), an
unlimited import of the human refuse unfit to
survive elsewhere, the abandonment of synthetic
rubber and other defence staples to restore
the prosperity of foreign imperiums (or their
exploiters), an international police force re-
cruited from Erewhon and based on magnetic
fields in the stratosphere over Antarctica (to
make for impartiality), and a global democracy
based on regional oligarchies resting on Red
dictatorships, emperors and assorted hatchef-
men, the whole leavened by corpse worshippers
(Leninists) ‘under God.”— James Travis; U.S.
Catholic World.”
* * * *
We would feel more certain that a genuinely
law-abiding Left-wing movement were being
born if the Communist party would retire the
outstanding leaders who have wriggled and
wobbled all over the political map. The men
ii°j Britain’s agonies in 1940 and
called strikes in war industries in 1941 can
hardly inspire confidence now.—iV.T. “Times.”
* * * *
Events have conspired to step up the life and
living in neutral Spain, and the brightest spot
in Europe is Madrid. This has attracted the
usual number of hangers-on to the gay capital.
The sophisticated expatriates from all over
Europe, who before the war thronged the Ritz
bar in Paris, now have descended like locusts
on the Ritz bar in Madrid. They are a brittle
and unappealing lot, as annoying to the
Spaniards as to anyone else, and their glittering
presence in Spain is an embarrassment. But in
any case the lights are blazing, the theatres are
booming, the bands are playing and the sky
is the limit all over the town. — Scripps-Howard
correspondent Henry J. Taylor.


Public Notices.
I, HAZEL, CREECY, of Greek nationality, born at
Sydney, N.S.W., and resident all my life in Australia,
now residing at 29 Tuseulum Street, Potts Point,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, FRITZ JACOBUS, refugee alien, formerly of
German nationality, bom at Schivelbein, Germany,
and resident eight years in Australia, now residing
at Molong Road, Orange, N.IS.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
' people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Rupture
fd
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live.- Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), !) Martin Place, Sydney.
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
Tl ~'T~i .iirr.jii - SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
'"'HEWS
18 COO D BUT
STUL TAKE CARE
OF YOUR TYRES
i
DON'T RELAX, THE
JAP STILL HAS MOST
OF THE RUBBER . . .
SO KEEP UP VOUR
GOOD DRIVING
HABITS.
drive Carefully—
TO HELP AUSTRALIA.
Olympic!
(rubber]
ji
JINSULATEDI)
I CABLES)
{P'i&chu&OK' T>f
Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER ED. LTD*
#urS/
wa#
SAV/MGS
SrAMPS
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT." 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
RECORD SALVAGE JOB
NORMANDIE REFLOATED
$ 1,000,000 TURBINES
STILL PROTECTED
'
5*5
*****
; < -488*teEJ&" 11111111 '^&VvV*«^
■
5; v?
A 5
Mobiloil
The U.S. Navy and the Merrltt-Chapman
& Scott Corp. have completed the greatest
salvaging job in history. For 18 months
one of the world's costliest power plants
—worth over a million dollars—was lying
in the slime and mud of the Hudson River.
Turbines, generators, motors, all critical
pieces of equipment, with a value to the
Allied war effort far greater than their cost,
have been exposed to the ravages of rust
and corrosion.
The vital bearings and shafts of this
equipment were lubricated with Gargoyle
Marine Oils. It has been discovered that
they will need but little reconditioning—
so little in fact that marine experts have
literally been amazed.
On its maiden voyage in 1935, these
world-famous oils were in the Normandie's
turbines. These same oils gave unfailing
lubrication throughout e' ‘ «f the
Normandie's Trans-Atlanti hv
quality has provided an invaluable contri-
bution to the reconditioning of this mighty
ship—speeding it on its way to distant
battlefronts.
This Is just one dramatic chapter in the
history of Gargoyle Marine Oils—lubri-
cants which have protected the engines of
every North Atlantic Blue Riband winner,
including the Queen Mary and the Queen
Elizabeth.
This is not only heartening news of a
valuable contribution to the Allied war
effort, but it is also important news to
every Australian motorist. The same ex-
perience that makes these high quality
Gargoyle Marine Oils goes into making
Mobiloil for your car. You will find in
Mobiloil all the good qualities that will help
you keep your car running at its best.
VACUUM
V 1.412
) L COMPANY
TED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD.
Service Department.
Wants.
To buy J. C. Squire’s Tricks of the Trade. —
3433.
To buy any of Conan Doyle’s “Sherlock
Holmes” books. —3434.
Information Sought.
Is it possible to build a caravan under war-
time conditions ?
Construction of all types of trailers is now
controlled, and a permit must be obtained from
the Department of Emergency Road Transport.
Permits are granted only to holders of two and
three priorities, and it must be proved that the
caravan is essential to applicant’s work. All
materials are strictly controlled.
* * Sf *
An allevient for prickly heat ?
Use a calamine lotion containing one p.c.
of carbolic acid. The following preparation is
sometimes useful: Three parts each of lanoline
and olive oil, two parts each of glycerine and
limewater. Apply this cream very thinly.
* * * *
(1) How is the registered tonnage of a ship
arrived at? (2) Distance to the horizon (at sea )
from height of 25, 50, 100 and 200 feet above
sea level?
(1) Varies according to law of various
countries, usually based on internal capacity on
basis of one ton to 100 cub. ft. “Register net
tonnage” is a computation of space available
for cargo or passengers. (2) Assuming eye is
at height stated, 25ft., six miles; 50ft., B^m.;
100 ft., 12im.; 200 ft., 17*m.
* * * $
How to make rose-hip jam ?
Gather the hips after frost has made them
deep red. Boil well in preserving pan and strain
pulp to remove hairs. Stew some apples in a
little water. Boil together one cup hip pulp,
one cup apple pulp, one cup sugar and one
tablespoon lemon-juice till if thickens when
tested. A little more lemon-juice is an improve-
ment.
* * * *
In a trump hand in five hundred, can the joker
be called any suit irrespective of previous play?
No; in a trump bid the joker is the highest
trump.
Brief Answers.
H.F.W.: Your violin labelled Stradivarius
is probably a copy... .Coolgardite; No permit
needed to do casual labor R.G.0.: The
degrees are of equal value in obtaining a posi-
tion... J.E.8.: Write to 0.C., Base Records,
Canberra, giving full name, army number, units,
areas of service, etc M.A.C.: The Swag-
man’s Notebook, from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, Is G.K.R.; A complete edition is
being printed but it is not yet available. You
will be notified when it is... .J. 8.: Apply direct
to the Government Printer, Wellington, M.L
E.K.: (1) Lekmek Radio has gone out of busi-
ness. (2) 50 Glebe-road, Glebe E.F.; Before
the Flood is out of stock at leading Sydney
bookshops... .A.W.: Answered in B. 2/2/’44.
.... J.J.R.: No longer available in Sydney....
E.W.: (1) No records available for half-mile,
but “fours” and “eights” are faster than single
sculls over one mile and two miles. (2) Miller’s
Sporting Guide is still published; it has always
been considered authoritative.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should he addressed to
the Editor.
V.M.W.S.: Harmless pastorals... .S.H.H.:
It’s been said before... .E.T.: Hardly more
than prose... .G.R.D.: “I think it’s fairly good,
don’t you?” No J.P.G.: Pointless C.D.:
Case is hardly improved by the rhyming
of “time” with “line” W.8.M.: Even the
profanity is elementary J.P.: Only the very
young are permitted to open their poems with
“Have you ever” or “Did you ever” A.C.:
Cultivate a style N.E.P.: Try a woman’s
paper... .S.P.: “Passed by Censor” rejected by
office boy E.A.H.: Mum’s new hat is a
featherweight A.F.: Frothy W.E.McI.:
“I enclose a thing for your consideration.” We
consider it a thing T. 8.: Trifles... .R.C.:
Magazine stuff R.E.McC.: The people aren’t
interesting... .G.P.McD.: “A sense of glorious
nonchalance possesses me, a sporadic pulsation
throbs within my breast.” You are not well.
F.S. and J.8.L.: No wow endings wanted.
A.N.B.: Funny dreams about Hitler are
seldom really funny.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.P.: Obviously your knowledge of brick-
laying could easily be printed in screamer head-
lines on the back of a stamp T.L.G.; The
sergeant-major has two left hands, a misplaced
chin and plucked eyebrows A.C.; Badly
balanced drawing and your jests are all either
lifted or afflicted with blue mould E.H.A.:
You’ve cluttered the cricket drawing up with
too many sundries Harry S.; You evince a
passion for horizontal lines and gawky humans.
. ...T.0.: Master the rules, then you can give
the grotesque a fly H.J.K.: We were un-
moved by Horace’s remark to the goat
P.T.N.: “I think I have a bent for black-and-
white” ; if you make a career of it you’ll go
broke.


This special rubber
buoy is designed es-
pecially for mooring
flying boats. Rubber
is used because any
other material -would
tend to injure the
lightly constructed
hulls of these air-
craft, Dunlop Fac-
tories are fully en-
gaged in making
these and thousands
of other war pro-
ducts.
Made for the
R.A.A.F.
by
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LTD.
SsaPs*
formerly known
* TEXACO
CALTEX
ElOT®® @DO=
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends, Off. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
1934.. 31,978 3 „ „ 22,500 11,429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ ~ 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 ~ „ 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 .. 169,759
1938.. 70.696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 „ ~ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000 . . 177,854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Goodwill written off, £1,988 . . 182,011
1941.. 67,550 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,731 183,830
Added to intangibles, £56 .. 183,774
1942.. 55,866 6 p.c. = 37,500 16,218 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO . . 187,922
1943.. 54,189 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,639 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3938 .. 191,910
Considering the severe restrictions on
civilian capital outlay on home and
other building, and the difficulties asso-
ciated with the milling side of the busi-
ness, including shortage of man-power,
skilled and otherwise, the rise in costs,
restricted imports and loss for the time
being of a valuable source of timber
supply in the Solomons, the surprising
feature is that the drop in profits over the
last three years (£16,146) was not more
pronounced. Government demands, for
defence and other purposes, largely filled
the gap.
The co.’s freehold and leasehold timber
stands are mainly in Maoriland, where it
also has large subsidiary milling interests,
and in Westralia and the Solomon
Islands. It was to handle logs from the
Solomons, as well as Victorian and Tas-
manian hardwoods, that the co. set up a
mill and drying kilns at South Melbourne
about a decade ago. Later it bought a
Melbourne plywood and boxmaking busi-
ness.
Last term difficulties became more
acute, especially in Australia, where the
Prices Commissioner granted a little
relief against advancing costs, particu-
larly in the West. In Victoria, where a
previously-purchased mill was re-erected
at Noojee railway siding, timber stands
from which the co. had received substan-
tial supplies are now nearly cut out. Also,
the plywood plant is suffering from pau-
city of suitable logs. In the Dominion,
where the co. is practically independent
of imported timbers, a new mill and bat-
tery of drying kilns are nearing comple-
tion at Penrose, and further extension of
the undertaking is being planned in
preparation for post-war activities. Mean-
while the co. here continues to experi-
ence difficulties similar to those it is up
against in Australia.
After allowing something for the tax-
gatherer and £16,639 (up £421) for depre-
ciation-included with profit in the table
and then shown as written off —the net
result of the year’s trading (£37,550,
down £2098) was 5 p.c. on capital as
against 5.2, 6.2, 6.3, 6.1, 6.7, 6 and 5.6 p.c.
back to 1936. That leaves out of the
reckoning a profit of £3938 on sale of
assets. The div., from which a point was
chipped in the previous term, was kept
at 5 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,006 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 70,868 69,331 77,041 65,302
Freeholds and
leaseholds . 69,644 142,574 147,588 169,020
Plant etc. .. 152,880 152,0-61 134,949 145,696
Stocks, etc. . . 336,577 318,720 282,308 282,717
Book debts . . 214,811 137,892 119,902 96,252
Sh r ° tht T 173,969 123,969 123,969 124,569
hive stments,
cash, etc. .. 75,091 144,195 228,747 211,458
To spend £32,179 more than was written
off on fixed assets and lower outside lia-
bilities by £11,739, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £17,289 and debtors’ balances
were reduced by £23,650. Excluding
shares in other cos., the year’s contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£525,125) was £28,791, due to outlay
on fixed assets.
As for post-war prospects, the present
acute housing shortage promises keen
demand for the co.’s products, and the
management is preparing to meet the
position in the Dominion, as already
stated. However, summing up the general
outlook, the chairman says: “Some con-
cern is felt regarding the manner in which
the scheme [post-war housing] will be
approached by the Government, for, with
its various buying and controlling organ-
isations, it may be reluctant to surrender
to private enterprise the freedom of trad-
ing which the latter has so long enjoyed
and so honorably conducted.”
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
A B
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Old. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 16,201 2082 7260 Nil 5859 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4_,950 5011 3,608
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8,250 5949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4600 8,250. 1809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4,950 1494 12,860
4 p.c.
1943.. 18,046 2081 4600 6,600 4865 17,725
The dead horse of accumulated pref.
divs. had just been worked off when war
arrived. And with it came controls and
restrictions of all kinds, except in taxa-
tion, as well as big changes in the nature
and character of demand. Under a
rationing scheme that requires surrender
of an eighth of one’s coupons for a shirt
and customary two collars civilian turn-
over has shrunk to a small fraction of
what it used to be. But expanding, low-
profit service demands have more than
filled the gap so far as the physical
volume of turnover is concerned, and a
branch factory was opened at Frankston
last term in order to cope with this class
of business.
Gross earnings improved £9804, but
were still well below the 1941 figure:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Gross.. .. £109,493 £116,157 £66,412 £76,216
Exes 88,713 99,517 53,387 58,170
Net .. £20,780 £10,640 £13,025 £18,046
Including £2500 sent to the staff fund —
no contribution was made in the previous
term—exes, took £4783 of the increase.
The net result thus benefited by £5021,
reaching £18,046, the third-best showing
since 1929. It was enough to pay pref.
divs. and show 6.9 p.c. on the £165,000
of ord. capital as against 3.7 p.c. and 6.1
p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div. was lifted from 3 p.c. to 4 p.c., mak-
ing the average over the first five years
4 p.c. Considering the uncertainties that
lie ahead of traders, reserves are none
too stout a prop for capital.
During the post-war period much will
depend upon the efficiency of plant, which
is an important factor in competitive
power. Stocks (down £53,756 last term)
is another item which could prove
troublesome when the war ends. Some
of the co.’s raw materials are imported,
which means that the time factor, ship-
ping problem and Government import
policy, including purchase of foreign
credits, are likely to complicate the posi-
tion. And capricious fashion threatens
to do the same. Raw materials pur-
chased to fill war orders might not prove
suitable for manufacture of civilian re-
quirements ; and, when other shirts are
available, shoppers aren’t likely to buy
the austerity variety, except at cut prices.
Much will also depend upon whether the
war is followed by a temporary boom
and then slump, or whether controls will
be able to cushion the bump, and to what
extent. There will need to be much
closer co-operation by the State with free
enterprise, if the worst rocks in the post-
war sea are to be avoided.
The co.’s finances look more robust
than they used to;
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital . . 41244,730 41244,730 £244,730 £244,736
Liabilities .. 131,897 41,937 73,815 16,274
Tax provision 14,503 30,165 27,472 20,000
Premises . . 103,571 102,723 101,825 100,736
Plant, etc. .. 40,883 44,902 42,023 38,908
Book debts .. 114,551 78,343 36,072 41,750
Stock.. .. 143,966 95,339 177,243 123,478
Cash, etc. . . 0.556 20,230 13,253 7,040
The reduction in stocks enabled £57,541
to be lopped off the outside debt last
term. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£136,000)
was £10,719.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ Si £j &
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 .. 44,680 10 „ ~24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 . . 45,512 11.6 „ 28,889 17,123 28,065
1938 .. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
1039 . . 29,698 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8i ~ „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 , . 17,011 3J „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 .. 24,722 -6| ~ ~16,222 8,500 1.363
1943 . . 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 984 .2,347
The co.’s experience reflects the risks of
the business. It has been squatting out
west in N.S.W. and over the border in
Queensland for the last 62 years. Drought
and an anremic wool market had left the
co. with a capital deficiency of £112,692
in 1930 ; but shareholders got back into
the picture again in 1935, and have re-
mained there since, except in 1938, when
seasons and prices were both unkind.
Over the last eight years divs. have aver-
aged 8 p.c., and when the books last
closed the whole of the capital and £2347
besides were represented by things you
could touch with a stick.
Since the outbreak of war the gamble
has been one mainly with nature, thanks
to the British wool contract, under which
the price was lifted from 13.4 d. to 15.4 d.
per pound at the end of June, 1942.
Following good rains at the end of 1942
and early in 1943, the runs were well
grassed for the first half of last term.
But feed dried off during the winter
months, and, except at Tondeburnie,
where conditions are satisfactory, rain is
badly needed. Lambing was satisfactory,
and an extra 9222 sheep turned off shears
yielded an additional 973 bales, which
bumped up proceeds from wool by


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting i
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Auvi
IDEAS.
OWNERS OF PATENTS or smart ideas, useful In
the Indoor Game, Toy, Novelties, Building or
Plastic Industries, please write Box 3804 T, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES IN EQUITY.
No. 1360 of 1941.
IN THE MATTER OF AUSTRALIA-ITALIA SHIP-
PING COMPANY LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION)
and
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT 1936.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
TAKE NOTICE that First, Second, Third and Fourth
Accounts Current with First Plan of Distribution in
the above matter showing payment of a Dividend of
20/- in the £ on_ four Preferential Claims, and a first
Dividend of 2/- in the £ on all proved concurrent
claims, and carrying forward a balance of £799/13/2
to the credit of the Company, is now filed in the
office of the Master in Equity, Supreme Court, Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, for the inspection of persons
interested. AND notice is hereby given that such
Accounts and Plan will be submitted to the Master
in Equity for confirmation on Monday the Third day
of April, 1944, at 11 a.m. in the forenoon, if not
previously objected to.
The amount shown to be due to each creditor in
such Plan will be paid by the Official Liquidator at
his office after the expiration of two clear days from
the confirmation of the said Plan.
DATED the Second day of March, 1944.
H. W. MACKISACK, Official Liquidator,
* 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
WANTED-FOOD for the
European Invasion
) ,
A
■ r- -• -r'f-
m
IM
*rr/x
■;//M
J'
r}*/
’ot*j
Wm : f^¥ L
"‘ 'JpHE huge armies be-
ing prepared in
Britain for the invasion
Europe increase Britain’s
food problems. The rations of the
British people cannot be further reduced
with safety—so food-producing countries, of which Australia is
one of the most important, must send STILL MORE FOOD.
Australia needs maximum commercial production of basic foods
to meet her food obligations.
All the vegetables you grow, and the food you conserve, add
to the total food supplies that can he sent to succour the people
of Britain, to perfect the invasion preparations, to maintain the
Pacific offensive and speed the finish of the war.
FOOD will §p_e
Issued by Commonwealth Foo,d .Control ,
F.20.2T
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
|HMh ■ ■
■
>
wm
m.
HkJ
■
Wiii
To
Engineers
who are
planning
the
“Battle
of Peace”
Write to Armco (Aust.) Ply•
Ltd., Box 4287 Y, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for Free Booklet
giving full particulars of all
Armco Drainage Products
Australia will meed your plans. The job of reconstruct
tion will be a big one . . . the absorption into peacetime
employment of thousands upon thousands of fighting
men and war workers is an essential factor in making a
new and different world when Victory is won.
You’ll be thinking of many new projects that will
improve roads and beautify the Australian scene . . .
projects which will provide employment for those who
will be needing it.
Plan now for the postwar period . . . and include in
your plans the use of Annco Pipes . . . for
beauty, manence and economy.
fd
fd
fd
1 ? ] PROPRIETARY LIMITED
£18,163, despite the effect of seasonal
conditions on quality:— ;
t Sheep •,
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, eeeds. per Bale.
1934 .. 155,935 184,469 4205 £54,395 £l2/18/8
1936.. 131,167 160,344 8912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 116,690 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 .13/16/5
1939.. 95,212 125,508 2958 48,381 16/7/1
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 56,951 16/2/6
1941.. 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259 17/7/10
1942.. 123,272 148,565 2946 62,587 21/4/10
1943.. 132,494 145,964 3919 80,750 20/12/0
Gross earnings from all sources (£96,730)
were £21,808 better. After allowing an
extra £18,775 for taxation (£26,186), the
net result (up £596) was 10.4 p.c. on capi-
tal, and the div. was stepped up from
6.6 p.c. to 10 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures: —•
1937. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital . . £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 1,179 42,131 31,135 25,992
Tax reserve .. 25,000 8,500 10,000 26,500
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 107,718 213,390 208,502 202,510
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 62,132 62,630 64,761 52,498
Wool unsold.. 10,267 105 597 13,916
Cash, etc. . . 81,612 10,507 28,198 45,470
Freeholds figure at £127,959 and lease-
holds at £87,895. In Queensland, where
the co.’s leases expire this year, the State
Government has decided not to subdivide
pastoral leases while the war lasts. In
N.S.W. 88,000 acres of Quantambone
were resumed last term and a four-year
extension was granted for the balance of
the lease, which now expires in 1977.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, in-
cluding tax provision, by £59,392.
The current year’s results will mainly
depend upon the weather. The British
wool contract expires one season after
the end of the war. Following that much
will depend upon pressure of stocks and
competition from artificial fibres upon
wool prices.
Wattle Gully, at Chewton, is Victoria’s
most consistent gold-producer. Reduc-
tion of the mine complement (now 43) to
one-third of normal has brought similar
cuts in tonnages and dividends; but the
co. is ready to step-up production agaii
when labor and other difficulties permit
Meanwhile enough present-grade ore ha.
been proved on Nos. 6, 7 and 8 levels tt
keep the mill working for a long time yet
During the last half of 1943 the down-
trend of profits was arrested, thanks tt
higher-grade ore, and net panned ou
£1242 better;
All-in
Six Treated, Real’n, Costs, Net r~
Months, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
June,’4l. . 14,166 77/4 34/-£31,294 3/-£27,00(
De0.,’41.. 16,709 71/10*33/3 32,603 3/- 27,00
June,’42.. 12,279 81/8 39/1 26,386 3/- 27,00
Dec.,’42.. 7,519 82/2 46/8 13,552 1/6 13,5tM
June,’43.. 5,770 72/8 47/7 7,411 1/- 9,00
Dec.,’43. . 5,046 84/6 50/11 8,653 1/- 9,00 t
Provided the labor position gets no worst
divs. of 6d. a share quarterly are said tc
be “assured.” Present extraction of 701
tons a month is only nibbling at the ore
body above No. 8 level; and, before i.
stopped, work below had proved tht
downward continuation of the lode. An
area in the northern part of the prop
erty remains to be explored. The market
expresses its opinion of the undertaking
by offering 345, each for the 3s, Id.-paic
shares. Including £9239 in stores —as
much a headache as labor these days -
current assets total £24,370. There was
only £505 coming to outsiders.
sfc % jfc Jfc
The attempt to unseat directors Gair
and Michelsen from the North Deborah
board (B. 1/3/’44) failed by 34,065 votes
to 29,560. The issue created lively inter-
est, only 375 shares failing to poll. It is
to be hoped that discord is now at end,
and that all energies will be devoted to
development of the co.’s Bendigo mine,
a difficult enough task under present
conditions. Another 2s. a share, bringing
the total distribution to £355,200, goes
out on March 23.
* * * *
Linton Thorp, K.C., chairman of Tin-
dais Gold Mines (London), which holds
the issued shares in Consolidated Gold
Mines of Coolgardie (W.A.), says the
management is doing its best to avoid
closing Tindals mine at Coolgardie—short-
age of labor and materials is the trouble.
Shutting down for the duration would
subsequently involve disproportionate ex-
penditure in dewatering, opening up and
re-establishing the mining and adminis-
trative organisation now in being, and
might lead to further requisitioning of
plant by the authorities. Last year’s
operations resulted in a loss of £3963 stg.
—receipts £2O, expenditure £3983. There
is £24,000 coming to the Westralian
Government, and £25,000 to holders of
10 p.c. notes, which form part of an
authorised £50,000. The prospect of
operations continuing hangs by a very
slender thread.
* * * *
Gt, Boulder Prop (in liq.) still holds
414,000 Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance
ss. shares, the lot written down to £1
stg. in the books. In 1935 these shares,
together with £55,000 cash, were taken
from Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance
in exchange for a number of mining in-
vestments, local and overseas. Two years
earlier Gt. Boulder Prop, created 750,000
new 2s. shares, of which 583,333 were
offered to those on the register at ss.
each. The remaining 166,667 were taken
in 1936 by Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance at Bs. 6d. a share. Since the
Stock Exchange ban on dealings in shares
in De Bernales’s group of cos. there has
been no market in Gt. B.M. and F. stock.


IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" Trucks have been
specially imported by the Government as a defence measure
to ensure efficient road transport within Australia.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
• CAPACITIES: Up to 4H TONS.
® REAR AXLES: Sturdy, Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
• CABS : Imported. ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
• IMPORTED PLATFORM BODIES with steel skid
strips, Coaming, Front Loading Board, and •
Rope Rails.
® IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
® DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
• OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained as usual from our
branch in the Capital City of your State, and also
from any Authorised Metropolitan Distributor for
International Trucks. ,
Ask us to help you with your application.
Invest your Savings in War Savings Certificates
Invest Your Savings in the First Victory Loan.
m
What is
PROBATE?
In a word, Probate is the official
proof of a will, and the document
issued to the executor as his authority
to administer the estate.
To be effective, a will must comply
with certain legal formalities before
its directions can be carried out.
As a matter of procedure, the will is
deposited in the court, a copy is
made, and, if valid, the will is sealed
by the court and certified as having
been proved.
Some wills, however well-intentioned,
for want of knowledge and care fail
to achieve their object.
In other cases, incompetent Executors
are appointed, involving difficulty and
needless expense.
Owing to the responsibilities Involved
in obtaining probate, and in the sub-
sequent administration of the estate,
many persons nowadays adopt the
prudent course of naming a Trustee
Company to act as Executor.
For over half-a-century the well-
known Union Trustee Company has
faithfully discharged all duties apper-
taining to estates; it combines
knowledge, experience, permanence,
security, and complete impartiality.
It is therefore the ideal Executor pnd
Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States—New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson,
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Taxing of Industry
Australia, with a big war obligation,
is a different economic proposition
from what it was before the conflict
started or will be when the fighting is
over : .S° much is now depending upon
patriotism rather than profit motives,
upon the need for victory and necessities
rather than pleasure and luxuries. The
Commonwealth Government is the chief
buyer of everything, and anything- that is
produced for private sale is almost sure
of a market. The Government is also
the chief employer, and so great are the
demands for labor that any unemploy-
ment which exists is due to strikes,
inability to work or to departmental
failure. Because of the size of the task
on its hands, made bigger by its own
mistakes, the Government is even shorter
of money than it is of man-power, and is
a hungry borrower of any funds which
the public feels inclined to invest.
Many of the functions of private
enterprise and “orthodox finance” are,
for the present, dormant. Even as be-
tween the Allied nations there is little
trading enterprise. Government war-
time contracts and arrangements govern
nearly all commerce between Australia
and its Allies, and competition scarcely
exists. Lend-lease has delivered an
anaesthetic to the usual factors controlling
overseas trade, and our international
dealings go *on almost entirely confined
by the exigencies of war. War-time neces-
sity is the mother of nearly all economic
arrangements.
In this total-war Australia- taxation
is levied without regard to fairness or
economic consequences. There is a ruth-
less demand for war funds. In the eco-
nomic setup already described it is
apparently not thought necessary to
encourage enterprise or industrial invest-
ment, two of the essentials of peace-time
industry. The taxation scale in Australia,
on analysis, is seen to be one which
encourages spending and discourages
investment. It has hardly been planned
that way deliberately ; it is more a matter
of expediency than of planning.
Prior to the war there was a rebate of
Commonwealth company tax in the hands
of shareholders up to the shareholders’
rates. This partly overcame the injustice
of double taxation. But since early in the
war this rebate has been abolished—not,
in the case of the Commonwealth, a
Labor-party action either —and share-
holders in public cos. now pay at least
6s. in the £ through their company, Is.
super-tax on co. income in excess of
£5OOO, 2s. in the £ undistributed-profits
tax, and war-time (company) tax at an
mcreasing rate on all earnings over 5 p.c.
on “capital employed.” When a dividend
eventually finds its way to him after a
company has paid all these taxes —that
is if it has been able to make a profit
under the prices ceiling—the shareholder
pays tax in full at his own personal rate
on that dividend, which, in the majority
of cases, will have already been cut in
halves by the company taxes described.
By (he terms of the legislation drafted
to abolish the “lag year” a person now
paying 18s. 6d. in the £ taxation will be
up for 20s. OJd. over the next three
years (if the war and war-time tax
rates last that long), even though
in his case there may actually be
no , “lag” to wipe out. The .crude
lack of fairness, regard for industry and
economic consequences is evident in this.
Clearly the main purpose of the Govern-
ment is to get in tax money to pay for
war —and some very unwarlike frills
also —by whatever means it can that are
not going to jeopardise its prospects at
the next election. Minorities, therefore,
don’t count, however important and de-
serving those minorities may be.
Economic roughriding of this sort may
pass during the war, even if some of its
aspects are detrimental to the war effort;
but after the war it will be necessary in
the general interest to have more science
and simple fairness in our taxation
methods. The ballot-box isn’t everything,
and we can see how often a selfish vote
has stood in the way of the selfish voters
by inflating their money and losing them
their living standards or their jobs. To
keep taxation at war-time levels upon
the directors and organisers of industry,
and investors therein, merely because they
happen to represent a minority, at the
same time removing the burden largely
or entirely from wage-earners, could
turn out a disastrous policy even from
the point of view of wage-earners.
Workers in industry depend upon the
owners and directors just as the owners
and directors depend upon them. There
is always a point in the allocation of
rewards and burdens where we may
arrive at “the fair thing.” It is up to us
to try to establish that fair thing. When
conditions are obviously unfair essential
parts of industry start to jib.
Under a system where private enter-
prise is looked to to provide the greater
proportion of employment, as will be the
case in peace-time Australia unless social-
isation of industry and employment is
brought in, it will be necessary to recon-
sider rates of company taxation and to
study again the question of rebates to
shareholders. As things stand now, share-
holders pay, on the average, at least 10s.
in the £ simply because they are incor-
porated. If they were trading as part-
ners or individuals this penalty tax would
not be incurred ; they would pay their
own personal rate, which would, admit-
tedly, be higher than at present because
the tax now paid in the hands of the com-
pany reduces the income available to
shareholders. But the crudity and
utter unfairness of many present taxation
rules will need to be rectified when the
general barbarism of the present war
passes away. Taxation policy, so im-
portant has it become, will have to be
related to general economic welfare.
I here are people among us who will
try hard to make our taxation and debt
position after the war appear so hopeless
that there will be superficial excuses for
us to chuck up” the whole situation and
turn to socialism as the “way out.” It
will be impossible for us to have large
Government payrolls and low taxation at
the same time, and it will be extremely
difficult for private enterprise to function
with full employment-giving effect while
taxes are a real burden and other costs
are inflated.
The danger of undecided Government
policy is a great one. We see the trouble
that has arisen in the coal industry in N.S.
Wales principally as a result of falla-
cious Labor policy in the past. The
Prime Minister is wringing his hands
about it all and wondering why. The
same Mr. Curtin is the one who spoke
of “the Capitalist wolf and the Labor
lambs” on a previous occasion, and who
has never given a clear indication of
what he thinks the system of ownership
and taxation of industry should essen-
tially be. He is a preoccupied politician
who knows very little about the reali-
ties of government.
We have had assurances that there will
be no introduction of socialism during
the war by back-door methods. But in
the Labor Government there are a num-
ber of Ministers who have been advocates
of socialism or socialisation—among these
are Messrs, Ward, Dedman, Forde and
Senator Cameron. If nothing else, they
are obstacles to the revival of dynamic
private enterprise after the war. Mr.
Dedman has actually promised that,
after the war, “as conditions improve,”
present restrictions will be removed, to
be replaced by “regulations to encourage
the expanded production of all goods and
services”! While there is a toying with
ideas of socialism, as well as hesitation
about the role of post-war private indus-
try, impediments to a return to strength
by industry when war-time props are
removed from our economy are growing
at a rate unnoticed by those in a divided
state of mind.
If we are halfway along the road to
socialism when the war ends it is going
to to be ever so much harder to
return to a system of vigorous private
enterprise. The disorganisation of war
itself is surely burden enough. What-
ever road we propose to take in
order to regain prosperity after the war
our efforts will have to be all-in. As a
strategically important member of the
Allied Nations we have received aid dur-
ing this war which we can hardly expect
when peace comes. After the war it will
be a case of “business is business.”
There is a great deal of popular ignor-
ance about the character of limited-lia-
bility cos., in which control of private
industry is largely vested. The usual
barber-shop oracles wouldn’t know what
a dividend was, or what a shareholder
was. Economically, companies are
not the impersonal, bloodless mecha-
nisms which they might legally appear to
be. In their shareholders, their directors
and their employees they represent a vital
part of our economy, and are not to be
treated specially—one way or the other—
simply because some of them happen to
be housed in great piles of bricks and
mortar. Every company has its foun-
dations in human beings and human wel-
fare, and it should be entitled to the privi-
leges and subject to the obligations of
human beings. If we specially burden
companies we specially burden a great
part of industry. There is neither sense
nor good in penalty taxation of corpora-
tions merely as corporations,
Mr. Herbert Morrison, who has had
sensible things to say in the past about
the control of unemployment, sounds
ambiguous in cabled accounts of his
remarks about the “right of mass dis-
missal” of employees after the war.
There are so many qualifications in
what the British Home Secretary
has to say that it is hard to get
at what he means. “The right of
private enterprise to inflict unem-
plpyment and want in its own interest
has been seriously and, I believe, de-
cisively challenged.” It is hard to make
out of that a definite stand against the
ordinary right of employers to hire and
fire. And in “The whole of the emphasis
we are now increasingly placing upon
full employment means a denial of this
right to throw unwanted men on the
scrapheap” there is still an absence of
plain speaking. Does Mr. Morrison really
mean that until an employer can place
a wage-earner with some other firm he
will be unable to dispense with his ser-
vices? Apparently not; but what the Home
Secretary has said is about as clear as
the implications of the Atlantic Charter
Inability to dismiss staff for ordinary
economic reasons would mean'that em-
ployers would always be reluctant to add
to their payroll’ And during slumps in
business activity liability on account of
idle wage-earners might put a business
outside the bounds of recovery. There
has been talk by others than Mr. Morri-
son about the right of dismissal alter
the war. Restrictions upon choice of
jobs by wage-eafners and choice of staff


Public Notices.
TZANNES, known as CHARLES CARA-
VOUSANOS, of Greek nationality, born at Livadion,
Oengo, Greece, and resident seven years in Australia,
now residing at 16 Dowling-street, Redfern, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I* ■ FILIPPO SCIACCA, of Italian nationality, born
at Salma, Italy, and resident 18 years in A us-
t , ra , lia ’ xtTL residing at 20 The Crescent, Annan-
dale, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920>1936.
b GIACOMO NODARI, of Italian nationality, born
at Malcesine, in the province of Verona, Italy, and
T® si 28years ln , Australia, now residing at
the South Hay. Hotel, Hay, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
*’ THEODOR PERL, of HungaHan nationality, born
at Budapest, Hungary, and resident over five years
in Australia, now residing at “Greengate,” Liverpool
Road, Fan-field West, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JOHN POLE, of Czechoslovakian nationality, born
Kokavo, and resident 16 years in Australia, now
residing at 65 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
ff
as
£
K
W"
6 f
as
HAPPY LANDINGS
f
Pilots know they can make a perfect
landing on Sisalkraft protected emer-
gency landing strips.
These steel mesh strips have an
underlay of waterproof Sisalkraft that
prevents slippery mud from oozing
through the mesh.
Sisalkraft has many new battle-area
uses damp-proof wrapping for
ammunition, damp-proof food packs,
dump covers, camouflage,
weather-proofing Army huts and concrete curing.
When Victory is won Sisalkratt will play an equally important
role in the process of reconstruction.
S \SA LK M FT
F. W. WILLIAMS & CO. PTY. LOFTUS STREET. SYDNEY. 'PHONE: B 4415.
FACTS ABOUT
SlacJtMmhTUuf
YOU SHOULO KNOW
"Blacketeers” don’t look like criminals —though that’s
what they are.
Sometimes a fellow will tempt you with some liquor or
smokes —above the fixed price. Sometimes you’ll be
offered coupon goods, coupon-free—or products, the
manufacture of which is prohibited during the war. If
you have the money to buy, the temptation to do so is
often a strong one. Don’t succumb to it.
i
PRICES
WILL RISE
Price control exists to pro-
tect the value of your
money. There is a short-
age of consumer goods,
capitalised upon by the
"blackcteer.” If he can
persuade you to buy at
inflated and illegal prices,
you will place a pressure
upon the price ceiling,
and raise a threat to the
value of your money.
GOODS
BECOME SCARCE
Rationing is intended to
share all the available
goods amongst all con-
sumers. Buying without
coupons robs the common
pool. Everyone suffers by
the additional shortage
thus created. The scarcer
goods become the more
difficult price control be-
comes. Do without and
you help keep prices
lower.
THE WAR
EFFORT SUFFERS
Most important, the war
effort suffers seriously by
reason of black-marketing
and indeed as a result of
any unnecessary spend-
D 0 N'T TOUCH
BLACK MARKETS
Shun the blacketeer for the criminal
he is. Don't be foolish and pay
black-market prices, often for rub-
bish. You will be able to buy what
you need after the war is won, if
you save your money now. Buy
nothing unless you absolutely need
it. Save every penny you can and
invest it at good interest in the best
securities the world offers. Buy 5/-
National Savings Stamps, which will
help your subscription to the com-
ing Victory Loan, or make an
advance subscription now.
Get ready for the
Victory Loan
Make an advance subscription now,
or buy 5/- National Savings Stamps
PY.19.19
by employers are not going to solve
employment problems.
Later last week in the Commons Mr.
Churchill was asked whether Mr. Morri-
son was expressing the opinion of the
Government on economic questions, par-
ticularly in the case of a speech stressing
the need for some extension of govern-
ment by regulation after the war. In
reply Mr. Churchill said: “I am quite
sure the Home Secretary has no desire
to disrupt national unity. I gather that
he was embarking on a philosophical
disquisition of a hypothetical conjectural
situation.”
« ♦ * *
John Woolcott Forbes last week
appeared in Sydney Central Criminal
Court on charges of forging, uttering and
falsification of share certificates in the
name of the Producers’ and General
Finance Corporation, of which he was
once managing director. Forbes, who
was defended by Shand, K.C., pleaded
not guilty. Two alleged forgeries in the
name of Forbes (for 5000 and 3000
ordinary shares respectively) were men-
tioned, and one in the name of Ronald
Bruce Walker for 5000 shares. Craw-
ford, K.C., for the Crown, claimed that
the forgeries were used for the purpose
of obtaining advances Other forgeries
were alleged; according to Mr. Craw-
ford, “at one stage Forbes collected four
of the outstanding certificates, and they
have never been heard of since.” Mr.
Shand said he would seek to establish that
throughout the period when Forbes was
using nominee shares Douglas Bush, secre-
tary of P. and G., wrongly transferred
and obtained possession of the proceeds
of shares belonging to Forbes, Later,
said Mr. Shand, Bush, to cover up his
own delinquencies, forged transfers which
appeared genuine and obtained the sig-
natures of Sir Harry Budge and Forbes
on them. Most of the evidence given
was in connection with signatures, loans
on the share certificates, transactions in
them and Forbes’s Stock Exchange deal-
ings and financial position at the time.
It was claimed by the defence that he
owned many genuine shares and sup-
ported the P. and G. scrip market when
it was falling under pressure of sales.
Sir Harry Budge, A. H. Pellow, Ronald
Bruce Walker, R. F. Higgs, Albert Levi-
tus and Charles H. Smith were among
the witnesses to give evidence.
* * * »
The First Victory Loan, of £l5O mil-
lion, will complete the public borrowing
operations of 1943-44. If the loan is
filled it will bring total public borrowings
for the financial year up to £275 million
or thereabouts, plus loans from internal
funds (such as the Social Security Fund)
and war-savings certificates. In the first
half of the current financial year n?t sub-
scriptions to w,-s. certificates were £5
million, raising the total since war began
to £4O million. The Budget predicted
that a 1943-44 war expenditure of £570
million would be met as to £3OO million
from war loans, £lO3 million from
Treasury bills, and £167 million from
taxation. The rate of expenditure and
the borrowing rate have been greater than
forecast.
sfc }{«
The Division of Import Procurement,
a section of the Customs which has at
times defied the Prices Branch (also a
section of the Customs), appears to be
little more efficient or easy to get on with
than it ever was. British Tobacco is
withholding its usual quarterly interim
because of the high cost of imported leaf
paid to the D.I.P. (“much higher than for
previous crops”) and the failure to re-
ceive compensation in terms of the Ceiling
Prices Order; this situation has resulted
in profits by the subsidiary cos. falling
to a point where a div, by the parent co.
was not at present justified. British To-
bacco is not the only co. to have trouble
with the D.I.P, about ceilings and sub-
sidies. Many smaller concerns are in
similar plight. The D.I.P. itself, as seller
of diverted cargoes, gives more regard to
what the market will pay for its wares
than to what the goods really cost, and
thereby is doing a thing which would
bring trouble to private enterprise.
Truly, the D.1.P., taken as an example of
socialism in business or as the ideal of the
administrative bureaucracy, is no adver-
tisement for the “Commonwealth Powers”
asked for by the present Government.
* * * *
W. 0.1. Minister Dedman has given his
views on the Constitution Alteration Bill,
during the course of which he said that
“a systematic campaign was being waged
to mislead the Australian people and to
make them think that the conferring of
reconstruction powers on the Common-
wealth would mean a continuation and
even an intensification of restrictions and
regimentation after the war,” This was a
“ridiculous idea.” He added that one
thing which the Government would do
after the war would be “to sweep away
all restrictive regulations that were not
wanted,” and their place would be
taken by “regulations to encourage the
expanded production of all goods and
services.” It isn’t quite clear what Mr.
Dedman means by “regulation.” Does he
mean merely a numbered legal paragraph,
or has his “regulation” anything to do
with the verb “to regulate”? Because it is
hard to think of “regulate” without asso-
ciating it with “control,” and with both
those words “restrict” is as much implied
as “expand.” Mr. Dedman seemed to be
more at home when he said that there
would have to be some sort of priority
in building permits—that “the building of
houses, schools and hospitals would have
to come before palatial city buildings,”
and before the requests of “individuals
and companies that had done well out of
the war.” When asked how companies
could do well under war-time restrictions
and tax rates he said he was not prepared
to quote concrete examples offhand, but
claimed that war had brought “tremen-
dous expansion” to some companies. The
war (and the conscription issue) has also
brought tremendous expansion to the
Labor party in Federal Parliament. That
expansion is scarcely an indication of
public appreciation of Mr. Dedman’s
abstruse ideas on post-war regulations
that are not intended to regulate and
partiality that is held out to be impartial.
Nor is it, perhaps, a measure of public
enthusiasm for the Constitution Altera-
tion Bill in war-time.


THE SERVICE MAN
War Moves Northwards.
“Ek Dum”: In the Admiralties the U.S.
First Cavalry Division —which consists of
the Fifth Cavalry, commanded in its in-
fancy by General Robert E. Lee, and
the Seventh and Eighth Cavalry, which
served under General Pershing in Mexico
in 1916 —widened its grip on Los Negros,
penetrating northwards across the Hyane
neck into the Moekareng half of the
island. Resistance was fierce but small,
and 500 or so were added to the enemy
dead.
By the week-end Allied supply ships
had passed the silent shore batteries at
the heads and entered the Japanese main
sea base of Seeadler Haven without
molestation. Lorengau, enemy H.Q. on
Manus, across the channel, had been
pounded incessantly by American heavy
bombers. There was no enemy activity
in the Los Negros area by the week-end.
A fresh landing by American troops,
30 miles west of Saidor on the Maclay
(Rai) coast behind the enemy rear at
Mindiri, brought the closing claws of the
Australian-American advances closer to
the Bogadjim area, which is now in im-
mediate jeopardy.
It was subject to incessant bombing
and strafing during the week. Madang
was bombarded by naval units from the
sea. At Wewak U.S. raiders brought the
total score of the U.S. Fifth Air Force
in the New Guinea area to 1500 enemy
machines. In a raid on Wewak, reported
on March 13, 26 Jap fighters were shot
down. The Allies lost two.
While bombing continued all the way
round the New Guinea arc, still another
American landing by Marines of the
Sixth Army was made on the western
side of the Willaumez Peninsula, which
stands up straight on the north of New
Britain like the frail handle on a rubber
stamp.
The landing point was five miles north-
west of Talasea, the main station of cen-
tral New Britain. The advance to Tala-
sea, which was captured with scarcely
any interference by the enemy, and with
much less than the usual aerial prepara-
tion, cut off whatever Japanese there
were in the peninsula from the main
island. Many Japs trying to escape in
barges were destroyed.
A gusty enemy land attack in Bougain-
ville (Solomons) at Empress Augusta Bay
was beaten off, the enemy leaving 100
dead behind. A heavy bombardment of
enemy positions by U.S. artillery was
followed by an almost unique enemy artil-
lery blast against the U.S. beachhead.
The remaining positions on Choiseul
were heavily blasted with high explosive.
. Attacks on Rabaul were made several
times in the past ten days without attract-
ing any air defence, although every part
of the aerodromes and the town was
blasted and two small ships were sunk
on the harbor. Once five aircraft were
left burning on Tobera aefodrome, but
none sought the skies. Not even the
dying embers of resistance seemed to
exist. ,
Tokyo Radio appeared to admit that
it was all up with Rabaul. On March 9
it described the place as a “ghastly scene,
terrifically ghastly—there are not enough
’planes to keep off the constant rain of
bombs night and day.” When Rabaul
falls Australian soldiers ought to be there
to avenge their comrades.
Japanese air strength and shipping—
ten ships, the largest 3000 tons, and some
barges were sunk during the week—seem
to have been withdrawn almost entirely
from the Bismarck-Solomons area.
The reason can be seen in the news that
250,000 men were involved in the Mar-
shalls landings, and that Kwajelein is
being built into one of the Pacific’s great
offensive bases.
With the operations of Admiral Nimitz
the centre of gravity has moved 1000
miles northward, where war effort on a
scale never seem in the South-west Pacific
has already been made and is expanding
into still greater strength.
The South-west Pacific operations may
be likened to the prising of strong, pre-
datory fingers off a door handle ; those in
the Marshalls and at Pearl Harbor and in
India are directed to that vital part of
the Japanese Empire’s anatomy which a
samurai uses when he commits hara-kiri.
Sunderlands Come Home.
“Ek Dum”: Flights from No. 10 and
No. 461 Sunderland Squadrons have
arrived in Australian waters under Squad-
ron-Leader T. A. Egerton, D.F.C., who
has been in Britain since July, 1940. They
made a 16,000-mile flight from Britain.
No 10 Squadron is the pioneer
R.A.A.F. heavy squadron. It was formed
before the war by the far-seeing Fair-
bairn, to be based on Moresby and to co-
operate with similar squadrons at Singa-
pore and elsewhere. Here written when
the news was published were the words
“This is something like defence.”
Had the squadron settled down at
Moresby with the other squadrons
which Fairbairn planned to follow
it at other bases —he told the writer
that his ambition was ten heavy
squadrons, with appropriate fighter,
medium bomber and long-distance recon-
naissance machines of the Catalina type
—the whole face of the Pacific war would
have been changed from the beginning.
As it was, the personnel which had
gone to Britain to bring home the
bombers in 1939 stayed there with its
machines, the first Dominion air squad-
ron to see action, and played a glorious
part in all stages of the Coastal Com-
mand’s defence of Britain. No, 461 was
the second squadron. The two squad-
rons are still .in being and, .with fresh
reinforcements, remain for the defence of
Britain, but many machines are being
detached to form a home squadron in
Australian waters. They are the military
type of the large Empire flying-boats,
capable of fighting it out with U-boats
and corvettes or with any German or
Japanese bird of the air.
Berlin to Biscay.
“Ek Dum”: The main weight of the
Allied attacks on Germany last week was
shifted from darkness to daylight, when
the U.S.A.F. took over the burden of
heavy bombing for a few days. The
R.A.F. had borne almost the whole of
the air fighting in Europe for 3i years,
and the brunt of it up till January.
The staple of the attacks consisted of
six raids within nine days by whole “divi-
sions” of Liberators and Fortresses, cov-
ered by hundreds of long-distance fighters
—Mustangs, Thunderbolts and Light-
nings. These raids were supported by
heavy Marauder attacks on the great
enemy aerodromes in Holland which
hold the gate to the continent —Soester-
burg and Volkel.
The March 6 raid on Berlin covered
mainly the eastern suburbs, with great
ball-bearing factories as the bull’s-eye.
The attack was made at high noon, and
Berlin admitted that it caused very heavy
damage. It also resulted in substantial
loss of raiding machines, which had to
make a round trip of nearly 1200 miles
and fight most of the way. The
U.S.A.F. reported 68 heavy bombers
and 11 fighters missing, but claimed 93
enemy machines shot down by bombers
and another 83 by the fighter escort.
On March 8 about 1000 U.S. heavies,
with a bigger escort than on the pre-
vious day, plunged through crowds of
enemy fighters of every type and age to
make further inroads into ball-bearing
production in a hail of ack-ack shells and
an air otherwise full of rockets and air
mines, described as being “as big as a
truck.”
The heavier fighter escort cut down
losses to 38 bombers and 16 fighters (out
of 800 in the escort), against 83 enemy
machines shot down. Berlin asserted
that U.S. losses were 112 machines, in-
cluding 66 four-engined bombers.
A further raid on March 10 found a
cloud ceiling which shut out all sight of
Berlin from four miles above the earth.
The U.S. Command announced that pre-
cision instruments allowed of strictly
accurate bombing of the centre of the
city, where the R.A.F. had not left much
worth bombing. The heavy squadrons
reported that they had seen only 12
enemy fighters, and only seven U.S.
bombers and a fighter failed to return.
Bad weather then caused an interrup-
tion of Allied raiding. There was an
alert over London, with a bit of bomb-
ing in the South of England. An enemy
machine was shot down over Scotland
in daylight.
Reporting that the Germans had lost
301 fighters in day attacks in the five
raids over Berlin in a week, against 127
bombers and 33 fighters missing from
the U.S.A.F., the American Com-
mand announced that the February
operations comprised the first co-ordi-
nated attack on the Reich directed by
General Eisenhower’s strategic invasion
air force. American forces had dropped
24.000 tons of bombs on German fighter
plants and military industrial objectives.
The total bombs dropped on Germany
alone in the month, including the
R.A.A.F. quota, was 36,000 tons plus
10.000 tons on occupied areas.
It is quite clear from the American
statement that the invasion operations
are not merely imminent. As General
Montgomery remarked during the week:
People ask me when the Second Front is
going to begin. I always say “It has begun
already.”
General Eisenhower’s version almost
the same day was;
Our air arm is softening up the enemy,
but much remains to be done.
The U.S. Command further declared that
905 enemy fighters destroyed in February
“constitute a number considerably exceed-
ing the monthly fighter production left to
Germany after the blows on fighter pro-
duction centres.”
If this is an accurate summary of the
situation, it means that German fighter
production power should be wiped out
altogether inside another month if bomb-
ing continues on the same scale.
This might account for the sudden
withdrawal of fighter resistance over
Berlin and elsewhere which was notice-
able late in the week. On the other hand,
the withdrawal might have been caused
by the needs of the Russian front, which
momentarily must »be without parallel,
having regard to the scale and critical
nature of the withdrawal in progress
there. •It might also be due to the fact
that Berlin may be considered no longer
worth heavy air sacrifices.
In any case, the decisive factor in the
invasion will lie in the strength of Ger-
many’s reserve of fighters.
The thoughts of the British-American
air commands are now turning persis-
tently to main aerodromes and routes in
the west —Le Mans, Cognac, Bergerac—
especially those serving the Toulouse line,
between Bordeaux and Narbonne, in the
area against the Pyrenees, about which
the Germans are obviously very nervous.
An Allied bridgehead established here
would guard the Spanish rear from Ger-
man invasion, and establish a closed
front right across the Biscayan neck of
France, behind which large-scale land-
ings could be defended on a 200-mile
front of the Garonne and the canal which
follows the course of the river, via Tou-
louse and Carcassonne, to Ayde, on the
Mediterranean, and then along the coast,
past ancient Aigues Mortes, to the Rhone
at Arles.
But the main feature of the week’s
heavy raiding was the size of the effort.
Any one raid from Britain must have
involved the use of 250,000 to 350,000
personnel. The probabilities are that
more than 500,000 men and women were
involved in one way and another in last
week’s operations. And thousands of
miles of British roadway, huge sections
of railway, tens of thousands of motor
vehicles carrying tankage and bombs
must have been completely absorbed by
the job. The petrol usage would not
have fallen far short of six weeks’ Aus-
tralian consumption in peace-time.
It is obvious that while such opera-
tions are in being the congestion must
affect military land movements and the
operations of a tactical air force.
When the land attacks on Europe come,
the importance of North Africa, of Sar-
dinia and Corsica and Italy will appear
fully evident, and it will become clear
how little the Allies have failed in their
plans in the Mediterranean area and how
foolish criticism of their supposed delays
has been.
Land attack on the continent under
powerful and decisive air and sea cover
would have been utterly impossible with-
out the wide spaces of the south now in
Allied hands. The space in Britain is
too small to allow of efforts suitable to
the task being based on U.K. soil alone.
The Maorilanders Attack.
“Ek Dum”: There was little change
last week in the situation in Italy. The
Anzio bridgehead has become strength-
ened until it is a solid fortress ringed
around with defence, particularly with
anti-tank defence, the staple of which is
the new 17-pounder a.-t. gun—a far cry
from the little two-pounder with which
the desert war began, and even from the
six-pounder which later was matched
against the German 88mm.
This 17-pounder is a semi-automatic,
firing “fixed”— i.e., metal cartridge—am-
munition, and the toughest German
“Tiger” is apt to become a colander from
its fire at 1000 yards. Over 240 German
tanks have been knocked out of action
at Anzio.
While snow and mud hold up actual
hostilities on a large scale, the pouring
in of new forces from both sides soon
will have turned Italy into a major front.
The 25 enemy divisions now in Italy,
including 19 fighting south of Rome, are
as many as the Germans had on the
Leningrad front north of Lake Ilmen at
their peak. There are more than four
times as many Germans in divisional for-
mations in Italy as in Finland.
General Alexander told correspondents
on March 9 that “things on the [Anzio]
beachhead are very much better than
when I was here three weeks ago”:
I do not want people to have the mis-
taken idea that the situation is easy, but I
am quite confident that it will be all right
now. When we shall be able to break out
of the beachhead it is difficult to say
When it comes to a really bitter struggle,
where both sides are pretty evenly matched,
the people with guts, determination and con-
fidence are going to win the slogging match.
Maoris at Cassino
Meanwhile, the Maorilanders have
been playing a grand but little trumpeted
part in the battle of Cassino, in which
they have been assigned roles in keeping
with their glorious record in the taking
of heights on the Libyan border and
round Enfidaville in Tunisia.
Their first real fight in the battle was
on the night of February 17, when a com-
pany of Maori infantrymen appeared on
the centre of the stage, crossed the Rapido
River and foifght their way right up to
the Cassino railway station —a third of a
mile from the town proper—captured the
station buildings and hung to them till
late the following afternoon.
The attack was no surprise to the
enemy. He paved the Maoris’ way with
mines and peppered it with a hail of fire
from the commanding heights above the
town and from across the valley to the
west where the Rapido surges to join
the Garigliano.
The ground of the valley floor is soggy
and marshy, beaten into soft glue, and the
first lead of the drive forward was 1000
yards, though the way was lighted by the
greatest barrage which Kiwi troops have
ever had in support, rolling along ahead.
Its noises were added to by the clamor
of another attack which Indian troops
were making to the west on heights over-
looking the main road to Rome.
Nearer to the station water lay so
deeply on the ground that it concealed
mines and traps and wire. But the visi-
tors pushed on in the night—the attack
began about 9.30 p.m.—met the Ger-
mans at close quarters, pushed them
through the station area and out on the
other side to a house on the Cassino
road. The enemy, or what was left of
him, then made off in trucks.
Around the railway station the ground
is feet deep with dust and coal accumu-
lated since Adam drove in the first
engine. Through this the N.Z. visitors
quickly ripped trenches and pits, what
time the accurately-ranged heavy mor-
tars disposed on the many pinnacles and
hills which looked down on Cassino
plastered them with projectiles which
made them look like something out of
the inferno.
While the troops at the railway station
held on, the N.Z. engineers strove
mightily to replace the demolished girder
bridge across the Rapido. But day-
light beat them to it. Exposed to the
full blast of German fire on the open
marshy banks of the river they were com-
pelled to give up their task with only a
single girder remaining to be repaired.
Soon after dawn the battle was on
in earnest. The Germans turned every'
weapon within reach upon the intruders,
who, breakfastless, hung on grimly. With
no vehicular communication across the
Rapido, they had no tank support. Their
ammunition was limited. Their wounded
went back over the open track to the
point across the river where Bren-gun
carriers waited to take them to main
dressing stations —those of them who
survived the enemy fire on the journey.
German Tanks Arrive
Presently the German infantry, with
heavy m.-g. support, began to infiltrate
covered ground about 200 yards from
the station. Then, above the crackle of
incessant fire, there was an ominous
rumble down the road tb mark the com-
ing of the enemy tanks.
The Maoris soon had exhausted their
a.-t. ammunition. The tanks pulled up
ponderously 50 yards away from them
and opened on the gallant little band
with 75’s, backed by a sheet of machine-
gun fire from the covered ground. The
land through which the Maori com-
munications ran to the rear was churned
up all the way with heavy shellfire, so
that there was little chance of bringing
up sufficient supplies for a stand against
the new odds.
When the tanks opened some of the
men were blown clean out of the trenches
by the sheer muzzle blast of the guns,
so close was the enemy tank artillery-
others had their clothes torn off. Con-
cussion was a fruitful source of casual-
ties. Scarce a man who got back to the
main lines but was suffering from it.
A Hero Comes Home
It happened that the Maoris were under
command of a young officer of their own
race who had been decorated for gn ■
lantry at the hard fight of Takrouna m
Tunisia. His men were mainly from the
Rotorua tribes. . .
At one stage during the night he nan
gone back to the main lines to report


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERIK ANDREAS SMITH late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that ROSELENA ALMA SMITH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 255 of 1944 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 15th of
May 1944 and! obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from F. W. REILLY Solicitor 2b Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES McGUIRE late of Leichhardt near Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE McGUIRE has
filed a petition for divorce No. 521 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you man enter an appearance on or before the 15th
day of May 1944 at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. KALESKI &
HARRIS Solicitors of 39 Martin Place Sydney.—
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
am
progress and, returning to his men at the
station, he had been wounded by a piece
of anti-personnel mine. His wound hastily
dressed, he had resumed his command.
Now his leg was fractured by an ex-
plosive bullet. He saw that it was a case
of retreat or capture. He gave the order
to retire and commanded his stretcher-
bearers to leave him and escape.
The Rotoruaps faded into the smoke
and the shell storm about 4 p.m. Then
Germans, hurling grenades, rushed into
their abandoned positions with loud “Sieg
Heils /” The wounded officer lay huddled
and bleeding on the ground. The Ger-
mans glanced at him and passed by.
By 11 p.m. the young officer was free
of their attentions. He found two pieces
of wood and, digging them into the
muddy, shell-torn ground, began to move
painfully towards the Maoriland lines.
Along the exposed, slippery railway
embankment, across the damaged girder
bridge, through the minefields, into the
dangerous area in front of his own out-
posts, he dragged himself inch by inch.
By dawn he had travelled only hun-
dreds of yards. He went on, weakening
every few yards from loss of blood,
using his two stakes to pull himself along.
Nearly 18 hours after he had begun
his crawl, which had been under fire the
whole way, he fell into the Maoriland
lines and was carried off to the dressing
stations.
The Maoris’ Task
The dominating feature of the Cassino
battlefield is, of course, the Benedictine
monastery, which has been blasted into
a hollow shell by Allied bombers. Its
stout main walls stand. It looks sheer
down over the winding road up to it to
the marshy plain, dominating a wide
semicircle with its guns. When the last
word was heard (4/3/’44) both sides were
marshalling vast artillery parks in pros-
pect of assault up this formidable forti-
fied height and upon the surrounding
mountains. But it seemed that the assault
on the Monastery Hill would be reserved
for the Kiwis, who are bred to that sort
of country.
Advance in the Ukraine.
“Ek Dum”: With mud replacing the
ice and snow of the last cold snap of
the Russian winter, reports from Russia
are of titanic activity on every front,
from Narva southwards.
In the narrow Narva sector north of
Peipus, the German retreat, as so often
happened, turned to fierce and effective
resistance after the first surprise opera-
tions when the lakes froze and left a
road open for the Russians to assail the
enemy flank. It appeared that Narva,
supposedly cut off by land, still had a cor-
ridor. And the “fleeing and disordered”
German forces seen by Moscow corre-
spondents from far away suddenly
materialised powerful counter-thrusts by
the heaviest types of tank and mobile
artillery, working in combination with
shock companies whose methods adver-
tised that the Germans were not short
of men in that sector at any rate. Heavy
fighting was reported before Pskov.
In the central sector the enemy reported
massed Russian attacks on the Orsha-
Smolensk road. These progressed for
several days. The German High Com-
mand described them as “herculean,” ad-
mitted some temporary breaks-through,
but asserted that they had been sealed
off. On the north of the sector fighting
at Vitebsk had died down, and it was
obvious that the Germans had not lost
the fourth of the great battles in which
the Red Army has striven to take the
town and secure control of the main
route out of Russia.
The Germans reported a still further
battle on the Beresina at the north-west
of the Pripet Marshes. Here again, at
the fourth try, the Russians have so far
failed to break German resistance.
Advance Towards Carpathians
The main operations are, however, in
the Ukraine, on both sides of the Polish
border. Along the 400-miles corridor
south of the wall of defence which the
Germans linked on Kamenetz Podolsk,
Vinnitsa, Uman and Krivoi Rog, they
are in the throes of a general re-
treat, always a difficult operation fraught
with the possibility of heavy defeats.
On March 5 Marshal Stalin announced
that Red Army forces had penetrated a
heavily fortified defence zone south of
Shepetovka, which is 30 miles inside the
Russian border, south of the Pripet
Marshes, and advanced 15 to 30 miles
on a front of 110 miles, defeating four
German tank and eight infantry divi-
sions and capturing more than 500 in-
habited places. The Order added: “We
are now fighting on the approaches to
Volochynsk” (Odessa-Warsaw railway).
On March 6 Volochynsk fell and the
Odessa-Lwow railway was cut. Thus
Reuter’s Moscow man:
Marshal Zhukov’s armies in the west-
ern Ukraine are quickly driving towards
Rumania in three great thrusts Their
cutting of the railway has isolated, except
for secondary means of communication, all
Marshal von Mannstein’s forces in the
southern Ukraine, down to the Dnieper -
mouth, estimated at half a million men.
Characteristic of Reuter’s Moscow man!
The Germans have a salient with a 300-
mile-wide mouth to the west. Their
through the Carpathian passes was not /
blocked. They had at least six routes
open apart from the sea. And the sea has
had all too little attention. It is un-
believable that the enemy has not bene-
fited by his knowledge of barge transport
gained from the Allies, and that the Black
Sea coast and the Danube are not teem-
ing with small craft of the type used in
the Sicilian and Italian and New Guineas
landings, and capable of carrying as much
traffic as a first-class railway.
Next day, according to the British
United Press correspondent.
Marshal Zhukov’s guns and tanks went
rolling on through a sea of mud towards
Tarnopol, the biggest town before Lwow
(Lemberg) and the junction of four railways.
And “once Tarnopol falls the Russians
will be striking at the core of Germany’s
east wall, with which Hitler planned to
guard the Balkans and Poland.” The Ger-
man dead before this had been “counted
up to 40,000.”
With the approach to this area the
situation becomes very interesting. The
Russians are nearing a region in which,
for the first time, they will have to carry
on large-scale offensives in mountain
country —country which has long been a
playground of German strategy.
Any too easy retirement into the depths
of the Carpathian - Beskiden Ranges
will be a signal for wariness. In the
great Carpathian offensive of May-June,
19 J#s, which began with the Gorlice-
Tarnow break-through, Falkenhayn and
Seeckt favored a long retirement so as to
entangle the Russians in the Carpathians
before attacking them. Had they carried
out the plan the Russians would have
faced a finality of defeat. But Conrad,
the Austrian C.-in-C., would not agree.
The most he would concede was a limited
retirement, before the surprise break-
through was sprung on the Russians.
Even then Mackensen’s atta«k began a
series of battles in which the Russian
armies, pinned back towards the Pripet
Marshes, lost nearly 400,000 prisoners.
For the time being, in the environs of
Tarnopol, the 1944 German armies, by
means of violent counter-attacks by
strong, armored forces, stopped the Rus-
sian advance and began to fight.
Uman Abandoned
At that juncture the enemy developed
his next stage of the retreat in the
eastern Dnieper Bend, a highly ticklish
operation, success of which depends on
his keeping his Bug railway defence front
intact and preventing Russian decisive
breaches into the defence corridor. His
method seems to consist of a gradual
narrowing of the corridor as the eastern
end of the salient is cleared of troops.
Towards the week-end a retirement
from Uman indicated that the retreat
was well under way. It is an operation
without parallel in scale and method in
the whole of military history. One slip
would mean real catastrophe on the
southern front. Of this, the enemy is evi-
dently aware, and his purpose in retreat-
ing in the Tarnopol area is to have his
whole force waiting by the Carpathian
area to close the gates against the Russian
flood when it pours in behind the tail of
the retreat, and to prevent any accident
inside the Bend having results too far-
reaching.
On March 12 the Russians were within
17 miles of Nikolaev, on the Black Sea;
the Dnieper had been crossed north of
Kherson ; little resistance was being met
south of Uman. The only heavy fighting
was at Tarnopol, where the Germans were
holding the gate to the Carpathians wide
open for the Dnieper armies.
The enemy shows no signs of breaking.
The number of German prisoners re-
ported taken —under 10,000 in the 400-
mile offensive in 11 days—speaks for it-
self. There is as yet no move at Odessa ;
nothing to indicate whether the German
High Command will attempt to hold that
city and the Dniester line.
The Crimea and Finland #
Much more important than some of the
recent advances on which correspondents
have lavished superlatives would be a de-
cided success in the Crimea, but none
has been claimed for 4 \ months. The
Crimea and Finland form a barometer of
the real position.
It is unlikely that the Finns would have
adopted their present temporising atti-
tude in peace negotiations if they felt that
Germany was on the edge of disaster.
All the troops the Finns could muster in
the war of 1940 were 11 divisions. They
cannot have many more now. Their
troops are reinforced by six or seven
divisions of Germans. Thus 18 or 20
divisions are holding a 1000-mile front.
A Russian break-through on the Finnish
front and conquest of that country would
be strategically one of the most im-
portant events in the Russian war.
With Finland in their hands and Hango
at their disposal, the Russians would have
the whole of the German communication
lines along the Gulf of Finland under
fighter cover, including Tallinn, which is
less than 40 miles from the Finnish coast.
Yet no attempt ever has been made to
break into Finland —one of the war s
mysteries.
Subs, in the Pacific War.
“E.D.”: The British effort in the East-
ern zone, despite the fact that there are
major campaigns looming in the West,
and that there is the Atlantic still to be
guarded, is already larger than anything
previously attempted outside Europe.
Said the First Lord of the Admiralty
in the House of Commons:
Our submarines are taking an increased
toll of Japanese shipping, and we shall at
every stage contribute t'O the Far Eastern
war to the maximum of our power
When we bear on Japan for the final blow
our maritime forces will be more obviously
the cornerstone of our strategy than for
generations past.
But there was no evidence to show
that the enemy had abandoned his at-
tempt to cripple sea communications,
which are the heart of success for the
Allies. Germany had probably as
many U-boats now as at the beginning
of and every effort was being made
to improve U-boat performance and
equipment. It might be expected that
there would be attempts to extend opera-
tions to the Indian Ocean and other dis-
tant waters.
When the war was carried across the
world the responsibilities of the Navy,
which stood in a more commanding posi-
tion than in 1940, would become enor-
mous, and the Fleet Air Arm was still
being expanded in anticipation of the
greater duties which lay ahead.
Three Vital Dates
In 1943, Mr. Alexander proceeded, the
Navy had written three vital dates on
its scfoll of honor —the days in March
when the trend of merchant-shipping
losses tapered off with a suddenness
which it was almost impossible to exag-
gerate; September 11, when the Italian
Fleet anchored under the guns of Malta ;
and December 26, when Admiral Fraser’s
squadrons made a Christmas box to Davy
Jones of the Scharnhorst, “the last effec-
tive, full-sized German capital ship.”
The U-boat war of 1943 “might well
be worthy to count among the decisive
navai actions of history.” U-boats re-
ceived such a battering that they virtu-
ally abandoned the Atlantic for several
months. Losses in ships had declined
from one in 181 (1941) to one in 233
(1942) and one in 344 (1943). In the last
half of 1943 the rate was one ship in
1000, and merchant-navy casualties had
been cut in halves in 1943 by comparison
with the previous year.
In 1943 13 R.N. ships had been lost
on Russian-convoy duty, together with
“many” merchantmen, but 88 per cent,
overall of the cargoes got through.
Eleven Japanese blockade runners set out
for Germany. Two arrived, both damaged.
As evidence of the integral part which
the R.N. plays in beachhead battles, and
as a solemn exposition of the odds that
must be faced at sea in the invasions of
the continent to come, the Anzio beach-
head battle cost two cruisers, two de-
stroyers and five major assault vessels.
Since the Sicilian operations began on
July 10 the combined Allied and Euro-
pean navies have lost two cruisers, a
minelayer, ten destroyers, two submarines
and ten smaller war vessels.
Vale Penelope
Of the two cruisers, one was Penelope.
She was not a big ship—s27o tons, 64,000
h.p., six six-inch guns, complement 500 —
but her name will be as immortal as that
of the saucy Arethusa, which was honored
in the name of Penelope’s class.
Penelope had borne a charmed life in
the defence of Malta. Once, in the worst
days, nearly 1000 German and Italian air-
craft in three days launched 14 torpedoes
and 3000 bombs against her. She fired
6500 four-inch shells, 20,000 two-
pounders, 8000 .50 Oerlikons and 35,000
other shells in 24 days in the bitterest
days of Malta. Her memory is enshrined
under the nom de guerre of H.M.S. Arte-
mis in C. S. Forester’s The Ship.
The Little Subs.
The Pacific and Indian Ocean forces
already are in special training, the com-
manders-to-be in a school under a past-
master of the Mediterranean, Com-
mander Ben Bryant, R.N., D.S.O. with
two bars, D.S.C., whose pack of small
submarines sank 30 enemy ships one
year, “28 of them not more than two
miles from the enemy coast.”
The small-sub. torpedo-pack captains
look forward to their work in the Pacific,
where their vessels are particularly suit-
able for surprise raids.
What Submarines Have Done
If To jo’s admirals have proper statistics
of what Britain’s submarines did in the
Mediterranean and elsewhere during the
period when Britannia was supposed to
be doing nothing, the thought of what
may happen in the narrow waters of the
Japan Sea —to which there is an entrance
as wide as the English Channel at its
widest must give them the shivers.
When German forces at the end of 1940
began crossing the 70-mile wide Sicilian
Strait, the only checks on their crossing
consisted of a few British submarines and
an odd cruiser or so.
The enemy was able to make one-
third to two-thirds of the journey by
night, with 100 per cent, land-based air
cover.
British submarines alone sank a third
of /all enemy ships which essayed the
voyage in 1941 and 1942, damaged an-
other 8 per cent., drowned a minimum of
21,000 troops and destroyed war sup-
plies which “called for shipping space
equivalent to 4000-5000 tanks.”
Of the whole Axis merchant fleet in
the Mediterranean during 28 months to
Jan. 23, 1944, the submarines sank 43 p.c.
This was against 28 p.c. of the same
kind of Allied potential target for all
African routes sunk by Italian and Ger-
man U-boats in all areas. The compari-
son must be read in the light of the fact
that the British voyage to the African
front was 50 times that from Naples to
Benghazi; that the Allied voyage took
four months‘against the Axis voyage of
40 hours; that for much of the British
voyage via the Cape efficient air cover
was out of the question, and that there
were five times as many U-boats at sea
as there were British submarines.
In brief:
Perth had an air-raid alarm from 3.50 p.m.
to 4.10 p.m. on March 10. It was reported
by “S. M. Herald’s” man that “whether a
hostile ’plane was responsible is doubtful.”
* * =i= *
It has been announced that the Australian
Tribal destroyers Arunta and Warramunga,
built at Cockatoo Dock under the busy hand
of General Montgomery’s nearest approach to
an Australian double, Norman Frazer, took a
gallant part in the Los Negros landing.
* * * *
Reported that Lieut.-General Stilwell’s U.S.
and Chinese troops killed 2000 Jap troops
in the Hukawng—“Hookworm” to the Tommies
—Pass region on the northern Burma front.
It is an area of high mountains and dense
jungle. Otherwise the Burma front was quiet.
* * ♦ *
An escaped Chinese missionary, the Rev.
Marcus Cheng, reports that many Australian
and British guerrilla bands are operating in
Malaya, down to Johore, gates of Singapore.
He adds that shipping shortage was resulting
in inability to carry rubber and tin to Japan.
*- * * *
Losses by the Allies from U-boats in the
European zone in February were the second-
lowest of any month during the war. More
U-boats than Allied merchantmen and more
.U-boats than in January were destroyed. The
Canadian Navy Minister, W. Macdonald, says
that in' 1943 over 200 U-boats were sunk.


How Precise is . Precision?
M
*
Ml
This highly mechaniied
and scientific warfare de-
mands the most delicate
instruments made to a
standard of microscopical
accuracy. Tools, gauges,
optical munitions, aircraft
components, etc., demand
the most minute exacti-
tude in precision manu-
facturing. For over thirty
years A.T.L. engineers
have been accumulating
a vast experience in pre-
cision work, the sum of
which is now at the ser-
vice of Australia's war
effort, supplying precision
tools and scientific equip-
ment manufactured to limits as fine as I/10000 of
an inch. That is precision!
When you think of precision engineering . . .
think of A.T.L. *
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS
MUNITIONS
LIMITED
DIVISION
• SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • PERTH • BRISBANE •
"scot** Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Similar, contesting the race for the
third time, defeated Liberal Knight and
Saul in the Australian Cup at Flemington
last Saturday. A furlong from home
Liberal Knight looked likely to land the
Newmarket-Cup double for owner R.
Dorman, who had won the first leg with
Orteli, but Similar worried him out of
it by a head.
A six-year-old gelding by Son o’ Mine
from Verbatim, Similar is raced on lease
by F. God by from Sol Green. Until
about two months ago he was raced and
trained by M, Crossey, but jvas trans-
ferred after the latter had met with the
displeasure of the stewards. C. Sander-
son received a lucky mount on the
winner. H. McCloud, engaged originally,
incurred a term of suspension the previ-
ous Saturday. Saul may have won his
second Australian Cup had he not been
left at the post in the Flemington Handi-
cap a week earlier. That deprived him
of a needed race. Triton, favorite at
5 to 1, was not good enough, and Peter
(fourth) weakened over the lOO yards.
Delina proved conclusively by her suc-
cess in the Ascot Vale Stakes that she is
the best Victorian two-year-old. Conced-
ing weight to the colts, and hampered in
the last furlong, she won decisively from
San Martin and Kintore. Placings were
the same as in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Kintore and Delina’s stable-mate % San
Martin were preferred in th£ betting to
the winner, who started at 3 to 1. Kin-
tore did not set up the big lead expected
of him, and, although battling on gamely
enough when caught, was beaten almost
a furlong from home. Delina’s success
took her record to four* wins and £4805
in stakes. She is to be placed aside until
the spring.
A. H, Griffiths, a Melbourne business-
man, owns Delina, best juvenile of the
season, and Lawrence, best three-year-
old. These two horses have won him
£12,569 in stakes alone. Lawrence
clinched his class by defeating the older
horses at w.f.a. in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes.
Favorite at 6 to 4, he outstayed Tranquil
Star to win by a head, with Precept third.
Counsel, 5 to 2, was solidly backed to
beat Lawrence, from the same stable.
He had his chance in the straight, but
died on his run and just missed a place.
L. Robertson, trainer of Delina and Law-
rence, completed a treble when Bubbling,
a two-year-old sister to Simmering, won
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes. Three
Wheeler, another member of the team,
was beaten half a head by St. Fairy in
the Leonard Stakes. Robertson is experi-
encing a wonderful season with 21 wins
for almost £24,000 in stakes.
Saturday’s meeting at Moorefield gave
Canterbury Park shareholders cause for
satisfaction. The paddock and leger
were crowded, and the tote turnover was
£53,149 10s.
When Gauntlet led into the straight
from Overjoyed and Davinia in the Can-
terbury Handicap he appeared to have
an excellent chance, but he again tired.
Two’s Company then put in her claim,
and in a rattling finish defeated Davinia
by a head. Beau Timide was a long last
after going half a mile, but, though he
made a sharp forward move going up
the hill, he had finished his run before
the straight was reached. Overjoyed led
for a long way, his run being good
enough to give him a look-in for a mile
welter.
Drawn closer in than No. 24 D.S.O.
(Cook) would not have been at the liberal
starting price of 4 to 1 for the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap. However,
disadvantage in post position did not
tell against him, as soon after barrier-
rise he was leading from Joygiver, Notre
Dame and Fine Art, and eventually won
comfortably from Brueghelier, who ran
on well. As Jungle King had not raced
for over five months it was somewhat
surprising that he started favorite. He
ran into second place at one stage, but
never threatened D.S.O. Main Topic was
not dangerous with 9.5, but still ran well
enough to suggest he may be seen to
advantage before the end of next month.
Nothing in the Nursery Handicap field
looked fitter than Chantilly (Shean) and
she won practically from start to finish.
Vermeil (by Winooka) and Marlborough
(by Le Grand Due) filled the minor
places, followed by Gay King and Recka
Oka, who were well ahead of the re-
mainder. Gay King looked as if he could
be improved. The winner is by Picca-
dilly from Chancel, and was a 130gns.
yearling. She was bred at Kia-ora.
Peter’s Pence and Bon Terre did the
pacemaking in the Trial Stakes, the
latter taking charge at the top of the
straight, but Etching, who was third to
them approaching the turn, had the race
won a furlong from home, and gave D.
Munro his first success since he recently
resumed riding. White Feather, in get-
ting third, was nearer the front at the
finish than at any other part, and may
be returning to his best form. Unplaced
runners in Medieval Queen and Sponsor
came home fairly.
Ridden by W. Cook, Mary Lou be-
haved better at the barrier in the Ashbury
Handicap than at Rosehill a fortnight
earlier, and though not one of the leaders
—she was about sixth—entering the
straight came home so strongly that she
defeated Pannett in the last stride or two.
Phalaran was prominent throughout,
while Tel Asur, after getting to the front
from Willie Green and Grand Prodige
at the top of the straight, could not
finish. Neither Valiant Garde nor Babil-
lard ever seemed likely to justify the sup-
port extended them.
In the Highweight Handicap Bruce
Wood again proved himself better at
welter weights than in ordinary handi-
caps. Heavily backed The Beacon flat-
tered his backers by leading into the
straight, but St. Elmo was in charge half
a furlong from home, and it was only in
the last couple of strides he was beaten
by Bruce Wood, who came from sixth
or seventh at the turn. Behind the placed
horses Haripur and Brazen Boy made the
most promising showing. A protest
against Bruce Wood was dismissed, the
stewards holding that the interference
took place after the winning-post was
passed.
In the second division of the High-
weight Aquatic finished well to win from
Bruegalong and Mannerheim. Steadfast
was fourth, and may yet act up to early
promise. Burlington again showed lots
of pace, but lasted only to the turn, and
neither High Stepper nor Bronze Orchid
ever looked more than a possible minor-
place getter.
* * * *
Relatively the leading three-year-olds
were weighted much as anticipated in the
Doncaster. On the w.f.a. scale Moorland
and Flight are rated equal, but, though
the latter’s chance may be quite as good
as believed, some of the older horses
should take a lot of beating. Kiaree was
first with 7.7 and Prince second with 7.13
in the last Epsom, and respectively up
71b. and lib. they should have good
prospects. Warlock and Triad are nicely
weighted. Kiaree looks much improved,
and without delving deeply into the
weights he appeals to me at this stage.
However, the next fortnight’s ’ form
should tell us much more than we know
at present.
Main Topic and Katanga are not over-
done with 9.5 each in the Sydney Cup,
but as the last winner in the past 20 years
with over 9st. was Mosaic (9.1) they are
not exactly attractive. With 71b. in excess
of w.f.a. Moorland has received his full
share. Lord Cardigan’s 8.7 is the most
successfully carried in the Cup by
any three-year-olds since Wallace won
with 8.12 in 1896. Mayfowl may be
even better than when he raced in the
spring, and looks well up to 8.4. Mac-
Arthur was a failure when he last raced,
but should stay. Abspear has 51b. more
than when he won last year, but it is no
certainty he is as good now. Veiled
Threat is fairly in, though his most recent
efforts were disappointing. Cream Puff,
Goose Boy, Grand Fils, Shining Night
and Wellesley have shown form at a dis-
tance, but for a second leg of a double
Mayfowl may be as good as anything else.
• *■ • «
At the Melbourne yearling sales last
week the following realised lOOOgns. or
over: G ns.
Ch. c., Dhoti-Jeanne Hachette .. 3600
B. c., Law Maker-Belle Gallante .. 3400
Ch. c., Dhoti-Valoric 2500
B. c., Law Maker-Joanna .. .. 1650
Ch. c., Enfield-Old Story .. .. 1500
Br. c., Law Maker-Stage Wit .. 1500
B. c., Law Maker-Kiss Curl .. .. 1250
Ch. c., Enfield-Wardona .. .. 1200
Ch. c., Caithness-Consultant .. .. 1200
Br. c., Tudor King-Geyser .. ..1100
8.c., Caithness-Perfurnery .. ..1100
B. c., Kinderscout-Little Valve .. 1000
On the two days 128 yearlings were sold
for 64,095gn5., an average of 500gns.
• * * * *
The upward trend of prize-money in
Maoriland has naturally had a good
effect upon prices of racehorses in that
country. An offer of 3000gns. was recently
refused for the four-year-old Glenfalloch
(Kincardine-Memnon).
* * * ♦
While bookmakers’ preferences, as in-
dicated by the double charts, suggest that
it is little use looking beyond the three-
year-olds for the winner of the Don-
caster Handicap, it is worth remember-
ing that only three horses of that age—
Fujisan 8.1, Valicare 8.9 and Jacko 6.10-
have won in the last 20 years. Over the
same period three-year-olds have a better
Sydney Cup record, their winners being
Winalot 8.2, Johnnie Jason 8.4, L’Aiglon
6.8, Mosaic 8.2 and Lucrative 8.3. The
books may be correct in their Sydney
Cup forecast, as this season’s three-year-
olds are a good lot and very few of the
older horses are outstanding.
* * * *
Ajax’s first draft of yearlings for Syd-
ney sales will be offered at Randwick on
April 11, and include half-brothers to
Mor Veil and Aurelis and half-sisters to
Astrid and the Newmarket winner AH
Veil. They are bound to attract a deal
of attention, and if All Veil’s half-sister
is “a good sort” she should be produc-
tive of keen competition.
* * * ♦
Transport restrictions have hit many
Maoriland trainers very hard, and
recently there were petitions from Awa-
puni, Hawke’s Bay, Wanganui and Tara-
naki asking the Minister of Internal
Affairs that they should be lifted as soon
as possible.
* # * *
The Kentucky Derby, which will be
run on May 6, is the most valuable race
in the world, since the Agua Caliente
Handicap was forced out, owing to the
course being used as an internment camp.
The Derby again carries $75,000 (about
£A22,750), an amount that will be swelled
by forfeits and sweepstakes.
* * * *
The two-year-old Blenheim 11-Risk colt
for which W. Helis gave $66,000 (some-
thing over £A20,000) as a yearling in
America is to race as Pericles. As Helis
is a Greek, a Greek name for his horse
is not surprising.
Miscellaneous
Everything is now in shape for George
Elliott and Tommy Colteaux to fight for
Thomas’s Australian middleweight cham-
pionship at Leichhardt. Elliott has been
awarded two decisions over Colteaux in
non-title contests there. In the second of
these affairs Elliott did most of the work
after the fifth round, and had the heavier
man down three times. Even so, Colteaux
claimed that he should have been awarded
the decision, and said he would never
fight at Leichhardt again unless under a
different referee from Les Pearson. He
will think better of it.
The Westbury-Gray bout at Sydney
Stadium was good. Westbury, though a
stone lighter than the man from Mel-
bourne, was the more aggressive, and
there was hard fighting in every round.
The referee declared it a draw. This
observer thought the lighter man won,
but there was very little in it.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT,"
Diggers’ Encourage Handicap:
Thanks America, 1; Marquis, 2;
Bright Spot, 3.
Services Handicap: Britannic, 1 ;
Cragsman, 2; Beau Monde or
Liberality, 5.
Automatic Totalisators’ Handi-
cap : First Water, 1; All Scot, 2 ;
Cor dale, 3.
Quality Handicap: Warlock, 1 ;
Triad, 2 ; Flying Knight, 3.
Australian Comforts Fund Cup:
Gauntlet, 1 ; Wellesley, 2; Etching,
3.
Bookmakers’ Highweight Handi-
cap : Gold Head, 1; Tel Asur, 1;
Mary Lou, 3.


Missing friend.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JAMES MARSHALL formerly of
Rowami Street Altona Vitoria but now V 180499 a
member of the Commonwealth Military Forces. —
TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT TYZACK VX130152
of the Second Australian Imperial Forces has com-
menced divorce proceedings in the Supreme Court
of Victoria against his wife JEAN ELIZABETH
TYZACK for a divorce on the grounds of adultery
in which you have been cited as Co-respondent
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
by the Fifth day of April 1944 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence. You must., also file an answer
in the said office by the 18th day of April 1944. —
This advertisement is inserted by H. H. HOWARD,
of 303 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
'An interruption of the electricity sup-
ply affecting trams, street lights and the
like for a brief time last week was the
topic of discussion all over the city next
morning. According to the newspapers
two birds, Indian minahs, caused the
trouble by falling foul of power cables,
and this gave rise to some amusing cross
talk between those who’d read about it
and those who had only heard about it.
“What were two miners doing to fall
across cables?” was a frequent question,
with “Not miners, dear— min-ahs,” as a
sort of antiphonic chant.
As schools have not been many weeks
reassembled since the Christmas holidays
there are still many mothers, whose chil-
dren are going to lessons for the first time,
to be seen tripping along to collect their
young after school. Later those infants
will scorn the maternal hand and sally
forth with hordes of their contempor-
aries, giving tram-men grey hair by
threatening to push one .another off the
cars. Favorite topic with mothers is the
beneficence of Providence in permitting
so many small boys to grow up whole.
One, being commiserated with by Matron
about her small boy’s inability to keep
track of cap or pullover for more than
a week, replied heartfully: “I’m so thank-
ful to see him come home with all his
arms and legs that I’ve no time to be
worried about-his clothes.”
Judging from overseas fashion news
and the lust for old-fashioned bric-a-brac
and jewellery that afflicts people here
public taste has a backward eye. From
London comes news of the popularity of
lace mantillas and kerchiefs with an
1860 flavor to add a bit of glamor to
night life in the bomb-plastered city and
little velvet hats like those seen in old
family albums for daytime. There’s been
a leaning towards the more attractive
types of Victorian-era furniture for some
time (they’re economical in covering
material), but so far antimacassars and
horsehair-covered sofas have not come
back into favor.
Nostalgia-evoking scenes of Old Mel-
bourne (no doubt the people of the bustle
and parasol days had their worries, but
the twentieth century’s children find it
hard to believe) are dotted through the
print collection culled by R. Duncan (who
is usually there to tell about them) on
show at the Vertu Galleries. Nicest from
the good-old-days point of view are
scenes of the grandmas and their beaux
picnicking under the cliffs in voluminous
skirts and pork-pie hats or driving past
Parliament House in phaetons and
carriages.
An unsuspected cross-section of Mel-
bourne society was disclosed at the
“Katinka” matinee for the Totally
Blinded Service Men’s Fund It was en-
thusiastic in applause, produced one-
pound, five-pound and ten-pound notes
from its handbags, and poured them out
regardless at Dutch auction and the wheel
for a £lOO diamond ring. Yet the mem-
bers of this audience were mostly women
of middle age, not particularly well
dressed.
A tribute to a man of science who has
done much of the spadework of medical
research without the public plaudits that
come to a man who happens on some
sensational discovery was due to Dr.
Thomas Cherry, father of Maths. Prof.
Tom Cherry. The elder Cherry is now
82, but still continues his researches into
tuberculosis and cancer, in which field
his work has earned the respect of fellow-
scientists. Last week a presentation to
the University of his portrait, painted by
Aileen Dent, marked the appreciation of
his students.
Prime mover in arranging the presen-
tation was Dr. MacKeddie, one of Dr.
Cherry’s old students and an art con-
noisseur. Aileen Dent, chosen to paint
the portrait, specialises in such commis-
sions. Many well-known women have
sat to her.
Tail and handsome F. W. Jandrey,
U.S. Vice-Consul in Victoria, did the
opening honors of Len Annois’s show at
the Athenaeum Galleries with a speech
full of points, including a pat on the back
for the Mornington “Art for Every-
body” scheme! The artist is a connec-
tion by marriage of the Nunn clans, and
mother-in-law Mrs. Phillip Nunn was
viewing the show, looking very smart in
black, with a green note in the crown of
her hat and jewelled clip at her throat.
Discussing the points of a ballet sketch
they’d just purchased were the Russell
Jacksons, mother and daughter, with
them artist Mary Andrew, from Adel-
aide, who is sketching their 100-year-old
garden. Pictures of gardens are her
specialty, though she does paint other
subjects. Macedon has provided her
with much treasure-trove of pleasances,
and the home acres of the Hodges lady
and of the Isaac Isaacs, Murdoch and
M. H. Baillieu families have been put on
canvas by her. An exhibition of her work
will be held in the near future.
Her friends are congratulating Dr. Una
Cato on her completion of the medical
course at the University. This public-
spirited woman, who has supported so
many worthy causes with her money and
influence, has found a very fine outlet lor
her energies. Dr. Cato will go into hos-
pital work for a year. She has a big
interest in social hygiene, and it was her
financial backing which made possible
the use of Dr. Anita Muhl’s services by
the University.
Brett Randall and co. aren’t letting any
grass grow under their feet before making
plans for a full-time programme in the
year ahead. At present their little St.
Chad’s Theatre draws full houses nightly
to see the comedy “Love in the Mist.”
Next show, more dramatic, but with its
spice of humor, will be “The Day Is
Gone,” by Chetham-Strode. Irene Mit-
chell will take the leading part, played by
Angela Baddeley in the London perform-
ances. The play will open on Easter
Saturday.
Pictured here is Joan Coles, daughter
of the A. W. Coles couple, who has just
announced her engagement to Dr. Keith
Summons. Bridegroom-to-be is the son
of Mrs. W. H. Summons and the late
Dr. Summons. Joan has been on the
Rationing Commission’s staff for some
time. The young man, who will enter the
A.I.F. in the near future, is in residence
at Prince Henry’s Hospital. He finished
his medical course last year. Broothorn
made this picture of Joan.
The marriage of Dr. Doxie Abbey to
Sydneyite William Inder had as its set-
ting the tiny private chapel of the Cato
family home at Olinda. The bride is an
old friend of Dr. Una Cato.
From Sydney
There was generous response to
Mayoress Bartley’s invitation to the
“bring-a-gift” afternoon. A large and
solid table which looked as though it
might have been lifted from a board-
room was placed in a corner of the cor-
ridor at the top of the stairs, and soon
it was piled high with brown-paper
parcels. One covering did not con-
ceal the contours underneath. Nothing
less than a saucepan was in that parcel.
After the gifts had been handed over the
guest entered the reception-room with a
feeling of rectitude. Here the civic host
and hostess bestowed smiles and hand-
clasps. Frank Crane, as usual, added the
Raleigh touch to his announcements.
Hanging baskets of fern were a deli-
cate decoration. There were three buffet
tables, yes, and there was sherry for
those who liked it. For those thirsty
from the heat there were long cool
drinks with honest-to-goodness ice in the
bottom of the glass. Saucy was the word
for Mrs. Keith Morris’s small white hat.
Her frock was of tailored black. Hus-
band was with her. Lots of men drifted
in and out of this party, it being limed
for five-thirty. The Stanley Cricks were
there; so were the Hope Gibsons, Mrs.
Hope very pleased over the success of
the A.B.C. Russian concerts. Mrs,
Hamilton Lewis, whose daughter Mar-
garet is now married to a young soldier
flier, Mrs. Norman Lowe, Mrs. J. Coen
and Mrs . T osi were others among the
many . .
Patricia Parsons first met Dr. John
Cahill when her sister Pam married his
brother, Flight-Lieutenant Paul Cahill,
last year. Romance budded, and now i
has blossomed into a diamond solitaire
engagement ring. Pat recently gradu-
ated in Arts at Sydney University ;• ana
since then has been doing
as V.A. John was in the R.A.A.r. tor
two years, and is now transferred to the
reserve. He is the second son of Dr. snd
Mrs. Arthur Cahill, of Waverley. Pat’s
parents are the Charles Parsons couple,
of Mosman. Dayne photograph.
“One of the noblest daughters of Red
Cross” was the term in which Lady
Wakehurst described Mrs. Cecil Hordern,
who for 28 years has labored unselfishly
in the cause of mercy. The occasion
which brought forth the sincere compli-
ment was the opening of the Eva Hor-
dern Home at Strathfield last Saturday
afternoon. There was a splendid-looking
array of V.A. detachments and Red
Cross companies in the guard of honor
for Lady Wakehurst, who opened this
first convalescent home in the State for
the sick girls of the Auxiliary Services.
Army Minister Forde was also in attend-
ance and spoke laudations of the work
of the Red Cross. The home, named for
Mrs. Eva Hordern in recognition of her
generous service to the society, is a
pleasant place, garden-circled. It has
been decorated in pastel pinks and blues.
The lounge is a cosy spot, all pale-greens
and burgundy tones. There were many
service girls already in residence before
the opening. Indeed, Gunner Dorothy
Woods’s leg, encased in a plaster cast,
was presented for the autograph of the
Governor’s wife.
Publicity woman Violet Roche, who
left Sydney to take over the job of organ-
ising secretary and Dominion represen-
tative of Barnardo Homes in Maoriland
(her native land), writes from Wellington.
She clothes that windy city in a nice cloak
of color, telling of its springtime purple-
misted hills splashed with golden broom.
She tells of Enzed W.A.A.F.S. and
W.A.A.C.S. looking well-tailored and
smart in their uniforms. The air girls
wear blue-grey, something the color of
the R.A.F., and the finishing touch is a
becoming beret instead of the peaked cap.
Wellington is the only city in the
Dominion where the tram conductresses
are trousered. The railway portresses
and the army transport drivers are also
in long trousers, very suitable, the cold
blasts being what they are. The post
girls, in contrast, wear skirts. The hous-
ing problem is acute, and there is always
a crowd in the office of the afternoon
paper about three o’clock. The anxious
ones are waiting for advertisements of
rooms and flats. As soon as the paper
appears they fall upon it, then race for
taxis, which race one another to the
advertised “vacant” and the first on the
scene wins. From which emerges the
fact that there are still empty taxis to
be glimpsed across the Tasman.
It’s horseshoes for luck, all right, with
the Red Cross. From the special race
meeting at Randwick in December
£22,809 16s. poured into the society’s
funds. There was audible rejoicing over
the amount in the committee room of the
A.J.C. one afternoon last week when
president George Main modestly handed
the cheque to Lady Wakehurst. Then
Mrs. R. T Bettington fluttered her har-
vest o n [be C nas-card art union.
The ;cs; as £15.000. These
card • ne shilling ; so it’s
quite plain that the members of the
Special Appeals Auxiliary under the
direction of the Alexander Gordon lady
were no sluggards.
This war has changed many things.
Even the old adages are getting brushed
off. For instance, there’s not much point
now in the saying about all your eggs in
one basket. Twice last week the Girl in the
Flat Opposite was, to her astonishment,
handed two when she meekly asked for
them from the local grocer. As she
points out, even the most conservative-
minded would scarcely use two baskets
to carry home two eggs.
Poet Arthur Bayldon has a birthday on
the twentieth of this month, and in the
mid-seventies is as keenly interested in
literature as he was when his pen wrote
the celebrated sonnets. Arthur is a York-
shireman, and comes from the Bronte
country. In his youth he was famed as
a swimmer. From all accounts he must
have been a sort of human lifebuoy.
Manly was a lure and an inspiration
for artists on a night last week. The
Mayor (C. N. Breakspear) of the
pine-fringed Pacific strand had sent
out invitations for a celebration in
hortor of the twentieth anniversary of
the Manly Art Gallery, and artists from
the city side as well as local residents
responded to a man. The gallery, which
is close to the big swimming pool, was
lit from bow to stern, and looking from
its windows it seemed that it rode a
silver lagoon, so bright the moon on the
polished waters. Somebody with an
artistic sense, too, had placed the grand
piano in the middle of the long room,
so that there was an intimate feeling
about the night’s music.
Mrs. Harry Twigden (her petunia
chiffons a rich note) arranged the pro-
gramme, as she has done for all the gal-
lery parties during its 20 years. Among
her solos was one of her own composi-
tions. Contralto Violet Semple, soprano
Mrs. Robert Elvy and Audrey Davies,
who showed a truly comic sense in her
sketches, were the other artists.
The big moment of the night was the
unveiling of a portrait of Cutler, V.C.
This is a forceful limning of the young
A.I.F. lieutenant by Lawson Balfour.
Minister for Education Clive Evatt, who
was to have performed the little cere-
mony, was away through illness, so
J. W. Hayes deputised for him. The sub-
ject of the portrait was away in Mel-
bourne, but a proud mother and sister
were there. On the walls, too, there’s a
Lawson Balfour painting of Charlie
Bryant, who helped in the founding of
this art centre. Among the speeches was
a neatly-turned one of thanks by Hermon
Slade to Mrs. Twigden and her artists.
Acting hostess for. her Mayoral father
was Mrs. Harvey Fuller. Nor must the
part played by Mrs. Slade and secretary
H. R. Marriner be overlooked.
The University, like the noble-hearted
sailor in “H.M.S. Pinafore,” is still 100
p.c. English. It is proved by the fact that
English is still a compulsory. tongue in
its entrance examinations. Other lan-
guages apparently can be brushed off.
Still it has to be owned that the august
University fathers might have decided
on Esperanto as the common tongue, or
maybe have stressed the catholicity of a
sign language. The idea that Latin and
Greek are t dead languages makes any
juggler witfi words smile broadly. They
are the strong and eternally living seed
of our literature. Our debt to French,
too, cannot be forgotten. If youth is to
be led to ignore the riches within his
reach will not the writer of the future
have a beggarly vocabulary indeed?
A friend writing from England marvels
at the way the girls of the A.T.S. (the
Women’s Service of the British Army)
’ keep their feminine allure and the curl in
the hair. And yet many of these girls are
helping to “man” great anti-aircraft bat-
teries in different parts of their country
and doing a good job of such important
matters as radio-location, height-finding,
spotting and so on. But under the tin
hats the wave of red-brown hair is un-
dulating, the curls and puffs of goldilocks
and black satiny hair showing beneath
the front of the hats are profuse and soft.
It has been p’roved, too, that this care
for personal appearance is no deterrent
to steady and courageous devotion to
duty.
The same letter tells of a dinner party at
one of the leading West End hotels where
the hors d’oeuvres consisted of one goose’s
egg cut into four portions among the four
diners, and the sweets for each were four
prunes and a little custard. Austerity
has not yet stirred the porringer of
this country with such a harsh spoon.
Even the big cities of the U.S.A.
feel ' the stint more. Perhaps that
is why the Victory Garden is being cul-
tivated so energetically. Every roof
garden, every window box is producing
garden stuff.


d
BBSS
y;:
I • m
mm
m
■
mm
mm
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ttuwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although, now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RIIWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
*
\)
o
-
*
Prepare
m
Hour,
■
o
build
J
to
V
Q
Zateit
s
G
N
9
N
p
m
o
d
•j®
Set Sewimfs aiitft
FOR YOUR POST-WAR HOME)
Of course you can’t build it now . . . nor can
you do any extensive remodelling . . . even if
you could get all the Cane-ite you’d need for
the work you’re planning to do. And there’s
no reason why you shouldn’t plan, and pre-
pare, and save, for the home you’re going to
have when peace has followed victory. Then,
there’ll be plenty of Cane-ite, the ideal insulat-
ing board for lining walls and ceilings.
INSULATING BOARD
The COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING
CANE-ITE :; C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL : : PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS.
Invest your sa vines in war bonds
SMOKE-OH!
“The girl’s eyebrow's lowered and came to-
gether.”—“Sun.”
None of this standoffish highbrow stuff
for them.
•1* *l* *J* *J*
“‘Tom, would you go with me?’ She asked,
purring with her eyelashes.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
And, presumably, arching the bridge of
her nose.
•2*
“She made up her mind fast.”— “Sun.”
One of those rare occasions when fic-
tion is stranger than truth.
-** -i*
“Now and again he had to stop, fighting a
panic that tried to hurry him on recklessly,
waiting until he could press it down.”
Probably the thought that the beer
would be off before he arrived.
Tragedy,
With her eyes brimming and nervously
twisting her handkerchief, she appealed
to the sergeant at the police station.
"You’ve got to do something immedi-
ately,” she sobbed. “My husband’s
eloped with one of the girls from my
beauty salon.” “Please. be calm, Mrs.
Tuchemup ” soothed the Lor; “we’ll
locate your husband as soon as possible
and perhaps persuade him to come back
to you” The lady glared. “My hus-
band!” she exclaimed. “ He can go to
blazes for all I care. It’s the girl I want
—she’s the best hair-setter and mani-
curist I’ve got. All the rest have been
mah-powered into a pickle factory!”
P. McM.
•J* ❖ +
“I am a very chilly mortal, and never feel
warm in the winter unless I am sitting on top
of the lire.” — Woman’s paper.
And even then have a cold in the head?
*i* i*
Are Two Weddings Unlucky?”
—Heading in daily.
Doubly so!
•i 1 4*
“Beer is far too high in price. It is time
steps were taken to bring about a reduction.”
—Letter in daily paper.
A little drop wouldn’t do us any harm.
“Grow Big-hearted Lettuce.”
— Woman’s paper.
Yet we prefer the hard-headed variety.
The Crime.
“Man gets six months for bottle bashing.”
—“Daily Mirror
After seeing an instance of this type
of crime at our local hotel I consider the
sentence shockingly inadequate. The
offence I witnessed was perpetrated by a
big, hulking villain. Arguing with a
friend over post-war reconstruction they
came to blows, and then suddenly the
murderous wretch smashed a beer bottle
over his opponent’s head.
It was horrible. In fact, it quite turned
me up.
It was a full bottle, something I haven’t
been able to buy for months.
Nat.
“Overstimulation is weakening to any plant.”
Sunday Telegraph.
But what about those that thrive best
when thoroughly soaked?
Stated Frankly.
If a purposive porpoise shoidd marry a
cow
While the cow was conveyed o’er the
sea,
This unique and remarkable wedding, I
vow.
Would a source of great wonderment
be.
But let me inform you, sweet maid, to
your face,
Though you’re quite a delectable she.
There’s a far greater chance of this thing
taking place
Than of you being married to me!
Tra-la!
So that’s the position—you see ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Learning the Lines.
“Stage, radio star married.”—'‘Aim.”
Though the couple seemed loving and gay
There are some .who expect a reversal.
For the bride on The Day
Was by all heard to say
“But of course this is just a rehearsal!”
EVE.
Problem.
A science with its food in tins
Is driving me demented;
How can I get those vitamins
That are not yet invented?
DI ETHEL.
Pointers.
“A message from Stockholm says two small
straws in the wind suggest that the Finnish Gov-
ernment, despite secrecy, really expects to reach
a settlement with Russia. One is a regulation
just enforced restricting the sale of liquor in
restaurants.” —“Daily Mirror”
According to the Ankara correspon-
dent of the Matawamkeg “Megaphone”
Bulgaria is about to commit herself to
an Axis victory by declaring war on
Russia. He bases this considered opinion
on the fact that Dr. Towhit, the Bui-
ganan Plenipotentiary Extraordinary
now conducting talks with high Turkish
officials not only drinks coffee with his
meals, but has taken to wearing shirts
which have neckbands, cuffs and tails.
The tact also that he invariably carries
an ivory-handled two-bladed penknife
m his vest pocket adds verisimilitude to
the claim.
According to Major von Koldchissel,
the German Newsagency s military com-
mentator, the Allied second front wi 1
be £eS
followed with landings on Southern Nor-
way and Denmark. This is made un-
mistakably lucid by the fact that canned
oysters are practically unprocurable in
British Honduras, there will be snow at
that time on Mt. Popocatepetl, and Laval
is expected to be having his post-winter
wash by then.
The correspondent of the Bury St.
Edmunds “Battler” on the Portuguese
border has reported to his paper that,
irrespective of what Hitler thinks about it.
Rumania and Hungary will fly at each
other’s throats within 24 hours. This
war-within-a-war is, he says, inevitable
because man-eating tigers are becoming
scarcer in Bengal, there has been a sharp
rise in doughnut production in the U.S.
Middle-West and the fact that the Chinese
eaglet rnmmnnist Route Armv has inu
Gommunisi koui y nas just
been modernised by being equipped with
Mauser rifles, loofahs, rope sandals and
patent bottle-openers,
Madrid Radio quotes a Bangkok mes-
sage t 0 tbe effect tba t the recently-ordered
civilian evacuation of Tokyo and other
ciljes is in reality the prelude t 0 the aban .
donmerd Japan by the Japanese, who
jntend to settle their neW empire in the
NEJ This changed strategy, with which
the j High Command hopes to trick
tbe A i bes bas be en brought about by the
abandonment G f the Australian austerity
sud be narrowing of the tsetse belt in
Basutoland and the f act that the new
song hit sweeping America, “My Ash-
blonde May Be a Dead Pan, But, Boy,
Can she L the Hooch?” was com-
posed b Al i nge lspizzey, Butch Organ-
blum and Bortz Gogg i ew icz.
» er ; s i r re r nd r nt in Mo T
«P° r £ "J, 1111011 Ge “ m the
Bend, by milling around
flanks owing to chaotic communications,
have trapped themselves. Germans in-
side the trap are fighting madly against
the Germans outside it. The effect this
will have on the northern sector will be
governed by the prosperity of the Yuca-
tan necktie industry and the success of
this season’s cheese mustering in Holland,
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Thrift Doesn’t Pay
Spend while you can and let the Gov-
ernment iook after you in your old age!
The alternative is to save as much as you
can and later return it to the Government
to bestow on some other fellow who spent
freely while you saved.
Take these cases: A has been improvi-
dent and has nothing for his old age. He
receives the old-age pension, free of tax.
B has been thrifty. He has paid for years
into a superannuation fund. When he
draws his superannuation he is taxed on
it. Taxed for his thrift!
Two schoolteachers, C and D, have
been drawing the same salary for many
years. C has enjoyed life, spending much
of his salary on holidays, dress and
motoring; D has been thrifty and has
invested his savings, which now bring in
a small income. Income-tax assessment
arrives. D is in a different group from
C on account of this extra income from
investment. He pays a decidedly heavier
tax on account of his years of thrift.
And now we are to have free medi-
cine, and unemployment and sickness
benefits which will be “free” —-free to
the spendthrift; the thrifty will in the
long run pay for them! — Margaret
Don (Q.).
Morale-building
One could reasonably have expected
that the recent revelations regarding Jap-
anese atrocities would have caused a
nation-wide furore in this country, which
has so many of its young men captives in
Japanese hands. The comparatively
apathetic reception of these revelations is
to my mind a direct result of “uncon-
firmed reports,” “statements from reliable
sources,” etc., with which the daily press
was cluttered up during the last war
and the early part of this one.
The public, whose intelligence has in
the past been so often insulted, could
hardly be expected to distinguish readily
between “the-roasting of Belgian babies”
and genuine revelations concerning
Japanese ill-treatment of prisoners. The
fable of “The Boy Who Cried Wolf” is
applicable to modem times. — Truth
Always (Vic.).
Tommies in Australia
Those Tommies (B. 1/ 3 / ’44) will be
accepted in Australia among our own
boys. In Sydney they will share the
amenities of the Anzac Buffet and A.D.C.,
and will be admitted by citizens to their
own family circles, as is only right. Lists
are being prepared.
We Australians mean to see that the
sufferings of the people of the Old Dart
are in some degree compensated for in
the measure of love and service we will
give (and are giving) to their boys out
here.
Here is a letter from an R.A.F. boy
up north:
Bear in mind that we Poms are having
as good a time in your country as your
boys are having over home. No one over
here can do enough for us, and during
almost 12 months’ absence from our Aussie
friends the spirit of cordiality has not
waned in the slightest. This marvellous
spirit can, I think, be attributed to the
fact that English mothers have heard of the
marvellous time we are having at the hands
of our adopted parents and friends: there-
fore they are reciprocating; that is all there
is to it. “You reap what you sow.”
Which is our modest Englishman’s way
of belittling the generosity of bis truly
noble country to our boys in Great Britain.
They are we and we are they, and there
is no need to segregate them into separate
hostels. — Margaret Fraser (N.S.W.).
Australia’s P.O.W.
Army Minister Forde, alter a recent
tour of p.o.w. and internment camps in
Australia, said that he had received no
complaints; on the contrary, prisoners
and internees had expressed satisfaction
with their treatment.
Inmates of internment camps in Aus-
tralia receive the same ration as their
guards, or a commuted equivalent to suit
their varied national tastes and diets.
They are not subject to the limitations
of rationing of food or smokes, imposed
on civilians outside. Many are too fat to
wear salvaged Australian uniforms and
have to be specially catered for. Five
blankets per man in the winter is a con-
trast to the one, two or none provided in
snow-bound Europe for our own men
held as prisoners there.
Prisoners of war in Australia have com-
plained that they get too much mutton
and not enough beef, and that tea should
be replaced by coffee. They have even
complained that the hot running water
is not hot enough. Kitchen waste is
buried instead of being converted to pig
meat. The low labor output of “work-
ing” p.o.w. .'and internees would make
N.S.W. coalminers envious.
In Germany our men are forced to
work 14 to 16 hours a day and to subsist
on Red Cross parcels from outside. The
Geneva Convention governs treatment of
p.0.w., but not internees, yet in this
country the latter share all the amenities
of life extended to the former, many of
them denied to the civil population.
The Jap receives the same treatment as
his Axis colleagues, but there is no evi-
dence to show resultant beneficial results
for our men in enemy hands —indeed
there is much evidence to the contrary.—
Soldat (Vic.).
The Trade
“Avoca” (B. 23/2/’44) of course is
right: the liquor trade should be national-
ised and conducted for the benefit of the
“ T ummas , I do think story of Samson slaying 5000 Philistines with
jawbone of ass must have been written by Moscow correspondent .”
people. As it stands it represents a brass-
cheeked repudiation of the obligations
upon which its privileges were granted.
Licenses to sell liquors were issued
originally in order to ensure a system by
which accommodation and refreshment
could be obtained by travellers at all
times. In Britain, whence derives our
legislation, two kinds of licenses were
issued. A minor one was for “ale
houses,” but even in these places a com-
mon room, with, a fire in winter, had to
be available at all times, night and day,
for any wayfarers who required shelter
from the weather or the night. There
was no obligation upon the shelterers to
buy beer.
Full houses carried the obligation to
provide food and lodging for those who
might need it at all times, and stabling
for their horses. (A logical modern con-
tinuation would be the provision of garag-
ing accommodation.) The publican who
turned from his door any traveller who
might arrive at, say, 3 a.m. in need of
lodging was liable to be taken before a
bench of magistrates, who could fine him
or even recommend the cancellation of
his license. Fixation of drinking hours
did not affect the responsibility in regard
to the accommodation of travellers.
In Australia the responsibilities placed
upon licensees in the public interest have
been shamelessly shed. There are pubs
full of vacant rooms where the applicant
for lodging, even in normal hours, is told
bluntly that none is available. “The
Trade” has seized what were merely
privileges-for-service as an absolute
right. Huge profits—fortunes indeed —
were made out of the business even when
the responsibilities were observed ; with
those discarded the profits are enormous.
We need better pubs, better regulated,
and the profits should belong to the
people.— H. M. (N.S.W.).
The Land Man’s Income Tax
A man on the land showing an income
of, say, £lOOO is taxed on that amount.
Under normal conditions he would spend
perhaps £4OO of it on suckering ring-
barked country, cleaning out dams, re-
pairs to buildings, fences and yards,
destruction of dingoes and rabbits, and
a great number of other things which are
continually depreciating in value on all
stations and farms.
He can’t spend it now, no labor being
available, so he doesn’t get any deduction
from taxable income.
Surely the landowner or lessee should
be allowed to have a reserve fund free of
taxation. Overdrafts cannot be reduced
and improvements are generally going
from bad to worse under this accumula-
tion of disrepair.—L. G. W. (Q.).
Thousands of grass-eating brumbies
and marsupials are no longer shot out on
stations ; dingoes have crossed frontiers
which have been kept for decades;
stations don’t care how many stock die ;
they no longer muster and brand for the
sake of Mr. Taxation Commissioner.
Speying out breeders for fattening is
a popular pastime because it does not
increase stock-book census and enables
an escape from further commitment.
Loss of stock is no longer a concern of
managers, as it constitutes an advantage
in records and results. The idea today
is to fatten and sell sufficient to cover
expenditure; the remainder can go to
seed.
The same thing applies to agricultural
production under political and bureau-
cratic control. —E. G. Sheldon (Q.).
Anti-bushfire Houses
One of the characteristics of the bush-
and grass-fires in Victoria is the number
of houses that have been burnt and the
fact that brick houses seem to be more
susceptible than wooden ones. An archi-
tect says that the explanation is that the
rain of sparks that falls on the corrugated
roofs are driven by the wind up the cor-
rugations under the ridging, and from
there it is a short hop to the interior of
the dwelling. Once there the walls form
a perfect funnel, the place becomes a
roaring furnace, the beams go and the
outside walls collapse. Wooden houses,
as a rule, don’t provide such perfect
draught conditions as brick ones. The
remedy is simple— to bend the top of
the iron down slightly and ram a strong
mixture of cement into.the corrugations
where they enter the ridging.
The perfect fireproof house has yet to
be invented, but A. J. Whitburn, a car-
vpenter of Moe, near Yallourn, where the
bushfires were recently at their fiercest,
claims to have designed one. It consists
of an outer wall of concrete or other fire-
resistant material, and an inner wall of
any desired material, with a space be-
tween, with sprinklers installed which
spray the outer walls in a crisis. Win-
dows and doors are fitted., to the inner
walls, with corresponding apertures in the
outer which can be sealed with fireproof
curtains. To prevent the flames infiltrat-
ing below g m nd level the outer walls
go belc 'he surface and a fire-resistant
roof '■ osed woodwork or com-
bo stib’e .Is protects the upper
regio on a fireproof stand
or thi 'y the water.
A 1 a c louse of this descrip-
tion comb built for £750, according
to the :d to back his fancy
he coyt with straw and set
it alight before an audience of architects
and members of fire-fighting organisations
in Melbourne. It put up a fine blaze
for five minutes, and when the flames
died down the house was found to be
intact and the inside temperature had
only increased by three degrees; so, in
addition to its other advantages, it should
provide a bushfire shelter.
Considering the achievements in war-
time of the C.C.C., there is no reason
except political lethargy why the whole
State should not eventually be provided
with such fireproof houses. At least some
of the fatalities in the recent fires could
have, been prevented if the better sort of
brick dwellings in country districts hadn’t
been deathtraps and the townships com-
posed of dilapidated wooden shanties.
— Nakhoda (Vic.).
“Scabs”?
The harshest term used in the trade-
union movement is “scab,” applied par-
ticularly to a worker who works for
lower wages or for longer hours than his
fellows or keeps on working when a
strike has been declared or goes back to
work while the strike is still in being ;
applied also to an A.L.P. official or poli-
tician who does things, makes statements
or advises action that do not meet with
the approval of the “militants,” or who
secedes from his party and allies himself
with the “capitalists” or “Tories.” The
term has almost completely ousted the
bigger mouthful of “blackleg.”
Many trade-unionists lose sight of the
fact that the term has a wider applica-
tion and a more extensive range. Take
the case of N.S.W. coalminers. Have they
not been guilty of scabbery against the
official spokesmen of their union, so
often heard on their behalf promising
loyal and all-out effort in the production
of coal?
Are they not scabs against the
Labor Government, which has done
everything in and beyond reason to meet
every demand and to remedy every
grievance, real or imaginary, of the
miners?
Are they not scabs against Russia,
against Jap-ravaged China, against
Britain, U.S.A. and all the other nations
of the anti-Axis alliance and against the
millions of men, women and childreff
who have suffered and are suffering
butcheries and beastliness?
To cap all, are they not scabs against
Australians held as prisoners of war by
the Japs, against Australia’s fighting sons,’
against Australian fellow-workers, their
wives and families (in all of which cate-
gories the miners have near and dear
relations) —in shprt, scabs against their
own kith and kin, their own homeland?
The ayes will assuredly have it. —
Evolutionist (N.S.W.).
Is the Army a Reformatory?
One reads in the press of the Govern-
ment calling up striking miners for mili-
tary service. In my opinion this is wrong.
It implies that the fighting services are
something to be avoided, whereas every
able-bodied man who places any value on
Australian standards of living and on the
protection of women and children from
the Jap wants to join them.
I notice that many of the miners have
welcomed the call-up, and I am glad to
hear it, but if men are to be forced into
the fighting forces as a punishment they
are likely to acquire an entirely wrong
outlook.— Jerry Fox (N.S.W.).
Our Dictators
The Deputy-Director of Rationing in
S.A. recently issued in the press the fol-
lowing order to our local meat merchants
and others concerned (the capitals are
mine): “I hereby require YOU, pursuant
to National Security Regulations (Ration-
ing), to furnish ME, on or before ”
Surely the gentleman is mistaken or mis-
directed? Is it not the Commonwealth
Government, representing the community,
that requires the information and has
directed that it shall be communicated to
him, so that he may perform the duties
required of him, by us?
And here’s an extract from a news-
paper account of black-market penalties
to be imposed under regulations recently
amended (again the capitals are mine):
“It was explained officially that BEFORE
THE DAT£ OF HEARING v THE
CHARGE a Court may order the deten-
tion or disposal of any goods or moneys
BELIEVED to have been sold or other-
wise acquired as a result of conspiracy
or other action against the regulations.”
That is to say, the principles of British
law may be set aside \and a person
assumed to be guilty and a penalty im-
posed before he is given an opportunity
of defending himself. If at the hearing
the accused should "be found not guilty,
what means of redress could there be?
Could such a Court, having made such
an order, ever find an accused not
guilty?—Upagum (S.A.).


No Medals for Mother
'V> I i., %
«wr
££
f f HM
I ,
% ;v, ■- ;s
% i-«Vl
?S9
-v
• ••*.; - ' -
•••••'
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
.She is on duty—
She sees the children
off to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired' yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
* ★ ★ ★
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pfy., Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London.
