

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3364
Wednesday, August 2, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
ST. PATRICK’S ISLAND.
SEAT OF GREAT BRITAIN'S MOST ANCIENT SEE.
CLOSE by the mouth of the river Nebb, Isle of Man, stands
the little fishing town of Peel, with its good harbour and
fisheries which give employment to most of its people. Joined to
the mainland here by a causeway is historic St. Patrick’s Island,
where the saint probably did land in the fifth century, and which
is the seat of the most ancient see in the kingdom. The top of the
island is about seven acres in extent, and thereon stand the ruins
of Peel Castle as well as of an “ancient cathedral and a church now
roofless, all surrounded by an embattled wall. The castle keep is
a three-storeyed peel-tower, known as '‘Fenelja’s Tower,” and said
to be the scene of Fenella’s escape in Scott’s “Peveril of the Peak.”
The old cathedral of St. Germain is cruciform in shape, has a low
central tower, and a choir built by Bishop Simon between 1226
and 1247. Near to it is the old church of St. Patrick, which local
gossip says can hardly be later than eleventh century.
It was in one of the crypts on St. Patrick’s Island that Eleanor
Cobham, Duchess of Gloucester, was imprisoned in 1446, and
Shakespeare records the fact in King Henry the Sixth (Part 2,
Act 11, Scene 3) when the King says in judgment:
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
Despoiled of your honour in your life,
Shall, after three days open penance done,
Live in your country here in banishment
With Sir John Stanley, in the Isle of Man.
In this neighbourhood, during the First World War, was an intern-
ment camp for 25,000 civilian prisoners of war, and in times of
peace Peel and its district is a favourite resort of holiday makers.


Storu Writing
. Vi at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/*
My Name
My Address
SB. 244 AGE
The Red Page
AUSTRALIANS IN TOBRUK.
The section commander gives the com-
mand: “Lay mines without camouflage,
from column of threes —Double.” The left-
hand man in each file marches 10 paces.
The right-hand man marches 20 paces. The
centre man in each file remains stationary.
All make a right turn. The section com-
mander gives the command: “Lay first
mine.” Each man lays the mine in his
right hand on the ground between his feet.
Quoted in Tobruk (Angus and Rober
son), by Chester Wilmot, who was th
A.B.C. correspondent with the A.I.F.
the Middle East, this is an excerpt from
captured German manual. Wilmot com
ments: —-
No doubt' the Germans modified this
formal drill when laying minefields in the
Salient, but they still put them down in a
set pattern which could easily be followed
by the Diggers. The Germans on the
other hand had a hard job following Aus-
tralian minefields. The Diggers were not
fussy about accurate spacing or straight
lines. If t'heir pattern was a little cock-
eyed, all the better for fooling the enemy.
Their drill consisted of little more than
“This’ll do. Put ’er there, mate. She’s
right.”
Tobruk was not exclusively but it wa
mainly an Australian show. The history
of Tobruk is a picture of the Australiai
character in action. When there was only
a handful of tanks against the mass a
German armor, when the last few Hurri
canes were withdrawn after their battle
against hopeless odds, when the Bush
Artillery was an important part of the
defences and when the garrison every
where was relying on captured Italian
weapons to bolster its own meagre supply
of arms, Rommel was not beaten by
equipment but by men.
Wilmot’s comparison of the German
and Australian methods of minelaying
gives one glimpse of those men in action
There are many more:
Italian morale was not improved by the
V for Victory campaign which the 20th
Brigade organised in the southern sector
in July and August. Murray had leaflets
stencilled with “V per Vittorio” and
ordered that these be attached “by the use
of clips, string, nails, pins, etc., to enemy
bodies, posts, wire, sandbags, sangars,
etc., by patrols.” The result was to make
the Italians even more nervous than before
as day after day they found these Victory
leaflets stuck in their own defences by
patrols which usually they had not heard.
And again:
In July on the Bardia road sector Italian
officers—in an attempt to force their men
to patrol—ordered them to build cairns of
stones at the end of each leg of their route.
... .When a prisoner finally revealed why
these were built, the Diggers decided not
to disturb the Italians at work, but to go
out after them and dismantle the cairns
before daylight. Following this there must
have been some rather tense scenes in the
Italian trenches when bewildered N.C.Os.
fried to point out to their Officers the
cairns they had built the night before.
These two incidents read humorously.
And, in the grim way of war humor,
they are genuinely so. Their effect on
the enemy, judging by the captured diary
of an Italian, also had its humorous side:
Great alarm tonight at our O.P.
1. Suspicious noises are heard.
2. Patrol leaves O.P. in a rush; takes
refuge in main post.
3. Capt. L. arms himself to the teeth with
rifle, pistol, hand grenades, etc., and throws
away the telephone.
4. Lieut. A. makes a heroic forward re-
connaisance of about 300 yards.
5. Lieut. S. gets a good smack on the
head with a rifle.
6. My batman takes refuge in a tent
with a rifle in each hand.
7. It is established that there are no
British in the area. The suspicious noises
came from our own transport.
The A.1.F., however, didn’t attend
Tobrukl for amusement. These incidents
were part of Morshead’s plan to turn
defence into offence, hampering by con-
tinual patrolling Rommel’s preparations
for attack on the perimeter and frustrat-
ing his advance into Egypt. The Ger-
mans themselves admitted that the Aus-
tralians were the ideal troops for the job ;
a Major Ballerstedt wrote in a report
which was captured:—■
The Australian is unquestionably superior
to the German soldier: 1, in the use of
individual weapons, especially as a sniper;
2, in the use of ground camouflage; 3, in
his gift of observation and the drawing of
coirect conclusions from his observation ■
4, in using every means of taking us by
surprise.
Wilmot’s chapter entitled “Salient
Scenes” gives the life of the front-lin
troops in their dugouts.
“What they don’t understand back
there,” said Mick, “is that in these dug-
posts boredom’s worse than the Boche.”
But they made the best of it. Late in
the afternoon Paddy—a kid of 19 who had
been sleeping in the other dugout—breezed
in. ‘‘Blasted fleas kept me awake all day,”
he said. “Still, I can’t quite make up my
mind what to do tonight. Dunno whether
to go to the pictures or to take me girl-
friend down to the beach.”
“Why don’t you pour yourself out a
long, cool beer and think it over?” said
Mick.
Soon after dark a Digger came over
from another post; his face was glum.
“They got Pete last night,” he said. “He
was out in the listenin’ post and he copped
a stray burst as he was cornin’ in.”
The grim humor; the heat and thirs
and boredom and torment of the day
harassing the enemy by night; the
strangely moving interludes-—as when
Sergeant Tuit with a stretcher-bearer anc
a padre went out into no-man’s-land
under a Red Cross flag and was helpec
by the Germans to recover Australian
wounded and dead—when both sides de-
clared a brief, unofficial truce ; the wild
valor that won Corporal Edmondson his
V.C.; the comradeship, as when Ser-
geant-major W. G. Morrison was ordered
to retire from an impossible' position,
leaving his wounded behind:
They had crawled most of the distance
along the shallow ditch of the old Italian
pipeline. They had been pursued all the
way by a machine-gun firing straight down
the pipeline a foot or two above their heads.
Six times they had come to points where
machine-guns firing from the flanks cut
across the ditch. They had watched the
tracers go by and squirmed underneath
them. They had crawled back more than
a mile and a half —almost to Battalion
H.Q. —before they were clear of enemy fire.
But they had brought their wounded with
them.
That was Tobruk. The strongest im-
pression left by Wilmot’s narrative is of
the steadfastness of the Australians. In
the big attacks, when Rommel’s tanks
broke through, they were expected to sur-
render. They didn’t. Though there was
the traditional casualness, though humor,
adventure and improvisation played their
part, it was not the undisciplined Aus-
tralian of popular legend but discliplined
Australians who held Tobruk ; “men with
nerves and toughness,” a German tank
officer wrote, “tireless, taking punishment
with obstinacy, wonderful in defence.”
Tobruk is already an Australian legend,
ranking with Gallipoli in the national
mind as*an example and a symbol of
what this country stands for when its
true spirit is revealed. It is a big theme.
Wilmot has handled it far more capably
than any other writer yet published. His
book is not as colorful as this review
might suggest, most of the incidents here
having been quoted from only one or.
two chapters in the long narrative ; but
as a sober and comprehensive account
of exactly what happened at Tobruk and
of the significance of Tobruk in the
general pattern of the war it could hardly
be bettered.
Though he says little about himself, the
author saw a good deal of what happened
—in the front line as well as elsewhere —
with his own eyes; personal interviews
with officers and men and quotations
from diaries and documents captured
from the enemy make the picture com-
plete. Something less than literature but
something more than journalism, his book
is declared to be “not a full military his-
tory,” but it reads more like that than
anything else.
"Cullenbenbong."
There’s a section of Bernard O’Reilly’s
Cullenbenbong (Smith and Paterson Pty.,
Ltd., Brisbane) that is like “The Man
from Snowy River” done into prose—a
prose as exciting as Paterson’s verse.
O’Reilly tells the story of Cronje, “the
last of a long line of high-blooded rebel
stallions which for seventy years were
lords of the great uninhabited mountain
region.” Cronje’s pasture was “two thou-
sand square miles of rugged range coun-
try.” There is a fascinating survey of
the places where the great outlaw was
likely to be found. Then —“It was
planned to run him some ten miles along
the timbered tops, then through Alum
Gap and down the gorge into the head
of Cullenbenbong Creek.” The climax:
As the thunder of the running rose to
a wild pitch, so did the eager blood of the
waiting men, and then, slashing through the
treeferns and underbrush, the wild mob
came flying right into the net of desperate
hard-riding men. Quickly the funnel closed
in behind the wild horses, and the laneway
of men closed in formation as the mob
thundered into the gap.
It was here that Cronje suddenly knew
there was something wrong, and all his wild
instinct told him that once down that gap
there would be no return. He plunged to
a dead stop from the top of his wild gallop,
propping his front legs stiffly as his hoofs
ploughed up the loose rocks, then he turned
and rushed the runners, straight into a
murderous barrage of stockwhips. It was
that lightning prop and wheel which won
the day for Cronje, for that instantaneous
reverse had every man riding at top speed
in the wrong direction.
There are three more chases and three
dramatic escapes. A stockyard is built
in the ranges—built in Cronje’s own
haunts and then left until it had become
“part of the scenery, like the rocks and
trees,” so that the wild horses would enter
it without fear; Cronje is trapped in it,
but smashes the rails and breaks out with
his mob. Then an attempt is made to
drive him into a stockade in a blind
valley known as the Lock-up.
He turned and rushed at the solid
wall of horses and men. “He’s coming!”
they shouted, and pulled their mounts side-
ways so that they were locked shoulder to
flank across the gap, and at every three
feet was a rider whose stockwhip was a
lithe deadly snake which struck like light-
ning.
They yelled as one man, but Cronje
came on, straight into the hail of stock-
whips with never a faltering stride, and then,
with one mad, magnificent leap—a leap so
high that his hooves brushed the ears of the
men on either side —he cleared two horses
side by side, and went thundering off into
the ranges, as wild and free as the wind in
the turpentines.
In the third and last chase, the stallion
is run to the point of a ridge with cliffs
on each side.
He trotted back to the cliff, stamped and
whistled, tossed his iriane proudly and then
plunged; his body flashed in a beautiful
arc and disappeared into the blue air be-
yond the cliff rim. With a cry of agony
and horror the men rushed t'o the edge and
looked over. Cronje had landed as lightly
as a rock wallaby on a narrow ledge over
twelve feet below, but now they held their
breaths as he leaped for a narrower ledge
lower down It was Tom Boyle who
broke the silence with the words that were
in everyone’s mind, “Good-bye, old cove,
we will never run you again.” And they
never did.
The ’brumby story is magnificent; but
the book would still be good without it.
If “Banjo” Paterson would have liked it,
so would Gilbert White, the naturalist
of Selborne. O’Reilly has done what
the Red Page has many times urged Aus-
tralian documentary writers to do: in-
stead of wandering in time and space
through the whole of our history and
over the whole continent, he has de-
scribed one place vividly, in detail and
with love. The brumbies are brought in
simply because they happened to be part
of the life of that place.
Less dramatic, but equally important,
was the great wallaby drive organised in
the Kanimbla Valley for the visiting Eng-
lish cricketers. And just as important as
MacLaren, Jessop and Johnny Tyldesley
were
the local settlers who loved a wallaby drive
more than food or drink or dancing or
cricket. What a muster they made: the
Dalzels and Flanagans of Ganbenang;
the Cullen boys of Long Swamp, Peter
O’Reilly and his brood of long-legged, hard-
riding sons from Walker’s Flat; Robert
O’Reilly and a similar tribe from Cullenben-
bong Creek, the Cummins and the Good-
fellows from Black Swamp, the Smiths
from down Gibraltar Creek way
Cullenbenbong is written with a beau-
tiful simplicity. O’Reilly tells of pioneer
families riding to church ; of a boy fight-
ing a bull; of youngsters making clay
models by the side of a creek; of trees
crashing on the ridge behind the cart-
shed on the night of the great snow; of
how the train called the “Fish” got its
name; of a bunyip named Gubba; of
going out in the moonlight to look for a
ghost and falling into a blackfellow’s
grave; of eating lambs’ tails round a
bonfire ; of an old abo. who would track
wild bees to their nests by marking them
with goose-down glued to their backs with
honey; of a baby smacking the head of
a black snake and the snake accepting
tlie reproof ; of women of the early days
who used anthills for ovens; of how the
fallen willow leaves are caught against
the planks of the crossing-places on Long
Swamp Creek; of how thin ice will lie
among the rushes at the water’s edge; of
“the high crests of the Great Divide in
the background, powdered with light
snow” ; and by the time one has finished
reading these simple matters of the moun-
tains the place-names mean as much to
the reader as they obviously do to the
author —not only the thundering “Cullen-
benbong” and the dramatic “Great
Divide” but also the richly commonplace
“Walker’s Flat.”
All places, when one knows them inti-
mately enough, have a spirit of their own,
minutely but magically different from
that of any other place. O’Reilly has
evoked in all its individuality the spirit
of Cullenbenbong. The book comes as
directly and naturally from his mountain-
sides as any gumtree that grows there.
And since the whole is implicit in the
part this book is, as he hopes, an image
of the whole of Australia and of the Aus-
tralian way of life, “a reflection of every
Digger’s love of some place back home
.... some little corner of his land which
he has glorified in exile until it has be-
come a symbol of the things for which
he fights and endures.” There’s some-
thing pleasingly Australian in the fact
that “little corner” of this con-
tinent is two thousand square miles of
mountains.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Norman Lindsay’s touch seems surer
than ever at the Australian Water-color
Institute’s show at the Education Depart-
ment Galleries, Sydney. In addition to
several compositions in his best-known
vein, there is a strikingly beautiful fantasy
called “The Image.” John Eldershaw,
after a period of color-rioting, has gone
back to contemplating the quieter aspects
of the Australian scene. Frank Medworth
exhibits his versatility in three sketches all
quite unlike in style; all stylish. Max
Ragless, of S.A., continues to cultivate
successfully a massive style that aims at,
and attains, a great sense of depth. J.
W. Maund nicely exploits the wet-paper
technique of Blamire Young; Margaret
Coen is still at her best with waxy blos-
soms, such as camellias. Ronald H.
Steuart shows how well he knows and
loves the bush in sketches of detail—a
corner of a quiet pool or a gnarled old
banksia trunk. Kenneth Macqueen seeks
the geometrical as assiduously as ever.
G. K. Townshend has been experiment-
ing : instead of making pretty pictures he
sets himself problems—solves them, too.
Rah Fizelle, G. Connor, Murch (with a
delightful fish), Dora Jarret, D. M. Barrie
and C. Parker also show attractive works.
Two outstanding ballets in the Boro-
vansky co.’s repertoire at Sydney Royal
were “Vltava” and “Sea Legend.” Both
seemed to have minor and easily remedi-
able flaws. Created by Borovansky,
“Vltava” interprets the life and spirit of
a Czechoslovakian river: a modernistic
setting and the severely athletic costumes
of a group of “boys and girls” jarred with
the poetry of it. “Sea Legend,” beauti-
fully danced by Rubenstein and Dorothy
Stevenson, had the formal perfection of
“Sigrid” in the first programme, except
in one particular—the ending is long-
<irawn-out. Towering above everything
in any of the programmes—and every-
thing was good—was the performance of
“Giselle.” A tragedy in the grand
manner, with the charm of white cos-
tumes and an excellent set by William
Constable to give beauty to the second
act, the piece was notable for Borovan-
sky’s powerful miming as the Huntsman
(sinister and mysterious like the Green
Man out of medieval balladry); Bous-
loff’s sensitive interpretation of the
Count; Rubenstein and Edna Busse in
the pas de trois: and Laurel Martyn’s
success in conveying all Giselle’s moods
—the gaiety of the opening, the pathos
of the scene where (an Ophelia of the
ballet) she goes mad and dies, and the
wistfulness of the ghostly episodes at the
end.
“Three’s a Family” at Sydney Minerva
is a lightweight domestic comedy dealing
reasonably freshly with the mother-in-
law and the expectant father. The setting
is war-time Manhattan. Pat McDonald
and Hal Thompson are convincing as a
squabbling young couple, Roger Barry
amusing as a jittery father-to-be and
Minnie Love a pleasingly lemony
spinster. The best of the comedy is sup-
plied by Leslie Victor as the ancient,
near-sighted doctor (the only one left in
the neighborhood) who cheerfully admits
he hasn’t observed whether the baby he
has just helped deliver is a boy or a girl.
At the talkies:
In the hands of Red Skelton and co.
“Dubarry Was a Lady” (Sydney St. James)
makes uproarious fun. Sets are gorgeous and
there is some first-class dancing. Louis XV
might forgive the liberties that are taken with
history but if Tommy Dorsey and his band had
really beeC his Court musicians he’d have
executed them.
When George Formby sings a song you can
hear every word, and he sings some quite good
ones in “Much Too Shy” (Victory). As a
poster artist who can draw faces but not
bodies, George makes merry at a surrealist art
school. A final court scene where he is facing
an action for libel shows him at his funniest.
“The Ghost Ship” (Civic) has a good story of
a freighter skipper whose progressive homi-
cidal mania is observed by only one member of
his crew —the young third officer —who fails
to convince the rest of his shipmates of the
danger they all face. The tension is well por-
trayed, but Richard Dix is unsatisfactory as
the crazed captain.
“C. 8.”: At the second Ormandy con-
cert at the Town Hall, Melbourne, in the
Mozart Concerto No. 20 in D Minor
Una Bourne, onetime accompanist to
Melba, succeeded —without forcing—in
giving the piano the dominant role the
composer intended. It was probably the
flute’s, clarinet’s and horn’s achievement
in the excellent Cesar Franck symphony
that made the American conductor
express the wish to take the en-
tourage back to his own land. A
string of lights, which could be better
shaded, threw a brilliant light on the
platform, and ought to be retained, along
with the augmented orchestra and other
facilities accorded the visitor, for the
benefit of Professor Heinze, who has done
something to build up the fine edifice Mr.
Ormandy took over.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
"THE SENIOR STORE”
mm
4° /
rm \
" si
iII'UST THINK OF IT! TO-DAY WE ACHIEVE
OUR ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIRST
BIRTHDAY!
For One Hundred and Twenty-one Years has the
name of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ been known to
the people of Australia as a synonym of good
trading.
To have achieved a century of Service is in itself
remarkable; to have achieved a “majority” of
twenty-one years in the following century is proof
that life and vigour can flow in a great organisation
in spite of passing years and world changes
During the twenty-one years since we completed our
first century of Service, scientific discoveries, and
the horrors of global warfare, have completely
altered civilisation. Our organisation has assimilated
these changes and carries on its century-old
tradition in this new world of the Present, which
is, in its turn, rapidly entering a newer and more
astonishing world of the Future.
Each year, as we record our anniversary, something
of this Future will have been lived day by day—days
filled with countless acts of Service, with progres-
sive adjustment to the New —and will have become
the Past; but still we will carry on; for we live and
work in the spirit of our famous motto:
“WHILE I LIVE I’LL CROW”
fINTHONV HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


•as.
w
rO
<
i?
> \
d£
inriffu
pm
iiiiniiimin!!s
ffnfi
inflßl
il
V. 6
SS
fcCT_SI
as
//. X'C/.S/C/A> ROWE
Tomorrow’s Victory Home ...
Illustrated here, as one of Australia’s
leading architects sees it, is a typical
Australian post-war home.
A moderately-priced home de-
signed for Australian conditions . ..
to meet Australian tastes and needs,
that is how our architect describes it.
Planned, not as a building to which
you must accommodate yourself, but
as a home in which you will live more
comfortably.
It will have many work-saving
devices, too. New electrical wonders,
lighting, heating and refrigeration
will be beyond anything previously
seen.
And, 'better-living’ will be built-in.
Framework of your post-war home,
we believe, will be fabricated from
Steel Tubing. Steel Tubing (the
strongest structural shape known) is
light, fireproof and vermin proof,
and will not warp or shrink.
Structural Steel Tubing will be a contribution
to post-war housing by
Stewurts
and
Lloyds
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Perth and Brisbane.
Stewarts and Lloyds big job to-day is
the making of munitions of war and
piping for the armed services and other
essential purposes. When Victory is
won their interest in your post-war
home will be confined to the tubular
framework and to piping for water,
gas and other services.
S INK
DINING
10.'o' X 12.' o"
GARAGE
18 o" x 10 .'
C R
BOOKS fire PEACE
VERA
NOAH
©
LIVING ROOM
23.' o" x 17 V
d
m
BED
ROOM
BED ROOM
14.6 x 12.6
&


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3364.
Wednesday, August 2, 1944.
R-DAY SURGERY.
“I and my colleague, Dr. Evatt, want your permission to hamstring you. You have our positive assurance that the operation
will effect a decided improvement.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
t London, E.C.4.
CALAMITY-HOWLERS.
In May Mr. Calwell insulted the A.I.F.
by asserting that “many young men, and
even middle-aged men,” had “joined” it
“to be placed on a payroll.”
Quite a number of. the first enlistments
were economic conscripts.
Though he was cornered and had to
apologise, which he did very ungraciously,
it was to be expected that this Minister
would follow the Attorney-General in
asserting that when the war broke out
250,000 Australians were unemployed.
This he did when trying to justify the mis-
appropriation of public funds for adver-,
tising his party’s “case” for the referen-
dum, and so during the same debate did a
Mr. Sheehy from South Australia ; Mr.
Sheehy improved the shining hour by de-
claring that “just prior to the outbreak of
war Australia was on the verge of a
depression.”
The alleged existence of 250,000 un-
employed in 1939 has become part of
Labor’s referendum propaganda, along
with Dr. Evatt’s other assertion that
“there were 750,000 unemployed in Aus-
tralia during the depression.” Mr. Curtin,
in his Explanation to the Nation, as
reported in the admiring Melbourne
“Age,” added some arithmetic of his
own: — ,
Australia had 250,000 unemployed im-
mediately before the war. In the ten years
before the war it never had less than about
200,000 unemployed, and at times the un-
employed were up to 700,000.
None of these merchants of stinking
fish gives any authority for his assertions.
They might be expected to quote the
Official Year-Book, “prepared under in-
structions from the Honorable the Treas-
urer,” in the latest instance by “S. R.
Carver, Acting Commonwealm Statis-
tician,” and issued by “L. F. Johnston,
Commonwealth Government Printer,
Canberra,” but they steer clear of that
publication. Reference to its Unemploy-
ment chapters makes the reason for their
shyness obvious.
The statistician mentions that “1| p.c.
to 2 p.c. of wage- and salary-earners”
(2,073,500 in July, 1939) “are usually out
of work on account of sickness and acci-
dent.” And, premising that “unemploy-
ment returns are not collected from unions
the members of which are in permanent
employment, such as railway and tramway
employees and public servants, or from
unions whose members are casually em-
ployed (wharf-laborers, etc.),” he gives
these figures of union unemployed for the
four quarters of 1939:
March quarter 45,545
June „ 45,183
September „ 48,888
December „ .. .. .. 44,253
“Persons who” were “out of work for
three days or more during a specified
week in each quarter” were reckoned as
unemployed. “Persons out of work
through strikes or lockouts” were left
out of the calculation, but “those outside
the industry concerned” who were “in-
directly affected” were included.
The returns for 1937, 1938 and 1940
show little variation from the 1939
figures:—
. _ , 1937. 1938. 1940.
March quarter .. 44,004 36,751 38,307
J, unc , • • 43,584 39,464 49,775
September „ .. 42,145 42,672 36,892
December „ .. 37,558 41,667 31,491
So the second quarter of 1940 was the
worst of the lot. By that time everyone
employable could and should have been
employed. But Labor’s Communist allies
were then busy stirring up opposition to
the imperialist war,” and on March 11
there broke out a strike which “affected
the coalmining industry in N. S. Wales,
Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania,” and,
of course, other industries dependent on
uninterrupted supplies of coal. The strike
lO weeks and coal production,
tons - * n 1939 > dumped to
11.725,600 tons in 1940, nor has the lee-
way ever been made up. During the year
in which Communists were cursing “the
imperialist war” there were also a 13
weeks strike at the iron and steel works
at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) and a six weeks’
strike at Mt. Isa (Q.).
In effect, there were not 250,000 un-
employed in 1939, nor were there “about”
200,000 in either of the two preceding
years or the one that followed. There
were unemployables in all these years,
and unemployables there always have
been and always will be. It is Austra-
lian tradition and practice to treat them
humanely. Taking the figures for the
four years, it is a fair conclusion that
persons capable of working who were job-
less when the returns were supplied were
in the main idle as the result of strikes.
The assertion that “there were 750,000
unemployed during the depression” is
likewise unsupported by evidence. The
greatest recorded number of unem-
ployed unionists in any one year —
that is, “unionists out of work for three
days or more during a specified week in
each quarter,” annual figures being
arrived at by striking an average—was
120,454 in 1932. True, at the 1933 census
453,487 persons wrote themselves down
as unemployed through scarcity of work
on June 30 —another 27,557 gave “illness”
and “accident” among the causes—but,
human nature being what it is, they could
not all have been genuine hardship cases ;
anyway there is a vast difference between
453,487 and 750,000. And no man whose
experience goes back half a century
would say that the proportion to total
population was nearly as high as during
the calamity of the ’nineties, referred to
in the Victorian Year-Book as a “severe
industrial depression which prevailed in
Victoria”—and not in Victoria alone; it
was continent-wide and world-wide—
“during the years 1892 to 1899,” when
there was no dole. The depression which
arrived in the latter part of 1929 was
over much sooner, and it synchronised
remarkably with a decline in deathrates;
but it has served Labor politicians well.
They never stop squealing about it, and
yobs among their followers have made
it an excuse for misbehaving during the
war. There is no trace of this detestable
spirit in Britain, though the effects in that
country, where people must have protec-
tion from the cold, must have been more
severe.
At the end of 1929 there were Labor
Governments in the Commonwealth, Vic-
toria and South Australia, and before
long there were Labor Governments in
N. S. Wales and Queensland —there was
also one in Westralia by April, 1933.
Though modesty is no characteristic of
Labor politicians, it never occurred
to any of them to suggest that the bad
time came or was not swiftly banished
because the Commonwealth Parliament
was short of power. That is quite a new
discovery, made by Dr. Evatt and
chorused by the entire strength of the
company, except Mr. Lang (his bitter cry
during the depression was that the Com-
monwealth, Parliament had too much
power), and along with it goes the dis-
covery that an even more frightful period
is probable unless the Commonwealth
Parliament gets the powers for which Dr.
Evatt and friends are asking. It already
possesses these powers, and will possess
them till the end of hostilities, actual or
presumed ; and no one can say when hos-
tilities will cease. Australia is at war not
only with Germany and Japan, but with
Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland
also, and while a state of war with any
of these countries exists the present
powers, embodied in the defence power,
will remain.
Even when the defence power runs out
—and that, as Mr. Menzies puts it, will
not be “until a proclamation has been
issued by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment with reference to the treaties of
peace”—the Commonwealth Parliament
(or, rather, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, for Parliament practically abdicates
when Labor is in office, though it goes
through the motions of deliberating now
and then) will be in full control of taxa-
tion (direct and' indirect), borrowing and
repatriation, including, besides the care
of sick and maimed service men and of
their wives and children and the depen-
dants of the dead, the building of war-
service homes. In respect of borrowing
and taxation it will have greater powers
than those assigned to the President and
Congress of the United States, and in all
other matters its powers wil be at least
equal. Although the U.S,A. has mighty
plans for the restoration of service men
to civil life there is no movement in that
country for greater Federal powers.
Yet Dr. Evatt alleges in his referendum
pamphlet that “without national guidance
the change-over from war to peace may
cause a depression even worse than the
terrible depression of 1931-32.”
Service men and service women will face
special difficulties. There is grave doubt
about the legal powers of the Common-
wealth for the advancement and preferential
treatment of service men. The first of the
post-war reconstruction powers brings this
subject plainly within the Commonwealth’s
responsibility.
Question: Under these powers, could the
Commonwealth grant preference in jobs
to service men?
Answer: Yes, without doubt.
“The first of these powers” which, if
Dr. Evatt and friends prevail, is to go into
the Constitution until “the expiration of a
period of five years from the date on
which Australia ceases to be engaged in
hostilities in the present war” is expressed
in terms which purport to authorise the
making of laws for “the reinstatement
and advancement of those who have been
members of the fighting services of the
Commonwealth during any war, and the
advancement of the dependants of those
members who have died or been dis-
abled as a consequence of any war.” The
second part is superfluous and specious.
The relevant power exists, has never been
disputed, and has been exercised con-
tinuously for nearly 30 years.
On the subject of preference, the Gov-
ernment’s bluff has been called by the
Victorian Diggers. The Prime Minister
was asked whether his Government would
introduce a preference measure next ses-
sion, and his reply, given over the tele-
phone to Federal president Dyett, was
read at the Victorian Diggers’ annual con-
ference. As reported, it was that “if the
referendum is not carried, the Govern-
ment, because of limitations imposed by
the Constitution, will not be able to
accord any greater measure of preference
than has been~accorded by previous Gov-
ernments” ; and the report says “it was
greeted by laughter, followed by uproar.”
It was no secret to the delegates that
Ministers, especially Mr. Ward, and
union bosses had come out against
preference (Mr. Ward repeated his oppo-
sition at a public meeting while Mr.
Curtin was “repudiating violently impli-
cations of the report from Melbourne”),
and they know from experience of this
Government that what union bosses say
goes. When union bosses gathered in
Melbourne while Mr. Curtin was abroad,
15 Ministers were present, with their
humble duty, and no one was humbler
than the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr.
Forde.
The men who have done the fighting
in the north have never seen Mr. Curtin
in those parts, but they know Mr.
Forde. If they believe all the things
that Labor is saying or insinuating on the
platform and in floods of printed matter
charged up to the taxpayers; if they be-
lieve that without the passage of the refer-
endum war pensions and widows’ pen-
sions and child endowment will be in
danger, and there may be no jobs or
homes for them, it is to Mr. Forde that
most of them will have to look for per-
formance of the promises of which the
vastest distribution on record is being
made. On Mr. Forde, as the soldiers’
Minister, will fall the. responsibility of
seeing that the soldiers get their main
share of the million (or is it 1,161,897±?)
jobs to be created somehow by Labor
Ministers and their cohorts of professors
and lecturers, not one of whom is known
to have ever employed anyone except per-
haps a slavey or the tenth allotment of a
clerk, and the war-service homes to be
built by the hundred thousand, and the
domestic goods to be poured out of Mr.
Makin’s converted munitions factories
and practically given away. From their
knowledge of Mr. Forde, the soldiers may
consider him capable of standing up to
this heavy responsibility, and, as first
mate in the company of wonder-workers
running the ship of State (pardon the
change to nautical expressions, but sea-
men also fight), securing delivery of all
the wonders and then some. Or they
may not.
If they choose rather to believe that
Labor is exciting and exploiting apprehen-
sions for which there is no warrant, and
that Labor should be striving to unite the
nation, instead of dividing it on a dis-
honest issue, and, with its Communist
allies, appealing to class feeling, and that
just as Labor never mentions the men of
Singapore, victims of the cruellest fate
that has ever befallen Australians, except
when it puts a war loan on the market, so
it doesn’t care two straws for service men
except when it is in hot or distant pur-
suit of their votes —well, that is their right.
There are six English-speaking coun-
tries fighting. Only Australian service
men are being harried by their Govern-
ment with fears about war pensions and
their future in civil life. From Canberra
alone issues a dark and dismal stream of
claptrap concerning the post-war world,
an outpouring of the gloomiest words in
the Caucus politician’s vocabulary.
Though Dr. Evatt’s contribution to the
official pamphlet would go comfortably
into a newspaper column, the learned
author rings the changes on the word
“depression” (it is mentioned 11 times),
and “slump,” “disaster,” “dole” and
“mass unemployment” also get an airing
among the nouns. By contrast, the
Baruch Report in America and the British
White Paper on Employment are quite
genial productions. Both are stamped
with the conviction that there will be
tremendous industrial activity after the
war. In a foreword to the White Paper,
it is stated that “there will be no prob-
lem of general unemployment in the years
immediately after the end of the war in
Europe,” and that “though there will be
risk of unemployment in the gradual
change from war to peace,” because “dis-
location will be involved,” the total man-
power available will be “insufficient to
satisfy the total demand for goods and
services.”
There will be an immense need for all
the things we have had to go short of
dunng the war. There will be houses to
be built, factories to be transformed, plant
and rolling stock to be replaced and export
trade to be renewed and extended.
So there will be in Australia, and there
will be an immense need” here for men
in the labor-starved land industries and
motor trades. But we hear nothing of
such things from the Labor politicians,
and they -are as dumb as oysters on a
necessary ingredient of preparation for
“the gradual change from war to peace,”
ignored by them but a feature of the
British Budget—“important modificat: ms
in the incidence of taxation on industry,”
designed to make a “substantial contribu-
tion towards industrial recovery after the
war” by “facilitating the mobilisation of
plant, machinery and building, and fos-
tering the development of research.”
Extracts from the British White Paper do
not figure in Labor referendum “litera-
ture.”
Save Our Soil.
Mr. Dunn, the N.S.W. Minister for Con-
servation, a new post created by the new
McKell Government, is out with a state-
ment on soil erosion. He refers to “co-ordi-
nation” between the Water Conservation
and Irrigation, Forestry and Soil Con-
servation departments and promises “ex-
tension of the good work already done
by the Government during its term of
office.” All of which is cheering, but it
would be more cheering if Mr. Dunn
could only achieve “co-ordination” be-
tween his State and the others and
between them and the Commonwealth,
leading to a great national soil-saving
movement.
N. S. Wales has, or is to have, soil
research stations in four or five places,
“essential heavy earth-moving plant will
be secured” and “I am considering sites
for grazing trials, run-off experiments and
the like.”
For all Mr. Dunn’s earnestness, this
is simply fiddling with the problem, just
as it is being fiddled with in other States.
The extent of erosion damage in
Australia, though no trustworthy figures
are available because no thorough survey
has been made, is no doubt less in actual
acres than the extent of erosion damage
in the United States, but when the areas
of croplands are compared it’s a different
and more alarming story.
U.S.A. has 360,000,000 crop acres,
Australia 20,000,000. Thus, if Australia
is to support its present and future popu-
lation, the soil on that 20,000,000 acres
must be saved. Americans who have
visited Australia, according to Jacks and
Whyte in Rape of the Earth, have
asserted that the rate of erosion in this
country, particularly in N. S. Wales, is
greater than in the United States.
It is unnecessary to detail the damage
being done. All those who’ve studied
erosion know of it, and if the Parliaments
don’t know of it they should be told in
burning words. Australia right new is
about in the position the U.S.A. was in
before it woke up. When U.S.A. did
wake up, when it heard radio commen-
tators like Raymond Gram Swing de-
claring that “in a hundred years at the
same rate of depletion the American con-
tinent could turn into a Sahara,” when it
saw black headlines and magazine articles
and motion pictures on erosion and
learned that thousands of farmers and
farms had been ruined, a great national
demand fell on the American Govern-
ment.
Conservation of soil became a foremost
plank in both Republican and Democrat
platforms. It was necessary. Between
1920 and 1930, about 50,000 farms in the
Carolinas and Georgia went out of cul-
tivation, great water reservoirs were silted
up, Oklahoma and adjoining States be-
came a “dust-bowl.” When the Federal
Department of Agriculture made a sur-
vey it estimated that nearly 300,000,000
acres of soil had been lost or would be
lost before the nation-wide conservation
plan was in full running order.
An exactly similar position faces this
country, different only in numbers of
farms and total arable acreage affected.
Every duststorm that rolls southward
towards Melbourne and Adelaide or east-
ward towards Sydney and Brisbane is a
red banner of menace. Night and day,
wind and water are stripping the country
of its soil. Far better if Mr. Curtin and
Dr. Evatt forgot their referendum and
turned to a national plan for saving the
soil.
Repatriation? Control of markets?
Control of employment and unemploy-
ment? Uniform railway gauges? Free-
dom of speech and the press? Beyond
the suburbs, out in the denuded country,
on gullied slope and drifting sand sweep,
such questions are answered only by
hollow laughter.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Industrial Conscription.
There was great perturbation at Can-
berra when it was borne in upon the
minds of Labor members—in some cases,
presumably, after the necessary surgical
operation had been performed—that their
referendum proposals admitted of in-
dustrial conscription (“I could send you
to Bourke if I liked”) being fastened on
the people indefinitely.
An obviously worried Prime Minister
said “So far as I am concerned, there
will be no conscription of any sort or
kind after the war, but I am not so sure
of the U.A.P.” A pledge was hawked
round by the Government Whip in the
House, and after 70 Labor members had
signed the thing the Opposition was
asked to subscribe to it. Too old to be
caught that way, it bluntly refused, Mr.
Menzies reminding the Government Whip
that it had warned the predominant party
for months that “once the words ‘em-
ployment and unemployment’ are written
into the Constitution the power to im-
pose industrial conscription will, as you
now admit, exist.” He said also:
The pledge which you now submit to us
is unnecessary in the event of a No vote.
It cannot bind future Parliaments. It
cannot bind your own party. Above all,
it cannot' alter the Constitution.
The scrap of paper reads:
We pledge ourselves that as long as we
are members of the Parliament of the Com-
monwealth we shall not sanction any form
of industrial conscription "after the war.
We emphatically repudiate any suggestion
that we would allow any Government to
regiment, conscript or compel the labor of
any free Australian citizen.
It is a poor thing compared with the
pledge which every one of the signatories,
from Mr. Curtin down, handed to his
particular Labor organisation before he
became a candidate. That pledge binds
him “on all occasions to do my utmost
to ensure the carrying out of the prin-
ciples embodied in the Labor platform”;
and there is nothing to prevent any
Federal A.L.P. Congress from adding in-
dustrial conscription to the “principles”
and to exact obedience by the threat of
banning the candidature of any objector.
“I also pledge myself,” the document
reads, “to actively support at all times
the party’s objective, the Socialisation of
Industry, Production, Distribution and
Exchange.” This is also the Communist
objective, and the Communists are
Labor’s referendum allies, represented
on its Yes campaign committees and on
its platforms at Yes meetings. And in-
dustrial cdnscription is part and parcel
of the Communist system.
At the recent State A.L.P. Conference
in Sydney the chairman, a Mr. Kelly,
M.L.C., went through the form of reject-
ing Communist motions for affiliation —
there were five—declaring them out of
order. But all the Communist delegates
were allowed to remain at the confer-
ence, and within a fortnight or so the
chairman was associating with Com-
munists on a Yes committee. Now his
executive has ordered the State Labor
members (80) to march with Communists
in a Yes procession through the streets
of Sydney. It is not yet certain whether
similar instructions will be issued to the
27 Federal Labor members from N. S.
Wales, but if they are they will be obeyed.
Labor members’ pledges are rotten reeds
when they come up against A.L.P. execu-
tive orders.
Cruel and False.
“If the referendum is lost you may lose
your endowment or your widow’s pen-
sion.” This is what women are being told
by way of scaring them into voting Yes;
and it is not only cruel but false.
Although no mention of child endow-
ment and widows’ pensions is made
in the Commonwealth Constitution, no
doubt as to Commonwealth power
to pay them can possibly arise until
the war is declared off, and that may not
be for 10 years. Independently of other
considerations, the defence power governs
these matters, as it does so many other
matters. Nor can it be seriously pretended
that Constitutional doubts will arise after
the war is called off.
Section 96 empowers the Common-
wealth Parliament to “grant financial
assistance to any State on such terms and
conditions as the Parliament thinks fit.”
Section 117 says “A subject of the King,
resident in any State, shall not be subject
in any other State to any disability or
discrimination which would not be
equally applicable to him if he were a
subject of the King resident in such
other State” ; and this, of course, applies
to women. So if any quibbling Govern-
ment questions whether money may be
voted for child endowment and widows’
pensions and paid by Commonwealth
Government servants, all it will have to
do is to get the vote passed by Parliament
and the mopey distributed through State
offices.
Federal-aid road grants have been
made to and spent by the States for many
years, and no question as to their con-
stitutionality has ever arisen. Federal
child-endowment and widows’-pensions
grants could, if it were deemed necessary
(though it won’t), be voted and distri-
buted in the same way.
Coalminers’ pensions have been in force
in N. S. Wales since the beginning of
1942, and have been decided upon in
Victoria and Westralia. They are to be
made a Commonwealth matter. Although,
like child endowment and widows’ pen-
sions, they are not mentioned in the Con-
stitution, no shadow of doubt as to the
Commonwealth’s power to pay them, with
no time limit, has been suggested by the
people who profess to be vexed with
doubts as to the Commonwealth’s power
to pay child endowment and widows’
pensions.
Harrison's Bombshell.
By a student of Parliamentary reports:
Nothing better illustrates the change which
has taken place in political standards than the
reception given to Mr. Harrison’s remarkable
speech at Canberra on the Australia-First cases.
In days when responsible government was
real it' would have wrecked a Ministry.
Mr. Harrison’s theme was the delay in the
hearing of the inquiry into the cases of the
16 N.S.W. internees who were placed behind
barbed wire on March 10, 1942, and were
a fortnight later accused in a general indictment
by the Minister for the Army, under Parlia-
mentary privilege, of crimes which, if proved,
would have warranted their being hanged, one
and all.
The accusations —never reduced to charges,
though charges and trials were promised —were
made in terms which, Mr. Harrison declared,
were “nothing more nor less than a para-
phrase of the indictment of Bukharin and other
Rightists and Trotskyites at the Moscow trials
of 1938.
“The phrasing is so close that it is diffi-
cult to believe that the man who wrote
the statement of the Minister did not have
a copy of the official report of the Moscow
trials on his table. In some instances,
actual phrases tally.”
The Deputy-Leader of the U.A.P. asked that
the Government request Justice Clyne to
hasten the inquiry, pointing out that one in-
ternee, a returned soldier with the M.M., had
died after the proceedings had been opened;
that two others were old men and sick; that
a fourth had been waylaid by thugs and bashed,
He asked the Attorney-General to inquire
whether if was true that counsel had been
threatened anonymously and one of them
warned to “beware death.” And he asked the
Government, “in view of the peculiar circum-
stances, not to allow Parliamentary privilege
or any other consideration to prevent Ministers
or anybody else from going into the witness-
box so that the Commissioner might give a
full finding as to the whole of the circum-
stances.”
Some of the alleged “peculiar circumstances”
mentioned by Mr. Harrison were.:
That from the first meeting of the Australia-
First party on Nov. 5, 1941, “the internment
of its leaders was demanded by only one set
of people—leaders of the Communist party,
at that time and for 12 months afterwards a
banned organisation, suppressed for subversive
activities.” .
That the same people exactly were involved
in securing the release of the convicted Com-
munists Ratliff and Thomas,' in October, 1941,
and in the movement which resulted in the in-
ternment of the Australia-First men.
That “there seems to have been a remark-
able coincidence of thought and action between
Government authorities and the Communist
party in this matter”; that three weeks after
the first meeting of the A.F.M. in Nov., 1941,
a Communist paper, Progress, announced
that the Government was “taking action,” and
that it was “singular that the Communist party,
immediately after Mr. Forde’s charges of
treason and plans to assassinate, should be able
to obtain the names of internees and publish
them in defiance of National Security Regula-
tions and the censorship, and apparently with
impunity.”
“Not the Jeast strange fact,” Mr Harmon
added, is that, while the Attorney-General, in
the case of Ratliff and Thomas, took a certain
stand regarding the internment of Australians
and the satisfactory nature of secret tribunals,
8 s,and in respect
Dr. Evatt refused to interfere with the in-
quiry—die said that he would not tell the Judge
how he should conduct it. Mr. Harrison, he
asserted, was trying to judge the case in the
House on hearsay evidence. He added that he
was not responsible for the internments, as they
had been ordered on the recommendation of
five army officers while he was abroad in
March, 1942. He added that there were 6000-
odd internees at the time he took over the
Security Department, since reduced to about’
1100, and that A.F.M. men recommended for
release had been let out within a few weeks of
' his taking office. He said he was fearful lest
one word of his at this stage should prejudice
the case in favor or against any of the men.
That fear does not seem to have oppressed
him when announcing that a commission had
been handed to Justice Clyne. On that occasion
he referred darkly to “a quisling, subversive,
anti-Australian group prepared to stab Aus-
tralia in the back at the moment of her greatest
peril-” , , ,
Such charges should not hang over the heads
of men, some of whom have been absolved
already by Crown counsel, a moment longer
than may be necessary.
The "Right to Fire."
A ' man in ths Army, as far as the
economic side of his life is concerned,
enjoys pretty well absolute security. Food,
clothes, medical care and most of his
amusements are provided, and he has no
fear of the sack:
But his obligations are even more defi-
nite than his rights. He must do what he
is told, no matter how unpleasant or
dangerous the job may be. He must also
go where he is told. Even if he
suspects that authority for a command is
lacking he must perform it first and seek
redress later.
In civil life, however, the worker
need only obey so long as he desires to
keep his job. Disobedience may mean
the sack, but not, save in very exceptional
cases, legal penalties.
Now it is demanded by Dr. Evatt and
Comrade Thornton, of the Ironworkers,
that the “right to fire” must go, and when
a butcher at Portland (N.S.W.) dismissed
a girl the whole place went on strike.
Presumably, then, the employer, losing
his only real disciplinary resource, will
be expected to rely on persuasion. If a
worker refuses to carry out orders, the
boss, on this new “Labor principle,” will
have to put up with the situation or lose
his business.
It is hard to see how private enterprise
can endure under these conditions. Per-
haps that is the idea. But, in any case,
there must be some disciplinary instru-
ment. If the State becomes the uni-
versal employer, it is not hard to
imagine what will take the place of
the “right to fire.” It can be none
other than the method used by the
Army—“put him on a charge”—with loss
of liberty, in some form, as the penalty.
If failure to carry out orders cannot be
punished by dismissal, how else can it
be dealt with—except as a crime?
SANTA FORDE BEATS THE GUN.
“It all looks like sawdust to us!”


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
BOOKS FOR THE MILLION
XJ.S. Camera Annual, 1944. This magnificent
volume, just to hand, is devoted to the U.S.A.
at war. It contains about 160 fine—even extra-
ordinary—war pictures, taken by America s
greatest photographers. Size of book is 13 x
10 inches. 37/6 (post. 2/3). , . .
The World’s Great Speeches. A superb col-
lection from earliest times to Churchill. <bo
pages. 17/6 (post. 10d.).
Popular Quotations for all Uses. UP‘ t0 ‘
date and Comprehensive. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
The Story of Philosophy. The Lives ana
Opinions of the greater Philosophers. By Will
Durant. Over a million copies sold. 8/6 (post.
6d.).
Astronomy for Everybody. By Simon New-
comb. Revised and enlarged by Professor
Baker. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
Complete Book of Modern Crafts for Men,
Women, Boys and Girls. By H. A. Reynolds.
Illustrated. 8/6 (post. Bd.).
Writing and Selling. A Key to the secret.
By J. Woodford. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
Atoms, Stars and Nebulae. By Leo Goldmg
and L. H. Allen. The story of how Physics
and Astronomy are working together to solve
the mysteries of the Universe. Ulus, 16/-
(post. 9d ).
Complete Essays of Schopenhauer. Omnibus
edition, seven books in one volume. 21/-
(post. 1/-).
Basic Writings of Thomas Paine. Common-
sense, Rights of Man, Age of Reason. Omni-
bus edition. 21/- (post. 1/-).
The Home Book of Medicine. A book of
ready reference for the home. By Dr. D.
Pol owe. 10/6 (post. Bd.). „ . '
Science Remakes Our World. New Products,
New Industries, New Jobs. By James Stockley.
10/6 (post. 6d.). .. ...
History of Science and its relations with
Philosophy and Religion. By Sir William
nam pier. Up-to-date. 598 pages. 42/- (post.
1/ Sight Without Glasses. A Method of Restor-
ing Normal Vision. By Dr. Harold M. Pep-
pard. 8/6 (post. 3d.).
A Dictionary of Synonyms and Antonyms
with 5000 words often mispronounced. By
Joseph Devlin, M.A. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
John Bull Gets Tough. An Essay in Inter-
pretation. By S. F. Ferguson. 2/- (post. 2d.).
He tells us the deathless story of how Britain
won through against incredible odds in the
early years of the war.
An Outline of Modern Knowledge. Twenty-
four treatises by foremost Authorities. 500.000
words, 1120 pages. Illus. 21/- (post. 1/6).
Science, Biology, Philosophy, Psycho-Analysis,
Music, Finance, Painting, History, etc.
Karl Marx—His Dife and Work. By Ruble.
7/6 (post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't fet up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help. _
The longer you have suffered from tneso
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days or
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blooa.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes ana
excess uric acid. „
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taho
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid In ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
polvs BACKACHE KIDNEY BILLS to-day.
POLITICAL POINTS
At the week-end John Curtin shared
the centre of the stage with Peter Dargin,
a Portland (N.S.W.) butcher. John
Curtin, who could invoke powers suffi-
cient to do anything to coal strikers and
absentees (i.e., contumacious loafers)
except change their sex, figured at one
more of the many coal conferences, and
was heard in another miserable medley
of pleas, remonstrances, threats and
promises brought up to date:
If the miners produce seven million tons
of coal by the end of 1944 I will submit
a scheme for Commonwealth miners’ pen-
sions. Achievement of that target will not
mean building up stocks —merely keeping
everything going.
If coal is not produced, it will mean a
prolongation of the war against Japan, more
lost lives, more hardship for millions of
civilians in this and other countries.
Peter Dargin, the butcher, sacked a girl
employee, and though, as a result, “the
employees at nine collieries” and all the
rest of the Portland unionists went on
strike, and though he was boycotted and
threatened with the loss of his business
and with actual assault (a mob surged
round him when he went to have a drink),
he stuck to his guns: “alone against the
world.” In his make-up, as in his
butchery, this man has guts to spare.
Pity the “Government” couldn’t buy
some.
In a unanimous judgment, the N.S.W.
Full Court quashed the conviction of
Grafton (N.S.W.) licensed grocers who
had been fined £lOOO and ordered to
exhibit a notice of conviction and penalty
for having sold whisky to a publican at
the fixed retail price. The prosecution
held that they should have sold at the
wholesale price. Jtistice Davidson said
the conviction was bad from every point
of view, and spoke of “a retrogression
to the past, when Government depart-
ments found it too tedious to procure
evidence of guilt.” Jordan, C.J., declared
that “the tribunal provided for in the
Black Marketing Act is not a Court,” and
raised the question whether “the provi-
sion which enables such a tribunal, after
secret inquiry, to dictate to a Court” did
not violate the Commonwealth Consti-
tution. Thank heaven for a free and out-
spoken judiciary!
Such a row broke loose when the
N.S.W. Government Housing Commis-
sion proposed to resume private land,
some of it owned by service men, in a
Sydney suburb that McGirr, the McKells’
Housing Minister, hurriedly stopped the
builders and ordered them elsewhere.
They went. Thereupon a bunch of
opportunists moved in and helped them-
selves to building materials left on the
site. “Socialism for ever, and in our
time!”
According to a Canberra statement at
the week-end “The averment provisions
placing the onus of proof of innocence
on a defendant have been repealed or
substantially modified.” No British com-
munity should stand for having a wrong
thing “substantially modified.” It must
be righted without qualification.
In a tented enclosure in the Sydney
University grounds, U.S. service men,
veterans of New Guinea, were being deco-
rated for valor, and an American band
was on hand to play appropriate airs.
Out of a lecture-room came “about 60
students,” who “cheered ironically when
General Rilea was pinning on the deco-
rations” ; one shouted “Give us the St.
Louis Blues!” “Disgraceful behavior—
showed the upbringing of pigs,” said Uni-
versity Registrar Selle; and a student
body apologised. This account is taken
from Sydney “D.T.,” certainly no enemy
to undergrads—it was in a high state of
admiration for them when they “demon-
strated” against the censoring of Sydney
newspaper issues. The bane of Austra-
lian universities is the lout who shouldn’t
be there, and nowadays he is often a
Communist lout.
Melbourne University was described
last week by Hollway, the Minister of
Education, as “a nursery for Com-
munists.” He the statement during
an argument which began when the
principal of the Teachers’ Training Col-
lege refused to let a Communist spout
there on the referendum; and though
mild protests from the Chancellor and
other esteemed gentlemen could be heard
when the Corns, were hoarse with roar-
ing, Hollway did* not withdraw. Anyway,
it is a wise precaution to keep Com-
munists out of teachers’ colleges. In
New York, even when it was Democratic,
they had to be thrown out of teaching
bodies.
It is a bad omen for the Curtins that
three previous Governments put Consti-
tutional alterations to the vote twelve
months or so after a general election and
THREAT OR PROMISE?
“Look here, if you fellows don’t hew a bit more coal —and this is the hundredth
time of asking — l’ll resign and advise the Governor-General to send for that
Portland Butcher
failed expansively. Fisher Labor, vic-
torious on April 13, 1910, had a referen-
dum on April 26, 1911, and was beaten
by 742,704 to 483,346. Hughes Nat.,
elected May 5, 1917, lost the second con-
scription referendum by 1,181,747 to
1,015,159. Brace-Page, returned on No-
vember 14, 1925, saw its Constitutional
proposals defeated by 1,619,665 to
1,247,088 on September 4, 1926. Fisher
Labor carried one State, Westralia, and
only Queensland was with Brace-Page.
Westralia, Victoria and Tasmania declared
for the Hughes proposal, but the Victorian
and Tasmanian majorities were micro-
scopic.
Perhaps because Yes-men are shy of
spouting in a lost cause, ladies are paying
out a lot of the chin-music. After speak-
ing at what the Communist “Tribune”
described as “the largest meeting seen at
Broken Hill for many years” (there were
fully 70 persons present, mostly Corns.),
Miss Bella Weiner spread the light m
other parts of N. S. Wales. The Glen
Innes “Examiner” gave her a column,
featuring her as “a native of Poland.”
“Bella Weiner Swings Rural Audiences
Behind Yes,” was the overture to a
“Tribune” symphony, and the “Tribune”
went into another rhapsody on Mrs.
Jessie Street, who “reminded the Yes con-
vention in the Sydney Town Hall that
unless the referendum was carried the
Commonwealth maternity and child-
endowment schemes would automatically
lapse.” These Left-Wing impertinences
are rather trying. Child-endowment was
introduced by Menzies as a permanency
and maternity bonus by Fisher —Aus-
tralia has been paying it since October,
1912.
The Victorian Cabinet has refused to
take part in the Commonwealth hospitals’
subsidy scheme (“six bob a day”), accepted
by all other State Ministers for Health.
Explaining the refusal, lan Macfarlan said
it was hard to know where the thing
would end.
Logically it might be followed by a plan
to provide free food and free housing.
The taxation to recover the cost of these
would be enormous, and the same old
section of taxpayers would be called upon
to pay it.
Every taxpayer will be refreshed to find
at least one politician with whom he can
agree.
The butcher and the girl:
“The right to ‘fire’ is characteristic of the
social system against which the Labor move-
ment must fight and win.” So said Dr. Evatt,
blithering for his referendum; and, doubtless
moved by his words, the entire union popu-
lation of Portland (N.S.W.), coalminers, muni*
tion workers, cement workers and so on, went
on strike last week because the town butcher
sacked a girl. Butcher and girl were summoned
to Sydney to appear before the chairman of
the State Industrial Commission, and other
efforts extraordinary were made to induce
the butcher to back down, but he was immovable,
nor would he give his reason for sacking the
young woman, beyond saying that' she was
“unsatisfactory in her position.” The dark
prospect's of boycott, assault and battery,
ruin and endless persecution he faced fearlessly.
Had half his quality of courage been shown by
non-Labor politicians and wage-payers seek-
ing the easy way out, unionism would have
been held within its useful and legitimate
boundaries of bargaining and mate-
ship in time of trouble, with which steady-
going unions are still content, and would never
have degenerated into an instrument of vile
tyranny on which ruffians are relying to make
their evil dreams of civil strife and mass rob-
bery and “dictatorship of the proletariat” come
true.
Unrestricted Jewish immigration into
Palestine, transformed into a “free demo-
cratic commonwealth,” is on the recently
constructed platforms of both American
parties. Sounds well, but it should be
accompanied by a pledge that Uncle Sam
would attend to all the troubles that
would start immediately, if not sooner.
Like Churchill, Smuts and Peter Frasei,
King George accepts it as a duty to visit
the troops in forward areas. He was in
Nonnandy on the eleventh day of the in-
vasion, and last week he went to Italy
by air, via North Africa, already familiar.
It was in Italy that his Majesty’s eldest
nephew, Viscount Lascelles, was wounded
and taken prisoner. Sneers at the
concern felt for a very plucky prince
of the blood who enlisted as a
private have been heard over the
air, and they didn’t come from an
enemy station. In point of fact, the
viscount was hit twice by machine-gun
bullets, in a leg and in the abdomen, and
German doctors had to perform an
operation before the Princess Royal was
notified that his condition was satisfac-
tory.
Still idolising Curtin, although it has
almost convinced itself that it may
have to come out against his referendum,
“S. M. Herald” professes to see “signs
and portents that a Parliamentary possi-
bility may now be moving into the phase
of probability.” Said possibility is that
the Menzies group will disappear, the
Country party “dwindle into a rump” and
“the major Parliamentary conflict” re-
solve itself into a struggle between a
Labor faction led by Curtin and another
led by Ward or Calwell. This in a city
where in the course of 22 years disgusted
electors have smitten sorely a succession
of Labor factions Dooley - McGirr,
Lang-Loughlin, Beasley-Scullin and the
rest. Really, it is- time the “Herald” gave
up trying to be like the other Warwick
the Kingmaker (he had a sticky finish),
and struggled’back to earth.
Not only Sydney morning papers agi-
tate the shades of former editors. Mel-
bourne “Argus,” for generations the hope
of the Flinders-lane side, recommends as
a suitable object for munificence the
“equipment” of Soviet House (beg
pardon, Australia-Soviet House), where
“people can go for a quiet half-hour to
learn something of the culture, economics
and achievements of a people who have
astounded the world” —and, of course, a
bit of Communism on the side. The
words are those of the president of Soviet
House, but the “Argus” endorses them and
“undertakes” to “receive and acknow-
ledge donations.” The address of Soviet
House is 330 Flinders-lane.
The usual horde of Communists tackled
Menzies when he spoke at Brisbane
against the referendum, and, as usual,
they got a great deal more than they
gave. An oaf yelling “Who tried to
smash the Communist party?” found Bob
ready for that one:
1 did, I am proud to say. Don’t talk
to me about the Communist party! 1 re-
gard it as the scum of the country. I
would treat it like typhoid fever.
After that the usual howl of “Pig-iron! ”
sounded perfunctory.
Increasingly the Yes-men are harping
on the plea that the 14 powers they seek
are normally held by the States, and that
all they ask is a transfer of those powers
to the Commonwealth for five years after
the war. But since when have the States
had power over Commonwealth-wide
production and distribution of goods or
to “send you to Bourke if I like”?
From Realities of Reconstruction, by
Dr. Coombs, Director-General of Post-
War Reconstruction:
If Government participation in the con-
trol and planning of industry is to develop,
a new type of public servant must be pro-
duced, one whose approach to the problem
arises out of detailed experience of it.
Furthermore, it may well prove necessary
to develop new specialised institutions to
exercise the administrative functions ot
government in the field of industry.
In other words, vote “yes” for a future
full of departments run by Dr. Coombses,
and so consign enterprise and indepen-
dence to tombses.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “ ”
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
liil
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
On Sunday, Aug. 6, Isaac , Isaacs
will be 89. He is still a familiar figure
on the Collins-street “Block,” as spruce as
in his heyday, and there is no failing of
intellectual powers. In articles con-
tributed to the “Jewish Herald” (Sydney)
the former Chief Justice and G.-G. has
written the substance of a very fine book.
One of the Timor Diggers, Captain C.
F, MacKenzie, A.1.F., has been presented
with the Netherlands Bronze Cross. The
citation reads: “As commander of an
Australian section attached to the troops
of the Royal Netherlands Indies Army
during the battle in Dilli (Portuguese
Timor) on February 20, 1942, Captain
MacKenzie, by his courageous activity
and by the excellent manner in which he
commanded his small forces against a
superior enemy, succeeded in frustrating
their attempts to destroy the wires lead-
ing to the Dilli aerodrome, and thus made
it possible for the aerodrome to be de-
stroyed in time.”
C. A. Fisher, who will retire shortly
after 50 years with the Bank of N.S.W.,
closes his career as manager of the head
Manager of the ’Wales
office. He was born at Grafton, where he
was a schoolfellow of Dr. Earle Page,
and there joined the ’Wales, since when
he has held executive positions in its ser-
vice in all States except Westralia: he
has been assistant inspector in Brisbane
and Melbourne and inspector in Sydney.
His present job arrived in 1937. Member
of the Australian, N.S.W., Royal Sydney
Yacht and Australian Golf clubs and of
the Chamber of Commerce, Fisher is
treasurer to the R.S.Y.C. and the C. of C.
After 40 years’ service, William Robert
Crosbie has retired from the secretary-
ship of the Swan (W.A.) Road Board.
His centre was Midland Junction, and
he was once mayor. Aside from local-
government matters, he found time to aid
the St. John’s Ambulance Association and
the Oddfellows, and to make his presence
felt on the bowling green. A son was
killed in the RA.A.F.; another is a
group-captain.
The public appeal of a panel of Mel-
bourne medicoes and citizens for £5OOO
to assist Dr. Thomas Cherry in his re-
searches into cancer draws attention to
one of the most sustained scientific efforts
in the history of Australian medicine.
Approaching his 80th year, Dr. Cherry
is still as keen on his researches as he was
when he started 20 years ago. He is not
mentioned in Who’s Who (his brilliant
mathematical son is), although Professor
Osborne has said of him that he “is a
man who has been all his life throwing
off brilliant ideas for lesser men to
pick up and turn to good account.” Every
now and then he issues a brochure like
the one in which he showed with a
wealth of statistics the peculiar and sig-
nificant relationship between the incidence
of tuberculosis and cancer —as the one
tends to decrease the other increases.
Grahame Beamish, a Maoriland jour-
nalist who enlisted in the first week of
the war and was official correspondent
with the N.Z.E.F. in the Middle East, is
now a war reporter for the Lord Kemsley
string of papers, which includes the
“Daily Sketch.” Beamish, released from
the N.Z.E.F., became representative in
Cairo for the London Exchange Tele-
graph Agency, and did some broadcast-
ing for American interests. He was on
papers in Dunedin and Auckland, and he
reported the 1928 All-Black tour of South
Africa for the Press Association.
Appointed Gladstone Professor of
Government and Public Administration
at Oxford, Kenneth C. Wheare, who
was Victoria’s 1929 Rhodes scholar. He
will have a fellow-townsman with him
at Oxford, Percy Seymour, lecturer at
Jesus College; both come from Mary-
borough, the only ■ provincial town in
Victoria to produce two Rhodes scholars.
Herring, C.J., was the other.
The death of Anthony Beale at St.
Helena (Vic.) breaks another link with
early history. He was a grandson of
Major Anthony Beale, who arrived in
Port Phillip in 1839 after having served
as 8.E.1 co. paymaster-general at St.
Helena during Napoleon’s exile. Major
Beale pioneered and named the St.
Helena district and built the little
there as a memorial to his wife. Its
picturesque form and surroundings have
made it a subject for many artists, and
the graves in the churchyard are a book
of Victorian history. Here lie all the
departed Beales ; Walter Withers, the
artist, and Graham Webster, a descen-
dant of Bonnie Dundee, whose tombstone
proclaims that “he Was the last of his
race, who descended from father to son
for 779 years.”
Doing a man-sized job with the
R.A.A.F., Wing - Commander H. T.
(“Bunny”) Hammond, who collected an
0.8. E. in the last Birthday honors.
Forced down on the wrong side of the (
lines in France in the last war, he was
18 months p.o.w. before getting back to
Australia, where he and Rupert King
set up as commercial artists. Later with
Vacuum Oil, Hammond was six years
on the active list of the Citizen Air
Force, and at this time also he and
Frank Follet started Adastra Airways,
teaching the young idea how to fly and
doing aerial surveys and suchlike. Next
Hammond was with Holden’s, flying to
and from the goldfields in New Guinea.
He got into the RA.A.F. at the out-
break of the present war. Meanwhile
he hadn’t given up art altogether, paint-
ing many scenes in the north.
Dicky Darcey did not long enjoy his
relief from the rigors of public life. His
term as Tasmanian Senator ended on
June 30; 27 days later he was dead in a
Sydney hospital, aged 74. By calling a
jeweller, he was a fine old boy, and
fellow-members listened amiably to his
expositions of high and low finance, his
rooted conviction being that you could
pay for the war and soothe the savage
breasts of Government contractors and
wipe out all public debts by issuing paper,
w.orld without end.
“Pronto”: In addition to the sporting
bodies, clubs, etc., of the famous name,
Australia has a living relative of the
original Tattersall whose bloodstock sales
in London drew buyers from all over the
world. These days of Cheltenham (Vic.),
Bill (William C.) Tattersall was himself
formerly associated with something
speedy enough over a distance—he was
chef of the first Sydney express, now the
Spirit of Progress. He followed that
calling also in various hotels in different
States. Even now he’s indirectly “feed-
ing the brute” ; his vegetable farm easily
holds its own in a district rightly noted
for its outsize products in that line.
Henry Ross O’Loghlen, son of Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen, Premier of Victoria
(1881-83), died in Melbourne' recently.
Sir Bryan, third holder of a U.K.
baronetcy, was one of a group of Irish
lawyers who were great figures at the
Victorian Bar in the last century. He had
been an Irish M.P.,’and in Victoria he
became Crown Prosecutor, and was thrice
Attorney-General. He died in 1905, and
the eldest of his sons, all born in Victoria,
became Sir Michael O’Loghlen.
The excellent record of four years’ un-
broken service as hon. manager of the
Red Cross book depot at 167 George-
street, Sydney, belongs to S. T. Perrin,
who has now resigned. With his band
of helpers also regularly on the job,
Perrin handled round about 750,000
books and magazines in that time, and
letters from all points of the compass
and personal visits from men on leave
testified to what the services thought of
the service.
“I remember John Pascoe Fawkner
patting me on the head,” was the open-
ing of the reminiscences of John Howlett-
Ross, the 88-year-old elocutionist of Mel-
bourne, tendered a complimentary after-
noon by the Bread and Cheese Club. He
was a co-worker long ago with J. F.
Archibald, of The Bulletin, and he
numbers among his possessions a leather
covering of a reporter’s notebook, given
to him by Archibald before the latter left
for Sydney to make a lasting reputation
for himself. The just-on nonagenarian
still works as he used to 30 or 40 years
ago. At present he’s examining from
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
An Australian composer who has re-
sisted the urge to go abroad permanently
is white-haired, white-bearded Louis
Lavater, now past his 77th milestone.
Son of a onetime chief accountant on the
Victorian Railways, Lavater has spent
most of his time in Melbourne, and has
poured out a stream of orchestral, cham-
ber and choral music, piano and violin
pieces, songs composed to his own verses.
A writer of grace and distinction, he has
had half a dozen pen-names. Lavater is
vice-president of the Musical Society of
Victoria, and founded the Guild of Aus-
tralian Composers. Universally liked, he
was missing from his usual haunts for six
months because of a serious illness, but is
about again.
’ “S.A.”: The author of Mostly Austra-
lian (B. 28/6/’44), Dr. Charles Fenner,
is Director of Education in S.A.: a bril-
liant educationist, an authority on tech-
nical education and an enthusiast for
the natural sciences. In latter years pres-
sure of official duties has relegated the
last-named pursuit to that of a hobby. A
printer’s apprentice at 12, he studied hard
enough in leisure hours (such as they
were) to qualify for the Victorian teaching
service, and was at one time in charge of
a small rural school. Later a Doctor of
Science at Melbourne University, his keen
interest in geology and geography saw
him onetime lecturer in the latter subject
at the Adelaide University.
Arthur William Christian, new chair-
man of the S.A. Public Works Com-
mittee, is a faimer and grazier from Eyre
Peninsula who has represented the dis-
A. W. CHRISTIAN.
trict as an L.C.L. member for 11 years,
six of them as a P.W.C. committeeman.
Christian’s grandfather settled on Kan-
garoo Island in 1837, and his father was
bom there 100 years ago. Christian him-
self began his working career as a school-
teacher, left it to go stretcher-bearing in
the 1914-18 war and returned to take up
land. A great believer in physical fitness,
he is 50, and until recently was an all-
year-round bather.
John B. Hughes, a large and amiable
man with a pleasing “mike” voice, passed
through Australia last week on his way
to the Pacific fronts to cover the war for
the Portland “Oregonian,” published not
in the N.S.W. town whose butcher has
defied it but in U.S.A. Hughes is a prac-
tised radio speaker, reckoned one of the
besf in his own country, over which he
From Oregon, U.S.A.
has travelled widely talking to manage-
ments and men about production and
the aspects thereof. He is credited with
being an authority on Far Eastern affairs.
For the success of the Ormandy con-
certs in Melbourne a great deal is owing
to Bernard Heinze. When, after five
years’ war service, and study in Berlin
and Paris, Heinze returned to Melbourne
and took up the baton in 1926, there were
only 63 subscribers to the celebrity con-
certs he started. Thirteen years later,
when A.B.C. took over, the figure had
risen to 2300. Today it is approximately
4000. It is the 4000 who • make
up the bulk of the audiences at the
Town Hall, and a large proportion of the
crowd was educated for music at the
children’s concerts which Heinze inaugu-
rated in 1923 and has continued since.
Into the silence :
At Errinundra (Vic.), at 74, John Mclntyre,
retired teacher, farmer and Bulletin contribu-
tor, who insisted on renewing his subscription
the day before he died.
In Melbourne, Patrick Ignatius O’Leary, for
years on the “Advocate,” official organ of the
Catholic Archdiocese of Melbourne. “P. 1.,”
a sound critic, contributed to literary periodi-
cals here and overseas. In 1921 he published
Romance and Other Verses, with illus-
ions by John Shirlow; in 1939 he edited The
Bread and Cheese Book (verse).
In Melbourne, at 73, Alfred Peters, one of
the city’s most picturesque personalities. A
masseur for 50 years, he was far more widely
known as president of the Old Players and of
the Victorian Scottish Union and the Caledonian
Society. For more than 40 years he was
honorary masseur at Prince Henry’s Hospital.
Peters had a fine, commanding presence and
was an excellent speaker.
In Melbourne, at 46, Brigadier E. W. Mil-
ford, M.C., C.8.E., officer of the British Army
on special duty in Australia. He was severely
wounded, mentioned in dispatches and awarded
the M.C. in the last war and had commands in
this war.
In Melbourne, Harry Windley, of a well-
known printing and sporting family, with over
75 years’ connection with the trade. He was
with the “Age” and “Leader” for 60 years.
In Toowoomba (Q.), at 67, Dr. Thomas Pat-
rick Connolly, surgeon, sportsman and public
figure. Born at Orange (N.S.W.), he was edu-
cated at St. Stanislaus’, Bathurst, and St.
John’s, Sydney Uni., graduating with honors.
Dr. Connolly was a foundation member and
Fellow of the Royal Australian College of Sur-
geons, and he was in everything at Toowoomba
—president of Rotary, the golf club and the
tennis association, committeeman of the Ambu-
lance Transport Brigade, patron of the Rugby
Union and mfember of the racing club; he
was also a director of Queensland Trustees. A
son is a flight-lieut. in the R.A.A.F.
In Adelaide, Peter Howard, a former station
manager. His unusual epitaph: “Not quite
101 years of age.”
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 84, Capt. L. C. H.
Worrall, one of the best known U.S.S. Co.’s
skippers in the inter-State and trans-Pacific
passenger trade. He skippered the Maunganui
during 1914-15, when she carried thousands of
M.L. troops to England.
In Vaucluse, Sydney, at 68, W. W. Monahan,
K.C., member of the Sydney Bar for 37 years;
he took silk in- 1927. Monahan held Crown
briefs at a number of royal-commission in-
quiries, was on the District Court Bench twice
and on the Supreme Court Bench once as
Acting Judge, and appeared for Tooths in a
Privy Council case.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire* Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head. Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shilling’s a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
* COMPANY, XiTD.
‘THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'treet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
MADE EASY.
The Shipley Account Book
with Taxation Guide
(Copyright)
Specially prepared for GRAZIERS, DAIRY
FARMERS. ORCHARDISTS, AND ALL
PRIMARY PRODUCERS.
EVERY ITEM FOR TAX RETURNS
FULLY EXPLAINED. YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. OVER 1,000 COPIES SOLD.
The large number of testimonials received
from satisfied purchasers, prove the inest-
imable value. of our Taxation Guide and
Account Book.
DON’T WORRY OVER INCOME TAX
RETURNS. THE READY RECKONER
SHOWS AMOUNT OF TAX PAYABLE.
Order Now—PRICE, £1
1/- extra for Postage and Exchange,
obtainable only from
J. SHIPLEY & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Truth About Depressions
In a few short years Australians have
seen Dr. Evatt change over from the job
of administering justice on the High
Court Bench to that of dispensing referen-
dum propaganda among those whose
memories or intelligences are either short
or shallow respectively. Dr. Evatt was
a jurist of credit and renown, even
though the presentation of the legal
aspect of this referendum smacks more of
the bush lawyer than of the High Court
Judge; but while the legal technicalities
and tricks of the thing are being attended
to by many Government supporters, we
find Dr. Evatt devoting a surprising
amount of attention to economics. Like
Mr. Curtin, who, with the greatest of
equanimity, has faced almost every pos-
sible way in his attitude towards the vir-
tues and/or vices of bank-credit use, Dr.
Evatt has been speaking far more
emphatically on matters economic than
he has ever spoken when discussing sub-
jects which he really understands.
While touring Westralia Dr. Evatt said
that the Commonwealth powers now
being asked for were necessary to “pre-
vent depression.” He has said more in
the same strain since, including a great
deal about a huge unemployment roll of
ex-service men when the war ends and
the need to make new jobs for them. In
the official booklet, on the referendum,
The Case For and Against , under the
heading of “No More Depressions,” the
Government spokesman for Dr. Evatt’s
referendum says: “When the Common-
wealth gets these post-war reconstruction
powers it will guard against another
depression”:
By keeping up a high level of employ-
ment, which means a high level of pur-
chasing power.
By making money the servant' of the
people and not their master.
By maintaining stabilised prices and
organised marketing in primary industries.
And so on.
If Dr. Evatt really knows enough about
economics to offer an opinion on the sub-
ject, he cannot believe that the Australian
Government can guarantee freedom from
depressions whatever its powers. Depres-
sions are of many kinds, and the worst
kind are world-wide. Certainly the indi-
vidual behavior of different nations when
added together are the chief cause of
world-wide depressions. But could the
most perfectly-managed Australian eco-
nomy isolate us from the depressions oc-
curring in the rest of the world? So long
as we have commerce with other coun-
tries it could not. The best-managed
countries certainly weather depressions
best. But countries are still economi-
cally interdependent, Australia relying
particularly upon reciprocal trade.
Instead of giving us the most perfectly-
managed economy, the Labor Govern-
ment during this war has given us the
most politically-managed one. For a long
time it played for votes irrespective of
the financial cost. It let off the voting
multitude from its war-time financial
obligations for too long, and thereby
started an inflation in money. There was
a consequent inflation in prices and living
costs, and a loss of stability, confidence
and incentive.
One of the first results of this inflation
has been difficulties in the dairying in-
dustries. Because of rising costs and other
Government economic mismanagement it
has become unprofitable for many dairy-
men to carry on —the butter subsidies
being paid for out of taxation on the
general public are not enough to offset
the rise in costs. It is certainly true that
the rural areas have lost much man-
power through call-ups and enlistments.
But they have also lost man-power
because of the depressed condition of the
dairying industry by comparison with the
overpaid munitions and similar highly
rewarded undertakings. There is now an
excess of men in munitions work, many
of them admitted to be eating their heads
off at the country’s expense. In spite of
the Government’s present enormous
powers under the National Security Act,
this excess of “employment” in certain
“political” industries contrasts with a
grave deficiency on the food front.
The rural industries are not politically
favored by the Labor party. If it were
not for the fact that the slump in
dairy production is affecting the whole of
the Commonwealth it is not unfair to
say that the industry would receive less
consideration in the way of subsidies than
it is now actually getting. And subsidies,
in any case, are only a sort of artificial
respiration that does not solve any prob-
lem permanently.
It can be seen that politics play a part
in depressions. Labor-party politics in
particular have played a large part. This
party has, in effect, taught its followers
that they are entitled to consume more
than the country produces, and it has en-
couraged them to evade payment of their
national obligations. The hard facts of our
war-time economy have produced certain
changes in the peace-time outlook of the
party, but in many vital matters of ad-
ministration it is plainly incompetent and
unrealistic. The depressed dairying in-
dustry and the inflated (highly-unionised)
munitions industry are but two examples
of a deranged economy.
Where certain vital industrial workers
are given pay that is high in relation to
what others get in wages or in profit they
place a strain on those others. Heavy
Government spending may cause inflation
in some industries and localities while
only increasing the taxation and costs
burden elsewhere. Inflation, which means
rising prices and rising costs, is a danger
denied by the Labor party, but it is the
mother of depressions.
Firstly, inflation tends to cause depres-
sion in industries where costs are rising
but not selling prices, and thus begins a
rising spiral of unemployment. Secondly,
it destroys confidence and stability ; and
when these two things crash the inflated
price structure comes tumbling down,
and the incentive —and capacity— to em-
ploy is restricted. Thirdly, it creates great
confusion and injustice as between people
in different financial circumstances.
Fourthly, it imposes a distressing burden
on the export trades, such as woolgrow-
ing, and brings exchange difficulties.
In a free country the best remedy against
depressions is the prevention of inflation,
a fair distribution of the rewards of in-
dustry, efficiency in enterprise, and a
general acknowledgment that all our eco-
nomic aims have to be worked for or
paid for. An honest investigation of
problems that involve the population as
amongst themselves is necessary, and the
less cultivated class friction there is the
better. Political trickery or make-believe
in economic matters is hopeless. It inevit-
ably complicates whatever problem it is
aimed to avoid by the trickery.
“No More Depressions,” says the
“Yes” section of the referendum book-
let. Looking at the economic record of
the Federal Labor Government which is
sponsoring the referendum one can only
assume that the extravagance of its assur-
ances is increasing with its desperation.
Whatever a country’s Constitutional
powers, it is administrative ability rather
than legal power which builds a sound
economy.
According to the “Standard,” official
organ of the A.L.P., “decision to draw up
a 10-year plan for the socialisation of the
means of production, distribution and ex-
change in logical stages was one of the
outstanding results of the annual general
A.L.P. conference.” Moving the motion,
the vice-president, W. C. Taylor, who is
also a director of the Commonwealth
Bank Board, said “the Labor party did
not exist to preserve for individuals the
vested interests of jobs and positions, but
to achieve socialisation for the common
good.” According to the same official
source:
In reply to a question on how the Gov-
ernment would use national credit with its
extended powers, Dr. Evatt said the Con-
stitution already gave power to control
credit. He reminded Conference that, after
June 30, the Curtin Government for the
first time would have full control of the
Senate. Such matters would be dealt with
according to party policy.
It is just as well Honest John Curtin
was away from Australia at the time the
conference was held and wasn’t heard
at it. It enables him.now to deny any
intention on “his” part of wanting to
socialise or nationalise anything.
$ * * *
The world currency-fund and world
bank plan to which 44 nations put their
signatures in the United States is a draft
plan only, and a number of the signatures
are in no way binding on the nations
concerned. Gold is still the ultimate
standard of value adopted. The idea of
the fund is to regulate international trade
and assist countries in difficulties. The
real strength of the plan will be the good-
will, co-operation and confidence it estab-
lishes among the countries concerned. All
will have to play the game intelligently
and with regard to each other ; a legal or
financial framework alone will not
achieve success. Every country will find
that it must set its economic house in
order in some way to make the plan
really workable. Although there has been
talk about clashes between “traditional
and revolutionary monetary concepts,”
Lord Keynes (of the Bank of England)
being regarded as one of the “revolu-
tionaries,” it can be taken for granted in
Australia that the most revolutionary
proposals placed a greater value on inter-
national confidence than did the plans
which had a basis closer to the gold stand-
ard. Where you have no metallic anchor
to a money fund confidence must be
your anchor. This is something many
Australian “revolutionaries” appear to
forget.
* * * *
The United States is passing through
a period of financial controversy. There
is a section of the intelligentsia, promi-
nent in which is Mr. Stuart Chase,
that advocates carefree borrowing by the
Government in order to offset Budget
deficits. It is contended that the United
States has reached a “mature economy,”
with few new outlets for its accumulated
savings, and that the Government should
absorb these private savings by borrow-
ing and taxation, and then spend the
money among the people again. A pic-
ture of slap-happy futility, in which Com-
munistic brushwork is plain. Futility
and frustration make a good groundwork
for revolution, and the spirit of free
enterprise in the United States has been
an obstruction to Corns. Hence the idea
of “wishing” free enterprise out of exis-
tence, assisted by financial fallacy in
Government policy. It is pointed out in
U.S.A., in exploding this Left-wing stuff,
that during the depression the United
States was the world’s chief example
of the unbalanced Budget and “pump
primer” per medium of borrowing, and
that it was the chief example of
unrestored production and employment.
“Great Britain and Sweden, with balanced
Budgets throughout most of the period,
made the most satisfactory gains, while
the United States and France, with huge
deficits, trailed far in the rear....We
find that recovery abroad was much more
pronounced and sustained than in this
country, despite the fact that the increase
in the Federal debt during the 1930’s ex-
ceeded the growth of the national debt
of the 25 leading foreign countries com-
bined.”
The outstanding obstacles to recovery in
the United States were the artificially high
costs established under the National Re-
covery Act and the fear engendered by
multitudinous unsound plans, including the
manipulation of currency, the silver and
greenback legislation, and the well-nigh
confiscatory taxation, which put a serious
brake on risk-taking. About 25,000 million
dollars was expended on “pump-priming”
projects, but the decade closed with about
eight million persons unemployed.
“If the United States should ever become
feeble and decadent,” says the First
National Bank of Boston, “it would be
because the medicine men repeatedly
told the patient that he had an incurable
ailment, and then proceeded to keep him
in an oxygen tent and continually pro-
vided him with artificial respiration.”
He * * *
Australia is on the Allied list for a
greater proportion of synthetic rubber,
and the big tyre cos. are now at grips
with the problem of providing the addi-
tional plant and man-power necessary to
process the artificial product. It is be-
coming apparent that, irrespective of the
production cost of synthetic rubber, the
additional processing cost when tyres are
being made puts a high premium on
plantation latex. Therefore, though it may
be that eventually the United States will
make Buna rubber at 10 cents a pound,
unless there are improvements in the
method of converting it into rubber goods
its actual relative cost, taking the life of
the finished article into account as well,
may be far higher than that of planta-
tion rubber at 15d. a pound. Provided
politics don’t interfere, well-run New
Guinea plantations should be profitable
for some years after the war at least. New
Guinea production does not belong to
Australia exclusively under Allied war
plans. Allocations are on a quota basis.
Koitaki is now tapping a record crop.
Sic * *
When this war is over and blends into
history it may be that the chief damage
done to Australia will be revealed as in-
ternal damage of a political and social
nature. It has been our great misfor-
tune to have in control of the country a
Government which, taken as a whole,
has been lacking in vision and principles,
and which has been closely associated
with socialistic and Communistic ele-
ments. Discipline is good for the majority
of people, especially in times like the
present, but the trade-union movement
has been subject to “discipline” of a sec-
tional rather than a national kind, the rule
of the trade-union “boss” being an extra-
ordinary feature of our democracy.
Where, on the average, about half of
everyone’s share in the country’s pro-
duction has had to be taken for war, any
unevenness in the distribution of the cost
of war is bound to place unfair strain
on the section of the community not in
political favor. The comparative afflu-
ence of other unionists, such as N.S.W.
slaughtermen, on the other hand, is re-
flected in the indifference of those
gentlemen as to whether they work or
not; and the same may be said for many
of the coalminers and other militant sec-
tions of the trade-union community.
Where sectionalism is made an instru-
ment of political policy and trade-union
organisation the tendency is for different
classes of people to become remote from
each other, a danger already inherent in
present-day specialisation of occupations.
In this remoteness distrust more easily
occurs, and trouble-making racketeers
flourish. Great attempts have been
made by such racketeers to divide Aus-
tralians in the present war. Many people
who have not shouldered a fair share of
war’s cost, and who have profited from
the war-time stimulation of industry,
have really been led to believe that they
have been hardly done by. So much
of a country’s future depends upon what
exists in the hearts and intelligences of
its people that such false beliefs can
lead only to trouble.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager
OUT
OF
OFTEN CAUSES
TEETH TO LOOSEN
AND FALL OUT.
Don’t take chances with
tender gums that bleed a
little when you brush
your teeth.
This may be the first
warning sign of Pyor-
rhea.
*****
T[ND[ R
mm
mm
SORE GUMS
Sir
Vg
Go
INHAMID OUWS
"?s
If neglected—this dread infec-
tion often leads to soft, flabby
gums; vile pus that forms
around the teeth sockets —until
even strong and healthy teeth
loosen and fall out.
Save your teeth —
Guard your gums Now
with Forhan’s.
Forhan’s is the FIRST and
ORIGINAL toothpaste for both
massaging gums to be firmer
and cleaning teeth to their
natural brightness. Forhan’s,
too, helps remove acid film that
so often starts tooth decay.
Ask your Chemist for a tube of
Forhan’s Toothpaste to-day.
Only original Forhan’s Dentifrice con-
taining a special anti-pyorrhea astrin-
gent.
A/sian Agents- The Sheldon Drug Co.. Sydney. Price, 2/4. Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans T eeth—Saves Gums
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
ADVERTISEMENT
'rift:
cHiaut’.
★lf you sign you give
away your natural right
to your own way of
life. You become an
index-number in a
bureaucrat’s file.
★ You place yourself in
peace time under the
controls you have en-
dured in war*
★ You endanger your
right to run your own
Put your
business, own your
own farm, or choose
your own job. You can
be man - powered
for good.
★ You put tremendous
but unspecified powers
into the hands of a
central authority at
Canberra, with an ever-
growing army of aca-
demic regimenters
living on the job.
Your Soldier is fighting for
freedom. Don’t YOU sign
it away in his absence!
THE Bottom Square
Authorised by John Hedge, Australian Constitutional League, Australia House, Sydney
The Small Business
In other parts of the Allied world
prominence is being given to matters
which are scarcely coming to surface in
the flood of talk about “national plan-
ning” in Australia. There has been too
much of the idea in the Commonwealth
that some sovereign remedy is only wait-
ing to be found in new “systems” which
will dispose of all manner of problems
regardless of their cause. The extreme
political control of nearly everything in
the Commonwealth has overwhelmed
most other controls—and voices. The
voice of the chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank is rarely heard, while the
private banks get even less prominence.
Treasurer Chifley, a former railwayman,
is our financial mouthpiece.
A matter to which quite an amount of
consideration is being given in the
United States is the fate of the small
business after the war. A Committee of
Economic Development has been set up
by American businessmen; it is a non-
political corporation which has the ob-
jective of stimulating and assisting Ameri-
can business so as to contribute the maxi-
mum to employment and production
when the war is over. It believes that
the small business is vital to that objec-
tive. Of the total business employment in
the United States, roughly 45 p.c. is ac-
counted for by firms which employ fewer
than 100 workers each.
The C.E.D. believes that, as well as the
“vigorous participation” by the 2,000,000
existing small businesses in the U.S. post-
war programme, it will be essential to
establish a large number of new enter-
prises. Other claims are that the small
business and new enterprise provide one
of the greatest laboratories for new ideas
and new products, and that they also
provide competition and flexibility to an
economy, thus furnishing protection
against monopolies which maintain prices
and restrict production. In addition, it is
believed that the maintenance of oppor-
tunity for every individual to set up his
own business is essential to a free society
and to the preservation of individual self-
reliance and resourcefulness.
The committee suggests that the spirit
of individual initiative must be fostered
and maintained after this war. Measures
such as the reduction of business-taxa-
tion burdens and the restrictive controls
which now hamper business incentive will
increase the willingness of individuals to
assume business risks and open new fields
of production and employment.
“Through risk-taking, new businesses
and new men are developed Public
understanding of the importance of risk-
taking is vital.... Initiative and the spirit
of risk-taking can also be fostered
through education of our youth.... Edu-
cational programmes should be provided
to encourage and train demobilised sol-
diers, sailors and other service men to go
into business for themselves after the
war Many will have acquired an un-
usual degree of independence and self-
confidence as a result of their experi-
ences.”
The C.E.D. points out that various pri-
vate and Government agencies can bring
to small businessmen collectively valu-
able information which they find impos-
sible to get hold of on their own. “For
many years the U.S. Government has car-
ried on a programme for aiding the indi-
vidual farmer to do a better job. A
similar programme should be developed
for the benefit of small businessmen by
the joint efforts of Federal and State Gov-
ernments, educational institutions and
business. Such an undertaking is too
vast to be handled by private organisa-
tions alone.”
It was contended here recently that the
Australian Federal Government, instead
of aiming to tear up the whole Austra-
lian industrial system root and branch
and replace it with a more socialistic
hybrid, might leave it where it was, at
the same time giving benevolent atten-
tion to marketing problems overseas and
providing information on scientific and
technical matters of general benefit to
industry.
Getting down to immediate problems,
in the U.S.A. the C.E.D. says if, as now
seems likely, the first phase of post-war
reconversion of industry involves a par-
tial reopening of civilian industry, small
industrial units must be accorded fair
treatment in the allocation of materials
and the establishment of production
quotas. If the smaller businesses can be
reconverted more rapidly than the larger
units, the former should not be required
to wait on the programmes of the large
companies. Production quotas should
not be limited so as to make operations
for small concerns unprofitable, while
profitable to larger undertakings.
“Every available agency,” says the
C.E.D., “should undertake continuing
studies of the industrial, legal and finan-
cial obstacles to the birth and growth of
small enterprises. These studies should
include the examination of monopolistic
business practices, cartels, patents, trade
barriers, building regulations, and all
Governmental, business and labor restric-
tions to enterprise.”
It is significant that British banking
opinion has also stressed the importance
of small businesses. In Australia there
has beep a tendency for the Government
to treat them roughly, and for aliens to
get control while good Australians are in
uniform. A Government which is socialis-
tically inclined has little in its programme
for the benefit of small businesses. The
encouragement of monopolies is one of
the steps towards socialisation. This
remark applies particularly to monopolies
which have become such through Govern-
ment assistance. An enterprise which
grows to size through the efficiency of its
methods and in spite of all competition
is a different thing. Often it provides
the idea and inspiration which starts small
businesses.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Loo Tenant”: Remember the night
the Jap subs, entered Sydney Harbor?
When the sirens went our A.R.P. group
donned “battle bowlers” and went to work
checking up on the blackout. One of our
number was a Chinese, a very conscien-
tious chap. Noticing a bit of light emerg-
ing he rang the doorbell of the offender’s
house. The door opened to disclose a
stout, middle-aged lady carrying a torch.
When its beam found Ah Gee’s face all
she managed was “My God! They’re
here!” and fainted.
* % % *
“Caballer”: A Sydney daily—the one
that thinks that Lindbergh was the first
man to fly the Atlantic—let itself go on
the French Revolution:
July 14 the day the crowd stormed
the Bastille and liberated hundreds of hope-
less wretches from dungeons where they had
been thrust without a trial because they
had incurred the .displeasure of the Gov-
ernment.
The picture of wan prisoners who had
forgotten their names and preserved their
sanity only by carving messages on flag-
stones and teaching rats to perform tricks
is somewhat dimmed by the list of
liberated men. They numbered seven.
Four were coiners, one a pervert and two
were lunatics put there by their relatives.
* * * *
“S.T.S.’*: A pleasant, even slightly
staggering, verdict has been given by
“John o’ London’s” dramatic critic
(23/4/’44) on Robert Helpman, at whom
we in Adelaide used to smile as a mere
ballet dancer. Getting to the top in that
line in London, he wrote for himself a
ballet on the supposed dreams of Hamlet
when dying, and has since moved on to
playing Shakspeare “straight.” The critic
says:—
While other actors may play Hamlet, and
play it will, Robert Helpman is Hamlet.
He is able to convey with his body the
changing moods of his mind, in a way
that makes the movements of the ordinary
actor seem clumsy in comparison. But
there is far more in it than that. He pre-
sents us with a complete physical realisa-
tion of a psychological state, and does it
so profoundly that we are scarcely con-
scious of its art —until we come to analyse
his performance afterwards.
Also Robert has had the honor of seeing
his work at the New Theatre burlesqued
at the Ambassador in a revue suggestively
titled “Sweeter and Lower.” Hermione
Gingold, another artist who has jumped
right to the front, does the burlesque,
adding:
I feel that all it needs
Is a dash of “Les Sylphides,”
Some Tschaikowsky, and Margot Fonteyn.
* * * He
“Melbn”: Mr. Dunstan may have done
a lot for decentralisation of industry in
Victoria, but William Dobell has done
ten times as much for the decentralisation
of art. The Archibald Prize controversy
stimulated so much interest in art in
hitherto inartistic circles that a boom
started in exhibitions; it spread to the
suburbs and then to provincial towns to
such an extent that it is no longer neces-
sary to be a resident of Melbourne to
know all about Cezanne, Matisse and
Modigliano, while the principles of plastic
form are now discussed as intelligently in
Beechworth as in East Malvern. The
latest city to have a municipality-pro-
moted exhibition is Coburg, formerly
mainly noted for the possession of a
large and forbidding-looking prison. The
show is to have, amongst pictures repre-
sentative of most leading Australian
artists, an unfinished Corot. Doubt has
been thrown on its authenticity because,
although it is unfinished, it bears the
artist’s signature. This is really evidence
in its favor. Corot was generous, and
often gave to a friend down on his luck
a picture off his easel telling the recipient
to sell it to pay his debts. As Corot had
become famous at that time he would
naturally sign the picture to give it value
* * * *
’ Caen, in Normandy (B.
Z6/6/.44), has another connection with
Maoriland through the French explorer
Dumont d Urville. The town’s museum is
—or was—rich in relics of the days when
the Maoris held undisputed sway in Fern-
land. The trophy the Frenchman most
prized was the richly-tattooed head of
“Would you mind removing your camouflage ?”
a chief. In d’Urville’s time, and later,
Maoris were not above having slaves
tattooed and their heads chopped off and
sold as Maori chiefs’ heads. But for a
musket and a lace dress d’Urville in 1827,
at Whangaroa, brought what is believed
to have been the head of Hou, a very
important chief. If it survived Monty’s
tremendous bombing Hou’s head still
grins from a case in Caen museum.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Making a plea in Mel-
bourne for better voices, Claude Flem-
ming said Australian girls were showing
the way to a more cultured speech,
being more adaptable than men and ready
to copy an attractive phrase when they
heard it, just as they copied overseas
fashions. “The best Australian voice I
know,” said Mr. Flemming, “is that of
R. G. Menzfes.” I would say a better is
Flemming’s. Claude’s, is flexible and ex-
pressive ; Bob’s is forensic. But, anyhow,
what is a good accept? Isn’t it purely
accidental? An Oxford baby transferred
to Footscray would talk Footscray unless
its parents drilled it to speak like them-
selves.
* * * He
Caballer”: According to war cor-
respondents, every engagement in this
war makes a new record for weight of
artillery shells or air-dropped bombs.
Even allowing for the greater effective-
ness of modern explosives, 4000 tons of
bombs dropped from the air doesn’t
look so big when compared with the
daily average of more than 30,000 tons
of aimed shells which for four consecu-
tive days made the Queant Switch so
unhealthy for the Hun in 1918. The
casualties for the first fortnight of the
Normandy landing were just two-thirds
of those suffered by the British Army in
one day—July 1, 1916. It may be ad-
mitted that the spldiers of today are better
fed, better armed, better trained and more
intelligently led than were their fathers,
but this continuous “greatest ever” atti-
tude of correspondents is boring. The
cause of it is probably that the ob-
servers have no standard to judge by. In
the last show we were recovering from
what C. E. W. Bean described as “the
greatest concentration of fire ever under-
gone by the A.1.F.” when the Australian
papers arrived. There was an account of
a big recruiting show in Centennial Park
which included a sham fight. It was the
final sentence of this account that took
the fancy of the survivors of the struggle
for the Windmill Ridge behind Pozieres.
“Two field guns,” the report concluded,
“firing alternately, gave a realistic touch
to the proceedings.”
*** ❖ %
“Spokeshave”: On a wild, wet day,
with snow falling on the foothills, a Mel-
bourne citizen went to the travel bureau
to get a permit to travel by air to Hobart.
The clerk looked suspicious. “I suppose
you know that travelling for pleasure is
forbidden,” he said. “What are you going
for?” “To sail a boat back,” said the
cit. “What? In this weather!” said the
clerk. “That’s not pleasure—that’s busi-
ness. No. 4 priority.”
* * * *
“Tug”: “Chevroford” (B. 19/7/’44)
errs slightly in regard to the Outer Circle
Line, for that portion of it from Camber-
well to Ashburton is a busy electric line.
Also, while iris true that the passenger
service between Riversdaie and Deepdene
was withdrawn about 1930, the goods
pilot used to make regular trips over that
section as far as East Kew until some
12 months ago, when N.S.W. coalminers
stopped it. So “Chevroford” might have
been well advised to “look both ways
before crossing.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: During a debate on the
Justices Bill in the Victorian Leg. Assem-
bly, Mrs. Brownbill, Labor M.L.A. for
Geelong, made one of her rare appear-
ances with a plea for more feminine Jay
Pays. In the past, she asserted, theV had
proved that they had as much tact, judg-
ment and ability as justices of the male
sex. I should think so! If more women
magistrates are appointed it is to be hoped
that the Bench will be prepared for them
by some preliminary education of existing
male incumbents. A male J.P. sat on
the Bench in Melbourne with a lady J.P.
when a youth was charged with a certain
offence and counsel begged leave to bring
forward evidence of a somewhat un-
savory nature. The male J.P. asked that
some private inkling be vouchsafed him
as to what was to be forthcoming. Then
he remarked that he would refuse to sit
on the Bench with his skirted colleague
if the evidence was produced, because it
wasn’t the sort of thing that should pol-
lute the ear of any lady. Although his
colleague spiritedly told him, in effect,
to go and teach his grandmother to suck
eggs, that she heard worse than that every
day in her normal avocations and that
his attitude was nonsensical, he stuck to
his guns, and the hearing was suspended.
* * * *
“Avon”: The Union S.S. Co.’s fast
liner Awatea, whose swift trips across the
Tasman and invariable punctuality won
her the admiration of the whole Sydney
waterside in the days before the war,
had some exciting moments before she
was sunk in the Mediterranean in
November, 1942. The censorship veil
has just been withdrawn from one
episode. It occurred when the Awatea
was carrying troops from Canada to
Britain. Off the Nova Scotia coast the
convoy was attacked by U-boats. A tor-
pedo was headed straight for the Awatea
when the commander of an American
destroyer, sizing up the situation, rushed
his own ship into interposition and ab-
sorbed the torpedo. The destroyer was
blown asunder and sank, and the con-
cussion tore a large hole in Awatea’s bow,
so that she had to return to port, with
crew and troops working frantically to
keep her afloat.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Eugene Ormandy,
after his first concert, said that when
Melbourne audiences really enjoy music
they show their appreciation; they even
yell with delight. A surer indication that
he had their interest—at the second con-
cert —was the rapt stillness while the
movements of the long Brahms Sym-
phony were being played, and the tornado
of coughs, snorts, sneezes and other
manifestations of acute bronchitis which
broke out in the pauses. These have a
psychological explanation. The tendency
of people when they are concentrated on
enjoying the pleasures of one sense is to
try instinctively to inhibit the other
senses, “Listening with bated breath” is
no misnomer, but derived from observa-
tion. When the music ceases the indi-
vidual relaxes, the cheated senses get a
look-in, and the audience not only snorts
and sneezes but makes all sorts of extra-
ordinary movements. A bored audience,
however, can’t act in this way. The more
it tries to hold itself in out of politeness
the more often it explodes in some in-
voluntary direction. Mr. Ormandy
wouldn’t have been outside the mark if
he had said that Melbourne audiences
sneeze their appreciation.
* * * *
“C.R.”: “Harap” (B. 19/7/’44) refers
to “Clooter’s” proposal to feed rose hips
to the populace as belated. It is, rather.
Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy, pub-
lished in 1651, lists the hips among cures
for head melancholy. He puts it thus:
“Crato prescribes the condite fruit of
wild rose to a nobleman, his patient, to
be taken before dinner or supper, to the
quantity of a chestnut. It is made of
sugar, as that of quinces.” But is there
anything, ancient or modern, not touched
upon by old Burton?
* * * *
“Tuart”: Champion bit of stuff from
“Pravda,” vouched for by Mr. limmy
Aldridge, as it appeared in the Sydney
“Sun’s” Sunday supplement:
On three succeeding days articles by
three leading Soviet commentators, General
Golaktionov, “Observer” and K. Demidov,
criticised the British and U.S. press claim
that it is difficult to advance and manoeuvre
from such a restricted area as the Allies
have in Normandy. Demidov pointed out
in “Pravda” that only one-tenth of the
German army was facing the Allies in
France. “Observer,” also in “Pravda,”
stated that on July 8 the second air-borne
division of the Reichwehr [«'c] was taken
• from Normandy to Vilna, where it was
destroyed
In the twinkling of an eye, as it were!
Jimmy is the young gentleman who dis-
covered, just before El Alamein, that
the Geordies and the Jocks were not
fighting hard enough because they had
never been taught to “hate Fascism.” The
“Sun’s” jocose label for its Sunday
supplement is “Fact.”
* * * *
“Waipiro”: Invercargill had a sort of
Mafeking Day in celebration of the return
of booze after 38 years’ drought, and
some of the excitement seems to have
reached as far north as Wellington, where,
describing the scene, a morning news-
paper remarked:
When the doors were opened, a small
queue ' quickly entered, and from across
the roads dozens of men and some women
hurried to join in the rush. Attendants
in the battle department were quite as busy
as the men behind the bars.
* • * Hs *
“Pawang”: If the co-editors of “Angry
Penguins” had the spirit of fun in them,
instead of defending an indefensible posi-
tion they could have a grand time carry-
ing the war into the camp of some of the
people who have been laughing at them.
Most of us are much more easily taken
in than we imagine. Several artists were
being entertained in the house of an art
collector, and the English masters of
painting were under discussion. The host
showed what he said was a set of repro-
ductions of Turner’s landscapes. His
guests pounced on a view of the Grand
Canal in Venice as a typical example
of that painter. “That’s by Arthur
Streeton,” laconically remarked the col-
lector. The point is that it was an article
of faith with this particular group of
artists that Streeton was an inferior
painter.
MORE REPS.
“Mr. Curtin said there should be more Federal
members. The electorates contained too many people,
and the House of Representatives too few.”
More jobs with enviable increments,
And more entrustings
Of such to various enterprising gents
Who’ll rush to advertise their competence
Upon the hustings!
More Reps., more seats to fill, more fuss, more
fun!
Yet is there any
Reason away with the idea to run
That what they’re doing would be beiier done
By twice as many?
Even with Labor’s star so palpably
In the ascendant,
A trifle over seventy may be
Too few to speak for millions of our free
And independent.
Nathless, while some would wish to register
With more to cumber,
The real shortage, cynics may aver,
Is found in quality and calibre
Rather than number.
Need for more legislators some* profess,
Spirit and letter
Of popular requirements to express.
I’m none too sure we couldn’t do with less
If they were better;
Clear-visioned men and such as could command
Trust firm and hearty
They could be counted on to take their stand
And never hesitate to put their land
Above their party.
More Reps., more Reps.! You’ll hear it swell,
the cry,
For ev’ry terrier
Will bark it presently. And who’ll deny
It’s true (for those who look to gain thereby),
The more the merrier?
252 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ANDREE HAYWARD.


“Bo”: One thing I’ll say about Holly-
wood—it does set you right about his-
torical detaffs. For instance, I harbored
the notion that those cunning devices in
bodices designed to keep the bust on an
even keel, as it were, was a quite modern
thought, unknown to the feminine world
a short decade ago. Then I saw “Klon-
dyke Kate,” an opus of the turn-of-the-
century days when he-men put their six-
shooters on the table before cutting cards
to determine who’d win the beer-and-gal
joint. A bunch o’ the boys were whoopin’
it up in the Malamute or some other
saloon when Kate lobbed in to earn the
honest part of her crust by yawping,
which she did clad in a nice “uplift”-
style evening gown. So they did have
’em in those days! Won’t my grandma
be mad when she hears what she
missed all that time! Oh, and the thing
Kate yawped was something in swing or
rhumba, which most people think came in
during the first term of the second
Roosevelt. If ever they make a film of
the life of Ivan the Terrible I’ll confi-
dently expect to see that bad old Russki
shoot the left cuff of his pin-striped
double-breaster to look at his luminous-
dialled wrist watch when the street
electrics fail.
* * * *
“Philat”: Lindbergh, now on a mission
to these parts, is one of the very few
aviators to be honored by postage
stamps. Two issues, from the United
States itself and France, commem-
orated his Atlantic crossing, repro-
ducing maps of the North Atlantic
with the route traversed and Lindbergh’s
monoplane, the Spirit of St. Louis, in
flight. His tour of Latin America
brought a crop of more special stamps
from the Republics of Panama, Costa
Rica and Cuba. In 1930 Spain depicted
the airman with his ’plane and the Statue
of Liberty, New York, in the back-
ground.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A Sydney daily let itself
go, under screaming headlines, on the
subject of the sort of artists who call
themselves “contemporary.” They are
trounced as “lazy, incompetent, decadent
ghouls inoculating the youth of the
country with their virus.” Their “de-
bauched and depraved creations” come
out of the “depth and savagery of their
inferiority complex.” Bunkum! I know
lots of them, and they are for the
most part gentle, amiable creatures
who only say boo to the goose, of
tradition because they happen to be
caught up in a fashion. The fondness
most “modern” painters have for horrific
subjects is similar in kind to the fondness
boys have for stealing apples from the
farmer’s orchard. It is the naughty feel-
ing they get at violating society’s preju-
dices. '
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Every Sunday morning
the backyard of our boardinghouse is a
hive of activity when eight male boarders
queue up outside the laundry to do their
weekly washing. Smoke billows from a
copper going full blast, water flows
everywhere and neighbors offer sarcastic
advice. Occasionally a white shirt is
boiled with colored materials and emerges
like Joseph’s coat, fit only for use as a
pyjama unit. What the boarders say to
one another when somebody stumbles
over a. prop which falls and allows the
washing to dangle in the dirt is painful.
Washing done; ironing is a mere' baga-
telle. Only the fronts of shirts are ironed,
and glue works wonders on the inside of
collars that have to be stiffened. At
present I’m wearing somebody else’s shirt
and am still trying to track down a pair
of pyjamas.
* * * *
“Cos”: Tell “Piemajor” (B. 12/7/’44)
that officers of the old First Divvy carried
their swords right up- to the Battle of the
Wazzir, Easter, 191*5, after which we
packed up and left Mena Camp en route
for Gallipoli —minus swords. Even then
a few adventurous souls managed to
smuggle the beloved old pigsticker along.
Could any member of the old Third
Battalion ever forget the spectacle of the
gallant Captain Wilson leading D Com-
pany on Walker’s Ridge with a drawn
sword, and hard on his heels young
Cadell armed with a billhook? Wilson
and Cadell both rest on Gallipoli.
* * * *
“X Captain X”: Diggers get an insight
into the progress of campaigns in which
they are engaged (and incidentally into
the way current history is written) from
newspaper clippings sent them in letters.
From a few-days-old cutting received
while we were in the Ramu we learned
that cavalry had been in action in the
Ramu Valley and were enlightened by a
ball-to-ball description of a cavalry
charge against the Japs in best Light
Horse or Cossack tradition —the horse-
men mowing down the Japs with sabres
or something like that. The country was
suitable for mounted troops all right, but
there wasn’t a horseman within hundreds
of miles of the place. What really hap-
pened was a bit of a scrap between an
independent (commando) company and a
Jap patrol. The commandos were origi-
nally members of a divisional cavalry unit
(mechanised) which had been disbanded
as there were no jobs for it in the jungle,
and to carry on the memory of their
old unit they were officially designated
as the “Second Blank Cavalry (Com-
mando) Squadron,” though they operated
as dismounted troops. Whereupon some
war commentator, learning that a cavalry
unit had been in action, jumped at the
opportunity to fill in a couple of columns.
Incidentally, the only difference between
an “independent company of com-
mandos” and the P. 8.1. that writer has
observed is that the infantry hump their
heavy gear on their backs while the com-
mandos commandeer carriers from the
villages and hike along unencumbered.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Opening an exhibition of pic-
tures by two “modernists” in Melbourne,
C. R. Badger, Director of University
Extension, expressed his regret that
the efforts of “modernists” could
not have a wider public. He sug-
gested that for the expenditure of
a few hundred pounds at current
exhibitions the State school authorities
could have a collection which could be
shown in turn to schools and would be
of more use to students than awful
prints of such subjects as “So-and-so’s
Last Voyage on the Murray.” In my day
“The lodge meets nex' Saturdee, ’ Erb, so We better save a bit o’ cheese
fer the beer!”
Australian historical pictures weren’t to
be found in State schools—it was
usually “Zenobia’s Last Look on Pal-
myra” and the one of Napoleon on his
way to St. Helena. In the naval piece there
was a little middy with a telescope under
his arm who, to my admiration, seemed
to be in complete authority over both the
ship and the Corsican Ogre. The Aus-
tralian anecdotal picture was a political,
not an artistic, revolution. Mr. Badger’s
suggestion, if carried out, would confuse
the children by asking them to accept as
works of genius pictures not unlike their
own efforts at drawing.
* * * *
“Hamer” on Australia’s most dynamic
politician:
Billy Hughes didn’t look much of a life risk
at one stage, but - he revised his diet and lived
entirely on apples and peanuts. While his
weight went down to that of a flyweight jockey
he developed fuiious energy. Hughes could
handle three deputations in the time any other
politician would fake to handle oije; he would
tell the deputationists in ten words what they
were struggling to say in ten thousand and
send them away happier than if they had been
allowed to yawp for fl week. After dealing
with half a dozen deputations like that, he would
dash off to another city, dictating correspondence
or political articles even in the taxi. He slept,
now and again, in trains while he dashed over
the continent; he went to dinners only to make
speeches. Everywhere he went little piles of
broken peanut shells and apple cores accumu-
lated at his elbow. He reverted to being
a good trencherman after' a few years of
nut diet. The meal he must have most en-
joyed was the one which followed his first elec-
tion to the N.S.W. Parliament. Billy was so
broke that he had to walk from his home in
Balmain to his electorate. Even if he had had
money he could not have stopped to eat during
his day’s hard work around the booths, and
when the numbers went up that made him an
M.L.A. he was desperately hungry. Boldly he
walked into a restaurant, explained that he
didn’t have any cash with him but was the
new member, and got the reception due to a
man wha had £3OO p.a. (the old Parliamentary
screw) in his pocket. Billy wallowed through
two plates o>f steak and eggs on end —and even
then, he declares, he still felt hungry.
I** * #
“X.S.”; There was a medical coinci-
dence in an application for an ejectment
order in Footscray ‘(Melbourne) court.
The applicant gave'' precisely the same
reason why he should enter into his hqpse
as the defendant gave for staying in it.
Both had medical certificates stating they
were suffering from arthritis. The P.M.
decided that the one cancelled the other.
* * * *
. “Derwent”: Scottsdale, a little hamlet
in north-eastern Tas., has established what
is claimed to be the first really free public
hospital in the Commonwealth all
patients are treated there without charge.
The experiment, which will be watched
with interest by • hospital authorities all
the world over, owes much to Howroyd,
Tasmania’s Minister for Health.
«{c
“Lexic”: None of those correspondents
who discussed the matter did justice to
that fine old term “philgarlic.” It has an
interesting etymological history. Brewer's
Dictionary of Phrase and Fable gives the
word as “pilgarlic,” and defines it as
“one whose hair has fallen out through
dissipation,” Wedgewood says a pilgarlic
was “one who peels garlic for others to
eat; one who has to endure hardships
while others are enjoying themselves.” A
contributor to “John o’London” avers, that
the word became transferred via garlic,
regarded' as a remedy for leprosy, to
lepers who had to peel their own garlic,
and as leprosy denudes the head of hair
a leper thus came to be a “pilled garlic,”
a shunned person, an unfortunate. A
woman, writing to the same weekly
from the Scilly Isles, says that about
30 years ago the word was used
by the older Scillonians as a term of pity
for anyone in a wet, cold or hungry con-
dition. However, she once heard an
islander, whose daughter had just had
her long hair bobbed, call her “a poor
pilgarlic,” showing that the term had not
been entirely tom from its roots.
* * * ' t-
“K.G.C.”: Damage to Australia
House by a flying bomb has caused a
flutter in the hearts of those who remem-
ber Bertram Mackennal’s masterpiece,
“The Horses of the Sun,” that adorned
the fa9ade. It is hoped that it has not
been damaged. It is a group of four
horses, two on each side of Apollo, and
when erected was the largest and finest
equine group in London, 60ft. long and
19ft. high ; the horses are approximately
double lifesize. Mackennal chose the
design in a desire to typify Australia—a
young nation rising from the Southern
Ocean. Seen from below, the horses
seemed to be leaping from the parapet.
The whole synchronised happily with the
building.
■U * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Zake” seems to think (B.
7/6/’44) that “the idea of using the
theme-line 16 times in two stanzas” is
quite modern, also American. I have
always considered the frugal plan to be
mainly Scotch. In the kailyard school
of poesy a simple plea that “We’re nae
that fou” can provide three lines of a
four-line verse. I lately heard a whole
quiz session stumped by the simple ques-
tion “What is the chorus of ‘Tararaboorp-
deay’?” The correct answer is, of course,
“Repeat that word eight times.” But
the championship should, go to the
jolly “There are ten green' bottles hang-
ing on the wall.” Anyone who comes in
quite strange to it can, after hearing the
first verse, confidently join in singing the
other nine.
rfs #
“Abel Seeman”: A friend of mine
hails from Aberdeen ; there’s evidence
of it in his speech. He has grown to
love the little Australian country town
he settled in. One evening he was dis-
turbed. From the bush came the martial
skirl of the pipes. Donald went to the
door but could see no one, although the
piping continued for some time. This
happened evening after evening, until
he could restrain himself no longer;
into the bush he strode and tracked the
wailing sounds. There was the new neigh-
bor, lan MacStravager, the draper, pacing
up and down blowing for all he was
worth. Donald’s lean jaw set firm, and
his eyes blazed as he strode forward to
confront the piper, who, incidentally, had
never seen heather, let alone Scotland.
The racket died away with the character-
istic soul-rending cry of agony. “Wha’
d’ye mean stamping up and doon behind
rha hoose wi’ ye’r dom’ bugpipes, ye dom’
eemitation Heelander? Next time I hear
the currrsed things aroond here I’ll slit
the bladder from end to breakfast time
and rram the contraption doon ye’r
throat. Let me tell ye, I cam’ all the way
frae Scotland to get awa’ frae those
blasted things!” And so peace.came to
Walla Walla. '
A GLOOMY PROPHECY.
“11. G. Wells predicts that newspapers will soon
he as dead as the dodo, entirely ousted by the radio.”
It ought to give a lot of us the blues,
This curt assurance that the time is nearing
When all will be dependent for the news,
Ndt on the visual organs now they use,
But those of hearing.
Should radio become omnipotent,
It’s fairly obvious that there are winters
Of scarce endurable discouragement
And singularly bitter discontent
Waiting for printers.
If papers off the changing scene they wipe,
And one by one our favorite rags expire with
A final curse in ultra-heavy type,
What shall we have to carry home the tripe
Or light the fire with?
What boon in the Domain will be forbid,
What sleep on nippy night's will be imperilled
For those who, blanketless, to Morpheus slid
Wrapped in a score of pages of the “Syd-
Ney Morning Herald”!
Grave editors and subs., they’ll still bespeak,
One may presume, for radio utterances;
Reporters to assignment's still may streak,
But I anticipate a mighty bleak
Time for freelances.
Cartoonists, too —perforce their jobs will cease,
Their metier’s outside these new enslavements.
Inevitably must their ranks decrease
Unless they learn to limn a masterpiece
On city pavements.
A dismal prospect I for one deplore!
Yet there’s one thing to mitigate one’s dander:
If this is what the future holds in store,
No suit will lie for libel any more—
Only for slander.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: He was a new hand. I had
remarked that the cow I’d a
few weeks before had gone dry. “Y’
can’t blame me, mister,” he said with a
hateful smirk. “I give him a drink only
a few hours ago!” Then with a loud
guffaw he moved off. That is my case.
Who then could blame me for what I
did? Luring him into the harness shed
I strangled him with a tin of molasses,
and, tying a ploughshare around bts neck,
I heaved him into the dam just to make
certain. The Government boasts xhat it
is intent on fostering local industries, and
its willingness to grant subsidies to them
has been bruited abroad. I hope I have
established my claim for a license to dis-
pose of other rural pests with the same
comparative painlessness and efficiency,
a handsome bonus to be collected on each
scalp. I have in mind bush lawyers,
cockies who insist they can help you
make out your tax return “as good as the
bloke in town,” the tobacco “bite,” the
chap who wants to borrow everything
from your tractor to your best horse, the
fiend who at about 9.30 p.m., just as, dog-
tired, you’re about to drag yourself off
to bed, lobs in with his wife and three
daughters, “thinkin’ y’d like a game o’
euchre,” the man who surreptitiously lets
his stock out of his gates as soon as a
bit of green feed appears on the stock
routes, the gratuitous-advice king, the
cow who won’t mend his fences and,
above all, the 18-carat pest who stops
and talks small gossip by the hour while
you’re trying to work.
* * * *
“8.A.”: The llama (B. 19/7/’44) spits
only under provocation or when suddenly
alarmed. Llamas do most of the trans-
port work on the country between La
Paz (Bolivia) and Cuzco (Peru). During
two years’ residence in the country I
rarely met with a spitting animal or heard
particular reference to the habit, except
by inquisitive globe-trotters. The Can-
ning Downs (Q.) experiment failed be-
cause the high temperatures and exces-
sive humidity weren’t favorable to the
successful acclimatisation of an animal
whose natural home is at an elevation
of ten to thirteen thousand feet above
sea level in a cold and practically rain-
less land. The only part of Australia
where the experiment might have met
with success is the Monaro country and
the high plains of the Australian Alps.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Arthur Hubbard, a Vic.
Mallee contractor, put a dozen Austral-
orp eggs in a Lowan nesting mound last
spring ; 28 days later all but one of the
eggs hatched out. He then successfully
tried duck, turkey and geese eggs in
neighboring mounds, the incubation
period being seven days longer than
normal, except in the case of the
turkey eggs, which took ' the usual
28 days. Hubbard supplied shell-grit and
water to the chicks, but neither shelter
nor food. The birds used the decompos-
ing mound as a brooder, and found suffi-
cient food in the litter surrounding the
mound for optimum development. This
year Hubbard plans to build a number
of artificial mounds for use as combined
incubator-brooders requiring little atten-
tion other than the occasional addition of
a few leaves and protection from the pre-
vailing nor’-westerlies.
* * * *
“James W.”: To grip a fighting tyke
by the front paw and squeeze hard (B.
12/7/’44) is the surest way of being
thoroughly bitten. Of two city bush-
men I’ve seen try it one has only fmr
nails to manicure on his right hand,
the other signs his cheques and hoists
his pot with his left hand. There
are many ways of separating battling
mongs, but two “grip” methods stand out
Grab the hound who has the hold on his
vjs-a-vis by the hind legs and twist him
(if you can grab the said legs), or grab
him by the ears and puli his head up. In
either case you’re likely to be chewed by
one or other of the battlers, but not with
the same certainty or thoroughness as
by the front-paw method.
* * * *
“Doubting T.”: As to “Caballer’s”
account of the “long fire” of N. Ameri-
can campers-out (B. 28/6/’44), I seek
further information. The 20ft.-long log
would be pine, since N.A. carries no
timber akin to the Australian hardwood.
So its 20ft. would possibly burn away in
the one night. Such being the case, does
the seeker-after-warmth light it all the
way along so that the whole length burns
simultaneously, or does he merely light
one end, or perhaps both ends? If one
end, does he spread his roll at that end
and keep shifting down the log with the
progress of the flames the night through?
His slumber would be just as uneasy if
he lit both ends and dossed in the middle,
for with both sources of heat at least
7ft. away from each end of him he would
feel pretty cold during those first hours
when slumber is said to be the sweetest,
and only really warm towards morning
when the fires burned closer. When sleep-
ing in the bush / like to have two six-feet
logs laid side by side and lit at one
end, and as close to the tent door as is
safe. Failing a tent I build a black’s mia-
mia, but still like to have those two logs.
* SB SB *
“Cape Voltaire”: Those Murray
Islanders are right in their contempt for
“ They're an unlucky family. His brother Was taken by a shark .”
the big groper (B. 28/6/’44). That fish
is not really savage, merely stupid and
greedy. So just as long as the diver keeps
himself free from appetising smells he is
safe from attack. But let a diver, skin
or suit, go down with his hands and
mouth unwashed after a feed of fried
turtle fat or bacon, and the big stupid
booby with all the quietness in the world
will swim up and bite the hands or hand
right off. The same scents, of course, will
attract the shark, with perhaps even
worse results. The W.A. pearl coast has
a tradition of a Jap who went down after
a hearty breakfast of fried turtle.
Nothing of him was ever found; appar-
ently he was mobbed by all the sharks in
the vicinity. So divers in my time took
the precaution of washing the hands well
in soap and water. Skin divers were
equally careful; they started work with-
out any breakfast, dining in mid-morn-
ing on farinaceous foods; they left
the meat meal, generally boiled oysters,
until knock-off.
* * * *
“Cypress”: “Gumsucker” (B. 19/7/’44>
is right about the value of young turnip-
tops as a vegetable. Beetroot-tops are
every bit as tasty and nourishing, and
recently at a Queensland farm I sampled
for the first time the steamed leaves of
the chick-pea (Cicer arientinum). I prefer
them to spinach or silver-beet, which are
also inferior to the leaves of the old-
man saltbush. Queensland’s Dr. Hirsch-
feld says that the saltbush leaves carry
more iron in proportion than spinach,
strawberries or even the yolk of an egg ;
that they contain 21| p.c. of protein, as
well as being rich in phosphorus and
lime.
* * * *
“Stanus”: Army race meetings in the
N.T. are still a lot of fun, even though
swi-up is forbidden under penalty of
stoppage of the races, and wagering is
per medium of the tote only. New names
and pedigrees are apparently unlimited.
At a recent meeting Disappointment, by
Lolly Water out of Beer Bottle, ran true
to name ; but Debit Entry, by Detention
out of Pay Book, actually proved a
Credit. That they gallop in all shapes
was clearly demonstrated when the
scrubber of the field of eight, sold for
a mere two pounds,'easily downed the
twenty- and thirty-pound aristocrats to
take the lion’s share of the stake-money
for the main race of the day. An offi-
cers’ race gave the troops a glorious
opportunity to cast reflections on the
pedigrees of jockeys as well as mokes,
but the day ended without hard feelings.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Scottie won’t knock even
his subnormal lambs on the head if they
show a sporting chance of growing into
something decent. He spends weeks on
half-crippled youngsters, binding legs and
straightening out necks, and I concede
a certain measure of hard-earned success ;
but I wager there’s one skinful of misery
that is beyond him, and that is the born
idiot. These unfortunates make an occa-
sional appearance among the lambs, and
my experience shows them as weak and
poorly constitutioned. Found one in the
mob recently that must have been seven
or eight months old. Undoubtedly it was
mental. The ears hung down; the face
was drawn up. in a peculiar manner. Short
in build and with very little wool, it
travelled quietly with the mob, and only
on being separated did its peculiarities be-
come ludicrous. Then, bending its legs,
it slunk along under sheltering fences or,
finding itself left in the open, would make
frantic dashes for cover. It was dog-
poor in a big mob of fats.
* * * *
“C.R.”: “Balander” (B. 19/7/’44) will
find a reference to the “belling of
hounds” in Addison’s “Spectator.” The
squires, who kept packs of beagles, were
more concerned with the matching of the
voices than with speed. One squire, on
being presented with a dog by a friend,
expressed delight that he had secured a
tenor hound' to improve the symphony of
the pack. And he quoted lines from “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream”:
Crook-kneed and dewlapped like Thes-
salian bulls,
Slow, in pursuit, but matched in mouth
like bells,
Each under each.
* * * *
“Creel”: As to this page’s doubters of
the arrow’s efficacy as a substitute for the
fishing line, I have just received a two-
cent stamp from British Guiana bearing
a fine illustration of a local Indian shoot-
ing fish with bow and arrow. “They are
experts with their sft. bows,” wrote the
friend who sent me the stamp, “and
rarely miss their target.”
* * * *
“Botano”: Perhaps wattles germinate dif-
ferently nowadays (B. 21 / 6/’44), but quite
a few years ago Uncle Gregory, on a visit
to us in Ballarat, received word that his
five thousand acres of bushland up
country had been swept by a terrific fire,
which had reduced everything to ashes.
He took the disaster brightly. “Just what
was needed to make the wattles germinate.
The ground will be covered with seed-
lings after next rain ; in a year or so I’ll
make a small fortune out of bark.” He
did. Returned from a bark-stripping
vacation, I brought home a few pounds
of fresh seed, having youthful ideas ot
starting a small plantation. But though
I planted, and watched hopefully and
long not one wattle appeared. “Try
boiling some seed,” Mum advised. That
did the trick; inside a couple of months
I had fine seedling wattles. Almost any
fire will suffice to soften the wattle-seed
shell—even a light grassfire will do ; and
what bushland area can boast that in, say,
five years it has not had at least one grass
fire?
“Gumsucker”: We kids of long ago
used to esteem the fresh seed of the
wattle as something to chew, and also
for its nuisance value. With a shell hard
enough to test the strongest teeth it was
cracked somehow, and then the re-
ward was small, a kernel
in taste much akin to de-
cayed garlic. When well
chewed and scattered on
the floor the garlic odor
became pronounced —
fnuch to the annoyance of
our preceptor, who, having
been much exposed to
wattle-seed chewers, would
proceed to a smelling-out
around the class armed
with the cane. Likewise
in those days of more
strenuous politics it was
not unknown for a bat-
tal i o n of wattle - seed
chewers to invade meet-
ings of a political oppo-
nent. A cruder age, per-
haps closer to the soil.
* * *
“Esk D.”: “Skinny”
Peter and Joe worked an
alluvial show at Left-hand
Branch for a time without
success; they were just
about to abandon it as a
duffer when Joe unearthed
a slug of gold about ten
ounces. That night in the
tent they were yarning
over their luck when a
shotgun barrel suddenly
parted the flap and a
menacing swaggie walked
in. “Hand it over,” he
growled. “Skinny” reached
out a shaking hand for the
nugget on the table, but
he was motioned aside.
“T hell with thatl” said
the knot-lumper. .“Gimme
the makin’s. I haven’t had
a smoke f’r days.”
* * *
“Chuck”: I was over
at old Bob’s sitting by the
fire when the dogs started
to bark and a chook lets out a squawk.
“It’s a fox after me prize hens,” Bob
yells, all excited. “Well, don’t let on,”
I told him cannily. “You just leave this
t 5 me, an’ t’morrer I’ll poison him for
y\” An’, believe me, next morning I
showed him a thing or two, trailin’ the
feathers up the hill and puttin’ baits
everywhere. Sure enough, next night
back come the fox. No good; I didn't
expect t’ get him all at once. Even the
second night the only thing that sampled
the baits was two o’ Bob’s dogs, but
neither of ’em was his champion. The
champ, didn’t go till the third night, an’
xhen, as I said t’ Bob, it was the silly
mong’s own fault anyway f’r breakin’ his
chain. Well, luckily, the fox kept cornin’,
an’, d’ y’ know, some nights it was all I
c’d do t’ stop the old coot goin’ out with
a gun an’ spoilin’ everything. Shrewdly
I let things go on till the end of the week;
then I collected a lot of fresh titbits and
spent the evening doping ’em. In the
morning I gathered up what the cat
hadn’t eaten, and was just off out when
Bob stopped me. “Wouldn’t bother put-
tin’ them things about if I was you,” he
ses, quiet like. “The fox won’t be cornin’
back no more.” “Y* mean,” I gasped,
“y’ mean I got ’im?” He shook his head.
“Not exactly,” he explained ; “but the
flamin’ thing got the last o’ me hens in
the night.” Now, wouldn’t it?.
THE SCRIBE.
How many times have I written this letter
By lantern-light in a thousand forgotten places.
I wrote it in grey Tobruk while the sand
Trickled over the pages;
1 wrote it in Greece and Crete
Where the postman was Death and his whistle
The whine of a falling bomb.
At Buna and Lae I wrote it,
And blood and rain mingled over the pages.
I have written “Dear love, I am well, don t
worry—
My love is stronger than death,”
And God has forgiven the lie. I lied
Because truth in those places
Was not for my Love to read.
How many times, O Lord,
Must I fill the futile pages?
1 am the unknown scribe,
My pen the pen of the ages.
A.I.F.
PHIPLIP M. JONES.


“Old-timer”: The boss decided that
the woolshed roof could do with a couple
of coats of red oxide, so Barney and
Monty were given the job. It was a big
shed, with a low roof slanting broadly
to the eaves. Barney was content to
lounge on an old woolpack and dab
gently at the roof with a 3in. brush from
a quart-pot of paint. Not so Monty.
That bright lad decided that a 12in. brush
and a half-kero, bucket of paint would
save him frequent trips for refills and
hurry up a distasteful job, Monty being
allergic to the smell of paint. Well, it
was a bright sunny day, and Monty stood
up near the ridge-cap to stretch his limbs,
slipped, overturned the kero, bucket and
rolled and fought and yelled with it all
the way to the eaves and the ground.
Which is why the boss’s two daughters,
rounding the corner of the shed on horse-
back, had time only to glimpse a wildly-
gesticulating scarlet figure before their
mounts headed flat out for the S.A.
border. The shrieking red man raced
blindly round in circles and was fallen
upon by the station tripe-hounds; the
noise attracted the boss and he pushed
Monty over and scraped a lot of the
paint from him, meantime yelling to the
cook to fetch kerosene. Between them
they got Monty off most of the paint, and
were soothing him when the excited ladies
returned. While everybody was trying to
tell everybody else what had happened,
Barney’s face appeared above and Bar-
ney’s voice spake: “Hey, Monty, y’ silly
cow, why didn’t y’ tell me y’ was goin’
down? I’d ha’ got y’ t’ fill me pot an’
save me a trip.”
* * * *
“The Heel”: My matchbox bears the
legend “Stamp out that butt,” and the
lowly bumper is nominated as the cause
of many a grassfire ; but has any Aboliar
ever tried to ignite grass with a cigarette?
Our local soak wins his beer money regu-
larly every summer by starting the argu-
ment with the unwary and offering odds
on the result. Being hard to convince, I
tried it myself, using borrowed cigarettes,
of course, but without success. However,
my No. 9 still grinds a discarded smoke
into'the earth just in case.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Night sight is mostly a matter
of accustoming your eyes. People who
remain indoors cannot expect to develop
the ability to see reasonably well at night.
A bushman can see so long as the sky
isn’t covered with dense clouds obscur-
ing the starlight. Then all is black and
nothing is visible. No animals or birds
venture forth to hunt, because no prey
issues from concealment for that very
reason. Night walking and prone watch-
ing bring joys and rewards and thrills un-
known to those afraid of the dark. The
smaller marsupials freeze at your ap-
proach, but should you stop and gaze the
grey shapes bound away, uttering their
protesting “Hurrh-hurrh! Whee, whee,
whey! ” as they melt into the gloom. Owls
and mopoftes also permit close approach
if you keep moving past, but don’t stare
at them —they know. Snakes never coil at
nights, but lie stretched at full length to
resemble sticks to unwary prey. Flash
a torch into bush animals’ eyes, no jewels
equal their brilliancy. Dogs and bush
cats light up electric headlights, pussy gives
a greenish tinge, hares an amethyst
gleam, wallabies a soft lambent glow,
squirrels reflect streaks of white sapphire,
but the possum refracts the best of all
the gems of night, a deep ruby red of
matchless beauty.
* * * *
“H.G.D.”: Struck a bullocky near
Wagga (N.S.W.) who neither swore nor
used a whip (B. 21/6/’44). His table-top
with a full load was bogged in the mud
on a back road. Taking a trace-chain
from his box he went slowly along from
the leaders past the crampers to the polers
on the near side, calling every bullock
by name. Then, standing a bit to the
side, he shook the chain and yelled
“Gee!” The team immediately bent into
the yokes, and the wagon moved to
harder ground. Yarning to him later, I
was told he never used anything but what
he called his jingler. Whenever he got a
new bullock he gave it a taste of the
chain in full view of the rest of the team,
which had also received initiation. He
claimed that the sound of the jangling
chain dispensed with the need for further
punishment.
>f! * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were roosting idly,
backs on the ground, heads on swags, in
the shade of a big box on the Canowindra
road. “Hey, Mat,” I murmured, “look
at that animal on the bark over y’r nut.”
Mat e&sed his hat back and surveyed
the thing. It was about the size of a blow-
fly, reddish, and had two small spikes on
its head. While we watched another
“Will this help you to get us to Melbourne?”
alighted; the two studied each other,
backed off an inch or so, then rushed to-
gether and locked horns. “Well, strike
me roan,” marvelled Mat; “that’ll show
y’ what livin’ in merino country will do.
We better head inter the fruit belt before
it gets us.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: McCurrant, a Mildura
settler, was making home in the dusk one
night slightly blithered. Crossing a big irri-
gation channel that was pretty low, he
heard a swirl in the gloom and saw move-
ment. With visions of cod for breakfast,
Mac shed his boots, rolled up his pants
and went in. There was a flurry and then
a yell of agony, and Mac came out of that
channel and raced for home, barefoot,
blood pouring from his right wrist where
the big catfish’s spike had slashed him.
They ligatured the limb and hustled him
to the doctor. For six weeks it was touch
and go as to whether he’d lose his hand.
Since that time Mac has never touched
an uncooked fish.
t. * * *
“Cap P.”: Add to those galahs (B.
19/7/ ’44) a bunch of grass parrots that
have settled in our seaside suburb and
on sunny days decorate our lawns as they
pick and nibble at the trefoil in them.
They, like the galahs, are plains birds,
and I can only assume that the hard
drought in western N.S.W. this year drove
them coastwards.
* * * *
“James W.”: I would more readily
have lent a credulous ear to “BA’s” tale
of the chop-pinching crows using mag-
“A tisket , a tasket , I've found a yellow basket."
pies as poison-tasters (B. 12/7/’44) were
I not aware that the magpies, undisputed
gladiatorial lords of the air, would have
hopped in and belted the daylights out of
their distant cousins without waiting for
an invitation. As for Kelly, I’ve seen a
peewee send him squawking for home and
mother when the sable thing poked his
hungry sniffer too close to the mudpot
of eggs or fledglings the peewee called
home. In any case, has anyone heard of
a magpie taking a bait?
* * * *
“Enveen”: Our trooper, of the lean and
lanky, sun-tanned outdoor type, grows
ironical about the amount of desk work
he gets these days. “You know,” he said,
unbending from a forefinger-punched
typewriter and gathering up scraps of
paper on which were blots and painfully-
worked-out sums, “once a policeman’s
job was to go out and arrest lawbreakers,
but now they want him to sit at a desk
like a clerk. Reckon if I saw a crook
now I wouldn’t know what to do with
him. I’d probably start adding him up!”
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Y’ better take things easy
t’day, Ma,” advised her lord at milk-
ing-time. “We got a big day in town
t’morrer, an’ it’s no good makin’ y’rself
sick again.” Ma nodded, picked up a
couple of kerosene-tins of milk and dis-
appeared into the dairy. Separating over
and the animals fed, she returned to the
house to tidy up. “Y’d better clean me
other coat an’ pants, Ma, ready f’r
t’morrer,” Dad remarked presently. “An’
what about washin’ out them new over-
alls an’ that shirt I wore yestiddy? Y’ll
find plenty o’ copper wood up behind the
shed. It only needs splittin’.” “All right,
Dad. I’ll make bread, too, to cut our
cribs.” “Yair, an’ I wus thinkin’ it’d be
a good idea t’ take a cake along to old
Paddy,” the old man suggested. “Y’ll be
makin’ somethin’ f’r us, I s’pose.” He
turned to the door, then paused. “Won’t
be back in time t’ help t’night,” he said
thoughtfully, “so shut the calves handy
when y’ finish, will y’, Ma, an’ go round
the traps on the creek?” Ma put the tea
things away that evening, then for a
moment rested groggily against the door.
The old bloke looked up. “Now there
y’ are,” he exploded wrathfully, “been
overdoin’ things again.” He shrugged in
exasperation. “Cripes, Ma, I told y’t’ lie
down an’ take things easy t’day.”
* * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver stopped /to
watch old Charlie making for the
pub kitchen with a couple of headless
turkeys. A few seconds later he was out
again to collect a large ham and quarter
of beef. Next, Bung came round the
corner trundling a case of the best on a
wheelbarrow, and as the old bloke held
the door for him he could see Mrs. Bong
and the girls piling enormous quantities
of cakes and buns on the kitchen tables.
Bung dumped the case and returned.
“Not bad for a start,” he remarked, with
a backward jerk of his head. “For the
wedding tomorrow. Old Grubpiles
turning it on properly. Y’ coming?”
Seventyfiver shook his head. “Grubbie
sent me an invite,” he explained, “but, t’
tell y’ the truth, I never did see such a
man f’r messin’ things up. He could just
as easy ’a’ had his daughter’s weddin’ in
the mornin’ or afternoon, but, no, he has
t’ have the thing right on midday. His
girl’s nice enough, but, cripes, a man
can’t miss his flamin’ dinner just t’ go to
her weddin’!”
* * * *
“Ken”: Despite the vast legend of
slanderous attacks on his good name,
Brer Rabbit can produce scientific evi-
dence of his moral rectitude. Just prior
to the outbreak of war a virus was de-
veloped with just the right qualities for
giving Bunny a real knockout. The
virus was similar to a venereal infection,
and was transmitted in the same manner.
To the amazement of the research men,
the virus proved effective only in exter-
minating individual families of rabbits,
while the rest of the colony went un-
scathed. The conclusions were that Brer
Rabbit does not carry his community
spirit to the point of promiscuity and
that he is a pretty firm believer in in-
breeding.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Before the most promi-
nent tent in the fair at the District Show
a garish sign assaulted the eye with
“Abdul Mohomet, Oriental Seer. Future
Readings.” Towards sunset, Happy,
in mellow mood, decided to have a
couple of bobs’ worth of the future.
The seer, noting the Old Digger’s badge,
stared into his client’s eyes, quivered
violently, then in weird broken English
announced that as vision of the dim past
was veiled in blood. Reading Happy’s
corny palm the mystic saw him working
hard with a heavy tool, possibly an axe.
The crystal revealed a long, long road
and a man like Happy travelling along it
—on foot. Half an hour later Happv
returned to the tent, murdered another
two bob and asked the seer “Hey, was
that fair dinkum about you seein’ me
walkin’ along a long road?” “Eet is
written,” declared the prophet solemnly.
“Well, have a look and see if you can see
me havin’ trouble with the police,”
Happy requested. The wise man of the
East, taking the cue, saw a slight trouble
that would pass “as the morning meest
before the sun.” “Good,” said his client ;
then, picking up the crystal globe, he
bounced it off the mystic’s turban and
upended the table with all its trappings
on top of its owner. Unveiled, in two
senses, Abdul Mohomet, with violent and
fluent Australian, demanded to be in-
formed whatinell the so-and-so thought
he was doing. “Well,” said Happy calmly,
“you’re either a fraud or a nark! If
you’re a fraud you’ve diddled me for a
few bob ; but if you really saw me walkin’
home why didn’t you tell me someone
was pinchin’ my prad while I was in
here?”
*** 1 *
“Esk D.”: “The way labor is these
days,” said Mullins, “y’ve goiler take
what y’ can get. I hired a little sandy-
haired cove to put up a new fence on me
hill paddick. After a few days I go up
to see how he’s gettin’ on. He’s tightenin’
a strain over a gully, an’ all of a sudden
three posts pop out o’ the ground an’
hang suspended on the wire. Sandy takes
the pipe from his mouth an’ goggles at
’em in amazement. ‘Cripes,’ he ses,
‘that’s the third time they’ve done that.
Lucky I didn’t take this job on contrac’,
ain’t it?’ ”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Of all the fauna,
human and otherwise, introduced to
wheaten bread none took to it more
kindly than the aborigine of Westralia.
Within a few weeks of the first landing
in 1829 the newcomers incautiously be-
stowed a gift of bread on the original
owners of the estate. Noting the gusto
with which it was eaten they not unnatu-
rally inquired if it was good. The word
stuck ; for years after the abo. begged for
“good-good,” sometimes Varied to “very-
good.” . Next to bread the tribes loved
potatoes, which they soon learned to bake
in the ashes. The almost complete lack
of starch in the native dietary, of course,
accounted for the eager appetite for fari-
naceous food.
* * * *
“Zake”: In the temperate parts of die
eastern half of our continent the wilga,
supplejack and kurrajong lead the willow
as the best of the shade trees, but as you
get north of 28 two better ones, designed
as protection against the hotter climate,
are available. Under the low-drooping
branches of a well-grown bauhinia one
would sometimes find it difficult to read
a paper comfortably at midday, so dense
is the foliage. The gidya runs it close,
but the necessity of having a peg clamped
over your snout while you’re near it de-
tracts from its popularity.
THE SENTINEL.
I cannot lie in the quietness of my bed
When cloud and moon are pendent' in the sky,
But I shall hear his brave, unhurried tread
And count the weary minutes moving by.
The nameless guardian of sleeping camps,
Alone he moves along Life’s narrow track.
For him no voice of men or light of lamps -
His world is cold and shadowy and black.
Calm are his thoughts as patiently he moves
With gleaming blade and rifle loosely slung,
And dreams of other days and other loves
When all the world was gay and hope was
young.
Then comes the dawn, when all the dreams are
gone
And no one hears his footsteps moving on.
R.A.A.F.
KEVIN COLLOPY.


p m
-
r
Jt£
m
mm
JBSIHI
IHkI
II
I
m
mmm
¥
a
v:
iff®
Ol
(j
t
is
a
Gi)
«U
I
3
VALUABLE INVESTMENT
Not everyone has a safe for his. Valet razor, but we agree
with, the idea! Your Valet razor is something, worth
looking after because no more will be made until peace
comes again. Meantime, while others hunt for blades,
your self-stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect
shaving from every single blade. Get the utmost from
It by a little extra care.
For\ example:. Don’t try to get your morning’s exer-
cise out of'stropping. A dozen strokes to and fro
are all that is necessary. Strop with a slow piston-
like movement from elbow to shoulder.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades bid. each
The sign that Is inseparable
from the most outstandingly
high-grade products pro-
duced by the Petroleum
Industry.
MOTOR AND
AVIATION SPIRIT,
KEROSENE,
LUBRICATING OILS
AND GREASES
LIMI T E D
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION
IN ALL ITS PHASES
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Miracle of Normandy.
[Written from the beachhead by Ernie Pyle
(New York “World-Telegram”), whose graphic
and human writings have placed him at the head
of American war correspondents.]
By the time we got here the beaches
had been taken and the fighting had
moved a couple of miles inland. All that
remained on the beach was some sniping
and artillery fire and the occasional start-
ling blast of a mine geysering brown sand
into the air. That, plus a gigantic and
pitiful litter of wreckage along miles of
shoreline.
Submerged tanks and overturned boats
and burned trucks and shell-shattered
jeeps and sad little personal belongings
were strewn all over these bitter sands.
That, plus the bodies of soldiers lying in
rows covered with blankets, the toes of
their shoes sticking up in a line as though
on drill. And other bodies, uncollected,
still sprawling grotesquely in the sand or
half-hidden by the high grass beyond the
beach.
That, plus an intense, grim determina-
tion of work-weary men to get this
chaotic beach organised and get all the
vital supplies and the reinforcements mov-
ing more rapidly over it from the stacked-
up ships standing in droves out to sea.
Now that it is over it seems to me a
pure miracle that we ever took the beach
at all. For some of our units it was easy,
but in this special sector where I am
now our troops faced such odds that our
getting ashore was like my whipping Joe
Louis down to a pulp.
In this column I want to tell you what
the opening of the Second Front in this
one sector entailed, so that you can know
and appreciate and for ever be humbly
grateful to those, both dead and alive,
who did it for you.
Ashore, facing us, were more enemy
troops than w’e had in our assault waves.
The advantages were all theirs, the dis-
advantages all ours. The Germans were
dug into positions that they had been
working on for months, although these
were not yet all complete. A 100-foot
bluff a couple of hundred yards back
from the beach had great concrete gun
emplacements built right into the hilltop.
These opened to the sides instead of to
the front, thus making it very hard for
naval fire from the sea to reach them.
They could shoot parallel with the beach
and cover every foot of it for miles with
artillery fire.
Then they had hidden machine-gun
nests on the forward slopes, with cross-
fire taking in every inch of the beach.
These nests were connected by* networks
of trenches, so that the German gunners
could move about without exposing them-
selves.
Throughout the length of the beach,
running zigzag a couple of hundred yards
back from the shoreline, was an immense
\-shaped ditch 15 feet deep. Nothing
could cross it, not even men on foot,
until fills had been made. And in other
places at the far end of the beach, where
the ground is flatter, they had great con-
crete walls. These were blasted by our
naval gunfire or by explosives set by
hand after we got ashore.
Our only ekits from the beach were
several swales or valleys, each about 100
yards wide. The Germans made the most
of these funnel-like traps, sowing them
with buried mines. They contained also
barbed-wire entanglements with mines
attached, hidden ditches and machine-
guns firing from the slopes.
This is what was on the shore. But
our men had to go through a maze nearly
as deadly as this before they even got
ashore. Underwater obstacles were ter-
rific. The Germans had whole .fields of
evil devices under the water to £atch our
boats. Even now, Several days after the
landing, we have cleared only channels
through them and cannot yet ’ approach
the whole length of the beach with our
ships. Even now some ship or boat hits
one of these mines every day and is
knocked out of commission.
The Germans had masses of those great
six-pronged spiders, made of railroad
iron and standing shoulder high, just be-
neath the surface of the water for our
landing craft to run into. They had
huge Jogs buried in the sand, pointing
upward and - outward, their tops just
below the water. Attached to these logs
were mines. #
In addition to these obstacles they had
floating mines offshore, land mines buried
in the sand of the beach and more mines
in chequerboard rows in the tall grass
beyond the sand. And the enemy had
four men on shore for every three men
we had approaching the shore.
And yet we got on.
Beach landings are planned to a
schedule that is set far ahead of time.
I have always been amazed at the speed
called for in these plans. You’ll have
schedules calling for engineers to land
at H-hour plus two minutes, and service
troops at H-hour plus 30 minutes, and
even for press censors to land at H-hour
plus 75 minutes. But in the attack on
this special portion of the beach where I
ajn —the worst we had, incidentally—the
schedule didn’t hold.
Our men simply could not get past the
beach. They were pinned down right on
the water’s edge by an inhuman wall of
fire from the bluff. Our first waves were
on that beach for hours, instead of a few
minutes, before they could begin working
inland.
You can still see the foxholes they dug
at the very edge of the water, in the sand
and the small, jumbled rocks that form
parts of the beach.
Medical corpsmen attended the
wounded as best they could. Men were
killed as they stepped out of landing craft.
An officer whom I knew got a bullet
through the head just as the door of his
landing craft was let down. Some men
were drowned.
The first crack in the beach defences
was finally accomplished by terrific and
wonderful naval gunfire, which knocked
out the big emplacements. They tell epic
stories of destroyers that ran right up
into shallow water and had it out point-
blank with the big guns in those concrete
emplacements ashore. [Six destroyers were
sunk: three British, three U.S.A. —B.]
When the heavy fire stopped our men
were organised by their officers and
pushed on inland, circling machine-gun
nests and taking them from the rear.
As one officer said, the only way to
take a beach is to face it and keep going.
It is costly at first, but it’s the only way.
If the men are pinned down on the beach,
dug in, and out of action, they might as
well not be there at all. They hold up
the waves behind them, and nothing is
being gained.
Our men were pinned down for a while,
but finally they stood up and went
through. And so we took that beach and
accomplished our landing. We did it with
every advantage on the enemy’s side and
every disadvantage on ours. In the light
on a couple of days of retrospection, we
sit and talk and call it a miracle that our
men ever got on at all or were able to
stay on.
At the Brewster Factory.
[Westbrook Pegler’s version of an incident
which has been mentioned in the cables and
commentators’ dispatches. Mr. Pegler writes
scorching stuif for the Scripps-Howard chain
of newspapers.]
There is a proposal in Congress to pay
$2O a week to war production workers
during the layoff or reconversion period
and additional grants for their depen-
dants. Aside from the fact that a great
many of these people have been receiv-
ing the highest pay of their lives, with
multiple pay in many families, and wete
presumed to be saving a portion of it in
war bonds for the very purpose of tiding
them over the slack period when produc-
tion tapers off, there is another important
issue to consider. That is the injustice of
rewarding the undeserving along with
these who have worked faithfully and
well and the arbitrary equalisation of
inequality.
The recent sit-in strike of the Brewster
Airplane Factory workers when the plant *
was about to close emphasises a particu-
larly mean case. The Navy itself made a
mess of the Brewster project, and the
management was bad frpm the beginning.
But by some psychological freak this
project attracted a large aggregation of
ostensible workers described by an officer
of one of the armed services in highly
uncomplimentary terms.
When there was work to be done they
wouldn’t work. When Navy flyers needed
’planes they stalled their days away,
loafing, gossiping, smoking in the rest-
rooms, whistling out the windows, sleep-
ing on the job and striking over trivi-
alities. The boss of their union, calling
himself De Lorenzo and various other
names, defied the Army to draft the bucks
among the sordid bums of his loyal,
personal following, and got away with it
because he was making up the recommen-
dations for deferments and presenting
them to selective service through the com-
pany’s office. He told the Army and
Navy to go to hell, and when one of the
armed guards in one of the plants, who
himself had to belong to De Lorenzo’s
union, reported a bum for spending seven
hours in the gents’ room in two days, the
union suspended him for conduct unbe-
coming a union man and kept him idle
indefinitely by the device of refusing to
hold a trial of the charges.
The evil disposition, personified by De
Lorenzo himself, infected others who
were extremely sensitive to infection, and
the spirit spread throughout the job, em-
ploying as many as 20,000' men and
women at high wages. Those who might
have wanted to do a decent day’s work
for reasons of personal decency were
stopped.
This was a rotten plant, and the
record of the staff as a whole is a
disgrace, deserving not reward but re-
proach. The loafers even developed a
grapevine to pass the word from unit to
unit when inspectors dropped in so that
the sleepers could be roused and the
loafers lolling on the window sills and
on the floors against the walls could have
time to drag their weary frames erect and
make a pretence of backing up those
brave fighting lads to whom some of their
leaders talked so sentimental in their
mocking repetition of the celebrated “no-
strike” pledge of William Green and
Phillip Murray.
There is a large printed record of all
the evidence in this particular case for
the guidance of Congress in deciding on
any plan for reconversion pay. Such a
plan would call for selection and dis-
crimination lest the slacker be rewarded
like the best, but justice demands that
the effort be made in all cases. If selec-
tion has been fair and feasible in pick-
ing men to fight under the draft law the
same system should be used in this new
process lest the sentimental word
“equality” be invoked to establish a rule


He’s learnt a lot
about wireless...
That's why
when he comes back
his new radio will
have to be a real
engineering job.
1
r.
mm
r
II
1
f:S:S
ililml
“His Master’s Voice”
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local Radio dealer will once again
be fully equipped to serve you with new “H.M.V.”
Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R6/M
.
The “ATLAS”
8-in. LATHE
INTEGRAL
UNIT DRIVE
WITH 2-SPEED
GEAR BOX
AN IDEAL HIGH-SPEED,
GENERAL-PURPOSE, WORKSHOP LATHE
The "ATLAS" 8-inch Lathe is a delight to handle, light
and easy of control, and embodies all the best ideas
favoured by experienced engineers.
The "ATLAS” is a fine sturdy lathe of
most pleasing design, and has been
specially built for Accurate and Efficient
Service. It may be used for all Sliding,
Surfacing and Screw-Cutting operations.
Flat and Vee Surfaces are Machine
Ground Finish.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED FOLDER
EXCLUSIVE
FEATURES
All Headstock parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
to ensure vibrationless running
at all speeds
Bearings of Anti-Friction Metal
All Gears are Machine Gener-
I ated for smooth meshing I
Manufactured by:
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street Valley Brisbane
ESTABLISHED FOR A QUARTER OF A CENTURY
Sole Distributing Agents for N.S.W. and Victoria :
THOMPSON & WILLIAMS PTY., LTD.,
139 Clarence St., Sydney 28 Market St., Melbourne
Sole N.Z. Distributing Agents:
A. M. SATTERTHWAITE & CO. LTD.
Hereford Street Christchurch
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
by which the worst share alike with the
best.
Brewster is a conspicuous and out-
rageous case, but it is not the only one.
Who wants to reward the eight rubber
company employees of Akron who were
convicted of beating up a worker who
refused to reduce hi§ production? The
Ohio Supreme Court has told the story
in affirming the convictions of the eight
on charges of assault and battery. The
Supreme Court found that the victim was
taken from his machine, hustled to a
parking lot and beaten and kicked, suffer-
ing, among other injuries, a broken jaw.
Why did they do this, these men who
would now receive pensions for them-
selves and families for helping the brave
lads overseas to win the war?
In the language of the Supreme Court
the injured man’s only offence was “a
whole-hearted attempt to do a full day’s
work each day to facilitate the produc-
tion of war materials.”
Prospects for Australia.
[Extracts from an article in the U.S. publica-
tion “Asia” on a subject the returned Mr.
Beasley has been talking about (“adequate
attention must be given to the Latin-American
republics, many of which take great interest in
Australian matters”). The writers, Howard
Daniel and Minnie Belle, are footnoted as “war
control specialists with an Australian war
agency in Washington.”]
An industrialised Australia may be a
possible post-war trade competitor
[against Japan] in Latin - American
markets. Despite the growing awareness
of Latin America, New Zealand’s
economy is so dependent on sales of
primary produce in London that she is
precluded from any immediate active role
in trans-Pacific relations vis-a-vis Latin
America. The case of Australia is other-
wise.
* * * *
There is now in Buenos Aires a very
active Australia-New Zealand Association
with some hundreds of members, which
publishes a monthly News Bulletin de-
voted mainly to the Australian war effort
and its own local activities.
* * * *
At the end of the war Australia, in
relation to the size of its population, will
halve the largest machine-tool industry in
the world. Australia will remain a
machine-tool-producing nation, and she
will be interested in the whole world as
a market.
* * * *
The great mass of Latin Americans
live on an inadequate and insufficient
diet. Australia, with its food production
per capita one of the largest in the world,
will have acquired through war-time
experience the know-how for the produc-
tion of basic foods on mass-production
lines. These foods can be put to very
good use in almost all Latin-American
countries. Australia can also help Latin
America increase her own production
of foodstuffs by exporting quantities of
agricultural machinery, an industry com-
paratively highly developed in Australia.
A basis for such trade exists in the pre-
war attempts to export agricultural
machinery from Australia to Chile and
the Argentine.
* H- * *
A Mexican offers the point of view of
many of his compatriots as follows: “To
get away from the narrowness of Great
Power relations, Mexico should "cultivate
trade and cultural relations with smaller
countries such as Australia. Australia
can export wheat, foodstuffs, machinery
for small machine shops, some consumer
goods, small boats, agricultural equip-
ment and such other products as will fit
into the Mexican Government’s plan to
increase the material and cultural level
of the twenty million Mexicans. Mexico
can export to Australia coffee, petroleum
products, mercury and rarer minerals,
such as vanadium.”
* * $ *
Australia is now obtaining substantial
quantities of nitrates from Chile and a
certain amount of petroleum products
from the Talara field in Peru. This trade
will undoubtedly expand.
* * * *
If the political decisions of Moscow,
Cairo and Tehran are translated into
terms of economic collaboration and the
post-war world is colored by an expand-
ing economy, then the slender economic
ties between Australia and Latin America
can grow into something substantial.
* * * *
Closer relations between Australia and
Latin America would benefit the whole
world as well as the countries involved.
New trade patterns between Australia
and Latin America would help prevent
any attempt to revive the stranglehold of
frozen credits and bilateral trade agree-
ments. Contacts between the diplomatic
officials of Australia and Latin America
in a strengthened Pacific regional council
would provide a sound basis for parti-
cipation in a wider international organ-
isation where the voices of the smaller
nations must be heard along with those
of the great Powers.
Hitler and Co.
(According to the American columnist Walter
Winchell, writing under the heading “Things
I Never Knew Till Now.”)
Hitler was never either a house-painter
or a paper-hanger. (He was a very poor
artist who at one time used to put his
paintings in an oven to “antique” them.)
He has had a longer life than Napoleon
(52) and Alexander the Great (32), but
Cassar died at 56 and Genghis Khan at
65. Although Adolf’s father was named
Schicklgruber, der rat who became der
Fiihrer was never called that. Hitler’s
father was a ne’er-do-well. The old man
wed three times. At 27 he married a
woman 41 ; at 48 he married a girl 25.
At the end of World War I Adolf
trimmed his Von Hindenburg-type mous-
tache to the ridiculous lip-patch he wears
today.
Goring dotes on caviar, regardless of
his aversion to other things Russian (such
as the Red Army), and gobbles it by the
spoonful. When he has time for it
Goring goes hunting on his estate for
animals that are delivered to his home
regularly. Speaking of animals: His
Brown-shirt gorillas, in the early days,
wore rings which held two sharp blades
conveniently released by a spring when
the occasion called for it. Goring says
he’s a descendant of Charlemagne. He's
the last of the line. All the way down.
As low as you can get.
Goebbels took violin lessons when
young. Mrs. Goebbels had at least 20
affidavits charging her husband as a
cheat, but no lawyer would take a case.
Nazi Gregor Strasser and his clique
always claimed Goebbels had Jewish
blood, and pointed to his clubfoot as a
proof of a mixed race, according to that
excellent book Der Fiihrer, by Konrad
Heiden. Goebbels once wrote a Commu-
nist opponent in an attempt to prove
Communism and National Socialism were
the same: “You and I are fighting one
another, but we are not really enemies.
Our fortes are split up and we never
reach our goal.”
Himmler is the only one to get away
with imitating der Fiihrer’s moustache.
Robert Ley, creator of the German labor
front, quaffs a pint of brandy before
breakfast. Fritz von Papen became mili-
tary attache to Washington on the
strength of his wife’s money. He twice
failed the entrance exams, to the War
Academy, yet he wore the insignia of the
General Staff. Von Ribbentrop got rid
of Korster and Von Hosch (German
ambassadors to France and England re-
spectively) with shots in the arm which
produced air embolus. Julius Streicher,
leading anti-Semite, had his early teach-
ing career cut short by a four-year stretch
for attacking a nine-year-old girl.
A. Hitler’s complexion is pasty —his
thin hair bristles —uncombed and indif-
ferent —dandruff on his shoulders is
habitual. Because Hess had the habit of
flicking dandruff off Adolf’s shoulders
and straightening the Hitler tie, he won
for himself the sobriquet of “Fraulein”
among the top Reich rowdies.
Goebbels attended six universities and
entered Heidelberg on the strength of a
scholarship from a Jewish professor
named Gundolf. When Hitler spent his
early days in a Viennese flophouse, the
only man who befriended and helped him
was a Jew named Neumann.
The scar on Rudolf Hess’s hand was
made by a flying beer mug in a Hofbrau-
haus brawl. Censors stopped Paramount
from showing boys in Rohm’s room in
“The Hitler Gang” scene which records
his murder.
Hitler not only is hysterical, but also
an epileptic. At the beginning he always
surrounded himself with strong body-
guards who could subdue him when he
had a seizure. Only later did he learn an
additional trick: That his screaming
attacks were most effective in frightening
foreign statesmen into submission. Her-
man Schuschnigg is said to have been
imprisoned because of this incident: At
Berchtesgaden Hitler had summoned the
scholarly Austrian Premier and screamed
“Man, do you realise you are facing the
greatest German in history?” Schu-
schnigg, at first flabbergasted, could not
suppress a slight guffaw. The offended
Fiihrer began to scream and roll on the
floor in a fit. The unimpressed Schu-
schnigg related the incident in Vienna
and was never forgiven.
Job Ahead Against Japs.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Ernest O. Hauser.)
How soon after the collapse of Ger-
many can we start turning the heat on
Japan? Returning to the United States
from the Orient recently, X found many
people believing that the Allies, imme-
diately after victory in Europe, would
with one fell swoop transfer the war to
Asia to deliver the knock-out blow to
Japan.
However, recent successes in the
Pacific, inspiring and spectacular though


Cb/xtic/ TieedfliAd ■weia/it'
USE
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
GHOSTS IN
MY SERVICE STATION
A^o
abrd
«n
so
o
'.Vi
l
iS&Ge
¥
n
m
Folks reckon the old Cobb coaches used to change
horses right where my station now stands. Sometimes
I get to wondering about those travellers of long ago
and what they’d say at seeing how differently we
cover the ground to-day.
Men riding in “horseless carriages”! Why, they’d
hardly credit such a thing ! And as for ordinary
hard-working chaps owning a handsome car like a
Ford V-8 or Prefect, they’d figure it no less than a
miracle.
And that’s just what it is—a miracle. Out here you
get to know how much a car means to a man—and it
makes me happy to feel in partnership with the firm
that first brought the blessings of motoring within
reach of so many.
A man’s Ford is often his livelihood. He counts
on it and counts on the knowledge and friendly
advice of the chap who sold it to him. So when I get
praise from people who would have bought a new
Ford three years ago but for the war—well,
I know their compliments are real!
FORD V‘B CARS, TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES ANGLIA 8 H.P.
KEEP ON BUYING WAR BONDS
Ford Motor Company ot Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
F.34.20.T
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
4
55628
they have been, do not mean that we shall
beat Japan with ships and ’planes alone.
The problems involved are enormous.
Consider this: Wherever you put a
division, a whole new town has to go
up, with facilities for unloading, equip-
ping, replacing, feeding.
Here are some disconcerting facts.
Things are crowded in our Asiatic base
area. The Japanese control pretty nearly
everything that is desirable. They have
under their flag vast resources of strategic
raw materials, they have the harbors and
the docks, they have the inner lines of
communications. Along the coast of East
Asia, all the United Nations have access
to at present is eight deep-sea ports, most
of them small. Our two large naval bases,
Colombo and Trincomalee, both on the
island of Ceylon, have limited docking
and repair facilities, which, of course,
do not compare with the magnificent
machinery the British Navy had assem-
bled over a period of many years in
Singapore.
More disconcerting even than this pic-
ture is the chaotic railroad situation.
India’s railroad system, totalling 45,000
miles, moves over four different gauges.
Freight cannot buzz through from termi-
nal to terminal; it has to be lugged, at
innumerable transfer points en route,
from one string of boxcars to another,
with considerable expense in time and
labor. Roadbeds and rolling stock —
except for parts of the Bengal-Assam
railway—are in shockingly inadequate
condition, as anyone can testify who has
bumped across the hot Indian country-
side at a breath-taking 10 m.p.h.
The worst obstacle, however, is in the
fact that United Nations forces pushing
east across the Asiatic continent, have to
operate among a hostile, or at least in-
different, population. No one over there
has any illusions about the gravity of
this handicap and the difficulties it will take
to overcome it. In India, the great Allied
base and arsenal, there has been little
sabotage to speak of since the wave of
violence which swept the country after
Gandhi’s arrest in 1942. But the people
of India—and there are 400,000,000 of
them—make no bones about the fact that
to them this is not their war. As for the
Chinese, their lethargy and indifference,
understandable perhaps after seven years
of war and two years of an all-but-air-
tight blockade, have thus far kept the
counter-attack from getting under way.
In this period of preparation and wait-
ing, confusion still prevails in the Allied
camp. The Stilwell-Mountbatten feud is
no longer a secret.
It is evident that personality problems
will have to be straightened out before
the attack gets under way ; if they should
be allowed to fester, they might become
a nuisance worse than four-gauged rail-
ways. Much has already been done to
achieve unity and to iron out differences
of opinion. I could see British-American
co-operation improve during my stay in
India and China. In the lower brackets
it now works perfectly—we are overhaul-
ing each other’s engines, patching up each
other’s ’planes and often combine our
pressure in coping with native civilian
apathy.
Looking away from the gloomy forces
still holding back the dawn of attack, we
find another, a brighter, side to the pic-
ture. Significantly, I could observe the
mounting tempo of preparation outside
the war area rather than inside. Flying
home, as I did, in an army transport
’plane across Arabia, Africa and the
South Atlantic, I could not help feeling
that I was travelling along the world's
busiest one-way-traffic lane —and going
the wrong way, too. It’s eastbound traffic,
all of it, and personnel as well as freight
now has to wait its turn for weeks at
out-of-the-way airports while ’planes take
off overloaded for the long hops between
American-managed oases.
“We are not waiting till the European
show quits,” Brig.-Gen. Robert Oliver
told me in New Delhi. “We are doing
things right now, this very minute”
Everywhere in China and India I could
see, before I left, tools ranging from
steam shovels to primitive pickaxes
breaking virgin ground. Existing airports
have their faces lifted ; runways are being
enlarged to accommodate the long-range
B-29’s. Chinese coolies and women in
cotton trousers have descended on what,
until yesterday, were peaceful patches of
rice land, sometimes building landing
strips for American ’planes right inside
Japanese-occupied China.
Additional airports are now being con-
structed in the Middle East to service
eastbound aircraft on their way from the
European to the Asiatic theatre in what
will be the greatest mass migration of
machines in history. New refining facili-
ties are being created in the Persian Gulf
area to assure a supply of 100-octane
airplane gasoline which will lighten the
burden on Allied shipping as well as on
American oil resources and refineries. As
for the low-octane necessary for ground
transportation and sufficient for trans-
port ’planes in cruising,, British sources
in the Middle East are ready to supply all
Allied needs.
The advance guard of our first team
has arrived in Eastern Asia, where it is
currently engaged in what is probably the
biggest organising job anyone has had to
tackle in this war. Traffic and transpor-
tation are handled by men who in civilian
life were in the transcontinental transpor-
tation business in the United States —
experts on how to keep ’em rolling. Their
problems range from roads and railroads
to inland waterways, in both China and
India. Though we are still trying to use
whatever material we can find locally,
and though we shall continue to employ
vast quantities of native labor, there has
been an increasing tendency to make use
of American skill and American tools for
critical jobs. Trained port battalions and
trained railroad troops have been im-
ported from .the United States, More are
coming in every week. Organisations and
installations are moving forward in a
continuous procession, edging closer to
Japanese positions. When I arrived in
India in 1942, most of our shipments
came in through an Indian west coast
port; today, they are delivered on the
east coast, 1500 miles closer to the Japs.
Requisitions for more equipment pour
into Washington.
“Surprisingly,” a high-ranking Ameri-
can officer told me, “we are getting a
pretty good response. To be sure, well
never be satisfied, but we’ve been able
at last to get our fingers on some essen-
tial stuff and, what’s even more import-
ant, on some first-rate people.”
We are, in Asia, on the strategic de-
fensive. This means, in plainer English,
that the immense Allied land front on
that continent is a holding front; no
one out there, not even the demanding
Chinese, thinks of changing this situa-
tion before our European business is
finished. “A war at a time” is the slogan.
But while we are laying the groundwork
for the great strategic about-face, our
tactical offensive is already well under
way.
A tactical offensive is directed against
specific targets, such as fuel dumps, har-
bor installations and ships. The master
mind behind the best part of this cam-
paign, with its incessant sorties, is Gen.
Chennault, described by Americans and
Chinese, as well as by men of Mount-
batten’s inner circle, as “the United
Nations’ greatest single asset on the con-
tinent of Asia.” Chennault for the last
few years has been shouting to the house-
tops for “five hundred ’planes to beat the
out of China.” When the time
comes to let him have the fuel and the
tools to sustain a strategic offensive,
watch him go to town.
Sometimes the physical impossibility
of doing things in a bigger way now
gives our men out there a heartache. Our


AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS —Buy War Savings Certificates.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
It. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 157361. /{ranches in All States. 126 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TlM7*
tHE *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY. LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 Sydney.
BP 9-44.
INVITA r/OiV
TO COMFORT...
v
<S=
1
m>
lot
i
INSULATION WITH
CANE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
The restful beauty of modern wall and ceil-
ing treatments is important . . . and the
attractive finish of Cane-ite, whether in its
natural state or coloured to your taste,
assures this. But Cane-ite does more than
this. Cane-ite insulates against heat and
against external noise giving you comfort all
the year round. When you plan your post-
war home ... use Cane-ite Insulating Board.
C AM E-IT E
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Materials Division
MARKETING: CANE-ITE • C.S.R. SLAG WOOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
CA26-44
only ground combat forces stationed in
the vast area of operations are Brig.-
Gen. Frank Merrill’s Marauders, hand-
picked American soldiers who are now
badgering the enemy somewhere in
Burma; their shining record there proves
what could be done with a bigger force—
a realisation which only adds to the
heartache. But we know that the de-luxe
method of beating Japan, consisting of
a huge pincers movement across China
by land and across the Pacific by water,
is out for the time being; and we find
consolation in the fact that we fight while
we wait.
The long, long wait has its advantages
as well as its drawbacks. The latter are
obvious. As long as we are on the
strategic defensive, the enemy is not
asleep. Indeed, Japan’s recent advances
into Assam prove that it would be foolish
to assume that the Japs were just sitting
there, viewing our preparations a
turkey ready to be killed. Exactly what
Japan is doing, beyond such local counter-
offensives, to meet our growing power
when attack day comes, we do not know.
But it is a safe bet that she is busy doing
two things: strengthening her defences
in areas that stand out as the most logical
or the most tempting targets—such as,
for example, the Andaman Islands in the
Bay of Bengal—and squeezing such
strategic raw materials out of the terri-
tories now under her control as she has
the shipping space to get back to her
factories. To frustrate her at every turn
in the execution of this twofold pro-
gramme of preparation for the seven lean
years is the supreme aim of our tactical
offensive.
The main benefit we expect to reap
from these years of patience is in the
dead assurance with which we shall be
able to go into the ring. What we are
doing now will serve to make our victory
mathematically certain —this time, we
won’t give ourselves a chance of missing
any tricks. It will be a planned pound-
ing of the enemy, backed up by an in-
exhaustible arsenal, directed by a unified
command ; and the first team will be in
charge.
Just what the strategic offensive will look
like is a secret. Whatever it is going to be,
we shall have to force open a port some-
where along the China coast for the
supply of Allied troops operating through
China; there, on the vast continental
battlefield, we shall have to face and
smash the Japanese army, whose elimi-
nation is a necessary prerequisite for
peace in Asia. It is also evident that our
naval forces, now playing havoc with
Japan’s outer defences, will rendezvous
with Allied land forces operating on the
mainland, and that the final blow will be
a “triphibian” attack upon the homeland
of the Jap—by land, sea and air. Tins
will be the biggest three-ring circus you
ever saw, and the men are putting up the
tent now.
The important fact for us to know is
that we are doing more than sit pretty.
When the time comes to polish off Japan
we’ll, be ready to do our job without
undue fuss and dislocations, even if we
won’t be able to push a button and
mumble abracadabra.
Dragnet Digest.
o Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The new Lend-lease Act signed in May pro-
hibits the President from using lend-lease author-
ity to obligate the United States in any post-
war military or economic way without first
obtaining the consent of Congress. The idea
of this provision, according to its sponsors,
is to prevent a situation whereby the Executive
Branch could accept a base, or give away one,
in connection with lend-lease settlements, which
might lead to international complications. —
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Herald
Tribune N
* * * *
There is no doubt in Washington that Berlin
will make some kind of seductive overtures
when it becomes evident that the Soviet-Ameri-
can-British forces are irresistible but before
they have carried the land offensive on to
German soil. Reports already in the hands of
American diplomatic authorities indicate that
such offers are beginning to sprout in various
places and that a real negotiated peace offensive
can be anticipated at what seems to be the
most propitious moment. Such a moment
would, of course, be when the invasion was
experiencing its hardest going, and .it seems
obvious that Hitler hopes to stall the inevit-
able sufficiently to turn a military defeat into
a diplomatic stalemate and thus to create such
conditions of peace as would give Germany time
to catch its breath and get ready to try again
when some future Hitler has succeeded another
Weimar republic. It seems plain to officials
in Washington that the Germans are counting
on war-weariness among the democracies upon
political dissension among the principal United
Nations and upon an articulate though minority
demand for a negotiated peace if there are
serious setbacks. However wrong the Germans
may be in judging the state of the Allied mind
—as they were wrong in judging the British
in 1940 —they are counting on these forces to
prepare the soil for the negotiated “peace
garden” they hope to plant —Washington corre-
spondent “Christian Science Monitor.’’
* * * *
The Germans still have in commission several
hundred submarines and they are building new
ones at a rate of perhaps more than 10 a month.
But the Germans apparently are finding it in-
creasingly difficult to man the craft. The
quality of U-boat commanders and crews has
deteriorated; and in some recent months
U-boats have been sunk faster than they could
be built.— N. Y. “Times’'' war commentator
Hanson W. Baldwin, writing from London.
£ * *
Nothing is farther from the truth (this is a
platitude which cannot too often be repeated)
than the idea that the average American citizen
is pro-British; it is rather the contrary. Scratch
an American citizen and you find a European
refugee or a descendant of a soldier who
fought at Bunker Hill. And nothing is liable
to create bad feeling more quickly than an
air of British superiority, a feature unhappily
not uncommon among our official representa-
tives, even from the Foreign Office. There is
no doubt that Anglo-American relations would
be enormously improved if we could eschew
superior attitudes and if they were less re-
ceptive to the legend of the Machiavellian
Englishman. But an immense reserve of good-
will is there. Every man who fought on our
side in the last war and every woman who had
a husband or son stationed in Britain in this
is a potential ambassador of goodwill. We
should draw on this resource, not too
lavishly. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
Tire Swiss are preparing a bill of particulars
on the results of the unfortunate bombing of
their town of Schaffhausen on April 1. This
was a brief attack made in error by 30 Ameri-
can bombers confused by heavy weather over
a small target. Thus far the material damage
figures at $8,500,000. Only 41 persons were
killed, but 1021 buildings, including 123 resi-
dences, were ruined and the equipment in at
least four of the town’s principal factories is
a total loss. The rail yards were wiped out.
Transfer this attack to enemy industrial centres,
multiply it by 2000 or 3000 bombers in the air
day and night, and returning again and again to
these scenes of destruction, and we get some
idea of the devastation spreading over central
Europe. If Dr. Goebbels now* estimates that
it will fake 10 years to repair this damage it
must already be beyond the possibility of
present calculation. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The new 52,000-ton U.S.S. Wisconsin has
eight separate announcing systems, with 20
transmitters and 355 loudspeakers, and a tele-
phone system with 950 handsets and 1250
headsets, about three-quarters of these tele-
phones being installed at battle stations. —
“Collier’s.”
* * * *
Our fliers made some tragic mistakes in Italy
and others elsewhere, apparently because of in-
adequate advance information. This situation
is being remedied. But the danger to civilians
in the kind of fighting that has been forced
upon us is inescapable. Our enemies chose
total war, and total war it is. If the United
Nations were not strong enough to destroy
key German cities the Germans would now be
destroying British cities and probably trying to
destroy American cities. The air war is in-
tended to save the lives of soldiers by making
their task easier. The way to end it is to end
the war, as is well known in Germany and in
the satellite nations. And the wav to end it
for ever, after the armistice, is to keep down
the aggressor and the aggressive spirit—for ever.
— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Long before the famine in Bengal had
reached its height, the round figure of 2,000,000
deaths was adopted as making an effective plat-
form appeal, and it has been thought necessary
to hold fast to the reckless estimate in face
of all evidence of its falsity. Today it is high
prices and not actual shortage that maintain dis-
tress in Bengal. Throughout the period of
food shortage the much abused British commer-
cial community in Calcutta fed a million workers
and their dependants through the machinery of
the Bengal Chamber of Commerce at a cost c?f
millions sterling to the firms participating in
the scheme. No other voluntary relief agency
has ever approached this in scale, and of none
is so little known. — Alfred H. Watson; London
“Times” letter.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1S0S)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CVanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM
SAVES
MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAfiWTS
PROOF
ImwimM
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
i'viY/AV *X/X&4 y&X ?.'■■•■
■■' ,
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
/
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHTS” WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Costs.
“J.R.8.”: Most sheep-owners have a
fair idea of them, but often the actual
cost is loaded with other items. Another
point is that under present unsettled con-
ditions many contractors have put up
their prices.
Here is an attempt at the itemised cost
under the 1943-44 Federal award v for a
team of 12 shearers, including two
learners ; ten shedhands, including three
youths; one cook, two pressers and a
boss of the board who would also be
expert and bookkeeper. Classing is not
included, but usually runs out at id. to
ird. per sheep. Cost per head varies
according to the speed of shearing and
delays caused by wet weather, break-
downs, etc. The award is based on a
week at 500 sheep per man per
week. These figures are actual cost and
do not allow for any profit to the con-
tractor. If the 12 shearers average 100
sheep each per day the cost would be
9d. per head. Details:
Shearing at 41 s. 3d. per 100 .. .. sd.
Wages: Shedhands and overseer-expert' .. 2|d.
Pressing, weighing and branding .. .. |d.
Mess and cook, insurance (Work. Comp.),
payroll tax and travelling exes, (over-
seer) Id.
If, through any of the causes listed,
the average tally dropped to 80
it would make a difference of fd. per
sheep. On the other hand, if the average
rose to 120 the cost per sheep would be
reduced to B^d,
In a six-stand shed with one learner,
four shedhands, presser, cook and a boss
of the board the cost per sheep on an
average of 100 per man throughout the
shed would be ,16d. more, so that the
figure would still be under 9id. This
team appears to be rather short in shed-
hands, but allowance is made in the
figures for the wool-classer acting as
wool-roller and taking the place of a
shedhand. At an average tally of 80
sheep over the shearing the cost would
be lOd. per head, while at a tally of 120
the cost would be 8.65 d.
The contractor has to make his profit
in addition to the foregoing, but on the
basis given graziers should have an idea
of what is a fair contract price.
A Queensland Cattle Disease.
“Tartarus”: Known for 50 years, it
affects a gradually-spreading area of
coastal Central Queensland near the Mac-
kenzie River, from which the disease
takes its name. Usually affecting a small
percentage of beef herds, it is not germ-
borne and not infectious ; sick cattle die
in a few months or may linger on for
years as runts. It occurs all the year
round, good seasons and bad ; symptoms
are rapid loss of condition, scouring, diffi-
culty in urination, dull and sunken eyes
and general restlessness, with sterility of
females that recover. Transfer to healthy
areas in the early stages usually means
recovery. The affected country is mostly
brigalow* scrub, nearly all well watered —
much indeed periodically flooded—some
ringbarked, though a great deal still un-
improved in any way. Healthy cattle
from this area are fine, big-framed sorts
which belie any shortage of feed or
minerals; salt licks are usually unneces-
sary.
Recent experiments by Harry Collins,
of Coreen, Dingo, indicate that it may be
due to a deficiency of one or more of
the “trace elements” in soil and herbage,
Collins dosed affected cattle with sma „
amounts of a mixture containing iron,
coppe coba „ manganesei nickel, boron
and zinc . Nearly all recovered and are
back to ime condition the cows getting
in calf. Whether the treatment had the
c ff ect G f correcting an existing deficiency,
or whether in so b me lh | chemica { s
used prevent minute amolmts of poison
in the feed {rom accumulating to a fatal
dose, only further careful experiments can
determine. But the important thing is
that a numbei of cattle which would
mostly have died are now in as good
condition as the rest of the herd. This
i s claimed to be the first authentic cure
D f Mackenzie River disease without shift-
ing the cattle be d the affected area
It is hoped to interest the C .S.I.R.
Owners of many herds are losing an
average of 5 p.c. annually, labor shortage
makes adequate supervision impossible
and losses wiU increase unless . a F bit of
help from the right quarter comes along,
, Kurrajong Seed,
t<T7 n .
. harmci Bill : When collecting kurra-
>ong t eed ’. ch ° ose well-developed pods
Stithy trees; local seed a ready
imatiS . ed ls tiest. Seed gathered
het ™ May and June should be sown
m eptember. Pouring boiling water
? v % *■“ seeds ™ d leavlng them to soak
f or 24 hou y s l* eds . u I > gemination. Mix-
lng the seeds of various trees often results
“ a hlgher of trees of finer
.
. Seeds can be sown in permanent posi-
ffons, seedbeds, boxes or sawdust. Use
sandy loam or fine, light earth. Ground
of the permanent site or seedbed should
be deeply trenched and allowed to aerate
f° r a week or two. If the soil is thick
clay or inclined to be heavy, scoop away
to a depth of six inches and fill in with
sandy loam. Before planting, bring to
a fi ne tilth, level off and dampen well,
Steer clear of frosty hollows, swampy
depressions or spots exposed to high
winds.
In the permanent position sow four or
five seeds 3in. to 4in. apart. Later select
the sturdiest seedlings and thin out the
others. Erect guards. In the seedbed
make rows 6in. or 7in. apart, seeds
3in. to 4in. apart, and cover with a layer
of earth equal to their own thickness.
Seedboxes should be shallow, with small
pebbles or loose rubble in the bottoms
if of heavy timber bore holes to
allow water to escape. For the sawdust
method use boxes, provide drainage and
fill with fine earth to within 2in. of the
top, add a layer of sand, and on top of
that a layer of sawdust lin. thick ; broad-
cast the seed 9 in and cover with another
layer of sawdust half an inch thick. Seed-
lings developed in this manner can be
transplanted at the end of six or eight
weeks or, better still, can be potted and
reserved for transplanting the following
autumn.
Honey Flora.
“Hux”: Spring flowering of weeping
willows, pussy willows, honeysuckles and
wattles provides bees with nectar and
pollen and stimulates brood strength at
an important period. If weeping-willow
cuttings are layered against the banks of
creeks they will also forestall erosion
and supply shade, shelter and fodder for
stock.
Planted over wire-netting supports,
climbing honeysuckles form dense hedges
for the apiary; Japanese honeysuckle
(Japonica lonicera) is of the erect shrub
type and makes short, thick windbreaks.
Both varieties are worked by bees in
large numbers. Cootamundra wattle and
Queensland silver wattle yield abundant
pollen as well as a great show of flowers
around the farm. A strong colony of
bees gathers up to 31b. of pollen per day
in the spring.
Spring-sown Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: A fine seedbed is first
need for sowing early carrots and pars-
nips and for onions. Preparation should
begin now in high and cool districts.
As W. D. Hardy, N.S.W. agrostologist,
says, benefits are thus gained from con-
servation of the water of early showers
and an even germination of the seed.
One and a half to 21b. of carrot or pars-
nip seed to the acre can be expected to
return a yield equal to that usually got
from 41b. to slb. on rough ground. In
the past season up to 16 tons of carrots
an acre came off finely-worked ground.
Break the soil now to a fine tilth
and it will benefit by lying fallow. Don’t
listen to stories about “soil that sweetens
with sun and air if left in the rough.”
Only lime and good drainage can sweeten
sour soil.
To Make Greenhide.
“Myrrhee”: Soak the hide in water
about four hours. Run off, cover with
clean water and leave another 24 hours,
when the skin should be very soft. Then,
to remove the hair, soak for six or seven
days in limewater made by adding 301 b.
lime to lOOgal. of water. Move the hide
about in the soak at least once a day. The
hair is best removed with a blunt knife,
first placing the hide over a log or cask.
Remove all fat and flesh with a blunt
knife. Then thoroughly wash it in several
changes of water to remove the lime,
which will interfere with the tanning pro-
cess. Formalin, lactic acid (sour whey)
or boric acid added weakly to one of the
early washes will help to remove the lime.
Use only wood or cement vessels, and
keep the hide wholly submerged.
Stretch the hide on a frame in a cool
place to dry slowly. When the moisture
has drained off and while the hide is still
soft work tallow, neat’s-foot or fish oil
into both sides. As it dries rub in several
dressings of fat or oil. The working
helps to keep the hide supple. A good
method is to draw it backwards and for-
wards over a blunt edge on the flesh side.
Store the greenhide in a dry, cool place
and give dressings of fat or oil periodi-
cally if it shows a tendency to harden.
Rhodes Grass.
In Queensland thousands of
acres of country rendered worthless by
prickly pear were brought into produc-
tion by sowing it. From dairying zones
its habitat has been extended to grazing
areas. It thrives on sandy loams of good
forest country, red volcanic loams that
originally carried softwood scrubs or clay
loams of brigalow areas. It’s not satis-
factory on light, sandy or heavy black
soils. Areas with a 25in. to 50in. rain-
fall suit it best.
Where good-quality seed is sown 41b.
to 51b. per acre is sufficient; double the
amount if germination is doubtful. Cut
or grazed when young palatability is
moderate to high ; on some soils in the
drier areas stock pass it by, but all eat
the hay without much waste. It’s rich in
proteins and other nutrients.
Control the grazing so that each pad-
dock is eaten off while the growth’s
young and leafy, and it will stage quick
comebacks ; avoid hard grazing on light
soils. Heavy frosts cut back the upper
part of the plant, but the lower will pro-
vide good feed. Its running habit pro-
tects soil from erosion.
Marketing Poultry.
“Canbelego”: When sending fowls to
market don’t put too many in the crates;
overcrowding causes severe losses.
Closely-packed birds sweat, and this in-
terferes with the quality of the flesh,
causing discoloration. Plumage gets
dirty, and drab appearance spoils the sale.
Eliminate these risks by allowing suffi-
cient space.
Buyers are always attracted by clean,
fresh-looking stock. Put turkeys and
geese in turkey crates only, as they allow
sufficient height to stand up in comfort.
Never dispatch turkeys or geese in fowl
crates.
Cover floors of crates with 4in. to 6in.
of clean straw. This adds to the comfort
of the birds, keeps them clean and allows
them to be marketed in best condition
and appearance. Not more than eight
gobblers should be put in one crate ; if
they’re extra good seven are enough.
About ten pairs of light-breed fowls or
eight pairs of heavy breeds can be placed
with safety in the standard fowl crate.
Poison Plants.
“Plane Creek”: There are poisonous
trees and plants aplenty (B. 17/5/ ’44) here
in N.Q. Trouble is to know ’em all and
keep stock away. Cultivations lying under
grass harbor cottonweed, which grows
3ft. high, has narrrow leaves, scarlet
flowers. Its seedcases contain a fluffy
material. Mint weed is of similar habit.
Light green, narrow leaves; bluish-grey,
pea-shaped flowers; very fine seed;
annual plant, 2ft. to 3ft. high. Its leaves
have a strong aromatic odor.
Noogoora burr is toxic when young.
Cattle won’t eat old, coarse burrs, which


ill
MetleMi
IN THE “OUTBACK”
The ideal sanitary system tor farm or country
home. Self-contained, easy to instal, NO
WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED. Chemical action
turns sewage material into a sterile solution
that drains away into the soil. Banishes flies,
germs, unpleasant odors and the embarrass-
ments of emptying. Gives the final refinement
to your home.
FULLY GUARANTEED—Cost is only
£l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and sur-
charge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVEN ATOR
MAIL THIS COUPON
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.4.44
Personality Depends on Health
THE IMPORTANCE
OF REGULARITY
Nature places much importance
on the elimination of waste
matter from the system through
the elimination channels, the
principal ones being the kidneys
and the bowel. These two
eliminating organs respond
quickly to the benefits of R.U.R.,
as you will agree after reading
the letter published here, from
Mr. Waters, 7 Wilson Street,
Hamilton East, Waikato, N.Z.
“For a long time I suffered with
1 constipation, together with a dull
headache more or less all the time.
I used also to get stabbing pains in
my knees and different joints in my
body, and they became so painful I
decided to try your R.U.R. remedy,
and although I haven’t finished my
first bottle, I have completely lost
all signs of pains. Instead of rising
in the morning with a heavy head
and dull spirits, I am beginning to
jump out, feeling it is really good
to be alive. Each dose seems to give
me a more and more buoyant feel-
ing, and I am much more alert than
I was. With all aches and pain gone,
thanks to R.U.R., I am beginning to
enjoy life again.”
m
I
mm
R.U.R. keeps the blood and organic
functions in first-class order. R.U.R.
is an internal bath. It clears away
the cause of rheumatic aches and
joint pains, purifies the blood, tones
up the liver and kidneys.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
RICHT YOU HRE
LEND NOW—SPEIND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
"There were Reservoirs
. and grand Canals...”
ill -..aiug!
P A
'j.
"1 saw a vision in days gone by and would dream that dream again —
Of the days when the Darling shall not back her billabongs up in vain.
There were reservoirs and grand canals where the dry country had been
And a glorious network of aqueducts and the fields were always green."
—Henry Lawson.
*
That vision of a glorious future for Australia can become a reality in the
peaceful days to come. Back from the fighting fronts and with an amazing
knowledge of modern tractors and earth-moving equipment, our men could
trap, into great dams, billions of gallons of water now flowing needlessly to the
sea. Then with similar equipment they could build canals and ditches to take
this water to millions of thirsty acres. So would our land become a land of
plenty ... a land fit for heroes to live in. All this can be done with Caterpillar
Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth - Moving Equipment at a fraction of
the cost and the time of older methods.
' X' '/
■
He&x&HK
■
a;
1
:■■'!: g
•• ••;. .'•.
• - >; ‘
■
Hi
; : :i::|
::-r
-
:::V;-
m
sms*
-
. .:? .
'#sS
'
'
Mm
'■ -
••• £.*
•«*.......
Laying a pipe line with Caterpillar
Tractor and Sideboom
c ftT E *.?-» l . 5.*;
.iOSE-SO. ,».TH.-0«.«.
track-type ,i, sort. LIMITED
WAUGH & JO t SE^°M^/J
—* p ‘“
are harmless. Young burr causes inflam-
mation of the intestines and abrupt death.
Young shoots from brushed lantana are
more indigestible than poisonous and
bring on impaction. Zamia causes simi-
lar trouble, but is also responsible for
paralysis misnamed rickets. Zamia-
gorging cattle have discolored spinal
cords. Poison peach, a scrub tree with
peachlike foliage, is another foe of cattle.
Keep your eyes open and try to keep a
good pasture. Overstocking helps poison-
ous plants establish themselves. Medium-
sized plants spread fast on denuded graz-
ing country. Ringbark or chop down
suspicious scrub. There are so many
different forms of plant poisoning that
sure cures are hard to find. Laxatives
to clean out the bowels are good ; enemas
if necessary. Methylene blue is the
remedy for mint-weed poisoning, but it
may be hard to get.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.E.M.”: Various remedies are good
for pink eye in sheep, but all are com-
posed of ingredients pot usually on hand
when required by the average farmer. A
simple cure for other than advanced
cases is to open the sheep’s eye wide and
pour in about a heaped teaspoonful of
common sugar with one hand, holding
the eye open with the other.
“Lub”: Heavy tussock growth needs
breaking up with rotary hoe or heavy
disc, but plenty of cultivation is neces-
sary to clean up the land. Burn the heaps
of matted roots as they dry. Don’t put
in permanent pasture until the tussocks
are beaten ; even then occasional growths
appear and should be grubbed before
they spread.
“Jiff”: On ha,rd roads take care of
your horse’s hooves by fixing a disc cut
from the sides of an old tyre under the
shoes. Slippers are better than heavy
shoes on hard roads, where extra weight
increases the strain on fetlocks and ten-
dons. The rubber between shoe and hoof
acts as a shock-absorber. Even if not
worn out shoes should be renailed at
least every two months or they’ll pinch.
“Sarina”: Amateur solderers often
make a poor job of seams, being unable
to keep a straight line (B. 31/ 5/ ’44). It’s
much easier if you mark a course with
chalk parallel with the seam. If the seam
runs through the bottom of a vessel, draw
a line each side or run sticking plaster
or gummed tape alongside for a guide.
Don’t forget to wash away all traces of
hydrochloric acid after a job, or the vessel
will be corroded beyond repair.
“Portergaff”: Don’t throw away old
files. A handy assortment of punches
can be made out of round, square
and triangle saw-files, while the flat
and half-round types make service-
able wood chisels and scrapers. Simply
break to length and shape on good emery
wheel. Chisels will take a good edge on
the oilstone.
“F.L.”: I’ve got a handy collection of
knives, paring chisels and cutting tools
made from old files, which take a good
edge and keep sharp. They were shaped
at the forge and ground on an emery and
have the right degree of hardness and
flexibility without being retempered.
“N.H.”: Don’t throw away an old
hand saw. Cut it to a suitable length and
rivet it on to a worn hoe blade. It makes
„an excellent chipping hoe.
“E. 2”: When using secondhand roof-
ing iron for buildings go over it first and
close up nail holes and others by turning
the edges in and hammering together. A
dab of solder completes the job. Spirits
of salts killed with zinc is the best flux
if the iron is not badly rusted or burned.
“Portergaff”: Where possible substitute
stone dust for sand when constructing
concrete drinking troughs. Sand loosens
and washes away in time, leaving a rough,
bony structure; stone dust has tough,
hard-wearing qualities ideal for trougns,
underground storage tanks, etc.
“Will C.”: Buffalo fly, whose gallop
has temporarily stopped at Nebo (C.Q.),
may force coastal dairymen to aim at
improved pastures and better grazing
methods. The bloodsuckers favor weak
victims, half-starved on blady and , other
inferior native grasses. The walking
skeletons “that nearly have to be held up
while being milked” are momentarily
safe on the C.Q. coast, but the fly’ll prob-
ably get many of ’em before the spring
brings ’em back into shape. Winter, not
the C.5.1.R., has checked the fly.


WmmM
m
m
m 8%
mmm
••vs
mm
••••
, .:-.
mmmmm
m
m «
RETURNED FROM ACTION...
This applies also to ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATORS. During the past
years our factory was engaged practically wholly on urgent Ordnance
and Munition work. Very little Refrigeration could be manufactured, and
then only directly for the Defence Forces. Australia’s role having changed
to that of one of the world’s major Food suppliers, Refrigeration has become
more vital. Therefore, permits may now be niade available for essential
civilian requirements.
To meet the demand for increased Food production for overseas, it is
essential for Food Manufacturers and Firms engaged in the preparation of
Food to consider ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATION and AIR CONDITION-
ING UNITS, which are produced by the Firm of ECKERSLEY AND SONS
PTY., LTD., Established 50 years at SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO (A’ASIA), LTD.—ALL STATES
■MA
R
m
,-+■
His
SSxC'iC-'
proprietors of
the following trade marks
"C.O.R. Plus" Motor Spirit
"C.0.R." Power Kerosene
"C oralite" Kerosene
"C.O.R. Light Diesoleum''
"C.0.R." Diesel Oils
"C.0.R." Fuel & Bunker Oils
THE COmmOIMALTH OIL REfIfIERIES LIRIITED
eRAncHES » n
ALL S T « T * *
SMOKE-OH!
“For sale, 140 Buffalo incubator.” — “S.M.H.”
The hatching out of buffaloes has now
been reduced to a highly scientific thing.
4* •P 4* 4*
“Jonquils (Grand Monarque), well shot bulbs,
ready to plant.”— “Great Northern.”
The underground liquor racket, no
doubt.
•b
“Very good man’s leather overcoat, as new.”
—“ S.M.H.”
As he rarely went out, except to church,
it would be practically unused.
d* -!- -I-
“Milk Board. —Applications are invited for
the position of junior messenger (male).”
— “S.M.H.”
Only the cream of the city’s youth
need apply.
•I* *F 4*
“In the demonstration Athaldo supported on
his chest a platform holding 11 musicians,
whose combined weight was 16cwt.” — “D.T.”
It wasn’t the weight but the strain of
hearing them “swing it” that finally
caused his collapse.
“Five Women in Bedroom to Make Room
for M.Ps.”
But why single out the Provosts for
this preferential treatment?
•b 4*
“Blacksmith and farrier required for colliery.”
—“ S.M.H.”
Paradoxically, as soon as they get the
job they’ll be out of work.
“Waitress, Monday to Friday 6.15 to 8 p.m.,
Saturday 12.45 to 2, 5.30 to 7, ss. meal. Uni-
form provided. Both over 45.”
—“Great Northern,” Sydney.
She must dress according to her age,
•£• 4* *i*
“You were so pretty that you might have got
away with murder.” — “Woman.”
Her looks could kill.
“I misjudged a lady crossing the road.”
— “World’s News.”
She wasn’t so fast as he thought.
Perception.
“A Chicago Judge said it was impossible to
tell the sex of women wearing slacks in the
street.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
Misled by shapes below the norm
In bust and hip, it’s plainly seen
The man of law could not have been
A practised judge of female form,
Or else he would have noticed that
A subtle symmetry of bulges
To any connoisseur divulges
The gender of the trousered brat.
His Honor, though, might be astuter
Than his uncertainty implies
At penetrating the disguise —
He was perhaps referring to
The type of trousers-addict who
Can only be described as neuter.
P. M. LUSK.
Hard Lines.
Into my teeth the dentist sailed
(Uneven teeth are mine),
But though he drilled them hard he failed
To drill them into line.
B. B.
Explanation.
“Patrons who are disorderly or intemperate
in hotels controlled by the Invercargill Licens-
ing Trust are to be reproved by letter.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
To the N.S.W. Licensing Trust.
Dear Sirs, —Regarding your letter
drawing my attention to certain irregu-
larities of behavior on my part, alleged
to have taken place in the bar of the
Blacketeers’ Arms on Saturday last, I
would like to place the following facts
before you:
When the beer came on at 4.30 p.m. I,
in company with 389 other thirsty citi-
zens, had been waiting outside for
some four hours. In the first rush to-
wards the opened door I had my hat
knocked off, my spectacles broken and
my left foot severely crushed by some-
body’s heel. I also sustained two broken
ribs when four of us became jammed
in the doorway. My action in treading
on the face of an unidentified patron
should be considered in the light of these
circumstances.
My tactics in reaching the bar by
climbing over the shoulders of those in
front of me should not be taken as
evidence of disorderly conduct. It was
the only possible method, short of levi-
tation, at which I am not proficient.
I plead justification in respect of the
language I used when, after waiting ten
minutes for the attention of the barmaid
to wander in my direction, I was served
with a middy instead of the three
schooners I ordered. Added to that, be-
fore I was able to drink it off and order
another, I found myself halfway back
to the door, and in the crush was unable
to a raise the glass to my lips.
Regarding the charge of intemper-
ance, please note that the semi-conscious
state in which I was found cast up on
the pavement could not have been due
to alcohol, as I had not in fact drunk
any. It resulted from a kick in the
stomach administered by a short man
after I had pushed an empty glass in his
face. I did this after he had snatched
his opportunity and swilled my glass of
beer.
I note that I am disqualified from
entering any public bar for a period of
six months. That will be a pleasure.—
Yours etc.,
PLUM.
Problematical.
. “Men often find it very hard to know what
women are* thinking.”— Woman’s paper.
Too true! Whenever we essay
To find what ladies think, how small
Our chances are ! For often they
Do not appear to think at all!
NAT.
Didactic.
“The fundamental duty of the poet is to
point a moral in all his compositions.”
—Modern critic.
A dog with fierce intent
Pursued a rat, which went
Beneath a gate. The dog
Was only left the scent.
If this unwholesome rat
Had been a goat or cat,
The net result may not
Have been precisely that.
The moral is that verse
Like this may be a curse.
But liquor shortages
Are infinitely worse!
T. W. NATHAN.
Just One Big Happy Family.
“The Nazis intend to whip up hatred of the
high officers and the Junkers, whom they have
always mistrusted.”
— “D.T.” London editor E. W. McAlpine.
Dr. Goebbels, preceded by four storm-
troopers marching abreast, led the
Fiihrer through the minefield surround-
ing the dais in the Dumkopfsportzplatz
from which he was to broadcast an im-
portant speech to his armed forces. Only
the Propaganda Minister knew where the
minefield was laid, the sappers who laid
it having been afterwards shot for secu-
rity reasons. Himmler had asked him
about it only that morning, but Goeb-
bels had merely looked at the Gestapo
chief with suspicious eyes and said noth-
ing. What had that rat wanted to know
for, anyway?
Arrived at the dais, Adolf was greeted
with roars of “Sieg heil!” Sieg heil!”
which he proudly acknowledged with
stiffly-raised right arm. Aware that ten
thousand Gestapo agents were sprinkled
among them, the concourse kept on
chanting “Sieg heil!” Adolf looked on,
his arm still raised, through the bullet-
proof glass which protected his front and
flanks. Behind him nobody was allowed
except his personal bodyguard, all of
whom, to prevent possible treachery, faced
away from him. Any one of them who
swung around towards him would be in-
stantly shot by the S.S. men ranged along
both flanks, whose guns were already
trained on the bodyguard.
The “Sieg heils!” kept going until der
Fiihrer snapped at Goebbels: “Der pig-
dogs shut up, for Thor’s sake! Mine
arm got der crampf has.”
As the Propaganda Minister stepped
forward and scowled heavily the tumult
ceased. Adolf took a deep breath and
was just about to shriek his opening
words when he noticed Goebbels look-
ing with strange intentness at the micro-
phone just in front of der All-Lowest’s
face. A twisted thought flashed through
the twisted mind. What if the micro-
phone were in fact a lethal weapon,
awaiting only the vibration of a voice to
snap a hair-thin wire inside it and release
a bullet or a deadly gas? Der Fiihrer
slowly expelled his breath .and turned to
the Herr Doktor.
“Out of mein deep affections, for you,
Paul,” he said, a strange smile on his
face, “I der honor giff you vill of intro-
ducing me, ain’t it?” And he motioned
Dr. Goebbels to the microphone, himself
moving to the background.
The Propaganda Minister unhesitat-
ingly spoke, stressing the fact that,
whereas the rulers of the decadent democ-
racies went ever in fear of violent death
at the hands of their enraged, duped
and disillusioned peoples, the Reich’s
beloved Fiihrer, surrounded by the deep
affection of all Germans and enjoying
the special protection of the old German
gods, moved freely among his adoring
subjects, requiring no more than a mere
25 S.S. divisions to secure his safety.
Adolf, his suspicions now allayed,
incontinently brushed Goebbels aside and
began.
“Mein vriendts,” he said, his voice ris-
ing to a light bellow, and his eyes so far
only half out of their sockets, “today der
file und rank off mein armies efferyvhere
I address, don’t dey? Vot der gause iss
off der reverses der Wehrmacht has suf-
fered? I dell you. It der verdampf
officers iss! It iss der Junkers ve are
cursed mitt!”
A Voice: “Ve ain’t got any Junkers
left —der bletty R.A.F. shot dem alls up
und den shot dem alls down.”
Sturmtruppengauleiter Bortz Schlinker
raised a hand. A machine-gun rat-tat-
tatted for a few seconds. There was
no further interjection.
“Take General von Lindemann, bro-
degding der Reich in der Baldic Schdades,”
went on Adolf, “he iss der brober mug.
Marshal von Kluge, brodegding der
Reich in der Vest, dat goat gouldn’t fight
hiss way out of der brown-baber barcel.
As for Von Kesselring, he iss der piggest
dud off a general ve effer had. Von
Keitel ain’t fit to be a batman, und mein
new Chief of Staff Gudarian is choost a
big aleck mitout brains enough to manage
a vowlhouse. Mugs und traitors all,
dese Junkers, und I intend to vipe them
all oudt, von by von. Down mitt all
Junkers, haters of der Nazi regime!” he
screamed.
Two days later as der Fiihrer sat read-
ing the day’s astrological chart in his
underground retreat with its 20ft. thick
concrete walls guarded every 18 inches
by machine-gun nests, Himmler burst in.
“Der Wehrmacht iss in revolt, mein
Fiihrer,” he gasped out. “Der file und
rank are shooting officers by der t’ou-
sand! ”
Adolf groaned. “Mein Gott!” he
cried, “I vonder who could haff put dot
into their dumkopf heads! ”
As Himmler left der Fiihrer was just
starting on the fringe of his Axminster.
BO.


THIS
DUPLICATOR
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Bufh .nirtly in Auitralio by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
DANDRUFF
GO£S/
9
•IK
a
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
l /’ < 3 scalp, clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon s is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
' or falling hair. Good, too, for
cradie-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
2
HAIR RESTORER
The I Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
Help Australia control the spread of Tuberculosis—the enemy
within our gates! Support the Anti-T.B. Association in its
£50,000 Appeal. In N.S.W. the Association has helped nearly
130,000 sufferers in 10 years. Give generously now l Send con-
tributions to the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
.V'l"'/'/
\
V
4,
A
*/ ’
4*
S’
#e
44.
e
*4.
*4
° es 4
s//z>
*#€/
**TA
Per
N. P. IS J
true or
STRAIGHT ANSWERS TO PLAIN QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE REFERENDUM
IS it tril© that the Commonwealth already
has powers for the preferential treatment of
service-men and women?
NO: it is false. There is grave doubt
about the legal powers of the Commonwealth
in this respect. That is why full power is
sought.
• • • •
Is it true that Commonwealth allowances
such as Child Endowment, widow’s pensions,
University allowances and so on will continue
after the war whether the new powers are
granted or not?
It is very doubtful. The legal posi-
tion is by no means clear. The only way to
make sure is to vote “Fes”
• • • •
Is it true that the housing problem can
be solved without Commonwealth planning
and assistance?
It IS falSßt By 1945 Australia will be
300,000 houses short. It would take 65,000
houses a year for the next 10 years to meet
the position. In 1938-39 the building in-
dustry turned out only about 40,000 dwell-
ings. That is why the Government asks for
powers to organise home-building and to see
that materials and labour are available.
• • • 9
Is it true that the Government’s plan for
full employment after the war involves in-
dustrial conscription?
It IS Utterly false. The Government
is rigorously opposed to industrial conscrip-
tion in peace-time.
Is it true that the new powers will enable
the Government to stifle private enterprise?
ft is false . Governmental avoidance of
a post-war slump will enable private enter-
prise to work to full capacity of production
and employment.
■• • • 9
Is it true that the referendum Is purely
a Party question?
It is definitely false. Representatives
of all parties and all States met at Canberra
in 1942 and unanimously agreed that the
new powers were essential to post-tcar recon-
struction*
• •
Is it true that a “Yes” majority will
commit Australia for all time?
NO. It is false, i, any Government
abuses the new powers you can withdraw
the movers in 5 short years.
VOTE
YES
Authorised by J. B. Chifley, M.H.R.; H. V. Evatt, M.H.R., Parliament House, Canberra.
RBS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy lon ldriess’s Cattle King. —3497.
To buy Ralph Parlette’s University of Hard
Knocks. —349B.
Information Sought.
Information on use of colchicine for plant
growing ?
The chemical induces the formation of poly-
ploids so that when a cell divides the cell wall
fails to form and the chromosomes of the two
cells combine in a single cell which contains
twice the number of chromosomes present in
the original cell. Water immersion of seeds,
sprays or lanolin pastes containing up to 4 p.c.
of colchicine have led to results which in a
few instances —for example, and
peppermint—have been commercialised.
* * * *
Simple rules for conducting a debate?
Opened by the first affirmative speaker, fol-
lowed by the first negative speaker, and so on
until six speakers have finished their construc-
tive speeches. These are followed by six
speeches whose purpose is to destroy the argu-
ments presented by opponents in t'heir construc-
tive speeches. Occasionally the last speaker
for each side is allowed extra time to sum up
his case. The order of speakers in the second
round (rebuttal) is reversed, the negative team
speaking first. The captain may change the
order of speakers in rebuttal if the chairman is
informed.
* * * *
Is the breeding of cats for their furs a com-
mercial proposition? Would inbreeding affect
the quality of the furs ? Cheap mixture for
breeding ?
Cat furs are worth only 2s. 6d. each, and this
would not offset the cost of feeding. Another
discouraging aspect is* that cats are very sus-
ceptible to feline enteritis and distemper, which
could wipe out 90 p.c. of the animals in one
outbreak. And there is the other aspect —cats
are pets. Inbreeding should not affect the furs.
The cats may be fed on biscuits, which should
include a meatrtieal content, and vegetables.
* * * *
Simple method of softening transparent
toothbrush handles so that they may be moulded
into ornaments?
Best way is to use acetone as a solvent. As
this is not now procurable, immerse in hot
water, which should soften the material suffi-
ciently.
* * * *
Brief biography of singer Joan Hammond ?
Ed. P.L.C.; studied violin and singing at
Sydney Con. and played with Sydney Philhar-
monic Orchestra for three years. Made first
public appearance as a singer in 1929 at Syd-
ney. Studied in Europe from 1936; made ope-
ratic debut in London in 1938 and in Vienna
in 1939. Winner of many golf championships.
* * * *
Why do newspapers often print French words
such as “communique” without the accent ?
As there is no provision for accents on type-
setting machines such as the linotype, they
must be hand-fed into the line. Operators
charge double rates for such lines because ol
the loss of time entailed, and therefore, and
because time is precious, such niceties are often
ignored.
Brief Answers.
J.S.C.: Signifies fate, destiny or doom
C. 8.: Would be necessary to go through
records of the AJ.C M.E.H.: Write to
the makers Übique: “Brisbane” will find
them J.G.: The charge was made through
mistaken orders... .S.C.: He was a civil servant
before entering politics... .G.R.: (1) The kelpie
was developed in N.S.W. about 1870 by cross-
ing the dingo with smooth-haired Scotch collies.
(2) By 1918 the Trans-Australian Railway had
cost £6,674,278, or £6349 per mile open
M.L.: Unable t'o find lines in Lawson’s
poems; doubt if he wrote them R.W.: Syd-
ney—Angus and Robertson, G.P.O. Box
1516 DD, and Collins Bros., G.P.O. Box 476 AA;
Melbourne —Robertson and Mullens, 107 Eliza-
beth-street H.T.: It is an old Quaker story
dating from earliest times of the sect.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
K.F.Y.: Good point poorly made... .H.C. :
Even in “King’s Cross’s sordid catacombs”
you can’t rhyme “born” with “dawn” and
“torch” with “debauch”... .R.C.F.: Persevere
with the fish but forget about Mars, Nero and
Samson C.W.J.: “I would like to know if
this potboiler is worth publishing.” We
don’t publish potboilers B.MacD.: Try
your hand at pars, or short stories W.C.:
Competent, but thin... .A.N.S.: Only Chinese
poets can get away with that sort of simplicity.
. ...V.M.: The usual thoughts expressed in the
usual words in the usual form J.E.M.: Not
only the army’s limitations are revealed....
J.McG.: Keep coming E.C.W.: Even though
it’s a translation, why not use the language
of your own time? Pope didn’t translate Homer
into Anglo-Saxon F.A.C.: “Ode to an
Odorous Sausage” fails to rise to the mag-
nificence of the theme K.D.E.: Parodies
need to be very g00d... .A.G.A.: No “doths.”
.. ..R.A.C.: Lonely hearts haven’t eyes to
watch the sea with... .H.C.P.: Turgid and
archaic C.M.: Might suit a daily N.M.:
A flicker in it C.M.: “She hid her smile
with labor.” Knowing, of course, that you
had to have a rhyme for “neighbor”
C.E.V.: Been reading Peter Quennell? ....
A.M.: Call again T.E.S.: You can’t make
a strong case in weak verse... .E.G.: Not bad
for a sleepless night, but you’ll need two or
three sleepless years before they’re publishable.
L.J.A.: The air’s like “wine” and the
willows “weep” and the she-oaks “sigh” and
the breeze “murmurs” —we know, we know.
M.A.B.: Avoid conversation with mush-
rooms 8.W.: “Is this piece of verse worth
a few bob?” A promise to stop writing about
the sunset might be... .V.C.L.: Not quite con-
vincing .. .P.F.: Ethel’s not the only one whose
icmcrimof. is “nnrtentous” M.R.: Try else-
whfre S . .M.F. P : Don’t try to’write short stories
with a m0ra1....T.H.N.: Why does he have a
“visage” instead of a face?... .M.T., J. 8.: No
trick endings... .J.E.: “I am rapidly approach-
ing a complete state of abject penury. When
you can say Im nearly broke something
might be done about it.... 0.C.M.: Passable
as the analysis of a state of mind, but not a
story.


B
Th
World folio
d
fa
9 I
t
IV S
n
m
■•O'
mm.
m.
w
m
-<?£<?■
W
r?-
:K«*
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank out-
standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have'con-
tributed more to peace than to war Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world, is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new prod ucts and i deas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0.,R.E.
The originator of the
Tank , raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
sttU pR l i sS
;« YW r
It 9 s your fight— YOUß money is
needed NOW.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
407 D-6.44
The Ten Commandos
By P. D. MANTLE.
THE girl—she was a blonde —put
down the plate in front of him. A
plate that was laden with steak, with
bacon, with eggs and a couple of
promising-looking sausages. The Corporal
smiled and slowly buttered his bread,
tantalising himself with expectation ...
Then someone squeezed his toe, whis-
pered his name —and he .was awake.
Awake and clear-headed, as men must be
who play hide-and-seek with an over-
whelming force of Japs in the hills of a
Pacific island.
“They’re coming, Corp. Up the valley.”
“They would. And I was dreaming I
was just going to have some real food.
Another five minutes and I’d’ve been
stuck into steak and eggs with all the
trimmings.” He pulled on a boot.
“Right, Bob. Wake the other blokes and
then get back and keep a watch out.”
He went on with his dressing—the
other boot, webbing, grenade pouch.
Moving shapes in the blackness were
other men doing the same. Nobody
spoke, nobody hurried. The Corporal
rolled his sleeping bag and pushed it into
the pack, did up the straps and shifted
his tin-hat from where it had been used
as a pillow. No fluster, no confusion.
Not much feeling really.
Funny how you got used to things.
When you’d done it a few times and
when you had no alternative. This
would be the umpteenth time they’d done
just this very thing—packed up and made
ready, sometimes night, sometimes day.
Packed up, handed over the gear to their
natives and either waited for the yellow-
bellies or gone out to meet them. Or
even got out before the Japs came if
there were too many of them and there
wasn’t a chance. Yes, some folk might
think that wasn’t so good—pulling out
and avoiding a scrap. But maybe they’d
never tried being one of a Guerrilla Com-
pany—a couple of hundred or so against
eight thousand Japs who were well sup-
plied and full of bounce.
But it paid. By cripes it paid. There
was one helluva lot of them would never
see Japan again, and Australian casualties
had been very small. Hit and run, that
was the game.
HE moved out of the Chinaman’s
shop in which they had been sleep-
ing and spoke to the man in the shadow.
“How are they now, Bob?”
“Still coming, Corp. See, down there,
you can see ’em moving. They’ve left
fires burning further down the valley.
The cheek of the swine ; they don’t care
if we know they’re after us.”
“No. Neither would I if we were seven
hundred against ten men. Hop inside,
Bob, and get packed. Send someone to
take your place. I’ll go and get the
boongs up.”
A short way down the hill was the hut
where the natives had bedded down for
the night. He stepped inside. There was a
tiny fire round which they all lay with
feet almost touching the flames. As
always, one black man was awake.
“Master?” said the man.
“Natives all, awaken.” He grabbed at
grubby toes and the men emerged grum-
bling into wakefulness. “Hear good, Japa-
nese many, come, low ground,” he
pointed to the valley. “When chicken
crow, Japanese bang-bang. Australie
bang-bang, kill a little, then go quickly
house Letin. First native man go, carry
goods. Understand?”
“Understand, Master,” they said.
“Good. Natives all go to Patron.”
The black men picked up their few
pitiful possessions—a wisp of rag, the
inevitable shoulder-basket of woven palm
—and followed him out into the darkness,
His own servant spoke softly to the Cor-
poral. “Japanese come, Master?”
“Yes.”
“Japanese no good.”
“No good.”
“Australie good, native man good.”
“Good.” His' answers were automatic.
Ritual answer that went with each men-
tion of the yellow foe.
Back in the darkness of the shop he
picked up his rifle. The natives went,
each one to his own particular boss.
Absence of light meant nothing to them.
Smell probably; a man was a bit ripe, and
the boongs know you same as a dog does.
They were moving out now, carrying
the packs. But Sammy had to say some-
thing to his servant, the apelike Mickarua.
“Understand, Mick,” he said, “soon I
come. Mick no have pack—boot plenty,
Mick cry-cry. Understand?”
“Understand, Tuan Sam.” And Mick’s
unlovely face split in what would have
been a smile on one less ugly, A black
and smelly hand touched the white
man’s shoulder caressingly. There was
something very close to worship in Mick’s
feelings for the man who was his em-
ployer by virtue of something over a
shilling paid in cash and the promise of
more if the white man should ever be paid
himself —a somewhat doubtful possibility.
Without orders the white men gathered
round the Corporal. Ten of them alto-
gether. Most were smoking in case they
had no opportunity later, using native
tobacco rolled in maize leaves, cured by
the simple process of chopping it up and
laying on mats in the sun for one whole
day. The local weed had been rudely
compared to other things by the soldiers.
But there were no cows on the island in
any case —so they had to smoke tobacco.
The Corporal spoke. “You were all
here when the 2 i/c came through this
afternoon. He told us that the Japs
would be here either tonight or to-
morrow and he reckons there are about
seven hundred of them. They probably
know we’re hqre. And even if they don’t
we haven’t a chance of holding the place.
Less than seven hundred rounds for one
thing. So we’ll do as Puggy told us —take
up a good possie, kill a few if they look
like they want shooting and then get out.
There’s going to be no V.Cs. this time.
As few risks as possible because the Loot
says he wants all the men he can get for
the bridge and landslide stunt next
Shoot the officers if you can. And keep
an ear cocked for when I give the word
to scram. Okey?”
“Okey.” They moved out. It was still
dark.
There was a nice spot on the far side
from where the Japs were coming. Nice
enough so long as they didn’t come round
the back way, too. And even that was likely.
A good track led away from the
village ; a horse track really, about two
feet wide. Down the hillside for a couple
of hundred yards, then a sharp turn right
and down agaiq. It led to the river, if
you got that far. And once across the
river a man should be right.
They waited.
FROM his position on the left flank
nearest to the village the Corporal
looked down the line of men —his men.
A good crowd. As good a crowd as any
man could hope to live with. 0r... or
do anything else with. They’d stay until
he gave the word to go, no matter how
hot the pace was. But this was to be only
a short affair. Might get a couple each
and then nick off before the Japs had
time to spot their positions.
A slight breeze blew, cool and clean,
on the backs of their sweated shirts. And
dawn followed behind, as though the
wind had swept away the blackness of the
night. And with the dawn came the enemy.
From a small hill to the left there
floated a Very light. For a second it
seemed to hang in the sky, brilliant in its
redness. Then the noise began. Mortars,
machine-guns, automatics, rifles the
whole bag of tricks. Nip was having a
field day.
It was wild, indiscriminate fire, noisy
but killing no one. And so far not a
Jap to be seen. All apparently on the
far side of the hill. But each Australian
was watching and ready to kill.
A Jap appeared on the skyline. “Hold
it,” croaked the Corporal, well knowing
that the man would be follower by others.
And the others came —about fifty of
them. Firing into native huts and
Chinese shops, seemingly boosting up
their own spirits by sheer volume of
fire. Australians cuddled their guns
and rifles, waiting for the order that
would send solid lead in compact death.
“Fire!”
Japs slumped screaming to the ground.
Japs died mute. Japs ran forward firing
wildly ; Japs turned tail in flight. And
still the defenders shot steadily until no
enemy lived that could be seen.
A mortar bomb swished down in front
of them and a machine-gun fired on a
range just ninety yards short. From be-
yond effective rifle reach, captured


Into Action. Man-power for blades is strictly
limited. Therefore you must take even greater care
of your Gillette “ Standard ” than. you did of
the Blue Gillette or the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. Do this and they will give you the best
shave you can buy. If you find them a little
difficult to get, don’t blame your retailer —remember
the restricted output.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
P.t.ZS.K
LOAN
WAR
War-time creates shortages.
Take care of your Feltex
and invest in
Commonwealth War Loans.
Felt and Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Floor Coverings
Vickers guns pattered viciously. Time
to go, thought the Corporal. There was
no fun in being target for long-range
enemy fire when you couldn’t collect
any more scalps yourself. A line of
bullets chopped the ground to their right.
“We’re off,” yelled the Corporal. And
immediately the right flank man was
away down the hill with a hundred
yards to go before a turn in the track
gave a few seconds of cover.
There was no crowding. One by one
the men peeled off and belted down the
slope. At the end of the line the Cor-
poral took one long, chancy shot at a
distant figure ; missed ; slung his rifle and
followed his men.
Above the bend in the track bullets
were chopping down leaves from the
rubber-trees. Crouching as they ran, the
men skidded around the corner.
Hell — it raced through the Corporal’s
mind — just missing the boys now. He’ll
have his aim by the time I get there.
His rifle slipped and he caught it
near the ground. Tin-hat dropped off,
bounced, and he grabbed it as he ran.
Bullets were chopping lower in the trees.
Hell, I’ll be there in time to cop it.
In the back, too. Did it hurt much?
Oh, Jesus!
Hugging the bank he fell round the
corner just as a bullet burned his shirt
sleeve. Ahead were the boys, strung out in
racing line. All there, too, by the look of it.-
A furrow of bullets chopped the track
in front: Someone rose like a bird,
almost sailing over the danger section.
Young Stinks it was, running like a hare.
The man behind him veered to the left,
leaving the track for the comparative
safety of the coffee plantation. The next
man followed him, the two behind, and
then the Corporal.
P'S OWN the greasy mountainside, hang-
J—' ing on to the thin, green coffee-
trees ; hanging to rocks and clumps of
weed to keep their balance. Jap mortars
were getting the range now. A. whistle,
a crump, and the whine of torn metal.
Heavy machine-guns were spraying
lavishly among the trees to search them
out. The five men slipped and slithered
in the slime. Suddenly the front man dis-
appeared.
That was Tom, Tom Phillips. Was
he outed?, thought the Corporal. How
badly was he hit? Have to get him out if
he was still alive. The Corporal pushed
on faster. The next man had stopped
at where Tom was last seen. Stopped
and crouched down. The others crowded
up. And then he saw.
Not a man dead or wounded —but a
break in the ground that went straight
down for thirty feet. A sheer drop with
no footholds. And there at the bottom
was Tom Phillips, spitting out grass and
profanity.
“You hurt, Tom?”
“No, I’m right. But, cripes, did I get
a fright! Never saw it coming and over
I went. Nearly lobbed on that bloody
rock, too.”
They laughed, the weak laugh of re-
lief that is tinged with fear.
The Corporal looked around to see a
bursting mortar bomb splash tattered
palm leaves a hundred yards away. No
good going backwards. To the right was
open ground ; to the left would leave
them skylined and sitting shots. Forward
seemed the only way ; and forward meant
over the edge.
“We’re in a jam, boys,” he said. “Back
or sideways is no good. We’ll just have
to take the drop. Trust in God and
keep your powder dry. Any more for
the Big Dipper?” He was speaking fast
to stop his stomach from wobbling.
“Look out, Tom, I’m chucking my tin-
hat down.” He slung his rifle, grabbed
a tree before he had time to think too
hard, dangled his legs over and let go.
Uuuh. God! Oh, God! Air seemed to
rush through his stomach. And —he was
down. Collapsing as soon as the ground
touched his feet, he rolled over. The
knob of his rifle bolt dug hard into his
side. His neck jerked; his right leg was
jarring and on fire. But nothing felt
broken. He raised himself slightly. Felt
all right. Stood up, moved, smiled a
sickly smile.
He tried to be funny. “Come on in,
boys, the water’s fine.” But his voice had
shrunk to a croak.
The next tin-hat came clanking down.
He stood clear and watched as Bob took
the drop, and Danny, and Slim. Danny
was swearing tonelessly and gloomily
inspecting a three-inch cut in his leg.
Someone said “What about a smoke,
Corp.? Reckon we’ve earned it. If we
can survive a jump like that they’re not
in the race to hit us with bullets. Any-
how, we’re pretty safe here close in to
the bank. Me tongue’s hanging out for
the good old makings.
“Yes,” said the Corporal, and reached
m his >5 back pocket for the palm leaf
“tarka” they all used for tobacco when
their leather pouches had rotted away.
Slim struck a match and they all lit
up from his smoke. Each man was trying
to make his cigarette last, postponing as
long as possible whatever lay ahead.
Eventually the Corporal stood up and
buckled on his webbing. “We’re on our
way, boys.”
THE firing was still going on, though
less fiercely, and none of it seemed
to be directed at the little party wending
its way through the rubber-trees and
coffee plantation. Past an empty native
village they went, down another horse
track till they sighted the crude wooden
bridge that crossed the river.
The Corporal felt a great relief. Once
across the river they should be pretty
right. Straightforward going from there
—uphill to Letin —should be well out oi
range. Nothing •to it, just a pleasant
Sunday stroll.
And —by cripes—it was Sunday. That’s
right. Three days ago had been market
day, Thursday. The young man smiled
to himself. What would he be doing now
if he were back home? Half past nine
on Sunday morning. Still in bed prob-
ably. Or maybe all dolled up, best suit,
shoes nice and shiny, no beard, and hair
slicked back with brilliantine. Off to
church with Mum and young Alf. Alf’d
be getting quite a size by now. Must be
getting on for
He froze. Behind him each man had
heard the same sound ahead. No orders
were needed. Each man unslung his
weapon and blended with the shadows.
Their hearts were thumping as they
listened to the noise of movement in the
trees. Slowly they brought their sights
in line, fingers whitened as they squeezed
just slightly on the triggers.
A tangle of scrub parted and a man
stepped out on to the track. Their hearts
pounded. But nobody fired. And a moment
later they were all on the track to greet
the Australians emerging from the trees.
“Cripes, you gave us a fright,” said
Slim, punching his mate Joe in the ribs.
“We thought you was bloody Yip-yaps
and were just going to let you have it.” .
“Thought you blokes were gone,” said
the Lancejack. “We missed you further
back and reckoned you must have copped
it. And me thinking I was going to be a
corporal. How’s a man’s luck! ”
They crossed the bridge and started up
the hill. No hurry now, not much danger.
Another hour and they’d be at Letin —
a real house, maybe some maize flour,
perhaps some eggs if there were any
boongs still living round that way. Some-
one began to sing, a vulgar version in
the native tongue of a song that mis-
guided ladies sing to troops in camps to
their secret amusement.
They plodded on.
NEAR the summit they rested before
the last stage of the journey. Sud-
denly there was a whistle overhead.
They looked at each other —but nobody
knew the answer. Then a distant crump
told them. The Japs were shelling.
They crouched into the bank and
waited. Another whistle, another crump
—yes, it was one of their field guns that
they used to carry in sections on the backs
of horses. And the target was Letin.
Bob groaned. “Gee, the rotten swine.
I was through Letin a week ago and
there’s a beaut bed there, made of canvas
that I was going to glom on to. And now
I suppose they’ll bash it to bits. Some
cooking pots, too, in the kitchen at the
back.”
“Heck, what about the boongs?
They’ll be there by now. I hope the poor
cows don’t cop it.”
“Not likely,” said the Corporal.
“They’d hardly get a direct hit first up,
and the boongs’d be off as soon as they
heard the bang. They’d probably make
for the village down towards the other
river. We’ll veer off to the right and
make straight for there.”
The shelling was still going on as they
changed direction. Lunchtime came and
went as they plodded on. Then in the
distance they saw a group of natives.
It was their servants, and they came run-
ning down to the white men, laughing,
sobbing and talking, sniggering to them-
selves and smiling with relief. The
Corporal’s boy Morehoarder kissed his
hand —to the young man’s great shame.
“Oh, Master, Master. Morehoarder
think Master dead. Think all Japanese
come bang-bang kill Master.”
“No, Morehoarder —no dead. The
Japanese not able. Some Japanese dead,
Australie all alive. Want food, much food.
Make, arrange, much food. Good?”
“Good, Master,” and the old fellow ran
away towards the village.
It was only maize—old maize, hard
and weevily; but a long drink of coffee
did them all good.
The petty chief of the village was de-
lighted to see them. By some means of
bush telegraph he knew what had hap-
pened, knew that the ten of them had
escaped after killing about thirty Japs,
knew even about their jump in the coffee
plantation.. He gave them the best hut
in the village to sleep in and, knowing
the peculiar taste for cleanliness of the
white man, turned out the five pigs and
three chickens which normally shared
the hut with the owners.
"THANKFULLY the Corporal crawled
' into his sleeping bag and forgot the
war. He dreamed that he was in a tram
—going home. Got out at the corner,
walked past the kids’ playground, past
the Wilsons’ house, past the place with
the loud wireless ...
Morehoarder was shaking him.
“Master, Japanese come. Japanese.”
Slim was grumbling in the darkness.
“A bit consistent, aren’t they, the bas-
tards? I’m getting jack of this. I’ve got
a sister in the A.W.A.S. Think I’ll get
her to claim me.”


Making or
Altering yonr Will
The truly provident man will see to it that those dependent on him receive
the full benefit of his estate, be it large or small. That is his first duty, but
because “all men think all men mortal but themselves,” the temptation to
postpone the making of a will is great.
The Ideal Trustee*
See that your will is correctly drawn,
and be sure your Executors are com-
petent and worthy of your trust.
The ideal Trustee possesses adequate
legal knowledge, is experienced in
regard to investments, is impartial,
and is always at your disposal. Such
a combination is represented by the
Union Trustee Company, established
nearly 60 years ago to meet this.need.
Wliat is a Codicil ?
And remember —if after having
made your will you wish to take
advantage of Union Trustee service,
all that is necessary is to add a short
‘codicil.
A codicil is a supplement to a will,
containing anything which the
testator may desire to add to the
original document, or any alteration
he may wish to make.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8., C.8.E.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larritt
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll. •
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman'
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman)
Roy M, Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust,); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager: C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at' lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK,- Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref.*
May,- Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 p.c. = 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 34ftO 8£ „ „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 56,213
]938. . 46.464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 ~ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30,859 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 26,377
1944.. 31,241 3100 7| „ „ 25,371 23,607
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
Considering the difficulties it has been
up against, Meggitts, largest manufac-
turer of linseed oil and cake in the Com-
monwealth, has put up a creditable per-
formance. The contraction in net earn-
ings, which averaged £34,519 over the last
five years as against an average of £42,246
for the preceding quinquennium, has been
due mainly to the rise in taxation and
other costs, especially the cost of linseed,
and difficulty in obtaining Government
consent to lift the selling price of linseed
oil in order to partly cover the rise in
landed cost of the seed.
The seed, chief raw material, used to
be imported from India and South
America. Owing to exchange and ship-
ping difficulties, India has been chief
source of supply since war began, and
remains so. Attempts to replace im-
ported with locally-grown seed have not
yet met with the success desired, owing
mainly to the effect of climatic condi-
tions on qftality and to the caterpillar
pest. The co. has also encouraged flax-
growing in Australia by purchase of flax-
seed, though its quality as a source of
oil is not to be compared with Indian
linseed. The Government now imports
the whole of Australia’s requirements of
linseed, having suspended the co.’s license
to do so in Oct. last, and since then nor-
mal shipments have not been forthcoming.
One effect has been to increase the cost
of producing oil and meal,' but the full
effects of this have not yet been felt.
For many. years the problem was to
find a market for the oil, a ton of which
is produced for every two tons of cake.
The way out was found about 16 years
ago, when the management induced
Michael Nairn and Co., the Scottish lino,
people, to set up here, and then made
arrangements with Blundell Spence, of
Hull (Eng.), to use that co.’s trade-marks.
War greatly stimulated demand for the
oil, and defence and essential industry
orders now account for most of the turn-
over in this section of the business. Also,
chemical difficulties associated with refin-
ing have been overcome, and more than
53 p.c. of the co.’s outturn of oil is
marketed in refined forms. Further,
many chemical products which in pre-
war days the co. used to import from
Germany and other European countries
are now produced locally. Thus has the
co. strengthened its technical position and
goodwill, which should mean much in
post-war markets.
There has always been a strong demand
for the cake as meal and sheep nuts,
thanks to a vigorous campaign to educate
buyers and diligent attention to growing
economic needs. As stock food, the meal
and nuts improve growers’ wool, mutton
and beef production, as- well as increase
the supply of milk and enrich butterfats
for dairymen.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co.’s three mills
Parramatta (N.S.W.), South Kensington
(Vic.) and Adelaide (S. Aus.)—were fully
occupied. After allowing £13,310 (down
£93) for depreciation, providing some-
thing for taxation and sending £3OOO
(same as for previous year) to the
staff fund, the board figured net
earnings a shade better than the
preceding year’s at £31,241. The div.
remained at 7} p.c. all round —that is
the minimum rate applicable to the 10
p.c. cum. prefs. under the now outmoded
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act. The
£2770 that remained reduced the excess
of goodwill (£115,748, not treated as an
asset herein) over general reserves to
£23,607. In addition there is a deprecia-
tion reserve of £125,530 (up £12,776),
which is now substantial in relation to
fixed assets.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
, 1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
laid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £36J,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 78,022 176,524 360,281 127,805
Deprec. reserve 64,639 87,874 112,754 125,530
Premises .. 85,988 98,524 99,826 99,873
Plant. . . . 129,890 140,988 145,546 144,937
Stocks . . 134,546 198,754 273,397 132,299
Book debts . . 57,300 70,461 94,164 85,990
Cash, etc. .. 83,356 123,227 230,331 166,233
The reduction last term of £141,098 in
stocks and of £232,476 in outside liabili-
ties reflects cancellation of the co.’s
license to import (drafts for linseed ship-
ments were £226,737 lighter at £62,543)
and the delay in shipments already
referred to. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£256,717)
was £19,106.
As for the future, chief danger lies in
meddlesome bureaucratic interference in
the domestic affairs of trade and industry.
Such interference is a form of parasitism,
which, in the long run, can only slow up
progress and the benefits that go with it.
William Adams and Co.
r— Dividends N
, , Pref. To-Re-
Apnl, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 932 Nil Nil 932 19,260
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
_ Reserves.
Capital written off, £22,500 .. .. 11,527
Apparent adjustment book values,
£H,176 351
1936.. 22,031 7820 f 3 p.c. = 4,687 9,523 9,874
6.56 p.c.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.56„ „ 10,313 16,394 26,268
7 p.c.
1938.. 34,389 1750 10.1 „ „ 15,938 16,701 42,969
1939.. 34,068 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,389 7,929 50,898
1940.. 34,270 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,791 7,729 58,627
1941.. 21,767 1750 10.1 ~ ~ 24,792 53,852
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 13,653 67,505
1943.. 40,094 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,552 81,057
1944.. 40,449 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,907 94,964
t 5i years.
This co. is in the engineering and elec-
trical supplies trade, and has been ever
since it took over in 1912 the original
William Adams co., which set up in 1898
with eight shareholders and a capital of
£30,000. Lubricants and various hard-
ware lines are now handled as well. Head-
quarters is at Sydney, there are branches
in all mainland States and a subsidiary
in London.
After collapse of the boom which fol-
lowed World War I, the engineering
and ancillary trades had to face a com-
bination of high costs and severe com-
petition from cheap-labor countries.
Then, as the 1920’s drew to a close and
slump was ushered in, many traders had
to work down stocks and debtors’
balances on a falling market in order to
lighten the amount coming to trade credi-
tors. Thus, after cancelling £45,000 of
paid capital in 1923, this co.’s ords. were
shown an empty basket for the five years
after 1930, and payments to the prefs.
fell behind. So another cut (£22,500)
was made in capital in 1935. The story
since has been one of progress, and for
the last seven years the ords. have had
a steady 10.1 p.c. p.a., with satisfactory
margins.
War brought new and strong demands,
and with them expanding turnover.
Mobilisation and mechanisation of the
forces gave the co.’s stocks and overseas
connections a new importance, the busi-
ness was declared a protected undertak-
ing and ordinary civilian trade shrank to
a small fraction of what it used to be.
Supplies from both U.K. and U.S. sources
continued to come forward in satisfactory
volume, owing to the high war-time prior-
ity of lines handled. So, despite lifts in
taxation, wages and other costs, net earn-
ings also received a nice lift. The figures
for the last three years are easily the best
in the co.’s history. What needs to be
remembered is that they are mainly the
outcome of exceptional and temporary
factors.
After allowing £5683 (down £1367) for
depreciation and something for the tax-
gatherer and other contingencies, and in-
cluding £4lO dropped from somewhere
into the insurance reserve (£3267), last
term’s net result was put at £40,449 (up
£355). That was sufficient to pay the
prefs. their 7 p.c. and show 15.7 p.c. on
the £245,000 of ord. capital as against
15.6, 15.6, 8.1, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c. back
to 1939. The div. remained steady, leav-
ing £13,907 for reserves, lifting them to
£94,964. Uncertainties of trading under
present conditions and the obscure post-
war position made this advisable, the
chairman says.
The financial position improved:
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £182,500 £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Liabilities .. 270,287 167,614 215,087 224,457
Freeholds .. 109,085 109,085 116,999 116,999
Plant, etc. . . 21,506 22,789 17,619 14 05°
Stocks . . 196,508 171,004 222,490 246,765
Book debts . . 168,859 195,890 202,290 204,554
Cash, shares, etc. 10,245 19,166 23,860 20,519
Including stocks (up £24,275), the year's
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
(£247,381) was £13,828. When the books
closed there was 13s. 3d. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders as
against 235. lid. six years earlier.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business nobody can say at the moment.
Complete switchover to civilian trade
need not be looked for until Japan, as
well as Hitlerite Germany, has been de-
feated ; and the road to Tokyo might
prove longer than the road to Berlin. As
demands on war account ease they will
be replaced, or partly replaced, by new
demands to meet famished civilian needs.
Much will then depend upon the nature
and extent of Government control and
interference, and upon the level of costs
and course of competition, which prom-
ises to be keen.
Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1936.. 9,904 8 p.c. = 3,331 6,573 19,942
1937.. 8,194 8 „ „ 3,331 4,863 24,805
Surplus sale electrical undertaking:, £7500 32,305
1938.. 12,330 11.1 p.c. = 4,626 7,704 40,009
1939.. 9,044 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,418 44,427
1940.. 9,597 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 55,614
1942.. 13,875 16.7 ~ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
1943.. 11,037 13.9 „ ~ 7,710 3,327 63,563
1944.. 11,744 13.9 „ „ 7,710 4,034 67,597
War provided this 21-year-old manufac-
turer of knitted goods, etc., with fresh
opportunities, of which the management
has the most. In a commendable
effort to decentralise manufacture of
woollen goods, rural investors set the co.
on its feet in the early 1920’5. That was
when prices for land, building, plant and
equipment were at their highest; and
competition from old-established and
other manufacturers in the metropolis,
operating on a lower costs basis, made it
very difficult to trade at a profit.
In 1931 the business was reorganised,
the deadwood was pruned out of the
accounts, and 11s. per share was lopped
off capital, both prefs. and ords. After
that shareholders got regular and satis-
factory returns on their reduced capital,
more was set aside than was distributed,
and a lot of attention was given to plant,
the chief earning asset.
With war came increasing demands
for service requirements, and plant was
speeded up to capacity or thereabouts.
Hence net earnings over the last four
years have averaged £13,031, or £3240
more than the average for the four pre-
ceding terms. This despite narrower mar-
gins on defence contracts, rationing of
civilian trade, price control, labor diffi-
culties, and the rise in taxation and costs
generally. Also, the associated co., Inter-
lock Hosiery, at Clunes, is making satis-
factory progress, and last term a sewing-
room annex was set up in the near-by
town of Dunolly.
Last term turnover reached record
limits, both in physical volume and value.
Gross earnings stepped up £2075:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Gross earnings .. £31,017 £56,953 £38,487 £40,562
Exes 21,420 43,078 27,450 28,818
Including £lOOO (same as previous term)
sent to staff fund and an unspecified
allowance for taxation, exes, took £1368
of the increase. That left the net result
(up £707) at 21.1 p.c. on capital as against
19.9, 25, 27.8, 17.2 and 16.2 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was kept at 13.9 p.c.,
worth less than half that rate on capital
as it stood before the 1931 cut.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
19 40. 194 2. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. . . £41,636 £55,515 £55,515 £00,510
Liabilities* .. 34,091 37,034 35,595 21,(4,
Freeholds .. .. 13,815 13,265 13,241 13,573
Plant, etc. .. 21,696 21,598 18,300 15, ,43
Debtors .. .. 25,3 5 3 2 2,825 19,656 32,309
Stock .. .. 66,329 97,833 104,206 52,4d0
Shares .. .. 3,000 3,00 0 3,00 0 3,000
Cash, etc... .. 558 6,517. 7,931 10, -
including tax provision.
Last term a contraction of £21,806 m
stocks was accompanied by a growth ot


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 In Reign of George IJI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
STOPvoupßupture
Worries/
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 day*'
tree trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
<l>ept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
o
D 3
Legal Notices.
IN the Estate of CORNELIUS JOHN DAVEY late
nf in the State of New South Wales De
ceased Intertate.-LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION
of whose estate were granted by the Supreme Coiirt
nf New South Wales on the Twenty-eighth day of
September 1939 PURSUANT to the Wills Probate
and Administration Act 1938-1940 Testator s Family
Maintenance and Guardianship of Infante Act 1916-
1938 and Trustee Act 1925-1942 the 1 LBLIC TRUS
TEE the administrator of the estate of the said
Cornelius John Davey who died on the Fifteenth day
of May 1938 hereby gives notice that creditors and
others having any claim against or to the estate ot
the said deceased are required to send particulars
of their claims to the said Public Trustee at
his office Number 19 O’Connell Street Sydney New
South Wales on or before the Fourteenth day ot
October 1944 at the expiration of which time the
said Public Trustee will distribute the assets of the
said deceased to the persons entitled having regard
only to the claims of which he then has notice. —
W B. GEDDES, Public Trustee.
LEONARD, GIBSON & HELSHAM, Proctors, 350
George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL TERRITORY, NEW GUINEA. — Probate
Jurisdiction.
IN the Will of ALEXANDER ANDERSQN COONEY
late of Wan in the Territory of New Guinea, and
formerly of Concord near Sydney in the State of
New South Wales Carpenter deceased. —Application
will be made after 14 days from the publication
hereof that probate of the will of the abovenamed
deceased granted by the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Probate Jurisdiction on the First
day of December One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one to ANNIE COONEY may be sealed with the
Seal of this Honorable Court and all persons having
any claim against the said Estate are required to
forward particulars thereof to the undersigned
within the said period and all notices may be served
at the undermentioned address.
DAVIES AND WOODS, Proctors for,the Applicant,
■Northbouriie Avenue, City, Canberra.'
<k 6
7/a
I
3£<J D’uia-F'iee
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
< INCORPORATED IH EM6LAHO)
Ruwol
■■ y. '. ' y
i 'm
'
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
ClfaM-ES HUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Bicfcsaond, El
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
£12,653 in debtors’ balances and a reduc-
tion of £13,848 in outside liabilities, which
include an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£106,5-)/)
was £7259.
As for the future, the chairman says
prices fixed lor the co.’s goods are much
below the approved distribution prices of
similar garments produced by metropoli-
tan manufacturers.... Present approved
prices are such that the co.’s profits must
substantially decrease in the event of any
decline in sales or variation in the exist-
ing ratio of defence and civilian sales.
Much, of course, will depend upon the
nature and extent of Government inter-
ference. A development foreshadowed
by the Director-General of Post-war
Reconstruction is production, under
Government contract, of large quantities
of standardised goods in general use, of
satisfactory quality and price, for sale
on the open market. Precisely what this
means manufacturers and others are left
to guess at for the moment. All that can
be said definitely is that as a practical
suggestion the idea is full of crippling
possibilities for private enterprise.
Austral Oil Drilling Syndicate, N.L.
For the 12 months to the end of Feb-
ruary last, this Melbourne co., operating
at Lakes Entrance (Vic.), added £2605
to development account (now £31,260),
making total intangibles £32,775. Plant,
freehold, lease, etc., stood in the books at
£13,884. Cash (£4495, stores, etc. (£212),
and claims against Commonwealth Gov-
ernment (£2744), less provision for con-
tingencies (£1300), together figure at
£6154. There was £1574 coming to trade
creditors, and £1238 (to be repaid out of
profits) to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Paid capital is £49,998.
The shaft is down 740 ft., and cemented
to 712 ft. Negotiations for supply of
horizontal drilling equipment from U.S.A.
are “still taking place.” In suggesting
horizontal drilling radially from a central
shaft at 1200 ft. vertical, American experts
Fairbanks and Ranney regarded the Gipps-
land field as a source not of petroleum
but of good-quality lubricating oil. They
predicted production of 1,160,000 barrels
from the 400 acres selected. An Ameri-
can report to Department of Supply on
a 44-gallon drum of crude from the co.’s
shaft was that the stuff would respond
readily to cracking to produce high-octane
gasoline and low-sulphur-content bunker
oil. It is considered that a cracking plant
would not be justified unless production
could be brought to and maintained near
1000 barrels a day.
The co. has been anxious to implement
the Fairbanks-Ranney report, but under
National Security (Minerals) Regulations
(1) direction of the project passed to the
Controller of Minerals Production, (2)
Government reserves an option to pur-
chase the undertaking outright for
£25,000 —co. claims to have spent over
£40,000, and its predecessors £160,000 —
and (3) co. is offered an equity of one-
seventh in net earnings, subject to re-
vision if capital expenditure exceeds
£150,000. Better treatment might have
been expected, all things considered.
Claims against Commonwealth Govern-
ment referred to relate to a writ recently
issued by the co. against the Common-
wealth for reimbursement of sums spent
by the co. allegedly on behalf of the
Government.
For the year to the end of September
last Burma Corp. recorded a net loss of
£15,400, compared with a profit of
£93,267 for the preceding 15 months. In-
cluding cash and investments (£1,837,400),
free assets amount to £1,867,900 in a
balance-sheet total of £10,567,800. The
difference is the book value of assets
that fell into enemy hands when the Jap
invaded Burma. Operations ceased in
April, 1942, and the property was evacu-
ated. The mines, an ancient silver-lead-
zinc and copper group, are at Bawdwin,
Federated Shan States (Upper Burma),
about 60 miles from the frontier of
Yunan province (China). Equipment con-
sisted of a 1000-ton-a-day mill, five blast
furnaces, necessary sintering and con-
centrating plants and refinery. There
was a smeltery at Namtu, 13 miles away,
and hydro-electric plants at Mansam and
Konnyaung. From the shareholder s
point of view, most satisfactory feature
is that the co. is well equipped to mark
time until the properties are recovered
and the vital questions of compensation
and reconstruction are settled. P. E.
Marmion is chairman and also joint-man-
aging director with W. S. Robinson.
* * * *
Field inspection and historical re-
search by Government geologists lead to
the conclusion that prospects of wide and
satisfactory commercial deposits of
copper in the andesites at Dotswood
(N.Q.) have been overestimated from be-
ginning to end of a lengthy prospecting
period, which started about the com-
mencement of this century. After 40 years
of exposure no trace of copper staining
was found in some of the larger dumps.
Where copper staining was observed it
was always associated with siliceous
material containing epidote or with quartz
in the form of veinlets. Pyrite was ob-
served in some of the hard andesites, but
.tests proved it to be non-cupiferous. It
is considered that the idea of the country
rock being copper-bearing could have
originated from local impregnation at
some points with copper leached from
the epidote-quartz mineralisation.
Following table illustrates the decline
in Westralian gold production:
1942. 1943. 1944.
Fine Oz. Fine Oz. Fino' Oz.
January . . . . 70,088 52,952 36,708
February .. .. 66,275 47,189 33,176
March . . . . 75,101 44,381 38,550
April . . . . 78,810 45,834 26,757
May . . . . 74,861 43,420 37,708
Totals . . . . 365,135 233,776 172,899
Total for the first five months of 1944 is
only 74 p.c. of the figure for the corre-
sponding period of 1943. Total produc-
tion for the 12 months of 1943 and 1942
was 540,067 fine ounces and 832,504 fine
ounces respectively. The woodcutters’
strike in February and March last affected
output of mines on the Kalgoorlie field,
where over five weeks’ working time was
lost in many cases.


m
When /
baby' Comes .
When baby comes it is necessary for the nursing
mother to have additional nourishment so as
to provide for the needs of her child. From
the delicious combination cff eggs, full-cream
milk, barley malt and chocolate in Cadbury’s
Bourn-vita, the nursing mother will acquire
extra nutriment and thus assist lactation. The
malt in Bourn-vita is particularly rich in
"diastase”—a natural digestive—which lightens
the burden that is placed on the digestive
system of a nursing mother. Bourn-vita also
provides her with additional calcium necessary
to the teeth and bone formation of her child,
and helps to protect her own teeth from decay.
Cadbury’s Bourn-vita is quickly prepared and
when taken at bedtime soothes the nerves and
induces the deep refreshing sleep that means so
much to nursing mothers.
:*« ici
•®©t> Df)i>«r
BOURN-VITA
at bedtime
8VP3.18
Hr
S Jkr.in
m
E p=
SO
Battle is the testing
ground for the researches of war-time labora-
tories . . . among them those of Stromberg-Carlson, as
suppliers of communications equipment keyed to
commando conditions.
From their war-time experience, Stromberg-Carlson will
evolve post-war radio products that will be an achieve-
ment as distinguished as their war production record.
Post-war, too . . . there will be nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson.
STROMBERG-CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia.
SO Years of Communicafion Engineering
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
J
' i\
&
M
■ -7
sXS
wm
.s
Mi\W
n
/ •
AIRBORNE SUPPLIES
WRAPPED IN
S 1 S A LKRAFT
“Manna from Heaven” is a literal l»ct in forward
areas, where anxious eyes scan the blue for'plane*
that drop parachutes laden with food, medicine
and vital appliances wrapped in SISALKRAFT.
SISALKRAFT is a water-proof, damp-proof, pli-
able wrapping material practically untearable
—a perfect protection, in fact, for all military
supplies.
This use of SISALKRAFT will not end with the
cessation of hostilities, for the severe tests of
today will ensure its recognition in peace-time as
a most efficient and protective wrapping material.
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams k Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Lottos Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co, Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty,. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
&sasa*sgg
-
m
m
<V"
,
m
m
‘JSsefc**
m
i
«Y
* egnt ” t Cpe aCe9t
g oW^ e ,n j c aW° nS ‘ nuar ter °
W. C-" 1 ”" . v „t »«»•’? *.tt, f e»«
-qiitb a vis*°* t be E«*P IC fcoß wa-
,he *
out u^ a Ration.
flS
AIRWAYS
HtMPifff
WlP>
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE : TOWNSVILLE
ALL OUT TO WIN—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The U.S. Mid-Pacific
Command did not wait until Guam was
subdued before attacking the intermediate
islands. On July 18 troops of hte Second
and Fourth Marine divisions went ashore
on Tinian, which lies within gunfire range
of Saipan’s southern shores, as U.S. land-
ing parties had reason to know during the
first landings south of Garapan.
Tinian is a fruitful isle, hilly and full
of tropical vegetation. Though only 20
square miles in area, it held considerable
herds of wild cattle a few years ago. At
its greatest width the island is about five
miles across and its length is an extreme
10 miles, so that it was possible to bring
the whole of it within artillery range from
the beginning.
There had originally been two airfields,
both immobilised *by bombing and
heavy-gun fire on the first day of the
Saipan landing. Much of the standing
sugar and other vegetation had been
burned off by incendiary bombs.
Beachheads were quickly established
against light enemy resistance. The
broadening of this foothold continued
during the next few days. By July 26 it
was reported that counter-attacks had
been broken, and that the landing de-
tachments, supported by heavy artillery
and naval fire, had pushed halfway across
the island. By the next day the whole
northern quarter was in American hands.
On July 28 still more of the island had
been occupied, and it was only a matter
of time before all of it would be taken.
The Japanese position was hopeless. Ushi
aerodrome was in Allied hands.
Nevertheless the main action had not
been fought. The Japanese were moving
slowly rearward with the bulk of their
garrison, apparently hoping that they
would be able to establish themselves in
the high hill country of the south-east
and sell their lives at a maximum price.
Up to July 28 the Marines had lost 159
killed, 441 wounded and 62 missing,
against 2089 counted enemy dead.
Sumay Falls
On Guam grim fighting continued. It
is full-scale battle, not so intensive as
in Normandy, but tough enough.
The naval bombardment was described
as the heaviest in the Pacific during the
whole period of the war. Tanks and
reinforcements poured ashore under
naval cover, which included that from the
batteries of 16in.-gun ships.
By the middle of the week the two
original beachheads on the western side
of the island had become one, and num-
bers of the enemy were cut off in the
Orote Peninsula, which projects from the
western coast south-west of Agana like
a small handle. On the night of July 25
they tried to break out. They failed,
after losing 12 tanks and 400 men.
Bitter fighting went on, especially dur-
ing the nights, which the Japanese favor
for their counter-attacks. There was little
chance of rest, though all the advantage
is with the Americans, who have rein-
forcements and support from sea and
air, while their opponents were fighting
the kind of battle which has become
routine with them —an engagement in
which they have to be winkled out of
foxholes and caves, taken one at a time,
mostly at some cost in casualties.
Towards the week-end the contest for
the Orote Peninsula reached its crisis.
Japanese resistance was broken at the
usual point—when the defenders had
wiped themselves out in the horror of
wild counter-attacks which could have
only one ending. This is a sort of mass
hara-kiri rather than defence. Scarcity of
water bothered the Americans.
The fighting was mainly in the north-
ern beach area along the deeply indented
Port Apra. It cost the enemy about 2000
men, bringing his casualties up to 4700
killed, Sumay, the town of the peninsula,
and its extensive aerodrome were cap-
tured and Port Apra came under control.
Agana, the principal town of Guam,
seemed to be within the American grasp.
From Mukden to Bougainville
Restless activity continued all over the
vast expanse of the Middle and Northern
Pacific. The Japanese reported persistent
raiding of Palau by 400 bombers.
On July 26 a Japanese communique
declared that Allied units, several cruisers,
destroyers and submarines had ap-
proached the Sabang base, off the north-
western tip of Sumatra, and had bom-
barded ground installations, while 20 car-
rier-based aircraft carried out a raid.
Tokyo declared hesitatingly that “the
enemy” had been “repulsed” and had
“had a severe lesson.”
We sank two of his destroyers and one
submarine and damaged another destroyer.
We shot down most of his ’planes. His
attack ended in flight.
Lord Mountbatten’s version differed.
A special communique from Kandy told
that on June 25, before dawn, three
British destroyers and a Netherlands
cruiser worked themselves right into
Sabang Harbor and blew the foreshore
installations to pieces, while a squadron
of battleships and cruisers, backed by
aircraft-carriers, churned up the main
area of Sabang and left it a mangled and
flaming mass.
Shore batteries were blanketed and
silenced before they could open on the
force which entered the harbor. A mer-
chant ship was sunk in the harbor and
jetties were torpedoed by the destroyers.
And the four ships which took part in the
innermost part of the attack suffered only
minor damage and had only two fatal
casualties. The ships operating from out-
side had neither damage nor casualties.
A Japanese air fleet which attempted to
attack the squadron was driven off and
three of its machines brought down.
The South-west Pacific
In the South-west Pacific features of
the week’s operations were a continuance
of patrol activities, backed by bombing,
against the beleaguered Japanese forces
in the Driniumor and Harech River areas,
on the north coast of New Guinea. The
enemy is, apparently, trying to probe
Allied flank positions, but he is working
in the dark, having neither aircraft nor
efficient wireless communication for his
patrols. However, for a man supposed
to be in command of 45,000 troops, the
G.O.C. of the Eighth Japanese Army has
shown very little resource or enterprise.
Widespread bombing included targets
all round the perimeter of the besieged
New Guinea area and in the screening
bases of the Carolines. On July 26 a
convoy of five ships, apparently bound to
bring succor to Kavieng, was caught by
U.S. Venturas, 160 miles south of Truk.
A ship which seemed about 1500 tons
was sunk, three large power luggers were
set on fire and the fifth vessel escaped.
A number of other small vessels were
destroyed at various points, some of them
troop-carrying barges.
On July 30 S.-w. Pacific H.Q. reported
that at least 45 enemy aircraft were de-
stroyed and substantial damage done in
the first main attacks on Halmahera aero-
dromes —the island lies between New
Guinea and Celebes —on July 28.
About 15 enemy machines were shot
down for a loss of two Allied aircraft.
Other attacks by bombing ranged from
Bougainville round the 3000-miles arc to
Timor. Most of the targets were aero-
dromes.
In Asia
One piece of good news from Asia
was Tokyo’s belated report that the story
of the recent execution of U.S. bomber
crews was a myth brought about by some
mistake by an announcer.
It came on a day when Super-Fortresses
made their first daylight raid on a Japan-
ese objective, attacking the industrial area
of Mukden, in Manchukuo. Their attack
was mainly on Anshan, 60 miles south-
west of Mukden city. Taku, port of
Tientsin, was also bombed. The raid
brought a plaintive complaint from
Japan that Manchukuo was not at war
with the Allies!
In China it was reported that the
Chinese had “completed mopping up
along the Canton-Hankow railway, 40
miles south of Henyang, the spearpoint
of the Japanese drive from the north.”
But nothing is final in the China war.
The ebb and flow is endless.
In Assam the enemy is almost back
where he began his drives on the Assam
railway. The manner in which the British
have kept up their pressure throughout
the rains shows what can be done with
the command of good road and plenty
of air and caterpillar transport.
At sea during July Japanese losses
were estimated at over two ships per day
—69 ships, including 17 sunk by U.S.
ships on most recent patrols and 21 by
British submarines, which are now
operating on a substantial scale.
Uncle Sam has lost 23 submarines dur-
ing the war —presumably not all in
Pacific waters.
Australians in New Guinea.
“Ek D.”: Fighting in the Australian
sectors of New Guinea since the forces
from the Finschhafen area and those
from the Finisterres converged to break
small but bitter rearguard resistance on
the way to Madang may be summed up
as patrol actions. On the way to the
Sepik few Japanese were met.
Interest, therefore, was excited by Mr.
Forde’s remarkable summary of the troop
position in New Guinea in which he
stated that “the divisions fighting there”
were “so-called militia divisions.”
The Minister said that the propor-
tion of A.I.F. men in the forces
was now 86 per cent., and they
could be employed outside the pre-
scribed area, bounded on the north
by the Equator, even if the remaining 14
per cent, militia was not agreeable to the
transfer. Military authorities “believed
that militiamen would readily go over to
the A.I.F. rather than leave their units.”
It did not need Mr. Forde to tell us that.
Continuing, Mr. Forde said that “many
reasons” existed for the misconception
that the A.I.F. consisted of three divi-
sions, the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth,'
which had done all the fighting in New
Guinea. By January, 1944, 425,000 men
had volunteered for the A.I.F. and
270,000 were in the Citizen Forces.
Nobody would question these figures.
The fact remains that the main fighting at
the Moresby defence perimeter, across the
Owen Stanleys, in Buna-Gona, in the
Salamaua campaign, in the landing at
Lae, at Finschhafen and in the drive
across the Finisterres was done by the
three historic A.I.F. divisions, with sup-
port from independent companies A.I.F.
Their usage, filled up again and again
with reinforcements as their units were
gradually wrecked by continuous battle
and disease, was out of proportion to the
usage of any other sections of the forces.
Militia Gallantry
This, of course, does not mean that the
militia units have not played a fine part.
They have.
Militiamen went into captivity with
New Guinea volunteers at Rabaul.
It was one of their battalions which
was holding the Kokoda Trail beyond
the Owen Stanleys when the enemy
started his drive across the ranges.
It was militia —■ the 61st Queens-
landers (Cameron Highlanders), of which
Donald Cameron, Director of R.A.A.F.
Recruiting, is colonel—that landed at
Milne Bay on the fateful August 3, 1942.
It had emptied its ranks twice by enlist-
ments during the war, having first volun-
teered for service in a body. And the
third helping made a brave showing when
the Japs landed at Milne Bay.
To the 61st was assigned the holding
role to prevent the advancing A.I.F. from
being outflanked. It had a considerable
part in the crucial operations round the
bay which marked the turning point of
the land war in the New Guinea area.
And the militia played a considerable
part in the advance up the coast from
Finschhafen.
It is time that distinctions were re-
moved. The forces have become so far
blended that there is no longer room for
two armies to fight beside the American
draftees who have been sent across the
Pacific to defend this country.
It is time that the Minister for the
Army fell into line with the War Offices
of all the other Allies and revealed at the
earliest safe moment the names of the
units involved in given engagements.
And some special honor might be de-
signed for veteran formations. Stalin
gives his the names of their victories.
The British give special emblems
Australian Casualties
The latest list issued is brought up to
March 31, 1944.
Army: Killed 9338, missing 3466,
prisoners 26,052, wounded or injured
30,637.
Air Force: Killed 4670, missing 1845,
prisoners and interned 771, wounded or
injured 2175.
Navy: Killed 1201, missing 532,
prisoners 343, wounded 230.
Total (excluding deaths from natural
causes), 81,260.
Moving Southward.
“Ek Dum”: On the Normandy front
the British sector was in a state akin to
the beginnings of a thunderstorm. Every
now and then the thunder rolled, a gust
swept the landscape and Germans or
British metaphorically reached for their
umbrellas. Each side was gathering
strength to withstand the coming floods.
There were some British advances a
few miles towards the fringes of the foot-
hills south of Caen. Some of the ground
gained was lost. The main importance
of these movements was to draw Ger-
man forces to the eastern sector while
the Americans, on the west flank, com-
pleted their operation of capturing the
remainder of the lock-gate triangle at the
base of the Cherbourg Peninsula. They
already had St. Lo. But it was a matter
of security before any main battle was
fought that they should go further.
The Allies must be in a position to
withstand the maximum of pressure in
case of diversionary attacks during a capi-
tal engagement in the east; and they must
go as far as they can in cutting off the
approaches to the eastern battlefield from
the south and west, so as to destroy the
enemy’s versatility of communications.
So they set out to clear the rest of the
triangle by taking over the area between
Lessay and Coutances, which would block
the main line at Coutances.
inland they proceeded to push south to
cut the Granville-Paris railway and the
roads and rail leading up to the British-
Canadian right flank and the German
left rear.
German Retirement Begins
The pressure on the Lessay-Coutances
area was already heavy at the beginning
of the week, both from the direction of
Carentan and from St. Lo. The German
84th Corps was in a narrow pocket along
the west coast. No attempt was made to
reinforce it. Its expulsion was so much
a matter of foregone conclusion that the
press suggestion that the corner was a
trap was scarcely sensible, especially as
the advantage in the type of country
through which the U.S. troops would ad-
vance was all with the defenders.
For escape, moreover, apart from capa-
cious roads with many lines and side
tracks, the Germans had two excellent
lines of railway—one leading from St. Lo
southward down the rear; one from
Coutances to Granville and the main
east-west line. From Coutances lines
came in from the north-west from St. Lo
and north from Lessay.
The U.S. attack began at dawn on July
26 with a tremendous bombing barrage
(unfortunately bombs fell among the
troops preparing to go forward), followed
by an advance on a 3000-yard front from
across the St. Lo-Periers road leading to
Lessay. The drive, therefore, was aimed
directly at Coutances, 10 miles away.
The Canadians Attack
The enemy, at the moment of the U.S.
attack, was involved in the toughest kind
of infantry battle against the Canadians
four miles south of Caen.
The positions which the Canadians
were scraping off facially yard by yard
had the appearance of main defences
with plenty of infantry in the front area.
The enemy machine-guns and mortars
were doing their best to hold the Cana-
dians while the 88’s plastered them and
tried to pin down the Canadian tank sup-
port. It was true assault fighting—rushes
from one point of shelter to another among
the cornfields, followed by a hasty bur-
rowing under a withering fire poured in
from both flanks in the German fashion.
At the same time the drift of enemy
troops was noticed to be from west to
east —from the American sector towards
the British sector. The Second S.S.
Panzers were discovered to have moved.
The movement was across the difficult
timbered hill country from Villers
Bocage, behind the shelter of the Forest
of Grimbosq, which interposes itself
between Caen and Thury Harcourt in the
foothills of the Norman Alps:
The Ome, nearer Caen in the forest, is
a winding stream, crossed several times in
10 miles by the railway. The enemy
obviously was getting on the safer or
eastern side of it nearer to the open tank
battleground over the Falaise road.
After the Barrage
This movement was in progress when


4
3 3
d
m
IlLlSi
YES."
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR, family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE,
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V, PEKKINS, General Manager.
m
■
mm.
m
FATHER!
VOTE
and you’ll be sure to get
a home of your own!
You can judge for yourself what a
scramble there will be as soon as the
war is over. Everyone will be competing
with everyone else . . business-men
after business ... workmen after work
. . . UNLESS you give your Government
the power to guide our country away
from this mess.
Remember that wartime controls of
industry and employment end with the
war.
The Government needs your YES
vote to give it powers to continue sensible
controls to guarantee you a good post-
war job ... a good post-war home . • •
and security.
BY
VOTING
YOU WILL
SECURE
• Full employment for all. 9 Eco-
nomic Security for Servicemen and
Women. 9 Stabilised Prices and
Markets for Primary Producers.
• Modern , hygienic homes.
9 Family Endowment and Widows’
Pensions. • Free Health and Hos-
pitalisation and other social ser-
vices. O Stabilised cost of living
by eliminating profiteers and black
markets. 9 National development
instead of economic depression «
Authorised by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
WEBir-17
the Americans struck with 6000 tons of
bombs, followed by their heavy barrage.
The tenacity of the enemy and the excel-
lence of his organisation for such emer-
gencies were shown by his readiness to
give battle so soon as an American
advance began. The Americans met fire
of all kinds as they worked from hedge-
row to hedgerow. German 105’s plas-
tered road junctions. But before long
American artillery had picked up the
ranges of the enemy’s batteries and
stopped his game. He began to fall back.
After the first few hours the U.S. forces
ceased to meet heavy opposition. The
advance had now assumed westward
direction between the St. Lo-Coutances
and St. Lo-Lessay roads. lt had developed
into a narrow break-through. Tanks had
been pushed into the gap along with
mobile guns, and erosion set in.
By the evening of July 26 the penetra-
tion was about four miles. The village
of Marigny, on the way to Coutances,
was in U.S. hands, and Americans had
begun to roll southward along the Vire
to Tessy on the Caen-Granville road.
In much of the country which was
being invaded there were few signs of
battle. It looked like a peaceful land-
scape off the main roads, on which there
were burning tanks and crippled Ger-
man transport and mobile guns. At other
points, where the heavy bombers had been
at work, there was widespread ruin.
Tanks Reach the Coast
Before the week-end the enemy had
abandoned the gate to the Cotentin Pen-
insula. About 5 a.m. on July 29 the
Americans reached the coast south. of
Coutances, having taken the city during
the night.
About 8 a.m. another U.S. tank column
was at Brehal, 11 miles further south and
six miles from Granville. And the push
down the Granville and Avranches road
from Tessy was still under way and not
meeting much resistance, except by reai-
guards, who at Coutances repeated the
Russian-front German technique, fighting
fanatically to the last to allow the 84th
Corps to make its escape.
The Sienne River had been crossed at
several points by July 31, and the cutting
of the Paris-Granville rail and road be-
tween the sea and the Vire seemed immi-
nent. The enemy was apparently pulling
his defence back to the Selune River line
from Avranches, which runs east along
the ranges of Domfront —as precipitous
as anything in the Blue Mountains.
This line links with the mountains at
the headwaters of the Orne, forming a
box bounded by mountain and rivers on
the south and east and the sea on the
north and west.
Germans v. British
In the British sector German strength
continued to be mustered. The enemy
evidently intends if possible to take no
chances with the seasoned British divi-
sions, who are more deeply inured to
battle than the Americans, though the
Americans are fighting with great dash.
Against the British he continued his
concentration. He had now six out of
nine armored divisions—a concentration
which the Supreme Command of the
Allies reported on July 30 to be six times
as intense as on any bit of Russian front
and a fourth of his effective armor.
The fighting in the Canadian sector
went on vigorously. Having taken the
frontal positions, the Canadians paused
and were at once assailed with savage
counter-attacks which pushed them out
of Tilly-la-Campagne and May-sur-Orne
east of the Orne.
The British also now were struck heavy
blows, and retired from the high ground
of Hill 112 and Esquay village, half a
mile south-east, and also Evrecy.
Whether these retirements were a yield-
ing for strategic purposes was not clear
from the report. The operations may
have been a ruse on each side, con-
nected with German preparations for
heavy * tank attack with Tigers from
Bourquebus, on the main road to Argen-
tan, just on the Canadian right flank at
Tilly-la-Campagne.
Blood on the Corn
Rocket-firing Typhoons took care of
the tank preparations, but there was
bloody and desperate fighting in the corn-
fields when the enemy switched his tac-
tics to make a moonlit raid with grenades
and automatic weapons.
This seemed to be the end of German
resources for the time being. The British
end of the front for a day or two settled
down towards the week-end. Then the
Germans reported a new British attack
from Caumont along the Americans’ left
flank on July 28. This was the area out
of which the Second S.S. Panzers had
moved previously.
Berlin Radio added :
The battle for Normandy is approaching
a decisive phase, with the Allies pressing
on regardless of cost in their attempts to
free themselves from the .bounds of their
beachhead and secure freedom to operate.
The Allied Supreme Command on July
30 confirmed the German report. The
British, after the usual bombing and
artillery preparation, had struck across
the Caumont-Tilly-sur-Seulles section of
the Caen-Vire road towards Villers
Bocage, the high, wooded spur positions
which their reconnaissance tanks had
reached quite early after the landing with-
out being able to consolidate. They took
St. Vaast at the north-east end of the
line, and made a general advance of
about two miles in part of the sector.
Up till Monday morning they had not
encountered main German resistance or
armor, but progress was good.
The first objective was clearly the con-
trol of the Caen-Granville road, which
would wipe out a substantial salient in the
Cerisy forest area and provide a joint with
the Americans, whose eastern and western
columns, after an advance of about 15
miles, had linked near Lengronne, en-
closing whatever force might have been
left behind by the enemy on the roads
between the Sienne and St. Lo —perhaps
two or three depleted divisions.
Up till late on the night of July 30 the
Americans had taken 10,000 prisoners.
Casualties
Early in the week the Supreme Com-
mand reported the death of Lieut.-
General McNair, the highest-ranking
U.S. officer killed in the war. Old in
years, he was a fighter from the ground
up, and General Marshall paid a great
tribute to him.
At the same time reports from various
sources suggested that Rommel had been
wounded —one report said seriously;
another that he had lost an eye. His loss
would remove a picturesque figure, but
the holding campaign of Normandy does
not look like his handiwork. It smells
more of Von Kluge, vyho held the central
front in Russia in 1942-43.
The U.S. War Department on July 28
reported that U.S. war casualties were
now greater than in 1917-18 —more than
313,000, including 63,000 dead.
Maorilanders at Florence.
“Ek Dum”: Last week the Allies ex-
perienced tough resistance all along the
Arno. The Americans on the west were
stalled in the southern half of Pisa ; the
northern half (with the leaning tower)
remained in enemy hands.
The Poles had made progress about 20
miles beyond Ancona, on the Adriatic
coast.* They had met a lessening resist-
ance after their fight for that port, in
which they captured, apart from Ger-
mans, Ukrainians and mixed foreigners
serving with demolition battalions.
The brunt of the battle is in the centre,
in the advance to Florence, which some
time ago was declared an open town by
the enemy. The weary British, who have
borne the main weight on the nose of the
central drive, gave place to Maorilanders,
who on July 30 were fighting a bloody
battle on a ridge five miles from Arno.
The-country is typical north Italian hill
terrain —olive groves, little fields, hedges
and houses which obstruct the view, and
boulders galore. The 15th Panzer Grena-
diers were dug in on the nether slope in
a position which would have suited
Wellington down to the ground. The
British and Maoriland artillery was past-
ing them, while the M.L, infantry warded
off furious, blunt-nosed tank attacks,
headed by the massive 60-ton Tigers. In
one instance they drove through the
Maoriland lines for 500 yards, but did
not gain the ground permanently.
Indians, meantime, were working up
through the hilly country on the Maori-
landers’ western flank.
On July 31 the capture of Florence
was merely a matter of time. It seemed
that the Germans were fighting one of
their fierce rearguard actions to enable
their troops to pass through the city and
escape northwards. The result was not
in doubt, though the battle was costing
valuable Maoriland lives.
Deadly Rain in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: As ground warfare de-
velops the heavy bomber formations of
the Allies and the fighter and anti-air-
craft defences of the Reich carry on their
second war by day and by night over a
wide fields of targets.
One American force has joined in the
tactical operations of the Red Army. A


Smash
COLDS
Quickly
w-gw with wwvr
UOIIBLE II
fsucaltffttuA GxPuut
Don’t give your Cold a chance to develop—smash it NOW—attack
three definite ways with the Double “D” Eucalyptus 3/ Way Treatment.
TAMS
mrs
3 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” ON SUGAR.
CHEST AND BACK WITH DOUBLE “D.”
15 DROPS OF DOUBLE “D” IN HOT WATER.
Double “D” Eucalyptus is strong and penetrating and will help clear
your head; break up congestion; and destroy Flu Cold germs in
throat, nose and bronchial tubes. You’ll like its sweet, fresh smell.
9£d.— ENORMOUS SALES—I/4
DoubleD
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL,
«• 1
Modern travel is by air, with great airliners
transporting passengers, mail and freight over
the length and breadth of Australia every day.
Australian National Airways, by creating in
Australia the world’s greatest internal airline
system, has placed this nation in the forefront
of world aviation. After Victory, A.N.A. will
contribute to Australia’s future in the wider
field of world affairs. Invest in Victory Bonds.
m
w
USTRALIAN
tional Airways
FIRST IN PEACE .
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
strong and diversified British, force is
operating against the bases of the flying
bomb, from Peenemunde on the Baltic
to Northern France.
At the same time the ponderous strate-
gical armadas cloud the skies from Plo-
esti, Rumania, to the rear of the Nor-
mandy front; from the Baltic to the
Florence defences —, though Florence
itself is not being bombed. Like Rome,
it belongs to the world.
Stuttgart has felt the main weight of
the attacks. It is an important centre
for the manufacture of precision instru-
ments and motor parts, where a “bottle-
neck” would cause dire results to the
Luftwaffe and German transport.
The U.S. on July 29 had over 1000
bombers out over Leipzig and Bremen,
and more than 1000 R.A.F. machines
struck against Hamburg and Stuttgart.
German defence is not yet deteriorat-
ing. The combined Allied forces lost
over 400 machines during the week. On
July 29 62 British bombers failed to
return (21 enemy fighters were shot down)
and that day the Americans over Ger-
many lost 17 bombers and six fighters,
while 35 enemy fighters were destroyed.
Allied casualties in the air since the
beginning of the Normandy offensive
have probably exceeded those in the
ground fighting in the west and south.
But the enemy’s loss may be greater.
Flying Bombs
The nerves of people in south-eastern
England—Middlesex, Kent, Surrey, Sus-
sex and seemingly bits of Hampshire—
are at full stretch under the increasing
rain of flying bombs.
While horrors grow in proportion
to their nearness to Fleet-street, the
effect of the so-called “doodle-bugs” is
undeniably serious. The use of incen-
diary flying bombs has begun ; the dread-
ful things are now being launched in
volleys at nerve-racking intervals.
Hospitals, restaurants, country houses,
schools and shopping streets crowded
with innocents have been hit. Bombs
have fallen on the “Daily Mirror” offices,
and in Hyde Park and the Zoo. The death
roll grows.
The worst feature of the Germans’
devilish scheme is its nightmare possibili-
ties of development. The flying bombs
themselves can be developed in size, dead-
liness and range. It might be possible to
increase their speed so much as to put
them beyond the reach of attack by
fighters. If they were replaced by large
rockets this certainly would be so.
A London Sunday paper, the “Dis-
patch,” hints at the heed for some such
reprisal as the use of gas. But gas used
from the air is an abortive expedient, if
the British Government were ready to
emulate the Germans in brutality.
The one way to beat the flying bomb is
to push its bases so far back that Eng-
land is out of range.
Retreat Goes On.
“Ek Dum”: The German retreat
through Poland continued without pause.
Though there were the usual accounts
of tremendous enemy casualties and
panic, in few places the attack went on
long enough for really heavy fighing to
develop. For the most part there were
encountered rearguards and demolition
gangs. In some areas the Russians were
hard put to it to keep contact with the
enemy screen.
However, there were cities and towns
of strategic value which had to be held
by the enemy for a time at any cost, in
the interests of the general plan of re-
treat. Such was Kovno (Kaunas), which
was approached a fortnight ago. It is the
key to three or four routes. It is a
stopper on the one main railway which
runs out of White Russia into East
Prussia direct. It seems to have been
held long enough for the enemy’s pur-
pose. On July 28 Berlin announced that
it had been evacuated —as often happens,
days before the Russians claimed it.
Such also were Brest Litovsk and Biely-
stok, two railway points which control
south-north from Kovel to the Lyck junc-
tion inside East Prussia, covering a gap
in the Angerapp Line. Brest Litovsk and
Bielystok were held until the advance
further south had got well to the west of
them.
In the Baltic States
In the Baltic area the Germans held
their lines on the south-eastern side. A
German corridor was ultimately formed.
The enemy then began to move out of
the littoral area, by the same process as
that by which he evacuated Southern
Ukraine —like a man crawling down a
sewer from its far end and breaking
down the sewer walls behind him. This
process began at Narva, where the 30-
mile-long line along the river suddenly
caved in above Lake Peipus.
That same day Dvinsk became unten-
able. Russian drives north of Dvinsk
towards the important junction of Valk
and between Dvinsk and Kovno were
moving forward. This latter drive had
engulfed Shavli, another key junction,
without much trouble. By July 30 the
northern Baltic States were almost cut
off and the Russians were within gun
range of the coast below Riga.
Probably evacuation of the Baltic
States had been going on for some time.
Possibly a large proportion of the Ger-
mans who went to reinforce the Finns
came from these regions. Since routes
of ingress from Russia are limited, the
Pskov flank being guarded by a marshy
lake area, the remaining garrison need
not have been a large one.
Much of it could have got away from
the four good ports available —Reval
(Tallinn), Pernau, Riga and Libau.
These ports may be of considerable
value to the Russians in future operations
both against Finland and against East
Prussia, if they have the shipping to use
them and the power to defend them.
A queer thing is that six weeks ago,
when the Finns seemed in a very bad
way, Helsinki suddenly announced, after
a visit from Ribbentrop, who is alleged
to have promised them two German
armored divisions, that Finland would
continue in the war to the end. Very
little has since come from Moscow about
the progress of the campaign in Finland.
Nine Cities Fall
On July 27 Marshal Stalin announced
the capture of six cities and towns—
Dvinsk, Rekezne (Latvia), Shavli (Lithu-
ania) and Bielystok in central-northern
Poland on the direct Warsaw route ; also
Lwow (Lemberg) in the south and Stanis-
lawow, one of the cover towns of the
Jablonica Pass. The Russians had pene-
trated the approaches of the Pass, some
miles further south-west, in their late
winter drive, but had been pushed back
by the German counter-attacks.
This was followed by a Berlin an-
nouncement that Brest Litovsk —it is in
central Poland on the edges of the Pripet
Marshes —Przemysl, 50 miles or so west
of Lwow, on the Cracow-Gorlice-Tarnow
railway loop, and Jaroslaw, a little further
north-west, had been given up.
It was announced in Moscow that Rus-
sian troops were in the outer defences of
Praga, the eastern suburb of Warsaw,
across the 600-yards-wide Vistula from
the main city, and that heavy guns were
already taking part in the bombardment
of the defences. Warsaw, in any case,
was outflanked by the drive lower down
the river, where it had been crossed at
Deblin by General Rokossovsky’s forces.
The stage had now been reached when
the Russians were, both in the north and
south, approaching the bone of the Ger-
man outer main defences. At two points
—on the Vistula, south of Warsaw, and
at Przemysl—they were under 130 miles
from the German border. Later it was
announced that the Cracow defences had
been reached, only a few miles from the
Silesian border.
But behind the German border there
are close-knitted defence positions, broad,
straight roads to armament centres, canals
which link the great rivers and seas from
every direction. The Danube, the Elbe,
the Oder, the Rhine are all linked by
water, and there is an intensive railway
system comparable in its capacity and
versatility with that of Belgium and
France.
The Germans gain advantages in com-
munications by retirement. An advan-
tage they lose is in air defence. But even
at that they, will be better off in the east
than they are in France, for the British
and American Air Forces in the west are
infinitely stronger than the Russian.
A special Moscow announcement de-
clared that on the First Baltic and the
Second and Third White Russian fronts —
i.e., on the half of the battlefront north
of the Pripet Marshes —the Germans
between June 23 and July 23 had
lost 381,000 killed, with 158,000 prisoners,
including 24 generals ; also 631 aircraft,
2735 tanks and self-propelled guns, 8702
guns of various calibres, 5695 mortars,
23,071 machine-guns and 5152 lorries.
It was seated also that in the taking of
Lwow 8000 Germans were killed and
3500 captured ; in the taking of Brest
Litovsk, 15,000 killed and 2000 captured.
Near Enemy Country
Looking ahead over the country to-
wards the goal of the German border
the view is not so encouraging as it
would have been if large sections of the
German Army were in the corrals being
mopped up around the Pripet area.
The battle line is beginning to shape
itself to the lines of spring, 1915. The
German front then ran roughly from
Memel, just west of Kovno (in Russian
hands), west of Grodno, moulding itself
to the northern side of the Narew, till it
reached the Novo-Georgievsk fortress
area, at the junction of the Bug and the
Vistula, 23 miles or so north of Warsaw.
Thence it went south, well on the
western side of the Vistula, to the east of
Lodz and the west of Radom, covering
the gap between the Silesian Ranges and
the Carpathians in the Cracow region
and following the line of the Carpathians
(with Przemysl and Lwow in Russian
hands) to Cernauti (Czernowitz) and the
Pruth.
The attacks on Poland in 1939 came
from what had been the main eastern gar-
rison areas of Germany in 1914, with
some variations due to the existence of
the Polish corridor.
Thus the main blows were struck from
the Breslau-Katowice sector of the south.
This region more than East Prussia is the
key to victory in the present circum-
stances.
If the Russians can take Breslau,
Oppeln, Katowice, Cracow and Ostrava
they need not worry about the rest of the
Eastern Front.
The way will be open into Czecho-
Slovakia and to Vienna and the Danube,
The goose of the Balkan satellites ot the
Axis will be done to a turn,
The route to Berlin west of the Oder
will be open to the Red Army. East
Prussia will be outflanked, Finland iso-
lated. Russia will have won the war.
At the week-end it was reported that
Von Papen was leaving Ankara and that
Turkey would break off diplomatic rela-
tions with Germany on August 2. As the
week-end press had scouted the idea, it
may at last come true.


VICKERS
VICKERS
mm
f —vi m
8®
$8
'-' ' , v .. X /- »' , v
X' X '
VICKERS
*
VICKERS
VICKERS
CIN
V.C>7
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
B 11-4,1
Ufcf
mm - * *»r
mm hi mm,
: •
fllllP
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“MEJROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Highway King confirmed his G. N.
Steeple success by outstaying Energy and
Warwickshire in the £l5OO A. V. Hiskens
Steeple at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
With three wins and a second from four
starts over fences he is the steeple-
chase find of the season, and, being only
a young horse, might develop into one of
the best ’chasers Melbourne has seen for
years. Only surprising phase of his win
on Saturday was his starting price of
6 to 1 after longer odds had been quoted.
Winterset, 5 to 4, was generally regarded
as unbeatable, but he jumped indiffer-
ently, did not gallop with the same free-
dom as at Flemington, and, beaten six
furlongs from home, finished fifth. Five
runners fell, Browser being destroyed.
A. Breasley ended the 1943-44 season
as premier jockey when he won the Glen
Orla Handicap on Contact. Starting at
9 to 2, Contact outstayed the favorite,
Huntingdale, but had to survive a pro-
test for alleged interference in the
straight. L. Wight, owner of Contact,
was unlucky to miss a double with Man-
star in the Sunset Welter. Interference
cost Manstar many lengths early in the
race, and he unwound a splendid finish
to run Drum Net to half a head.
Carruca gave bookmakers a “skinner”
by narrowly defeating Busybody and
Nalong in the Derrimut Handicap. She
had not won a race for about two years,
had no recent form to recommend her,
started at 100 to 1, and returned a tote
dividend of approximately 95 to 1. R.
Heather, who rode the first three winners
at Pakenham, 36 miles from Melbourne,
made a hurried trip to Moonee Valley to
ride Audacity. Latter was one of the
leaders to the turn, but weakened to finish
fifth.
Vaninka, a filly by Balkan Prince-
Infirmiere, finished too well for the odds-
on chance, Paduan, in the first Coo-ee
Handicap. Paduan carried the winner
wide in the straight, and had he been
first past the post might have lost on pro-
test. Silver Rocks gave apprentice G.
Fitzgerald his first Melbourne win in the
second division. Fitzgerald’s only
previous success had been in Tasmania.
Lady Magnus (St. Magnus-Lady Whit-
wood) recorded her third win from her
last six starts by defeating King Opera
and Sir Enfield in the Brunswick Handi-
cap. Because of a failure at Mentone a
week earlier, however, she started at
10 to 1.
¥ $ $ *
Abbeville maintained his unbeaten
record in N.S.W. by his success in the
£l5OO Cameron Handicap at Newcastle
on Saturday. He beat Hall Stand only
by half a head, with Rex Felt a neck
away third. Abbeville, however, gave
Hall Stand a long start from the turn,
and his finishing gameness answered
critics who doubted his ability when hard
pressed. Hall Stand fought on well and
apparently is returning to his three-year-
old form. Abbeville is by Palfresco from
Bonny Abbey, by Legionnaire from
Abbey Ruins, by Limond.
Beline, an outsider, beat Russia and
Lord Neith in the Winter Handicap, but
the placed horses seem certain to reverse
the positions in the Newcastle Cup on
Saturday. Lord Neith will meet Russia
51b. better, but the riding change from
T. Clarke to J. Thompson will help
Russia. He raced erractically in the
Winter Handicap, but from experience
Thompson knows how to control him.
Crowd of 29,000 at the Victoria Park
meeting at Moorefield on Saturday was
a record for a suburban course. Totalisa-
tor takings, £61,153 10s., were a record
for Moorefield.
Castle Frontenac had raced erratically
at his last start at Moorefield, but he
finished straight down the rails to win
the Winter Cup from Magi and the con-
sistent John Halifax. Mulley held Castle
Frontenac behind the leaders, Boorchief,
Warbird and Davinia, to the turn, then
gained an advantage which Magi could
not overcome. Castle Frontenac is stand-
ing up well to solid racing, and will be
one of the early favorites for the Metro-
politan. Magi was a little unlucky. She
missed a rails run at the turn and lost
ground by racing to the outside. Haripur
(fourth) found his weight, 9st., too much,
and Boorchief, who was surprisingly
backed, again showed that he cannot run
a mile. He was galloping easily just be-
fore the turn, but stopped in 50 yards.
Cragsman broke the five - furlongs
record for Moorefield by half a second
when he won the Juvenile Handicap by
eight lengths from Princeton and Duke
Royal. Huge bets were made about
Cragsman, despite suggestions that he was
lame. One backer took cash wagers of
£l5OO to £lOOO and £6OO to £4OO. A
bay colt by Felcrag from Suncloud,
Cragsman cost 900gns. as a yearling. To
date his career has been marked by ex-
treme brilliance, and whether he will
train on as a classic colt is a matter of
some doubt. Princeton and Duke Royal
chased Cragsman all the way. Prince-
ton obviously was above himself, but he
struggled on, and he may develop into a
good three-year-old.
Class helped Tea Rose to win the
Nursery Handicap. She was in need of a
race, and her condition nearly let her
down after she had raced to the lead at
thp leger. Darke alternately had to
nurse and drive Tea Rose when the early
leader, Philgita, came again near the post.
Tea Rose was little, if any, inferior to
Scaur Fel last season, when she finished
second in the Kirkham, December,
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce and the Champagne
Stakes. She may be trained for the
A.J.C. Derby, a race which has not been
won by a filly since Picture in 1898. Vic-
trix, on whom a bet of £l5OO to £lOOO
was lost, finished last, but her rider,
O’Sullivan, did not persevere after the
filly had been knocked nearly out of the
race after a furlong. Jockey N. Watter-
son (Loyola) was suspended for two
months for causing the interference.
Few smarter sprinters than Brazier
have come from Newcastle in recent
years. Improved by his second to Scene
at Randwick a week earlier, Brazier
spreadeagled the field in the Flying
Handicap and won by 2\ lengths from
Hauteur. Bruce Wood, who seldom runs
a bad race, was third, his sixth minor
placing in his last seven starts. Brazier
appeared to miss the start slightly, but
he quickly raced to the lead, and was
nearly four lengths ahead of Milanja and
Hauteur at the turn. Hauteur may have
been closer, without beating Brazier, but
her jockey, J. O’Sullivan, became ill
during the race and was at a disadvan-
tage. Milanja showed his usual speed,
but did not run out the last furlong, and
Grand Prodige again exhibited dislike
for the downhill straight at Moorefield.
A very fit horse, Grand Prodige will do
better on a flat surface.
Active-Service won his first race in a
year when he caught Royal Peer close to
the post in the Three-ysar-old Handicap.
He would have been unlucky to lose, as
he was squeezed out at barrier rise and
had to be hard ridden to gain a good
position in the first two furlongs. By
Brueghel from Spear Belle, Active Ser-
vice is a half-brother to Veiled Threat.
Like that horse, he promises to stay
well. Cockrow (third) also suffered in
the barrier scrimmage, but Mintage had
every chance.
Royal Result, the early leader, seemed
likely to last out the Welter mile, but he
tired in the last 50 yards and Monaro
won narrowly from Valiant Garde and
Mary Lou. Monaro lost ground by run-
ning a little wide at the turn, but he
straightened quickly and finished so well
that he now may be tried at longer dis-
tances. Cadger (favorite) did not handle
the uphill rise to the turn. He was gal:
loping well to the three furlongs, but be-
came unbalanced and quickly dropped
out. General Smuts, a street-corner tip,
was well backed but finished only sixth.
He will be the better for the race, and
he may yet regain his good three-year-
old form.
Craigie, favorite for the Trial Stakes,
appeared a certain winner when he raced
past Kookaburra in the straight. How-
ever, he shied close to the post and Allan
Veil beat him by half a neck. Craigie
was no more unlucky than the winner,
who ran into* a dead-end starting the
uphill rise and came from last. Allan
Veil, turned six years this week, did not
race as a young horse and will win in
better company. Kookaburra finished a
moderate third, but he will be hard to
place now. As a six-year-old, hp is now
ineligible for restricted events.
J. Thompson (451) beat W. Cook (444)
for the jockeys’ premiership by winning
the last Moorefield race on Monaro.
Cook rode the unplaced favorite, Cadger.
Only 21, Thompson now twice has been
leading Sydney jockey, an outstanding
performance for so young a rider. Suc-
cess, however, is unlikely to run to
Thompson’s head. He is one of the most
reserved and unassuming youngsters in
racing, and still helps in stable work,
though out of his apprenticeship. In his
spare time Thompson is studying book-
keeping, so that he can run his own farm
when he retires from riding.
* * * H:
The recently-concluded season’s racing
in Sydney was not productive of as many
good horses as we anticipated. It was
thought that in Moorland and Mayfowl
we probably had three-year-old colts
much above the average, but, though
good, they proved far from exceptional,
and others of the same age in Falcon
Knight and MacArthur, after giving
promise, were disappointing. Highgate
is good up to a mile at least, and Castle
Frontenac, who continues to improve,
may make a first-class stayer. Our best
were the three-year-old Flight, who has
yet to prove herself a real stayer,
Katanga, a stallion, now eight years old,
and Shining Night.
Main Topic has not lived up to his
Metropolitan form, and though Veiled
Threat is a good handicap stayer he
appears just below first-class w.f.a.
standard. High Flight is a smart sprinter,
and though Abbeville’s Cameron Handi-
cap win under a light weight at New-
castle was not as decisive as anticipated
there are still possibilities associated with
him. Sir Neith’s Villiers Stakes form
was good. Turning to the rank and file
we have a useful bunch, but with so little
between many that a rise of a few pounds
will give different results from week to
week. Our two-year-olds were fair, with
sufficient doubt still attaching to which
was the best that upsets in the early set-
weight three-year-old races of the current
season are more than probable.
* * * *
The A.J.C. did well during the recently-
concluded season, and owners are to
benefit at the coming spring meeting,
when the added money will total £28,800,
or £3lOO more than at the corresponding
fixture last year. On the three days there
will be only one race of less than £lOOO.
that being a Trial Handicap. The Colin
Stephen Stakes and the Craven Plate have
been increased to £l5OO (a rise of £3OO
each). Scarcely necessary in the case of
the Colin Stephen Stakes, as it is unlikely
to make any difference in the field. All
the prominent three-year-olds will be in
the Derby the same afternoon, and the
chances are that race will be chosen for
them. It is regrettable that, consequent
on transport restrictions, there will be
very little in the way of inter-State com-
petition, but even with the position dif-
ferent it is doubtful whether there would
have been many Melbourne runners, see-
ing that the Caulfield and the Melbourne
Cups, Moonee Valley and Williamstown
Cup meetings are on top of the A.J.C
meeting, and will give Melbourne owners
all the opportunities they could wish.
* * * *
Of recent years not many racing
records have stood for a long period, but
Moorefield’s best of 1.3 for five furlongs,
put up by Renowned in October, 1931.
though equalled by Fly, Radical and
FOR ASCOT.
(At Rosehill.)
{Before acceptances.)
Novice Handicap: Craigie, 1 ;
Deep Sky, 2 ; Sir Francis, 3.
Welter Handicap: Cockcrow, 1 ;
Ron Rico, 2 ; General Smuts, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Cal-
gary, 1 ; Titled, 2 ; Gay King or
Cordiality, 3.
Kingsford Smith Flying Handi-
cap : Brazier, 1 ; Grand Prodige* 2 ;
Majesty, 3.
Ascot Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1 ; Active Service, 2 ; Royal
Peer, 3.
Trial Handicap: Skip Bomber, 1 ;
Manday Son, 2 ; Royal Janette, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Noble-
man, 1 ; St. Elmo, 2 ; Rylstone, 3.


Pubiic Notice*.
I, GIACOMO LESSANUTTI, of Italian nationality,
born at Tolmezzo, and resident 19 years in Australia,
now residing at Day Avenue, Kensington, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, VICTOR NEUBRUNN, known as V. NEWBRUN,
Stateless, of former Austrian nationality, born at
Vienna, Austria, and resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 12 Superba Parade, Mosman, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, RUDOLF BRANN, Stateless, formerly of German
nationality, born at Berlin, and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 484 Malabar Road,
Maroubra, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Public Notices.
I, GUIDO STRUZZI, of Italian nationality, born at
Meduno, Italy, and resident 16 years in Australia,
now residing at 117 Augustus Street, Leichhardt,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936. __ /
I, RUDOLF WALTER BERGMANN, Stateless, of
former German nationality, born at Wehlen, Germany,
and resident over seven years in Australia, now
residing at 36 Dolphin Street, Ooogee, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I, ELFRIEDE BERGMANN, Stateless, of former
German nationality, born at Berlin, Germany, and
resident over six years in Australia, now residing at
36 Dolphin Street, Coogee, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, DIANA ALCORSO, of Italian nationality (by mar-
riage), born at Ingham, North Queensland, and resi-
dent all my life in Australia, now residing at 12
Fine Hill Avenue, Double Bay, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act.
1920-1936.
I, SIEGMUND STRUM, of Czechoslovakian nation-
ality, born at Vienna and resident 14 months in
England and over four years in Australia, now re-
siding at Woodlands, Smith Street, Chatswood,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOSEPH
THOMAS POOCK, formerly of England, brother of
Edward Pocock, or any members of his family, please
communicate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (Limited), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
INFORMATION is sought as to the whereabouts of
JOHN BERTRAM BELL, son of Dorcas Bell, of
Reade Park, South Australia. The wanted person’s
last two places of residence some years ago were
Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, and Yunta, South Aus-
tralia. Any information can be communicated to
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S.A.,
LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
%
Sr (r
%J!
M|l
' /
<c'm
4u.^
i
3
Cfe
i
/
/
m
i
1
-
IP»P*PI
WmmtmM
\ • "
.-.' . •' • •/.:•;• A
NATIONAL
t
S>, BMP.
Every 5 -
should work
two shifts
For Peace and Victory
Save patriotically. Use every 5/- you
can get together to buy 5/- National
Savings Stamps. Paste these in a free
National Savings Stamp book. Each
page holds two pounds’ worth of
stamps—enough to pay a deposit on
a Second, Victory Loan Bond when
the Loan opens, or an instalment at
any time. A full book holds stamps
worth £lO, enough to pay for a
Victory Bond in full.
When the war is over
the money you invest to-day in War
Bonds will be available for your use
as you prefer—to build a home, buy
furniture, or any of the other fine
things the post-war world will bring.
MAKE AN ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
/aamVICTIIRY LOAN
THIS IS THE
5|- NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMP
available at all Money Order Post
Offices and Savings Banks. Buy one
or more to-day, and keep on buying
them for Peace and for Victory.
2PV-M6
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO NORMA LOUISA CLIFTON FRANCIS, formerly
of North Adelaide, in the State of South Australia.
—TAKE NOTICE that vour husband CHARLES
PERCIVAL FRANCIS has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of desertion
for three* years and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Third day of September 1944 the case
may proceed in your absence. —F. J. CORDER,
Solicitor, 108 Queen Street, Melbourne.
TO NORMAN FORBES WILLIS formerly of Robin-
son’s Road Auburn in the State of Victoria Clerk
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife ETHEL HAZEL WILLIS has instituted pro-
ceedings for a divorce against you on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne Victoria on or before the 20th day ot
September 1944 the suit may proceed in your absence
If you intend to defend this suit you must also file
an answer in the said office on or before the 30th
day of September 1944 AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and copy
Citation in this suit may be inspected at the office
of the petitioner’s solicitors SHAW & TURNER
94-98 Queen Street Melbourne aforesaid.
SHAW & TURNER, 94-98 Queen Street, Melbourne,
solicitors for the said Ethel Hazel Willis.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE MORLEY late of Goondiwindi N.S.M .
and Cairns Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that HILDA
MAY MORLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2157 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Twenty-ninth day of September On.
thousand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain
a copv of the petition without charge from NIL AND
& BOHANE Solicitors 77 - Castlereagh Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ,NEW SOUTH.
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HOWARD BURSTON SMITH.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY ELLEN SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1647 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
in her said petition the said Mary Ellen Smith lias
asked the Court to exercise its discretion in her
favor If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th September 1944 and obtain
a copy of the said petition without charge from
MESSiEURS H. T. MACREADY and ERIC JONES
Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES WALLACE late of Thirroul signwriter.
—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS DAPHNE WAL-
LACE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1264 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 29th September 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WILLIAM H. CORD-
INGLE Y Solicitor 77 Castlereagh Street .Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MILDRED NOAKES late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Decree for restitution has been made
against you requiring you to return home and render
conjugal rights to your husband GEORGE ROBERT
NOAKES at *lll Ben Boyd Road Neutral Bay by
31st proximo and to file in the Divorce Registry-
King Street Sydney a certificate of your compliance
with the said decree by 4th September next You
may obtain reasonable expenses for your return from
BARKELL & PEACOCK Solicitors of 11c Castlereagh
Street Sydney upon application AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you fail to comply with the
said decree your husband may petition for judicial
separation or divorce.. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COUR'C. OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS DAPHNE BAXTER and ALEXANDER
FRIDAY.—TAKE NOTICE that RICHARD RHODES
BAXTER has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 749 of
1944 on the grounds that you have committed
adultery between the Ist January 1943 and the 29th
February 1944 If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th September 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. BARKELL & PEACOCK Solicitors 11c
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELSIE AMOS and H. S. AKERS late of Bowra-
ville.—TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR RICHARD
AMOS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2746 of
1943 on the grounds that you have committed
adultery between the First of March 1943 and the
month of September 1943 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 4th Sep-
tember 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. BARKELL & PEACOCK
Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C.
K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO NORMAN JOHN HAROLD WEBB whose last
known address was Roden Street West Melbourne
in the State of Victoria now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AGNES WEBB has
instituted proceedings against you for divoroe on the
ground of desertion for three years and upwards and
unless you enter an appearance in the Deputy Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court at the Law
Coyrts Pall Mall Bendigo in the State of Victoria on
or before the Thirtieth day of August 1944 and
thereafter file your answer on or before the Seventh
day of September 1944 the suit will proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
MACOBOY & TAYLOR, 299 Hargreaves Street,
Bendigo, Solicitors for the petitioner.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
Escutcheon, was not improved upon until
Cragsman easily did 1.2} last week. Tea
Rose won the Nursery Handicap (for
fillies) the same afternoon in 1.2£ and
carried 101 b. more than Cragsman.
Miscellaneous.
Of the 70,000 who watched the V.F.L.
games on Saturday, about 20,000 went to
North Melbourne to see the locals chewed
up by Richmond’s “Tigers.” Most of
them left the ground in stunned silence,
and slowly the other 50,000 learned the
awful truth. For three quarters “Tigers”
had fallen upon North as expected, and
were 13.2 to 7.8 at the last change. Then
the Northmen broke loose, grabbed ball,
“Tigers,” wind, boots and everything else
and booted 4.13 to a single goal, to win
by a point. By comparison, other finishes
were tame:
Footscray 14.15-11.10 v. St. Kilda, Fitzroy
12.17-4.14 v. Collingwood, Essendon 14.14-11.12
v. Melbourne, South Melbourne 8.30-8.8 v.
Geelong, Carlton 13.28-10.2 v. Hawthorn.
# * * *
Randwick v. West attracted the best
Rugby Union crowd of the season, and
it got its money’s worth. Combining
with their usual smoothness the ’Wick
backs made good use of possession to
rattle up a 26-17 lead at half-time. West
rallied and subdued the fliers, but when
the bell clanged it was Randwick again,
26-20. North surprised by narrowly
beating Parramatta 13-11. Randwick,
Uni., West and Drummoyne are leading
in that order. Other matches:
University 23, East 14; Drummoyne 18,
Gordon 6; Manly 11, St. George 3.
* *
Bennell made a reappearance at Leich-
hardt and got a decision over Wilkes
well deserved, though the crowd hooted
and a daily paper protested. Bennell did
most of the attacking, A right unsteadied
him, or so it seemed—Bennell is no .mean
actor —in the ninth; but even then he
went on outboxing Wilkes, who is not
really in his class.
In a rotten substitute “fight” at Sydney
Stadium, Alan Westbury stopped an
Allied soldier, Tommy Prince, in the
third round. Apparently he could have
done it in the first round.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Annual or half-yearly tneeimga of up-
lift societies are being held In all direc-
tions, and various pressing social prob-
lems are being discussed, The principal
preoccupation of those concerned with
service men’s dependants and family wel-
fare generally is where to find better
homes for the very many families who
can’t get more than one or two rooms.
So far, official housing schemes have not
materially eased the situation. In cold
weather, of course, the lack of accom-
modation is most keenly felt, as
children have to be indoors most of the
day.
Overseas visitors ought to receive truly
Australian flowers in the welcoming
bouquet, but seldom do Marjorie
Lawrence was the recipient of a won-
drous purple orchid, but had to drive
into the hills to sec wattle. Americans,
keen on the “typically Australian,” would
be likely, if they could pick their own
floral tributes, to choose boronia and a
native orchid or two. Those who come
to these parts on official business are
always a bit disappointed that they don’t
see wattle and kangaroo-paw everywhere.
The Hawaiians can always make a show
of the native frangipanni and hibiscus.
The unfavorable impression of Sir
Thomas Beecham received by many
Australians isn’t shared by Marjorie Law-
rence. Instead of a peppery-tempered,
terrifying maestro she sees him as one
of the kindest people she’s known, and
says that it was he who first encouraged
her to make a comeback after her illness
—to eschew self-pity and to refuse to be
put off by anything or anybody.
Australians are struck by Marjorie
Lawrence’s courage in fighting off the
effects of her illness, but the Americans,
she says, took that as a matter of course
—they expect Australians to live up to
their reputation as tough guys. But the
Americans are kind. Since Marjorie came
back to the New York Metropolitan
Opera House the critics say they prefer
Isolde sitting down. And when the
matter is thought over the prolonged
standing-up act Wagner’s heroine 'usually
has to put on is very unnatural.
The cookery book that the W.A.T.C.
and Air Force Auxiliaries are bringing
out this week should be a great aid to the
war-time cook as well as to the publish-
ing organisations’ funds. The book is
the forerunner of a money-raising effort
which will culminate in a fair at the
Town Hall. Walter Lindrum (a sort of
King Midas to patriotic-fund organisers)
will give a demonstration at the fair. The
Brookes lady, who is W.A.T.C. comman-
dant, is busy with plans.
Compilers of the cook-book are Mrs.
Reg Power and Mrs. Lionel Grimwade.
Ideas have been culled from friends and
fellow-members and the pet recipes of
well-known women are represented. All
have been checked and found good. Ice-
cream mixture and mock almond icing
are items which the compilers think will
especially appeal to housewives. But the
utilitarian side is given full attention and
meat dishes in great variety are included.
Red Cross is getting ready for a drive
for greater membership in August. The
aim this time is a very high one —no
less than that every man, woman and
child in the State shall become a member.
Exactly what part Red Cross will play
in the relief of Europe is not yet known,
but it is likely to be a large one. Just
now there is plenty to do nearer home.
No. 1 branch of Red Cross means, of
course, Government House. The ball-
room which saw dignified receptions and
heard decorous sounds of revelry in past
days is now in a bustle of activity on
Red Cross days. Last week the annual
meeting of the branch took place, and
the total tally of the year’s effort (always
a very solid one) was unfolded. Many
of the most active workers of this branch
are retired service nurses who seem to
retain their capacity for organisation and
industry.
Some of the prize-winning “ideal resi-
dence” plans exhibited at the Metrop.
Gas Co.’s showrooms are designed to fill
the needs of families of six children —-
four bedrooms, one for the parents and
three for the children, two to a room.
One competitor provides a double-sized
nursery bedroom, flanked by a dressing-
room which could be used as an extra
living room if necessary.
A fellow who didn’t look as though he
felt any enthusiasm for his “Mr. Mel-
bourne” candidate or even for the A.C.F.,
whose funds benefited, was the small
black pony raffled at “a bob a go” in
Collins-street on appeal day. Spruikers
extolled his desirability loudly in his ear,
and no doubt he thought it was just
another horse sale. For years a Shetland
pony was raffled for hospital funds, but
as the winner could take cash instead it
Was suspected by many that the same
animal served year after year.
The Land Army*s third birthday came
as a surprise to those who still think of
it as a brand-new service, but no doubt
girls who have been on dairy farms or
the flaxmills all that time take a different
view of the flight of time. The inno-
vation has had praise from satisfied
employers, and prejudices against it are
fading.
Centrepiece at the Land Army birthday
celebrations, at which Lady Dugan was
present, was a large cake, which the vice-
regal lady formally knifed. It bore wheat
sheaves in icing sugar and green crystals
representing grass. Cook and decorator
was Mrs. L. MacFarlane, who is an L.A.
field officer. Lady . Dugan recently
accepted the honorary rank of State
Commandant of the Land Army, and this
was the first formal ceremony she
attended in her new capacity.
June Lindsay, pictured here, was among
young hopefuls who were lucky enough to
be given a hearing by Ormandy. Her in-
strument is the flute, in which the con-
ductor takes a special interest. Good
advice and a bit of encouragement
resulted from the audition. A trip to
America is the aim of most musical
talent, so his parting “See you in Phila-
delphia” is particularly cheering to the
youngsters.
Much missed from her customary
haunt, the National Theatre Movement’s
offices, is Gertrude Johnston, whose ill-
ness has forced her to rest from her acti-
vities on the N.T.’s behalf. But she looks
in on rehearsals occasionally (doctor’s
orders notwithstanding). Her work en-
tailed long hours from early morning to
after-theatre hours at night, *so it isn’t
surprising that her physical capacity fell
behind her enthusiasm.
Pam Beauchamp and Dick Darling
have announced their engagement. Both
were students at Melbourne Uni., Pam
doing Arts and her betrothed Law, in
which he graduated before joining the
R.A.A.F. Pam is back there again now
doing subjects preparatory to a social
studies course after spending the inter-
vening time in a war job. Both have ski-
ing interests, and Pam was a regular visi-
tor to snowy spots in the winter season.
From Sydney
It was in the gay and, it would seem,
intelligent ’nineties that Sydney’s first
kindergarten opened its doors. It was the
result of a walk in Surry Hills by a party
of women who, seeing neglected-looking
children playing about the streets, decided
that the babies must get a better chance.
After a Government House meeting had
set the seal on the movement, an appeal
for funds was made, and with the money
a kindergarten was opened in Charles-
street. Now the city has 21 child
kindergartens, nursery schools and super-
vised playgrounds—all buzzing with child-
hood. The attendance at the city centres
and the one in Newcastle averages 2000,
and there is a waiting list of 1500.
Funds are needed for the ever-growing
work, for the training college, for the
hot midday meals served to the children.
Every child has a right to happiness, and
many of them find the kindergarten door
leads to it. It is the grown-ups’ part to
supply the key of gold that will unlock
the door. The jubilee committee is plan-
ning a series of money-raisers, and all the
arts have promised their support.
Fifty thousand pounds is what the Kin-
dergarten Jubilee Committee wants and
expects to get by December. Its opti-
mism lost nothing from the cheerful sur-
roundings in which members discussed
their plans last Friday. Before a blazing
log fire in the Charles Lloyd Jones’ home
at Woollahra ideas were discussed and
a raid on the city’s pockets outlined. No-
body suggested holding up the taxation
office, though £50,000 would never be
missed from that establishment’s petty
cash. Anyway, more and more kinder-
gartens are needed, and, of course, the
work of the kindergarten training col-
lege must increase accordingly. That
these free kindergartens have proved their
worth is shown by the fact that some
mothers enter their child’s name at birth
as a future pupil.
Operations commenced at three-thirty
yesterday, the first of August, in the big
drive on behalf of the State’s Kinder-
garten Union.. The kindergartens are
having their jubilee, and any institution
that has not only withstood time, but has
flourished and grown stronger, during
fifty years deserves a golden crown. A
committeeJjas been formed to see that the
Kindergarten Union receives its due.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, always an
ardent worker in this movement, is its
president. Fifty-eight of William Dobell’s
paintings are now in action in David
Jones’s new art gallery.
This is in the main store, and former
Director of the National Gallery Will
Ashton is in command. The exhibition
is a loan one, and Sydney, Adelaide and
Brisbane galleries have sent along works
by this painter, private owners supplying
the remainder. For a silver coin all can
view the works of this much-discussed
artist, and also help the little children.
State Premier McKell opened the show.
Shirley Crick, daughter of Sydney’s
former Lord Mayor, is the American
Centre’s candidate in the Miss Sydney con -
test. This promises to bring in a staggering
amount towards the building of Anzac
House. Shirley, who has just announced
her engagement to Lieutenant Roger
Wotton, A.1.F., of Ardlethan, has been
a voluntary worker at the Centre since
1942.
It was Priminister Winston Churchill
who gave New York’s Archbishop
Francis Spellman the title for the prel-
ate’s collection of letters from the fight-
ing fronts. There is just the right touch
of the militant about the phrase “Action
This Day” to suit the sort of P.M.
Churchill is and the sort of archbishop
this prelate sounds. In large black letters
on a bright red slip the order snaps at
Winston from documents requiring im-
mediate attention. He gave one of the
slips to the archbishop when the tra-
veller from New York was visiting him
at No. 10 Downing-street.
Friday was a great night at the Smilin’
Thru Club, The big event was the presen-
tation of prizes to the winners of the
recent popular girl competition run to
help Smilin’ Thru’s three proteges —boys
of Ward 31,‘113th A.G.H., baby Janice
of Belhaven and Dalwood Home. The
gifts in these war days were something
that a princess might smile on. An elec-
tric iron was among them • sweets, too,
and cosmetics ; also a week in the Moun-
tains with mother or chaperon and a
night at Prince’s.
After patron George Nathan handed
over the gifts he suddenly found a laurel
wreath popped on his own head. An
admiring friend in radio at Cooma had
sent it, and at the instigation of president
Myra Dempsey Matron Lawler put it
in place. Cutler, V.C., another of the
club’s patrons, was not there, but Sister
Doone came. Myra Dempsey, saying
farewell to radio for the time being, goes
off to seek tfie sun in Queensland. When
she returns Myra may transfer from radio
to organising work.
Last week the R.A.A.F. nursing ser-
vice was four years old. It has moved
far and quickly since it was founded in
Victoria midway through 1940, and the
debt of gratitude owed to its members
by Australian parents, sweethearts and
wives is still growing.
As far back as the danger days of
1942 six R.A.A.F. nurses set up a
medical receiving station beyond Port
Moresby. As the war moved further from
the mainland, so did this service. Newest
branch is the Meet-U Sisters of New
Guinea real title, flying nurses of the
Medical Air Evacuation Transport Unit.
These young nurses are being trained
to evacuate sick and wounded from battle
areas by ’plane. Matron-in-chief of the
service in Victoria is Margaret Lang, and
she is aided in its administration by Prin-
cipal Matron Muriel Doherty, of Sydney.
Sydney Minerva’s first-nighters regis-
tered unqualified approval of the new
American light comedy “Three’s a
Family.” There is good honest fun with
a brace of not-too-sweet-tempered parents
and their infant, who, judging by his
squallings (supplied very capably by
“noises off”), showed promise of develop-
ing a better “paddy” than either his
mother or his father. A number of
in-laws who fire the barbed darts of sar-
casm at each other with delightful polite-
ness add to the general gaiety. Hal
Thompson and Pat McDonald are the
young couple who alternate between lov-
ing glances and hot arguments over the
best way to bring baby up. The depend-
able Minnie Love and Dick Parry turn in
some polished verbal jousting, and the
prospect of being attended to by so
doddering and short-sighted a medico as
Leslie Victor would cause any expectant
mother to turn a few shades paler.
Who says a feminist can’t be happy if
married? In 1919 Mr. and Mrs. P. C.
Cameron (she’s president of the Feminist
Club) were married at All Saints’ Church,
Hunter’s Hill. Recently they had a
party at the Feminist Club to cele-
brate this long partnership of happi-
ness. Poinsettia, red and white camellias
and a huge cake were highlights.
Of the 120 guests, 60 had been at
the wedding; among them were Mrs.
Cameron’s sister and brother-in-law, Dr.
and Mrs. H. C. Barry, who had been
bridesmaid and best man. There was
music, but the great event of the even-
ing was a competition “How to be happy
though married,” in six words each com-
mencing with the same letter.
Just before her marriage Mrs. Cam-
eron became interested in kindergarten
work. So this year, too, she celebrated
a 25 years’ association with the Moore
Park Kindergarten. In honor of it she
gave a party to members of the Feminist
Club and to mothers of the children
attending the kindergarten.
With nine hundred bookings at 10s. 6d.
each the Australian Flying Corps and
R.A.A.F. ball was sure of success before
even the first blithe strains of the Strollers
Orchestra called the dancers to the floor
of the Town Hall. All round the hall
parties sat cosily at small tables, and
throughout the night the smokes famine
was cleverly camouflaged. Many tables
were fragrant and bright with flower
pieces. These were entries for the best
decorated competition. Besides the artis-
tic there were lucky competitions, and
what with one thing and another Squad-
ron-Leader Thomas Humble, the ball's
secretary, reckoned on clearing about
£4OO on the night.
A pleasant little ceremony was a pres-
entation by Group-Captain Chaplain
Ellis (his initials are A. W. L., but its
better for a man to have those letters
before, not after, his name) to Mrs. Eve
Kelly, winner of the popular-member
contest. Among the younger members
Mavis Senior came top. Together the
amounts reached nearly £9OO.
The Wans who so sturdily enrolled
in the war effort are already planning
good works for peace. Under welfare
work can be listed Wanslea, an old and
pleasant Bexley home which has been
bought, reconditioned, and will be used
as a temporary home for lonely girls or
girls who may be in temporary difficul-
ties. There was a guard of honor along
the drive when the W.A.N.S. president.
Lady Wakehurst, arrived to do the open-
ing last Saturday. There was a cake m
honor of the movement’s fourth birth-
day. There was afternoon tea served
from mobile canteens, and Mrs. W. H-
Read, who is chairman of the W.A.N.S
board, handed cheques for £515 to Lady
Wakehurst. This had been subscribed by
country and city units for the furnishing
of the house.
The Greg McGirrs, of North Sydney,
are welcoming two more grandchildren-
Daughter Mrs. Tom Bateman is naming
her new baby Beatrice Anne. Son DJ-
John McGirr and his wife have
that their son shall be christened John
Joseph Gregory.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed brat is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Wages for Wives
As a married woman, I am interested
in recent press discussions on the sub-
ject of payfhent for wives, but I feel that
one aspect of the matter has been over-
looked. In what capacity are they to be
paid?
In the days to come no doubt pro-
spective brides will have to present their
Wives’ Union tickets before they receive
their marriage lines, and, as it would
never do to pay them for one job and
expect them to do another job in addi-
tion, presumably they are to be paid for
all they do. On that basis, Mrs. John
Citizen would have (at current rates) a
weekly wage-sheet reading something like
this:
Cook-housekeeper .. ..£3OO
Housemaid 2 0 0
Children’s nurse .. .. .. 3 0 0
Laundress (one day) .. .. 15 0
Sewing-woman (one day) .. 12 6
Gardening and odd jobs (i-day) 10 0
Weekly total ( less tax) .. £9 17 6
This, naturally, does not apply to
weeks when she is nursing a sick member
of the family, when another £4 4s. should
be added, nor does it touch on more con-
troversial aspects. However, speaking
personally, I’d be satisfied to let it go
at £9 17s. 6d. —provided, of course, I
were given two weeks’ holiday in each
year on full pay.—P. V. H. (N.S.W.).
Queen of the Battles—the P. 8.1.
In this war, as in all wars, the brunt
of the fighting and hardship has been
carried by the infantry. Casualty lists of
the various arms are ample proof of this.
But, as before, the P. 8.1. receive little
recognition outside the Army. One of
the infantryman’s chief grouches is that
there is nothing to distinguish him from
the pay clerk or other base wallah, who
receives the same wage and has far better
living conditions, and who will make the
same claims as a returned soldier if he
has served at an overseas base.
Moreover, the tradition of the British
Army places the cavalry and artillery on
the “right of the line” —the position of
seniority and honor —in preference to
the infantry, a custom dating from the
days when the gentry rode to war for
fun while the plebs plodded along because
they had to.
The Americans have coined the phrase
“Queen of the battles” to describe their
infantry—the reference is to the most
important piece on the chessboard. But
the A.I.F. infantryman is just another
soldier to people without an understand-
ing of the very mixed scheme of color
patches. In the German Army base wal-
lahs have to stand when an infantryman
from the front enters a cafe. In Aus-
tralia the parachute battalion man and
the commando wear easily-identified
patches and insignia; I suggest that the
infantry be given some mark or color
flash as evidence of the role they have
played and will play until the end.
This is not written with any intention
of disparaging the work of the gunners
or the sappers ; they, too, have done mag-
nificent work on many occasions. But
they will be the first to admit that the
really hard fighting is done by the infan-
try, and that, in battle or out, the infantry
rough it all the time.
I’m on the corner of Civvy-street now,
medically unfit; if I’m questioned about
my war service there’ll be a good deal
of pride in my reply: “Over four years’
continuous service with an infantry bat-
talion of the Second A.I.F.” —Second
Thirty-first (A.1.F.).
Leave for Active-service Men
The leave position for soldiers in New
Guinea could do with immediate over-
haul. On the surface, leave is just leave,
but to the man who has been through
the mill it represents a good deal more.
It is as drastic a change in the conditions
of living and company as if he were
changing worlds. He comes from the
nerve exhaustion of the jungle straight to
the quiet and peacefulness of home. Is
it any wonder that he finds it difficult to
readjust himself?
Certainly it is no surprise that wives
and relatives are puzzled by the change
they observe in their fighting men. We
find then, too often, that what was to
have been a joyous reunion proves to be
something in the nature of an anti-
climax. The solution could lie in the
homing one spending a month or so in
a “halfway house” as it were, a camp on
his way down to home. In this way our
boys would have a chance to regain their
perspective. Would not all then enjoy
leave in a more sane and settled state? —
Veefor (C.M.F.).
Commonwealth Powers
Jack Curtin and his mates are poking
a lot of fun at us in course of their game
of putting the “Yes” campaign across.
The case for the Caucus reads like the
prospectus of a bogus insurance com-
pany—“ Just sign on the dotted line, boy,
and we guarantee you get everything on
earth, including a job of some kind
whether you like it or not. If there’s
nothing doing in your own line of
timber-getting we’ll switch you over to
a pie factory. You just fill in a form
with answers to a dozen or so questions
and a bloke at Canberra will do the rest.
He’ll tell you where to go, what to do
and what your wages are, and the same
with the wife and grown-ups in the
family. Arbitration? Don’t be silly.
We’ll scrap all that. It’s out of date.”
That’s the sort of story to be read from
the undertakings, promises, assurances,
pledges and whatnot throughout the
Caucus case, but the setup of the pros-
pectus is the work of amateurs. If the
party must put its daydreams of autoc-
racy into cold print and call them an
argument, why not engage a professional
“Snowy’s determined to catch the selector’s eye somehow!
wild-cat company promotor to make a
decent job of it?
The professional would have sent for
Jack Curtin and the Doc and addressed
them thus:
“Look, boys, this guarantee stuff is
good medicine, and the way you and
the other lads have followed it up with
personal press pars, is fine, but it won’t
wash, even with your own crowd, unless
you put a couple more questions in these
little exam, papers of yours and come
good with the right answers. I’ll say
you’ve got a nerve, the way you’ve fixed
some of the other answers, so I expect
what I’ve got here won’t stump you. Now
listen!
(1) Why does the Goverment seek the
power of industrial conscription when the
party is pledged to oppose it?
(2) Does the Government guarantee to
remain in power for all time so that the
power of industrial conscription can never
be used by another Government.
“Now, gentlemen, if I’m to handle this
little prospectus as per terms arranged
I’ll want the right answers to those two
questions. In your draft you call them
a political scarecrow. To call the other
side a scarecrow won’t get across. What
about it, gentlemen?”—A. H. Outh-
waite (368 Collins-street, Melbourne).
The powers sought by the Common-
wealth Government are to expire five
years after the end of the war. They
will, therefore, almost certainly be exer-
cised by a Labor or Labor-controlled
Government, since Labor will be in con-
trol of the Senate for the next six years
at least, and only a political avalanche
could within that period destroy the
Labor majority in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
Therefore the trustee of the proposed
powers will be a party whose foreign
policy even in the early part of the war
would have made Australia a pariah
arnongst .the Allied Nations. No A.I.F.
No Empire Air Scheme —as far as Aus-
tralia was concerned. A navy confined
to the territorial waters of Australia. No
battle-trained, seasoned divisions to
return with their equipment to hold our
northern frontiers.
The successful organisation of war in-
dustry has been generally and fairly
credited to that panel of representatives
of so-called “Big Business” presided over
by Essington Lewis. Would a Labor
Government have appointed any or all
of these persons? Surely not. Obvi-
ously it retained them only because their
dismissal would have impaired the effi-
ciency of the war effort. It follows that
a failure to have appointed them in the
first place would have implied a failure
to do the best for our country in her
hour of desperate need.
This Labor party, unable to jettison its
worn-out provincialism and restrictive out-
look, will, at the first opportunity, revert
to “isolationism,” involving as it did in
the past no defence policy of any
consequence. As our Government has
concluded a world-shaking agreement
with M.L., we could, of course, ask that
Dominion to defend our shores pending
instructions from the A.C.T.U.
It should be obvious to any intelligent
elector that the present Government is
under the influence of extra-Parliamentary
minorities, and that an affirmative vote
cast on August 19 would be handing over
unlimited power, not to legally-elected
Parliamentary representatives, but to a
coterie bf professional trouble-makers.
Are we fighting a savage war only
to implement our enemies’ doctrine in
our own country?—l. F. Lynar, 575-9
Bourke-street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Rebate for Wife
In filling in my income-tax return for
the last couple of years I have noticed
an intimation to the effect that if my
wife’s net annual income exceeds £5O
she is not deemed to be wholly main-
tained by me.
I am separated from my wife, whose
gross income during 1942-43 and portion
of 1943-44 amounted to £4 14s. per week
(no personal exertion), which sum in-
cluded £1 2s. war pension (not taxable)
and 30s. allowed by me by mutual agree-
ment. Besides this income she owns and
lives in a house which is unencumbered and
has money in the bank and in war bonds.
Some time ago a magistrate stung me
for a further 10s. a week, thus bringing
my wife’s weekly income to £5 4s. Still
I can claim no deduction in taxation.
I was shell-shocked at Lone Pine, re-
ceived a bayonet wound in the hand and
a gunshot wound in the right thigh in the
landing on Gallipoli and am at present
suffering with a gastric ulcer, all being
disabilities from the First World War ;
but it is my intention, should my health
allow, to carry on my job until hostili-
ties cease. lam now in my 64th year,
so after the war I suppose I will revert
to my pension of £2 10s. per week, out
of which I will have to pay board, whilst
my wife, who will drop the £2 mainten-
ance, will still have £3 4s. a week besides
a rent-free house.
The taxgatherers themselves admit that
not being able to claim a deduction in
income tax in the circumstances is an
anomaly, and returned men in a similar
position to me were given to understand
that the Minister for Repatriation was
going to move in the matter, but as far
as I can gather he has done nothing.
Perhaps if we formed ourselves into
a Wife-starvers’ Union with a Commu-
nist as our secretary we might get a
hearing.— Colebrook (Tas.),
Buying It with Babies
Victorian M.L.A. Charles Mutton has
put before Parliament a scheme for solv-
ing the population problem.
He proposes letting every newly-mar-
ried couple have a £lOOO house at
initial rent of £1 a week. The arrival of
the first-born will be celebrated by a 2s.
reduction in the rent, the infant receiving
a £2O share in his birthplace. Shares and
rent reduction will be progressive up to
the eighth child, after which the parents
will be considered to have done their civic
duty and bought the dwelling, the previ-
ous rent being credited against interest,
which would be regarded as cancelled.
To guard against those who refuse to
fulfil their side of the contract or who
can’t have children, he proposes to accept
adopted children as good currency.
Childless couples would be allowed to
retain their houses, paying off in rent the
principal and interest. Mr. Mutton
assesses the value to the State of a normal
adult at £lO,OOO, so that under his scheme
the country could get eight children for
an outlay of a mere £lOOO.
One of the chief causes of the falling
birthrate is that children are economic
disadvantages to their parents, so Mut-
ton’s scheme is at least as sensible as
spending millions on immigration. He
himself has three sons and a daughter.
—Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Cabbages
Some months ago S.A. growers were
urged to sow as many cabbages as
possible for use in a dehydration plant
to be erected. They came to light with
the cabbages when Government officials
were still arguing about the color of the
carpet to be put in the manager’s office
or something. No factory; and a cab-
bage glut.
Exhortations to serve a cabbage at
every meal appeared in the papers, and
the cabbage was represented as a poten-
tial nation-builder, possessing hitherto
undreamed of vitamins, carbohydrates
and proteins.
Deluded citizens praised those con-
cerned for providing them with cheap
cabbages until a private grower pointed
out that on every cabbage that was sold
the Government paid an extra Bd. He
added that if anyone wanted cheap cab-
bages he would be happy to sell 60,000
at 2d. each, c.o.d. — Larry (S.A.).
Venereal Disease
Every so often there is a rather shame-
faced press campaign to call attention to
the increase of v.d.
It is an accepted fact that v.d. of almost
any type can now be cured, and that if
all cases could be treated until cured the
disease could be wiped right out of a
community.
It is a wonder that nothing drastic has
been done about it now that the public
is so used to compulsory voting, compul-
sory identity cards, ration books and
form-filling several times a day. The
powers that be have only to insist upon
a blood test before the issue of a ration
book and, hey presto! every v.d. case
would be exposed. After exposure its
identity card could be withheld until a
cure is effected, so that the sufferer could
not discontinue treatment when sick of it,
as is so often the case at present. —
X. R. I. (W.A.).
Queensland Electoral Methods
In May I wrote complaining that
Queensland State ballots are not secret,
by reason of the fact that ballot papers
are marked by the presiding officer with
elector’s roll number.
To my certain knowledge the marking
of ballot papers I referred to prevailed
for many years.
A presiding officer replied that I was
wrong; each ballot-paper now carries its
own number, which is noted against the
elector’s name on the roll (“quite harm-
lessly,” he asserted). But the effect is
the same.
In Political Points (B. 5/7/’44) it was
noted that 225,000 Government sup-
porters elected 31 members of Parliament
against ‘24 Ms.P. elected by 278,000
Opposition voters. This sort of thing
happened previously at Queensland elec-
tions. Narrow majorities in Labor elec-
torates and leviathan surpluses in Opposi-
tion electorates —very familiar!
One obvious need is a redraft of
electoral boundaries by an independent
commission.—E. G. Sheldon (Q.).
Travel Priorities
Let me draw attention to a brazen
statement in the “S.M.H.” (19/7/’44)
about a ballerina’s mother who “travelled
2000 miles to see her daughter dance.”
How is it possible for anyone to get
a travel permit on such an excuse whilst
others with the strongest legitimate
reasons for crossing the border find it
impossible to get priority?— Mrs. A. H.
(N.S.W.).


WEAR THE SOMBRE COLORS OF WAR
YARRA FALLS’ production is severely limited by man-power difficulties; the greater portion
of its output is required for the Australian and Allied fighting forces, the remainder being
limited to the cloths made to the standards ordered by the Government, leaving no opportunity
to make for the public the high-class fabrics on which Yarra Falls’ reputation has been established.
. g ' yj&gK
' j
... 4
m
m
i
mi
m
a
mmm
m
idt..
11
m
bz
m
m
m
&
I
S?vf
s*n
I
#
K
11
••
Hi
TAMA FAUS
Renowned for tie excellence of '/Is Worsted
Manufactures, all made front Australian virgin wool.
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA- AUSTRALIA-
T
D
