

I
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.—N0. 3340.
Wednesday, February 16, 1944.
... . ... -) I
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
“JEDDART’S HERE!”
JEDBURGH, WHERE BURNS WAS A BURGESS.
T“ HIS Scottish town some fifty miles from Edinburgh is one of
1 the most interesting of smaller Scots towns. Here are houses
once occupied by Mary Queen of Scots, Prince Charlie and Robert
Burns, who was made a burgess of Jedburgh in 1787. Was it,
perhaps, the cottagers of this little burgh that inspired Burns to
write in “The Cotter’s Saturday N ight”;
From scenes like these old Scotia’s grandeur springs
That makes her loved at home, revered abroad;
.. . .an honest man’s the noblest work of God and, certes. ...
The cottage leaves the palace far behind ,
Near the border, Jedburgh was often the target for attacks from
the south, and it had a castle, pulled down in 1409, in which the
ancient Kings of Scotland sometimes lived. Jedburgh Abbey, seen
to the right in this view, is one of the finest of Scotland’s ruins,
and here it is, in the north transept, that the Kers of Fernieherst
have found their resting place. The Abbey has been strengthened
and carefully restored by H.M. Office of Works and part of the
monastery buildings covered for the better preservation of their
many interesting features that commemorate the country from the
twelfth century onwards.


mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, »
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’’
My Name
My Ad dress
S.B. 244 AGE
The Red Page
PRIZES AND CRITICS.
An extraordinary looseness of criti-
cism has characterised most of the com-
ment in the dailies on the Archibald
Prize. In' order to justify the giving of
the award to a caricature, various
writers with more enthusiasm than know-
ledge have maintained that El Greco,
Hogarth and Goya were all caricaturists.
Whether or not these artists were cari-
caturists in their portraiture is not a
matter for argument but a matter of his-
torical fact. Turn up a print of El
Greco’s most celebrated portrait of the
Cardinal of the Inquisition: there is abso-
lutely none of the distortion of carica-
ture. Look at Hogarth’s portraits and
Goya’s portraits: there is no distortion
anywhere.
When they came to paint a portrait,
these men —caricaturists or distortion-
ists in other fields —painted straight-
forwardly, even “academically,” obtain-
ing an impression of power not through
the easy method of distortion but by
conveying, within the strict limits of ana-
tomical exactness, the essential person-
ality or “soul” of the sitter.
“S. M. Herald,” more anxious than
any of the other dailies to direct the
spending of Archibald’s money, went so
far in a leading article as to say that
George Lambert’s portraits were thought
to have “verged on caricature.”
Any fresh vision of man or nature set
down on canvas by an artist is likely to
be thought strange, likely enough to be
met with hostility, that is admitted. But
whether or not Lambert’s portraits could
ever have been held by knowledgeable
men to have “verged on caricature” is
again not a matter for argument but a
matter of fact. Let “Granny” measure
any Lambert portrait in existence and
see if she can find any of the distortion
of caricature. Lambert did not paint
hands about ten inches long, necks about
14 inches long nor ears like cabbage leaves.
But, assuming that a caricature can
be classed as a portrait; that the judges
were justified in awarding Archibald’s
money to the painter of an anatomically
distorted, facially ludicrous painting
labelled with the name of a brother-artist
(who has publicly expressed resentment),
what follows?
The Archibald Prize is a cachet; it sets
or should set, the standard of portraiture
for this country, and it should not be out
of touch with the trend in the wider
world outside nor constitute a direct
break with old-established traditions.
R. H. Croll, in his biography of Tom
Roberts, tells how Tom, when painting
his big picture of the Opening of the
Commonwealth Parliament (which in-
volved making a very great number of
portrait studies) strove to get into the
mind of each sitter; to decipher the
man’s real likes and dislikes; to get his
true flavor. That might do very well
in Australia in 1900, or anywhere else in
the world today, but in Australia in 1944,
with the Archibald Prize verdict before
his eyes, the acceptor of such a commis-
sion would be expected (it is to be sup-
posed) to soak himself in all the muck
ever written, printed or rumored con-
cerning the public men he was to paint;
to work up a burning hate and loathing
of one and all, and to express his detesta-
tion in hideous caricature.
There is a story by H. G. Wells about
Judgment Day. Great men stand forth
and boast of their tremendous sins ; little
men plead their steadfast blamelessneSs.
The Recording Angel recalls to each and
all events that covered them with humili-
ation and ridicule, and, one by one, great
and small, they scramble up the merciful
sleeve of God to shelter against the Uni-
verse’s terrible laughter. The aim of the
new portraiture, so far as the Archibald
Prize judges can mould it, seems to be to
anticipate that Wellsian Judgment Day,
with the difference that judgment is to be
the prerogative of painters whose utter
irresponsibility is stressed by their chief
admirers—men who may, if they choose,
devote themselves to making wisdom
seem foolish, purity impure and dignity
a clownish antic.
That, then, is one possible effect of
the current award: to set up a school of
caricature. “S. M. Herald” is apparently
perfectly complacent about it:—-
For the first time the trustees of the Art
Gallery have awarded the Archibald Prize
to an outstanding artist of the modern, as
opposed to the traditional, school of thought,
and indeed, for the first time for many
years, to one of real merit.
But “Granny” is not always so con-
tented with the results of her policy. The
Wynne Prize for landscape last year was
awarded to a dismal view of a slum back-
yard. “Granny’s” critic approved:
The Wynne Prize is for the best landscape
and the best picture, “Backyards.”
Then, quite forgetting that she had
approved of last year’s decision,
“Granny” commented editorially on this
year’s Wynne entries:
The stereotyped dullness of most of
the exhibits for the Archibald, the Wynne
and the Sulman prizes this year is a reflec-
tion of the awards of the judges for many
years past.
The Wynne exhibits this year are cer-
tainly dull. Is that the result of awards
in the past to men of the calibre of
Gruner, Streeton, Penleigh Boyd and
Heysen? Or is it not rather the direct
effect of last yeaifs incomprehensible
award to the dreary backyard, approved
by the “Herald” and almost certainly
the result of the “Herald’s” campaign
for “melancholy” Australian landscapes?
Is not the dullness of the Wynne ex-
hibits due to the fact that last year’s de-
cision confused the minds of artists of
medium ability and so disgusted the best
painters that they did not wish to court
humiliation by entering for the competi-
tion?
The Archibald decision this year may
well have a similar effect. What was the
use of landscapists of the quality of
John Eldershaw or Percy Lindsay (to
name two notable absentees) sending in
for the Wynne if the “Herald,” and the
trustees had decided to award the- Prize
to slum backyards? What (a portraitist
of Mary Edwards’s quality may ask) is
the use of sending in for the Archibald
if the Prize is to go to caricature?
It will be a great pity if genuine por-
traitists do decide to abandon the Archi-
bald to the nonentities or the caricaturists.
It’s to be hoped that the award to Dobell
will stimulate the genuine portrait
painters to finer and stronger work.
But if the competition does fall into dis-
repute, next year’s “Herald” leader on
the subject will have to blame the
“Herald” as much as the trustees.
Did the trustees think clearly about
these possible effects of their decision?
It is extremely difficult to discover
any evidence that the trustees, as a body,
have ever thought clearly on anything.
Although the “Herald” finds them “sadly
lacking” in tolerance, they have —if in-
consistency is tolerance been almost
awe-inspiringly broadminded. For in-
stance, at a recent exhibition, a landscape
by Lloyd Rees and a landscape by Doug-
las Dundas were shown and the trustees
bought the Lloyd Rees: then, when both
pictures were shown in the Wynne com-
petition, the Prize was awarded to the
Dundas.
It is impossible for the outside observer
to imagine how the same body of men
could award last year’s Wynne to the
slum backyard (“modernist” at least in its
depression) and this year’s Wynne to
Dundas’s utterly conventional pretty-
pretty ; how the same body of men could
award the Wynne to the conventional
Dundas and the Archibald to the ex-
tremist Dobell. One has the impression
that the Archibald must have been de-
cided first and then, aghast at their own
temerity, the trustees rushed off and
awarded the Wynne to the tamest and
safest exhibit they could find.
If some of them are, as “S. M. Herald”
elegantly alleges, “firm, even violent parti-
sans of the old school” ; and if one or
two of them are inexcusably absent when
decisions of the magnitude of the Archi-
bald and Wynne awards are made, there
must be among the remainder men not
“sadly lacking” in tolerance but of really
remarkable volatility of mind.
It is probable, of course, that the
awards are not made capriciously but go
to the painting which the trustees, as a
body, honestly consider the best. Bht that
does not quite dispose of the matter.
There are the wishes of the benefactors
of the gallery—never alluded to by the
“Herald” as it scatters their money about,
and rarely, it appears, considered by the
trustees.
The Wynne Prize was intended for “the
best landscape painting of Australian
scenery,” and its donor used to say that
“scenery” was the most beautiful in the
world. Gruner, Streeton and Heysen
also loved Australia, and the Wynne
Prize was very properly awarded to one
or other of those three year after year.
Although, when it is not pleading for
more “melancholy” in Australian land-
scapes, the “Herald” is interested only in
art that reflects the state of mind in
Europe as it approached the present
catastrophe, it is still, as it always was,
of the utmost national importance that
Australians should be taught to see and
love their own country. Gruner, Streeton
and that school of landscapists with which
to “Granny’s” regret “this country be-
came rather obsessed” were not only fine
creators of art, but creators of a nation.
To be completely “obsessed” with Aus-
tralian painting may be provincial; but
it is more than provincial, it is colonial
to be ashamed of it. In her new dress
“Granny” is still the Old Colonial Girl.
It may be socially desirable that slum
backyards should be painted ; if they are
well enough done, it may even be artis-
tically desirable. But a prize designed to
make Australians know and love their
own “scenery” better —Australian plains
and mountains, Australian rivers and
beaches, Australian light and color —was
never intended to go to a slum backyard.
If the trustees in any year find that no
landscape comes up to the very high
standard set by Gruner and the other
great Prize-winners of the past, rather
than turn in desperation to a slum back-
yard or an unimportant pretty-pretty,
they should make no award.
The Archibald Prize was intended to
go to the best portrait “preferentially of
some man or woman distinguished in
Art, Letters, Science or Politics.” That
is, it could be awarded simply to what
the trustees considered the best portrait;
but preferentially it was to go to the
portrait of some distinguished Australian,
and, if the order of words meant what
Archibald’s lifelong devotion to art and
literature indicates it would mean, among
distinguished Australians he preferred
those outstanding in art or letters.
Time after time the trustees have used
the looseness of Archibald’s phraseology
as an excuse for evading his wishes. In
the year in which Longstaff won the
award with a portrait of a visiting actor,
Lambert had painted Julian Ashton. An
award was given to Nora Heysen for the
portrait of the wife of a Dutch Consul.
In the year in which William Dargie’s
portrait of Sir James Elder took the Prize
these was an unforgettable self-portrait
by Mary Edwards —and the Mary
Edwards would almost certainly have
Archibald’s choice.
Joshua Smith, the subject of Dobell’s
portrait this year, is well known and well
thought of as an artist; but it is more
than likely that, there being degrees of
distinction, Archibald would have pre-
ferred the award to go to Smith’s com-
petent portrait of Mary Gilmore rather
than to Dobell’s painting of Smith, in
whatever style the latter was painted.
The award to the caricature of an (as
yet) only moderately distinguished painter
has, it is argued, “stimulated” interest in,
art. Four thousand people, the “Herald”
triumphantly reported, visited the gallery
one Sunday. Four thousand people would
visit the gallery if Wirth’s two-headed
heifer were on view; forty thousand
would attend if a really good murder
were to be committed in the print room.
Besides wishing to commemorate Aus-
tralians distinguished in art or letters,
Archibald undoubtedly wished to stimu-
late the painting of portraits; but he
would never have mistaken sensational-
ism for stimulus nor a caricature for a
portrait.
Not what suits the present policy of
the “Herald” but what Archibald wished
should be the criterion for the trustees.
And, if they axe confused by the chorus
of praise for the present award from the
“Herald” and the “Daily Telegraph,” one
truth these critics have discovered might
well be borne in mind: in any period, the
fashionable critics, praising the fashion of
the day, are usually wrong.
Tut, "Granny"!
The contributions to Her Son and
Other Stories (Consolidated Press, Ltd.,
Sydney)—ls of them, mostly by un-
known writers —are the fruits of an
“Australian Women’s Weekly” competi-
tion and are more or less what would be
expected.
Since it is by a writer of some repute
who has put her tongue in her cheek to
write the sort of story suitable for a popu-
lar competition, Henrietta Drake-Brock-
man’s “Look for the Blister” will serve
to illustrate the general quality. The
“blister” is a pearl, worn on a ring by a
Nazi agent who, with Japanese associates,
is up to knavish tricks in war-time Syd-
ney. The heroine is a young woman
called Meg, sleuthing for the Australian
secret service.
Before the dastard foes are rounded
up and Meg is wedded to a fellow-sleuth,
the heroine is captured by the enemy, im-
prisoned in Woolloomooloo and invited
to commit hara-kiri or suffer a fate pos-
sibly worse:
I do hope, my dear Miss Dawson, that
you will see the wisdom of the honorable
Japanese way, now your mission has failed.
I would not insult you by suggesting you
are less courageous than myself. On the
wall of my room you will see a sword that
more than one of my ancestors used against
himself or herself, when the code of their
country demanded it”
I stood in quite a lovely room. Unfor-
tunately, I was in no mood of appreciation.
There was the hara-kiri knife strung up over
the mantel, as large as -life I even yanked
the old sword out of its scabbard. Covered
in horrid red dust, the blade was.
From this distressing situation Meg
escapes, of course, by a secret tunnel run-
ning from the ’Loo to Elizabeth Bay.
In a story called “Night Flight” one
can read about love that felt like “an
enchanting melody” ; there is a pathetic
description of the death of a faithful
dog; there is more love-and-espionage;
there is an escaped German prisoner who
behaves like a cad to a woman in a lonely
shack and is brought to disaster in a
quicksand and a wow ending ; there is
the title story in which a Mrs. Hodgen
looks, acts, talks and thinks like a char-
lady from the Herbert Jenkins “Bindle"
books.
Unless as a model for young writers on
how not to write short stories, the book
has no literary interest and, had it not
been for “S. M. Herald’s” review of it,
would have been dismissed here with a
friendly wave of the hand. Most of the
Sydney publishers are turning out reprints
or rubbish as fast as they can while manu-
scripts of any genuine value moulder in
their cupboards, and it would be unfair
to single out the publishers of this volume
for special attack. But “Granny’s” note
on Her Son and Other Stories began:—
This is an interesting collection of short
stories. In this admittedly difficult medium
fourteen Australians have shown, more than
in any other similar collection, that they
can draw from local, contemporary back-
grounds, events and characters the material
for readable fiction.
Gripes!
“Curtain Raiser”; The most interest-
ing thing about the Beethoven Festival in
Melbourne, apart from the music, was
the fact that all the soloists and singers
were either native-born or have been so
long in Australia that it amounts to the
same thing. Time was when this would
have meant that the concerts would have
been relegated to some obscure hall in
a back lane. Those were the days when
the approaching advent of some Polish
fiddler with ten consonants in his name
and no vowels could be forecast from
apparently innocent references in the
press to his extraordinary achievements
in Europe, together with engaging anec-
dotes about the castle he was building in
the Swiss Alps, his intimate friendship
with Prime Ministers and crowned heads
and his brusque or alternatively nice
manners. On one occasion, lacking
sufficiently picturesque details about
a famous ballerina, a Melbourne man-
agement invented the story that it was a
custom in her country to carry her over
the threshold of the stage door at each
new theatre, and this service was duly
performed by a distinguished citizen
while pressmen photographed the pro-
ceedings. None of these devices has
been employed in the recent season;
merit alone packed the concerts.
Melbourne Tiv.’s latest contribution to
theatrical history is “The Naughty Nine-
ties.” If its version is correct they
weren’t anything like as naughty as the
Nice Forties. Ditties that thrilled our
grandmas are interspersed with Miss
June Holm’s songs about cowboys from
the vast prairies of the U.S. who now
ride sky horses. A strong team of
comedians includes the elegant Edward
Marcel, Joseph Lawman and the excel-
lent Will Mahoney, who, in the words of
the programme, attempts the hitherto
impossible feat of extracting music from
a xylophone by vigorously dancing on it.
He certainly succeeds in dancing on it.
“Cauboy”: Kirsova has concluded a
successful season at Melbourne His
Majesty’s, but her programmes lacked the
virility of the rougher, more primitive
and more voluptuous variety of Russian
dancing to the point of being a bit arty-
crafty. There was an arty-crafty side to
the imported Russian ballet which I per-
sonally detested intensely, but there were
always compensations in the robustness
of such blood-and-thunder love melo-
dramas as “Francesca da Rimini” and
“Scheherazade” and the roaring, ripping
fierceness of the old folk-dances per-
formed to their natural ally, the old
folk music. Kirsova has confined herself
to the more attenuated “Harlequins” and
“Hansels and Gretels.” Possibly the
human material is lacking ; city devotees
of ballet belong to the arty-crafty set who
become ecstatic over modernistic painting.
Perhaps Kirsova should try recruiting her
corps de ballet from the ranks of stock-
men, drovers and boundary-riders. I saw
as much skill and spontaneous beauty of
action at Speir’s Rodeo in Batman-
avenue the other evening as I ever have
at the ballet.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
‘"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
aJf Twites
\
«
£
id©
■tfV
Vcfo
i\o^
dV
O'!
_ s \va<
vV**f
r V\t^®'
d© sV
'$&&•
■9OS
d
ctfv^ e s
j^ x ' v
•nn
vd ce
\o^ e
0 cu
jar
ill
%
VI
•sfjV
VO-'
Ss\
£S <o9*°®
m
O*'
© % tA
■©
vV^
Q *
'o
'a, •£,
• Jr\ -•"■* O
$ £ * ■
*
Je®'
XP
ty
%
'
® o
p, £ °
Ip'O
. 4 ®. <
P * Q I *
2, % & "*
-
©.
o
sdf
ioV®,
VO-'
t>e
i°VXc
iO^°
d - £ CP^
Wie B^'
mm
° K l^ c o
Vcv
A\,^ C .
x^ e
ttf
sv<3®
CP
V
-30/^
rT/3
MS® 4
as
*^V 4
Ae to6 A O tMC
oSe ?TVC©
vcv
\-^r°
Famous Low Prices
THONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


A PLACE OF HIS OWN
By J. SOMERVILLE BEST.
AS long as Barney Crockett
could remember Uncle Alf
had talked about what he
would do if ever he had a
place of his own, so that when he
won a tinn share or hrst prize in a lottery
everybody knew what he’d do with the
money.
Barney was the first of the Crocketts
to hear the news, and he strolled down to
tell the old people about it, after an early
tea, draping his lean length over the slip-
rails and settling himself there while they
went on pulling beans in the smothering
heat.
“Well, I am glad,” Ma said with her
beaming smile. “Poor old Alf, he won’t
know ’imself being his own boss after
working up at Coates’s all these years.
A godsend, that’s what it is.”
Auntie May, who didn’t approve of
lotteries, gathered a handful of beans
with a vicious tug that brought the vine
holus-bolus out of the ground. Glancing
round quickly to see that no one had
noticed, she shoved it back in again and
packed the earth around it with her foot.
“All I ’ope is”—her mournful tone be-
lied the hope she expressed—“all I ’ope is
he won’t live to be sorry. I knew a
woman once won a motor-car in one of
them art unions, and the very first time
she went out in it they all goi smashed
up and she ’asn’t got out of bed from
that day to this.”
“Entirely irrelevant, my dear May.”
Uncle Harry, plump, pink and pedantic,
never missed a chance to contradict.
“Brother Alf has been farming all his
life, he has the technique at his finger-
tips, and now it’s merely a matter of
working for himself instead of being ex-
ploited by somebody else.”
“Gripes!” Da murmured. He never
could get used to Harry’s language.
“ ’Course it stands to reason”
But Ma, as usual, interrupted him.
“To think of Alf with his own little
place at last. I’ll bet he keeps it lookin’
like a picture, too. There’s no one can
beat Alf when it comes to hoeing.”
“Yair,” said Barney, whose place was
never clean, and who, therefore, was
touchy on the subject, “but hoeing ain’t
all there is to running a farm.”
“And look what a one he is for prun-
ing, too! Why, old Mr. Coates says he
wouldn’t have anyone else do his prun-
ing but your Uncle Alf, not even if they
was willing to come for half the money.”
“Him and his ten bob a day!” Da
snorted, “He knows flamin’ well”——
“Anyway, he’ll ’ave t’ find somebody
else this year, and that’s all about it,” Ma
burst in joyfully, “When Alf gets this
place of his own old Coates’ll be won-
dering what’s come'to ’im.”
“This looks like Alf coming now,”
Auntie May observed. She had gone to
the end of the row to empty her tin, and
stood there for a moment, gripping her
hips to ease the ache that was gnawing
the Small of her back. Pulling beans
came hard to a woman of her age, but
for all her kindness Ma was not one to
stand any polling.
“If you’re living with us we’ll expect
you to give us a hand when we’re rushed,”
she had said frankly. And certainly beans
were better than bombs, May admitted,
though now that the danger of bombs
on Bondi seemed to be over she thought
wistfully of her “two rooms and use of
kitchen.”
Uncle Harry had joined her at the end
of the row, emptied his pull into the bag
and seated himself, puffing slightly, on
the upturned kerosene-tin. Harry was
also from the city. He mopped his brow
and blinked up the dusty toad. “I’m
afraid my sight is scarcely adequate”
“Yair,” said Barney, “it’s Uncle Alf all
right. I’d know that walk of his a mile
away.”
Groaning, Da straightened his back to
stare at the approaching figure. Ma
flopped over sideways so that she rested
almost full length along the ground, a
blue and white mound between the green
rows of vines.
“Don’t let on you’ve heard,” she
cautioned them. “Wait and see what he
says,”
AN accident in his youth had left Alf
with one leg a little shorter than the
other, and long years of hoeing had given
his right shoulder a forward thrust, so
that he walked with a peculiar crablike
motion, his right eye hidden under the
peak of the cloth cap he invariably wore,
the left peering out from beneath it with
the look of a wary parrot. He came to
the rails and leaned there beside his
nephew, almost equally tall and thin, his
skinny hands hanging down from frayed
coat-sleeves, the chewed end of a cigar-
ette dangling from his lip.
“G’day,” he said gruffly. “ ’Ard at it?”
Instantly they all looked very busy.
Even Barney mumbled a lame excuse, “I
gotter be gettin’ home to see to me
chooks.”
Alf climbed through the rails and
sidled down to the beans,
“They’re gettin’ old on you. Oughter
been pulled yesterday.”
“We was pulling yesterday,” Ma said
defensively, “only we couldn’t get ’em
done. This hot weather’s bringing them
on like a house afire.”
“That’s right,” Da agreed. “I never
see such”
“If only the price’ll keep up!” Ma
interrupted. “Did anyone hear the
market reports today?”
“I did,” May said ; “I been meaning to
tell you. They’re down.”
You’d wonder how Ma could be of
the same blood as May and Alf. Nothing
ever seemed to get her down. And
nothing short of a hydraulic lift could
get them up. Not even a windfall of a
thousand pounds, it seemed.
“There ain’t goin’ to be much in vege-
tables this year,” Alf reckoned. “There’s
people planted beans this year that never
grew ’em before. Y’oughter see the bed
we got in up at Coates’s. You never
see such a bed as we got up there.”
“How’s he going to get on without you
to pull ’em?” Ma burst out in uncontrol-
lable exhilaration. “Barney’s just been
telling us he seen Jim Rogers and he says
he heard you’d won a thousand in the
lottery.”
Alf nodded morosely. “I could’ve ’ad
the five thousand if I’d ’ave known. Just
me luck. Wish now. I’d ’ave took the
flamin’ ticket on me own.”
Ma stared at him open-mouthed.
Barney guffawed. Uncle Harry was heard
to say something about the winter wind,
while Da muttered “Gripes, can you beat
it?” and Auntie May suggested that too
much money wasn’t good for anybody.
Characteristically, Ma was the first to
recover. “Well, anyway, you’ll be able to
get that place of your own at last.”
“I dunno about that. I ain’t goin’ to
be rushed into nothin’.” He glared
round at them all suspiciously. “Mr.
Coates reckons if I was to leave it in the
bank I’d get up to thirty pound a year
in interest.”
“Suit him all right,” Ma said indig-
nantly. “While he goes on paying you
a measly ten bob a day, and knows good
an’ well he’d ’ave to pay anyone else at
least a coupla bob more. Don’t you let
’im put it over you, Alf. You get your
own place and be independent while you
got the chance.”
“Yair,” Barney grunted ironically,
“you get a place of your own and take
it easy. Reckon there’s a lot to be said
for a man workin’ out. Look at Uncle
Alf here, knocked off for the day, and
the rest of you still going strong. And me
going ’ome to feed up and gather the eggs.”
But he made no move to go. None of
them would for the world have missed
this exciting situation with its unique
opportunity of minding somebody else’s
business and spending somebody else’s
money for him.
“I’ve heard there’s a few places for sale
up by the Seven-mile,” Ma went on.
“Why don’t you take a day off and go up
and look at them?”
“Can’t take any time off this week. Nor
next week either.”
If any of them had bothered to ask
him why he would have put them off
with some reason not the truth, which
was that he already had his eye on the
next fortnight’s cheque and nothing less
than a Jap invasion could be allowed to
lessen it by ten bob.
With a flash of insight Ma realised this,
and mentally braced herself for a long-
drawn struggle, “It’ll take a bit of talk-
ing to get him up to scratch, but it’s only
for his good. Trouble is, he’s got so
used to regular money”
D Y dint of perpetual persuasion they
' got him gradually to the point of
going to inspect several places, and finally
to the point of buying one. It was right
nexf door to Coates’s where he’d been
working for over fifteen years, so he
ought to know all there was to know
about the soil and so on. There was a
bit of a house on it, not much to look at
but enough for Uncle Alf —and Auntie
May, if she held to her sudden decision
to “stop and look after him” ; and six
acres' of orchard, with another four to
plant. The lot for £BOO, which left him
a nice little nest egg. As Ma repeated,
it was really providential the way it was
all working out.
Ma took a bit of watching about that
time. With reckless generosity she was
prepared to strip her own house for the
sake of seeing Alf comfortable in his.
Nor did Auntie May do anything to
restrain her. After all, she thought, she
was giving up the rest of her life to look-
ing after Alf; no sacrifice of Ma’s could
compare with that,
Barney protested hotly. “Look here,
Ma, Tooney and me could have done
with that dresser and rocking-chair.”
She reached up and patted his angular
jaw. “Now, son, we done the best we
could for you and Tooney when you
was getting your home. Your poor Uncla
Alf never had no chance to get married ;
he just seemed to give himself up to look-
ing after your grandma, and when she
went it seemed like he’d got used to
bein’ single. I reckon it’s only right for
those of us that’s had our happiness to
do what we can to make up. And he’s
never had much comfort in that old hut
up at Coates’s.”
By the time Alf got settled in his new
place it was February. He did pretty
well through the winter with cabbages
and then peas ; but an early bed of beans
let him down with a flop that seemed to
knock the spirit out of him. He grew so
cranky about it that Auntie May left him
to it and shifted up to the Crocketts’ for
a couple of days.
“It wasn’t so much him not speaking
to me for days on end,” she confided.
“Nor even the way he used to sit there
night after night just chewing his pipe
and spitting on the floor. But when it
come to threatening to clear out and
leave me stuck there on my own I just
couldn’t stand it. Of course, I know it's
been a big disappointment to him ; he’d
set his heart on gettin’ ten bob a bushel,
and then for them to drop right down
to sixpence. But still, as I told him, it’s
only what I’ve been afraid of all along,
and he can’t expect to prosper on the
devil’s money.”
“He’ll get over it and put in another
bed in a week or two,” Ma said. “Just
like we all do.”
D UT Uncle Alf didn’t grow any
more beans. He said he didn’t
have the time, what with the
ploughing and the Valencias to get
away, and then the peaches. Some-
how he never could catch up with
himself, and it wasn’t for lack of
trying; Auntie May said he scarcely
stopped working to eat or sleep. But he
just didn’t seem to go the right way about
things. *
He was always leaving a job half done
while he rushed off to do something else
that had suddenly occurred to him as
more important; and as like as not before
that was finished he’d find something else
that was more important still. He’d
never had any choice of jobs before. The
boss would say “Do so-and-so today”;
it might be hoeing or ploughing or pull-
ing fruit, but whatever it was Alf would
go and do it. No choice, no worry—and
no, responsibility.
No books to keep, no bills, no rates
and taxes, no Government forms to fill
in for this and that.
Every week or so he visited the
Crocketts, bringing a dog-eared ledger or
grimy official envelope.
“Look ’ere. Another form , . . and as
long as me flamin’ arm. ’Struth, you’d
think they’d get sick o’ sending the things
out. What do they want to know all our
business for? Just to find out ’ow much
we’ve got, and then a bit later on they'll
domineer the lot. A m'fin might as well
be in Germany the way they’re domi-
neering everything.”
“And how’s your peaches?” Ma might
ask soothingly.
“Ain’t the size they ought to be.”
It was the peaches that finally got him
down. They didn’t ripen ; and then they
all ripened at once, and when he went
to pull them he discovered that although
his shed was stacked high with bushel
cases he didn’t have a half-case among the
lot. He’d never had to think of things
like that before; that was the boss’s worry.
It was Friday and no hope of getting
boxes until Monday, and by then a lot
of the peaches would be overripe. He
stared at them in gloomy resignation, his
cap pulled further than ever over his eye,
his hands in his pockets, the inevitable
cigarette dangling. Then he mooched
across the half-mile to Coates’s shed.
Coates was up to his eyes in it, with
all the labor he could rake in to help. He
nodded briefly at Alf.
“Good day. Your peaches finished?”
“Won’t be able to finish ’em till Mon-
day. I run out of boxes. Thought you
might like a hand.”
“Get to it,” Coates said.
It was good to be back in the shed
among the men, with the yarns going
round and the laughter, and the air thick
with tobacco and the smell of fruit and
sweat. In a dim sort of way he won-
dered why he’d ever left it.
WHEN Mrs. Coates came down with
the morning tea she smiled at him
kindly.
“Hullo, Alf; back again? Good of you
to come and help us out.”
The boss brought his mug of tea and
squatted beside him.
“I suppose you’re not thinking of sell-
ing that place of yours?”
Alf stared at him, fascinated.
At lunchtime Mr. Coates was beside
him again.
“If you’re thinking of selling I’ll give
you seven hundred. I know you gave
eight hundred for it. But it wasn’t worth
it. And places aren’t selling now like
they were a year ago.”
At afternoon-tea time he put out an-
other feeler.
“Seven hundred in the bank would
bring you in good interest without you
having to worry your head about it. If
you’d like to call it a deal I’ll make it
seven-twenty, and take the rest of your
peaches off your hands. Of course your
old job’s waiting for you here, and per-
haps a bit better pay”
Alf dipped a biscuit in his tea and
sucked it thoughtfully.
“But what’s a bloke going to do about
somewhere to live? That feller Harris
is in the hut now, ain’t he?”
Coates looked at the new occupant of the
hut, a fifteen-bob-a-day man, and touchy
at that. It wouldn’t do to interfere with
him, at least while the rush was on.
“Look here,” he suggested, will
this suit you? I’ll give you twelve bob a
day and you stay on where you are and
pay me ten bob a week in rent, and we U
call it square. And we’ll start in pulling
them peaches of yours tomorrow.”
“Gripes! Can you beat it?” Da asked
when he heard the news. “Two bob a
day rise; that’s twelve bob a and
ten of it comes back to him in rent! ”
For once in her life Ma hadn’t a thing
to say, and Barney managed to have the
last word on the subject.
“Well, at least we won’t be hearing any
more about what he’d do if he had a
place of his own.”
BLACK OPAL.
Catch if you can in a thin gold band
And wear your boy on the back of your hand,
The fossicker said to the lady.
But if he gives you an opal stone
It’ll bite your finger right to the bone
And it won’t come off though you heave and
groan,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Red for fire and green for cold;
Watch what you buy before you’re sold,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Gay or sober, timid or bold,
A boy is nice for a girl to hold,
But here is the blue that the skies unfold,
The fossicker said to the lady.
That green light flashed from the ocean’s dark,
I had to go down with the squid and the shark.
The fossicker said to the lady.
The stingray stabs with his poisonous spear,
The octopus wraps you in coils of fear
And the giant clam will embrace you, my dear,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Bound to an opal too close to part,
And the matrix came from a mountain’s heart,
The fossicker said to the lady.
I’ve been down with shovel and pick
Where the stone was dead and the air was thick
And a black wind blew the light from the wick,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Black the matrix and green the flash,
Oh, never doubt it, you’ll cut a dash,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Silence of stone and the weeds that swish,
Midnight dark and the light of a fish,
Take it and wear it, but maybe you’ll wish
It wasn’t an opal, my lady.
The funnel-web spider lives in a hole,
But I’ve been down to the wild world’s soul,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Down the volcano’s throat I came,
Spiders of fire spun webs of flame,
If I bite your heel you’ll be worse than lame,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Green and black is your heart’s desire
And you’ll be the fly in the web of fire,
The fossicker said to the lady.
With how many lads can a lass make free?
The earth and the fire and the gulf of the sea,
The black and the red and the green make three
And there’s yet one more, my lady.
By Lightning Ridge on the stony plain
A man lay down with a drought in his brain,
The fossicker said to the lady.
His tongue was black and his mouth was dry,
A ghost of water danced in his eye,
But all he could drink was the blue of the sky,
The fpssicker said to the lady.
I’ve tasted stone in the mountain’s vault,
Fire I’ve tasted and wild green salt,
The fossicker said to the lady.
But the man who lay on the sun-baked track
And drank the sky through his mouth’s dry crack
Has drunk with the gods and he won’t come back,
The fossicker said to the lady.
It’s red and it’s green and it’s blue by turns
And it flashes for any light that burns,
The fossicker said to the lady.
Red for fire and green for cold,
Blue for the light that the skies unfold,
Take it and wear it if your heart is bold,
The fossicker said to the lady.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3340.
Wednesday, February 16, 1944.
REMEMBER THE EIGHTH!
“I thought I heard a coo-ee!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westraha: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4. *
REPORTS TO THE NATION.
There have been several lately on a
variety of subjects. They were not in all
cases addressed to the nation direct, but
in all cases the nation was meant to be
the final audience.
Dr. Evatt reported at Canberra on the
need for a grant of legislative powers to
the Commonwealth “on probation,”
choosing as his medium of communica-
tion the Summer School of the Institute
of Political Science. He said, among
other provocative things, that “the imme-
diate post-war period will be a period of
national peril and emergency,” which is
in odd conflict with the more popular
Labor theory, expressed at the Federal
A.L.P. Conference, that it will be a
period in which everybody will be affluent
and happy with the minimum of toil;
and that “unless there is a national plan
for the employment of all our people
disastrous unemployment seems inescap-
able.” For this “national plan.., .to be
carried into effect by Commonwealth
legislation, the Constitution, as it stands,
offers no secure foundation the Com-
monwealth has no direct authority over
employment and unemployment.”
None of the other Summer Scholars
was so rude as to point out that, by virtue
of the defence power, the Commonwealth
Government has direct authority over em-
ployment and unemployment (always self-
caused) in coalmines, State Government
abattoirs, State Government tramway
departments and the like, and that an
increasingly grave situation has arisen,
in the all-important coal trade particu-
larly, because the authority has not been
exercised. Mr. Curtin now protests that,
although “we need two million tons a
year more than we are getting,” it is
unexercisable.
Dr. Evatt’s speech was the cue for a
report by Mr. Makin on the munitions
factories under his more or less shadowy
control. Obviously without taking his
legal colleague into his confidence and
without considering the effect in the con-
stituencies to which the Evatt proposals
will have to be submitted, Mr. Makin
said that the Government munitions fac-
tories “represent a people’s investment of
more than a hundred millions,” and that
the Government’s “very doubtful power
to enter into manufacture other than for
defence purposes” should be placed
beyond doubt. For “it is essential that
the Government should be permitted to
enter into industry, on a strictly commer-
cial basis, to supply civilian needs.” If
this is a statement of Government policy
—and the Prime Minister, though he has
discussed it uneasily, has not repudiated
it —bang goes the chance of getting
Americans interested in Australian indus-
try on a large scale after the war.
The Prime Minister, addressing Parlia-
ment, reported on the war. He gave the
casualties for the three fighting services
from September 3, 1939, to December
31, 1943, as 66,930, “of whom 16,480
were killed,” and those for the campaign
in Papua and New Guinea to the end of
January, 1944, as 10,470, “of whom 3290
were killed.” Sickness figures he did not
disclose, but he mentioned that “anti-
malarial measures” had brought about “a
substantial reduction in the incidence of
the disease in New Guinea.”
Emphasising, somewhat tardily, that
“it is of vital importance to our future
that our part in the war should be such
as to guarantee us an effective voice in
the peace settlement,” Mr. Curtin laid it
down that “the maintenance of the
fighting strength of the army is a primary
consideration.” With the “demands” of
coalminers, State Government employees
and others in mind, he added that “the
Government is determined that the army
shall not be treated as a reserve of man-
power to be drawn on to maintain civilian
services at the expense of the offensive
against Japan.” Since October, when
it was decided that “20,000 men should
be released from the army by the end of
June and another 20,000 men from the
munitions and aircraft bloc, subject to
certain set-offs,” 6634 men had been
taken out of the army and 6500 from
munitions and aircraft work, while “more
than 6000” had been “added to the rural
labor force by discharge from the ser-
vices, release from the army for rural
work or diversion by Man-power.”
Here Mr. Curtin was replying to Dr.
Page, who had described the Govern-
ment’s policy in this field as “another
half-and-half compromise—half are in
favor of release and half are not.” Mr.
Forde, reporting on the army, did some
replying to Dr. Page on his own account;
and, as was noticed with sarcastic de-
light, he was obliged to break the incom-
prehensible rule that forbade mention of
the A.I.F. The member for Grafton had
flayed “the policy of our half-and-half
Government that half of our army cannot
fight beyond the Equator and push the
Jap right into Japan.” This, the Minister
protested, was not right: “about 86 per
cent, of medically-fit soldiers are eligible
to fight anywhere in the world ; only 14
per cent, have not volunteered for the
A.1.F.”
The A.I.F. was never stronger than it is
today. It is a far bigger army than Aus-
tralia can afford to send beyond the
Equator, and is far bigger than the armies
sent abroad in the last war.
Nor was it right to say that “our half-
and-half Government pulls out our most
victorious generals from active commands
and uses them in more or less routine
jobs.” Mr, Forde was “amazed” that a
man of Dr. Page’s experience should dis-
cuss the appointments of leading gen-
erals ; “such discussion” gave “informa-
tion to the enemy.” The vacancies created
by the appointments of General Lavarack
(to Washington), Mackay (to New Delhi)
and Herring (to Melbourne) would be
“filled by outstanding younger com-
manders” on the recommendation of the
C.-in-C.; as for General Morshead, also
referred to by Dr. Page, he was “actu-
ally in charge of current operations in
a forward area.” How long General
Morshead has been so employed the Min-
ister did not say, nor did he mention the
cases of General Wynter and General
Rowell, the former “relegated to staff
duties” and the latter “unwarrantably
discarded” in Australia and snapped up
by the British, according to Senator Foil.
Mr. Forde having spoken, and having,
in the character of doughty champion,
perforce mentioned the A.1.F., previously
enveloped in the strangest of official fogs,
Mr. Menzies took up the discussion. He,
too, was “not happy about the transfer of
leading Australian generals from fighting
jobs,” nor could he understand why, with
so many men available on Mr. Forde’s
showing, so much of the fighting should
have been done, and so much of the suf-
fering borne, by so few;
It is an open secret that three great A.I.F.
divisions ; are being used again and again and
again. I suggest to the Minister that he
should not ignore the people who ask
whether this is to go on until the time is
reached when there are no veterans but
only reinforcements. I say with all earnest-
ness to the Prime Minister that we a?e over-
working, over-straining and over-testing
these men in the A.I.F.
Among “the leading Australian gen-
erals” transferred “from fighting jobs”
the leader of the Opposition named Gen-
erals Lavarack and Rowell. “Sent into
exile!” interjected Mr. A. G. Cameron.
’“Exactly!” said the leader of the Oppo-
sition.
Meanwhile the greater part of Dr.
Page’s indictment of the “half-and-half
Government,” presented in the form of a
report to the Country party conference at
Sydney, went unanswered. The doctor
made these deep surgical wounds:
At a time when we willingly ration our-
selves to send, the maximum quantities
of meat to our forces and to Britain,
our half-and-half Government winks at
slaughtermen working half time. Thereby
millions of sheep have died from starvation
that three or four months ago would have
been good food if slaughtered.
Our half-and-half Government now half-
supplies Britain’s needs. In the first year of
the war we sent 113,000 tons of butter to
Britain. Last year we sent 50,000 tons.
Our half-and-half Government by its half-
and-half stabilisation plan gives us the
worst of both worlds. It dissatisfies pro-
ducers and irritates consumers.
Our half-and-half Government gives our
miners holidays at Christmas on an agree-
ment not to stop work. Since they had
their holidays they have lost more coal by
stoppages than the curtailment of essential
services has compensated for.
On the wharves, half the work —and that
the most lucrative half —is done by wharf-
laborers who get the pickings. The other
half is done by Australian and American
service men on military pay, and by volun-
tary workers at week-ends.
And free medicine for a people already
provided with an excellent service through
friendly societies and public hospitals!
The net result of all this —and many
more illustrations jump to the eye—is that
we have a divided nation. Soldiers, sailors,
airmen, nurses, doctors, farmers, business-
men, workers in certain factories and rail-
waymen working all round the clock to
bring this terrible struggle to a successful
conclusion. Another section using the war
for private ends, gains and pleasure.
All this from the man who, sent over-
seas by the Faddens just before the Cut-
and-Runs came in, represented the Labor
Government as a missioner to the Gov-
ernments of the United States, Canada,
Norway, Belgium, Holland and Greece
and at meetings of the Churchill Cabinet.
The man who, on his return to Aus-
tralia, was thanked in Parliament by Mr.
Curtin “for the magnificent way in which
he has assisted this Government,” and
was not only “co-opted by myself as
a member of the Advisory War Council,”
in which he sat for 12 months, but was
invited to —and did —sit in the War Cabi-
net (with Messrs. Curtin, Forde, Chifley,
Beasley, Drakeford, Dedman and Dr.
Evatt), “when the right honorable gentle-
man, by reason of his work in London
and the United States,” was “able to
assist the Government with his experi-
ence and advice.”
Diggers in Hospital.
The main, light-hued-brick and glass-
window blocks, going up seven and eight V
storeys, with an expansively broad front,
dominate the landscape. Coming in,
there might be a first impression of
isolated hugeness and aloofness. This can
change to a feeling of timeless peace and
quiet, and no doubt there could be worse
first prescriptions than that for most of
the chaps inside.
They are from all corners of the
Commonwealth. They’re a floating popu-
lation : some of them very sick; some
mending gradually, not at a day-to-day
rate, but from year to year; some ready
to go out any day now ; some who may
never go out. On one thing all of them
capable of taking an interest are agreed
—the hospital is a home from home.
They’re proud of it and enthusiastic
barrackers for it. It needs keeping in
mind that it is, after all, a hospital. You
might get the idea that it was a com-
pound of damaged philosophers. They’ll
mention addresses where they’d like to
shift the big blocks of it, and run them
as flats. They reckon places like this
ought to be put up as homes for workers.
One fit enough will offer to take you on
a tour of it.
It’s a pretty big tour. In the blocks
that go up seven or eight storeys, mostly
glass windows, the sunlight comes
through across the shining thick grey
linoleum or polished wood floors. The
right wear is' slippers; it’d be diffi-
cult as well as sacrilegious to tramp these
floors in Digger boots. Stairways are
wide, turning, with grey and blue lino-
leum and with glinting silvery metal rails.
Lifts are the sort that perform such jobs
as shutting their own doors when you
press the button. Hallways and passages
are spacious enough to drive a coach
along, or thereabouts.
Sheltering down behind these blocks are
long, gable, single-storey general wards,
ends facing on to a wooden broadway that
wanders along a shade erratically, like a
Sydney street; a wooden track sloping
on a slight grade, with a roof over it,
down along through the village of wards.
Each is a community ward with screen-
ings and space giving a suggestion of
privacy. You can’t reach out and touch
the next man (figuratively or other-
wise), but you haven’t to shout to talk
to him. Somebody trying to pin down
the general spirit of the place might
find it in the blending of the private and
the communal. A sense of ownership
goes with a bed here. If you’re an “up”
patient you get up in the morning and
make it. It’s astonishing how neat how
many Diggers can get at this sort of
thing. Or at the variety of chores the
“ups” do by roster —setting the com-
munity tables on the verandahs, washing
up the crockery, washing the verandahs
down. The two on the verandah job in
this ward have been in a ship’s unit;
before they’re through this Australian
hardwood will be looking like pine.
There are two community kitchens ; the
one up in the main blocks is so tony that
it seems incredible. The other one is
quite posh enough ; so big that there’s
the impression of hardly anybody work-
ing in it. There’s an appropriate-sized
chef and his cook and cookess offsiders;
it’d be rank heresy to speak of them as
“babs.” Now and then army “babs”
come to this acre or so of electric ranges,
silvered cookers and wide spaces, look
in for a while and go away reformed men.
Perhaps that might go for others be-
sides “babs.” Cables lately mentioned a
British Army innovation —or experiment
—of doing away with sick parades, and
having the sick just go along individually
by prior appointment. The cables didn’t
explain how the devil an army doctor is
to know in advance whether an appoint-
ment is to end suddenly with medicine-
and-duty or stretch out for a really sick
soldier. At any rate, the appointments
arrangement isn’t on here as yet. You
wait with the others ; seated ; comfort-
able enough. But there’s a difference be-
tween this and a brand of army experi-
ence that isn’t extinct yet by a long way.
When you get into your chair with the
medical officer who’s to examine you
here, you feel that he wants to do some-
thing about what’s wrong with you, not
for the army’s benefit, nor on any other
abstract account, but for your own per-
sonal benefit. He’s interested in getting
you yourself right, not merely in getting
a bit of the army functioning again. You
might even start wondering how much
the bill’s going to be.
Back with the others on the verandah,
the talk gets going on what some of them
who were out did on the afternoon and
evening before —leave day. It ranges
from food eaten to the Big Dipper, with
an assortment in between and after. One
chap reckons he had cold ham, lettuce
and slices of cucumber and tomato. It
may have been a castback to some New
Guinea dream, because food isn’t one
of the things anybody dreams about
much in here. In any case, his mate
shoots the phantom feed down in flames:
“Yeh—and then a flock of polar bears
flew overhead! You had pies !”
The talk does a switch to other things,
such as the proposal to pay actual front-
line troops bonuses after engagements.
Everybody approves of it. Such sug-
gested frills as adding an album of
pictures covering the particular engage-
ment nobody approves of.
Criticism ranges from Singapore round
to New Guinea. What it says of Singa-
pore would make a violent addition to the
shaking up the home front lately had
regarding the men taken as prisoners
there. Only a superficial skimming would
classify these talkers as embittered, but
—leaving odd bits of New Guinea out
on various grounds—Singapore makes
them talk bitter.
One of them might say about the war
“Why should we care a , anyway?
Sydney doesn’t.” But that sort of thing
is only a small ingredient in the gener-
ally plain and transparent mixture that’s
the make-up of the' bulk of these Dig-
gers. They’re not so different from the
last lot, after all. An old hand might
go through a ward of them and quickly
pick out replicas of his last-war cobbers.
Another incidental thing in the talk
is the Yanks’ brand of fighting. These
chaps, who’ve fought our way, approve
of the Yank method. The Yanks, they
reckon, take along enough, and blast
through, by weight of explosive and
numbers. These chaps reckon that’s
the stuff to give the Japs. Their idea of the
A.I.F. as brainy fighters is another story.
The discussion is ended by another
instance of the differences as between
now and last time that an old hand is
frequently running up against here. Prac-
tically everything is different now, except
the blokes themselves. They’re not so
different. You can’t help thinking that
over more than once. But they’re decid-
edly different from when they were just
civilian Australians. Individually, they’re
quieter. Heroics about the war are a
foreign language to them. They have
lost any easy illusions they may have
had about war, or about soldiering. They
look on both unemotionally. They have
survived, and just now are well away
from it; but it’s still there with them.
It has a quietening influence.
The other interrupting difference is a
sergeant to have a talk with the patients
on rehabilitation. He used to be a
schoolteacher, but he talks well. He’s a
Middle East Digger himself, and he
understands Diggers. He doesn’t talk at
them, but with them. It’s an easy
audience. They listen ; chip in, take up
points and thrash them out like bush
lawyers. When he’s gone they talk
it over further. A couple of them are
already doing correspondence courses—
getting ready for certain technical
branches of the service. Those with some
prospect of being on the way out begin
making some arrangements on the lines
the sarge has suggested. The idea —one
that should work, and should be made
to work —is that this time Diggers will
be eased back into a life that will seem
reasonably normal to them again, instead
of being kicked out on to a strange foot-
path leading to a vision of Hope reclin-
ing on a fruitbarrow.
Next interrupter is the Sister, roping
in the ones who have inhalations and the
like just now, or those who are booked
for the doctor. And perhaps here is the
open-sesame or the Aladdin’s touch to
the community existence —the Sisters.
This whole place—a whale of a place;
it can handle as many from day to
day as some three of the largest city hos-
pitals—is, above everything else, one
place only. It’s inhabited by a large
community of ordinary assorted Austra-
lian, though, of course, a large male
part of this population is sick, some of it
very sick. But, big as it is and topsy-
turvy as it is by normal community
standards, it’s still all one piece ; a going
concern working, apparently, on its own
account. That must come from top direc-
tion in the first place, but this has to be
passed along, and the Sisters are the de-
cidedly efficient passers-along. The A.I.F.
runs to a pretty fair sort of reputation.
It will share it evenly any day with Aus-
tralian Sisters, and throw in a cartload
of bouquets as well.
Afterwards a man who missed the
rehabilitation sarge comes along and asks
about him. A Digger well on the mend
and hence headed back to his infantry
unit answers. “Aw,” he says, “he was
talking about after the war.” It maxes
that, the way he says it, sound a long
while away.
OLD DIGGER.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Jitterbug Nights.
It is an old custom in Sydney newspaper
offices to go all mushy about Our Girls,
Brisk young females have furnished sub-
jects for thousands of articles, paragraphs
and photographs, the photographs taken
on beaches and beach parades (minimum
of clothing and maximum of suggestive
posing within the law preferred) and in
pub lounges, dinner-dance joints and the
like, the general argument being that Our
Girls are all beautiful and wonderful.
Here and there moralists have questioned
the effect, of this long-continued adula-
tion on the manners and morals of self-
willed minxes with no more brains than
beetles have, especially as it has been
accompanied by acres of stuff in the same
vein on the love lives or monkey-pit
capers of Hollywood actors and actorines,
but without any influence on the Policy
of the Paper.
With the merry approval of the after-
noon sheets, some of Our Girls have
taken to the jitterbug, which seems to
have come straight from the jungle. It
is supposed to have been introduced into
Australia by a negro pugilist whose stay
was cut short by the police, and the
“Sun,” which has no objection to a bit
of color, came out with a series of photo-
graphs of colored men demonstrating jit-
terbug steps with specimens of Our Girls.
The vogue of the jungle dance has in-
creased during the war, and last week
there was a jitterbug competition in a
Leichhardt boxing hall.
Both afternoon papers sank to the
occasion. The “Sun” had a reporter and
a photographer on hand. The reporter
sought out a heat-winner, “who finds
jitterbugging a great relaxation after a
ten-hour (!) shift as an ironmoulder.”
This hero said “I just get down to the
Troc., say to my partner ‘Come, let’s go
ratbag,’ and then give the dance the
works.”
The photographer had “a striking
shot” of an “athletic lady,” who did “the
boogie-woogie, hinkle-hop, back somer-
sault, Manhattan routine and a host of
other weird routines” with “the jitterbug
champion.” The “athletic lady,” head
near the floor, was enfolding the “cham-
pion” with her legs, the upper part of
her costume having apparently severed
relations with the lower part. She is mar-
ried, it was explained (“My husband
doesn’t dance, and told me to go out and
have a good time”), and there was an-
other “shot” of her sitting with a baby
son, “every bit a mother.”
The “Daily Mirror” had something
about this Jitterbug Matron when
the competition results were announced.
She “gave- an exhibition with a U.S. ser-
vice man and colored dancer,” and said
“He certainly has got rhythm. I often
dance with him. He is tops.” But per-
haps because the “Sun” had beaten it to
the Jitterbug Matron, the “Daily Mirror”
gave more space to two “Australian zoot-
suiters,” one a Greek. Named Kiouzeois
and Michell, the “zoot-suiters cut didos
in the latest hep-cat fashion of a solid
set of threads.”
Both wore suits cut in the approved
drape shape, with grip hips and reat pleats.
Kiouzeois wore a green check tweed coat,
• 26 inches long, which covered his knees.
His 16-inch ankle-clipping trousers gave
him plenty of freedom to go to town.
In Los Angeles a few months ago the
prevalence and insolence of zoot-suiters
led to their being cleaned up by service
men in the most serious riot that city has
known. Of course It Couldn’t Happen
Here.
In Sydney the companionship of white
girls and colored men has come to be a
nightly and early-morning spectacle. It
doesn’t seem to disturb the flapper press,
but it disgusts and worries many people
without such associations, among them
American and Australian service men.
Two girls were brazen enough to walk
past a Diggers’ hospital on the arms of
colored men, and a patient’s shouted re-
buke did not discompose them. Nothing
else was talked of in the hospital that
day and the next day.
The Falstein Affair.
All through, the Falstein affair has been
incredible —an impossible comic farce,
incongruously played out against a harshly
real background.
The main outline presents the spectacle
of, first, one of the youngest and fittest
Federal members making a statement in
the House of his preference for remaining
on the home front.
Next, making his own words seem to
do him great injustice, the young member
enlists in the R.A.A.F., air crew at that.
Court-martialled on an insubordination
charge, he is sentenced to, and has to do,
28 days in Holdsworthy military jail.
Despite this record, when he completes
his training and qualifies as a pilot he
is granted a commission, while hundreds
of other young Australians, lacking the
advantages of a military jail sentence or
a seat in Parliament, pass through as ser-
geants and go on to active service, many
to fall unpromoted, one to receive a post-
humous V.C.
The granting of a commission to a
trainee with a 28-days’ military jail
record has po counterpart in R.A.A.F.
procedure. It cannot, however, be added
that, therefore, everybody everywhere is
astonished. It astonished nobody any-
where. Where politicians come in Aus-
tralians stand armored in cynicism.
An election intervening, the young
member, now a pilot-officer, is returned
to Parliament. He is apparently ready to
go off and do the job he said he would
do. It might be possible to construe the
vote as an expression of hero-worship.
Election over, the affair takes another
twist. The young member finds that his
duties to his constituency are more im-
portant than anything he would be able
to do as an R.A.A.F. pilot. It suggests
a new standard in comparative values.
The young member applies for transfer
from the R.A.A.F. active list, to the re-
serve of officers.
This move evokes general guffaws. The
young member belongs to the political
party in office with the job of running the
country at war. The party in office is
decidedly deficient in practical war ex-
perience. Its defence record, up to its
present-war assumption of office, is so
poor that Cruncher wouldn’t dig it out
of “Hansard” on a dark night. That it
should make up the country’s Govern-
ment for war tops the peaks of all past
paradox.
In the R.A.A.F. the young member is
a party asset. Out of it like this he causes
the Government side great embarrass-
ment. This is seen when —the young
member having meanwhile applied to
have his much-criticised application for
transfer from the active to the reserve
list cancelled —the young member makes
an explanation to the House. “I was
informed by the Minister for Air,” he
declares, “that, for certain reasons, no
opportunity would be available to me to
serVe operationally for a long time.”
The Minister for Air, Mr. Drakeford:
“No such statement was ever made by
me at any time.”
Pilot-Officer Falstein: “It was a state-
ment very like that.”
Mr, Drakeford: “Well, now he is quali-
fying it. He saw me, and I told him there
were only two courses of action —to go
on with the duties he was training for or,
to go on to the reserve of officers....
The statement is entirely incorrect, and I
think he knows it quite well.”
Mr. Calwell (interjecting): “He did a
brilliant course.”
Mr. Drakeford: “It was certainly a
good course. Whether it was brilliant
is a matter of opinion.” Mr. Drakeford
also makes the hilarious statement:
“Whatever decision was reached in
regard to his position [i.e., member Fal-
stein’s promotion to a commission after
doing his training and his 28 days in
Holdsworthy] was made on his marks
and his conduct.”
The farce closes with a distant view
of R.A.A.F. sergeants and the like,
already far away on active service, peti-
tioning for the privilege of serving under
the pilot-officer who has the inestimable
advantage of being a member of Parlia-
ment. It might just as well close that
way. All through it has been incredible.
TOO MANY COOKS ALREADY.
Dedication.
.To the Eighth Division, A.1.F., on the second
anniversary of the fall of Singapore.)
The alien guards that hold you
Under their cold command
May wonder what your thoughts are,
They cannot understand.
But we, whose blood is your blood,
We know the things you see
In the haunted dreams of prisons
Beyond the northern sea.
And never the wild swans bugle,
Never the curlews cry,
But you hear the echoes falling
Out of the silent sky.
And never you talk together
But ever your fancies roam
Beyond the bitter work-lines
To some dear dream of home.
God knows what our nation faces
Ere the last red fight is won,
But we will not cease from striving
Till the last red work is done.
And this we believe as gospel:
That all we do is vain
Till you can come from the-silence
To the hills of home again.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


that*
5*
/'HE
If Executorship is a
Burden, delegate the
duties to us
In these abnormal times, it is quite sufficient responsibility for you to have to
look after your own affairs, without having the added care of an estate to
administer. You can hand over this work to Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. Write or call for a free booklet, "The Task that Few Men Want."
It will show you how you can relieve yourself of the burden of executorship,
and hand over the responsibility to a Company which is organised to give
constant, competent, and conscientious service. Apply for this booklet, now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901, Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
■ BP 47-43.
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
r
v:i
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
After two or three months of miser-
able manoeuvring ex-Premier Mair has
turned over the leadership of the N.S.W.
“Democratic” party to Reggie Weaver —
Mair is to be deputy-leader. In the
course of 27 years Weaver has been
Liberal, Nationalist, U.A.P. and Demo-
crat without in the slightest degree chang-
ing his opinions or altering his robust
style of oratory. He is 65, Youth will
be served!
It looks as if Scorfield won’t have to
draw Australian fighting commanders as
hooded men any more. Three days after
his cartoon appeared and 10 days after
the publication of an editorial on the
same subject there was printed a hand-
some headquarters message to General
Morshead, “commanding land forces in
New Guinea,” It was a MacArthur tele-
gram on the outcome of the Huon Pen-
insula and Ramu Valley operations—
“ Please accept for yourself and extend
Trying to get back into the papers, and
perhaps to make his peace with “Balance
Sheet” Thornton, the Communist union
boss. Ward brought the war debate down
to gutter-level by attacking Britain again,
and with it the U.S.A. This is how part
of it appears in “Hansard,” after
“revision,” no doubt:
There has been a widely shared opinion,
not only in Australia but in other countries,
that certain of the United Nations tend to
try to withhold t’heir strength and retain
it and build it up whilst allowing the
Soviet to bleed itself white, so that they
will wield the most influence at the peace
conference.
Use of the terms “widely shared opinion”
was just the fellow’s low cunning; it
would be no defence to a libel on a
private citizen not published in Parlia-
ment. Curtin is expected to “dissociate”
himself from the Sydney larrikin-
Minister’s mud. Any other P.M. would
have dismissed him long ago.
Dr. Evatt made a good speech in intro-
ducing his Constitution Alteration (Post-
war Reconstruction) Bill. This was
acknowledged by the Voice of Experi-
ence, that of Billy, who introduced Con-
stitution Alteration Bills in 1911 (two),
1913 (six), 1916, 1917 (one each year)
and 1919 (two). Billy lost the lot. He
hopes Bert will have better luck.
Down for discussion at a “Labor-in-
Politics” convention at Bundaberg (Q.),
a proposal that there should be a compul-
sory retiring age for Queensland poli-
ticians —65. Very rough on Premier
Cooper and Senator Collings—though
the Constitution protects “Silver.”
Curtin, facing the foreseen crisis, and
giving it up—till the Bill is passed—as an
insoluble problem:—•
I wish there was somebody in this
country who will tell me how to get more
coal.
There is always somebody ready to tell
him he won’t get more. On Monday all
the N.S.W. South Coast minfers were out
—the whole 3000.
S.A. is to have its State election on
April 29. In the dying Parliament Play-
ford’s party had 21 seats. Labor 14 and
Independents four. Labor, with wins in the
Commonwealth election and two State
by-elections, is feeling cocky. Playford
refuses to believe that these votes will
be repeated.
London “Daily Express,” decrying
comparisons between “the broad, flat
lands on which fighting is being done in
Russia with the tight, close fighting in
the Italian Alps and flooded river val-
leys,” remarks pointedly “Our success in
Italy depends almost entirely on the
number of Germans killed, not on miles
coveied.” But you couldn’t make a Mos-
cowmaniac see that.
Charlie Chaplin has been indicted by
a Federal Grand Jury on charges of
“moral turpitude” and of conspiracy to
get a young woman arrested to prevent
her bothering him with her allegation
that he was the father of her child. So
he won’t be able to attend the Second
Front after all. Perhaps a representa-
tive Australian Communist will volun-
teer to take his place— at Hollywood.
“ WOULDN’T IT?"
to Generals Berryman, Vasey, Wootten,
Heavey and to the officers and men of
your command my heartiest admiration
and congratulation on their splendid suc-
cess.” There was another telegram in
almost identical terms from General
Blarney,
A T. H. Bath note in the Perth
“Primary Producer”;
The amount' of additional payment I re-
ceived on wheat to cover the impost of the
Federal Harvesting Award, IJd. per bushel,
was just one-third of the amount I had to
pay out in wages to conform to the award.
Bath was leader of the Westralian Labor
party when Blakeley, the author of the
Harvesting Award, was an A.W.U.
organiser,
A rough estimate places the damage
done by the Victorian bushfires to the
end of January at £5,000,000.- The simple
case of N. Gange, a Berrybank farmer,
illustrates one reason why the fires were
so costly. Gauge is 66, and has two sons
in the A.I.F. Neighbors marvelled at
the fact that he carried on a farm of
700 acres, growing wheat and oats and
pasturing 2000 sheep which Gange and
a daughter had to shear fhemselves. He
hadn’t time to burn fire breaks. Before
the bushfires season he applied for re-
lease of one or both of his sons from the
army, but was unsuccessful. He lost
home, crops, fencing and 700 sheep. His
case could be multiplied probably by
hundreds.
American correspondents who have
chatted with General MacArthur at his
headquarters left convinced that he will
accept a Republican nomination for the
Presidency. Jack Turcot is one, and Ray-
mond Clapper set down the same opinion
before he died in the Marshalls, The
general has been nominated for the Illi-
nois primary.
Just when Caucus was facing up to the
Falstein problem word came from Britain
that Flight-Lieutenant Newton, who,
nominated in his absence, captured the
Greenough Assembly seat for Labor from
Patrick, deputy-leader of the Country
party, was missing ip a raid over Ger-
many. Westralian Labor was proud of
Newton and the news hardened its
Federal members’ feeling against Fal-
stein, from Curtin down. Nqjvton was
28, only a year younger than the Pilot
Who Tried to Drop Himself and
Scrambled Back.
“Pravda” has come out with a virulent
attack on the Polish Government in
exile. Central facts of the boundary dis-
pute, as stated by W. P. Simms in the
New York “Herald Tribune”:
On July 22, 1932, Russia signed a non-
aggression treaty with Poland on the basis
of the existing boundaries. Renewed on
May 9, 1934, it was to run until December
31, 1944, but in September, 1939, Russia
and Germany partitioned Poland, having
signed a ten-year non-aggression pact of
their own. On July 30, 1941, Russia signed
■another pact of friendship with Poland, re-
nouncing its claim to Polish territory
acquired in partnership with Germany. To
Poland and to Russia Foreign Secretary
Eden handed an official Note reading “His
Majesty’s Government do not recognise any
territorial changes which have been effected
in Poland since August, 1939.”
And it is not in Eden’s nature to be a
double-crosser.
In the Moscow furphy competition,
restricted to correspondents, the Reuter’s
and British United Press reps, are still
running neck and neck. On a strenuous
day for both the Reuter’s youth gained
a bit on his rival with a superb descrip-
tion of the straits to which “the 150,000
Germans trapped in the Kanev pocket”
had been reduced in the cookhouse de-
partment: “Von Manpstein’s men are eat-
ing horses and dogs for their one daily
meal.” It suggests another picture of the
Nazi soldier going on campaign with one
hand attached to a horse and the other
to a hound.
When business was resumed at Canberra
last week Anthony, voicing a bitter griev-
ance, months old but ventilated only in
Digger haunts, asked why “A.1.F.” had
been painted out and “A.M.F.” substi-
tuted on the approaches to Digger ceme-
teries in New Guinea. Forde said he
didn’t know, but would inquire. An
inquiry addressed to his department any
time during the recess would have
brought a sort-of-a-kind of answer.
From a British White Paper, “Report
on Mutual Aid,” presented by the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer to Parliament
three months ago;— .
War material has been furnished by the
United Kingdom to Russia free of cost
since Russia became engaged in the war
with Germany. As an example, by the
end of May 4690 complete aircraft, with
appropriate supplies of spares, had been
sent. Jo June 30, the amount supplied to
Russia under lend-lease was £187,000,000,
made up as follows:
£ Millions.
Vehicles and tanks 93
Guns, ammunition, etc 16
Aircraft and aeronautical equipment 65
Industrial materials and naval
supplies 5
Total ~ .. - .. .. 179
The figures do not include the very large
expenses incurred in conveying these stores
to Russia and keeping open the routes
(Persia and North Russia).
Russian aid to Britain in the war against
Japan is reckoned at —what. Ward?
By virtue of a measure passed at the
end of November, the U.S.A. is to admit
Chinese immigrants, 110 or so annually,
under a quota system. Hiram Johnson,
the old Senator from California, fought
it to the last, pointing out that Chinese
exclusion had a Californian history dating
back to 1858 ; indeed “the agitation was
in full swing” when Commodore Perry
smashed Japan’s exclusion policy. “With-
out restriction,” the Senator proceeded,
“the teeming population of China would
have overwhelmed our western shores.”
True also of Australia.
“There are three great Australian illu-
sions,” said Earle Page at the C.P, con-
ference in Sydney, “First, that we can win
the war with second- and third-eleven
men in the Government’s batting team;
second, that we can win with a half-
hearted war effort or with great pressure
groups outside and above the law ; third,
that peace will automatically mean that
a good time will be had by all, whether
we work a hundred per cent, or not.”
And it’s only a few months since he was
a Curtin-co-opted member of the Ad-
visory War Council!
It never seems to occur to union
bosses “fighting” desperately for a new
order that when the new order arrives
everything will be so lovely that union
bosses will find their occupations gone.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
fsd
f
sdf
sd
HOUSE-LIGHTING
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Due for his 22nd birthday anniversary
on February 29, Ewen William Alison,
G.O.M. of Auckland, who that day will
turn 92—he was born in a leap year.
Founder of the Devonport Steam Ferry
Co. and for nearly half a century its
chairman and managing director, he was
the first and only president of the Taka-
puna Jockey Club during its 55 years’
existence ; Mayor of Devonport for nine
years ; chairman of directors of Taupiri
Coalmines for over 30 years ; member of
the N.Z. Racing Club Conference for 25
years ; member for Waitemata for six
years ; and meniber of the Leg. Council
for 14 years. The G.O.M. still regularly
attends “the meetings” at Ellerslie.
Lieut.-General Edmund Herring, the
new Victorian C.J., has cricket in his
blood. His father, uncle and brother all
played for Ballarat against visiting Eng-
lish teams; the father played against
Stoddart’s Eleven in 1898. The new C.J.
and his uncle Maurice knocked up 140
runs in a third-wicket partnership against
Warner’s team in 1912.
First in the September examinations
of the Australasian Institute of Secre-
taries and winner of the Australasian
award. Sergeant Sydney Eric Jordan, of
Sale (Vic.), studied commercial law in
camps from Victoria to New Guinea.
He sat for his examination in a locked
motor vehicle.
Lex McLennan, whose Spirit of the
West was lately reviewed on the Red
Page, is chairman of the Thangool (Q.)
Race Club, stipendiary steward for Rock-
hampton Jockey Club, and honorary
chairman of stewards and handicapper
to about a dozen race clubs within 50
miles of Thangool. As stipendiary for
Rockhampton he disqualified a horse and
owner for life—which, his friends claim,
is a record for a Bulletin balladist in
the “Banjo” Paterson tradition. He
trained a farm employee, Mower,
to become twice amateur bantamweight
champion of Queensland. Born at Taree
(N.S.W.) 34 years ago, McLennan runs
a farm in the country he writes about.
Knight John Ramsay, C.8.E., Tas-
mania’s leading surgeon (he has passed
on at 72), was the first to restart a human
heart after it had stopped beating. Also,
he pioneered surgery for hydatids and
local ansesthetics for major operations at
a time when these things were unthought
of in practical medicine. In the last war
Ramsay was S.M.O. at the 12th A.G.H.,
and almost up to his death was surgeon to
Repatriation, his work in this connection
gaining him the R.S.L.’s certificate and
badge of merit. He was born in Scotland
and educated at Prahran (Vic.) State
school, Wesley College and Melbourne
Uni.
Australians who have served up that
way, both in the air and elsewhere, will
add a “Hear, hear!” to the award of the
Distinguished Service Medal by General
MacArthur to Lieut.-General George C.
Kenney, leader of the air arm in N.G.
and onwards. The citation rightly men-
tioned “exceptionally meritorious and
distinguished service.”
To administer Victoria’s new Health
Act —the chief gem in Premier Dunstan’s
crown of achievement last session—W. L.
Rowe has been selected ; he will draw
£l2OO p.a. As Chief Electoral Officer for
16 years he has supervised six general State
Assembly elections, the counting of heads
for six triennial Leg. Council shindies,
numerous by-elections, departmental and
semi-Governmental tallies and two of the
noisiest polls on liquor. Educated at
Melbourne High School, Rowe had four
years with the A.I.F. in the last war,
emerging with the rank of lieutenant.
The Beethoven Festival in Melbourne
brought Edward Goll into the limelight as
one of the executants. There are few
pianists better qualified to deal with the
works of that musical giant. Born in
Czechoslovakia, Goll at nine years was
helping to support with his playing 17
brothers and sisters. He toured Europe
and Russia at 14, and won the Beethoven
Prize in Vienna at 19. 111-health brought
him to Australia in 1914, when he joined
the Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium staff.
In one of his series of concerts Goll
played 350 works by 70 composers,
ancient and modern.
L. V. Biggs, editor of the Melbourne
“Age” from 1927 to 1939 (he lately
passed on at 70), was an unusual
mixture. An ardent churchman —he
was a lay canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral
—he was an-equally ardent political re-
former, a close friend of Alfred Deakin
and a doughty fighter for the Liberalism
of his paper, which he reinforced by thou-
sands of articles with more than the aver-
age scholarship about them. Born in
England, Biggs left a Great Eastern Rail-
way clerkship to work for newspapers
in Fleet-street and then in Capetown. He
came to Australia in 1900. Just before
his death the State Ministry invited him
to become a National Gallery trustee.
A consulting engineer who has prac-
tised in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne,
Roderick Ross was given the job of acting
Federal president of
the Air Force A§so-
ciat i o n in the
absence in America
of Air Marshal Wil-
liams, the associa-
tion’s first and only
president. Though
most of its members
belong to the R.S.L.,
the association
claims to have a
particular outlook of
its own wfuch de-
ni an ds expression,
and Ross has been
with it from its in-
ception. Melbourne-
born and educated
at Malvern Gram-
mar, he held a com-
mission in the Fort-
ress Engineers and
was on duty at Port
Phillip Heads when
the Kaiser broke
loose. A year later
Ross joined the Air
Force and went to
Egypt with the lot
that followed in the
wake of Col. Tom
White. Ross flew in
France until 1919,
then returned to
Australia, and by
burning the mid-
night oil made him-
self a member of
the Institution of Engineers, Australia,
and the Institution of Mechanical Engi-
neers, London.
From John Brennan:
Slightly built, quietly spoken Lt.-Commander
Leßoy Taylor, 30-year-old commander of a U.S.
Navy torpedo-boat squadron which operates off
Empress Augusta Bay, is typical of the men
who do their fighting on the P.T. boats in the
South Pacific. When things quietened down
after the Japanese attempt to evacuate Kolom-
bangara by barge was broken up, Taylor
borrowed small mortars from the Marines,
set them up for’ard on his squadron’s boats
and went out to “bombard” Japanese instal-
lations —“just so we’d get a bit of shooting.”
Taylor had his early experience with de-
stroyers, but went to the P.T. boats in 1940.
when the U.S. bought its first of the type
from Britain. The day the Japs attacked Pearl
Harbor he was returned to destroyer duty as a
gunnery officer. His ship was in the task force
which screened the carriers in the Marshall
Islands raid (February, 1942), and he saw
action in the battles of Midway and the Coral
Sea. He was there, too, for the carrier strikes
which first sent American ’planes over Lae
and Salamaua and Tulagi; then his ship went
patrolling in the southern Solomons and got
tangled up in the battle of Santa Cruz. In a
year with his destroyer Taylor saw 1300 men,
survivors from destroyers and cruisers sunk in
action, taken aboard. Then he was recalled
to lead the “Black Cat” P.T. Boat squadron
back to the Solomons. He’s led it into action
in the Kula Gulf, at Gizo, Vella Lavella,
Choiseul, the Shortlands and Bougainville
Straits.
“Aus.”: Correct as to Lieut.-Col. P. A.
Cullen getting the D’.S.O. and Major
G. J. Cullen getting the M.B.E. (military),
“Hamer” (B. 2/2/’44) is otherwise astray
about these brothers. The change of
name hadn’t to do with the Temple
Emanuel schism: I happen to know as
fact that Major G. J. Cullen, at least,
changed his name for purely personal
reasons which he discussed with his C.O.
at the time. That was at Mersa Matruh
in 1941. Also, though the first initial
stands for George, the second doesn’t
stand for Judah, but for Jocelyn.
Reported missing in air operations near
Gasmata, Wing-Commander James Gib-
son Emerton, of Melbourne. He was
one of the tiny band of Australian air-
men who faced the overwhelming Japa-
nese odds in the long trek down the
Malay Peninsula to Singapore. When
Java fell Emerton made a sensational
flight from Java and, his last ounce of
petrol exhausted, crash-landed in the
N.T. He was educated at Box Hill High
School and was an outstanding athlete.
As the accompanying reproduction of
the plasticine model amply testifies,
R. W. D. Weaver, who has succeeded Mair
as leader of the N.S.W. Democratic party
(late U.A.P., etc.), was one of the most
congenial models Frith ever encountered.
Members of the Macquarie-street House
have known the somewhat fierce phiz
(Modelled by Frith.)
LEADING “DEMOCRAT.”
well since 1917, when Weaver went there
representing Willoughby. Subsequently
he was in for North Sydney, and since
1927 has represented Neutral Bay. A
Minister in Bavin and Stevens Govern-
ments, he was 'Speaker from 1937 till
1941, and was exceptionally good in the
job. He knows Parliamentary procedure
as well as he knows real estate values
north of the Harbor, where he’s in that
line, and in the Speaker’s pew he was
consistently impartial—which is more
than can be said for all occupants of it in
the Sydney House. He belongs to the
State ; born at Kickerbil station, Quirindi.
“Camsa”: Flying-Officer J. E. H.
Morris (B. 19/1 / ’44) is not the only regis-
tered bookie in the R.A.A.F. abroad.
Flying-Officer M. J. (Jack) Fuller, now
with Coastal Command, Britain, is regis-
tered with the S.A. Betting Control
Board and fielded at races and trots for
some years before joining the R.A.A.F.
Transferred to the Pacific zone, Wilfred
Burchett, the Melbourne freelance writer
who qpvered the Burma campaign for
Melbourne “Herald” and other papers.
Burchett has had a variety of war experi-
ence. He was casting an eye over China
when the Japs swept down on Burma,
and, with an American photographer,
was the first white man to cross to the
Naga Hills via the Hukwang Valley
into Burma. Returning to China, he
hitchhiked to all the scattered war fronts
in that country. Back in India for the
Arakan campaign, he was wounded by
machine-gun bullets from Zeros. Be-
tween times he has written three books —
Pacific Treasure Island, Bombs Over
Burma and Wingate Adventure.
S. O. Beilby, born, and now dead, in
N.S.W., leaves his memorials all over
S.A* He took a grocery shop in 1915
in a side street of Adelaide, soon spread
others out on all sides, bought out the
old Crawford firm, and by 1925 claimed
to have the biggest grocery turnover in
S.A. For six years he had been back in
his own State, but the S. O. Beilby stores
remain.
Lieut. Malcolm Ellenby, who won the
M.C. at Tobruk, and joined A.B.C. on
returning to Adelaide, has moved over
as chief announcer for SKA, after two
years’ silence reopened under a sort of
joint Methodist and Labor combination.
Wing-Commander “Tom” White’s Sky
Saga, the epic story of the Air Force ser-
vice which he wrote when on active ser-
vice in England, has run into an edition
of 4000 in Australia, with another pend-
ing, and an English edition of the same
number. When the well-printed volume
appeared in the Melbourne bookshops
White was bombarded with inquiries
from parents and friends as to whether
this character or that character was some
well-known Australian airman. It says
something for the portraiture that the
author was able to say it was. Sky Saga
is probably the only poem of the size—
it runs to over 80 pages —which has ever
been fully broadcast. Royalties from the
book go to a joint R.A.F.-R.A.A.F.
benevolent fund.
A month or so back an American ser-
vice newspaper published a photo, and an
appreciation of Melbourne’s whistling
policeman, Constable Leslie Roy Boyd,
the stalwart cop who directs traffic on
Spencer-street bridge. He’s now been on
his stand for five years, giving himself his
musical accompaniment. Still, he’d rather
sing ; he’s been a singer from childhood.
He was at the Gallipoli landing with the
Fifth Battalion. He got into the police
when invalided home after two years’
fighting.
Up in the Ramu Valley a Sydney
“Herald” war correspondent found Cap-
tain Douglas Pratt, who described the
country as an “artist’s paradise.” It
would be for Pratt, long noted for his
faithful pencil depictions of the Austra-
lian landscape. He illustrated All That
Swagger, Miles Franklin’s fine novel, when
it ran as a Bulletin serial. Pratt is re-
ported to have done some good pictures
of the Bismarck and Finisterre ranges, the
Mt. Helwig peak and Shaggy Ridge.
Into the silence:
In action, Lieut.-Col. D. G. Matheson, M.C.,
M.M., D.S.C. (American). A Maoriland
.engineer who had been superintendent of
Wiluna Mines (W.A.), he won his British deco-
rations as a last-war Digger and his American
decoration for “extraordinary heroism” at
Guadalcanal in 1942.
In Adelaide, Sylvia Whitington (Mrs. George
Pearce), a musician of unusual talent and ver-
satility ; “my constant assistant and helper, ever
efficient, watchful and imperturbable,” said Prof.
Davis, of the Uni. Conservatorium.
From wounds in Italy, Lieut.-Colonel R. E.
Romans, one of three sons serving in the N.Z.
forces. When his father, George Romans,
turned 100, Lieut.-Col. Romans broadcast a
filial message from the Middle East. He was
half-brother of George Henry Romans, chief
of the “Hansard” staff at Canberra.
At 37, in action in Italy, Lieut. D. P. LinH-
say, a Master of Arts and Bachelor of Arts
and a swimmer of note (he represented N.Z. at
the Olympic Games at Amsterdam in 1928).
He held teaching jobs at Cathedral Grammar
School (Christchurch), Dilworth School (Auck-
land) and Dannevirke High. When returning
from Amsterdam he won the English one mile
championship and was second at the Tailteann
Games in Dublin at 800 metres.
In Adelaide, at 75, William John Mortimer,
Methodist minister for 52 years; in his latter
years president and, later, secretary of the
Methodist Conference. As secretary of the
Memorial Hospital for 15 years he was respon-
sible for raising funds for extensions to this
Methodist memorial to the men of the last war.
Suddenly in Melbourne, at 52, Harry Latham
Baillieu, of Torrumbarty, near Echuca, on the
Murray. The second son of the late W. L.
Baillieu, he was one of Victoria’s leading
pastoralists, noted for his experimentation in
irrigation and breeding. He won the M.C. in
the last war.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: A Sydney firm is advertising
“rubber knucklebones, price 3s. 6d. each,
for puppies to play with strengthens
the teeth.” Some time back the notion
was cultivated that, with Japan control-
ling 97 p.c. of the world’s supply, this
country would have to face a scarcity of
hot-water bottles and tyres for our cars.
But not rubber bones for pups. Let me
explain. These are required to assist an
important branch of crime detection.
They are given to bloodhound pups. Con-
stant wondering, as they chew at them,
why the bones won’t crack or where the
marrow has got to induces that corru-
gated brow and worried expression with-
out which no bloodhound can adequately
follow a murderer’s spoor.
“Take a bow, Prendergast—you're their favorite Pin-up Boy!”
“Ahger”: When I was transferred to
the Brisbane branch of our bank in the
first half of 1942, I found that my pre-
decessor had left me an unwelcome sur-
plus of five-bob pieces. Passing them off
to customers was useless, for they always
bounced back, while working them off
in my own personal expenditure might
have exhausted the supply somewhere
about 1960 —provided no more came in
meanwhile. One day an Allied soldier
came into the bank to change some of
his own currency, and I had the happy
thought of including a “Casey’s dollar”
in his change. He was delighted, and his
buddy asked for one, too. Thus em-
boldened, 1 kept on passing out my dol-
lars till I had none left. Now I wish I
hadn’t been so prodigal, for no day is
complete without some polite young
fellow in uniform waiting patiently at
the teller’s grille to ask “Pardon me, sir,
but do you happen to have a crown?”
’s * * *
“McSporran”: Weel do I recollect the
terrible wave of indeegnation that swept
through the Invertochty Bowling Club (in
Southland, Maoriland, ye ken) in 1907
when oor president nominated his wife’s
brither’s lad, a young gowk of 39, tae
be a member. ’Twas awfu’, and worse
was tae come when the immature up-
start beat Sandy McEccles (Sandy was 86
that year) in the singles. Firrmness and
deceesion were called for, and the last
heard o’ the intruder he was a homeless
fugitive on Stewarrt Island, purrsued by
savage haggises. The game o’ bools was
thenceforrward made safe (south of the
Clutha, at ony rate) for Scots wha hae
rreached the years o’ discretion. We
acted nane too preceepitously. Look ye
at this from a norrthern paper:
Brothers aged 14 and 16 years will play
in the Taranaki Bowling Centre’s open
fours tournament at New Plymouth this
month.
* * * *
“Petrie”: At our local theatre “Ad-
vance, Australia” isn’t attended by even
the meagre decorum mentioned by
“Zake” (B. 9/2/’44). “God Save” is
played after the last picture, then
“A.A.F.” as a recessional. As yet only
one man has stood to attention for'it.
He found himself alone in the theatre at
the end of the dirge.
* * # *
“Clooter”: Out our way we go in for
weekly addresses by anybody who can
be coaxed to give them, and there’s a
voluntary roneo service to get out ad-
vance notices, a small boy being hired
to deliver these to selected targets. The
other week an elderly bachelor, whose
gentle voice and sly eye, # together with
a fund of somewhat lively reminiscences,
suggest an interesting past, was prevailed
upon to give the address and chose as
his title “Life in Melbourne Fifty Years
Ago, or The Naughty ’Nineties.” Where-
upon the roneo ran off 20 or so notices
and the boy began his delivery. An ob-
servant though innocent infant, he hap-
pened to glance at the first bill as he
reached his initial delivery point, frowned,
pondered and returned to the base, where
he asked the lady roneo-ist if she didn’t
think something was wrong. Something
was, for the last two words of the title
of the address had been transposed in a
shocking manner. The courier was hur-
riedly robbed of his cargo and told to
report for duty next day. When he heard
of it, the lecturer-to-be remarked that it
was a pity the error was retrieved, since
delivery of the original notices would
have assured a full house.
* * * *.
“Ex-C.G.”: According to the Sydney
press the crowds which have visited the
Art Gallery to gaze on the Archibald
Prize painting of Sim Tappertit or a pray-
ing mantis—take your choice —indicates
a great revival of public interest in art
—a revival which justifies the pic-
ture and the award. But is it an interest
in art? Fm reminded of my arrival in
Melbourne in 1922. On the Sunday, stroll-
ing up Bourke-street, I saw a long line
of people entering an arcade, joined in
and, after patiently moving forward bit
by bit, found myself in a small alley,
solemnly gazing at a sewer manhole
cover. I passed on to make room for
more thousands, after dropping a coin
in a tin chained to a chair. My mysti-
fied chagrin was cleared up when I was
told that the locality was Gun Alley, and
that the body of the murdered child had
been shoved through that manhole.
* * * *
“Zake”: Federal Ministers develop
peculiar habits. You’d think that in this
Turkish-bath weather they’d be content
to stick inside their comfortable, air-
conditioned offices doodling on their blot-
ting pads while waiting for the fourth
assistant secretary to bring them in a
protocol or something to sign. Instead,
most of them are busy exploring avenues.
Moreover, with that boundless energy
which all must admire, they are explor-
ing all avenues. Sydney dailies are unani-
mous about it. Time P
was when only one
paper would have
them exploring
avenues ; to another
they would be “mak-
ing exhaustive in-
quiries” ; to another
giving something
“sympathetic con-
sideration” ; yet an-
other would have
them “conducting
thorough surveys.”
I call upon the
Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty
to Politicians to pre-
vail upon the Fourth
Estate to limit this
nosing about among
the avenues to the
bracing months of
May-September.
* *
“Blue P.” : If Eng-
lishmen find it hard
to adapt themselves
to our colloquial
“good night” (B.
9/2/’44), they must
be still more discom-
moded by our“good
day.” It’s a greet-
ing you’re likely to
get anywhere and at
any time in Aus-
tralia. I had it
hurled at me out of
pouring rain at 3
a.m. on a road five
miles from anywhere; and, accompanying
a policeman into a country post office to
apprehend a burglar, I saw him poke his
head round a door and greet the male-
factor with a humorous “Goo’ day.” And
to many an Englishman “good day”
means the same as our “so long.”
* * * *
“Molecule”: “The 0.D.” (B. 2/2/’44)
says some rash things in his condemna-
tion of all horseracing. The sturdy mokes
which he and his mates rode six days a
week for months owed their stout hearts
and sound legs to thoroughbred progeni-
tors, tested for generations on the race-
course. Admittedly a large proportion of
racehorses are useless brutes, providing
a medium for gambling on a grand scale
and supporting a lot of undesirables, but
the fact remains that the acid test' of the
racecourse has kept English thorough-
breds pre-eminent, and it will take a lot
to convince horse-lovers that without it
we would today have the same standard
of hacks and stock-horses. To say of the
horses that carried the A.I.F. into Beer-
sheba “we’ll never see their like again”
is an unwarranted excursion into pro-
phecy. I for one believe that if there
were need for them their like or superior
could be bred again, with the help of de-
scendants of Heroic, Windbag, Spearfelt,
Rivoli and the rest. Didn’t they tell us
10 years or so ago that our young men
had deteriorated?
♦ ♦ * «
“Nakh”: Examples of persistence? A
retired Australian surgeon of 75 wanted
to get a war job. His younger colleagues
told him he hadn’t a 'hope of getting
through, A few months later a friend
was amazed to meet him in uniform. He
had passed by getting his face lifted.
* * * V
“Uramao”: Maoriland, like Australia,
has a “resurrected” ditty which bids fair,
by repetition, to develop into a national
anthem. “God Defend New Zealand”
was written 70 years ago by Tom Bracken
(the centenary of whose; birth was
honored the other day) and set to music
by J. J. Woods “for public gatherings
and schools.” Nobody was very en-
thusiastic about it, but Queen Victoria
commanded that it be lodged in the
archives at Buckingham Palace - and
played by naval bands, and the R.C.
Bishop of Dunedin ordered it to be sung
in the Catholic schools of his diocese. In
recent years the song has been plugged
over the radio, and gramophone records
by the Band of the N. S. Wales Police,
the Welsh Guards Band and Peter Daw-
son and his chorus have further adver-
tised the composition, so that now every-
body knows it.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: A double event in a
maternity hospital recently will go down
in Tasmanian obstetrical history. The
wife of a driver in the A.I.F. gave birth
to a son on the same day that her mother
in the adjoining bed gave birth to another.
The uncle, a ninth child, is two hours
younger than the nephew, a first one.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Stung into more than
usual activity by the scientific report
that the vitamin found in beer has
been largely responsible for the absence
of malnutrition in the British population
“ Tonight's commentary on the Russian front will be
given by Mr. David Snodger, one of Australia's
foremost rabbit-trappers."
during war-time, the secretary of the
Victorian Local Option Alliance thus in-
dicted the Demon:
Three out of ten “moderates” become
“addicts.” Three hundred divorce cases
already await the Judges and over 1000
cases have been heard recently. Everybody
knows that liquor is a main cause of
divorce, as of every form of home-break-
ing.
Then he quotes an economist as
saying that drink causes 10 p.c. of
primary poverty ; 85 p.c. of secondary
poverty ; 25 p.c. of violent crime ; 15 p.c.
of cruelty to children ; 50 p.c. of assault
and wilful damage, and 25 p.c. of matri-
monial disputes. That’s rather a super-
ficial view. The immediate cause of these
things might be excessive drinking, but
what causes the excessive drinking?
* * * *
THE GLOOMY DEAN.
“Dean Inge, addressing the Ruskin Society, said
he was convinced that Britain could never recover
from this war, and would gradually slide into the
England of pre-industrial days with a population of
2o millions, mostly agriculturists and small traders.”
—- Cable.
The dismal voice that for so long we’ve missed
Is raised once more. From London’s fog and
smoke
It goes wherever there are ears to list,
The gospel of the Master Pessimist,
The raven’s croak.
My saturnine divine, from all the very
Doleful pronouncements in your name we’ve
had,
One gets a fancy that the far-from-merry
Cassandra might have been your mum, and Jere-
Miah your dad*.
There’ll always be an England, you agree,
The immemorial cradle of our race,
Withal the one you feature seems to me
A singularly sterile promontory,
A poor old place.
Heart up, your reverence! I fail to find
What reasons can exist that you should go so
Persistently into the frame of mind
That Milton must have had when he designed
“II Penseroso.”
To wishful thoughts we’re mostly overprone
And aught that smug complacency induces,
So possibly on that account alone
Your oft-recurring melancholy moan
May have its uses.
But were your picture credible, there’s few
f Would care to live to see so sad a scene.
T faith, he builded better than he knew,
Padre, whoever ’twas that labelled you
The Gloomy Dean.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
RIBOFLAVIN.
Great news that you’ll acclaim with plaudits
loud,
Brewers and Bungs and all the goodly crowd
Whose constant mission, all too oft aspersed,
Is coping with the Great Australian Thirst!
Lo, from across the seas to you is sped
A testimonial unsolicited
And carrying, it’s obvious, extra force
As coming from a scientific source,
That aids to health and length of lifetime lurk
In every pot of pongelo and perk:
In short, the nut-brown stimulant we crave m
These summer days is rich in riboflavin.
Glad tidings, a responsive chord to strike
In maltster and in Boniface alike,
A bit of information, my lads,
To merit special mention in your ads.
How every foaming schooner that you sell
Has hygienic properties as well,
Long unsuspected or ignored, indeed,
But now professionally guaranteed.
A quart of ale, some old-time poet sings
(Shakspeare, 1 fancy) is a dish for kings.
He could have added had he known it, eh?
It also serves to keep the doc. away.
Bethink, when next a tankard you assault,
Brother, it’s something more than hops and malt.
With these you’ll find, inextricably blent,
A more mysterious ingredient,
Dragged from the lair wherein it sought to hide
And firmly ticketed and classified
By learned men in labs, whose day begins
And ends with the pursuit of vitamins.
And you, devoted temperance brigade,
Who find your pet aversion in The Trade,
Say, will you credit that the amber brew
So utterly abhorrent in your view
Is none the less an admirable drink
To keep a hefty fellow in the pink
And as unbeatable a beverage
To halt the onset of unwelcome age?
Or will you take it with a grain of salt,
The Drummond estimate of hops and malt,
And stubbornly continue to behave in
Contemptuous disregard of riboflavin?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: At least one feature of recent
political complications in Colombia is
new even in Uncle Sam’s experience of
his trying wards. First, there was a
“prolonged dispute over the administra-
tion of President Alfonso Lopez,” which
“culminated in the Senate granting Lopez
leave of absence for 60 days, with per-
mission to quit the country.” Alfonso
hit the trail for the U.S.A., being suc-
ceeded in the Presidential chair by “Dr.
Dario Echandia, former Minister of the
Interior, former Ambassador to the Vati-
can and first Presidential designate for
the Presidency.” Dario had himself
struck trouble:
He became Minister of the Interior in
August, 1942, but resigned in October,
1943, during a Cabinet crisis. The Cabinet
. crisis was brought about by the murder
in Bogota of Francisco J. Peres, a negro
prizefighter. Several national policemen
were accused of murdering Peres, who was
stabbed 21 times in the back. The murder
caused a great sensation and brought about
a reorganisation of the national police.
It must be the first case on record in
which a colored pug has become the
centre of a political disturbance which
rocked a republic. What a theme for
an “O. Henry” story!
* * * *
“Sturt”: An odd mixture of sport and
law in district cricket in Adelaide. Ken-
sington, the club of Bradman (not playing
now) and Grimmett (who is), made 232,
got Adelaide out for 88 (Grimmett five
for 41), and put them in again on the
chance of an outright win. But they
scored freely, four for 103, and the game
lost all interest, so at 5.50 p.m. the Adel-
aide captain, presumably with the idea
of letting all hands get to the neighbor-
ing pub before closing time, stopped the
play. But the Cricket Association says
that, the innings being thus declared, the
match was over, and Kensington must
have the points for an outright win, mak-
ing a big difference in its place in the
clubs’ rating.
* * *
“Cauboy”: Touching the property
man’s ability to create a stage illusion
(B. 2/2/’44), when the ballet “Don
Quixote” was put on at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, the producers searched high
and low for a moke capable of repre-
senting Rosinante. They finally selected
an old cab horse, but it did not present
a sufficiently emaciated appearance, so
a scenic artist painted ribs on its exterior
or, rather, the effect of its ribs protrud-
ing through the skin. He was as pleased
as an Archibald Prize winner when the
steed’s first performance elicited an in-
dignant letter in the press from an
animal-lover.
“Flip”: Camp rations were reckoned
a bit meagre for men made ravenous
by open-air life and rigorous training,
and each meal hour saw a long queue of
hungry men lined up to collect their meal.
As they waited they scribbled upon the
wooden walls of the cookhouse com-
ments, mostly hostile. The one I like best
is: “Never have so many waited so long
for so little.”
* * * *
“Bump”: Probably the longest-range
weight-lifting competition staged in his-
tory took place recently when a team of
Victorians in Melbourne lifted 26801 b.,
while a mixed Empire team calling itself
the Four Posts Club at a prisoner-of-war
camp in Germany lifted 27591 b. The
contest was arranged by the International
Red Cross and George Corkill, physical
culture director of the Vic. Railways In-
stitute, and neither team knew the re-
sult of the contest until a month later
when cables passed between Melbourne
and London. The star of the p.o.w. team
was Corporal Douglas J. Twaits, Aus-
tralian 1939 featherweight lift champion ;
the Victorian team was captained by H.
Mcßain, champion lightweight of Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: From his list of repeti-
tively-named suburbs in Adelaide and
Melbourne “Billjim” (B. 2/2/’44) omitted
Toorak (S.A.), once called Rose Park.
The locality used to be an enormous,
wheatfield with a picturesque old farm-
house in it owned by a sister and four
brothers, lads with long brown beards
and curls down to their shoulders. I
presume they were Shakers or Quiverers
or something of that sort, but I was
too scared to ask them when 1 sailed
boats in their duckpond. The sister
reached 60 without repeating the visit she
made to the great city when she was 20.
This strange family saw the horse trams
come along their boundaries arid then
the electric, a State school erected and
suburban subdivisional agents nibbling at
their wheatfield, but they continued to
plant and reap their crops and live their
primitive life. However, the last time
I visited the suburb the farm had van-
ished under a sea of houses, each with
its front lawn, the milkman calling daily
and the iceman three times a week.
“C. 8.”: Unwrapping a well-preserved
copy of the “Argus” which enclosed a
brace of rabbits, a Melbourne housewife
was astonished to see an advertisement
for a ten-roomed house in Kew at a
yearly rental of £B5. She was about to
ring up some of her house-hungry friends
to tell them the good news when her eye
caught the date —1884.
* * * »
“Gavutu”: John Brennan’s reference
to the present Resident Commissioner for
the British Solomon Islands (B. 2/2/’44)
reminds me of the first of the line who
reigned at Tulagi when I visited his realm
40 years ago. He was Charles Woodford,
C.M.G., author of that charming and
noW very rare book A Naturalist Among
the Head-hunters. Woodford, who had
come to the group collecting for the
museum of one of the Rothschilds, re-
mained in the Solomons, after many ad-
venturous wanderings, as the islands’ first
Resident Magistrate, under the High
Commissioner for the Western Pacific,
who had his headquarters in Fiji. x\t
the beginning of the century, when I
made Woodford’s acquaintance, his
powers in those parts seemed to be prac-
tically unlimited. Not long before I met
him he had hanged a black man at
Tulagi, his seat of government in the
island of Florida, for murdering a trader,
and when the ship I was aboard took
him to Gizo, his outstation at the western
end of the Protectorate, he tried, im-
“With this meat rationing We've got to help ourselves now."
"Yes, but I favor lamb!"
prisoned and banished permanently from
the group a trader who had oppressed
and exploited Black Brother. Woodford's
administration of the Solomons —he
bossed about 75 white people and up-
wards of 250,000 blacks —was a nice
example of the Briton’s genius for
ruling uncivilised races.
* * * *
“Pip”: For the lover of Victorian litera-
ture our unit library is a treasure-house.
Shelf after shelf of school prizes pays
tribute to the scholastic brilliance of
our grandfathers, every one of whom
seems to have been “dux of the Re-
move” or “most improved pupil be-
tween 1885 and 1900.” Eric, or Little by
Little appears in five distinct editions,
and some Katie lass, given to Doing
Things Next, stares defiantly from every
shelf. The Maiden’s Progress, by Violet
Hunt, and Only a Flirt, by Mrs.
R. Jocelyn, are among our spiciest
novels (both would bore a modern
schoolgirl to tears). Penelope’s Experi-
ences in Scotland are duller still, and J.
M. Coleban’s Her Royal Highness’s Love
Affair records what must be the tamest
courtship in all history. F. C. Phillips
strikes a pathetic note in Poor Little
Bella, and E. Livingston Prescott proves
all is not Ibst with The Rip’s Redemp-
tion ; a vdlume on the same shelf
by Mrs. J. H. Riddell pertinently asks
Did He Dekrve It ? Our innocent eyes
may, if we choose, be opened by Mrs.
Lovett Cameron’s The Ways of a Widow,
A Bad Lot and A Soul Astray. Sale
of some of our curios might finance a
modern library. We’re waiting for some-
one to offer a first-edition Pamela before
opening negotiations.
“B. A. Ker”: Tell “Ken” (B. 26/1/’44)
that there is a rhyming couplet about the
Battle of Hastings: “William the Con-
queror (the old box of tricks) landed in
England in ten-sixty-six.” Edgar Wallace
puts it into the lips of Inspector Elke,
who could solve the most baffling crime,
but always failed to get‘promotion be-
cause of his inability to remember his-
tory dates in examinations.
** v .
“Pawang”: Ernest Fisk has announced
his belief in the possibility of communi-
cation with the spirits of the dead. His
statement that this is supported by leading
physicists is denied by Prof. Laby, of
Melbourne University, one of the leading
physicists in Australia. The prof, says
he knows of no physical evidence for the
Fisk viewpoint, nor of any well-known
physicists who are engaged in work re-
lating to it. In short, the Fisk statement
raises hopes for which, according to Laby,
there is no scientific basis. Nevertheless,
liie appeal to science can neither prove
nor disprove the existence of spirits, and
if Mr. Fisk likes to infer their existence
he is in no worse position than the
scientist who infers the existence of an
electric current. Even Mr. Fisk himself,
who has had a lot to do with electricity,
has never seen a current. He has in-
ferred its existence from certain be-
haviors, like a flash of lightning or the
starting up of a motor when he turns a
switch. Nobody could say that a theory
that the movement of the motor was
caused by a hobgoblin was an impos-
sible explanation, though it could be
deemed most unlikely. A recent declara-
tion by a Dr. Ehrenhaft that there are
magnetic currents distinct from electric
currents seems likely, if substantiated, to
revolutionise conceptions in this field that
have stood since Volta’s first experiment
with frogs.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne man
painted a portrait of a leading citizen
and, being dissatisfied with the nose,
painted it out in the absence of the sitter.
A friend dropped in at his studio and
was attracted by the picture. “By Jove,”
he cried. “That’s a good one. You ought
to send that in for the Archibald Prize!”
“Not a bad idea,” said the artist; “I’ll
get my sitter back and paint his conk
in.” His friend looked at him astounded.
“Why do that?” he asked. “Do you
want to ruin your chances?”
“Macaff”: Fm on my way home on a
very hot day, promising myself a glorious
schooner at the first pub. Breasting the
bar, I call for the drink, and the barmaid
says “Where’s your glass?” “Haven’t got
one,” I says ; “just came in.” “No drink,
then,” says she; “we’ve got no more
glasses.” Being too dry to argue I move
on to the next pub. “A schooner,”
I croak. “Where’s your glass?” says
the barman. “Just came in,” I says;
“haven’t got one.” “Sorry,” says the
barman, “we haven’t any more glasses.
Can’t serve you.” At a third pub I
concentrate on a cove who’s finishing
his drink. He puts down his pot on a
shelf and walks away. With one swing I
sweep it off the shelf on to the bar and
gasp “A schooner.” “ ’Sthat your
glass?” says the barmaid, looking at the
suds in the bottom. “You bet it is,” I
says. “Sorry, can’t serve you,” says she ;
“only one drink to each customer.”
* * *
“Flat’s” tribute to a good Australian:
Men of “a certain brigade” in New Guinea
will long remember an aboriginal, Private Mick
West. Mick was a great chap, a fine friend,
and game to the last. He was always cheerful
when things went wrong. In the same brigade
was another aboriginal, who was killed one day
by a sniper. To avenge his death, Mick went
naked and stalked the Japs in his own native
fashion, hurling grenades into machine-gun pits.
He died of illness after the campaign. Mick
could speak excellent English, having worked on
a Queensland cattle station, and I suppose
when he heard us chaps talking of democracy
he had long thoughts.
* * * *
“Mumslake”: Lt.-General Herring,
appointed Victorian Chief Justice, joins,
in history, a figure in Tasmanian
and Federal politics, knight Phillip
Fysh, and Mr. Mullett, a Victorian
Government Printer. One of the com-
missioners of the Melbourne Centen-
nial Exhibition was John Whiting, and
Miss Crabb has long presided over the
library for the blind in Melbourne.
George Wales, onetime Lud Mayor of
Melbourne, scrapes into the category.
And there was Andy Fisher.
* * $ *
“C. 8.”: They have a name in Mel-
bourne for the hordes of departmental
Officials who infest every second building
—the “chair-borne division.”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; Conductor Stokow-
ski’s remark (B, 2/2/’44) that “some
foreigners do not understand how rich
the United .States is in folk music” might
have been supplemented by the
observation that one foreigner
did, and made very effective use
of the knowledge, namely, the
Bohemian Dvorak. After some
years in the country Dvorak
(“Vorjahk” to most of the radio
announcers) wrote the “New
World Symphony,” which shows
almost as keen an appreciation
of the idiom of the negro spiri-
tuals and plantation songs as
do the simple ballads of Stephen
Collins Foster. The home-grown
jazzsmiths and boogie-woogie
hounds seem to derive from the
European classical composers
the small amount of genuine inspiration
they incorporate in their yowlings.
# * 4= #
“Hist”; I disagree with “Frosty” (B.
2/2/’44), who finds children “too blase
for simple pleasures” because cardboard
cut-out theatres are out of fashion as
toys. The same nimble fingers that mani-
pulated them now patiently shape model
airplanes out of scraps of wood and
paper—and fly them. Childhood play is
mostly mimicry of adult life; would
“Frosty” expect the kids of today to play
at theatres when the grown-ups them-
selves have largely abandoned the stage
to its fate? Children are as charming,
simple and lovable as ever; also as exas-
perating, fiendish and nauseating. In a
changing world, their ploys have
changed ; that’s all. I’ll bet the kids of
60 years ago were being chidden by
Granny for “fiddling with a trashy card-
board theatre” instead of sitting by the
fire and industriously stitching a sampler
“as I did when I was a child.”
* * * *
“Ad”: Adelaide has had its first con-
viction under the Act which extends the
crime of drunken drivership to horse-
drawn vehicles also. The old theory was
that sensible old Dobbin would take
his driver home, drunk or sober, but this
time there was trouble. The sinner cheer-
fully acknowledged his condition and
paid up £l5.
* * * v
“L. de Rideau”: There was an un-
usual scene at the first Beethoven
Festival concert in Melbourne. When
the doors were opened at the inter-
val a crowd started to pour into,
instead of out of, the Town Hall concert
chamber. Bernard Heinze had ordered
the doors to be slammed at the tick of
eight, and many latecomers were ex-
cluded. I approve of the professor’s
ruthless behavior. In Singapore concert
promoters tried opening concerts at eight.
Then they tried nine and then ten ; but
half the population continued to be late-
comers. Finally they gave it up, Singa-
pore got a world-wide bad imputation
amongst virtuosos and there were no
more-visiting musical celebrities.


ABORIGINALITIES
find black wallaby, besides bronzewings,
wattle-birds, quail galore and even a por-
cupine. From the number of rabbits,
however, and the increasing thickness of
the scrub—it was once a she-oak grass-
land park—one wonders how the walla-
bies survive. So overgrown has it become
that it has covered entirely a lonely ceme-
tery near Observatory Point in which
are buried casualties of many wrecks,
including the unknown bodies of those
from the inter-State passenger steamer
Cheviot, wrecked at Point Nepean in
October, 1887.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: As Victoria’s
most picturesque and unspoiled river I
nominate the little-known Wallaraugh,
flowing into the headwaters of Malla-
coota Inlet. At first hearing I thought a
river with a name like that couldn’t be
worth visiting, but entering its mouth 11
miles up from Mallacoota township in
Albert Greer’s seagoing cutter we were
confronted with towering mountains
whose gum-clad slopes fell away t©
thickets of lilly-pilly and pittosporum,
with maidenhair and tree ferns kissing
the placid stream. Beyond a maize crop
and a homestead, the first there are
no signs of habitation, though our boat-
man, who had once freighted wattle-bark
down the river, told of a lone hermit
LAST OCCASIONS.
A subtle mind, a maker’s mind, had he
To whom it first occurred
To catch and to imprison in a word
The pathos and the pungency
Of last occasions,
Ultimate acts, whether of fleas or nations,
However trivial or absurd:
The last burst of the good talk.
The last kiss of the old wife,
The last stride of the long walk,
The last sip of the glass of wine,
The last breath of the finished life,
Yours or mine;
The topmost fingerprint in the sand
Made by the rising tide,
The last spark of the expiring brand,
The last climb of the old guide,
The last note of the thrush
Breaking the sacred hush
Of imminent night;
The last rose that bloomed
On the ancient bush;
Even the last bite
Of the ham sandwich, lovingly consumed;
The last shriek of the owl before the dawn
has broken —
In one and all of these Fate has spoken.
MAORILAND. * ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: They were three typical
kids, and the lift-in to town I offered
was enthusiastically accepted—provided
Bitza, their aptly-named hound, could
ride, too. Even for kids they were excited,
and they told me there was a circus
in the clearing by the School of Arts.
Robbo had seen it from their roof, and
Puddin’ had confirmed it from the big
ironbark on the hill near Morgan’s. At
this stage the conversation became a
little incoherent and heated as Robbo and
Smutty debated whether Perry’s or Sole’s
was the last circus in the district. After
fabulous sums had been vociferously
“betcha’d,” the point of contention be-
wilderingly became the number of ele-
phants in Serry’s or Pole’s. Then the Big
Top became visible through the trees,
and three kids and a dog climbed over
each other to get the best view. We
pulled up in front of the huge tent; but
no yells of delight came from the poten-
tial spectators. A large calico sign near
the door announced “T. J. H. ,
Evangelist. All Welcome.” I didn’t see
where the brick came from that knocked
a 6im hole square in the middle of the
sign.
* * ♦ *
“Kenwood” : Is there any tree that can
even approach the amazing seed effort of
the Cootamundra wattle? Under a fair
specimen 15 feet high I gathered a heap
of 100 fallen seed pods, and estimate that
200 such heaps would not have exhausted
the supply. Owing to the lush season,
most of the pods were exceptionally long,
averaging 12 to 14 seeds per pod, a few
smaller ones going as low as seven.
Twenty thousand pods at, say, 10 seeds
apiece. Near by were specimens of
Queensland and Sydney black wattle, but
the carpet of fallen pods in neither case
compared with the Cootamundra. With
some trees, big seed production is more
or less indicative of low percentages of
seed fertility, but this is not so with the
’Coota. It seems reasonable to suppose
that, as trees go, and apart from the rav-
ages of “borers,” this prolific seeding is
the reason for the comparatively short
life of wattles.
* * *
“Caballer”; The 90 years of the Vic-
torian railways (B. 26/1/’44) brought few
more hectic hours than one which oc-
curred when an out-of-the-way branch
line was taken up. Starting where it
joined the main line, the rails and sleepers
were removed by trucks, as a road ran
beside the railway, and the work pro-
gressed at the usual Government pace
until the job was nearly completed. Then
certain high officials received a telephone
ring to the effect that only a chain or so
of rails was left to be removed, and what
about the engine that was standing on
them? The high officials went hot all
over for months after whenever they
thought of it, and among the bojums
that frequented their nightmares an
engine stranded in the bush took prece-
dence of flayed horses, puce-colored
goannas and other fauna common to the
troubled spirit. It is said the world’s
record for relaying sleepers and rails is
held by the particular gang that, urged
and goaded by the h.o.’s, rescued the
engine.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Mention of the. Qua-
rantine Beach on the Nepean Peninsula (B.
26/1/’44) recalls that it fronts the least
known and least visited near-Melbourne
game sanctuary—that of the large Quar-
antine area between Port Phillip Bay and
Bass Strait. Walking through the ti-tree
scrub there recently I was surprised to
“Sharks seem to he pretty bad round the beaches, Joe.”
roaming its banks. All the way blue
honeyeaters darted across the bows, you
heard the crack of coachwhip birds and
the ring of thousands of bellbirds. We
steamed on over barriers of rock where
shoals of bream were as thick as
Canadian salmon, and where the high
mountain slopes narrowed to rugged
gorges about which grew multicolored
wildflowers. Twenty-two miles upstream
in the heart of Victoria’s verdant moun-
tain bush, a picturesque waterfall bars
the way to navigation,
* * * ♦
“Nepean”: For quick digestion I’ll
back a black cormorant. At Conne-
warre Lakes, near Geelong (Vic.), we
shot one that had just swallowed a ten-
inch mullet; a post-mortem five minutes
later revealed no trace of the fish.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Don’t know how “Fan-
car” got the notion (B. 29/12/’43)
that “doves are not seen carrying even
nesting material.” Sitting in the small
park in front of Fremantle railway
station, with the busy wharf 1000 yards
away in one direction, the busy town a
bare 100 yards in the other, the sea
about the same distance to the west and
the river to the north, I spent an idle
half-hour watching tWo pairs of doves
building their nests. High in lofty palms
were the locations, far beyond the reach
of the bird-nesting boy ; and they were
as busy as could be carrying building
material aloft. Grass for the most part,
though old feathers and slender sticks
were also chosen. This dove, numerous
round Perth, is a small greyish pigeon,
one of the few indigenes which survived
the shock of the white man’s coming
without apparent diminution of numbers.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Head down and a kerosene-
tin in each hand, Seventyfiver struggled
up from the soak 200-odd yards away
with his daily supply of water, deep in
some weighty problem. Silently he
poured a meagre ration into a billy, slung
it over the tin fireplace, then, raking out
a damper, he made up the fire, brushed
the ants out of the camp oven and turned
to his bag safe. “Hey,” he puzzled,
“what’s this here new standard o’ livin’
they’re all gabbin’ about for after the
war?” I upended a couple of dingo-
traps, some trace-chaftis and the old
chap’s best suit off a box, chucked a
horserug on top and flopped down luxu-
riously. “It’s improvements for the city
folks,” I told him. “Going t’ build them
better houses with lawns ’n’ conveniences
’n’ things.” He considered a row of bat-
tered tins, selected the butter fronl the
saddle oil with a practised eye, and
poured some on his damper. “S’pose
we’ll be taxed pretty heavy f them
things?” he suggested thoughtfully.
“Well, we got to pay for ’em,” I answered.
“Some of those folks are living in hot
little bits o’ houses with no proper cool-
ing or heating systems. Some even
haven’t got water in the kitchens and
have to use an outside tap.” The old
bloke nodded. “Aw, tha’s awright then,”
he concluded cheerfully. “I don’t like
spendin’ if it ain’t necessary, but I reckon
them poor cows has t’ have somewheres
decent t’ live.”
“Zake”: Tom Judd had a 7ft. carpet-
snake which he used to lend to neighbors.
Brought back after a heavy week’s work
in Morgan’s barn, it slithered to the har-
ness shed, where the mice had been par-
ticularly bad in its absence. As it assidu-
ously glided round the obstacles in search
of the rodents old Joe, a staunch union-
ist, poked his head in the door, spat and
said “Y’ long, slimy cow! Y’ never
knock orf fer a spell—can’t y’ think o’
y’r mates now an’ then?”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Naturala” errs in pre-
suming (B. 9/2/’44) that the yapping bark
of the fox and the long-drawn wail of
warrigal mean “they’re on the hunt.”
Both are silent hunters —how otherwise
would a fox get into the fowlyard with
the house dogs sleeping around him, and
how would a dingo get among yarded
sheep with the drover camped near by?
When a fox yaps you can bet he is calling
to a mate, has got a fright, is acting as
a decoy or is giving way to the same
instinct which impels the domestic dog
to get out and yelp at the moon. When
a dingo howls, the reasons are the same,
except that I’ve never known a dingo to
come the decoy stunt.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Mac, a Malice cocky,
got stonkered in Murrayville, and his
disgusted offspring, sighting him roll-
ing along the street bawling some old
A.I.F. song, deliberately drove home
and left him, behind. Towards sun-
down Mac, now fairly sober, let go at
the top of his voice with his opinions
of undutiful children, wheatgrowing, the
town, the district, its discoverers and in-
habitants. Which brought forth the
indignant John, a newcomer, who sur-
veyed Mac, mistook him for a passing
drunk and acidly ordered him off the
premises. This phenomenon sat Mac
back on his heels, but he recovered
quickly and proceeded to lace the even-
ing with colorful streaks of opinion
concerning the Law and the kind of
animal it begot. Whereupon the John
ran him in. Next morning there was a
big sale at Cowangie, eight or nine miles
away, to which most of Murrayville de-
parted, with the result that no J.P. could
be found to put Mac through. But the
John ' was an enterprising fellow. He
loaded Mac into a Ford, ran him to
Cowangie, shanghaied a couple of Js.P.
from the sale crowd, had a Court consti-
tuted in the local hall and got Mac fined
ten bob and costs. The Court and the de-
fendant then adjourned to the sale, where
Mac bought a hand chaffcutter he’d been
wanting for a long time and the John
bought a d.b. gun. This story could go
on; let us end it with the spectacle of
the John, Mac, one J.P., sundry bottles
of beer and parcels of food, all packed in
the Ford with a load of ammo, and the
chaffcutter, heading for the Pink Lakes,
south of Underbool, for some duck-shoot-
ing. It was that sort of spirit that made
the Vic. Mallee worth living in in the
old days.
* * * •
“B.”: Fierce heat generated when some
grass-trees burn (B. 2/2/’44) is produced
by the |um called chillima. Dig an inch
or so below the earth and you’ll find it
round the roots. Similar to sealing-wax
in hardness, brittleness and inflam-
mability, it burns the same way. Some
animals fancy it. Those wallabies that
“Sarina” saw feasting on the young
shoots may have been nosing for the
gum, which has a pungent flavor.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: The introduction of
the double-gee into Westralia was rather
more picturesque than the mere acci-
dental carrying of a few seeds in a bale
of fodder (B. 29/12/’43). Late in 1830
one William Tanner, gentleman farmer,
late of Yorkshire, arrived at the Cape of
Good Flope, en route for the new colony
on the Swan River. There while
he rested he met a column of
disillusioned migrants making
back home. Headed by George
Dunnage, they had some fearful
tales to tell; the Swan River
was a desert, entirely lacking in
fresh meat and fresh vegetables
—scores, hundreds even, were
dying from scurvy. Looking
around for some plant that
might be acclimatised on the
Swan as an anti-scorbutic,
Tanner was introduced to the
double-gee, really a form of
spinach. Arrived on the* Swan
he became tenant 6f Governor
Stirling’s farm, Woodbridge,
Guildford, There the double-
gee seeds rapidly germinated,
and through the first decade of
the settlement did wonders in
keeping the scurvy at bay—
actually upwards of half a hun-
dred did perish from that malady
during the first two years. But,
though so beneficial, the d.-g.,
like so many introduced plants
and animals, soon escaped from
captivity and showed its evil
qualities. So its first Westralian
name was “Tanner’s Curse.” But
Tanner was a good friend to the
colony, and it is likely, when
he died in 1846, out of respect
to his memory the other name was
adopted, as “Oxmead” suggests.
“P.A.”: “Kenwood’s” Lycium horri-
dum —the South African boxthorn—
should be Lycium ferocissimum, which is,
too, the more appropriate name (B.
2/2/’44). The plant is really not ugly
to look at, but its thorns are needle
sharp, large, plentiful and certainly fero-
cious. In its native land the boxthorn
was used as a hedge around native vil-
lages and compounds, where it was said
to be so effective a stockade that it would
keep out even man-eating tigers. What’s
wrong with using it here as a dingo-proof
fence? It is cheap, easy to grow and
able to stand hard and dry conditions.
♦ * * *
“J. D’Emcy”: In the region of Lambo
Flat, where boundaries are only dis-
tantly visible, Dad and the widow
McCracken had inhabited their square
miles for several decades. Then came
that mixed boon the “party” telephone.
The widow condescended to erect as her
share the couple of leagues between her
place and ours if Dad would bring the
wires the 14 miles out from the siding.
Then I acquired a holding over beyond
the McCrackens’ and had my name regis-
tered in the ’phone-book as Lambo Flat
13c (party line). That copper line saved
me many a long trip home, and on occa-
sion I was able to be more than ordi-
narily frank with Dad over matters on
which I had regretfully acted on his
“sound advice.” Presently rumors that
the old man and I were at loggerheads
and never saw each other any more
became rife in the district. Perturbed at
the scandal, the skipper sat himself down
one rainy Sabbath to solve the problem.
Just as I got in to dinner the party signal
jingled out its three bells and Dad in
elated mood hailed me. After a few
minutes discussing nothing in particular
he hung up again with “So long! I must
be getting the table ready for Mum—
there’s Mrs. Mac’s clock just striking
twelve 1 ”


“Shamuseen”: The shearer going
through, his cheque failed to respond to
Mrs. Moloney’s soothing endeavors and
commenced to wreck the place. Several
patrons gallantly came to her assistance,
to be quickly floored; even the. town
copper was downed. Moloney himself was
away in the city. Suddenly, for the first
time, Hogan, who kept the rival juice
joint at the other end of the town, dark-
ened the Moloney door and, a few
minutes later, the two eyes of the boister-
ous shearer, whom he slugged out. To
Mrs. Moloney’s vociferous thanks Hogan
merely barked ungraciously “And if
that big loafer Moloney feels like it
when he comes back, tell him to come
down to me own hotel and I’ll belt the
daylights out of him, too, fer sellin’ vile
liquor to this poor lad here!”
* * * *
“Gnr. 0.W.W.”: Turi, who runs a
small movie show in an outback
Maoriland village, was annoyed. “Now
my best bed blanket been pinched I
never try an’ please te public with a
matinoo again,” he declared. “How did
it happen?” I asked. “It like this,” Turi
went on. “I see te daylight beaming in,
so I stop te show, rush on stage an’ say
‘lf te sneak-thiever wot take my grey
blanket off te first window don’t put it
back no pictures go on.’ But he gone
with te wind up, an’ I have to hang
Mere’s petticoat over to finis te show or
the angry people might wreck up te
joint.”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Through a Southern High-
lands (N.S.W.) “Scotch” mist we could
hear the •rackling noise of a grassfire.
It didn’t seem possible in such dampness,
and needed ‘probing. The result was
something like a naturalist’s dream.
Swarms of gang-gang cockatoos had
descended on the ripening fruits of the
übiquitous hawthorn bushes. It was the
later summer migration to coastal regions,
where pine-cone seeds also make splendid
picnic fare. A magnificent scarlet comb
adorns the male bird’s coat of blue-grey
and makes the gang-gang a raffish fellow
who contrasts strangely with the browns
and silvers of these cool-country summer
landscapes. We could do with more of
them, and could encourage them, too, by
planting the right fodder trees. To come
upon a company of these gangs feeding
ravenously to the clicking sound of many
seeds being opened by strong beaks is a
unique experience. But when disturbed
their croak, like that of any other cocka-
too, is not musical.
* ♦ * *
“Graz”: One of Victoria’s recent fires
travelled 20 miles in 15 minutes. Even
half-mile-wide breaks wouldn’t stop such
a blazing tornado. Fires in eucalypt
forests cause volatile gases to exude from
the leaves; terrific heat explodes this
gas spontaneously in mid-air, and whirl-
ing currents send gorgeous balls of fire
rolling up to a mile across valleys to
light up the ridges opposite. In 1939 a
fire passed over the top of hills and left
untouched a relative’s home in the floor
of a deep valley which was covered with
a dens© mat of dry grass. It seems that
the logical place to burn breaks is along
the tops of ridges, these to be kept free
of timber,
* * * *
“Balurga”: A disease apparently simi-
lar to that which has attacked horses in
the Grafton (N.S.W.) district has for
years been prevalent in N.Q. In the
Gulf Country especially big losses occur
amongst saddle horses. It is known there-
abouts as “walkabout,” owing to the vic-
tims’ irrepressible urge to walk until they
die. They will walk through anything,
and I know of one horse that climbed a
high flight of steps. They also go blind.
An unidentifiable weed is said to be the
cause of it.
* * * . »
“Nor’-west”: The reason why “Lower
Tops’l’s” albatross crashed into the wire-
less aerial in full daylight and why even
heavy rigging may be collided with by
birds in the twilight (B. 22/12/’43) is
easily explained. Birds’ eyes are placed
on opposite sides of the head, so they
are lacking in stereoscopic vision,
that combination of sight of both eyes
which gives all animals possessed of eyes
in the front of the head the power of
being always aware of depth. Try
to chase a fowl through a hole in a fence
or even through an open gate. The bird
sees the absence of fence where the open-
ing is, but doesn’t realise the space be-
yond until practically pushed through.
So the albatross has little forward vision,
and, odder still, each eye must present a
different picture to the brain. Of course
when Nature designed such avian, eyes
there were no obstructions anywhere on
the surface of the waters.
*** ' $
“Wippegong”: Nearly dark. The
many tropic greens have deepened to an
even heavy tone, faintly lit here and there
by a last arc of light reflected by a wet
[?]
“’Ow about a change of jobs, boss —I can't stop yawnin'."
coconut palm or banana leaf. There is
a stillness that can be felt, but quiet has
not yet settled, for two clear voices float
through the dusk, and thoughts drift
back to where two similar voices—friar-
birds and butcher-birds —are piping out a
dying day along the N.S.W. western rivers.
The butcher on this islaiid is the pied
fellow. Slightly larger than the grey one we
knew, slightly richer in voice, he never-
theless sings new notes with the changing
of the year—drops the abandoned peal of
the mating season and pipes a more rest-
ful lay, suggesting autumn and ease.
Not so marked a change as with the
southern cousin; but neither are the
seasons so marked. The friar-bird of
these parts is, in appearance, a distinct
improvement on the mainland fowl —
there is room for it. Rich brown with
black head and wings that toss back the
sunlight, he adds a warm tone as he
clatters about the canopy of green ; and
his voice, too, is more mellow —almost a
song, and much less capable of being
interpreted into ribald patter than the
cackle of his blasphemous relative of the
plains. Pitch dark now, and even those
two have stopped ; but in eight hours or
so they will lead the chorus that heralds
the dawn, the approach of which we
higher beings cannot announce without
the help of a watch.
* * * •
“Herbert Dawson”: So “S.T.” (B.
5/1/’44) has “seen cleanskins of up to
10 years that were steers,” and has made
“I reckon this'll 'elp the Cuv'ment's ‘ Use-less-coal' campaign."
steers of two-year-old bulls! I marvel
at his use of the word “steer” in either
connection. I, too, have seen plenty of
unsexed male cattle carrying an earmark
only. They have generally been scrub
mickies; but they have always, on
account of their retaining much of the
bull appearance, been known afterwards
as “stags” both on the station and in
the saleyard. In the case of calves, from
which steers in the cattleman’s use of the
term generally evolve, they are in most
cases captured with their mothers, and
go through the branding yard in the usual
way, losing most of their masculine
appearance and selling as steers, dr later
as bullocks. I have worn out a few
whip crackers myself “chopping right
and left around the head” of a knocked-
up cow or weaner that has “bailed up,”
in order to make it go back to the mob,
but Allah knows I won’t be there or
thereabouts if the beast is capable of
charging as a cleanskin making his
desperate way to freedom can charge.
Any member of the Council can work it
out for himself: the horse must be prac-
tically stationary, either facing or side-on
to the beast, which is either already in top
gear or on his toes for the purpose. The
utmost reach of the stockwhip—assum-
ing it could stop him—would be in the
vicinity of, say, 16 feet. No, thank you !
« * * *
“Betcha”: Young Collins had settled
in on a few hundred acres and was still
making hard work of keeping his head
above debt. On the store verandah he
was talking to Billy Edwards when the
stock agent strode up. “Got any stock
for sale this month. Col?” he greeted
the newchum. “Yes, a decent line of
lambs,” was the eager reply. “Better
than last year’s. Should bring over a
quid, eh?” “Quid! Might get you
thirteen bob for ’em,” laughed the agent.
Collins looked blank. “Gripes, I’ll —I’ll
have t’ sell me ewes, too, at that rate.
What’ll they make, them ewes? They’re
in pretty good condition,” he added hope-
fully. “About nineteen?” Again the
agent shook his head. “I’ll see if I c’n
get you half,” he volunteered cautiously.
“With meat rationing and the unsteady
market nuthin’s sure these days; still, I
think you can safely say nine an’ six.”
Collins chewed worriedly at a grass stem
as the agent disappeared in the store.
“Don’t you believe it, me lad,” came
Billy’s voice at his elbow. “He’s kiddin’
y’.” “Y’ mean,” Collins turned hope-
fully, “he won’t sell ’em at them prices?”
“ ’Course he won’t,” sniffed Billy, swing-
ing on his nag. “An’ don’t you let him
bluff y’ with his yarns. Why, if y*
searched this whole country y’ couldn’t
find a bigger flamin’ optimist.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Let Mat tell it: “It’s
while I’m waitin’ f’r you t’ come up from
Gippsland that time we had the clearin’
contrack in the Goulburn Valley. I’m
ambulatin’ round the districk, gettin’ a
handout here and there, when I strike
a place, where the boss is propped up in
bed with a broken leg. He offers me a
coupla days’ work at ten bob an’ tucker,
at which I bucks, but he says the job’s
easy an’ it’ll help me put in the time
waitin’ which was true enough, so I take
it on. Well, I get up t’ the house the
first mornin’, has me breakfast an’ waits
round for orders. The boss calls me
round t’ the side of the house an’ talks
t’ me through the winder. ‘Sit down an’
have a smoke,’ he says. ’ ‘There’s no
hurry.’ While I’m sittin’ he yarns a bit,
breakin’ off every time he hears a car
or trap goin’ past on the road t’ ask me
what sort of a outfit it is. I’d tell him,
an’ he’d tell me who it was. Well, I sat
around there till dinnertime, has me
dinner an’ comes back an’ goes through
the same performance. Yair, the poor
cow got lonely lyin’ in that bunk, an’ he
paid me thirty bob an’ tucker f’r three
days t’ sit an’ yarn an’ keep tab on who
was goin’ or cornin’ along that road.
Funny, the way some blokes get.”
“Bo”; The solicitor who fitted in visits
to the township two afternoons a week
had just opened the room he rented
above the store, when he became aware
that he had a prospective client. Jacky
padded in his bare feet to the table,
hauled out a fistful of silver and an-
nounced that he had come to “buyem
divorce.” Gent. One settled comfortably
in his swivel chair and regarded the abo.
with a quizzical eye. Gravely he asked
Jacky what grounds he had—had Mary
gone walkabout with another man?
“Baal that pfelier,” said Jacky. “Mary
good gin, but by cripe she want own way
too much. Me gibbem order all same
Gubmint. Mary gib horselaugh. Jacky fed
up.” “So she disobeyed you, eh?” re-
marked the solicitor. “You tellem me by
cripe yair,” burst out the abo. “I tellem
Mary we hab triblet piccaninny like Mrs.
McKenzie longa station. Mary bringem
only one piccaninny. By cripe, if Jacky
can’t get gin wot do as he say, pfinish
this hitch-up stuff, eh?”
* * * *
“Bass Strait Pirate”: Bygone sights?
Twenty-five years ago from San Remo’s
beach (Vic.) I used to watch two long
white rakish ketches, staggering under all
sail and with bones in their mouths,
as they drove through the tide-race of
The Narrows. They were the 60-tonners
Gladys and Jane Moorhead, skippered
by Joe and Jim Burgess, Bass Strait
crayfishers, on their way through to
unload at Stony Point. And, though
they had travelled upwards of 600 miles
—generally they fished the Bay of Fires,
Tasmania —and had filled wells holding
around 300 dozen crays in between
whiles, they came through inward every
11 or 12 days regularly in summer sou’-
easterly weather. Sometimes, with a
strong ebb against them, you got an ex-
tended eyeful, only a stone’s throw away,
of their glistening, spray-wet hulls and
lofty topsails, as well of the crews of
three, always aft, gazing ashore. But
“them days ’as gone for ever.” The
Gladys struck a rock off The Hum-
mocks ; the Moorhead, after trading to
Flinders Island, was sold north; and
three years ago they completed a bridge
from San Remo to the island, only 45
feet above the sea.
* * * *
“Tomanbil”: Not all the frog family
are equipped with vacuum valves for toes
(B. 9/2/’44). That’s limited to the tree
varieties, one of which obviously climbed
that window. The ordinary garden toad
and swamp frog have fingers and toes as
innocent as ours of any sucking arrange-
ments.
* ♦ * *
“Herbie”: “I lost a good, steady job
with old Job Haystack through being a
melon,” said “Singleton” Sam. “One of
his married daughters brought her baby
up to the farm for a holiday, and they’d
just settled down when Red Flannigan’s
missus gives the whole bang Flannigan
tribe ptomaine poisonin’ by servin’ over-
aged beef. Being very neighborly Mrs.
Job and Fanny hurry over to administer
the brine-water cure, leavin’ old Job t’
look after the kid. Everything goes
slumberingly until the pig-buyer comes
along t’ make Job an offer for his
baconers. Then the nipper begins t’
squawk and squeal. It was gettin’ hungry,
I reckoned ; then I recollect bearin’ its
mother tellin’ old Job somethin’ about
it havin’ to have some melons. So I lump
the kid down t’ the patch, and he’s wolfin’
sugar-melon and rock-melon when the
women come home. After the bush nurse
has gone and the women have finished
feedin’ me on tongue, includin’ some
choice remarks on halfwits who haven’t
even heard o’ Mellin’s Food, I carefully
note the position o’ the Southern Cross
and bid a sad midnight farewell t’ Upthe-
creek.”
MAGNOLIA.
Creamy and still and dreaming in your nest
Of stiff green leaves, drowsy with song of bird,
How still you were! But secret pulses stirred
The ivory, cool roundness of your breast,
Breathing romance that loitered down the ways,
When garden and the thick-boughed tree were
young.
Perfume of sweet low vows about you clung,
Brushing the lips and eyes of two at gaze.
Now fast for ever in the green-gold snare
Of selfsame wind, and sun, and butterfly,
We are those old loves, they us, it would seem.
Though time prove bitter and of fruiting bare,
One fragment of our hearts will tender lie,
Meshed in the burnished cobweb of a dream.
N.S.W.
NORA KELLY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUICKand DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
k
(Regd.)
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste, PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAi
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as o£ the highest standard.
WOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
'lHBttkT* - * *' ' - sirfejS '
"-■-V:,.■.. ■ ••>■<•'-■* "’ it • ’.'P \'S J '
w- I £B-- .ociv-|:k s .'\ ■■■''■
P
•* t: ‘ ■.. u
* v<;
I
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mules Operation.
“Dungaree”: Its value depends on the
district and type of sheep carried;
although it has been applied to crossbreds
it is intended chiefly for merinos. Ideas
have changed since it was first introduced,
and it is recommended for plain- as well
%S very wrinkly-breeched sheep.
The Mules operation reduces crutch
strike by an average of 80 p.c., and most
strikes are on the crutch. Few graziers
have time to go in for statistics, but if
a record were kept of the time spent
locating and dressing struck sheep, the
cost of wages, fly dressings, etc., it would
more than convince sheep-owners that
the Mules operation is well worth while.
It is not sufficient merely to cut off
breech wrinkles. The strip of skin to be
removed from a full-grown sheep may
have to be up to 2|in. wide, and care
must be taken not to remove any of the
bare-skin area, as the object of the
operation is to stretch that bare skin as
far as possible. The local stock inspec-
tor or some experienced grazier with
knowledge of the latest modifications in
its use should be enlisted to give a prac-
tical demonstration. Best time to do it
is shortly after crutching, otherwise it is
difficult to follow the wrinkles and the
shears are harder to handle. Some do
their lambs at marking time, but on the
whole it is best done on hoggets or adult
sheep.
If the job is done carefully there is
practically no bleeding and no need to
apply a wet dressing. The wound will
draw together in a remarkably short
time, and, provided no dirt or germs
get into the cut, it will heal quickly and
without complications. Dry boracic acid
may be dusted on the wound, but it is
not absolutely necessary.
Lamb shears with a 6in. blade are best
for the purpose ; if unobtainable, ordi-
nary hand shears will do. Dagging shears
are not so suitable. Several pairs of
shears will be required, and a good oil-
stone to keep an edge. Change shears
frequently and keep spares in a reliable
disinfectant.
Do the job in the shade. A good place
is on the shearing board, the operator
standing outside in the counting pen, pro-
vided he can stand upright to work. If
this does not suit, a few boards may be
knocked out of the side of the shed where
the floor is at a suitable height.
Catchers should be instructed not to
pull the hind legs up as if lamb-marking.
They should be held relaxed to allow the
breech folds to show up clearly. When
the operation is finished the sheep should
be dropped carefully on to its feet. If
a regular annual operation is intended it
will be worth while concreting a patch
in front of the catchers so that it can be
kept clean to avoid dirt or dust getting
into the wound.
The Mules operation is out of the
experimental stage; it has proved effec-
tive and beneficial, has everything to com-
mend it, but it must be properly done,
otherwise it is a waste of time.
Wool Quality.
“Flock Ram”: “Bungaree’s” didactic
note to Australian woolgrowers (B.
26/1/’44) was no doubt well meant, but
he is off the beam. Australian growers
have already bred sheep to grow more
wool than those of any other country
and wool of a higher intrinsic value per
pound.
As for the suggestion that the grower
could carry fewer sheep and get more
wool from them than from his present
flock, I contend it is doubtful if the fre-
quently advocated goal of 121 b. of wool
per head, i.e., an all-round increase of
25 p.c., is possible. It has been found
by observation and experiment that the
better-fed and heavier-cutting sheep will
not produce the superlatiye fine quality
merino wool which groves from feeding
on natural grasses.
Success of our post-war wool industry
depends not so much on the growers—
they have proved they can produce more
and better—but on Government regula-
tion to put a ceiling on the present high
price of manufactured woollen apparel
and publicity.
Money in Vealers.
“Beefo”: Vealers are always in good
demand and short supply. Recently at
Flemington (N.S.W.) a draft of 66 Short-
horn vealers, nine months old, averaged
£ll 7s. 6d., tops selling to £l3 ss. a head.
The well-grown calves showed plenty of
quality, and were the progeny of pure
Shorthorn cows by pure Shorthorn bulls.
Quick returns make vealers profitable,
and in districts where good feed is always
available in normal seasons small graziers
could do worse than breed a few vealers
annually. It’s not essential to have pure-
bred cows, but they must be good
milkers.
Vealers must not receive any check in
the early stages. Cows of any dairy strain
are ideal for mothers of early-maturing
vealers, but a beef bull must be used.
Apart from an assured milk supply, there
must also be plenty of good feed for
them and their mothers.
Brand and mark early, and don’t dis-
turb or draft off the mothers until it's
time to send them to market. A vealer
should be fit for market at from eight
to 12 months of age, when, if it shows
quality and is in fit condition, it will
realise as much possibly as it would as a
two-year-old. And there’s 12 months’
good grass saved.
Permanent Pastures.
“Plane Creek”: In most districts per-
manent pastures come away well when
sown in summer and autumn. The
summer-autumn rains give them a start
before winter, and some of ’em give
grazing within a very short time. It isn’t
worth while harboring native grasses
unless you’re sure of their value. Many
of ’em fill and yet starve the stock.
Any good seedsmen will advise on suit-
able grasses. For hillsides and dry soils
Rhodes is ideal. It is grown very exten-
sively by coastal dairymen in Queensland,
and some very old Rhodes stands exist.
Inland plantings are also satisfactory.
Ordinary soils grow fair stands. It stands
drought much better than paspalum.
Keep it on its own, for it smothers other
grasses. It can be propagated either by
roots or seeds; plant roots in rows 4ft.
apart and allow same distance between
plants; if seeding, distribute 41b. to 61b.
of seed per acre. Many farmers in
Queensland find that it comes away well
if the seed is sown in the ashes of a fire
just after or before a good rain.
For damp soils, paspalum is a fine
grass, hard to equal. It really thrives on
heat, but only where moisture is plentiful.
In dry districts it cannot be relied upon.
Skilfully grazed, paspalum won’t run into
tussocks or produce seed-heads to become
infested with ergot-cause of much
trouble where paspalum runs rampant
through suitable soil. It can be propa-
gated in the same way as Rhodes grass.
Low, swampy country is not very suit-
able for stock, but it must often be toler-
ated. A good grass for marshy or very
moist country is Para, a very vigorous
member of the couch tribe. This nutri-
tious grass runs everywhere and absorbs
a lot of moisture from the soggy soil, thus
making it more healthy for stock. It is
tolerant of medium frosts and an ever-
lasting grower. Cattle and horses are
very fond of it. Propagate by cuttings
or roots.
Balancing Rations.
“Molecule”; Working out a “balanced
ration” is easy enough, yet many who
attach great importance to such “balanc-
ing” get no better results than others
who employ rule of thumb. It is im-
portant, both nutritionally and economi-
cally, that the ratio of protein to starch
equivalent be correct, but there are other
important points, such as proportion of
fibre (which differs greatly in digesti-
bility) ; minerals, especially calcium and
phosphorus ; vitamins (of which succu-
lence is a good criterion) and, most im-
portant of all, quality of protein.
Though all proteins consist of but six
chemical elements, actual composition
varies so greatly that of the limitless
varieties some are insufficient to sustain
life, others contain practically all essen-
tials for growth and production. To feed
a peliectly balanced ration, complete with
minerals and vitamins but incomplete as
regards the protein portion, is wasteful
as well as disheartening.
Don’t, therefore, be satisfied with a
ration that balances on paper until you
know that the protein is capable of per-
forming the job. For example, you could
make up a balanced ration for pigs from
maize, wheat and oilcake, but it wouldn’t
be half so good as one in which some of
the protein came from meatmeal or skim-
milk. The acid test is whether it yields,
on ingestion, the full quota of amino-
acids from which the animals in turn
convert the protein they eat into meat,
milk, eggs, etc.
These amino-acids cannot be synthe-
tised by the animal, so, unless they are
present preformed in proper proportions,
yield is determined by those in shortest
supply, and any surplus of others is
wasted. In the absence of a reliable text-
book or disinterested expert advice, in-
clude some protein from each of these
three sources, when the shortcomings of
one are usually balanced by the others,
viz.: (1) cereals or bran, (2) oilcakes or
oilmeals, (3) an animal source such as
meat- or bloodmeal, skim-milk or butter-
milk.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmer Bill”: Blood scours in calves
can come from coccidosis, a parasitic in-
fection, or from dysentery, caused by
wrong feed. . Dissolve half a teaspoon
sulphate of iron in 4oz. water, add one
dessertspoon turpentine and shake up
with 6oz. milk. Administer as a drench
once a day for two or three days. Where
the trouble’s occurred more than once
keep the calves in clean and dry condi-
tion ; feed regularly. Add one cup lime-
water to each feed for three weeks about
the susceptible age.
“Sarina”: Powdery mildew hits paw-
paws during cooler months. Small crown
leaves show a yellow blotchiness and
water-soaked areas covered with white
powder. Powdery deposits on the fruit
turn to grey, disfiguring scars, leaves die,
young fruit is distorted. Equal parts of
sulphur and hydrated lime at monthly in-
tervals will check most outbreaks. The
dust should be applied to crown leaves
and fruit in particular. Dusting may be
discontinued when the weather warms up.
“Gip”: I made a serviceable whitewash
at no cost by mixing half a kero.-tin of
wood ash and a jamtin of old flour into
a liquid the consistency of paint. Applied
with a whitewash brush it’s just the thing
for sheds and other outbuildings. Rain
won’t wash it off, and it won’t flake off
when dry. I put on two coats. I’ve also
made a good whitewash by half-filling
a kerosene-tin with white clay, filling up
with water and stirring into a thick paste.
It is good for inside walls and lasts for
years, but it will wash off in rain. If
white clay is unobtainable, any other
color would make a good wash.
“G. 1.”: Corks make the best blade-
shear “knockers.” Cut away the bottom
of the blades as usual, put a small piece
of sealing wax in the channel of the bow
and hold over candle till melted (about
BOsec.). Shape corks to fit (a razor-blade
is good) and press firmly into soft wax,
which will harden in a few moments. Do
the same to the other blade, and the
“knockers” will last the life -of the shears
and will be noiseless.
“Plane Creek”; New land rich in
humus or old land enriched with farm-
yard manure grows the best melons.
Don’t grow them on the same land in
two successive years. In North Queens-
land begin , planting seed during July,
but in cool localities August and Sep-
tember are the best months. Difficulty
is usually experienced in getting the
plants through the ground during winter.
A few N.Q. growers raise early seedlings
in seedboxes set in a warm place, and
transplant them into the open ground.
Sow the seed in rows 4fft. apart, 2ft.
between seeds, or in hills 6ft. apart. Allow
21b. of seed to the acre. Good varieties
include Tom Watson, Kleckley Sweet,
Irish Grey and Cuban Queen.
“Green Ink”: When fitting the new
axe-handle smear soap or oil on the end
that goes into the head. This saves
splitting the end, also a bit of profanity
when knocking on and off for a good fit.


tcM
m
w
A
a
MOSQUITO
Fastest Aircraft in
Service in the World
DE HAVILLAND
The de Havilland Aircraft Company Limited, ENGLAND.
D.H.1l
LIGHTING
Regulations
National Security (Standard of
Lighting) Regulations, gazetted
January 20th, state that if you are
an owner or occupier of industrial
premises , you are liable to he
called upon to instal lighting
equipment in conformity with
the regulations .
Do Not Wait to be Gazetted!
Place your order now, with the firm that
offers you the latest advancements in indus-
trial illumination and thus secure a priority
delivery.
INTERIOR
Fluorescent
LIGHTING
Division of Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
11-19 HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone: FL 3132
M. 3
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. Pacific Power.
(Condensed from the “United States News.”)
The powerful United States Fleet,
already numbering more than 800 com-
bat ships, will attempt to seize control
of the entire Pacific and Far Eastern
waters in 1944 to strangle Japan by
cutting her off from now far-flung terri-
torial holdings, naval experts have pre-
dicted.
In undertaking such an enterprise the
Navy would be following the classic
principles epitomised in “control of the
seas” and enunciated by the great Ameri-
can naval strategist- Admiral Alfred
Thayer Mahan. The Navy has never de-
parted from Admiral Mahan’s concept
of naval war in theory, but thus far in
this conflict it has been unable to apply
it on a grand scale in the Pacific because
the Japanese blow at Pearl Harbor
gravely weakened a fleet that even then
was little better than second-rate.
Today, however, the Navy has the
necessary fleet strength, amounting to
overwhelming numerical superiority, to
put Admiral Mahan’s principles to their
supreme test. Although it is the general
opinion that Japan will eventually be
crushed by the use of ground and air
might, many observers believe that the
United States cannot afford to wait for
such an offensive.
Ground operations depend largely on
shipping. As long as the war continues
in Europe there will not be enough ships
available for the ground drive on Japan.
In these circumstances the United States
Fleet is considered the best, most direct
means for neutralising Japan’s armed
might or—perhaps—even knocking her
out of the war.
Pacific Naval War.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times" Washington
correspondent .)
Japan’s mandated islands are to go to
the United States after this war. America
also is to be granted a military base on
Formosa, which is to be restored to China.
This means that a general redistribu-
tion of power in the Pacific is due to fol-
low Allied victory over Japan. The war is
to mark the rise of the United States to
that of the leading Pacific nation. It is
to mark the fall of Japan as a Pacific
Power. The Pacific is to be dominated
by the countries that are allied against
Japan.
The war thus enters a new phase for
the U.S. Until now American forces
have been fighting to drive the Japanese
from territory seized from the Allies:
from American soil in the Aleutians and,
in the Gilbert Islands, in the Solomons,
New Britain and in New Guinea, from
territory which was mandated to Great
Britain or Australia and which will be
restored to them.
Now American forces are fighting for
islands that Japan long has treated with-
out interference as her property. The
three groups comprise more than 600
islands. One group reaches southward
like steppingstones from Japan itself.
Two others extend eastward for nearly
3000 miles from the Philippines across
the mid-Pacific.
The Marshalls are coral atolls resting on
the crests of twin chains of sunken peaks.
The Carolines are higher, more rugged,
stronger strategically. In them, Japan
has a long string of powerful bases. These
are on Ponape, Truk, Yap and in the
Palau Islands, U.S. forces are preparing
to move on them from several directions.
The Marianas are a 400-mile chain of
steep, volcanic islands. Guam, the
southernmost, was owned by the United
States, but was left unfortified and fell
like a ripe plum to the Japanese. North
of Guam, on Saipan, Japan has a power-
ful base.
Possession of the mandated islands by
the United would mean a com-
plete reversal of their use in the Pacific.
In the war each base after capture would
be turned against Japan. Each would
help smash Japan’s air, sea and land
power.
After the war the islands, economically
of small importance, would provide air
bases for a network of air lines criss-
crossing the Pacific. Those bases can
serve as police stations for keeping the
Japanese under control. The base on
Formosa would guard South China. That
and posts in the Philippines would cut
across Japan’s path to the Indies and all
South-east Asia. British recovery of
Singapore, Japan’s loss of all holdings on
the Asiatic mainland and America’s
heavy fortification of the Aleutians and
Hawaiian Islands will complete Japan’s
encirclement. Thus she is cast for a
minor role for the future in the Pacific.
Criticism from Moscow,
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment.)
In various declarations to which it has
adhered, notably in the Moscow Declara-
tion regarding Italy, the Russian Govern-
ment has come out for freedom of speech,
of political belief, of press and public
meeting.
These “of” freedoms, as distinguished
from the “from” freedoms of the U.S.
Government, have always been regarded
in the United States as the inalienable
rights of man, legally anchored in the
American Constitution. We are glad to
note, therefore, that the Russian press is
also beginning to put them into effect.
We understand, of course, that the de-
velopment and practice of these fights
is a slow process, and we are not dis-
turbed because, for the present, these
rights are being put to use in the Russian
press only in limited fields. Practice
makes perfect, and there is reason to
hope that in time, as the Russian press
becomes familiar with them, these rights
will be broadened to include every field,
as has been the custom in the U.S.A. since
its foundation.
The Russian press is beginning to criti-
cise and commend persons and institu-
tions in other countries, both those in
and those out of power. It has criticised
or commended various American news-
papers and other publications. It has
criticised the Republican party and influ-
ential Democrats, assailing ex-President
Hoover and William C. Bullitt, former
Ambassador to Russia, while commend-
ing others, in American politics. It has
criticised or commended leading Labor
union organisations and their top men.
But criticism and commendation from
Russia should be of special benefit to
those among us whose spine wilts when-
ever they hear the name of Russia, or
who kowtow automatically whenever they
hear the name of Stalin. One courtesy
deserves another, and constructive criti-
cism from Russia invites equally con-
structive criticism of Russian policies and
personalities from this side. For an under-
standing built on a policy of hush-hush or
surrender of fundamental principles will
be only a house of cards to be scattered at
the first wind.
A Pasha on U.S. Methods.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” editorial. )
Hadj Tharai El Glaoui, the Pasha of
Marrakech in French Morocco, sent a
message to America through the “World-
Telegram” correspondent, Henry J.
Taylor. The spokesman of Islam is not
much impressed with the crusade to make
the world over in the image of America
and call it good. He is afraid the result
will be new tyrannies instead of new
freedoms. To quote the Pasha:
Americans want to do everything quickly,
so. they are likely to do it badly. _ This
mistaken speed will embroil America in the
same suspicions, resistances and resentments
as though her purposes were bad. Strange
as it may seem to far-off American policy-
makers, the fact is that the Moslem world
does not want the wondrous American
world or the incredible American way of
life. The radio talk from distant America
is contrary to the actual performance of
America’s allies, and such a position is
obviously untenable if not dangerous in
the extreme. American policy today stirs
up everything and settles nothing. The
result is that it creates a void, opening
the way to new tyrannies instead of new
freedoms. At the bottom of America’s atti-
tude is the assumption that all the world
• wishes to be American. And this assump-
tion is false.
El Glaoui’s indictment is a bit over-
done. It would be easy enough to point


KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
GET THE BEST FROM
SHED MANAGEMENT.”
YOUR CLIP. READ '‘WOOL-CLASSING AND
3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Lay the foundations
# *0
n
<7:
sm
s-
zA
Q>
V
%
S"
'V
5^
\Q
J^r.
Cs@sd
for
YOUR
POST WAR HOME
SET SAVINGS ASIDE FOR SPENDING a.
IN THE PEACEFUL POST-WAR YEARS *
You can’t build now . . . and there’s a limit
to the remodelling you can do. There’s also
a limit to the amount of Cane-ite you can
buy. But there’s nothing to stop you plan-
ning for the time when you can build and
renovate and modernize with all the Cane-ite
you need. Cane-ite, as you know, is the
perfect* insulating board, ideal for lining
walls and ceilings.
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Marketing
CANE-ITE ; : jit • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
★
INVEST YOUR SA VIMS IN WAR BONDS
CA 12-43
m
I
m
i
8
i. m
out that American speed has helped to
save Islam from the Germans, whom it
hates; that Americans in North Africa
have fed the starving. But the Pasha has
pinked us plenty. It is true that our glib
pledge of the Four Freedoms to all the
world cannot be fulfilled, and that false
promises carry bad kickbacks. It is true
that too many of us are cursed with a
crusading complex to impose our ways
on others, and that this is resented by
Orientals, Europeans and Latin-Ameri-
cans. It is true that we [Americans]
blithely try to solve the most complicated
problems of other lands and ancient civil-
isations of which we are ignorant, when
we cannot even settle simpler issues at
home.
Though we cannot escape the respon-
sibilities of power, certainly we can carry
those responsibilities with more caution
in our pledges, with more patience in
making over the world. The papa-fix
policy cannot save the world.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The extent to which the Democratic party
continues to be a “one-man” party, its fortunes
almost completely tied up with Franklin D.
Roosevelt, is revealed in a survey completed in
December. This shows that, with the nominat-
ing conventions not much more than six months
away, the President is the choice of more than
eight Democratic voters in every ten for the
1944 nomination. The next most popular
choice, Henry A. Wallace, receives 6 per cent,
(to Roosevelt’s 85 per cent.), while others poll
3 per cent', or less each. This one-sided situa-
tion is significant for two reasons. In the first
place, as time goes on no other leaders seem
to be emerging in the Democratic party with
sufficient following to present much of a chal-
lenge to the President. Second, with the lack
of other candidates having broad appeal to the
rank and file, the party is almost certain to
put heavy pressure on Mr. Roosevelt to run
again.— American Institute of Public Opinion
Director George Gallup.
* * * *
Although in Britain general elections have
been banned “for duration,” it would be a mis-
take to believe that politics are out of the pic-
ture altogether. On the contrary, party politics
and more especially growing preoccupation with
the next elections have become a definite charac-
teristic of the London atmosphere. It is one
of the surest signs that, in the opinion of
Britain’s politicians at least, the end of the war
is not far off. There have been some significant
changes in the political outlook. Only a few
months ago the main political current in Britain
was flowing strongly Leftward. All forecasts,
whether from Left or from Right, were predict-
ing post-war elections would produce a powerful,
perhaps even violent, swing away from the
present Conservative majority. Whatever the
cause, the best political pundit's here are
virtually unanimous in believing the main
current is no longer flowing Leftward. Or to be
more exact, it is moving Leftward much more
slowly and even showing signs of stopping and
turning back towards the Right. Now it is
generally anticipated that should elections be
held within the next six or eight months the
Conservative party could count on victory with
a comfortable majority in the House of
Commons. — London correspondent “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
There will be plenty of credit for all when
the war in Europe is won. There will be little
ground for post-war argument and bitterness
over who did most. In the final accounting of
the war these things will stand out: Britain
Stopped Hitler when he was at the height of
his power, when U.S. and Russia backed away
from* any test. British action saved Russia from
later defeat, saved U.S. from a test of power
with Germany on terms less favorable than now.
Russia broke Germany’s main armies at immense
cost to herself. If she had not, the U.S. army
today would be nearer 15,000,000 men than
7,700,000, the war itself would be nearer a
10-year war than the three-year war it will be
for U.S. U.S.-produced materials helped
Britain to do what she did, made it possible
for Russia to do what she has done. And U.S.
air forces and troops will do most to deliver
the knockout blow that finally will end the
German war. — “United States News”
It seems that Europe has been not at all
backward in telling what it wants in the
way of relief. Belgium, Luxemburg, Czecho-
slovakia, France, Greece, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland and Yugoslavia already have put in
specific requests. For the first six months after
liberation they ask a total of 45,855,000 metric
tons of food and other products, including
fertilisers, rubber, wood, paper, hides, clothing,
petroleum and machinery. The only country
demanding potables is France. Among its re-
quests, it asks for 292,000 metric tons of wine.
A metric ton is one-tenth bigger than an Ameri-
can ton of 20001 b., so you can see this is a
fair amount of wine. France’s explanation
for wanting so much wine is that its drinking
water is none too good. We have used this
excuse ourselves in the past, but not with very
convincing results. France, we might add, is
the big asker, requesting a total of 7,474,000
metric tons. Poland comes next with 3,366,000
tons. Belgium and Luxemburg together want
3,093,000; Netherlands, 2,969,000; Norway,
1,884,000; Czechoslovakia, 1,811,000; Yugo-
slavia, 1,181,000; Greece, 1,707,000. One of
our lightning calculators figured the nine
countries are asking a total of 9,250,000 Ameri-
can tons of food, fats and oil alone. He
figured this would fill 256,000 freight cars,
which would mean a freight train 2000 miles
long. We would hate to be waiting at a cross-
ing while it passed.— George Dixon; N.Y.
“Daily News.”
* * * *
Democracy is at a disadvantage in contact
with Communism because it is more civilised.
It believes in tolerance, in free discussion, in
popular enlightenment, in the value of life and
the dignity of the individual, in honor and
truth-telling and the principles of morality.
Each of these virtues of the democratic
way of life is a weakness in its struggle
against the unscrupulous power drive of a con-
spiratorial party which replaces education with
indoctrination, holds truth secondary to ex-
pedience, and regards moral principles as old-
fashioned prejudices. It is the essence of
democracy to be vulnerable to such an assault.
One thing, one thing only, can save it —and
that is clear and bold understanding. Democ-
racy must have from its leaders incisive and
uncompromising exposures of the barbaric
nature of the Communist society and the
devious method of the Communist attack. The
closer our military and economic co-operation
must be, the more pitiless must these ex-
posures be. You cannot save democracy by
shutting your eyes to the horrors of dictator-
ship. You cannot stop night from falling by
turning the lamps down. Our sole weapon
against their darkness is our light.— Max East-
man; “Reader’s Digest.”
* * * *
Instead of starvation, ruin and a heavier
oppression than the modern world has known,
Egypt today enjoys plenty, prosperity and free-
dom. This she owes to British arms, which kept
the enemy out of Egypt; to British and Ameri-
can money, which has poured into the country;
to Allied shipping, which brought supplies to
her through enemy-infested seas; and to the
British and American experts who have helped
her to mould her economy to war-time needs.
But for British arms nothing could have saved
Egypt from the fate of other small nations.
Neutrality would have been no safeguard for
a country in the direct line between the Axis
and the back door to Russia. Whatever course
she followed she would have been inevitably
overrun and mercilessly exploited. It would
be incorrect to say that Egypt is ungrateful
for this deliverance, or that she has not played
her part in the Allied scheme. It is, however,
true that in her preoccupations with her future
she seems to be forgetting both the short-term
debt she owes to the British for saving her
from the horrors of war, and the long-term debt
she owes them and other foreigners for their
assistance in building up the modern, prosperous
Egypt of today.— London “Times” Cairo corre-
spondent.


Public Notices.
I, PHILLIP HEINRICH WALTER JACOBY, of
German nationality, born at Hei nricbwalde, Germany,
and resident nine years in Australia, now residing at
81 Arabella Street, Longueville, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PETER MiASSERA, of Italian nationality, bom
at Cossogno, Italy, and resident six years and five
months in Australia, now residing at 51 Albert Road,
Strathfield, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divobce.
TO DOREEN BOLL. —TAKE NOTICE that CHARLES
JAMES BOLL has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 18
of 1944 praying for a decree for restitution of con-
jugal rights You may enter an appearance on or
before the 27th April 1944 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from MR. ALLAN
E. CUPIT Solicitor 129 Pitt Street Sydney. —(1.5.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD CLARENCE TAYLOR late of Verona
Flats Wylde Street Potts Point. —TAKE NOTICE
that SADIE IRENE ROSE TAYLOR has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 217 of 1944 on the ground of
desertion If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 3rd May 19'44 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from F. M.
DODD Solicitor 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.—(L.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILLIAN GREGG ROBERTSON late of 292
Victoria Road Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
ALEX WESTLAND ROBERTSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3044 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 26th April 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from DENSLEY & DOWN-
ING Solicitors 39-49 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
k9MO,
o
V
GUARANTEED
Be Coupon - minded . . .
Buy TOP DOG MEN'S WEAR
To-day, more than ever, buyers choose brands
of known quality because they feel that it’s the
only safe way to get utmost value for their
coupons. It is particularly true of working
clothes.TOP DOG MEN’S WORK TROUSERS
measure up to the exacting standards of long
wear, quality, good fit, and reliability that make
them a good coupon investment now and in the
days of peace to come. And don’t overlook that
other investment in War Savings Certificates
and National Savings Stamps why not buy
them to-day.
Inserted by the Proprietors of
TOP DOG MEN’S WEAR
BREKS TROUSERS SOVEREIGN HATS
Give them the care that means long wear
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
IT
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £10
National Savings Bonds.
fs
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Opera in the Home. —3425.
To buy books on the history of magic, such
as Frost’s Lives of the Conjurers. —3426.
To buy Critical Biography of Katherine
Mansfield, by R. E. Mantz, and The Novel and
the Modern World, by D. Daiches.—3427.
Information Sought.
Description of a pitchpole harrow ? Are any
in use in Australia?
It is an iron-framed harrow fitted with pointed
tines; the set of these can be adjusted by a
l?ver. The name is derived from the fact that
the double-ended tines are set on to bars which,
when released by a trip-lever, revolve or “pitch”
over, thus releasing any grass or rubbish in
front of the tines. A few are in use in
Australia, but they have no special advantage
over Aaistralian-made harrows..
& H« *
Figures of U.S. casualties since Pearl Harbor?
How many U.S. aircraft were downed in the
Battle of the Bismarck Sea?
Dead. Wounded. Missing. P.o.w.
32,662 47,123 32,699 29,805
One U.S. ’plane was lost in the Battle of the
Bismarck Sea,
* * * *
How to preserve a recently dried rabbit skin ?
If you mean to preserve against weevils, paint
with thick, soapy water with a pinch of arsenic
dissolved in it. If you mean to tan, mix Idwt.
saltpetre, Idwt. alum and ioz. arsenic in 4-gal.
water. Soak skin in this for 12 hours, drain,
then rub with neatsfoot oil.
* * *
Some information on the working of the
automatic totalisator at Randwick racecourse?
There are two separate pools: one for the
winner and the other for the placed horses.
The amount of dividend for a win is calculated
by dividing the amount staked, less commis-
sion and fractions, among the backers of
the winning horse. Dividends for placed horses
are determined by dividing the amount staked
in each case for a place, less commission and
fractions, among backers of the horse. Ten
per cent, is deducted from the amount specu-
lated—half of this goes to the Government and
half to the AJ.C. In addition to this 5 per
cent, the Government receives all unclaimed
dividends and fractions. From its share the
AJ.C. employs Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.,
to run the totalisators on its behalf.
Uc * « *
My backyard is overrun with stray cats. How
could I get rid of them?
Buy a dog.
# * *
How to rid a house of bugs?
Spray all the bugs’ haunts with kerosene. Take
out drawers and spray interior of chests, ward-
robes, etc. Dissolve two teaspoonfuls each of
alum and borax in two cups of hot water and
paint carpet edges with solution. Use any good
insect spray under the house and sprinkle insect
powder wherever possible. If cushions and
mattresses are infested, unpick and spray. If
possible, fumigate the whole house with three
parts of sulphur mixed with one part of salt-
petre (remove all metal articles first).
* * * »
What was Jim Jeffries’s age when (1) he retired
undefeated champion of the world and (2) when
he fought Jack Johnson at Reno?
(1) 30. (2) 35.
Brief Answers.
T.A.G.: You might be admitted to Dun-
troon if you got a clearance from the navy.
Write to H.Q., N.S.W. L. of C. Area, for
further information G.W.McS.: (1) Thor
was a Teutonic god. (2) In 1937 there were
851,455 Protestants and 428,290 Roman
Catholics in Northern Ireland. (3) The Abo-
rigines’ Welfare Board knows of no cases
G String: Your violin is probably a trade copy
of little value; genuine instruments are dated
1726 to 1744.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.G.: Gets nowhere C.M.: Plot mechani-
cal 8.J.: “I spread lime —and profanity.”
Tut! Tut! .*.. .D.R.: Nearly two pages before
you start on your story H.M.8.: “Then
Grandma dozed off again” So did we....
L. (Tahiti): Magazinish S.E.: It raised
a grin W.J.G.: Try to avoid cliches
M. : “Semi-humorous article” is just that
8.W.P.: Haven’t you been reading Lin Yutang?
S.L.M. and Y.M.H.: Try a woman’s paper.
E.W.: When last seen bees were swarming
in direction of G.P.O H.W.: A daily might'
use it E.W.: Weak W. 8.: Try elsewhere.
M.G.: Bad enough for a tourist handbook.
L.H.M.: Only the italics are unusual....
KJ.K.: “Yet in two minutes Silas was dead,
for the poison of the Magapi works quickly.”
True; it killed that story in no time....
A.H.F.: Too light M.S.: Sentimental
H.V.L.: So few authors in real life am mur-
dered by imaginary kittens... .D.L.: “There
stood his corporal wearing a peculiarly horrible
leer.” Curious effect that story has.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.G.E.: Are we correct in assuming that the
golfer’s right arm is detachable? 8.V.G.:
We particularly liked the tram conductress who
bounced the navvy passenger into the gutter
and said “Try and get tickets on me, would
y’?” A.L.S.: Your wash drawings are mud-
dier than the Kokoda trail in the “wet.”


Ruwolt
t
Hydraulic
Press.
Capacity
1200 tons.
Finished
Weight
20 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of a Hydraulic Press.
Ruwolt’s have designed and built many types and sizes of
Hydraulic Presses, to give up to a pressure of 2000 tons or
more.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
. Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
TYfHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
" satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company'a
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen O. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H A, Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
For Australia at War . . .
o
o
S'
o
% TO'^
Ofe Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
ilr
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1984.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 17J 17* 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. €04,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 890,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Taxes short-provided, £87,500 .. 662,110
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
1943.. 406,759 9’ 9 270,000 88,999 794,620
This co. created an industry which before
1914-18 was largely in the hands of Ger-
many and German-controlled plants in
Belgium. This industry and others the
co. built and helped to build have made
possible our present output of munitions
and other war goods and equipment. In
addition, the said munition and other
manufacturers are getting the co.’s zinc
at little more than one-third the price
now being paid for similar material in
U.S.A. Further, plans for large-scale
post-war extension and expansion of the
undertaking are in hand.
Besides increasing the capacity of the
big Risdon zinc plant—now third-larg-
est thing of its kind in the world —it is
proposed to set up a new industry to
turn out 50,000 tons of sulphate of
ammonia annually. The stuff is to be
sold as fertiliser partly in local and partly
in export markets. The cost of estab-
lishing the new venture will probably
run into over a million pounds ; but it is
too soon yet to say how much share-
holders might be asked for. Cheap sul-
phuric acid will be available as a by-
product from near-by roasting of zinc
concentrates, and no difficulty is expected
in turning out ammonia on a competitive
basis —sulphate of ammonia is made by
mixing approximately three parts of sul-
phuric acid with one part of ammonia.
Present Australian demand for sulphate
of ammonia as fertiliser is around 60,000
tons p.a., of which some 26,000 tons
comes as by-product from local coke
ovens at steelworks and from town gas
undertakings. Allowing for further in-
crease in local post-war demand, the co.
figures on exporting some 15,000 tons
annually, likely markets being the East
Indies and Pacific islands. Whether the
board will be able thus to provide new
employment and Wages and help liven
rural production at a time when all these
things will be needed will depend largely
upon the effects of retained Government
controls upon production and costs, etc.
Last term most of the zinc and other
materials the co. produced were absorbed
by the war effort. Concentrates were
drawn from the Barrier and the co.’s
own mines on the west coast of Tasmania,
where ore produced was enough to ensure
full feed for the mill, but mine develop-
ment lagged, owing to shortage of skilled
labor. Still, new ore proved offset ore
extracted, leaving reserves at 1,500,000
tons of average grade, which is high in
zinc content. Factors that hit earnings
hardest were (1) higher production costs,
owing to rises in wages and prices of
supplies, and the decline in operating effi-
ciency, due to dilution of skilled labor;
(2) sale of much zinc locally at a low
(fixed) price, on which advancing costs
reduced the already narrow margin.
Shareholders can thank the British tax-
payer for jfert of the profit and therefore
part of their dividend. The British Gov-
ernment buys most of the co.’s export
surplus of zinc at a figure that allows it to
sell to its home buyers at the equivalent of
£A34 per ton. The balance of the surplus
exportable metal is sold to U.S.A. at a
much higher figure still.
Last term the board figured net earn-
ings £11,151 lighter at £292,765, which
is reconciled with the figure shown in
the table in this way:
1943.
Profit and loss balance .. .. .. £292,765
Add: Addition depreciation reserve .. • 88,999
Unexplained addition gen. reserve 15,500
Reserve for ore depletion .. .. 25,000
£422,264
Less; Appropriation new plant, etc. .. 15,500
Added intangibles . . ~ .. 5
Profit per table £406,759
Net additions to the depreciation reserve
(now £2,938,197) are included with profit
in the table and then shown as written
off. The balance of last year’s profit
(£317,760, down £19,940) was 10.5 p.c.
on capital as against 12, 14, 17.3, 15.6,
17.7 and 20.6 p.c. back to 1937. But that
includes provision for ore depletion at the
mine, which isn’t considered a wasting
asset when taxing co. profit. Also, with
plant running three shifts a day and
tended in part by inexperienced labor, the
call for depreciation is louder than pre-
war. Yet the taxgatherer remains deaf.
The board’s liberal provision for depre-
ciation in the past enabled the 9 p.c. div,
to be repeated.
Finances are comfortable: —
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Debentures .. £400,000 £400,000 — —
Sundry creditors 199,416 255,137 £275,416 £274,737
Deposits . . 203,432 225,696 98,742 96,752
Overdraft . . 62.393 47,920 439,239 182,750
Tax reserve ,. 107,829 251,677 218,370 233,081
Mt. Read-Rose-
bery mines.. 457,524 457,525 463,561 473,543
Properties,
plant, etc. 8,959,003 4,234,410 4,491,274 4,618,486
Book debts . . 194,916 262,135 437,060 525,542
Shares . . 500,468 714,397 756,684 762,567
Stocks . . 613,744 734,191 966,252 958,312
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,271,578 1,062,671 657,994 381,687
To spend £127,572 more than was written
off on plant, etc., carry an extra £88,482
of book debts and meet the taxgatherer’s
demands, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£326,307 last term. There was little
change in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,028,221, excluding shares in other
cos., but not tax reserve).
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Ee-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
1933.. 103,358 10 p.c. = 59,000 53,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 75,000 1 „, a „ or ...
Staff bonus, £5000 f 50,648 69o,453
1937.. 126,284 84 p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 94 „ „ 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 „ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 „ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
1941.. 185,928 10 „ ,, 75,000 110,928 1,079,224
1942.. 157,376 10 „ „ 75,000 82,376 1,161,600
1943.. 164,637 10 „ „ 75,000 89,637 1,251,237
* Subject to unexpired risks.
The figures are a fine testimony to the
quality of the management. Japan’s
entry into the war and drive south de-
prived the co. of the wide connections
it had built up in China, Hong Kong,
Indo-China, Thailand, Malaya, Nether-
lands Indies, North Borneo, Burma and
New Guinea, and some assets as well.
But the co.’s shock-absorbers were strong
enough to withstand the jolt with no more
visible effect than contraction of £28,552
in net earnings for 1942.
More surprising is the absence of any
falter in net premium income, which has
stepped along like a thoroughbred. On
the S. African, British Columbian and
London swings the co. picked up more
than it lost on the Asiatic roundabouts.
In Maoriland business was well main-
tained. In Australia the “pegging”
agreement reduced competition among in-
surance concerns to a minimum—this for
man-power reasons —and, as a war meas-
ure, the Federal Government became self-
insurer of all cargoes owned or partly
owned by it, thus affecting the volume of
local marine business. The petrol and
rubber position reduced motor-car insur-
ance to a trickle, but the large inventories
of merchants and exceptional level of
employment helped takings in the fire
and accident sections.
The year’s spring in net premium in-
come was £28,160 ; as the following com-
parison of underwriting performances
shows:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate
1895. . £40,081 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32 1p c
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 38 6 !'
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 ’
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 ”
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 „ 36.2 ’
1938.. 691.771 364,631 289,487* 02.7 „ 34.6 ’
1939.. 728,792 381,557 271,976* 52.3 „ 37.3 ”
1940.. 743.309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39.1 ’
1942.. 872,711 418,965 376,163* 48.0 „ 43 1 ’
1943.. 900,871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 44.9 ”
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£BO9B, 1936; £8593, 1937; £10,938, 1938 •
£16,755, 1939; £20,895, 1940 ; £26,639, 1941 ;
£27,180, 1942 ; £39,095, 1943.
! Including contributions to staff fund.
The bigger business was gathered at an
extra cost of £1 16s. p.c., taxation
(£135,271, up £24,251) being responsible
for the increase and more besides. f But
the loss rate showed a drop of £2 6s.
p.c., being one of the best in the co.’s
history. Thus the underwriting surplus
showed an improvement of £6062, reach-
ing £83,645, equal to 11.1 p.c. on capital.
That includes £15,000 added to the re-
serve for unexpired risks, making it
£540,000, equal to 60 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, or half as much again as
is usually considered adequate. Interest
and rents (£120,087) turned in an extra
£13,114, but taxation (£39,095, up
£11,915) left the net return from this
source only £1199 better at 10.8 p.c. on
capital. Still, that left the whole of the
underwriting surplus and more to swell
investments and returns therefrom. When
the books closed, reserves, including the
amount set aside for unexpired risks,
were heaped £501,837 higher than the
£750,000 of paid capital. It all gives the
10 p.c. div. a very secure look.
Assets are well worth their book value,
too;
, 1942 - v —1943 (
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities .. £1,657,797 48.0 £1,883,189 60.0
Municipal see’tifes 02,929 1.8 62,929 1.7
Deposits, ca s li,
sundry debtors,
etc 1,408,115 40.8 1,343,040 37.0
Premises.. .. 324,069 9.4 337,110 8.3
Toi,al assets .. £3,452,910 100.0 £3,626,288 100.0
Liabilities* , . 1,603,810 1,587,532
Net assets! .. £1,949,100 £2,038,^36
* Including contingencies. ! Subject to final div.
The fine wad of cash places the go. in
a position to make prompt settlements,
and with Government securities (up
£225,392) equal to 60 p.c. of total assets
the co. is obviously a staunch supporter
of war loans.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1933.. 32,496 15 p.c. = 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46,153 15 „ „ 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised £lB,OOO .. .. 128,924
1935.. 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148.349
1936.. 48,269 15 „ „ 30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear, £lOOO .. .. 165,618
1937.. 52,980 lBi p.c. - 37,968 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. .. 255;630
Reserves capitalised, £29,214 .. .. 226,416
1938.. 54,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939.. 56,136 15 „ „ 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 59,527 16 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1941.. 63,373 20 „ „ 47,182 16,191 307,307
1942.. 61,194 174 „ „ 41,285 19,909 327,216
Excess tax reserve disclosed, £75,000 .. 402,2X6
1943.. 68,421 18jp.e.=z 44,233 19,188 421,404
In a manufacturing business chief earn-
ing asset is the plant, upon the efficiency
and up-to-dateness of which largely de-
pend unit costs and therefore competitive
power. On these foundations the enter-
prising James Fielding—he set the busi-
ness on its feet nearly 40 years ago and
is still in the saddle—built this now


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Anvi.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anj* Trade Marks.—Anvt.
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
DUPLICATOR
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
£l7/10/-
Built entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
. . SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply.. Lid.. King Street. Sydney.
STOPvDupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® loeaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" Trucks have been
specially imported by the Government as a defence measure
to ensure efficient road transport within Australia.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
• CAPACITIES: Up to 4H TONS.
• REAR AXLES: Sturdy. Full-Floating. TWO-SPEED.
• CABS ; Imported, ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
• IMPORTED PLATFORM BODIES with steel skid
strips, Coaming, Front Loading Board, and
Rope Rails.
• IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
• DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
• OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained as usual from *our
branch in the Capital City of your State, and also
from any Authorised Metropolitan Distributor for
International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
Invest your Savings in War Savings Certificates
INTERNATIONA! HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
<»NC<?ft»»O»ATEO »N VICTORIA), ..
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE BERTH
ROBT. NETTLEEOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS
“Victory
through Air Power”
I Valt. Disney’s "Victory Through Air Power,” United Artists Release.
TThe above sketch illustrates the rocket type
armour piercing bomb which, by cutting through
steel and concrete, demolishes the U-boat bases
so carefully planned to give complete immunity
from air attack. In this and many other ways
enemy strongholds are being blasted by Allied
planes.
But it is not only in actual offensive power that
Air Power spells Victory. Equally vital is the
strength of civil airlines which support and sustain
those vital arteries—the civil—industrial—and
military lines of communications.
Australian National Airways is proud that its huge
organisation places at the service of Australia and
the Allied Nations a continent-wide system of
airlines—the largest network of internal airlines
operated by any company in the world.
Australian
National Airways
-INVEST 111 THE FIRST VICTORY LOAN"
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN PEACE ... FIRST IN WAR .. . FIRST IN FUTURE
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
solidly-established and prosperous con-
cern, which turns out cardboard boxes,
cartons, corrugated fibre containers, etc.
Regular visits by executives to America,
Britain and elsewhere kept the co. abreast
of latest developments in its own lines,
and any plant that didn’t measure up to
the world’s best was scrapped without
hesitation, though it may have been
bought only a few years before. Thus
obsolescence became a much more expen-
sive item than ordinary wear-and-tear.
Only moderate divs. were paid in the
early years, and as much surplus earnings
as possible was put into plant, which was
then written down from the same source.
It was expensive in the early stages,
but paid handsomely in the long run, as
such a policy always does. Only once
in the last 16 years has the div. been less
than 15 p.c.—that was in 1931, when 10
p.c. was paid. War has again stimulated
demand for the co.’s products, output of
which is now limited by capacity of local
mills to turn out paper-board. After
striking off £10,083 (down £5972 for
depreciation), last term’s net earnings
(£63,421) were £2227 stronger at a juicy
26.8 p.c. on capital as against 25.9, 26.8
and 25.2 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div, was lifted from \l\ p.c.
to 18f p.c., and £75,000 from previous
overprovision for taxation was put in the
window, lifting reserves £185,491 higher
than paid capital.
It is mercantile financial policy and
efficiency of this kind that makes possible
high wages, comparatively low selling
prices for goods and therefore an increas-
ing standard of living. The danger
lies in overextension of Government con-
trols reducing or retarding such efficiency,
and with it the standard of living.
Here are the co.’s balance-sheet figures
—and there is more wheat in the ear than
the eye can see:—
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital £235,913 £235,913 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors . . 5-3,048* 115,320* 140,789* 105,795*
Freeholds . . 153,639 137,782 124,032 131,575
Plant, etc. . . 25,532 24,900 23,045 22,375
Stocks . . 33,575 40,028 32,809 40,433
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 352,635 476,473 538,776 586,421
* Including provision for taxation.
Investments (lumped with book debts,
cash, etc., the lot up £47,645), include
scrip in a prosperous Melbourne offshoot,
a string of Sydney city properties bought
when* prices were low, and a wad of
Government securities. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£521,059) was £90,254, of which
£75,000 was on account of disclosure of
surplus tax provision already referred to.
The pound shares, visibly covered by
555. 9d. in net tangibles, seldom come on
to the market. The ceiling price is TBs.
“Jo’burg”: The impression that gold-
mining is returning an extraordinary high
rate of profit was blitzed by the Rand
Gold Producers’ Committee in evidence
before a Royal Commission investigating
the industry’s economic conditions. The
tendency, the committee said, was to dwell
on spectacular successes without due re-
gard to the capital lost in unsuccessful
enterprises and the fact that goldmining
was essentially a wasting and not a per-
manent industry. Capital would not be
forthcoming unless thjg risks were offset
by possibilities of ’adequate rewards.
Mining conditions, the committee argued,
were entirely different from industrial
enterprises. Very large expenditure was
often necessary in sinking and develop-
ment before adequate returns could be
assured. Mineowners in some cases
expended large sums without reaching the
producing stage ; in other cases returns
were only obtained by schemes of amal-
gamation. In assessing the economic
payability of goldmining as a whole it
was necessary to remember that published
statistics referred only to successful enter-
prises and that other becoming-defunct
ventures were not recorded. Finally the
committee stressed the long wait # be-
tween the flotation of cos. and invest-
ment and the first-dividend payment, the
very large influence of world economic
conditions as affecting the supply of capi-
tal for goldmining and the large amount
of capital lost in failures to locate gold
in payable quantities.
* * * *
“O.B.”: War demand for platinum has
led . most mines producing the metal to
operate at capacity. Canada is the world’s
largest yielder, and Colombia, Alaska
and Russian Urals substantial contri-
butors. Up-to-date statistics of output
are not available, but current production
is in excess of world output for 1939,
when the total was 531,0000 z. troy, or
about twice as much as 10 years earlier.
• Further expansion in uses of the metal
is expected. Before the outbreak of war
the jewellery trade was the largest con-
sumer.
* * * *
With destruction of the Norwegian
Knaben molybdenum mine Germany
has lost one of its last sizable sources
of supply of the metal combined
outpfft of Greece, Rumania and Yugo-
slavia is small. Nearly all the world’s
output of molybdenum (about 15,000
tons a year) is in the hands of the
United Nations —U.S.A. alone accounts
for nine-tenths of the total and another
6 p.c. comes from Mexico and French
Morocco. Canada has lately discovered
and developed sizable deposits.
* * * *
From London: Bougies Christopher-
son, director of 26 mining cos., including
Lake View and Wiluna Gold Corpora-
tion, has been paid a generous and un-
usual tribute by New Consolidated Gold
Fields, Ltd., from which he is retiring
as one of the managing directors, owing
to ill-health, in his 75th year. It takes
the form of a pension of £2OOO a year
for life, and in the event of his death
£lOOO a year to his wife until her death
or remarriage. This in recognition of
the many years’ valuable service he has
rendered.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance (Lon-
don) showed a profit of £11,817 sterling
for year to June 30, 1943, compared with
£6068 the year before. With £9126
brought in, a 6d. div. left £10,510 to go
forward. Market valuation of assets,
largely mining shares, has increased from
£248,132 to £342,886.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s profit from gold-
mining for year to June 30 last was
£389,378, compared with £437,771 for
the preceding 12 months. That was
before providing for taxation and develop-
ment. Issued capital is £560,000 in 4s.
shares.
* * * *
“Westonia”: Edna May is now extract-
ing wolfram from old residues and cur-
rent ore. There were initial treatment
troubles, but these, it is claimed, have
been overcome.
* * * *
In 1943 Perth Mint received 540,067
fine ounces of new gold produced in
Westralia, compared with 832,5040 z. in
1942 and 1,043,3920 z. in 1941. The 1943
receipts were valued at £A5,643,612, In-
take of old gold, coins, jewellery, etc.,
was worth £A6663.


WAR
LOAN
Ns
★
W ar-time creates shortages.
Take care of your Feltex
and invest in
Commonwealth Savings Bonds.
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Floor Coverings
E NT*
ftoit-U/et
HIS MASTERS VOICE"
RADIO
M rill
better than ever/
Hi«i Masters Me"
THE GRAMOPHONE’ COY. LTD
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Munitions and Post-war Powers
At the A.L.P. Conference in December
the matter of socialisation of industry
was discussed, but it was played on the
soft pedal. The conference was gener-
ally reported to be a “moderates’ show.”
In October the Prime Minister had stated
that the Government had no intention of
nationalising the coalmines, one of the
principal reasons being that “compensa-
tion to be paid would represent an in-
tolerable burden on the community.”
Even if this compensation were allowed,
he said, another Government* might later
on hand the mines back at half the price
paid. He added that ample power was
already possessed under the National
Security Regulations to enable the Gov-
ernment to direct what should be done
with all coal produced.
For some considerable time the
Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt, has been
endeavoring to establish a favorable
public frame of mind towards the Com-
monwealth powers referendum. There
has been some backing and filling in
regard to the powers to be asked for, and
a number of cross-currents have been
evident in both Federal and State politics.
The Commonwealth has been in the
habit of painting pretty —but futur-
istic —pictures of what it will be able to
do in the matter of providing employ-
ment, housing and industrial expansion
after the war provided it is given the
necessary powers. It is to subsidise rent-
payers in Government houses, provide
non-contributory “social security” and
pharmaceutical service, at the same time
taxing the lifeblood out of industry and
investors.
The States have shown a studied
indifference to Commonwealth post-
war plans, and have hung on to as
much of their war-time trading profits
and excess tax revenue as they can in
order to carry on their own post-war
reconstruction plans, treating almost flip-
pantly the plain obligation to retire
permanently their short-term debt with
the Commonwealth Bank. New South
Wales in particular has announced a
housing scheme of its own (although the
Commonwealth plan envisages a part-
nership with the States), and last week it
came out that the McKell Government
aimed to divide the State into “communi-
ties of interest for the regional develop-
ment of resources as part of post-war
reconstruction.”
At the same time Munitions Minister
Makin asked that the referendum pro-
posals be supported ; “if Commonwealth
establishments are to be maintained in a
state of efficiency and operated along
economical and profitable lines, it is
essential that the Government should be
permitted to enter into industry on a
strictly commercial basis in supplying
civilian needs.” He went on to say:
Safeguarding in the public interest of a £lOO
million investment will rest very largely in the
hands of the people of the Commonwealth.
The capital invested in Government munitions
factories to date is approximately £54 millions,
with another £l6 millions put into armament
annexes. Furthermore, £2O millions represent
the purchase price of more than 30,000 machine
tools engaged in war production in Government
or private factories.
In the present state of the Constitution
the Commonwealth Government has a very
doubtful power under the defence section to
enter into manufacture other than for defence
purposes. This dubious authority confines the
Commonwealth to a very limited sphere.
Mr. Makin said that “the elementary
proposition” of it being “essential” for
the Government “to eifter into industry
on a strictly commercial basis” was being
“assailed with the utmost vigor by private
vested interests which arrogate to them-
selves some peculiar guardianship over
the interests of the taxpayer.” It was
“becoming clear that the primary interest
of these interests is to secure, for their
own exclusive benefit and at greatly
depreciated prices, tangible assets in the
form of buildings and plant represented
by the people’s investment of more than
£lOO million.” The Minister also referred
to an “active campaign against the con-
tinuance of Government controls under
an amended Constitution by those who
are casting acquisitive eyes on a tangible
asset which exists only because of the
exercise by the Government of such con-
trol under war-time powers.”
The Makin annbuncement was' fol-
lowed by comment from Opposition-
leader Menzies:
While the Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt, is
earnestly explaining that the proposed powers
are really designed to provide justice for re-
turned members of the fighting services, and
that our fears about socialisation are groundless,
Mr. Makin comes out with the Jack Blunt pro-
position that these powers will enable the
Government to use for trade purposes its
munition factories, which have been largely paid
for by those many thousands of taxpayers who
are engaged in private enterprise.
The Government is apparently to become a
highly favored competitor in the business world.
Are those powers designed to rehabilitate our
fighting men and women, or to destroy those
industries upon which rehabilitation of the
great majority of them will inevitably depend?
Or will the Evatt view be underlined during the
campaign and the Makin view be reserved for
post-referendum action?
Mr. Curtin thought fit to remark at
this stage that “I think it would be rather
bad if, in the years to come, this country
was suddenly placed in the same emer-
gency as it was wfien war commenced
and had to go ransacking round the
country to turn private enterprise to war
ends.” Even if it is conceded that such
an emergency might be more than
“rather bad,” the remark of the Labor
P.M. will sound ironical in the ears of
many who endeavored to prepare Aus-
tralia for the present war without re-
ceiving any encouragement whatsoever
from the Labor party. The nebulous
nature of Mr. Curtin’s actual plans was
illustrated by a following remark: “There
are certain practical considerations, but
surely there is some way in which this
rather large outlay can be put to useful
purposes.”
There is no fixed Government policy. We
want to make the best use of our munition
investments. We think some of them can be
added to the productive enterprises to which
they are annexed, and provision has been made
to deal with this problem on a valuation basis.
But there are some again that could be useful
in the works of the State, such as railway work-
shops and the like, so I think if is a question
of the economic management of them.
Mr. Makin, re-entering the debate, said
Mr. Menzies would sell out for a song
the “enormously valuable public assets”
in the munitions industries, just as, after
the last war, vested interests had suc-
ceeded in gaining control of the ship-
building industry and the Commonwealth
Line.
Coinciding with the discussion of the
post-war fate of the munitions industry
there were announcements as to farmers’
prospects and the coal industry. Mr.
Scully said that landmen were getting
£4O million a year more than pre-war,
“in contrast with the disorganised
markets and uncertain returns to primary
producers in pre-war days.” The im-
provement, said Mr. Scully, the
result % of “active planning of primary
production which war powers had made
possible” ; with a continuance of such
powers, the Commonwealth could con-
tinue on “the greatest programme of
national works in our history.” After the
war the country faced either the continua-
tion of a planned rural economy or a
return to “the chaotic days before the
war.”
To Mr. Scully it may be explained that
the veriest jackass knows that present in-
creased returns from land products are
traceable to war-time contracts of sale
to Great Britain, from the abnormal
demand arising out of increased service
requirements, and from Government sub-
sidies granted to offset Government costs
inflation. The Government’s war-time
“planning” for the land industries has
amounted principally to shuffling and
improvisation after much preventable
damage had arisen from the way in which
the war effort has been conducted.
As to coal, it is now suggested
that the Government should take con-
trol for the duration, the scheme
not to involve nationalisation, “but the
complete subjection of collieries to the
direction of a statutory authority.” Mr.
Hughes has urged Mr. Curtin to visit the
coalfields and “speak to the men face to
face,” something which Mr. Curtin
appears much more reluctant to do than
did Mr. Menzies when he was Prime
Minister.
The Government has presented a
trumped-up case, with the usual dis-
regard of facts, justice or ultimate results
to the country. There has been very
little “vigor” in any suggestions from
private enterprise about the future ol
Government munitions factories. But as
to those munitions enterprises, from one
cause and another they have cost
the country a vast amount, and even
in Government employ there has been
wide evidence of labor indiscipline.
Private enterprise may not want to
take over as much as half of the
Government’s munitions plant at any
price, and the best thing that could
be done with a lot of this plant would
be to put it on a care-and-maintenance
basis, just as the Government has done
with many goldmines. Machines would
be as ready to be restarted in an
emergency as if they were turned over
to fruit-canning or to making face powder
instead of gunpowder.
If private enterprise can see an oppor-
tunity of using certain classes of
plant profitably there is no reason
why ruling prices, allowing for depre-
ciation, should not be paid. The
easy assumption that munitions plants
can be converted to peace-time use and
run by the Government more economi-
cally and efficiently than existing indus-
tries is magnificently ridiculous. It was
most appropriate that Senator Cameron,
butting in, should add that “the Gov-
ernment [in peace-time] must revise the
scale of payment to skilled workers and
technicians, and provide the incentive to
give their best to the nation,”
The real significance of the munitions-
industry manoeuvre seems to' be a play


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE-BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
*9-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mud ford, Manager .
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
one weapon
Australia is pledged to supply
By global allocation of their resources, the Allies are
pressing back the enemy on all fronts. To bring about his
final destruction there is one essential weapon that Aus-
tralia can and MUST help to supply —the WEAPON OF
FOOD.
Never before in our history have
we been called on to feed so many
people. To-day we are in the
midst of the greatest food drive
in our history. Food production and food processing are
greater than at any previous stage.
Australia is now feeding huge Allied armies. She is export-
ing food to Britain, to the Pacific Islands, to the Middle
East, to North Africa, to Madagascar, to India . . .
Australia’s planned food
output and food process-
ing must continue to ex-
pand if we are to fulfil all
the food obligations our Allies expect of us. Australia is one
of the few nations which will pass through this war to vic-
tory without feeling the pangs of hunger. Let us remember
that our food effort cannot be efficient unless every Aus-
tralian realises that food is a vital munition of war, that to
waste it is unpardonable, and that everything we can do to
step up total food production will assist the Allied cause.
FOOD IS A HIGHWAY TO VICTORY
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F.16.27
FOOD FIGHTS
FOR FREEDOM
HOW MUCH FOOD
CAN WE PRODUCE?
MANY A MICKLE
MAKS A MUCKLE
#
mm
w
T
HERE’S a lot of commonsense in that old Scotch proverb
when it comes to raising the money needed to fight the war ... In the coming Victory
Loan, £150,000,000 must be found and the job of finding it is a job for every single one
of us.
"But what,” you may ask, "is the use of £lO from
me when the total needs arc so vast?” Well, £lO,
although it seems insignificant, is a real contribu-
tion to Victory, *f it is the limit you can lend. It
pays for an Austen gun, 25 Mills bombs, 1,200
rounds of rifle ammunition. It will provide food,
clothes and equipment which will save men’s lives.
No matter how small your loan may be in itself,
add it to the money subscribed by others and there
will be created the funds needed to guarantee our
fighting forces the tools of Victory,
GET READY
FOR THE
V
<t
VICTORY LOAN
Make an advance subscription now, or buy S/~ National Savings Stamps.
* PV.11.1?
to the self-interest of those now work-
ing at high wages in the industry, plus
a socialisation complex and the desperate
outlook of a Government which sees no
post-war picture except that of a bol-
stered-up war-time economy carried into
the peace. The Labor party is going
to extraordinary lengths to achieve its
political ends, which, according to
Senator Cameron, have to some extent
been placed in “cold storage” during
the war.
Canberra Labor’s problems and doc-
trines seem to have become inextricably
mixed. Huge Budget deficits have
brought huge debt, the deficits being
partly the result of the size of our war
commitments, partly of lavish pay to
certain unionists, partly of misdirected
and wasteful effort, and partly of finan-
cial policy. The cost of war is
not reflected in the savings of wage-
earners, who in terms of money
alone are better off than ever before.
Canberra is not blind to the support its
Santa Claus acts have brought from
short-sighted voters, and it has become
captivated by the political possibilities of
war-time controls, notwithstanding that
nearly a million men under arms and
the abnormal war-time needs for almost
every product have produced a demand
for man-power, raw materials and finished
goods that will not ordinarily exist in
peace-time.
In its attempts to control the inflation
caused by war and war-time financial
policy the Government has established
a partly totalitarian economy. War-
stimulated avenues of employment are
threatened with the axe when the
war ends; hence excuses for keep-
ing taxation and borrowing going at full
blast after the war so as to provide em-
ployment, pensions, subsidies and boun-
ties of a kind for which kudos will be
given to the Government, regardless of
the national value of Government em-
ployment and industry and the ultimate
consequences to the nation as a whole.
The setup is one which has a ponderous,
misshapen pull towards socialism. It is
sometimes hard to distinguish which part
of the structure is cause and which effect.
There has been overseas and Australian
comment lately on the matter of whether
Allied cdtiritries will be richer or poorer
(than in 1938) when the war ends. For
the first two or three years it seems cer-
tain that they will be poorer in nearly
every material way, especially in living
standards, the best indicator of well-
being so far as the masses are concerned.
Many war-time industries will be of little
value to civilians when the war ends, and
this may have particular application to
Australia. It will take a considerable
time even to adjust our minds to the prob-
lems of peace. Depending upon the eco-
nomic as well as the political setup of
Europe, and the attitude of the United
States towards reciprocity in world trade,
after the waste, devastation, neglect and
arrears of the war are made good, new
techniques resulting from present scien-
tific, economic and manufacturing ex-
perience should bring higher standards of
living. That is provided employees are
not satisfied to cut out their inheritance
of the progress made by taking extra
leisure. Fewer working hours per week
tend to offset the economies coming from
mechanisation and invention. The in-
ternal debt burden will be a real one,
involving as it does a redistribution of
part of earned incomes through taxation
levied to pay interest. Heavy taxation
retards trade and employment, but credit
demands that interest obligations on
debts be honored. In a world of com-
petitive trade the cheap fuel, power and
other resources of the United States will
remain a problem to European countries.
* * * *
The reason why so many wage-earners
are finding their tax-stamp provisions
short of the amount of tax assessed is
chiefly that the department is asking for
payment before March 31 instead of
June 30. Where weekly deductions were
based on the assumption that there would
be 52 such deductions in respect of the
assessment it is evident that 39 such
deductions will not be enough, and
that extraordinarily high weekly pay-
ments are now necessary to meet the
assessment by March 31. The effect of
the departmental attitude is to increase
tax revenue from wage-earners by 25
p.c., though at the same time reducing
the final-year liability for tax by a similar
amount. If pay-as-you-go taxation is
introduced as from luly 1 the wage-earner
will most likely get the benefit* of only
three-quarters of the wiping-out of the
so-called “lag year.” The demand for
payment of tax before March 31 is in
keeping with the obscurity of present
Canberra methods. It wants extra tax
money, so it raises the rate by a devious
means.
* * * *
In Australia B.H.P. shares are scarce
at their ceiling price of 40s. In London,
on the other hand, they have been sell-
ing at 295. sterling, the equivalent of
365. 3d. in Australian money. But should
the Australian investor feel nervous
about his B.H.P. holding he will be re-
assured if he looks at New Zealand
quotes: across the Tasman 455. is com-
monly paid. It is impossible to transfer
cash or scrip from one country to an-
other for investment purposes, and thus
local conditions govern scrip prices.
North 8.H., Mt. Lyell, Zinc Corp. and
Electrolytic Zinc are all lower on the
London market than in Australia. In
N.Z. they are the same price as in the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
In the poll taken by Mariboi (Papua)
Rubber Estates, Ltd., to decide whether
lotholders should accept shares in lieu of
certificates of allotment a 98 p.c. favor-
able vote is reported by the secretary.
“There were only 36 votes out of a total
of 1888 opposed to the resolution.”
The latest report just recently received
from the plantations is very encouraging.
A full staff consisting of 230 native
laborers is now employed, and all the
secondary growth is rapidly being eradi-
cated and the unplanted portion (750
acres), being the balance of the cleared
area of 2800 acres, is now being planted
out with seedlings. It is estimated approxi-
mately 1000 acres will be fit for tapping
by the end of 1944, and the directors are
hopeful of establishing a manufacturing
plant to commence production early in
1945.
Assuming that the production side of
Mariboi goes forward as favorably as
now suggested, its chief problem will be
its high capitalisation. It will emerge
from the investment rearrangement with
a subscribed capital of £202,691, less un-
paid certificate moneys. If it is possible
to bring 3750 acres of rubber to produc-
tion without the issue of further capital
the cost per acre will still be high. Cost
of present planted areas has been ex-
tremely heavy.
* * * #
Koitaki Rubber’s plantations in New
Guinea are now being operated on what
appear to be profitable conditions. A
good financial year is indicated alto-
gether.


THE SERVICE MAN
A Year in New Guinea.
“Ek Bum”: With the junction of Aus-
tralian and American forces at Saidor
the High Command has expressed the
opinion that the Huon campaign has
ended. General MacArthur has sent his
congratulations to General Morshead,
commanding land forces in New Guinea,
and to Generals Berryman, Vasey,
Wootten and Heavey and “the officers and
men of your command engaged in the
Huon Peninsula and the Ramu Valley
campaign on their splendid success.’'
General MacArthur wrote: —
In the face of many difficulties they
have performed in a manner worthy of
the highest military tradition.
In effect, the first official mention of
General MorShead’s position, which he
has held through the brunt of the main
campaign since the occupation of Lae, is
made when the campaign is over.
Abroad there was generous recognition
of the doughty commander who staved
off overwhelming German forces in
Tobruk, and who added to a world-wide
reputation by making the first break in
the lines of Rommel at Alamein, thus
turning the battle tide of the world to-
wards Allied victory. When he com-
mands in Australian territory, under the
sage administration of F. Carnot Forde,
darkness descends on him.
• The campaign to win the Huon Penin-
sula has been a long and weary one. Its
first phase began with the advance by the
17th Brigade and independent companies
to the Salamaua perimeter after the vic-
tory of Wau at the beginning of
February, 1943. It developed with the
landing of a supporting regiment of
Americans at Nassau Bay on June 30 and
the Australian junction with them.
The Jap in Retreat
From the first week in July the Jap
policy seemed to be to get out of Lae
and Salamaua behind the cover of a fierce
defence south-east of Salamaua. The
communiques mention the visits of
only a couple of dozen enemy ’planes to
the Allied forces attacking Salamaua in
the first two months of the attack.
There was no mention of destruction
of shipping other than barges and three
or four small coastal vessels in the Lae-
Salamaua area. There was no air
resistance, except on one or two occa-
sions, to the heavy bombing attacks on
Lae and Salamaua. But, while taking
these lying down, the enemy was bombing
Bena Bena, south of the Upper Ramu,
and the Watut trail, showing that
he knew clearly, as far back as early
July, that his Markham lines of com-
munication were menaced.
He accumulated large numbers of
barges without naval escort in the Finsch-
hafen region and along the coast to
Saidor—200 were reported destroyed on
August 4 —but his main resistance began
only when the Allies launched attacks on
the Bogadjim-Wewak area along the
north coast. Any incursion into that area
was generally met with heavy interception
and ground fire.
The main Allied drive against the
Wewak-Rabaul defence arc really began
on August 18, when the fall of Salamaua
was assured. At that point Wewak was
heavily attacked. A H.Q. communique
reported that out of 225 aircraft taken
by surprise there only 10 escaped, that
1500 troops were killed and that the aero-
dromes round Wewak were strafed and
bombed to “practical annihilation” for
the total loss of six Allied machines.
Lae Attacked
On September 6, after more than two
months of bloody fighting on the Sala-
maua perimeter, most of which had
fallen on the shoulders of the Australian
force, though the Americans had sharp
engagements in the Tambu Bay area, a
communique announced that Lae had
been hit by 96 tons of bombs. Also that
in co-ordinated ground, air and naval
operations our troops in “heavy force”
had successfully landed at Hopoi, north-
east of Lae, cutting the enemy’s line of
communication to Finschhafen, and that
the landing was “a complete surprise and
made with little opposition.”
Next day’s communique said: —
We have closed the ring at Lae and
Salamaua. In a comprehensive air move-
ment our paratroops in force had seized the
western approaches along the Markham
Valley. The operation completely surprised
the enemy’s ground troops engaged on the
north and eastern flanks by our encircling
forces which landed yesterday. Elements
of four Japanese divisions, aggregating
perhaps a maximum strength of 20,000 at
the beginning, are now completely en-
veloped with their lines of supply cut.
Actually the paratroops used consisted
of a battalion of Americans who were
dropped beside Nazdap aerodrome with
some Australian artillery. The Australian
Seventh Division followed, a far greater
threat to the enemy’s communication
lines.
He bombed Bena Bena in that area,
but could scarcely have been very strong
or he would have attempted tb wipe
the Australians there out by land attadk.
At Nazdap the aerodrome was found
deserted and overgrown with kunai. The
only casualties of the paratroopers were
due to accidents in landing, but they did
good work in preparing aerial communi-
cations.
The Seventh Division advanced from
the Nazdap direction across the enemy’s
Markham communication lines, while the
Sixth Division advanced from Hopoi on
the other side. The Seventh won the race.
They had fought fierce, gusty patrol
actions with small bodies of determined
and well-ensconced Japanese —in one of
these a V.C. was won —but no main
battle.
Lae and Salamaua Captured
The main fighting actually seems to
have continued to be on the Salamaua
line, where the enemy resisted strongly
till September 12. On September 14 it
was reported officially:
At Salamaua the enemy is completely
routed. Only small scattered remnants re-
main, fleeing in the hills and jungles, many
miles northward of Salamaua itself. Their
eventual annihilation is certain. Quantities
of equipment, including heavy guns and
field artillery, were captured.
The militia battalion first into Sala-
maua was not resisted at all.
Meanwhile portion of the Seventh
Division had begun the Ramu campaign
by an air dash up the Markham. On
September 22 their first engagement at
Kaiapit, 60 miles up the Markham from
Lae, was reported ; they wiped out 120
out of 200 of the enemy.
Lae was weakly defended when re-
ported captured on September 24 ; it was
stated by H.Q.:
Over 6300 enemy dead have up to the
present been counted in the Lae-Salamaua
area. Final estimates will be very much
greater. Abpuf 600 enemy are believed
scattered in the hills north of Lae. They
are being hunted down.
The Ninth at Finschhafen
The same day the landing of the Ninth
Division on the 600-yard-long beach six
miles or so from Finschhafen was re-
ported.
The capture of Finschhafen, after all
its gru.elling cliff fighting, was mentioned
on Saturday, October 2, at 11 a.m:
All organised enemy resistance has been
overcome and the entire area is now in our
hands.
Next day the High Command gave an
assurance:
The capture of Finschhafen ensures our
complete control of the Huon Gulf. A
simultaneous air and ground movement of
200 miles from Port Moresby up the Mark-
ham River valley through the centre of inland
New Guinea gives us control of the entire
Huon Peninsula. It has outflanked and
contained all enemy centres between Finsch-
hafen and Madang and has rendered prac-
tically useless his numerous positions and
installations along the coast. The speed
of the double envelopment apparently
caught the enemy by surprise, and has re-
sulted not only in the dislocation of his grip
on British New Guinea but has caused him
large losses, with no compensating damage
inflicted on our forces, our losses having
been extraordinarily light.... Our forces
have been always less tha'n those available to
the enemy, but the element of surprise based
upon close co-ordinated action of ground,
sea and air has prevented him concentrat-
ing at critical points.
At the moment when this communique
was being read in Australia the Austra-
lian forces from Finschhafen were being
beaten back from the slopes of Sattel-
berg, above Finschhafen, by powerful
Japanese forces. And the forces which
had gone swiftly up the Markham and
across the Ramu divide were learning
that air communications are not enough
and that land communications must be
provided.
There was two months of bloody fight-
ing in the outskirts of Finschhafen be-
fore Satlelberg fell to a triple drive with
a spearhead of heavy tanks.
It has taken another two months-to
reach Saidor, where an American forced
landed with only a single casualty at the
beginning of January.
In the four months since Oct. 4, when
it was believed that “all the enemy centres
between Finschhafen and Madang” had
been “outflanked and contained,” and
the enemy positions and installations
along the coast “rendered practically use-
less,” the fighting has cost Australia twice
as many dead as in the Alamein cam-
paign. From August 31 to December 31
Australian losses were over 3300 in
killed, wounded and missing, including
1530 dead.
It was not till February 11 that, hav-
ing crossed 60 streams in their last 50
miles of advance, the Australians driving
up from Sio passed into timbered coun-
try and joined with the United States
forces at the end of a “relentless pursuit
of 150 miles, lasting many weeks, over
most difficult terrain: A.1.F.” yes,
after many weeks of eclipse its existence
is acknowledged publicly again—“and
A.M.F. troops and American engineers.”
The engineers, like the Australians, did
a magnificent job which was the admira-
tion of everybody concerned.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. summed
up:
This completes the occupation of the
Huon Peninsula area, and successfully con-
cludes the phase of the New Guinea cam-
paign initialed with the landing at Finsch-
hafen.
A Japanese reinforced division, trapped,
with its supply and communication lines
cut, and with its way to the south blocked
by almost impassable mountain ranges and
our forces in the Ramu Valley, was
gradually destroyed in its desperate efforts
to break out to the west. Starvation and
disease, as well as constant air bombard-
ment and continuous attacks by light naval
units, supplemented the work of our ground
forces.
The enemy units engaged were the 79th,
80th and 238th infantry regiments, the 26th
field artillery regiment, the 20th and 33rd
engineer regiments, and miscellaneous ser-
vice, naval and base units. His aggregate
strength amounted to approximately 14,000
men, the great bulk of which have been
destroyed.
The junction of the Australians with
the Americans was made under a barrage,
and there was some action with Japanese
higher in the mountains. Along the Aus-
tralian route 1200 Japanese dead were
counted in the last period between
January 21 and February 10, the last 400
at the final stage at Gali.
The estimate of the 14,000 Japanese
wiped out was, of course, only an esti-
mate. And even now all the enemy bases
between Finschhafen and Madang are
not “contained,” as it was believed that
they were on October 4.
A year since the battle of Wau, in
which Australian troops have been con-
stantly in action and advancing, they have
not yet fought their way out of the ter-
rible Finisterre Ranges to Bogadjim,
though they are making good progress.
But the whole campaign has been a
glorious episode for the troops, in which
the main credit goes, by virtue of the
nature of fighting, to companies rattier
than to brigades.
Recent reconnaissance of Madang sug-
gests that it may be on the point of being
abandoned. And Rabaul, raided more
heavily on February 9 than since the
middle of December, was emptier than
it has been.
Week-end communiques reported the
destruction of 67 enemy ’planes on the
ground at Rabaul, with the probable de-
struction of another 22. On Friday,
February 11, 174 tons of bombs were
dropped on gun positions and aero-
dromes. On Wednesday and Thursday
52 ’planes were destroyed over Rabaul.
The extensive bombing of other centres
was carried on with the bombing of
Rabaul. On February 9 and 10 722 tons
of bombs were dropped on Rabaul,
Kavieng, Cape Hoskins and New Guinea
mainland points, of which 200 tons were
delivered at Wewak. Maorilanders were
active as usual on Rabaul —they, too, are
now beginning to be noticed in the Aus-
tralian press.
At Cape Gloucester advance patrols
report the withdrawal of the enemy from
forward positions.
The symptoms in general are those
which preceded the retirement from Lae
and Salamaua barge concentrations
without naval cover, lack of air effort.
At Wewak alone Catafinas smashed up
between 50 and 100 barges and seriously
damaged 30 more in one series of attacks.
Mopping Up
In the Marshalls operations consist
almost entirely of mopping up. The
moment seems to be approaching for
large moves which will take the war out-
side the South-western Pacific area on the
eastern flank and beyond militia boun-
daries.
But the experience of the Huon cam-
paign must serve as a warning that mili-'
tary situations change quickly.
Beachheads—and Beachheads
“Ek Bum”; Berlin Radio nightly gloats
over British press criticism of General
Alexander’s forces in Italy (of course
cabled to Australia), relaying it in Eng-
lish with its own interpretation to the
peoples of Asia and Africa.
Berlin memories are short and Berlin
intelligence has never yet grasped the fact
—after many salutary lessons —that the
kind of criticism which it quotes has been
wrong without exception since the be-
ginning of the war.
And British commanders are so used
to this kind of criticism that it must roll
off their shoulders like water off a duck’s
back. They suffered it in Tunisia from
the very moment when the Eighth Army
arrived at the end of a 1430-mile drive in
which there had been fighting all the
way, and in which the front had been
removed from the frontiers of Egypt to
the frontiers of Italy. They suffered it
all the time supplies were being brought
in to make the Tunisian campaign a sure
success with a minimum loss of life,
while Tunisia was a quagmire. There
were no apologies from the critics when
the Tunisian campaign ended gloriously
with the most overwhelming victory of
the war—a victory won at a fiftieth of
the cost of the victory at Stalingrad, and,
for the British Commonwealth and
Empire, immeasurably more far-reaching
in its results,
Italian Fighting
The whiners merely prepared to re-
peat their performance in Sicily and
Italy, where the Allied armies have been
facing the kind of conditions which com-
pletely immobilise major warfare for
long periods.
The Eighth Army in its drive up the
east coast had to cross 13 flooded rivers,
many of which, like the Sangro, were
described as “more like an abyss than a
river.” It had to build 200 major
bridges on the way. The kind of fighting
it had to face in the towns it took
—towns- perched on exposed mountain
shoulders covered by fortified enemy
artillery posts, from three angles usually,
and so placed that they could be ap-
proached only up or down steep, snow-
or mud-clad slopes—was well described
by a Maoriland sergeant fighting with the
Canadians after the taking of Ortona:
It was not just another town —it was a
fortress within which were countless other
fortresses, each self-contained and each
hotly disputed. Once they had won their
way up an exposed hillside in the face of
the heaviest fire, the infantry found their
task only just beginning. The battle raged
from street to street and house to house in
narrow lanes. Tanks detracked in cobble-
stoned byways were target's for streams
of Spandau fire which ricochetted in all
directions.
Added to the cross-fire from houses was
the constant presence of vehicle and anti-
personnel mines, 88 and 75 millimetre guns
mounted in buildings and at key points,
and determined defence by mortar crews.
When Canadian correspondents said that
the fighting was from room to room, it
was literally true. At times we were
penned in a room with Jerry separated
from us by six inches of wall. Shells
would crash through one wall and out the
other. It wasn’t pleasant waiting to see
whether the shell was armor-piercing or
high-explosive. He often followed one with
the other.
The cry among the infantry was “Look
out for the house with the green shutters.”
There were hundreds of them, and every
one seemed to be inhabited by Germans.
Another device was to mine buildings in
which were their own troops. When after
fierce fighting the Germans were driven out,
an observation post would report t'he occu-
pation. Then the building would be blown
up by remote control. Not even churches
were immune from this type of warfare.
Difficulties
It must be remembered that the troops,
particularly those of the Eighth Army,
fought under a great strain. Some of
them plunged into the Sicilian summer
heat, which is like the heat of the western
Queensland plains, and into its white,
blinding sunshine straight from Northern
Scotland. Some went into the bitter
mountain cold of Italy after months in
the heat of Sicily apd Africa.
Each advance was made into towns
which had been reduced to rubble, the
populations starving, the water supply
and sanitation arrangements destroyed.
It was a military job to restore these. A
starving, homeless, disease-ravaged popu-
lation across its rear and lines of com-
munication is a deadly peril to any army.
Vast ports like Naples with almost a
million people had to be reconditioned,
from water supply to wharfage facilities
and warehouse accommodation, and
cleaned of thousands of delayed-action
mines.
Moreover, as has been repeatedly
pointed out, in this kind of warfare the
equipment needed is so large in contrast
to the wars of the Libyan desert and the
Russian steppes, which so closely
resemble each other, that it takes months
to assemble sufficient over long sea lines
to enable major and decisive action to
take place.
As time played on the side of the Allies
in Tunisia and in the battle of Britain,
so it is now playing on their side in Italy-
In Tunisia the Allies at times suffered
setbacks, usually at points at which the
Germans were able to throw battle-trieo
troops against men who a few months
before had never handled a rifle.
This is one advantage which the enemy
will have for a long time—his pool ot
battle-wise veterans, which the Allies do
not yet possess. And both in Tunisia and
Italy beachhead forces are hampered m
the early stages by the fact that they must
treat every man and weapon and piece ot
equipment like gold until their position b


Legal Notice.
I, MANFRED SOUHAMI, Stateless, formerly of
German nationality, bom at Smyrna, Turkey, and
resident five years in Australia, now residing at 53,
The Parapet, Castlecrag, via Willoughby, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN- THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DONALD THOMPSON.—TAKE NOTICE that
MICHAEL HAYBS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3213 of 1943 against his wife JESSIE AGNES
HAYES on the ground of her adultery with you
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Second day of May next and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from CURTISS
DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS Solicitors of 67 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in lli'-mv-p,
TO BEATRICE BARTRAM formerly of 283 Bay
Street North Brighton in the State of Victoria
Married Woman but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband ERNEST GEORGE
HAROLD BARTRAM has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne within fourteen days of
the publication of this Notice and file an answer
within twenty-four days from the publication of this
Notice the case may proceed in your absence.
MAHONY, O’BRIEN & HARTY, 20 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
CD
am
established and they have abundant
supplies.
The operations at Nettuno are evidently
not out of their landing-stage period, and
will not be until the Allies have gained
the Alban Hills positions. Till then they
must remain, in Mr. Roosevelt’s phrase,
“tense.” The stern and savage though
not large-scale fighting around Aprilia
and other parts of the Nettuno beach-
head is only the kind of thing which
commanders expect in such circum-
stances. And the criticism is as unin-
formed as the kind of criticism which
urged Britain alone to open a second
front on the Channel in 7947.
U.S. Fifth Army casualties since the
Salerno landing were announced last
week as 3707 killed, 16,510 wounded and
5448 missing. At Dieppe, according to
Mr. Churchill, “very nearly half the total
force was lost,” and the Canadians alone
had 2770 killed or missing and 580
wounded out of 5000.
In the fighting last week the Allies
were hampered by a 60-mile-an-hour gale
and rain, and snow squalls which
grounded their aircraft; but the Navy
moved in and provided cover. Ground
given away in elastic fighting, of which
the British troops bore the brunt, was
regained. Reinforcements were landed.
The tide began to turn.
And when the critics were at the lowest
in spirits Mr. Churchill issued a state-
ment which said that “there was no justi-
fication for pessimism,” that Generals
Maitland Wilson and Alexander had
expressed confidence that the great battle
for Rome would bei won. Thaj P.M. added:
In the bridgehead the Allies have a very
strong army and superiority both in
artillery and tanks. Although spells of bad
weather have interrupted delivery of sup-
plies, ammunition landed substantially ex-
ceeds the schedule prescribed before the
operation.
Outside Nettuno, there is no room for
criticism. The Eighth Army is obviously
marking time and refitting. Fierce but
small fighting continues at Cassino, but
only the commanders can say whether
they are making a full effort or merely
holding as many troops of the enemy as
possible as far as possible from Rome,
knowing that a main operation at the
Roman end would ease the task in the
south and make unnecessary a large sac-
rifice of Allied life.
Another Beachhead
Several hundred miles from Nettuno
another Allied force is fighting to estab-
lish a bridgehead—on the Kerch Penin-
sula in the Crimea.
The Russians there have only from
two to 20 miles of water to cross to make
a landing— at the narrow end it is like
crossing from Circular Quay, Sydney, to
Nielsen Park.
Their heavy artillery can cover the
crossing, as can their fighters and strafers.
They have the whole pool of a nation’s
reserves to draw on. They hold prac-
tically all the country north to the Arctic
and east to the Pacific.
Their communications are by land —
not over 3000 to 6000 miles of sea, as
are those of the armies in Italy. They
are fighting a foe who is isolated in the
Crimea, with no communications save by
sea. The Russians are disposed across a
land gateway at the opposite end of the
Crimea. The enemy in the Crimea —not
all Germans; there are many Rumanians
and even, Berlin asserts, “battalions of
Caucasian volunteers” —is surrounded on
three sides, and the Russians claim
to have complete naval supremacy.
Since November 8 there have been 16
known attempts to establish Russian
beachheads across the narrow Kerch
Strait on the Kerch Peninsula. None has
yet fully succeeded to the extent of the
Nettuno landing.
But, though the Crimea was about the
most important objective which the Rus-
sians could have taken, in view of its mild
climate, its position on the enemy flank
and the possibilities of using it as an air
base to attack the sea end of the Ger-
man Dnieper line, and bomb Rumania
and Bulgaria out of the war, there has
not been a word of criticism of the
failures.
Brickbats are always reserved for Brit-
ish and American generals.
Counter-attacks in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: The Burmese campaign,
like the Italian campaign, is in a transi-
tory stage.
On February 5-7 the Japanese launched
a strong infiltrating counter-attack in the
Maungdaw-Buthidaung area of Arakan,
seemingly aimed at breaking the tighten-
ing British grip on their lateral commu-
nications.
The enemy declared that Chandra Bose’s
quisling Indians were the spearhead of
this operation. At the week-end they
claimed to have “routed” the British
forces, surrounded 3000 of them and
compelled an attempted evacuation of the
“shattered and terrified remnants” by sea.
The fact seemed to be that the impetus
of the first enemy attacks behind a screen
of infiltrating Burmese penetrated Taung
Bazaar, 20 miles north-east of Maung-
daw—Maungdaw had been occupied
by the enemy on January 4.
But on February 11 the South-east
Asia Command reported that Japanese
counter-attacks over a wide area had been
unsuccessful, and that the Allies had re-
occupied Taung Bazaar.
At the week-end these Allied troops
were being reinforced and the position
consolidated and improved.
The whole Burma front was then lively
right up to the northern Hukwang area,
where Chinese troops, trained in India,
had begun to clear the rain forests of the
enemy.
Enemy bases as far to the rear as
Bangkok were bombed.
Nikopol and Shepetovka.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian war con-
tinues to move on its mysterious way in
its two planes—the plane of reality and
the plane of wishful thinking.
In the plane of wishful thinking, in-
habited by Moscow correspondents, the
Red Army continues to hurtle forward
while hundreds of thousands of Ger-
mans, in inexplicable contrast to the
behavior of the German forces in Italy,
sit helplessly in the swamps waiting for
their turn to be slaughtered.
The reality in the north was that the
enemy conducted a forced but well organ-
ised and carefully staged retreat from
Leningrad to the Luga line, where he
paused. The Russians, operating under
enormous difficulties, made him pay
dearly for the operation, but were not
able to develop a momentum which
would push the Germans beyond the
stage which they had marked out for their
first retirement.
The retreat was confined precisely to
the sector held by one German army, the
18th. Had there been a rout the flank
of the 16th Army to the south would
have been endangered.
The retreat, too, was an exact reversal
of the advance on Leningrad early in the
war, made by the same routes. Opera-
tions on each route were co-ordinated
with operations on the next—otherwise
there would have been confusion and
defeat, and at least some part of the
German retreating force would have been
smashed or cut off, and the Germans
would have been compelled to go on
retiring until they reached some point
far back at which they could attempt to
mend the break and present a consoli-
dated front.
On these loosely-held fronts, consist-
ing of spearheads between which connec-
tion is kept up by roving tank reconnais-
sance forces, motorised patrols and Cos-
sacks, the smashing of any spearhead
must mean an opportunity to break right
through the enemy’s rear.
After the pause, the Germans announced
the evacuation of Luga, and 48 hours
afterwards the Russians announced that
they had stormed the town. The enemy
then abandoned all country directly east
of Lake Peipus and began a new with-
drawal.
The Dnieper Campaign
In the south in the wishful-thinking
stratosphere, as opposed to the solid
earth of reality and fact, marvels con-
tinue to happen in a sea of blood. On
February 8 one Sydney paper reported
on “Two Mighty Battles of Annihilation
—Fifteen Enemy Divisions Trapped,”
and headlines in other Sydney papers
were just as hectic:— •
South of Kanev the remains of 10 Ger-
man divisions are being shepherded into a
diminishing defence zone. Two hundred
miles farther south five enemy divisions are
almost surrounded in the Nikopol area after
some of the bloodiest fighting of the war.
Thousands of guns are already in
action [i.e., around the Kanev pocket]; the
Germans are counter-attacking desperately.
Thousands of horse-drawn carts, which
alone can move freely across the muddy
terrain, are being used to bring up ammuni-
tion for the Russian guns.
If only the little two-wheeled Russian
carts can move freely across the muddy
terrain, how were the thousands of guns
got up with such expedition? And how
many carts —those little carts which
under favorable conditions on a good
road carry little more than half a ton,
and whose snail-like progress in their
thousands was one of the spectacles of
the eastern front in the 1914-18 war —
are needed to supply” “thousands of
guns” which are effective towards the
centre of a pocket which originally was
15 to 20 miles from the perimeter?
It would need at least 8000 carts,
operating from dumps 25 miles away and
served by good roads -with no other
traffic on them, to keep up the daily
ammunition needs of a single infantry
division. One Beaufighter aeroplane
could fire away with its guns the com-
plete load of a cart in \\ minutes’ actual
shooting. One cart could carry approxi-
mately one minute’s ammunition for one
gun up to 9in. and would take the best
part of a day to deliver it from a dump 10
miles away. But Moscow reporters soar
far above the limitations of logistics.
Another “Bloodiest Battle”
By February 10 excitement had worked
itself into a ferment in the propaganda
stratosphere, and the evening press that
day treated our biggest city to this:
“One of the bloodiest massacres in his-
tory” is how the correspondents in Moscow
describe the destruction of the last Ger-
man bridgehead on the Dnieper at Nikopol.
... .Tens of thousands of German dead re-
main in the ravines surrounding the town
and on roads and village streets, while whole
areas of the River Dnieper are virtually
covered with bodies. Twenty-five German
divisions (375,000 men at full strength) have
either been destroyed or defeated with
heavy losses on the Dnieper in the last 10
days, says the Russian military commentator
Colonel Amikov A desperate attempt is
now being made by German tank forces
to cut a way into [s/c] the 10 German
divisions trapped near Kanev. These men
are at their last gasp, with the Russians
taking town after town in their shrinking
defence area —German dead piled three feet
high had to be removed from several
German crossroads.
“Piled three feet high”—by whom?
To all this nonsense was added the
usual picture of remnants of broken Ger-
man armies fleeing while Stormoviks
“sprayed them with lead as locusts are
sprayed with chemicals,” and of hysteri-
cal “trapped” armies as large as any
army in history begging Berlin to send
help to them “before it is too late.”
Next day the number of German divi-
►sions “either destroyed or defeated with
heavy losses” had grown to 29 and the
five “cut off” had been “wiped out” —
just like that.
In the Land of Fact
The story as told by the Russian com-
muniques, including orders of the day by
Marshal Stalin, amounted to this:
In a four-day offensive —which coin-
cided with a thaw and the breaking of the
ice on the Dnieper, dividing the German
eastern bridgehead on the lower river
with a strip of water —the Third
Ukranian Army broke through German
defences north-east of Krivoi Rog and
north-east of Nikopol. In four days the
Russian troops advanced 28 to 38 miles,
widening their “breach route” to 106
miles. They routed four enemy infantry
divisions and three tank divisions, occu-
pied Apostolovo and Marganets and
“cut the retreat route to the west of a
German army group comprising more
than five enemy divisions operating in the
Nikopol area.”
No Trap at Nikopol
The universal conclusion jumped to by
daily papers that these divisions were
surrounded and trapped was nonsense.
Their way to move out was open to the
south and also on the east bank of the
Dnieper, where they held a corridor on
the Russian side of the river all the way
down to a point opposite Kherson.
Marshal Stalin claimed on February
7 to have annihilated more than 12,000
Germans and taken 2000 prisoners in
Apostolovo. A Moscow communique
after Nikopol fell said that the German
dead numbered 15,000 and claimed 2000
prisoners.
It was not clear whether these figures
were inclusive of the Stalin figures.
Marshal Stalin was specific that his
figures were for the Nikopol area as well
as Krivoi Rog.
The speed of the advance was incon-
sistent with any powerful or prolonged
German resistance. The captures and
destruction of guns and material were
equivalent to the equipment of one tank
division and artillery support for a tank
and an infantry division, together with
4000 rifles and about 10,000 trucks, lorries
and wagons—not enough transport for
a single division.
Nikopol fell less than 40 hours after
Marshal Stalin announced the capture of
points 10 miles from its heart. There
could have been no house-to-house fight-
ing very little internal resistance.
Towards the end of the week the
Russians took Shepetovka, on the main
route from Novograd Volynsk to Lem-
berg and 35 miles from the Polish border.
It is on one of the three great routes by
which the enemy entered Russia. This
capture was far more important than the
more-advertised advances into Poland in
the Pripet Marshes. It is another augury
of general German retreat.
Enemy Versions
The German reports were that, accord-
ing to plan, and on account of the thaw
on the Dnieper, “all troops in the Nikopol
salient” had been “withdrawn, after every
facility likely to be of use to the Russians”
had been “completely destroyed.” It was
asserted that this movement had been
preceded by the withdrawal of all usable
military material, and that there had been
little contact with the Russians during
the withdrawal which had been made
down the river.
The German communiques reported
heavy fighting in the sector where the
Kanev divisions were declared to be
trapped this the enemy has not
admitted. It was alleged that 50 per cent,
of a Russian attacking force in which
there were over 100 tanks had been
“wiped out.”
There was mentioned also heavy fight-
ing in which Russian offensives north of
the Pripet and around Vitebsk had, it
was alleged, been brought to an end, “for
the time being.” Likewise heavy locab
fighting at Narva and in the Luga region
and strong attacks by the Russians
against the Finns north of Lake Onega
—the Finnish communique declared that
the Russians had been beaten back.
Berlin on Russian Methods
Berlin alleged on February 10 that
Russian losses had been very heavy in
all the battles of the recent campaigns—•
as much* as five to seven times as heavy
as the German losses. It was admitted
that the Russians, by their tactics of using
fast mobile tank and artillery spearheads,
frequently gain an initial advantage and
break ‘through. But it was asserted that
afterwards, when they bring up massed
infantry to consolidate these positions,
they are heavily punished by German
fixed artillery.
The Germans, however, admit that the
Russians seem to have endless fresh
reserves and that their offensive power
is by no means exhausted.
In brief:
The core of air operations from Britain was
the continuous attacks on northern France and
on Pas de Calais and 13 daylight raids on a
heavy scale by Fortresses and Liberators,
escorted by hundreds of fighters, on Brunswick,
Frankfort on the Main and other western
German cities. Both Frankfort, and Brunswick
are important strategic communication and
marshalling centres linking with great eastern
French defence areas, and it is easy to find
reasons for major attacks on them in conjunc-
tion with the attacks on northern France at
present. In Brunswick’s fourth attack since
Jan. 14 on Friday, the enemy flung in waves
of up to 300 fighters, of which he lost 90.
Forty Allied machines failed to return.
* * * *
U.S. casualties “in the 26 months since the
attack on Pearl Harbor” were announced on
Feb. 10 to total 150,748—34,179 dead, 51,292
wounded, 34,746 missing and 30,261 prisoners.
* * * *
A joint Churchill-Roosevelt statement de-
clared that tonnages of merchant shipping
sunk by U-boats in January were among the
lowest in any month of the war and the
destruction of U-boats more in January than
in December. “A very satisfactory month,” in
fact.
* * * *
The first U-boat kill of the R.A.F. Coastal
Command this year fell to an Australian Sun-
derland squadron, which sank its prey in 6\
minutes. Afterwards, a Liberator crew saw 22
German survivors clinging to wreckage. Coastal
Command on Feb. 13 reported the destruction
of four U-boats in four days.


it
LEONARDO DA VINCI
fs
FOUR CENTURIES OF PROGRESS
When Leonardo Da
Vinci, in the fifteenth
century, designed the
lathe shown in the
sketch above, he little
dreamed of the progress
which would be made
in the perfection of his
original crude invention.
Now, 400 years later,
lathe design is highly
scientific. To manufac-
ture the precision tools,
gauges, etc., which are
required in modern in-
dustrial production calls
for highly skilled
operatives. The A.T.L.
organisation has built
up—over thirty years—
a highly skilled staff trained in precision engineering.
This fact, plus the most modem scientific equipment,
enables A.T.L. to produce precision tools, gauges,
gun components, aircraft components, optical muni-
tions, etc., to limits as fine as .00001 of an inch
When you think of precison engineering, pre-
cision tools or gauges, think of—
MUNITIONS
DIVISION
n
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE e PERTH • BRISBANE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I
ijfcj,,
*•
m
ill
HU
m
Mil
n
i H
ill
m
itm
m
in
m
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
Burberry, winner of the Toorak Han-
dicap and Cantala Stakes last spring,
again proved his class by decisively de-
feating Phildoll and the maiden per-
former Valeena in the Oakleigh Plate at
Flemington last Saturday. Starting at 7
to 1, he hit the front about a furlong and
a half from home, and was not in danger
subsequently. A four-year-old entire by
Gay Lothario from Wrapper, Burberry
has won £5020 in stakes for owner R. R.
Thomas, who sold Colonus for £l5O
before the latter’s Melbourne Cup success.
Burberry will be a runner for the
Futurity Handicap next Saturday, and,
although now assured of a substantial
weight in the Newmarket, is favorite for
the latter race.
Betting on the Oakleigh was remark-
able for a spectacular plunge on Pharisee,
racing for the first time since the Vic-
toria Derby last November. Ten to one
early, he was backed down to favoritism
at 4 to 1, but finished only fifth after
having every chance. The race should
improve him. Denko and Sun Bonnet
disappointed their backers, and Reception
found 10.3, plus 30 barrier position,
beyond him.
Tranquil Star increased her earnings to
£19,340 by a brilliant win from Amana
and Sun Valley in the St. George Stakes.
Admirably ridden by K. Smith, she won
running away, and must now be conceded
first-class prospects in the Futurity Han-
dicap. It is questionable, however,
whether she will improve as much as
Amana. Latter had a holdup in his
preparation, but, with the advantage of
two races, should be ready to reproduce
his best form at his next appearance.
Simmering, favorite at 5 to 4, lost two
or three lengths at the start, and was
forced to cover extra ground during the
race. She finished fifth, behind Victoria
Derby winner Precept, who just missed a
place. Both finished fairly, and Simmer-
ing should be a better proposition next-
up. Her St. Leger prospects have not
been dimmed, but J. Pengilly, trainer of
Precept, considers his colt will outstay
Simmering and the latter’s stable-mate
Lawrence over the If mile of the St.
Leger.
Owner G. L. Scott, who has raced
horses for 20 years, won his first double
with Kintore and Valour. Between them,
these horses have won their last five
races. Kintore, 5-to-4-on favorite, gave
a brilliant exhibition in the Federal
Stakes. Untroubled by 9.10, he dashed
to the front at the start, was never in
danger of defeat, and, with his rider
sitting still, won by three lengths from
Delina and Irish Myth. On this perform-
ance he will be hard to beat in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Valour, one of the favorites for the
Australian Cup, justified his 9-to-4 favorit-
ism for the Bond Handicap. Perfectly
ridden, he won well from Triton and
Peter. Scott’s horses had been ridden in
recent races by Breasley, but Hartney had
the mounts on Saturday and will ride
them in all autumn engagements. T.
Lewis, trainer of the pair, completed a
treble when Royal Enfield won the first
Salisbury Welter.
There has seldom been a worse dearth
of successful riders available for Sydney
tracks, and the shortage was particularly
noticeable at the Victoria Park meeting
at Moorefield on Saturday. With Munro
in process of being turned out of the
army unfit, Bartle having a day off and
McMenamin and others “resting,” riding
the winners became almost a monopoly
for the season’s two leading jockeys, W.
Cook and J. Thompson. Each rode two
winners and a dead-heater, and in the
seven events one or other, usually both,
won some of the prize-money. Cook
has now ridden 24f winners for the
season ; Thompson, 22f.
Punters had little to complain of on
the score of form. Lagoon completed a
hat trick of wins, the last two on the
Moorefield track. Prince Hua, though
he raced only fairly at Rosehill, also
confirmed his liking for Moorefield,
where he’d beaten the other three-year-
olds at a previous start. Bon Terre added
another easy victory to his Rosehill and
Newcastle wins, and in other events
Denton, Pall Mall and other beaten run-
ners ran up to recent displays. Both
Bon Terre’s Sydney wins in restricted
company have been very sound, but he
has beaten nothing, and, at five years old,
is late making a start.
In a Maiden event over nine furlongs
at Rosehill in November Peter’s Pence
took an eight-lengths’ lead and was still
five in front at the turn, but weakened
badly and finished sixth. In a mile
Novice at Randwick he led to the leger
before again weakly turning it in, though
he finished third. Yet he was here backed
to beat Bon Terre over a mile and a
quarter. Thompson rode Peter’s Pence
as if extremely confident or desperate.
Slowly away, he urged him round the
field and had a big lead after three fur-
longs. Going easily in second place, Bon
Terre went to the front without effort at
the turn, to win pulling up. Thanks
America (third) ran much better than
when a strong favorite in Bon Terre’s
race at Rosehill.
Cook’s and Thompson’s mounts, re-
spectively The Artist (Brueghel-Aulone)
and Beau Monde (Beau Pere-Gay
Stepper), also dominated the Juvenile
Handicap (colts and geldings). Widely
drawn, Beau Monde was; smartest away,
and was still going well in front at the
turn, with The Artist, who’d had a clear
rails run from No. 1 position, next. The
Artist responded well to hard riding, but
Beau Monde performed a shade the
better in doggedly holding him to a dead
heat. Colophon (Constant Son-Tsuma)
came from well back to be a handy third ;
but Ascertain (fourth), a bay colt by
Assignation-Certes, rather too leggy for
this sort of course, might prove the best
of the field on a bigger track.
It was Cook’s turn to make the run-
ning, on the heavily-backed favorite,
Lady Quality (St. Magnus-Billie), in the
Nursery Handicap (fillies), with the Picca-
dilly filly Chantilly running next and
Thompson’s mount, Jungle * Queen
(Harino-Causing), always handy in third
place. Chantilly (third in the Gimcrack,
and another to give the impression that
she will do better elsewhere) ran to the
front on the uphill going, and had nothing
left when challenged by Jungle Queen,
who won easily. Lady Quality was only
a moderate third, but it was her first race.
Lagoon had to be hard ridden by Knox
to just beat Cook’s mount, John Halifax,
in the Flying. John Halifax’s run was
his best for eight months ; he has struck
form again, and is good on this track.
He had to make up a fair bit of ground
in the straight, and finished very fast to
fail by only a neck. It says little for the
showing of Bangster, Triad and other
proved gallopers in the field that third
money went to the now ageing former
pony performer Bruce Wood. But
Moorefield, though a nice little course to
watch racing on, is decidedly a course for
horses that like it.
The Moorefield eight-furlongs has long
been reputed to be a “hard mile,” yet
horses that are considered only sprinters
elsewhere win over it. Until Silverelda
(N. Watterson) won the Victoria Park
Handicap over this distance, beating,
among others, such proved milers as
Kimbell and Dick Whittington, nearly all
her racing had been at six furlongs,
though before the small Ascot course
was closed she won there over seven.
Silverelda managed the “hard mile” with
the greatest of ease, with Salivant second
and Dick Whittington third. Kimbell
was either having an off day or has been
raced too much ; he was last throughout.
Characteristic of the whole day’s betting,
Silverelda was the outsider of the field at
5 to L
Prince Hua, who had previously won
on the track over six furlongs and mean-
while failed over six at Rosehill, also
made light of the “hard mile.” Weight
(9.2) was too much for the consistent but
rather unlucky Denton (second). Under
a lighter burden, his finishing run should
return a win. Cook rode Prince Hua;
Thompson’s mount, Sir Francis, was
third. Annie Laurie’s fourth was worth
noting ; she almost wore the paint oil
the outside fence.
In the final Welter Handicap it was
Cook’s turn to be third, on Pall Mall,
and Thompson’s to win, on Beauhead,
with the steadily-improving Mary Lou
second. It might be thought that the slow
times (Silverelda, 1.41; Beauhead, 1.42;
Prince Hua, 1.43 ; course record, 1.40)
prove the “hard-mile” theory; but all
times at Moorefield are like that. The
six-furlong record there is 1.14-|, and it
was established by Lagoon’s sire, Pen-
theus, 14 years ago.
* * * *
In winning the Phillip Handicap at
Randwick D.S.O. showed all the pace
expected of him in previous races, and
it is on the cards that he will score at
a longer distance than six furlongs. His
brother Loombah was smart, though
only at short distances, but D.S.O.’s
breeding on the maternal side makes
something further than a mile possible
for him. He is by Chatham from Yul-
lundry, whose dam, Military Cross, was
a sister to Moorilla and Lady Medallist,
who respectively won the Sydney Cup and
Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
The following comment by an Ameri-
can writer on trainers’ “instructions”
to riders holds good in Australia as well
as elsewhere;
Limit your instructions to the minimum
of necessary information. Tell your jock
of any peculiarities your horse may have,
whether he wants to go to the front or
come from behind, whether he likes to run
on the rail or on the outside of horses,
whether he breaks fast or slow, but don’t
burden him with a lot of complicated
orders. If he’s a good rider he doesn’t
need many orders; if he’s a bad one he
can’t carry them out. Things will come up
in the running of a race that cannot pos-
sibly be foreseen, and a rider should be
allowed to use his own initiative. As many
races are lost by slavish adherence to
orders as bv disobedience. Don’t blame
your jock if he fails to carry out instruc-
tions to the letter.
* * * *
Track gallops naturally influence many
men in their betting, but it must always
be kept in mind that a fast gallop is not
necessarily better than a slower one. A
few ounces in the total weight of shoes,
weights carried and one horse keeping
out slightly wider than another often
weigh in favor of the horse taking 1.18
for six furlongs against the one running
1.17, though when the gallops appear
in print, without any of the details men-
tioned, the average reader naturally gives
most credit to the horse making the faster
time.
* * * *
The seven-year-old gelding Don Quex
recently did good service in Maori-
land for his owner. He led off
with the Manawatu Cup, of £1250, one
mile five furlongs, on December 27; fol-
lowed it up with the Marton Cup, of
£525, 1| mile ; and wound up with the
Wellington Cup, two miles, of £5OOO. The
amount of each stake is given without
place-money deductions.
Miscellaneous
Cliff Bowen showed abundant promise
in another fight at Leichhardt, this time
against Jimmy Dundee. For three rounds
it was all Bowen, who downed Dundee
in the third. After that the older pug’s
experience told, and, though Bowen tried
hard for a knockout in the twelfth
round, Dundee kept out of danger.
Dundee the winner.
Reg Tozer took a hiding from Tommy
Chapman at Sydney Stadium, and Chap-
man took a “pony” from Tozer, who
was a shade overweight. Chapman
whipped Tozer in three rounds at Bris-
bane last year. This time he had Regi-
nald dead to the world in the fourth.
FUTURITY HANDICAP SELECTIONS.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
AMANA I
TRANQUIL STAR 2
BURBERRY 3
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances .)
Three-year-old Handicap: Denton,
1 ; Annie Laurie, 2 ; Prince Hua, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Ascertain, 1 ;
Beau Monde, 2 ; Twice Royal, 3.
Flying Handicap; John Halifax,
1 ; St. Elmo, 2 ; Trimmer, 3.
Moorefield Thousand: Faerie
Queene, 1 ; Glendower, 2 ; Arahura,
3.
Moorefield Handicap: Etching,
1 ; Salivant, 2 ; Boorchief, 3.
San Souci Welter: D. 5.0., 1 ;
Rylstone, 2 ; Irish Sea, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Those helping with bushfire relief are
pleased at the way people have contri-r
buted clothes and household necessities.
Most things obviously come from cher-
ished collections, not from the give-away
bag. Shoes and dresses are often almost
brand-new, and bushfire sufferers are able
to feel that there’s a spirit of mateship
and good neighborliness at work. Among
other more important things there’s still
a need for children’s toys, especially
cuddly ones to take the place of dearly-
loved teddies and bunnies left to their
fate when the fires came down.
Whoever may say that the early months
of the year drag most slowly it won’t be
the R.A.A.F. Children’s Playroom staff.
The summer season is the time when
Mother relishes a day’s shopping in town
or a picnic with her older children if she
can leave the baby of the family in cap-
able hands. Result is a decided upward
trend in the numbers of children being
cared for at the playroom, sometimes for
an hour or so, sometimes for the day.
The playroom, which will celebrate its
first birthday on April 1, has been much
appreciated by Air Force wives, and their
husbands have shown their good feeling
by a gift of attractively-designed nursery
furniture, the work of the Laverton per-
sonnel. Some miniature wheelbarrows,
another gift, have tp be reserved for the
older children, as they have been found
to be lethal weapons in the hands of the
very young.
Taking a firm stand against pre-opening
sales, the A.I.F. Women’s Association
has decreed that nary a one of the 400-
odd couponless garments they have gar-
nered is to be sold before the opening
hour (about 10 a.m.) of the Market Fair
on March 3. At many earlier sales for
the funds of good causes there has been
a tendency to allow most of the things
to be bespoken some days before, caus-
ing great disappointment to those who
came to buy on the day. A military band
will jolly things up at the Market Fair.
The executives of the Kindergarten
Union “moved house” from Kew to
the city last week. New offices at 358
Collins-street occupy quite a bit of space,
as it is part of the plan that meetings
of suburban committees should be held
there. The union’s work is extending
rapidly, and bigger and more central ad-
ministrative offices had become very
necessary. Miss Helen Paul, principal of
student training (who spent some time
overseas studying child welfare from
many angles), and Miss C. Harrison, the
secretary, will administer the affairs of
the union at the new address.
The solo pianists chosen by the A.B.C.
to play in the concertos during the Beet-
hoven Festival are creating quite a lot of
discussion on “musical personality.” It’s
noticed, even by the not-very-musical,
that though two players may have reached
about the same rung of the ladder there
may be a world of difference in their
style. What a contrast, for instance, be-
tween Eileen Ralph and Raymond Lam-
bert—both topnotchers! While on the
subject of pianists it may be recorded that
Joyce Greer received an enthusiastic wel-
come home at the Town Hall on Satur-
day night—her first important appear-
ance in Melbourne since her triumphs in
Sydney and Adelaide.
The war in the East has brought to
these shores the William Gulliver couple,
who have taken Edsell Cottage, a smaller
appendage to Edsell House, in St.
Georges-road (in the spacious days of old
it was the gardener’s abode). William
Gulliver is a painter, and a show of his
work will open in the Kozminsky Gal-
leries on March 14. The pair (she’s an
American) have covered quite a bit of
the globe in their travels together, and
spots as far apart as Bali, Canada and
China are pictured on the artist’s can-
vases.
The “Katinka” revival is giving its
very crowded houses a surprise. Even
the most cynical of theatregoers who went
along expecting to see a very second-hand
and second-rate piece of musicomedy had
to admit that they enjoyed the old war-
horse thoroughly. Most people had for-
gotten how many good tunes are stowed
away in it, and, above all, it tvas a change
from the Gilsullivanism that has been
the staple theatrical fare of Australia for
so long. Gladys Moncrieff’s popularity
is not a whit abated, and she comes in
for long sessions of very hearty applause
every time she appears.
“Night Must Fall” is the National
Theatre Movement’s first offering for this
year, and “Fresh Fields” will follow on
the 22nd and 23rd of this month. In the
second week in March “Pygmalion” will
go on the boards for quite a long season.
A new find, Robin Mac Kay, a 16-year-
old lass, taking a big part for the first
time, will play the Cockney heroine, with
William P. Carr, usually producer of Nat.
Theatre shows, as the professor of dialect.
A ballet season is promised for June.
The U.S.W.A. Corps celebrated its
second birthday in the Australia’s Gold
Room after its annual meeting, and, being
a U.S. affair, much delectable fare was
offering. Centre of attraction was a giant
cake which went to cheer hospital patients
after members had cut a few slices.
Among good deeds for the year (chief of
which is, of course, full-time attendance
at Red Cross Service Men’s Club) was the
provision of neatly-named “bookmobiles”
—libraries on wheels to tour hospital
wards.
At the business meeting Mrs. Herbert
Allen was elected president of the
U.S.W.A.C., a job she’s often done in a
deputy capacity. Her election marks
something of a change in custom as well
as a tribute to the work she’s done, as
it was more or less expected that the
Consul’s wife would be automatically
voted into the position. But Mrs. Spiker
was keen to see an old hand from the
Auxiliary Corps’ ranks take the chair,
and she herself becomes patroness. Mrs.
Allen, pictured here, is well known as
a horsewoman, and has links with other
sporting groups. Her chief work with
the Red Cross Club is on the commis-
sariat side, with marketing and menus
well within her sphere. Many U.S. ser-
vice men probably remember her best as
the creator of some very special ham-
burgers.
Those who sigh for the days when the
street traffic was horse-drawn have to
concede that Dobbin is just a bit clumsy
at backing. This is being demonstrated
daily, when shoppers find themselves
penned in doorways by the antics of cart-
horses which are being manoeuvred in
narrow spots.
From Sydney
The “gay I’nineties” they call those
years when bicycling, thanks to Mr.
Dunlop, had become a blithe (some
called it “fast”) pastime for Sydney
young women, and when Emily Pank-
hurst was Beginning to rumble internally
over the question of women’s suffrage.
That they weren’t so gay for some of
the dwellers of this pleasant city was
quickly discovered by two ardent young
medical men from Edinburgh. , They
were Dr. Watson Munro and Dr. James
Graham, and they saw the crying need
for giving every medical care to
expectant mothers of the hard-working
suburbs, and the necessity for the newly-
arrived citizen of Australia getting a good
start in life.
Drs. Munro and Graham “planned and
projected” the institution which is now
the very handsome and up-to-date build-
ing known as the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital. That stately matron of 50
summers with her record of presenting
one baby every hour to the Common-
wealth is very different from her Cinder-
ella forebear, a house of five rooms and
an attic in Hay-street, Belmore Park.
Associated with the two founders, to
whom the work throughout long years
was a labor of love (still is in the case of
Dr. Watson Munro), were their wives,
both trained nurses. They look down
from their portraits on the walls of the
board-room. Dr. Graham in later years
was knighted, became an M.L.A. and was
Lord Mayor of Sydney. Other never-
to-be-forgotten names of the beginning
days of Crown-street are those of Dr.
L. F. Neill, David Fell and Dr. S. H.
MacCulloch. The wife of Judge Wm-
deyer was the hospital’s first president.
This is the hospital’s golden jubilee.
Since the opening of its doors in 1893
64.000 babies have been born there and
400.000 patients have received treatment.
One of the proudest claims of the hospital
is that it never turns a patient away. This
calls for money —£69,000 a year to be
exact —if its fine record of maternal life-
saving and presenting bouncing babies to
their country is to be maintained. The
special golden jubilee appeal is for funds
to go towards the rebuilding of the hos-
pital. The quarters for the nursing staff
are the immediate need. The nurses’
home, when completed, will be another
remembrance of Lady Gowrie, as it will
be known by her name.
The Lyceum Club is very proud of
having poetess Mary Gilmore as one of
its members. In her honor the members
have hatched a pretty plan for remem-
brance to this splendid Australian. They
have decided (powers that be permitting)
to place a sundial in the Poets’ Corner
of the Domain in Mary’s name.
There’s a posy of real American
womanhood looking after the U.S.A.
reference library at 350 George-street.
This is just around the corner from
Martin-place, and can be recommended
as a pleasant field for browsing if the
object is a more intimate knowledge of
America in her daily round. The books
on the shelves are within easy reach of
even Five-foot-two, so no dizzying and
spine-twisting contortions are necessary
to climb this tree of knowledge. Here
are books on every social and welfare
question that stirs the heart and the mind
of Uncle Sam, his wives and daughters.
Here are books of poetry and drama,
art and music and radio. Here are books
of reproductions of the scenery of the
different States. Australia could learn a
lesson from this. Each State has a fat,
clearly printed and lavishly pictured book
all to itself. Massachusetts with its river
and mountain and lake fascinates. It is
indeed a green and pleasant land. The
trio of U.S.* women librarians met there
last week obviously imbibed the intellect
of New England and the charm of old
Virginia. The library will be opened
today with some ceremony.
Though Mrs. Roosevelt charmed all
hearts when she was in Australia last
spring, one small Australian so far forgot
“Scratch Mrs. Roosevelt , would you!“
itself as to scratch her. The incident,
which occurred at Taronga Park, Sydney,
inspired Frith to draw the cartoon here
reproduced for The Bulletin of
22/9/’43, whereupon knight Thomas
Gordon obtained the original and sent
it to the Australian Minister in Washing-
ton for presentation to the President’s
lady. Her pleasure was expressed thus;
White House, Washington,
January 18, 1944.
Dear Mr. Minister, —I am delighted to
have the original drawing of the cartoon of
the koala bears, which I have had framed
and hung. Will you tell Sir Thomas
Gordon how much I appreciate his thought-
fulness in sending me the drawing? With
many thanks to you also, I am, sincerely
yours, Eleanor Roosevelt.
It is certainly the first Australian draw-
ing to be hung in the White House.
Midway through last week only a few
back seats could be bought for the second
of the chamber music Mozart concerts.
Mozart-lovers of all ages and sizes packed
into the Conservatorium with anticipa-
tions of delight. They were justified.
Something of the charm of the still, moon-
lit night seemed to filter within the walls
as the music wove its delicate pattern.
The lights in the hall being lowered,
Eileen Ralph’s red hair and white moire
frock were in high light at the piano.
Nothing but good can be said of her play-
ing in the concerto in A major K 414.
Thomas Matthews’s violin did hand-
somely in the violin concerto in G major.
Sergeant Edward Wright (his mother is
widely known as poetess and novelist
Zora Cross), who has been through the
Middle East and is now with the forces
up north, has plighted his troth with
Avonia Miller, of Glenbrook. Avoma,
though not in uniform, is doing her bit
towards victory. For almost four years
she has been the very active secretary of
the Merrymakers. This is a Glenbrook
dramatic co. which has worked consis-
tently since the outbreak for patriotic
funds. Almost all its original members
have joined the colors (among them a
brother and a sister of Avonia’s, who are
in the Air Force); still the group carries
on, and, all things considered, puts on
very bright entertainment.
A pretty and gifted girl artist says any-
one would think that the Trustees of the
National Gallery were giving away free
samples of something by the crowds that
are streaming in and out each day. Of
course the winning entry in the Archibald
Prize is the lure. Strong, silent men look
at it and pass dn. Their sisters, wives,
cousins and aunts give tongue, for and
against. One resolute lady who got
caught up in the gazing throng last week
just arrived at a good stance when she
keeled over in a dead faint. No doubt
the anti-Dobellites would like to think
it was the prize picture that gave the
K. 0., but truth must be told even in an
art gallery. It was the heat.
Those who found pleasant and stimu-
lating books among their Christmas
presents can now pass the joy of reading
them on to the boys of the Air Force.
All that is to be done is to hand the
books in at No. 19 Rowe-street, which
is the starting point of the Air Force
library. From here the books, in smart
covers, find their way to many isolated
units in northern and other areas. Care
is taken in the sorting of the books so that
each unit gets a selection of all types of
reading matter. Books and magazines
are a crying need with the fighting men
of all services. Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes,
president of this C.U.S.A. work for the
R.A.A.F., estimates that one in seven of
the books No. 19 sends out is a recent
publication. These are bought with the
money raised in the tiny shop run by this
group of workers. On the 23rd of this
month a younger committee is to be
formed, and its members will set in
motion money-making entertainments so
that they can buy more and still more
books.
For the first time in Australasian chess
history a woman has won a majopr chess
event. She is Dr. Elizabeth Meyer, of
Auckland (M.L.), who came out top in
a recent North Island tournament, win-
ning eight games out of eleven (the other
three being draws) and finishing two
points ahead of the male contestant who
had been expected to win. Miss A. R.
Hollis and Mrs. T, G. Short (the latter
the M.L. woman champion) also com-
peted, but were much further down the
list. Dr. Elizabeth now has the right to
compete for the M.L. championship—the
first woman to qualify.
Parramatta was the first to enter for the
air race which, if plans work out right,
will give the Red Cross a good few
feathers to fly with. This is one of the
big money-lurers for the society’s next
day, on June 16. Each branch may enter
a ’plane and two pilots (all imaginary,
of course) for the race. The flight is
from Sydney to Geneva, the home of
International Red Cross. After reaching
Geneva the ’planes fly home again.
Each mile is reckoned as one shilling, and
the branch totting up the greatest number
of shillings is, of course, the winner.
Entries for the silver trail close on
February 25. Prizes of £5OO, £350 and
£l5O respectively go to the credit of the
three leading branches.
A Sydney girl has developed a new
method of dealing with the festive pirate.
One night last week, as she was on her
way to a party, a young man raised his
hat to her and produced the hoary tale
about being a stranger in the city, feeling
lonely and so on. Then he asked if he
might join her, “Certainly,” she said ;
“come along,” and made for a tram. “Is
it a dance?” he inquired hopefully.
“No,” she said. “But you’ll like it.”
Pressed further, she told him she was
a member of a welfare movement, and
that she was going to a meeting to work
out a plan for the protection of girls
against molestation. “Doesn’t it appeal
to you?” she asked. “I hope you can
give a donation.” “Er, yes,” he said ;
“very worthy object, but I have just
remembered an appointment. I’m afraid
I can’t go tonight.” With that he hopped
off the tram into the twilight gloom.


WHITER
"scotch Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
Because the shine lasts longer, you look
smarter. Because the boots last longer,
you're more comfortable. Do yourself
good-get "Nugget''-fhe Military Tan
with the real, rich mahogany glow.
NUGGET
MILITARY TAN
makes the shine
AND THE
Jp BOOTS
lasi lo
PO
SSI
/
or
Qvialitu !
i
QURING 30 years, \
the Akubra Mills
was developed to a
point of the highest
efficiency. This per-
mitted an immediate
and complete response to
the huge demands of the
War Department
There has been great
restriction of civilian
supplies, but always ask
for Akubra your hatter
may have what you want.
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
B
7
AG
COOKERS
On Service for
Australia
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
... almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call for demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue R 2.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
fit. >852 (In c. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
A Aaents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd.. Adelaide.
aimanian Agents: A. G. Webster 4
Sons, Hobart.
Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Id, Agents: Queensland n Primary
•oducers* Co-op. Assn. Ltd.. Brisbane.
Although the Department of Wm
Organisation of /ndustry /ias restr^ed
the sale of domestic cookers, w*
df
SMOKE-OH!
«P »P *p *P
“The Prime Minister today reclined to com-
ment on the appointment.”— Melbourne “Sun.”
Nothing strange in Jack taking it lying
down.
*P *P *P *P
“Razor Blade Eater Fined.”
—" D.Theading.
The cops had the edge on him.
•p *P *P *P
“He hailed a passing taxi. There was no
time to waste.” — “Daily Mirror.”
Then why waste it?
*P T* *P *P
“If you go down to the beach for a day
occasionally be sure you do not bake yourself.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
Particularly if the day is a roaster.
•p *P *P *P
Ration Note.
“My wife was always calling me a mongrel.”
—Divorce case.
“I wish I had a man like that,” said
Mrs. Gooper sadly. “An out-and-outer
’usband ’oo would treat me pretty badly
—a boozer an’ a loafer. No, it ain't a
silly whim. But with a mongrel-well,
ain’t horseflesh good enough for ’im?”
Looby.
•P *P *P *P
“Munition Factory Closes.” — “D.T.”
That means the bullet for many.
•P *P *l* *P
“Seldom is the final ‘g’ pronounced in the
talk of our ordinary people; they are speakin’
or lookin’ or listenin’.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Some of these grass widows obviously
don’t believe in going to seed.
*l* 4* *l* *P
“Lost Photos. Worry Officer.” — “Sun.”
It’s the ones that are found that worry
most men.
4 1
“Scully tells wool men of aid to fight syn-
thetics.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Sheepmen say “Tell that to the
merinos!”
4* + 4* 4*
“He kept on asking me for money and I
always gave it to him.... 1 gave him £2700
altogether. Then he went to Melbourne.”
— “Telegraph” heading.
It was touch and go with him.
•P *P *P *P
“A hectic, carnival-striped short-sleeved jacket,
tailored to a T, will bring out the latent Latin
in you.”— Woman’s mag.
But not classical language from your
husband.
Catastrophe.
I’ve suffered hopeless passion s bitter
throes ;
I’ve been through ills that gave me days
of pain
And nights of torment; and I’ve felt the
woes
Of poverty that rack the human brain.
But that which seared my spirit most was
when,
After long battling with a hostile fate,
I bought a flask of gift, rushed home, and
then —
Oh, ruthless gods !—I dropped it by the
gate !
T. W. NATHAN.
Casual.
“Wanted, casual pantrymaid, over 45.”— Ad.
We had a maid
Who would have stayed
But for my Jim.
Quite casually
And calmly she
Walked off with him.
MRS. P.
We stumble o’er our verbal paces.
And “g’s” a sound that has us baulkin’.
We’re fond of gee-gees at the races
But haven’t got a “gee” for talkin’.
H. M.
Logic.
If a writer writes and a baker bakes.
And’an urger sometimes urges.
Then a draper drapes and a quaker
quakes
And a surgeon often surges.
YAIR.
All Set.
“Godiva descendant (63) to wed secretary
(19).” —“ Sunday Sun.”
No word about Godiva’s horse !
But scandalous tongues will wag.
{They always do!) And, though untrue,
They’ll say “He’s got the nag!”
O’HELL.
Intelligence Test.
(1) It is proposed—not by you —that
the Wirestretchers (you are secretary)
and the Logpushers should amalgamate.
You are aware that the Logpushers could
vote their own man into the secretaryship.
Expatiate on the argument (there can be
only one argument) you would use to
convince your own members of the un-
desirability of the amalgamation.
(2) Pursuant to Question 1. Conversely,
were you to be assured of the secretary-
ship, with a rise of £3QO p.a., out-
line the steps you would take to effect an
immediate amalgamation, bearing in mind
that should the Court declare the merger
null and void a levy can always be im-
posed on members to pay the costs.
(3) As boss of a union with a
membership of 80,000 and an income
of £160,000 p.a. you are invited to give a
talk at a Sunday Solidarity Rally in the
Domain. As you launch into your robust
condemnation of the Profit Motive in
Industry a man near the platform shouts
“Wot about a balance sheet?” You may
either —
(a) Condemn the interrupter as a tool
of the Fascists.
( b) Explain that balance sheets are
nefarious devices of the cursed
capitalist.
Which would you choose?
(4) The union of which you are secre-
tary has not been involved in a strike
for almost three months, and your position
is becoming embarrassing. As week after
week the members keep working it be-
comes, intolerable. Then 200 militant agi-
tators apply for membership. Would you
deem it in the best interests of your con-
cern and yourself to refuse them tickets?
(5) As an ex-union official you are
entitled to a Government billet. You are
offered a job at £l5OO p.a., car with chauf-
feur and liberal expenses. Your prede-
cessor, you find, had the quaint notion
of working as long as three hours a day,
a precedent you find irksome. Draft the
letter you would write to the Government
demanding a specially created “adviser”
job at £2OOO p.a. with the right to name
your own successor.
(6) Your union has been on strike for
six months. During that time you have
attended 174 conferences regarding the
need for peace in industry, the union’s
disciplinary codes, remission of fines for
workstopping, etc., and you are growing
so exhausted that it is imperative the strike
be settled unless your health should suffer.
In your peremptory demand that the entire
Cabinet appear before the strike com-
mittee to hear its views would you con-
sider it advisable to finish up your letter
with the phrase “or else”?
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Law Vacations
Not the least of long-overdue law
reforms is the abolition of the law vaca-
tion, at any rate so far as criminal trials
are concerned. Until a few years ago in
Victoria the whole of January was in-
cluded in the vacation ; now the holiday
ends in the middle of the month.
A man committed for trial at the end
of November and unable to obtain bail
must remain in jail until at least the
middle of the following January. He is
committed too late to appear in the De-
cember list. When he comes up he may
be found not guilty and discharged,
but he receives no compensation or con-
sideration whatever for having spent
nearly two months in gaol.
A few years ago a young Scottish engi-
neer was arrested in the middle of
November. He came before the Judge
during the first week in February. He
was told that his offence was a highly
technical one and committed in inno-
cence. The Judge let him out on his own
personal bond of £5,
This man, unable to obtain bail, had
spent nearly three months in gaol. He
lost his ship and was left stranded in
Melbourne. Are such happenings in
accord with the spirit of British justice?
—Habeas Corpus (Vic.).
The Trammies’ Side of It
The vocal violence of Mr. Curtin, plus
ill-informed criticism in the press, has
annoyed Sydney tramwaymen. “Look-
ing an unusually healthy body of men
and women” (B. 2/2/’44) reads well.
Any outsider, including reporters, can
visit room 205 at Tramway Headquarters
any day in the week. They will find two
doctors, working at top pressure, dealing
with employees who are sick or injured,
some of whom have been off duty for
more than 14 days.
Mr. Curtin was not asked to pro-
vide men from the “fighting” services ;
there are many thousands of men in uni-
form but not in the fighting forces.
The Progressive— i.e., Communist —
party was soundly thrashed at our union
election as late as December last.
We claim to be among the most law-
abiding citizens of the Commonwealth.
We have about 2000 old soldiers on the
job and 2323 young ones in the real fight-
ing services. Our industry was protected
to stop men enlisting, not for any other
reason.
For two years we could not get any-
one to listen to us. On the last “Aus-
terity” Saturday 400 special trams were
required to transport jaded workers to
their week-end sport, and 1200 tramway-
men had to work a seven-day week for
their benefit. It takes 800 employees to
run a Randwick service. The football
season is only a few weeks away, and we
are 500 men down.
Crass stupidity brought about the one-
day stoppage; only crass stupidity will
cause it to develop.— Keg (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
My State, Queensland, has compulsory
unionism, topped off with a declaration
made by the President of the Arbitration
Court that “we [the Court] have power
to disqualify any person from employ-
ment. There is no doubt about that,”
To get a job in this State a worker has
to join a union.
Then his oppression begins. He has
only to fall foul of a union boss, or
merely offend his shop steward, and sus-
pension from his enforced union mem-
bership is assured ; so is the termination
of his employment. Once out, he cannot
work at his trade ; the union sees to that.
If he has been thrifty and has ac-
quired a home, it’s a case of sell out and
cross into another State if he would con-
tinue as a breadwinner. With Common-
wealth-wide compulsory unionism a
craftsman ousted by a union boss would
become an industrial pariah.— Liberty
(Q-).
Strikes in M.L.
I see that M.L. Labor Minister Paddy
Webb declared at Canberra that “only
two industrial stoppages in M.L. lasted
beyond one day,” also that M.L.
miners in a year had “held only one or
two little stopwork meetings.”
As a matter of fact, in 1942-43 coal-
production was held up by 25 disputes
and 6877 workers lost 25,000 days; also
in the period there were serious dislo-
cations of work on the waterfront and in
freezing factories.
Mr. Webb specialises in pandering to
strikers, go-slow experts and industrial
trouble-makers. Every strike has been
settled by giving in to the men’s demands.
—Truth (M.L.).
What Centra! Australia Might Be
Prof. Walter Howchin in his Geology
of South Australia (1918) says that the
basin forming Lake Eyre is 60ft. below
sea level and that a great valley extends
from North Lake Eyre through Lake
Torrens and many other dry lakes to the
head of Spencer Gulf. Between these
points at no place along the route is
there a greater elevation than 200ft.
above sea level.
The great chain of lakes could be
joined up from North Lake Eyre to the
sea at the head of Spencer Gulf (at Port
Augusta) by a commercial canal cut
through the intervening coastal elevation.
This would permit the Gulf tidal waters
to flow into Lake Torrens and Lake Eyre
and hundreds of smaller depressions.
The flooded areas would expose upwards
of 3 \ million acres of water for the sun
to operate on.
Lakes Eyre and Torrens now form the
basins into which the rivers Finke,
“Accused Wants to know can he get a couple o’ bob on himself before
the jury comes back."
Macumba, Neales, Warburton, Alburgo
and many others now drain. With per-
manent water the resultant natural
evaporation and condensation would
ultimately cause the rivers to become
again running streams, changing the
whole face of the country and opening
up rich pastoral and agricultural Ureas.
Cheap power and means of transport
would enable rich mineral fields in these
parts to be successfully worked.
The canal could provide the main
transport outlet and be fed by motor-
transport. Motor-transport could oper-
ate on interchangable electric batteries
supplied from Leigh Creek and provided
*at regular intervals en route. The Leigh
Creek power plant could also supply
cheap electric power to Broken Hill, Port
Augusta, Port Pirie and Whyalla. The
electric train service on the Trans, and
North lines would make the old expen-
sive bogies of coal, bad water and boiler
troubles things of the past.
Modern motor roads to Alice Springs
and Darwin would permit motor-trans-
port to compete with airliners and also
feed railway and casual traffic.
The canal, power-plant and power-
transmissions at a rough estimate would
cost £l2 million.—T. A. Sheehan (S.A.).
Australia for the Australians
What’s wrong with giving Aussies a
chance to open up and develop the
North? It would mean, of course, that
the Commonwealth Government must
take an active, sympathetic interest
in forest conservation, irrigation and
freights and fares. The folk evacuated
from the North under military necessity
are all aching to return there ; given a
fair spin by the Government, they will
strain every nerve to develop the North.
They must not be handicapped by
obsolete regulations concerning what
they must grow or how it is to be
grown. •
Before inviting aliens to do the job,
isn’t it up to the Commonwealth to give
the Aussie a chance to prove himself the
finest settler of all? — Wingella (N.T.).
Criticising Criticism
Admitted that constructive suggestions
are more use than merely destructive criti-
cism, isn’t “Bahut Achchha” (B. 5/1 / ’44)
rather harsh in implying that destructive
criticism is useless?
A rpan may not be able to direct me
to Smithville, but if he can tell me that
the road I am following is merely a dead-
end leading to Brown’s old deserted hut
five miles further on, he has saved me a
10-mile trip.— Ajax (S.A.).
Service Women
They fall into three classes: (1) Those
who are doing a real job and doing it
well (hats off to ’em!); (2) glamor girls
who rushed in anywhere they could Vtear
a uniform; (3) those who were keen to
do a job but have been prevented from
doing it.
The last class is best illustrated by my
niece Beryl. Two years ago her dad sold
the farm that had failed to yield a living
and took on a city job. Beryl was a fine
type of 18-year-old bush-bred Austra-
lian, not afraid of hard work, so it did
not take any high-pressure talk to get
her into the A.W.A.S. prepared to cook,
wash, scrub, nurse or anything they
wanted.
They put her in the ack-ack gunners,
where for two years she has been learn-
ing to identify aircraft she is never likely
to see and to handle instruments she
almost certainly will never Use. Be-
tween times she has been drilled, inocu-
lated, roll-called, marched, trucked and
otherwise conveyed about the country.
I read that, efforts to obtain a laundress
for a N.Q. service post having failed,
the authorities “hope to get one from
Melbourne” ; and that returned Diggers
are washing floors voluntarily in a Bris-
bane hospital.
Now, how many are there like Beryl,
who cams in willing to do real work but
have been taught, in effect, that work
doesn’t matter? This deliberate dead-
end training for a post-war world that is
not going to be the bed of roses which
the Curtins and Fordes visualise is likely
to alarm thinking people so much that
the Utopians won’t be on hand when the
time comes to put post-war dreams into
effect. — Jasper (Q.).
Examinations
At six I was found incapable of the
easiest mathematics. Until I was 16 I
did not know my tables thoroughly.
Later, foreign languages bothered me.
English, history and geography interested
me, and I was always pretty good at
them. In the Intermediate I passed in
these things, but also, to my amazement,
in Latin, French and maths.
During the next two years I improved
in English, geography and history and,
if possible, became worse at maths, and
French. By the time I was due to sit for
the Leaving Certificate I was taking
English and geography honors and was
expected to do marvellously at both. But
I, who had never come lower than third
in the class in English, gained only a B
pass. I don’t know what happened to the
honors paper. I failed entirely in
geography and gained a B in history.
And I passed in both French and maths.
Then, after 11 years of Australian edu-
cation, I was back home on the farm, a
typical example of an allegedly well-
educated young#woman who still has to
count on her fingers.— Cherub 103
(N.S.W.).
Clothing Reform
Let me tell “Avelona” (B. 26/1 / ’44)
that men wear conventional and dignified
clothing because they are civilised. The
clothes he wears are an essential part of
modern man’s equipment. He is a mobile
office, furnished with money, pocket-
books, letters, pen and pencils, and such
personal amenities as handkerchief,
watch, smoker’s kit, knife and spectacles.
In evolving the three-piece suit (with
its dozen pockets) tailors have met the
reasonable requirements of men. Light
material is used for summer wear.
Our climate is not severe, but people
who are always growling about the “awful
weather” create the psychology that
makes them imagine that it is.
Another important point—reduction in
the quantity of clothing would affect our
textile industry and probably the econo-
mic equilibrium of our country. —Fitz-
jay (N.S.W.).
The Birthrate
Nobody seems to realise the main cause
of smaller and smaller families: Girls
don’t grow up baby-minded. Normally
they have never bathed, changed or
nursed baby brother, either because they
never had one or because youngsters
aren’t expected to do anything now,
except exams. And so they miss the
greatest pleasure of girlhood, and don’t
get their hormones developed (ask a bio-
logist), and when they grow up they miss
the greatest pleasure of womanhood.
Why not make babies part of the
“education” of girls? A babies’ home at
each large school would do a lot for the
girls (and the boys, too, for that matter),
and also for the harassed mothers who
would thereby be given a holiday.
If our girls were used to fixing up
babies and having baby arms stretching
up to them in the endearing attitude that
has enchanted girls of all races in all
ages, there would be no need to worry
about the birthrate.—G. Graham (Tas.).
Why a White Christmas?
Why don’t we alter our whole concep-
tion of Christmas in Australia? We seem
to be trying somewhat laboriously to
copy a Christmas pattern that just won't
fit our structure, since it requires a back-
ground of snow and ice, preferably dotted
with reindeer.
Our Australian Christmas is predomi-
nated by golden colors, notably the flam-
ing orange of the Christmas-tree, a shrub
which is peculiarly Australian, flourish-
ing under the golden sun. Ice is called
for, certainly, but tinkling in long glasses
and not as part of the scenery.
I’m not an ad.-writer, but I’d love the
opportunity to wade into a slap-up pub-
licity campaign for a golden Christmas,
with huge posters extolling the yellow
sands of many beaches and the glories
of extremely cold and golden beer.
This white-Christmas business is
merely a hangover from the bad old days
of looking at everything from an “im-
ported” angle.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Political Qualifications
“H.S.” (B. 19/1/ ’44) suggests that
members of Parliament be obliged to
qualify in a number of subjects after
being elected. Preparation should start,
before that. Economics, sociology and
Australian history, covering a detailed
study of our Constitution, should be com-
pulsory subjects in all schools. All uni-
versities should provide a course in poli-
tics, any citizen being, allowed to attend
whether he has matriculated or not. The
scope of the course should cover gram-
mar and spoken English, psychology
(including logic and sociology), econor
mics, world history, Australian geography,
and all other subjects related to politics.
Candidates should be required (besides
putting up their £25) to have completed
this course, or to have equal educational
qualifications, before standing.— Hoppa,
(A.1.F.).
The Sleep Period
Doctors agree that the first two hours
of sleep are the most beneficial, so why
not sleep more frequently and for shorter
periods? An American experimenter
considers two hours per day sufficient for
himself, but admits most people would
need about four hours. The theory he
uses is briefly as follows: The energy
which is renewed by sleep is stored in
two cells —the primary and the secondary.
The primary is sufficient for a normal
day’s work. The secondary is the source
of that “second wind” which people get
after prolonged periods without sleep.
It is believed that the first two hours
of sleep renew the primary cell, and it is
only waste of time sleeping longer if the
secondary cell has not been used. If
people sleep two hours in every 12 the
secondary would never be used, and con-
sequently four hours’ sleep per day would
be more than enough.—Widget (W.A.).


No Medals for Mother
•m
\ s &■ >
>iv.. j\
mm
IS
a»
3s^
i*§s
■• <.
I.J,
3&M
(KS
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
off to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds —
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell—-
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals 7 ,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise —
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
★ ★ ★ ★
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pty„ Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London.
