

;
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.-No. 3339.
Wednesday, February f), 1944.
pi-ice (Si
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
FAMOUS YORKSHIRE LANDMARK.
HOWDEN CHURCH.
YORKSHIRE’S East Riding town of Howden seems to shelter
* in the shadow of its interesting thirteenth-century church. A
magnificent example of the Decorated and Perpendicular style, this
landmark is rich in historical associations, and has largely with-
stood the passing of the centuries, although the choir and chancel
are now in ruins. It may well have been in some such country
churchyard as this that Grey wrote his classic “Elegy.”
Beneath those rugged elms, that yew-tree’s shade,
Whew heaves the turf in many a mould’rmg heap,
Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,
The rude Forefathers of the hamlet sleep. .
The village of Howden is noted, too, for its famous horse fair,
which is a feature of Yorkshire country life, and as the birthplace
of Roger of Hoveden, who became an official at the Court of
Henry V. Much of this chronicler’s life was spent in the King’s
service, but he is remembered for his “Chronicle,” a general history
of England of which at least the latter portion is of great value.
A statue to this early historian is outside the Howden market hall
within a short distance of the church pictured here.


USA II
Mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet explaining how to Write ior Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
s, n. k* age
The Red Page
Milton and Michelangelo.
Nietzsche was always right in hi
really inspired moments: “When I fount
my greatest devil it was the spirit o
Gravity.”
- And that leads straight to the problem
of Milton, since Robert Graves (R.P
19/1/ ’44) has fired it at our heads.
I can understand Graves’s antipathy to
Milton, because at one time I suffered
considerable amount of rancor on tha
score myself. No one can doubt tha
Milton was an unpleasant person to live
with. One has only to study that factua
and ruthless portrait of him in middle
age by Pieter Vander Plaas to see wha
a gloom-ridden, tortured, self-obsessed
sensualist-ascetic he had become before
writing “Paradise Lost.” But Graves was
somewhat inconsequential in attacking
Milton out of dislike for his personality
In the past, Milton seemed to me the
greatest disaster that ever fell on Eng
lish poetry. He was evil to me because
he attacked and nearly destroyed Shak-
speare’s earth.
The dissociation is of blood from spirit
Where the Shakspearean image concretes
the Miltonic image abstracts. Where
Shakspeare’s world is of color anc
violence and passion of life in action,
Milton withdraws into the violence and
conflict of his own mind. Where Titian
searches the human body for all that will
give it color, sensitivity of form, tender
flesh values, Michelangelo, a Milton of
painting, turns it into sculpturesque for-
mula, frozen of all emotion and leaden
of color.
Today, without abating my dislike for
Milton, I accept him as a necessity. I
no longer accept values in good and evil
as having validity in themselves: they can
be valid only from whatever point of
relevance one selects to view them from.
And once it dawns upon one that
violence, disruption and destructiveness
are half the energy principles of an earth,
one begins to suspect that the devils are
merely the poor relations of the gods,
doing all the dirty work for Olympus.
And apparently the principle worked on
is that every creative profundity which
affirms life must draw upon itself an
equal effort to debunk that affirmation.
Not in explicit terms, but in a reversal
of the affirmative image, as it is reversed
in “Paradise Lost” or in Michelangelo’s
“Last Judgment.”
Accepting disruptive energy as an
essential to the Besthetic of an earth, one
must even accept works of proved de-
structiveness as also essential to it. The
creative artist has nothing to do with the
people’s earth of affairs; but to the
humanistic altruist, groaning in horror
of bloodshed, Plato’s Republic should
be a purely evil work, for it has caused
more throat-slitting than any other work,
having fathered so many Utopias into
being. The direct effect of throat-slitting
by those saints of its evangel Rousseau
and Karl Marx we have under our eye,
and Nietzsche got his feet into the
blood-pyddle when he let loose his Super-
man concept on the Germans. Nothing
will convince me that these works are the
product of their assumed conception—
love for man. They are based in an
uncontrollable hatred for man ; a vertigo
that rises to consciousness in the guise
of its direct antithesis.
But that, as I said, has very little to
do with the creative artist, except to warn
propagandists of its evangels off the
artist’s earth. But with the other attack,
so difficult to define, we have much to
do. I mean that attack which seeks to
devitalise the image, to disrupt construc-
tion and to deform form.
One invincible truth emerges from this
particular conflict of imagery. You can
no more live in both the Miltonic and
Shakspearean earths as one earth than
you can affirm life and reject it
in the same breath. The eighteenth cen-
tury tried to do it and made an un-
holy mess of it, at least in painting and
poetry, which remained at stylism with-
out passion or intensity. Prose escaped,
by the laughter-loving, violent, sardonic
impact of Fielding and Smollett, with sly
grins from Sterne, but even then half
the literary world was busy with the ser-
mons and the sterilised puerilities of
Richardson.
There can be no question that half
the muddle in poetry at the beginning of
last century was a frantic effort on the
part of the poets to make a Shakspeare-
Milton amalgam fit into their own works.
For a whole century Milton had steri-
lised poetry out of all vital imagery. The
pomposities and abstractions and per-
sonifications of the eighteenth century
were all due to him. The Romantic
movement in poetry tried to get rid of
him, but he almost did for that, too.
Shelley’s thin-air abstractions are o:
Milton’s begetting, and he was only ge
ting back to earth with “The Cenci” whe
he died. Keats petered out with his Mi
tonic fragment of “Hyperion.” Milto
fooled Byron into poses of Satdnism anc
such works as “Manfred,” and he die
not manage to kick Milton out of h
own gay, vital earth until he wrote “Do
Juan.”
, I don’t know if Milton is still poten
to draw poets away from an impassionec
concern for the drama of life into gigan
tesqueries of space, or to debilitate poeti
imagery from the concrete to the abstract
It seemed to me that he was no longe
read, that “Paradise Lost” had falle
down a crack in boredom by its shee
weight and, to me, dullness. But ther
may be some significance in the fact tha
a lively fellow like Graves has been
aroused to attack him.
Maybe he is still potent for evil, if you
think life should be accepted as an
adventure in passion and intensity. I
do know that his blood-brother in hate
Michelangelo, has bedevilled the whole
modernist movement in plastic art, though
most of the modernists went to the
vacuous primitives who were his contem
pories for inspiration.
I think we can trace the disintegration
of form in mbdernism to Michelangelo
In that respect his “Last Judgment” is
at least physiologically, an evil work, il
the understanding is accepted that dis-
integration of form in art can be trans-
ferred as disarticulated mental tissue. The
biologists begin to know something about
that truly satanic business already. The
“Last Judgment” is just an explosion of
disarticulated forms, in which no form
has any rhythmic relation to another.
For the rest, the “Last Judgment” is
purely Miltonic. All the figures are dis-
torted and vastly over life-size. It is
colorless, painted almost in monotone,
joyless and emanating gloom. Even the
saved have tortured faces. Like Milton’s,
it is purely male earth. Hardly a female
form is used, and those represented are
only male figures with feminine breasts
Michelangelo hated women as much as
Milton did, and possibly from the same
motive.
The homosexual would destroy life at
its source ; the hater, life that survives.
All art which is concerped with climax
of drama, the sequence of events, ges-
tures, emotions and actions, whether in
form, sound or word, must conform to
the geometrical principle which holds the
whole work together in a rhythmical
unity, just as the skeleton holds the
human body together. All life, from a
leaf to a lizard, from a rock crystal to
a human being, must exist on this law of
construction or fall into disarticulation ;
the symbol of a universe in chaos. There-
fore disarticulated art is a direct atack
on life, or at least an effort to disorder
its unity.
Of course, you have the right to say
“I refuse to make a Star Chamber matter
of any art. I can get pleasure out of
Milton’s sonorous rhetoric and the dark
potency of his purple passages, just as I
can get pleasure out of Shakspeare’s pas-
sion and color and dramatic intensity,
and I insist on my right to J enjoy both.”
I agree, but that is to confess yourself
a virtuoso, accepting all the arts on an
equal emotional tempo, and valuating a
Ming pot with the same calm detachment
as a Beethoven symphony.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Keep Your Eye on the Moon.
“Mr, Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “you
would not be very comfortable if the
moon fell on your head.” *
“Is it likely to?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“It’s a moral,” said Mr. Shean. “Read
H. S. Bellamy’s Before the Flood (Faber).
According to Hoerbiger”
“Hoerbiger?”
“Everybody seems to have heard about
Einstein and nobody seems to have heard
about Hoerbiger,” said Mr. Shean. “This
must be stopped at once. Hoerbiger
(Vienna: 1860-1931) had a theory of cata-
clysm which is not only interesting but
strangely comprehensible. You do not
believe, Mr. Gallagher, that nothing has
ever happened in space and nothing ever
will happen?”
“I have seen shooting stars and
meteors, ’ said Mr. Gallagher. “I under-
stand that things whirl and bump about
and we are all probably coming to a bad
end.”
“Then,” said Mr. Shean, “you will
admit for the sake of argument that once
upon a time the earth was more or less
where it is, wherever that is, but there
was no moon keeping it company?”
“Where was it, then?” asked Mr. Ga -
lagher.
“Look,” said Mr. Shean. “It was barg
ing about in space somewhere, see? Com
ing closer to the earth, see? And th
earth ‘captured’ it, see? And then
started going round and round the earti,
see?”
“I see,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“But,” said Mr. Shean, “on wha
reasonable grounds have you always sup
posed that it was going to stop where
is? Why shouldn’t the pull of the earth,
which holds it prisoner in the sky, b
pulling it closer and closer?”
“If that’s what it’s doing,” said Mr
Gallagher, “I wish it would stop.”
“Before this present moon started com
ing closer and closer,” said Mr. Shean
“no fewer than six earlier moons cam
closer and closer and closer and close
and closer and closer and finally”
“Don’t tell me,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Naturally,” said Mr. Shean, “the tides
as the moon drew closer and closer
became bigger and bigger. Eventually
all the seas mounted into a great girdl
of water which flooded pretty well every
thing except a few tropical ‘refuges’: th
tops of the Andes in South America
parts of Mexico, Abyssinia, Tibet and —
you may be relieved to hear —New
Guinea. Naturally, too, the attraction o’
so enormous a body as the moon jus
above your head had caused the earth
to change shape a little, resulting in
earthquakes ; and then again the moon’
attraction had set most of the volcanoe
going and then”
“Some of these song writers who croon
about the toon of the moon in Joon
should hear about this,” said Mr. Gal
lagher. “What did the beast do next?’
“Those inhabitants of the earth who
had managed to secure themselves on the
tropical refuges,” said Mr. Shean, “were
next treated to the spectacle of the dis
integration of the moon, the disruptive
forces of terrestrial gravitation having
outweighed the cohesive powers of the
satellite. The moon simply fell to pieces.’
“I rejoice,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“The pieces, of course,” said Mr
Shean, “fell on your head. They were
large pieces. There were also storms of
wind, rain and hail; there were falls of
mud; there were more earthquakes anc
volcanic paroxysms. That is why al
peoples have myths of flood and disaster
And then by-and-bye, when all this hac
settled down, a new moon started com-
ing towards the earth, causing more
trouble the moment it appeared; and
of course, gradually it came closer anc
closer and closer and”
“Can you prove to me that all this
cosmic merrymaking really occurred?’
said Mr. Gallagher.
“Why did anybody perch the fortress
of Ollantay-Parubo, in the Urubamba
Valley in Peru, on a tiny plateau 13,000
feet abqve sea-level in an uninhabitable
region of precipices, chasms and gorges?”
asked Mr. Shean. “The truth is they
didn’t. They built their fort on a fiord
above the sea, in the days of the great
girdle-tide. How can you explain away
the tidemark seen in the Bolivian Andes,
12,000 feet above sea-level? Why, if
not to withstand earthquake, was the
city of Tiahuanaco built in blocks weigh-
ing 100 tons? How came the flying-fish
motif into the Tiahuanacuan designs?
Was that great city, now a ruin in the
mountains, really built in the thin air of
the barren peaks of the Andes ; or was it
not, as Mr. Bellamy maintains, a tropical
city on the shores of the Flood, the last
refuge of civilised man? Dispute if you
will with Mr. Bellamy the ingenious
interpretation of the celebrated calendar-
gate of Tiahuanaco, which is the chief
purpose of his book. But if Mr. Bellamy
is right, these ruins are 50 times older
than the Pyramids, and civilised man
walked the earth 250,000 years ago.”
“Well,” said Mr. Gallagher, “it’s a
pleasing theory. And if it all happened
quarter of a million years ago I take it
there is no immediate need to worry
about the present moon falling on our
heads?”
“When it has fallen,” said Mr. Shean,
“we are going to ‘capture’ the planet
Mars —unless it is too big for us to hold ;
# ‘in which case it will spiral beyond the
earth, after a series of devastatingly close
conjunctions.’ ”
“After a series of devastatingly close
conjunctions with scientists,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “I have often wished to spiral
a little beyond the earth myself.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: It is on the record that
when W. S. Gilbert was reproached for
the vulgar-sounding title of “Ruddigore"
he replied that if he should speak of his
critic’s ruddy complexion he was no]
necessarily referring to her b y cheek.
I suppose it’s ruddigall on my part, but
the more I see of Ivan Menzies the more
I wish he’d stop playing Ivan Menzies and
give Gilbert a fair go. There’s a scene
in “Ruddigore” (now at Sydney Royal)
where Gilbert is caricaturing melodrama,
the wicked baronet and his faithful valet
de chambre ejaculating “Ha-ha” in a
mock-sinister manner from time to time.
After a couple of these deep, threatening
noises, Menzies suddenly changes his
“Ha-ha” to a feeble bleat which, though
it gets a laugh, destroys the whole scene,
changing it from a Gilbeit satire to a
“personal appearance” by Ivan Menzies.
A light satire on the wicked baronets of
romantic fiction, “Ruddigore” is a
pleasant show, with a good Mad Mar-
garet by Peggy Shea, a lively rendering
of the ghost song by Bernard Manning
and a charming “Lackaday” by Evelyn
Gardiner: nevertheless, it’s very much
like a show for children. Gilbert’s own
comedy—always based on making strong
men feeble—is so close to childishness
that anyone making it one step more
childish, as Menzies does, is taking seri-
ous risks.
“Cauboy”; It is doubtful whether the
people who set out to put Australian
ballet on its toes, so to speak, ever im-
agined that they would be commanding
larger audiences than the imported Rus-
sian ballet, but the miracle has happened
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, where the
Kirsova Ballet has been packed out
nightly. There may be all sorts of war-
time reasons for it, just as there may be
all sorts of reasons why the pictures of
painters, good, bad and indifferent, are
at present selling like ice-creams in a
heat-wave, but that isn’t to say that the
Kirsova dancers don’t deserve it. They
are intensely earnest about the art or lan-
guage which they have learnt from
Europe, and they are even earnest about
their humor. Some speak the language
with a marked Australian accent, but
Peggy Sager speaks it as if it were her
native tongue, and it is possible to watch
her graceful body whizzing like a top
or soaring like a bird without feeling
nervous of a tumble. It doesn’t seem to
come so naturally to the male dancers,
however. In Melbourne as in Sydney the
comment on “Revolution of the Um-
brellas” is why doesn’t an Australian
ballet find an Australian theme. And
the co. needs stronger scenery than that
by Wolfgang Cardamatis in the modern
infantile manner.
Ever since Degas made the ballet a
fashionable subject, artists have haunted
it. Efforts in the foyer of His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, include works by Daryl Lind-
say, Eric Thake and others, and also
designs for ballets. The designs are the
most successful. A surprising intrusion
is a satire or something depicting female
nudity of elephantine proportions danc-
ing round a statue.
At the talkies:
Slightly bowdlerised, the film version of
“White Cargo” (Sydney St. James) still has ade-
quate quantities of steam and sin. Tondeleyo,
snakily portrayed by Hedy Lamarr, is billed
as “the most-talked-about enchantress in his-
tory” ; which, though a little unkind to the
creator of Cleopatra, has this much truth in it
that she’s always oddly captivating. It is also
a pleasure to see so much whisky.
“Thunderbirds” (Empire) is the perfect ex-
ample of the machine-made plot used (with 142
slight variations of character) for air-training
films. The lovely lad, deadly anxious to over-
come a physical disability and emulate his pilot
father; the tough instructor who, strangely
enough, was a great friend of the trainee’s dad:
the bewchus goil who luvs the lovely lad,
thereby making the instructor, who has long
admired her, jealous; the nobility of the in-
structor, who puts his own emotions on the ice
to get his pupil and rival through, which is
accomplished after a spectacular last-minute save
when his engine cuts out —“Yes, sir, a born flier
if ever there was one. Mark my words, sir,
we will be proud of him yet.” And, of course,
a little propaganda to finish with. Preston
Foster’s virility does something to redeem it.
“Appointment in Berlin” (Civic) has George
Sanders working as a spy for his country, but
appearing to be a traitor. His acting scarcely
compensates for the incoherence of the script.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” ,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
“THE SENIOR STORE’
m.
m
V
*«-» D s^£ ; i
to ea etc., and ? 95/"
ges, P'P®’ e Aovd^" s ■
,h ° nV , .oWo**
M\ Wo°] U to v/car ;
we °[ ab ( o rros. tead u, ordetnS 0 rde tnS
a"° S ' V fcl/ 9/6
nsu« s F° ..
>c<;ent' a ' 5
, e \d^ x ,V\9° N^ o< \,
A . „
e6 >* yN«
o'* qS'
V »<f o s -Vi
%< T
,/ •••
cit e J.••■
- ' % }<'° I
<°vj,e^
•
/
f
Men’s Light and Cool Summer
Underwear. Medium weight ath-
letic singlets in a ribbed
knit. Sizes 34 to 42 inch
Chest 3/4
5 Coupons.
Men’s Half Hose in All
Wool Cashmere. Assorted
shades of Grey, Blue and
Havy. Sizes 10 to 114
inch. Price 3/9
4 Coupons.
White Trunk Drawers
with button front. In
ribbed knit. Sizes 34
to 44 inch waist, 4/3
5 Coupons.
O Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street,
REPROCESSED
TENNIS BALLS
Bring your used Tennis Balls
to our Sports Department —
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. . . . These balls will be
reprocessed, provided the
rubber core is not perished.
. . . You will then have first
call on the new reprocessed
tennis balls.
OFFICERS’ BOOTS
Made in Tan and Black with
light sewn soles, leather lined,
no toe cap, and in full and half
sizes 23/6
12 Coupons.
• Men’s Boots —Ground Floor, George Street.
m
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 tDay and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


“LITTLE KNOWN OF THESE WATERS ”
By "STANDBY."
tl EING in all respects ready for
sea you are to depart from this
j port at about 1300 hours today
and, subject to safe navigation,
proceed to Boibanigu under cover of
darkness. At Boibanigu you will report
to the naval control officer for further
instructions. Signed R. J. Carson, Lieut.
Com., R.A.N.”
The skipper finished reading through
the orders, signed for them as being read
and understood, and handed the dupli-
cate copy to the waiting young sub.-lieut
of R.A.N.V.R. “Righto, Sub,” he said.
“Do you happen to know if your office
has any recent charts or sailing directions
of that part of the coast?”
“No, sir,” was the reply, “I’m afraid
we haven’t. In fact, I don’t think there
are any in existence.”
As he piclfed up his cap and turned to
leave he grinned. “Well, cheerio, Skipper,
Hope you have a good trip.”
The skipper waited till the navy launch
pushed off and went in search of his
chief officer.
These two men formed an ideal work-
ing combination. The skipper was a man
in his early fifties, short, thickset, with
a crop of snow-white hair. His manner
was quiet, inclined to be abrupt, and he
seldom spoke more than was necessary.
No one had ever heard him raise his
voice, and yet no man aboard his ship
doubted that he could and would make
things very uncomfortable for anyone
guilty of an unseamanlike act.
The mate was his exact opposite. Tall,
lean, amazingly energetic and very keen
on his job, he made an ideal chief officer.
No bad splice or chafed rope ever es-
caped his eye, and a careless or inefficient
seaman would quickly feel the rough edge
of his tongue.
Yet the crew all liked him, and his was
a happy, well-kept ship.
When the skipper looked in at his
cabin the mate was finishing a letter to his
wife. “Sailing orders, Skipper?” he asked.
The mate read through the usual navy
formula until he came to the port of
destination. Here he bogged.
“Well,” said the Old Man, “have you
ever been there?”
“Never heard of it. I can’t even pro-
nounce it. Where the devil is it, anyhow?”
“Don’t ask me, Mister. I’m just as
much in the dark as you are. Come along
to the chartroom and we’ll have a look
over the charts.”
Although both men were old seamen
they were new to this coast. They knew
it by repute —that it was tricky and
abounding in reefs, that- the existing
charts were both incomplete and inaccu-
rate and the strength and direction of the
tidal streams unknown.
During the few 'weeks they had already
spent there they had known only about
four days entirely without rain ; so at any
rate they knew the weather. But up
there somewhere Australian troops were
meeting the Japs, and those boys had to
be fed and supplied with ammunition.
Together the two men pored over the
charts. The maje straightened himself
up. “I don’t think the flamin’ place is
even marked on the chart.”
The skipper scratched his head and
gazed thoughtfully at the deckhead.
“Hold on a minute, Mister,” he said ;
“let’s have a look for it in that old ‘New
Guinea Pilot.’ ”
A short search was rewarded by the
finding of the name and the discovery
that the place, like many others on that
coast, had two names. “New Guinea
Pilot” added that little was known of this
anchorage beyond the fact that there were
numerous outlying reefs reported. A
renewed perusal of the charts revealed
the spot under the second name and
showed it to be a small bay.
The chart was marked “Little known
of these waters. Numerous coral patches
reported by H.M. Sloop Wren, 1824.”
“All I want to know,” said the mate, “is
how the hell do we get in there in the dark.”
After much use of dividers and
parallels they decided that, given a
moderately clear night in which to pick
up a few landmarks, at their estimated
speed of eight knots they should be off a
certain cap& by 2 a.m. That part looked
fairly simple, but from the cape on the
wisest plan seemed to be to reduce speed
to four knots. This would bring them
to within a few miles of the “numerous
coral patches” by daylight.
From there they would have to trust
to their own eyesight to keep them clear
of the reefs, and hope that no snooping
Jap bombers would appear.
SUNSET found the little craft plod-
ding along with both the master and
mate feeling well satisfied.
At midnight the Old Man was still on
the bridge. Stepping out on deck to
relieve the second the mate saw that it
was raining, a light, steady drizzle. He
felt his way to the bridge, ran his hand
along the top of the flag locker till he
grasped the mug of hot tea he knew
would be there and joined the two dim
figures.
The Old Man turned at his approach.
“All right, Second, you can turn in,” and
then to the mate “Well, Mister, I’m in the
devil of a fix, I don’t know where we
are. The second and I got two lots of
bearings about eleven o’clock and we*
both put her two miles inland and half-
way up a flamin’ mountain.”
“You can see for yourself,” he added
with a grin, “there’s some mistake. Come
into the chartroom.”
He turned to the lookout man: “Keep
a good sharp lookout now and let me know
if you even think you see anything.”
Carefully closing the chartroom door
they switched on the small shaded light
above the chart table and began tracing
the vessel’s course.
Finally the mate threw down the
dividers. “Righto, Skipper, there’s
nothing we can do until the rain clears.
Suppose you lie down for a while. As
soon as I can see anything I’ll have a
go at putting her on the chart and let you
know the results.”
Reluctantly the Old Man consented,
adding “But I’m damned if I like it.
Mister. It’s a fine way to be handing a
ship over, and we must pick up that cape
by two o’clock.”
| N spite of his reassuring tone it was
* a very worried first mate who took up
his position on the bridge.
No real seaman can feel otherwise
when he doesn’t know his ship’s position,
particularly on a coast like this. One
good thing, there would be no passing
ships to worry about. To the best of
his knowledge the mate had this stretch
of the coast all to himself. Small as his
vessel was (a bare 600 tons), she was by
far the largest to thrust her nose through
these waters.
Before the war an odd trading schooner
or perhaps some roving lugger recruiting
native labor would be the only visitor.
Had the mate been able to see into the
future he would have known that he was
blazing the trail for what was to become
in a bare six months one of the busiest
sea routes of the Pacific Ocean.
But neither past nor future was in his
mind at the moment. The immediate
present with its drizzling rain was his
only concern. Strange how even an un-
imaginative man, straining his eyes to
pierce that misty curtain, would some-
times see distinctive features of land that
never existed.
The wheelhouse clock showed one-
fifteen when the lookout man crossed over
to the mate’s side. “Look, sir,” he said,
“isn’t that land out there on the port
bow?”
Yes, it was land sure enough. The lift-
ing rain showed the dim outline of rugged
mountains revealing themselves, not only
dead ahead, but across on the starboard
bow. .
Quickly the mate stepped across to the
helmsman. “You on your course?” he
asked, at the same time glancing into the
lighted binnacle to see for himself.
“Right on, sir. North thirty-two west.”
“All right, starboard ten degrees. Make
it north twenty-two. Tell me when
you’re steady on.”
The mate moved back to the wing of
the bridge and stared at the land ahead.
It took a few seconds to get the glare of
the binnacle light out of his eyes and
accustom them to the darkness, but even
before the helmsman’s call came, “Steady
on. North twenty-two west now, sir,”
he could see more land coming out of
the clearing mist ahead.
“Starboard another ten,” he called;
and to the lookout “Call the skipper.”
“Nearly four miles inshore of our
course,” he said as the Old Man joined
him. “There must be a hell of an inshore
set. Lucky the rain cleared off or we
might have finished up on the beach.”
The Old Man grunted, “More likely
that cape is a few miles out of position.
There’s nothing you can do now except
keep her on this course till daylight.
You’d better have all the gunners called
at four-thirty. Send the lookout up to
the crow’s-nest; the bos’n, too. He knows
a reef when he sees one.”
WHEN the first streaks *of dawn
vv showed in the sky all hands with
the exception of the watch below were at
their stations.
Master and mate stood alongside the
standard compass up on Monkey Island,
outwardly calm but inwardly anxious,
No knowledge of navigation could help
them here. Everything depended on keen
eyesight and prompt decisions.
Further aft the ack-ack gunners were
testing the mechanisms of their guns and
keeping anxious watch on the skies. Up
in the crow’s-nest the old bos’n stood
staring straight ahead while his lookout
mate sat precariously perched on the edge
with his legs dangling. An unlighted
cigarette hung from his lips, and he
fiddled with a box of matches. His one
concern was just how soon it would be
safe to light that cigarette without pro-
ducing an angry roar from the mate.
Sunrise revealed the perfect New
Guinea morning flat, calm, glassy sea,
clear sky and mists slowly rising from the
densely-wooded valleys along the coast,
Mountains, their summits wreathed m
clouds, looked down on the lesser coastal
ranges which in turn seemed to drop
sheer into the sea. The dense green jungle
growthl covered every thing.
To the bos ns } call of Reef on the
starb and bow, sir, came the Old Mans
unhurried answer, Yes, I see it.
Fuming to the mate he asked What
do you make of that patch dead ahead?
rr?, c i
The mate focused ffis binoculars on it
Looks like shoal ? water Skipper, but it
may only be fish, and then, raising his
vo |£f’ , ®° s , n ’ T vha T S P a , ahead.,
r> °?’ yfish ’ 811 ' ca !? . see . eI ? •
But there's another .fair-sized reef to
starb and, about two points on the bow.
Down on the welldeck the galley boy
was trying to make the job of emptying
the teapot overside last as long as pos-
sible.v For once in his short young life he
held the attention of every man on board.
“Hi,” he called, letting tea leaves fall
all over the deck. “There's a 'plane over
there ”
Fairly bursting with pride at his own
discovery, he jumped on to the hatch,
pointing’ “'Way Sp there, look! He’s
turning round and coming this way.”
“Righto, son. I’ve got him,” called the
mate. “See him, you gunners? High
up to starboard of the mast.”
One by one the gun muzzles swung round
as each gunner picked up the tiny speck.
“Bos’n,” came the roar from the Old
Man, “never mind that bloody ’plane,
Can you see any reef ahead?”
Quickly the bos’n’s mind came back to
his job. “No, sir. All clear water ahead.”
“Anything to port?”
“No, sir. All clear water to port.”
“All right. You two had better come
down out of that.”
By now there was no doubt in any
one’s mind. A single ’plane coming
straight for the ship could mean only one
thing. Tojo coming in for the attack.
tS the second mate standing by the
telegraph in the armor-plated wheel-
house came the calm unruffled voice of
the Old Man speaking into the voice-
pipe, “Full ahead,” and then, louder and
almost drowned by the roar of the guns
bursting into life, “Hard aport.”
THE oncoming ’plane was now diving
steeply to the attack. To the tensely-
waiting pair on Monkey Island it seemed
impossible that some at least of those
fiery tracers racing upwards from the
Ship’s guns were not finding their mark,
For the moment the thought of reefs
had completely left both their minds.
The attacking ’plane seemed to hold
them spellbound. Theirs was the difficult
job,of inaction. The vessel had gathered
speed and was swinging away to port,
and there was nothing else they could do.
Both men saw the bombs leave the ’plane
—four small, dark objects hurtling, it
seemed, straight for them. They hurled
themselves flat on deck.
Cra-a-sh!
The four explosions blended into a roar
and the little ship seemed to lift bodily
out of the water. The shudder of her
racing propeller shook her from stem to
stern. Over she heeled, almost on her beam
ends, and then slowly righted herself.
No one moved or spoke. The guns had
all ceased firing, and only the drone of
the fast-disappearing’planecould be heard.
Then the mate sprang to life. “Watch
him, you gunners,” he roared. “He’ll
probably come back.” And then, seeing
the skipper bending over the voice-pipe,
“You all right, Skipper?”
There was no change in the Old Man’s
voice. “Starb’d hard over. Bring her,
back on her course. The course is north
forty-seven west. Slow ahead. Yes,
Mister, I’m all right. What about you?”
The mate felt like hell. As far as he
knew nothing had actually hit him, but
he felt jarred and bruised from head to
foot. His mouth was dry and his legs
were trembling violently. He managed
to answer normally “I’m quite all right,
Skipper.”
The Old Man went on, never taking
his eyes off the sea ahead. “Better get
below and check up. Ask the engine-
room how things are down there. Sound
your bilges and see if she’s making water,
Check the steering, find out if anyone
is hurt and send a lookout aloft again.”
Stumbling down the ladder to the
bridge, the mate ran into a very white
and anxious-looking second mate,
“How is she. Chief?” he gasped. “Is
an y one killed?”
“You mind your own business and
stand by that telegraph,” the mate
sna pp ed - and then, feeling the need to
unburden himself to someone, “Gawd,
the o j d Man ’ s a cool customer. You’d
think he was taking her up Moreton Bay.”
Hurrying aft along the deck, he saw
damag / everywhere,
Steel fragments had ripped through the
decb head in many places. On the lower
deck he ran into a group of, seamen
and firemen all talking at o^ce . Outside
tbe g a n e y door two men, the steward and
a greaser, were bending over the prostrate
f orm Q f tbe cook> Cookie was groaning
»nu swearing.
“Break it up,” the mate’s voice boomed
out « Y ou, Thompson, nip up aloft on
j ookouk quick. Bos’n, get the sounding
rod and sound your bilges. Grant, start
a ft an d check the steering gear. Go over
everyt hing. Anyone hit?”
’ „ ,1 and
, ~ .* ~ ...
r Then what the hell is the matter with
ie ’ , , • ,
Th f s ™ ard The poor cow
* as )“ st Jshm up the porridge when
* h = m B .°™ bs wa "‘ °/ a ? d , he slipped and
dra ßSf d the whole P otful aII over
himself.
The mate P“*d on down to the
engine-room Here he found the chief
f ac “f J d °™ = S > f “£
n - , inspecting e e ything. I
second engineer and a greaser were just
emerging from the shaft tunnel,
, Ho 'f ar = ‘‘ un 8 s down here. Chief?
mate asicea.
. T* l6 chle£ , was a Norwegian, a thin.
dou . r man » ho knew everything about
engines but very little about the English
l angu ¥ e h had an lmm f nse contempt
for all deck officers, and rarely even
entered a Good morning.
. « e Slnred at the mate for a moment
be£ore “swenng. Vy you coon, down
here ask me t mgs Ay busy. Ay vork.
O f course ,. a “ n S ht ' and went on with
flls ' ns P ectlon ’ , , ~ ,
The mate grinned at the second engi-
?„ e . er ’. cI ™ b ?. and * e ladd « and
l ol £f d tbe b 9 s non deck.
The soundings were reassuring. It she
™ making water it was only a very
“Ue. Leaving instructions for the bos n
to oLlnc dlc bilges every half-hour, he
co ” tl “ ed ° n J ls , 10 " oE , inspection,
Tor ard of the bridge the vessel was not
marked. Passing down the alleyway where
the very excited galley boy was trying
hard to tell the story of his adventures,
the mate paused and seized the lad play-
fully by a large, protruding ear. “Sonny,”
he said, “never mind the story of how
you saved the ship. Hop into that galley
and make a big pot of tea, and make it
strong, too.”
Aft along the lower deck the damage
was'slight. The stewards’ pantry was cer-
tainly a mess of broken crockery, and
the saloon looked as if a cyclone had
struck it.
Returning to the upper deck the mate
made straight for his own cabin. Every-
thing normal there, but closer to the
stern the lavatory and bathroom were
riddled, Two large splinters had torn
through the steel side of the second mate’s
cabin and buried themselves in the
lockers under his bunk,
The .mate couldn’t repress a grin when
he thought of the havoc among the shirts
in those lockers. The second’s tastes
were loud, and he was proud of his shirts.
When he rejoined the skipper he saw
that they were now close to the land,
Troops were coming down to the beach
from the jungle, and a launch was put-
ting out to meet them,
As the mate turned to stand by his
’anchors the Old Man placed a hand on
his shoulder. “Well, Mister,” he said,
and his eyes twinkled, “now you know
what it feels like tp be the subject of one
of these official reports. Your wife will
read all about it in the papers next week.
‘A single enemy ’plane attacked one of
our small merchant ships. .The ’plane
was driven off amd we suffered no damage
or casualties.’ ”


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3339.
Wednesday, February 9, 1944.
JOE-WHITE AND THE (THINK OF A NUMBER!) DWARFS.
“Hi-ho, hi-ho, to the Peace Con-fer-ence we go!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. Eo Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralta : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"TRAPS" WHILE YOU WAIT.
There are liars, damned liars and Mos-
cow correspondents.
Liars and damned liars can be avoided
or answered in the appropriate spirit, but
there is no getting away from Moscow
correspondents. The Russian war cables
are saturated with their stuff, and the
choicest bits are repeated over the air.
In Australia they often form part of
newspaper headlines and are continued
down the page in black type. Those who
want more, the few with a thirst for
studying communiques, are rarely satis-
fied, for even Russian communiques
are cut, and the enemy’s are either reduced
to a few lines or not published at all. The
New York “Times” makes a point of
printing the official bulletins of all the
belligerents, but this salutary practice is
nowhere followed in the Commonwealth.
Mr. Churchill has been obliged to tell
the English that “altogether unwarranted
optimism has taken possession of large
numbers” of them:
There is a vain and foolish belief that
the war will soon be over, that it is now
as good as won.
The 'Vain and foolish belief” exists in
Australia, and there has been no greater
factor in engendering it than the Moscow
correspondent.
Now and then Moscow correspondents
have been permitted to see examples of
German barbarity in regions from which
the tide of battle has flowed far to the
west. They are never allowed to become
front-line reporters. Nevertheless they
profess a supreme knowledge of what is
going on and what is about to happen ;
and it is a dull week when they don’t
“rout” or “trap” a German army.
In this new province for the New
Journalism Reuter’s Moscow correspon-
dent is unsurpassed, though he is hard
pressed by the Moscow correspondent of
the British United Press. To that gentle-
man in mid-October the fall of Zaporozhe
sounded like “the death knell of two
German armies, one in the Crimea and
the other in the Southern Ukraine,” and
Reuter’s man came in with the assurance
that “it may even be a much greater vic-
tory than that of Stalingrad.” A week
later he was convinced that “there is no
semblance of any German line inside the
Dnieper Bend.”
By the end of October “the Germans”
had “already as good as lost the Dnieper
valley; their defensive system is com-
pletely disorganised” (United Press). The
Russians had “reached a point 2£ miles
from Krivoi Rog” (Reuter’s); they had
“captured all the principal suburban rail-
way stations round Krivoi Rog, the only
railway left to the Germans being that
running southward from Krivoi Rog”
(United Press). They were “due louth
of Nikopol,” and “should they succeed
in striking down from Krivoi Rog the
trap will be closed” (United Press). “The
terrific ground battles for Krivoi Rog”
were “duplicated by mammoth air battles
over the beleaguered town” (Reuter’s).
“The great rout” had “begun” (United
Press). “The twilight of an army is set-
ting in on the Dnieper Bend front”
(Reuter’s).
Somehow the enemy rallied, and the
“traps” in which anything from 500,000
to 1,500,000 invaders had been caught
failed* to close. In an official Moscow
bulletin the Russians announced their
captures in four months’ fighting as
98,000 Germans, it being added very can-
didly that most of the prisoners were
wounded. The Germans alleged that
during a little longer period they had
taken 130,000 Russian prisoners.
An interval for recuperation or some-
thing during which 500,000 other Ger-
mans came under Observation —they were
“trying to escape from Gomel” —found
the correspondents again at the top of
their form. Reuter’s young man saw the
Red Army “advancing like an avalanche ;
the speed and power of the Russian ad-
vance are bringing increasing disorder in
the ranks of Von Manstein’s defeated
army.” “The whole German front in
southern Russia appears to be disinte-
grating quickly” (United Press). “The
Germans are retreating along a bitter
road freely dotted with the graves of
thousands of their troops who perished in
the recent abortive counter-offensive. In
the past 48 hours [to December 29] they
have been unable to resist the smashing-
up process on all sectors. Their only
hope now on the Baltic front is to make
a last stand inside Vitebsk” (Reuter’s).
Previously Reuter’s young man had
Vitebsk “outflanked on the north-west
and practically isolated.” The United
Press gentleman agreed that “the final
stages of the great battle for Vitebsk”
were “being fought out over the deep
snowdrifts and frozen lakes north of the
town.” Last week the enemy still held
Vitebsk, Nikopol and Krivoi Rog.
Came the New Year, and with it the
fall of Kirovograd, “the beginning of the
end in the Dnieper Bend” (Reuter’s).
“All the enemy’s forces inside the Dnieper
Bend are virtually trapped. A new Ger-
man disaster, as great as Stalingrad and
infinitely more significant, is likely if the
left flank continues to advance south-
west towards Vinnitsa.” Unfortunately
the enemy made a stand in the Vinnitsa
region, and a Russian withdrawal on that
part of the front was officially admitted
on January 29, though on January 9 the
public was informed, on the authority of
unspecified Moscow correspondents, that
“the German front from the Upper Bug
River to the east end of the Dnieper
Bend” was “collapsing like a house of
cards; thousands of German troops face
catastrophe on an unprecedented scale.”
They were facing catastrophe again in
the same quarter on February 4 ; “in the
biggest enemy disaster since Stalingrad
ten German divisions, 150,000 men,” had
* been encircled south of Kiev —“trapped
in an area covering about 1000 square
miles of forest and steppe” (Reuter’s).
For this, as it happened, Moscow corre-
spondents had official authority, though
they enlarged on it in their fashion. It
would be a grand thing if they could be
partly right for once.
From his eyrie in Moscow Reuter’s
enthusiast saw disaster smite the enemy
in a new quarter. “The German Army in
the north of Russia faces complete defeat
and collapse,” he. wrote on January 21.
Three days later “the Red Army’s
northern offensive” was “gathering weight
and speed like a snowball.” In ten days
“exceptionally large numbers of prisoners
were taken ; preliminary reports put the
total so far at 40,000 to 50,000.” The
Russians claimed 3000 prisoners in twelve
days.
The young man did not argue the point.
He had been permitted to accompany the
Soviet Commission which “investigated
the mass murder of Polish prisoners of
war in the Katyn Forest near Smolensk,”
to “examine uniforms on bodies” and
to “read an unposted card dated June
24, 1941” —two days before Hitler started
the mass murder of Russians in his un-
declared war. The young gentleman re-
ported the commission’s finding, which
was that the Polish prisoners—“they will
number 15,000, not 11,000, as was at
first thought likely”—were massacred by
Germans, who “removed the Poles from
their camps, rounded up others and shot
them all in the forest,” without elucidat-
ing the mystery of why so many Poles
were held there as Russian prisoners
of war 22 months after the liquidation
of their country. He was back in Mos-
cow in time to be “a reliable,” though
distant, observer of “fierce fighting as the
Russians steadily close their mighty trap
around 25 German divisions between
Leningrad and Novgorod.”
This “mjghty-trap” narrative may pos-
sibly have been the work of another
young gentleman in Reuter’s Moscow
office. Anyway it seems to have been
read with incredulity by the military critic
of “S. M. Herald,” which printed it. In
a review of the northern campaign pub-
lished five days later, Our Military
Correspondent pointed out that “the Ger-
mans can still use wide escape-alleys,”
to which he coldly added “It must be re-
called that they have extricated them-
selves from every threatened encirclement
since Stalingrad.”
Perhaps the military critic had been
reading an article published in the New
York “Herald Tribune” on November 28.
It was written by Major George Fielding
Eliot, who served with the A.I.F. in the
last war and has since made a name for
himself as a military writer in his own
country, and was headed thus:
America’s Illusions Decried.
Nazis Not Trapped in Russia.
There followed these pointed paragraphs ;
The long-expected fall of Gomel has been
announced, but it is certainly premature to
assume the entrapment of the German
army defending the Gomel area The
Germans seem to have given a great deal
of attention to the defensive tactics re-
quired in such situations. Time and again
they have been able to stop the Russians
when it was necessary to protect the flank,
or even as in the present case, both flanks,
of a. railway line along which German troops
were withdrawing from an untenable posi-
tion In every case they have managed,
by what can only be described as the mas-
terly handling of their reserves, to stave
off disaster
The result has been that, though the Ger-
mans have been compelled to give up a
great deal of Russian territory, they have
managed to keep their army intact, they
have not suffered anything which can be
described as a disaster, and they are gain-
ing, not only shorter fronts but shorter
lines of communication, while the Russians’
supply difficulties are increasing with every
yard of western progress.
We have played up hopefully in our
flaming headlines the incorrect assumptions
of “1,500,000 Germans Trapped in the
Dnieper Bend,” “500,000 Germans Encircled
in the Crimea” and now “300,000 Germans
Surrounded at Gomel.” Would that these
things might have been true! They were
not true But we go on eagerly believing
these hasty reports and ill-considered head-
lines, because somehow we cherish the
bright hope that the tough, hard-fighting
Wehrmacht is going to be beaten without the
effusion of any great amount of American
blood on the battlefields of western Europe.
That is an illusion, and a dangerous illusion.
Other illusions, not quite the same but
equally or more dangerous, exist in Aus-
tralia.
Though American reporting of the Rus-
sian war has been as reckless, to put it
mildly, as British reporting, it has not
been accompanied by snarling deprecia-
tion of the work of Allied generals
and imperial forces in Italy. That sort
of thing appears only in British and
Dominions publications, and is aimed
chiefly at British generals and imperial
forces. It did not spare even Mont-
gomery and the Eighth Army, and since
the landing at Nettuno it has broken out
again at Alexander’s expense.
The Russians themselves have learned
how immensely difficult it is to cross
water, dislodge an enemy from coastal
positions and. advance inland, keeping
supplies up to the troops all the time. Up-
wards of three months have elapsed since
they isolated the enemy in the Crimea, and
the strait separating that peninsula from
the mainland is in places only two miles
wide, yet so far they have been unable
to take the town of Kerch, on the extreme
eastern edge of the Crimea. We hear
little or nothing of this, but we are told
a great deal about the “exasperating slow-
ness” of the Anglo-American armies in
Italy, who are expected to perform im-
possibilities and are carped at if they fail.
The real lesson to be drawn from the
campaign in Italy is that invasion of
northern France or the Low Countries
will be an operation of tremendous diffi-
culty, involving the grim prospect of
frightful losses. But lesson and pros-
pect are wasted on Communists qnd
fellow-travellers. They are going to have
their Second Front, or they think they
are, and so long as their own skins are
safe and “60 German divisions” are
“drawn from the eastern front,” they
don’t care how much Anglo-American
blood is spilt. And the plain and fancy
lying infused into Russian-war report-
ing is right into their hands. It admits of
their feeding the anti-British prejudices
of ungrateful fools and of their represent-
ing the Red Army as carrying on its
shoulders the whole burden of “the” war,
a task callously imposed on it by “capi-
talist” allies, though not beyond its com-
pass, because the Russians have been
metamorphosed from illiterate serfs into
a race of supermen by the Soviet system.
How the Red Army will be employed
when “the” war is over Communists and
fellow-travellers never say, and anyone
who puts the question to a representative
Communist or fellow-traveller can depend
upon being denounced as a “Fascist
beast.”
Big Chief Littledo.
On January 26 Mr. Curtin, as Prime
Minister of the country then very
quietly remembering that it was having
a birthday, was heard in the loudest of
his more familiar styles of oratory. About
a week later he was to be heard on Ihe
quieter note, equally familiar. It usually
takes Mr. Curtin just that long at the
most to get down off the war horse and
tumble into the bandwagon.
The difference in styles was indicative
of the difference in audiences, and so
indicative of Mr. Curtin’s manner of
descents that the act has become mono-
tonous by repetition. The audience on
the earlier date was Australia, and, as
P.M., Mr. Curtin was out to make an
impression as Big Chief Strongman. He
got off what his most faithful apologist
had to describe as a “bitter criticism of
strikers.” Mr. Curtin, indeed, was
appalled at this maltreatment of the Aus- ,
tralian war effort on this Australia Day
by Australian workers who have put their
own grievances in a higher priority than
the services that are vital to maintaining
the fighting men at the front with the
maximum capacity the nation could give
them if everybody gave his or her best.
The non-workers specifically referred
to were the Sydney and Newcastle tram
and bus hands, who stopped all their
transport for 24 hours, with untold reduc-
tion in war-production, despite the ar-
rangements made by the Munitions De-
partment and suchlike concerns to get
workers to their jobs. Mr. Curtin also
dealt mighty blows of wind at miners
having a day off from 21 N. S.
Wales mines. “It is merely begging
the issue,” roared Mr. Curtin, “to ignore
the effect that this loss of production
must have on munitions and supply pro-
duction... A little pathetically Mr.
Curtin referred as well to the Australian
Army, “not numerically too great”:
It is fighting in the worst terrain in the
world, and has not only to overcome the
enemy in war, but has to do so in the face
of adverse physical conditions which have
not been experienced by the civilian popu-
lation of this country.
That was putting it most mildly, since
there can be no measure of comparison
whatever between the experiences, the
conditions and the sacrifices of front-line
A.I.F. and home-front civilians. The
only applicable connection between the
two is the point Mr. Curtin failed to
make, though General Marshall has made
it in America; Every day’s loaf on the
home front means prolongation of all
that the front-liners are going through.
The measurement can be made in terms
of days loafed and men thereby doomed
to be killed or shattered.
Mr. Curtin on this occasion was Vocally
stronger when he got off that somewhat
awkward ground. He was “staggered” at
the refusal of the Sydney transport
workers to obey his own eleventh-hour
order to them to keep working:
This is lawlessness naked and unashamed.
It provides no remedy for their disabili-
ties, but, in effect, means that they present
an ultimatum to the Government as though
they were as much the enemies of Australia
as those who have organised force majeure
against it, and against whose aggression
this nation has pledged itself irrevocably.
Mr. Curtin added that the same was
*‘true of coalminers who are not work-
ing.” “The man who will not produce
coal has, in my mind, no title to meat.”
The transport strike came and went —
the mine strikes, of course, go on as
usual —and by February 1 Mr. Curtin had
discarded the fleeting (though repetitive)
role of Big Chief Strongman on the snort-
ing war horse for that of Big Chief Little-
do back in an office chair. Now he was
addressing “a few quiet words to the
workers,” as a change from addressing a
lot of loud words to Australia about non-
workers. He was, of course, “appeal-
ing.” He was posing in the role of the
friend who understood all. It was as
familiar as a vaudeville tumbling act. It
was a repetition of what Australia had
witnessed time and again—first, Mr.
Curtin’s bluster; then, summonses hav-'
ing meanwhile gone out under National
Security to strikers and strike leaders, Mr.
Curtin’s fluster. Once more, in short,
the impression that Mr. Curtin was back-
ing down ; the impression that he feared
he had gone too far in wordy denuncia-
tion and was eager to get from under in
practical renunciation.
The same bold words with the same
sequel of scared retreat had been the
features of the periodical act since the
home-front strikes coincided with the
Japs surging south on the crest of suc-
cess. “Men,” Mr, Curtin then said, “who
are not in the fighting forces, and who
at the same time will not work, are as
much the enemies of this country as the
directly-enlisted legions of the enemy.”
Mr. Curtin has worn this rag of rhetoric
threadbare.
The day after the P.M. had his “few
quiet words” with the workers, full of
sympathy and understanding and all that,
it was briefly reported that the charges
against bus and tramway employees had
been “adjourned.” The date appended
was March 14.
Whatever happens ultimately, those
whose objective it is to see that authority
is weakened, while control is handed
over to “pressure groups” (Mr. Curtin’s
own expression), have the satisfaction of
knowing that once more the P.M. has
played into their hands. The display of
apparent strength followed, in haste by
the exhibition of evident weakness has
already brought the name of authority
into contempt. It is accepted now that
no matter how loudly the P.M. may
bluster —apparently in the heat of an un-
guarded moment —soon enough he will be
flustering. First the flourish; then the
lightning change and the flounder.
To repeat the instances would by now
be as monotonous as is the act itself.
Enough that in every instance it is the
sectional interest subsequently surren-
dered to and not the national interest at
first, hotly expounded to which victory
goes. Australia by now has no illusions
whatever about this. If the P.M. has any
—which might well be doubted—he
should have some words on the quiet
with the Sydney transport workers who
utterly defied him, treating his orders as
mere political claptrap, and with the coal
strikers who just go happily on continu-
ing to defy him to do the so often threat-
ened worst which they are naturally con-
fident he will never get within an Aus-
tralian cooee of doing.
It is, without doubt, “lawlessness naked
and unashamed” that is going on. What
else can be expected when the part to
be taken by the P.M., as head of author-
ity in the land, can be forecast with posi-
tive certainty based on past experience?
What else when that part, so far from
resembling anything like authority firmly
administered in the national interest, is
now familiar as a mere lightning-change
act from a show of strength to weakness,
despised above all by those who have
neither respect for law nor love of
country?


PLAIN ENGLISH
U.S. and Australian Ways.
In Admiral Nimitz’s first communique on
the stirring invasion of the Marshalls the
American public, true to the sensible
United States policy, was told about the
men chiefly responsible.
Powerful forces of all types [are] com-
manded by Vice-Admiral Spruance. All
amphibious operations are commanded by
Rear-Admiral Turner. The assault troops
are directed by Major-General H. M. Smith.
The landing attacks on Roi are being
made by troops of the Fourth Marine
Division commanded by Major-General
Harry Schmidt. Landings are being effected
in the Kwajalein area by troops of the
Seventh Infantry Division commanded by
Major-General Corlett. Supporting air
attacks are being made by carrier task
forces commanded by Rear-Admiral
Mitscher, by units of the Seventh Air Force
commanded by Major-General Hale, and by
units of Fleet Air Wing II commanded by
Rear-Admiral Price. All shore-based air-
craft in the Gilberts are operating under
the direction of Rear-Admiral Hoover.
Had it fallen to the Australian air force,
navy and army to launch the attacks,
and had the present incomprehensible
official Australian procedure been fol-
lowed, the Australian public would have
been fobbed off with something like this:
Our aircraft heavily bombed certain
islands in the Marshall group. A.M.F. for-
mations landed after an intensive bombard-
ment by R.A.N. detachments. Operations
are proceeding.
The circumstances of the Herring
appointment to the Victorian Chief
Justiceship are significant of Australian
political methods of running and report-
ing the war. Sydney papers, which are
mines of information about Russian
generals, and are apt to give the impres-
sion that they rocked the younger ones
in their cradles, were mystified, and
attributed mystification to the Prime
Minister. That gentleman, one paper
announced, “said he had received no
communication on the subject and knew
nothing about it, though, as Minister of
Defence, Mr. Curtin decides the higher
commands; upon him falls the responsi-
bility of finding substitutes for officers
who go to more important posts”
Another Sydney paper asserted that the
Victorian Government had made the
appointment “without consulting the
Federal Government about release from
the army.”
The same Sydney journal referred to
“Sir Edmund Herring” as “Commander
of the Land Forces in the forward areas
of New Guinea.” Ta the other Sydney
journal “the Commonwealth Government
is at present employing Sir Edmund as
G.O.C. Australian Forces in New
Guinea.” Nothing about the man who took
his place when he was badly knocked
about in a ’plane smash last October.
In Britain no provincial authority,
county council or anything of the sort
could possibly give a civil appointment
to a serving general without reference to
Mr. Churchill, who is Minister of De-
fence. Only in this country of seven
Parliaments and Governments, in which
there is only a remnant of war-wise
Ministers and members, could such a
thing happen and the identity of com-
manders be concealed as if it were a
Caucus secret.
To J. F. Archibald.
Your Prize has been awarded to a paint-
ing that looks like a seasick skeleton.
You and your dream of a national por-
trait gallery of the most distinguished
Australians painted in the most distin-
guished style have been ignored once
more. You may nevertheless be pleased
to learn that several Sydney newspapers
appear to have discovered that there is
something called art.
Even the “Sunday Telegraph,” which
reviews no Australian books and has no
space for Australian poets or story-
writers, has been stimulated to a leading
article in which it denounced critics of
the award as “studio mediocrities,” and
described that fine artist Mary Edwards
as “a lady who paints.”
Mr, Howard Ashton inspected the
prize-winner for the “Sun,” and, under
a streaming headline, fearlessly said
nothing that made very good sense.
The “Daily Telegraph” published a
letter saying that, even if the prize-winner
was not the best painting, a portrait of
the editor of the “Daily Telegraph” (by
the same artist) was a work of unparal-
leled importance.
In the correspondence columns of S.,
M. Herald” there was a curious silence.
“Herald” readers were possibly trying to
translate the opinions of the “Herald’s”
art critic.
Previously (you may recall the rumpus
when Norman Lindsay’s* paintings were
sent to England) “Granny” had regarded
art as something wicked which should, if
possible, be suppressed. She is still in-
clined to regard distinctively Australian
painting as subversive, and has regretted
in a leading article that the Gallery
bought Australian works, and that the
country became “rather obsessed with its
own landscape school of painters,” mean-
ing in particular Streeton, Gruner and
Heysen. .
But for fully two years “Granny has
at least been aware of European art,
especially those works now recognised to
be symptomatic of the collapse of France,
and with all the authority of those two
years is now directing the affairs of the
Gallery and issuing her commands for
the disposal of your prize-money.
This you may resent. After all, it is
your prize and your money. Hung with
pictures chosen by its own art critic,
“Granny’s” own “art gallery” (now de-
voted to photographs) would rival the
aquarium as a tourist attraction. A
“Herald” award of £5OO a year for the
best portrait with cauliflower ears, a
yellow complexion and hands ten inches
long would be a truly gallant gesture.
Transformation Scene.
When the short-lived Confederacy shot
up in 1861 with the “right” to secede
allowed to each of the partners, Lincoln
pointed out that no Constitution with
such a principle could last; “the central
idea of secession is the essence of
anarchy.” In his first Inaugural he had
said to the dissatisfied States:
I hold that the Union is perpetual. Per-
petuity is implied, if not expressed, in the
fundamental law of all national Govern-
ments. It is safe to assert that no Gov-
ernment proper ever had a provision in its
organic law for its own termination.
Unless the cabled reports are all wrong
such a Government exists now in the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
In an address to the Supreme
Council on a series of “new rights” to be
granted to the peoples concerned (there
is no mention of their having voted on
the “new rights”) Molotov stressed “sev-
erance of relations with the Soviet Union”
as “an example of how far-reaching
these rights are.” Each of the associated
republics is also to have “full power to
enter into relations with foreign States
and to make treaties,” and to possess
“an independent battle unit,” though the
independent battle unit is obviously to
be part of the Red Army.
“By this transformation,” Molotov
added, “we have become a pluri-national
Socialist State, an organisation which can
be achieved anywhere in the world
And additions to the U.S.S.R. are pro-
vided for and evidently expected.
The transformation has been hailed
with enthusiasm by the Russia-is-always-
right gentry. In other quarters doubts
have been expressed. The Union is said
to consist of 16 Socialist Republics, half
a dozen of which are wholly Asiatic ;
but five of the 16 date from 1940. The
14th, 15th and 16th are Latvia
and Lithuania. Though called “Soviet
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by one or
the Russia-is-always-right organs, the
British Commonwealth and the United
States still recognise them as independent
republics, and to Australia and the other
Dominions and Britain they are still
fellow-members of the League.
Exiles from the three countries get
their views printed in British and Ameri-
can papers. It is plain from these contri-
butions that they would not accept the
Sydney “Sun’s” assurance that their
peoples “voted themselves into the
Soviet,” and have or are to become free
voting partners in Russia’s empire.
There is also the question of whether
the Union of Socialist Republics will
demand a vote for each of the 16 (or
more) components at the peace confer-
ence. If this demand is made it will be
very awkward for the British Common-
wealth and Empire and thrice awkward
for the United States. An awful poli-
tical rumpus began when the Red Army
entered eastern Poland, and its presence
in Estonia may be attended by other
complications not unwelcome to the
enemy.
“Foreign and domestic problems such
as have rarely come before Cabinet in its
history crowd on us.” Thus Mr.
Churchill wrote last week to the Conser-
vative candidate for Brighton, and it is
impossible to doubt that he had Mos-
cow’s strange post-Tehran performances
in mind. Anyway, he wrote the words
a few days after the Foreign Secretary,
speaking in the Commons, quoted what
the P.M. said on December 4, 1940:
“We do not propose to recognise any ter-
ritorial changes that take place during
the war unless they take place with the
free consent and goodwill of the peoples
concerned.” Mr. Eden repeated his own
Note to General Sikorski on the occa-
sion of the signing of the Russo-Polish
Agreement in the Foreign Office: “The
British Government does not recognise
any territorial changes which have been
effected in Poland since August, 1939.”
In effect, “the word of an Englishman,”
given to Poland in the first place by Mr,
Chamberlain, will be kept.
MARCH PAST OF AUSTRALIAN FIGHTING COMMANDERS.


'Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
m sav
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd., of Birmingham, makers
of the famous Times, Mail and Scribbler Pens,
send greetings to their loyal friends in Australia
and New Zealand to whom they are making the
maximum deliveries permitted by present regula-
tions, with hopes of happier and freer days in
the near future.
POLITICAL POINTS
If the Opposition pulls together it can
make things very sultry for the Cut-and-
Run Government during the session be-
ginning today. For all that it has the
numbers, the Cut-and-Run Government
is vulnerable at many points, from coal
to Falstein, With a shrewd choice of
times and speakers it can be made to
look pretty sick.
Pay-as-you-earn is coming in Australia,
not as it came in Britain, in intelligent
and considerate recognition of the hard-
ships imposed and to be imposed on tax-
payers by war conditions, but in response
to trade-union demands. Australian tax
bosses objected to it because it would
mean more work for their department,
and the Labor Government gave in. Then
union bosses, though very slow to realise
that pay-are-you-earn would benefit their
own people, began roaring for the
thing, and in the contest between union
bosses and tax bosses union bosses are
winning. But it is expected that the bor-
joice and the capitalists will be excluded
from Chifley’s scheme, though in Britain
pay-as-you-earn has already been ex-
tended to all salaried taxpayers.
Makin’s idea is that the people should
give the Commonwealth more power so
that his Government may “enter into in-
dustry after the war on a strictly com-
mercial basis” —meaning that Labor Min-
isters and bureaucrats should run fac-
tories and taxpayers meet the losses —
and “continue essential controls.” A
worse advertisement for the referendum
proposals there could not be. If Dr.
Evatt is to get them adopted he will have
to muzzle some of his colleagues, particu-
larly Makin and Don Cameron.
From ‘“Progress’ voice of the
Amalgamated State Labor and Commu-
nist parties, Trades Hall, Sydney”:
When the Allies strike [in western
Europe] they will have 5,000,000 men to
throw against what fragments of the Ger-'
man Army can be spared from Russia.
When it is put like that it scarcely seems
worth while to send 5,000,000 men. The
1400 branches which “the Central Execu-
tive of the Communist party” claims to
have in Australia should be able to do
the job comfortably on their own.
While Premier Dunstan thinks “G”
committees are the unified control to
deal with bushfires which Victoria has
been wanting, country fire brigades aren’t
so unanimous about it. Some of them
want to know why men with a lifetime
of experience of fire-fighting and -preven-
tion wouldn’t be better than officials who
learn from textbooks. Anxious to get
more information, representatives of 12
brigades journeyed to Melbourne, in
some cases 200 miles away, under the im-
pression that there was to be a confer-
ence with the Forests Commission, No
conference had been arranged; so after
holding an informal meeting the travel-
lers returned home.
Three more victims of the January 14
bushfires have died in Victoria, bringing
the total of deaths to 25. Dunstan has
made at least one move in the direction
of prevention by banning the use of gas-
producers in fire areas when danger
warnings are issued. He hopes that addi-
tional petrol will be issued for essential
vehicles affected by the edict. But Fed-
eral departments move just as slowly as
State departments, and while the order
may remove one menace to the farmer
it may put a brake on his production.
The A.W.U. conference came out strong
for the White Australia policy, but it
savored of humbug for the Federal presi-
dent, Johnston, M.H.R., to say that the
old union will “fight any capitalistic
group which desires to flood rural indus-
tries with cheap alien labor.” What it
will have to fight is the white-anting of
the policy by Communists, fellow-
travellers (particularly “Balance Sheet”
Thornton and his mob), writing boys,
clergymen- and professors. If Lang is
Right, there are Corns, on its N.S.W.
executive.
"But, Mr. Makin”
"Don't you like it? It's a beautiful socialistic design for a businessman’s suit
after the war.”
• As Adelaide “Advertiser’s” Canberra
man saw it:
Nearly half of the Federal Cabinet, a dozen
State Ministers and upwards of 50 senior
Federal and State public servants spent
three days over a series of Premiers’ confer-
ences, works discussions and Loan Council
meetings which together achieved less prob-
ably than any similar gathering of political
and administrative talent ever assembled
in Canberra.
But didn’t Dunstan have the verb “engi-
neer” changed to “plan” in the resolu-
tion to play up £200,000,000 on “imme-
diate post-war public works”?
Long ago the Westralian police forced
a reluctant Labor Government to hang
two Kalgoorlie ruffians who, surprised
by two detectives at a bush battery in
which they were treating stolen ore, shot
both and threw their bodies down a shaft.
Now the W.A. police union has become
part of the Labor outfit, which means
that members will be expected not only
to vote the ticket but to strike when the
Trades Hall issues the order. In Britain
recently Churchill refused to let Govern-
ment clerks join, not the Labor party,
but the trade-union body, which is sepa-
rate (it isn’t in the West), and public
opinion supported him. In Australia the
process of creating a vast privileged
union aristocracy controlling Govern-
ments and Parliaments goes on un-
checked -
There have been several sequels to the
case in which the license of a notorious
North Sydney pub was transferred from
a woman who was about to lose it, being
faced with her third conviction for adul-
teration, to her bookmaker-son, aged 23.
Another son, aged 29, also a bookmaker
and formerly manager of the joint, was
sentenced to nine months’ in the special
Federal Court on two black-marketing
charges. In one, prosecuting counsel said,
“he used lies, evasion, subterfuge and
trickery” (six months’); in the other he
was shown to have bought wine from
an Italian for £6O and sold it for £l2O.
The Italian is also in trouble, and other
charges have been lodged against mem-
bers of the bung-bookie family.
Federal Courts are an institution which
should survive the war. The Americans
have had them fnr nooc
nave naa mem lor ages.
In Maoriland three months ago, where-
as the votes for prohibition and confirm-
ance slumped, there was a substantially
increased poll for State control. If the
Trade doesn’t clean itself up by getting
rid of its bad hats, control, not neces-
sarily State—community control has
worked well in thirsty parts—will become
a five issue in the Commonwealth, par-
ticu ar y N. S. Wales. Australia is not,
and is never likely to be, a prohibition
country but even moderate drinkers
w t ffi stand mg r 9^ bed and poisoned
L ‘ °/ without licenses. And
1 e P 1 otcction they get from Govern-
‘
nt to a row of pins.
Nowadays Moscow seems to be con-
ducting its propaganda on. Donnybrook
lines. Heads at which it has let fly
during the last few weeks, besides distri-
buting its blows among the Polish,
Spanish, Finnish and Hungarian Govern-
ments, include those of Wendell Willkie,
John Bull and the Pope. The Vatican
is accused of having, “in the great his-
toric battle of freedom-loving people
against the enemy of mankind, adopted
an attitude in direct support of Fascism.”
As usual, the cables don’t mention Ameri-
can reactions, but considering that there
are about three times as many Catholics
in the U.S.A. as there are people in
Australia most of them have steadily
supported the Roosevelt war policies—
they can’t possibly be favorable. There
are some very clumsy fellows in Moscow,
though to Sydney writing boys they are
all geniuses,
Caucus saddled Curtin with Don
Cameron, and Curtin named him Minis-
ter of Aircraft Production, thinking, no
doubt, that in a sphere where all the re-
sponsibility was taken by capable Aus-
tralians like Storey the elderly bore could
do no harm. But he can and does, with
ill-conditioned attacks and imbecilities.
Challenged by the S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures to name wage-payers he
had aspersed in the paltriest spirit of the
pettiest trade-union secretary, the dud
Minister replied by telegram:
Fully satisfied in many instances at the
moment that industrial disputes and strikes
have their origin in provocative manage-
ments, due either to ignorance or de-
liberate intention. It seems that manage-
ments in fault are more concerned about
profits and politics than about war-time pro-
duction and maintaining good feeling among
employees. Arranging that names be stated
at appropriate place and time.
In effect, Nowhere and Never,
Bernard Shaw’s widow left him prop-
erty valued at £150,000. “The net result,”
he moaned in a letter to the “Times,” “is
that I have to pay £40,000, as well as
income from the estate, to Sir John
Anderson.”
Since 1939 I have had to give the Ex-
chequer £20,000 a year to pay for a war
which would not have occurred if my
advice had been taken in 1919.
What the old gentleman’s advice was is
forgotten, no doubt deservedly. What he
said when Russia was forced into the.
war is well remembered: “We have
nothing to do but sit and smile while
Stalin smashes Germany.” So he
shouldn’t resent having had to contribute
to the immense cost of aiding Russia.
Anyone reading Communist and other
references to the Curzon Line would
imagine that Lord Curzon was a parlor
Pink or something of the sort. Actually,
he was one of “two powerful men” in the
Lloyd George Government “who were
zealous and untiring advocates of inter-
vention in Russia” in 1918-19; the other
was Churchill.
Lord Curzon was vastly concerned
about rescuing Georgia from the contami-
nation of Bolshevism. He had a special
affection for the Caucasus and the thought
of abandoning its gallant mountaineers to
the despotism of Lenin and Trotsky filled
him with horror. He fought to the end for
the retention of British forces in Georgia.
Lloyd George is the witness; the
extract is from his Truth About the Peace
Treaties. Georgia is Stalin’s country.
Browder, the American Communist
leader, who has kindly consented to try
to make capitalism “work,” has a Rus-
sian-born wife. The U.S. Board of Immi-
gration ruled that the lady was liable to
deportation for her Communist activi-
ties, and perhaps that influenced her lord
more than the dissolution of the Com-
munist International or anything like that.
In the case of the Australian-born
Bridges, Attorney-General Biddle laid it
down that the Communist party was a
revolutionary organisation aimed at over-
throwing the United States Government
by force, but proceedings for the depor-
tation of Bridges have been held up,
perhaps interminably.


i
T -
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Herbert Vere Evatt has a high opinion
of William Flood Webb, and when
Anglo-American action rendered it neces-
sary to “investigate Japanese war crimes
against Australians in the South-west
Pacific” the doctor handed the commis-
sion to Webb. The Queenslander was a
very young Crown Solicitor and Solicitor-
General, and was only 38 when raised to
the Bench. C.J. at 53, he turned 57 on
January 21. He ’has two soldier-sons
(there are four daughters also) who have
learned soldiering the hard way in
Papua and New Guinea; and he himself
is no stranger to those war scenes.
A. J. Tyler, elected for the Hobart seat
in Tas. Leg. Council, succeeding Dr.
Gaha, M.H.R., is general secretary of the
State branch of the A.N.A. Friendly
society affairs, the W.E.A. (he was presi-
dent) and hospital administration are
other interests. At the by-election in
September, Tyler was declared the winner
by three votes, J. E. Cuthbertson, tne
loser, appealed to the Supreme Court,
which ordered another poll. This time
Tyler got in by 311 votes—Cuthbertson
was not a candidate.
Frederick Mann, Victoria’s retired
Chief Justice, was 66 when he got his
appointment. Lieut.-General Edmund
Francis Herring, K.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C.
(British), M.C. (Greece), D.S.C. (U.S.A.),
E.D., M.A., B.C.L. (Oxon), K.C., his suc-
cessor, is 52. Born at Maryborough
(Vic.), Herring has crammed into his
comparatively short life first-class
achievement in three departments. At
Melbourne Grammar, Melbourne Uni-
versity and at Oxford, where he went as
1912 Rhodes scholar, he shone at cricket
and tennis ; at Oxford he was tennis cap-
tain. He interrupted his'studies to enlist
in King Edward’s Horse as a trooper in
1914-18, won his commission and trans-
ferred to the R.F.A. Going back to the
Inner Temple after the war he was called
to the Bar in 1920 and set up his shingle
as a barrister in Melbourne in 1936. In
1939 he gave up a thriving practice to
rejoin the army, going overseas to com-
mand the Sixth Division artillery. The
support his guns gave to the infantry at
Bardia, Tobruk and in Greece increased
his prestige, and nobody was astonished
when he succeeded Iven Mackay in com-
mand of the Sixth. G.O.C. at Darwin
after the bombing, and G.O.C. Second
Corps, Herring did a grand job in Papua
and New Guinea. In October a ’plane
accident nearly ended his career ; it ended
that of Brigadier Sutherland, his com-
panion. His doctor wife is a daughter of
Thomas Lyle, Emeritus Professor of
Natural Philosophy at Melbourne Uni-
versity.
H. L. McLoskey, appointed chief
librarian to the N.S.W. Parliament m
succession to J. J. Quinn, * retired, is an
M.A. and LL.B. of Sydney University,
a 1914-18 Digger and an examiner in
English for leaving-certificate candidates.
He joined the Parliamentary Library staff
in 1923.
The busts of Andy Fisher and Billy
Hughes pinched from the Ballarat avenue
of Prime Ministers were the work of
Wallace Anderson, recently of the Austra-
lian War Memorial Museum at Canberra.
Pinchers and vandals have been cruel to
Anderson; every few months some ill-
conditioned lout defaces his “The Man
with the Donkey,” erected in the Mel-
bourne Domain to the memory of one of
the supreme heroes of Gallipoli. Ander-
son had his heart in that job ; he him-
self was a Digger of three years’ service.
Two Bulletin lads. Jack Harrison and
Colin Sommervijle-Dick, were in the latest
batch of repatriated prisoners of war.
Taken in Greece, they spent 2\ years in
German prison camps. Both are mem-
bers of the same A.I.F. hospital unit, and
both returned looking remarkably fit and
well. Harrison’s prison was in Poland ;
Sommerville-Dick’s in mid-Germany. They
will never cease to be grateful to the Red
Cross, not only for the parcels sent from
Australia, but for the regularity with
which they arrived, the enemy being
honest in this one matter. Both are con-
vinced that the Germans have given up
hope of winning the war.
Raymond Clapper, killed in a collision
between his ’plane and another while
taking, as a newspaper man, a close view
of the invasion fighting in the Marshalls,
was not of the ordinary run of war cor-
respondents. He was one of the best
known of American columnists, without
any of the flashiness which makes
“columnists” something of a byword in
Uncle ' Sam’s country and elsewhere.
Neither did he have anything of the fero-
cious vigor of his fellow-columnist on the
“World-Telegram” Westbrook Pegler,
exposer of union racketeers. At the foot
of the “W.-T.” column figures Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of the President,
samples of whose “My Day” feature
have been read in Australia. Clapper
stood about midway in the column, and
he wrote like that; he was the accepted
plain man’s columnist, and as such had a
large following. A few months back he
flew to Sweden to check up on that part
of the wars, and more recently had inter-
viewed General MacArthur in Australia.
Prof. Bernard Heinze, who launched
his Beethoven Festival in Melbourne last
week, has taken on the biggest Job of
the kind since Verbrugghen attempted the
same thing in 1920. The Belgian musi-
cian waited till the autumn and conducted
seven concerts in six days. Heinze has
given himself three weeks of summer to
cover nine symphonies, four concertos
and other orchestral opuses of the mighty
man of Bonn. There was no score on the
conductor’s stand to supplement his
memory on the opening evening, and
Heinze got one of the longest ovations
accorded any conductor in Melbourne at
the finish. A comparatively young man
as musical directors go —he is 50—he has
gdded cubits to his prestige since the
days when it was thought that any im-
ported conductor was good enough to
supplant him.
A perambulating cheer-up society is
Dudley W. C. Mathews, vice-president
of Adelaide Toe H and chairman of vice-
chairman or something of pretty well
every other local organisation with a mis-
sion to keep precious memories alive and
brighten the lives of the lonely. He was
DUDLEY MATHEWS.
a rejected volunteer in 1914-18. As
soon as this war broke out he instituted
a Cheer-up Hostel for service men in
Adelaide, raising the necessary funds,
and he keeps an almost continuous enter-
tainment going, doing most of the writing
and “compering” himself. One <sf his
best recent efforts was the raising of
£lO,OOO for the Lord Mayor’s Chinese
Famine Relief Fund. Mathews got an
0.8. E. at the New Year.
Gavin Casey has been doing a war job
in his native Westralia as State Publicity
Censor, The Department of Information
has snapped him up for its head office
at Canberra. A collection of Casey s
stories, under the title It’s Harder for
Girls, won him the Prior Memorial Prize
in 1942.
The sort of appointment that makes a
busy man busier came to Andy Moodie,
who is to be Chief Agricultural Instruc-
tor in N. S. Wales. For one thing, it
puts him in control of 30-odd field in-
structors. Moodie went to- the depart-
ment in 1920 from Hawkesbury College,
where he gained his H.D.A. and H.D.D.,
became Assistant, Senior Assistant and
finally Senior Agrostologist. His work on
ANDY MOODIE.
pastures entailed much travelling and public
speaking, particularly in dairying dis-
tricts, and he was called upon to judge
State-wide pasture and dairy-farm com-
petitions as well as R.A.S. contests.
Since the war he has been in charge of
fertiliser rationing, and he drafted the
provisions of the Agricultural Holdings
Act, designed to protect not only owners
and share-farmers but the soil. He
relaxes on the golf course, being a senior
vice-president of Bonnie Doon.
When the U.S. Red Cross selected A. F.
Schafer as a special delegate to inspect
all world operations it chose a big man
for a big job. Considering his dimen-
sions, he gets around extraordinarily
quickly. Since November he has done
most of the near Pacific islands, Bris-
bane, Sydney and Melbourne, and on
Christmas Day was supervising the drop-
ping of 25,000 gifts to front-line troops
from 18 ’planes in New Guinea. Next
Schafer goes to China, India, Italy, Africa
and wherever else his vast organisation,
which handles $50,000,000 annually, func-
tions. At home he acts as liaison between
Washington and the rest of the cosmos
and he’s had 25 years with the Red
Cross. Before that he was National
Director of Disaster Relief, a large order
in the U.S., where they have an average
of 100 disasters a year from tornadoes,
cyclones, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes,
floods and suchlike, for relief of sufferers
from which the Red Cross takes full re-
sponsibility, even to the reconstruction
of damaged districts and the dispersal
and rehabilitation of distressed families,
Schafer, who was a Red Cross worker in
the last war, has a wife and two daughters
also working for the Red Cross and a
son somewhere with the ski troops.
“Recco”: No. 1 Squadron Australian
Flying Corps, mentioned several times by
The Bulletin, certainly contributed in a
big way to aviation in this country. Dicky
Williams formed and was Chief of Staff
for many years to the R.A.A.F., and in
the early days of the service had to assist
him King Cole, Murray Jones, Frank
Lukis, F. H. McNamara, A. W. Murphy,
“Pard” Mustar, L. J. Wackett and Mc-
Bain, all ex-members of No. 1 Squadron.
Of these Murray Jones left to become
managing director of De Haviilands in
Australia, Mustar to float and manage
Guinea Airways and pioneer air trans-
port in New Guinea and Papua, and
Wackett has become managing director of
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation.
Also Hudson Fysh, P. J. McGuinness and
Arthur Baird formed Qantas ; Fysh is
still managing director and Baird the chief
technical officer. Another of the tribe,
Bowden Fletcher, was secretary of Narro-
mine Aero Club for 10 years.
Hayden Lennard, the A.B.C. reporter
who has been covering the war in New
Guinea since it began, is making a steady
recovery after being knocked about in
the ’plane crash which killed Pendil
Rayner (Brisbane “Telegraph”), Brydon
Taves (American United Press) and
Harold Dick (Department of Informa-
tion). Lennard owes his escape to a
quick-thinking service man. Knocked
out and afire, he was yanked out and
pushed deep down in the prevalent mud,
this quenching the flames. A good re-
porter with a reputation for getting the
story, Lennard started on the “Border
Mail” at Albury (N.S.W.), moved to
Sydney and worked on the “Farmer and
Settler” and “Sunday Sun” before going
to A.B.C. and Moresby. He is the
only son of Wallace Lennard, ex-inspector
of N.S.W. schools, whose contributions
to various thoughtful discussions have
been heard from time to time on the air.
Yachting and fishing will probably get
more attention henceforth from E. -P.
Andrewartha, who has retired from the
Tasmanian public service after 55 years.
His first job was as junior clerk in the
Lands, and from the Lands he went to
Police, becoming chief clerk, acting Chief
Commissioner (1916-21), and secretary of
the department. He managed also to be
secretary of the Sea Fisheries and the
Animals and Birds’ Protection boards,
was on the Salmon and Freshwater
Fisheries Commission and was treasurer
of Royal Hobart Regatta Association.
For some reason or other there have
been no great women orchestral conduc-
tors, though women are excellent musi-
cians and some are good composers and
it doesn’t need much strength to wield a
baton, though it requires a lot of perspira-
tion. However, they may be on the way,
since Melbourne has a pioneer
Healy, who last year conducted the
chamber orchestra of Melbourne Con-
servatorium through a very sensitive per-
formance. Miss Healy is one of Mel-
bourne’s finest violinists.
Transfer to the Sydney office of the
Liverpool, London and Globe and the
Thames and Mersey as assistant man-
ager compelled the retirement of W. L.
Currey from chairmanship of the Bris-
bane Fire Brigade Board. During his five
years as chairman the Brisbane fire-fight-
ing service made notable progress, in-
cluding the installation of river fire floats
capable of pumping 60,000 gallons of
water a minute. While in Brisbane he was
chairman of the Fire and Accident and
the Marine Underwriters’ associations.
He finds relaxation on the bowling green.
A memorial to pioneer Australian air-
man W. E. Hart is to go up in the Parra-
matta Park, in which vicinity he did his
early flying. Hart broke half the bones
in his body at various times: a full-size
portrait, treated as a chart with the break-
ages shown, used to hang in his dental
chambers.
Into the silence:
In Canada, Leslie William Oakes, of the
R.A.A.F. The lad was a direct descendant of
Mrs. Francis Oakes, whose husband was Chief
Constable of Parramatta when Bligh was being
dragged from his gubernatorial eminence.
In Sydney, at 73, Alfred Harris, a Jewish jour-
nalist of parts and fine character. He founded
the “Freemasons’ Chronicle” in Queensland,
but had a longer connection with the “Hebrew
Standard,” which he helped his father Henry
to found 50 years ago. He was a member of
a remarkable family. Henry Harris died at 85,
and looked after his paper to the end, as his
son was to do. Alfred’s sister has for many
years written copy, set type, worked the presses
and done job-printing on the “Standard.” A
brother, Phil, founded “Aussie” in France during
the last war and put it into civvy clothes on
his return to Australia. Phil is now in Britain
doing War Office work. In Belgium in 1940,
he was caught by the inrush of the Hun in-
vasion but got away.
In Melbourne, at 80, Daniel Ingle, who did
more to preserve Victorian forest cover and
prevent erosion than any other single person.
He earned the title of the Forest Devil from
fellows who tried to cut forests or graze cattle
without a license. An Englishman, he came to
Australia in 1864 and was a horse-breaker
and a drover before joining the State Forests
Commission.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”; Joe Palooka, the pie-faced
pug in a comic strip in my morning daily,
has been seeing, doing and learning since
he was drafted into the U.S. Army. Now
he’s cast up in what appears to be Yugo-
slavia, where he is helping a mixed bunch
of nationalities to scotch the Nazis. In
a recent instalment Joe has a wounded
shoulder and meets a Digger (modelled
apparently on Ned Kelly), who asks
“How’s the shoulder wound?” To which
Joe replies “Fair dinkum!” The Digger,
mightily gratified, bursts out: “Ho, ho.
You’ve picked up our Australian expres-
sions.” I suffer from dyspepsia myself.
The next time anyone asks “How’s the
tummy?” I’m going to answer “Fair
dinkum.” That ought to give ’em some-
thing to think about.
* * * *
“Hamer”: My contention that no man
owns a dog—the dog owns him —has
been borne out by the cases of two men of
my acquaintance. They both became ill,
and their doctor, without specifying
what was wrong with them (perhaps he
didn’t know), said they were run down
and must rest in bed or else The
“But, sir , it's not one of our duties to pick pumpkins."
main symptom was a listlessness about
everything and an indifference to former
interests. One man took the rest pre-
scription very fully; but the other
couldn’t. A dog owned him. It used to
put its head mournfully on his knee,
looking up with its faithful brown eyes,
and whine and tug at his pants and make
other appeals for the usual walk, until
the man who thought he owned it
got dressed and staggered out. Then the
dog joyfully chased pigeons and cats and
interviewed low acquaintances of his own
kind, and people they met said to the man
“The way you look you ought to get
home and get to bed! ” He noticed
one night that the dog was getting dirty
and gave him a bath. The animal (in
spite of registering the usual resistance)
was sure that old times had come back
and barked happily. One of those two
men died the other day ; but it wasn’t
the chap who was owned by a dog. He
started to get better from the night he
took sufficient interest to notice that the
dog needed a bath.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: It’s a great experience
to attend one of Sydney’s flourishing two-
up schools these days. You walk through
a dummy shop into a labyrinth of narrow'
lanes, in which “cockatoos” eye you
suspiciously every 20 yards or so, to
a building which must be at least half
a block away from where you started. A
door is opened, and you step into dark-
ness. Someone flashes a torch in your
face ; a gruff “0.K.” is heard ; you enter
the inner sanctum. Inside a full floor is
occupied by hundreds of men betting
solidly on heads or tails in a fog of
cigarette smoke. Five, fifty, even hun-
dred pound notes are flashed.
Ten bob is the minimum bet.
Broken-nosed bruisers stand
by to discourage dishonesty.
They also escort you home
if you get in the money, a per-
centage of your winnings being
required for this service. There’s
a taxi on hand, too, if you
care to pay for it. Such are the
pastimes of the new rich.
“Avoca”; In manuscripts of verses,
sketches and pars, written by Aussies from
the Mediterranean theatres of war I have
noted that the warriors’ slang term for
the Italians has been rendered as
“Ities” or “Itis.” The Bulletin spells
it “Eyeties.” This form finds support
in C. S. Forester’s novel The Ship, a
graphic story of a light cruiser forming
part of the escort of a Malta-making
convoy. But “Eyety” is Forester’s spell-
ing when the word is used as an adjective,
and presumably he would use that form
as a singular noun. Of course, it’s only
a matter of personal taste, but I prefer
“Eyetie” for both adjective and .singular
noun —it’s a neater form than the novel-
ist’s with its second “y.”
SP % * *
“Avon”: M.L. newspapers have lately
been full of stories told by soldiers who
escaped from p.o.w. camps in Italy at the
time of the Armistice. The warriors went
through varied experiences, but they are
all at one in acknowledging their debt to
the Italian people who helped them on
their travels. Peasants, poor, short of
food and under savage German surveil-
lance, nevertheless found provisions and
civilian clothes for Maoriland escapees
guided them through the mountains and
helped them to wriggle through the Ger-
man lines. In some cases hiding places
were found for them, and Italian women
would tramp miles daily to supply
them with food. And it wasn’t only the
poor folk who showed kindness and
mercy. An infantry colonel and a couple
of air officers record their gratitude to
a great lady who came to light with
food, clothing, 1000 lire and cigars.
* * * *
“Stanus”; It is not only hospital
patients who reverse the usual order at
breakfast time (B. 12/1/’44). At any
Air Force camp during the colder
weather it is the normal thing to finish
breakfast with the porridge. The reason
is not hard to find. The burgoo keeps hot
for some time, whereas the accompany-
ing course is generally stone cold within
a few minutes. Down the meat first,
follow up with the porridge, and with
reasonable luck you will have had a com-
plete hot breakfast.
“Take 'im for a ride—soon's we get our petrol issue.”
* * * *
“O. de V.”: “Pitt St.’s” suggested alter-
natives to corned beef and chops (B.
12/1/’44) are not so fantastic as he
imagines. Memory goes back to a
dinner in Noumea, every item of
which; my host impressed on me, came
from his country estate. Right from the
soup and oysters, with a choice accom-
paniment of wines, it was a repast for the
gods. The fourth course was so delicious
that I fell for a second helping. As my
plate was being piled with the appetising
stew, the little Frenchman offered me
three guesse% at what it was made with.
My first was wild duck ; next I hazarded
the rare collier blanc pigeon. “Non, mon-
sieur—it is flying-fox!”
ak *
“Zake”: When the Calwellian fiat went
forth that theatres should play “Advance,
Australia Fair” in addition to the
National Anthem a Gilbertian situation
developed in some of the pitcher palaces.
“God Save” was played as usual imme-
diately after the performance’s end, at
which everyone traditionally stood to
attention ; then the twice-as-long Austra-
lian “anthem” was struck up. As it*pro-
ceeded about 90 p.c. of the audience
proceeded— out. The rest stood uncer-
tainly, trying not to look self-conscious,
until, unable to stand the awful strain any
longer, they too shuffled off while yet
there were several bars to play. Rare
indeed was the hardy soul who stood
ramrod-like until the last note Manage-
ments began lopping bits off “A.A.F.,”
but it isn’t decorously received yet
at many flea hatcheries. Other theatres
have overcome the difficulty with
a fore-and-aft sort of solution. As the
lights dim a preliminary roll of drums
has everybody upstanding and “A.A.F.”
is played. At the close of the show comes
“God Save,” and everybody gives respect-
ful attention.
* * * *
“Arter” on a new aesthetic theory:
A Sydney newspaper editor, a Dobellian ver-
sion of whose features was one of the prize-
winner’s entries in the 1943 Archibald competi-
tion, has taken a page of his own journal to
expound and defend the brave new art. He
lays down an axiom or principle: “In Art the
only standard of truth is what the artist himself
sees and feels.” That being so, of course, it
is foolish for anyone, even a newspaper editor,
to offer art comment or criticism. Nobody but
the, artist himself can claim possession of a
standard or criterion. Undeterred by this logical
consequence of his theory, this editor discusses
a portrait, “Billy Boy,” also entered by Dobell
for the Archibald Prize. This is what the editor
says Dobell saw in William:
* a symbol of a mindless mountain of
coarse flesh, with the depthless eyes of a
suspicious but cowardly animal, thin, mean,
sensual mouth, coarse, insensitive hands —all
assembled in a pose of smug and ignorant
arrogance. This makes, in my opinion, a
work of art of great force and very pro-
found understanding and analysis.
But stay the cheers. Here’s what this editor,
wlio knows “Billy Boy” in the flesh, has to say
about the gentleman:
I see him as an unusually intelligent
fellow, quick to understand certain kinds
of problems, with wide interests, a capacity
to express himself well beyond the average,
and to make detached judgments on facts
even when lifelong, passionate prejudices
and convictions are questioned. Where
Dobell has seen a horrible triumph of
matter over mind, I have seen a notable
triumph of mind oxer matter.
In short, by the exercise of “very profound
understanding and analysis” the artist was able
to represent a decent, intelligent, conscientious
citizen as a bestial moron. In an older day
people who preferred Sargent to the Hon. John
Collier or Augustus John to Orpen told us that
their preference was based on the ability of
their “impressionist” to penetrate the flesh and
paint the soul beneath. It would seem we are
now being asked to applaud the “modernist”
for his ability to expel of his subject,
replace it with anything that comes handy (the
more repellent the better publicity) and sit safe
against reprisals or criticism under the dictum
that any painter who claims to be a “modern-
ist” is his own court, Judge and jury.”
“P.McM.”: There’s a tip for Australia
in a South African method of temper-
ing the petrol restrictions to the kindly
motorist. Pedestrians buy books of three-
penny tickets and present one to every
motorist who gives them a lift. Forty
tickets entitle the motorist to petrol for
an extra 50 miles over his ration. The
cash goes to a war charity.
* * # *
“Bo”; Stephen Leacock in “Serge the
Superman,” one of his funny tabloid
Russian novels, by “Maxim Gherkin,”
explains in a foreword that it was “trans-
lated by a hand-pump from the original
Russian.” Cables have recently given
extracts from the words of a Russian
song, “James Kennedy,” written as a
tribute to a British skipper who sailed
in convoys to Murmansk, and the trans-
lation suggests the efforts of, not a pump,
but a bulldozer:
Once there, lived* an English captain, James
Kennedy;
He took scarcely any heed, James Kennedy,
Ot the fair girls of the land, James Kennedy.
A most unusual mariner of England.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Within the last few
months the Melbourne Bread and Cheese
Club has been hard hit by death. It has
lost Shaw Neilson, the poet; Frederick
Chapman, the scientist; George Cockerill,
for many years chief leader-writer of the
“Age” ; and L. V. Biggs, the editor under
whom Cockerill served and who proposed
him for membership. Biggs was a com-
mitteeman and the club’s star after-
dinner speaker.
THE GAME OF GRAB.
“The Prime Minister’s request that State Premiers
should forgo a portion of their huge Commonwealth
subventions was flatly refused by five of the six,
Mr. McKell being the lone exception.”
She’s spoiled and pampered them so much, you
know,
Just as a too-indulgent mother might,
Her kids have come to think that what they owe
To fond benevolence is theirs by right.
A curious misconception that appears
Now and again in less exalted spheres.
Yet what more startling picture could you get
Of blatant idiocy—yes, you’ve said it.
A country plunging deeper into debt
To keep its various parts in fuller credit
Must be —or anyhow we'll hope it is—
Fantastically sui generis.
Though all know well that there’s a war to win
And its full weight Australia needs must pull,
Canberra, it seems, must still be featured in
Its peace-time role of Lady Bountiful
Or, if a homelier figure you’ll allow,
A thoroughly dependable milch cow.
Hence, while the war-bills ever mount and soar,
These lesser lights, our parish pump grandees,
Have more than ever came their way before
For quite subordinate activities,
The sort of easy money which connotes
A valuable dividend in votes.
How long must we endure this parlous coil?
Impatience asks, and reason may reply:
Till there are fewer cooks the broth to spoil
And lessened thumbs and fingers in the pie,
And seven Parliaments are held by any
Sound mode of reckoning as six too many.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE ARCHIBALD APPLE.
Some classical author, whose name I’ve forgot,
Reckoned bards in the bulk an emotional lot.
Irritabile genus, I mind, was the gibe
He threw at our old and illustrious tribe;
Which means we’re excitable, prone to engage
In tantrums of temper and transports of rage,
With a predisposition that’s marked and intense
Alike for provoking and giving offence.
But, however much justice lies in the complaint,
I doubt we’re as waspish as fellows who paint.
They’ll never agree, you may safely rely,
On the merits of any appeal to the eye
To ornament walls or display upon shelves
If the chap who produced it is one of them-
selves.
Some will greet it with raptures, while others
declare
It’s a horror that’s like to give children a scare.
What’s caviare to some, others designate tripe;
They argue in studios and squabble in type,
While the public perplexedly follows the fight
And speculates which —or if either —is right.
For Archibald’s sake, in Elysiam shades.
One trusts that no rumor those precincts invades
Of the apple of discord he flung on the board
In the prize he designed for our artists’ reward.
He well might be saddened to think of the folks
That to bitter dissensions it yearly provokes.
Irritabile genus. I shall not deny
There are poets to whom it may sometimes
apply,
But equable tempers and tactful restraint
Seem harder to find among brushes and paint.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Spoke”: Apropos of this rumpus
about the Archibald Prize, an Australian
was being taken round a modernist show
by a stranger with whom he had got into
conversation. “What do you think of
that one?” asked the stranger, pausing
in frdnt of a canvas. “Looks like a motor-
car to me,” said his new acquaintance.
“It’s a Madonna and Child,” said the
stranger, gazing lovingly at the picture.
“Well, it still looks like machinery to
me,” repeated the other. “It’s a Madonna
to me, and I ought to know because I
painted it!” rejoined the stranger.
“F.S.” discusses the matter:
I see that six Sydney artists have forwarded
a protest to the judges against the awarding ot
the Archibald Prize to William Dobell on the
ground that his picture is not portraiture but
caricature. Unfortunately many great artists
have in their day been regarded as caricaturists.
Corot’s “Bent Tree,” Whistler’s ‘‘Battersea
Bridge” and Manet’s “Olympia” seemed to their
contemporaries as caricatures of Nature. In
a traditional reviewal the artist who has seen
further than his fellows naturally appears in-
competent and clumsy because he violates the
public’s preconceived idea of what a picture
should be. But that doesn’t necessarily mean
that Mr. Dobell has produced a masterpiece
of painting. He seems to me to be com-
pletely in the modern fashion and most
“modernists” admire artists like Cezanne,
Manet, Van Gogh and Gauguin, and some ot
them strive to paint like them. There was a
philosophy professor in an Australian university
who stuttered. All his students stuttered, imitated
his tricks of speech, his accent and even his
gestures. As to whether they understood his
ideas is another matter. All the modernists
may be doing is imitating the stutters or
Cezanne, Van Gogh and company.
* * * *
“Birkenhead”: Tell “Oxmead” (B.
l/12f’43) that Liverpool’s “Dicky Sams”
derive from Richard Samuel Plimsoll,
M.P., father of the Mark. Liverpool is a
port with a large part of its population
interested in the sea and seafarers. Many
parents considered they owed a big debt
to R.S.P. and so named their boys
Richard Samuel.
* * * «
“F.S.”: Ballarat woke up recently to
find that the bronze busts of Andrew
Fisher and William Morris Hughes were
missing from their pedestals in the Prime
Ministers’ Avenue at the Botanic
Gardens. The avenue, which is in the
spirit of the one in the gardens of the
Tuileries in Paris, was established with
funds donated by Col. R. A. Crouch,
fellow-member of Andy and Billy and
generous art benefactor of the Golden
City. Vandalism or larrikinism is a rotten
reward for attempts to beautify pro-
vincial cities. This is not the first case
of carved masonry being abducted in
Ballarat. A marble statuette of Queen
Victoria was pinched from the City Hall
some time back, and has not been
recovered.
* * * *
“Stands Scotia”; Hour after hour the
troop train rumbled north through tree-
clad hills ; everyone felt he’d been in it
for weeks; then it wound into a green
gully and stopped. Robbed of the breeze
which movement had made, hemmed in
by tropic vine and timber, we began to
grill; then down the gully came a sound
that lifted the heads like a shot —a piper
playing “Cock o’ the North.” In “Desert
Victory” there was no more victorious
scene than the bands of the 51st High-
land Division swinging through Benghazi
playing the music “that will make a
coward fight.” It is to be hoped that
when the Victory March through Berlin
takes place pipers will lead the way, if
only to demonstrate that German military
arrogance is crude barbarity compared
with the superb, granite-faced swagger
that goes with a thousand years of fight-
ing tradition.
* * * *
“Curtain-raiser”: Gabriel Pascal, the
man who produced some of the Shaw
plays for the screen, is engaged on a film
version of the life of the playwright who
has been howling about income tax, and
has more or less selected his leading man
in George Sanders, whose salty wit and
supercilious manner are allegedly similar
to Shaw’s. Producer and actor must
have the hearts of lions if they are pre-
pared to face what G.B.S. is likely to
say about them. There is a legend that
when an eminent author submitted an
article on Shaw to a London paper the
editor, fearing libel actions, sent the
proof to the subject with a request to be
informed whether he would be offended
at its publication. “I have read the
article with interest,” said Shaw’s note
accompanying the return of the article,
“and have corrected the spelling and
punctuation.”
* * * *
“Avelona”: A colloquialism the Eng-
lishman finds it hard to adapt himself to
in Australia is our use of the phrases
“good night” and “good evening.” In
the Old Dart they greet a friend or ac-
quaintance with “good evening,” and say
“good night” on parting. In Australia
“good night” serves for both occasions.
I have known a Londoner only a few
weeks in this country feel hurt when
an acquaintance met him in the street
and greeted him with a loud “good
night.” The Londoner assumed his
Aussie friend meant a slight, and, some-
what huffed, passed on.
* Sc * *
“Si Anu”: In the whole lamentable
record of its bushfires Victoria has never
presented a more extraordinary picture
than did the beach at Beaumaris, where
60 houses were gutted. With nowhere to
flee to but the seashore, hundreds of resi-
dents and their families clustered there
with their cows, horses, goats, cats, dogs
and pet birds, while a wall of smoke and
flame poured over their heads from the
cliffs seawards. Soon the rocks and sand
generated such terrific heat that some of
the refugees took to the water. This in
a suburb not 20 miles from Melbourne.
Bad as the bushfires were, however, they
affected only a tiny area of this vast con-
tinent, a point neglected in the cabled
accounts that get into overseas news-
papers. Just after the bushfires of 1926
a Melbourne artist was packing his be-
longings in Paris when a French acquaint-
ance walked into his studio. “Where are
you going?” he asked him. “Back to
Australia,” said the artist. “You’re not
going there!” cried the astonished
Frenchman. “It’s too dangerous. Haven’t
you read the papers?”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Touching mistakes in
honorifics (B. 26/1/’44). An eminent
legal light of Melbourne was introduced
to his hostess as Mr. ——, K.C. Taking
him by the arm she sailed into the draw-
ing-room and asked her guests to meet
“Mr. Casey.”
“What bonzer names these Yankee towns have!. He says after the war
we're going to live in Sing Sing.”
“Nymboi”: Why the saxophone is
tolerated beats me. ’Arry Rickards, a
shrewd showman, game to try anything
once, turned it down. At the Tivoli one
night in the late ’nineties a fat man came
out in a gold-braided uniform, carrying
about a dozen saxes in various keys. He
rigged them on an easel, like the spanners
on an engine-room wall, and solemnly
proceeded to play a tune on each. The
dead silence which greeted the final
number was enough for ’Arry, and the
saxophonist appeared no more?
* * # *
“T.McN.”: For the first—and last-
time In my life I went to a baby show.
It was just like a cigarette queue—prac-
tically all women.
* * * *
.“Hamer”: “Ex-M.P.’s” disquisition on
wowsers in N.S.W, Parliament reminds
me of a notable one —J. B, Mercer,
M.L.A. for Rozelle, who was strict t.t
Like Jabez Wright, of Broken Hill, who
every session tabled a resolution to abol-
ish night sittings, Mercer was an early-
to-bedder. He usually disappeared at
teatime, and, except on one occasion,
was never seen in the House later than
9 p.m. The occasion of his breaking his
rule, was that his party’s majority went
missing and the Opposition, getting
wind of it, moved want-of-confidence,
Mercer, who was speaking when his
chief, Holman, realised the peril, was
told that he would have to keep going;
and keep going he did, repeating himself
continually and bickering with the
Speaker until the missing majority was
retrieved from the upper bar of the old
Tivoli pub. Mercer was presented with
a leather V.C. for the gallantry with which
he had held the fort.
* * * *
“Wianamatta”: Plea made by “P.A.”
for the teaching of pioneering history to
young Australians (B. 12/l/’44) moves
me to go further by suggesting that
they might be given some insight into the
geological structure of the land they live
in. How many Sydney kids know their
harbor is a sunken river valley that was
carved out of the shale and sandstone in
which it lies even as the Architect shape
the great Blue Mountain gorges heading in
the ridge along which runs the track to
western N.S.W.? Long before Phi lip
landed in Sydney Cove Australian history
began, and every railway cutting in the
district is an open book to those who
would understand the origins of the coun-
tryside in which such men as Phillip,
Banks, Hume, Sturt, Flinders, Bhgh and
Macarthur helped to shape the story ol
its civilisation. The key to such know-
ledge, and a fascinating one, lies to hand
in Father Curran’s Geology of Sydney
and the Blue Mountains. It has long
been out of print, and is pretty rare, but
could easily be abridged and republished.
* * * *
“Alex.”: In Maoriland nine out of ten
divorce cases in which evidence of in-
fidelity has been obtained through the
services of private inquiry agents are un-
defended, and it is perhaps for this reason
that Judges, up till recently, have not
found it necessary to lay down any
general rule as to how this class of evi-
dence should be regarded by juries. A
direction given by Northcroft, J., at
Christchurch, is therefore of some
moment. “You are not bound to exclude
the evidence because you don’t like the
witness’s occupation,” his Honor told the
jury, “but you must be careful with it
and watch it carefully. You must satisfy
yourselves that he is not saying he saw
what he did not see so that he can con-
tinue to get this class of business.” Aptly
and ably put.
**« ' *
“Nakhoda” on some lingual considera-
tions :
Whenever I hear our allies in conversation
I wonder what would have happened if the
advocates of phonetic spelling (as active in ray
schooldays as enthusiasts for Basic English are
just now) had been successful. We and our
trans-Pacific neighbors can understand one an-
other very nicely, for we share the same written
language. But if we had phonetised our sounds
and they had phonetised theirs it might be very
different. This matter of phonetisation is full
of pitfalls. The nearest a Dutchman can get
to “the day before yesterday” is “de dei bifor’
jeste’dei,” and even that is only an approxi-
mation, as there are some of our sounds he
simply can’t get his tongue round. English as
she is written is almost picture-writing like the
Chinese. “Trough,” “thorough,” “through”
and “slough” are symbols for the sounds they
represent and the English-speaking infant memo-
rises them much as do the Chinese their ideo-
graphs. One of the reasons orthodoxly given
for the cohesion of the Chinese Empire is that,
although a Fukinese, a Shantungite and a
Szechuan native give entirely different sounds
to a word, they all write it in the same way.
The Arabic numerals play the same role in
the European bedlam in a small way.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Comforting to beer-
drinkers was the announcement of Sir J.
C. Drummond, scientific adviser to the
British Ministry of Food, who says
riboflavin, an important vitamin recently
discovered, is present in appreciable quan-
tities in malt brewage and this may
explain the rarity throughout Britain of
clear-cut symptoms of vitamin deficiency
in war-time. Dr. Drummond declares
that “defieiency of riboflavin lays the
victim open to infectious diseases, diges-
tive disturbance, nervous depression and
general deterioration,” whereas an ade-
quate supply of it “wards off senility
and keeps a person in the prime
of life for years longer,” A lot
of my friends had instinctive know-
ledge of beer’s health-giving quali-
ties long before they received this scien-
tific justification. One at 87 rides a motor-
bike to the pub every afternoon. Another,
95 and as vigorous and active as a
brumby, has never run the risk of in-
curring riboflavin deficiency, since he has
gone to bed slightly mellow every night
for as long as he can remember,
* * * *
“Ikona”: The date of the Battle of
Hastings, mentioned by “Ken” (B.
26/1/’44) as one that nobody ever for-
gets, reminds me. The nickname I carried
into action in the South African War
was “William the Conqueror” —this in
spite of the fact that I answer to “Jack.”
My regimental number was 1066.
* * * *
“C.S.”; Premier Dunstan’s proposal to
plant trees along Melbourne’s St. Kilda-
road as memorials to Australian artists,
authors, sculptors, poets and composers
(B. 2/2/’44) is a waste of everything. If
he really wishes to assist culture, let his
Government make an annual grant of
£2OO each for the five branches of cul-
ture described. Thus, for a paltry £lOOO
a year, Victoria could have the honor of
being the first State to encourage native
art, music and letters.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: One of the planks
of my favorite afternoon paper’s plat-
form is protection of children against
horror films. Unfortunately it spoils the
effect by filling up space with bits clipped
from English papers, often sensational.
An example:
HANGED IN BEDROOM.
How a woman found her husband hanged
in her home was told at the Bexley Heath,
Kent, inquest on Charles Chapman, aged
37, an arsenal electrician, of Tyrell-avenue,
Welling. Mrs. D. Chapman said her hus-
band had suffered from nerves for a long
time. For six weeks he seemed very de-
pressed and quiet. Returning from shop-
ping, she had difficulty in getting into the
bedroom. When she did so she found her
husband suspended by a dressing-gown cord.
Why did the journal print that item?
Was it meant as a warning to wives not
to go shopping or to think twice before
marrying electricians? The only reason-
able conclusion is that the paper believes
its readers get a morbid kick out of hor-
rors and considers itself justified in en-
couraging them.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A scholarly friend puts
forward an intriguing historical theory
and claims it cannot be confuted. His
hypothesis is that a much more advanced
civilisation than that of today bombed
and blasted itself out of existence thou-
sands of years before our history com-
mences. The legends of dragons are the
vague recollections of flying tanks. At-
lantis, centre of the old-time cosmogony,
was blasted so full of holes that the sea,
rushing in to stir into activity old vol-
canic pits, caused seismic disturbances
that wiped it out. Great bits were bitten
out of the onetime highly-populated
Americas in the same way. And after the
peoples of the earth had used up all
their materials in bombing one another
out of existence, and disease and famine
had topped off the job, only the children
of a few who had escaped to the wilds,
forgetting all the arts, survived to start
human existence afresh. My friend
admits he has no proof of the existence
of a civilisation that destroyed itself
utterly. “The absence of evidence,” he
declares, “is proof that my theory is
correct,” Politicians reason like that.
Jfc % Jfc
“Feng-Shui” on East and West:
A cloak of silence has fallen over Japanese-
occupied countries, the new possessors not want-
ing neutral or international bodies to see what
they are up to. A similar veil fell over Asia
in the Middle Ages, but for a different reason.
Asia was divided amongst warring princes, and
the prevailing anarchy made foreign travel,
even for missionaries, a precarious business.
Then those military thunderbolt's the Mongol
Khans established an empire that stretched
from Pekin to Georgia and Bokhara, and their
enlightened legal code made it much safer to
travel in Asia than in Europe. In the thirteenth
century the popes sent missionary friars to the
Khan’s court. Mongolia was actually reached
by two of them, John de Plano Carpini and
William of Rubruck. It took Marco Polo
to revivify China, which had been so completely
forgotten that it wasn’t recognised as Cathay; in
fact, his European readers almost universally de-
cided that Marco had invented the vast, ordered
empire of Kublai Khan, with its postroads
covered daily by relays of fast horsemen, its
canals, irrigation works, extraordinary wealth,
science, industry and agriculture, not to mention
the splendors of the court at Kambalek and
the magnanimity of its ruler. It was s q unlike
their own disordered world that they thought
Marco was a liar until he slit the lining of his
coat at a party and out fell showers of
diamonds, sapphires and rubies. When the
death of the Great Khan and subsequent
dynastic troubles again turned Asia into a hotch-
potch of warring khanates, China once more
disappeared from the standard world maps, and
when it was rediscovered by Portuguese and
other voyagers via the seaways it was again not
recognised as the same place.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: A sunburnt, leathery,
bow-legged individual dropped off his
weary horse at the river pub, shed a hun-
dredweight or so of dust, licked his
chapped lips, spat with gusto and then
pushed his way into the bar. Realising
that they were about to witness the sating
of an outsize in thirsts, the mob watched
him as he breasted the counter. The pub-
lican, who knew a thirst when he saw it,
tentatively 'picked up a pintpot and
waited. The thirsty one cast a specula-
tive eye at the casks under their wet bags
on the counter, prospected the row of
bottles on the shelves and then brought
his gaze to bear on Bung, a slow, antici-
patory grin breaking his leathery coun-
tenance. Every man in the bar knew
that feeling of savoring the delight to*
come and all sympathised with the draw-
ing-out of the glorious moment before
the dry mouth croaked “Gimme a coupla
pints.” They held their breaths as the
mouth opened and expelled them violently
as the voice said “You got an under-
ground tank here?” “Yair,” said the
publican, pausing in the act of swinging
the pintpot under the spigot. “Then lead
me to her,” croaked the dusty one, “I’m
dry!” The publican managed to wave a
feeble hand towards the back door, then
collapsed in a stricken heap on his stool,
* * * *
“Plankton”: When it comes to long-
range weather prediction the much-
vaunted ant isn’t in it with certain fish
or bees. Long before a thunderstorm
arrives trout will leap out of the water,
ignoring all flies, this as a preliminary
to moving off into deeper water. Had
some bees which, during a long drought,
carefully sealed up all openings in their
hives except a small one at the entrance
as protection against flood-rains. Two
.weeks later the deluge came.
“Mat’s Mate”: I’ve no objection to
“V.J.8.” (B. 2/2/’44) reporting to the
Bushfire Prevention Committee the fact
that Mat put a heap of coals against the
wooden upright of a roadside advertising
sign ; in fact. I’ll hand on some additional
evidence as to location and time, both
important in matters of this kind. Loca-
tion, near Camden (N.S.W.); time, about
2 p.m. of a blustery day in mid-July.
Our hurry can be put down to the dis-
covery, a little earlier, of an empty house
behind the Macarthur-Onslow oval
where we hoped to spend the night drying
our clobber.
* * * *
“Ca’ Canny”: Tell “Bogaduck” (B.
29/12/ ’43) that his idea about develop-
ing the W.A. north is just “an idle
dream.” If he looks a little closer, start-
ing just above Perth, he will find that
same coastline monumented with the
ruins of industries that might have been.
At Port Gregory, just north of Geraldton,
he will find the remains of a fine salt
works; in Shark Bay the memory of a
fish cannery, the product of which was*
both moderately priced and excellent; at
Carnarvon the huge empty mutton
freezery, and so on. Fifty years ago the
north-west had four times its present
population. What happened to it? Ask
the politicians. Ask the Trades Hall.
“Inglestat”: It is a nice fancy that the
eastern and western parts of this con-
tinent might with profit exchange their
“One of youse two's got to go without meat and it ain't the dawg,
'cause 'e's in trainin'."
. r 1 _ ‘ ,
native flora and fauna, but I doubt
whether such a project would meet
with success. The range of jarrah is
limited to the hard, gravelly laterite of
the southern ranges and the sandy plains
between the hills and the sea. A change
in the nature of the soil or rock shuts
the jarrah off as cpmpletely as a palisade,
Nor is it likely that the Victorian black-
fish would live in W.A. streams. Murray
cod were tried in the Blackwood 40 years
ago, and although the cod seemed to
flourish for a time it is now long since
any has been seen. The marron might
take to Victorian streams, since the Cab-
bage Garden is a noted progenitor of
fresh-water crays, but again the marron,
like the Groperland gilgie, is of a
species entirely different from the crusta-
ceans of eastern streams and ponds ; the
W.A. crustaceans are linked with those of
South America. In the ’seventies Edmund
Stirling, newspaper owner and editor,
brought 1500 Sydney rock oysters to the
West and laid them out in the shallows
of Cockburn Sound ; none survived. In
the ’nineties Saville Kent tried the same
thing in the lower reaches of the Swan;
failure again. Even the koala can’t make
a do of it in the West.
“xr *,„■*„ * *
Naturala”; “B.4’s” par. on silence
and vigilance as attributes of bush
animals (B. 29/12/’43) is a nice piece of
imaginative writing, but where does he
get it to fit in the Australian bush?. With
the exception of the dingo, an odd mar-
supial cat and the imported fox we have
no carnivores at which the lesser bush
folk might tremble. Even in the African
world, where it might fit, the picture isn’t
correct, for the lion when he starts out
on the hunt roars. Nearer home I have
heard the yapping bark of the fox and
the long-drawn wail of warrigal; both
in the stillness of midnight, when presum-
ably on the hunt. With most animals,
as with man, the instinct is to get while
the going is good. With man it requires
the greatest effort of will to remain silent
and hidden while an enemy comes nearer
and nearer; the primal instinct to make
a dash for thd open even now leads many
a Jap in New Guinea to an early demise.
*** , *
“A.W.”: Honey sufficient to fill hun-
dreds of tins is dripping to the ground
from yellow-box and stringybark blos-
som on the central ranges and western
slopes of N.S.W. Apiarists weren’t able
to prepare for the bumper flow, and the
few in operation cannot cope with it.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: For several months Mum
had mildly complained of some mysteri-
ous agency that smudged the kitchen win-
dows as soon as they were cleaned. Sus-
pecting that a peewee had reverted to
a favorite .occupation of last summer —
fighting his reflection in the glass—l kept
an unfruitful watch one Sunday. Early
Monday morning the panes were crossed
and crisscrossed with greasy smudges,
proving the culprit to be nocturnal. It
took me a week to catch the miscreant
red-handed: a big green frog which,
either attracted by the light or in hopes
of dining off the flies on the inside of
the glass, walked up five feet of perpen-
dicular brickwork and across a square
yard of glass. Dame Nature was cer-
tainly in her most efficient mood when
she designed the vacuum valves on the
frog family’s feet.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “Horseless Horseman’s”
prune-stone-crunching orad (B. 19/1/ ’44)
, , „ , , „
must have been of a different breed from
the walers that carried Light Horsemen
through the 1914-18 campaigns. When
we were camped at an oasis in the Sinai
numbers of our horses got some mysteri-
ous sickness ; it couldn’t be diagnosed on
the spot, so the worst cases were sent to
hospital. Date stones were the cause. Our
horselines were located amongst the
palms, and with the ripening of the dates
the horses developed a sweet tooth but
could not digest the date stones, which
were mostly swallowed whole. The issue
of muzzles and strict instructions that
they had *to be placed on horses when
the nosebags weren’t on ended the
trouble, but many a Light Horseman gave
his equine mate a handful of dates when
there were no brasshats about. I’ve seen
some of the nags drop stones out of their
mouths but never saw nor heard of any
crunching them. .
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Rain! Tents leaking,
floor boards floating, kunai flat, the
mountains blotted out, clothes mouldy,
musty, foul—32 inches in 48 hours;
work it out for yourself. Roads that
were speedways are scored across by
pounding creeks that the previous week
couldn’t raise a trickle ; creeks of the
previous week are rivers ; but such are the
filtering powers of jungle-covered slopes
that all streams are still sparkling clear,
every pebble plain in the bottoms of
the glass-green pools. You slip in
the four-wheel drive and the truck
lurches through feet of black soup;
then down through one of these joyous
torrents and not only-are the tyres spot-
less but the crossing is like crystal again
before you’ve breasted the bank. Out
on the flats there are now strips of fresh
sand where formerly the kunai stood un-
broken, and we walk in to pawpaw-trees
we couldn’t reach before. But still the
clouds hang low; only the feet of the
great peaks behind us are out of the
heavy blanket; water condenses instantly
on the outside of a cool glass; the salt
has made a little pool in its dish; and
under the domes of foliage the ground is
green with seedlings of all sizes and
shapes straining for the light. That’s our
camp ; but the cobbers in a valley further
inland have had a comparatively dry
spell, and one of their worries is that
work sheds fall down on them because
the borers powder the posts in a few
weeks. To Long Jack, who hails from
Collarenebri, this seemed unnecessary;
so after the last crash he himself selected
the new cornerposts, and after replacing
the thatch roof watered them heavily for
a week. When I saw him last the hut
was snug on posts that sported fresh
young branches, and Jack was wondering
if he should now build a ladder up into it.
* * * ♦
“Blime”: The sports were staged by
a small township in the foothills of the
Gippsland alps ; the horses ranged from
Melbourne Show winners to half-
broken brumbies, with crack riders culled
from the coast to the border. “And one
was there, a stripling,” and if that kid’s
granddad didn’t hail from Snowy River
there’s something wrong. The wild, yell-
ing riders and snorting horses sounded
unreal, and time slipped back as those
mountain bushmen put over their stunts.
Slowly the sun dropped behind the far
range, throwing long tree shadows over
the clearing, as I watch some 40 picked
riders swarming down the ridge on nags
that made a man’s heart thump. They
reached the level, when out from the
scrub dashed a yout# on
a rangy bay. He’d dis-
carded his saddle and trap-
pings, and was giving the
best exhibition of horse-
manship I’d seen for quite
a bit. Presently a low
chuckle drew my attention,
and there several yards
away was a dim, uncertain
figure. Shadowy and
alone, he stood in the
shelter of a big gum watch-
ing the youth on the bay
as he whooped his bare-
backed nag over every
obstacle in sight. Round
went the rider at a mad
pace to disappear in the
timber, and I turned back
only to find that in those
few seconds the solitary
watcher had gone. I stared
all around. Shadows . . .
wind sighing in the wattles
. . . the mystic tranquillity
of evening. I caught my
breath wonderingly. Say,
can anyone tell me was
“Banjo” tallish, brown and
with little sun wrinkles
round the eyes?
‘C.E.”: The call came, and all hands
dashed off to the fire on Jake’s holding.
Already it was too late to save his shack;
so while the others fell back to a beaten
trail I raced for the old chap’s few live-
stock. Half-suffocating, I yelled at the
dog, cut wires and pounded smoke-stupid
jumbucks till the fire, swinging in that
direction, forced me to abandon the
bunch. Like madmen we worked and
sweate4 through the night to prevent the
fire sweeping the entire valley, and by
daylight had it controlled to a few smoul-
dering heaps. Besides Jake’s shack his
fences and stock were gone, and his
worldly assets were represented by a pair
of busted pants and his fire-scorched
boots. “How in thunder did it start?” I
demanded as we gathered round the
wagon for a mug of anything wet. Old
Jake looked sheepish. “Well,” he de-
fended presently, “with all these here
bushfires in the State a man can’t be .
too careful. So I thought I’d burn
a safety break round the ’ouse just t’
make sure of it.”
* * * *
“Milton”: So far as I know the Dar-
ling pea grows only on the western side
of the Dividing Range in the eastern
States, so the cause of the mystery disease
that has been attacking horses in the
Grafton (N.S.W.) district (B. 26/1/’44)
has to be sought elsewhere. The foliage
of the whitewood-tree was suggested ; this
also favors the inland, and the leaves
were always considered fair stock feed
during drought periods they never
appeared to have the toxic qualities of
the whitewoods of the Kimberleys
(W.A.). My own theory is that mil-
dew got to the grass and herbage
eaten by horses during the past lush
season. I had horses act similarly after
eating old hay when feed was young and
soft. Not knowing what to do, I drenched
with permanganate of potash as used for
stock suffering from plant poisoning': the
horses recovered.
THE LAST PORT.
“It’s Bill the Whaler come!” I said,
And out of bunk I sprang
And down the stairway swiftly sped
As loud the summons rang.
And wide I flung the outer door
And with a laugh I said,
“What has a ghost come seeking for
When I am warm in bed?”
Bill gripped my hand; “Look here,” he
said,
“We’ve g»t a party on.
There’s me and Horrigan and Ned
And Butcher and Long John,
And all the gang. I’ve come for you.
It’s out where ebb tides flow
—And I’ve a word from Susan, too,
That you loved long ago.
“We’ll have a better dance out there
Than any here,” Bill said.
By dim, weird ways we had to fare
While comets streamed o’erhead;
Down endless pathways lifby stars
Where Roaring Forties blew,
By-waters littered with ships’ spars
And figureheads we knew.
And soon I saw that mighty pub
To which Old Bill had led.
Its lofty dome the stars would rub
That burned so low o’erhead;
And as we came its mighty door
Was flung in welcome wide;
And ghosts were dancing on its floor
And fires and lights inside.
And there were Molly, Sal and Rose
And Susan I had known.
Loud as the gale from ice-pack blows
Old comrades cheered us on.
“You’ve come at last to Emerald Isle,”
Bill fold me, speaking low.
“Land that was found, then lost awhile,
Where all the shipwrecks go.”
Bill led me to the window then
That overlooked a bay
Where ghosts of old ships lived again
And in their beauty lay.
The Albion that sailed before
Them all —Eb Bunker’s ship.
The Runnymede and Marie Laure
That mutinied one trip.
The lovely Helen, last to sail;
The Prince that never paid;
The Derwent Hunter; at her rail
The beautiful old Maid;
The Waterwitch; the Offley, too,
Still strange in all her pride;
Of hello, Bill the Moocher knew
By instinct how to guide.
Threescore or more good ships there lay :
Whose names will never die.
The Flying Childers, bound away,
Went sailing full and bye.
The Grecian and the Caroline,
Aladdin, Leopold,
The Sapphire—all their names have been
On history’s pages scrolled.
I gazed on all the ships out there,
I looked on men inside,
Who once had found the sea so fair—
’Twas shameful they had died.
He touched my hand. I looked at Bill.
He gripped and held me fast.
“Welcome!” he said; “Old Barnacle,
“You’ve come to us at last!”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Chuck”; The little township church
was packed to overflowing. Presently
there was a flutter of excitement, the
organ wheezed the opening bars of the
bridal march and the bride appeared.
Down the aisle she came, slowly and
sedately, followed by a bevy of maids
and trainbearers. At the altar an awk-
ward pause ; then a whispered colloquy.
Everyone waited. Fifteen minutes dragged
by excruciatingly. The bridal march was
starting its eighth round as a distant
clatter of hoofs was heard. They came
nearer, slithered to a stop; the bride-
groom dived in and took up his position
with the wedding party. He puffed,
fidgeted impatiently, and, rubbing a sleeve
across his sweating face, leaned towards
the robed figure. “Hey, Parson,” came
the urgent stage-whisper, “get it over
soon’s y’ can, will y’? I got a cow down
with milk fever.”
“Dukamundra”; “Chuck” went to
unnecessary trouble in riding ten miles
for a packet of calcium injection when
he had a car pump and a hypodermic
syringe at his disposal (B. 19/1/’44). All
he had to do was insert a needle in each
teat canal of the milk-fevered cow and
pump up the udder until full of air,
then massage and bathe the udder with
warm water. Later he could have fol-
lowed this treatment with an inocula-
tion of mammitis vaccine, which, after
all, was the recognised treatment for
milk-fever before the calcium injection
became popular.
♦ * * *
“Old Priller”; When I hear of bush-
men wondering what to do with worn-out
prads (B. 2/2/’44) I think warmly of the
late Harry Leslie, boss of Prill Park
station, western Riverina. All his old
four-footed servants, equine and canine,
were allowed to spend their retirement in
the homestead paddocks, sure of water
and tucker no matter what befel in the
way of drought, flood or fire. We fre-
quently complained of ancient nags get-
ting good tucker in lean times while our
younger mounts went short, and of
“I must admonish you for wearing your hat in a manner which can only
be described as unairmanlike!”
rheumy hounds that got in everybody’s
road in the yards, but Harry merely
grunted.
* * * *
“The Seer”; Time, the future; setting,
the celestial regions. Before a pair of
enormous gates a male form sceptically
examines the metalwork on the outer side,
Presently he knocks and the gates swing
open to reveal the bewhiskered and white-
robed keeper. “Seekest thou entrance at
the golden portal?” inquires an ancient
voice. “Gold! ” sniffs the seeker. “Don’t
you believe it. Why, even if the Gov-
ernment let ’em use such material I. bet
they’d ’a’ been cashed long ago.” “Ah,
but there is no Government here,” ex-
plains the voice. “In this place there is
eternal peace.” “Never heard of such a
thing,” scoffs the other. “It can’t be
right. Here, let me in for ten minutes
and I’ll show you.” Ignoring the remark,
the patriarch selects the customary ac-
coutrements. “Say, look here,” grins the
newcomer patronisingly as he examines
them, “the bore size of this here halo’s
all wrong, and if the harp isn’t a lyre
y’ll have to prove it.” With a long-
suffering sigh the ancient waves him
back and reaches for the gates. “Gripes,
y’ haven’t much respect for yT hinges
if that’s the way y’ shut a gate,” calls
the reject. “Don’t y’ know that”
His voice is lost in the clang of the gate
and the rattle of bolts. Then, with a
sardonic smile “The 0.D.” drifts off to
seek accommodation elsewhere.
* * * *
“Moyhu”; Fire swept through the
dense wattle gullies fringing the grazing
country along the Upper King (Vic.), and
left them a desolate waste, apparently
without attraction for bird or beast. But
three days after the ground had cooled
and smouldering had died came an inva-
sion of worigas and bronzewings foraging
for roasted wattle seeds. In a matter of
days they convert a rangy pigeon into a
delicacy fit for any man’s table,
* * * *
“Black Bos’n”: There is good reason
to doubt that Gordon’s remark about
songless birds and scentless blossoms (B.
12/1/’44) was even original. In a volume
of The Library of Entertaining Know-
ledge (1836), under the title of “The Back-
woods of Canada,” is quoted a letter from
the wife of an emigrant officer. She
writes: “To redeem this country from
the censure cast on it by a very clever
gentleman I once met in London who
said ‘The flowers are without perfume
and the birds without song,’ I have
already discovered several highly
aromatic plants and flowers.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Those Abo-
iiars who solved the origin of the rabbit’s
tail should now give their learned atten-
tion to the Tasmanian tiger. Why this
striped, wolf-headed quadruped, the
largest of the flesh-eating marsupials,
should have a long, awkward rudder that
cannot be wagged and can only be
a hindrance to drag through bush is
beyond me. Incidentally, the last strong-
hold of the tiger is the uninhabited west
coast of Tassie below Macquarie Harbor
—the roughest country in the Common-
wealth —where it feeds largely on animals
washed up on the beaches. There at
lonely Port Davey a decade ago the only
signs of life were tracks of this marsupial
on the sands; and, chopping wreckage
with a mate at Bramble Cove in that bold
mountain-surrounded harbor one sun-
down, I was suddenly startled by a terri-
fying yell. I looked round in time to
sight two tigers staring at us a few feet
away, and to see my mate clout one with
an axe. On opening him up we found
he hadn’t a trace of food in his stomach.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Mention of the Mar-
garet Brock Reef and the near-by Cape
Jaffa fishing camp (B. 19/1/ ’44) recalls
that Lacepede Bay, running north from
“Now, gentlemen, to detonate the Mills hand grenade just remove the
pin — so!”
the cape, is one of the maritime wonders
of the world. Although it is a long, open
shore exposed to seas that sweep round
the world from Africa, so calm is the
ocean in an onshore gale that an open
boat can ride to a single anchor safely.
The reason for this has baffled authori-
ties of the Admiralty who have journeyed
to Kingston that onetime overseas-
loading wool port in the bay 15
miles from Cape Jaffa —to investigate the
maritime phenomenon. Many theories
have been propounded. The gradual
shelving of the bottom for 20 miles to
seaward and the existence of a wire-weed
bottom and ocean currents offshore are
thought to be contributing factors.
* * * *
“Dingo Dan”: We were all pretty free
of dingoes at the time, and we wondered
how Wirewhiskers, who lived across the
creek, collected such a hefty bonus every
now and then. One day I lost some stock
and rode over to his back paddock.
That’s how I found that to cattle-breed-
ing he had added dingo-breeding as a
very profitable sideline. Unfortunately
for him the local board shortly afterwards
disbanded.
* * * «
“C. 8.”: Reported from New York
that women are paying £250 for “Aus-
tralian opossum” fur coats. Except in zoos
there are no opossums in Australia. The
real opossum is found only in America.
The nocturnal beast with the thick fur
and the unique hind feet which mis-
takenly goes by that name in Australia
is the phalanger. The phalanger cannot
be trapped or destroyed without a per-
mit, so it is a bit of a mystery how the
skins get to New York. Of course, per-
mits are issued to farmers and orchard-
ists who complain that their crops are
being damaged by the creature, but the
source of the skins can hardly be these
people. It would be interesting to get an
explanation from a Government which
is pledged to protect the national fauna.
* *
4 ‘Gumsucker”: Reading that par.
about old Jacob digging a grave for the
deceased horse (B. 29/12/’43) reminded
me that I once enjoyed the acquaintance
of the sexton of an equine cemetery.
The earliest practice where I was born
was to drag the deceased Dobbin to the
nearest abandoned shaft, of which there
were plenty, and let the cadaver slip
down. This had obtained for some 30
years ; then some busybodies got worry-
ing about blowflies and typhoid, and an
ordinance was passed directing that the
equine remains should receive proper
earth burial. My sexton-gravedigger was
a realist —he dug no side channels ; nor
did he dig overdeep. If Dobbin’s legs
threatened to project above the surface
he simply lopped them off, his instru-
ments an old cavalry sword and-a wood
saw. The modern age has discovered
value in the carcass.
* * * ♦
“Anthropoid”: It used to be said that
Binghi was the lowest sort of human
being, but that was all wrong. Close
study of his conditions of life makes it
evident that his habits have been cleverly
adapted to them. His forbears were cut
off thousands of years ago in a country
that didn’t invite agricultural experiments
and whose animals weren’t of a sort
easily domesticated, so the abo. didn’t
get past the hunting stage of human de-
velopment. But he made the best of that
stage. Abo. customs, dialects, forms of
social relationship and religious beliefs—
all pretty complex—were well fitted to
the ends they had to achieve. Their
peculiar morality was strictly adhered to
as long as they were free from the in-
fluence of the white man. This is
what the explorer Eyre had to say of
them after some years spent in a district
constantly disturbed by strife between
whites §ind blacks: “Were Europeans
placed under the same circumstances,
equally wronged and equally shut out
from redress, they would not exhibit half
the moderation and forbearance that
these poor, untutored children of im-
pulse have invariably shown.”
* * * *
“Gnr. 0.W.W.”: I found Hori rocking
his piccaninny rather erratically in a
home-made cradle. First he would rock
up and down, then shake the cradle
vigorously from side to side, while the
infant howled. “What’s the idea?” I
asked, “It’s te brain-wave my missus get,”
the father explained. “She want young
Moko to be a sailor, so we getting fiim
used to it early.”
* * * •
“C. Cove”: To induce settlement on
the Swan River the Imperial Gov-
ernment offered land free in the
ratio of 40 acres for every £3
worth of actual industrial property,
food, tools, livestock, machines, brought
into the new colony. This put vast
areas in the hands of the well-to-do,
but left unpropertied persons out in the
cold. No indentured servant who had not
paid his own passage could get the free
land. Thomas Peel imported 400; and
when his vainglorious bubble of the Peel
estate burst they were left practically
destitute. To provide them with a living
Governor Stirling had part of Guildford
laid out in four- and five-acre
which Peel’s homeless people and others
might settle; an idea being that they
might provide seasonal labor for larger
landholders, Guildford soon proved to
be the best land in the colony, the
owners of its small plots before long
achieving a prosperity equal to that of
many of the thousand-acre men.
* * * *
“Red Centre”: The O.T. Line had
been open a few years when word came
to the relay station at Tennant Creek
that a party of overlanders returning to
the Brunette Downs cattle station were
in difficulties from thirst. Foreman Alan
Giles, Mounted Constable Shirley, three
other whites, a couple of trackers and a
gin at once set out as a relief party.
Three days out on the ashbed downs the
relief party found itself unable to come
up with the Brunette Downs men, who
were still going according to their tracks,
so it was decided to turn back and travel
by night, the guidance being entrusted to
the black boys. These, however, went
to sleep in the saddle, overshot the tracks
they were supposed to pick up and so led
the party far into the desert to the south.
When the mistake was discovered it was
night again. Morning found the now
thirst-stricken party travelling due west,
anxious to strike the wire wherever it
might be found. The brothers Phillips
were the first to drop. Linesman Arthur
Rees followed. Horses had succumbed
long before. Then came the turn of Con-
stable Shirley. The two black boys had
gone off on their own, so only Giles and
the gin now staggered across the blazing
sand. Finally Giles went down. He
awoke about midnight to the taste of
water. Left alone, the gin had crawled
on another three miles to water, and
carried some back in the crown of her
greasy cap.
THE 1884 PENNY.
By twenty thousand fingers I’ve been pouched,
In twenty thousand pockets I have couched,
u Ve keen seen in goodly company
With members of the aristocracy,
\*7i C florin and the proud half-crown,
Who with hauteur and prim disdain looked
down
On me, the rouseabout, the humble brown.
Yea, even the threepenny-bit was too well bred,
The saucy little imp, to share my bed;
i’orin the purses of the rich and smart
The copper and the silver dwell apart.
In many a till and many a slot-machine,
Long months I’ve slept; in palaces, in slums,
In churches harbored; and that great old Queen
Is but a cloud upon my polished side,
Rubbed slowly smooth by twenty thousand
thumbs,
And my birth date can hardly be descried.
Handle me gently, you who now command me,
Spare me a passing thought, and when you
hand me
On to the tramguard or the beach minstrel,
Speed your old servant with a kind farewell.
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
The manufacturers desire to notify the public that, all Government orders having-
been overtaken, immediate delivery of private orders can be given. Ample supplies
of Hygeia Dissolvent and paper are assured.
This self-contained sanitary system gives the comfort and safety of sewerage to
homes in unsewered areas, no water supply being required.
It Is not just a modified closet pan. Closet pans and Sanitary rates are eliminated,
as well as the unpleasant conditions inherent in closet pans.
INSTAE FOURS BEFORE THE HOT WEATHER.
Any Handy Man Can Instal It. Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE: Family Size, £l9/2/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating, 10/9.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
36 Bridge St., Sydney. 'Phone: 81053. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, S’carfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; B. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—-
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0 Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 768 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 688, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Mules Operation.
“Sheepo”: In recent discussions anent
its value one advocate said it would save
80 p.c. of losses if all sheep were treated
by the Mules method. Possibly it would
in normal seasons if the Muled sheep
were crutched regularly, but in fly-waves
the fly is apt to strike anywhere.
The Mules operation consists of pinch-
ing the crutch wrinkles with Burdizzo
pincers and cutting them off inside the
jaws with a knife. The idea is to‘remove
the sacs caused by the wrinkles and
allow urine and dung to go straight to the
ground, thus giving a dry crutch. The
operation is simple, and after a little
instruction any sheepman can do it.
Graziers who have “Muled” their sheep
are almost 100 p.c. in favor of the opera-
tion. “Muling” of lambs at an early age
would undoubtedly save strike trouble
later on, since the big majority of strikes
take place about the crutch.
But why breed wrinkly sheep and
make the operation necessary? Fine
wool can be grown by plain-bodied
merinos just as well as by wrinkly types,
and if sheep are to be rendered less sus-
ceptible to fly-strike the removal of the
attraction is essential by natural and not
artificial means.
Introduction of the Vermonts'was the
main cause of sheep becoming an attrac-
tion for blowflies, and until all “concer-
tina” merinos are outbred from Aus-
tralian flocks fly-strike will cause heavy
annual losses. If wrinkly sheep ceased to
exist the Mules operation wouldn’t be
needed.
Dairy Prospects.
“Pat Ater/’: In Eastern Australia
prospects of the continued high produc-
tion which followed bountiful spring
rains are not bright. Winter yield is
always lower, and a dry autumn will
lower it further. Lack of man-power
stopped much cropping and fodder con-
servation.
The dairy farm with a fair supply of
lucerne or cereal hay and silage will not
be much shorter in its winter production,
particularly on the coast, where there is
always an odd green pick. Farmers in
the Sydney milk zone have not been
helped by Authority in this matter. At
Campbelltown, J. R. Warner’s four big
paddocks of oats have been wasted be-
cause of lack of man-power. As a result
up to 80 trucks of winter feed must be
bought—with resultant strain on trans-
port—if available. There was also a loss
of £3O spent on seed.
It is not only the shortage of skilled
permanent hands, but casual labor for
rush periods is missing. What has been
offering at intervals is inefficient and un-
reliable. Many walk out. Farmers
cannot afford to pay award rates for
such assistance, though they’d pay them
to permanent skilled men willingly. A.
C. Fletcher, of Doonside, says permanent
hands saved his business. But trafficking
in and high bidding for such hands make
dairying no longer economical. The solu-
tion lies in the release of sufficient skilled
dairy-workers. Without them the dairy-
men can’t carry on, and all hope of more
production is vain.
Potato-growing.
“Sarina”: Being allied plants spuds
and tomatoes suffer from the same
diseases. A crop of potatoes is not likely
to be a great success when grown on
land that has grown tomatoes. Generally
speaking, new land every time is’ best.
Chief requirements are moist but well-
drained soil and plenty of potash.
Potatoes adapt themselves pretty well to
soil conditions, but heavy soils are likely
to produce the biggest crops because
they’re usually better supplied with
natural potash than medium or light
soils. But there’s a good percentage of
potash in organic manures and wood
ashes, and where these are available in
"No, we ain't bothered much with moskeeters , but y' should've been 'ere
when the flies were bad."
* aiJ amoun ts soils deficient in natural
Potash can grow good crops, provided
the f are ploughed and brought
to a ne
Good, sound seed must be used, and
it’s wise to disinfect it before sowing,
Add one pint of commercial formalin to
15 gallons of water and bring the mix-
ture to 125 deg. F. by heating. Keep it
a t that temperature until the seed spuds
have had a 150 secs. immersion. After
immersion cover them with canvas or
blankets for an hour. They are then
ready for sowing.
Choose a variety suitable for your
tend. Scottish Triumphs are best for light
a «d sandy soils. Early Manistees like
heavy soils. Carmens, Brownells and
Manhattens grow on a wide range of
soils.
Meatworks manure with the seed is
good. Regular inter-row cultivation will
keep weeds in check, and the rows them-
selves should be hoed. Plants should
no. be permitted to rise very high out
of the soil. Unless the ground is
loosened frequently it will cake and
crack, and potato moths may reach the
tubers. Rainy weather may bring on
Irish blight. A 4-4-40 Bordeaux mixture
will check the blight in its early stages.
Don’t spray plants when they are
withered for want of water.
Arthritis in Pigs.
“Hux”: You can’t mistake it. Lame-
ness sets in and loss of condition results.
Main causes are infections, injuries,
poisoning or mineral deficiencies in the
feed—mostly lime or phosphates.
Older pigs are usually attacked by
organisms of swine erysipelas, abortion
or tubercle trouble. Course of the disease
depends on severity of infection. Some
animals stage a comeback in a few
weeks. In others, joints remain enlarged
and wasting of the leg muscles follows.
In the worst cases the animal dies within
a few days, though arthritis itself isn’t
the direct cause.
Injuries from bad housing and over-
crowding induce the disease. Develop-
ment through poisoning may be due to
milk acids dissolving the zinc in newly-
galvanised tanks or skim-milk pipe lines.
Keep the lines clean by filling with a
solution of molasses and water after
each milking.
To forestall mineral deficiences, supply
pigs from three months with one small
handful of ground limestone per week in
the trough or feed one-third ounce of
lime per day. At the same time give
them lots of sunlight. The sunlight makes
vitamin D, necessary for the absorption
of the mineral into the system.
For a good mineral mixture try 251 b.
ground limestone, 251 b. steamed bone-
meal, 51b. common salt and fib. phos-
phate. Add one teaspoon daily to feed
of young pigs, working up to one table-
spoon for adult pigs. Overfeeding is
another source of trouble.
Trees on the Farm.
“Graz”: Planting kurrajong in groves
(B. 12/1 / ’44) would mean having ideal
fodder and shade trees in one .spot in-
stead of scattered over the property where
needed. Seedlings in permanent groves
would need to be spaced 20ft. apart as
against only 4ft. in nurseries. Trees in
groves would use an area 25 times as
large as in nurseries, and would have to
be kept free of stock and rabbits, and the
seedlings weeded and watered just the same.
The nursery method means little if any
extra work, and you can plant the trees
afterwards in strategic positions all over
the property.
Gather seeds about May and plant in
well-prepared beds in September, as you
would sow vegetable seeds. The follow-
ing spring plant seedlings in the nursery
4ft. apart, with rows a similar width.
Keep rows straight for easy cultivation.
When the trunks reach a height of 6ft. or
7ft. cut off the roots from under the bole,
also the foliage, and then plant them out
in the paddocks in holes previously pre-
pared. Watering will be necessary until
the roots get a hold, but no fencing will
be needed.
“Kenwood”: Add to the list of worth-
while trees the handsome wilga (Geijera
parviflora) and known to sheepmen as
excellent for fodder and shade.
Good specimens reach a height of 25ft.
and a spread almost as much. Wilga is
one of the most attractive of the smaller
native trees. Owing to the graceful weep-
ing habit it is called in some districts
“Australian willow,” but wilga is better.
Anybody growing sugar gums on the
farm needs to keep a careful watch for
those white wood grubs generally known
as borers. The enormous damage being
done to our bush trees by these grubs is
part of the price we are paying for the
loss of so many native birds.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: Where pigs are kept on a dairy
farm a common mistake is to allow them
access to the cow pastures. A full-grown
pig will eat as much grass as a cow and
foul or destroy as much again. Keeping
the pig-runs separate will show more
profit from the combination.
“Agro”: To keep your empty corn-
sacks away from the mice run a wire
across the barn under the rafters and
hang the sacks on it. On each side of
the bags have the wire threaded through
a piece of tin about nine inches square.
This prevents the mice from doing the
Blondin act across the wire to the sacks.
“Ninety-nine”; For iron roofs, for the
interior and exterior of grain silos built
of black or ungalvanised iron and water
tanks, as a priming paint for new
cement and as a cheap protective cover-
ing for rough woodwork, there is nothing
better than a mixture of 141 b. cement and
one gallon of boiled linseed oil. The
mixture should be kept thoroughly
stirred and applied in warm weather.
Ordinary white-lead paint can be applied
over it successfully.
“Plane Creek”: Tick fever accounts
for more fowls than any other disease.
Symptoms in adult birds are frequent
greenish-yellow motions, shrunken, dis-
colored comb, ruffled feathers, heat in the
legs. Chicks lose the use of their legs
and die in a few hours, fowls in a few
days. Only means of prevention is to
keep the hen houses scrupulously clean
and regularly sprayed with disinfectants,
kero.-emulsion or crude oil. Use mov-
able perches and scrub them often with
hot water. Ticks on the fowls may be
killed by a mixture composed of equal
parts of salad oil and kerosene,
“Kenwood”: The honey locust (B.
26/1/’44) is a fine tree, but surely some
one pulled the leg of the writer with the
tale that in some soils three to five crops
of seed pods are produced in a year and
that a mature crop can be over 5001 b.
The tree is deciduous, and, allowing 12
weeks for winter, a flower and mature
seed pod 12 to 20 inches long have to be
produced every eight weeks in the super
district with the super soil and the super
tree.
“A.8.H.”; In this (Dirranbandi) part
of Queensland a man has transplanted
four kurrajongs and four bottle-trees
successfully. The trees were from 9in.
to 12in. thick 3ft. from the ground and
10ft. to 15ft. high. They were dug out
to practically the bottom of the bulb
and then pulled out by motor-truck,
loaded and carted 15 miles and replanted
into already prepared. The trees
were watered well now and then and
have all done well.
“Butcher-bird”; Have proved this when
burning out tough jarrah stumps. With
an auger drill an 18in. hole in two or
more places (according to the size of
the stump), then fill up with saltpetre.
Plug holes with short, round bungs
chopped off any handy sapling stem and
seal with wet clay, if available. Do this
in late winter, and then forget about the
stumps until midsummer, when a match
and a couple of logs rolled alongside
will do the trick.


ƒ
m.
m
W&m
m
Wi
\
w
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
In Vacuum Refineries, thearf of Grease-
making has been practised for over 50
years...and today, nearly 400 different
varieties are being made.
There are greases that spread like
butter-and just as pure.
Greases that are hard, soft, rubbery or
spongy. Greases that repel water-
others that mix with it. Some melt at
less than 100°, others will defy 450°.
They may contain natural or synthetic
rubber, wool waste, horse or goat hair,
ground cork, graphite, mica, gypsum,
asbestos, talc and any of the positive
metals such as lead, copper, zinc, alu-
minium, sodium, calcium, etc.
Until Vacuum commenced the manu-
facture of High Grade greases in this
country, most were imported from
overseas, but now, all the many greases
for War and Civilian purposes are
manufactured in Australia.
MOBILGREASES, MOBILUBRICANT
GARGOYLE GREASES
VACUUM GRAPHITE GREASES
VOCO ROLLER BEARING GREASES
VACUUM SKIP GREASES
VACUUM GREASE D.A.F.
GARGOYLE GREASE FAVORITE
VOCO TUNNEL BEARING GREASES
GARGOYLE SPONGE GREASES
Grease for Munitions. Grease for Essen-
tial Industry. Grease for Armoured
Fighting Vehicles and Transport,
Grease for Aircraft and Ships. Grease
for all types of service in war and peace.
Serving the Nation on Land\ Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
UNCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA*
to for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • •
Always smooth
CRAVENT
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years* Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds I
5064 a
v M w /\ /V. y\.yf.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Limited “Liberals.”
(“Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.)
In England and America some so-
called liberals allowed themselves to be
shoved by the Communists into a hue
and cry over the release from jail of the
stooge Black Shirt Sir Oswald Mosley.
A real liberal would have accepted Home
Secretary Morrison’s statement that
“these extraordinary powers of deten-
tion without trial must not be used ex-
cept in so far as they are essential to
national safety.” That’s in the British
liberal tradition. But the neo-liberal goes
along with the Communist member of
Parliament, William Gallacher, who
exuded the Fascist principle that “if
prison would shorten the life of Mosley
or any Fascist, then prison is the best
place for him.”
Returning to America, we find a widely
read liberal columnist, lamenting the fact
that “Risorgimento,” an Italian news-
paper which we allow to be published in
Naples, prints articles favoring Marshal
Badoglio as well as articles attacking the
King. According to this commentator,
“great forces are at work in Italy,” a
fact which appears to convince him that
freedom of discussion is somehow a little
prissy. The Italians must be allowed to
decide for themselves, he thinks, but
apparently only after reading one side of
the case. However, when Allied military
authorities objected to Italian anti-
monarchist meetings, our liberals very
properly howled.
A hint at the explanation for this in-
and-out support of free expression is
given by another “liberal” commentator
Who is very hard on Assistant Secretary
of State Berle for saying that the United
States has no intention of intervening in
the affairs of other States. “The question
we face,” says this wise man, “is not
whether to intervene or not to intervene,
but to intervene in whose behalf and in
what degree.”
All right, “in whose behalf?” That is
the question to which these critics of
traditional , American foreign policy
should begin thinking up the answers. If
they mean that the United States should
underwrite “great forces” or “the revolu-
tion in Europe”—us one of them more
frankly describes it —we think the time
has come for greater frankness, because,
after all, the American people are paying
a heavy price for this war. If the end
is not to be the “four freedoms,” but a
new despotism which differs from Fas-
cism in name only, there will be a wide-
spread suspicion that the price of vic-
tory is considerably above the ceiling.
If liberalism is so neurasthenic that it
trembles to think of a Mosley ailing at
home instead of in prison, and wants
Italians shielded from the wrong edi-
torials, then liberalism has become some-
thing not worth saving.
Air Raids’ Toll.
(U.S. Associated Press report.)
In terms of quick and violent death
among civilians, the world has never
known anything to equal the Allies’ air
attacks on German cities.
Few, if any, peace-time earthquakes,
floods, fires or explosions have brought
a loss of life comparable to that piled up
by a single blockbuster attack on such
often-bombed cities as Berlin, Hamburg,
Cologne, Essen, Hanover, Mannheim and
Ludwigshafen.
An indication how the German dead
must be piling up is provided by Lon-
don’s experience in 1940-41. Prime Min-
ister Churchill announced that between
September 7 and October 7, 1940, the
Germans had dropped 2500 tons of
bombs, killing almost 7000 civilians and
injuring 10,000. Subsequently, Viscount
Halifax said that, up to the end of 1941,
43,357 men, women and children in the
British Isles had been killed in air at-
tacks and possibly 50,000 had been seri-
-ously injured.
0n the other side of the world the
j a p anese bombing of virtually defenceless
Chungking on May 4, 1939, ran up an
official death toll of 4572 an d a wounded
list of 3637 ag flames leapt through its
closely-set, tinder-dry wooden homes and
buildings with terrifying speed,
The Q ermans have seldom announced
casua i ty tolls, but in April, 1942, they
acknowledged that 8000 had died in
Cologne and Essen. In July, 1943, they
est i ma ted 10,000 dead in Hamburg,
p ro m all accounts, it seems likely that,
gQ £ ar> jj am b ur g has been the scene of
t h e greatest man-made disaster. Persis-
tent reports., last September maintained
that 18,000 had died in one shelter alone
and that some 30,000 had been killed or
wounded or were missing.
Secret British “City.”
(From a report by the “Christian Science
Monitor’s” London correspondent.)
From an underground city carved out
of solid rock will flow much of the am-
munition to be used in the Allied inva-
sion of Europe.
The British started building this huge
bomb-proof arsenal seven years ago. It
has been one of the best-kept war secrets.
Details of the vast stores are, of course,
still secret.
Back in 1936 someone at the War
Office with a hunch about the future had
what then was considered a wild idea.
Starting with a small crew of specialists,
the number of workers was drawn from
all over England and grew into thousands.
Hundreds of thousands of tons of rock
had to be moved and new tunnels cut
linking old caves. All the workmen were
sworn to secrecy.
All that was known about their mole-
like jobs was that they were working at
“the dump.” Hundreds of rumors spread,
but the public never knew exactly what
was going on. The most persistent rumor
was that it was an emergency foodstore.
It was —food for guns.
One enters the underground city
through what looks like an ordinary rail-
way tunnel. The interior is a maze of
tunnels, rail lines, conveyor belts, eleva-
tors, storage rooms, offices and barracks
for workmen and guards.
“I was here three months before I
could say I knew the place properly,”


j#
OJ
n
n
B
&
f#
m
€T
Tifert for
Today the Masse Battery is totally at war,
Doing all the heavy jobs o’ work it’s such a tiger for.
So if it’s hard to get one there’s a hush-hush reason why .« •
But there’ll be lots, and finer, Masses in the post-war bye-
and-bye.
Now we’ve learnt what a kick a Masse gives a tank, a ’plane,
or jeep.
We’ll be using Masse Batteries for mustering post-war sheep.
And ex-servicemen and women home around the place again
Will do their bound’ry riding with a Masse and a ’plane!
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 1-12-43.
BATTERIES
are tigers for work
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS
0
UR SECONDARY INDUSTRIES
are of PRIMARY IMPORTANCE
\\\
v
W/
k\
\iL
44
'li
W'\
'To
VMV
\V
&
O Stimulated by the demands of war,
Australian industry Kas grown to full stature in
tbe past few years. Achievements that would have
been bailed as outstanding events in our industrial
history in normal times have been accepted as
part of the day’s work in the accelerated tempo of
this time of war. Australia must hold the place
she so meritoriously has won in the manufactur-
ing world . , . she must exploit to the full her
proven ability to hold her own against the world
in the field of secondary industries.
We have the plants and the personnel, and it is
vital to Australia that we shall keep our plants
busy and our personnel employed in the post-war
years. In our secondary industries there is oppor-
tunity for profitable employment for many thou-
sands . . . and an avenue for the application of a
“fifth” freedom-—the freedom to develop our own
industries within our own land for the ultimate
prosperity of Australia and Australians.
a
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL
PORT KEMBLA, N. S. W.
SHEETS
C3O-4J
said the commanding officer. A stranger
gets hopelessly lost in five minutes.
Over the entrance of one of
storage sections is painted the words “Ger-
many’s Bogey,”
Among other features of the place are
a telephone exchange operated by A.T.S.
(Auxiliary Territorial Service girls),
modern workshops, an air-conditioning
system and an emergency generating plant
powerful enough to provide power and
light for a whole township.
Yet on emerging from the depths of
the earth into daylight one sees only
peaceful pasture land and grazing cows.
Lend-Lease Complaint.
(Senator R. Owen Brewster, one of the touring
U.S. Senators, in December “Collier’s .”)
While I was in North Africa, negotia-
tions were in progress for the purchase,
by United States civilian agencies, of the
Moroccan wheat crop. This wheat was
not to be used to feed the Army. It was
to be used to feed the civilian populace.
When word got around that Uncle Sam
was in the market, the French Govern-
ment, which controls prices, raised the
price—speedily and twice. The figure
agreed to was $2.10 a bushel —60 cents
more than wheat in the United States was
bringing the American farmer.
Our questions as to this exorbitant
price were lightly brushed off: “We an-
ticipate that it will be fixed up through
reverse Lend-Lease.” Inquiries about our
purchases of vegetables were likewise dis-
missed : “We are working on the assump-
tion that reverse Lend-Lease will cover
it.”
But we found that reverse Lend-Lease,
in many instances, is either a fiction, use-
ful for political purposes in the United
States, or an unabashed imposition on
our generosity with taxpayers’ money.
Our Lend-Lease aid to Australia
amounts to more than $500,000,000. Aus-
tralia, which keeps an account, charges us
with a little less than $200,000,000 of re-
verse Lend-Lease. A substantial part of
that total is arrived at by computing the
cost of the roads and airports which Aus-
tralia built and owns but which we are
using for that country’s defence and in
furtherance of our joint naval-military
operations in the far Pacific. Some of the
remainder is charged against us as rent
for these and other facilities necessary to
the effort to keep the Jap from Australia.
Between January 1, 1942, and June 30,
1943, the United States bought nearly
$100,000,000 worth of war minerals and
materials from Australia. We paid cash
on the barrelhead. In fact, all of our last
year’s purchases from the British Empire
were cash on the barrelhead. Asked about
this, our .Lend-Lease Administrator ex-
plained: “The overall financial condition
of the Empire has thus far required that
these purchases be for cash.”
Yet Australia entered the war with a
debt of about five billion dollars. [The
true figures are $4250 million at $3.29 to
the £A.] Today it is some $200,000,000
less than that. [The true figures are $6925
million on Sept. 30, 1943, $2675 million
greater than before the war.] The total
debt of Great Britain, her dominions and
possessions has increased in four years of
war by 36 billion dollars. In two years
of war the debt of the United States has
increased 100 billion dollars.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
In London during the progress of the Tehran
conferences, Marshal Jan Smuts pointed out that
Britain was trailing as a member of the Allied
trinity and that “a closer working agreement be-
tween Britain and the smaller democracies of
Western Europe” might be encouraged to
correct this uneasy situation. In other words,
since “France has gone” and since it has been
decreed that Germany is to be destroyed, Britain
faces a Europe lacking leadership save that of
Russia, “the new colossus that bestrides this
continent.” Of course, such is the popular infatu-
ation of British opinion with the ideological
view of the war, Marshal Smuts’s remarks
produced a “storm of protest.” Democracies
consent to wage wars only to “end war” or for
some equally apostolic purpose, and the idea
that it may be well, when new concentrations
of power are forming, to take thought for the
morrow is greeted as “appeasement,” if not
downright treason. Nevertheless, the energy
with which Stalin repudiates any hint of con-
federation in Europe makes it plain that the
Smuts anxieties are not without substance
“Saturday Evening Post."
* * * *
It may be that China will reverse the form
of centuries and become the dominant Power
in the Far East. Nevertheless, it is disquieting
to note that not even the war with Japan has
produced anything like unity in China, where,
according to a dispatch in the New York
“Times,” one of the tasks assigned to Gen.
Joseph W. Stilwell is to see to it that equipment
sent to the Chiang Government under Lend-
Lease is not used to shoot Chinese Communists
instead of Japanese. With Japan safely behind
her 1894 frontier, it is not unreasonable to
expect the Chinese civil war to get worse instead
of better. Will Russia, already an Oriental
Power with a record of pressure against Chinese
interests, bestride Asia as well as Europe?
Will American public opinion permit a long-
term patrol of Asia? Or will a post-war con-
federation be able to handle all these problems?
r —“ Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The Allied air assault has forced Germany
to concentrate 70 per cent, of her fighter
strength in the West. Of this the Eighth Air
Force [American] reports 4100 fighters de-
stroyed, 911 more probably destroyed and 1821
damaged. The North-west African Command
reports 3146 ’planes shot down and 2426 de-
stroyed on the ground. The R.A.F. reports
232 night fighters destroyed and hundreds more
damaged. This makes a grand total of around
12,000 German ’planes put out of action last
year, which is probably equal to Germany’s
total production in that category. — N..Y.
“Times."
* * * *
Some bold thinkers believe that if 20 to 30
aircraft-carriers —properly protected by a fleet
—struck directly from Hawaii against the coast
of Japan, the United States could secure air
superiority. Twenty to 30 aircraft-carriers
would mean almost 2000 to 3000 ’planes —a
force that could “saturate” Japanese air de-
fences and, properly handled, Japanese air
strength. Such an attack, more than anything
else, would be likely to force the main enemy
fleet out of harbor and into action. If the
enemy’s air and sea power were defeated, the
main Japanese islands could be invaded directly
from the sea. This is a bold conception, but
it is perhaps a possible one, for we shall have
carriers in the dozens, in fact, in the scores, next
year. For the immediate future our strength,
though probably not great enough for such
daring, is certainly great enough to allow us
to develop a Central Pacific offensive. And it
is the Central Pacific amphibious offensive against
the Gilbert and Marshall groups, Wake and
Marcus and eventually perhaps Guam and the
Bonins that offers the best route of approach
to the “heartland” of Japan. For the war
against Japan is—and must remain—primarily
a sea-air war. — Hanson W. Baldwin, N.Y.
“Times" war commentator.
* * * *
Germany is still strong in troops, weapons,
armor and industry. Her food situation is
better than it was in 1918. Revolt against the
Government is impossible so long as the army
stands firm; and notwithstanding its setbacks in
Russia, North Africa, Sicily and Italy the army
shows no sign of disintegration. Germany’s
territory has been ravaged from the air but it
has been nowhere invaded. On the. contrary,
she retains a firm grip on the major and most
productive part of her-conquests. In fact, she
has more striking power and more resisting
power than she had in 1939. But she has lost
something that she had in 1939, in 1940 and in
1941. She has lost the expectation of victory.
—N.Y. “Times."


Public Notices.
I, SILVIO RIZZARDO, of Italian nationality, bom
at Onigo di Piave, Italy, and resident 16 years in
Australia, now residing at Murray Farm Road,
Beecroft, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, FRANCIS EUGENE FELEDY, of Hungarian
nationality, bom. at Budapest, Hungary, and resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 4 Strathfleld
Square, Strathfleld, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
i
Established 1808 in Kelgn of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
■
■
I
m
£
:■ £ :
m
*
i
1
n
f&O
m
mm#
V~3
m
$ , ■
V S :
i
K
1
«
•51
-££
■
S« n
H
nation
a
to
Key
qlibours
of» cl
Wherever you find good roads,
commerce and industry thrive.
Where there are bad roads the
fortunes of the whole nation
languish. . . . Isolation and loneli-
ness eat into the hearts of the
people.
The future of Australia depends
first on the development of vast
areas by water and soil conserva-
m
m
m
lion, irrigation and cultivation . . . then on the development and
maintenance of roads and airports. These will bring our vast
hinterland closer to rail and dock, closer to markets.
Caterpillar Tractors and W. & J. Earth-Moving Equipment, with their
huge working capacity, have proved, over and over again, that they
can perform these tasks at a fraction of the cost and of the lime of
older methods. Just now all our resources are turned to winning the
war, but we are also laying plans for helping win the peace.
CATERPILLAR/>/£?#*
RIG. U.B. PAT. OFP.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS end WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. ‘Phone—Gunnedah 32 6,
Service Engineers: Mr. J, A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2BB6. 102 Melbourne St., -
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin Si., Innisfail. 'Phene—lnnisfail 475.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
C(8-33-43
II
.
1
f
u
mmm
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AlsID
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy small collection of British colonial
stamps.—3421.
To buy “National Geographic Magazine” for
i r 116 ’ October and December, 1943, and “Life”
(U.S.A..) of October 4, 1943.—3422.
To buy a leather or fabric gun case to suit
t-g- shotgun, 30in. barrels. —3423.
1 o buy Ranks and Uniforms of the French
Army, Navy and Air Force, published about
1940 by Seeley, Service, London. —3424.
Information Sought.
Is it possible to avoid - newspaper publicity
in a divorce case (heard in N.S.W.) by obtain-
ing an order for a closed court ?
The Judge, ip exceptional circumstances, may
order that the whole or part of any evidence
shall not be published, but this power is very
rarely exercised.
Details of duels fought in Australia?
Three are of some historical importance: (1)
On Sept. 10, 1801, W. Paterson, in command
of the N.S.W. Corps, challenged John Mac-
arthur, a junior officer, for having divulged
and misinterpreted Paterson’s private commands
to him. They met near Parramatta on the 14th,
and Paterson was wounded. Macarthur was
arrested and sent to England for trial. (2)
Robert Wardell, editor of the “Australian,”
attacked Saxe Bannister, who had just resigned
the Attorney-Generalship. Bannister challenged
Wardell; they met at Pyrmont, but neither was
hurt. (3) Stuart Donaldson attacked the Gov-
ernment of his day for extravagance, citing the
Surveyor-General’s Department as an example.
Sir T. Mitchell, its head, challenged Donaldson
and a duel, took place in Centennial Park, Syd-
ney. It was stopped when Mitchell sent a shot
through Donaldson’s hat.
Brief Answers.
R.W.B.: The tools are now unprocurable.
Fancy leathers are stocked by G. Cull and Sons,
Pitbstreet, and Johnson and Sons, 205 Cast'le-
reagh-street, Sydney, and Pizzey, Ltd., Redfern.
....M. de W.: A deserted wife retains the
domicile which she had when deserted. Proceed-
ings can be taken in QTand; communicate with
the Registrar, Supreme Court, Brisbane....
P.A.S.: No information available P.J.E.:
The Lyceum Theatre, Sydney, opened on Dec.
26, 1892, with the pantomime “Little Red Riding
Hood.” The Royal Comic Opera Co. presented
“Ma Mie Rosette” there F.A.L.: Descrip-
tion of complaint is too vague for diagnosis;
symptoms are met with in several respiratory
disorders L.B.: Apparently no Sydney man
specialises in plastic surgery; a Maoriland
specialist visits Australia to operate. Get
advice from surgeon at one of the large metro-
politan hospitals K.J.K.: The “Australian
Freelance,” published by the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club, would help you... .N.F.: (1)
The cost of training a pilot for the R.A.A.F. is
approximately £2000. (2) The rules of the
service permitted the gentleman to enter an
officers’ school. (3) He did not top the exami-
nation list, but was well up on it S.J.M.:
Sky Saga is now on sale by Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .X.Y.Z.: Any general trained
nurse with Tresillian certificate may apply, but
maximum age is Usually regarded as 40....
R.S.E.; You do not state the particular
performance... .J.I.B.: Can be obtained from
any military outfitter by those authorised to
wear them....Pop S.: Get in touch with
Director, Melbourne University Conservatorium
of Music.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the US. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no US. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.A.H.; The feeling’s there, but not the tech-
nique E.E.S.: A glimmer in all of them,
obscured by archaisms, inversions and cliches.
. ...G.A.M.: Full of other people’s thoughts
and phrases M.W.; Heavily descriptive
D.H.R.: “Fireflies” doesn’t sparkle J.B.L.:
Scene convincing; conclusion clumsy
J.D.S.R.: Not an improvement on the model.
. ...H.R.S.: Flatness partly due to the rhyme
scheme... .T.C.N.: Thin melody... .Hex: “I
am 75 years of age and this is my first attempt.”
Thanks, anyhow, for 75 carefree years... .J.S.:
Stereotyped ruminations... .L.H.C.: “Before”
has strength but is brusque to the point of
obscurity... .A. J .A.: “Birch Tree” nearest
WSJ.: Looks as if it were written in the
eighteenth century M.A.L.: Keep coming.
J.W.E.: Wordy....J.P.: Why use “dgth”?
W.R.: “Gold for millenniums past had a
strong fascination.” True; but it’s a prosaic
opening for immortal poetry B.T.: That old
ship sails from this office three days a week....
H.B.S. and L.B.: The usual anthems E.G.:
What oft was thought before and seldom less
excitingly expressed... ,’W.H.R.; Should suit
the kids’ page of a daily... .A.McK.W.; Rhyme
might have made it something more than pleas-
ing description M.M., G.C.O’D., C.W., N.S.,
T.M.C., R.H.: Missed... .A.S.B.: Cricket
sketch too slight E.F.: English prose is
not written in short, sharp bursts R.H.L.:
Mechanical... .E.M.T.; That theme’s been
worked to death E.M.B.: “Maleesh” —
we’ll miss that beer, too M.T.; Suitable
for “Comic Cuts” Y.M.H.: The three little
pigs won’t find a market here... .B.McN.:
Nor will Henry make his bed here... .J.G.:
Slight....G.H.H. (England); Only mildly in-
terested in activities of crooks and spielers.


o
WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR OIES
-WILL YOUR ESTATE SUFFER
If you appoint an individual as Executor his
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devoted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD..
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital {paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) i D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Clanda Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ ,
1933 .. 53.727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 61,337 4i „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5 „ „ 62,600 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 .. ..1,025,344
1989 .. 71.121 5J p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940.. 71,393 5i „ „ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
1941 . . 66,520 5J „ „ 68,750 1,031,253
1942 . . 69,519 5i „ „ 68,750 769 1,032,022
Sept.,*
1942 . . 66,541 Bi „ „ 65,625 916 1,032,192
1943 . . 67,014 6 „ „ 62,500 4,514 1,036,706
* 12 months.
The Adelaide set up in South Aus. 78
years ago, and, apart from a London
office, two in Westralia and one in each
of the eastern capitals, it has never
stepped "outside its home territory. Here
nature has been kind during the last few
years, and new industrial activities have
sprung up and old ones have been revived.
And not all this new activity is due to
war conditions, either ; much of it will
remain when the war is over.
But in the present controlled and
rationed economy, Governrrient financial
policy dominates the banking structure.
Owing to expansion of central bank credit
and rationing, public ownership of actual
cash, bank deposits and war-savings cer-
tificates has nearly doubled since the out-
break of hostilities, while goods, etc., for
civilian use have fallen to less than two-
thirds their pre-war physical volume.
Controls have stopped prices getting out
of hand, but the Government has failed
to mop up surplus spending power, as
already indicated. In the now dammed up
bank deposits, etc., lies the possibility of
an unhealthy post-war boom.
When the war is over a lot of new
houses, furnishings, clothes, books, cars
and other things will be needed. One
difficulty will be to increase the volume
of goods and materials quickly enough to
match the new demands, which will be
backed by the spending power of current
incomes, plus accumulated savings.
Speaking broadly, control of the power
to buy and sell, upon which our economic
life is based, means, among other things,
control of the purse strings. For these and
other reasons some of the existing econo-
mic controls are likely to remain with
us, either in their present or modified
forms, for some time after the war.
As for the trading banks, custody of
portion of their deposits is such a power-
ful factor in credit control that some
rights in this respect are likely to be
retained by the central bank. Also, regu-
lated thawing of most of the now frozen
bank deposits can be expected, possibly
by continued control over raw materials.
And open market buying and selling of
Government securities by the trading
banks might remain a regulated activity,
too, because of possible effects upon in-
terest rates. Control over the direction
in which money is spent will be a ticklish
question, which the Government will be
well advised to leave in the hands of the
trading banks, whose services in this and
other respects have made them a pillar of
strength in the past. And no harm would be
done if these banks were given a little more
headroom by raising the present low “ceil-
ing” for their profits and charges, which
ignores the risk and cost factors altogether.
After debiting p. and 1. with £85,109
(up £27,898) for taxation and allowing
something for other contingencies, the
board figured the co.’s net earnings at
£67,014 (up £473) last term. The £67,014
was 5,3 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of capital,
or a mere 2.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The re-
serves —they include £200,000 of shaie
premiums gathered since 1922 —as well
as the capital belong to shareholders, who
are entitled to a reasonable return on the
two combined. The div, was lowered
from 5i p.c. to 5 p.c.
Now consider these figures:
r March , Sept. —,
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Notes .. £6,569' £6,569 £6,499 £6,499
Bills, etc. 367,596 259,125 ) q in 700 e<o
Deposits.. 7,391,501 7,782,410 j 8,993,127 10,732,542
Liquid
assets 4,650,449 4,737,884 6,752,003 7,830,096
Advances 5,010,078 5,156,909 4,926,723 4,624,276
Premises,
etc. .. 422,997 468,939 465,533 449,417
Other
assets..
Last term a growth of £1,739,415 in
deposits, etc., was accompanied by a
contraction of £302,447 in advances and
an expansion of £2,078,093 in low-in-
terest-bearing liquids. The movements
reflect expansion of the credit base plus
good season and prices. Special war-
time deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank (£2,340,000), on which only nomi-
nal interest is paid, increased by
£1,691,000. When the books closed,
liquids amounted to 73 p.c. of liabilities
to the public, advances to only 44 p.c.
of deposits, etc., and the co. was holding
£4 13s. lid. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It all means
great strength and low earning power.
The T. and G. '
9 Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£,££>£ £
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455.024 880,343 817.855 1,256,826 13,311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381,388 867,986 1,423,177. 14,734,366
Written off premises, £10,000.. 14,724,366
’39 2,870,889 390,033 972,094 1,508,762 16,233,128
Written off premises, £10,600. . . . 16,222,528
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500. . .. 17,703,996
’4l 3,251,974 466,286 1,170,241 1,615,447 19,319,443
Written off premises, £18.871.. .. 19,300,572
To contingency fund, £50,000.. . . 19,250,572
’42 3,436,998 477,616 1,210,528 1,748,856 20,999,428
Written off premises, £13,796.. .. 20,985,632
To contingency fund, £70,000.. .. 20,915,632
’43 3.667,847 449.645 1,286,651 1,931,551 22,847.183
Written off premises, £18,167. . . . 22,829,016
To contingency fund, £50,000 . . ■ • 22,779,016
Industrial Life Department.
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1,070,236 955,414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224,800 948,539 14,381,470
Written off premises, £IO,OOO. . . . 14,371,470
’39 3,116,960 859,460 1,428,731 828,769 15,200,239
Written off premises, £10,600. . . . 15,189,639
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. .. 15,792,636
’4l 3,379,107 981,163 1,740,427 657,617 16,450,153
Written off premises, £17,056.. .. 16,433,097
To contingency fund, £10,000.. .. 16,423,097
’4 2 3,516,115 9 97,072 1,825, 952 693,991 17,117,088
Written oil l premises, £11,974.. .. 17,105,111
To contingency fund, £25,000.. .. 17,080,114
’43 3,613,549 926,421 1,836,692 850,436 17,930,550
Written off premises, £14,534.. .. 17,916,016
To contingency fund, £40,000.. .. 17,876,016
Accident Department.
’4l 164,124 77,344 60,072 26,708 238,098
To contingency fund, £40,000. . . . 198,098
’42 164,222 76,410 58,454 19,358 217,456
To contingency fund, £5000.. .. 212,456
’43 143,484 64,617 46,804 32,063 244,519
To contingency fund, £IO,OOO .. .. 234,519
War steadied the rate of progress of this
big mutual office in some respects, and
hastened it in others. Outstanding feature
of the latest accounts is lowering of the
basis of valuation from 3 p.c. to a strin-
gent 2\ p.c. net premium basis ; except
for pure endowments. Competition and
the future of interest rates might yet call
for further slight reduction in the basis
of valuation. If it does, the co. has
£530,000 discreetly set aside for actuarial
contingencies. These arise not only from
higher war-time mortality, which is more
or less passing in its incidence, but also
from the downward trend of interest
rates, which is likely to be more last-
ing, and therefore a matter of concern
for offices like the TANARUS, and G., which
always give Government stock invest-
ment priority. Further evidence that the
management is alive to its problems is
the board’s proposal to take an active
interest in post-war home-building. Life
assurance and home-building finance
blend well, and the T. and G. is experi-
enced in this sort of thing through its
pure mortgage business and its home-
purchase assurance contracts.
Since war changed national monetary
policy, bumped up taxation and intro-
duced investment control, the co.’s net
interest return (less all taxes) on total
mean funds declined from around £4 6s.
to £3 14s. sd. p.c. Also, there has been a
falling off in new-business figures ; but
this has its compensation in improved
overall expense rate —deducting taxes,
12.5 p.c. of net premiums in the O.D.
and 29.4 p.c, in the I.D. last year, as
against 14.6 and 32.5 p.c. respectively
the year before.
The amount of new business which the
co. put on the books last term was
£6,248,389 (down £404,058) in the O.D.
and £4,405,840 (down £1,000,055) in the
I.D. —total £ 10.6 m. compared with
£l4m. in 1939. Still, income in all de-
partments combined expanded £317,545
last year, reaching £7,424,880, of which
£5,723,744 came from premiums and
£1,701,136 from interest and rents. Pay-
ments under policies amounted to
£3,170,147 (up £76,414), but showed con-
tinued decline in surrenders. After meet-
ing exes, (including taxes, £212,598), ear-
marking £IOO,OOO for general contingen-
cies and writing £33,031 off buildings,
addition to assurance funds, etc., was a
record £2,681,350, raising them to
£40,889,552. In addition, policy-holders
have the protection and support of other
special funds standing at £1,033,358, and
there are the contingency provisions
recommended by the actuary as well.
The next table shows the amount by
which life funds exceed liabilities under
policies:
Net surplus:- 1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Ordinary . . £-586,776 £582,736 £521,315 £450,982
Industrial .. 352,951 312,239 272,993 240,017
Total .. £939,727 £894,975 £794,308 £690,999
Partly because of war mortality, the
“strain” from which has been less than
expected, the surplus available for dis-
tribution fell £103,309 last term. It is
proposed to distribute £484,117 in rever-
sionary additions to Ordinary and Indus-
trial policies at 1942 rates of bonus, which
are still satisfactory. Of the balance
(£206,822), £185,000 is to be set aside for
actuarial war contingencies, bringing the
total so provided to £530,000. To the
extent that these provisions prove in
excess of requirements, a post-war bonus
credit is being built up.
Assets are sound:
Public 1942. P.c. 1943. P.c.
securities ..£22,998,978 58.2 £26,903,194 63.5
Loans .. ~ 12,499,789 31.6 11,616,624 27.4
Freeholds .. 3,112,666 7.9 3,049,139 7.2
Cash, book debts,
etc 905,705 2.3 785,787 1.9
Practically every penny that became avail-
able last year was channelled into public
securities, raising total subscriptions since
the outbreak of war to £8,898,000. Gov-
ernments, unfortunately, haven’t been at
the same pains to protect the purchasing
power of the savings thus represented, as
evidenced by much of the avoidable costs
inflation in our economy.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1933.. 7,072 6 p.c. = 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 „ „ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 „ „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO .. .. 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,903
1940. . 19,198 10 „ „ 15,000 4,198 73,101
1941.. 19,749 10 „ „ 15,000 4,749 77,850
1942.. 17.988 10 „ „ 15,000 2,988 80,838
1943.. 21,086 10 „ „ 15,000 6,086 86,924
Results have not been materially affected
by any items of abnormal character, says
the board on hoisting the best figures in
this 44-year-old’s career. War and Govern-
ment business helped to swell turnover as
well as create difficulties, common to all
industry, in connection with raw
materials, labor and equipment. Still,
capitalisation of development on new
lines awaits only provision of auxiliary
equipment, and a year ago the manage-
ment reckoned it would be in a position,
when hostilities cease, “to go forward to
a period of vigorous growth.” During
the immediate pre-war period share-
holders put up £62,500 in share and pre-
mium moneys ; whether more is likely to
be required isn’t indicated, but the co. is
not short of small change at the moment.
Associations with Paragon overseas have
meant much to this Australian co., which
has manufacturing facilities in all States
except the Speck, where a selling branch
at Hobart caters for local needs. The
new Adelaide factory, which recorded a
loss in its initial term, is still teething, but
“progress has been made and prospects
are good,” says the chairman. While
earnings have always been sensitive to
the general level of business activity, only
once (in 1930) have shareholders gone


ƒ
DUPLICATOR
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
ha» all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by ail who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
® BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2 O). 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply, Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
EYE LOTION
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the
Company will be held at the Conference Room,
7th Floor, Grand United Order of Oddfellows
Building, 149 Castlereagh Streep, Sydney, on
Thursday, 24th February, 1944, at 12 noon.
Business:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for
the past year and authorise the payment of
a dividend for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1943.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of the
Hon. Thomas George Murray, M.L.C., and
Francis William Hill, Esq., who retire and
who have given the requisite notice that they
are candidates for re-election, for which they
are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of
Messts. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.), and Harrie Hamilton Stitt, F.C.A.
(Aust.), who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candidates for
reappointment, for which they are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may be
properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required to
give notice of their candidature, in writing,
to the undersigned not later than Wednesday,
9th February, 1944.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the 10th to the 24th February,
1944, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR, Secretary.
Company’s Head Office,
Haymarket, Sydney,
20th January, 1944.
DAVIKS & COLLISUN, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an** Trade Marks. —Aovr.
* * * *
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
\ir \if Jff
@ e @ e
The Nation’s
Financial Health
Depends on what \OU do
THERE are three points upon which every thinking citizen
ought, by now, to be clear:
(1) The financial health of the nation Is dependent upon
the financial health of the individual.
(2) Each individual is responsible for his OWN financial
future.
(3) Each individual must work hard and save NOW if we
are to keep down prices and maintain the purchasing power of
our money.
Saving every possible penny is the need of to-day.
The man who puts a large part- of what he saves into
A.M.P. Life Assurance guards his own and his family s future.
He also helps fill the War Loans (for a large part of what he
puts into Life Assurance goes into War Loans) and so guards
the Nation’s future.
One family in every three in the Commonwealth is using
the A.M.P. to build up its financial health. Is your family
using it to tlx full ?
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel. Hordern, K.B.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Bowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.I.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb. Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
A
it
fOWK lUNSMMW
S
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
I U D 0 Wl C I'S
the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUD0WIC1& SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
leather
BELTING
PULL E Y a
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
★
LUDOWICIS
POWER
TRANSMISSION.
EQUIPMENT
hungry, and, after mounting by annual
steps, the div. stabilised at 10 p.c. in 1937.
The improvement (£3098) in the latest
net result was better than it looks, pro-
visions £9883 higher in all being made
for depreciation (£11,542), taxation
(£20,927) and staff benefits (£3079). In-
cluding an 8 p.c. div. from the Westralian
offshoot, which is earning 11 p.c., paren-
tal profit was £21,086, equal to 14 p.c. on
capital, compared with 12 p.c. and 13.1
p.c. for the two preceding years.
The stocks item (down £13,573) has
lost much of its former significance owing
to controls and irregular deliveries. The
overall state of finances is satisfactory: —
1936. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital £100,000 £150,000'£.150,000 £150,000
Liabilities* I 7 f 32,445 24J70
Tax reserve j Di2 ( 19,500 27,500
Premises . . 42,070 65,047 63,478 65,219
Plant, etc. . . 44,350 61,516 62,629 66,442
Stock . . 41,968 61,864 94,088 80,515
Book debts . . 27,654 48,460 49,123 43,465
Cash & sundries 3,644 1,138 14,465 36,453
Shares .. 24,632 21,165 21,000 21,0'00
* Including- unspecified provision for insurance.
Expansion over the past seven years has
called for capital expenditure of about
£100,000, of which £55,000 was charged
against depreciation balances. Apparent
fixed-asset outlay of £17,000-odd last term
was £5554 more than was written off.
The need for fertiliser and the shutting
off of supplies of phosphate rock from
Nauru and Ocean islands have led to the
investigation of local phosphorite de-
posits. A number of these occur in South
Aus., but for the most part they are too
high in iron and aluminia to be suitable
for manufacture of superphosphate for
commercial purposes. Output from
Tom’s deposit is used in manufacture of
high-phosphorus pig iron. One possi-
bility, suggested by C.S.I.R., is use of
local rock for manufacture of dilute
phosphoric acid. This, mixed with sul-
phuric acid and then applied to imported
rock, would increase the phosphate con-
tent and lower freight cost per unit of
phosphorus in the super, produced.
Whether this can be done at a profit
remains to be demonstrated. Electrolytic
Zinc contemplates entering the fertiliser
field with sulphate of ammonia.
* * * *
The Isabel, at Wolfram Gully, Kan-
garoo Hills (Q.), is to be given another
trial, this time by C. J. Sundamore and
H. Durnin. The old main shoot was
worked out prior to 1914, and desultory
prospecting hasn’t yielded anything worth
mentioning since. Ore deposition has
been in the quartz near the joint with the
granite. Fluorspar is found in associa-
tion with the wolfram, and traces of bis-
muth sulphide occur, too. Hopes now
centre on finding anew pay shoot
deeper down.
* * * *
After forking out a sixpenny call last
term, when regular stoping was suspended
in order to sink the shaft another 100 ft.
and carry out other development, share-
holders of A 1 Consolidated, at Gaff-
ney’s Creek (Vic.), pocketed 2s. a share
last month. Reason for this sudden
return to affluence is the average 4oz.
returns since the close of accounts ; alto-
gether, the 1000 tons crushed has yielded
43000 z. gold, some recent parcels run-
ning 7oz. to the ton, “At least two years
of profitable production is in sight,” the
board says. A loss of £11,065 showed up
for the year ended August last. It’s a
peculiar ore structure at Gaffney’s ; how
long the present richness will last remains
to be seen.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corporation (London),
holder of issued scrip in Wiluna Gold
Mines (W.A.), reports a loss of £7512
(sterling) for 1943 —receipts, bank in-
terest, transfer fees and income tax re-
covered amounted to £942, while general
exes, and directors’ and consulting engi-
neers’ fees totalled £8454. No dividend
was received from the operating co.,
which, for the same period, showed a
working surplus in Australian currency
of £98,315. The 549,829 tons ore treated
yielded 63,3640 z. fine gold. Ore reserves
at March 31, 1943, were -estimated at
660.000 tons, averaging 3.2dwt. Com-
pared with a year earlier, the shrinkage is
175.000 tons and O.ldwt. respectively.
Man-power difficulties stood in the way
of fresh development, and confined work
to preparation of known ore-bodies at
and above 2000 ft. level in the main mine.
In “a frank and accurate picture of the
position” Corporation chairman R. Filer-
ton Binns said the operating co. made
quite a good showing, except for the
drop of 4.8 p.c. in overall recovery, which
was largely responsible for lower profit.
Owing to the man-power position arid
increased operating costs throughput for
first six months of the current term
dropped by over 6000 tons a month,
while average grade of mill heads fell to
2.73dwt. a ton, and costs rose to
21s. 10.6 and. per ton of ore treated. One
result was a working loss of approxi-
mately £12,700 for the half-year. Refund
of Australian gold tax would wipe out
this loss; but further deterioration of
the position would mean cessation of
operations. The operating co. has ex-
plained the gravity of the situation to the
Westralian Government, which is giving
it consideration.
* * * *
Paget Gold Mines, the Westralian
operating co. for Edjudina Consolidated
(London), gave up some time ago be-
cause funds ran out. The Consolidated
co. reported a loss of £2035 (sterling) for
the year to June 30, 1942* Portion of
the plant had been taken over by the
Federal Government. For the 12 months
to June 30, 1943, expenditure totalled
£2198, revenue nil. Sundry creditors
totalled £10,758, cash £263, Herman
Mandelstam, director, who will come to
Westralia when war conditions permit,
has ideas about boosting production—
presumably when the plant is returned or
new plant obtained. At flotation preli-
minary exes, ran off with £33,243
and underwriting with £9OOO. Since
then about £137,304 has been put into
plant and the mine. Shareholders have
received nothing.
* * * *
Westralian gold yield for 1943 at
546,575 fine oz. is over 300,0000 z. below
the 1942 and less than half the 1941
figure. Before the war there were 14,000
men in the industry; owing to the drain
on man-power the number has dwindled
to about 4000. Scores of smaller mines
have been forced to close down for want
of labor. The bigger mines, including
those on the Kalgoorlie-Boulder Golden
Mile, have managed to carry on with
fewer hands and reduced output and de-
velopment. Essential supplies and chemi-
cals have been in short supply, too.
Some mineowners have had engines and
generating units taken by the Common-
wealth, under terms which they describe
as unsatisfactory, and feel that after the
war they might have to wait a long time
before they get satisfactory replacements,
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) has de-
dared an interim div. for 1943 of 3d.
sterling a share, less U.K. income tax of
9s. Bd. in the £. The distribution will be
made on February 28, and will amount
in Australian currency to 16s. Id. per 100
shares. A similar dividend will probably
be paid about the middle of this year.


ƒ
WHAT I STHE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN WAR loan BONDS
and INSCRIBED STOCK 7
WAR LOAN BONDS.
You know th. » h jJ
UnnA 11 It i* a guarantee of mteg y*
War Loan Bond I. • ”
Aurt.aKo to r.pay I’ . 0 (
V °“- to;. LO ort| B 0. n tso!”'!S” BO? and
nooo. Each bond ha* interest coupon* for
each completed halt-year attached.
INSCRIBED STOCK.
When Inscribed Stock Is paid an entry
1, made to the credit of the owner m the
Inscribed Stock registry at the Common-
wea lth Bank. The owner is given a rece.p .
but holds no other document. The mini-
mum amount which can be investedI n In-
scribed stock is £lOO. Mult.plesofElO
over the first £lOO may also be subscribed.
f
Interest is paid on bonds.* personally by
order post office or bank, or Y .
are held by a bank lor sale-keeping. » can
be paid automatically beK-yearly into your
bank account.
ƒ
Interest on Inscribed stock may be auto-
matically paid Into your bank or direct to
you, whichever you prefer.
v **
Money subscribed to the War Loan in either way carries the same rates of
interest and is used for exactly the same purposes. It buys supplies, equip-
ment, arms and ammunition for our fighting men. Every penny you can
spare is needed, so buy nothing unless you need it—save all you can, and
lend your money to Australia.
GET READY FOR
THE FIRST
f
Make an advance subscription how, or buy 5/- National Savings Stamps
PV.8.19
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A New World-trade Order?
Although both Winston Churchill and
Franklin Roosevelt signed the Atlantic
Charter, with its stipulation for all coun-
tries “of access, on equal terms, to the
trade and to the raw materials of the
world,” it is quite clear that Britain
and the United States have, when we
get down to business, different ideas on
what constitutes freedom in international
trade. It may be that Churchill and
Roosevelt are not very far apart; but the
thoughts of British and American indus-
trialists on one or two vital points remain
unreconciled.
Although Australians have sometimes
found what appeared to them solid
grounds for difference with sectional
British trading interests, it is likely that
most Australians will side with the British
on what seems to be a perfectly simple
but basic truth of world trade —you can-
not sell unless you also buy. That has
been a British contention not merely
since it became a debtor country. In
the great days of its export trade prior
to 1914 it encouraged reciprocity in trade
or else lent money to the buying country,
sometimes, in the latter case, injudi-
ciously.
Under the urgency of the war situation
the United States rose to the occasion
an extremely practical manner with the
initiation of lend-lease. Britain had
exhausted most of its own foreign funds
and those o£ the Dominions as well at a
time when the European war outlook was
still ominous and the Pacific conflict was
yet to happen. It was realised in Wash-
ington that it was futile to try to enforce
cash-and-carry principles when there was
no more cash and a reducing amount of
carrying facilities.
At this time, also, there was very
little chance of British exports find-
ing their way to the United States in
any volume, industry in the United King-
dom being largely occupied with
munitions production. It was a period
when defence preparations, even on the
P art of the United States Government,
we having an extraordinarily stimulat-
“Lricf be“me in
war enj d a iod o£ excep tional
prosperity, and the cost of lend-lease fell
on no p ar ticular political section. It is a
different, thing altogether when, in peace-
time, with trade perhaps declining, it is
suggested that the U.S. tariff on Aus-
tralian wool or English woollens should
be reduced in order to help balance U.S.-
Empire trade. In such circumstances
sectional political opposition in the U.S.
would very likely be deafening.
It appears to be politically easier for
a country to give away part of its pro-
duction at an overall cost to taxpayers
than it is to try to equate trading with
other countries by revising tariffs on cer-
tain products. Not that lend-lease is
entirely one-sided, or that what the U.S.
has passed over to the other Allies has
escaped the critical eye of certain sec-
tions of the American press. But lend-
lease is an accomplished fact, whereas
U.S.-Empire trade has been a chronically
unbalanced thing, supercharged with com-
plications and hangover. ♦
Take Australia’s case. From the
wealthy and highly-developed Republic in
1934-35 the Commonwealth bought five
times more than the U.S. bought from
ff_ j n 1935-36 the ratio was three to one,
j n ’36-37 \\ to one, in ’37-38 seven to
one an( j j n ’3B-39 five to one. The ex-
perience of 1936-37 was unusually favor-
abie to Australia. It was caused by a
sudden demand for fine Australian wools,
the result of a fleeting period of “boom”
during the chequered progress of the New
Deal. But over the five years Australia
bought £7O million sterling of American
goods, against United States purchases
of Australian exports valued at £2l mil-
lion. It was only because of heavy sales
of Australian produce to France, Belgium,
Japan and Italy (in comparison with our
imports from those countries) that we
were able to pay for our imports from
the United States.
When the entire rest of the world struck
its balance with the United States each
year the tale was invariably dishearten-
ing. During the three years 1935-37 the
aggregate U.S. favorable trade balance in
merchandise was $534 million, and for
the next’ triennium, up to the end of
1940, the credit balance was $3389 mil-
lion. That was in addition to income
from foreign investments. Little wonder
that gold found its way to America
in great quantities and that inter-
national exchange problems, especially on
the Continent, were'chronic. The indus-
trial skill of the United States is some-
thing that has run far ahead of its finan-
cial and economic technique.
Internal political problems are partly
responsible for the latter difficulty. It
was Eric A. Johnston, president of the
United States Chamber of Commerce,
who told British businessmen last August:
We today have more capital than you.
But you have more knowledge than we
have of the management of capital inter-
nationally in the mazes of credits and cur-
rencies and exchanges. You have the greater
skill. We have the greater weight.
The “Crimes Trade and Engineering”
about that time, commenting on Mr.
Johnston’s remarks in general, said
“Britain is wasting time if it is making
plans for the future of international trade
with false conceptions of the American
attitude.” The “Times” publication really
summed up the position by quoting Mr.
Johnston —“we ought to put a dead stop
to all palaver on either side of the ocean
about blood being thicker than water and
about how Shakspeare wrote ‘Hamlet’ in
the English language”—and commenting:
“Every right-minded man will heartily
agree with Mr. Johnston’s desire to base
our relations with the United States on
realities, but one of these realities is the
problem of international payments, and
there is no advantage in burking it. No-
body says outright that America will
abandon or greatly lower its tariffs and
so make payment possible. It is ex-
tremely doubtful if that policy accurately
reflects the vie\ss of the average American
businessman, but to the British way of
thinking it is the only way.”
Later on the “Times” said “The Ameri-
can people have not yet grasped the fact
that exports and imports, must be equated.
or, in others words, that buying and sell-
ing abroad must be complementary.”
When the late Sir Albert Hobson ad-
dressed a very large gathering of the
Merchants’ Association in New York in
the Waldorf-Astoria in 1920 he told his
hearers plainly that it was an irrefutable
law that “if thou wilt not buy thou canst
not sell,” but it was found that everywhere
in the United States that Sir Albert’s party
visited the rank and file of businessmen
were interested almost exclusively in export
trade. The late Sir Thomas Mackenzie,
one of the party, endeavored to explain the
merits of the New Zealand lamb, only to
be told by the audience that it was inter-
ested in America’s export trade to New
Zealand and not at all in the succulence of
Canterbury lamb. One might have thought
that since 1920 the American business
public had become more enlightened and
had learnt to realise that it was futile to
build up immense credits abroad if they
were not to be spent. That hope is not
justified. It is clear that, whatever may be
the views of advanced economists in
America, the rank and file in that country
do not yet appreciate the importance of
the point that “if thou wilt not buy thou
canst not sell.”
The American press is quoted all over
the world, and it has a lot to say about
the ideal state towards which we should
direct the universe, often, at the same
time, being bitingly critical of Britain’s
economic influence in particular regions.
It is surprising, therefore, that occasion-
ally it doesn’t turn its attention to
America’s own disturbing influence in
world economics. The truth of it all
seems to be that politics override econo-
mics in the U.S.A., as they have done
in Australia during the tenure of the
Labor Government. The New Deal had
a political rather than a planned economic
base. Business in America seems to be
conducted on the principle of push and
pressure rather than co-operative plan-
ning that has regard to ultimate results—
in the words of Mr. Johnston, a question
of weight rather than skill. There is
likely to be no change either while poli-
ticians spend most of their time with their
ears flattened to the ground in the belief
that the signals they are getting are the
very heartbeats of the voters. Often
the loudest signals are influenced by pres-
sure groups. As General Smuts has said,
in the difficulties ahead we shall want
leadership as well as democracy.
In 1941-42 income tax levied on indi-
viduals by the Commonwealth totalled
£47.3 million. Companies, in ordinary
tax and super tax, paid £22.6 million. In
addition, war-time (company) tax pro-
duced £4.1 million and undistributed-
profits tax £7.5 million. Total company
tax was therefore £34.2 million, along-
side £47.3 million charged to individuals.
With the exception of proprietary com-
panies, none of the company tax paid is
allowable as a rebate in the hands of
shareholders, so almost the entire £34.2
million represents a special tax on per-
sons because they are trading as a limited
co. instead of as individuals. They pay
double taxation.
* * * *
In the last financial year British income
tax, for the first time in history, exceeded
£lOOO million sterling. Total taxation was
£2483 million, equal to £54 a head. Over
50 p.c. of the current year’s Budget is to
be financed by taxation. To the end of the
previous financial year 44 p.c. of all’war
expenditure had been met from taxation.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer men-
tioned that on a famous occasion
Gladstone “compared direct and in-
direct taxation to two fair sisters
of equal charms, and he thought it
proper to woo them both simultaneously
and with equal ardor.” The pro-
position had 'attractions for the present
Chancellor, and on all kinds of luxury
spending he increased duties, excise, en-
tertainment taxes, etc. In respect of those
things indirect taxation has undoubted
charms. But such indirect taxation as
sales tax, which has a wide coverage in
the Commonwealth, has a decidedly in-
flationary effect when it touches essen-
tials, and is not nearly such a desirable
method of finance as income tax.
* * * *
During the years 1915-21 the average
annual consumption of flour per head
in Australia was 2201 b. During 1937-41
it fell to 1871 b. —and flour has not been
rationed in this war. In the main, con-
sumption of other grain products has
also fallen away, as has that of potatoes.
Beef consumed, however, has risen from
1101 b. to 1371 b., mutton and lamb from
691 b. to 751 b., and butter from 251 b. to
32ylb. There has been little movement
over the years in the popularity of fish,
jam, cheese or bacon, but the demand for
pork has risen, while tea has lost ground
slightly in favor of coffee. In the
era we used the same amounts of kero-
sene and petrol —four gallons a head a
year. Over 1937-41 it was 1\ gallons o
kero., 49 of petrol.


f
' Making or
Altering your Will
The truly provident man will see to it that those dependent on him receive
the full benefit of his estate, be it large or small. That is his first duty, but
because “all men think all men mortal but themselves,” the temptation to
postpone the making of a will is great.
The Ideal Trustee*
See that your will is correctly drawn,
and be sure your Executors are com-
petent and worthy of your trust.
The ideal Trustee possesses adequate
legal knowledge, is experienced in
regard to investments, is impartial,
and is always at your disposal. Such
a combination is represented by the
Union Trustee Company, established
nearly 60 years ago to meet this need.
What is a Codicil ?
And remember —if after having
made your will you wish to take
advantage of Union Trustee service,
all that is necessary is to add a short
codicil.
A codicil is a supplement to a will,
containing anything which the
testator may desire to add to the
original document, or any alteration
he may wish to make.
For further information consult
The Uniox Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairmanj F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I I
3!
s*?
LEADERSHIP
In the field of technical and scientific development—and still more in the
stress of commercial competition—leadership is a position not easily
earned or lightly held. Nor is the house of Philips unmindful of the
obligations which leadership entails: the confidence of the public for
over fifty years is a proud responsibility.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers * Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
CiPSIU
The Empire's
Favourite Cigarette
It's your fight your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps,
19370-11.42 I
A Rehabilitation Scheme
A scheme for assisting post-war re-
construction, insofar as settling returned
soldiers after the war in homes far from
urban centres is concerned, is quietly ger-
minating in Central Queensland. It, in
sum, is the electrification of the Rock-
hampton hinterland and the supply of
power and energy to the fertile irrigable
areas of the Callide and Dawson rivers.
The scheme is both endorsed and spon-
sored by the Central Queensland Develop-
ment League, and a pamphlet has been
issued by that body giving an account of
the scheme, together with the hydrological
map of the Callide Valley prepared by
I. H. Reid, District Geologist at Rock-
hampton.
Reid has delineated considerable areas
of sub-artesian water in this favored
cotton-growing valley—notable for its
soil fertility—and within these lies an
inner core of shallow water supplies suit-
able for irrigation. A number of test
wells have since proved flows ranging
from 7000 to 20,000 gallons per hour in
an alluvium belt 60 miles long and up to
five miles wide. Storage capacity of the
underground reservoir is exceptional, be-
cause the valley is being filled in and the
depth of water-bearing gravel is abnormal
—probably 70ft. to 100 ft.
With Bara!aba coal lying handy to this
area, Adam Boyd, of Mt. Morgan, Ltd.,
conceived the idea of uniting the Daw-
son Valley coals with the underground
water resources of the Callide and Daw-
son valleys in a great post-war scheme.
Himself a leading member of the
C.Q.D.L., he has its complete backing in
the scheme. Mt. Morgan mine already
derives its power from Baralaba coal, and
Rockhampton’s city supply is being aug-
mented from Mt. Morgan.
Boyd wishes to see a power plant estab-
lished at Baralaba that will supply C.Q.
outside of Rockhampton, and will pro-
vide all the amenities of communal life
to segregated settlements on the irrigable
lands so close at hand. His idea is that
people will reside in group settlements
and go out to their farms each day, thus
avoiding the burdens of comparative
isolation and enjoying town amenities.
Baralaba is still largely an undeveloped
coalfield, though Mt. Morgan has proved
all the reserves it requires. Further in-
vestigation of the field’s potentialities is
considered necessary for a regional
scheme, and steps are now under way
towards securing this, Reid’s work on
this coalfield disclosed a great shear of
400 ft. displacement along the Dawson
River. This measurement permits of the
series of seams on both sides of'the river
tying up satisfactorily, and Mt. Morgan
recently proved three seams, over 7ft.
thick, of high-grade semi-anthracitic coal,
extending from their present workings to
beyond the western bank of the river.
With the undoubtedly large resources
of coal, underground water and fertile
soil in the Callide-Dawson Jim Lawrence,
president of the league, and his committee
have taken th? matter up enthusiastically.
One deputation has already gone to Can-
berra, but in Canberra’s “rush-hour” it
didn’t make much progress.
R. E. Beckett, president of the West-
minster Bank, has said in London that
credit on a large scale will be needed to
restart post-war world trade and com-
merce, and the endeavors which were
being made to establish a world-trade
denominator could not ignore gold. But
the rigidity of former gold standards had
to be avoided. “America should readjust
her economy to permit the easy entrance
of foreign goods. Goods and services are
a better exchange for exports than gold,
which passes into sterility forthwith,”
tie added. The chairman of the Midland
Bank has emphasised the importance of
small businesses in the British industrial
outlook and the need to provide them
with full credit resources. ,
* * * *
Berlin, to many Australians merely the
capital and great metropolis of the Reich,
houses 2,000,000 people directly engaged
in the making of arms and other war
equipment. The Ruhr itself, according
to the British Ministry of Economic War-
fare, normally had 1,500,000 people en-
gaged in the heavy basic industries. Berlin
is authoritatively said to be the largest
manufacturing centre in Europe. Elec-
trical equipment, cables, locomotives,
precision instruments, tanks, machine
tools, .radio apparatus, radio-location
equipment and searchlights are turned
out in greater quantity than in any other
part of Germany. Berlin also has four
aircraft factories—Focke-Wolf, Dornier,
Henschel and Heinkel. It is the largest
railway centre in central Europe, and
handles the largest tonnage of inland-
waterway cargo of any place except Duis-
burg.
* * * *
Labor politicians are sure to blame
“the financial interests” for any economic
damage the country has suffered during
the present war and won’t bother about
trying to prove it. But “the finan-
cial interests,” particularly the trad-
ing banks, are shorn of all discretion
that might influence the national
economy. They are told by the Treasury
what they can oo and what they can’t.
The banks cannot of their own discretion
invest in war loans ; they must transfer
to the Commonwealth Bank all their
“surplus investible funds,” on which they
receive a return of 15s. per cent. So far
they have passed to the central bank
tin 4 million ; the central bank and the
Treasury decide what will be done with
the money. It goes entirely in one direc-
tion : that of helping to bridge the “gap”
in the war Budget. The trading banks
are allowed no discretion in the general
nature of their credit policy. National
Security Regulations or similar controls
either directly or indirectly restrict the
nature and extent of their advances. The
entire credit, man-power and material
resources of the country are legally at
the disposal of the Government for the
duration, and though there have been
plenty of hitches with regard to man-
power, there has been no clash between
the Treasury and the banks on credit
policy. Bank dividends as a whole have
fallen during the war ; wages and prices
have risen. Australia’s financial policy
since October, 1941, has been almost
entirely a Labor party and Common-
wealth Bank affair. Although the war
has been going over four years, the last
two have involved the greater part of the
expenditure.


THE SERVICE MAN
"A Naval Operation."
“Ek Dum”: The attack op the Mar-
shalls marks the beginning of the real
offensive against Japan. It is the largest
action which ever has taken place in any %
sphere on this side of the world ; in poinf
of length of lines of communication and
weight of metal, about the largest far-
flung operation in the history of war.
Yet the news was received with no evident
excitement by people who have been
taught to believe that the Russian cam-
paign is the only one that matters.
The attack was made in accordance
with the strategy here prophesied from
the beginning of offensive operations in
the Pacific. It demonstrates how much
this war is a naval war. The naval side
of the attacking force was vastly larger
and more complicated than the land
forces involved. And it suggests a simple
sum in arithmetic: If 2,000,000 tons of
ships are needed to land 30,000 men on
remote coral islands, how many tons will
be needed for a landing in France or
Japan?
All recent operations have demon-
strated that air-power without a basis of
overwhelming sea-power capable of fac-
ing up to land fortifications is like a pro-
jectile without a gun in attack from the
ocean.
The Marshalls
They were named after Captain Mar-
shall, R.N., who sailed among them the
year that Phillip landed in Port Jack-
son, though they were discovered by
Saavedra in 1529. „ »
From a great height they must look
like smoke rings upon the vastness of the
water. They are speared on 170 degrees
east longitude, between five degrees and
13 degrees north latitude: 32 atolls and
867 reefs, with a total area of about 100
square miles of dry land, scattered over
800 square miles, in two parallel chains.
On the west the Ralak (“Sunset”)
chain includes the islands with the larg-
est lagoons, fringed round with reefs,
ribbon-like or almost complete rings.
Just below 10 degrees north' is the long
Kwajalein (or Kwajalong) atoll, some-
times called Mentschnikoff, which looks
like a half-curled-up snake with a flat
head. The lagoon is about 40 miles
long. South-east of this are Lip, Nemu,
Ailinglablab and Jaluit, where the old
German Bezirksamt used to be, its
masters startling the natives in days
before the first world war by their habit
of dressing for dinner.
Down to the south-west are the
Namorik twins, inside a reef, well known
to Australian traders and to Louis Becke,
and —only one below the fifth degree
north—the small Ebon group inside
another reef.
The eastern chain, Ratak (“Sunrise”),
includes nine major atolls, among them
Wotje (Romanzoff), the eastern neighbor
of Kwajalein; Likieb, a dented ring
on 10 north ; and Maloelap, an almost
complete circle of reef and palm, to the
south-east.
The 32 atolls are normally inhabited
by about 500 sullen Japs—on the last
census, which dates from 1935 —and
nearly 10,000 laughing and decorative
Polynesians, fine sailors with a dash of
Malay in them, friendly, light-colored and
pleasant-featured.
In Jaluit there is a 30-mile lagoon with
all-weather entrances. In the little island
of Jabur in its south-eastern perimeter
were some Government offices, a school
and Station JRX.
The Marshalls are almost a halfway
house between Australia and Japan.
Jaluit is 3016 miles from Brisbane, 1240
from Truk, 2300 from Manila, 2900 from
Tokyo Bay—1200 miles nearer Japan than
Rabaul.
On every island from Ebon, haunted
by old-time whalers’ ghosts, and Mille, in
the south, concrete runways had been
laid down. Squat Jap men had burrowed
deep into the coral to make the cement-
lined and -covered “bomb-proofs.” New
jetties ran out from the shining shore, lined
with defence walls and tank obstacles.
The peace that had reigned since Eden
disappeared in a few short months.
With the occupation of the Gilberts
by U.S. forces came daily raids by the
big Liberators, ever-increasing in fero-
city until the beginning of February.
Then Tokyo announced excitedly that
the daily bombing had merged into a
major attack, which the Japanese Navy
and Army were fiercely and successfully
resisting, causing the slaughter of untold
thousands of Americans —the whoppers
which come out of the Japanese air these
days make the communiques of Goebbels
sound like sealed affidavits.
The U.S. Navy Attacks
All the U.S. Navy had to say on Feb-
ruary 1 was that army aircraft and naval
search ’planes had attacked the principal
bases in the islands on January 29 and
30, co-ordinating their operations with
those of carrier-based squadrons in the
previous two days. While Mitchells on
January 29 hit shore installations on
Wotje and Maloelap, in the heart of the
Sunrise chain, Warhawks and Dauntless
dive-bombers drove at Imeiji, in the Jaluit
atoll. Liberators that night dropped 45
tons of bombs on Kwajalein and about
10 on Wotje, while Wake Island, 950
miles n.-e. of Jaluit, was raided by Coro-
nados, sea editions of the Liberators.
Offensive Begins
Before February 1 was over “Asahi
Shimbun” was able to say truth-
fully : “The Allied offensive in the Pacific
has really begun.”
January 31 was the second anniver-
sary of the first air raid on the Marshalls
and Gilberts, which then heard their first
shots of the war. On February 1, 1942,
the enemy tried for the first time to
land on Corregidor; February 2, 1942,
saw the first enemy bombing of Moresby
—the initial attack on Australian terri-
tory proper, though not on mandated ter-
ritory. Rabaul and Kavieng had been
attacked on January 22, 1942, Lae on
January 25, 1942.
The story as told by Admiral Nimitz,
C.-in-C. of naval operations in the Pacific,
related that powerful forces of all types,
commanded by Vice-Admiral Spruance
(U.S.N.), had begun operations for the
capture of the Marshall group.
Under the G.O.C. was “the greatest
concentration of naval might ever
assembled,” according to Rear-Admiral
Richmond Kelly Turner, the fleet com-
mander.
The power of the fleet, which included
about 2,000,000 tons of ships in all the
multitudinous variety of an invasion
force, with an attendant bomber and
strafer strength, was turned on the main
immediate objectives for two days. After
the bitter experience of Betio no chances
were taken. At the end the big ships
moved in as near to shore as possible *and
pounded the beaches point-blank.
On Roi and on kwajalein, on Wotje
and Maloelap, every type of gun, from
the 16-inchers of the new battleships to
the four-inchers of the destroyers close
in to the reefs, hosed the installations.
No Jap could look up during those days
without seeing a bomb falling somewhere
or tracer bullets ripping up the landscape.
Heavy concrete caved in, and the lovely
palms around the immense cement run-
ways which the enemy had laid down
on every island were stripped and shat-
tered. Over 15,000 tons of shell and
bomb had hit the islands.
First on Jap Soil
When it seemed that nothing could be
left alive at that particular point of the
eastern waistline of the New East Asia
Co-prosperity Sphere, troops began to
move ashore —on Roi in the north-east
perimeter of the Kwajalein atoll the crack
Fourth Marine Division, under Major-
General Harry Schmidt; on Kwajalein
Island, in the south of the atoll, the
Seventh Infantry (veterans of Attu, in the
Aleutians), under Major-General Charles
Corlett.
The historic hour of the first landing
of American troops on an actual part
of the Japanese Empire proper —even
though a part stolen as a mandate —was
at 9.51 a.m. on Monday, Jan. 31. The
scene was a speck guarding Roi. The
opposition was next to nothing. A second
island flanking Roi was captured without
opposition in less than an hour, just after
10 a.m. All through the day landings
continued, the last towards sundown.
A few of the enemy were killed in the
10 beachheads established, a dozen taken
prisoner. The Japanese opposition com
sisted largely of futile artillery and ack-
ack fire.
Islands Are Plastered
At the same time a carrier task force,
under Rear-Admiral M. H. Mitscher,
roved about the group seeking prey for
units of the Seventh Air Force (Major-
General Willis Hale) and of the Fleet
Air Wing 11, both of which formations
co-operated with the assembled shore-
based might of the Gilberts under Rear-
Admiral John Hoover. Kwajalein’s many
small companion isles, also Maloelap,
Wotje, Jaluit, Milli, Eniwetok and Wake,
had attention from these unwelcome
visitors.
On February 2 New York reported that
at least the 10 islet bridgeheads had been
gained at small cost —something to be
thankful for. There had been no enemy
naval sortie, no Japanese warships in
sight; in fact, no “O” fighters or “Haps”
interrupted the attack. Tojo had “packed
up and gone home.”
Ashore, the landing parties found an
awful ruin. The majestic concrete and
coral defences of Kwajalein had been,,
beaten up like an egg. Some features had
been wiped out, the purpose of thousands
of tons of tumbled masonry was unidenti-
fiable. But there were three airstrips,
the two on Roi too short for heavy craft
and not extendable, the one on Kwajalein
capable of being extended, in such order
that before long they will be in use.
Firmly Established
. There were still Japanese in the islands
—some on Kwajalein, some in the
northern tip of Namur, near Roi, where
there were barracks and dispersed ’planes.
Also, it was certain that there would be
a force on Jaluit, the main island which
had been by-passed.
On Feb. 3 the U.S. Navy reported:
On Kwajalein our troops are firmly estab-
lished and are pushing the enemy back
We suffered no naval losses, and our casual-
ties have been moderate.
The casualties were indeed moderate.
In the Roi-Namur area fewer than 100
Americans were killed and fewer than 400
wounded. On Kwajalein Island 27
Americans had been killed when the
U.S. Fleet took over the whole area and
occupied the atoll lagoon. Nine were
missing and 190 wounded, and 1250 Jap
dead were counted out of an estimated
garrison of 2000.
By the week-end nearly all Kwajalein
atoll with its 20 islands was under U.S,
control with other islands and atolls.
The islands were evidently lightly held.
Admiral Turner remarked that “maybe
we had too many men and ships for this
job, but I like things that way. Many
lives were saved for us and it should
discourage the Jap to knsW that when we
hit we really hit hard and for keeps.”
Huge columns of black, oil-drenched
smoke climbed into the sky from burning
enemy dumps.
Among fantastic claims made by the
Japanese on February 5 were that the
Japs on Kwajalein and Roi islands had
“annihilated” part of the invading forces*
and were fighting on, being in con-
trol of the situation. Also that up to
Tuesday, the second day of the land
invasion, U.S. losses were 52 aircraft
destroyed and 24 damaged, two de-
stroyers sunk and a cruiser and a de-
stroyer set on lire.
In New Guinea.
“Ek Dum”: Action in New Guinea
and neighboring parts continued to be
preparatory rather than specifically offen-
sive in a progressive sense.
The Vasey force of Australians work-
ing down from the Faria headwaters
pushed its spearhead to within a mile and
a half of the Bogadjim Toad, as reported
on February 6. It made the final stages
THE BATTLEFIELD OF CASSINO.
of crossing the Finisterre Range with little
fighting.
The spearhead of the Wootten force of
Australians working up from Sio edged
nearer to Saidor. On February 6 they
seemed to be within 20 miles of the near-
est Americans, though information was
vague. They had encountered only
pockets of Japanese on their way north-
ward.
In the air relentless pounding of the
enemy northern defence arc continued.
The arc runs from Madang to Wewak
(New Guinea mainland), Lorengau and
other Manus centres (Admiralty Islands),
Kavieng and Rabaul.
Though the bombing is heavy and the
resistance ineffective and a source of
great loss to the enemy, he continues to
replenish his losses with tenacity. Always
there are some aerodromes in working
order at his chief New Guinea and Bis-
marck bases. And he seems to have
developed new landing strips near Cape
St. George, in New Ireland, and in the
Duke of Yorks.
These, however, are no match for
Allied facilities. Judging by the power
and continuity of the strokes delivered
from the South Pacific, Admiral Halsey
and his Sea Bees and other forces have
ripped up a lot of grass and jungle on
Bougainville, where their air organisation
already must be on a huge scale.
The main operations of the past week
have been: —
Communique, Feb. 1: On the morning of
Jan. 30 50 Liberators attacked the Lakunai
aerodrome, Rabaul, and dropped 300 bombs,
destroying 12 enemy ’planes on the ground
and damaging others. Six gun positions and
several buildings were wrecked. In two air
battles with more than 50 enemy fighters 24
were shot down for certain, six probably. • The
Allied force suffered only minor losses and
damage. R.A.A.F. Beaufighters sank five barges
off the south coast of New Britain. At Hansa
Bay (N.G.), Mitchells, with fighter escort, sank
two 2500-ton freighters and left a 500-ton
vessel in flames. About 21 tons of bombs were
dropped on bivouac and supply areas at Alexis-
hafen.
Feb. 2: On Jan. 31 26 Mitchells and 47
fighters attacked Lakunai ’drome (Rabaul) with
40 tons of bombs. After delay, 26 enemy
machines attacked the Allied fighter escort.
Two “O” fighters were destroyed and probably
three others. Eighteen Liberators and 20
fighters attacked Vunakanau, another Rabaul
aerodrome. Only four enemy fighters were
seen. It was believed that five enemy aircraft
on the ground were damaged. At dusk 85
bombers and fighters struck at Mat'upi Harbor-
one of Rabaul’s outer harbors in Blanche Bay-
set fire to a destroyer and sank one cargo ship
and damaged another. The escort fighters shot
down 21 Jap interceptors and probably three
more out of a total of 30. The Allied loss was
three fighters.
Feb. 3: On Jan. 31, before noon, atyout 150
aircraft of the South Pacific Command, nearly
half fighters, attacked the Tobera aerodrome,
hitting gun positions, dispersal areas and the
runway. Seven enemy machines were destroyed
on the ground and 15 were damaged, as well as
eight out of 30 interceptors. Four Allied
machines were missing. Heavy units sank a
5000-ton freighter off Hansa Bay with two
direct hits.
Feb. 4: Bad weather shrouded the whole New
Guinea area, causing a lull in long-distance
operations, but 107 tons of bombs werd dropped
on Madang and Alexishafen on Feb. 2.
Feb. 5-6: In a crushing attack on Wewak on
Feb. 3 80 enemy machines were destroyed, and
16 in other areas were reported during the week-
end. At Rabaul, over Tobera and Lakunai,
13 Jap aircraft were destroyed for a loss of
three. Two coastal vessels were destroyed north
of Talasea (n. New Brit.). Another raid on
Wewak was made in which 108 tons of ex-
plosives were dropped on But and Dagua aero-
dromes. Madang also was heavily bombed
and strafed. A 3000-ton ship was left in flames
off Wewak and a 1000-ton vessel and several
small craft off Hansa Bay.
Japan’s account of these events was,
as usual, expansive. Its estimates of
machines used in all the Rabaul raids
were nearly double actuality, and it
claimed that-on January 29, 30 and 31
216 Allied aircraft were shot down for
a Japanese loss of eight!
The Fight for Cassino.
“Ek Bum”: The week was occupied in
Italy rather with preparations for large-
scale operations than with actual large-
scale battle. The Anzio-Nettuno bridge-
head was generally widened, and British
and American troops had some success
in throwing blocks across the roads lead-
ing down the Sacco-Liri valley to Cas-
sino, thus hampering communications
between the Germans in the so-called
Gustav line and those in Rome and the
north.
Some of the reports overran events last
week in the Nettuno sector, but on Feb-
ruary 3 it appeared that the British and
American troops were within 16 miles of
Rome round the fringes of the Alban
Hills and towards the Via Ostiense, which
runs up the southern side of the Tiber
from Ostia.
The British advance was made through
Campoleone, a little inland from the
coast —by this route many of the water-
courses aloqg the coast are avoided.
The Germans towards the week-end
were striving to carve up the bridgehead
with armor, mobile artillery and shock
troops, and claimed to have encircled
Allied units and to have taken 900 Brit-
ish prisoners. It was admitted that at


Public Nofires.
I, ARNOLD KALLAS, of Estonian nationality, born
at Viljandi, Estonia, and resident fifteen years in
Australia, now residing at 111 William Edward Street,
Longueville, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, DUOO RISTO PETROVICH, of Yugoslavian nation-
ality, born at Bitola, Yugoslavia, and resident fif-
teen years in Australia, now residing at 82 S'pit
Road, Mosman, N.S.W., intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALDO TEODO, of Italian nationality, born at
Castelnuovo Calcea, in the province of Allesandrla,
Italy, and resident 11 years in Australia, now residing
at ’Stoker’s Siding, via Murwillumbah, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationlity Act
1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR HENRY NICHOLLS late of Mudsree
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that ERMA KATHLEEN
NICHOLLS has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 3266
of 1913 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance by
27th April 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from P. SHERMAN, Solicitor. 4
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
CD
am
times British forces were surrounded, but
they fought their way out. Up to Febru-
ary 6 the fierce German counter-offen-
sive had not reached its climax.
During the latter part of the week the
fighting for Cassino reached its crisis.
What sort of fighting it has been can be
judged from the contour plan.
The flat floor of the valley is a fair
sample of the country over which British,
American and French troops have ad-
vanced in the last 20 miles or so towards
the town. The valley all the way up has
been mined and much of it was flooded,
the last part by a diversion of the
Rapido River.
Parallel with the advancing troops and
hanging over them were ranges which
come down as abruptly to the valley in
much the same way as the Blue Moun-
tains come down and end at the Nepean.
The troops had to dispose of a double
line of positions from which the enemy
sought to keep them under fire from both
sides of the valley.
In the hillsides the Germans had quar-
ried deep dugouts roofed with tiers of
railway rails cemented or earthed over
so as to be almost impervious to field-
gun fire and to most bombing.
These artillery and bombing posts,
besides numerous machine-gun posts and
enfilading positions arranged along the
sides of gorges running into the main
valley, had to be cleaned out as they were
reached before any further advance was
advisable. No Second-Fronter would
have asked why progress was slow if he
had marched with the harried Fifth Army
troops from the Volturno.
At Cassino, which extends over the
bit of plain in the foreground of the
plan, though the buildings are only
marked in sketchily, the Allies came on
the main Gustav line.
The advanced defences of this fanned
out through the town round the buttress
hill behind where the words “Cassino
town’” appear.
Artillery on this not merely commanded
the direct line of advance but the ap-
proach from the left down the Rapido,
seen on its way to join the Garigliano
in a gorge that the British' landing
forces from the coast were cleaning up in
the same way and under the same kind
of difficulties as Allied divisions had met
on the main route from Capua.
The road up the valley towards Rome
beyond Cassino was dominated from the
hillsides for a long distance —the hill with
the winding road climbs 1700 feet to the
monastery shown on top.
The Gustav line ran north of the
Rapido under cover of strong artillery
fire from the monastery hill (Monte Cas-
sino) and from the hills opposite. Troops
advancing up the valley to the left of the
town would come under fire from guns
sheltered by the western jutting shoulder
of the mount.
The river was used as the main defence
line’s frontal bastion, and behind this the
floor of the valley was covered in dug-
outs, pillboxes, tank traps and whatnot,
with belts of mines at suitable intervals.
The whole of the ground could be
swept with a hail of bullets and shells
from the flanking mountains.
The pivot of the defences of the entry
to the pass beyond Cassino along the
Rome road and rail was the fortress
position of Cassino itself. It was impos-
sible to attack this frontally across the
shell-swept open valley, covered by the
semicircle of artillery positions on the
higher ground behind the town.
It was, therefore, decided to take Cas-
sino in the rear.
French troops apparently broke into
the valley on the right across the more
distant reaches of the Rapido and pushed
into the terrible hills which are shown in
front of Monte Cairo, 5000 ft.
Americans meanwhile broke through
into the main valley, smashing part of
the Gustav line in the process, and pushed
their way past the shoulder of Monte Cas-
sino, after the French had seriously en-
dangered the German rear by one of the
most gallant and arduous operations of
the campaign.
From the rear—northward—the town
soon was being attacked by infantry fol-
lowing a bitter frontal bombardment with
over 1500 guns, while American tanks
picked a cautious way towards Rome and
soon joined the French, who were at the
village of Terella, five miles up the Liri
Valley.
On February 6 Cassino town, a flam-
ing ruin, was being fought for house to
house as the Canadians fought within
Ortona. And up the valley the rein-
forced enemy was hurling himself on
French and Americans with such fury
that he had pushed them out of one or
two hardly-won positions.
Bombs Fall.
Main raids by the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.
reported during the week included the
14th raid on Berlin since November 18,
bringing the total bombs dropped on the
city in three raids last week to 5000 tons.
That day (January 31) 33 bombers were
reported missing.
During the winter 21,500 tons of
bombs fell on the German capital in a
little over two months, costing the R.A.F.
about 2500 to 3000 personnel and about
400 bombers.
Every raid lasted less than 35 minutes,
some only 20 minutes, but Bomber Com-
mand now estimates that 56 p.c. of build-
ings should be devastated or wiped out.
On February 3 more than 1100 U.S.
heavies and fighters attacked Wilhelms-
hafen in daylight, while standard targets
in France were attended to by other
forces. They dropped 1500 tons of ex-
plosives on the naval base arid destroyed
eight enemy machines. Their losses were
stated as four heavy bombers, nine
fighters and two fighter bombers.
On February 4 the U.S. Strategic Air
Force lost 21 bombers and a fighter dur-
ing raids on Frankfort-on-the-Main and
other German centres, though only light
air defence was encountered. The raiders
shot down 12 enemy interceptors.
On February 5, while Mosquitoes
raided Berlin, the Paris area and manu-
facturing and strategic towns as far west
as Tours were attacked. Fighter opposi-
tion was reported generally weak, and
losses were stated as four heavy bombers,
two medium bombers, four light bombers
and two fighters.
During a raid on Toulon the 26,500-ton
battleship Dunquerque was set on fire in
its dock.
London and the South of England had
several alerts and some minor raids in
which a few people were killed and in-
jured and some damage was done. On
Jan. 29 eight aircraft were shot down.
Retreat in Russia.
Every step towards an Allied attack
from the west has been followed by a
major German move in Russia.
El Alamein was followed by the be-
ginning of the withdrawal from Stalin-
grad and the Caucasus ; the landing in
Sicily by the beginning of the withdrawal
from Orel; the landing in Italy by the
beginning of the withdrawal from the
Donetz.
Till last week there had been no official
attempt in Berlin to claim a connection
between retreat in Russia - and Anglo-
American operations. On February 2,
however, what seemed to be a campaign
to explain a great movement in the east
was begun in Berlin.
In the preceding few days, though re-
ports from Russia were that the enemy
was suffering a battering all along the
front, they were not accompanied by the
customary moaning from General Diet-
mar, Captain Sertorius and other
worthies, to the general effect that there
was no real need for great Anglo-Ameri-
can efforts since the German armies in
Russia were on the verge of collapse,
reeling back broken and in despair.
Suddenly the mask of despair was
dropped. In place of the normal cala-
mity-howling, a Berlin official spokesman
gave an exposition of the High Com-
mand’s plans in which he asserted that
the retreat in Russia was planned in ac-
cordance with a proper military appre-
ciation of the future. The war, he said,
would, like the last one, be decided in
the west. Germany was withdrawing
troops from the Russian front to meet
the coming Anglo-American invasion.
Germany’s strategy in the east would be
to defend itself there behind strong pre-
arranged lines, with as few troops as
possible, in order to cover the front
where the decisive blows would fall.
No correspondent—so far as the cables
tell the story—or office expert noted either
the change of attitude in Berlin or
thought the explanations of German
strategy worth comment.
In the Dnieper Bend
As far-back as the first week in January
there were signs that the Germans were
evacuating the Cherkassy sector in the
Dnieper Bend,
They gave up Cherkassy itself and fell
away several miles south-east till Smyela
was on the borders of their perimeter.
A Sydney “Herald” map published on
January 13 showed —accurately, accord-
ing to information then available—no
Germans whatever between the Dnieper,
at Kanev, and Vinnitsa, and none nearer
to Kanev than 40 miles. It showed a
German salient about 40 miles wide and
20 miles deep between a point just south-
east of Kirovograd and a point just
north-east of Uman.
Fresh mention of fighting began to
appear towards the end of January:
Jan. 25: A battle was raging east of Vinnitsa
along a line which reached almost to the western
base of the salient. Mannstein, the German
commander, had “thrown larger forces into the
battle and made slight but indecisive gains”
from General Vatutin’s army. The German
News Agency said strong Russian tank and
infantry forces had rolled out the German
defence line north-west, of Kirovograd—/.e.,
along the Smyela side of the German salient.
This agency alleged that the Russians had lost
435 tanks on Jan. 25, half of them north of
Uman — i.e., along the eastern side of the Ger-
mans’ Smyela salient, which was disposed inside
a railway loop among low hills, the extreme
eastern end of the Podolian and Volhynia
plateau country around Zvenigorodka.
Jan. 26: A Russian communique reported
that on the western side of the Germans’ Smyela
salient, east of Vinnitsa and just north of
Uman, Russian forces “repelled major tank
and infantry-attacks.” The Germans reported
a new Russian offensive s.-w. of Cherkassy—
i<p., against the tip of the salient at Smyela.
Jan. 27: It was again reported from Moscow
that major German tank and infantry attacks
against the positions north of the Uman-Vin-
nitsa line had been repelled with heavy losses.
This was repeated almost in identical terms next
day. Again on the following day it was re-
peated with the added statement that in this
area ? “by order of the High Command,” the
Red-* Army evacuated a number of inhabited
localities in favor of better defensive positions,
and in bitter fighting inflicted enormous losses
on the enemy.
The Germans on January 29 admitted
the evacuation of “the ruins of Smyela.”
London reports published on January 31
suggested that the Russians had been
pushed away from their frontal positions
at the south-western base of the salient.
Moscow information suggested that the
battle was a shielding operation for the
withdrawal southward of the Germans in
the Smyela salient.
Another “S. M. Herald” map (January
31) correctly plotted Moscow information
to show that the former “Kanev salient”
had become a mere dint in a Russian
front ran south of Kirovograd,
with an apex in the north just above
Uman and just north-west of Vinnitsa.
It appeared unlikely that there were
any Germans, unless stragglers, within 55
miles of Kanev and 30 miles of Smyela.
There seemed to be an escape gap for any
Germans in the salient, still nearly 50
miles wide, with no Germans more deeply
in the salient than 20 miles. It was here
written (B, 2/ 2 / ’44) that “one of the
two horn salients in the Dnieper Bend
has been almost wiped out.”
On February 1 the enemy mentioned
“heavy battles” as “continuing south-west
of Cherkassy and south-east of Byelaya
Tserkov.” It was alleged that “in offen-
sive fighting south of Pogrebische in the
past week we routed more than 10 Rus-
sian rifle divisions and several armored
corps. We killed over 8000 Russians and
took 6500 prisoners. We destroyed or
captured 700 tanks and mobile assault
guns.”
Next day fighting in the salient area
was not mentioned, but Berlin was con-
cerned with “the attempt of vast masses
of Russians to rip open the defences of
Nikopol.”
Vichy Radio on February 3 an-
nounced that heavy fighting was proceed-
ing from south-east of Byelaya Tserkov,
in the Vinnitsa region, to Nikopol. “The
Russians,” it was added, “appear to be
trying to take the Germans in the rear,
but the Germans launched violent
counter-attacks and penetrated the Rus-
sian lines.”
“Ten Divisions Encircled”
On February 4 Marshal Stalin issued
a sensational Order of the Day:
The Second Ukrainian Front troops went
over from the area north of Kirovograd in
a westerly direction and the First Ukrainian
troops went over to the offensive from the
area south-east of Byelaya Tserkov in an
easterly direction. Soviet troops broke
through the strongly fortified enemy defence
lines. In five days of offensive fighting they
advanced in each direction 30 to 47 miles
and enlarged the break-through on both
sectors. As a result, the troops of the
Second and First Ukrainian Fronts joined
hands in the area of Zvenigorodka and
Shpola and completed the encirclement of
an enemy army group north of this line
consisting of nine infantry divisions and
one tank division.
More than 300 localities were liberated in
this operation, including the towns of Zveni-
gorodka, Shpola, Smyela, Kanev and
Boguslav and the large railway junctions of
Bobrinsk, Tsverkovo and Mironovka.
In another Moscow report the encircled
tank division was described as a Waffen
S.S. division, highly “crackable,”
There have been some stunning sur-
prises in the Russian war, but nothing
surpassing the encirclement of ten enemy
divisions in an area which seemed as a
whole to have been free of Germans for
some days.
All the area and towns mentioned
seemed to be cut off from four diiec-
tions on Jan. 10, when the retreat from
the salient “showed signs of turning into
a rout”
So for nearly a month Moscow
correspondents had been crediting the
Russian armies with holding an area in
which, on the latest evidence, there must
have been 5 per cent, of all Hitler’s divi-
sions in the east (including reserves).
On the face of it, the Kanev divisions
must be in a bad way. Though the
force was large even for a full-sized
army, it had no artillery division in sup-
port, nor any motorised division. Awful
blundering on the part of Hitler’s generals
had apparently left it out on a limb with-
out air support or any of the accessories
with which such bodies of troops gener-
ally are equipped. And attempts at rescue
were feeble —the Russians reported one at
the week-end, claiming 1500 Germans
killed, the rest driven back, and 65 tanks
destroyed.
The encircled enemy divisions had, it
was reported, been involved in long and
bitter fighting before being surrounded.
In view of the. weakness of their tank
and artillery and air support it follows
that they must have been much reduced
in numbers’. Official bulletins attempted
no enumeration, but correspondents de-
cided that they were at full strength after
encirclement —“about 150,000 troops, who
are being systematically wiped out.”
A German infantry division newly
placed in the line—much less one in-
volved in weeks of heavy fighting—which
had 15,000 men in it would be a museum
piece, A battered armored division
composed of 15,000. men would be an
even greater curiosity.
At the beginning of the week the
enemy had not admitted the encircle-
ment. On February 6 Berlin declared
that there had been bitter fighting be-
tween Kirovograd and Byelaya Tserkov.
It alleged that the Germans had retaken
45 localities and inflicted heavy losses.
“Five More Divisions” Cut Off
The Stalin Order of the Day announc-
ing the surrounding of the Kanev en-
clave was followed by another equally
sensational. This stated that, by break-
ing through the German lines be-
tween Kirovograd and Nikopol, the Rus-
sians had crushed seven more divisions
and cut off five more in Nikopol itself.
The Germans in their communique on
that morning did not mention this break-
through. They declared that enemy
attacks north-west of Nikopol had in-
creased in fury, and claimed that the
Russians had been beaten back and “their
penetrations sealed off.”'
The enemy seemed more concerned
about the position at Vitebsk, where, it
asserted, 20 Red Army divisions were
employed. In fierce engagements their
attempts to outflank, the, city were frus-
trated, it was alleged.
Centre and North
Apart from the Kanev an'd Nikopol
operations, the main Russian advances
were those which engulfed Rovno and
Lutsk, in Poland, south of the Kiev-
Warsaw railway. The loss of these places
was admitted by the enemy two days
before the Russians announced it. Said
Moscow:
More than 2000 prisoners were taken in
this fighting, some belonging to the routed
18th and 19th Hungarian divisions.
So far the enemy has not given up any
country north-west of Korosten, on the
Polish side of the old Russian border,
which is not within the Pripet Marshes.
In the course of a memorable week the
Russians, having taken Kingisepp, the
covering town of the narrow Narva gap
between the lakes and the Baltic, crossed
the Estonian border and faced the Narva
lines, where a battle began.


X
4
CLOTH
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
tom
W 1
/^k
fit
# ■ -
C. S.R. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PLI
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE CO
SYDNEY -
LONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
- MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
Lawrence took his earnings to £6064
and became nominal favorite for the
V.R.C. St. Leger and Australian Cup by
his brilliant defeat of Cacique and Tran-
quil Star in the C. F. Orr Stakes at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Well
ridden by his new jockey, W. Williamson,
he finished strongly to win in 1.37 f, which
equalled the course record for a mile.
Having had a prior race, Lawrence had
an advantage, in condition over several
of the runners, but he gives the impres-
sion that he will keep on improving.
Opposed to Lawrence were other lead-
ing St. Leger candidates in Simmering,
from the same stable, and the Victoria
Derby winner Precept. Looking above
himself in condition, Precept finished
nicely in fourth position, and is certain
to derive benefit from race. Sim-
mering came from last to* finish sixth
in a field of 10, and should be a better
proposition at her next appearance. Tran-
quil Star’s third was one of her best
first-up performances. She is carrying
more condition than at this stage of any
previous campaign, and should pay her
way during the autumn. Her next race
will be at w.f.a., followed by the Futur-
ity Handicap. Amana, star w.f.a. per-
former of the spring, finished last after
being among the leaders on the bend.
His preparation had been interrupted,
however, and he was above himself.
A small section of the crowd voiced
disapproval after Mor Veil, 20 to 1, had
beaten Twovals and Triton in the Wynd-
ham Handicap. His form contrasted
sharply with his poor showing at Men-
tone a week earlier, but the win sur-
prised his trainer, T. Lewis, as much as
it did most other people. Over the longer
distance on Saturday Mor Veil was never
farther back than third, was in front
three furlongs from home, and battled
on again after Twovals had headed him
in the straight. Mor Veil is a four-year-
old entire by Veilmond from Complete,
and if he maintains his \ present rate of
improvement might be an Australian Cup
possibility. Grain Trader was a dis-
appointing favorite, but Liberal Knight,
although he failed at the business end,
will be all the.better for the race.
Phoines and Regency enhanced their
important autumn sprint race prospects
by winning their respective divisions of
the Marine Handicap. Phoines cleared,
away in the straight to win from Night
Life and Captivator, and evidently is
back to the form that enabled him to
finish second in the 1941 Newmarket and
second in the 1942 Oakleigh Plate.
Regency, with two wins and a third from
his last three starts, is racing up to the
form that saw him defeat Hesione in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes of 1942.
According to his trainer he would
not reproduce his track form in his
latter days as an entire. On Saturday
he recorded an impressive performance
to defeat Busybody after the latter had
looked all over a winner. Autumn
engagements of Phoines and Regency
include the Newmarket and Futurity.
......
Labrador ran up to his winning form
of a week earlier by justifying his 7-to-4
favoritism for the Electric Handicap.
Although set a severe task in front he
won impressively from Bubbling and
Portosapto to make his record two wins
f rom three starts. Being a gelding, Labra-
dor is ineligible for the Sires’ Produce
stakes, but he will get his opportunity in
other good races for two-year-olds during
autumn carnival.
Most remarkable features of the Rose-
hill Club’s meeting on Saturday were the
surprise wins of Newcastle horses and
the style in which Versailles won a divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap.
Attendance was 21,000, and £54,661 went
through the tote.
Having his first race, Versailles, a
heavily-built bay colt by Phalaran Bay,
won by an expanse officially described as
10 lengths. He galloped powerfully and
dead straight once headed for home,
doing the six in I.l2y—only half a second
worse than the track record and half a
second better than Fine Art’s time for the
first division. Kardinia, a somewhat an-
gular full-sister to Yaralla, drew badly,
but showed best of those beaten by Ver-
sailles, who’ll win far harder races.
Versailles and Fine Art each carried
8.7 in their respective divisions, but Fine
Art had much the stronger field to beat.
He was almost caught on the post by
Denton, who has a useful finishing run.
Another galloper of . some promise
showed up in the Nursery Handicap —
the bay colt Cold Shower (Midstream-
Society), brother to Riverton and half-
brother to Talking. Cold Shower’s win-
ning margin over Silver Flare and Blane-
field was four lengths. It would have
been more if he hadn’t galloped sideways
and in other unorthodox directions after
hitting the front in the last half-furlong.
Except for the antics, it was a solid per-
formance, the time only quarter of a
second worse than the course record.
Twice Royal, backed like a certainty on
the strength of a Moorefield win, was
responsible, with Recka Oka, for the fast
run, but faded out. Recka Oka, a Mid-
stream colt having his first run, also
dropped back, but should do better after
a race or two, and the same goes for
the also inexperienced Nuffield colt Blane-
field.
Newcastle horses won the opening
Novice Handicap and the Rosehill Han-
dicap, both over a mile and a quarter,
and both winners were treated with dis-
dain by punters. That was not surprising
in regard to the Rosehill Handicap winner
Neta Linette, who for some time has
raced alternately and moderately in New-
castle and Sydney. She finished fast to
down Faerie Queene, after the imported
mare had shot to the front in the straight
and looked home. Neta Linette started
at twenties, and paid £8 14s. 3d. on the ss.
tote, Kimbell (fourth) tried to lead all
the way, but once more showed that a
mile is his best distance. Etching’s third
was a good run.
The Novice winner, Bon Terre, not
only had fair Newcastle form, but was
ridden by leading jockey W, Cook, yet
he started at 14 to 1. Places went to
Gold Edifice and Buzz Off. Thanks
America, a solid favorite, ran a very poor
race. Alertful, when showing up fairly
well, appeared to strike trouble.
It was given out early in the day that
Rimveil (who drew No. 1) would be
hurdled off on the outside in the Flying,
whichever marble he drew. This was for
having kicked Lord Neith at Randwick,
the starter judging that the six-year-old
entire was turning sour. Also, he doesn't
look the good horse he was, and, with
9.3, was giving away a lot of weight, in-
cluding 2st. to the ultimate easy winner,
Davinia. Yet Rimveil went out a 2-to-l
favorite. Something of his old finishing
run enabled him to cut General Smuts
narrowly out of third money, but Rim-
veil was a very lame horse afterwards.
The task of trying to lead all the way
was just too much for St. Elmo (second).
An element of the crowd that appar-
ently had never heard of horses for
courses and that makes no distinction
between Welter and Flying conditions
made a noise because Davinia hadn’t
done so well in a Randwick Welter. She’s
both a lightly-built mare and one that has
shown herself partial to Rosehill. Glen-
dower, who has the same taste in tracks,
had additionally such a poor-performed
lot to beat in the Carlingford Handicap
that 5 to 4 about him was a generous
price. Bartle simply sat him .in behind
Bragger, Entally and Mary Lou to the
turn, then took him to the front, to win
pulling up. Bragger (second) showed his
best for a while and is improving, which
goes also for Pall Mall (third).
* * * *
“Sturt”; The Onkaparinga (S.A.)
Racing Club’s balance sheet is a negative
sort of affair. No racing during the year
and no income except a trifle for pastur-
age and bank interest. The famous
course in the hills was kept in order at a
cost of over £lOOO, and the year’s loss
was £B5O. It is not intended to revive at
present the picnic meeting away at Oak-
bank on Easter Monday, but the club
will go to the city for April 8 and 10.
The Great Eastern Steeplechase of £lOOO
will be the chief feature now, as in the
past.
* * * «
Trotting is not really far behind gal-
loping in popularity with Maoriland
bettors. On the opening day of the Auck-
land Trotting Club’s meeting in Decem-
ber. the tote turnover was £124,000. It
was a record for Epsom. The £229,157
put through the machine on Auckland
Cup day by an attendance of 51,000 was
a record for Ellerslie.
* * * *
Lucky is the man who owns a good
two-year-old in America. When Occupy
won the Futurity Stakes for two-year-
olds at Belmont Park (New York) in
October, his share of the stake was
$55,635 (approximately £A16,920). After
that race his earnings for the season
totalled $109,960 (£A55,438). Second
money in the Futurity was $7400 and
third $4200, the total value of the stake
being $68,235, inclusive of some pre-
miums. Occupy’s brother, Occupation,
won the Futurity last year.
« * * *
It is improbable there is any taller
three-year-old than All Scot in training
in Sydney. He is 17.1, but at present does
not possess the substance that should go
with such height. In his races All Scot
has done his best work at the finish, and
it is probable he will stay. He is by
Fresco (son of that good stayer Solario),
a winner at a mile and a quarter, and a
place-getter at one and a half and two
miles.
* * * *
If, as suggested by some of our
trainers, the minimum in handicaps is
raised to 7.7, that does not mean appren-
tices will be passed over to any extent
in favor of licensed jockeys. Any appren-
tice who has been on a few winners and
is still eligible for a 71b. or 51b. allowance
will be as much in demand as at present,
and it will increase the opportunities of
some who have become a little too heavy
to claim the full allowance to which they
are entitled. That 71b. or 51b. appeals
to many trainers, and, while it is only
fair that youngsters should be given
chances of making good, such considera-
tion has often proved costly.
Miscellaneous.
Opposed to Jack McNamee at Leich-
hardt Jack Mitchell, of Newcastle, was
active, but crude. He stopped many a
straight left with his nose, and that mem-
ber was bleeding, as also were the
Mitchell mouth and left eyebrow, when
their owner took a brief count in the
eighth. A left to the chin put him down
for “nine” in the ninth. Cries of “Stop
it!” were heard from all parts of the
hall, never previously thought to be a
haunt of the tender-hearted, and the
referee stopped it at “corners.”
Fighting all the time, middleweight
Steve Norrish outpointed Owen Moase in
a 12-rounder at the Sydney Stadium.
Moase was the more polished boxer, but
an early eyebrow wound cramped bis
style. A Queensland welter, Alan Fraser,
drew with Ron. Warner in another 12-
rounder.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Moorefield.)
(Before acceptances.)
Encourage Handicap: Alertful,
1 ; Bon Terre, 2 ; Great Scot, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and geld-
ings) ; Murray Stream, 1; Blane-
field, 2 ; Ascertain, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies): Twice
Royal, 1 ; Bramble, 2 ; Chantilly, 3,
Flying Handicap: Versailles, 1 ;
St. Elmo, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap: Kim-
bell, 1 ; Dick Whittington, 2 ; Boor-
chief, 3.
Three-year-old Handicaps Sus-
quehanna, 1 ; Sir Francis, 2 ; Annie
Laurie, 3.
Welter Handicap: Pall Mall, 1;
Tel Asur, 2; Valiant Garde, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
For 15 years the Governor-General
and his wife have been in Australia.
Lord Gowrie was first (as Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven) Governor of South Aus-
tralia, then Governor of this State, and
finally he became the Commonwealth’s
Governor-General. The vice-regal couple,
who have become very popular, will
leave Australia this year in the flesh, but
in spirit they wall remain. Last week at
a public meeting in the Town Hall the
Gowrie Scholarship Trust Fund was
launched. It will provide scholarships
for service men and service women who
have seen active service and their de-
scendants. The ambitious will be helped
to university, technical college and the
higher education generally.
The trust is to be Australia-wide, with
a committee in each State, and the
scholarships will be named for distin-
guished Australian service men who have
been killed in action. Some will be called
the Patrick Hore-Ruthven, in memory of
the only son of Lord and Lady Gowrie,
who died on active service in North
Africa over a year ago. There was a
great gathering of resounding names at
the first meeting; Sydney’s Mayor Bart-
ley, knight Claude Reading, W. M.
Hughes, State Opposition leader Mair,
State Country party leader Bruxner,
Major-General F. A. Maguire and Min-
ister of Justice Downing were there. Now
all the public has to do is to supply the
funds. These will be invested in war
bonds for the duration. Later other
securities will be approved by the trustees.
An American service man calling on
some friends said fo the small boy of
the family: “Come here, John; 111 give
you a picture of George Washington.” He
thereupon handed the son of the house
a silver coin. Young Australia’s father,
doing his part towards the entente,
called: “Come here, John, and show me
the picture of George Washington.” He
took the coin in his hand and said: “Ah,
so this is the picture of George Washing-
ton. You know, John, he never told a
lie.” “Didn’t he?” asked the youngster.
Then, hopefully, “Dad, did he ever
swear?” “Oh, no! ” replied father hastily.
“Well,” said the son of the house desper-
ately, “could he speak?”
The ghostly crackle of bushfires tor-
mented the minds of some country guests
at the Gearin-Woods wedding. Even
toastmaster Bert Shannon, of Marilba
station, near Yass, confessed to a touch
of the ever-present fear, but in spite of
that he kept things moving briskly. The
slim, dark-haired bride and her bombar-
dier ’groom received bushels of telegrams.
One from the Jennings Bacon couple
(married a few days before) read “Hop-
ing you will be as happy as this leaves
us at present.” The newly-decorated
ballroom of the Australia housed the late-
afternoon party at which Mrs. John
Woods was helped in receiving the guests
by Mrs. Gearin, the ’groom’s mother.
The bridal array was a snowy foam of
dress and veil. Bridesmaids Margaret
Fagan, Pat Parsons and Julee Helen
Magrath might have stepped from an
old English portrait in their long prim-
rose frocks and floppy straw hats banded
simply with velvet. Their escorts were
all in uniform. Best man was Daryl
Coen, D.F.C., of the R.A.A.F., who won
his decoration for daring raids over Ger-
many. Sheila Kearns was one of the
many attractive guests, and young and
blonde Joan Allen was another who
caught the gaze. The Molyneux couple
(she was Pat McGirr) were among the
evening’s favorites. Pat’s sister, Mrs.
Tom Bateman, down from Wagga (her
doctor husband is now away with the
forces), popped along to St. Mary’s,
Ridge-street, to see the wedding in be-
tween wild searchings for furnishings for
her Sydney home.
Last Sunday the whole cast of “Sepa-
rate Rooms,” the Minerva current show,
took play, scenery, stage hands and all
and trekked out to a military hospital
where in its own little theatre the play
was produced for the benefit of soldier
patients. The idea of doing a play every
now and then for the lads in hospital
was put forward by Alec Coppel, and
everybody concerned greeted the thought
with cheers. Next play to be done will
be “Rope,” which is booked for the
Darlinghurst playhouse shortly. Edwin
Styles, just back from his New Guinea
tour, will be the star. Edwin on the New
Guinea circuit had a taking way, when-
ever he was going through a hospital, of
doing a turn, telling a few stories and
so on to the patients, without benefit of
spotlight or musical effects. The boys
in bed quite liked it.
On and off the stage of the Conserva-
torium the W.A.N.S. had a grand time on
Saturday night. They were presenting a
pageant of themselves, their aspirations
and their deeds. It would be a cavilling
soul that would point out that their deeds
are a lot better than their “acts,”
for everybody has a real affection for the
trig blue W.A.N.S. uniform and the girls
within it. The movement had its begin-
nings in 1940, and it caught , the Aus-
tralian girl’s fancy, so that it spread
throughout different States. The 23
subjects of its. training have all proved
themselves of use in active-service work,
and it is a sober estimate to say that there
are about 70Q0 of the W.A.N.S. now in
the Army, the Air Force and the Navy.
Saturday night’s show was a cavalcade
of women’s services written by Noelle
Brennan. The opening episode showed
the torch of service being handed down
from Boadicea in a robe and crown (but
did Britain’s warrior queen go clothed in
aught but skins, maybe of the wild boar,
and a coating of woad?), to Joan of Arc.
From Joan tossed to Elizabeth, it then
was held aloft, in succession, by Florence
Nightingale, Clare Barton, the wife of
Chiang Kai-shek, poor, daring Amy
Johnson and Ludmilla Pavlichenko.
There were a choir, a ballet (in newsprint
skirts), a band and a most amusing cafe
scene held together by the true comedy
spirit of Gwen Sherwood, who had a
good opposite in Frances Wallis. Lady
Wakehurst, who has been an inspiration
to the movement, was in the audience
with Lord Wakehurst.
Women throughout the State are
pleased that Lady Wakehurst will not be
leaving Australia this year. Lord Wake-
hurst having consented to a further term
of office means that his wife, with her
ease of manner, her quick wit and ready
sympathy, will still exert her influence on
the many works of public interest that
are carried by the women of this State.
Last week Lord and Lady Wakehurst
became patrons of the newly-formed
Gowrie Scholarship Trust. Nothing
would appeal to them more than to be
linked with a movement to help kindle
the spark of genius. This photograph
of Lady Wakehurst is by Dorothy Weld-
ing.
Surely on the honor roll of Australia’s
citizens the name of Ruth Emilie Kaye
should hold a high place. Miss Kaye,
who lives in Strathfield, was 100 years
old last Sunday. She drank her own
health in a glass of champagne, and, as
she has given her life to the well-being
of others, she deserves good health and
happiness. Born in South Devon,
this splendid Englishwoman brought a
spirit of service to her new home in
Australia. After living for a consider-
able time on the Darling Downs in
Queensland, she went to Melbourne and
took up the profession of nursing. For
four years, to her credit, she looked after
women at Long Bay lazaret. She has been
head of the Parramatta Industrial Girls’
School and she was a nurse in military
hospitals. Her last appointmerit was as
matron of the Nurses’ Home in West
Maitland.
Unlike Australia, which sends the
money to England and Canada and has
her prisoners-of-war parcels sent from
those countries, Maoriland sends hers
direct. Chairman of the M.L. executive
C. G. White explained how this was
done to interested listeners at a meeting
of the N.S.W. Divisional Council of the
Red Cross last week. He told of the
packing of 1800 parcels of food a day.
Incredible as it may seem, 30 workers on
the job from 9 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. get
through this colossal task. Of course, as
a former Maorilander points out, the
climate is with them. There is nothing
like a shrewd blast off the Remarkables
or a sleety rain scurrying along Lambton
Quay to set the muscles in tune for hard
work. Seriously, it is the love behind the
busy hands that makes them so capable.
Into the parcels go meat, honey, cheese,
butter, tea, sugar, dried peas, coffee, milk
and sultanas. So far there had been no
difficulty in getting space for direct ship-
ment to Geneva of p.o.w. parcels. There
is a feeling in the island Dominion across
the Tasman that the knowledge that the
parcels are packed in their homeland
must be cheering to the lads in enemy
hands.
From Melbourne
The scheme to give women from burnt-
out areas a seaside holiday whilst their
normal home duties are perforce ren-
dered unnecessary because the fires
have gutted houses and farms seemed a
good one, but it has not been a great
success because the country woman’s psy-
chology hasn’t been taken into account.
She won’t desert the home acres, however
bare and blackened these may be, while
her husband or son toils with the job of
putting them back into production. Re-
building and creating anew the family
centre is work that appeals more strongly.
Thea Philips (Mrs: C. Wallis), whose
services were recently requisitioned,
not for the first time, for one of
the popular outdoor concerts at the
Botanic Gardens, has become really one
of us. Her cheerful kindliness has made
her hosts of friends, and in these days
she is relied on for help in keeping to
the traditions of opera as understood in
the great opera houses of the world.
Since her marriage to one of the best-
known of Melbourne’s musical set she
has become interested in the many
organisations which provide an outlet for
talents of young people. This picture of
the singer was made by John Lee.
Dog-owners are coming from all points
of the compass to the Animal Meat Shop
Mrs. Lort Smith has opened in Glen-
ferrie-road, Malvern. Fido and Susy often
accompany their owners and view the
shop for themselves.’ Two retired but-
chers who are fond of dogs are doing
the dispensing with the benevolent air of
Harun-al-Rashids distributing largesse
to the poor, and their services are much
appreciated by all concerned. Mrs. Lort
Smith, who organises supplies, has man-
aged to gather an amazing amount of
“left-overs” and not-saleable stuff from
the meat trade. On the first day 11001 b.
of meat was sold.
A queue of a length quite remarkable
even in these days of crocodiling after
minor luxuries led some to suppose that
a great consignment of beer or wine
must have arrived in this bottleless
town. But its head was found to dis-
appear into the Tourist Bureau, and tired
policemen (who had been controlling the
crowd since early morning) explained
that booking for the Mount Buffalo winter
season had just opened. An interesting
note was the number of grandfathers,
obviously not ski-ing bound, who’d been
popped in the queue to buy tickets for
younger members of the family who
hadn’t so much time on their hands.
The Beethoven Festival nights have all
been as crowded as the first so far, and
seem likely to stay that way. The popu-
larity of these concerts seems consider-
ably greater than that of ordinary winter-
season affairs. One advantage of the one-
composer programme is that the listener’s
mind does not have to make a sudden
swing from one style to another. Dress-
ing, incidentally, has been of the modest
and sober type, as becomes the music-
lover rather than the devotee of fashion.,
Monday night saw the memory of
Charles Dickens toasted on the 102nd
anniversary of his birth by this city’s
Dickens Fellowship. Prahran Town Hall
was the locale, and the main speakers
were knight John Latham and organist-
composer Dr. E. A. Floyd. A musical
programme was arranged by song-com-
poser Edith Harrhy. The Fellowship
membership is very enthusiastic, and
meetings are frequent.
Dickens lovers here keep in close con-
tact with English groups of similar pur-
pose, the London Society’s Dickensian
magazine forming a link between such
societies throughout the Empire. In the
latest issue there is a chirrup over the
fine tally of the novelist’s descendants
who’ve won gallantry decorations in this
war. Among then are Lieut. Peter
Dickens, R.N., who holds both the
D.S.C. and the D.S.O. The family as a
whole has distinguished itself in many
fields.
A chance to discover the form of
physical training which suits them best
is being given to Melbourne lasses by the
Y.W.C.A.’s Health Week. All through
the week demonstrations of a variety of
sporting activities are being given, and
girls are invited to come and try them
so that they may select the form in which
they’d like to make their year’s effort at
keeping fit. Among other sports fencing,
gymnasium exercises (either the simple
touch-your-toes kind or with apparatus),
baseball and hockey are on the list. '
A.I.F. Women’s Association ’ Raffle
ticket-sellers are in all the city’s busiest
spots urging the public to try its luck.
They’ve a very good cause and some
really enticing prizes. Calls on the asso-
ciation’s funds are heavy now that the
holiday home at Frankston is in full
swing and the Welfare Bureau much
extended. In charge of the raffle is Mrs.
Clive Steele, who has always been so
actively interested in the association. The
raffle will be drawn at the Town Hall on
March 3 instead of on February 26, as is
indicated on the tickets. Tickets are pro-
curable at the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion rooms, 437 Collins-street, Cl.
The wife of our retiring Chief Justice,
Frederick Mann, and the spouse of his
successor, Lieut.-General Herring, have
both done good service for A.I.F. women-
folk. The Mann lady has concentrated
on p.o.w. —she has had the anxiety of
knowing her son was in enemy hands.
General Herring’s wife, who is a medico
and member of the executive of A.I.F.
Women’s Association, has been dealing
with the problems that beset soldiers’
wives and families. There is plenty of
scope for such activities now, as the
housing of returning men and their fami-
lies presents increasing difficulties.
While the newly-appointed Governor
of Bengal and his wife were in the head-
lines the wife of the Acting-Governor
(until the arrival in Calcutta of the R. G.
Caseys)’ was living in Toorak-road with
her schoolgirl daughter. The* Rutherford
lady, whose husband has come from
India to join her, is a sister of George
Dickenson, well-known Melbourne busi-
nessman, and aunt of Lynette Dickenson,
who has varied the social round with
acting in semi-amateur productions. The
Rutherfords are now rusticating at their
country home, near Geelong.
Married at Toorak kirk on Saturday
were Noel, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T,
J. Rome, of Warrnambool, and Captain
Albert Piper, A.A.M.C., A.1.F., son of
the R. P. Pipers, of Mt. Moriac. Brides-
maid was Ina Lawson, daughter of knight
Harry.
Paula Mornane, of the legal clan, has
announced her betrothal to Flying-Officer
W. J. Stutt, son of the late Captain S. V.
Stutt (Royal Flying Corps).
One effect of curtailment of general
spending has been a great increase in the
amount available for education. There
has been a rush to provide the experience
of community life in education for chil-
dren and the just-grown-up. Boarding
schools, residential colleges and the like
all report long waiting lists. The Kinder-
garten Training College, so Principal
Madelene Crump testifies, has had to turn
away many intending resident students.
Many grandmas, and possibly an even
greater number of grandpas, indulged in
an orgy of reminiscence for the benefit
of their descendants when they heard
that Meta Pelham was having a 94th
birthday. The lady, claimed to be the
oldest living British actress, takes her
years lightly, and her birthday was a
three-party affair, with the telephone con-
tinually abuzz with congratulatory mes-
sages and good wishes. Miss Pelham’s
final stage appearance was in Gregan
McMahon’s “Dear Brutus,” when she was
79. Nowadays she lives with her
daughter, Mrs. Orton Roberts.
Animal-welfare organisations are re-
porting a tremendous increase in the
number of cats and dogs brought to them
for destruction in spite of assufances by
veterinary experts that they can be kept
healthy even under meat-rationing con-
ditions. A plague of rats and mice
afflicted Britain in the early years of the
war, when many people had their pets
destroyed. It has been argued that the
destruction wrought by rats far out-
weighed the amount of food pets con-
sumed.


For Blood, Veins, and Arteries
aet*
fa
registered
Take It—And Stop Limping!
. "CWERY sufferer should test this wonderful new
which brings quick relief from pain and weariness and creates within
the system a new health force, overcoming sluggish, unhealthy con-
ditions, and arousing to full activity the inherent healing powers of
the body. No ailment resulting from poor or sluggish circulation of
the blood can resist the action of “Elasto.” Varicose veins are restored
to a healthy condition, the arteries become supple, skin troubles clear
up, and leg wounds heal naturally. There is quick relief from piles
and rheumatism in all its forms. This is not magic. It is the natural
result of revitalised blood and improved circulation brought about by
"Elasto”— the tiny tablet with wonderful healing powers.
Everybody is asking—what is “Elasto”?
rpHIS question is fully answered in an interesting booklet, which ex-
plains in simple language this amazing method of revitalising the
blood. Your copy is Free, seb offer below. Suffice it to say here that
“Elasto” is not a drug, but a vital cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus enables Nature to restore elasticity to
the broken-down and devitalised fabric of veins and arteries, and so
to re-establish normal, healthv circulation, without which there can be
no true healing. NINE TIMES OUT OP TEN THE REAL TROUBLE
IS BAD CIRCULATION,
What Users of “Elasto" say:
"No sign of varicose veins novo.”
"Completely healed my varicose
ulcers.”
44 Relieved my Rheumatism and
Reuritis.”
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema
“My doctor marvelled at my quick
recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and address to “ELASTO,” Box 1552 E, Sydney, for your
FREE copy of the interesting “Elasto” booklet. Or, better still, get a supply of
•‘Elas'to” (with booklet enclosed) from your chemist today and see for yourself
what a wonderful difference “Elasto” makes. Obtainable from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one month’s supply.
&Udto will h-avo ifcu pounds
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
AfOllVll39l
//ill lu\\\ w •..
Thinking what we’re thinking
That something new and better in refrigeration should come out
of all this war-time experience of meeting unusual tasks and
difficulties ! Of course it must . . and at the Werner plant, we
are spending not a few moments, between busy spells, thinking
of all the things we might be able to do to make refrigeration
in the post-war, something far more valuable to industry than
anything we could ever have conceived 4 years ago.
All we ask from you now is patience patience to wait till we
finish the big tasks in hand looking after our fighting mens’ welfare
and our nation's needs. But with that task done, then we’ll be
right on your doorstep with refrigeration that will serve your
industry, your needs just as dependably as the war equipment
we build today serves its present users.
Of course we are always ready to spend a minute or two to
tell you something about refrigeration for your industry, or if you
wish to read something about it then write to us now and tell
us what you want refrigeration to do for your business.
industries
SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRIGERATION*
@ Abattoirs. Bakers
Q Breweries. Butchers
0 Butter Factories. Cafes
0 Confectioners. Councils
0 Dairy Produce Shops
£ Dairies. Fishmongers
Fruit Storages, Grocers
Q Guest Houses. Hospitals
9 Hotels, Ice Manufacturers
Q Ice Cream Factories
Markets. Ships.
W-f/j27
f
&
Go
R
n, . TV c l\ IT CSV PTY.LTD
BURNLEY STREET, RICHMOND.
REFRIG E RATIO N IN DUSTRY
INTERSTATE AGENTS—N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO. PTY LTD. 174 Clarence St. .SYDNEY , S.A.. WHITE, Grots
St., ADELAIDE; W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St. ( PERTH; QLD.: G. A. R.OCHE PTY.
St., Woolloongabba, STH. BRISBANE; TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART, 59 George St., LAUiNLtSTUN
SMOKE-OH!
“A pig with two heads, two brains, two
tongues and three eyes has been born at Been-
leigh. The freak, which seemed strong after
being fed, will be sent to the university for re-,
search.” — “Sun.”
Its acquisition of a B.Sc. degree, how-
ever, is doubtful.
•F *F *F *F
“General Blarney, usually non-committal in
speech and writing, acts just like a mother to
his boys.”— New Guinea correspondent.
And with the boys Mum’s the word.
•F *F *F *F
“I will take the oath on the Bible, as I
am now a Christian and a member of a Orange
branch.” — Chinese witness in Melbourne court.
Presumably he’s a mandarin.
Materia Medica.
“A woman in Stockholm, Sweden, slept con-
tinuously for 32 years.” — Believe -it- or - not
Ripley.
I encountered a similar case during my
practice in Wogglebi.
The patient was a pastoralist’s wife. She
snored double fortissimo continuously in
two distinct keys and her husband was
nearly batty.
I applied short waves, long waves, per-
manent waves, hot air and auto-sugges-
tion. Having created the desired state of
cerebral receptivity I screamed into her
ear “Do you think your husband should
buy that woman a fur coat?” She woke
—and stayed awake!
A fortnight later he crashed into my
bedroom in tears and a very severe
neurosis. “For heaven’s sake, come
quickly!” he cried.
“What’s happened?” I shrieked, leap-
ing out of my slumberwell,
“I can’t bear it any longer! ” he cried
“For the love of Mike, put her to sleep
again! ”
T. W. N.
“Film Star Will Bare Her Life.” — ‘‘Sun:”
Baring everything else has lost its
novelty.
•F *F *F *F
“Three Milking Goats, cheap.”— “S.M.H.”
Now, now, Granny, that’s no way to
talk of tax-gatherers.
4* 4* «J<
“Council Shorts.”
—Heading in suburban paper.
For beach municipalities, of course,
*F ,T, ,t. .J.
“For gardening, all you need is an infinite
amount of patience.”
A little dirt and a few seeds are also
handy.
•F *F -I-
“The man hurled a stone at the glass door,
which was broken and immediately ran down
the street.” — ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
Perhaps the door wanted to get a catch.
❖ *F *F *F
“House Wanted, respectable married couple,
no children, will take every care.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
But no responsibility.
“Many simply stood gazing with shining eyes
at this thin, not very handsome little man.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
No doubt a shopkeeper who still prac-
tised pre-war civility.
■i* 4*
“Railway worker found after missing for over
a week.”— News item.
Located amongst the sleepers, eh?
*!* *l*
“A rat had been seen sitting in the window
of a milk bar eating one of the tarts, a health
inspector said.” — ‘‘Sun.’'’
So what? He was lucky to get a seat
at all, the way things are today.
•F *F *F *F
Sign of the Times.
He was an artist with ambition and a
beard. The beaver was an asset, but the
ambition was a dead loss.
“I want to paint something that will
last,” he declaimed,
“Get a job as a painter on the Harbor
Bridge,” said a nark.
“What! Waste my life span on an
iron span? I’d as soon become a pave-
ment artist.”
“Well that might at least bring you
down to earth.”
Came a patron —the man from the
wine-shop down the street.
“I want you to paint something for
me,” he began. “Something that will be
permanent, something which will catch
the eye of everyone. Something to pull
people up and make them think.”
The artist’s eyes went wide with
ecstasy.
“Yes, yes,” he croaked, “I’ll do it.
Will it have a permanent place in”
“Definitely!” said the wine-shop man.
“As far as I’m concerned it’ll never be
removed. I want you to paint on my
door the notice ‘Quota Sold.’ ”
N. E. Bottles.
The Acid Test.
“ ‘Factory laws state there must fee at least
4ft. between machines. As long as a woman
has brains and is less than 4ft. wide we engage
her,’ states a Sydney welfare officer.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
A woman’s amplitude would fit
With ease the second requisite;
For, though a well-upholstered form
May now and then exceed the norm
And cause some comment on the beach,
Not many female figures reach
The vast, phenomenal distension
Implied by this required dimension . . ,
The size may suit, but, all the same,
Misogynists are sure to claim
The first of these conditions will
Be somewhat harder to fulfil.
P. M. L.
What Odds?
“Why do you yawn?”— “World’s News.”
Well, frankly, because there’s a particle
Of deepest suspicion now dawning
That here’s an excuse for an article
On “Little-known Facts About Yawn-
ing.”
EVE.
Forecasting a Change.
“Weather man 65 years 01d....1f he retired
he would write his memoirs.” — “Sunday Sun.”
He’ll take the publishers by storm
(A t least he’ll have a try );
But if his book, in spots, is warm,
Let’s hope it’s not too dry.
LOOBY.
Good Job.
“On being told that his work was unsatis-
factory, the gardener became so abusive that
James struck him in the face, knocking him un-
conscious.” — Magazine story.
To do a fair day’s work he’d take a week.
E’en then ’twas poorly done, without a
doubt.
So, when he started giving too much
cheek,
Unlike his garden, he was well laid out.
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
New Guinea Gold
In a forward valley where the kunai
hides the jeeps and the air throbs with the
continuous traffic of aircraft —ours only
—there are some cobbers of mine wnu,
among their lesser souvenirs, cherish a
few gold-studded pellets.
Tuning into the national news the other
night we heard a wail from the manager
or president or something of New Guinea
Goldfields, _ who wants measures passed
forbidding returned men to sell gold, and
further whimpers that “no civilian has
been allowed in the operational area to
protect the company’s interests.”
The men who have done most to pro-
tect the company’s (temporarily) blastec
interests are those who are fighting Tojo,
fever and scrub typhus, with complete
success only against the first-named
enemy. These chaps don’t talk much
about what they are fighting for, but they
think deeply, and sometimes bitterly.—
Wippegong (R.A.A.F.).
Preference to Soldiers
I am opposed to soldier preference.
One of the reasons I became a soldier
was to try to wipe out preferential
treatment of one class or one nation over
another. To give preference will mean
someone has to have less so that others
can have more. This is morally vcrong
unless the receiver of the extra plums
gives more to the nation in service.
It is true that a soldier is prepared to
give his all. But we soldiers are prepared
to give our lives because we believe the
things we are fighting for are dearer than
life. If we merely do our duty as we see
it, and then demand in return more than
the common lot, we betray our ideals.
Churchill said “Everyone is in the
front line,” and again “The front line
runs through the factories.” It was men
and women who do not wear uniforms
as well as- the few to whom so much is
owed by so many who by their endurance
of the blitz kept Britain free. Had their
morale cracked the R.A.F. could not have
kept the flame of freedom alight.
In the new world which we hope to see
born there is no place for sectional in-
terests. We must have a co-operative
community, each one giving of his best
for Australia and Australia giving of her
best to the world. Preferences belong to
a Fascist era. Trample on them, no
matter whence they rise.—WX Sapper
(W.A.).
Bushfires
The. open season for bushfires is here,
Victoria has been ravaged, and the life
work of many country people has been
destroyed. The country folk, being what
they are, will rebuild again, but an irre-
trievable percentage of the land will be
lost for ever because of the menace that
follows close on the heels of the fire —
erosion.
The arable land of this continent is not
gradually increasing and spreading
toward thd interior. Instead, the dry
inland is creeping ever outward to the sea.
If the destruction of forest cover con-
tinues as at present the deserts will extend.
Governmental regulations are not the
answer. What is needed is education that
starts in the schools and makes clear that
the alternative to forest cover is a life-
less desert incapable of supporting human
life. — lago (Vic.).
Level Crossings
The A.R.U. is asking that level cross-
ings be abolished, but in view of the
numbers and the position of many of
them the idea is seen to be mechanically
and economically impossible.
It should not be a difficult task for
science to produce an infallible device
for trains, as they pass through, to auto-
matically close and then open the gates
again to road traffic.
Motor-car cabins are too nearly sound-
proof. A train would need to blow its
head off to make a motorist hear. Here
again the inventor is needed to devise a
cabin panel which will allow sound to
come in and yet keep out dust. —K. Me.
(N.S.W.). :
Brave New World
Why worry about a new order and a
“brave new world”? There won’t be any.
The world is sick. When people are
sick they’re often full of plans of
What they’ll do the instant they get well;
they realise all the time they’ve wasted.
all the blessings they’ve enjoyed previ-
ously and not noticed till now; they
think that, when they’re well and strong
again, they’ll make their life something
really worth living.
But when they get well they slide back
into comfortable ruts and normal habits
of arguing and being discontented. Simi-
larly with the world.
When the war is over the world will
slump back to complacency and political
arguments and front-page murders and
divorces and all the rest of the general
news which fills the spaces between the
ads. when there isn’t a war on. — Yair
(N.S.W.).
Housing and Private Enterprise
The Royal Commission on Housing
reports; “It has been apparent for many
years that private enterprise the world
over has not adequately and hygienically
housed the low-income group.” When
was private enterprise ever given a charter
or a commission to control the housing
of workers? And how can the Housing
“Suzuki ALWAYS comes back!”
Commission justly charge private enter-
prise with failure l ?
Government vendettas against “land-
lords” and mortgagees stopped the build-
i„ g of houses for letting.
Government schemes have paid less re-
p ard than private interests to the re-
quirements of the low-wage earner. The
Queensland Workers’ Dwellings Scheme
(State Advances Corporation) has spon-
sor ed the erection of houses costing as
muc h as £HOO, and even then it has
re i ied upon private contractors
As regards the capacity to carry out
l arge works efficiently, private enterprise
ran Haim a record at least as meritorious
th t n f C anv Government Remember
, nat : on . w : de disannointment with the
w Service Horned scheme after the
," t war xhe organisation and bui i d .
o£ the , toll bridge
such a
!eft 1 Government I
d n „bf whether the bridee would have
SenlJcted or if it had ®a different
financial raifwoJw tew Sd
I,n p ia housins scheme the
ine - amDl . uou ? n o ng seneme me
Government con\id C end f!d!ure°
’ 1 y tailure -
ouiluek tv-A •
_ .
Self-contained .
Senator Don Cameron lately ex-
pounded to Adelaide newspapers the
necessity, “to ensure the future security
of Australia,” of “making this country
self-sufficient.” Shipping, he says, can-
not be relied upon for the transport of
supplies from overseas to Australia in
times of emergency and it would be
cheaper and more in the interests of the
Commonwealth for us to produce our
own requirements.
This sounds to me like an echo of
Hermann Goring: “The condition of de-
pendence upon the greater or lesser good-
will of foreign Powers is simply intoler-
able.” (Address to International Cham-
bers of Commerce, Berlin, 1937.)
Subsequent German trade policy,
directed to fulfilment of this view, led to
creation of autarchic spheres of economic
influence, mainly in the Balkans, to “fill
in the gaps” in the national economy.
Australia, under the direction of Don
Cameron, would have to do likewise, for
the Senator would eventually discover
in his reasoning the common logical fal-
lacy which supposes that because it is
possible to do A or B or C, it is there-
fore also possible to do A and B and C.
On the day Mr. Cameron burst forth
Adelaide was entertaining Prof. Allan
Nevins, of Columbia University, who at
a Commonwealth Club luncheon said,
among other things:
No nation can meet the problems
of overproduction and low wages and
ensure a proper standard of living and
public health while it acts a10ne....N0
country is strong enough to be safe alone.
Russia, powerful as she is, needs British
and American help... .Chains of bases do
not ensure safety. The peace-loving nations
had bases from Gibraltar, Malta and Suez
to Singapore. That did not save them.
For once in a way the words of wis-
dom come from the stranger within our
gates.—S. J. (S.A.).
v , n v r~7-
’' oters Qualifications
while peeing that there is room for
concern as to the quality of Parliamentary
representatives (B. 19/1/44), I suggest
* at correspondents are putting tne cart
before the horse. -
Make lt obligatory on every intending
voter to answer a d ? zen questions, framed
to asc ertam whethei e or s e is a
citizen of normal intelligence, a reader
of tde newspapers and reasonably well in-
formed concerning the political issues of
the da Y- Thenceforth the Ms.P. elected
would automatically be of the highest
standard.-B. B. (Vtc.).
Pr ° blem ? Beef-production
Much beef is groWn ° n countr y that
has been im P roved but little since the
days of Burke and Wills —millions of
aCreS &re not eVen rin B barkedy let alone
cleared and subdivided into sizable pad-
docks p ew men S t ar ting off on un-
deared land with Hmited Capital eVer
reach the stage where they can devote
the greater part of their efforts to pasture
and herd improvement—one lifetime
simply isn’t long enough. It is as though
we asked a skilled cabinetmaker to start
a job by chopping down the tree for the
timber.
Beef-producers should be experts in the
production of quick-maturing types of
cattle on highly-improved natural and
artificial pastures. The men in the game
are all ready to stage a revolution in the
industry just as soon as we relieve them
of the drudgery of ringbarking, burning
and clearing, fencing, roadmaking, etc.
The modern mechanical equipment that
has so swiftly conquered the jungles of
New Guinea and the Solomons, together
with the personnel that has been doing
this type of work, can surely be put to
this important peace-time job.
Statesmanship will be called for in allo-
cating the cost. It won’t do to charge
the total cost up to the farmer ; it must
be borne by the whole community, which
would benefit directly and indirectly. The
favored citydweller must contribute some-
thing much more substantial than he has
ever done before towards making the
outback fit for the stout hearts it shelters.
And if the pendulum swings so far that
the outbacker is thought to be getting
too easy a time and a “back-to-the-land”
movement sets in—well, we might even
be able to survive that.— Jack Point (Q.).
Ma Can Take It
“G.M.’s” defence of Ma as the per-
sonification of the outback woman is
kindly meant. Nevertheless, Jolliffe’s work
is one of the bright spots in The Bulle-
tin pages for us bushfolk. His sym-
pathetic understanding is patent beneath
the humor, which is invariably good-
tempered.
Like Ma, I for many years shared my
part-finished shack with every stray bird,
beast, insect, reptile, dust- and rainstorm
that happened along, while on the bush
track outside the bullock teams passed
every six or eight weeks. The long-accus-
tomed entry of rabbits, chooks, dogs, etc.,
through the, floor, the belt-tightening
shortages, toil and inconveniences have
brought a common knowledge of Ma’s
trials, but understanding has also brought
a greater appreciation of the artist’s
humor. The outback without its humor
would be as dinner without salt.
As to tragedy, this, in Ma and co.’s
existence, is the fact that after a lifetime
of soul-destroying poverty and toil she
may not share the small profits she has
helped gain. Her tentative suggestions
for their spending are treated tolerantly,
impatiently or indignantly, according to
the nature of Andy’s prototype. Ma has
no figure and no complexion ; no author-
ity and no money; no prospects and no
happy memories; but she still has her
sense of humor. Good luck to Jolliffe,
and thanks for many a hearty chuckle. —
Ma 2 (Vic.).
One-class Rail Travel
“Ellen Mary’s” notion about one-class
railways may be all right for city and
suburban lines, but where people have
to make journeys for a whole day or
more conditions make classes advisable.
Fancy, after being on a hot, dusty train
all day* having two or three young men
get aboard full of beer, with more bottles
in their hands, bought with money they
save by travelling second-class. After
abusing those who won’t drink them
they eventually fall asleep, partly on tired,
elderly, sober persons who for the sake
of peace have to suffer it.
Again, take the case of girls travelling
to or from school after long journeys
without parents. A first-class fare will
often protect them from what would
cause their mothers endless worry if they
could know what company they had.
In outback Australia the blacks have
to travel somewhere, and no special pro-
vision is made for them, nor are they
compelled to be clean. They may come
direct from a camp where in cold weather
their chief bedding is dogs.
Anyway, why this protest against
classes? There are first- and second-class
apples, several grades of theatre seats,
dear clothing and cheap. Why can’t those
buy first-class who are prepared to spend
the extra money?— Dusty (Marble Bar,
W.A.).
Technical K.O.
As an amateur pugilist I have followed
events in the ring for close on 50 years,
but the first intimation I had of an
“Archibald contest” was a newspaper pic-
ture of a fighter named Joshua Smith,
presumably painted in hospital. I can
find no information about him or about
Dobell, and so have no idea as to their
respective weights, training or perform-
ances. Nor do I know the conditions of
the fight or the name of the umpire. But
never havcj I seen an adversary so brutally
mutilated and looking more like the vic-
tim of assault and battery than a con-
testant in a fair bout.
However, Joshua seems to have taken
his punishment like a man, and if he
likes to stage a comeback I for one will
book my seat at the stadium or any-
where else. Be this as it may, my object
in writing is to say that if this finest of
British sports is to degenerate into a
rough-and-tumble, Rafferty rules, it is high
time we threw the gloves away and forgot
the noble art entirely.— Carnera Velas-
quez (N.S.W.).


Youth solves
a problem
How B.H.P.’s young research workers
produce a vital metal.
When Australia went to war and har-
nessed her heavy industries into a gigan-
tic arms and munitions programme, she
was confronted with a problem which
threatened her war effort at the start.
Average age of the research workers who
developed Australian tungsten-carbide was
only 21. They not only developed new pro-
cesses, but designed new equipment like this
special furnace. Operator is John Higgins,
one of the original research team.
We had very little tungsten-carbide,
an extremely tough metal needed for
the machine tools which were essential
to our war production. Scarce and dear,
tungsten-carbide tool tips had all been
imported from overseas.
Our overseas sources of supply dried
up immediately on the outbreak of war.
, Worse still, production of tungsten-
carbide overseas had been a closely
guarded secret, and foreign firms were
not willing to tell us how to make it.
Yet we had to have it, for without the
vital metal, not a shell, a gun barrel, or
piece of armour-plate could be made
Australia’s urgent need spelt oppor-
tunity for a group of young men at
Broken Hill Proprietary. Working day
and night in an improvised laboratory,
experimenting, and designing equip-
ment as they went along, they evolved
a process for the production of tungsten-
carbide of at least equal quality to that
which had been imported from overseas.
Today, thanks to these young research
workers, and the enterprise of Broken
Hill Proprietary, which gave them a
free hand in their work, Australia is
producing tungsten-carbide, in quanti-
ties more than sufficient for our needs.
Tungsten-carbide is expensive. Two hundred pounds wouldn’t buy this collection of tool tips
being tested by Eric Wilson. Mounted on soft steel mounts, these tips cut steel like a knife.
The production of tungsten-carbide in Australia was a triumph for Australian youth. Before
the war, it was a closely guarded secret of overseas firms.
Dangers had to be faced in developing the metal. An explosion
during some of the early experiments luckily did little damage. It
was tough work for Donald Trevillien, who was only seventeen when
he joined the research team.
Every shelf, gun barrel and piece of armour-plate produced in Aus-
tralia is first cut and shaped by tungsten-carbide tool tips. Lindsay
Mcllwaine, young research worker at B.H.P., has helped to make our
war effort possible.
Machine tools are the life-blood of our munitions programme. Here
a tungsten-carbide cutting tip is removing surplus metal on a shell.
