

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,Vol. 65—No« 3380
Wednesday, November 22, 1944
Price 6d.
Rs-gteeed at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia* for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
WARKWORTH CASTLE.
KJ EAR the east coast of historic Northumberland and on the
• bank of the Coquet stream, stands this venerable pile that was
the home of the Percys.
Warkworth Castle is unique in its design ; the keep, erected later
than some of the rest, in the fifteenth century, being especially
remarkable for having a. square tower projecting from each of its
sides, and for the high watch tower in the centre which commands
wide panoramic views both by land and sea. The castle was in
a very bad state when in 1856 the then Duke of Northumberland
had the ruins carefully repaired and some of the rooms restored
in oak and tapestry. The celebrated Hermitage of Warkworth,
cut in solid rock, is about half a mile distant, on the opposite side
of the Coquet.


fki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New 'Free
booklet, explaining how to Write , lor P ro fiL
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.
My Xame *
My Address •••••••'
S.B. 244 ....AGE...
The Red Page
MONTY'S REV. PARENT.
“Let us now praise famous men, and
our fathers that begot us.”
By all means ; not overlooking Field-
Marshal Sir Bernard Montgomery and
his father, H. H. Montgomery, D.D.,
who, writing a tidy time ago, when he
was Bishop of Tasmania, put that text
up as a chapter heading in his Old Cricket
and Cricketers, and proceeded:
Perhaps the writer of Ecclesiasticus will
permit us to use his words in reference to
the men who were famous for skill in the
noblest of all outdoor games.
Many others —including some of doubt-
ful sincerity ; some who have done it for
a living ; some who have said it with
flowers and to music—have written in
that strain about cricket. To speak kindly
of these, it is a heady game, as much in
the brewer’s as in the Clarry Grimmett
sense of the word. Their fond and fierce
outpourings can be sampled in quantity,
as perhaps never in such volume before
in an Australian bookshop, in a whole
library of nothing else but cricket, now
housed in a room at the back of Jim
Tyrrell’s in Sydney—the lifetime collec-
tion of Albert Gregory, of the family
that has been representing at sport
(mainly, of course, cricket) in or for
Australia for well over a century.
The Montgomery, D.D., book
naturally was included —and esteemed to
the extent of having its paper backs
bound in stout, plain leather —for its
cricket, since it must have been added
long before Monty ever became Monty.
But it could have been added for the
extra-cricket interest Monty represents.
One Gregory was killed on Gallipoli.
Another was wounded there and later
won the M.C. in the Jordan Valley.
Another won the same decoration for
bravery in France; another the M.M. ;
and there were half a dozen or more
other Gregorys, including Jack, in the
First A.I.F.
Away from cricket Albert Gregory had
a saddlery and ironmongery shop in
Market-street for something like half a
century ; but this library and. what it
stood for made his life. H. H. Mont-
gomery, D.D., would have seen that as
right and proper; and no doubt he’d
have given his episcopal blessing to one
shelf specially testifying to a fellow-
enthusiast —a row of six-inch thick blocky
scrapbooks, pasted with thousands of
flippings, each thick tome entitled in
block gold letters across its black leather
back: “Cricketers and Their Historic
Deeds.” By his own book, it was thus
H. H. Montgomery, D.D., thought of
them, with the important qualification
that it was the human element that in-
terested him most, and a rugged side of it
at that.
Before he became Bishop of Tasmania
H. H. Montgomery, D.D., was vicar of
Kennington (where Monty is said to have
been born), and he regarded as a most
estimable privilege of that South London
stronghold of the church the clear view
to be had from a vicarage window of
Kennington Oval and what went on
there:
“What can be more enjoyable than a com-
fortable seat on a fine day with a match to
view and a pipe to smoke?” Such was our
reflection as we watched one of the most
curious effects I ever witnessed on a cer-
tain Easter Monday. Just as a ball was
being bowled apparently everyone paused
to give undivided attention to the result, and
then. —puff!—from 500 pipes there went up
as many clouds of smoke from the mass of
spectators, just as if a regiment had opened
fire at a review. This phenomenon cer-
tainly recurred throughout the afternoon,
and we could regularly time the moment
for the volley of smoke according as the
company paused to look, or relaxed their
attention to keep the pipes alight. Long
may the Oval continue to afford good sport
and the best of recreation to hard-working
South London!
The Kennington appointment may
have been a nice example of ecclesiasti-
cal thoughtfulness—accepting that any-
thing so vulgar as wire-pulling would be
unheard of in such matters —since
earlier the incumbent had been captain
of the Harrow XI. Hence there is
nothing really surprising in his book
having been Old Cricket and Cricketers
and written in the spirit of the text from
Ecclesiasticus. It might, however, be
held surprising that the Doctor of
Divinity should have worked into even
that sort of book only the one Biblical
reference, and even more so that he
should have got it wrong.
Still, there isn’t, perhffps, such a whale
of a difference between “begot” and
“begat” ; and, in any case, it gives the
human touch. There is no such animal
as an enthusiast who hasn’t that touch
all over him, and it is all over the book
of H. H. Montgomery, D.D., As well
as “the noblest of all outdoor games,”
“the greatest outdoor game in the
world,” cricket was to him “more than
a game: it is an education” ; “long may
cricket continue!”
He was writing in or before 1890 ; so
what he may have thought of some refine-
ments that have come into the game
since, or of bodyline, has to be judged
from his hearty respect for the “famous
men” of the game of old in their ability
to “take it.” Thus he quotes with gusto
—if not with something more—old Beld-
ham on the game as it used to be:
We never thought of knocks; and, re-
member, 1 played against Frown of
Brighton, too. Certainly you would see a
bump heave under the stocking, and even
the blood came through; but I never saw a
man killed, now you ask the question....
Now, you, Bishop, ask the question!
And if the answer should be disappoint-
ing—though no doubt it wouldn’t be ;
well, not altogether—there was the
achievement of that Brown of Brighton.
On Bishop Montgomery’s authority,
once at Lords a man tried to stop a ball
sent down by that bowler —“probably the
fastest bowler that has even been known
in England”—by putting his coat on it,
but “the ball passed through the coat
(pushing it aside) and killed a dog be-
hind it instantaneously.” Again, touch-
ing the introduction of “leather boots
with padding in them” (as a tentative
step towards the latter-day refinements
or degeneracy), we have Lord Frederick
Beauclerk put up to voice emphatic
disapproval: “If you are going to let a
man play in such things no one ought
ever to be bowled out!”
And if they didn’t kill ’em, they did
“rind” ’em. One bowler said that he
particularly always liked to “rind” “Old
Everlasting” Tom Walker —easy enough
with no padded gloves in use —but with
what result? Old Tom, he protested
grimly, used to just “rub his bleeding
fingers in the dust” and carry on! And
the blessing of the bishop on both of
them! Nor does it take anything from
the human side of this most human of
divines that in his two other references
to the “rinding” of old Tom it is stated
with human, if not almost divine, for-
getfulness that old Tom was the one ex-
ception who, when the skin was knocked
off his knuckles —as it freely was —un-
accountably never bled! “I have classed
him,” said a disappointed bowler,
“among the bloodless animals.”
It may, perhaps, have been enough for
Montgomery, D.D., that old Beldham —
leave Bradman out of this!—was “the
finest batter of his own, or, perhaps, of
any, age,” but it is better that old Beld-
ham should have had the Biblical total of
“39 children ; 28 by his first wife, all of
whom died young; -11 by his second
wife” ; and further, after all that, that
at 86 he should have “walked from Til-
ford to Godaiming, a distance of seven
miles, to see a match.” It proves the
quality of the fathers that begot us.
Similarly, it is enough that Sherman was
also a sterling cricketer, but that he
should have played for Manchester
against Sheffield when 63, completing 44
seasons, is something more, and it is
more still that his achievement was 21
children, though, says Bishop Mont-
gomery, giving honor where it is due,
“after Beldham’s accomplishment this
must be looked * upon” as “very
moderate.”
Also, among others, there is the
devastating bowler who, though his name
appears to have been Edward Stevens,
figures in the old cricket records simply
as Lumpy: “c Lumpy; b Lumpy;
Lumpy 23.” Whether this name was be-
stowed for some peculiarity of bowling
or because he “was so fat” or because in
the course of one match he sat down
and “did eat a whole apple-pie” Bishop
Montgomery leaves as an open question.
What he does know, and finds admir-
able, is that “in the Waterloo Inn, Barn
Green, near Hambleton, there is a picture
of Lumpy dancing with a jug of ale in
his hand.” “From which,” adds the
bishop, “we gather he was a
merry and jovial companion.”
Maybe the fate/ and fame of Field-
Marshal Montgomery may be no different
in the long run from those of other
soldiers as famous in their day, now
mere names in Clio’s cluttered rolls. But
anyone who might come to write of him
in the spirit of the text quoted by Mont-
gomery, D.D., should clearly not over-
look the second half of it, the book it
appears in, the man who wrote the book.
It throws some light on -Monty’s own
Cromwellian character. It gives the im-
pression that, though Montgomery, D. D.,
may have been a mild man, every inch a
bishop, there may have been enough of
the old Adam under the cloth to have
made him, had he lived in Cromwellian
times, clap on a sword for one side or
the other. Enough to have been the
father of Monty.
C.M.
Queensland Landscapes.
Somehow, all warmth and comfort seem
Unworthy, futile, t'rite!
My heart’s out, plunging with that team
Of horses through the night.
From “A Team Goes By” in E. M.
England’s Queensland Days (Dymock’s)
the quotation illustrates both the weak-
ness and the strength of these verses.
Revealed in conventional romanticisms
of language, and in italics and exclama-
tion marks that are a confession of weak-
ness, the fault of the work is a failure in
vision: the horses plunge through the
night, but they do not rush off the earth,
into the sky, into eternity. They please,
they hearten, but they do not quite exalt.
The strength is that here is at least a
real team of horses:
Out of the gloom they came, and so,
Bent head and straining back,
Taut hock and steaming haunch, they go,
Stumbling along the track.
If the verse falls short of poetry, it is
a cut above balladry. It might be re-
garded as a kind of- “verse of society,”
the writer’s chosen society being stock-
men, horses and cattle. It is “popular
verse” in the best sense of the term, cor-
responding to the paintings of the
secondary Australian landscapists who,
if they fall short of the vision of Gruner
or of Hilder, will always appeal to any-
one who loves the Australian earth.
E. M. England is at her best on a
theme that, from Gordon to Paterson, has
always been a favorite with readers of
Australian verse: the horse. There is the
blind mare, turned out to grass:
She ran here as a filly, swift and shy;
Hers should be Halcyon days, the teamsters say.
Why does she blunder to the fence, and neigh,
Seeking to follow, when the team goes by?
In “Edward Yarning”—a pleasantly
humorous landscape with bushmen yarn-
ing interminably in the foreground—
there is the horse that gets tired of the
talk and “resolutely starts and heads for
home.” There is the motherless foal:
All days he runs the golden slopes, unwanted.
He calls. He waits,
To nuzzle every hostile mare that passes
Within the gates.
Where can she be —the gaunt, the kindly
mother?
He tires of play.
The sun goes down, and still she is not coming.
He drifts away.
Yet often he will pause, as though he listened —
As though he caught
Wafted through the scented folds of twilight
The voice he sought.
As though she hailed him from a vast, long
silence.
And, all astir,
Throwing back his little, eager head
He answers her.
With the horses go Queensland cattle,
Queensland flowers and Queensland men
and women. Sometimes sensuously
lovely, sometimes strong, and always
proudly and unaffectedly Australian, the
verses are for a large audience.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Desiderius Orban, a Hungarian painter
who has made Sydney his home, has a
show at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney. He cares nothing for drawing,
and sometimes deals with color as if he
hated it. Dainty pastel sketches of vil-
lages seen across the Danube alternate
with dark, stormy, heavy oils depicting
rotting old palaces or roof-top views that
seem to have escaped from a tale by
Poe. Just here and there he achieves a
really striking piece of impressionism, uni-
versal in its appeal, as in No. 10 “The
Canal” or No. 19 “The Terrace,” but
most of the oils are what our uninstructed
forefathers would have called ugly daubs.
There is one large canvas (No. 24) repre-
senting arum-lilies in which the painter
seems to have concentrated a hatred of
lilies, a contempt for form and an utter
detestation of color. There may be some
excuse for that sort of thing in Mittel
Europa, but it is not art, never was and
never will be.
Max Dimmack, a 22-year-old Mel-
bourne corporal, whose water-colors have
been hung at the Mural Hall at Myers’,
reports in a thoroughly competent, factual
sort of way on the topography of Milne
Bay, Moresby and Dumpu, the Bismarck
Ranges and the Mindjim River, and gives
point to his landscapes by including
Liberator bombers passing over on a mis-
sion and ’planes returning. He needs
greater skill, however, to give the feeling.
The Collins-street house of George’s is
the latest firm of haberdashers to embark
on the art gallery business in Melbourne.
Their gallery is small but better lighted
than the National Gallery, and the first
exhibition is a varied show, with some
fine impressionistic work by Max Mel-
drum, P. Hurry and John Farmer. Arnold
Shore, William Frater and Lina Bryans
have some lively landscapes.
“C.R.”: Take the technique of the
Greek drama, the ideas and sentiments of
an “Argus” leader, and “Waltzing
Matilda as a sort of theme song, and
you have the principal ingredients of
The Australian Dream,” a play based
on a prize-winning poem by lan Mudie
and presented by the Therry Society at
the Assembly Hall, Melbourne. The pro-
gress of Australia as a great nation
among a unity of nations united in the
Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood
of man appeared to be the central con-
ception, and a cast of young ladies inter-
preted these abstractions with the fervor
of intense conviction. The faintest breath
of psychological observation would have
brought the whole airy edifice down in
ruins. With no hero, heroine or plot,
no human interest and no scenery except
the grand piano normally present on the
platform, it was the strangest theatrical
entertainment put on in Melbourne since
the League of Nations Union tried some-
thing of the same sort in the international
sphere at Scot’s Church Hall at a time
when there was a League of Nations.
At the talkies:
English studios politely waited till Hollywood
had had a good dig at the celebrated mystery
called the English national character before de-
ciding to blow the gaff 'about it. This has been
done with penetration and vigor in “The Demi
Paradise” (Sydney Century). Built on the
premise that foreigners landing among the Eng-
lish assume they are mad, the him deals with the
elforts of a Russian marine engineer to fit into
a shipyard community. A subtle and delightful
bit of characterisation is supplied by Felix
Aylmer as the apparently old-fashioned yet
hustling head of a shipbuilding firm. There is
a shrewd appraisal of English humor, an
even shrewder seizing of an opportunity of
“selling” to the world the solidity of British
characteristics. Laurence Olivier gives a fine
performance as the bewildered foreigner.
Dudley Nicholls uses both bludgeon and
rapier in his joust with bureaucracy in “Gov-
ernment Girl” (Empire), which concerns a
young “production executive” who hacks his
way through red tape. Olivia de Havilland is
exhilarating in her first comedy role, aided by
Sonny Tufts.
“The Bridge of San Luis Rey” (Mayfair):
takes some liberties with the book, but' presents
the atmosphere and the gently sentimental philo-
sophy satisfactorily. “Broadway Rhythm” (St.
James): passable musical extravaganza, more
extravagant than musical, except' for some bits
of Chopin. “Escape to Danger” (Civic):
spies and Gestapo stuff, set mainly in England;
well done of its kind.
“World of Plenty,” the British Department
of Information’s interesting documentary, shows
the pre-war food situation when surpluses
were destroyed while millions starved; then how
the scientist and notably the British Ministry
of Food under Lord Woolton made a success
of feeding war-time Britain. The film suggests
that a well-fed world would be a peaceful
world, and to that end market juggling of
essential foodstuffs must be abolished.
“The Halfway House” (Central, Melbourne)
is “Outward Bound” ingeniously adapted to
the present conflict'. A wife and husband who
are taking divorce proceedings, the child tom
between the two parents, a black marketeer, a
merchant marine captain who deserted his ship
when it was torpedoed in a convoy and is con-
templating becoming a farmer, all find them-
selves in an inn in 1943, only to discover that
they are back in 1942 and that the hostelry is
the ghost of an inn that had been blown up
by German bombers and the tragedy is about
to be re-enacted. The idea is that people could
solve their emotional problems if only their
progress in the direction of mutual misunder-
standing could be halted. The potential
divorcees are reunited, the ship’s captain de-
cides to have a further go at seafaring, and
so on. The film is no more complex than its
predecessor but it is excellently handled. As
the French captain, Tom Walls is so anxious
not to be taken for Tom Walls that he be-
comes incredibly solemn.
“Cauboy”: In a long career of theatre
reviewing I have received bales of pub-
licity” concerning the careers of leading
actors and actresses, their charm ot
manner, their intellectual attainments, it
any, the simplicity of their domestic life
and the unblemished happiness of their
marital relationships. Times have
changed. The other day, when I turned
over the envelope which contained my
passes for a Gilbert and Sullivan first
night, my eye was saluted with the fol-
lowing printed revelation:
BEET. Sow Autumn and Spring, loz.
seed will sow 50 feet. Crop matures m
approx. 70 days. Like all root crops
Beet dislikes freshly manured ground, but
one well enriched for a previous crop is
essential. The soil must be well worked
and broken up, and if it is on the light side
so much the better. Seeds may be had of
long, globe and flat-rooted varieties, the
former producing the larger crop though
somewhat longer in maturing.
There was much more to the same pur-
pose and, as a vegetable grower of con-
siderable war-time experience, I can at
least vouch for the accuracy of this infor-
mation.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
"THE SENIOR STORE"
■M 'v
Wt
■Xi’lvlvl'
w
ft®
m
m
m
mm
mm
Mm
mm
mm
mmrnm
-
mmmm mmmm m mm:: v
spilt it - -
met:* " w
ill
: :s :
U 1
mm
u m
y ■
m
mm*
il*
3>
5t
i..C
tv
yj i
VII ( "
r \'l
l'y s\
CS
v;
o„V, / ,
o± ■ l
'M
<\
&
# 7i
* L
•
Si:*.?*
■s' /V
:,, y
KS
1
N\\
f
„ A
W!
. "11l
\ l
3
.<#
✓
'••••:•:
mi:.
y :■
fit
iiiliiiillll
■
A •7:. -.7 :; . 1
mmi:m::mmmmrnmmmiM
1
iMMutafi
■
•M
He is here in his Castle as jolly as ever . . .
and he has a Happy Surprise for each one of you . .
Come along and see him . . . There’s a magnificent
CRYSTAL COACH
just the most splendid Coach you ever saw!
it’s strewn with Crystals like gleaming, glittering
Diamonds which scintillate and shine —it’s just
too dazzlingly beautiful.
Your old Friend is in his Castle seated on his
GREAT GOLDEN THRONE
and when you step out of the shining Coach
you will see him. His face is wreathed in a big
smile, for he loves all Boys and Girls!
COME EARLY, CHILDREN!
• Neiu Toy Dept. —‘Ground Floor, Pitt St., or First Floor, George St.
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


BACK IN THE PHILIPPINES
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE first large-scale landing of
American forces in the Philippines
was made on Leyte on October 20,
but the native population of a small
island near Leyte had two days earlier
hailed a 22-year-old youngster from Con-
necticut as “our American liberator.”
He remained for ten days among the
people he had “freed,” and was “treated
like a god”: children knelt to kiss his
feet, while the women of the island sat
staring at his face for hours, in accord-
ance with their tradition that if in the
first months of her pregnancy a woman
looks long at a certain person her child
will be born in his resemblance.
The “liberator” was a Hellcat pilot
from a small escort carrier, Ensign
Radley E. Clemens. In the early morning
of October 18 he was flying wingman to
his squadron commander in a strike over
a Japanese air base in the central Philip-
pines. They went in to strafe the strip,
then turned for a second run against a
row of grounded fighters they had found
in camouflaged positions. The second
run took the Hellcats through a cone of
ack-ack from twelve gun positions at the
edge of the field. When Clemens pulled
out his ’plane was burning.
This was no place to land, he decided,
and he stuck with the ’plane, heading for
the coast. He made some four minutes’
flying time before the heat became too
great, but it was sufficient to take him
out over the bay. Then he The
force of the parachute opening threw his
fist into his face, and his knuckles skinned
his nose and forehead. That was the only
hurt he suffered.
Clemens was in the water only twenty-
five minutes before he was picked up by
three natives in a sailboat. They told
him they could not take him back to the
island from which they had come; the
Japanese were in too great force. But
they knew where he would be safe.
The boat headed east, sailing for five
hours before it fetched the island. Once
there, Ensign Clemens was ushered imme-
diately to the guerrilla leader, who offered
to turn over his command. Clemens
wanted none of it. He still had hopes of
early rescue, since the other ’planes of the
squadron had circled the sailboat for an
hour after he was picked up and must
have noticed the direction in which it was
heading. But the days went by and no
rescue came.
It appeared that the Japanese had no
garrison on the island, but used the village
as a staging point on their barge route
between the larger islands. Often they re-
mained overnight, but they rarely ven-
tured far beyond the village for fear of
the guerrillas cutting them off in small
groups. During the ten days Clemens
was on the island the guerrillas killed
twenty Japanese.
On one occasion the natives came to
Clemens where he was sleeping one night
in one of the village huts to say that
Japanese barges were coming into the
jetty. They took and hid him in the plan-
tation behind the village, and . two
Japanese officers spent the remainder of
the night in the hut in which he had been
sleeping.
Clemens still had hopes of rescue.
American ’planes were often over the
island, flying high, and he tried to signal
them. With coconuts he spelled out the
words “Send seaplane” in the sand, but
for days he could get no response.
On the ninth day a Liberator bomber
flew low over the island, and shortly was
seen heading back. Clemens thought that
at last his signals had been noticed, but it
was quickly obvious that the machine was
in trouble. It made a crash landing about
fifty yards offshore, and Clemens took
three canoes out to rescue the crew. Four
of its members had been killed and all
seven others were injured, most of them
seriously. Clemens got them ashore, and,
using the first-aid kit salvaged from the
’plane, and, with the help of a Filipino
doctor and a number of the village
women who were organised into a kind
of ambulance corps, made them as com-
fortable as he could.
The problem of the more seriously in-
jured decided him to attempt the cross-
ing to Leyte, where he knew the invasion
must, have long begun. He set out in a
sailboat with two natives the following
day. As he sat on the jetty with his boots
off, drying, waiting for the boat to be pre-
pared, the children came to kiss his feet.
The entire village was out to see him
leave.
It was a full day’s sail to Leyte. There
he was provided with a motor-truck that
had been stolen from the Japanese, and
petrol from a sunken barge, but the road
led only fifteen miles in the direction in
which he wanted to travel. After that
there was still a thirty-mile walk over
the mountains to Panaoan Island, off the
southern shore of Leyte, where there was
a small American force. With natives to
guide him, Clemens made it in three days.
There he arranged for a rescue party to
be sent to bring out the injured bomber
crew.
He had been fifteen days missing. He
had been a “god,” a “liberator”; had
lived on chicken and eggs and fruit, with
fish for a change; had drunk tuba or
Filipino beer, and once a day he
“wouldn’t recommend it more than that”
—he’d smoked native tobacco wrapped in
palm leaf. Now, as soon as he could
find his carrier, he’d go back to being a
Navy ensign flying a Hellcat.
ONE week after the landing on Leyte
two divisions on the southern beach-
head had counted several thousand Japa-
nese dead, and there yet had not been
a battle.
In the same way American casualties
were surprisingly high, considering the
nature of the fighting. The largest-scale
counter-attack in all that first week had
been by a group of some fifty Japanese,
who came against a company dug in
alongside Buri airfield —the third strip
encompassed by the invading force —on
the sixth night following the landing.
They attacked chiefly with potato-masher
grenades, and pressed their attack for
almost two hours, but they were driven
off, leaving 35 dead in the brush at the
edge of the field.
It was the strangest of campaigns. No-
where did the Jap stay to fight in any
numbers He left a machine-gun squad
at the comer of a small banana planta-
tion, four or five men as snipers on the
edge of a swamp, a couple of men hidden
in a clump of brush where the narrow
lanes made a turning; they had small
mines tied to the end of bamboo poles,
which they endeavored to push under the
tracks of passing tanks. Armored recon-
naissance cars flushed out three or four
every day along the coastal road leading
north by Talosa and Tanauan ; they had
apparently come out of the swamps after
the patrol had passed the previous day.
Often the Japs would cut and run, but
they’d hole up and fight rather than sur-
render: there were only ten prisoners at
the end of the week. In groups of eight
here, ten there, the total of their dead
mounted. '
Light tank and recon. units cursed the
enemy in louder and rounder terms than
had been applied to him during all the
bloody fighting on Tarawa or Peleliu.
They chased into towns and barrios in
search of him, and always there were a
couple of hundred Filipino refugees wait-
ing by the roadside to gesticulate excit-
edly: “There are two hundred Japanese
two kilometres that way.” The two kilo-
metres never grew Jess.
The infantry pushed on inland. Along
the whole depth of the beachhead there
was an average penetration of eight
miles; an area of just over 100 square
miles was already occupied. The foot-
hills of the mountain range which forms
a high backbone to Leyte were in teach
of patrols, and the force swung north-
west along the Leyte valley. Patrol con-
tact had already been made with General
MacArthur’s northern landing force,
which had penetrated beyond Taclobaa.
Catmon Hill had been enveloped, with
battalions around it on either side; but
its subjection was still a matter for the
artillery. That job was being nicely
done. The mortar and artillery fire which
ranged down from there on to the land-
ing beaches was silent after the third day.
The spotter ’planes reported four artillery
pieces as definitely destroyed, and they
directed fire in the succeeding days
against groups of the enemy they found
outside caves and dugouts. There could
be no real estimate as to what force the
Japs had there until infantrymen climbed
the hill, but there was as yet no need for
that. The enemy on Catmon seemed to
constitute no real danger.
Enemy air attacks over the beachhead
were becoming a greater nuisance. They
came, mostly no more than one or two
’planes, regular as clockwork in the
couple of hours at dusk and in the early
morning. There were odd alerts during
the daylight hours. As was inevitable
with a beachhead crowded with supplies
and material of every kind —already the
pattern of the tremendous base which
Leyte is destined to become was making
itself apparent—they did some damage,
but nothing in any manner commensu-
rate with their losses.
The heavy anti-aircraft guns were
ashore by the middle of the week, and
the tiny automatic weapons which hither-
to had pecked at the sky in furious ineffec-
tiveness relinquished their position. An
odd Jap ’plane began to tumble from the
sky-. On the beach the toll reached twenty
’planes in a week ; one morning the ships
in the bay shot down thirteen high-level
bombers out of twenty which had threat-
ened the strongest attack to date. Every
flamer brought a wave of cheering from
the troops crouching in their foxholes.
The greatest difficulty was still the
matter of supply to the forward troops.
They were not yet out of the swamps, and
it was impossible to follow them with
vehicles.
The small artillery spotting ’planes
dropped some rations and ammunition,
and attempts were made to carry some
supplies on water-buffalo till they, too,
bogged down. A supply train of loaded
trucks took three days to find a way to
one regiment with which contact could
not be made. It did get through eventu-
ally, heading south out of the division
area, then west along the one road that
was serviceable, and north again along
a series of lanes, with an engineering crew
going before to repair the damaged creek
crossings. There were four bridges to
be built in a space of three miles, and
there were long waits while the bulldozers
struggled to throw earth ajnd trees in to
make a surface.
For the most part, the roads and lanes
could carry only one line of traffic. The
trucks and tractored vehicles jammed up
one behind the other for miles. That one
supply train travelled thirty miles to make
eight miles inland from the dump on the
beach.
There were better things ahead. From
the air there showed up beyond the town
of Dugami an elaborate system of roads,
the network extending north along the
valley.
MIDWAY through the third week the
pattern of the enemy’s defensive
stand was making itself clear.
Though it seemed that now at last the
battle was really to begin and the fiercest
fighting of the campaign yet to develop,
control of the island had already been
lost to the Japanese. Except for pockets
of determined resistance west and north
of the Dagami area by comparatively
small forces striving to delay the pursuit
of the scattered remnants of the 16th
Japanese division fleeing Westward across
the mountain range, Leyte valley had been
cleared of the enemy.
From Abuyog, at the extreme south-
eastern corner of the valley, north to Tac-
loban and west and north to Carigara and
Pinamopoan, the American grip on Leyte
was secure. From the invasion beaches.of
the east coast the major roacl networks
were open for the fast movement of sup-
plies and equipment. The south was domi-
nated by patrols and by guerrilla forces.
Forward elements of the southern landing
force had pushed clear across the moun-
tains to Baybay on the west coast, directly
opposite Abuyog, and were striking north
towards Ormoc unopposed. The enemy
could claim only the narrow Ormoc
valley. American artillery was already
denying him the use of its one good road.
The Japanese endeavor to reinforce
their garrison through Ormoc Bay had
been late and insufficient. Torpedo-boats
had pushed their patrols clear around the
island to Ormoc and harried the enemy
convoys while they were yet at sea.
Bomb-laden American fighters flying
from fields which were being put into
operation on the island’s east coast made
Ormoc unsafe for shipping. They strafed
and bombed the enemy columns after
landing, driving them from the roads and
forcing them to travel only by night. The
continual pounding of heavy artillery was
impeding the enemy in his obvious inten-
tion of fortifying the hill passes that block
the road south from Pinamapoan towards
Ormoc, and endeavoring to keep the
American forces from entering the valley.
He was already entrenched in part on
the high ground, and elements —small and
apparently hastily gathered to reinforce
Leyte—of his Ist, 30th and 102nd divi-
sions had been identified. He showed,
too, an improvement in the quality of his
artillery pieces and weapons, but it was
clear that the main portion of his force
—small in comparison with the troops
ready to be thrown against him —was not
yet in position.
On the northern shore of Leyte Island
the range which edges the Leyte valley
on the west runs down in a series of
rounded hills and ridges almost to the
sea. Beyond Carigara the valley road
swings west along the coast six miles to
Pinamapoan. The plain narrows to a
couple of hundred yards in width, and
the open fields and cultivation of the
valley give place to thick scrub and tall
cogon grass. The grass clothes all the
slopes and hilltops ; it is more than man-
height, and an infantry company pushing
a path between it is quickly lost to sight.
At Pinamapoan the road turns suddenly
south. It climbs the hills, winding a
twisted, tortuous path through the pass
to Ormoc valley. It narrows to become
no more than a steep, rough track for
vehicles, but it affords the only entrance
to the Ormoc valley for the equipment
and the tools of warfare, and the only
route by which the Japanese armor could
possibly hope to break out of the pocket
in which the speedy advance across the
island has it hemmed. It is the road
which must dictate the pattern of any
drive towards Ormoc—first a struggle for
the ridges which command it, and then
a direct push forward, with little chance
of large-scale flanking manoeuvres.
Here in the ridges at the head of the
road the enemy offered his first serious
resistance. The Japs fought stubbornly
now for every turn of the road.
"TIME and again, in typical Japanese
f fighting fashion, they were driven
from positions by concentrated artillery
fire, only to return to their dugouts before
the American infantry could occupy the
objective.
On Observation Hill, about two miles
along the road from Pinamopoan, the
enemy had a strong force and excellent
observation. For two days artillery
worked the hill over, then patrols dis-
covered that the positions had been aban-
doned. Four American artillery officers
with an infantry squad of twelve men,
moved to the crest of the hill to estab-
lish a forward O.P.
They found the Japanese post, a large
dugout with head-deep trenches radiating
from it like the spokes of a wagon-wheel
—an ideal location. They had just set
up the radio when a lone Jap leapt
screaming from the tall grass and hurled
a grenade.
It was followed by others from three
sides of the grass around the dugout.
Soon the sixteen men were encircled on
the hill.
They managed to fight off a series of
attacks, holding their fire till it could be
most effective and maintaining their
strength of automatic rifles at the outer
corners of the trench system. They called
for artillery fire close in on the far side
of the hill, so as to prevent any more of
the enemy coming up to the attack, and
they were told to hold where they were
till a company could come through to ex-
tricate them.
They remained in the position for three
hours—from 10.30 till well after noon —
before they received word to make a run
for it across the short stretch of open
ground between their hole and the com-
pany working up the slope.
All but one of them came out alive.
They had not a wound among the lot of
them, but they had counted eighteen Japs
killed by their own fire, and when the
hilltop was eventually cleared of the
enemy seventy-five dead were found.
The advance was pushed up the road
with careful slowness. It made three miles
from Pinampoan in three days, but it
moved with inexorable certainty.
The army fights a very different kind of
war from that of Marine troops. It risks
no headlong frontal assaults, but feels
its way cautiously, taking time and pre-
ferring elaborate manoeuvring to outflank
the enemy. Sometimes it seems that the
manoeuvring is a good deal more elabo-
rate than the situation warrants. It is
jibed that if a battalion finds two Japs in
a hole it will withdraw and call for an
artillery barrage. But, as was found in
Burma, there may be many more Japs in
other holes.
On Leyte there was artillery to spare.
Batteries were crowded together for lack
of room to put them all. The thunder of
their fire was continuous; the value of
their bombardment was shown in the
wrecked trucks and field pieces, the dead
horses and scattered Japanese corpses,
the shattered pillboxs that lined the road
beyond Pinamapoan.
The method of the advance might seem
unnecessarily slow and cautious. Perhaps
before it could force a way through to the
Ormoc valley the army would need to
storm the ridges with infantry. But the
long line of heavy tanks, of armored cars
and flamethrowers, of supply trucks
which jammed the roads leading to the
front pointed the enormous strength that
would be put into the thrust and the in-
evitability of its success.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3380.
Wednesday, November 22, 1944.
SOVEREIGN REMEDY.
“King Drought, is that so? Why, we’re going to hold a conference about you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
BEYOND THE WAR NEWS.
Looking over the Australian home-front,
General Blarney dropped a ton or two
of his fiery forensic h.e. on “all this dis-
ruption and disunity” which makes “the
fighting men look with bitter dismay at
the selfishness and greed.” They would
agree with their leader’s verdict: “There
is something seriously wrong with the
country.”
There is, and it is manifested in a hun-
dred ways: in the rampant black market-
ing and the almost incredibly vast pil-
laging which helps to keep the black
market supplied ; in the gambling fever,
evident on every horse and dog race-
course and in the lottery business ; in the
failure to fill the Second Victory Loan ;
in the fast-failing control over organised
sectional interests regularly breaking the
law and regularly getting away with it —a
general steady deterioration of home-
front war-unity and morale that has
brought serious trouble to and disgrace
upon Australia, especially the dingoism
on the N.S.W. coalfields and in the Syd-
ney Government abattoirs.
It boils down to one thing—lack of
awareness of the war that is. still to be
fought and won. That, too, boils down to
one thing—failure of home-front leader-
ship. If the fighting Australians had been
led as the home-fronters have been they
would never have won a battle.
This only too evident failure of leader-
ship no doubt boils down in turn to a
personal equation. Those who should be
giving the leadership are not themselves
men of war. They have no personal
awareness of war. All they know about
it is hearsay.
Through these leaders to home-
fronters at large the state of mind has
gone bad. There are other influences at
work; first among them the war news.
Superficially, at least, it is almost all
good. Victories are steadily being won
everywhere. What setbacks there are are
nothing more than setbacks. When the
war was going badly the home-front
leaders did not have to inspire the country
to high morale and all-out effort. That
came from outside. With the war appar-
ently going so well, the leadership must
now come from inside, and the plain fact
of the matter is that it simply isn’t there.
That is as far as Mr. Forde needs to look
for an explanation of the “signs” he per-
ceives of complacency and reaction to
war strain throughout the community.
What is needed to cure the rotten war
outlook is not dosages of false pessimism,
which the general war news must contra-
dict. Both the Germans and the Japs by
hard fighting are being licked. But the
fighting is hard and it will continue hard
until they are finally beaten. “I think,”
General Blarney said, “that Japan will
do what every other patriotic people have
done —fight. We will have to go to their
homeland and fight them there. If we
don’t do that we won’t beat them.” The
Germans have been showing what that
can mean. It is now a couple of months
since arrangements were being seriously
considered in Sydney for ringing the bells
and celebrating the victory.
Pessimism certainly is not called for
by the present state of the war. All that
is needed is a plain understanding of
some of the facts behind the superficial
war news. One fact is that the most opti-
mistic of prophets do not now put the
end of the war against Japan at anything
less than a year after the defeat of Ger-
many, whenever that may happen. Less
optimistic prophets see it as lasting a good
deal longer. In his speech trying to inject
some sense of proportion into the Aus-
tralian home front General Blarney
said “it will be difficult to handle the
90,000 Japs by-passed in the advance
to the Philippines.” It will be difficult
also “to handle” the Japs not by-passed
but standing and fighting desperately, as
at Leyte.
The fighting Japs run to enormous
numbers. The U.S. Office of War Informa-
tion estimates that Japan now has about
4,000,000 men in the army, another
2,000,000 men available for training who
liav^Tol^eMTeencallec^n^mTf^mToflTer
1,500,000 men between the ages of 17 and
20 not yet subject to call-up. Figures
given out at the time of the last Quebec
Conference showed 113 Jap divisions of
20,000 men each—total, 2,260,000. If
Australia’s total effective divisions are
thought of by way of a yardstick the
Japs will be seen to have a lot of men.
They are fanatical fighters, trained and
equipped. Twenty-two divisions of them
(440,000 men) are reckoned to be in the
South-west Pacific, 15 divisions (300,000
men) in Thailand and Burma, over 37 divi-
sions (750,000 men) in China, over 21
divisions (430,000 men) in Manchuria, 17
divisions (340,000 men) on the Jap main-
land.
The 90,000 Japs who, in General
Blarney’s estimate, have been by-passed
in the advance to the Philippines are seen
to be only a few of the Japs in the South-
west Pacific alone, and even that 90,000
have yet to be met and fought out of
it —the idea <?f them “withering on the
vine” is only a clever turn of speech.
Mr. Forde, declaring that “Australian
land and air forces” are to “play a full
part in the battle for the Philippines,”
quoted General Blarney as estimating
that “some 250,000 Japanese troops
are existing as disciplined, organised
armed forces between the Philippines and
Australia.”
In the fighting through to the Philip-
pines and in the fighting going on there
the Japs have certainly been destroyed in
large numbers, but it is pointed out that,
replacements available more than make
up for those. The normal replacement is
put at 250,000 men a year—greater than
the current rate of destruction.
In the news it makes good reading that
Admiral Halsey expects “Japanese peace
feelers any time” ; but it is as well to
read also that he declares strongly for
their rejection ; to read, too, that it is
only by “grim” fighting, “in which the
fanatical Japanese rearguards are dying
to the last man,” that the Americans on
Leyte are making headway. All reports
from there indicate that the Japs are
fighting as fiercely as they fought back
in the Solomons and in New Guinea.
Taking an all-over view of it —a different
view from that necessarily taken by cor-
respondents whose reports of victories are
localised —Admiral Nimitz has summed
up:
While the Japanese have no room for
optimism, neither have we room for over-
optimism. Each new advance increases the
supply problem, and the closer the approach
to Japan the tougher and more compact
will be the defences encountered. We have
yet to come to grips with the main bodies
of the well-trained Japanese Army. Victory
in Europe will not immediately provide us
with the means quickly to overthrow Japan.
Japan certainly is being beaten, as is
Germany; but an enormous Jap army
is still in being and, by all the evidence,
it can be expected to make fearful and
bitter fighting of it all the way. With
the array of force that America and
Britain are now mounting in the Pacific,
the writing on the wall clearly is that
the Japs are doomed. But what Aus-
tralia, through its leaders-in-spasms, needs
to understand is that, beyond the daily
superficial war news, there is bitter fight-
ing, with heavy casualties all the time
mounting, and much more of it still to
come, with Australian men in it.
The Russomania Month.
The average Australian’s feelings towards
Russia are friendly, but mixed. He re-
spects the Russians as good fighters, in
all their history never better than when
an invader is pressing them hard, and is
grateful to them for having taken some
of the strain off the British, sorely smitten
by the blitz and the U-boat campaign
and with three Great Powers to fight. He
admires Stalin as a leader who never
despaired of his country, which has a
population at least equal to that of the
U.S.A., Britain, Canada' Australia and
New Zealand combined, and expects to
see Uncle Joe bring it into the war
against the Japs, in spite of the Molotov-
Matsuoka agreement being as puzzling
as was the Molotov-Ribbentrop agree-
ment until violently sundered. And he is
interested in the communist (or socialist
or State-capitalist) experiment in the
U.S.S.R., though not to the point of
thinking that it should be tried in Aus-
tralia. Any attempt to force it on him
would find him ready for action, with
fists and feet, cased in big boots, or any
other deterrents required.
Of course this attitude, though charac-
teristically Australian, is totally unsatis-
factory to communists, whether Austra-
lian by the accident of birth or from
other countries. It is not even enough
to be friendly. To friendship there must
be added the utmost credulity and ser-
vility. You are expected to believe, and
to accept the majestic intelligence with
proper humility, that the gospel accord-
ing to Karl Marx, as expounded and prac-
tised since 1917, is not only perfect in
itself but tends to make its human instra.-.
ments perfect, which explains why they
are the best workers, fighters, generals,
statesmen, scientists, doctors, inventors,
engineers, composers and writers in the
world.
To dispute this sweeping proposition
and to point out, for one thing, that the
Russian war effort has been vastly helped
by Anglo-American gifts and carriage of
all manner of war supplies in tremen-
dous volume, and that from Russia there
has come no counterpart of any of the
wonders of British research and in-
vention and American mass-production
which have been placed at Russia’s
service, from and penicillin
and the degaussing device to the air-
craft made for Russian aces and
the equipment used by the Russian
army that entered Bucharest no
weapon or missile or any improvement
in surgery or medicine —is to run the
risk of being branded as a Fascist. In
the lexicon of the Australian communist
everyone is a Fascist who disputes the
claim that the Russians never lose a fight
and are infallible in everything.
Though' humorless themselves, or they
could scarcely be members of a foreign
party which has turned so many somer-
saults at foreign orders, communists are.
apt to be the cause of humor in others
not so ill-furnished by Nature. Drawn
to discontented elements as vultures to
their prey, they have been exploiting the
grievances of land men, and were ex-
ceedingly proud of having brought off a
Melbourne conference at which many
farmers claimed as communists were
present. Unfortunately, the delegates
were scarcely back in their homes when
a cablegram from a London correspon-
dent started a gloomy train of thought as
to what they might be letting themselves
in for as “peasants.” Written in the
effusive strain which some London corre-
spondents affect, the thing gave an ac-
count of what Russia was proposing to
do for “peasants” in the rehousing line.
No fewer than 82 standard plans for
farm cottages nave been distributed by the
Commissariat for Agriculture. Even a
peasant building his own log cabin, with
accommodation for his family and animals
under one roof, is supplied with a simple
set of .drawings so that the new home
will give the highest degree of hygiene and
convenience.
Attention, you “peasants” of the coming
communist Commonwealth! Hands up,
every one of you who wants to live in his
own log cabin —self-built to a Canberra
commissar’s design—with the missus and
the kids and Mr. and Mrs, Dennis and
family and Strawberry and her bull-calf
and the fowls and the dogs and the cats,
all in the highest degree of hygiene and
comfort “under one roof.”
A queer thing about this contribution
to the gaiety of the nation was the date
—October 24. November is the month
in which the flags and the fustian break
out, and in which persons who deny
that they are communists or fellow-
travellers vie with those worthies in pro-
fessions of devotion to the Revolution
and in extravagance of assertion and lan-
guage.
November 6 found Mr. Ward in the
Sydney Town Hall blithering hard on the
theme that the U.S.S.R. has “made more
progress in 25 years than has been
achieved by any capitalist country in ten
times that period.”
He did not suggest in the Town Hall, as
he did in the House when Mr. Curtin was
about to go in pursuit of hearty British
cheers, that the British failed in Malaya
.because “the military caste” was sozzled,
and that Britain and the U.S.A. were
conspiring “to build up their strength
while allowing the Soviet to bleed itself
white.” But he extolled “the Soviet’s
magnificent military performances” (no
one has ever heard him or ever will hear
him praise those of Alexander, Mont-
gomery, Cunningham, Tedder and their
men) and declared that they were based
on “economic achievements” which were
“apt to be overlooked.” He attributed
these “economic achievements” to “the
workers,” hailing them as proof that “the
workers can organise and direct indus-
try, and that —unlike our system, with its
alternate slumps and booms —greater
production in the Soviet means higher
living standards.”
And the gentleman said “Australia
should begin to think along Soviet lines
in post-war planning, instead of in terms
of what can be economically afforded.”
But if the Soviet is such a good example
—as in some respects it certainly is—-
why wait to emulate it till after the
war? It prepared for and is waging
war on the basis of universal liability to
service, and service anywhere. Mr. Ward
and party wouldn’t have any preparation
for war on that basis, and when the
struggle with Germany had Actually
begun they tried to have called-up men
exempted from the obligation to defend
Papua, the mandated islands and Norfolk
Island. Even now, under their Militia
Hopscotch Act, called-up men cannot be
sent to the Philippines or to Malaya,
where 20,000 of their countrymen were
taken prisoner; so there were none
among those heroes who, “battling for
their lives in the China Sea,” and with the
bitterness of death upon them, defied the
Japs who deserted and tormented them by
singing “Rule, Britannia!”
Mr. Ward is Minister of Transport and
External Territories. In the “official
organ of the Labor party,” published in
Sydney on October 12, his favorite
recreation was described in these terms:
The ever-popular Eddie Ward was in his
usual seat at the ringside last Saturday
night'. No one enjoys a fight more, and
whenever his Parliamentary duties permit
Eddie never fails to put in an appear-
ance.
Not much is known of Russian Minis-
ters other than Mr. Stalin and Mr. Molo-
tov, but it may be predicated with confi-
dence of Eddie’s opposite number, who-
ever he may be, that he is no frequenter
of Moscow boxing halls, and of Russian
pugilists, if any, that they do nearly all
their fighting against the enemy. Surpris-
ingly few Sydney pugs, if any, have seen
service against the enemy, and many
home-keeping pugs have had astonishing
luck in the matter of rail priorities, re-
fused so stormily by “Eddie” to a parcel
of schoolboys returning to college. On
this score, and others, Moscow may not
think so much of Eddie as Eddie thinks of
Moscow.
Of course, Russian communists,
socialists, State-capitalists or whatever
they may be are no more immune to
flattery than “the exploiting classes,” and
at the Melbourne celebration of Russia
Day Mr. A. W. Foster, the latest recruit
to the Federal Arbitration Bench, laid it
on with a trowel. Said Mr. Foster, as
reported in the third person by the
friendly “Argus”:
For years he had watched the Russian
experiment of [“as” in the “Age” report]
the greatest social event in history, an event
which laid the foundation for a new social
system which, he believed, would sweep
the world. The Russian system, for the
first time in history, abolished human ex-
ploitation and laid the foundation for a
common human brotherhood on -earth. The
world extension of the plan had been held
up by the interference of Nazi force,
but its progress was inevitable. Some
people had expressed fear for alliances
made with Russia. There was no need for
fear. Soviet Union alliances were based
on the will of the people and would last
for ever.
Doubtless consistent with previous
utterances from the same quarter, but
even people who remember Mr. Foster
with tolerance as a very vocal young
anti-conscriptionist in the last war and
as an unsuccessful Labor candidate
afterwards must have found it sorry stuff.
Especially the last bit. What on earth did
“the will of the people,” told year after
year that it was their mission to fight
“the Nazi beasts” and “the Japanese
butchers,” have to do with the sudden
agreements with Ribbentrop and Mat-
suoka, and how long did the one with
Hitler’s Foreign Minister last?
Oddly inconsistent with Mr. Foster’s
heroics are the newspaper reports of the
U.S.S.R. “mercenaries” found in Hitler’s
armies, which are most explicit.
In a New York “Herald Tribune”
account of the early fighting in Nor-
mandy it was stated that between 15 p.c.
and 20 p.c. of “the German armies in the
west” were not Germans and that many of
the captives were Russians. The same paper
(here quoting the Maquis) stated that
“Cossacks in German uniforms” were
being “used in the south of France,” and
referred to German radio messages to
Greece as threatening the Greeks with
the vengeance of “Georgian moun-
taineers.” “Time” (August 28), review-
ing the first part of General Patch’s
military promenade, said the enemy had
“only a relative handful of second-grade
troops with which to defend the south of
France: of the two German divisions 40
p.c. proved to be Russians, Czechs and
Poles.” And one of the first things found
by the Americans going into Germany
was an officers’ school for Russians well
inside the frontier: the New York
“Journal American” had a photograph
of the interior showing a Hitler poster
with a Russian inscription.
And in a Swiss lady’s description of a sad
exodus of civilians from Warsaw during
the late rising, in which the heroic Poles
were exposed not only to enemy fright-
fulness but to the invective and threats
of communists, this passage appears:
We left Warsaw on foot, walking in a
long column of several thousand people.
I had spent the last night in the cellars ot
the National Museum, which was burnt
out. We walked the whole day, crossing
the Theatre Square and arriving at the
Western Station, in whose ruins we spent
the night. During this long journey we
were stopped several times to bury corpses.
We were surrounded by soldiers ot a
Ukrainian regiment paid by the Germans.
These Ukrainians were the worst ot an.
They robbed us of all watches, rings and
precious articles.
These ruffians, like the “mercenaries
encountered in France, Italy and tn
Balkans, must have been heirs to it not
actors in “the greatest social event in
history,” and so come under all the up
lifting influences catalogued by •
Foster, yet they took service under kus
sia’s arch-enemy. It is all very strange^


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Drought.
It achieved mention in the nation’s Par-
liament last Wednesday, when Mr. Scully,
suddenly swinging from optimism to pes-
simism, described it as “a national disas-
ter ranking with those of 1902 and 1914.”
The effects ere now spreading to the
cities and will be felt throughout 1945. It
is a disaster on a scale which outweighs
the reserves that a farmer should, and
usually does, provide In the coming .
months stocks of grain and feed will be
strained—and they must be built up as
quickly as possible.... ProducUon depends
on the men whose crops have tailed mis
year. There is no other source of supply.
It is perhaps idle to remind Mr. Scully
that, as Minister of Agriculture, he sane
tioned the idiotic restrictions on crop-
ping in wheat areas .and the loading of
farmers with time-wasting regulations
and forms-to-be-filled-in ; idle, too, to
recall that under his Government farms
were denuded of labor and machinery
so that lashings of good feed went to
waste. But Mr. Scully, his Government
and Parliament shouldn’t be allowed to
imagine that the “effects of the drought”
will be limited to 1945.
If Australia had lost only stock and
crops it could pay the affected farmers
and look forward to a good season to get
the money back. It will never get back
the wheat and grazing paddocks blown
away in great clouds of dust that blotted
out the land fom the view of airmen fly-
ing over it; choked dams, channels, roads
and railways; buried fences, animals,
crops and even houses, and billowed
across the Pacific in clouds that startled
the natives of distant islands.
There will be more drought as the
land dessicates and disappears. Drought-
relief grants, necessary though they be,
are merely palliatives, and conferences
will stop neither wind nor water. Nor
will it be any good fiddling about with
forestry leagues and erosion experiment
stations in the expectation that they will
do the whole job. Australia needs a Com-
monwealth Conservation Service to
rescue its soil, timber and water resources,
and that Conservation Service must have
adequate funds, staff and power to do its
job. Indeed, if Australia’s post-war
dreams are not to dissolve. in nightmares
of drought, dust and desolation, corner-
vation must be the No. 1 job after
national defence.
R.S.L Accepts Militia.
As expected, the R.S.L. Congress in
Adelaide agreed to admit returned Militia
as members, with the condition “provided
Militiamen before November 14, 1944,
applied for transfer to the A.1.F.”
Congress also agreed to the admission
of A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. men who served
in a defined portion of the Northern Ter-
ritory (applicable also to Militia) at the
time when it could be considered a front-
line area.
Regarding the Militia, it was stated that,
though members of the Second A.I.F.
earlier were against admission, they were
now for it; and no doubt the high praise
of the Militia by Lieut.-General Savige,
addressing the Legacy Club in Mel-
bourne, had its influence:
The first time the Jap was held was by
the Seventh Division, and among them
was the 15th Brigade of Militia. It started
fighting on June 1, and until September 30
there had never been a day without fight-
ing. That brigade has fought in more
actions and has won more decorations in
New Guinea than any other brigade, A.I.F.
or Militia. I will also remind you that
the 4th Brigade has won the admiration
of the Ninth Division.
Other reports of the New Guinea fight-
ing have been in line with General
Savige’s account. The general’s statement
had the advantage of being specific, nam-
ing units and actions, while the earlier
reports were—through the strange official
“policy” regarding Australian fighting
men and their leaders —so vague that only
those in the know were fully aware of
the Militia’s fine fighting part.
Because of the Militia’s fighting record,
Congress has acted only reasonably in
changing the League’s old constitution.
Another good ground—pointed out here
long ago—is that the League has always
solidly supported the democratic prin-
ciple of universal national service. Tak-
ing that stand and excluding returned
Militia was contradictory.
The new move considerably widens
League membership, opening it to men
to whom it certainly should be open.
Volunteers, A.I.F. and R.A.A.F., who,
through no fault of their own, have not
been out of Australia are still excluded,
but many will no doubt become
eligible before the Pacific War is over,
since all that is necessary is for them to
do their present sort of jobs outside Aus-
tralia.
When it is all over the League might
well look into the individual cases of
those who volunteered to serve anywhere,
but were held back agairist their wishes.
Man With a Grievance.
Dr. Evatt has had the odd experience
of being stigmatised as anti-British by the
American correspondent Brown and as
anti-American by the American corre-
spondent Weller. Brown, who was here
for a few weeks in 1942, “discovered”
that the Attorney-General’s hatred of
Britain was sealed when he was rounding
off his education at Oxford —he was never
there. If disproof were needed he could
furnish it in a Churchillian introduction
of him to an English crowd and in a
Rooseveltian photograph, endorsed by
the subject in the friendliest terms.
Weller’s attack appears in a book,
Bases Overseas, and is grounded on the
doctor’s foreign policy as embodied in the
Anzac pact. He turned from Dr. Evatt to
have a crack as Mr. W. M. Hughes, on
the score of the latter’s proceedings at
Versailles. Billy, retorting, mixed him up
with Colonel McCormick, but the young
man was actually in the service of the
late Colonel Knox on the Chicago “Sun,”
still owned by the Knox family though
up for sale. And, although his book is
provocative, it contains some shrewd pas-
sages ; for example, “the Anglo-Saxon
element in American government is
barely holding its own, and Britain can
no longer rely on a permanent Mayflower
orientation in American policy” —the
truth of which was evidenced by the
voting at the Presidential and Congres-
sional elections.
In point of fact, the young man took
back to the U.S.A. a grudge against the
Curtin Government, the P.M.G. in'parti-
cular, and the censorship. He spent
several months in Westralia, prepared to
report an invasion which never came,
and made no secret of his admiration for
the State and people, who, he said, re-
minded him of Texans. But from Perth
he sent The Bulletin a “copy of a dis-
patch of mine suppressed by The political
censorship, together with an open letter
on the subject to Senator Ashley.” Com-
ing to Sydney, he complained bitterly of
having been refused permission to cable
a short report of the case in which four
Perth people were tried on a charge of
conspiring (two were acquitted) (o help
the Japs., In fact, nothing could shake
his conviction that he had had a very
raw deal.
Behind the Veil.
Correspondents from all Allied coun-
tries'move with considerable freedom in
Italy, France, Belgium, Holland and the
conquered corners of Germany on the
west. In Finland and Rumania, Bulgaria
and Yugoslavia, there are only Russian
or Tito-ite correspondents, and the world
is told only what the Red Army and the
German High Command desire them to
hear.
There are American reports of a mid-
October function in Moscow at which
Voks, an organ “for the promotion of
cultural relations” from or through which
Australian communists used to receive
stacks of literature, entertained Allied cor-
respondents. Two long speeches in Rus-
sian were made by “author-correspon-
dents” Konstantin Simonov and Vsevelod
Vishnevsky. Then the Philadelphia “In-
quirer’s” correspondent, A 1 Kendrick, is
alleged to have said:
I should like to take two minutes of
your time to tell how we cover the war in
Russia. The way we cover the great
patriotic war of Russia is to sit in our
rooms in the Hotel Metropole, read what
our Russian colleagues write in the Rus-
sian papers and cable this to our papers.
Every effort we make to get, really near
the front has heen blacked out.
Paul Winterton, of London “News-
Chronicle,” came next. An Australian
version of Mr. Winterton’s communica-
tions gives the impression that he is
always a mile ahead of the leading tank
spearhead and always convinced the
German armies consist of a carpet of
dead and multitudes of trapped fugitives ;
but he said “Not only is bur only source
of news about the Russian fronts what
we read in the papers from your corre-
spondents, but, furthermore, we consider
that a poor source.”
And dry Edward Angly—whom many
Australians knew as the New York
“Herald Tribune’s” man in these
parts for a time —remarked that “the
British and American Governments
should be grateful to the Russian Foreign
Office for making sure that there will be
no casualties among correspondents.”
It is a solemn fact that the Russian
front, the largest land front of all, is
the only one on which no British, Ameri-
can or neutral correspondent has been
killed or wounded. Yet the Red Army is
beyond question a powerful instrument
of war, and it would enhance Russian
prestige to allow Allied correspondents
to see the front line, as Russian corre-
spondents are allowed to see it in
western spheres.
IT’S A LONG WAY.
“Replying to the Allies, Mr. De Valera said his Government could give no assurance which would preclude it from exercising the right to grant asylum, should justice,
charity and the honor or interests of Eire so require.”
“Beggin' y’r pardon, sorr, but could you doireet me an’ th’ bhoys to Tipperary?”


PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
THE LITERARY EVENT OF THE YEAR
THE BIOGRAPHY OF GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON, by Maisie Ward. An immediate
and outstanding success. 31/6 (post. 9d.).
“Daily Express: “This excellent and well-documented book tells us all one needs to know
about Chesterton. It should be read by everybody ...”
SOME NEW BOOKS.
EINSTEIN. An intimate study of a great
man. By D. Marianoff and Palma Wayne.
18/6 (post. 6d.).
The author has given an explanation for the
layman of the nature of Einstein’s contri-
bution to physical theory and the development
of scientific thought.
INTRODUCING AUSTRALIA. History, poli-
tics, industry, agriculture and cultural life.
By Hartley Grattan. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
THE CIVIL, DEFENCE OF MALAYA. A
narrative of the part taken in it by the civil
population of the country in the Japanese In-
vasion. Compiled by Sir George Maxwell.
9/6 (post. 4d.).
POEMS FROM THE DESERT. Verses by
members of the Eighth Army. Foreword by
General Sir Bernard Montgomery, K.C.8.,
D.S.O. 6/6 (post. 3d.).
JABROLD’S DICTIONARY OF DIFFICULT
WORDS. 15,000 definitions. 8/3 (post 5d.).
INVENTOR’S CAVALCADE. A book of ad-
ventures with ideas and machines. By E.
Larsen. With 24 pages of illustrations. 17/6
(post. 6d.).
GARDENS IN COLOR. By Richard Pratt.
With full-color photographs, by Edward
Speicher. Size 10J x 8 inches. 16/6 (post.
10d.).
This beautiful book, by the Garden Editor
of “The Ladies Home Journal,” tells you how
to produce lovely gardens.
BURMA SURGEON. Twenty Years of Fight-
ing Disease, Famine Ignorance and Pestilence
in Burma. By Lt. Col. Gordon S. Seagrave.
11/6 (post. 4d.).
“Time” Magazine: “Jammed with adventure,
Medical science—intensely affecting.”
THE CONCERTO. A history and analysis of
one of the most popular of musical forms from
its origin to the present day. By Abraham
Veinus. 26/- (post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ECZEMA
SENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema, is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
POLITICAL POINTS
Forde delivered the Government’s
statement as to its plans for the fighting
in the Philippines and the related man-
power proposals as if he were reading
the first lesson. At other times he con-
veys the impression that he is washing
his hands with invisible soap in imper-
ceptible water. However, whatever may
be thought of the propriety of revealing
everything known about the treatment of
Diggers in Burma and Thailand, the ter-
rible story and that of the Diggers and
Tommies in the China Sea moved him
as he was seldom moved before. Tommy
White also spoke with feeling, and if
Tommy had been let into the secret of
Cabinet’s intentions —as a p.o.w. for three
years he might have been —sentences de-
sperately, and perhaps unnecessarily,
worrying to relatives might have been
omitted.
With B.H.P. warning Man-power to
prepare for the laying off of steelworkers,
and with 13 N.S.W. mines idle, the
“Government” at Canberra entered into
three more coal conferences. Said
Forde:
It is very important that the Govern-
ment' should take steps to hold conferences
with a view to bringing about concerted
action to increase production.
Real Governments do things. Govern-
ments that take steps to hold conferences
with a view to bringing about concerted
action to increase production are only
suits of clothes and names.
Queensland’s Labor Caucus meets in
the former Leg. Council Chamber under
a close guard of messengers. Imagine the
scene if the shade of one of the former
members got inside —say, Hugh Nelson,
F. T. Brentnall, B. B. Moreton (\yho after-
wards became the fourth Earl of Ducie),
Augustus Gregory or even James Tyson.
It is on record that Jimmy spoke in the
House —once.
Strange that so little notice was taken
of the death of Princess Beatrice, the last
of Queen Victoria’s nine children. It
might at least have been made the occa-
sion for a tribute to her father, the Prince
Consort, who died on December 14,
1861. German as he was, unpopular in
his lifetime, and, because of the Albert
Memorial, ridiculed after his death, he
was the means of doing a priceless service
to the English-speaking world when two
Confederate envoys were forcibly taken
from a British ship and an Anglo-Ameri-
can wajr became grimly probable. As a
standard history puts it:
The British Government was on the point
of demanding reparation for this action in
a peremptory manner which could hardly
have meant anything but war. Prince
Albert insisted on revising Lord Russell’s
dispatch in a way which gave the Ameri-
can Government an opportunity to concede
the surrender of the prisoners without
humiliation. This memorandum was the
Prince Consort’s last political drive.
And considering what the immediate and
remote consequence of war would have
been, it ought to place him among the
immortals.
Alone among the neutrals, Eire has
refused to give a pledge that it will not
receive fugitives from Naziland. On the
contrary, the De Valera Government has
lai’d it down that it will exercise its right
of granting asylum “should justice,
charity, honor or the interests' of Eire so
require,” subject to “its uniform practice
of denying admission to all aliens
whose presence would be at vari-
ance with its policy of neutrality, detri-
mental to the interests of the Irish people
or inconsistent with their desire to avoid
injury to the interests of friendly States.”
This reply was read in the Commons by
the Under-Secretary for the Dominions,
Whether it was received before or since
the U.S. elections wasn’t stated.
Not one Commonwealth Minister
went along to the R.S.L.’s Federal con-
ference in Adelaide. U.S. leaders never
ignore the deliberations of its opposite
number. To the American Legion con-
vention at Chicago in September the Presi-
dent, General Eisenhower and Admiral
Nimitz sent greetings, the two Vice-Presi-
dential candidates —both members of the
Legion—made speeches, General Arnold,
on hand to receive the Legion’s D.S.M.,
made another, and General Marshall was
the principal speaker—reviewing the war
effort, discussing the campaigns in pro-
gress and those to come, and revealing
the immensity of the forces mustered.
We have 60 combat divisions overseas,
more than 2,155,000 other soldiers support-
ing them and eight more divisions to em-
bark for the fighting fronts this month.
The Army is operating 1600 ocean-going
transports. And there are 1000 aviation
squadrons, including approximately 1,000,000
men, fighting overseas, while 110,000 men
are engaged in the operation of 135,000
miles of air-supply systems.
These men know what is due to war
“General de Gaulle has been invited to Moscow.”
“And when are we going to see Winston again ?”
veterans and how their conventions can
be made suitable vehicles for addressing
the nation.
String of assertions by the U.S.
Senator Reynolds, supporter of Roose-
velt and member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee:
Churchill has gone to Moscow so heart-
sick over the communist threat to England’s
position that he doesn’t know what to do.
Britain’s efforts to save Yugoslavia from
Russian dominance have failed; Bulgaria
is in the Russian bag and Greek circles
in Washington expect Russia to acquire
permanent control of Macedonia.
There has been no confirmation from
any responsible quarter; in fact,
Churchill was anything but downcast (if
he ever could be downcast) on his return
from Moscow. But from his sayings and
doings in Rome and Paris, and in the
Commons apropos of Spain, it will no
doubt be inferred by the Senator that he
is trying to form a Latin bloc.
Financially speaking, Tasmania has be-
come Australia’s Ireland, as Ireland was
of old, and Hobart “Mercury” has had
a shindy with Chifley about its wrongs.
The “Mercury’s” contention is that uni-
form income tax and distribution of war
expenditure have made the rich States
richer and Iremania poorer.
In the year to June 30, 1943, N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Victoria among them had
a surplus of £12,000,000. Despite a Com-
monwealth grant based on mere subsis-
tence, Tasmania’s deficit was £llO,OOO. From
the start of the war until the same date
defence expenditure in the three States
amounted to £80,000,000; in Tasmania to
less than £200,000.
Chifley did his best to argue away the
wrongs of the new Ireland, but with no
greater success than the Saxon oppressor
had in the old days.
Having ‘another crack at the Federal
“instrumentalities” which have spread
over Victoria like blackberries in a moun-
tain gully, Dunstan said 50 per cent, of
the national-security regulations could
now be repealed, and a va!st number of
them never had the remotest connection
With winning the war. He added that it
would probably be necessary for the Com-
monwealth Government to set up some
regulations to regulate the regulators. But
who would regulate the regulators of the
regulators? You don’t get rid of black-
berries so easily.
After dallying with the matter for
years, the “Government” at Canberra has
“decided against the proposed Jewish
settlement in the East Kimberleys.” Not
in consequence of the murder of Lord
Moyne and his Tommy driver, but “oh
the recommendation of the inter-depart-
mental committee on immigration.”
Churchill, who never procrastinates or
conceals his feelings in a mist of words,
said bluntly about the same time that “if
the dreams of Zionism are to end in the
smoke of the assassin’s pistol and the
production of a new set of. gangsters
worthy of Nazi Germany, then many, like
myself”—and Zionism has no better
friend —“will have to consider the posi-
tion we have maintained so consistently.”
Melbourne city councillor Barry com-
plained that hotels were able to get man-
power to brighten their premises for the
Derby and Cup, while the City Council
couldn’t get labor to shine up its shabby
markets. Deputy-Director Cameron ad-
mitted having noticed such work being
carried out on city pubs, but the ex-
planation was that the men employed
were part of a defence contractor’s team
temporarily held up on major works. The
D.D. didn’t explain why his department
couldn’t have diverted the spare men to
the markets.
Oscar Walters wrote good Australian
verse for The Bulletin before he became
editor of the ‘Westralian Worker,” a full-
time job. He has the healthy contempt
tor communists which characterises Old
Diggers of the A.W.U., so corns, in the
goldmining branch are after his scalp.
Refusing to hand it to them Walters
quoted a com. circular issued before the
party line changed:
. The war now developing in the Pacific
is an extension of the world imperialist
conflict. In this wanton struggle, this mass-
murder, the Labor party has concurred.
I hese lickspittles of imperialism, these glib
mouthers of democracy, these tools of Aus-
tralian Fascism have vilely betrayed the trust
the workers have placed in them.
“The only thing genuine iabout com-
munism,” Walters proceeded, “is its capa-
city for intrigue, deceit and abuse of
those it is unable to frighten.” It doesn’t
seem likely that the Walters scalp will be
torn from its accustomed place.
It is almost forgotten that Curtin re-
ceived the honorary degree of Doctor of
Law from Cambridge University, of
which Lord Baldwin is Chancellor; and
it seems an appropriate time to quote the
words in which the gift was presented:
Mr. Curtin, with sure and upright pur-
pose, first united his own party and then
the whole of Australia. As champion of
the working classes, and then as Prime
Minister, he has placed above all other aims
the cause of British liberty. He seems to
have risen among his people as both
prophet and evangelist.
So beautiful that one of the factions in
Caucus should have copies printed and
handed to the other.
Introducing a bill to provide £120,000
for the protection of State forests, Forests
Minister Lind reiterated to Victorian
Assembly his previous statement that
there would be no major fires this season.
Reason: the people were tree-conscious
and were becoming tree-lovers, and with
co-operation by everyone we should be
able to escape major forest losses. It is
nice to be optimistic ; if everybody co-
operated the whole world would be a
garden. The Bushfire Brigade, with its
first-hand experience, disagrees with the
Government about its departmentally-
manufactured fire authority.
Of the 49. Labor i.Is.H.R. Makin has
had the longest period of continuous
service. Hindmarsh first elected Makin
on December 13, 1919, and since then,
like the man in the old soap ad., has
used no other. Scullin (Yarra) dates
from February 18, 1922; Forde (Capri-
cornia) from December 16, 1922. Scullin
succeeded Frank Tudor, whom he was to
follow, though not immediately, as party
leader, and their electorate, one of the
originals, has had only the two members,
being in that respect unique.
J. D. McLean, chairman of the Queens-
land Commodities Board, told the Civilian
Requirements Committee there was an
“allocatipn” of 30,000 three-pint sauce-
pans for Queensland:
These have become available in an un-
orthodox manner, and on account of a
prices difficulty it is not possible for
ordinary trade channels to be used entirely.
lt is expected that the saucepans will
arrive in Sydney from New Zealand in the
near future The price f.o.b. Sydney,
including sales tax, is 9s. llid., and the
fixed retail selling price (all locations) is
13s. 3d.
It ought to interest utensil-makers in
South Australia, who were told just
before the referendum that they couldn’t
send their goods outside the State to
such places as Queensland because of
transport difficulties and other things.
Aikens, the Mundingburra Ind. Lab., to
a meeting of Queensland railway em-
ployees :
You have no hope from the politicians
while the present party set-up remains.
Your only hope is your industrial strength.
Say to the politicians that you are not
weak but strong and that you will demon-
strate your strength. Then you will be
surprised at the trouble you will start, not
only for this Government but for every
other Government in the country.
Servicemen “demonstrate” their “strength”
by remaining on the job.


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
pillliii
p is - _
5S
SSB
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries. for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take, no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get m touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
HOUSE-LIGHTING 6/ ERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST H >PPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Melbourne is to have its D-Day-
Sunday, December 10 —when 300 patients
of Royal Melbourne Hospital will have
their breakfast at the old address and
their lunch at the new one at Parkville.
Everything connected with the move has
been timed to a split second. Surgeons
who had been operating that morning in
the old hospital will be operating in the
new in the afternoon, and £50,000 worth
of equipment, from elaborate X-ray in-
struments to test tubes, will have changed
places with them. The man in charge
of the mammoth transportation, Colonel
Rupert Edward Fanning, manager of the
Royal Melbourne, is an Old Digger who
was gassed, wounded and mentioned in
dispatches and won the D.S.O. After
the war he was a Duntroon instructor for
three years, did a term at the Staff Col-
lege at Quetta, then served in the Militia
till he got his present appointment in
1931.
A New Zealand scientist, Robert C.
Hurst, has been awarded the George
Cross. At Cambridge studying for a doc-
torate of science when Hitler broke loose,
Hurst was for four years in charge of a
station studying unexploded bombs. Lat-
terly he’s been one of the scientific com-
mittee investigating the flying bomb.
Latest word received by his father in
Nelson is that he’d been invited by the
U.S. Government to Washington to carry
out research work there.
“Hamer”: Joe Wolinski, hard-hit
with Mary Edwards for costs in the
Archibald Prize case, earned distinction
outside art in America. He’d been in
Europe studying under the travelling art
scholarship won by a picture which hangs
in the Sydney gallery. Returning, he got
mixed up in a San Francisco ferry
tragedy, and dived in so often to rescue
people struggling in the water that he
became Frisco’s front-page hero. He
stilf has the medal he was awarded, but
few people have heard about it. Wolin-
ski’s father was a former Sydney Jewish
minister.
From John Brennan:
In the drive along the Leyte Valley there were
sharp and bitter encounters with small forces
guarding the enemy retreat. United States in-
fantrymen who spearheaded the advance re-
served their highest praise for the medical
aid men who went with them, and for one in
particular—Private Bob McPhail, a youngster
from Long Island, New York. In the first two
weeks on Leyte the company to which McPhail
was attached was rarely out of the line. For
14 days McPhail worked continually with the
lead squad, under machine-gun fire, bandaging
wounds and dragging men out of danger to where
stretcher parties could care for them. He twice
earned the company commander’s recommenda-
tion for “extraordinary heroism in action.”
The morning after the landing on Leyte
McPhail’s squad advanced across an open field.
Half-way they were pinned down by machine-
gun fire from the cornfield beyond. Five were
wounded and fell in the first burst. McPhail
unhesitatingly ran forward across the field to
help them. He bandaged their wounds and
began slowly to haul them back to cover. He
made the trip five times before the squad was
extricated and the enemy driven out. Twice
he had men killed beside him. Nine days latef
McPhail was with the lead platoon in the
column advancing north along the road from
Jaro when the column was attacked by a full
company of Japanese dug in beside the road
and well prepared with heavy weapons. Three
men were killed and six wounded, including
the regimental commander. While the column
took cover and began to work around the
enemy flanks McPhail attended the wounded,
exposed the whole time to heavy fire from a
40-millimetre field piece, a number of machine-
guns and a continuous barrage of mortar fire.
He succeeded unaided in bringing all the
wounded men back to safety.
Clare’s “Northern Argus” (S.A.) has
had four generations of Tilbrooks asso-
ciated with it. R.H. died recently at 73.
His father founded the paper. His son
is now editor and his grandson has just
joined the staff. There are four Tilbrooks
on it now.
General Price-Weir, dead in Adelaide
at 78, was the very type of a citizen
soldier. He had had 35 years in the
Survey Department by 1914, but had
made good use of his leisure time, and
nobody grumbled when he was given
command of the Fighting Tenth. He led
them at the Gallipoli landing (armed,
tradition said, with a cane only), and then
saw service in France, earning the D. 5.0.,
but within two years was home again as
S. first Public Service Commissioner.
He ended in a local experiment as con-
ciliator of dissatisfied married couples.
A tremendous worker in religious and
charitable matters, he was head at various
times of the Board of Health, Cheer-up
Society, Public Relief, 0.8.1., Y.M.C.A.
and Commonwealth Club.
When this page went to the printer
search ’planes had failed to find any trace
of the ’plane that was carrying Air-
Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, his
wife and staff to India, whereabouts he
was to be Allied Air Commander-in-
Chief. A clergyman’s son, he left law
study to join Britain’s Air Force when
the 1914-18 war started, and in the present
war played an important part in the
defeat of the Luftwaffe in the Battle of
Britain, again at Dieppe and in the inva-
sion that drove the Germans back to Ger-
many.
Squadron-Leader Harold Brownlow
Martin, of Sydney, is the first Australian
airman to receive five awards for bravery
in this war, and also was the first to col-
lect a bar to his D.S.O. Martin, whose
other decorations are the D.F.C. and two
bars, was in the raid on the Mohne and
Eder dams.
“Ek Dum” farewells an old friend:
James Blair, dead in Brisbane at 73, began
without any advantages save a Grammar
School education. He was called to the
Queensland Bar in 1894 when the Bar was full
of great figures, of whom Griffith was the star.
T. J. Byrnes, who died at 37—he was Premier
—gave Blair his start at the law, and en-
thusiastic supporters of that age of youth
in statesmanship put him into the Queensland
Assembly when it equalled in debating power
anything a State Parliament in Australia has
ever known —it included such men as J. T.
Bell, Lesina, Dalrymple and the two oratorical
Leahys. Blair was Attorney-General at 32, and
held some Ministerial office up to the Liberal
debacle of 1915. In his palmy days he was a
stocky figure, more in the tradition of the
English Courts than the .Australian, deeply
read, human, in every aspect of his life, and
eloquent far * beyond the average. There was
a gay, adventurous touch about him, too, which
made him the darling of election crowds, and
his white carnation and his fighting slogan “A
white flower for a blameless life —give Jimmy
a vote!” became an electioneering classic in
staid Ipswich. He was a pioneer motorist,
whose 70-h.p. Panhard was the wonder of the
age—who that shared in it' will ever forget
the festive occasion in 1908 when he took it,
per special train, 800 miles into Central Queens-
land to open the Blackall railway in pouring
rain? Rockhampton yielded up all its cham-
pagne for the celebration. James Kerr,
the Minister for Railways, had his first motor
JAMES BLAIR.
ride down Denham-street behind the Ministers
Canadian chauffeur, Charles E. Hall, and this
writer, and took to the floor for safety. Towns
serenaded the Ministerial train in the dead of
night' with banners and bugles, and Blackall
gave of its best, before the Attorney-General
set out on the pioneer 3000-mile tour through
Central Queensland, whose inhabitants con-
verged upon him from all angles, some coming
500 miles to see his iron horse. Who that was
there does not remember the furore when he re-
turned in triumph to Brisbane? The Scarlet
Troubadours had a song about it.
Jimmy Blair in his motor-car
Came driving through the town.
He kissed his hand to a pretty girl
And she pushed him through the window!
All the young bloods of Brisbane were singing
it. In 1908, at 37, Blair refused a Supreme
Court Judgeship on his retirement as Attorney-
General, but became a Judge in 1922 and Chief
Justice in 1925, retiring in 1940 as Lieut.-
Govemor. He was a member of the University
Senate in its early days and its Chancellor from
1927 t'o his death. And when the writer last
spent a couple of happy days with him in
1942, at a time when he was Acting-Governor,
he was the same old debonair, scholarly, anec-
dotal “Jimmy” that he had been in the days
of his youthful thirties.
Here depicted by Frith, Justice Owen
Dixon, back in his old place on the High
Court Bench, with memories of contacts
JUSTICE DIXON.
with Roosevelt, Churchill and other
Allied top dogs a partial compensation
for having been burdened for over two
years with such a Pooh-Bah handle as
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary for the Commonwealth of
Australia to the United States of America.
The second member of the High Court
Bench to go to a Minister job abroad —
Justice Latham’s appointment to Tokyo
started it —Dixon, J., went on to that
Bench in 1929, having three years earlier
turned in one of the richest and most
brilliant careers at the Victorian Bar to
become an Acting Justice of that State’s
Supreme Court. Now 58, he’s a Mel-
burnian, member of an old legal family
and a Melbourne University B.A. and
M.A. apart from his law scholarship.
“Retired Volt” remembers :
Ernest Fisk, who has tendered his resignation
to Amalgamated Wireless to become managing
director of the big Electrical and Musical Instru-
ment Co. in England, was once, as a quite obscure
young man who had dabbled in the mysteries
of wireless, a pain in the neck to cables cos.
Now cables and wireless are in co-operation,
but in the days when Fisk was rushing round
Australia with a wild light in his eyes and
notions about conversing across space without
wires cable offices put up a chap to counteract
him by lecturing. At that time when a cable-
repairing ship went out she might be lost for a
month, with weary clerks keeping ship-watch
day and night for the signal that she’d picked
up the cable; and often she’d be hundreds of
miles from her supposed position sheltering
from stormy weather. Now, of course, Fisk’s
inventions enable repair-ships to keep in con-
stant touch with the shore staff. Fisk entered
Marconi’s training school in London right
back in 1906. In 1924 he was conducting suc-
cessful experiments with the Italians on beam
wireless communication between- Britain and
Australia. Then the new idea took on with a
rush, and there was nothing it did more good
to than the cable services, which adopted some
of its principles and increased their capacity
tenfold. Fisk, always an idealist and a mystic,
used to believe that wireless would bring all the
nations of the world together and begin the age
of the brotherhood of man and universal edu-
cation. Possibly, like Voltaire in relation to
reading and writing, he didn’t foresee that the
education would get into the hands of broad-
casting commissions and departments of infor-
mation.
Two Maorilanders in one day’s news
from London: Dr. R. W. Firth, appointed
to the London University’s Chair of An-
thropology, and Wing-Commander D. J.
Scott, D. 5.0., D.F.C., D.F.M. and bar,
promoted to be, at 26, the youngest group
captain in the Allied Air Force. Scott
rose from flight-sergeant to his present
post. Firth was formerly lecturer, then
Acting Professor of Anthropology at
Sydney Uni.
K. T. Hardy, successor to D. T. Du
Rieu as president of the ' Viticultural
Council of Australia, is managing direc-
tor of Thomas Hardys, and a grandson
of the founder of the business. K.T.
managed the Sydney branch before join-
ing the S.A. branch five years ago. In
1942 he was elected president of the
Winemakers’ Association of S.A.
Into the silence:
At 88, In Melbourne, Auguste de Bavay, who
60 years ago came from Belgium to Melbourne
as a brewer, and was head bre\ye'r for the Victoria
Brewery and then Foster’s. Then Delprat got
him for 8.H.P., and for many years he fos-
sicked for a method of separating sulphides
from gangue in the useless dumps of the
Broken Hill mines. John Monash described his
discovery of a process for recoving zinc blende
as one of the greatest of the century. Later
De Bavay met Pasteur in Europe and brought
out the first bottle of diphtheria anti-toxin the
famous Frenchman produced. Melbourne Hos-
pital wag the first to use it. In a career of in-
defatigable exploration and invention De
Bavay produced in the last war acetone for the
making of cordite, and he was a pioneer of
paper manufacture in Australia. Melbourne
citizens owe a lot to him for the purity of
their drinking water. He wore orders from
Britain, Belgium and the Pope.
In Melbourne, Miss Margaret Gardiner Cuth-
bertson, a pioneer worker for Victorian women
and the first woman inspector of factories in
Victoria. In 1913 the State Government sent
her to Britain to select industrial migrants.
At 66, Wallace Bruce, a notable figure in
civic and commercial life of S.A. At 22 he
established an insurance-broking firm, later be-
coming director of many commercial concerns,
chairman of the S.A. Harbors Board and a
trustee of the Savings Bank. He chaired the
Commonwealth Peace Conference in 1928-29,
and the Commonwealth Coal Commission a
year later. While Lord Mayor of Adelaide he
entertained the King and Queen when they
visited Australia as Duke and Duchess of
York. He was knighted in 1927.
In Brisbane, at 57, John Andrew Armstrong,
noted livestock authority, sub-manager of
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op. Associa-
tion, president of the Brisbane Fat Stock and
Produce Brokers’ Assoociation and member of
the war-time Hides and Leather Industries
Board.
In Melbourne, William Luke O’Dwyer, in
other days noted in Brisbane journalism. He
was on the “Courier” staff and subsequently
edited the “Catholic Advocate.”
At Somerton (Vic.), at 62, Ernest G. M.
Gibson, agricultural editor of the “Austral-
asian” and “Argus.” An agricultural student
and dux of Dookie Agricultural College, he
became manager of a butter factory, then
science master at his college and later an in-
structor at Longerenong Agricultural College.
Within a day of one another, retired Vic-
torian civil servants George H. Thomas, former
controller of stores in the P.M.G.s Depart-
ment, and Samuel Charles Brittingham, former
Vic. Public Works chief architect. Thomas was
chairman of the Boy Scouts’ Association for
more than 20 years. One of his daughters was
killed in a motor accident while on service in
the Middle East. Brittingham, who was 84,
was for 47 years in the civil service. He was
a leading Methodist.
At Kapunda (S.A.), Dave Shannon, of a
noted pastoral family. A sheep expert, he
bought from David James the station on which
Auraria, Melbourne Cup winner, was bred.
Brothers Abe and Robert survive.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 85, JE. W. Payton,
first director of the Elam School of Art there,
serving it for 35 years. On behalf of the
Mackelvie Trust he went to Europe and bought
134 paintings and 100 prints for the Auckland
Art Gallery.
At Masterton (M.L.), at 69, N. “Joe” Ben-
nington, formerly of the commercial staff of the
defunct “N.Z. Times,” and at the end immersed
in historical research on the beginning and de-
velopment of the Wairarapa. He lost' a son in
the R.N.Z.A.F.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 54, W. Graeme-
Holder, radio play writer, character actor in
radio plays and author of several novels. “The
Time Factor,” winning play in the M.L.
National Broadcasting Service 1937 competition,
was produced by 8.8. C. and the South African
Radio Corporation, the latter rendering it in
English and Afrikaans.
At Lindfield (Sydney), at 55, Test cricketer
C. E. (“Charlie”) Kelleway, after a long illness.
The barracker on the Hill who bawls “You’ll
never get him out!” had a good bit on his side
when Kelleway went in. One of the stoutest
defenders the game has known, he represented
Australia in 26 Tests. In his only Test century,
made in Adelaide, he was at the wicket for
three days. And he was a first-class fast-medium
bowler.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pip” on the vernacular of the
soldiery:
Most popular expression in the Army since
“go through” is the new “a bit uphill.”
It signifies anything difficult. You are a
“bit uphill” trying to get extra local leave.
Wangling a new pair of slacks from the Q.M.
is “an uphill job.” Organisers of the unit de-
bating society are “uphill for starters.” The
library is “uphill for books.” Anybody
trying to work a discharge from the Army is
“completely uphill.” “Swinging his rank” is
another popular newcomer. The strict disci-
plinarian, previously known as a “stand-over
merchant,” is now a “rank-swinger.” So a
sergeant dressing down a private is “swinging
his rank,” and the unfortunate private is being
“swung over.” “Flat to the boards” is de-
rived from the older “flat out,” but is more
picturesque. It implies doing a job as quickly
as possible. The “jazz” means the best way to
get a thing done, and the “drill” means the offi-
cial way. The “drill” for getting boots repaired
is to put them into the Q store, and then wait
your turn for them to be mended. The “jazz”
is to slip the repairer a packet of cigarettes and
get same-day service. These days the n.c.o.
looking for a working party is “definitely up-
hill,” and even by “swinging his rank” he is
“flat to the boards.” Too many soldiers are
“onto the jazz.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Our client from wayback
arrived in Sydney during the city’s second
dust visitation within a month. Our office
overlooks the harbor, and we pointed
the red haze out to him and growled
“Damn’ dust hangs over everything.
Makes the place look dirty. You ought to
see it on a clear day.” The client cast a
gloomy eye out of the window. “Young
man,” he said, “do you realise there’s a
couple of good wheat paddocks floatin’
round out there over your blasted harbor?
Do you realise” here he rubbed a
brown finger on the window-sill and
stabbed it, red with fine dust, under our
nose —“that’s a bit of bread you’ll never
eat? You blokes make me tired. Sooner
I get back to the bush the better; out
there they do know what’s going on.”
Now I’m trying to explain to the boss
why the client left in such a hurry.
* * * *
“Zake”: One of the worst horrors in-
flicted on suffering radio listeners over
the last decade has been the noise made
by swooner-crooner Sinatra. To pile on
the agony for those who were also
picture-goers Frankie was projected into a
couple of films, which were complete
flops, due mainly to Frankie’s possession
of a personality about as vital as a lump
of putty. The cadaverous howler, pet of
the herds of bobby-sox featherbrains,
then petulantly shook the gold-dust of
Hollywood from his feet with the parting
shot that “films stink, anyway.” Certainly
those that Frankie made did, badly. His
break with the screen nabobs occurred
only a few weeks back. Current in Syd-
ney is a film “You Can’t Ration Love,”
which must have been made while the
ether-torturer was still reckoned good
box-office in celluloid circles, and which
is a well-done and rather savage bur-
lesque on the Sinatra habit of crooning
soulful mush to flapperettes. Apparently
the casting difficulty was to get anyone as
abysmally dreadful as Frankie, for they
had to be content with a young fellow of
rather likeable personality with a voice
which makes Sinatra’s sound by compari-
son even worse, if possible, than it really is.
“C. 8.”: Joseph Schepsi, the singing
barber of Prahran, who gave a Melbourne
Town Hall concert for which he charged
the same price as for his hair-dos—four
guineas—has been before the Bankruptcy
Court in Adelaide on the petition of a
creditor who applied for an annulment of
a sequestration order on the ground that
the bankrupt had paid 20s. in the pound.
The annulment was granted. If Schepsi’s
concert was even reasonably free from
deadheads he must have taken £6OOO or
£7OOO, few singers having drawn larger
houses. But mystery shrouds that sub-
ject.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The main auditorium of
Sydney Town Hall remained “The Cen-
tennial Hall” (B. 8/11/ ’44) until confu-
sion amongst concert-goers caused by the
existence of the Centenary Hall in York-
street (a Wesleyan church on Sundays)
led to the title being dropped. The
vigorous Rev. W. J. Taylor used to fill
the York-street hall on Sundays. Being a
more convenient size, and having better
acoustics, it was more popular for con-
certs than the big Town Hall; and until
the Presbyterians provided the Assembly
Hall (on the site of historic Scots Church)
its passing left a big gap. Revivalists
Torrey and Alexander packed ’em in into
the Centenary Hall daily during their
Sydney season. Part of the profits of the
missioners came from the sale of the T.
and A. hymn book, tens of thousands of
which were sold during their visit. What
became of them? I haven’t seen one for
30 years.
“You'll pay for this when I get you on my ship!"
“F.S.”: The show of American war
artists’ work at Melb. National Gallery has
raised considerable controversy. Some
commentators say the artists shouldn’t
have done it —they shouldn’t have de-
scribed their own experience, only the
official view of it. Others approve of
what has been • done, giving inordinate
praise to its artistic value. But if the
subject-matter were abstracted what was
left could have been executed by a hun-
dred other painters. The value of the
pictures resides in their forthrightness.
The work of most official war artists isn’t
artistically any better, but they placate
the official viewpoint, dress Mars up in a
bib and tucker and paint allegedly realis-
tic pictures of shellholes which a photo-
grapher could do just as well as they can.
I am told that the system in the Ameri-
can Army is that war artists are attached
to a general, get the same treatment as
soldiers and land with a brush and paint-
box in one hand and a tommygun in the
other. And that is about the only way
an artist could get the feeling for the
horrifying subject-matter of his pictures.
One of these three painters, according to
my informant, was in the first wave in
six Pacific landings.
* * * *
“D.A.” on a part of the Empire that
has given thousands of millions of
dollars’ worth of “mutual aid” to the
Allied war effort, as well as making its
own effort:
Coincident with an agitation to have “hyphena-
tion” removed from their racial descriptions,
Canadians are feeling that they should have
their own flag and their own national anthem.
At census-taking in the past it has been the
official practice to insist upon original country
of emigration to be given; thus the Dominion’s
population is officially made up of English-
Canadians, French-Canadians, Scottish-Cana-
dians, etc., even though the family of the
person concerned has been Canadian for
generations. A Canadian M.P., pressing for
the “removal of the hyphen,” called attention
to the fact that President' Roosevelt was not
described in the United States as a Dutch-
American, Mayor La Guardia as an ltalian-
American, or General Eisenhower as a German-
American. The usual flag employed officially
by Canada has been the Red Ensign, with the
Union Jack in the first quarter next to the staff,
and the Canadian Coat of Arms in the fly.
But J. L. Ralston, until a week or two ago
Minister for Defence, described the flag flown
by the commander of the senior formations of
the Canadian active service force overseas as
“(a) three maple leaves proper, conjoined on
one stem on a white field, (b) the union, in the
canton next the staff, and (c) three gold
fleurs-de-lis on a blue ground within a circle.”
It is this flag which Prime Minister King (a
‘Scottish-Canadian”) thinks will be most accept-
able to the people. He is for “God Save the
King” as an Empire anthem, with “O Canada”
as the Dominion’s national song. Canada’s
population is something more than half as
much again as Australia’s.
* * * *
“Taniwha”:' Money talks everywhere,
even on the field of battle. A Maori-
land Minister, speaking at a loan rally,
went into the cost of whipping Rommel at
El Alamein. The barrage directed against
Miteiriya Ridge on the night of October
23, 1942, was, in part only, the work of
815 25-pounders. Each of these fired
1000 rounds within 24 hours, and each
shell cost £3 7s. sterling landed at Alex-
andria, so the cost of this part of one
operation was nearly £3,500,000 in M.L.
currency. In addition there were 5.5 in.
and medium guns. All had to be trans-
ported over miles of desert, involving the
use of 50,000 gallons of petrol. But
El Alamein was the turning point of the
war
From John Brennan:
Samurai swords and Japanese peronal flags
apart—they’re not over-common anyway—
there’s nothing the American soldier likes more
as a souvenir than foreign paper currency. He
carries odd pieces pasted together and rolled
into a bundle which he calls a “short snorter,”
and at every conceivable opportunity he collects
on them the signatures of gratified strangers
whom he will have forgotten next day. Some
faddists claim that the signatures should be
illegible. It’s considered quite proper to accost
admirals and generals and ask them to add
their names to a “short snorter.” Very highly
prized for collections is the invasion “money”
which the enemy has issued in all island groups
that have come under his control. The “Aus-
tralian” one-shilling notes found in New Guinea
fetched many real shillings as souvenirs.
Similarly in the Philippines one-peso invasion
notes were selling for a dollar apiece (Ameri-
can).
This started a really serious inflation prob-
lem. It was futile to tell the Filipinos that
Japanese money was of no value when the
soldiers were only too willing to give at least
four times face value. Soon, too, they found
that it could be exchanged for shirts, underwear
and army rations, all of greater present
value t'o the people than any brand of money.
It seemed, too, that the suddenly-discovered
high price for Jap paper would give rise to
difficulties in the recruiting of Filipino labor.
The civil Government newly set up in Tacloban,
capital of Leyte, found a sudden and effective
check to the trading. In the vaults of the
Japanese bank in the city it discovered a million
and a half pesos' in notes of all denominations,
from one centavo to one hundred pesos. It
distributed the whole, issue to hospitals, the
Red Cross and regimental commanders. The
notes were handed out to the troops with
their cigarettes or their evening coffee. They
averaged six inches in length and there were
over 250,000,000,000 of them. There’s a private,
first-class, whose job it will be to estimate the
increase in diameter size of “short snorter”
rolls.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The wisdom of our fathers
wasn’t confined to insisting on a deep
verandah as part of every home (B.
8/11/’44). The high-pitched roof, now
driven completely out of fashion by the
low bungalow roof copied from the
U.S.A., was another evidence of their wis-
dom. The old-time farmer wanted floor
space and wanted it cheap, so, instead
of increasing the height of his walls, he
increased the length of his rafters and
provided himself with space for attics.
High-pitched roofs are admirably suited
to the Australian climate. The attic
makes a good bedroom, as it cools down
quickly at night-time, and the rooms be-
neath are kept cool in the daytime by
the upper storey. Architects say they
were evolved in cold countries so that
snow should roll off. Siberia is cold
enough, but most of the houses I saw
there were low-roofed. The standard
bungalow-roofed Australian house wastes
sufficient space to accommodate all the
people now looking for homes.
jfs :j:
“Sawpit”: “Pitt St.” (B. 8/11/ ’44) has
not been in the n.-e. corner of N. S.
Wales lately or he would have found that
most of the houses that started with
verandahs have, as children and money
have accumulated, gone through the
forms of canvas screens, slatted blinds
and finally complete glassjng-in. The
glassing certainly looks the best, but is
expensive, and never manages to give the
appearance of good designing, and the
resulting interior very rarely is qther than
a botch. Let us have houses designed for
both the climate and the future, houses
which will cut out the need for alterations
other than additions which will form part
of a harmonious whole.
* • . * *
Petrie : Mention of drinking aboard
the Endeavour (B. 15/11/ ’44) recalls that
Cook, on his second voyage of explora-
tion, experimented with dehydrated beer
—“inspissated juice of beer and wort,” as
it was termed by the inventor, a victual-
ling official. Cook shipped 19 half-barrels
with the Admiralty’s blessing and opened
them early in the voyage. It was theo-
retically necessary to add water to the
“juice” and allow the mixture to ferment
for a couple of days, but in practice the
ship’s motion kept the brew in a constant
state of over-fermentation. It was used
at last in the preparation of a home-brew
compounded of spruce-bark and tea-
plant, which seems to have had more suc-
cess than the original. Incidentally, Cook
attributed much of his crew’s freedom
from scurvy to liberal consumption of
beer.
* * * *
“Bo”: Seeing a businessman, a non-
smoker, emerge from the head of a
tobacco-kiosk queue, a friend banteringly
tackled him. “Well, well!” he said, “what
some fellows will do to get smokes for
their wives!” “Wives be damned!” re-
torted the man of commerce. “Ah ha!”
broke in the other. “For that little
secretary of yours then, eh?” “Secretary
be damned, too. It’s this way. I’ve got a
heavy day in front of me, and I want a
bit of quietness around the office. That
blasted office boy of mine gives us un-
tuneful ‘hit’ tunes all day in a piercing
whistle. I’ve seen him sneaking a smoke
now and then, so I’m going to give him
these and tell him he ought to take up
chain smoking. It might stunt his growth,
but that’s better than my being driven
mad, for while he’s got a fag in his mouth
he can’t be whistling. And I’ve wangled
some chewing-gum as well. Between the
two I may be able to get a little peace.”
CARICATURE AND PARODY.
In art to take a fellow-human’s chiv,
And on his figure, too, mayhap to fall,
To satirize them, as it were, and give
A mirthful twist to the original,
To mimic, mock, exaggerate, distort,
Subtly or rudely, whichsoe’er you please,
Good-humoredly or otherwise, in short,
To ridicule peculiarities-
This form of pleasantry is called, I’m sure
You needn’t be reminded, caricature.
In verse you’ll find it’s pretty much the same.
There’s always someone apt, with gentle
guile
Or coarse brutality, burlesques to frame
On some more seasoned operator’s style.
He’ll ape the lines the other fellow wrote,
On mannerisms spitefully he’ll seize,
And generally play the giddy goat
About his subject’s idiosyncrasies.
As in cartoons, a certain impish glee
1 think displays itself in parody.
Two of a kind, in method and in aim,
You’d deem it rational to rank a pair
Of such practitioners, but all the same
One quaint dissimilarity is there.
The comic artist, now we know for sure,
Can carry off a prize for portraiture.,
And have the choice upheld by Law’s
decree.
The parodist, poor soul, has no such lure,
His stuff will never pass for poetry.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
THE BUTTERFLY-HUNTER.
“Social butterflies who spend their time at tea-
parties in public places, and whose published photo-
graphs are provoking to girls doing solid jobs for
the war effort, will be regarded as available for
essential work.”
Man-Power Deputy-Director Bellemore.
Watch out, you girls! Here, like some prowling
spectre
Seen dimly through the dust-encumbered mist,
He comes, the ruthless Deputy-Director,
Fire in his eye and netting in his fist,
Aglow with all the zeal of the collector,
The ardour of the ent'orhologist,
Whose aim is to discover and surprise
And deftly capture social butterflies.
He’s on the job. ’Twill tax you to evade his
Wide-roaming eyes and scrutiny intense,
You pleasure-loving Shirleys, Sues and Sadies
Who flit so frivolously hither and hence,
You bright Red Admirals and Painted Ladies
(I use the term in no invidious sense;
It’s known to anyone who had a craze
For lepidoptera in boyhood’s days).
Be warned, you ornaments of high society
Whose photos mark your newspaper renown,
Your lives will hold a whole lot less variety
If once the hunter marks and pins you down.
Your clobber will reflect the dull sobriety
Seen in the Cabbage White and Meadow
Brown,
Or any other flower-frequenting things
With no pretence to fascinating wings.
■4
You may—he gives you a reminder gentle —
Find occupations that will better suit
The country’s needs in something incidental
To staffing hospitals or canning fruit —
A thesis, I submit, too elemental
For anyone to venture to dispute.
You butterflies, if wise, will heed the threat
Before you’re meshed in Mr. Bellemore’s net.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Strict Veg.”: R. C. Miers, a Melbourne
businessman, will have an interesting
occupation for the next twelve months.
With his wife and family he has moved
into the first completely prefabricated
house to be built in Victoria. It will be
his job to watch the dwelling s reactions
to the climate and note whether it is cool
on hot days and warm on cold days, and
whether the acoustics are satisfactory to
singers in the bathroom. He will also
have to receive a flow of curious
observers—hundreds have inspected the
place already, and post-war reconstruc-
tion experts are particularly interested in
it. The house was run up or planked
down in ten days by four men and an
apprentice, but there is a promise that
this rate will be improved when the thing
goes into mass production. The material
is plywood, but, unlike the old-style ply-
wood, it doesn’t curl or split, and is strong
enough to make Mosquito bombers,
motor torpedo-boats and landing barges.
The cavities are packed with mineral
wool, and there are all mod. cons. The
villa’s color caniie changed in a day with
a paint spray. So little skill is required
in the erection of such buildings that
carpenters may become an extinct species
in the post-war era.
“S.T.S.”: The widespread legend that
Clement Wragge foretold, about 1913, a
drought for this year, as for 1914, has
been exploded on both counts by the
definite statement of meteorologist
Bromley, of Adelaide Observatory.
Wragge, he declares, never looked so far
ahead as 1944 ; indeed, would not go
beyond 1927-30. Furthermore, Clement’s
forecast for the really awful year 1914
was merely “rainfall somewhat under
average, nevertheless, a good season.”
On the other hand, the prophet expected
1923-24 to be one of the worst droughts
in history, a regular gum-tree killer;
whereas it turned out to be, in S.A., any-
how, about the wettest twelve months on
record.
“C.S.”: People of Maoriland’s South
Island, looking at their snow-clad moun-
tains, have been astonished to find them
pink, the result of a sprinkling of red
dust. Whence did that dust come? It was
proved beyond doubt to b« Australian
top-soil, blown 1200 miles across the Tas-
man. How much soil fell into the sea
on the way or how much was blown on
beyond M.L. will never be known. But
it doesn’t need much imagination to
realise that if any of our top-soil reached
a land so distant, an enormous quantity
must have left Australia. The soil is the
basis of all life, therefore Australia’s life
is being steadily blown away by winds.
More of it is being washed away by
water.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A severe earth tremor
shook Melbourne out of its bed
on a recent evening, and the experts
have been busy explaining it ever
"Coupons and all, I don't know what I'd do if my hubby Wasn't on leave!"
since. One theory is that giant land-
slides have occurred, possibly in un-
inhabited country half the . State is
uninhabited such collapse being not
unusual after prolonged drought periods
followed by heavy rain in the hill
country. Even an eighth of an inch of
subsidence, it is argued, may involve mil-
lions of tons of earth and cause an earth-
quake. Nervous people got a further
shock when University scientists en-
deavored to reassure them by announcing
oyer the radio that the tremor was of no
importance —in fact, it was an earth sub-
sidence which had produced Port Phillip.
An old lady promptly rang up the nearest
air-raid warden and asked him if the
A.R.P. had prepared plans for evacuating
the population of her suburb in case it
started to sink under 20 fathoms of water.
“Seven Up”: To the left of the 18th
tee on our golf course is a deep and
slimy lagoon. As we walked to the tee
one of the four remarked triumphantly
“Well, I’ve got round for once without
losing any ball. That’s real achievement,
since a lost ball shortens a man’s golf life
these days.” Then he dropped his bag,
took driver and ball and walked to the
tee. “Better move your bag,” one sug-
gested. “Aw, I won’t hit that!” retorted
the other airily. But the low skimmer
he hit did hit the bag and caromed grace-
fully into the middle of the lagoon. As
it disappeared the torrent of language
from that tee almost stopped the trams
on the road a half-mile away.
“Patrol Leader”: Another unusual ex-
hibit of World War I in the Imperial
War Museum (B. 1/11/ ’44) when I last
visited the place was a framed page from
the Bible connected with one of the most
curious stories of the war. In 1917,
as Allied troops were heading for Jericho,
a section was held up by Turks
strongly posted on a high spur of
rock, with the Allies below. The
chances of dislodging them looked
hopeless, until one night an officer, read-
ing his Bible, came to the first Book of
Samuel, chapter 14, the opening para-
graphs of which describe how Jonathan
and his armor-bearer brought off a sur-
prise attack against their enemies at this
very spot (at Michmash). The officer
showed High Authority the chapter, and
it was decided to follow Jonathan’s tac-
tics. The ruse used 3000 years ago proved
to work equally well in modern times, for
a section of machine-gunners, repeated
Jonathan’s manoeuvre exactly as described
in the Bible, the Turks being rounded up
without a single casualty and the way to
Jericho opened. Alongside the War
Museum exhibit was a large-scale map of
the locality and the official report on the
operation.
* % ❖
“F.S.”: Now the Dobell case is settled
as far as the Law can settle it, I suppose
it is permissible to discuss the question:
When is a portraif not a portrait? My
dictionary defines a portrait as a likeness
of an individual produced by art, as in
oils, water-colors, etc., or by photography
and hence, figuratively, it is a vivid de-
scription of something or someone in
existence. But what is a likeness? We
haye never seen the inner state of a per-
son, any more than we have seen an elec-
tric current. All we have seen are the
outward manifestations, and we only
infer the inner state or the electric cur-
rent. It. is an anthropological pre-
judice that makes us place the seat of the
likeness in the face of a person: the way
he uses his feet might be just as import-
ant. His face might merely be a mask
for his emotions, and his feet be more
expressive. The Rokeby Venus is the
back of a woman, her face being seen m
a mirror, but nobody would say it wasn’t
a better likeness of the model than a dull
portrait in which you can count the hairs
in the head of the sitter. A person with
an incurable complaint and great will-
power might show nothing of himself in
his facial expression, so you would have
to include an X-ray photograph to make
a satisfactory likeness. These are some
pitfalls in the way of defining a portrait,
and it is a wonder intelligent people
bothered to go to law about it. They
have had an expensive lesson.
“Hamer”: I’m coming to believe that
patrons and critics of art are sometimes
influenced by circumstances that have
nothing to do with art. A friend used
to be a constant buyer of the work of that
eminent painter Algernon Easel. On visit-
"Aye, my C.O. ordered me to get to Berlin an pick out nice lodgin's afore
the Yanks arrive."
ing my friend’s home after a long lapse I
noticed that but few of Easel’s works
were on his walls, and those few were
poked into odd corners. “I have lost
my enthusiasm for Easel,” he told
me. “I know he’s a good artist, and his
pictures breathe a delightful freshness,
but” He pondered as though trying
to solve a puzzle; then he laughed.
“Really I can’t say what it is except that
I realised one day that whenever Easel
borrowed money from me he always paid
me back. Somehow, I’ve never been able
to regard him as a real artist since.”
* * * %
“Bus Cad” on Sydney’s first trams and
buses:
Sydney’s street passenger transport had its
beginnings in a horse-drawn tramway which ran
from the railway station at Redfern down Pitt-
street to Sydney Cove. It was opened for
traffic in December, 1861, but' for various
reasons failed to draw sufficient custom,
and the rails were removed in 1866. After
that date the Sydney Tramw'ay and Omnibus
Co. provided a fairly efficient service between
the centre of the city and the eastern and
southern suburbs—the western, of course, being
served by the Parramatta railway line. In
1879 a steam tramway was inaugurated, mainly
for the purpose of carrying passengers between
the railway station and the International Exhi-
bition, which was opened in the upper Botanic
Gardens in September of that year. The trams
were gradually extended to the suburbs, but
the end of the steam service began when electric
cars started to run between the city and Pyr-
mont. A few years ago Sydney and suburbs
had about 175 miles of tramline in use, but this
has been greatly reduced by the motor-buses,
which seem destined to knock out the trams.
**\ * *
“Peter Piper”: The fictioneers hayen’t
got a monopoly of coincidence. After
serving seven years (four in the present
war) a Tommy arrived back in London
for a well-earned spell, but found it hard
to get accommodation. Some friends
gave him the address of a lodging-house.
The door was opened by a former sweet-
heart that he’d lost track of ten years
before. They were married next day.
* * *
“Erb’s Missus” on musical beginnings:
One of the earliest of Brisbane’s musical
societies was the Philharmonic, started in 1862.
A few years later came the Orpheus Glee Society,
and real progress commenced when R. T. Jeff-
ries, a London musician of repute, arrived in
1872 to conduct for the Brisbane Harmonic
Society. His first concert, at which Locke’s music
to “Macbeth” was rendered, was very success-
ful. From the fusion of the Harmonic and
another society sprang the Brisbane Musical
Union, which performed “The Messiah” in 1873.
As time went on “Elijah,” “The Creation,” “St.
Paul” and other oratorios were heard, and
Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass.” Conductors came
and went fairly frequently till June, 1898, when
George Sampson was elected, to serve for many
years. Another organisation that played a
prominent part - in the musical life of the city
was the Liedertafel, in which, in later days,
E. R. B. Jordon was a leading spirit. The
eisteddfod was the most widespread musical
organisation in Queensland started within the
present century.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: A reference to Hopalong
Cassidy (B. 25/10/’44) brought to mind
Cole’s Bohemian Theatre —a tent show
that had its pitch in the Sydney Hay-
market. Every incident in the Bohemians’
plays was designed to flood the stage
with men on horseback, horsemanship
rather than histrionic ability being the
main qualification of the players. The
plays were mainly a sequence of horse-
men dashing off the stage at full tear or
arriving on it at the same speed. The
audience liked them and houses were
always large. Even the heroine usually
(but not always) arrived on a horse. One
night the line had been spoken (to the
accompaniment of galloping hoofs be-
coming louder and louder) “Ah, here
comes our Rose on her grey mustang!”
But the heroine made her entrance with
a sprawl and a roll; her horse had
bucked at the sight of the footlights and
catapulted her on to the stage. “No, off
her grey mustang!” gagged an old mum-
mer. He was sacked for irreverence ten
minutes later, but he took with him the
memory of making the hit of his life ;
he brought down the house.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Bertie, our unit’s champion
cadger, perpetually broke, devoted most
of his thinking to devising “lurks” that
would get him something for nothing. In
Cairo, penniless, his credit with his mates
exhausted, the sight of others quaffing
ale whilst he endured a camel’s thirst set
his agile brain ticking. To some effect,
for one day, wandering into a beerhouse,
we found Bertie leisurely sinking beers
with an air of importance that was
obviously oyerawing the Wog proprietor.
He was wearing an armband bearing the
letters “8.T.” imprinted in white paint,
“What’s 8.T., Bert?” we asked. “Ssh,”
says Bertie, “I’m the official Beer Taster
'round these parts.” He got free beer for
a month before the tavern-keepers woke
up to him.
* * * *
John Brennan, from the Philippines:
It was inevitable that the Filipino guerrilla
bands which harassed the Japanese forces from
the time of their first arrival on the island of Leyte
should include at least one woman. Inevitable,
too, that she should be among the first of the
guerrillas to make contact with the American
forces following their landing, and among the
first to fell their story to the world. The lady
is Miss Nieves Fernandez —“Captain” Fer-
nandez. She’s a 38-year-old ex-schoolteacher,
who later owned and managed a whole-
sale business in the island capital of Tacloban,
a woman of affairs of undoubted organis-
ing ability and obviously one who could com-
mand obedience. Miss Fernandez joined the
guerrillas when the Japs first came. Operating
in the Tanauan district some 20 miles south
of Tacloban, she had command of 110 men,
some of them members of the Filipino Scouts
who had fought on Bataan and later made their
way south to Leyte. The band had three American
rifles; for the rest its members were variously
armed with “Latongs” (described by their com-
mander as home-made rifles constructed out of
iron pipes, the cartridges filled with nails and
pieces of wire) and with captured* Japanese
arms. In Tanauan Miss Fernandez had a liaison
officer with the Japanese detachment, a Doctor
Jose Tan, who had been educated in Tokyo and
who speaks Japanese. Tan treated some of the
enemy and very soon was able to provide in-
formation as to their patrols. “Captain” Fer-
nandez operated chiefly with small ambushes.
She claimed 200 Japanese as killed by her men.
She herself accounted for “very few.” The
Japanese announced a reward of 10,000 pesos
for her capture—“ That,” says Miss Fernandez
rather wistfully, “was when I used to be called
captain”—but she was always able to keep
ahead of them. In one encounter a bullet tore
a flesh wound in her right arm. There were
other minor casualties among her band, but
no one was killed. Three members who were
captured managed to escape and join up again.
They had been kept without food for a week,
and were tortured with a new form of the
water cure —three times a day they were given
a Very hot bath followed by a cold one. “All
they had to drink,” says Miss Fernandez, “was
the soapy bath-water, but they did not give
my hiding-place away.” The full story of the
guerrillas has yet to be told—General Kange-
leon, who had the over-all command on Leyte,
had in all three regiments at his disposal; Miss
Ferdandez was the only woman.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: A long, thin fellow, with face
to match, he started waist high at the
trunk of a big blue-gum and cut a small
scarf, no more than a toe-hold. Then
he moved around the trupk, cutting Simi-
lar notches, each one getting higher as
he went. When he was about ten feet up
with the aid of a crazy sapling ladder I
stepped out of the scrub, eager to satisfy
my curiosity as to the strange doings.
The long bloke looked down with a
lugubrious expression, and, in answer to
my question, spoke in sad, slow tones.
“It’s me mate,” he drawled. “Me an’
him’s on a fencin’ contrack, but he’s gone
to town on a bender. Does it ev’ry
Sat’dey. Week, before last he come back
to camp and thought he was a rabbit. I
had to dig him out of a hole. Last week
he was a ibis, an’ I couldn’t stop him
eatin’ grasshoppers. There’s bin a big
football-guernsey go anna kickin’ round
the camp all this week, an’ I bet me
mate’ll come home today an’ think he’s
a go. He’s sure to want to start spirallin’
up the tree, so I’m just makin’ it a bit
easier for him, see?”
* * * *
“Dahbi”: The bush parson had hiked
it from Canbelego through Nymagee to
Bobadah.* Weary muscles and a hearty
selection tea pointed the way to a good
night’s sleep after evensong in the slab
homestead. “I hope Bella an’ Liz don’t
wake ya cornin’ home early termorrer
mornin’,” was the old man’s goodnight
wish as he handed the hurricane lamp to
the parson. The good man fell asleep
wondering from what possible bonfires
the two gay sparks would be flying, and
if such late hours might not mean singed
wings in the future. He was awakened
at 4 a.m. by loud bellowing, and his
questjons were answered. Bellerin’ Liz
had come home to be milked.
* * * *
“Tartan”: “When we was fencin’
across the Cowabby paddick,” said old
Jim, “we had ter run our line across a
new dam the boss was havin’ sunk be
bullicks. The bullickys had been snatch-
in’ the job, and the last one slung it in
within a day or two of finishin’
the dam, and we had t’ strain
our line and leave her sort 'of
unfinished on both sides. Then the boss
drives up in his buggy and starts growlin’
about the mess he is in, havin’ no
bullicky. While he’s talkin’ a lanky cove
comes along, hops off his horse, sez
‘G’day,’ and, then to the boss, ‘You the
manager?’ ‘Yairs,’ sez the boss. ‘I hear
y’ want a bullick-driver,’ sez the bloke.
The boss says he does, an’ asks him can
he drive bullicks. ‘Yairs,’ sez the bloke,
‘I can drive ’em a bit.’ Then he looks
sort of thoughtful, walks over to where
the last bullicky had slung his gear, picks
up the whip, tests her a bit slow like ; then
he eyes the fence an’ starts movin’ slow
along it. Then he quickens up a bit and
starts to talk real bullick langwidge to
them posts. He brings his whip down
bang alongside of each of them fer a
chain or two ; he races up ter the big
strainer post in the front and brings the
whip down with a crack, an’ he lets
the whip trail and grabs the handle and
gives that big strainer a couple of quick
jabs in the ribs, so to speak, back along
the line, jabbin’ each post with the butt an’
singin’ out ‘Yair, yair, whee-ah!’ Up he
runs again to-wards that big strainer, all
the time jabbin’ as he goes; then all of
a sudden that big strainer starts to lean
over and heave and stretch at his wires
an’ all them other posts start to heave an’
"Go and get a chair for yourself, John."
stretch with him, all goin’ straight ahead.
‘Hold on,’ roars the boss, ‘you’ll do me.
You can start in the mornin’. An’ if you
don’t believe me,” concluded Jim, “go out
t’ the Cowabby dam and you’ll see that
old strainer and all them posts leanin’ up
against their wires, sorta ready to plug
another foot forward, just as that bloke
put ’em over twenty year ago!”
“Mac F.”: Saw an unusual turn of
weight-lifting in the main street of Dalby
(Q.) recently. A chaff bag wrapped around
the body of a pony was the sling; the
weight-lifter, gripping the edges of the
bag with both hands, swung the strug-
gling pony back across his knees and
thighs, assuming a sitting posture
as the four feet were drawn clear
of the ground. Across the weigh-
bridge the pony scaled 141 b. under four
hundredweight, and the juggler was a
wiry lightweight, and the pubs were shut.
* * * *
“Rooster”: For “BA’s” information I
have seen eels “throw a winter party.”
It was in the Lebanon, where the waters
of the Nahr el Kelb' spread out in a series
of broad lakes. The winter (1941) was
the worst recorded for 25 years in the
Middle-East. Yet these lakes were alive
with mature eels. Native fishermen
hauled them out with primitive reed
baskets, their average length being no
more than 3ft. Continental naturalists
have discovered that certain species of
congers cross with the “silvers” on occa-
sion. Since congers do not migrate, the
wanderlust urge in the crossbreds would
doubtless be diminished. As for rate of
travelling, it should be remembered that
most of the ocean currents travel at con-
siderably greater speeds than five miles
per day.
* * * *
“E.8.C.”: The camofieur attached to
an R.A.A.F. station filled in some of his
spare time by making improvements
around the camps. One of his best
efforts was a mural in the officers’ mess,
which was a scene depicting the return
of a party of aborigines to their camp
after a hunting expedition. The party
consisted of five men, a woman and a
boy. The first two men were staggering
along under the weight of an enormous
turtle; the second pair had an oversize
kangaroo strung on a pole carried across
their shoulders; the fifth had a load of
fish and scrub turkeys. Trailing along
behind came the lubra, leading the child
with one hand and carrying a small
bundle in the other. It took the eye of
a missionary who dropped in for lunch
one day, and we asked what he thought
of it. He replied that it was well done,
but added, in most unclerical language,
that if it were true to life “the unfortu-
nate lubra would be carrying the whole
blanky lot!”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I was having some
corned mutton and damper at an old
gully-raker’s camp when my host, hap-
pening to glance out the door of his
shack, saw a red-bellied black glide past.
The old battler dropped his knife and his
eye roved as he searched for a weapon.
The only thing available was a fair-sized
kangaroo tail that was waiting to be con-
verted into soup. One whistling whish
across the intruder’s back about a foot
from its head, then the old grey cat that
was parked on the old-timer’s bunk
hopped in and finished the job.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Fred West was a 35-year-
old woman-shy bachelor with a large
holding at Gongalong, and the district’s
crop of marriageable females had long
since given him up as hopeless. So it was
a shock to all when Fred started to fre-
quent the McGurk homestead almost
daily, and thus began a jealous battle
between the young-looking widow
McGurk and her daughter Eileen for his
favor. For a couple of months Fred fid-
getted uneasily in the presence of both
women on his visits and made vague
remarks about the weather. The issue
appeared to hang in the balance. Then
one day he found the widow alone and
took the plunge. “Mrs. McGurk,” he
said, focusing his gaze on the horizon,
“we’ve bin neighbors a fair while now.
Yairs, good neighbors, I reckon. I was
thinkin’ now I’ve got a young dairy herd
cornin’ on it’s time a man went in f’r a
few changes. I’ve bin wantin’ t’ arsk y’
this f’r a long time” —his voice dropping
to a whisper—“but I didn’t like t’ say s
anythin’ in front of young Heileen —y’
wouldn’t loan me the Jersey bull f’r a
coupla weeks, would y’?”
* 1: /: *
“Traymon”: Old Ben took it on the
chin when he learnt his heart wasn’t too
good, but it was a different matter when
he was ordered to cut down his smokes.
After a month or so he confided in me.
“It’s pretty rough on a chap what’s been
smokin’ all his life,” he grumbled. “The
quack told me it’d be easy if I just
stopped to think every time I wanted to
light me pipe. Now, whenever I go to
light up I stop to remember why I
shouldn’t, and that reminds me I’ve got a
crook ticker, and the thought of it gives
me such a shock I’ve gotter have a smoke
to settle me nerves! ”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Perhaps I would wrong
“Gumsucker” by suggesting that he was
pulling our legs with his Blind Man of
Ballarat (B. 1/11/ ’44); but the gist of his
par. was strikingly similar to that of a
rather atrocious ballad that my mother
used to chant —she having learnt it from
her mother, who in turn, etc. The ditty
concerned one John Sands, who was a bit
unlucky in his matrimonial choice, for
“Alas! she was a scolding wife.” When
things reached that stage when the
modern husband stamps out looking for a
pub with the beer “on,” John bitterly
declared 111 drown myself, the river
runs below!” • To which his soul-mate
unfeelingly responded “I wish you would ;
I wished it long ago,” repeating the last
line with unnecessary emphasis. On the
river bank Johnnie made a, last request:
“ ‘For fear that I should courage lack and
try to save my life, please tie my hands
behind my back.’ ‘I will,’ replied the
wife.” Like “Gumsucker’s” blind man,
the intending suicide requested his wife
to push him into the river and Eternal
Peace, but at the critical moment side-
stepped. The epic finished with Mrs.
Sands in a bit of bother, “Splashing,
dashing like a little fish; ‘Oh, save me,
Johnnie Sands!’ ‘I can’t, my dear, how
much I wish, for you have tied my
hands.’ ” If, like the Blind Man of Bal-
larat, Johnnie confessed on his death-bed
history hasn’t recorded ; but if the ballad-
writer wasn’t haunted on his— well, he
ought to have been.
* * * *
“Cypress”: Sixty-five years of fruit-
bearing may be a record for an apricot-
tree (B. 8/11/ ’44), but in the Valencia-
orange class I nominate a 75-year-old
tree on Scott’s farm at Camp Mountain
(Q.). When I last visited the place 20-
odd cases of choice fruit had just been
taken from the 35ft. tree.
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: Landing on lonely, unin-
habited Waier Island, a few miles south-
west of the northernmost reefs of the
Great Barrier, we found it a hollow shell.
Actually, Waier is the partly-
submerged cone of an extinct
volcano, its crumbling lava
walls enclosing a crater
flooded with sea-water of un-
known depth. The sea enters
through a gap in the south-
eastern wall of the 'island, the
crater being a haunt of crabs
of all shapes, sizes and colors.
The largest we saw was a
giant spider-crab fully 2ft.
across. Very few fish were
seen in the crater, and the
island was entirely devoid of
bird life, while the vegetation
consisted of a few stunted
shrubs growing on narrow
ledges on the lava walls.
Waier is surrounded by deep
water, except where a reef, in-
dicated by a broad band of
white, runs across to the
neighboring island of Dauar.
It was on this reef that we
made our first acquaintance
with the “cotton-fish” —the
large, purplish black beche-
de-mer, which, when dis-
turbed, ejects from its mouth
a mass of whitish material,
like tangled threads of cotton.
The mass is really an assem-
blage of thin tubes from the
slug’s internal organs; the sticky tubes
swell out into a tangled, floating skein
upon contact with the water, and any
fish, crab or lobster attacking the “cotton-
fish” invariably becomes enmeshed within
the threads, allowing the beche-de-mer to
escape. Some of the slugs we saw
measured up to 4ft. in length.
* * * *
“Pookie”: A telegram arrived the first
day stating that one of the shearers had
broken his leg, so Paddy went into town
after the last run to get a substitute.
While he was at the pub a lean, dusty
fellow came in and ordered two mugs.
Paddy glanced towards the door to see
who the second man was, and when he
looked back both beers had disappeared.
Respectfully he invited the stranger to
have a drink, and the latter admitted
that he was a shearer. “Come far?”
“West,” the stranger replied laconically.
“Dry out there?” “Dry!” He looked at
Paddy with withering contempt. “At the
last place I was or? they had a pet bull-
frog five years old. We got fond of it.
Took it into town when we cut out and
put it in the pub well.” He gazed pen-
sively at the cash register. “Yes?” Paddy
prompted. “It drowned. Couldn’t swim.”
* * * *
“Robert Hansard”: The drover had
been called to give evidence in a case in
which a stock owner had 1 n
against the shire council fc ■ le
on a stock route conti us
weeds. The city barrister ,ce
started pin-pricking the w ’ the
technicalities of “driving’ ■ ess
insisting that you didn’t d . you
“kidded” them along. Af ted
exchanges about getting t ? er a
“pinch” witness was allc the
Court exactly, how a rise * ted.
He explained how the e tout
any conscious effort, al ; at
the top of the rise ahe rob.
Gent. One thereupon b But
why is it the drover seemii ow-
ingly, makes it his businr the
rise ahead of his cattle? >aid
the witness, ‘‘don’t you s ■ ght
be a circus on the othe wen
maybe a barrister wearing
THE STOLEN MOUNTAIN.
Somebody stole our mountain,
The valley people cried;
Widgetty Creek has vanished,
Bindo Creek has dried.
The sparrowhawk searching the heavens
For its nest in the ironbark
Screams in a burning nowhere
From empty dawn to dark.
Up on those grey-green ridges,
Homed and leggy like goats,
Our wild merinos foraged,
Wallabies scratched their coat's:
But somebody stole the mountain,
The gums and the shale are gone,
And gone is the stony shoulder
The white clouds rested- on.
Where shall we turn our cat'tle,
Now in the winter dearth,
When storm spreads over the heavens
And snow lies over the earth?
They’d find some quiet gully
Where bravely grew the grass—
But somebody stole our mountain,
And we know who it was.
We used to see him dodging
Down in the scrub by the creek,
And the frogs fell suddenly silent
And the water-hens would shriek.
The rod, the net and the flies —
Oh, we knew all his tricks:
What would he do there fishing
And the river black as the Styx?
No rise tonight he’d tell us,
Never a trout he landed:
We knew what flapped in his creel
When he came home empty-handed.
That man who hooked a mountain
And the bend of the creek as well
And the bullfrogs groaning like trombones
And the frogs that shrilled like a bell —
We’ve had reports on him
From the great thieving t'own;
When he went back with his loot
We sent our watchers down.
He had some fancy notion
The mind of man was so wide
There was nothing in earth or heaven
He could not steal and hide.
Acres of rearing stone
In the sky of his mind would push;
He would lie back in the nights
In the deep hush of the bush
And watch for his own delight
The flying squirrels glide
Silver from tree to tree
Down the dark mountainside.
A terrible thing to do.
The valley people said,
To steal away with our mountain
And stow it inside his head,
Leaving us only its ghost
Like a cloud’s shadow on a plain:
He had better not be seen
Around these parts again.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


“Blime”: Andy was propped against
the corner post mournfully surveying his
paddocks when Sanctimonious Sam rode
up and asked for a job. “What, with a
drought like this?” exclaimed Andy.
“Look at me paddicks, will y’?” he went
on. “Look at me dyin’ stock. Now, what
c’n a man do with weather like this?”
“Have you tried praying for rain, Mr.
Smithers?” asked Sam earnestly. “No?
Then why blame the weather?” Andy
spluttered helplessly for a second ; then
“Do y’ think that’d do any good?”
he asked in a choked voice. “I’m certain
it would.” “Right.” Andy grabbed Sam
by the arm. “Y’re hired f’r the job,” he
announced. “An’ what’s more, y’ c’n git
out there ’n’ start right away.” Sam
looked over the scorching paddocks and
thought he could get the same result
up in the house. “No, y’ don’t,” bellowed
Andy. “It’s in them paddicks I want the
rain. Get inter the middle o’ that big one
there, ’n’ talk out loud so I’ll know y’re
workin’.” It was about a week later that
I saw Andy again, and immediately I
asked about his new hand. “Aw, we
couldn’t come t’ terms after all,” he
explained sorrowfully. “Y’ see, the coot
reckoned he wouldn’t work f’r nuthin’
but day wages, ’n’ I wanted that there
job done contract.”
# * $ *
“Pat Ater”: Along the N.S.W. coastal
slopes this spring a blue-flowered mint-
bush (Prostanthera saxicola ) has endowed
its foliage with a dense downy covering.
The object is obviously to lessen
transpiration over a dry period. Another
long-range barometer is the blackboy
(. Xanthorrea ), which came out early with
such an opulence of long white gem-
studded rods that early butterflies in
swarms were drawn from distances to
battle with hungry bees for the nectar
feast. Such a prolific blooming ensures
perpetuation and often occurs when a
severe summer following a poor winter
spells death from fire. Many eucalypts
of early blossoming, which shriyel and
fail in the heat and dfyness, are withhold-
ing their bounty. Ti-tree capsules are
swelling inordinately. Fire or dry-heat
releases their seeds. Other bush tenants
have reduced the leaf used to contend with
dryness and evaporation. By these and
other floral signs in the bush we’re in
for a long, hot, dry summer.
“Fancar”: “Pat Ater” (B. 1/11/ ’44)
barks up the wrong vegetable. Gorse,
often called whin or furze, belongs to the
genus ulex, while the broom of my par.
is a Cytisus, first cousin to the laburnum.
Genista, the Spanish or Plantagenet’s
broom, is a good bee shrub, and possibly
gorse, being scented as well as brightly-
colored, may encourage bees also. Cole-
ridge writes of “The fruit-like perfume
of the golden furze.” But “P.A.’s” argu-
ment that leguminosaa do not court
hybrids is sheer bunkum, as a glance at
the numerous varieties of peas, French
beans and sweet-peas listed in a nursery-
man’s catalogue will show. Besides, it
was the pea’s readiness to effect hybridisa-
tion that first led Mendel to study the
principles of heredity. “P.A.” is also
mistaken when he describes a papiliona-
ceous flower as forming a closed floral
envelope ; the keel of the butterfly-like
flower is merely pseudo-closed for the
purpose of protecting the pollen from
wind, dew and rain.
* * gt
“Long ’Un”: My dog Rusty doesn’t
agree with “The 0.D.” (B. 1 /4/ ’44) that
canine eyesight is a poor thing. If “The
0.D.,” next time he sights a squatting
bunny, gets his eyes down to the level of
his dog’s eyes, instead of standing up, he
might understand why the dog does not
see the rabbit.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Night on the Murray.
Down to the Victorian side of Tapalin
rode young Thomas. On the far side, in
the black shadow of the gums, old Bill
Gleeson was sitting in his boat, dozing
over a cod-line attached to his leg. Young
Thomas stripped, tied his clothes in a
waterproof to the saddle, then urged his
horse into the stream. As the neddy
struck out for N.S.W. the lad slid back,
got a grip on its tail and was towed. The
horse, passing from the bright moonlight,
didn’t see old Bill’s boat until there was
almost a collision. Then it let out an
astonished snort and there was a violent
swirl as it swung sideways. Old Bill came
awake with a startled cry. Young Thomas
tried to yell, but the wave caused by the
"Just a few souvenirs I picked up, mate!"
swirl choked the yell into a gurgling
shriek. Bill shot from the boat to the
water, swam madly ashore, bolted up to
the homestead and slammed the door.
“A bunyip,” he gasped. “Never believed
in ’em, but it’s dinkum. Come right up
to the boat an’ barked at me. It was
about twenty feet long and had a white
tail.” Amid jeers and laughter he per-
sisted with his story. Then Thomas,
dressed, appeared. “When did y’ cross?”
demanded Bill. “Just now,” said Thomas
with obvious excitement. “Nearly
bumped into a” “There y’ are,”
yelled Bill. “What’d I tell y’! He seen
it, too!” It took them ten minutes to
get the thing straight. Which is why
young Thomas became known as “White
Tail.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: I admit some rifles take a
bit of getting used to, but the day I
grabbed Jim’s old repeater for a quick
shot I scarcely frightened the quarry.
“Does this thing carry true?” I inquired
sheepishly, bending to examine it more
thoroughly. “Yair,” I was proudly in-
formed ; “she’s a beaut. Got a few fads,
that’s all. That sight there’s a bit high
for one thing, an’ the other’s bent. An’
don’t take no notice of where she’s filed ;
I rubbed her down a bit too much. Aim
about six inches below y’r target, an’ a
bit to the right, an’ y’ won’t have no
trouble. There y’ are,” he pointed, as
a couple of cockatoos landed up the gully.
“Spare a copper ?”
“Try one o’ them; an’ don’t forget to
allow f’r the wind.” I looked at the
cockatoos. One was on an open limb
not far off, the other showed dimly
through the trees some distance back.
Trying vaguely to remember the instruc-
tions, I sighted carefully, hoped for a
miracle and squeezed the trigger. There
was a flurry of white as the bird dropped.
“I told y’,” crowed Jim. “Ain’t she a
beaut? Cripes, a good shot, too, that
far bird,” he added admiringly. “Y
know, I thought at first y’ was after the
easy mark in the first tree.” I was.
He * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were out beyond
Dandaloo, heading for the Marthaguy
country, and camped with a couple of
blokes on a tank on Cup Day. We talked
about the Cups we’d seen, the winners
we’d backed and the chances we’d missed.
Mat fell silent, with a pleasant air of
reminiscence about him. “What y’ think-
in’ about?” I asked. “Well,” he said
dreamily, “I was rememberin’ King
Ingoda’s year. I should ha’ made a
packet. I’m sittin’ in the stand at Flem-
ington ; they’re doin’ their preliminaries,
an’ it suddenly dawns on me that I’d seen
King Ingoda win his first race at a place
called Gawler, in the Croweater country.
So I thinks t’ meself, ‘l’m a Croweater,
too,’ an’ drags out a fiver an’ heads down
the stairs' for the books. Halfway down
I miss me step, came a thud an’ break me
wrist. They get me t’ the ambulance
an’ I miss the race. He was eight t’ one.”
“Huh,” I said; “an’ y’ thinkin’ of the
money y’ lost.” “No,” says Mat, “I’m
thinkin’ of the time I’d have had on that
forty quid.” A little silence fell, then
one of the others quotes something he
read once: “Regret is a waste of time.
About all it’s good for is wallowin’ in.”
Mat looks at him. “Boy,” he says, “if
you knew the kind of time I’d have had
on that forty nicker you’d wallow in it
for the rest o’ your days.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: Big trees aren’t so prominent
in this country as they should be, and I
sometimes wonder what the venue of my
Douglas apprenticeship looks like now.
Outside Colligo, in the Queensland sugar
country, a mate and I, sleeper-cutting,
struck a tree so thick we couldn’t get a
cross-cut long enough to saw through it.
We had to leave three sleeper lengths in
one piece and saw it off where it was a
bit thinner. Then we cut a deep scarf
along the top with a squaring axe and
split the log apart with gelignite; we
turned it over, scarfed the bottom and
again used gelignite. Only then could
we saw the quarters into lengths. I still
dream of the number of sleepers that
came from that stick.
“Gip”: When the floodwaters came
rolling down between the channels of the
Diamantina (W.Q.), Bill Murray, the
mailman, was caught. His horses had
cleared out to higher ground during the
night. Bill had plenty of tobacco and
matches, but only two days’ food supply.
He sheltered in a hut with walls of
stretched bullock hide. After eating all
the tucker and going hungry for two days
he started on the hut. Every day he cut
out a piece of dried bullock hide, boiled
it until soft, then added pigweed. For
six weeks the hardy mailman subsisted
on this, and when he eventually strolled
up to Devonport Downs homestead he
had been given up for dead. He had
eaten one wall of the hut.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: It was a hot, dry spell, and
stock were dying when Alf came to work
for Mullins, and the first instructions
he got were to bury a dead cow in a far
paddock. Alf tramped across the pad-
docks until he came on a defunct bovine,
which had obviously been that way for
several days ; then he began to dig. The
ground was baked and hard, and Alt
toiled and sweated for hours before he
had the hole deep enough. He was figur-
ing out the best way to tip the carcass in
when Skinner, whose farm adjoins Mul-
lins’s, came along. “Y’re on my prop-
erty,” he said. “I ain’t payin’ labor t’
bury me dead cattle.” Alf stared at him ;
then acted swiftly. Skinner, taken in
a flurry of punches, soon measured his
length on the ground beside the dead cow.
“You overshot your mark,” said Mullins,
who came on the scene then. “My dead
cow’s at the other end of that paddock
there. Anyway, what’d you domino him
for?” “Aw, I dunno ezackly,” said Alf
rubbing his thatch. “But it gave me a
helluva lot o’ satisfaction!”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Joe was back from the town-
ship where he had been for supplies. “The
bloke in the store said there was a cove
askin’ about us an’ how far out we lived,”
he said, “but he didn’t say who it was.”
“Cripes,” said Dad, taking the long view.
“It might’ve been the vermin inspector.
You an’ Harry’d better hop inter the
burrows an’ blackberries right away. An’
don’t take the dawgs, either; tie ’em up
over at the crick, in case it’s the dawg
bloke. Mum, you an’ the girls get a start
cleanin’ up the dairy; it might be the
inspector. I’ll stick around an’ meet who-
ever it is at the gate.” The place was a
hive of industry when the “inspector”
called. He said he was a piano-tuner.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: It was once thought that
the bronze cuckoo scoffed the egg of the
host-bird removed to make room for her
own. Recent researches, however, have
shown that after she has accumulated nine
or ten eggs the cuckoo hatches them her-
self and feeds the young like any normal
bird-mother. It isn’t clear just why she
prefers to incubate other birds’ eggs
rather than her own, but it may be that
she can comfortably cover 10 eggs such as
those of the white-cheeked honey-eater, a
favorite host-bird, whereas she would be
hard put to it to cover more than three
of her own, gaining in the process two
more clutches in the same period.
Ornithologists generally are of opinion
that the cuckoo, in hatching out host-
birds’ eggs, is merely completing a cycle
without which both parasite and host-
birds would perish. Others are convinced
that the phenomenon is an example of
avian' good nature.
* * * *
“B. 4”: I wonder whether “P.” (B.
4/10/ ’44) noticed the numerous tortoise of
the Nogoa? Years ago I made a fish-trap
from sulky wheels and wire netting, and,
baiting it with a wallaby, tumbled the
outfit in. Had to hook a moke on to
haul out the catch: 70 shellbacks. Be-
heading the mob, I tried again and lifted
another 40 out.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: George, who does a bit of
fossicking around Alluvial Creek, was in
Ten-mile on the spree, and he hailed me
with delight. Of course, I had to go and
have a drink with him. “Won a prize in
the lot’ry,” George confided. “I’m goin’
to drink the lot of it. Never saw any
good come of money handed down in a
fam’ly in me life.” “But you’re a bache-
lor, George,” I said. “Got many rela-
tions?” “Aw, well,” he considered,
“there were a coupla cousins—but I ain’t
seen or heard of ’em f’r twenty years.
Still, it’d be a waste of good money, me-
not havin’ much time f’r ’em. Tell y’
what, Esk, if there’s any left when I
shuffle out I’ll leave it t’ you. It’s not
likely t’ do you any harm.” And by the
way George is spreading himself on that
fiver I’m inclined to agree.
FULL MOON.
Under the summer moon, on dew-cool hillsides
Where rich trees break H
pale grasses with their deep, bush-scente
shadows,
Birds are awake.
In small, cold waterfalls their drowsy voices
Melt far and near, f
As though they did not know their time ot
silence,
The night, is here.
And the heart, too, that fell asleep from griev-
ing,
Half-wakes and sings,
Feeling again the lost flood-tides of beauty,
The- lifting wings
That float beyond the moon in shining spaces
By far winds fanned — *
As though it did not know its love lies mur-
dered
In a strange land.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.


<oss T? '// * ’ v ..
/*/pf/,-
>m
mm
/fkxlemP .# /#
C/anitaumi
IN THE “OU T B A C K "
It’s a good life outback. Happy, clean and free. BUT—
there’s one great drawback . . . lack of modern sanitation.
Overcome this by installing a HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
This completely self-contained sanitary system requires NO WATER
SUPPLY. It runs continuously. Emptying and other embarrassing tasks
are eliminated. Sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile
solution that drains away into the soil . . . dangerous germs . . . unpleas-
ant odors .. . flies ... all are banished completely. Gives the country one
of the main conveniences of city life. Thousands in use in homes, offices,
military hospitals, etc., throughout Australia. Any handyman can instal.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVEN ATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COOTON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR.
Name
Address
8TN.4.44.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. ,
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum o
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
'
A ll particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 088 Pertb.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY IM SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Fat-lamb Breeding.
“Bugaldie”: Salient points for cross-
breeds are quick-maturing lambs and the
number of twins they produce—not that
the latter is always advantageous. The
wool return from the merino, both in
price and weight, offsets a lot of the bene-
fits if the crossbred and their teeth are
supposed to last longer. Choice of the
rams depends on the breeder, but the
ever-popular Border-Leicester merino
ewe cross takes a lot of beating on
natural feeding country, without much
pastures improvement, and where the
seasons are not “cut and dried.”
August is the safest month to lamb.
There is usually a green pick then, essen-
tial to ewes and lambs alike. Another
reason is that in the warmer districts it
is very difficult to get the rams to work
or the ewes in season before February,
and if the items are held off for about
three weeks with the idea of shearing in
July, and lambing off-shears, it will be
found an ideal combination.
Before the seed has ripened sell any
lambs that are in marketable condition
and when the seed is falling shear the
remainder. This will keep the condition
on them for a further three or four
weeks—meanwhile it may rain. Don’t
let them “dry off” before they are shorn,
it may be hard to put condition back
on them; run off the dry ewes at the
earliest opportunity; don’t have unneces-
sary sheep in the mob ; don’t overstock
fattening paddocks; no sheep will fatten
on “grubby” or “soiled 7 ’ pastures; a “bit
of skin” makes a fat lamb look the part.
“Graz”: “Sheepo’s” advice on how to
breed a dual-purpose flock (B. 8/11/ ’44)
is tantamount to saying a fixed type can
be established in two or four matings,
which is absurd. Anyhow, why go to
such bother? When a grower wishes to
produce fine merino he uses fine-woolled
breeders ; if he wants fine crossbred then
the logical course is to use fine-woolled
Corriedale or Polwarth breeders. Both
are good dual-purpose sheep.
Mating Lincoln rams with merino ewes
usually results at lambing time in heavy
losses of ewes and lambs. The 1400 types
in the appraisement list indicate that if
we are to maintain our reputation among
millmen we should concentrate on im-
proving the breeds already established.
Novice breeders trying to produce new
dual-purpose flocks will greatly increase
the number of wool types. Australian
millmen are already complaining about
too numerous types in comeback fleeces.
The Potato Moth.
“H.C.”: In the Tweed-Richmond-
Clarence River (N.S.W.) areas, it’s at its
worst from October to December. Eggs
are generally laid under the leaf; and
when stem tunnelling begins numbers of
plants go west. Dusting with insecticides
every 10 days reduces the life rate. Mix
one part derris root with four parts
kaolin, or three parts lead arsenate
powder with one part kaolin. For a spray,
dissolve 31b. derris root in 100 gallons
water.
Once the tops are gone the grubs
burrow down earth cracks to the tubers.
Have the soil in good condition to pre-
vent cracking. Cultivate heavy soils to
keep weeds under and preserve a good
tilth several inches down ; this also re-
duces water losses when surfaces are
broken.
One good method of control is deep
planting. In plots planted Biin. deep,
larvae attack was reduced from 66.4 per
cent, to 36.7 per cent. At this depth,
swelling of the tubers is less likely to
crack the soil’s surface and they’re out
of reach of larvae and moths. In coastal
areas only well sprouted seeds should be
used for deep planting ; if this method
delays maturity a few weeks, it adds a
slight increase to the yield.
When you can’t consider deep planting,
try hilling, unless conditions are very dry.
Base hilling on the formation of the
laterals bearing the tubers when the
latter are about half an inch in diameter.
If soil is thrown round the base of the
plants at this time, cracks are less likely
to form or, having formed, are filled in.
Space the rows 2ft. 9in. to 3ft. apart-
-22 to 24 rows to the chain —instead of
2ft. 4in. ■ A greater amount of soil is
then available to form large mounds
around the plants and a late hilling can
be given without damage. Yield is rarely
affected.
To throw a wide mound of soil against
the plants, use a hiller consisting of two
long plates attached to a horseshoe frame.
Give the plates a slight twist so that the
soil is thrown over as with a mould-
board. When the area’s small, finish off
by drawing the soil round the base of the
plants with a strong curved rake.
Once tubers are dug, bag them quickly.
Larvae can infect them within a few
minutes. When the plague’s bad and tem-
peratures are high, don’t leave open bags
in the field overnight—sew them up or
cover with clean ones. If bins and tanks
are not available for storing, place the
tubers in a mothproof room. Those that
become infected during storage should
be dusted with one part derris powder
and four parts kaolin. Fill a tub with the
dust and dip the spuds in it.
Use an airtight container when fumi-
gating tubers with carbon bisulphide.
Allow 21b. —24 fluid ounces—of the com-
pound to every 1000 ft. of air space in
the container and fumigate 48 hours. Ten
or fourteen days later give a second
fumigation to kill the larvae and moths
that have emerged from the eggs. Keep
all lights, pipes, cigarettes and fires clear
of sheds or buildings during the pro-
cess. Electric wires should also be dis-
connected.
Save Our Soil.
“Pat Ater”: How to restore fertility
of the soil is the problem before graziers
and dairymen. Enthusiasts along the
southern N.S.W. tablelands have shown
that it can be done with well-sown mix-
tures of subterranean clover and Wim-
mera or Italian ryes, Phalaris tuberosa,
Perennial rye, red clover and cocksfoot.
These remain as “dry feed” to hold the
rushing waters of summer thunderstorms,
because they are not overstocked and
never eaten bare.
Tom Dowling, of Bevendale, maintains
that no sheepman is justified in stocking
beyond two-thirds capacity to allow a
drought margin. At the end of a hot
dry summer there was still dry grass on
his paddocks that held the drought-break-
ing autumn deluge, while near by shifting
surfaces of overstocked properties were
moving en masse to the Lachlan.
There is need, not only for tree belts,
but better stocking methods on western
N.S.W. lands. Closer settlement of those
areas will carry a duty to the nation to
preserve its soil. The solution lies partly
in rotational grazing—not more than 25
p.c. at a time, to allow the soil to re-
habilitate itself in the only useful way it
can, with natural pastures.
Stubble should be ploughed in, not
burnt, and any other method of adding
humus to soil used. The time must come
soon when making of compost on the
grand scale should be practised as widely
as haymaking in the past. As mechanisa-
tion increases, taking all and returning
nothing in the way of humus from crops,
animal manures and vegetable composts
will be needed more and more. They are
the basis of all fertility. Without them
top-soil eventually becomes fine dust,
blown away by high winds and washed
away by water.
Restored fertility is a first step towards
saving the soil.
Lucerne Management.
“Myrrhee”: Allow lucerne to make as
much top growth as it will during its first
summer. Autumn sowings are best mown
or grazed off rapidly in the spring and
then given a good spell to allow the
lucerne fully to utilise late spring and
early summer moisture. Spring-sown
lucerne is better left ungrazed during the
first summer and until it ceases its first
growth.
Give the stand ample spells, never
grazing it more than half the days of
the year, or, better still, one-third. A sub-
division of the stand into three paddocks
will simplify grazing management. Cul-
tivate in autumn and drill in a cereal to
increase winter feed and improve the
growth of the lucerne. Heavy soils need
cultivation more than light soils. Use 2in.
points and stir the soil 3in. to 4in. deep.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Chief value of greenstuff
for pigs is its rich vitamins, mineral and
protein content. An inadequate supply
will limit fertility, milk production and
growth and will reduce resistance to
disease. In the absence of succulent green
food -lucerne or meadow-hay or chaff
may be used, but at best these are sub-
stitutes. A small, irrigated plot of green-
stuff near the piggery is a useful insur-
ance against a shortage.
“Bugaldie”: Always keep a tinful of
shellgrit in the fowlyard. Common
theories are.; (1) Through lack of cal-
cium the eggs have thin shells and are
easily broken, making the “chooks”
champion egg-eaters; (2) they eat the
eggs to get the calcium out of the shells.
Take your pick, but you will be amazed
at the step-up in egg-production if the
tin of shellgrit is used. In tick-infested
areas, thoroughly spray all wood in the
yard with sump oil, at least once a year,
preferably at the beginning of summer.
Where possible, have all iron shelters; an
old 1000-gallon tank, laid on its side with
a section cut out for a doorway, and inch
galvanised pipes for roosts, makes an
excellent one.
“Hux”: Mashes give best results when
ingredients are weighed. When scales
are not available, use a kerosene-tin and
quart measure. Well filled but not pressed
down, one kerosene-tin equals 121 b. bran,
181 b. pollard, 121 b. lucerne meals, 281 b.
whole maize, 251 b. cracked maize and
301 b. wheat or sorghum. One quart
measure equals Boz. bran, lib. pollard
or linseed meal, lib. Boz. barley meal,
maize meal, wheat meal or meat meal,
lib. 12oz. bone meal, whole maize or
wheat or 21b. fine salt.
“Myir”: To stop cabbage moth dust
cabbage, cauliflower, turnip, radish, kale,
broccoli with 50 p.c. lead arsenate powdei
or, if unobtainable, derris. Apply from
a muslin bag, hand bellows or shaker in
early morning or late evening when air
is still and plants damp. A puff of dust
through a hole in a kerosene-tin or box
inverted over the plant will give effective
coverage. The cover should be left in
position for about five minutes. This
method is effective for aphis control with
nicotine dust. If spraying use 4oz. lead
arsenate paste or 2oz. powder mixed into
4gal. of water. Keep the liquid stirred
while spraying.
“Bennie”: To tell when sweet potato
tubers are ready to lift, cut out a small
portion from one of them. If it remains
white, then it is safe to lift the clumps,
but if it turns green or black the tubers
must be left until more fully matured.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Flying-Bomb Casualties.
(Witnessed by N.Y. “Herald Tribune” London
correspondent Richard L. Tobin.)
Sometimes the flying-bombs would
come over in batches or salvos and we
would sit in the office or at the Ministry
of Information pressroom and count them.
One lit in Tottenham Court Road, at
Maple’s Corner, a square and a half from
the Ministry, and killed 20 persons. Most
of us ran out to .the explosion area
at once, in spite of the fact that the in-
ternal warning was still on, I soon wished
I had not gone. 1 had never seen as much
blood and agony as I now saw lying in
the street.
At Westerham, Kent, 22 children and
eight adults were killed in an evacuation
hostel. At the Peabody Buildings in
Westminster 60 were injured by a single
bomb. A surface shelter at St. Pancras
was hit directly and 24 persons died. A
public shelter at Penge, south-east Lon-
don, suffered a direct hit, and 48 were
injured and 11 were killed outright. At
Clapham Junction a direct hit on a bus
killed 24 and injured 59 others in the
vicinity.
On Twickenham Road, Feltham,
Middlesex, a communal surface shelter
was blasted and ten houses demolished.
Eleven died and 13 were seriously hurt.
In Willesden, north-west London, 20
were fatally and 25 seriously injured. A
trench shelter was hit at Barking and 15
died and 13 were seriously hurt.
In the street in front of Bush House,
Aldwych, a flying-bomb struck at noon-
time, when the streets were jammed.
Several hundred persons were hurt and
25 were killed.
At Leyton, a trolley-bus and several
bouses were hit, killing 34 and injuring
24. At Kensington High-street the Troy
Court flats were in the direct path of a
flying-bomb and 20 died. One of the
worst events was when a bomb hit in
High-street, Lewisham, in south-east
London. It happened in the morning
when almost all the housewives in the
area were in the shopping district.
Suddenly came the roar of the flying-
bomb and the warden shouted “Get
down.”
The bomb crashed right in the middle
of the crowd. Men and women were
blasted across the pavement, their clothes
ripped off or set afire. A big store was
set ablaze. Fifty-one persons, mostly
women, were dead, and 216 were injured.
The district is still in disrepair.
In the shopping district of Brixton,
southwest London, 100 shoppers were
trapped and 81 of them rescued alive.
Those rescued included a 71-year-old
woman who was trapped in the debris for
a night and day. She appeared unhurt
and flew into the arms of her daughter,
who had waited all night for news. Five
minutes later the mother died.
Each morning we would make a list
of the places hit by flying-bombs, with the
dead and injured and the damage. It had
a very depressing effect. Finally we
stopped doing it by unspoken consent.
As long as I live I shall remember the
awfulness of the things I saw. But it was
not until I sat down on the street and
talked to a little boy about eight that I
realised what the Germans were. The
child could scarcely talk, but he took a
stick of gum and chewed it spasmodi-
cally. He was covered with a man’s top-
coat. When the topcoat was removed I
saw that his small left leg was gone from
above the knee and his young blood welled
into the street. He held my hand until
the morphine began to give him peace.
In QPraise of De Gaulle.
(From a London “Contemporary Review”
article by Sir QJohn Pollock.)
The consequences of General de
Gaulle’s faith and of his actions have
been incalculable.
From a small band of brothers in arms
under the Cross of Lorraine, that General
de Gaulle took for his banner, the Fight-
ing French have swollen until they be-
came, even before the Allied assault on
the Atlantic wall that was the first act
in the liberation of France, the fourth
armed force in size among all those
ranged against the German might.
At the moment of our landing in Nor-
mandy there were over 200,000 soldiers
in the Fighting French army, and .some
300,000 more trained or in training; a
small but redoubtable fleet of French
ships of war ceaselessly aided ours' in
hunting German ships at sea and protect-
ing Allied convoys ; over 600,000 tons of
French shipping formed part of those
convoys ; French airmen had their own
fighter squadrons in the Mediterranean
and in Russia, and their own bomber
squadrons based in England.
It was the Fighting French under
General Koenig, who, in May, and June*
1942, held Bir Hakeim against immensely
superior German forces for 16 days, and
it was those 16 days that gave time for us
to dig in at El Alamein, and so for
General Alexander in turn to attack
Rommel and drive the Germans out of
Africa.
The brilliant French part more recently
played in the assault on the Gustav and
Hitler lines in Italy needs no emphasis ;
but the words of a British soldier serv-
ing in Italy should be more widely known.
This soldier wrote: “So far the outstand-
ing feature is the performance of the
French. All the glory of the French
army has been reborn and■ Frenchmen,
when attacking, are truly formidable.”
All this has flowed from General de
Gaulle’s leadership. But, more than even
this, he drew to the Cross of Lorraine the
whole of the French Colonial Empire,
save for Indo-China, handed over by
Petain to the Japanese, which surrender
incidentally lost us Singapore. The
French Colonial Empire gave the Allies
their indispensable lifeline across Africa
from the Gulf of Guinea to Egypt, with-
out which we should have had no closer
communication with the Middle East in
critical days than round the Cape of
Good Hope.
Soviet Incentive System.
(From an article by N.Y. “Journal-American''
financial editor Leslie Gould.)
in all the reports of travellers to Russia
the most interesting fact revealed is that
the heart of the Soviet system of today is
incentive. Extra rewards for individual
initiative and effort.
Almost everything is based on piece-
work in the factories and on the farms.
The more work, the higher the pay and
the greater privileges. The amount of
food a person gets under his or her ration
depends on the amount of that indivi-
dual’s production.
There are other rewards, including such
things as theatre tickets, travelling privi-
leges and higher education for the chil-
dren of the more efficient father or
mother. If the old man does a superb
job, then the child may get into college
without entrance exams. Cash bonuses
also are paid and some of these are in
the form of annual endowments. Some
even win tax exemptions, and the tax
exemptions run up to a lifetime freedom
from Governmental levies.
On the farms and in the factories the
high producers are given medals and their
pictures are put on the bulletin boards
for all to see, and in the plants the loud-
speakers proclaim their performance to
other workers.
The whole idea is to have individual
workers exceed their production quotas.
For by doing so they get more and better
food, more pay, more privileges and as
a final reward pay either less taxes or no
taxes.
The Russians have learned —from ex-
perience—that the only way a country,
no matter what its philosophy as to gov-
ernment, gets ahead is through incentive
—-rewards for individual initiative.
That is what has made the- United
States the richest, the most powerful
nation in the world, with the highest liv-
ing standards for its workers of any
country anywhere. Yet in the last few
years in this country a different philo-
sophy has been cultivated. That you
should get more for less work. That
through taxes a ceiling should be placed
on what you can make. That if you have
a little money and want to risk it in a
business enterprise that might make for
more jobs and better living the gamble
is yours. If you lose, that is too bad.
If you win and make a big profit, the
Government will take a big slice of it.
If an individual in a factory can and
does step up his production quota a
strike might be called, and the individual
if he persists in such practices can be
thrown out of his union and black-listed
from his trade.
Germans’ Responsibility.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Walter Lippmann.)
I am sure that almost every one would
be greatly impressed and influenced by a
German democracy fighting for freedom.
That there have been many Germans
who have fought for freedom, and paid
for it with their lives, is certain. But
when we see how the Poles and the
French organised underground, and re-
sisted and defied the Gestapo, have we
not the right to ask where is the compar-
able German resistance movement?
The crux of the German problem is the
absence of, effective German popular re-
sistance to Nazism, militarism and pan-
Germanism. If it had existed, if there
had been a German democracy, there
would not have been Hitler. Because as
yet there are no reliable signs that a Ger-
man democracy is coming forward we
are driven to consider all the measures
which no one in his senses likes.
The military government of a country
like Germany, the prolonged control of
a great nation like the German, the re-
duction of its territory, or, beyond that, its
partition, is an appalling thing to under-
take. We should not be considering it if
there were any evidence .that a freedom-
loving German democracy was rising to
overthrow the Nazis, and to purge and
regenerate Germany.
What we must put aside entirely is the
allegation that we could produce and
evoke a German democracy, and that if
it does not appear it is our fault. Only
the Germans can produce a German de-
mocracy. The Germans are the only
nation who have succeeded in indoctrinat-
No one can seriously believe that
had the Battle of Britain been lost
the rest of the Empire could have
successfully pursued the struggle,
or that the United States or Russia
would have entered it. Germany
would have been left supreme lord
for an indefinite number of years,
perhaps centuries. From that the
Battle of Britain saved the world.
The Battle of Britain was won, not
onl'y by the valor of our air force,
but by what Mr. Winston Churchill
well called “the indomitable spirit
of the British people.” That spirit
has been a determining factor in
the war. It has been translated into
military genius of our commanders,
into exploits of unparalleled skill
and endurance by our sailors, sol-
diers and flying men, into industrial
production of the material of war
so vast that beforehand it would
have seemed incredible. We all can
see this; we all know it, even if we
often allow others to trumpet their
virtues more loudly. - Sir John
Pollock; London “Contemporary
Revidw.”
ing themselves and multitudes elsewhere
with the idea that someone else is always'
responsible for what they do and for what
they do not do. Always they are in the
end more sinned against than sinning. If
they accept Nazism it is because the
Allies gave them a harsh peace in 1919.
If they do not rebel against Nazism in
1944 it is because the Allies do not
promise them a soft peace.
Is it not time to agree that if the Ger-
mans want to be treated like a free nation
then they must fight for their own free-
dom, as all people who are genuinely
free have had to fight? Let Germans
come forward to open the path to our
armies, and by their deeds prove that
they are being liberated and not con-
quered. Fawning on our troops when
they march into German towns proves
nothing, except that they are used to the
idea that might makes right; and we need
not be surprised or impressed if crowds
that cried “Heil Hitler” begin to cry
“Heil Patton.” Let Germans purge the
Nazis, and they will prove what can
never be proved by manifestoes written
in New York, that a Germany exists with
which her victims can begin to deal on
a basis of moral equality.
Lend-Lease Snags.
[Condensed from a “Free World” (U.S.A.)
article by Ernest Dale.]
Lend-lease is on the way to becoming
a source of friction among the United
Nations and a repetition of the tragic
experience of Allied debts of the last war.
In a recent opinion poll in America one-
fourth of those questioned did not know
the meaning of lend-lease, while of the
remainder three-quarters advocated re-
payment of lend-lease in cash.
The intention of the Lend-Lease Act
was to ensure the security of the United
States by lending American war materials
to Allied countries so as to aid them
effectively in a common cause. Today,
three years after its inception, lend-lease
aid amounts to almost $25 billion, or one-
seventh of America’s war expenditure.
With the exception of war materials
destroyed or returned to the United
States, the recipients of non-war materials
have agreed to abide by American “terms
and conditions,” which are as yet un-
known, but which 6 are felt to be full of
dangers for all if American public
opinion does not change.
Non-war materials consist of chemi-
cals, clothing, food, capital goods. These
form about one-half of the value of lend-
lease shipments. Most of them are likely
to be used up, worn-out, destroyed or
immovable after the war. Yet they may
have to be paid for by the recipients.
The time, amount and form of the repay-
ment will depend on what the President
at the time of settlement deems satisfac-
tory. And Congress has added the
curb that it must approve of any settle-
ment which the President may make.
Hence, some of the United Nations
feel that thejr whole economic well-being
may depend on the President and
Congress of the United States, whoever
they may be at the time of the settlement.
There have been many protests in
Britain and the Dominions against the
carte blanche given to the United States.
Canada refused to enter into a lend-lease
agreement with the United States “to
prevent indeterminate obligations.” Pro-
posals for maintaining and even increas-
ing tariff barriers and practices of trade
discrimination are finding growing sup-
port abroad to meet the eventuality of an
unfavorable settlement.
All American goods shipped under
lend-lease are carefully accounted for in
Washington. Regular reports are pub-
lished of U.S. help to different countries,
listing the value and volume of the major
categories of materials. Unfortunately,
these data have unwittingly fostered the
demand for some kind of repayment to
the United States.
However, it seems impossible to esti-
mate the sums which should be paid.
The value placed on many articles is
purely arbitrary. The most important
contributions cannot be estimated at all
in monetary terms —the loss of lives, war-
time sacrifices of liberty and standards
of living, the destruction of property by
air raids, the common use of equipment
on the fighting fronts, the interchange of
ideas. Some countries have contributed
more in equipment, others have lost more
in human lives. To balance the one
against, the other would be repugnant as
well as a hopeless task.
Finally, the actual repayment of lend-
lease would hardly be feasible without
causing a repetition of the great commer-
cial difficulties experienced after the last
war. Repayment in cash would require
an excess of exports over imports to
yield to lend-lease “debtors” the neces-
sary dollars to pay. But many of these
lend-lease recipients are likely to have
an import surplus for a number of years
to come, so that they can reconstruct and
improve their economy. They could
achieve an export surplus immediately
after the war only by restrictionist com-
mercial policies or by increased sales to
the United States.
Trade restrictions designed to reduce
imports would do grave' harm to world
commerce. Even if U.S. wanted repay-
ment, it is doubtful whether it should
accept it in the only feasible way in which
it could be made in the long run, namely,
by buying more goods from abroad.
The proposal to tie lend-lease to other
policies, however excellent these may be
by themselves, is likely to be resented,
simply because the countries receiving
the aid had no option but to agree to the
conditions at a time when refusal on
their part might have resulted in defeat.
Even the best policy will not be appre-
ciated if it is associated with the slightest
suspicion of duress or if it is held that
ample compensation has already been
paid for lend-lease services rendered.
British Courage.
(Reported in N.Y. “World-Telegram” by the
leading US. war correspondent Ernie Pyle.)
We ran to the wrecked British ’plane,
lying there upside down, and dropped on
our hands and knees and peeked through
a tiny hole in the side.
A man lay on his back in the small
space of the upside-down cockpit. His
feet disappeared somewhere in the jumble
of dials and rubber pedals above him.
His shirt was open and his chest was bare
to the waist. He was smoking a cigarette.
He turned his eyes toward me when
I peeked in, and he said in a typical
British manner of offhand friendliness
“Oh, hello.”
“Are you all right,” I asked stupidly.
He answered “Yes, quite, now that you
chaps are here.”
I asked him how long he had been
trapped in the wrecked ’plane. He said
he didn’t know for sure, as he had got
mixed up about the passage of time. But
he did know the date of the month he
was shot down. He told me the date.
And I said out loud “Good God! ”
For, wounded and trapped, he had been
lying there for eight days!
His left leg was broken and punctured
by an ack-ack burst. His back was


CADBURY
means
QUALITY
Despite the • requirements of the services for
Cadbury’s Chocolate, you can still occasionally
obtain a block of Dairy Milk Chocolate or Energy
Chocolate (except in N£w South Wales and
South Australia, where transport and shipping
regulations do not allow us to distribute).
There’s a glass and a half of full-
cream milk in every -|-lb. block of
Cadbury’s Dairy Milk Chocolate.
I
a
i
half
pound
het
DMPS2-I5
doubt you have your post-war plans
—the kind of job you want —the
type of home you want.
We have post-war plans, too —patiently
developed schemes to add to the attrac-
tiveness and comfort of Australian homes.
Meantime, in order to meet the demand
for Feltex floor covering, we must limit
the range of colours to increase the
output.
LTEX
PRODUCT OF FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR BONDS
terribly burned by raw gasoline that had
spilled. The foot of his injured leg was
pinned rigidly under the rudder-bar.
The space was so small he couldn’t
squirm around to relieve his own weight
from his paining back. He couldn’t see
out of his little prison. He had not had
a bite to eat or a drop of water. All this
for eight days and nights.
Yet when we found him his physical
condition was strong, and his mind was
as calm and rational as though he were
sitting in a London club. He was in
agony, yet in his correct Oxford accent
he even apologised for taking up our
time to get him out.
The American soldiers of our rescue
party cussed as they worked, cussed with
open admiration for this British flier’s
greatness of heart, which had kept him
alive and sane through his lonely and
gradually hope-dimming Ordeal.
One of them said “God, but these
Limies have got guts! ”
It took us almost an hour to get him
out. We don’t know whether he will live
or not, but he has a chance.
U.S. Naval Strength.
(From “United States News.”)
The United States today stands without
a real rival as the world’s greatest naval
Power. Japan, Germany and Italy have
lost, or will lose, their navies in the
present war. Much of the French Navy
is destroyed. Only the U.S. and Britain
will retain navies of major size, and in
combat tonnage the American Navy is
more than twice as big as the British.
In total tonnage it is three times as large.
The United States has an estimated
4,500,000 tons of combat ships, as com-
pared with an estimated 2,200,000 tons
for the British Navy. ,
Here is a comparison of estimated
strength in the various classes of ships:
_ , , . U.S. Britain.
Battleships 26 15
First-line aircraft-carriers ■.. 20 6
Other aircraft-carriers .. 80 40
Cruisers .. .. .. 57 63
Destroyers and escorts .. 700 ’ 330
Submarines 206 90
Also, the United States has built thou-
sands of auxiliary craft, which serve as
floating bases and permit the Navy to
remain at sea almost indefinitely. In all,
the U.S. Navy has more than 4000 ships,
totalling 10,000,000 tons —probably three
times the British Navy’s total.
The U.S. also has pioneered in making
the aircraft-carrier the striking arm of
the modern fleet. Of the British Navy’s
carriers, all but the six largest were built
in the U.S. Thirty per cent, of the British
naval pilots were trained in the U.S. The
U.S. Navy, with 100 or more aircraft-
carriers, has a powerful striking force
that the British cannot match.
The U.S. and British navies are in no
sense rivals, but work in close collabora-
tion. After this war, with their network
of sea and air bases extending around the
world, these two navies will have a degree
of supremacy never before seen.
Draginet Digest.
( Condensed, from various acknowledged
sources .)
I am glad of the opportunity I have had
to talk about the present position of Poland
in the war and about the future of Poland.
Poland must be reconstituted as a great nation.
There can be no question about that. lam
certain that world opinion is going to back up
that objective— not only to reconstitute Poland
as a strong nation, but also as a representative
and peace-loving nation. 1 wish to stress the
latter.. It is very important that the new Poland
be one of the bulwarks of the structure upon
which we hope to build a permanent peace.—
President Roosevelt, to a deputation claiming to
represent 6,000,000 Americans of Polish descent.
* * * *
The true significance of the robot-bomb is
too well understood in Washington and London
to warrant taking it easy in the fighting in
Europe. Had the buzz-bomb been ready three
months earlier it might have doomed the Euro-'
pean invasion. The V-2 is no mere Nazi
bugaboo. It exists. Its destructive power is
terrific. Our only comfort is that the Nazis
haven’t yet got it under control. Its operation
is erratic. But time can cure that. If Hitler
can prolong the war—even until next spring
or summer—he may be able to perfect the new
engine of destruction, and he count's on it to
give him a negotiated peace. Nobody in the
know is laughing off this possibility.— Scripps-
Howard Washington Staff.
* * * *
Moscow is not believed to be particularly
interested whether a king or a president heads
future Balkan States, and has professed itself
as not desirous of altering the governmental
forms desired by the peoples themselves. Thus,
it is certainly within the realm of possibility
that a monarch may continue to rule in
Bucharest, Sofia and even —although it is less
probable —in Belgrade. As far as Greece is
concerned the people seem pretty well fed up
with any sort of dynasty.— C. L. Sulzberger,
N.Y. “Times” correspondent in the Middle East.
**. * *
Hitler will be liquidated—as I have predicted
since 1940 —by his enemies from within, before
his outer enemies will t be able to take him.
Hitler will fall —according to the law of ancient
tragedy—by the hands of those whom he
humiliated and who will make him pay for their
weakness and stupidity. The Junkers have been
waiting 10 years for “The Day” to tear their
** Junkers would not have
(•ven Uho Ilf ti' he ian B ln 8 of noble generals
even it he led them to London The rnne ttnt
hung Field-Marshal von Witzleben is ready for
]?i er Jn r ' he hands of the field-marshal’s com-
Emil 8 ’ Wk ° « -
* * * «
J 1 ® danger in Italy—and this goes for all
’> br9 n en natlons of the Continent-is
1 f Wll l 80 comm unist. Starving people
" atu turnto a system that promises to take
wealth from the few and give it to the many.
But a successful revolution cannot be made
where there is so little to divide that giving
nominal power to the masses will not cure their
lt cannot be too strongly stressed—
and the Left parties here are keenly aware of it
—that the prospect is nQt' a violent but clearly
directed shift from one system to another: it
is an uncontrolled breakdown of the whole
social structure. The first stage of peace will
be precarious and provisional, and there will
be no order to build on or to change, unless
the first approach to peace is economic, on a
plane of primitive human need— Anne O’Hare
McCormick, N.Y. correspondent in Rome.
* * * *
Europe seems divided between those who look
to Moscow and those who look to Washing-
ton for salvation, and so far, though the im-
possible hopes placed in us [Americans] are
fading, Moscow runs a poor second, if only be-
cause the war has demonstrated American
capacity and will to help in the herculean job of
reconstruction that faces the ravaged Continent.
—Rome correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
** l * m
The Catholic Communist movement, a little
group of student's and young intellectuals who
for two years nursed-hope of effecting a political
reconciliation between the Catholic and Com-
munist viewpoints in Italy, has acknowledged
defeat. The movement has changed its name to
Christian party of the Left. The change results
from repeated expressions of disapproval from
the Vatican, climaxed by Pope Pius Xll’s
address in which he warned against compro-
mising with atheism. — Rome correspondent N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
In regard to the new peace organisation,
Russia contends that each of the big Powers
should retain the right to veto any decision in-
volving charges of aggression against it'. The
United States and Great Britain argue against
any such veto. Despite their stand it is per-
missible to question whether the Russian atti-
tude is not the more realistic; whether, if it
came to a showdown, either the United States
or Great Britain with ample resources to resist
would submit to an adverse decision in a dis-
pute that they conceived invplved their national
life or safety. A system of policing which
exempts the policeman from the laws he enforces
is not one likely to be conducive to peace.
It is one likely to breed a sense of injustice
which will bring the law itself into disrepute.
There is another obstacle. It concerns how
far one of the policemen is willing to police.
The security council of the big nations is to
have certain powers of decision to proceed
against recalcitrant' aggressors. That may mean
armed conflict. The American Constitution
gives the American Congress, and it only, power
to declare war. So there arises the question
whether the American representative on the
council can commit the United States to armed
action or must apply to Congress for autho-
risation. That question bothers the other
nations quite as much as the Russian stand
bothers us.— “ Wall-street Journal.”
* * *
Confirmed isolationists are now so few that
ordinarily they can be disregarded. What really
matters is that many who want the United States
to collaborate with other nations to make the
peace secure seriously doubt that the Senate
will pledge the United States to the use of force
to perpetuate new European frontiers about
which we were not consulted. And boundary
agreements at Tehran and Quebec —if any—
are hardly likely to be regarded as necessarily
binding.— Washington correspondent N.Y.
“ Wor Id- T elegram. ’ ’
* * * *
The British see no valid reason why the rest
of the world should look askance at so natural
and sensible a development of policy [economic
and military union of the nations of Western
Europe and Britain]. No nation on earth
has shown by example a greater respect for
the small nations, and they hold that it should
be self-evident that the alliance is aimed at
no country except Germany. Nor are the
British the only nation that will be entering a
world organisation with satellites. Russia
already has indicated very clearly that she in-
tends not only to absorb the Baltic States and
parts of Poland but that she is determined that
her western neighbors, like Poland and Czecho-
slovakia, shall be bound to her by treaty.
Moscow has made it very clear that the
countries of Eastern Europe must look to the
Soviets for guidance, in foreign policy and for
military support and never again flirt with
Berlin. Nor do the British see much difference
between their proposed alliance with Holland,
Belgium, France and perhaps Norway and Den-
mark and the Pan-American Union, which
plays so large a part in American policy
of foreign relations. Ideologically and economi-
cally, they hold, there is more of a bond be-
tween Britain and its Continental neighbors
than between the United States and the republics
of Latin America. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
British public opinion, angered by the wide-
spread killing and destruction in Southern Eng-
land caused by Nazi robot-bombs, is over-
whelmingly in favor of enforcing harsh terms
against Germany when peace comes. If the
British people have their way the terms would
consist of the following: (1) Occupy German
territory with Allied troops for 10 years or
more. (2) Deprive the Germans of their own
arms and armed forces for the next 20 to 30
years. (3) Require Germany to make good,
mainly by forced labor, the war damage she
has done to other countries. (4) Execute Hitler,
Himmler, Goring and other Nazi leaders. (5)
Split the German homeland permanently into
a number of smaller States, giving East Prussia
to Poland, and permanently taking over the
Ruhr and Rhineland, to be- made into a zone
under international control. These ideas of the
British public concerning treatment of Germany
were revealed in a comprehensive survey com-
pleted by the British Institute of Public Opinion.
British attitudes toward the German peace have
stiffened measurably since the first part of the
year.— N.Y, “World-Telegram”


■wi
B.BLI
$ CERTIFICATES
ss &§§
« IS® n
_ „_ &£>
4g£Xso
«u»»sa
sass.
:»s
SIP'
3*” e^T B ”
£
essa-ss^
R 8c MC Gl4
AVI N G S C
t»TIH C A T £ S
AND IMMUNISATION
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, ANTRUM, & SINUS TROUBLES
ma
m
These distressing complaints are ail
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tamed by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician. Upon
obsorfjtion into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
created"h atta< : k * n 9 9 erms and neutralising the poison*
hrfotIt d b u t 5 en ? ; Wlth the resu,t that the Patient soon feels
improves dv PainS VQnish ' and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lastinq immunity to
Jhfldtn eQSe j S^ !ished -, Vaxos is Perfectly s?fe even for
need[esslv* n oht der v Pe ° P * e tP take ‘ u 00 ”'* continue to suffer
needlessly, obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
“ond|?iti.f ,br °”“ S ' Lu “ basi> * ,ld ”>»•'«'»• Ecm., ’impetigo. ’ Settle
Sores and most Skin Infections
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Medium size (15 c.c.’s), 3 weeks’!*)/*
treatment for Chronic Cases ..Zl treatment for Acute Cases ..12'6
If your chemist is out of stocks, write tot—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St., Melb., C.1
VAXOS N" 1
ORAL VACCINE
Vi .-A
4
For Fast-Tempo Drama Keep Tuned To
?4Uk Ck&ftofy's
'NEVER A DULL MOMENT'
9 p.m. every Monday,
from 2CH, 2KO and all
Tuesday and Wednesday
Major Network Stations.
"U!W3>:
DUNLOP KROMHYD is
ideal for Kiddies' Shoes,
too. It wears and wears
and wears.
Perfectly waterproof
and non-slip, Krom-
hyd outlasts 3 leather
soles and heels.
DUNLOP
On Sale Everywhere
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy a rotary leather punch.—3s43.
) Jerome’s Life and Times and Pres-
cott s Helot and Her 0 .—3544.
To buy to® “National Geographic Magazine”
for June, 1942.—3545.
To buy inclusive volumes of “Banjo” Pater-
sons verse.—3s46.
To buy Tfo? 7th Light Horse, A.1.F., by Lt.-
Col. J. D. Richardson.—3s47.
To buy Hadrian the Seventh, by Frederick
Baron Coroo. —3548.
Information Sought. '
Is it true that snakes can jump from the
ground f
There are no authentic records of snakes
jumping, though death-adders have been seen
to leave the ground by a few inches when strik-
ing.
*** . *
Approximate speeds of bee, pigeon, hawk and
swift/ Any further information on speeds of
birds and fish ?
A bee can travel at 3.7 metres per second
unladen, and at 2.5 metres per second laden
with pollen. Pigeons can do 80 m.p.h., hawks
(falcons) 100 m.p.h., and swifts 75 m.p.h.
Where it has been possible to clock the birds
over substantial distances the actual speed has
been found to be less than half these extreme
estimates. The rate at which a bird travels
depends on niany factors —wind currents,
whether it is cruising in search of food, migrat-
ing or being chased by an enemy. Pigeons may
maintain a speed of 80 m.p.h. for many miles,
but over long distances average only 60; during
short bursts they may attain a speed of 100
m.p.h. Swifts may be faster than pigeons over
long distances, whilst falcons can accelerate to
about 115 m.p.h. when chasing ajher birds. No
estimates have been made as to the speed of
fishes, but it is doubtful if even the swiftest
cai exceed 50 m.p.h.
* * * *
WWhen was the film “Viennese Nights” first
slown in Sydney? Who were the leads? Was
tn- song “You Will Remember Vienna” first
sing in this film?
!:l(l) In 1931. (2) Vivienne Segal and Alexander
ray. (3) Yes.
* * * *
Particulars of “Mountain” type locomotives
ted on S.A. railways?
Length (engine and tender), 84ft. l|in. over
.iffers; height, 13ft. weight of engine
mpty), 129 tons, 18cwt.; weight of tender
mpty), 36 tons, scwt.; coal capacity, 11 tons;
water capacity, 7000 gallons; roadworthy weight
of engine and tender, 222 tons 6cwt.; working
pressure of boiler, 2001 b.; no., diameter and
stroke of cylinders, 2/26in. x 28in.; no. and
diameter of driving wheels, 8/sft. 3in.; tractive
effort at - 85 p.c. of B.P. engine, 51,0001 b.; with
booster, 59,0001 b.
* * * *
When did Jimmy Leto floor Jack Carroll, and
for what count? Did Tod Morgan knock down
Carroll for any count?
Leto did not knock Carroll down in either
of their two Sydney Sports Ground contests.
Morgan floored Carroll for no count in their
second fight (1934) and had him out on his
feet in the 14th round of their first (1933) con-
test.
* * * *
Have experiments been made with the soil-
less growth of plants ( Hydroponics ) in Aus-
Ye t^ere an y commercial possibilities
in this at present?
a *S? nSe 3nd difficulties have been
rnltnri , com ™ ercial . development, and water-
fn ,- S been tned only on a small scale
that u /r ralla - It is only with glasshouse crops
would seem to be any economic
Fhiri b - ltieS l ! slng che m?cal solutions, and
f. 1S th° doubt that soil cultivation must
remain the normal procedure for years.
than P £ m uu must be considered nothing more
than a hobby at present. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has a leaflet on the subject.
Brief Answers.
Vi ctoria Barracks, St. Kilda-road,
e ourne... .C.A.: Outback Occupations is
available from Dymock’s, Sydney, 3s. 6d plus
postage.., .J.M.O. (1) Kerosene or hydrogen
Pf : roxide, us ed in same manner, will do. (2)
it there are only a few trees best method is to
aig out; if many, poison with arsenic J.G.S.:
lhey can saw timber for their own use but
not lor sale... .0.K.: Possession of the deeds
would not secure the title for you. Consult
a solicitor....M.E.R.: (1) Under British law
she may retain British nationality; U.S. Consul
could advise on American law. (2) According
to Australian law. (3) Banns are optional. Con-
sult your clergyman G.P.: Production of
greeting cards is now prohibited A.E.F.:
Could not be called an orange-tree... .D.C. :
The Australasian Turf Register contains all in-
formation. .. .K.A.R.: “Air Log,” “Wings” and
many others F.C.T.: Question should have
read “first 1936 Test.” The 1928-29 team was
Chapman, White, Jardine, Hobbs, Sutcliffe,
Hammond, Hendren, Tyldesley, Mead, Leyland,
Tate, Geary, Duckworth, Ames, Larwood, Free-
man, Staples, Toone... .8.P.: Camellia, manu-
factured by Camellia Chemical Co., River-road,
Granville, N.S.W R.H.: The Sydney Public
Library might be able to help J.C.: There
were no replies Triangle: If B accepted the
order in satisfaction of A’s liability to him A
is discharged from any further liability. B may
sue C for £2, but, since B owes C £2, C can
cross-action and neither B nor C can recover
from the other... .W.H.8.: Despite the Statute
of Westminster, the Imperial Parliament has
power to legislate for a Dominion J.N.R.:
Allan Jones was not in the cast C.R.R.: No;
water (unless in a siphon) always runs downhill.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
M.K.S.: You can’t rhyme “hollyhock” with
“forget-me-not”... .A.M.: Guy Fawkes makes
a singularly tactless intrusion... .L.H.C.: You
have good ideas, but the verse is unpardon-
ably rough... .N.M.: “Save I, no other being
born Beheld that parrot vault the thorn.” If you
don’t want your verse to sound archaic and
your birds to look like kangaroos, learn to
write a more natural language G.M.:
Featherweight... .E.A.: Good if you are under
12....L.T.: It’s been done before... .Brain-
fag: Exhausting... .P.M.: So many seagulls are
flying around crying and calling E. 8.: How
can foam reflect a birthsong.... J.J.S.: A thin
piping 8.W.: Vaguely pleasant E.C.:
Come again with a fresher theme J.T.: Re-
frain from barking up trees P.M.L.: And
so, after all, it was only a dream. Shoo.


f
&
&
1
V
1
-fa
*
%
‘J
sMv
»*•
f.
sdf
AIRBORNE SUPPLIES
WRAPPED IN
SISAL KRAFT
“Manna from Heaven” is a literal fact in forward
areas, where anxious eyes scan the blue for'plane*
that drop parachutes laden with food, medicine
and vital equipment wrapped in SISALKRAFT.
SISALKRAFT is a water-proof, damp-proof, pli-
able wrapping material—practically untearable
—a perfect protection, in fact, for all military
supplies.
This use of SISALKRAFT will not end with the
cessation of hostilities, for the severe tests of
today will ensure its recognition in peace-time a*
a most efficient and protective wrapping material.
N.S.W.: F. VV. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
■WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 626 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty.. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance Sc Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Help Australia control the spread of Tuberculosis—the enemy
within our gates! Support the Anti-T.B. Association in its
£50,000 Appeal. In N.S.W. the Association has helped nearly
130,000 sufferers in 10 years. Give generously now! Send con-
tributions to the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The I Anti-T.R . Appeal
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John’s College an
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
1) per annum. , , , T
made available under the Will of the -a
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries,
Murphy, of Como. gonß to
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable ™« of
study Agricultural Science and must Satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the ui
Sydney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the Bth than B ’the 12th
in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later fflay
February, 1945, in the case of those tenable at the University ot Sydney), and further p
be obtained from: — •
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends —\
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
3 934 . .109,163 9000 18,750 10 p.c. r= 00,000 420,841
1935..121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 454,868
1036. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. •• 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18.750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. • •
1935. .176,687 9000 18,780 10 p.c. = 79,760 755,u88
1939. .172,563 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~81,000 819,401
1940. .207,053 9000 18,750 10 ~ „ 81.000 917,704
1941. 9000 18,760 10 „ ~81,000 939,621
1942 148.462 9000 18,750 8 ~ ~64.800 995,533
1943 159,020 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,045,803
1944. .159,814 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,096,867
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
Retail sales generally remained on the
flood until mid-1942, when they began
to ebb, and have continued to do so since,
owing to clothes and drapery rationing,
the price ceiling and a host of other
restrictions and difficulties. Here are
percentage changes in average turnover
of a number of large Sydney stores com-
pared with the corresponding period of
the previous year:
Months Ended
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- + 2.6 + 5.6 + 3.2 + 6.3 + 4.5
1940- + 7.5 + 7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +42.3
•1941-42.. +15.4 + 9.4 +11.5 2.4 + 8.0
1942- 6.0 —19.3 —lB.B 6.0 —12.6
1943- —16.3 1.6 + 1.3 1.8 5.7
Average sales for the year to June 30
last were still more than 4 p.c. above the
1938-39 level.
The presence of Allied troops helped to
stiffen demand, especially in non-coupon
Tines. For the most part the problem has
been to get rather than sell consumer
goods. While some lines have become
unprocurable, most others have been in
short supply, their delivery irregular,
quality has deteriorated and prices have
risen. Also, controls have stifled free
competition and the development of new
lines of merchandise, while service, which
used to be the keynote of successful
retailing, has been reduced to a minimum
in nearly all its aspects. so has ex-
penditure on maintenance and improve-
ments, as well as on advertising and
other goodwill items. Also service re-
quirements led to replacement of much
male labor by female labor.
Altogether, exes, have been artifi-
cially repressed, which helps to ex-
plain the improvement in average
net earnings over the last five years. Ihe
reverse trend in exes ; can be ex-
pected as conditions become more nor-
mal, as controls are relaxed and as the
sellers’ market which developed under
war conditions is replaced by a buyers’
market again. That D.J.’s management
is alive to the problems ahead might be
judged from the fact that staff is already
being specially schooled in courtesy and
service to the public, and that the co.
has made several other and more tangible
gestures to customers without any direct
profit to itself.
Contrary to general experience, the
co.’s turnover continued to expand
during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. To help overcome the
labor problem and to supplement out-
put frorp the co.’s Marlborough-street,
Sydney, factory, new workrooms have
been opened at Katoomba, where 165
names are on the payroll. After making
an unspecified provision for taxation,
allowing £45,478 (down £5508) for depre-
ciation and sending £50,000 (down
£10,000) to staff funds, the board figured
net earnings £794 better at £159,814.
This was sufficient to pay the prefs. their
full contract rates (£27,750) and show
16.3 p.c. on the £BlO,OOO of ord. capital,
as against 16.2, 14.9, 12.7, 22.1 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c.
Financially the co. put on more
weight:
1939. 1943. 1944.
raid capital . . £1,210,000 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors.. 391,878* 390,481 434,948
Mortgages, etc . . 652,215 481,606 461,522
Tax reserve . . 205,612 266,211
Freeholds . . . 1,600,047 1,657,926 1,656,430
Plant, etc 488,262 293,003 261,487
Stocks . . . . 579,998 1,020,196 1,074,347
Book debts . . 433,962 306,335 234,318
Investments, cash, etc. 34,360 142,346 324,969
* Including provision for taxation.
The strengthening of cash, etc., by
£182,623 last term suggests that the
management is preparing to take immedi-
ate advantage of any improvement in
market conditions which might develop
following the end of war in Europe. The
increase of £54,151 in stocks (now nearly
double the 1939 figure) and reduction of
£72,017 in debtors’ balances reflect trad-
ing conditions today. The mortgage
(down £lOO,OOO in the previous term) was
reduced by £20,000. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£470,953) was £79,775.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1 93 986 2,178,432
Written off premises, £30,000 )
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,807
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,770
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 ..
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2.706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 .. 2,534,509
1939.. 335,614 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 .. 3,256,/ 11
1940.. 442,103 17.1 p.c.=176,239 1 21 5,864 3,472,575
Written off premises, £60,000 )
Unexplained reductions, £74,042 ..
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3,822,47^
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 • • 3,714,10.)
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,383 3,956,492
Unexplained reduction, £1,440 - • 3,955,062
1943.. 512,299 20 p.c.=206,328 305,971 4,261,023
Unexplained reduction, £81,453 ■ • 4,179,570
1944.. 559,661 20 p.c.=206,828 353,333 4,532,903
For the last five years figures of this
prosperous 72-year-old Auckland-con-
trolled fire, marine, accident and general
insurance office are in Maoriland cui-
rency, and therefore inflated in relation
to earlier ones, which take no account
of exchange. Before the books were
ruled off in 1940 £532,737 was added to
reserves on account of exchange value of
assets held outside the Dominion. The
co. gathers about one-fifth of its con-
tracts in Maoriland, and the balance in
Australia, U.K., U.S.A., Canada, S.
Africa, Middle East and India. The four
East Asian branches fell into enemy
hands, and £108,363 of reserves dis-
appeared without comment in 1942.
There need be no anxiety, however, on
that account. At the end of August last
reserves were piled nearly four and a
half times higher than paid capital—
£l,o3l,64o, of which £940,000 came from
accumulated profit. Also, war condi-
tions have provided, temporarily at any
rate, a volume of business greater than
ever. This largely from marine risks at
inflated war values, originating .mainly
in the U.K. and U.S.A. Nearly the
whole of the rapidly-expanding American
mercantile marine has been insured in
the open market, .and the U.S. Govern-
ment has officially announced “restora-
tion to the commercial market of a large
volume of builders’ risk insurance on
vessels under construction in American
shipyards.” In the U.K. the Ministries
of Food and Supply have placed large
contracts in the open market covering the
bulk of their respective imports.
Last term more ginger was put into
the hunt, and a new branch was opened
at Tel-Ayiv, Middle East. The spring in
net premium income was £190,582:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1929.-1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 p.c. 30.2 p.c.
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275.163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1938. . 1,342,535' 843,977 316,394 62.8,, 23.5 „
1939. . 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 „ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022,962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
1941. . 2,145,516 1,039,776 628,818 48.4 ~ 29.3 ~
1942. . 2,235,471 1,361,333 593,704 60.9 ~ 26,5 „
1943.. 2,421,430 1,366,966 710,192 56.4 „ 29.3
1944.. 2,612,012 1,403,581 825,258 53.7 „ 31.6 „
The loss rate was £2 14s. p.c. lighter
thanks largely to the success of the Allies
in dealing with the submarine menace.
Expanding activity bumped up the ex-
pense rate by £2 6s. p.c. That left the
underwriting surplus £38,896 stronger at
£383,173, equal to 37.1 p.c. on capital.
Interest and rents turned in £176,488 (up
£8641), or 17.1 p.c. on capital. The net
return from all sources was thus 54.2 p.c.
on capital as against 48.7 p.c. for the
previous term. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
net return was 10 p.c. And it needs
to be remembered that gll this leaves out
of the reckoning an unexplained reduc-
tion of £81,453 in the exchange and in-
vestment fluctuation fund (£953,314), and
also includes £llO,OOO added to the reserve
for unexpired risks (£1,440,000). In the
marine market settlement of claims is
usually a long-winded business. The div.
was kept at 20 p.c., leaving most of the
underwriting surplus available to swell
investments and returns therefrom.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the solid
financial structure: — ,
1010. 1943. 1944
Paid capital . . £1,031,640 £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* . . 025,691 1,503,002 1,766,962
Premises . . . . 473,250 527,439 526,462
Mortgages . . 246,000 401,547 496,251
Deposits, cash, etc. 971,101 1,009,752 1,116,574
Stocks, debentures, etc. 818,754 704,770 786,220
Municipal debentures,
etc. . . . . 469,373 829,456 812,636
Government securi-
ties 2,125,260 3,215,641 3,537,944
Book debts . . 129,331 146,014 148,584
* Including reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
Liabilities consist of sundry creditors
(£1,123,821), which includes an unspeci-
fied allowance for taxation, and the
reserves against outstanding losses
(£633,131, up £123,715). Available funds
were channelled mainly into Government
securities (up £322,303) and the bank
(cash, etc., increased by £106,824). It is
a very strong position.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards Rp-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 88,112 34 p.c. = 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ „ 121,996 1,585 2.924
Tax refund, £2,332 .. .. .. 5,266
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8.157
1937.. 158,'878 64 p.c. = 158,594 284 8,141
1938.. 159,331 64 ~ „ 158,594 737 9173
Drug Houskk and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends ■, Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Ke-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, sen es.t
£ £ £ £ Jig
1939. .171,552 6i p.c. = 158,594 12,95 8 3 9 9,933
Unexplained reductions, £7556 . . 392,377
1940. 3000 04 p.c. = 160,891 19,110 411.487
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 412,515
1941. 6000 64 p.c. = 100,891 26,927 439, 442
Unexplained additions, £20,539 .. 459,981
1942. .183,551 6000 64 p.c. = 160,891 16,660 476,641
Unexplained additions, £29,213 . . 505,854
1943. 6000 64 p.c. = 160,890 14,656 520,510
Unexplained additions, £39,351 .. 559,161
1944. .181,369 6000 64 p.c. = 160,890 14,479 574,340
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
t Subject to intangibles.
It was about 14 years ago that half a'
dozen of the leading drug houses in the
Commonwealth decided to get together
in order to mitigate the effects of aggres-
sive competition, reduce overhead and
gain advantages on the buying side.
D.H.A. was formed for the purpose. It
now has a paid capital of £2,575,244 —
£lOO,OOO of it carries a cumulative 6 p.c.
—which is represented by shares in sub-
sidiaries, etc., £2,601,209, and little else.
The subsidiaries are:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdltts
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; A. M.
Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide and
Brisbane; Felton, Grimwade and Bickford,
Ltd., Perth; Taylors, Elliotts and Austra-
lian Drug Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton ancT Townsville; L. Fairthorne and Son
Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
In addition the co. has a holding (in at
cost, £2509) in Drug Houses of Australia
Export (London), which has been very
helpful in arranging shipments of essen-
tial drugs, etc., from Britain.
The organisation turns out much of its
own requirements, including scientific in-
struments, drugs and proprietary lines,
from its own factories and laboratories,
thus gathering a wholesale as well as a
retail profit. Slump in the early 1930’s
upset original calculations, and for a
while some of the properties were a drag.
However, earnings stepped along as con-
ditions improved, and the div. advanced
from li p.c. in 1933 to 64 p.c. four,years
later, and has remained steady since. And
there is nothing in sight to suggest that
much, if anything, better need be ex-
pected in the near future.
Five years of war, with accompanying
exchange, shipping, import and other dif-
ficulties, provided fresh opportunities, ot


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
■O'
CHARTS
Circular Charts J« all types of
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. Q'lD.
STOPvoup Rupture
Worries/
Mark (?) Lora Hon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. v En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. Nn obligation.
THE KOCSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
w
m
rW £ !
c*
lO°
sdf
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases v
m
li
mm
, A v >**
o a a
FOR 25 years we have supplied all types and sizes ot forgings and castings to
all Australian industries. They are available in all grades of stainless,
heat-resisting, and alloy steels, for every type of application. Have you
considered how much high-grade steels can give you in longer service and
lower maintenance costs?
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY
Branch Warehouses: Sydney -
LIMITED —Head Office and Works: WARATAH, N.S.W.
Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
SB)
which an alert management made the
most Many lines previously imported
”e now manufactured locally These
include alkaloids, made from Australian
raw materials, in which the co. hopes to
maintain a profitable export trade alter
the war. Meanwhile, essential supplies
continued to come forward from Britain
and from U.S.A. under lease-lend.
Rationing restricted civilian trade, but
military and other Government require-
ments largely filled the gap. However,
advances in material, wage and other
costs, including taxation, gobbled the gam
from expanding turnover during the last
three years.
Early in the last term the co. and the
Government price-fixing agency agreed
upon stabilisation of selling prices with-
out sacrifice of reasonable profit margins.
After setting aside an unspecified amount
for the taxgatherer, allowing an extra
£12,863 for depreciation (£71,304), de-
ducting £714 for outside interests and £46
for loss on sale of assets, there was little
change in the final net profit figure
(£181,369) for the whole group. It was
sufficient to cover the pref. div. (£6000)
and show a shade over 7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 7.1, 7.1, 7.5 and 7.2 p.c.
back to 1940. That leaves out of the
figuring £39,351 dropped from some-
where into reserves, which are subject to
goodwill (£263,436) and excess cost of
shares in subsidiaries over their face
value (£770,180).
Here is the position as combined
balance-sheet figures show it:
D.H.A. and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1943. 1944.
D.H.A £2,439,912 £2,575,244 £2,575,244
Outside interests 79,111* 4,336* 4,878*
Mortgages . . 75,400 89,639 79,520
Sundry creditors 698,191 1,131,097 1,276,180
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 716,537 \ 866,395 776,297
Plant, etc. .. 152,926 )
Shares, etc. . . 76,489 84,949 104,865
Stocks .. . . 940,800 1,418,773 1,661,644
Book debts . . 886,355 806,635 768,532
Cash, etc. . . • 17,429 143,786 185,380
Suspense account 14,194 53,604 66,461
Undistinguished
assets.. .. 719,772 770,180 770,150
Goodwill, etc. .. 261,937 263,137 263,436
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
Last term’s net reduction of £100,098 in
the book value of fixed assets might have
some connection with the unexplained
addition to reserves already referred to.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£1,424,304, including
stocks) was £143,629.
Stocks (up £242,871), now over 76 p.c.
above the 1939 level, is the item which
catches the eye. They were built up
early in the war at Government request to
provide against the possibility of Aus-
tralia becoming isolated. This danger has
passed, and with it has gone the need for
the reserve stocks. Their liquidation
through ordinary channels controlled by
the trade is not expected to create serious
dislocation, unless, of course, imports at
lower prices are permitted before the said
war stocks are cleared. The trade is
entitled to protection in this respect, and
to an early and clear statement from the
Government as to what it proposes to do.
Eldorado Tennant Creek (Centralia)
treated 6037 tons (down 652 tons) ore for
5278.85 fine ounces (down 1781 fine
ounces) gold, which realised £36,565
(down £18,599) for the year to June 22
last. The profit was £8029 (down £16,918),
and6d. per 2s. share (9d.for previous term)
was distributed. Head value of the ore
(21.29dwt.) and recovery by amalgama-
tion (12.99dwt.) dropped 3.27dwt. and
4.49dwt. respectively, leaving an extra
I.22dwt. in the tailing (B.3dwt.). Mining,
treatment and development costs together
stepped up 9s. 4d. per ton, reaching
82s. 2d. per ton. Only one shift per day
was worked. Above the 200 ft. level
about 5000 tons, averaging 20dwt., re-
mains to be extracted from the central
shoot, and a “considerable” tonnage of
6dwt. to 15dwt. stuff remains in the
eastern shoot, core of which has been
stoped. Below 200 ft. the lode is faulted.
Exposures at 304 ft. level indicate 25 tons
of 11.8dwt. ore for every foot the central
shoot persists. In the eastern shoot there
is some 6000 tons, averaging 16dwt. Ad-
justments and connections have yet to be
made to the new cyaniding plant. To
meet £2203 coming to outsiders there
were stores, bullion cash, etc., totalling
£22,579 when the books closed.
Hill 50, largest gold-producer on the
Murchison field (W.A.), netted £25,558
(down £5632) for the year to June 30 last.
Working costs averaged 445. 3d., as against
425. 6d. for the previous term, and while
present conditions continue there is little
chance of lowering them. Shortage of
man-power and machinery supplies are
the co.’s main troubles. Ore reserves,
positive and probable, at 183,320 tons,
averaging 5.57dwt., show a decrease of
35,776 tons compared with the preceding
year’s estimate, when the average grade
was s.Bdwt.
* * * *
Mataki Junction Gold Dredging, Mur-
chison (M.L.), paid capital £49,800 in
2s. 6d. shares intends to sell its holding
of 24 000 f.p. ss. shares in Slab Hut Creek
Gold’Dredging, as soon as a satisfactory
offer is received, and wind up. Only
other asset is cash £799. Liabilities total
£lO9. Assuming that Slab Hut shares
fetch par—a parcel sold at a premium
of 6d. each in 1943—those on Mataki s
register would get approx. 4d. per share.
The Slab Hut co. took over part of
Mataki’s property when the latter co. s
dredge sank early in 1940. *
According to*the “Oil Weekly,” Phil-
lips Petroleum Co. (U.S.A.) has set a new
record for the world’s deepest well,
15,297 ft., reached after 2\\ months. In
the last 14,777 ft. a total of 477 roc
bits, cost $50,000, were used, an average
of 30.9 ft. of hole per bit, at the rate ol
$3.30 per foot for this one item. In the
extremely hard 125 ft. chert section at
12,829 ft., 148 bits were used and six wire
jj nes were worn out. Total cost of drill-
. j2sft. was $150,000, or nearly
„ 1200 f oo t j n 17 wires were
* cost of $1250 each , total
Eight sets of break lining used
J QSt ’ $1624 Approximately $29,592 was
spent on butane fuel, and $3822 on diesel
fuel, making total fuel cost $33,414 In
eluding cartage mud cost $31,492, or
$2.13 per foot of hole drilled.


to* TWO.B Drne tt np
Ra »ge serves „
need * ft’saseasilv^
a gas stove, a / re gulated as
kee Per for p art / /° Ur 8t °r e -
Part Jcular 8 o f_
tANfS
c °OKINc
App t»ANCes
Blue
n*» c
*
V
m
LfAPERRIfti
i TOMATO SAUCE .
-Ik a daii cl iti own
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GB.
Business Rollery Ete
In An Hour of Destiny
.Government by opportunism and ex-
pediency is fast reaching its natural con-
clusion in Australia. Whilst the pro-
prietary side of industry is kept severely
regulated, more or less in accordance with
economic plans laid down early in the
war, any “planning” that has to rely upon
the obedience of communist-infiltrated
trade-unions has become a hollow joke.
The joke sounds hollowest when Mr.
Forde, the Acting Prime Minister, rises to
justify the non-obedience, as he did last
week in the case of the restoration of the
war-“risk” bonus to seamen, which is
paid where ships have been laid up in
port for weeks or in respect of vessels
trading in Spencer Gulf.
Doing the plain, just and sensible thing
has ceased to be the fashion in Canberra
since Labor took charge over three years
ago. Labor, as Menzies has said, has
lately even assumed an “utterly frivolous
and destructive attitude towards its own
laws.”
The interests of the nation, as people
with ordinary foresight see them, seem lost
to view when Labor politics, as we know
them now, reach their ultimate futile
shape. Political exploitation of a country
cannot continue on a national scale for
long. And where A.L.P. policy strongly
influences such vast responsibilities and
powers as rest on the shoulders and lie in
the hands of the present Commonwealth
Government that policy must bear its
•bvious fruit far more quickly than in
peace-time, when civil rights and free
finance are better able to counter the
effects of destructive doctrines.
We frequently hear official propaganda
to the effect that under “Labor’s” war
effort Australia’s industrial production
has risen enormously. To be fair, we
should also be told that Labor’s political
activity has also increased enormously in
the same time, as has that of its frequent
associate, the Communist party. Also,
waste has increased out of all reason,
even allowing for the inevitable wasteful-
ness of war. Inflation has become a
menace, and doctrine is overwhelming
initiative. Bureaucratic power has re-
placed private enterprise to such an extent
that where the bureaucrat falls down on his
job, as he often does, the waste of time,
man-power and money in actual industry
becomes exasperating and wicked. Labor
politics saturate our efforts on at least the
“home front.”
We are now seeing breakdowns and
failure in key industries (including rural)
that are a shocking disgrace. Politics of
a pernicious kind are failing the country
in an hour of destiny.
Australian Manufactures
In a report on behalf of the Secondary
Industries Commission, chairman J. K.
Jensen said he could not recommend a
programme of Government enterprise
which he felt would not be successful.
Commenting on questions why, instead of
lease or sale, the Federal Government
itself could not operate a former muni-
tions factory at Rutherford (N.S.W.) for
the production of rayon textiles, Jensen
listed “the practical difficulties of Govern-
ment operation.”
He pointed out that to Carry on a busi-
ness, even by the Government, profits
must be earned, and that meant success-
ful marketing as well as efficient produc-
tion. The Government did not have the
skilled employees at present to do either,
and it would involve either a long period
to train new staff or the payment of high
salaries to obtain' experienced staff.
It would take, in all, somethiilg like five
years to get a factory in full working
order, so that the advantage, from the
point of view of re-employing returning
soldiers, was almost non-existent. The
Government had had no experience in
manufacturing outside the engineering and
chemical industries, and it was unlikely
that a Government factory would be
successful in turning out, say, synthetic
textiles for fashion goods if working
upon its own resources. It has since
been announced that Burlingtons (Aust.),
Ltd., representing American and Austra-
lian interests, has “taken over a Govern-
ment munitions factory at Rutherford”
to weave, dye and finish rayon fabrics
in Australia. Courtaulds, of Britain, and
Associated Textiles, of Canada, have also
been investigating the possibilities of a
rayon industry in the Commonwealth.
Mr. Jensen said an export market was
necessary to employ fully the manufac-
turing resources of Australia. There was
every evidence that countries, ranging
from India to New Zealand, were eager
to trade with the Commonwealth. Iron
and steel were being produced in this
country at prices lower than anywhere
else in the world. In order to enter low-
wage markets, however, Australian costs
of production would have to be brought
to a low point by the free use of auto-
matic machinery.
To produce a motor-car successfully
in this country it would be necessary
for one factory to market at least 20,000'
cars a year at a price not in excess of
£3OO. In general, without having reached
a final decision, the commission does not
think that bounties are necessary for the
establishment of the motor-car industry
in the Commonwealth. Bodies are the
greatest difficulty, as changes in style in-
volve a heavy loss in dies, etc.
The proposed Australian motor-car in-
dustry is confronted with many prob-
lems. There should be a clear conception
of what is and what isn’t possible, and
what is and what isn’t desirable, before a
production plan is launched. Motor-cars,
becoming more and more used in modern
life, are already very dear in the Com-
monwealth.
The Minerva, Sydney
Minerva Centre, Ltd., owner of the
theatre in Orwell-street, near King’s
Cross, Sydney, adds another chapter to
its picturesque and involved stage and
financial history. Particularly, it has (a)
made a profit quite discernible to the
naked eye, and' ( b ) it has become a party
to more leasing agreements, at (or near)
the same time acquiring an unspecified
number of shares in Tivoli Celebrity
Vaudeville Pty. “Minerva Centre, Ltd.,
has contingent obligations to acquire
additional shares in this cp. and in an
associated c 0.,” says the balance sheet.
Promoter of Minerva Centre at the be-
ginning nearly seven years ago, David N.
Martin is now back with the company,
following a successful run in the show
business in association with other theatri-
cal enterprises. The Minerva itself for
some years had more losses, debt, bad
luck, disputes, changes, etc., than success,
and the ordinary shares sank to a dismal
figure on ’Change.
Over the past two years the tide has
turned for the better; it was in the past
term that Martin returned to the
board, following the sale of J. C. Wil-
liamson’s holding to a “group” headed by
Minerva’s chairman. The shares have
been rising on ’Change, though very
little business has been transacted.
The profit for the year to June 30
was shown at £3520, compared with
£9 in the preceding period. The p. and 1.
debit on balance day was £12,385, with
preliminary exes., etc., £3512.
The lease of the Minerva to Pan-
Australasian Theatres Pty. (a successor to
Whitehall Productions, which followed
the D. N. Martin repertory concern) has
been cancelled, and a new lease (term un-
disclosed) was granted to Tivoli Circuit
Australia Pty., subject to a sub-lease in
favor of Pan-Australasian Theatres for
three years from June 24 last.
In consideration of a premium paid
by Tivoli Circuit for the lease (the “lease
premiums, etc.,” appeared in the books
at £13,623 on balance day), a “much re-
duced rental was accepted.” The pre-
mium will be credited to p. and 1. ac-
count over the period of the lease.
The newly-acquired holding in Tivoli
Celebrity Vaudeville is in Minerva’s
books at £15,219 (cost). Tivoli Celebrity
Vaudeville “now holds the majority of
the shares in Tivoli Circuit Australia
Pty., the co. which operates the Tivoli
theatres in Melbourne and Sydney.” Dave
Martin, the Minerva board reports, “con-
tinued as financial consultant to the co.
during the past year, and was instru-
mental in commencing and finalising the
negotiations referred to.”
The present arrangements are in true
tradition of show-business finance: as
given in the accounts, it is difficult to
ascertain who controls what.
But, signing for the Minerva board,
chairman E. A. Nettlefold says “the direc-
tros are confident that, as a result of all
negotiations referred to, the company’s
finances will be materially improved dur-
ing the present year and that the p. and
1. account will continue to disclose a sur-
plus in future.”
The Minerva capital consists of 4340
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 53,500 ords. No
divs. have been paid. There are mort-
gage and overdraft of £23,596, and other
debts of £833. The finances are improv-
ing. It remains to be seen whether the
presence of Allied servicemen in Sydney
really meant much to the stage during the
past couple of years—that is, whether
their absence will be later on felt at the
box-office.
The May, 1944, issue of the “Seamen’s
Journal” gave a splashed-up version of
a previous discussion by the Maritime
Commission of the question of re-
ducing the war-risk bonus. Stating
that chairman De Baun had “initiated
the move for ‘reassessment’ of the
war-risk bonus, putting the unions in
a difficult position,” it added that “the
Government nominee on the commission,
Bourke, had said in the early discussions
that he considered the war-risk bonus
rates should be reviewed, and he voted
for the recission of the order prescribing
the present rate.” Later in its article the
“Seamen’s Journal” said:
The question was then deferred until the
following meeting, at which the Govern-
ment nominee, Bourke, dropped his bomb-
shell. Immediately the war-risk bonus
question was reached. on the agenda,
Bourke said that, while he had originally
supported a revision of the risk bonus, he
now thought the position different from
what he had assumed, and now believed the
risks were as high as in the past’.
Bourke said that before the commission
took any action to review the war-risk bonus
rates it should prepare a submission for
Cabinet.
Chairman De Baun, rocked by Bourke’s
changed attitude, appeared very hostile, de-
clared Bourke had given the commission no
information why he had changed his view,
and appeared to be interfering with the
course of the commission’s business without
basis.
Six months later, following Judge de
Baun’s resignation, Mr. Bourke has be-
come deputy-chairman of the commis-
sion, and he voted for the restoration of
the cut in the bonus until February 1.
The motion was at the instance of S. T.
Edwards (one of the owners’ represen-
tatives, though the owners are only man-
agers now), and it was seconded by J.
Tudehope, of the Cooks’ Union. R. G.
Menzies’s comment on the pat ent shilly-
shallying included a remark that “if any-
thing is calculated to introduce a false
feeling in the public mind it is the utterly
frivolous and destructive attitude of the
Administration towards its own laws.”
The Government’s stand had invariably
been one of “whining protest followed by
feeble collapse.”
* * * *
During the year to June 30 last Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills Pty. produced
26,700 tons of newsprint in its Tasmanian
plant. At the stage of extreme newsprint
rationing the mills were providing more
than half the Commonwealth’s require-
ments. Mechanical troubles have affected
production to some extent, but Keith
Murdoch says that it has been proved
that 1200 ft. per minute can be made
with a furnish of about 20 p.c. imported
pulp. Australian kraft pulp is now being
used in place of some imported pulp to
strengthen and improve the sheet. A div.
of 4 } p.c. has been declared. Plans are
being made for the expansion of the
industry. The undertaking w&s started by
the principal newspaper interests in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
A bombshell was dropped into New
Zealand investment circles when the first
sale of the new Victory Loan was re-
ported from the Christchurch Stock Ex-
change at £94, which was about £3 below
the expected market value, and gave a
return on outlay substantially higher than
had been obtaining for the general run
of Government securities. Though there
is not State control of the sharemarket
in Maoriland, the brokers have reached a
tacit understanding with the Government
to do nothing likely to damage New Zea-
land’s credit or disturb stabilisation and
national finances. To achieve such an
objective a close liaison has been main-
tained among the four Stock Exchanges,
and consequently this variation from
normal procedure created a furore in
Auckland and Wellington. Values of
securities traded at the chief centres, par-
ticularly of Government stocks, are
usually close to parity. Apart from the
disturbing effect upon normal trading of
such marked differences in prices, the
possible repercussions on national finance
were reviewed by those concerned. How-
ever, the Christchurch Exchange was
quick to make a readjustment in later
transactions, and the market for the 3
p.c. issue of the new loan stabilised at
£97, which gives a return comparing
more favorably with current yields. But
it was a rare storm in the tea-cup while
it lasted.
* * 4c *
The £113.7 million of cash put into the
Second Victory Loan came from 390,000
subscribers, including savings banks. The
conversion operation embraced £40.1 mil-
lion by 40,400 subscribers. The £l6O
million loan, as a whole, was undersub-
scribed by £6.2 million.


For Sale.
HORIZONTAL BLACKSTONE OIL ENGINE rated at
200 h.p., 216 r.p.m., twin cylinder, direct couple to
a 135 kw. English Electric three-wire direct current
generator fitted with static balancer. Sale subject
to approval of Controller of Electricity.
For further particulars apply:—
PETERBOROUGH ELECTRIC SUPPLY,
Peterborough, S.A.
T»Mr
Tme
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
PHONE: B 7901.
Zbe/oct
me
CAoeo/a/e?
Then you should
know what every
chocolate maker knows!
2. Now, always remember this —
Small’s Club Chocolate stays firm
at top Summer temperatures,
when all other chocolate wilts.
3. That’s why Small’s Chocolate
is tops in the tropics. The fighting
boys are whaling into your share
at present, but you don’t mind!
4. So, in ordinary times, Sum-
mer needn’t be an off-season
for a chocolate lover like you.
If the tropics fail to make
Small’s Club Chocolate melty,
no Australian Summer can do
it, either. In a few months
we hope to be ready for
civilian release. , Then you’ll
get the best block chocolate
you’ve ever tasted.
1. What does every
chocolate maker know?
He knows that the highest-grade
chocolate is more resistant to
heat than ordinary qualities.
Other chocs. But we
feel feel firm
like this and cool
irjf* vY3 >
5. This process of keeping
chocolate firm in Summer is
exclusive to Small’s. No other
maker has ever produced any-
think like Club Chocolate.
Overseas makers have tried
to buy the process, but so far
it remains exclusively in
Small’s hands.
SMALL’S MAKE GREAT CHOCOLATE
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
❖
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
m
m
&
m
55628
“Regimenting” N.S.W. Accountants
The “sports” who run the Sydney Gov-
ernment are having a crack at “controlling
the accountancy profession in the State.
Only McKell and co. in their wisdom
know why the present arrangements under
which accountants practise in N. S. Wales
should be upset. There are four main
institutes operating —the Chartered, Com-
monwealth, Federal and Association
and a high standard of examinations,
qualifications and ethics has been estab-
lished. One institute is 50 years old.
There is almost general unanimity among
members of these institutes that the pro-
posed mode of State “registration,”
examination and control by a “board” is
unwanted. The evidence is that political
rather than professional considerations
are prompting the Government.
Mr. Downing, Minister for Justice, has
brought down a bill by which it is pro-
posed to “make provision for the audit
of certain accounts by registered public
accountants,” to set up a board to con-
trol the profession by demanding Gov-
ernment registration, to conduct exami-
nations, to admit as “registered account-
ants” persons who have not become mem-
bers of the present recognised account-
ancy institutes, to admit members of
“approved institutes,” to levy fees, and
to pay the chairman and members of the
Accountants’ Registration Board. The
board is to have five members, and the
chairman’s appointment is for five years.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants
in Australia, in a list naming many obvi-
ous objections to the bill, points out that
section 10 (2) provides that the office of
chairman or other member of the board
shall not be deemed an office of profit
under the Crown. The institute remarks
that it does not understand the reason for
this provision “unless it is intended to
appoint a member or members of Parlia-
ment and/or the Sydney City Council to
the board.” If that is the object of
the subsection, it is in the true Labor
tradition of making provision for look-
ing after its own during foul political
weather as well as fair.
There has not been the slightest public
demand for the proposed legislation.
There is no similar control in Great
Britain, and where control has occurred
in Australasia —even where less obviously
political than that proposed in N. S.
Wales —it has achieved nothing in par-
ticular. Certainly the profession in N. S.
Wales is every bit as highly regarded as
that in Victoria or S. Australia. And
in those places the institutes still conduct
their own examinations and retain their
full identity.
The proposed N. S. Wales legislation is
so ill-designed and unwarranted as to
represent frivolous interference with in-
stitutions of proved capacity and integrity,
the services of which have been of high
value to the public over a long period;
Anything that is needed to be done to
ensure that the audit of a company is
carried out by a reputable auditor could
be achieved by a simple clause in the
Companies Act.
Maoriland Labor and Ranking
Maoriland Labor’s traditional hobby-
horse—nationalisation of the Bank of
New Zealand —has emerged again trom
the shadows of political controversy to
set the country in a ferment. Relegated
in recent years to the background in
Labor’s policy, mainly owing to the stern
opposition of Finance Minister Walter
Nash, the purchase scheme has remained
a fetish with the more radical wing of
the party, despite the fact (stressed by
Nash) that the Government virtually con-
trols the bank, anyhow. It is common
knowledge that many monetary “re-
formers” who helped Labor into office in
1935 have withdrawn support since, be-
cause, in their view, the Fraser-Nash ideas
of financial management have been too
orthodox.
Since the last Labor conference
Mr. Nash has effected a complete
volte-face, and now seconds a remit urg-
ing the taking over of the bank. Why
the change of heart? One guess is as
good as another, but it is evident that Mr.
Nash has been obliged to bow to the
growing restlessness among the rank and
file of the party, who are now conscious
of the need to bring back the “monetary
reform” and “liberal” elements into the
fold.
In the meanwhile speculation is rife
concerning the likely treatment of the
private shareholders, of whom there are
7700 on the New Zealand register and
150 on the Australian. Mindful of the
fair, almost generous, compensation
afforded members of other companies
taken over by the Government, the share
market regarded the affair as a bull point,
and, after initial hesitancy, the £1 ordi-
nary shares, quoted at £2 4s. 6d. cum
dividend, moved up to £2 ss. ex dividend,
and were still rising at time of writing.
Some brokers computed the assets value
of the shares at £3 10s.
Even if the Government stuck to the
market value in settling the matter, a
sum of £5,000,000 would ; be involved,
and the effect of such an injection of
money into a community suffering from
excessive cash and shortage of consumer
goods (and scrip) is regarded sourly by
those who have supported the Govern-
ment’s stabilisation policy. Moreover,
farmers, who were recently deprived of
the full value of their products conse-
sequent on the trade agreement with
Britain, will have another formidable
weapon to wield.
Sharemarket operators have been
suggesting that a possible way out
would be issue of Government stock
to the dismissed shareholders, but here,
too, an inflationary result is forecast as
well as unnecessary, loading of the market
in' State maturities. On any count there
is reason to believe that the Government,
if it accepts the direction of its party
members, will be stepping out of the
frying-pan into the fire,
R. G. Menzies, Leader of the Opposi-
tion, has supported the remarks of L. J.
McConnan, chief manager of the
National Bank of Australasia, to the
effect that peace-time regimentation of
the banks meant peace-time regimenta-
tion of the people through their savings
deposited in banks. By gaining control
of the people’s money, said Mr. Menzies,
Australia’s present political masters
would obtain a power to regiment and
control Australian lives far exceeding the
powers refused them at the referendum.
Stating that Labor was contemplating
legislation to deal drastically with the
Commonwealth Bank and to place per-
manent rigid controls over the trading
banks, Menzies went on to say:
It will be remembered that quite recently
the Government failed 'to renew Sir Clive
McPherson’s appointment to the Common-
wealth Bank Board, notwithstanding his un-
surpassed knowledge of rural problems and
his well-known impartiality and sagacity.
It is understood that the reason put for-
ward for this decision is that the future
control of the bank is under consideration.
Yet, only a few weeks earlier, the term
of Mr. M. B. Duffy, who was originally
appointed to represent the trade union
point of view and of whom I offer no per-
sonal criticism, was renewed.
No doubt many members of the Caucus
have for a long time seen in the war and
its attendant circumstances a golden oppor-
tunity for establishing political control of ‘
the banking system, and, indeed, of all
business enterprise. They talk a good deal
of nonsense about the banks, which they
seem to think are owned by a few rich men
instead of about 70,000 or 80,000 ordinary
thrifty people.
At the annual meeting of the Bank of
Adelaide, knight Howard Lloyd said that
the permanent peace-time Government
ownership and control of banking could
end only in inefficiency, lack of incentive
and progress, and heavy cost to the tax-
payer. In spite of the foresight they had
shown and the good service they had ren-
dered, the banks were begrudged by many
the meagre net return they were able to
secure on shareholders’ funds, and their
activities had been singled out for parti-
cularly restrictive treatment.


THE SERVICE MAN
A Long Way to Go.
“Ek Dum”: The naval battle in the
Philippines was a great step forward, and
so was the establishment of the landing
forces in Leyte. But it has not been
pointed out with sufficient force that the
Leyte engagements represent only the
first breath of a major war for the
Philippines; and that the war for the
Philippines is only the first whistle of
the wind towards the China coast.
The campaign in Leyte has reached a
point where progress is necessarily slow.
Such a newspaper headline as “3000 Japs
in Steel Trap” is apt to produce false
impressions, for the 3000 have got in
some supplies and even light tanks. What
is going on is piecemeal fighting, which
calls for a maximum of material in re-
serve and for the continual availability
of artillery and mortars.
On Leyte the enemy has bunched him-
self into something like a cohesive force
in the Ormoc-Limon areas. Every height
from which the Japanese defences might
be observed is being fought for till gullies
and hillsides are strewn with enemy dead
on one ridge overlooking the Limon
pocket 1100 were counted. Three Ameri-
can divisions seem to be fully engaged
here the 24th, the veteran 32nd, elements
of which fought at Buna and Hollandia,
and the First Cavalry.
Still Strong
There seem to be about 40,000 Japs
still to be accounted for, and the enemy
has three armies in the Philippines. And
it has been pointed out from Admiral
Kincaid’s H.Q. that there are scores of
operative aerodromes throughout the
Philippines, and that U.S. air superiority
is confined to Leyte. The correspondent
remarked that until most of the Japanese
air potential in the islands is neutralised
the U.S. Navy will be “somewhat
restricted.”
Somebody else has admitted that even
the great losses being inflicted by the
Allies on the enemy’s air force cannot
catch up with his monthly construction.
This is likely, seeing that his defensive
policy calls in the main for fighters, with
the creation of reserves of land-based
bombers to attack Allied sea power,
which he only now is beginning to use.
The Chinese Position
It is a common statement that when
the Philippines have been retaken Japan’s
southern empire of conquests will be cut
off, as the South Pacific Japanese bases
have been cut off. This statement needs
a good few qualifications, apart from
being read with a reminder that it has
taken the Allies in Burma several months
to push down the railway a few dozen
miles from Myitkina to Katha and to-
wards Bhamo, and to clear the enemy
out of Manipur.
It has yet to be seen how far enemy
sea communications can be strangled
from the Philippines. The vast numbers
of small craft on the Japanese seas and
along the China coast have great carry-
ing capacity, and there is still a consider-
able enemy naval force in existence.
The “control from the Philippines”
theory also is subject to the enemy being
prevented from establishing effective land
routes through South China to Indo-
china and Burma. He already is within
125 miles of Nanning, and 300 miles air-
line from Hanoi, while another of his
spearheads was at Kingyuan, about 60
miles beyond Liuchow, which his troops
captured 10 days ago. Imperial Japanese
H.Q. boasted that the great U.S. airfields
has been left almost intact, but General
Wedemeyer declared that all equipment
had been wrecked. And a third drive
seems to be pushing north-west towards
Kweichow province. The enemy alsft
claimed the capture of Ishan, 50 mile'N
north-west of Liuchow, and me isolation
of two Chinese corps further south.
If the ’Japanese can succeed in breaking
through to Indo-China they will have
gone a long way towards turning the war
into a land war. They have huge
numbers of Chinese laborers in the north
at their disposal, and it is no use enter-
taining the notion that these fellows will
not work as readily for the Japanese as
they would for the Allies. Many of them
may fight.
Burma Successes
In Burma the Chinese troops now have
Bhamo surrounded, which was to be
expected at this stage of the Jap retire-
ment from North Burma. But the most
heartening bit of progress is on the other
side, where East Indians from the Tiddim
Road were reported on November 19 to
be fighting at Paluwaza,, well inside Burma
and only 16 miles north of Kalewa. They
are 120 miles from Mandalay on a main
route.
In the Central North, where large num-
bers of American troops are getting into
position to help capitalise the well-sus-
tained British drive, there are likely to be
early developments. Both the Anglo-
American forces in this area and the
forces from the Tiddim Road on the west,
along the Chindwin, are only a few miles
from the central dry belt, where the
annual rainfall is under 40 inches. There
were some small advances by West Afri-
can troops in the Arakan sector.
The Wider War
On November 16 it was announced
that U.S. amphibious troops had landed
on the Mapia Islands, 145 miles north of
Biak and 420 miles east of the Palaus.
The usual naval bombardment paved the
way for the invasion forces, which met
slight resistance.
Bombing continued throughout the
Philippines and the seas to the south, in
which there are Jap pockets. A Pacific
communique on November. 15 gave
details of damage in the raids on Manila
on November 12 —three warships, 10
tankers and 28 aircraft. A light cruiser
was so heavily damaged as to be written
off and two destroyers exploded. A
floating dock was hit with a torpedo,
many installations at Cavite were dam-
aged, and 18 of 20 intercepting aircraft
were shot down.
Tokyo Radio reported that 800 aircraft
continued the raids on November 13-14.
Five hundred enemy aircraft have been
claimed by the South-west Pacific Air
Commands since the landing on Leyte;
270 were destroyed by fighters and 230
by ack-ack batteries.
An Allied sweep of shipping from the
Philippines to the Banda Sea extending
over two days cost the enemy three
freighters sunk and a battleship, a heavy
cruiser and another warship and eight
freighters damaged. Five bombs hit the
battleship and four the heavy cruiser,
which lay in Brunei Harbor, North
Borneo. In all, 112 tons of bombs were
dropped on the harbor. The Allies lost
three bombers, all shot down by anti-
aircraft fire.
The wounded from H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, including Rear-Admiral Collins,
R.A.N., were landed in the Common-
wealth at the week-end —the total casual-
ties were 30 killed and 61 wounded.
There were only two of three personnel
in the bridge structure not injured when
the ship was hit by an attacker out of
control, one among four which the ship
was credited with destroying.
A New Guinea incident gives a knock
to the belief that the enemy may, with
perfect complacency, be left to rot there
and cannot harm or corrupt the natives.
A R.A.A.F. Walrus crew had to
descend among the coast tribes near
Wewak. They landed among treacherous
natives, who handed them over to the
Japanese.
The Barbarous Foe.
“Ek Dum”: In the House on
November 15, Mr. Forde, as Mr. Cur-
tin’s deputy, said that Australian land
and air forces would “play a full part in
the battle for the Philippines,” where,
although the campaign was going very
well, “much strenuous and bitter fighting
lies ahead.”
Reviewing Mr. Forde’s statement and
glancing at the general situation, Mr.
Menzies said that Australia seemed to be
cast for “a limited or secondary role,”
and charged the Government with being
“the greatest single contributor to the
failure of so many people to realise that
war is not a holiday, with each for him-
self, but a national task which can never
be adequately won by a second-rate
effort.” Although the proposals cannot be
fairly judged until full action is de-
veloped, they don’t seem to measure up,
in. respect of ground fighting, to the Aus-
tralian effort against the Germans and
the Turks in the last war, when the popu-
lation was only 5,000,000.
The Government expects that by June
next year there will be 548,000 Aus-
tralians still in the forces, “including
about 20,000 air personnel serving
abroad, who will become available when
the war in Europe ends.”
On that basis Australia will be hard
put to it to keep a self-served corps of
front-line ground troops in action for
any length of time in tropical warfare,
where attrition through disease and ex-
haustion must be heavy and where com-
munications are a considerable burden.
Mr. Forde’s arithmetic is here con-
densed, it being premised that there is
to be “a net transfer of about 57,000 men
from the forces by June.”
Normal discharges 48,000
Special releases for civilian industry 45,000
Total ... 93,000
Less normal intake into the forces 36,000
Decline in forces to June .. 57,000
This at a time when we are being told
by the Commander-in-Chief that there
are 250,000 Japanese troops “existing as
disciplined armed forces between the
Philippines and Australia.” And the posi-
tion was set out on the eve of an
announcement by the Deputy P.M. that
Australian troops in Japanese hands had
been victims of unspeakable atrocities.
Horror on Horror
Mr. Forde’s statement was made in the
House on November 17. It was heralded
by a request on all radio stations that
listeners should tune in at 10 p.m. to
hear an “important broadcast.” This
proved to be the story of the rescue of
92 Australian soldiers out of 700 on board
a Japanese transport torpedoed by U.S.
submarines, along with 60 British soldiers
out of 600.
The rescued men were part of a force
of A.I.F. men, reckoned at 10,000, sent
from Singapore and Java to Burma and
Thailand in May, 1942, aboard vessels
in which the conditions made those of
Asiatic pilgrim ships sound luxurious.
They were employed mainly at first on
aerodrome construction and then trans-
ferred to Thanbyuazat, a little jungle
town at the northern end of the enemy’s
projected Burma-Thailand railway. By
October, 1942, thousands of Australians
and other Allied prisoners were at work
in the jungle, which they penetrated ever
more deeply as the line was pushed for-
ward.
It is the most terrible jungle in the
world —worse than most of that in New
Guinea, with the added terrors of wild
animals.
The prisoners slept on hard bamboo
shelves in thatched huts, through the roofs
of which rain poured, keeping them
always wet and the floors deep in mud
throughout the rainy season. Boots were
worn out, clothes rotted off the body, and
many went in loincloths. Food was a
small pannikin of watery rice three times
a day. One small piece of soap was
issued every six months.
There were no drugs to deal with the
dreadful tropic illnesses, no anaesthetics to
make amputation of rotted limbs easy,
very often no instruments with which the
devoted Australian surgeons could
operate. And under all these conditions
the men did the hardest kinds of navvy
labor. Sometimes they worked 18-hour
shifts, sometimes more than 24 hours
on end.
It was estimated that 2000 out of
10,000 died in Burma and Thailand. And
when the work was ended the crippled
residue was removed —some went to
Thailand for further work; some to
Indo-China. It was from these that the
parties rescued were drawn. In number
1300, half Australians, half British,
they were embarked in the second
hold of a ship in space labelled “accomo-
dation for 187 steerage passengers”—
which in Asia means a very small space
indeed. It had been divided into two
levels by the use of artificial flooring.
Thus there were two decks in the hold,
each with headroom of four feet from
floor to ceiling. In these dreadful spaces
below deck —save those whom sheer limi-
tation of space vomited to the upper air
—all were confined, each allotted a space
of two square feet, so that they had to
sleep in heaps upon one another.
The portholes were sealed; there was
no ventilation save through the hatch,
and the erection of wind sails was not
permitted. Water was short, and the
shortage was intensified by thirst caused
by the Serving of stew cooked with salt-
water. The ration was three small pan-
nikins of watery rice, with a spoonful of
sugar in the morning, and some thin fish
stew at night.
Into the Sea
At 5.30 a.m. on September 12, 1944,
in a calm sea and while it was still dark
in the holds, the ship was torpedoed by
a U.S. submarine. The Japanese pan-
nicked. Their lifeboats were cast off.
But their prisoners, left to their fate, did
not lose their courage. Under the direc-
tion of their officers “they went overboard
progressively,” after throwing into the
shark-infested sea everything floatable
they could find.
About three-fourths of them had life-
belts, but many suffered the cruel effects
of depth charges—what the concussion
of one depth charge means was brought
home to Sydney harborside-dwellers re-
cently—dropped by Japanese escort de-
stroyers attacking the U.S. sub. These
destroyers picked up their own men, but
made no attempt to rescue the Tommies
and Diggers. Instead they waved deri-
sively to their prisoners, who replied in
typically British fashion by singing “Rule
Britannia.”
It was only between the afternoon of
the fourth and the sixth day that the sur-
vivors were rescued by U.S. submarines;
whose work in those waters when it
comes to be told will make a thrilling
tale. And their officers and men proved
as kind as they w,ere brave and skilful;
if the rescued men had been their
brothers they could not have been better
treated. But before they were picked up
the sufferings of the survivors were in-
describable. As General Blarney said,
“These men set an example to the whole
of Australia in the manner in which they
sustained their morale under almost im-
possible conditions.”
The manner in which the news was
publicised was open to criticism. This
was especially so since it was admitted
that the conditions of the prisoners with-
drawn from the railway were afterwards
“somewhat improved,” and that thd de-
scription of the horrors which they under-
went had “no reference to camps in
Hongkong, Formosa, Occupied China,
Korea and Japan, where it is believed
present conditions may be relatively
better, although still far below the stand-
ards we desire.” Nor can there be any
documentary evidence that 2000 have
died.
The writer can vouch, from conversa-
tions with actual escapees, that in all
Jap p.o.w. camps conditions are not so
ghastly as those on the Burma-Thailand
railway. There is repression, brutality,
Oriental capriciousness, and the rice diet
drives prisoners to carpet snake and
monkey in the best of island camps, but
conditions in many are bearable. This
has been stated in many American
reports. And there has lately been some
relaxation of the embargo on communi-
cations with prisoners, while arrange-
ments for the delivery of American Red
Cross comforts are going forward.
On Nov. 19 Mr. Forde announced that
the Japanese had reported the sinking in
June of another .transport in which 184
A.I.F. prisoners were lost, while 72
reached Japanese prison camps.
White’s Comments
Many people will agree with T. W.
White, M.H.R., who “questioned whether
the Minister was wise in making the state-
ment to the country.”
He has admitted that he does not know
the names and numbers of the men who
have died. That will harrow the feelings
of thousands of families jn Australia and,
although they have been asked not to
put questions, that is asking something
quite impossible. I feel that the Govern-
ment should not make a disclosure of
great casualties until the names are actually
known and details given first to the next-
of-kin. That has been the rule up to date.
I hope the Government will remember that
on future occasions.
The member for Balaclava knows what
it is to be a prisoner of war and what is
due to the families of men in such a posi-
tion. He was held captive by the Turks
for three years in the last war.
The West Front Ablaze.
“Ek Dum”: In the slush, sleet, snow,
mire and fog which usually end cam-
paigning in Europe the Allied forces in
the west are moving forward towards
the crucial points of entry to Germany
along 400 miles of line from the Belfort
Gap to the Meuse.
The right flank of the general move-
ment is General Montgomery’s Second
Army, but his Canadians are not in-
volved. Their task apparently is to be
the breaking open of the Portress of
Holland, and for it they are reforming
after their strenuous battle for the Schelde
Estuary, one of the bitterest series of
engagements so far fought in this war.
The British sector is concerned witn the
cleaning up of bridgeheads west of the
Maas in an area well known to British
military history: the area of the heaths
of the Peel, where the fortresses of the
Meuse lie just across a stream, now so
canalised that the men of 1702 and 1793
would not recognise it —Stevensweert and
Venloo and, just between them, where
the Roer runs in from its hill source east
of the Liege, Roermond. Here was
fought Marlborough’s campaign in his
“lucky year” of 1702, when Lord Cutts’s


Public Notice
I, ALADAR SZ&KELY, of Polish nationality, born
at Jablonka, Orava, Poland, and resident over five
years in Australia, now residing at 42 Caroma
Avenue, Brighton le Sands, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY FROST of 25 Fotheringham
Street Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that MARY
FROST has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2003 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you mays enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 18th December 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from G. S.
BILBIE, ESQ. Solicitor for Hunter
Street Newcastle or his Agents MESSRS SHAW
MCDONALD & CO Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street
Sydney.—(u.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL TERRITORY — Probate Jurisdiction.
IN THE WILL of ANDREW CLELLAND McMUR-
TRIE formerly of Bexley in the State of New South
Wales but late of Lower Wattut and Wau in the
Territory of New Guinea Mine Owner deceased. —
APPLICATION will be made after 14 days from the
publication hereof that Probate of the Will of the
abovenamed deceased granted by the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in its Probate Jurisdiction on the
sth September 1941 to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE in
New South Wales and PERCIVAL LOUIS WENT-
WORTH may be sealed with the Seal of this Honor-
able Court by virtue of its powers under and in
accordance with the provisions of the National
Security (External Territories) Regulations and the
Administration and Probate Ordinance 1937-1940 of
the Territory of New Guinea in respect of the estate
of the abovenamed Deceased in the Territory of New
Guinea and all persons having any claim against the
said estate are required to forward particulars tn er ®'
of to the undersigned within the said period and all
notices may be served at the undermentioned address.
DAVIES & WOODS,
Proctors for the Applicants,
Northbourne Avenue, City,
Canberra.
ffloual Siujilecfhm
Anglo-Irish Brigade stormed Fort St
Michael and great Venloo— tje fnite of
the war,” Marlborough called it—hung
out its washing in surrender.
Across this low-lying mist-hung land-
scape the roads are on embankments,
and after rain the fields on either side
look like sloughs for long distances.
Over the last miles of the northern
part of the Peel area the British
moved with all the features of modern
war—the heavy bombing, the great
barrage, the artillery screen, the tanks,
culminating in the use of those eternal
instruments of battle which modem
science has failed to replace, the infantry
and their paraphernalia that finish every
fight. Modernised, but still the P. 8.1.,
their fascines carried on tanks, their
preceding sappers armed with mine detec-
tors, the mediaeval fireballs and torches
replaced with flame-throwers, they went
forward with the same dash and courage
as Cutts’s Royal Irish.
By the week-end the British had pushed
forward through sleet and rain, some-
times waist-deep in water, to the western
Maas banks, along a 10-mile front be-
tween Wessem, just above Steevenswert,
and a point north of the euphoniously
named village of Buggenam.
Before Roermond the enemy held a
bridgehead covering the highway crossing.
It was certain that he would put up a
fight for it and, more particularly, for
Venloo, to the north, in which region
three main railways branch into Ger-
many—to the Wesel crossing on the
Rhine, north-easterly; to Essen, to Kre-
feld and Duisburg and to Dilsseldorf.
Diisseldorf also is served directly by a
line from Roermond —it is the main
direct industrial rail route between Ant-
werp and Germany.
The British threatening Roermond are
only about 36 miles from the Rhine.
South of this sector large sections of
the British Second Army had joined with
the Americans, who, as the result of
earlier offensives around Aix-la-Chapelle,
were well across the Maas.
One end of the U.S. Ninth Army’s
sector to which the British flanks joined
was at Geilenkirchen, which was cap-
tured by the British and Americans
jointly, on the edge of a high tongue
of land pushing northward from Aix;
the other was 16 miles away in the region
of Eschweiler, a busy industrial centre on
the junction of two main highways, to
Cologne—the northerly one via Julich, the
southerly via Diiren. Towards Dtiren
the American First Army, 10 miles away
in the Hiirtgen forest, was trying to push
up from the south-west.
At the week-end the Ninth Army was
staving off bitter counter-attacks, of which
the new 60-ton Royal Tiger tanks were
an ingredient, delivered with the ground
and communications all in favor of the
enemy. But the U.S. troops were hold-
ing their own, and between November
16-18 had taken 1800 prisoners. It had
rained heavily and the countryside was
a sea of mud. The Germans claimed
that on this front they had inflicted “very
heavy” losses, destroyed “152” U.S. tanks
and held Eschweiler despite the use of
five U.S. divisions against it on a narrow
sector.
The First Army’s drive on the other
side of Aix had pushed through the hill
country along the local branch line, and
engulfed Stolberg. Forward units were
fighting their way along several miles of
front south-east of this to force a way
down off the slopes of the Hiirtgen Forest
rises into the broad Roer Valley at
Diiren.
The force was literally blasting its way
yard by yard through the thickly-packed
German defences, but making progress —
a thousand yards north of Stolberg, 3000
yards in the Hiirtgen area —flattening
everything in the path of the battle.
Tire Fight for Metz
Further south there was no real activity
until the sector of General Patton’s Army
from the Luxembourg border to beyond
Metz was reached. Here there had been
further enemy withdrawals. The flank-
ing forces of General Patton’s divisions
had crossed into Germany near the small
frontier town of Perl, on the road up the
Moselle to Trier —there were unofficial
reports that American forces had crossed
the frontier at Perl at the beginning of
September, but many lives were lost be-
fore the crossing was made.
As suggested here last week, the Ger-
mans seemed to be fighting a withdrawal
from Metz. Captives (Home Guards)
asserted this. The enemy was obviously
not engaged in a main defence of the
town, since he was not using heavy
guns; moreover, the forts to the north
had fallen too easily to suggest that the
withstanding of a main assault would be
attempted. Metz is of more use offen-
sively than defensively to a German
army. And when it falls the Americans
will still be some way from the old
French frontal lines and at least 25 miles
from the No. 1 German defence line,
though some of their flanking spearheads
are already some miles to the east. The
Germans were getting out of Metz in
good order at the week-end, holding the
six forts round Gravelotte Plateau on the
west while they evacuated the city.
Movements of the Seventh American
Army in the Nancy-Luneville-Epinal
sector were in tune with those of the
Third Army. The Command announced
the capture of Remoncourt and seven
other towns. All along this front, from
north of Luneville to south of Bruyeres,
which is about 10 miles n.-n.-e. of Epinal,
progress was made and the line in general
went forward about a mile through
wooded country served by a labyrinth
of roads.
At the Belfort Gap
On the extreme south the First French
Army had made a sensational penetration
of the Belfort Gap, bypassing the
fortress and on November 19 seizing
Altkirch, which is only 15 miles from
the Rhine. The French had taken 10,000
prisoners in three days. Least noticed,
this advance is the most spectacular and
promising of all the Allied sector attacks
on the west, and the one which is causing
the Germans the most immediate concern.
And well it might, for it is threatening
the whole flank of the Rhine Valley
plain. It changes the whole complexion
of the southern sectors.
The Allied offensive can scarcely be
called a main offensive, though it might
conceivably develop into one if the Ger-
mans went to pieces, since huge forces
are involved.
Short of this chance, it is not likely
that the decisive phase will be approached
before the main stream of the Rhine is
passed.
The fighting is of a kind in which only
one thing tells in the end . . . the infan-
try, which must be conserved with infinite
care; used only when its artillery and
aircraft have done their utmost to assure
that its casualties will be kept down to
bedrock, especially since General Eisen-
hower has announced that it is intended
to keep the pressure on throughout the
winter. In an address to the American
nation he asked that supplies of ammuni-
tion be kept up, insisting on the import-
ance of ammunition.
England continued to suffer travail
from flying-bombs and rockets during the
week, but very little was being told of the
details. The heavy bombing of Germany
continued
British in Yugoslavia.
“Ek Dum”: On November 19 the
Eighth Army British troops were five
miles above Forli on the Bologna road,
where they ran into a strong enemy block
on the Cosina River. In the Faenza
region troops got within six miles of the
mountains to the south on the same day.
But the weather is a bar to major opera-
tions.
Across the Adriatic the Germans an-
nounced the evacuation of Tirana, the
capital of Albania, after violent street
fighting.
The Allied communique from Italy on
November 19 established the fact that
British troops are co-operating with the
Yugoslavs in Montenegro and Herzego-
vina, where they appear to be trying to
cut off German rearguards. Allied
bomber forces have bombed troop
columns, and Spitfires from Greece are
co-operating with the Red Army.
Exit the Tirpitz.
“Ek Dum”: With the wrecking of the
battleship Tirpitz the German capital
navy ceased to exist. Though there were
two other battleships under construction
they seem to have been abandoned un-
finished in favor of smaller craft.
The Tirpitz was a 40-000-tonner, 792 ft.
long, and she carried eight 15in. and 12
5.9 in. guns. She lay in Tromso Fiord,
northern Norway, a long, deep, gloomy
inlet between high impinging mountains
and shielded across its narrow mouth by
closely-packed islands. Tromso is three
degrees above the Arctic Circle, but,
as with Koenigsberg and other Polish-
fringe objectives, it was found necessary
to send Lancasters on a 2500-mile return
journey from Britain into the Arctic night
to reach an objective which could have
been blasted from a Russian-held Finnish
airfield less than 300 miles away.
The adventure advertises the tremend-
ous range and carrying power of the Lan-
casters. Twenty-nine, under Wing-Com-
mander J. B. Tait, D. 5.0., D.F.C., and
Squadron-Leader A. G. Williams, were
used with loads of 12,0001 b. bombs. Be-
cause of the distance, the raiders were
without fighter cover, which again could
have been given from Russian fields.
As the first aircraft circled over just
before 10.50 a.m. on Sunday, November
11, the Tirpitz was clearly visible in the
northern, half-light. After some near-
misses she was fairly hit. Still, she had
time to get her batteries into operation,
and a battleship engaged in anti-aircraft
defence is something to avoid.
However, almost directly after the first
misses the Tirpitz was hit by one of the
earthquake bombs,'a 12,000-pounder, cap-
able of landing its six tons at a speed of
something like 600 m.p.h.
Accordingly, the fire from the ship
lasted only until a direct hit was made
a matter of seconds after the first “bombs
away” signal. Two more bombs imme-
diately afterwards found their mark.
Huge whorls of smoke, seamed with
flame, rose over the fiord, and then came
a succession of explosions, each louder
than the previous one. The last sounded
as if a magazine had gone up. The rear
gunner in an Australian-manned Lan-
caster, making its run at 5000 ft., saw
Tirpitz keel over on her side.
When a veteran R.A.A.F. Lancaster
filmed the scene the ship was found
to be upside down, with a long line of
keel showing above the waters.
The strange fact was that so great a
battleship Was so little defended. Flanking
land defence there seems to have been
none. There was no destroyer screen, no
land-based aircraft to take off and harry
the raiders; apparently no raider —or if
there was, no means of profiting by it.
Tirpitz seems to have been skulking from
harbor to harbor in the dark, trusting for
defence to the Arctic night.
In view of Germany’s great shortage of
seaborne aircraft support, cruisers and
destroyers, the ship’s value as a battle
unit was not great, but in the open sea
and as a raider she would have been an
awful menace had she got out. The
devoted British and other convoys on the
Murmansk route have had one of the
worst terrors lurking on their flank
removed.
The R.N. celebrated with fireworks.
Ships of the Home Fleet thrust into
Trondhjem fiord, which Lord Keyes so
boldly designed to raid in the troublous
times of 1940, and sank an armed trawler
and possibly another. And on the
night of the Tromso raid they caught a
convoy off Lister Fiord in Rogaland, be-
tween Egersund and the entrance to the
Skagerrack, under the noses of the land
batteries. The R.N. sank nine ships, with-
out losing any of its own and with only
two killed and seven wounded.
The Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: Of the Russian drives in
East Prussia and in the part of Latvia
still held by German forces there is
nothing good to report. Evidently the
Russians had to retire from frontal
positions gained, by the impetus of their
drive into East Prussia on the Gum-
binnen Line, and particularly on the
southern sector of the Insterburg Gap
defences, where the hills lie round
Goldap.
But towards the week-end Moscow and
Berlin were in agreement for once —that
a new offensive on a large scale was about
to begin at various points along the
eastern front, to coincide with the new
Allied offensive in the west.
Berlin suggested that the scenes of
action would be the Insterburg Gap, War-
saw and the Cracow sector —the one
which all strategists have been watching
as the most likely to give lethal results
if the Russians are really capable of
battle action comparable in intensity with
that of Caen. This sober observers are
inclined to doubt.
However, “Pravda” remarked —and
Moscow Radio broadcast it at the week-
end—that the Soviet people were now
bracing their muscles for the final round
and that “Soviet troops,” having entered
Germany as avengers, “will carry their
mission to a victorious finish.”
A German communique issued at mid-
night (Sydney time), Nov. 17, declared
that except in the Hungarian sector there
was no actual fighting save for patiol
In Norway a small force of Nor-
wegians has joined the Red Army units
advancing from Finland the first Allied
troops, other than Balkan satellite troops,
Tito-ites and technicians, to fight in
actual joint command with the Red Army.
Along the Danube
The Hungarian battle is viewed from
Moscow in the usual spirit of optimism,
though the assumption that the Germans
were evacuating the capital in panic a
fortnight ago proved groundless.
Actually the Russians, in converging
on Pest from three directions —from the
south up the Belgrade railway, from the
east at Debreczen and from the north-east
—seem to have had to fight their way
every mile against increasing resistance
as they approached the capital. Their
attempts to establish effective bridge-
heads across the Danube further south,
with a view to getting on to the splendid
main road from Buda to Mohacs, which
comes close to the river north of the
Drave, had not succeeded at the week-
end.
To the north-east of Pest a heavy tank
battle raged most of last week at Hatvan,
a rail junction 29 miles from the capital.
Here the Russians seem to be bent upon
pushing north-west to outflank the enemy
in the Danube Bend aqd secure a route
to the Vienna Gap, via Bratislava, with-
out crossing the river. On the south they
were said to have breached the German
defences 10 miles from the city itsell.
Also, the Hungarians, it was said, were
deserting in large numbers. To the east
the Russians had taken Jaszarokszallas,
45 miles from the capital, though their
patrols seemed to be beyond it.
The whole situation was summed up
by the hopeful Moscow Associated Press
correspondent, on November 16, in a
statement that the Red Army was fighting
in the southern suburbs of Budapest, and
that the battle for the twin cities was
reaching its climax. Other authorities
described it as “near its end.”
It is not difficult to believe that Pest,
which forms a large section of the city,
might well fall. It is on the eastern side
of the river and is as flat as a pancake,
generally speaking, though some of its
approaches present better opportunities in
defensive terrain, especially in the rain,
which poured down all the week.
Buda, on the western side, is a different
matter. So long as the Russians do not
succeed in crossing the Danube elsewhere
and outflanking it, it has strong advan-
tages for defence, and it will not be easily
captured if the Germans have a few
divisions to defend it; and defence is
their policy. Properly defended it would
be harder to take than Warsaw.


lie’s learnt a lot
about wireless,.,
That's why
when he comes back
his new radio will
have to be a real
engineering job.
d
r.
“His Master’s Voice”
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local Radio dealer will once again
be fully equipped to serve you with new “H.M.V, n
Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R6/44
Missing Friend.
JAMES WILLIAMSON late of Kadina South Aus-
tralia believed to be in Sydney or New South Wales
son of PATRICK WILLIAMSON please communi-
cate with the EXECUTOR TRUSTEE & AGENCY
CO. OF S.A. LTD. 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
THE EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE AND AGENCY CO,
OF S.A., LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, South
Australia, desire to establish contact with the son«
or daughters of JOSEPH VICKERY, believed to
have settled in Sydney or New South Wales brother
of the late William Vickery, who died in 1909. ■
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
' J I
111
m
in Hhiii:
mm
H*
Modern high-cb*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Club attendants, civilians and squads
of air force men beat out a grass fire in
the flat reserve while Peter compensated
for his Melbourne Cup second by winning
the Williamstown Cup at Flemington last
Saturday.
Peter started favorite at 7 to 2, hit the
front inside the last furlong, and won
running away from Claudette and Hunt-
ingdale. A six-year-old gelding, by Peter
Pan from Sequoir, Peter has been a
splendid investment at the 240gns. he cost
Mrs. D. W. Reddan towards the end of
1942. Mrs. Reddan has had several
notable successes with horses raced by
her. She won the A.J.C. Villiers with
Ramdin and the Australian Hurdle with
David Spear.
Rumors concerning his condition pre-
ceded Peter’s success. His Melbourne
Cup run was supposed to have “washed
him out,” and on Friday officials of
Williamstown R.C. were kept busy
answering the telephone and denying that
he had been scratched. W. O’Dwyer,
trainer of Peter, denied after the race
that there had ever been anything wrong
with his representative. “He has been
as sound as a bell and has not left a feed
since the Melbourne Cup,” he stated.
Destination proved the best two-year-
old colt of the season by defeating Somers
and Gay Lad in the Rawdon Stakes.
Five starts have yielded three wins and a
second, and he has been a splendid
bargain for Mr. H. Hamilton, who previ-
ously had not raced a horse. Mr. Hamil-
ton is a farmer in South Gippsland, and,
until he became owner of Destination,
had seldom visited a racecourse. Approxi-
mately 70 cows on his property had kept
him busy. He purchased Destination
from the colt’s trainer, who had bought
him as a foal with his dam.
* * * *
The attendance at Randwick on Satur-
day was below that of recent days, being
about 34,000, but the tote did not suffer.
The turnover was £121,691.
Cooringwang and Star Gold were
quickly at the head of affairs in the
Horsley Handicap. When he disposed of
Cooringwang Star Gold looked a certain
winner, but after being ahead of only two
other runners at the straight entrance
Panchio (O’Sullivan) finished so brilliantly
that he fairly ran over Star Gold in the
last 50 yards, beating him three-quarters
of a length. As the value of the race to
the winner was over £B3O and presum-
ably he won something in bets, owner
Trigg must have been pleased that he did
not adhere to his announced intention of
a few weeks ago of dropping out of rac-
ing. Clarion Call, who was prominent
throughout, was fourth, and then War
Effort, while Tahmoor and Bangster en-
tirely failed to display any of their cus-
tomary dash.
Lady Hamilton and Gauntlet were first
into the straight in the Milperra Handi-
cap, followed by Craigie. When Craigie,
who was nearest them at the half-mile,
ran past both a furlong from home he
looked like winning comfortably. Then
Prince and Easter Time closed on him,
but he struggled on gamely to beat Prince
a head, with Easter Time a similar dis-
tance further away. The latter stays
better than previously supposed ; while
Gauntlet, though a winner at a mile and
a quarter is better suited by something
shorter. Cordale did well to get fourth
after being a long way back at the turn*,
and is one of Sydney’s probable stayers.
Silent, who was wide out, was never in
danger. Duncan rode the winner.
Courtship (Thompson) did all that was
expected of her in the Two-year-old
Stakes. She went to the front soon after
barrier-rise, and, turning for home with a
five-lengths lead, won at her ease from
Heart of Oak (Manitoba-All British),
one of G. Price’s team, and likely to
prove useful. Fast Light’s third was of
little account, though she beat Tiber for
that position.
Sidelight was the early leader in the
first division of the Novice Handicap,
giving place to Mel Swan at the half-
mile. Debenture (Bougoure) put in his
claim after entering the straight, and in
a rattling finish defeated Mel Swan, who
came again after appearing beaten, by
a half-head. Loyal March was a moder-
ate third. Debenture started from the ex-
treme outside, but commenced so smartly
that from the time the field settled down
he was never further back than third.
Sylvan Brook was a good fourth, and
Courier and Kirkham also shaped respec-
tably. Though there was support for
Lance and Wansey, neither was ever in
the fighting line.
Guddengang (F. Delaney) won the
second division of the Novice Handicap
so decisively that early success for him
in a high class is probable. Severus and
Lavaine led into the straight, but Gud-
dengang quickly settled both, and went
on to win by three lengths from Insolvent,
who made up ground at the end. Nearest
to the place-getters were Deputy Leader
and Veil Malt. Manday Son and Prin-
cess Annabel were disappointing, but it
was some excuse for the latter that she
met with interference. Guddengang is a
four-year-old gelding by Marconigram
from Chanteuse, and may stay.
Oriental showed unexpected pace in
the Three-year-old Handicap, but Philgita
shot clear shortly after entering the
straight, and squeezed home by a head
from the fast-finishing Gay Lovat, who,
though not near the front bunch at the
turn, would have won in another couple
of strides. Beltana, well placed through-
out, was fourth, without ever looking a
winner, and Princeton again failed to act
up to his private reputation. King’s Glen
did better than most of the rough divi-
sion, and may yet justify the good
opinion held of him at Rosehill.
The Leumeah Handicap proved soft
for Liberality, though at the top of the
straight there seemed a possibility of Air
Link troubling him. Bestow outstayed
Royal Result for third and Pungnah and
Denton (who was slow in finding his legs)
headed the remainder. Precise, after get-
ting away badly, was first into the straight
but tired to nothing over the last furlong.
Magi ran indifferently, as did Merrimba,
whose hard racing during the last 16
months is evidently finding him out.
* * * *
Weights for the Villiers Stakes and
Summer Cup will not be issued until
Monday next, but some doubles book-
makers have already got down to busi-
ness, with Modulation, Abbeville and
Bahtheon heading the list of candidates
for the mile, and Cordale, Kiaree and
Veiled Threat on top in the Summer
Cup. They may be correct in their early
selections, but it would be safe to bet
that the appearance of the weights will
cause their opinions to alter.
* * * *
“Wish you press dhaps would pull off
in your glorification of youngsters after
they ride a winner or two,” remarked a
Sydney trainer the other day. “When
after a few wins, in some of which they
were almost ‘carried home,’ lads see
their photos in papers, and read of their
alleged ‘capable horsemanship’ it natur-
ally unbalances them a bit, and they be-
come a trifle difficult, to manage. Before
you know where you are they are telling
you how horses should be trained as well
as ridden. It’s all right to encourage boys,
but between praisje and photos it is
possible to overdq it.”
* * * *
The S.T.C. will soon have to set about
getting its house in order if it is to stand
on its own legs early next year. Offices,
secretary and good general staff are neces-
sary, and arrangements cannot be made
in five minutes. Contemplated improve-
ments in stand and tote facilities cannot
well be expected for some time.
* * sft
R. F. -Moses, a candidate for the
vacancy in the A.J.C. committee, has
been associated with racing from boy-
hood. His father, Fred Moses, was a
member of the A.J.C. committee for
many years, and, in partnership with W.
Moses, bred and raced many good horses.
They imported Valais, and won a Mel-
bourne Cup with Poitrel. In his connec-
tion with the Rosehill R.C., Reg. Moses
has had experience as a committeeman.
* * * *
Bookmakers and their sympathisers
are bemoaning the bad time the former
have recently experienced at Randwick,
and are going to cut down on big bets.
Well, they would not have been able to
lay them only for their previous wins.
Naturally, bookmakers must have their
reverses, but the public pays in the long
run.
* * * *
In its financial year of 1943-44 the
Automatic Totalisator, Ltd., made a net
profit of £28,498 —nearly £9OOO more than
the previous year. It was a record, as
was the ordinary dividend of 8 per cent.
Randwick contributed largely to the com-
pany’s profit, and, if nothing happens
to cause a slump, will also do so in
1944-45. Since the commencement of the
current racing season machine-betting has
been heavy at Randwick, full figures
being as under:
August 19 .. .. .. £127,216 0 0
August 26 138,015 5 0
September 2 .. .. 151,332 15 0
September 16 .. .. 111,897 15 0
October 7 139,969 15 0
October 14 .. .. 192,806 15 0
October 21 .. .. 165,290 5 0
October 28 .. .. 144,259 0 0
November 18 .. .. 121,691 0 0
Total £1,292,478 10 0
* * * «
The meeting of Civic Pride and Court-
ship in the Kirkham Stakes will be an
item of special interest at Randwick on
Saturday. Of the other candidates Tac-
tician seems the only one worth taking
into account. Civic Pride wQn the Gim-
crack Stakes as she liked with 8.5 in 1.1,
while last week Courtship did the same
in l.li with 8.7 over the same course.
In the Kirkham Civic Pride’s 71b. penalty
makes her weight 8.7 to Courtship’s 8.0.
They are of the same type as gallopers,
both being very smart beginners, but with
her pull in weight, as Well as the advant-
age of the more experienced rider, Court-
ship has a fair chance of downing Civic
Pride, though the latter is the probable
favorite. Last year Shannon, at 2 to 1
on, won the Kirkham Stakes by a length
from Tea Rose.
Miscellaneous.
There was a grand fight at Leichhardt
on Thursday—a real Donnybrook, with
bottles in it, also coppers and a lady.
It broke out in the gallery, and while it
was raging the “sports” had no eyes for
the affair in the ring, which wasn’t worth
looking at anyway. The parties were
Dundee and Warner, and Dundee was
declared the winner, though the decision
mattered as little as the scrap.
Eddie Miller stopped Tommy Johns in
the seventh round of their Sydney
Stadium contest, and Miller afterwards
said it was his last appearance before he
fights Vic Patrick for , the lightweight
championship. He will be as easy for
Patrick as Johns was for him. Haying
every physical advantage, Johns tore into
Miller with fists flying, but most of his
wild swings were made to miss, and a
left counter (not “kept up”) floored him
early in the third. The round was .cur-
tailed, but Johns came out strong for
the fourth, and went on missing, furnish-
ing a target for Miller’s straight punches.
A left “downstairs” dropped Tommy to
his knees in the sixth. Up before a count
could be commenced, Johns took plenty
of punishment, and after he had been
down three times in the seventh Joe Wallis
called it a night.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes:
Northern Pearl, 1 ; Heart of Oak,
2 ; Gold Cascade, 3.
Farm Encourage Stakes: Gud-
dengang, 1 ; Wheatland, 2 ; Sylvan
Brook, 3.
Kirkham Stakes: Courtship, 1 ;
Civic Pride, 2 ; Tactician, 3.
Camden Handicap : Silverelda, 1 ;
Star Gold, 2; Davinia or Strath-
darr, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Easter Time, 1 ; Royal Peer, 2;
Streamford, 3.
Welter Handicap : Air Link, 1 ;
Betza, 2 ; Sunfel or Bestow, 3.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
Many well-known citizens gathered at
a party given by the Lud Mayor to wel-
come back Sir Ronald Cross, British Hig
Commissioner. In response to the glow-
ing tributes paid to him, both by the Lud
Mayor and Judge Book, Sir Ronald said
he truly was glad to return to this coun-
try. He quoted his small daughter, who
was born in this city two years ago. Ise
English but I’se Aussie, too, was her
response, made to a teasing friend, and
that, Sir Ronald said, was how he felt.
He spoke of the magnificent spirit he
found prevailing in England wherever he
went, and said that many people had
remarked that they preferred the blitz
to the robot-bomb. On his return from
England Sir Ronald visited Rome and
Florence. One of the loveliest Flower-
town bridges had fortunately been un-
touched, but beautiful buildings on either
side had been blown up to prevent the
Allies from advancing.
While on his way to visit General Alex-
ander Sir Ronald met a young staff
officer who was greatly interested in Aus-
tralia and asked many questions. After
a talk of 10 minutes Sir Ronald dis-
covered he was talking to young baronet
Rupert Clarke. Sir Ronald also visited
the Governor of Bengal and found the
Casey family well and enjoying their
work. At the Mayor’s party Lady
Cross, smart in navy blue, sat with
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, Lady Mayoress.
Mrs. Campbell is at the moment
very interested in the imaginary Air
Race to Geneva,, as the Town Hall
Group is sponsoring the Beaufighter
Beatrice as a means of raising money for
the Lud Mayor’s Red Cross Fund. Also
among the guests were Mrs. Norman
Myer, an attractive figure in mist blue,
and her husband ; Mrs. Robert Southby,
trim and smart in her Red Cross uniform,
and Mrs. Hector Fraser, who was accom-
panied by Mr. Fraser.
So thoroughly was the Red Cross Exhi-
bition in the Town Hall planned that
every phase of Red Cross work was cov-
ered and the public was shown how the
money it contributes is spent. In four
days it was estimated that 67,000 people
had visited the show. At the official
opening the Mann lady, wife of the
State’s Acting-Governor, said that though
many people knew of the work of one
branch of Red Cross, only those closely
connected with general administration
knew how far-reaching was its work.
As visitors entered the foyer of the
Town Hall they were greeted with the
sight of a patient (a dummy, of course)
undergoing a blood transfusion. The
various stages of the transformation of
the blood into the plasma which goes to
the forward dressing station was ex-
plained by Red Cross workers. The large
hall was entirely dominated by a very
realistic prison camp, with its grim
barbed-wire fence and with figures of
Australian soldiers seen in the interior of
the hut. In a high lookout, the figure of
a German guard kept watch with his
rifle in hand. Percy, the life-sized papier-
mache nursing model, was a great favorite
with visitors. Daily the crowds watched
him being washed and bandaged and
then tucked up in his comfortable bed.
Under the east gallery a series of im-
pressive scenes told the story of Red
Cross in actual warfare. First scene
showed the dense jungle, with soldiers
making their way through it. In the back-
ground stretcher-bearers were taking
away the wounded. Next scene showed
wounded men at the port of evacua-
tion, with a large hospital ship at anchor
and a large flying ambulance being filled
with patients. Then to hospital, with
Australian Army nurses caring for
Wounded soldiers, and the final scene,
patients up and playing draughts with
ied Cross workers or being taught weav-
ng—occupational therapy plays a large
>art in Red Cross plans for rehabilitation
)f men sick and wounded in war. As an
ncentive to children to become interested
in the Red Cross a number of prizes were
offered for an essay on “What I Learned
at the Red Cross Exhibition.”
The wise (and there were many of
them)% snapped up the lovely bits and
pieces which were being offered at the
show of Marguerite Mahood’s work.
Marguerite, with a husband and small
son, who answers to the name of Martin,
has time to design and fire pottery in a
large oven which hen husband has built
for her at their home in Kew. She has
made over 2000 experiments in glazes,
and some of her figure groups are as
lovely as fragile Dresden china. Com-
mander F. R. James, R.A.N., opened the
exhibition and then the red tabs went on
at a furious pace. But for the rule that
forbids pieces being taken away until the
show is over, Marguerite would have had
only a one-day stand.
Esther Paterson, wearing an ensemble
in the blue which sets off her peaches-
and-cream complexion, was choosing
pieces, and at the same time saying many
nice things about Dr. Thomas Wood,
whose portrait she is painting. Although
a very busy person, it seems Dr. Wood
is never late for an appointment and
never misses one. He is allowing Esther
to keep the portrait for 12 months after
it is finished for exhibition purposes and
then it is to be sent to his home in Eng-
land. Eileen Heath, who is especially in-
terested in pottery, was deep in conver-
sation with Mrs. Young, widow of Prof.
W. J. Young, who was at the Melbourne
University as head of the Bio-Chemistry
Department. Only daughter Sylvia, a
fully-qualified medico, has been missing
from social circles in this city for a long
while. For eight years Sylvia did a very
good job running a children’s clinic in
Palestine, and Mrs. Young has just had
word to- say that the Civil Service
authorities in London have asked Sylvia
to go to Sierra Leone to open another
clinic for children.
Mary Kiernan, talented Melbourne
pianist, pictured here, is a member of a
very busy family. Sister Marjorie is the
wife of Dr. David Pitt, recently on active
service in New Caledonia, and now on
leave in Melbourne; younger brother
Peter has just received his call-up for the
R.A.N., and elder brother John, who was
at a university in England when war
broke out, joined the Eighth Army, and
has not been seen by his family for some
years. Mary began her studies at an
early age, and at five had passed her
first music exam, with honors.- At the
same age she composed her first piece
of music.
Coming back from England just after
war broke out, passengers on the boat
bet Mary that she could pot compose a
waltz of three pages in 15 minutes. She
was locked in a cabin, and in 15 minutes
won the bet. Mary went to the Royal
Academy while at school in London, and
was ip the orchestral class taught by
Sir Henry Wood. In 1941 she made her
solo debut at the B.M.S. in Melbourne.
Up to date this pianist has raised £350
for the Red Cross, and her next effort
will be at the end of the month at the
Assembly Hall, when she will play
Mendelssohn’s Prelude and Fugue in E
Minor.
The annual Adam Lindsay Gordon
pilgrimage took place at the Brighton
(Vic.) cemetery. It was largely attended,
but was marked by the absence for the
first time in 34 years of Charles R. Long,
M.A., a leading spirit in the movement.
Long, now in his 85th year, is well known
as an outstanding Shakspearean scholar
and a writer of Australiana. For many
years he was Chief Inspector of Schools
and editor of the school paper. Illness
prevented his presence to do honor to
Gordon’s memory.
Latest engagement joins together a son
and daughter of the Manse. Mary Pethe-
rick who, at the age of 21, became the
possessor of the degree of Master of
Science and has since been working in
the Baker Medical Research Department
at the Alfred Hospital, has given her
heart to Sergeant Brian Water (A.1.F.,
returned), who has a B.A. honors in Clas-
sics and the Diploma of Education.
Mary’s father is the Rev. Ernest Pethe-
rick, of Brighton, and Brian’s is the Rev.
W. H. Waters, of Geelong.
From Sydney
Mrs. Walter Elliot, back in Sydney
after a dash around Australia, in which
cities, bush schools, leaders of youth
movements, workers in munitions fac-
tories, dockyards and steelworks formed
part of a vivid kaleidoscope, told of her
impressions in the interested, animated
manner which makes all her experiences
sound like high adventures. Mrs. Elliot,
w 7 ho came to Australia on the invitation
of the Society for the British Children’s
Comforts Fund, held re-union with press-
men and -women in the society’s rooms
last week. Two things she stressed in her
talk: gratitude for the friendliness and
helpfulness she had received on every
hand, and the need in this country for
special training for youth leaders. The
fourteens to twenties are not nearly so
well looked after as are pre-school
children.
A copy of the London “Times” with
a photograph of Avon Tyrrell, a gracious-
looking manor house in the New Forest,
was proudly displayed by this energetic
Englishwoman, who is so keen on the
welfare of youth. Avon Tyrrell has been
given to further the work of the Asso-
ciated Girls’ Clubs of Great Britain, of
which Mrs. Elliot is chairman. It is a
gift, incidentally, of a connection by
marriage of Lord Gowrie. It will be
used as a holiday or recreation centre.
As it has a wide and shimmering lake for
swimming, and is surrounded by miles of
the New Forest, it should certainly make
the post-war world a better place for the
young girl. An exchange of youth
leaders between England and Australia,
referred to as the “vital centre of the
West in the East,” would be, Mrs. Elliot
thinks, of great benefit to both countries.
Kathleen Robinson, of Whitehall
Productions, is patroness of the Con-
tinental Victory Fair that will' make
Springfield-avenue, King’s Cross, ring
with mirth on Friday, December 1. Pretty
girls in the national costumes of the
Allied Nations will help the day to vic-
tory. There will be pavement dancing
and wandering minstrels. At night there
will be picturesque crowning of the Queen
of the Fair. Sporting and theatrical well-
knowns have promised personal appear-
ance. The wheels will whirr at top
speed; their prizes, poultry, hams and
other Christmas delicacies. The Smilin’
Thru’ Club and Boys’ Town will benefit.
Everybody knows the good work done
by Boys’ Town ; and Smilin’ Thru’ has
three beneficiaries: Ward 31, 113th
A.G.H., the upkeep of one small
guest of the Dalwood Health Home, Sea-
forth, and baby Janice, of Belhaven, Bel-
levue Hill.
William Winter, whose voice, so fami-
liar from San Franoisco, was raised in
Sydney’s Town Hall last week, stressed
again in this public appearance the im-
pression gained in a private interview.
That is, one of extreme neatness. That
isn’t so superficial as it sounds, for that
meticulous look, in his case, signifies a
neat, well-tabulated mind. The post-war
world and the problems that victory in
battle will bring have caused him to think
deeply. His theories on how the Allied
Nations can hold the peace they have
won held a packed Town Hall, tense with
interest, for an hour.
After that it was question time. Women
were in the majority of questioners, hand-
ing up slips of paper kindly supplied (with
pencils) by the ushers. Mr. Winter can
congratulate himself on provoking and
stimulating thought among the sex that
has the early training of the young mind.
The lecturer was dressed in his summer
khaki outfit, all ready for the journeys
to the battle areas which are ahead of
him. In the meantime he has travelled
by air and rail over quite a bit of this
Commonwealth. The lecture was under
the wing of the A.8.C., and the gate-
money went to the Australian Comforts
Fund. There was no ’dado of beautiful
ladies around the platform. Mr. Winter
depended on a background of rugged
manhood.
When signing-off time for 1944 comes
around the women’s auxiliary of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron at Kirri-
billi can do so with a nod of satisfaction.
What with fetes, card parties and a mixed
variety of afternoon revels throughout
the year, it has raised well over £5OO (the
yearly objective) for the men of the Navy.
Cup Day doings brought in £B5. The
auxiliary has still another party on the
list, dated for the afternoon of Dec. 13.
Can we forget Warsaw? The Polish com-
munity will hold a Christmas bazaar for
the Polish Aid Fund, which will be held
on Friday, November 24, 1944, from 11
a.m. till 10 p.m. and on Saturday, Novem-
ber 25, from 11 a.m. till 5 p.m. at the
Polish National Alliance, 171-175 Wil-
liam-street, city. Hand-made toys, dolls,
beach- and handbags, underwear, em-
broidered jackets (all coupon-free), home-
made cakes and jams will be on sale.
Beautiful prizes will be distributed.
There will be a glittering assemblage of
diamonds in the vestibule of the Town
Hall on Thanksgiving Day, November 23.
On that afternoon the wives and the
fiancees of U.S. servicemen will be enter-
tained by the women’s section of the
Australian-American Movement. Alto-
gether, 350 potential citizens of America
are expected. There will be music, the
programme arranged by Mrs. Rex Ben-
nett. Miss Harriet Root, of the U.S.
Information Library, will speak on the
significance of Thanksgiving Day. The
Rev. Bernard Cockett and Ralph Doyle,
of R.K.O. pictures, will be other speakers.
President Mrs. Florence Taylor and sec-
retary Mrs. Helen Scorfield have been
sleuthing round for doughnuts and other
American delicacies, but without much
success. However, the afternoon tea is
promising well.'
Madeleine Withall, so long associated
with the Woof Trade War Fund, of which
she had been voluntary secretary and
organiser since its foundation, has taken
on a job with the Anti-T.B. Association
as organising secretary and publicity
officer. The Anti-T.B. Association is
out for a modern clinic, with bed
accommodation, and a mobile X-ray
and laboratory clinic to travel through
the country districts, and £50,000
is the immediate aim. If the State
is wise in its own interests, Mrs.
Withall will gather in the shekels.
Not only Australia but the world is to
have a new musical comedy. It is “The
Girl from Australia,” and it will be pre-
sented on Saturday night at the Conser-
vatorium. The book and lyrics are by
Dick Shortland, the music by Corporal
Dudley Messenger (R.A.A.F.). Moneys
will go to St. Vincent’s Maternity Hos-
pital.
Who has any hockey equipment she
no longer needs? The hockey girls are
sending out an SOS for anything at all
of this nature. It is now impossible to
obtain, and members of the association,
who are running a stall next Saturday at
the Rachel Forster Hospital fete, plan to
feature hockey implements, tunics and
all matters relating to the game. The
association makes itself responsible each
year for £5O for the upkeep of a bed,
and £5O for equipment of the patholo-
gical department (Mrs. F. J. Davy Mem-
orial). Now they are out to furnish a
room in the proposed new nurses’ home
at their pet hospital.
A show of paintings and posters by
Mrs. L. G. Dalgarno will be opened to-
day at three o’clock in Anthony Hor-
dern’s Gallery. Mrs. Dalgarno recently
accompanied her daughter and son-in-
law, the J. Kingsley Taylors, on a tour
of the U.S.A. Mr. Taylor is a specialist
attached to the Waite Institute, S.A.,
and their tour took them along an
unusual route. Throughout the display,
which will benefit the Legacy War
Orphans’ Appeal, Mrs. Dalgarno and
Mrs. Taylor will give travel talks.
Poet Arthur Bayldon has brought out
a book of his collected verse: Apollo in
Australia and Bush Verses. This he has
dedicated to Fred Woods, “a lover of
poetry and a steadfast friend for over
forty years.” That seems a very good
reason for a dedication. Mr. Woods is
the father of actor John Woods, now a
prisoner of war in Malaya. The slim
book, published by the Currawong Co.,
is in neat blue binding and will be a wel-
come Christmas gift to lovers of Austra-
lian poetry. The Proem is like a clarion
call from Hope herself:
So young our country that she almost seems
Half-folded in the drapery of dreams;
Flushed with knight-errantry, she all but sees
The Millennium hurrying to the Antipodes.
An Australian landscape supplies the
pictorial highlight of the A.C.F. calendar
for 1945. It is clearly printed, and is just
the right size to hang on the office wall.
Price is one shilling.


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
EYE LOTION
t>r Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty.. Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
d
How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get.
those last few drops in your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates.
Your Dog
Are You Watching
His Health?
If your dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged —if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powders and apply
BARKO Skin Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION - - - 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP - 9d.
<1
fit
'a
The woman behind the
man on the land
Have city folk to-day forgotten the country
woman? . . . the great part she’s played
through years of war l
Believe us, we haven’t . . . at Eveready.
“Then,” you ask, “why can’t we at all times
buy batteries, and share with city people favour-
ite radio programmes . . . hear the daily news
broadcasts that always kept us in touch?”
A simple question, you think, demanding a
simple answer. But it isn’t as simple as that.
For a long time now we’ve been trying to
keep level with war orders. But it hasn’t been
easy and despite our best efforts some country
folk have gone short.
Here's news you've been waiting for
At last we’re picking up on
civilian requirements. But
that doesn’t mean we’re let-
ting up. Because we know
that the most urgently needed
civilian battery is the radio
battery for country homes,
we’re continuing all out to
catch up with present - day
demands. Radio Batteries for
civilian use will leave our
factory as fast as we can
make them. But keep in
mind there may be other
transport delays over which
we have no control.
eve ready
TRADE-MARK
iVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
Wonderful what an old goat will do
for a pet lamb!
4’ 4* 4* 4*
“The four soldiers saw the girl preening her-
self at the window like a beautiful Persian cat.”
—War story.
She would, of course, be well marked!
T T T T
“A pair of braces costs £3 in China.”
—News item.
It seems the Celestials need their hands
in their pockets all the time.
*F 4. 4*^
Eyes for All Occasions.
“Among plastic eyes being issued to service-
men by the U.S. Navy Medical Corps is a
slightly glazed and bloodshot eye for use in
periods of acute hangover.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
When my cousin Ferdinand lost his
left eye in the 1943 beer riots he ac-
quired quite a collection of substitutes.
Due, no doubt, to some defect in manu-
facture, his first glass eye had an unpleas-
ant steely glint. Its effect on prospective
business rivals was overwhelming, especi-
ally when he wore a shade over the other
to conceal its expression of rather fatuous
benevolence. However, after several
painful collisions, he decided it was safer
to risk a slight discrepancy between the
two.
Branching out, he soon had several
dozen assorted eyes, ranging from one
with a kindly gleam, for use when help-
ing old ladies across the street, to a
power-driven, swivelling eye, intended to
work in double harness with the real
article. Unfortunately, it was always out
of order, and would either go the oppo-
site way, giving Ferdinand alternately a
cast and a squint, or roam about inde-
pendently, causing hysteria and convul-
sions among nervous bystanders.
The most startling, though the simplest,
of his experiments was a glass marble
from a soda-water bottle. This made his
left profile almost identical with that of a
boiled cod.
Finally, the collection of eyes on his
mantelpiece got the better of Ferdinand.
We found his clothes by the river, with
a note saying he couldn’t get rid of
an uncanny feeling that he was being
watched.
Plum.
“During the siege^ of Paris (Franco-Prussian
War) people were reduced to eating giraffes
from the Zoo.”—' “S.M.H.”
A case of neck or nothing.
•F *F 4* *F , ,
“Tm and ’is woodwork and ’is lathes and
’is chisels can boil theirselves for all I care.”
— “Sun.”
No personal aspirations in the matter.
Dogs were my mates. I thought I’d
proved
Their worth. My friendship knew no
bounds.
In fact, the more with men I moved
The greater was my love for hounds.
But now they make me grieve and wince ;
No longer, dammit, can I share
That fellow-feeling with them since
They chase too slow the metal hare.
P.O.M.C.
*!* *1- * *1- „
“Mother always warned me against sailors.
—Extract from Flapper novel.
Wolves in ship’s clothing?
•F *F *F ,
“She knew instinctively that it would not' avail
her to plead for mercy. As well try to reason
with an octopus.”— Woman’s paper story.
No good trying to play him for a
sucker.
V V V T
“What it is that the modern housewife can
cook best”? — Woman’s paper.
Housekeeping accounts.
•F
“Seventy per cent of Japan is mountainous.
—“Worlds News.”
And the rest is not on the level.
•s*
“Plan a kitchen routine that spends a mini-
mum of time in the kitchen.”
— “Women’s Weekly
Then retire according to plan.
•t*
“The gun still covered her. Its wicked black
mouth seemed to loom like the mouth of a
cannon.” — Short story.
She looked down in the mouth, then.
“She passed it off with a speaking sniff.”
—Serial story.
Talking through her nose, eh?
•h •£••!* ❖
“As She Is Spoke.”
“Japanese Newsagency Domei ‘surmises’ that,
when he heard of the appointment of General
Yamashita to command Jap forces in the Phil-
lippines, General MacArthur used ‘the folksy
American expression Curses, foiled again! ’ ”
On hearing that the latest Jap secret
tactic was to “project dauntless spirits
against the enemy before the battle in
order to destroy the enemy warrior’s will
to fight” General Blarney smote his brow
and dramatically declaimed, in the well-
known accents of his country: “Alack,
woe is me! I am undone. Haply a
malignant Fate bends me to its will. Fain
would X struggle against it; nathless I
writhe in its deadly coils in vain, ecod!”
When he learned that Tokyo Rose
(“Your little enemy”) had displaced Betty
Grable as favorite pin-up girl among
American airmen in the South Pacific,
General Arnold struck an attitude and
sobbed: “Just Heaven! What have I
done to deserve this? Was ever poor
helpless mortal so frustrated as I? Be-
gone, all hope of victory! Forsooth, I
ween, I almost welcome now the last dark
draught of Defeat which I must quaff.”
Told that Tokyo Radio had just sunk
another 17 American battleships, 22 air-
craft-carriers, 31 cruisers, an uncount-
able number of destroyers and 932 dive-
bombers for the loss of only one armed
cutter and two ’planes, Admiral Nimitz,
9 n recovering from a deep swoon, gasped
in sepulchral tones in his pure native
Texan: “By the bones of my sainted
aunt, all Hell yawns to engulf me. Have
a t you, Satan. Avaunt, foul bearer of
evil tidings. Yoicks! ”
thaf Austral
would be brought within the Japanese
orbit as a slave nation after Japan had
smashed the American and British navies
and retaken Leyte, Guadalcanal and New
Guinea, acting Prime Minister Forde
,V- , ~„ . . , ... ,
twirled his long walrus moustache, waved
his arms and burst into a flood of crude
Australianese. Said he: Marry come
op. Hear me beat mine unworthy breast,
® bei^ e * , an ? unhorsed,
crusbe< f neadl an iron heel, my doom
sealed beyond redemption. Oddsfish! It
dot T h m tr °t h besla y me > P erd y !
It ls sai d that when the news was
brought to him that the ever-victorious
Admiral Hooi had been placed in supreme
command of the Japanese forces on land
and sea and in the air. Mr. Churchill ad-
justed his peruke, took a deep pinch of
snuff, flicked despairingly at the fichu
lace on his cuffs, chewed at his smoking
leaf and spake: “Oyez! Oyez! Herkne
to my messyge. He who once counsayled
ye to fyght onn the beachys or inn the
fieelds, inn the stretis or in the howses,
now giveth ye the straighte gryffnge. The
jigge is uppe. We wil tarye no longer,
butte with ryghte goode cheer go
onewards to the pylgrymage of slaevery.
It iss beste forr uss, wythoute furthere
sacryfyce. And nowe I wille bighte my
laste cigarre.”
80.
The Rewrite Man.
“No newspaper would dream of attempting
to publish ‘copy’ without first offering it to
the mercies of the rewrite man.” —(R.P., B.
18/10/’44).
The wielder of an inky scalpel, yet
Unknown to those he operates upon ;
A species, of say, literary vet.,
One who can cut or stick a little on;
A sawbones and a plastic rolled in one
Working assiduously from day to day,
Slicing and patching, overlooking
none —
Par., story, letter, article or lay.
Ye who, like dew, upon your thoughts
drop ink
(As Byron wrote ) and consequences
scan
In print, / wonder if you ever think
How much is you, how much the re-
write man?
THISTLEBROOK.
Results.
“Many a life has been saved by fainting.”
—Medical Journal.
That night she swooned within his arms,
He gazed upon her pallid charms
And thought, “How beautiful she is!
I’ll make this lovely maid my wife!”
Perhaps the fainting saved her life,
But what a hash it made of his!
NAT.
Delayed Success.
“Madge was crazy about men in uniform,
but so far she had not succeeded in attracting
one.” — Short story.
Madge longed for one in uniform
To clasp her in embraces warm,
But her attractions failed to stir
One warrior to fall for her.
Did Madge admit defeat’s disgrace ?
Not on your life ! She played her ace.
To prove she was no hopeless flop
With uniforms she robbed a shop;
And soon her long-avoided charms
Were caught up in a copper’s arms.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Exaggeration.
Alt hough I made a frantic spurt,
And reached the pub half dead,
In speech less courteous than curt
Bung knocked me back and said:
“You’re after six.” That took the bun —
For l was only after one.
F.M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Plea for Mothers-in-Law
It may be unusual for a wife to as
for a fairer deal for mothers-in-law, but
I think this plea is justified.
When a serviceman marries his horn
State is where his wife lives. That s where
he is sent for his rare doses of home
leave. If his mother is in another State
it might be years before he has a chance
to visit her. This is a tough deal for
the mother, and yet the serviceman can t
be expected to forego his leave with wite
and family for the sake of seeing her.
I suggest that in these cases, particularly
when the serviceman has a long period of
active service to his credit, the authorities
might consider granting (u) a permit to
the mother to travel to his home State,
(b) a permit to his wife and children to
travel to his mother’s home, or (c) a little
extra leave to the serviceman for the
express purpose of visiting his mother.
My mother-in-law, a widow living in
N, S. Wales, has not seen her two sons
for more than three years. Digger’s
Wife (S.A.).
The Wife as Cook
1 have eaten in every sort of place, from
swanky city hotel to outback camp ; which
gives background to my opinion that the
average Australian woman is an in-
different cook and is seldom a really
good household manager. To most cook-
ing is regarded as a necessary chore —
they put certain articles of food together
and call it a meal.
Once, outback in Queensland, I struck
a really good cook, a youngish Scottish
woman, well educated and used to apply-
ing her brains to her work. Although we
were miles from any stare and had only
two camp ovens to do the cooking in, in
the six months that I ate at that camp
I never once had an unpalatable meal,
2nd the variety was something to marvel
at That young woman had had proper
training. (
If all young women about to be mar-
ried were compelled to take a course in
domestic science not only would there
be more happy homes, but there would
be less sickness. — Fifty-four (W.A.).
A Lead on Housing
At Carrum Downs, 26 miles from Mel-
bourne, is the 45-acre bushland property
of the Brotherhood of St. Laurence. On
this property have been built comfortable
country cottages with ample grounds to
each house. These are let at ss. a week.
The community was started during the
depression to provide homes for unem-
ployed men with families. Now the
settlement provides homes for elderly
people and those who wish to avoid life
in congested areas.
If this religious organisation, small in
power and finance compared with the
Government, can bring such a settlement
into being and offer homes at such a
rental, what cannot the Government do
if it is in earnest about housing?
Give a man his own home and, in the
majority of cases, he will care for it and
bis spirit of independence will grow
stronger, which will be for the benefit of
our country. — Wife of VX (Vic.).
A Nation?
I’ve been living in South Australia
since I left the A.I.F. Seldom does one
bear the name Australia without the pre-
fix “South.” Advertisements in the press,
on the screen and over the air all bid me
Remember it is a South Australian pro-
duct.”
The limit was reached when a magis-
trate declared that South Australia, “com-
pared with other countries,” has always
been remote from the war. And all these
Fears I’ve believed that it was part of a
?rowing nation, not a separate country!
-VI'RBOT (S.A.).
Checking Tax Dodgers
“Poker” (B. 8/1 / ’44) refers to the
necessity for audited accounts to reduce
tax evasion. As a bank official, I think
'hat some form of compulsory registra-
tion of the ownership of Government
bonds, now payable to bearer, is equally
essential.
It is a very simple matter for the poten-
tial tax evader to buy war-loan bonds
for cash, and interest coupons may be
cashed without question at any branch
of the Commonwealth Bank. The prin-
cipal may be redeemed at maturity with
equal simplicity. The system provides
ample opportunity for the tax-dodger not
only to invest profits which have been
omitted from his taxation returns, with-
out the risk of any awkward questions
being asked by the Commissioner, but to
obtain a reasonable return on such invest-
ment without his name being disclosed.
The total of Commonwealth bonds
held in strongboxes would be found
to represent quite a sizeable proportion
of the national debt and I would say,
from observation over many years, that
very little interest on this amount is ever
returned as income.— Traymon (N.S.W.).
Taxation Squeezes
A correspondent concerned with taxa-
tion evasions has made a computation of
the amount of taxation evaded last year.
This could be offset by the amount over-
paid by the inexpert who fail to claim
allowable deductions. Once the Income-
tax Department gets a return it considers
it its duty to extract as much money as
can be extracted.
The estate of a dead man was declared
insolvent through the claims of taxation.
The executors contested a case before
the High Court and won it, with the result
that the estate was then not only solvent
but wealthy. But most people hesitate
“ Yoo-hoo, I see you!"
to go against the department, fearing
appeal cases which might ruin them.
A favored way with the department is
to dispute partnerships. Partnerships are
not taxable as such, but its members are
as individuals, which means a lower rate
and more exemptions. Partnerships are
often loosely drawn or not drawn at all,
especially the family sort, but they are
partnerships for all that.
A criminal in the box is not bound to
answer a question that would incriminate
him, yet taxation inspectors demand from
S.P. bookmakers particulars of their
illegal business. — Accountant (Q.).
“Water, Water Everywhere”
Some time ago when Sydney was suf-
fering from a water shortage it was sug-
gested that in the Pacific Ocean there was
an inexhaustible supply of water close at
hand and easily converted into aqua pur a.
The president of the Water Board dis-
missed the suggestion on the ground of
expense. No doubt he regarded coal as
the only source of heat available.
The question arises: Can coal be dis-
pensed with? Any enterprise dependent
on the exertions of the temperamental
coalminer must be expensive and pre-
carious. As a boy I used to use the sun’s
rays directed through a lens to light the
fire to boil the billy. Could not this be
done on a more extensive scale to distil
salt water? We know that windmills
will pump the water any distance and to
any height required.
Distillation through the agency of the
sun’s rays is a simple process in theory,
and experimental proof should not be
expensive.
The possession of an inexhaustible
supply of fresh water would mean so
much to Australia that the subject de-
serves serious consideration. Miles
Emeritus (N.S.W.).
Air Force Commissions
Yesterday I witnessed the first passing-
out or wings parade I have seen for
nearly three years. The last was when I
got my own rating. I’m well content
with my lot as warrant officer, but it did
seem ridiculous that approximately 25
per cent, of the passing-out trainees in
yesterday’s batch received commissions,
while standing on that same parade
ground was a complete flight of W/Os.,
practically all of whom have served at
least one tour of operations in England
or Africa, or in the Pacific against the
Japs.
Surely some of these experienced men
should be of more value to the R.A.A.F.
than are most of these raw recruits. Per-
haps early in the war, when officers were
urgently required, commissioning “off
course” was necessary. Now that the
service is becoming top-heavy with
officers it seems fair that, if the officer
ranks are to be further augmented, the
recruits should be drawn from the n.c.os.
who have proved themselves in combat.
—See Gee (R.A.A.F.).
Parliamentarians as Servicemen
The following extract from the fare-
well message to his constituency, prior
to his death in action, of an Eng-
lish M.P., Captain Grey, should have a
heartening effect upon' those of his ilk
also serving; it should bring a flush of
shame to’many whose idea of service is
on a lower plane:
It is essential that the millions of our
fellow-countrymen now in the forces should
have members of Parliament serving with
them in their ranks and undergoing the same
experiences. The Army, Navy and Royal
Air Force together constitute our largest in-
dustry, and if Parliament is to remain the
people’s watchdog young memjpers must
continue to st'udy at first hand the prob-
lems which condition not only the lives
of our serving men and women, but the
happiness of the families and dear ones
whom they have to leave behind them at
home.
This young officer, had he lived, would
have made one of a sincere and honest
band of governors to whom the welfare
of country and people came first and
personal advancement and popularity a
very feeble second. Such words as he
wrote should be circularised among all
politicians as an indication of what their
country requires of them. — Baht Achcha
(Fiji).
Is More Education Needed?
Has anyone noticed how often nowa-
days politicians and parsons and great
editors blame “education” —by which I
suppose they mean the schoolteachers —
for all the ills that affect the body
politic?
If press photographs and moving pic-
tures conjointly encourage general loose-
ness —refer the matter to the schools (sex
teaching).
If vandals destroy life-saving apparatus
on our beaches and hack the leather
cushions of railway carriages—refer the
matter to the schools (civics).
If the spoken language is nasalised by
a hundred blaring radios all on the jarb
of debasing our mother tongue refer
the matter to the schools (speech train-
ing).
If the licensing laws need tightening
or reforming—refer it to the schools
(hygiene).
If adolescents, trained by Hollywood
serials and horror films, take to robbery
and crimes of violence —refer it to the
schools (conduct training).
If the electorate turns down your par-
ticular brand of New Disorder—refer it
to the schools (constitutional history).
If shopping and picnicking fiends drop
peel and paper and polony all over the
park grass—
But why go on? Let the teacher do it
all. Let him do it on a fiver a week-
while the supermen, politicians, the
slaughtermen, the coalies, the wharfies
and the presidents of boards without
number go their divinely appointed way
on two, three or four times the screw.
But if Mr. Calwell (for instance) is sin-
cere when he says “What Australia wants
is more education,” let him hasten to
promulgate the following:
(1) The vote will not be given in future to
any individual who at the age of 16 or 17 or
thereafter has failed to pass an adequate Leav-
ing certificate examination.
(2) No person shall be eligible for Parlia-
ment unless he has passed a reasonably stilt
examination in history, geography, economics,
hygiene, civics and (of course) constitutional
government. .
(3) Any elector guilty of a major offence
agairist - Australian laws (moral, political or in-
dustrial) shall be automatically disfranchised.
(4) Any elector who by virtue of a book,
a play, a discovery, an invention, a feat of arms
or any work of service to mankind rises to
international eminence shall be given £ hundied
VOteS - „ /VI r A X
—Peter Filmer (W.A.).
Maimers in Shops
I have just emerged from the hollow
log where I hid my shrinking form on
reading “Saltbush’s” (B. 20/9/’44) stric-
tures on my lack of public-school polite-
ness in dealing with shop assistants.
Play the game, “Saltbush”! You
have read into my letter things which I
did not write. On the shopping expedi-
tion I described I was a mere spectator;
my wife, poor jade! did all the crawling.
And was she polite? She dispensed nods
and becks and wreathed smiles in prodi-
gal profusion in every shop we visited,
but despite all that she arrived home in
despair and hysterics looking like a
trampled doormat, and having only a
headache in return for all her efforts.
I fear that “Saltbush’s” suggestion that
next time I go shopping I do so unaccom-
panied, wearing a society smile and my
best dentures, would profit me little. My
uniform is the wrong cut and color, my
accent is not trans-Atlantic, nor can i
exhibit a “roll” obese enough to command
the attention and courtesy which is ex-
tended as a matter of course to the
humblest “Allied Serviceman” sojourning
in our midst. — Lomond (W.A.).
Queensland Railways
How that fellow “Junius” (B. 4/10/’44)
arrived at the train miles run in
Australia in 1941-42 is beyond me, as
such statistics have been discontinued in
N. S. Wales since June 30, 1941. How-
ever, train miles do not indicate service
rendered. The correct figure to take as
a criterion of business transacted is the
gross ton mileage. -#
Speaking for Queensland, this increased
(over 1938-39) by 28.07 per cent, in 1941-
42 and by 64.74 per cent, in 1942-43. The
average haul in miles per ton of good*
and livestock carried increased (com-
pared with 1938-39) by 18.53 per cent, in
1941-42 and by 43.92 per cent, in 1942-43.
The general merchandise tonnage in-
creased by 52.40 per cent, in 1941-42 and
by 174.19 per cent, in 1942-43, while the
revenue derived from the conveyance of
goods in this classification rose by 94.52
per cent, in 1941-42 and by 305.34 per
cent, in 1942-43. The reason for the
increase in revenue, therefore, was the
greater length* of haul and the greater
proportionate tonnage of highly-rated
goods.
The length of passenger journeys, too,
has increased. Country journeys rose by
45.23 per cent, in 1941-42 and 92.76 per
cent in 1942-43 (over 1938-39). Aver-
age earnings per country journey in-
creased by 12.01 per cent, in 1941-42 and
by 40.72 per cent, in 1942-43, thus indi-
cating the greater distance of average
travel. In these circumstances, it is only
reasonable to expect that passenger
revenue will increase to a far greater
degree than the number of passenger jour-
neys, which, after all, only represent one
journey in each case, whether one ,mile
or a thousand miles in length.
It must also be remembered that, with
the exception of one increase of 5 per
cent., freights and fares were the same in
1941-42 as they were in 1938-39. There
was a reduction of 5 per cent, as from
March 1, 1943 (and a second one of 5 per
cent, as from August 1, 1943). With
these small variations, any increase in
revenue has been derived solely as a
result of increased business carried greater
distances.— Accuracy (Q.).


POST-WAR JOB
■
NOW FOR YOUR
What are YOU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you . . . the amount you can earn will depend on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
*war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they eTijoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
"0
L>^
m
m
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air, and in war industries
ambitious men with an eye to the future are devoting part of their
free hours for another big offensive. They’re equipping themselves
with training to do their part in winning the peace as efficiently as
today they are winning the war.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN YOU
IN~THE OPERATIONS OF THE DIESEL ENGINE IN YOUR
SPARE TIME, WHEREVER YOU ARE.
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any High educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
course teaches you the whole subject in your own home, covering
both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over
Australia. Post the coupon below and full details will be sent you
by return.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything 3(ou need to know to operate and service Diesel engines
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
d
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
sm;
•
m
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don t AC T ! If
you don t want to mutilate your Bulletin
just drop us a note!
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
Many students of the Diesel Engineering College have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others in essential industries have the satisfaction of know-
ing that their qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in
good stead when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-
residents of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day, or
any Wednesday or Friday nights, for full particulars.
Government Diesel Engine Driver's Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate . . . over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examinations. __
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the F ree Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME
AGE
ADDRESS . .
B. 22/11 /’«
engineering
255 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
