

ORA
The Bulletin
“The Bullet in, 0
VoL 65—No. 3371
Wednesday, September 20, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
ST. MARY’S CHANTRY; WAKEFIELD.
MENTIONED in Domesday Book, Wakefield, in Yorkshire, is
an ancient city with, nowadays, some woollen factories, and
is capital of the West Riding. . Wakefield’s Chapel of St. Mary,
entirely rebuilt in 1847 in a rich Decorated style, was originally
erected in the reign of Edward 111 at the same time as
the bridge against" which it stands. There is a tradition,
for which no foundation exists, that St, Mary s Chantry was
re-endowed by Edward IV as a chantry for his lather. Richard.
Duke of York, who was defeated and slam by the Lao-
castrians at the Battle of Wakefield in 1460, a battle which
was fought near Sandal Castle a mile to the south Ihe
church was first built by Sir Robert Knollys, and although
restored as recently as 1847 the outer stonework is again
decaying.


d
This Book FREE to TOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 3 ’
My Name
My Address
S B. 144 AGE
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE.
There will be NO AWARD in the
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize competition
for 1944. The Prize offered for the 1945
competition is £3OO, which will be
awarded to the author or authors of the
book by an Australian writer which the
Trustees consider the most valuable con-
tribution to Australian literature pub-
lished in Australia between June 7, 1944,
and June 6, 1945.
Conditions for the competition will be
the same as in 1943. “Australia” and
“Australian” for the purposes of the
award include New Zealand. No work
that has already w r on a monetary prize
will be eligible.
This £3OO Prize is made up of the usual
£lOO award, with £2OO held over from
1943 and 1944 when no awards could be
made. If it were true, as it appears, that
no book of sufficient distinction to win
the Prize had been written in Australia
for two years Australian literature would
seem to be in a desperate condition. But
that is not quite the case.
Many good books have been written ;
The Bulletin has seen some of them in
manuscript. They have been accepted
for publication, and that —apparently—
has been the end of them.
The protracted delays in publishing
must be having a very bad effect on the
writers’ enthusiasm. No author can work
happily with a load of unpublished work
hanging about his neck ; and the more
productive an. Australian writer is the
more he or she is penalised in this way.
And these delays in the production of
creative literature have been occurring in
years when books of all sorts have sold
as never before.
Another trouble has been the produc-
tion of little books. Brian James’s First
Furrow, for example, was a paperback
of twelve stories. A full collection of
James’s short stories might well have
taken the Prize,
Last year, when the announcement of
no award was made, it was said here
“There is a great need for some Austra-
lian publisher to adopt the simple prin-
ciple ‘We will give preference and pre-
cedence to creative Australian writing.’ ”
It remains true.
Culture in N.Z.
The review of recent New Zealapd
writing under the heading “Emergence
from Barbarism” (R.P. 5/7/’44) was a
kindly gesture. I applaud your gener-
osity in devoting so much space to New
Zealand doings. At the same time I feel
impelled to argue some of the points
you raised in criticising the pamphlet
We New Zealanders.
I attacked the complacency of New
Zealanders and their propensity for wor-
shipping mediocrity. You commented
that “the same is true of any country at
any time.” Even if that were the case
it would hardly justify me (or you either)
in compounding the offence by com-
placently accepting the position.
We have a population of a million and
three-quarters. The greater part of our
land is wastefully used. A lot of it is
not being used at all. Agriculture is slip-
ping back. The cities, already swollen
and parasitic, are still growing rapidly—
and most people are quite pleased about
this, regarding it as an indication that we
are becoming more “cultured” or “civi-
lised” or something of the sort.
In brief, we have not yet attained our
majority, and we are showing all the
symptoms of the disease that is destroy-
ing Europe and threatening America. And
most of us are hardly aware of it. Please,
mister, can’t a man write a pamphlet?
One of your judgments, on which you
pin a good deal of what you have to say,
is that “civilisation is tolerance.” The
civilised man is certainly tolerant; the
less we use force, and the more we use
persuasion, the better. But what we don’t
do, if we are civilised, is to sit back and
tolerate Nazism, or stinking drains, or
cholera ; or to ,let some yahoo say that
Irving Berlin is a greater composer than
Mozart without at least contradicting
him.
I don’t claim to be completely civilised.
But I see certain tendencies working in
New Zealand that are in my judgment
destructive and decivilising. If I speak
against them, surely I need not incur the
charge of being “barbaric”?
When you say that “culture is advanced
by the writing and publication of creative
literature,” 1 think you are setting down
nothing better than a half-truth. I don’t
believe a society can produce creative
literature, except of a minor sort, without
the fulfilment of certain basic conditions
in its communal life. And that depends
on many other things besides art and
literature. Culture-mongering is liable to
be a dangerous business at the present
time. Read what D. H. Lawrence, Eric
Gill, Herbert Read and others have to
say on the point.
“The relapse of the po'&ts into political
pamphleteering,” you say, “is the bar-
barism of the twentieth century.” Is it?
Milton was a great pamphleteer. Dryden,
Shelley and Wordsworth all used the
weapon. So did Swift, Defoe, Kingsley,
Newton .
No, sir. The barbarism of the twen-
tieth century is the rise of the daily press,
which perverts both language and judg-
ment, vulgarises taste and opinion and
aborts honest discussion. It is because
of the inadequacy of the press that we
folk are driven to write pamphlets. I
am all in favor of more pamphleteering.
It is the only means by which public
affairs can be debated at the present time.
And it is an honest trade, with a long
and honorable tradition behind it.
The emergence of creative literature is,
as you suggest, one of the tests of civilisa-
tion. But the soil must be fertile. To
concentrate on “cultural development”
as an end in itself, under present condi-
tions, is to manufacture paper flowers.
It is all very well to establish symphony
orchestras, build art galleries and provide
“classical” music sessions on the radio,
but all this may turn out to be merely
fiddling while Rome burns. Urbanisa-
tion, uncontrolled industrialism, the herd-
ing of people into vast cities to do unreal
and parasitic “work” ; the defeatism im-
plied in a falling birthrate; the destruc-
tion of the fertility of the soil; these are
the things that threaten to destroy the
basis of civilisation. If a poet writes a
pamphlet about them he is not on that
account a barbarian.
As for our literary “Emergence from
Barbarism,” X think you flatter us a little.
The literary scene in New Zealand is still
much the same as it has been for two
decades. There are still the garrulous
women... and the half-dozen poets...
and the bad novels that never get finished
... and the “literary discussions” going
on in dark corners ... and the monu-
mental indifference of the press ~.
The picture of Frank Sargeson supplies
some illuminating, indirect comment. His
latest novel, That Summer, published by
John Lehmann in “New Writing,” has
been highly praised by English reviewers.
A big publishing firm in Sydney is ask-
ing for the Australian rights. Sargeson
publishes in Britain and the United States
—and occasionally in New Zealand. He
lives in a bit of a shack in Takapuna, an
Auckland suburb. I very much doubt
if his suburb knows anything about him.
No, we haven’t merged from barbar-
ism yet. But there is, as an event of
major importance, the emergence of the
Progressive Publishing Society. This co-
operative organisation has branches in all,
the main centres, and is going into the
publishing business in a big way. It is
already turning out a remarkable volume
of stuff. The spectacular growth of the
P.P.S. is the most important event in
the literary history of New Zealand in
our generation. It is doing more for
writers than all the publishing firms put
together have ever done. Here, indeed,
I do see some grounds for hope.
A. R. D. FAIRBURN.
Recent Verse.
Twelve Echoes from France: Arthur
Barker (Progressive Publishing Society,
Wellington, N.Z.). Capable translations
from French poets of the fourteenth,
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. Mainly
for students and specialists.
Cold Hearthstone: Judith Pitts (Bread
and Cheese Club, Melbourne). Some
“free verse,” which is really prose, and
some pleasant but thin and conventional
lyrics.
The Goitre: Ame Perdue (author,
Melbourne; Robertson and Mullens).
Heavy satire on “modern” art. The writer
is at the mercy of his rhymes.
Ode of Our Times: Frederick T.
Macartney (Anvil Press, Melbourne).
Macartney has written some lovely lyrics ;
the ode seems beyond his powers. Even
Brennan went astray when he thought he
should write appropriate verses for a
war.
The Kerrigan Boys: Edward Harring-
ton (W. Andrade, Ltd., Collins-street,
Melbourne). Lively and technically adept
rhyming by a Bulletin contributor who
ranks high among the surviving balladists.
His farewell to “Banjo” Paterson was
printed on the Red Page.
“Poetry” (No. 11): Quarterly edited by
Flexmore Hudson, Lucindale, S.A. In-
teresting for two long poems, one by
Hudson and one by Joseph O’Dwyer. If
the two poets could somehow combine
their talents a really excellent poem
should result, for O’Dwyer—though cold,
remote and “cerebral”—has a fine tech-
nique, and Hudson —though technically
slipshod—offers warm images of the
countryside. Hudson has developed an
unfortunate trick of saying he wants to
“share” his emotions with the reader,
which makes him sound like a lay-reader.
“Barjai” (No. 15): Magazine for youth,
edited by Laurence Collinson and Barrie
Reid, Box 1773 G.P.0., Brisbane. Con-
tains one remarkable poem by Barrie
Reid about a bloke who cleared out from
home and went droving:
All the street pointed, whispered, gave opinion,
and his grandfather Dan began a wild carouse,
but 1 have never known a silence
like the silence on that house.
The Glad Season : Kenneth H. Gifford
(Arura Writers, Melbourne). Some
pretty notes here and there on spring.
But the theme is worked to death, and
stuff such as this
Do you find in summer freshness
Such as I find in the Spring?
Do you find your love’s tomorrow?—
Then rise, sun-friend, and sing!
would make a dingo howl.
From Shore to Shore: Sapper Eric
Locke (William Brooks, Ltd., Brisbane).
War poems by an A.I.F. man, an occa-
sional contributor to The Bulletin, who
has seen active service in the Middle East
and New Guinea. The descriptions,
notably in a Tobruk poem, are vivid, and
there’s a pleasant feeling for the Aus-
tralian bush. Cliches (like the “history’s
pages” at the end of the Tobruk poem)
find their way in to mar the verses as
poetry. /
The Corrohoree Tree : Christina Maw-
desley (Bread and Cheese Club). Well-
done descriptive verses about the early
colonial days in and around Melbourne.
Interlude: Joan Francis (Shipping
Newspapers, Ltd., Brisbane). In a
memorial poem the author submits 12
lines of turgid, cloudy and conventional
stuff about a spirit journeying “on
seraph’s wings,” then she comes down to
earth and talks naturally;
And yet perhaps you did not even leave
The wild white beaches and the high red cliffs,
The windy she-oaks that you loved so well.
If she can be persuaded to learn to walk
before she tries to fly, Miss Francis may
do well.
A lament for the fallen airmen, chiefly
Kingsford Smith, this poem would have
been as memorable as Michael Roberts's
elegy for the mountaineers had the author
been able to keep her technique and her
imagery contemporary. But, often enough
seriously to mar the poem, she drops into
the conventions of last century, and the
dragging-in of comparisons with Atlanta,
Boadicea, Sheba, St. Joan, Guenevere,
Edith Cavell, Florence Nightingale and
Britoraarte, intended to help Amy John-
son on her way to immortality, gets her
an undeserved grin.
Collected Rhymes and Verses: Walter
dc la Mare (Faber). The verses for
children. Faber is rightly trying to im-
press on the English public that de la
Mare is a lyric poet of the first import-
ance ; some day England will learn to
its astonishment that Flugh McCrae is
at least his equal.
Introducing Modern Poetry: An-
thology edited by W. G. Bebbington
(Faber). Auden, Spender, MacNeice,
Eliot and co.; Laurence Whistler, with
a smooth style, a well-balanced mind and
less given to straining after effect than
most of the others, continues to look like
the coming man.
On Wings: Llywelwyn (Victory Press,
Brisbane). “Llywelwyn” at times flies
magnificently:
Lindberg, Hinkler, Parer, Ulm and Black,
And wild Richthofen on his bloody track.
And Edward Mannock and the young Melrose,
And many silent names that no one knows,
And Olley, with his million miles in air,
And Scott and Mollison, and Biard where
The seagulls’ cry above the ocean rings...
1940-1942: Nora Kelly (Angus and
Robertson). Narrative poem about an
Australian airman who goes “missing”
in Greece ; a book in the category of
The White Cliffs and the Tasmanian This,
My Son, both of which, in tune with the
sentiment of the times, have sold in-
credibly well. There are too many sudden
flatnesses for the narrative to work well
as poetry, but there is strength in an
inter-set sonnet on Christmas in Libya,
and a pastoral sweetness in the octet of
a sonnet on Greece, where “Song-drunk
as Homer boom the homing bees.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Marjorie Lawrence in Sydney
, Marjorie Lawrence’s Sydney season had a <
background swift history-making in’ Europe,
and it was fitting that one of the world’s very
second city of the Empire” at sue? The
singer’s voice is as clear and as flexible as when
w d sh ® P u ours - forth
me pangs ana passions of Wagner s heroines as
spiritedly as ever, but the intervening years 'Mtb
their struggle against physical adversity, ’ have
broa ? at with them added power to touch the
10ns 'r> simple time-worn ballads such as
“ Danny Boy” and Schubert’s “Linden Tree”
deplored by musical snobs but delightful to
90 p.c. of concertgoers, require a lot more than
a /P}? e 1° put them ov er, and this extra
content Miss Lawrence can sunnlv
Technically considered, the qualities in Miss
singing that command most admira-
tion. a f e >. firstly, perfect control—she can take
a lhmv Way up /°. a forti^
simo in a smooth, unbroken gradation—and
secondly, ability to pass through the scale with-
out apparent change of register. She has poise
, a .? d dl B n “y and a speaking voice that carries
a and 1S as inc j s j ve as a k n jf e w j,j[ e
it appears to be merely a conversational
murmur. Add to this a warm friendliness of
?5n« ne f ««« ll i va -f s any audience . and
thc concert pi at f or m is 3y«tpSd. an
The') ous Levante IS the highlight
of Would You Believe It,’ Melbourne
Tiv.’s current programme. If he is ever
in need of a job the#suave magician
ought to be acquired by the Man-power
Directorate or the Rationing Commission,
His ability to produce unlimited quanti-
ties G f millinery out of a small box is
only equalled by his facility ih materialis-
ing Tiv. lovelies out of big ones. An
added a « r f cd ™ *e lady who makes
such hasty appearance at the command
ol , eminent thaumaturgist that she
JiJ 1 J with time to put her clothes on.
There is also an American musical genius
w ho makes noises on a saxophone,
Per’aps, m’sieu, eet ees a reflection of
ze deadening effect ze Bosche ’ave on Les
Folies Bergere in Paree zat make Sydney
Tivoli’s edition a bit—’ow you say?-
tame. Zere ees but one bed scene, M’sieu,
but one naughty word. All ze sketches
are—parbleu! —ver’ respectable. Allans!
Ze gairls— la! la! Zey ’ave figaire
ravissement, zey dress divinement an’ zey
dance—’ow you say?—scrumptious. But
zb singing —mais non , m’sieu. For ze
turns, une jeune fille, Peggy Mortimer,
V er’ talented; ze voice t’rower, ze comic
strong men, ze bouncers, bon. But ze
gags, m’sieu, zey ’ave enough mould on
zem to make enough penicillin for ze
whole of ze United Nations, m’sieu.
. , tnikw—-
e *, c * , . , .
A prematurely aged astromoner who leaps
to world fame by discovering a comet, and Ms
young flighty wife who dabbles in, of all things,
astrology: that is the ironical partnership on
which Jacques Thery based his comedy “The
Heavenly Body” (Sydney St. James). Recon-
Cl]m 8 the sublime and the ridiculous, William
p owe | Ps une rring comedy sense gives the film
its final polish. Hedy Lamarr, who can almost
be said to take the title role, is suitably’ feather-
brained, gullible and maddening.
It is traditional that the radio singer who has
“captivated millions” should be allotted for
his or her film debut a plot that’ would msut
the intelligence of a performing seal. In “We’ll
Meet Again” (Lyceum) Vera Lynn, the 8.8. C.
star struggles hard to overcome this handicap;
but’her personality minus doesn’t help. A
better title than “We’ll Meet Again” would be
that oE one 0 f Sydney’s quay-side hostelries,
The First and Last.
An . <Art Advisory Council” for S.A.
has founded itself with Goodchild,
director of Arts and CraftSj as chairma n.
Louis McCubbin of the Nat . Gallery,
and aftists whinnen Webber and Ivor
Frands are foundat ion members. The
fal idea is t 0
“raise the cultural
° tandard of tbe community,” with a
S p ec i a iiy disapproving eye on “unsuitable
a^d in / rtistic war memorials,” which past
experience indicates as likely before long,
.
The season of Australiansky ballet has
come to a triumphant close at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, and if any doubter
wants confirmation of the box-omce un-
portance of the indigenous article he has
it in the fact that Borovansky s co. drev
more consistently packed houses tna
Pavlova, though for a shorter season. 1 •
season could have been prolonged i
had not been for G, and S. commitmen -■
“Spectre de la Rose” was introduced i
the final programme with the original sa-
tings, and with Martin Rubi^nstein' .
ing appropriately faun-like sp § =
through the window and performing
aerobatics be oie arousing
Martyn from her Ambers, itwwa
chaste, rather than a P ’
ance > as Wltil De B 1 ’
“C. 8.”; Douglas Stewart’s verse drama
“Ned Kelly” will be presented at tee
Union Theatre, University of Melbourne,
commencing September 30, with designs
by Norman Lindsay. Doha Ribum i
producer. He holds the local record to
meticulous rehearsal, and once gave -
months to the rehearsal of a Kus^i
play. His production of “The Uie ‘‘-
Orchard” at the Comedy Theatre was
finest performance of a Chekhov p -
ever seen in Melbourne.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
I I" f 9
I —c ft m
P I " |pp||
x & £
u >1
o
D
H
1
m 3
0X
\t
% %
i V<i
C *o> s
*sr
ii
= ====
Hf
%
£♦s
«**?
.•••••■
«*#r
N?
<5N*
*A
is
p
/ *
//
*jt*Z v<- 0 • *
m
.y. y *
-V
** '&
3
|#¥
r? //'%. i
Vs 7//X
Ays‘/Ar %
SSO///'
n
y.sSs
/
VA
o v
b»
y?
>Vv
O'
*p
d*A
I
5g
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
“KIMOC” INDIAN BLOOD TONIC
(Non-alcoholic). —Stomach, Liver and
Blood Renovator. Made by Healy £r
Bigelow, Liverpool, England. For
dyspepsia, sick headache, loss of
appetite, constipation, impure blood,
biliousness, liver disorder 2/-
EYE DROPS. —A sooth-
ing application for sore,
inflamed and tired eyes.
Price 2/6
ď
“BISMA-REX” STOMACH POWDER.—
From the Rexall Laboratories, England.
Quickly relieves the discomfort of exces-
sive gastric acidity, sour stomach, acid
dyspepsia, flatulence, heartburn . . 2/6
“VAXOS”. —An oral vaccine.
No. 1, designed to relieve and
confer immunity from respiratory
tract disorders, such as—catarrh,
hay fever, bronchitis, sinus
troubles, influenza, colds, etc.
No. 2, for rheumatism, neuritis,
fibrositis, myositis, lumbago and
spondylitis.
No. 3, for boils, carbuncles,
pimples, acne, eczema, impetigo
and most skin infections.
5 to 6 weeks’ treatment , , 21/-
PRICKLY HEAT POWDER.—A
product of Johnson Cr Johnson,
made in England. Besides being
delightful for ordinary toilet'use,
it brings immediate relief in cases
of prickly heat, rashes and all
irritations of the skin 2/3
• Pharmacy—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
FRENCH CORN all sufferers
of foot ailments. Corns, callouses or hard
skin, bunions, etc. Particularly suitable for
soldiers, police and those similarly engaged
in occupations that demand constant stand-
ing . 1/6
d
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


UNDER THE BRIDGE
By J. K. OSBORNE.
50ME years ago they reck-
oned the old bridge was
getting shaky. So they built
a nice new one out of steel
and concrete further down stream,
and when it was finished they shifted the
road down to it.
They didn’t pull down the old bridge,
just timbered it ofl and put up a warn-
ing notice, and left it. And it is there
today, the sun and rain still bleaching
its timbers, and the tides still pushing
past its slowly-rotting piles. With time,
the grass and scrub have grown up to it
and the people and houses away from it
and from where it crosses the neck of
the bay. Sometimes when you see it on
a moony, misty night, with its end swal-
lowed up in the dark scrub, it looks only
half-real, like a ghost bridge almost. Or
like the grey skeleton of a sperm whale
I saw in a museum once—like that, only
bigger of course.
I suppose they’ll have to pull down
the old bridge one of these days. The
only people who still use it are. a few
who take a short cut through the scrub
on their way to work, and one or two
fishermen. These people will be pretty
sore when it goes, and I’ve seen the day,
not so long ago, when I would have been
too. But not now. In fact, I’ll be glad.
I’ll be glad when there’s nothing left of
it—nothing left but the scrub again.
TO tell you why, I must go back to
when I first came to live near there.
We had moved across from another
suburb so as to be near the water where
I could hook a fish now and then, and
the old bridge took my eye right away.
There is a lot of timberwork down
close to the water under the middle
spans, and I was sure that if a man
climbed down there at night there’d be
bream to be caught round those old
piles. And I turned out to be right.
They are there, and once you get down
it’s quite comfortable. There are plenty
of beams to fish off, and right in under
the bridge, where you wouldn’t notice
them from the top, are small triangular
platforms where cross-timbers meet the
piles.
It was awkward climbing down in the
dark the first time, but I’d been in worse
places after fish. As with most good
spots, I wasn’t the first to find it. When
I started to become a regular I soon
found there was a little team of three or
four there nearly every night while the
bream were on.
I was new then and they didn’t take
much notice of me at first. But as time
went on I came to know them, first by
their different voices, and then each by
his name. There were Gurney and Mac
and Nobby, Dicko and Jake. We never
properly saw each other’s faces, and like
as not could have passed in daylight
without stopping.
But down there in the dark we all
knew one another. Not that we ever
talked much. It was mostly just, “You
getting any?” as they felt past you along
a beam ; but you’d know who it was and
whether he’d been down the night before
or not.
I often used to wonder why more
blokes didn’t come, because the bream
are there all right. But, as I said, the
climb down is difficult, and then again
not everyone will sit it out in a place
like that on those winter nights when the
fish are best.
Anyhow, there was always the same
little crowd, most times, until last winter.
And then one night we had a new recruit.
I WAS there the first night he showed up
' and I knew he was a stranger because,
when I put my hand on his shoulder to
steady myself past where he was sitting,
he didn’t speak. In fact he even seemed
to pull away a bit under my hand.
I said “How is it mate?” or words like
that, as I went past, and he mumbled
something I didn’t hear properly. I didn’t
think any more about it at the time.
He was there the next night, too, but
on one of the platforms under the
bridge flooring. And again the next
night, but now he always kept to the
one place, the same platform.
Most of us used to change our posi-
tions often down there. We reckoned the
bream moved about from one lot of piles
to another and you had to find them.
But the stranger never moved about,
just stayed in his position and kept quiet.
Nobody paid much attention to him.
We all knew he there, but if he
wanted to keep to himself that was all
right. He never spoke to any of us,
so we didn’t bother him.
But I got to wondering a bit about
him. You couldn’t help it with him sit-
ting there always, quiet like that.
One night, about the tenth after he’d
first come, they were pretty slow, and I
had pulled in to roll a smoke. I thought
maybe I’d go and see how the new cove
was getting on, so I edged along to his
platform and spoke to him. “Nothing
doing,” I thought he said, as I struck a
match, but he turned his head away just
then and 1 wasn’t sure. I drew on my
smoke a moment and then, even though
it* was pretty dark, I saw something that
gave me a surprise. His hands, instead
of holding a line, were stuffed in the
pockets of his heavy overcoat. He wasn’t
fishing. Just sitting there, with his legs
hanging over the edge, looking down at
the black sliding water He didn’t speak
again, so I moved back to my line.
It seemed a bit queer to me, a man
just sitting there in the dark, not fishing,
and not even wanting to talk. You meet
all kinds when you go after fish, but most
men will swap a few words with you at
the worst.
I went along and told Gurney about it,
but he didn’t seem to think anything of it
“Waiting /or the tide to slow maybe,”
he said, meaning that the fish often came
on again when the water grew slacker.
But I wasn’t altogether satisfied. I
don’t know why, but I’d got the idea
the fellow had deliberately turned his
head away when that match had flared.
I didn’t say so to Gurney it seemed silly,
But that’s how it had struck me.
1 WASN’T able to get down the next
1 couple of nights, and then we had a
stormy one and I was doubtful about
going.
I was pottering about the house trying
to make up my mind. Once you’ve
formed the habit it’s hard to let a night
go past without trying your luck with
the fish. You don’t feel happy m the
house. You might be missing just the
night they’re properly on, and they don’t
bsybat long anyway.
But I didnt kid myself that was my
only reason for deciding to go that night,
No matter what Gurney had said, the
more I thought about that bloke the
queerer it seemed to me Him suddenly
turning up there, and then being there,
night after night, always in the one spot,
never saying a word, and not even fishing.
He’d got properly on my mind the last
couple of days For all I knew, he might
never have had a line in any night. He
tn A wTTt down , the lj e . to
there? n 0t ’ W^at WOS 16 domg
T ‘ , . , T ,j ...
m ‘ my Id sa L SO r^ ng
, M J y S e
hadn t thought about it as I had. But
the weather must have put them off,
because when I climbed down that night
I found all the usual positions empty,
All except one, that is-I could see him
dark against the skyline as I went along
a beam
T . , . ...
I threw m in a few places, but things
were very quiet, not a toqch anywhere.
The storm had passed but it must
have put them off.
I was just sitting there doing mostly
nothing, and that gave me time to think
again, and I couldn’t think of anything
but the bloke on the platform. Then I
knew I must settle it—l must know what
the hell he was doing there in the dark.
I suddenly knew I wanted to see some-
thing about him that had never bothered
me with any of the others. I wanted to
know what he looked like—l wanted to
see his face!
I pulled in my line and thought a bit
longer. Yes, that would do. I stood up
and felt along the beam towards him
until I reached the platform.
Stepping on the edge of it, I said
“They’re slow, mate,” and when he
didn’t answer right away I said “Have a
smoke?”
He climbed to his feet slowly as I felt
f or matches and then he was standing
there, silent) facing me in the dark . j
scrape d a match on the box but, before
it lit> j felt one of h is hands clout down
on both mine
Then> just in time , against the sky j
saw r j g ht shoulder dip—and I ducked
low. The swing threw him off balance
and k e stumbled. For a long moment he
hung on the edgej and then he fell. I was
crouched down, watching him go. He
d j dn ’t cry out, and I thought later he
must have hit his head on a cross-piece
on t h e way down
There was a great splash and the phos .
phorous in the water was like black
mirrors breaking. He sank down and
away j n the current with little beads of
light all over him. Then I couldn’t see
him any more.
i groped about and found the matches,
i n the corner of the platform there were
old newspapers spread out and crushed
as if they’d been slept on. There was a
brown-paper parcel with some crusts and
dr ied-up meat in it. And a lemonade
bottle with an inch or two of water,
Nothing else,
'T'HE next couple of days were pretty
1 crook.
I d i dn ’t tell anybody about what had
happened. I kept feeling that if I hadn’t
chipped the bloke he might still have
been sitting down there, .fishing or not —
\ d j dn ’ t ca re now.
Why he'd had a swing at me I didn't
kno w. He might have thought I was a
copper trying him out. But that wasn’t
the point—l shouldn’t have chipped him,
Maybe I should have told the police
about him going in, but what was the
good? I didn’t know who he was or
where he’d come from. Or even what his
f aC e looked like
He might have done something j
wouldnH ° ant to be mixed up in. Or
they m j g bt even have reckoned I’d known
him and pushed him in for some reason
or other. There had been only the two
of us. It just didn’t seem to be any of
my business. And I began to feel better
when there was nothing in the papers-
nothing about anything being washed up.
A . f , 5 , * y
• ht T * ee iL wen ! k y *j? en on ®
t went down to the bridge and
' o °f d A,™ 8
. :tnc quiet, too, but I thought I
heard a movement down below, I
listened, and then sang out. Gurney
answered
, , , , T c <■,»
ve ,7.°“ been lately. Lafey?”
Working, I said. Been getting any?”
. Bream ve been scarce. Couple of
J e . w ® about. Nob got one ten pound last
, „„ _ ~
««v u on -i,, saia ‘
T , lowtail.
I knew then I d soon be fishing again.
Apart from the jews, Id come round to
that the only thing really to take
, at nas *Y taste out of my mouth would
b e to §°. d° wn there again with the others,
just as 11 us ®d to be.
“‘So long,” I called down. “Be seeing
Y° u tomorrow night.”
Next day I went and bought a new
36-cord, two hundred green yards of it.
If the jews were starting to come
about it would be no good my
going after them with my old one.
It made me fegl good, too, as any
new line does.
When I reached the bridge that night
Mac was there, and Gurney, and they’d
landed a couple of bream. I showed them
the line and some new hooks.
“I’ll show you blokes!” I said.
We often used to fish off one of the
platforms for jews because there was
more space for landing. But I thought
I’d have a go off another place where
the beam jutted out clear of the piles.
It was just about as good, I threw my
line in, rolled a smoke and settled down.
Fishing for the big ones is often like that.
A man might have to sit for a long time
for nothing. And again the next night
and the next. But it comes at last, that
savage rip—and then you’re busy.
THE time went by, and it began to
look as if there wasn’t going to be
anything doing. I called out to Mac and
Gurney once or twice, but they weren’t
touching anything. It grew late, and at
last I heard them moving about.
If they were going, it wasn’t much good
my staying there on my own. I started
to pull in, but after a few yards-I felt
the hook snag in something. I thought
it was weed and took a strain to pull
through it. But it stuck fast. Gurney
heard me swear and called out to know
what was up.
“I’m into something,” I told him.
I took a bigger strain carefully, be-
cause of my new line, and then let go.
I did that twice and then took up the
slack. With a hard pull I could shift it
now, but only very slowly. There was
something coming in with it, somethmg
heavy and dragging.
“How is it?” said Gurney from the
darkness.
“Coming,” I answered, “but I reckon
I’ve picked up one of those old stakes
out there, blast it!”
“Still some about,” Gurney called back.
The line still came in slowly, but I was
getting it. I had a lot in when Gurney
came along the beam.
“Let’s feel,” he said, and after he‘d
taken the strain, “Gawd! You’re into a
tombstone. Hey, Mac!” he called.
“Come over here —Lafey’s got the big-
gest flaming tombstone in the world on
here! ”
It was his favorite name for the odd
lumps of things we sometimes hooked
down there, his stock joke. I’d heard it
often before, but just now it suddenly
gave me a horrible sick feeling. He
handed me back the line, but I couldn’t
seem to get a grip on it. My fingers had
gone clumsy, and it paid away slowly
through my hand. Slowly but firmly.
Gurney bent down over me in the dark
as Mac came along.
“What the hell are you doing?” he
said ; “it’s going out again.”
My knife was somewhere about, but
I couldn’t find it. I just couldn’t get my
fingers on it in the dark. I heard my
voice, but it was thick.
“Cut it off —I’m finished with it.”
“What for?” Gurney cried. “Brand
new line, and you’re too flaming lazy to
get the lot!”
Mac said “What’s wrong with you—
didn’t that hook cost you a zack?”
Gurney bent down again and took the
line from me. He began hauling on it.
I couldn’t find the knife anywhere. It
should have been in my bag or on the
ledge. There were splinters under my
nails. And then, just as my hand closed
over it in a pocket, I heard him say:
“I’ve got it —it’s right on top now.
Shine your torch down, Mac, and lets
see what’s on here.”
The words sent a cold shudder through
me. My strength drained away, and I
could only sit there and stare down-
down to where the tight line led into
something dark and sprawling just under
the surface.
Then Gurney let out a low hissing
whistle.
“Gawd!” he said. “I think—l think
it’s a , but it’s wrong side up”—
He was peering down and pulling the line
this way and that. “Mac, reach down
your gaff and turn it over so we can see
the face.”
That was enough to get me going-
Before Mac could move 1 was up and
had slashed the line free. Gurney turned
on me.
“What the hell” he started to say,
but Mac broke in.
“Look!” he cried, and his voice was
high..
Our eyes followed the yellow beam oi
his torch.
Suddenly freed, the thing in the water
was turning over slowly as it sank away
Mac gripped my arm.
“Did you see?” he said, hardly abou
a whisper; “the ‘jackets’ had been at a
it didn’t have a face!”
THE LIZARDS.
My wife is a lovely leathery green, the blue-
tongued lizard said;
Her eyes are as red as bulldog ants, lurking in
holes in her head;
Her body is made of the speckled grass, a
violet grows on her tongue,
And I could watch her for fifty years if nobody
blundered along.
The broken ridge like a bullock’s ribs lies
crumbling under the blue,
But the granite skull will last my time, and
there’s room for my truelove, too;
If I were a lizard half my size and out for a
girl or a walk,
I think I’d be taking another track, and I
wouldn’t stop to talk.
Down in the valley the river shines, the willows
waver and gleam,
And maybe it’s you the plovers mean when
they open their beaks and scream.
If I were as young and green as you, I’d take
no risks, my boy—
Why not go off and drown yourself in the
glimmering Duckmaloi?
Over the valley the gum-trees grow, the vast
blue ranges loom,
The world is crowded with wives to steal and
the world is full of room.
If I had hissed and glared like you I’d feel
that I’d done enough—
Why don’t you climb Mount Bindo there and
see if you can’t fall off?
If I opened my jaws myself like that, the blue-
tongued lizard said,
And then if they closed again like this they’d
just about jit your head;
There’s a certain pain in having to fight but
there’s also a certain joy.
And the more you bite my belly or leg the more
you’ll pay, my boy.
I lay on my rock with the sun on my back and
nothing but love in my soul,
But if I am forced to gasp and claw and roll
and fight in a hole,
If I am forced to fight in the dirt under the
blue of the sky
—The black snake lives in the briar bush and
he will be kinder than I.
Waddle away with a wounded air, the blue-
tongued lizard said,
The ant and the crow will nurse you well and
tuck you safely in bed.
We were at peace, my wife and I, before you
blundered along,
And now she will soothe my scaly side with her
beautiful purple tongue.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3371.
Wednesday, September 20, 1944.
“TIME IS ON” (WHOSE?) “SIDE.”
“Adolf, you bore me. Your old Berchtesgaden technique is out of date.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
Loridon, E.C.4.
THE COMS.' BEST BET.
In the “Illustrated London News” of
July 1 Captain Cyril Falls had a note on
“the foreign element in the German
armies” encountered in Normandy. He
said this foreign element was “a source
of weakness,” though not so much so as
was supposed “in some quarters.”
Mercenaries often make good soldiers,
and the Nazi mentality is not altogether
peculiar to Germans.
The “Times” of June 17 had published
the substance of an official report on the
composition of the enemy forces:
It was stated at the Advanced Command
Post of Allied Supreme Headquarters yes-
terday that the enemy has 300,000 men
facing the invasion armies in Normandy,
and that 200,000 of them are fighting troops.
His armored strength is estimated at the
equivalent of four Panzer divisions.
The enemy’s troops include substantial
numbers of Russians, Poles, Rumanians,
Georgians and men from Turkestan, who
fall far below the fighting standards of the
Germans. It is reckoned that up to 25
p.c. of the strength of the German divisions
in the western coastal zone is made up of
foreigners. A coastal division may have
two regiments of Germans and a bat-
talion, or possibly a regiment, of foreigners.
In addition, there are a certain number of
independent foreign battalions.
Australian readers of the “Times” who
might be moved to turn up their own
daily newspaper files to see how this very
interesting and important matter was
treated would have to give up the task
unsatisfied. There was no comment “in
some quarters” or any quarter. As for
news, there was a lone statement in one
paper that “British Official Wireless says
the enemy has 300,000 men, including
200,000 fighting troops and four Panzer
divisions.” Nothing about the Russians,
Georgians and “men from Turkestan,”
necessarily all brought up under the Com-
munist system, and whether fugitives from
it or enforced soldiers of Hitler (there
are no British or Americans or men from
the Dominions in that category), all
traitors to Russia. Nothing about their
companions or about the proportion of
mercenaries in the armies which Mont-
gomery’s men were so soon to pierce and
scatter and roll up. Nothing but a crumb
from a loaf which, if offered in full,
would have stimulated thought and dis-
cussion and sharpened the thirst for
information.
The fact that Australian dailies draw
heavily on the “Times” for war news
and comment makes the omission in
question all the more striking. How-
ever, it is of a piece with the presen-
tation of “news” in which Russia and the
Russians and their proteges, particularly
Tito, are always cracked up, often with
comparisons injurious to Britain and
aimed particularly at British generals.
This kind of thing has been going on
ever since Russia was forced into the
German war. We have had it not only
in daily newspapers, especially Sydney
daily newspapers, but in illustrated sheets
of the Legs-and-Leftism order, clerical
addresses, pastoral letters and radio talks
innumerable, from announcements to
bopk reviews. The sum of this stuff
(though the effect produced is not in all
cases intended), is that, unlike the British,
the Russians always win and are always
right, it not being in their nature or that
of their system to be wrong.
Mr. Churchill prefaced his report on
D-Day to the House of Commons with
a glowing tribute to the most modest and
merciful of all conquerors of Rome. The
“Times” recorded that men of all parties
joined in the cheers, “General Alexander
being a favorite with the House of
Commons.” He is no favorite with
some Australian journalists, not only
because he failed to arrange for a name
ending in ’sky, ’vitch or ’shenko, but
because of his old school tie. They gave
him a bad time when the polyglot armies
he has led so skilfully seemed (to them)
certain to be defeated at Salerno, and
again at Cassino, and his latest north-
ward thrust was only a few days old
when the Sydney “Sun” was at him again:
EIGHTH ARMY HELD UP BEHIND
GOTHIC LINE.
The Eighth Army’s breakthrough at the
Gothic Line has missed fire {sic), says
Reuter’s correspondent at Allied G.H.Q. in
Italy. Just how it happened, he adds, is
not certain.
In the same paper six days later there
was quite another story:
EIGHTH ARMY SMASHING THROUGH
GOTHIC LINE.
The tally of prisoners suggests that it is
going to be the biggest bag of the week.
This was published without any apology
or admission that it was not Alexander's
dispositions but the Reuter young man’s
Dismal Jimmy act that “missed fire.”
The “Sun’s” attitude to Russian
generals and their battles is different.
In the last week of July it announced the
impending fall of Warsaw (“German
Forces Crumbling; final attack on War-
saw followed a dramatic 25-miles’ dash
by Marshal Rokossovsky’s tanks and
cavalry”), which, for unexplained reasons,
was still in enemy hands last week. And
one week of the war on other parts of
the Eastern Front was dished up in like
headlines and opening sentences:
REDS BREACH LINE GUARDING
PRUSSIA.
The Russians have broken into the de-
fence line on the Eijst Prussian border
(August 9),
RUSSIAN PINCERS ABOUT TO GRIP
EAST PRUSSIA.
Russian pincers grip EasJ Prussia and are
ready to close. Powerful forces striking
from the north have linked with southern
armies in readiness for the assault.
(August 10).
WHOLE RED BALTIC FRONT ON
MOVE.
The whole of the Russian Baltic front
is now on the move to crush the 30 German
divisions trapped in Estonia and northern
Latvia (August 13).
INVASION OF EAST PRUSSIA “THIS
WEEK.”
The Red Army’s invasion* of East Prussia
is expected to begin before Saturday.
’Planes are blasting a way for the troops
as they move from the Bobr River cross-
ings towards Lyek, ±1 miles inside East
Prussia (August 16).
A month after the last explosion of ink
there had been no invasion of East
Prussia, and “the 30 German divisions
trapped in Estonia and northern Latvia”
had somehow got out of the “trap.” Again
the “Sun” did not explain that such was
the case, nor did it have any disapprov-
ing words for the operations or the
generals directing them. Only British
generals suffer “setbacks,” and British
offensives alone “miss fire.”
This sort of reporting has done and is
doing a power of harm. It has become the
Communists’ best bet. These gentry seem
to have a bottomless purse for propa-
ganda in various forms, but their efforts
would be of little avail if there were not
placed at their service, for merely what
it costs them to buy copies of newspapers
and periodicals, this unceasing output of
Russia - is - always-right - and - can’t - be-
wrong fustian, with its ugly accompani-
ment of what amounts to depreciation of
Britain. And the effect is not really miti-
gated by occasional leading articles, for
the leading articles are read by few, the
fustian by everybody.
There is no counteracting British propa-
ganda. Britons do not advertise. If they
did Australians would not need to be
told that the British effort is unsurpassed
in the history of war ; that British institu-
tions and the British system and the
British character have withstood the
severest tests ever imposed on a nation,
defeat, privations and unimaginable de-
struction and suffering, and that in its ex-
tremity Britain did not whine or squeal
to neutrals for help, saying only to a kin-
dred nation, through the mouth of its
Prime Minister, “Give us the tools and
we’ll finish the job,” Nor in its progress
from disaster to swelling victory did it
claim to have killed, wounded and cap-
tured more of the enemy than his adult
male population, and thus find it neces-
sary on paper to do it over again. It
drew strength from and was sustained by
the old loyalties—to King and country.
Parliamentary government, truth, justice,
the pledged word and the Christian reli-
gion. For the old commandments stand.
The probabilities are that were it not
for the powerful appeal to the ignorant
and credulous with which it has been fur-
nished on the cheap the Communist con-
spiracy would now be on the wane. As
things are, so much apprehension and dis-
gust have been aroused among Labor-
unionists by the results of Communist
teaching and “leadership” on the N.S.W.
coldfields, by the arrogance of Commu-
nist bosses of other unions, by Commu-
nist performances during the referendum
alliance, and by Communist excuses for
the Russian refusal of help to the heroes
of Warsaw, which have revolted even the
N.S.W. “Labor Standard,” that the Corns,
have been placed on the defence in a
region marked for their own.
Even before the referendum vote was
taken two Victorian Labor members, Mr.
Cremean and Mr. Mullens, were so un-
easy about the alliance that they pointedly
dissociated themselves from the Com-
munists in Assembly speeches. In a blis-
tering attack on Communist methods Mr.
Cremean gave the military history of a
called-up Communist candidate (“Vote for
the Digger”) who was “in the army for
fourteen days.” He said also, as illus-
trating “the extent to which Communists
favor free speech”;
I remember a subsidiary sending two letters
to the Trades Hall Council. The first letter
asked that body to support the Communist
protest against the ban on the importation
of certain Soviet literature. Five days later
they sent another letter asking the T.H.C.
to support them in having The Bulletin
banned because it had criticised the Com-
munist party.
Mr. Mullens spoke on the referendum,
saying “It grieves me sorely, just as it
grieves tens of thousands of good Labor-
ites throughout Victoria, to know that our
case is being jeopardised by some of the
ragtag and bobtail of the Communist
party who are endeavoring to ride in the
Yes chariot.” He referred to “the mys-
terious source of the funds that support
one of the Yes committees” and to the
finances of “the Communist-controlled and
-directed Victorian branch of the Rail-
waymen’s Union,” with “tens of thou-
sands of decent workers” who had found
“their tills reduced and their dues in-
creased to finance pro-Russian propa-
ganda based on Madame Popemoff of
the Steppes.” He gave a list, lengthy but
incomplete, of Communists who had
wormed their way into union and A.L.P.
offices and even been accepted as Labor
candidates. And he invited the House’s
attention to other Reds, “who yvill in-
trigue, twist, turn, gyrate, and do any-
thing that would be a credit to an acro-
bat in Wirth’s Circus.”
Mr. Mullens was challenged by some
of the agitators he denounced to repeat
his assertions in public. He replied that
he was willing, and he engaged the
Stadium for a public meeting, being un-
able to get the Unity Hall, because, as he
said, addressing railwaymen, “You have
not access to your own hall because it
is taken time after time by the guerrillas
and subsidiaries of the Communist party.”
To the meeting he invited Comrades
Brown (A.R.U.), Sharpley (Munition
Workers), Flannagan (Ironworkers) and
Thomson (Building Trades Federation),
sending them letters and telegrams, and
from the chair Mr. Barry, M.L.A., sum-
moned these worthies to mount the plat-
form.
None of them was present. Four or
five thousand other people were. And,
after hearing Mr. Mullens, with few dis*-
sentients they passed a resolution calling
upon the Federal Government “to reform
the law relating to trade-unions, so that
officials will be elected democratically
and the trade-union movement may be
restored to its place as protector of the
individual worker,” instead of being “in-
creasingly used by anti-working-class ele-
ments to oppress him and restrict his
liberty.” A suggested legislative pro-
gramme was tacked on:
Compulsory unionism; compulsory
voting at union elections; all union elec-
tions to be conducted by independent and
impartial returning officers, who would lay
down the method of conducting the ballot;
prohibition of the vicious practice of hand-
ing out ballot papers by shop stewards and
other union officials; costs awarded against
officials in litigation over union elections to
be paid by the officials personally; no
worker to be excluded from the union cover-
ing his occupation for political reasons.
Except for the bit about compulsory
unionism, to which Mr, Curtin says he is
opposed, the Government, itself the sport
of union-boss and union-mob lawless-
ness, should accept the resolution and
act upon it and make obligatory also
the regular publication of precise and de-
tailed balance sheets —though all its his-
tory suggest that it won’t.
Widening the R.S.L.
By a 20-to-l majority N.S.W. Diggers at
their Congress resolved to recommend
that all who have volunteered to serve
anywhere and members of the militia who
have served in a war theatre should be
eligible for League membership. Purely
a decision of returned Diggers, influenced
by nobody, it will mean, if duly carried
by their representatives in all States, a
great strengthening of a fine Australian
institution for a time when it will prob-
ably need every ounce of strength" it can
muster.
For that reason the N.S.W. decision
will be grievously disappointing to those
who would like to see preference for
Diggers and their fellow servicemen
abolished in principle and fact. It serves
advance notice on the Commonwealth
Government that its tardiness, if not re-
luctance, in cleanly committing itself, giv-
ing all other employers a lead on that
principle, has been noted and is not being
forgotten. It tells Messrs. Curtin and co.
(or any others like them) that they will
have Diggers and co. in strength to reckon
with if the shabby notion that servicemen
have no true claim to special treatment
over home-fronters is persisted in.
As League Diggers have evidently also
noted, the main hopes of the not incon-
siderable anti-Digger element of the
country have been pinned to the pros-
pect of division in the servicemen’s
ranks. From this element’s point of view
that prospect had looked rosy. Excluded
from the League were not only the large
numbers of militia who had been to fight-
ing fronts, including many who had, by
all report, fought very well there and
been wounded, but also tens of thousands
of actual volunteers for fighting anywhere,
men of the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F.,
doing jobs in Australia every bit as essen-
Uai to the lighting part as aone by
the at least equal numbers at the fighting
areas who still never fire a shot.
Recognition of returned-militia eligi-
bility is a matter of doing justice in
keeping with general Digger willingness
and generosity. If Digger League de-
cisions since its inception are looked into
it will be found that the Diggers have
always put their country’s interests first,
in a way that time-serving politicians in
the meantime certainly never did. If the
Digger League lead had been unfailingly
taken between the wars this country
could now look back and say that its
course had been taken wisely, on sound
principles, and not, as it was —almost
disastrously—on party political expedi-
ency and hollow popular fashions. Be-
cause all their lives have shown them as
men rooted in principles, Diggers could
not have failed to recognise returned
militia in time.
That does simple justice ; bringing in
all the actual volunteers removes positive
injustice. The militia could have formed
an organisation of their own without any
true cause for complaint against the
League if the League had decided to
remain a volunteers’ organisation. Actual
volunteers who did not get away could
also have formed their own organisation,
but they would have had strong cause
for always harboring a grudge against the
other volunteers walled in by an exclu-
sive “returned” clause. A great many
of these —instance the Armored Division
—are as true A.I.F. in spirit as any who
ever enlisted; but a conclusive case can
be made out for all of them.
The N.S.W. decision —assuming that it
will become League policy—does more
than greatly widen the League, important
enough as this is, both for the welfare
of ex-servicemen and of Australia. It
does more, too, than merely stop the
mouths of sneering asses who, without
themselves having done anything in their
country’s defence, have had the gall to
gibe at League “exclusiveness.”
League Diggers have always supported
universal service. Exclusion of returned
militia has, therefore, been a definite
anomaly. To say, on the one hand, that
compulsory service is a necessity, but, on
the other, that compulsory servicemen
will be regarded as outsiders indicates a
confusion of thought at the best. The
League, however, can be easily defer 'ed
on what amounts to a decision still to
exclude quite a* lot who have worn uni-
form. The spirit hitherto upholding and
guiding the League has been that of a
man’s thinking so much of his country
that he could be willing—in fact, eager—
voluntarily to go forth prepared to die
for it. That spirit the only too consider-
able anti-Digger element simply cannot
understand. It is beyond its comprehen-
sion that anyone, with danger threaten-
ing, should look higher than a hollow log.
Provided the Federal Congress follows
the N.S.W. Diggers’ lead, the R.S.L. will
be one of the potentially strongest of all
organisations in post-war Australia. Its
record up to now leaves no doubt that it
will then be one of the most valuable.
It will for some time have a vast amount
of work on its hands merely in securing
a fair deal for ex-servicemen. There are
attempts already to dedl unfairly by them,
most probably mild to what will come
later.
But that aspect of the R.S.L.’s future
is of a temporary character. The League
as it will probably now be constituted
will have a more vital future still as a
leading, even the leading, national insti-
tution. Very wisely, in the Sydney Con-
gress, it declined to become party poli-
tical, and there is nothing surer about it
than that it will continue to do so
Federally. It cannot, however, escape
being political. It cannot do other than
continue to work in the interests of the
nation at large. The Diggers—making
the term inclusive —are more nationally-
minded than any other section of the
community. They have shown it in what
they have been prepared to do and in
their League councils.
The country owes them a lot already,
but their work for it is only started. And
if there is one aspect of the nation’s wel-
fare on which everybody must agree that
they can speak with authority it is de-
fence, the ensuring of national security.
The biggest job ahead of them is to see
that this is well and truly established.
And that surely means acceptance by the
country of the vital principle of universal
service, not only for being always ready,
but also for going in as a single, organised
national power, with anybody and every-
body liable for the service he can best
do, and an end to the wretched spec-
tacles of disjointed muddling, of favored
individuals and favored classes skulking
in pampered comfort and safety behind
a comparative handful of volunteers.
Australian Labor is a long way off the
adoption of universal service as an abid-
ing principle. This is not unalterable
Labor policy, as witness New Zealand.
What Labor there, with that Dominion as
a whole, has come to accept is simply
that universal service is as essentially
democratic as skulking behind volunteers
is undemocratic, exclusive, cowardly.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Sixteen Big Airliners."
“Sixteen big airliners for Australian civil routes
nave been ordered from America by Australian
National Airways. With spare equipment, they
will cost between £2,500,000 and £3,000,000.
The managing-director said that import licenses
had been granted, the ’planes to be delivered
as soon as circumstances permit.’ ”
It is a transaction which should be chal-
lenged in Parliament this week. It runs
counter to the Government’s financial
policy and its fine professions.
After five dreadful years the British
people are contemplating with a sad pride
the sacrifices of life and property they
have made in the common cause and the
ghastly destruction wrought in the second
blitz—apart from the damnable killings
and woundings, 23,000 houses and flats
destroyed and 1,104,000 damaged in
London alone. Reading about the “16 big
airliners” they could justifiably ask Aus-
tralia who gives it preferences on dried
fruits and the like, who contracted to buy
its wool, wheat, meat and butter to the
limits of supply and who, when the war
is done, will—if it can—continue to be far
and away Australia’s best overseas cus-
tomer?
It may be argued that Britain could
not supply the kind of aircraft needed.
Preposterous, considering that the Short
Sunderland and the Lancaster, to say
nothing of the Spitfire, are without peers.
If the British aircraft industry is up to the
hilt in war production, it is all the more
reason why Australia should wait till the
can attend to orders for civil
’planes. The war is far from over and
civilian flying on the grand scale cannot
be resumed until after the “cease fire”
has sounded.
Britain, as old Smuts has said, will
emerge from the war with her economy
tremendously weakened, and “with noth-
ing left in the till.” The American
“Nation” puts it this way:
From one point of view Britain is to-
day a bankrupt nation. Not only has it
spent a large part of its international re-
sources—gold and foreign investments —
m prosecuting the war, but it has had to
give lOU’s to countries supplying if with
goods for which it could not pay by means
of exports. By the end of this year blocked
sterling credits belonging to other nations
will amount to $l2 billion [i.e., 12 thousand
million] —not far short of Britain’s total
investments before the war. These credits
will eventually have to be paid off in the
form of British services and goods.
But that is not the only reason why
Britain will have to expand exports far
above their pre-war level. Before the war
it consistently bought from other countries
far more than it sold, and settled the bal-
ance by means of shipping and other ser-
vices and the proceeds of its foreign in-
vestments. As these investments have been
largely liquidated in order to maintain its
international balance of payments, Britain
•will either have to sell still more goods
abroad or curb imports drastically. The
second alternative would mean a terrific cut
in the British standard of living and would
have catastrophic effects on the economies
of the many countries that have relied on
the British market to absorb their surpluses.
Shame on any British Commonwealth
Government which neglects any oppor-
tunity to restore the British export indus-
tries !
For Impressionable Students.
Socialist —no, social —studies are to be
part of the curriculum in N.S.W.
secondary schools. This is part of the
syllabus as drawn up by the Teachers’
Federation (the mob in control of which
tried to boycott the University extension
W.E.A, on the ground that one of its
lecturers wasn’t sufficiently servile to
Moscow); and [Communist] teachers are
to have “the option” of “working on this
syllabus or the former one” (Director of
Education):
The Russian Revolution. The overthrow
of the Czarist system; the Treaty of Brest-
Litovsk; the essentials of Leninism; arrest-
ing features of “A Worker’s State”; Stalin
v. Trotsky; farsighted planning; highlights
of the industrial and agrarian revolutions;
salient features of the war against Hitlerite
Germany; the Anglo-Soviet alliance; Aus-
tralia’s exchange of Ministers; class debates
centring about characteristic institutions
of Australia and the Soviet Union.
“Arresting features of ‘A Worker’s
State’; farsighted planning; the war
against Hitlerite Germany”—the very
jargon of Communist propaganda!
In New York State, and that when
New Deal Democrats were in control,
Communist teachers had to be thrown
out of the public schools. The N.S.W.
Labor Government is not going to do
anything like that. On the contrary, it is
trying to force Government teachers who
object to the Teachers’ Federation to join
that Leftist concern.
On the Footbrawl Front.
In spite of the severe coal rationing and
the chronic labor shortage in the Tram-
way Department, there was a service of
special trams for a professional football
match at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
In this there was nothing unusual, for
the concern running the match enjoys
special privileges. It has a winter
monopoly of the ground. It has been
permitted to increase its already large
income by staging Sunday matches —
another grievance of the trammies, under-
staffed and overworked. And it has
never been without a plentiful supply of
meal-tickets, whereas the Rugby Union,
with long rolls of killed,' wounded and
missing, has throughout been hard put to
it to field first-grade teams. In this matter
the Stadium, another concern dear to
politicians, has been as lucky as, perhaps
even luckier than, the Rugby League.
The match, Newtown v. Balmain, was
billed as “the final for the League pre-
miership.” If Newtown lost the teams
would meet again in a “grand” final.
Newtown lost,
“As the crowd of 41,800 left the
ground,” the mild “S. M. Herald” noted,
“heated remarks were made.” Remarks
as heated were made in the “Herald” and
other papers.
A League inquest being held (the ver-
dict was, in effect, “No blame attachable
to anyone”), an “official,” reported in the
“Herald,” said “The worst thing against
the code is the gambling.” It was com-
mon talk that “people” were “receiving
odds of 5 to 4, 6 to 4 and 2 to 1,” and
while he repudiated these wounding
charges, “our footballers” being above
that kind of thing, it was a fact that
“officials are gambling on these matches ;
there are officials in this room who are
carrying information to the bookmakers.”
He thought “the League should devise
ways and means to suppress this menace.”
Another view is that a money-mad
outfit, tainted with gambling, and certain
of whose exhibitions (not one only) have
given rise to howls of rage and gales of
derisive laughter, itself requires drastic
attention.
By the operation of the Common-
wealth-wide embargo it is to lose its
special trams. It should also be deprived
of its Sunday matches, on which betting
is as rife as it is on the Saturday matches,
not only for such of the 1944 season as
remains, but for all seasons. And people
with sons, husbands arid brothers at the
front or in hospitals or honored graves
have a right to an authoritative explana-
tion to satisfy the curiosity they must
feel as to why so many healthy young
men of fine physique have been privi-
leged to play football for money Saturday
after Saturday, month after month and
season after season, when the enemy has
still to be dislodged from great tracts of
territory occupied by wards of the Com-
monwealth whom it is in honor bound
to liberate.
Land for Service Men.
“0.T.” goes into the question:
In Australia between 1918 and 1939 5,468,545
acres of private and 23,313,298 acres of Crown
land were acquired or set aside for soldier-
settlement. By 30/6/’39 in N. S. Wales alone
5011 of 9692 soldier-settlers had transferred or
abandoned their holdings.
That year Justice Pike found that gross losses
totalled £23,525,522 (N.S.W. £7,003,950, Vic.
£7,721,891, S.A. £3,565,829, W.A. £2,059,368,
Q’land £1,853,315, Tas. £1,321,169), of which
the proportion found by the Commonwealth
was £12,333,000.
This is the cold picture of the actuary. A
far worse picture is the toll of eroded land,
broken health and broken families and —above
all —the nation’s broken promise to its fighting
volunteers.
Another soldier-settlement scheme is being
hatched, this time by Canberra. Canberra sees
it as a gradual thing—“part of a long-term de-
velopment scheme” —and proposes that the
number settled shall be determined by prospects
for primary produce, that settlers be chosen
after examination for suitability, that “adequate”
technical guidance shall be made available and
that no settler should go short of capital.
It announced this after receiving a report
from the Rural Reconstruction Commission,
which said that 50,000 service men may want
land “involving an outlay of £160,000,000.”
The R.R.C. has a lot of remarks about State
and Federal collaboration, use of Commonwealth
and State finance and so forth, including the
proposition that settlers shall get money free
of interest for the first five years, and pay 2 p.c.
per annum for the next five years, and thereafter
at the current rate applicable to Commonwealth
Mortgage Bank farm loans. This is reckoned
to give the settler a 30 p.c. equity in his hold-
ing after ten years, general repayment terms
to be flexible and based on “earning capacity.”
Applicants are to be classified into (a) those
fit to take on blocks at once, (£>) those requir-
ing short training beforehand, (c) those re-
quiring longer training and id) those suitable
for farm employment as trainees, the Com-
monwealth to make up their wages—presumably
to award rates. All very nice and very opti-
mistic. In the ten years before the war Austra-
lian taxpayers had to subsidise the wheat in-
dustry alone to an amount of over £18,500,000,
and it has had to subsidise butter and fruit pro-
ducers.
For those fitted by nature for it life on the
land is the perfect existence. But the land is
terrible for others —particularly so for those
who think they can manage it and believe a
course of training under “experts” can make
them farmers. Many a service man, seeing the
country for the first time and experiencing the
open-air life for the first time, will be im-
pelled to take up land. But there’s a vast
o Continued on page 8 .)
SURGERY PLANNED AT QUEBEC.
“Have it your own way, Dr. Churchill; but I suggest a neat little incision round here.”


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
Pf
lime
PASSES
§y
the
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, s if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Honse-
'aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
difference between the open-air life under
military control and with the nation geared
up to support it and that life on your own,
with only your own strength and brains to
carry you through. And an important factor
is the service man’s wife, for unless a woman
is born to the land or has a natural bent for
rural life the chances are that she will hate it—
and, however willing a settler may be, he can do
no good without an enthusiastic helpmate.
Soldier-settlement needs a much more practi-
cal basis than what is apparently proposed.
Apart from the aptitude of the settler, there
is the kind of land he is to get. Already
N.S.W. has struck trouble in this regard, suc-
cessful soldier applicants for land at Kyogle
having rejected the blocks.
None of the foregoing need be taken as
opposition to land for service men. It can be
taken as opposition to glorified schemes, based
on theories which can lead to disaster for
both the land and the unfortunate men settlea
upon it. Australia already has one huge
soldier-settlement blot. It has other huge
settlement blots in the Victorian Mallee and
south-west N. S. Wales and south Westralia.
For the sake of the service men themselves, land-
settlement schemes need the utmost analysis,
and so do would-be settlers.
POLITICAL POINTS
Earle Page and Fadden, with support
from Spender, fell heavily on the Budget,
saying, in effect, that millions and mil-
lions and millions were being squandered
to no purpose. Chifley will be obliged
to make some sort of reply, but it will
be merely beating the air. Fadden gave
these particulars of the National Welfare
Trust Fund:
Total Cash Balance .. .. £25,525,000
Invested in Treasury Bills .. 25,500,000
Cash remaining .. .. £25,000
In effect, Artie said: “The taxpayers will
have to pay twice for the bottles of
colored medicine and other alleged bene-
fits, to be paid for, they were led to be-
lieve, out of the extra taxation sweated
out of them for National Welfare.”
Nobody on the Ministerial side at Can-
berra ever thinks up a way of saving the
people’s money, which is being squan-
dered as if there were no bottom to the
public purse, but new ways of spending
more are suggested every week. The
latest is a plan for turning a swarm of
press-agents loose in Britain and the
U.S.A. “to expand overseas publicity.”
The press-agents are to have fancy titles,
and though the cost of the expanded pub-
licity is no object, £30,000 a year is
blithely suggested.
One pretext for the sending of Gov-
ernment press-agents to Britain is that
“it will be necessary to keep the war in
the Pacific constantly before the British
public to counteract the effects of war
weariness.” The Churchill Government
may be trusted to attend to that without
the unsolicited aid of a parcel of Govern-
ment writing boys from Australia,
Lord Cowrie’s farewell address to
Australia was worthy of him, and
the advice he gave to the country
he served for sixteen years was ex-
cellent. Governor - General for a
longer period than any of his pre-
decessors (eight years), he is to be suc-
ceeded by a royal duke ; which has hap-
pened in Canada and South Africa but
not hitherto in Australia. Meanwhile
another old soldier. Sir Winston Dugan,
has been sworn in as Acting Governor-
General. Lord Tennyson was Acting-
G.-G. from July 17, 1902 to January 9,
1903, when he became G.-G. for a year.
Other locums. Lord Chelmsford (Dec.
21, 1909 to Jan. 27, 1910) and Lord
Somers (Oct. 3, 1930 to Jan. 22, 1931),
were called Administrators.
Archie Cameron’s talents are recog-
nised at Canberra and in his own State —
incidentally, though S.A. declared for the
referendum Barker polled a 10,000 No
majority—and newspapers are beginning
to allow that he has merits. He is now
referred to quite respectfully in a Sydney
sheet which used to dismiss him as a
“hillbilly,” and the “Argus” gave him
credit for making “one of the best speeches
on the coal debate,” adding that “though
some of the Labor boys are pretty good
at apt retort,” having been “trained” that
way, “even the best of them is likely to
come off second-best in a passage at arms
with the quick-witted South Australian
member.” In effect “he summed up the
coal position in its relation to the Gov-
ernment succinctly and effectively.”
Cameron’s speeches are full of meat, and
sport-crazed newspapers miss a lot by
not reporting them.
“Since the war began 25,000 homes
have been built in this country,” said the
Labor Minister of Works. The Labor
Minister of Works at Canberra? No,
the one at Wellington, Canberra’s
“effort” has been confined to “a compre-
hensive plan, contained in the Common-
wealth Housing Commission’s third and
final report, to be published in the next
few weeks,” and “completed after nearly
eighteen months’ intensive work by the
Commission, including visits to all parts
of Australia and the taking of evidence
from 948 representative witnesses in 59
towns.” The people asked for homes
and Canberra and its commission give
them words.
In the official referendum pamphlet
Dr. Evatt pleaded that “the new powers
are to last only for five years after the
fighting stops.” Curtin’s version was that
“the National Security Act will end six
months after the war ends.” Now that
£200,000 to £300,000 has been thrown
away, a big whack of it in putting the
Labor “case,” we get this from the Attor-
ney General:
The National Security Act will cease to
operate on a date to be fixed by proclama-
tion. That proclamation must be issued
not later than six months after His Majesty
“ceases to be engaged in war.”
If, however, there is an armistice, and
subsequently the state of war is brought
to an end by a treaty of peace, the date on
which His Majesty “ceases to be engaged
in war” will no doubt be the date fixed by
“The lights of London have been turned on again—in part.”
“Blime, ’A met, I prefer yer in the blackout.”
or under the treaty of peace (or the last of
them if more than one), and not the earlier
date of the cessation of hostilities between
His Majesty and the last of the belligerents.
So there was no warrant for the refer-
endum. It was an indefensible interrup-
tion to the prosecution of the war and a
wicked waste of temper, paper and war,
funds.
Though Churchill’s talks with Roose-
velt at Quebec have nothing to do with
the Presidential and Congressional elec-
tions the cry of “English interference”
is sure to have been raised by the Re-
publicans, and it will become deafening
if Winston goes on to Washington. In
the past both parties have cashed in on
“English interference.” Hitherto in this
campaign the Republicans have been con-
centrating on domestic issues, one pithy
indictment reading that the President “has
taken us from a depression to a war with-
out solving any fundamental economic
problem; he has only loaded us with the
greatest public debt in human history,”
Justice Owen Dixon is giving up his
Washington post, and will return to the
High Court Bench, He says “condi-
tions have happily changed since
1942,” when “1 felt bound to comply with
the firmly-expressed desire of the Prime
Minister that 1 should undertake the
duties of Australian Minister here.” So
that was the way of it. That was how
N.S.W. Labor “stalwarts” were prevented
from advancing the claims of Garden,
ex-alderman Green and Donovan, who
was Ward’s offsider and then Keane’s.
They will now have their opportunity,
though indications point to Beasley.
With the drought setting in over the
northern part of Victoria merging into
the normal hot summer, danger from bush-
fires will be acute this season and, in fact,
one has already happened. In some of the
higher rainfall districts ordinarily cov-
ered with dense damp undergrowth the
bracken is already as dry as tinder and
frosts have cut back the green growth.
Along the roads the dust is rising and
forestry officials regard this as the most
critical year since 1940. Meantime,
Premier Dunstan and Opposition Leader
Cain have been arguing in the House as
to who has been the longer in Parliament.
Still obsessed with the notion that free
vaudeville and bare female legs can per-
suade people to subscribe to war loans,
the Sydney war-loan authorities proposed
to launch the next one with ferry whistles
and church bells. Coldly the Maritime
Services Board vetoed the ferry whistles
under war regulations, and now church
leaders have squashed the bell idea.
Meantime, business is brisker than ever
at the races and the lottery office.
Canberra is losing Oliver Uppill, its
least-uppish member—he is to resign be-
cause of ill-health. His name rarely
appeared in the Parliamentary reports,
and never in personal columns, though
as a level-headed S.A. wheatgrower he
had some influence on agricultural legis-
lation. Uppill was elected to the Senate
in 1934 and re-elected in 1940, so his
term would have expired in June, 1947.
Ex-Senator Wilson, who was defeated
last year, is expected to be appointed by
the State Parliament.
Ward couldn’t keep his finger out of
the S.A. railway trouble. He had the face to
pester the Commissioner with a “desire,”
expressed in a wire, that no fines be
inflicted “other than those in accordance
with agreements made with the A.R.U.”
The Commissioner replied that there were
no agreements with the A.R.U. and
tartly added:
I cannot undertake that my heads of
branches will neglect any action which they
may consider necessary and lawful for the
maintenance of discipline in the S A rail-
ways.
Then fines substantial in the cases ot
union bosses—were inflicted by a magis-
trate. If only Someone had the intestinal
fortitude to discipline Ward.
Bishop Burgmann’s latest was an out-
burst against “possessive mothers.” All
mothers, it seems, are in this category—
at least, all mothers who are not Com-
munists—so every child turning 12
“should be taken away from the family
and sent to a boarding school,” of a type
that “does not yet exist.” The reverend
gentleman has been reading too much
Moscow stuff.
From the war cables:
London, September 1. —From June 6 to
August 25 German casualties in France
totalled more than 400,000, of whom about
200,000 are prisoners of war, General Eisen-
hower states.
Moscow, September 3.—From August 20
to August 31 the Red Army on the
Rumanian front killed 210,000 enemy troops
and took 208,000 prisoners.
London, September 12.—Supreme Allied
Headquarters announces that American
forces are on German soil in strength.
Moscow, September 13.—Soviet patrols
penetrated East Prussia in the sector east of
Kaunas on Sunday night.
It has all the appearance of a brisk com-
petition, though friendly-like.
The Communist-controlled Federated
Ironworkers’ Association —not yet the
Arms, Explosives and Munition Workers'
Federation, though the Corns, rendered
somewhat anxious by recent checks, still
profess to have hopes—is out with an-
other of its alleged balance sheets, for six
months to June 30. As before, it refers
only to the operations of the Federal
Council, and doesn’t disclose the income
and expenditure of branches, though
there are eight in four States. It is set
down, however, that head office salaries
absorbed £1674 (shillings and pence
omitted), office expenses £785 (“tele-
phones, £241”), fares and expenses £996
and miscellaneous expenses £1845
(“socials, £6l” and “World Trade-union
Congress,” which wasn’t held, £83); but
then it is a dashed expensive outfit
altogether.
Lord Mayor Chandler, Bruce Pie and
their associates call their Queensland
People’s party the Q.P.P. for short. Labor
Ministers call them the Kewpies. Rather
obvious, but a bit above the average in
these cases.
Paterson, the Communist M.L.A. for
Bowen, was holding forth on what “we
believe” and “we propose” and “we
realise,” when Walsh, the Minister of
Transport, asked “What is your policy
in connection with White Australia?” “1
will deal with that later,” Paterson re-
plied. He didn’t, and he won’t.


đ
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Of 84 awards presented at the investi-
ture in Melbourne on Sunday—the biggest
yet held in Australia —80 were for war
service. These included the George Cross
(ranking next to the V.C.) to Lieut. H.
R. Syme “for great bravery and un-
daunted devotion to duty” in circum-
stances which, for security reasons, were
not stated. Lieut. Syme also wears the
George Medal and bar. Other awards
made at the investiture included the
K.B.E. to Herring, C.J., and the C.B.E.
to Maj.-Gen. C. A. Clowes, Brigadiers
N. H. Fairley and D. D. Payne and
Colonels N. L. Speirs and W. W. S. John-
ston,
At the invitation of London Univer-'
sity, Adelaide’s Elder Professor of Ana-
tomy and Histology, Frank Goldby, has
accepted appointment to the Chair of
Anatomy at the London Uni., tenable at
St. Mary’s Hospital Medical School. He
will take the place of the late Prof. J. H.
Gray, formerly of Adelaide. Goldby,
who is 41, son of a chemist, was born in
London, and there won a scholarship
which took him to Cambridge, where he
became lecturer in anatomy and a Fellow
PROF. GOLDBY.
of Queen’s College. His hobbies are
carpentry and bookbinding. He has five
children.
Rev. Frank Coaldrake, who caused a
stir by throwing his body between the
police and an ex-Digger in process of
being ejected from a house in Fitzroy
(Melb.), was born in Queensland and
taught in bush schools there. Then he
went in for the higher education, got a
degree and joined the clergy. High
Church and very scholarly, he is in
charge of the Brotherhood of St.
Laurence, where the downtrodden can
always get a hearing, and where he has
gathered a crowd of enthusiastic young
helpers round him. After the Fitzroy in-
cident Senator Keane asked the padre
to come and tell him all about it.
He gave such a living picture of the suf-
ferings of the underdog and the work
done for them by the Brotherhood that
the Minister for Customs not only said
that his Government would look into the
matter, but handed over two quid out
of his own pocket.
If a decent sort of fire breaks out in
the Larchmont (New York) Fire Asso-
ciation’s precinct the company of which
Bill McLement is a member will have to
wait some time for him to arrive. Bill,
a Coorparoo (Q.) man, works superin-
tendent of the Brisbane Municipal Fire
Brigade, has been made a member of the
Larchmont outfit because of his kindness
to men from Larchmont on service in
Australia. Capt. Fred German, of Larch-
mont and the U.S. Army, pinned the
Larchmoqt badge on Bill.
Having decided three years ago to
establish a Chair of American History,
Sydney Uni. has at last found a suitable
occupant, and has offered the post to
Dixon Wecter, Professor of American
Literature at the University of California,
A 1930 Rhodes scholar from Texas, he’s
38
English medical scientist Frank Burnel
Byrom, lecturer in post-graduate pathol-
ogy at Sydney Uni., moves to S.A. to
succeed Dr. E. W. Hurst as Director of
the Institute of Medical and Veterinary
Science and Keith Sheridan as Professor
of Experimental Medicine at Adelaide
Uni. Educated in London, Byrom be-
came M.R.C.S. in 1923, M. 8., B.S. in ’24,
and M.D., with the Eliza Ann Alston
Research Scholarship, in 1926, when he
was admitted to the Royal College of
Physicians. After pathological experi-
ence at London Hospital, Byrom was
Rockfeller research fellow of the Chi-
cago Uni., later doing research work
under the aegis of the Medical Research
Council of England prior to his Sydney
appointment in 1940. His reports to
learned societies and published articles
are widely known in England, America
and Canada, as well as here. He’s 42.
Established in 1914, Point Cook (Vic.),
which was lately changed from training
school for air pilots to ditto for flying
instructors, has produced some of the
world’s famous aces. Its first four pupils
were Lieut. G. P. Merz (filled in action
in Mesopotamia), Air Marshall Williams,
C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., D. T. W. Maxwell
and Wing-Commander T. W. White. In
the last war nearly 300 pilots qualified
for service, and 112 gained honors and
awards,
“Hamer”: David Isaacs, who takes
charge of Commonwealth Housing’s ex-
perimental building station, designed the
spiral diving bell which enabled nearly
millions of gold to be raised from the
sunken Niagara. The Bridgewater and
Hobart bridges in Tassie, both revolu-
tionary in principle, are other samples
of his talents. Isaacs, now 39, won his
way from State school to Wesley College
on scholarships and earned his own pas-
sage through the uni. also.
Lieut. Fred H. Meijer, of the Nether-
lands Air Force, back in Australia after
18 months’ training in U.C.A., was a ser-
geant stationed at Koepang in Timor
when 20,000 Japs invaded the island.
When the garrison, with its 2000 Aus-
tralian reinforcements withdrew, Meijer
and three others headed for Java in a
native fishing boat. Arrived at the island
of Flores, they heard that Java had fallen
and changed their destination to Aus-
tralia, Seizing a 40ft. pearling lugger,
they steered with the help of a school
atlas and a small compass, and made
their Australian landfall 45 days after
leaving Flores. Meijer now flies Mit-
chells over the seas and islands he knew
as a N.E.I. soldier.
With the advances in Europe a number
of reported-missing airmen have turned
up fit and unharmed, among them Flight-
Sergeant Peter Knox, son of Errol Knox,
managing director of Melbourne “Argus.”
Geoffrey Hutton, “Argus” correspondent,
stumbled across him in Brussels.
Reported killed on a special operational
flight over Yugoslavia, Flight-Lieut. Des-
mond Edward James Gardiner, of St.
Kilda, Melbourne. The crew lost their
lives when the ’plane crashed, and the
passengers —Capt. Randolph Churchill
and novelist Evelyn Waugh—were the
only survivors. Gardiner joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1927, was appointed to the
staff of Civil Aviation in 1930, served as
ground engineer of aircraft in the N.T.
and as inspector of aircraft in New
Guinea. Later a Catalina pilot up north,
he was posted to the Middle East for air
ambulance duty. His skill got him many
dangerous special flights over the dis-
tracted Balkans.
J. S. Foxall, appointed State Mining
Engineer in W.A., is N.S.W.-born, was
educated at Sydney’s Fort-street, joined
the C.S.R. and finished a mining engi-
neer’s course at Sydney Uni. Going
to W.A. as assistant-surveyor to the Sons
of Gwalia mine in 1912, he was head
surveyor when the 1914-18 war arrived,
and then was commissioned with the Ist
Aust. Tunnellers. After the war he did
some contract surveying in the wheat
country, went mica mining in the Terri-
tory and returned to Perth to join the
P.W.D. in 1923. Since then he’s had a
good bit to do with water and mining
in the West. He has been president and
councillor of the A.I.E.
Here most faithfully depicted by Frith,
new N.S.W. Diggers’ League president
J. C. Neagle will never go short of a
reference while the Maroubra-Kensington
sub-branch exists. It has already ex-
J. C. NEAGLE.
pressed itself about its former secretary,
president, pensions officer, trustee and
whatnot by conferring on him life mem-
bership of the League, the Certificate of
Appreciation and the League Gold Badge
for what he has done for it and for
Diggers all round. An old Sixth Light
Horseman, Neagle was released by the
N.S.W. Education Department from
teaching to act as hon. executive officer
for the Anzac House appeal. He names
the prospective House and the League as
his hobbies, helps look after Digger in-
terests on Post-war Reconstruction Train-
ing (appointed by the Federal Treasurer),
on the Dormant Funds Commission
(appointed by the N.S.W, Government)
and on a dozen or so other boards, com-
mittees and the like. Also, the new
Diggers have him to thank for the useful
League brochure that’s issued to them
on discharge.
NXI3O Major N. A, Vickery, M.C.,
the soldier here depicted in a navy
atmosphere, left “Shore” in 1934 to
do economics at Sydney Uni., graduat-
ing with the B.Ec. in 1938. He
began his military career in 1934
with the ’Varsity Rifles (which also
MAJOR N. A. VICKERY. M.C.
produced Cutler, V.C.), joined the A.I.F.
in October, 1939, sailed as an artil-
lery lieutenant with the first convoy, was
in the first Australian attack on Bardia
and spotted the original “Bardia Bill,”
being the first to give information which
led to its destruction. He was the first
artillery officer to be decorated, winning
the M.C. for a job at Bardia —in a Bren
carrier with three men, who could muster
one rifle, two pistols and one broken
Bren gun among them, he charged an
Italian gun position two miles in advance
of our infantry, bluffed more than 1000
Eyeties into surrender and escorted them
back. Later he featured in the first cap-
ture of a town by Australian artillery,
Barce falling to the fire of his troop, apd
an artillery patrol taking over before the
infantry arrived, Vickery was promoted
major in 1942, took his battery into action
at Buna in support of U.S. troops, and
after the Buna-Sanananda campaign was
detached for duty with the Naval Bom-
bardment Group, serving afloat as Bom-
bardment Liaison Officer to the R.A.N.
and U.S.N. in the Lae, Cape Gloucester,
Admiralty islands, Tananhmerah Bay,
Wadke and Biak bombardments.
Due for retirement soon. Major
H. O. A. D. Burrows has been in charge
of the W.A. Echelon and Records Office
for the past 4 \ years. He began soldier-
ing as a private in Victoria in 1902 and
was brigade major to Monash before
Mbnash left Australia. Major Burrows
was D.A.Q.M.G. in the West in 1915,
then went away with the First A.I.F.
and served in France, Italy, Belgium and
Egypt for three years. He retires as
lieut.-colonel.
Old Digger Wurth retiring from the
Man-power director-generalship at the
end of the month, W. Funnell goes up to
the top job from his assistant post. A
Ma Stater, like Wurth, and one of the
heads of the Railway Department,
Funnell has been on loan to the Com-
monwealth since the directorate was
started.
A Boulder (W.A.) lad, Flight-Lieut.
Dan Conway, attached to a Lancaster
squadron in England since last year, has
collected a D.F.C. He won a Coombe
scholarship at Fremantle Christian
Brothers’ College and joined the post
office. Junior tennis champion of Fre-
mantle district, Conway visited Sydney in
1939 with the Postal Institute athletic
team.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, Lucinda Braithwaite Reay,
widow of Colonel Reay, who was for years
managing editor of Melbourne “Herald.” The
colonel and his wife were very active workers
for Melbourne City Newsboys’ Society.
In Adelaide, J. A. Hele, pastoral expert,
director of Mootooroo and Beltana, and secre-
tary of Milo Pastoral Co., but best known by
his half-century as secretary and attorney to the
Barr Smith family.
At 86, in Melbourne, former Lud Mayor Sir
Frank Stapley—the title devolved on him from
an English baronetcy, but he preferred not to
use it. Born in England, he practised architec-
ture in S. Africa, then joined the Melbourne
City Council architect’s stall. An indefatigable
worker, both as a councillor and mayor, he
brought his expert knowledge to bear on the
Town Planning Commission. He was one of
the adjudicators on the designs for the Spencer-
street bridge.
At 89, Walter Hopkins, of Wormbete station,
Winchelsea (Vic.). Henry Hopkins, an associate
of the Hentys, selected Wormbete 107 years
ago, and it has been held by the family over
four generations. Walter Hopkins, educated at
Geelong Grammar and Melbourne Uni., played
football with Geelong and Melbourne before
becoming a councillor and president of the
Winchelsea Shire. , , .
In Sydney, at 62, C. D. A. Richardson, chier
of the N.S.W. Fire Brigade since 1936. He had
been over 44 years in the service.
In Sydney, at 63, R. W. Hamilton, Deputy
Director Post and Telegraphs since 1940. In the
service since 1912, he was for a time accountant
to the Commonwealth Sub-Treasury. He was all
along a fine Commonwealth man.
In Sydney* Captain John Cooper, who spent
65 of his 92 years at sea, mostly in sail, includ-
ing command of the four-masted schooner West-
ward Ho in the last war. Afterwards he was
a Union Steamship port official, known through-
out Australian shipping as the Black Pirate,
from his large black beard.
In Perth, at 84, Alfred Carson, who went
from schoolteaching to reporting and leader-
writing and finished up as one of the “West
Australia’s” star men. Governments sent him
to obtain information in other countries, and
he represented the West on a journalists’ tour
of the 1914-18 war. The Bulletin’s S. H.
Prior was another member of the party. He
and Carson became friends till death.
In Brisbane, at 52, Tim Moroney, general
president of the A.R.U., vice-president of the
A.C.T.U., secretary of Queensland branch of the
A.R.U., and president of the central committee
of the Combined Railways Unions. A queer
character, he represented his union on scores of
industrial court cases, and it gave him a life job.
In Melbourne, at 83, “Billy” Marshall, father
of short-story writer Alan Marshall, who wrote
a brief sketch of his father which The
Bulletin published three years ago. Marshall
senior was an old-time Riverina athlete and
horseman, a noted handler of colts and hurdlers.
The Black Eagle colts of Albermarle, handled
by him, came to be regarded as equine Rolls
Royces in the days when cabbage-tree hats and
moles were the riders outfit. “Billy” Marshall’s
sister was the mother of the late “Texas” Green,
who was Labor member for Kalgoorlie and
Scullin’s Minister of Defence. She died last
year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; Sydney’s “smokes” queues,
which could always beat the bottle-beer-
and-wine line-up with yards to spare,
were pushed into second place by those
outside the fillum palaces during the
school holidays. At one such queue, the
tail of which had disappeared into the
next street, the driver of a utility truck
parked near the concourse repeatedly had
to break the queue to get in and out of a
shop with his goods. As he came out for
the last time with an empty case a woman
trying to keep a couple of brats in order
said to the woman behind her: “This
is terrible. It’s over an hour now that
we’ve been standing here.” The truck-
driver looked up at the foot-high names
announcing the cast. “It’s nothin’ to
what you’ll have to stand when y’ get
inside, missus,” he said confidently. “I’ve
seen the show!”
#■♦ # *
“X 3 Pips”: The right to hire and fire,
under discussion these days, reminds me
of early experiences as n.c.o. in charge of
fatigue and “working” parties. Used to
wielding authority, I was dismayed to find
that the army has no means of combat-
ing a “go-slow” policy, though a strike
can be dealt with under the heading of
mutiny. It was a case of “Never was so
little done by so many in so long.” Cause?
A dozen men expected to work until
knock-off time on a job that could be fin-
ished by lunch-time. Now, in three
A.I.F. divisions anyway, nearly all work-
ing parties are on the task-work basis.
A reasonable day’s work is set out, and
as soon as the task is completed to speci-
fication the men can knock off, and swim
or spinebash as they like. Sometimes the
job is finished by midday. That’s in rear
“Control y’r breathin', ’ Grace —’ere comes that
Neville Cardus!”
areas. Up front the most inveterate
loafer hops in and does his whack when
the mob is in action.
* * * *
“Taniwha”; War-time restrictions on
motor transport have made Maorilanders
realise the extent of their dependance on
this mode of travel—a dependance that
rouses the scorn of the older g-neration.
Judge Blair, who had to adjourn a case
at New Plymouth because two barristers
hadn’t arrived from Hawera, 40 miles
away, was scornful of the plea that the
motor-bus was to blame. “They could
have ridden on horses or bicycles,”
he declared. “I have ridden to court on
horseback before now.” But ’Sonah was
admitted to the Bar just about the time
the first motor-vehicle seen in the
Dominion (a De Dion tricycle) was driv-
ing horses out of their wits and filling
Maoriland’s half-million cyclists with
envy. Forty miles in those days was
just a nice afternoon’s spin for a cyclist,
and all in the day’s work for a horseman,
* * * ♦
“Ike Hollar”: Paddington’s ancient
pump is to be restored and given
a place of honor in the Sydney borough.
Examination of newspaper references
to the decision shows that there are
few whose memories date back to the
time when there were “more privately-
owned equipages in Paddington than in
any suburb in Sydney.” Actually only its
survival makes the pump interesting;
similar pumps were scattered all over
Sydney, One at the Pitt-street corner of
Rowe-street used to supply all the houses
on both sides of that little street. Less
fortunately placed citizens had to pay for
supplies from water-carts. The little
hamlet that grew around the Oxford-
street junction with Glenmore-road was
the beginning of Paddington, one of the
first “outer” suburbs of Sydney. Many
of the Oxford-street buildings are over
120 years old.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Touching on the recep-
tion of inventions (B. 13/9/’44), I in-
spected a model of the Boock change of
gauge device at a technical exhibition in
Sydney and, impressed by its simplicity
and effectiveness, was astonished to learn
that the N.S.W. Railways had rejected it
for “safety” reasons. Boock’s basic idea
is to have wheels sliding laterally on axles
so that they can be shifted to fit any
gauge and locked in place. I asked a rdii-
way man I knew the reason for rejection.
He was curt and to the point. “Too ex-
pensive,” he said, “and besides, if y’
hauled a Victorian carriage through a
N. S. Wales station it’d knock the station
platforms down —the Victorian carriages
are a lot wider than ours.”
1= * * *
“Visitor”; A “prices-branch official,”
visiting an Adelaide milk bar, ate a pie
and was charged 5d., the proper price
being 4d. He had elected to have it with-
out tomato sauce, for which the extra Id.
might properly have been charged. The
proprietor said he supposed he was guilty,
but 90 p.c. of his customers had the
sauce. Fine £5 ; 525. costs.
* * * *
“Lawnston”; Gloomiest of Australian
“mental hospitals” is the New Norfolk
Asylum, in Hobart. Most of the build-
ing was erected 118 years ago in penal
settlement days, and grisly legends clus-
ter about the place.
It possesses what
nurses call “the ghost
room,” and the most
nervous simply re-
fuse to enter it un-
less accompanied.
Some of the inmates
sleep on beds once
occupied by con-
victs, and are shut
in behind heavy
wooden doors with
the small prison cell
apertures in them.
The Victorian Direc-
tor of Mental
Hygiene recently
paid the place a
visit, and his caustic
comments among
other things he con-
demned it as “a
veritable death-trap
in case of fire” —
have prompted the
Speck Government
to announce its in-
tention of erecting
something that will,
presumably, be
reasonably up to
date. The hospital’s
reputation has moved
Deputy-Director of
Man-power to refuse to direct staff to it.
* * * *
“Pawang”A big, healthy-looking,
florid citizen* sat down at the table at
which I was dining in a Melbourne cafe.
“I’m sixty and I expect to live another
20 years and I put it all down to my
diet,” he confided, picking up the menu.
“Oh, yes,” I said, “What is your diet?”
“I don’t drink beer,” he continued.
“Keep off the beer, young man, keep off
the beer, if you want to live a long life. I
gave up the beer five years ago after being
a hard drinker all me lifetime,” “And is
that why you are healthy?” I asked him.
“Certainly,” be answered. “Reason?
Beer rots your feet. My feet got so bad
that I had to massage them every morn-
ing. Now I start off the day with whisky
—a double-header —and I drink a bottle
and a half a day.” “And you think that
if I stick to whisky I’ll live long?” i
asked. “Yes,” he assured me. “But not
in soda. Drink it in soda and it will
finish you off in no time. Just whisky,
with a dash of water. If you take it in
soda it’ll rot your feet off worse than
beer.”
* * * *
“Artie”; In the cemetery at Echuca
(Vic.) is a link with Wordsworth —the
grave of Henry Curwen Wordsworth,
eldest grandson of the poet, who died
in 1865.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Is there any record total for
modern In Memoriam notices? In the
Adelaide “Advertiser” on a recent morn-
ing there were 18 of them for Signaller
“My husband wants me to resign, but I've decided to stick to it and be in
at the kill.”
Way, and 24 for Driver Tayler, both
killed in an accident at Townsville (Q) a
year ago. More unusual are 17 for one
girl, and three (this in an Adelaide paper)
for Philip Wirth, who died at Coogee
(N.S.W.) eight years back.
“Peter Piper”: With eating utensils in
short supply Sydney cafe proprietors are
on the alert to prevent pilfering, but
despite their vigilance stacks of knives,
forks and spoons are stolen every week.
One cafe has even resorted to drilling
small holes in teaspoons as a sort of
brand. These matters are better man-
aged in Cairo when the soldiery are
around. There the price of the knife and
fork is added to the bill; when you pay
you surrender the utensils and get a
refund,
» * * *
“F.S,”: Apropos “Iford’s” metrical
diatribe on “Those Cocksure Critics” (B.
6/9/’44), people who can’t do anything
themselves are the curse of music and all
other arts. They buy a gramophone or
a wireless set, and in a couple of weeks
they are talking about the difference
between Bark and Handle, and telling you
why Ormandy is better than Beechara
and where Bernard Heinze falls short.
If they persist with that sort of thing long
enough they are liable to get an official
position in which they can order com-
petent musicians about. A young man
told me the other day that “you can’t
help learning about music if you listen a
great deal.” As part of my professional
duties I have done more listening than
99 out of 100 and in the last 20 years
have heard almost every great executant,
from Paderewski and Chaliapin to Hei-
fetz and Melba, together with whole
rafts of choirs and orchestras. If listen-
ing could do the trick I ought to be a
Backhaus, a Malcolm Sargent and a
Lawrence Tibbet all boiled into one. And
if listening could do the trick, so must
looking, in which case an attendant at
the National Gallery must know nore
about painting than Velasquez and Rem-
brandt because he has looked at more
pictures than those artists ever heard of
* * « «
On a matter of radio technique:
Predictions by politicians of “imminent
changes in broadcast transmission and recep-
tion technique” involving a “new, perfect”
modulation broadcasting system which will
render present receiving sets obsolete are
ridiculous. Frequency modulation (F.M.)
broadcasting has been in use in some larger
U.S.A. cities for at least five years, but onlv
as a special service for particular areas. There
is no relationship to—or effect upon—lone-
established broadcast networks. F.M. (our
existing 500— 1500 kc. stations are A.M.—
amplitude modulation) can be employed only
at very short waves in the region of seven
metres or lower. Use of such waves constricts
the range—3o to 40 miles out being the limit.
There are ways (very expensive) of getting over
that hurdle by “satellite” or “repeater” stations;
but the worst snag about F.M. is not the range
limitation but its greediness. Each transmitter
needs a lot of space to modulate in—up to 100
kilocycles of it. This F.M. cannot be used on
normal broadcast (medium waves between 200
and 600 metres), where each station now takes
up 10 kilocycles. Instead of 100 stations across
the dial only 10 of the F.M. type could be
accommodated. Neither is F.M. in itself a
cure-all for static and electrical interference,
though it responds ably to treatment when
used at very short waves. F.M. will come to
Australia —it is in use in the fighting services
now —but its chief utility is likely to be as
the sound medium for vision transmission, or for
police services and the like. It will be a long
time before it becomes an everyday public utility.
So with television and facsimile. A receiver to
take in F.M., vision and facsimile, plus regular
A.M. transmission, would be a formidably com-
plicated affair at a very high price.
The most-used channel will still, it is safe
to bet, be the ordinary present-day broadcast,
and the broadcasting services as now function-
ing for local and overseas reception will be at
the job a decade and more from now. The
immediate future of F.M. and its associated
systems lies—for Australia —in the experimental
field. _ Constructional articles by technical
authorities will be the primary source of infor-
mation. Radio manufacturers certainly will
not go into production on F.M. receivers ex-
clusively, even if the Government does flourish
a threat of competitive manufacture.
SPRING SHADES.
“Among favorite color shades this spring are moon-
blue, lettuce-green and watermelon-pink.”
—Fashion note in Sydney daily.
Tis good to turn awhile from grimmer things
And think how soon will female forms be
seen
In crisply designated coverings
From watermelon-pink to lettuce-green.
Time was when only flowers could provide
The pointers that elucidate the labels,
But, now, ’twould seem, the need may be sup-
plied
By vege-tables.
The girl in simple blue is out of date;
The color of her frocking, night or noon,
Is one costumiers associate
In some mysterious manner with the moon.
And, should the vogue persist, we’ll have —who
doubts? —
Some subtle shade of green that’s met so
sparsely
It must be harnessed up with Brussels sprouts
Or linked with parsley.
Ever with spring, the time of glamorous change,
Come hues too rare and recondite and quaint
For tabulating in the rainbow’s range
Or mixing in the artist’s stock of paint.
Ever on some fresh tint the sponsors set
Their brand, these specialists in terms rococo,
And ere the game is up, it’s safe to bet,
They’ll hit on some expressive epithet
Ev’n in the choko.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
FACES IN THE STREET.
“A fellow with a face like a greyhound-trainer’s”
(B. 6/9/’44).
It sets one wondering what type of faces
Proclaims the trade of fellows who prepare
Long dogs for action, put them through their
paces
And diet them with diligence and care,
Thereby enabling them to win their races
In swift pursuit of the synthetic hare.
In other words, what is it in their features
That differentiates them from fellow-creatures?
A boko out of plumb beyond denial
Betrays a pug; a finely frenzied eye
Suggests a chap who’s giving verse a trial;
A Bung looks eheerful and a wowser wry;
But what the dickens is there in a dial
That one can spot a greyhound-trainer by,
And fell, at half a glance, he’s not a layer
Of odds or (say) a quantities surveyor?
Is there some canine trait the veriest boobies
Could glimpse, some doggedness on constant
show;
Some subtle indication of his true biz
That wouldn’t need a Sherlock Holmes to
show;
Some dim resemblance to the god Anubis,
Whom the Egyptians worshipped long ago—
Something that sets you thinking that a muzzle
Would fill a need? I cannot solve the puzzle.
I wait for some ingenious paper-stainer,
Some artist soul, the dinkum oil to give,
And let his facile pencil make it plainer
To all like me, a bit inquisitive,
How they can recognise a greyhound-trainer
(Without his tykes) and tell him by his chiv.
From a night watchman, or a street musician,
Or even an aspiring politician.
N.s.w. '
T. THE R.


“Clooter”; My old friend Joe
Palooka, whose career is set forth in my
city’s most rococo daily, has been
missing all the fun lately. Somehow,
while his buddies have been helping
the British and Canadians to clean the
Germans out of western Europe, Joseph
has been gallivanting around on home
leave, cleaning up bullies and slackers,
cheering up the home folks and so forth.
But Joe ain’t bin hisself; no sir. not by
no means. The big Galahad’s all hopped
up about his goil, a dame named Ann,
last seen in Yank uniform winning the
war in London or one of them two-by-
four burgs over east. It appears Joe ain’t
hoid from Ann for a mort of months,
and—but say, she’s found. Joe’s Mom
rushes in with a letter, and Joe gulps and
howls, “Oh, Mom, she’s in the South
Pacific now—but she’s safe” Safe!
With all them Anzac guys hanging about?
Joseph, you better grab yuh war-bag an’
light out f’r them there parts, pronto.
* * * *
“Jed”: The job of finding a stolen
house has fallen to the Brisbane police.
It was reported that a five-roomed
cottage, complete with stumps and water
tanks, had been stolen from one of the
suburbs. It had been untenanted for
some time, and the neighbors thought it
had been sold for removal when they saw
it being taken away bit by bit on a truck.
Owner was living out of Brisbane, and the
theft wasn’t discovered until her son went
out to the place, found it had disap-
peared, and told the police of the
bereavement.
* * * *
“D.E.”; A Sydney morning paper has
a picture of a French lass in shorts and
bobby-socks going into action, against
German snipers with “a sub-machine
gun.” The other Sydney morning paper
testifies that an American lady crooner,
who “insists” on “entertaining” front-line
troops, “charmed a German sniper into
surrender.” Having heard this lady
crooner and (God help me!) a lot of
other lady crooners, I demur to the word
“charmed,” while allowing that if lady
crooners have become standard front-
line equipment it would account for so
many Huns turning it in so easily.
* * * *
“James W.”: Kreisler’s little joke with
the names of dead composers (B. 30/8/’44)
brings to mind a story of one of his jests
that rebounded. He was strolling about
Antwerp when he came to a little old
music and instrument shop. With the
idea of taking a rise out of the proprietor,
also little and old, he entered the shop
and showed the old chap the Amati violin
he was carrying and asked for a valua-
tion. The old fellow asked the virtuoso
to wait a minute, and disappeared into
the back of the shop. Kreisler chuckled
to himself, sure that the man did not
recognise him, but the chuckles stopped
abruptly when the proprietor reappeared
with a gendarme and charged the violinist
with having stolen “Fritz Kreisler’s
violin.” Faces were nothing, fiddles every-
thing to the old dealer. Kreisler had to
get his manager to identify him before
the Law was satisfied.
* * * *
“El Madjal” on the A.I.F. and its small
arms:
The story that 250,000 rifles were sold by the
A.I.F. before they left Syria, retailed by the
American magazine “Fortune,” is one of the
most fantastic furphies of this war. Prevention
of loss or theft of small arms was remarkably
efficient, and any soldier proved by a Court of
Inquiry to have lost his rifle through negligence
was subject to extremely severe penalties.
When the 2nd A.I.F. was in Palestine the men
were quartered in E.P.I.P. tents, and each tent
was equipped with a webbing strap to which
were affixed ten webbing loops, a chain and a
padlock. The strap was fastened round the
tent pole, and the muzzles of the rifles were
placed through the loops, the chain being passed
through the trigger guards and padlocked. For
further security, the bolt of each rifle was re-
moved and carried by the weapon’s owner.
Isolated instances of men selling rifles
did occur, and, in spite of all precautions, thefts
took place from time to time. A favorite stunt
of the Arabs was to creep into a tent and re-
move the tent pole with strap, chain, padlock
and rifles attached. Another item of military
equipment irresistible to the Wogs was the
E.P.I.P. tent, and the walls of unoccupied
tents were frequently removed during the night.
The Arabs put on their star turn at the Ist
A.G.H. on Gaza Ridge, when they turned up
with a camel train in broad daylight and
leisurely “cliftied” a whole dump of E.P.LPs.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The Chicago research
worker who has found that listening to
certain types of music (B. 6/9/’44) is
beneficial to sufferers from colds has
probably misinterpreted a common
phenomenon observable at symphony
concerts. The deathlike silence which
accompanies an Ormandy performance is
due to the fact that human beings in-
stinctively inhibit all other senses in order
to get the utmost enjoyment or sensation
out of the one whose function is relevant
to the occasion. Thus, when a person
is reading a particularly enthralling
thriller his breathing becomes almost in-
audible, and, in fact, many Edgar Wallace
fans have been known to die of self-
strangulation. The uproar that breaks
“Hey, mon, hoo dae y' expec' me lae pr-r-racteece
w’en y're makin' that awfu' din?”
out at the end of a symphony is confir-
mation of this. If the Chicago man fol-
lowed some of these cured patients of
his home from a concert he would prob-
ably find them sneezing as whole-
heartedly as ever.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A Washington report says
that to avoid submarine depredations the
Japanese have rushed the construction of
a tunnel between Korea and the Island
Empire. The tube, 120 miles long, links
Shimonoseki with Fusan, and there is
another tunnel joining Shimonoseki with
the island of Kyushu. It isn’t stated
whether the tube has been driven under
the ocean’s bed (a terrific job of excava-
tion) or laid along it, like a submarine
cable. In either case, it should be easily
skittled by one of the earthquakes so fre-
quent in those parts, or even by depth
charges. A few years ago such a project
would have been regarded as fantastic,
but necessity is a stern taskmistress, and
it may be that the bomber’s offspring will
be a system of underground roads honey-
combing every “civilised” land.
* H= * *
“C.Q.”f The Morse anniversary has
led to an argument in Melbourne anent
the date when the Morse code was intro-
duced to Victorian telegraphy. Some
say it arrived in 1897 and others say it
was in Australia long before the old
colonial governments, in one of their
rare moments of agreement, decided to
accept the International Code. Actually,
the. two codes ran parallel for a long
time, old-timers inured to the early
example clinging to it long after it had
been officially outed. Some of the
arrangements of dots and dashes of the
one were similar to the other, but they
symbolised different letters, and there was
every excuse for confusion. Even today
you can tell an old-timer by his use of
certain signals, which have pleasant asso-
ciations for him, in private conversations
on slack lines.
“R. Volt”: “Ike Hollar’s” list of tele-
graphists who have given up dot-pushing
for other vocations (B. 6/9/’44) could be
extensively supplemented. For some
reason or other, telegraphy has provided
more recruits to other trades or profes-
sions than almost any other occupation.
Probably it is because the operation, which
requires, to begin with, the acquisition of
considerable technical skill, becomes so
maddeningly monotonous that the tele-
graphist would welcome almost anything
else. The strangest example in my ex-
perience was that of a young Englishman,
an ex-public school man, who resigned
from the cable service and bought a
rubber plantation up a mangrove-infested
Bornean river. He didn’t know a rubber
seed from a walnut, his trees were rotten,
at high tide half the estate was under
water, and the only white companionship
was 50 miles away through impassable
jungle. Some of his friends decided to
effect a rescue, and penetrated to the
exile’s jungle fortress in a launch. After
convincing themselves by inspection that
the estate would never produce a pound
of rubber they begged the owner to re-
turn to civilisation, but he wouldn’t even
think about it. The last his friends saw
of him was a ragged figure, shaking with
fever, waving a farewell from the
verandah of a dilapidated bungalow, with
a native Tondeleyo
and a swarm of
children grinning
behind him.
* *
“Tarry Rope”:
Whilst Ranfurly
memories are being
stirred, let me say
a word for Lady
Ranfurly. She
loved the sea and
admired seafarers,
and the standing of
seamen’s, institutes
in M.L. today owes
a mighty lot to her.
She had sailed in
windjammers, and,
as she once demon-
strated at the Well-
ington Mission for
Seamen, which she
attended once a
month, she could
give all the orders
necessary to get a
full-rigged ship io
sea, from the lift-
ing of the anchor
to the hoisting of
the top - gallants.
More than once
she threw open
Government House
for the entertain-
ment of seamen in
port, and the way
she did it appealed
to the men of the
sea. Taking tobacco
and cigarettes
round amongst her guests, she lighted
their smokes, and told them to make
themselves at home. Old salts honor her
memory.
He * * *
“N. Sydney” on a church of his parish:
St. Thomas’s Church, North Sydney, had its
origin in 1842, when the Government of the
day was petitioned for land and money to
build a temple to serve the growing Anglican
population on the northern side of Port Jack-
son. A grant of land in McLaren-street was
made and nearly £5OO raised by local subscrip-
tion. The first church was built in 1843, and at
the time the only other in the district was St.
Anne’s, at Ryde. Among those connected with
the movement were Alexander Berry, of Shoal-
haven and Crow’s Nest, and his brother-in-law,
Edward Wollstonecraft; Edward Miller, Assis-
tant-Commissary, who gave his name to
Miller - street; Deputy - Assistant - Commissary
Thomas Walker (Walker-street commemorates
him, as does also the Convalescent Home at
Concord); Oswald Bloxsome, of The Rangers
at Mosman Bay; W. B. Gore, of Artarmon
House, Gore Hill; James Milson, of Milson’s
Point; and Conrad Martens, the artist, who
had arrived in Sydney in 1835. Martens had
been a shipmate of Charles Darwin in H.M.S.
Beagle, and formed a lifelong friendship with
the great naturalist. The site selected for the
church was a central one, and more land was
added to it later on for the erection of a church
“Can I help it if I whistle in my sleep?”
schoolroom, which is still standing. The old
church did duty for about 40 years, until the
present handsome building was consecrated in
1884.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The Better Vision Institute,
an American organisation, claims to have
discovered why artists paint in the cubist,
surrealist, abstractionist, geometrical and
other strange fashions. They have eyes
deficient in depth-perception third-
dimensional seeing—and the same applies
to critics, and the public who admire their
pictures. Bunkum! Inability to give an
illusion of depth isn’t a monopoly of
“modernistic” painters; most academi-
cians fail to do it. The fact that one thing
is further away from us than another isn’t
given in the visual sensation ; we acquire
that knowledge through other senses, like
touch. Babies reach out for the moon.
Every normal adult has depth-perception,
and if “modernist” painters had the defect
described by the institute to the extent in-
dicated in their pictures they would long
ago have ceased to exist, having knocked
their brains out against solid objects.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: The shape of
things to come is foreshadowed in a hos-
pital built by the city of Stockholm,
with wards for 1200 patients and accom-
modation for staff of the same number.
Underneath the building is a bomb- and
gas-proof underground hospital in solid
rock for 2500 persons, where a thousand
bed patients can be treated for a month
without communication with the world
above them. The design is credited to
one Hjalmar Cederstrom, but it would
be more just to say that the architect was
Adolf Hitler.
* * * *
“Pawang”; In saying (B, 6/9 / ’44) that
the acquiring of malaria is a gamble
“Friday Island” confirms my experience.
During eight years’ sojourn on various
malaria-infested islands in the Malay
Archipelago I must have been open to
the infection thousands of times, but,
though dozens of my colleagues were
bowled over, I never got it, and came to
believe I was immune. Then I was trans-
ferred to a comparatively healthy island,
where within a few weeks I felt the
symptoms I had seen so often in others.
The inference is that malaria belongs to
the class of diseases to which man suc-
cumbs when his resistance is lowered.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne man was
hailed in Collins-street by a friend, who
told him Clement Wragge had made the
longest-range forecast on record when he
prophesied in 1915 that 1944 would be
the driest year in Australian history.
“It’s dry enough,” the friend added, “but
he was wrong.” “Was he?” retorted the
other gazing sadly at the barred door of
his favorite hostelry. “I’ll say he was a
remarkably good prophet!”
* * * *
“PJ.McM.”: Sentencing a man to three
months for theft of a Gladstone bag from
one of his workmates, the Judge re-
marked : “Stealing this bag with a man’s
lunch in it was a very serious thing. It
might have caused a strike! ” It’s a com-
ment on the. times that nobody in court
could guess whether ’Sonor was in jest
or earnest.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” on cops and robbers :■ —
Discussion in these columns of the publicity
received respectively by bushrangers and
policemen calls to mind that many of the
pioneers of highway robbery in this country
had brief careers and were soon forgotten.
For the most part they were runaway convicts
escaping from assigned service, and on the
whole they were guilty of few crimes of violence
—merely seeking a precarious subsistence in free-
dom not much better than that suffered by the
native blacks. But in Governor Darling’s time
these petty banditti were greatly increased
by escapees from the road-gangs whose con-
dition had been made almost unbearable by
that ruthless martinet. So from about 1827
to 1830 a regular system of bushranging
had been developed which made “sticking-up”
episodes along the main roads almost
routine. To counter this Darling passed
through the nominee Legislative Council his
Bushranging Act of 1830, which had a clause
in it that made any man —free, emancipated or
a convict —liable to be imprisoned by any con-
stable or magistrate on suspicion of being a
runaway, and taken afoot possibly hundreds of
miles before he could prove himself a law-
abiding free citizen. Harsh, but the measure
achieved its object: bushranging practically
died out until the goldfield days revived it in a
new and much more dangerous form.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Carroll had been trying for 20
minutes to steer the conversation on fo
his favorite topic of trees, but “Nosey”
Ned, the newcomer, to the fellers’ camp,
had baulked all his efforts by questions
as to the personal affairs of everyone
within a radius of ten miles. “What hap-
pened to your coconut fibre, Tom?” he
asked, as Carroll scratched his bald pate
in despair. Carroll looked at his tor-
mentor. “Shock,” he said simply. “Well,”
said “Nosey,” “I’ve heard of a bloke’s
thatch goin’ white with shock, but I ain’t
heard of anyone losin’ it.” “Well, it’s a
fact,” said Carroll. “I’ll tell y’ how it
happened. Years ago, when there was
no ban on trappin’ native bears, I knew
a cove who useter make a decoy by dis-
tillin’ certain types o’ gum leaves. He
give me a bottle of it. One day I’m up
an ironbark by the side o’ the road an’ a
bloke comes by in a buckboard. He
was the dead spit o’ you, Ned. Well,
he just looks at me an’ goes on without
sayin’ a word. I got such a shock at not
bein’ asked a lot o’ boneheaded ques-
tions that I fell back against the trunk
and the bottle of the decoy that I’m
holdin’ just above me scone broke and
went all over me hair. A coupla minutes’
later there’s about 30 koalas swarmin’
all over me and by the time I gets to the
ground I haven’t got a skerrick of hair
left —they’d et the lot, roots an’ all!”
* * * *
“Plum”: I’d like to be in for a piece
of “Betcha” (B. 6/9/’44) for assuming
that old Mick’s tripe-hound followed the
skin-truck’s tyre-trail for thirty miles.
No mention is made of the hound’s breed,
but it must have been crossed with a
hawk somewhere if it had eyesight like
that. Apparently it didn’t occur to “B.”
that the aroma of a well-used skin-truck
would blaze a trail as clear as a sign-
posted highway to the nose of the aver-
age human being, let alone a dog.
* * * *
“Lucky”: Sam had courted Daisy-up-
at-Lucerne’s-place for years, and when
old Sliprail’s death made him a land-
owner Sam cautiously agreed that mar-
riage was now possible. Mrs. Lucerne
gave Daisy a slap-up wedding, with a
full bridal outfit, and the local hall was
engaged for the celebrations. Sam and
his best man were early at the altar, and
Daisy, radiant in white satin, arrived
leaning on old Lucerne’s arm. Half an
hour after they arrived there was no sign
of the clergyman. A boy who was sent
galloping to the rectory brought back the
news that the parson was absent in a
distant part of his parish. “Gripes,” said
old Lucerne, “that’s pretty crook him
forgettin’ about the arrangements y’
made.” “Arrangements!” echoed Sam.
“I never made no arrangements. /
thought ’e noo!”
* * * ♦
“Mark Six”: When I publish my book,
Myths and Legends of the Northern Ter-
ritory, “Ringa’s” epic narrative (B.
6/9/’44) will occupy a prominent place.
Pine Creek crossing, where the unnamed
constable braved the “raging waters,” is
about 20 feet wide and saddle-flap deep
in a heavy wet. If he had really wanted
to swim he might have been able to get
enough water if he had ridden four of
five miles down below the junction of the
Caledonian and waited for some extra
heavy rain. But it is no longer Pine Creek
down there, being known as the Cullen.
And how did he come to get kicked in the
head? Maybe the horses were swimming
backstroke or something. Also, who ever
heard of a prisoner being made to swim
a raging torrent with chains on? And,
anyway, why all this swimming? There’s
been a bridge at Pine Creek since 1888.
Maybe “Ringa” got mixed up with the
rescue of Sergeant Reid by a prisoner.
It wasn’t Pine Creek though, it was the
Murranji Track ; and it wasn’t swimming
a creek, it was a fall from a horse. The
prisoner tended him and got him in to
medical aid. But it wasn’t a blackfellow,
it was a white man ; and they never gave
him the Albert Medal—they gave him six
months.
* * * *
“B. 4”; A recipe. Having slain and
plucked your emu, peg down and lever
slabs off the breast with a spud bar.
Pound these for two hours on an iron-
bark stump with a maul. Then hang
for three days till tissues soften and per-
mit removal of sinews with the black-
smith’s pincers. Clear the kitchen, peel
off your shirt and wire down the mincer.
Grind carefully through the machine,
then soak overnight in rum. Form rissoles,
“Where's Joe?"
“Dunno —’e didn't put a tag on 'isself!"
flour, season well, fry in emu oil, and I’ll
bet you’ve never tasted anything like them.
*•* * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie’s old
horse had housemaid’s knee or something,
and Charlie hunted round the town for a
substitute, as he wanted to get to Watch-
upga, 28 miles away, for the day’s sports
and races. But everybody else who owhed
a prad also wanted to get there, and it
looked as though the fun would have to
miss Charles, until there came a man
with a proposition. He would hire
“Curyo” a good horse for one pound,
provided “Curyo” was willing to take
with him and deliver in Watchupga one
12-year-old son of the horse-owner, said
horse-owner having been called south at
the last minute. “Curyo” joyfully paid
the quid, collected nag and boy, and, with
his sweat-wheel in the buggy, dipve
forth. Two hours later, worn out and
disgusted, “Curyo” sat in the buggy, 20
miles short of Watchupga, and cursed in
a low whisper. That horse, though blud-
geoned with sticks, curses, sarcasm and
prayers, resolutely refused to get out of
a four-mile-an-hour jog. It looked as
though the outfit would reach Watchupga
in time for bed, with the sports a
memory. Wondering whether his pocket
knife would serve to cut the thing’s
throat, Charlie pulled up, got out and,
followed by the boy, wept and sat in the
shade. He lit his pipe. The kid bor-
rowed the match, lit a cracker and
moodily watched it explode. Five min-
utes passed. Suddenly “Curyo” and the
boy were in the buggy and the astounded
nag, to the sound of intermittent explos-
ions near its tail, was cutting the wind
for Watchupga, They still talk there of
the way “Curyo” Charlie shot into the
town that day in time for the first race,
slapping two boards together to persuade
the nag that his ammunition hadn’t run out.
“Blime”: The ignorance of “The O.D. ’
(B. 23/8/’44) hardly concerns me even
pitiably, but for the edification of others
I repeat that it is no more unusual for
a wild brood duck to light on a straight,
dry limb than it is for a hare to take
refuge in a log or a rabbit to climb a
leaning tree and hide in the branches.
If trees were prohibitive to a wild duck
she’d be about as stumped at nesting-
time as some blokes would be if they
struck something truly . extraordinary.
Say, for instance, a full-grown fox hunt-
ing busily with the rabbit pack and shar-
ing the spoils, or a female cat rearing a
litter of infant canines.
* * * *
“Botano”; About the first thing I saw
on entering the Westralia bush nearly
half a century ago was a native lady in-
dustriously going through the rotting
cores of blackboy trees, which one after
the other she kicked over with her bare
foot. Just as I arrived her digging stick
had uncovered a white grub quite 2in.
long and about |in. through. Breaking
the wriggling delicacy in halves, she
passed the forward end to the little black
head watching over her shoulder, then
partook of the other half with all the
gusto of a gourmet swallowing an oyster.
Pursuing my bush rambles I came on an
old French sandalwooder who through
the day had collected a whole panful
of these witchetty grubs. These, he ex-
plained, were not from the sandalwood,
which was immune from attack, but
mostly from decaying quondong. They
were inferior, he admitted, to those which
inhabited the blackboy, but still pass-
able. After greasing the hot pan with
a knob of butter he put his catch, on
to fry. It was absurd, he argued, that
anyone should count such grubs as an
obscene food, seeing that they lived en-
tirely on wood. By that time the dish
was cooked. His method of eating wats
to skewer them out of the fat with a
lady’s hatpin, which again, he argued, was
a refined manner of partaking of so rare
a viand. To me they tasted not unlike the
fried roes of small whiting, than which
there are few things tastier.
* * *
“Esk D.”: Two dipgo pups, when
chased, went to earth in a wombat
burrow, which was filled in with rocks
and a dog-trap set. Next day the scene
remained unchanged, but on the follow-
ing morning there was a wombat in the
trap, the stones were raked out and the
pups gone. An old dog-stiffener assures
me that it would not be unusual for the
warrigal bitch to round up a wombat,
drive it into the trap and then rescue the
pups. That’s what I call cunning.
* H: * *
“Abi Tonus”: It’s time the Council
had the truth about a poison they’ve
been discussing. Strychnine is an alka-
loid, not an inorganic, poison, and its
bitterness can be tasted in solution of
1 in 30,000. To aver that it kills from
overstimulation of the heart implies poor
reading or worse practical knowledge.
The action on the heart is negligible, but
it raises the blood pressure. It kills by
exhaustion and asphyxia following con-
vulsions, which resemble those caused by
tetanus. They are spiral in origin, start
with great violence about an hour after a
poisonous dose has been taken, and in-
crease rapidly in frequency and severity.
Consciousness is retained to the last, and
the heart contrives to beat after death. The-
smallest dose of strychnine known to have
killed is half a grain. Nicotine, “a milder
poison” (B. 30/8/’44), is one of the most
rapid and powerful poisons known, coma
ensuing within a minute or two of taking
a lethal dose, and it can kill in three
minutes. Here’s hoping that “Bughouse”
is not around to give me strychnine when
I get my next attack of angina pectoris—
or pneumonia!
* * * *
“Edjudina”: To a white man what is so
valueless as an empty meat-tin? Out in
the desert we emptied them and cast them
aside. But they were snatched up in-
stantly by some waiting blackfellow. An
eager forefinger prospected for every
morsel of dripping, jelly or gravy. With
the lid a green bone might be scraped
and scraped into digestible shreds such
as could never be got off by the best of
stones. And that small disc inside, placed
by the canner to catch that vagrant drop
of solder. Being long immersed in fat
and a vacuum it was mirror-like in its
shininess. It was a mirror. Perforated
with a nail hole, given a length of string,
and it became a neck ornament, to be
parted from only at the price of its
owner’s life —the only white man’s gee-
gaw we ever saw the abo. take to. As to
the tin itself, not in a thousand genera-
tions had such a utensil been dreamed
of. A small pitch! with which one might
dip up water and carry it might catch
an animal’s blood, might gather seeds or
even, as the white man,did, light a fire
under it and make water hot. Priceless.
Our paths were strewn with treasure.
* * *
“W. 0.2”: As our patrol vessel skirted
the south-western corner of Momington
Island (Gulf of Carpentaria) we overtook
a dugout canoe containing two abos. and
a young lubra, whose face and breasts
were in a shocking state with jagged cuts
from which the blood still oozed. In
response to gesticulations from the abos.
we hove to, and our new R.A.P. corporal
got quite excited over the prospect of
trying his as-yet-untested skill at wound-
dressing. But it was not the lubra the
abos. were concerned about. They merely
wanted tobacco, explaining at some
length that Mary’s wounds were nothing
to worry about, as they had been self
inflicted with a sharp stone in her grief
over the loss of hei; six-year-old daughter
who had been taken by a shark that same
morning at Forsyth Island. The kiddie
had been grabbed while swimming in
shallow water. We scoffed at the natives’
assertion that the shark was more than
twice as long as their 10ft. canoe; but
’ater, when anchored off Forsyth, we
yere visited by the largest shark any ot
us had ever seen. He was an immense
tiger, at least 20ft. long. He swayn
under the vessel, and the only effect of
a .303 bullet, fired by the finest marks-
man on board, was to disturb one of the
many sucking-fish that clung to all parts
of the monster’s body. The fish left its
host and attached itself to the vessels
keel, remaining there until next morn-
ing, when it transferred itself to a floating
turtle.
* * * *
“B. 4”; Owned a hefty pig-hounc
which, racing in, would grab and holt
any bush boar by the ear. He tackled a
whopping goanna, and after ripping
several holes in the monitor’s shirt vainly
tried to shake Cudgerie off the ground
Finally he sought a forward head hold.
Followed a blur of motion, and the go
whipped a lightning alligator clutch on
the muzzle that would have settled the
hound had we not intervened with a
waddy. I felt we had slain a hero to save
a vassal dog.
* * * *
“J.P.McM.”: Australian Comforts
Fund’s periodic issue to troops in New
Guinea includes two loz. packets of line-
cut tobacco. The flimsy cardboard con-
tainer hasn’t a chance in this climate, and
when the troops get the issue the tobacco
is more often mouldy than not; but the
natives don’t knock it back. In fact, so
accustomed have they become to the
handouts that one of them, accepting a
packet, stunned the donor in perfect Eng-
lish with “What, no papers ?”
» * * *
“Moyhu”; If her puppies are taken
away within a few hours of birth almost
any breed of bitch will suckle a lamb, but
commonsense forbids use of the smaller
breeds. One lamb to a bitch is enough,
although I’ve known an Airedale to rear
two orphans successfully. In this case
the foster-mother was heavily fed, the
menu consisting of 31b. of lightly-cookeQ
livers, beefsteaks or other sustaining
meats, with four quarts of milk divide-
into three feeds daily. Light-colorec
canines make the best foster-mothers
because of a tendency of lambs reared on
dark-haired mongs to throw progen!'
dark in color and carrying a wool oi
coarse staple. Conversely, a Lincoln
orphan reared on a silky-haired bitch win
almost invariably give rise to a line ot
fine-woolled sheep, even if mated with
another Lincoln reared on a ewe, the
canine influence proving dominant.
BUSH MAGPIES.
As I opened my eyes this morning
In the gloom of a curtained room,
I suddenly visioned a dreamscape
With flowers of the wild abloom.
Mind held and spelled by the vision,
A sense of wonder was mine,
A sense as though I had swallowed
Deep measures of magic wine.
Though twixt me and what I visioned
Lay mile after crowded mile,
Rare music and scent and color
Were mine for a lustrous while.
Bush tracks that I oft had followed,
Tracks winding o’er heights and glen,
With dewdrops agleam on the bracken,
I trod as a youngster again.
But 10, when I opened my window,
No leaf did I see and no limb.
But only a rounded sun resting
His chin on an ocean’s far rim.
But whose was the wand, much I
wondered,
That woke me at daybreak, to guide
My thoughts, and to bid me go roving
Afar through the green countryside?
What power was the power that
caused me
With the wave of a wand to roam
Through a region of leafy dreamscape
From my staid suburban home?
And then, all at once, I heard them
And groped no more in the dark —
Bush magpies from range and valley
New-come to Waverley Park.
‘Twas they, with their warbling and
chortling.
Outpouring their measureless joy,
That captured my hearing and gave me
The buoyant heart of a boy.
N.S.W.
RODERICK QUINN.


“M.U.R.”: The old chap was explain-
ing how they used to mark lambs in the
old days. “Yair, it wasn’t what you’d
call a nice job ; still it had t’ be done.
Different t’day. All y’ have t’ do is have
a good catcher t’ lay the lamb in front of
y’, then y’ simply grab your emancipators
an’ the job’s done.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat and I were stock-
ing hay down in the Victorian Western
District. One afternoon the boss’s
daughter, a lass of about 20, brought us
some tea and cake and sat on a sheaf
while we interned it. We talked about
nothing in particular, and, as she arose
to go, she let out a scream, rushed behind
Mat and put her arms around him. I
kicked the sleepy lizard aside and, blush-
ing and giving the big fellow quick
glances, she picked up the billy and left.
I chiacked Mat, but he had become very
thoughtful and I couldn’t get a bite.
After tea that night he went oft alone
and didn’t show up until after dark. He
was carrying a brown snake he’d killed.
“What’re y’ cornin’ at?” I asked. He
kept silent. Next morning he was up
before the rest of the house and coiled
the defunct reptile on the back step. We
watched through the window as the girl
who’d been scared by a sleepy lizard
came to the door, saw the snake, calmly
grabbed the long-handled shovel leaning
against the door and neatly divided the
corpse into two. Then she bent, exam-
ined it closely, pouted and shovelled it
away. I turned to Mat. He was rolling
his swag. “Hey!” I began, “You cornin’
or stayin’?” he asked. “Please yourself.
Me, I ain’t circulatin’ in the vicinity of
young females who grab me when they
see lizards an’ ain’t scared be snakes
when I ain’t there t’ be rushed at. I
know when I’m a target, son.” We break-
fasted four miles away.
* * * -jf
“Esk D.”: Was watching hpes gather-
ing pollens from silver wattle blossom
when I noticed a large number of them
working the young leaf-sprays for honey-
“O.K., no bully beef for three days and light duties!”
dew or nectar. Closer inspection revealed
a sort of gland at the base of each of
the paired branchlets, and from the way
the bees were interested they seemed to
be yielding freely.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: It was Saturday night and
old Charlie struggled into his clean
shirt, grabbed his hat, and walked across
country to Simpson’s on his weekly out-
ing. Sam was reading, but glanced up
with a grunt as Chas. flopped into the
opposite chair. Fifteen minutes slipped
by, then Sam again looked up. “Finished
y’r harrowin’?” he inquired, tossing aside
the paper. “Yair.” Chas. picked up the
weekly, thumbed it through several times.
anc i admired the pictures. “War seems
f be goto’ awright ” he MwMpia-
ently. HIS companion was nodding
sleepily, and Charlie’s attention wan-
dered once more to the coals, till
some time later Sam stretched himself,
yawned, and threw on another log.
“Ground dry?” the old bloke asked.
“Uah ” Charlie watched the fire burn
, 6 ~ , . v,;-
down again ; then he got slowly to^
feet. “Three extra milkers tmorrer, fie
announced, looking round for his hat.
c awaKf/-™ “Npw’ni in 9”
Sam raised an eyebrow. New ns in /
“Yair. G’mght.” As Charlie lit the
lantern in the hut, Steve rolled over and
opened his eyes. “Galivantin’ again,
, i j tbp
eh? he accused testily. You re ,
flamin’ limit.” Chas. carefully removed
hi s s hj rt> »Aw well,” he defended him-
self “it does a man good t’ go out occas-
=„
tonally ’n have a good yarn.
* * * *
“J. Dale”: A bloke out our way
hopped off his horse and squatted down
for a drink at a water-hole, but got up
quick when something prodded him in the
rear. Screwing himself round he found
two small punctures. He leapt on the nag
and flogged it at a fast gallop into the
homestead, where he was given prompt
and adequate attention for snake-bite.
The shock quietened him for a day or two,
but presently he was himself again, except
for a tendency closely to examine the
ground before sitting down. About three
weeks later he, pulled up at the same
water-hole, eyed the ground carefully,
then squatted for a drink. He leapt up
as tiny points stabbed him again, but this
time the rowels of his spurs clung long
enough to the cloth to put the show
' - away. Even then it was nearly an hour
before his heart slowed down. Suppose
he’d had a weak heart!
* * * * .
“Betcha”: The “Rooster (B. 23/5/ 44)
must be a city bird. Many an
old stager accustomed to depending on
the weather for his livelihood gets a feel-
ing of approaching rain, particulaily
when the atmosphere seems heavy and
still. As often as not it happens when
there isn’t a cloud in the sky, so his
notion in no way hinges on a study of
cirrus, stratus or cumulus. Nor does that
suggestion oT cloud observation appeal
as a masterpiece of prophetic strategy,
for with a heavily-equipped nimbus armv
invading tempestuously from the horizon,
who wouldn’t get the idea of an impend-
ing downpour? Granted that those best
acquainted with its vagaries locals, man
or beast—are the best judges of the
weather, but their talents are so limited
that even a Melburnian doesn t know
when it is going to ram. He just expects
it daily from long experience. Since
“Rooster” rules out all feeungs regard-
ing rain, does he mean that a cow knows
about cloud differentiation, and all those
“definite laws” that govern the weather?
Whew! My simple contention was that
she gets an instinctive warning of im-
pending bad weather, and she is right;
whereas a human gets a similar hunch,
and he is mostly wrong,
* . „ * ,* . , * .
Long Kit : Eddie, the shepherd, rode
in from the out station on an M.L. run
to collect his young heading dog, which
had come into the station the previous
evening on his own account. A bit of
trouble with his horse on the way out
took Eddie’s attention off the animal,
which disappeared again. That night Eddie
rang the station. “If you can catch that
blasted mong o’ mine,” he said, “tie a can
to his tail and boot him along the track.
Maybe that will teach him to stay away,
In the morning a yelping hound, com-
plete with tin, came tearing down the
road which ran alongside the creek. The
boss, mooching along on his old mare
further down the road, is still wondering
what strange apparition made old Bess
plunge over the bank and into the creek,
We never told him
we never told mm. < ,
“B. A. Ker”; “Esk D.’s” would-be
suicide (B. 30/8/’44) recalls old “Dainty,”
the satirically nicknamed, smoke-dried —
from his habit of keeping a fire-bucket
burning at night in his chimneyless shack
—sinner who eked out a pension with a
bit of trapping and suckering around the
district. About twice a year he celebrated
“The ball —NOT his head.”
his birthday. If the bout cloyed as the
money fizzled out all was well ; but when
the fires still raged after the purse was
empty he became a begging, crawling and
finally abusive old nuisance, until even
the best-hearted froze him out. He’d
reached the final stage in the pub, and
had raised nothing but a wave of merri-
ment, when suddenly his ranting stopped.
Sweeping the crowd with a frenzied eye
he screamed “Yer lousy lot of ’ounds,
yer’ve drove me to this ; I’ll cut me throat
in front of y’f” A stranger leaning
against the bar straightened. “You don’t
mean suicide, do you?” he asked in a
shocked voice. “My oath I do!” roared
Dainty, flourishing his old skinning knife,
“Well,” said the stranger, feeling in his
pocket “I couldn’t stand by while a man
cuts his throat.” Then, producing a keen-
looking clasp-knife, “Come here and I’ll
do it for you.” The hope died out of
the old soak’s eyes. “Gawn, then,” he
bluffed, sticking his chin out; “cut it,
gawn, cut it!” “All right,” the stranger
drawled, pinched up a piece of grimy
dewlap and nicked off a piece the size
of a, threepence with one movement,
Dainty’s hand flew to his throat, then out
before his popping eyes. It was 14 feet
to the door, but the potential suicide
covered it in two bounds. Two minutes
later a dust-covered drover rushed in and
wanted to know who’d tried to kill the
bloke he’d passed tearing round yelling
for a doctor and police protection.
-Mate, or: Mention (B ,6/8/’44) o£
how the Bullara yielded up t W. .
north-west run to the Koombana, tl
latter being lost in 1912, shows that she
was a wise ship in that she took heed of
her warning. For in 1910 the Bullara
fell victim to a terrific blow that tore
her funnel right off her deck and cast it
into the sea. Her cargo, however, was
largely building material; from jarrah
scantling and corrugated iron the crew
fashioned a jury funnel, and so she
steamed safely back to Fremantle. It
was while she went east for repairs that
the Koombana took over the job.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The point about such
strange vegetable viands as stinging nettle,
marshmallow, etc., is that although they
may not be very palatable when cooked
alone they go down pretty well when
boiled along with the good old corned
beef. In the Great Victoria Desert we
would have counted such substitutes as
luxuries. Saltbush boiled with salt beef
isn’t flie tastiest, but when one was break-
ing out all over the hands, arms and legs
with barcoo rot it seemed better than
cauliflower. And there was another vege-
table that grew around the lakes; for
lack of its proper name we called it native
cabbage. It wasn’t in the least like a
cabbage, being broadleafed, with a sort
of fur on it, but it boiled up well and
tasted pretty good. Pigweed was another
standby—not cooked, God forbid; but
raw, with a drop of vinegar if we had
any. If none, then merely with a
touch of salt. We never ran short
of salt. And then, of course, there was
always the parakeelia. Some people pro-
fess to be able to digest this vegetable
raw, but I never could ; it invariably
caused me a violent bowel upset. But
either boiled or fried it went down fairly
well, provided and there is nearly always
a proviso connected with such strange
food—one didn’t mind the wind-driven
sand that seemed , , 0 be buried jn the
very fibre of the fleshy leaves,
* , * .* *
“E. 2”: Time wasted in profitless woik
was always a sore point\with old Joe
Shiner. He was taking a load of wood
up the big cutting when the axle of his
dray collapsed, pivoting the mare in the
shafts to the edge of the embankment.
where she scrambled desperately for a
footing. Then the lot went over. Joe was
sitting on a rock near the scene of
tragedy when Pedrick drove up to view
the mangled remains. “That s hard
luck,” he sympathised. “Yair,” said Joe
dejectedly. “I put in an hour shoem’ her
on’y this mornin’!”
**’ * * _
“Old Camp : Had a job one time on-
siding on a big traction engine, most of
our work being the salvaging of derelict
mining plants out from Coolgardie
(W.A.). Out towards the 25-Mile we
stopped to pick up a locomotive-type
boiler. When Big Ned opened the fire-
box door he nearly dropped from shock,
Inside was a live man grimy and un-
shaven, with hollow, sunken eyes. When
we got him out and loosened his tonsils
up with warm tea he told us how it hap-
pened. Humping the roll, he had arrived
at the derelict plant just in time to meet
an evening thunderstorm. All vestige of
buildings having long disappeared, the
only available shelter was the firebox of
the old boiler, not at all a bad place to
spread one s nap. To check the strong
draught sucked through by the multitude
of tubes he had pulled the iron door to.
The latch was simple, just an iron bar
that lifted and dropped into a notched
hasp, but nothing that he could do from
the inside could open it. He had tried
vainly to lift the firebars, but they were
cemented
W* %£*£s S
longer Before attempting the lift we
opened the drain valve. Yes, the boiler
was £ u jj G f water,
* « * *
“S.T.S.”: John the Baptist’s “locust”
diet really carob-beans? Why not? As
a child in England I used to buy the
article, which here we either trample
underfoot or at best feed to stock; it
wa s a popular alternative to toffee,
* * * *
“W. 0.2”; The arrival of our patrol at
Cape Melville, an immense jumbled pile
of black granite blocks of all shapes and
sizes about halfway up the eastern coast
of Cape York Peninsula (N.Q.), caused
thousands of lizards and snakes sunning
on the granite blocks to go sliding
into cracks and crevices as we scrambled
to the summit. Black and brown snakes
were numerous, and several death adders
were noticed. The most attractive-look-
ing of all the reptiles was an olive-green
snake fully 9ft. long. Near the summit
we came upon a 3ft. spotted black snake
that had committed suicide by attempting
to swallow a brown about as long as
itself; it had got down all but the tail,
Ascent of the headland was not easy,
but the view from the summit was
Worth the effort. At low tide one of the
boys found among the granite blocks the
oyster-encrusted frame of a porthole and
a rotting piece of a vessel’s mast. Prob-
ably the remains of one of the 77 pearl-
ing boats smashed to pieces on the cape
in the great cyclone of March 4, 1899, in
which 307 lives were lost.
THE RED-SHANK.
The red-shank is a funny fowl,
An animated freak
That loves to haunt the reeds and howl:
Its manners are unique.
It wears a blob of sealing wax
Where others wear a nose,
And though it pays no income tax
It has its share of woes.
The bird must be a trifle wrong:
It walks on scarlet stilts,
Nor ever greets the morn with song,
And when it runs it tilts.
Its feet with nothing can compare,
For when they’re seen it’s found
There’s lots of red-shank in the air,
There’s more along the ground.
Its cloak of black and royal blue
Is sadly out of place
Upon a feathered kangaroo
That wears a poker face.
The red-shank is a thing so rum,
Upon its V-shaped legs,
I often wonder how its mum
Assembled it in eggs.
N.S.W.
T. McN.


WAR SERIES
RDNALDSONTIPPETT
Buy IFor Savings Certificates!
'T’EN of these Ronaldson-Tippett Type “SA” Spray Plants
have been delivered to the Army, with an additional
twenty on order.
The Plant features our 3 H.P. Type “N” Petrol Engine
and Duplex Spray Pump fitted w r ith automatic pressure
control valve. A mechanically operated agitator ensures
efficient agitation of the mixture. It is capable of operating
two sprays at high pressure.
The Plants are being used for tent and general camouflage
—an interesting variation from the extensive spray work
they are performing in the country’s fruit, vegetable and
crop growing plans.
Their latest uses will be to minimise weed growth on
aerodromes and landing strips, and the spraying of pools
in malarial areas where the dread mosquito breeds.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
K.S.W. Distributors: Konaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q'land Distributors: Boualdson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Australian, Mercantile, Land& Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTT, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE,' CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
■Ck
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
r 7u-^
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOfX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 088 1
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Management.
"Jock”; We have been using “Porter-
gaff’s” (B. 30/8/’44) copper and nicotine
sulphate drench for sheep for some years,
and at his strength (2oz. of each to one
gallon water, dose for grown sheep 20z.),
but have not found it effective as a worm-
killer. Cause of its failure seems to be
dilution of the dose in the sheep’s
stomach, so that it reaches the worms in
non-toxic concentrations. Now we use
phenylhydrazine, a new drench, with
greater success. Its cost per dose is much
higher (about 5d.), but this is offset by its
effectiveness and the necessity for only one
dose with proper paddock management.
Burning off is a wasteful method of
deworming pastures, and “P.” might do
better to follow our scheme. Eggs passed
by the sheep don’t develop to the infec-
tive stage for six days, hence we get the
sheep out of the paddock before six days
and then rest it for 30 days, by which
time all the eggs passed will be dead.
This practice needs at least eight pad-
docks, but it improves pastures by alter-
nate grazing and resting. Any carried-
over lambs must be boxed with the mob
when the rams go in, but we have not
found that this affects the percentage
drop for the next season.
This year we took all our super, quota
—such as it was —in molybdenum super.,
as molybdenum has been found to be
an absent trace element in our hilly coun-
try. We believe that this will increase the
resistance of the sheep to parasites.
Farmers on the whole are a conser-
vative mob, and new changes are met
with suspicion or derision. How they
laughed when my grandfather began
throwing pounds’ worth of superphos-
phate, which all disappeared when it
rained, around his paddocks. The only
cove entitled to laugh is the one who can
make a success of his sheep-farming, and
to do that every effort must be made to
deworm sheep running on soft sub.
clover, rye and Phalaris pastures like ours.
Bulk for Pigs.
* “Myrrhee”: Costs can be reduced by
feeding pigs mangels, sugar beets, swedes,
artichokes, pumpkins, waste potatoes or
fruit and kitchen refuse. Nutritive values
of these foods vary, 41b. of potatoes or
101 b. of the more watery foods, such as
mangels, equalling lib. of cereal meals
in a properly balanced diet. Under con-
ditions favorable to these crops their
return per acre is greater than the pork
return from grain crops.
To feed this class of food, give each
pig after weaning |gal. separated milk
and up to 21b. of cereal meals daily,
according to appetite, and then, keeping
these quantities constant, allow the pigs
to eat the bulky foods according to their
increasing appetite. Feed dry sows the
same quantities of concentrates as young
pigs, and sows with litters double the
amounts, in addition to all the bulky food
they can eat.
Training the Dog.
“E. 2”: Choose an alert pup whose
parents have shown ability for the work
he is to do. Keep the pup away from
stock and from running with other
hounds; a few spells on the chain get
him used to it early and encourage obedi-
ence. Correct feeding is necessary so that
his mind is not occupied with thoughts
of hunting food. Show him that you are
his boss and friend, but put a curb on
playful tendencies.
At six months the pup should be ready
and willing to begin training. Don’t rush
him. Have him on a leash and make
him trot behind when ordered. A light
switch is handy to make him realise that
immediate obedience is necessary. A long
lead may be used as a check when bring-
ing him to heel from further out.
Thoroughness in the initial lessons pro-
vides the grounding for training with
stock. Use the natural voice when giving
orders; a dog soon understands a little
variation to approval or disapproval, and
there is no need to rouse or wheedle.
Make a certain gesture for each order,
and the vocal exercise may be dropped
later. Be patient, work the pup in short
spells and make him learn one lesson
thoroughly before going on to another.
Careful education seldom shows a failure.
Composts for Summer.
“Pat Ater”; As summer advances the
need for humus in topsoil layers be-
comes more apparent. Nothing can take
its place as a moisture-holder in hot
weather. Humus regulates soil tempera-
ture, helps root growth and aids nitro-
gen formation.
Any kind of soft vegetable matter,
animal refuse, green manure or compost
makes humus. Some of it may be slow
in decomposing, but that is good for
long-range soil preparation. Anything
stalky or with a lot of fibre, like “Paddy’s
lucerne,” should be avoided, except for
use a year ahead.
Now is the time to make a compost,
preferably under cover, which can do
service by mid-summer in January and
February. It takes about three menths
for soft leaves and weeds, with stable
and cowyard sweepings (with the urine
in it for preference) to break down into
a soft compost. Made properly it is the
richest and best soil-enricher known. It
contains a balanced amount of all
minerals and other items which plant
growth needs, and scientists now contend
that vegetables grown on compost are so
vigor-producing to animals and humans
that they can resist most diseases. Results
of tests have shown the immensely higher
SB
sulphate superphosphate
after the lime. Build up sucLJve layers
as quickly as possible Keep moist, but
not too we during proven. Take. steps
to prevent leakage, and keep off ram.
Another method is to build a heap in
which vegetable-matter, manure and urine
itself is added liberally. The heap is
covered with soil and only once oj»ned
and turned, tten covered again Kept
moist, it should be ready m four months
of warm, summer weather.
Firebreaks.
“Sarina”: Unless you’ve a watering-
cart to keep the fire down leave firebreak
burning until night. I’ve beaten out miles
of fire along dry spear- and blady-grass
ridges after dark, though the fire was
beyond control during the day. I don’t
favor overstocking to make fire-resistant
zones around pet paddocks and in-
flammable dwellings. Erosion results,
The good old dodge of fire-ploughing is
both cheap and effective.
Mostly a fire-proof strip 60 to 70 yards
wide works. It stops rushing fire or fly-
ing sparks. Make a couple of parallel
roads through the long grass with a fire-
plough, anything from 50 to 70 yards
apart. The long lane of grass separating
the plough tracks only needs burning-off
to give a barren tract. Sometimes you’re
helped by a gully or road running your
way, necessitating the ploughing of only
one track,
Since one never knows how or where
a blaze will start, more than one fire-
break is necessary. Sub-division means
safety, even though it means a little more
cost. First break should be on the out-
side of or containing the dividing fence,
the secondary belts inside.
Stinkwort.
“M.” : Remove sheep from New Hoi-
land daisy and stinkwort before they
begin to flower and keep them off till
the dry, fluffy hairs disappear from the
dried flower. The small hairs of the
flowers irritate the lining of stomach and
intestines, sometimes setting up a fatal
enteritis, or, by puncturing the mucous
membrane, they may allow the organism
causing pulpy kidney to enter the blood
stream.
Mortality begins suddenly and a large
number of sheep may die in a few days,
Treatment is rarely successful. Vaccj-
nation is of no value as, even if immu-
nity against pulpy kidney were produced,
deaths would continue from enteritis if
the sheep were left on the stinkwort.
Stinkwort is not a good fodder at any
time, but it may be grazed safely while
green before the flowers appear, and if
land is heavily infested it is best grazed
short before flowering time. Particular
care is required in a dry season. Sheep
are attracted to the green stinkwort and
the daisy, and if not watched will eat
large quantities.
Soldering,
« P 1 rvppk”- Snider*;™ ,
i earned If tb • t A “ slo .^ y
wm melt I£ t * freel J 0 *’ * e
, erratically It important to ctan
. K • ,
b f iL- tn snldpr cracks
«, ? av s
aSSs
IS“S sasss
""“"J
S
, be done my first soldering j ob y put
badl holed ie y dish back into
Solder is scarce and dear Tnothnaste
tubes should be steeped in a
hel £ £ aj R J
down jn crudb|e or , oyer a hot
fi Do the same with lead from a worn
battery. I know fellows who
use lead s and al partSi but ,
prefcr ]ead in the of 60 to 40
of tin. Chisel a narrow, straight groove
or trough in a plank of wood, and poui
in the molten metals. When cold and
hard the solder is ready for use.
Hints for tße F " m :
“B.”: Vats used for dipping cattle
should be cleaned periodically. Cut a
kerosene-tin to make a scoop, attach a
handle and punch small holes in bottom
and sides. After dipping skim the scoop
oyer the surface of the fluid to remove
dirt and hair. To maintain the fluid at
the right height, place a mark on the side
°f the vat showing the true level. Dip-
ping cattle in dirty vats goes against their
appearance at the saleyards.
“Jiff”: If Zamia palms menace your
cattle poison them with arsenic. Drive
a crowbar into the centre of the fronds
from above, thus giving the poison access
to the heart of the palm. An old kettle
or teapot is best to apply arsenic solution,
and only very little is needed to kill the
plant. Chop down big palms and use
the crowbar to punch a hole into the
remaining stump to hold the poison,
Poisoned palms won’t grow out again,
“Bill C.”: Some advocate constant
feeding of tomato bushes to safeguard
’em against blight and wilt, I plump for
new land for each crop, clean seed and
spraying. Can say that horse manure,
cane-trash and stable refuse rotted down
in a heap and fed to the vines builds em
up, but disease gets ’em just the same if
they aren’t sprayed. Green manure is
fine for tomatoes. I plough-in what vege-
tation is covering the selected site and
follow up with Poona pea. Mite is one
of the worst N.Q. coast tomato pests, and
sulphur preparations are effective against
it. ...
“Portergaff”: Avoid mixing concrete
in frosty weather. Water content freezes,
causing expansion while the mix is still
green, thus preventing formation of key
between different layers. Cracks appear-
ing in the finished work and scales peel-
ing off surface are sure signs of frost-
bitten work.
“Kay”: To keep water in galvanised-
iron tanks cool summer they
should be enclosed in a “coat” of liquid
cement or concrete. Several thus treated
proved the point.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Different Tito.
(Condensed from comment by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century.”)
The claims made on behalf of “Mar-
shal” Tito that he is a brilliant military
commander with an army at least 250,000
strong, that he is a political leader with
a huge popular backing, and that he is
the head of a representative Government,
have begun to wear thin. Cumulative
evidence points more and more towards
the conclusion that he is not a serious
person either as a soldier or a politician,
that his army is not nearly 250,000 strong,
that he has no considerable backing any-
where and that the Government of which
he professes to be the head does not exist.
Press and the 8.8. C. have for months
past engaged in propaganda for Tito and
against Mihailovich. Tito’s stature was
made to swell until it attained Napoleonic
dimensions. Events, brought about, alas!
by the enemy, have induced a sudden
shrinkage. Portraits of him published in
various newspapers about the middle of
June gave his features an aspect of classi-
cal grandeur that bore no resemblance
to the original.
The Yugoslav Government, with Mr.
Puritch as Premier, was dissolved by King
Peter, who gave way to the severe pres-
sure exercised by the British Government
and, more especially, by Mr. Churchill.
Mr. Ivan Shubashitch, a Croat, was asked
to form a new Government to bring about
some sort of accommodation between
King Peter and Tito. But Mr. Shubas-
hitch, who is an honest man, has been
compelled, in the face of cumulative and
indisputable evidence, to realise that
Mihailovich has the support of the entire
Serbian nation, with a following, also, in
Croatia and Slovenia.
Tito and his admirers boasted of the
offensive he and his Partisans would take
when the day came—the day of the
Second Front. His personal representa-
tive, General Belebit, who had been living
outside Cairo since September, came to
London, where he exercised his personal
charm with much success and denounced
Mihailovich as a traitor —but was unable
to produce a scrap of evidence.
It is a fact that on several occasions
Tito negotiated with Germany’s ally, the
Croat quisling and terrorist Pavelitch,
for a truce, and received into the ranks
of the Partisans thousands of Croat
Ustashis, who continued, under Tito, the
work they were doing under Pavelitch,
namely, fighting against Mihailovich and
massacring Serbian peasants. A whole
regiment of Ustashis went over to Tito
a year ago with their commanding officer,
Filipovitch, who was made Minister of
Supply in Tito’s “Government.” Since
then Pavelitch proclaimed an “amnesty”
for all those who went over, whereupon
many, if not most, of them went back
again, Filipovitch included (he had par-
ticularly distinguished himself by super-
intending the massacre of Serbs in
Bosnia).
Tito also tried to make arrangements
with the Italians. In the spring of last
year Dr. Vranchitch, the chief liaison
officer between Pavelitch and the Italians
and a member of his Government,
spent a fortnight at Tito’s head-
quarters at Livno. He returned to
Zagreb, the Croatian capital, via Split,
with the full approval of the Italian
authorities, to bring before Pavelitch the
result of the negotiations. But in April
the Germans made an attack on the
“Third Partisan Republic” at Livno and
put it out of existence, destroying the
local Partisan forces. The negotiations
with the Italians, therefore, came to
nothing.
On May 25 the Germans undertook
a raid on Tito’s headquarters. They dis-
patched airborne troops and parachutists
to the number, it is stated, of 10,000 or
12,000. They claim to have killed or
taken prisoner 17,500 Partisans. Amongst
the killed, according to the German
claim, were 20 British and American offi-
cers, and amongst the prisoners 35 British,
American and Russian officers.
Tito fled and took refuge on the island
of Vis. One is compelled to wonder what
Tito’s alleged army of 250,000 men were
doing when a German force of, appar-
ently, no more than 1000 descended on
their headquarters, all but captured their
commander, the “Marshal,” and were
able not only to inflict heavy losses but
to take prisoners away with them. Is this
the army that was going to take the
offensive?
Tito’s prestige will not have been aug-
mented, at least not in the eyes of the
Serbs. A commander and his men may
retreat or scatter, only to assemble under
him once again. This is the guerilla as
waged in the Balkans. But for a com-
mander to abandon his men and seek
refuge on an island far from the scene
of military operations is regarded by the
Serbs as incompatible with martial glory.
That is the reason why Mihailovich is
held in such high honor—he has never
quitted the field since the Germans in-
vaded Yugoslavia in March, 1941.
Bar to Hitler Gang.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
The Federal Council in Berne has
revised the views it has held from time
immemorial on the right of asylum. It
has whittled down that right consider-
ably. Hitler, Goring, Himmler, Musso-
lini, Starace and the like would be turned
out of Swiss territory tomorrow if they
tried to step in by land or by air.
This is a great departure from the Swiss
concept of national sovereignty and neu-
trality as practised up to the present. So
much can be found in the new set of
rules and instructions forwarded by the
Swiss Federal Ministry of Justice and
Police to the authorities along the fron-
tier. The essential paragraph reads:
The authorities are empowered to forbid
a special category of refugees all access to
Swiss soil; namely, foreigners who, because
of reprovable deeds, appear to have made
themselves unworthy of being given an
asylum, or else, by their own activities, have
impaired or endangered Swiss interest.
It means that the right of asylum is
no longer to be interpreted as a natural
right that anyone can claim, irrespective
of his past, and that it belongs to the
National Government to regulate it on
the basis of moral and political considera-
tions. The “Svenska Dagblad” com-
mented with approval of the decision of
the Swiss Federal Council—a fairly clear
sign of the public trend in Sweden.
The step taken in Berne can be counted
by the United Nations as a gain of far-
reaching importance. As long as Switzer-
land, the traditional champion of neutral
rights in the world, professed to be un-
aware of the criminal doings of Nazis
and Fascists and insisted on treating them
as ordinary belligerents, not better and
not worse situated (in a moral sense)
than the nations that are fighting them,
all prospects of bringing to book the
dictators could only be called faint and
uncertain.
Report on France.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess.)
How strong is the De Gaullist move-
ment in France now? To judge by my
observations, most French people today
are so dazed by what has happened
to them during the last terrible four years
that politics is still subordinate to the
urgencies of everyday living. Those in-
terminable years of German subjection
have left deep marks upon the French
people—especially upon their minds.
They have listened to unpleasant things
for so long that many of them don’t
know what to think now.
It seems to me that the French people
today are divided, politically, into three
types. The first group includes those who
accepted defeat in 1940 and resolved to
make the best of it. The second group
comprises the De Gaullists and all those
others who never accepted defeat and
who have been eager to fight Germany.
The third group is passive and consists
of the timid and hesitant people, com-
mon to every land, who confine them-
selves to their own personal affairs 'and
leave politics to more aggressive and
assertive individuals.
How large is each of these groups?
That is an important question, both for
France herself and for her Allies.
Judging from my own necessarily
limited investigations, I should say that thd
group of Frenchmen who actively sup-
ported the Germans is extremely small.
Among those so-called collaborators were
some opportunists who now are fran-
tically endeavoring to climb on the
Allied band wagdn. Among the others
there are some who wanted peace at any
price. These people hate the Allies
because we disturbed their peace and
because they fear punishment now from
other Frenchmen.
While there appear to have been very
few genuine collaborators, so likewise
there appear to have been few French-
men who were willing to take the great
risks of waging underground warfare
against the Germans. At least, active
resistance groups were not numerous in
agricultural districts like Normandy.
But there were some ardent foes of
Germany, and many of these men and
women lost their lives in their dangerous
underground ventures. This group in-
cluded not only the followers of General
de Gaulle but also many others who
claimed no allegiance to the De Gaullist
movement. In Normandy I could find
no conclusive evidence that the general
has any widespread support, although he
certainly has some extremely devoted
disciples.
Everywhere I went a few De Gaullists
always were in evidence and they virtu-
ally monopolised political activity. From
what I have seen, the general will have
little difficulty establishing himself as the
dominant political force in liberated
territory—with or without Allied appro-
val. Vichy has been thoroughly dis-
credited with all patriotic Frenchmen,
and there is no indication that any
political alternative is developing except
that of the De Gaullists.
General de Gaulle’s position in France
apparently has been strengthened, not
weakened, by his standing up to Ameri-
can and British statesmen, even at the
time when the liberation of France de-
pended largely upon the efforts of Allied
soldiers. It has been smart politics for
Official attention is being centred
more and more on a proposed solu-
tion [of post-war security] on an
economic base, the chief protagon-
ist of which has been Paul Einzig
in his book “Can We Win the
Peace?” And the idea is being
strongly supported within the U.S.
Administration. To prepare for,
make and sustain war a nation
must depend on heavy industry.
This suggestion is to internationalise
the areas in Germany proper on
which heavy industry depends. The
Germans would be allowed to share
in the products of these areas up to
the point where they could begin
to pile up reserves sufficient to
start another war. But short of
that point a limit would be set by
the international trustees of the
producing areas, and the Germans
could not get an extra pound. Since
the victory of the United Nations
will mean that the industries and
raw material pools which Germany
has seized outside its borders will
be restored to such of their owners
as satisfy the victors of their peace-
ful purposes, the nett would be a
Germany impotent to prepare for
or make war at any time in the
near future. —Arthur Krock; N.Y.
“Times.”
the general to avoid being labelled as an
Anglo-American puppet, and the De
Gaullists feel very confident today that
the immediate future of France is in
their hands.
Meanwhile, the Frenchmen who did
not take heroic action against the Ger-
mans, and who are not now giving the
Allies vigorous support —these French-
men are still watching and waiting, as
they have learned to do during four long
years. This great passive group appar-
ently includes the majority of the people
of France.
Canada’s Child Endowment.
(From a report by the N.Y. “Times” Ottawa
correspondent .)
The Canadian family allowance bill
goes farther than any similar scheme
already operating in Australia and New
Zealand or in any European country. The
3,500,000 children in the country will,
on registration, be entitled to allowances,
which, from birth to the age of 16, total
$llBB, or nearly half the estimated mini-
mum cost of raising a child.
There will be no means test, as in some
countries. The parents of every child
will from July 1, 1944, when the law goes
into effect, receive $5 a month until the
child is six years old. During the next
four years they will receive $6 a month.
From the ages of 10 to 13 the child’s
allowance will be $7 a month and between
13 and 16, when costs are highest, it will
be $8 a month.
The full allowance will be paid families
where there are five children, but there
will be a reduction of $1 in the case of a
sixth and seventh child, $2 for an eighth
child and $3 for each additional child
maintained by the parent.
The total annual cost under the
present child population is estimated at
$253,200,000 a year, which includes about
$50,000,000 dependent allowance granted
income-tax payers. The new cost will
be about $200,000,000,
According to the 1941 census, 48 per
cent, of those gainfully employed in
Canada were single, 39 per cent, of the
married or widowed had no children
under 16, and 40 per cent, of those with
children under 16 had only one child.
“What this means,” Prime Minister
W. L. Mackenzie King said, in presenting
the bill, “is that 84 per cent, of the
children in Canada under 16 are depen-
dent upon only 19 per cent, of the gain-
fully employed. The major burden of
raising the next generation and perpetuat-
ing the Canadian nation falls on less than
one-fifth of our working population.
“It is only fair,” the Prime Minister
added, “that the financial burden of this
great national service of raising children
be shared by all.”
The operation of the Act will entail the
distribution of about 1,500,000 cheques
a month, but by use of existing agencies
the Act, it was said, can be operated at
a cost not to exceed 2 per cent, and per-
haps less.
Behind the bill was a situation made
clear at recruiting offices when rejections
for overseas and home service in some
periods reached as high as 52.4 per cent,
because of physical unfitness. For such
a situation, Mr. King said, drastic
remedies were needed.
The money spent under the bill, Mr.
King affirmed, would pay untold divi-
dends. It would find its way into a de-
mand for commodities or services that
were part of the essentials of life and
would create and maintain employment
on a large scale. It would be an insur-
ance against business depression and
largely against slums.
For “Russia-is-righters.”
[Here condensed is “a letter to American
Liberals” by “American Mercury” editor
Eugene Lyons. Actually it applies just as
directly to any other “Russia-is-always-right”
‘ ‘fellow-travellers. ”]
Perhaps a hundred- million human
beings in Eastern Europe, from the Baltic
to the Adriatic, nurture the hope that
liberation from the Nazi yoke will give
them a chance to obtain some measure
of democratic freedom. They are Poles,
Letts, Finns, White Russians, Balkan
Slavs, Ukrainians, Lithuanians. They
have no more desire for subjection to the
Russian variant of the totalitarian police-
State than the Austrians or Czechs or
Sudeten Germans had for the German
variant.
Among them no doubt there are some
who hanker for the Soviet brand of
tyranny, just as there were some in Aus-
tria who yearned for Nazi chains. But
the great mass of these peoples want the
right to determine their own political
future within some framework that makes
freedom at least a possibility. Especially
those among them who did not approve
or support their own pre-war Govern-
ment want that chance for freedom and
reform as reward for suffering and sacri-
fice —a chance which would be stamped
out under domination of a dictatorship
of any political color.
One would suppose you [“Liberals” or
“fellow-travellers”] would understand
and sympathise with these millions. Even
if their hope is romantic in its optimism,
even if their chance of escaping Soviet
domination is slight, you might be ex-
pected to give them the benefit of your
moral support. But instead you seem
more eager than all the rest to push those
hundred million human beings into the
Soviet stockade.
Oh, I know you have wonderful argu-
ments based on history as far back as
the Middle Ages, based on ethnology and
military science. You can prove that
Marshal Stalin “needs” and “deserves”
additional territory and additional sub-
jects. (Hitler’s apologists, too, had plenty
of impressive historical, ethnological and
security arguments.) You explain that
Russia “will take it anyhow,” as if that
makes any difference on the moral level.
You even detect a wave of the future,
a new European order under benevolent
G.P.U. auspices. (Hitler’s apologists, too,
were sure of their particular wave of the
fyture, sure that irresistible energy is its
own justification.)
The one fact you ignore is that mil-
lions of people who might attempt to
build a democratic life, who need your
support in that difficult undertaking, are
in danger of being swallowed up by a
dictatorship.
Those of you who think that the Soviet
super-State is “democratic” —no, “the most
democratic in the world” —at least have
the excuse of ignorance and self-delusion.
But what of the rest of you, who are un-
comfortably aware of the real nature of
the Soviet regime? How can you bring
yourselves, with sophistries about expedi-
ency, to connive in shoving more and yet
more unwilling hordes of Europeans into
this Russia?
The other day I talked to a Liberal
who has no illusions about the character
of the Soviet dictatorship, but has man-
aged to manoeuvre himself mentally into
supporting the Kremlin’s plans for ex-
tending its control to neighboring terri-
tories. I asked him a question:
“You say that Russia under the Soviets
is an absolute and brutal dictatorship.
Let’s suppose that some people in


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRLTALJVS LEAD..
fcS. . -.cwsi
f
iKsKiSs
SSs
ip . !±
•\\:~ 'y’ir*/fl-' •/ "-*V: - -r - V- A r:*
S
feS.
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E.
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941 .
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per*-
fection in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the, war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics: Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England
mm
m
m.
>sf>?
i
m
#r,
years’ reputation for quality
CRAVEN I
10 FOR 1/1 20 FOR 2/2
Save your money to save your Freedom.
Invest in War Savings Certificates.
Moscow or Kiev want to escape from the
country. Would you help them if you
could?”
“Of course I would,” he said promptly,
“Well, it happens that there are mil-
lions of Poles, Lithuanians, Letts and
Estonians who want to escape. Why,
instead of helping them stay out, do you
help force them in 9”
He had no answer. There is no answer
except in the language of cold steel and
raw force. From what the Soviet regime
has done to its own people, from what it
did in the brief period when it took over
certain areas by agreement with Hitler,
you know exactly what the hundred mil-
lions can expect. Russia is the only
country in the world where, even in
peace-time, an attempt to leave without
permission is punishable by death. The
simple fact that the new Soviet subjects
will thus be trapped, hopelessly and per-
haps for ever, should end all doubt for
an honest Liberal.
But you are aware that this will be
only the beginning. On the basis of offi-
cial Russian policies in the recent past
you know as a certainty that terror will
be unleashed against millions who cannot
or will not adjust themselves to the alien
ways of an alien dictatorship.
Whatever possibility there may be for
democracy in these territories will be
snuffed out for good, at least until all of
Russia is free. Your kind of people in
particular—Socialists, passionate Demo-
crats, champions of civil rights, opponents
of the monolithic State-will be exter-
minated.
Insofar as you add your approval,
insofar as you fail to speak up against
the extension of the sphere of totalitarian-
ism—no matter how neat and learned
Your reasons-you are taking the blood
an .d th e sufferings of the victims on your
private conscience.
You keep repeating the propagandist
inanities about Russia needing ‘ demo-
cratic” and “progressive” neighbors in
Europe. Do you mean Governments
as democratic as Stalin’s one-party police-
State? Do you mean, perhaps, a Gov-
eminent in Poland headed by men like
Ehrlich and Alter, the Polish-Jewish
Socialists whom the G.P.U. shot not long
ago? Do you mean Governments headed
by the kind of men and women Demo-
crats, Socialists, disillusioned Commu-
nists, old-fashioned Liberals who fill the
Soviet “isolators” by the tens of thou-
sands?
You leave it to Stalin, of all people,
to decide who and what is democratic!
Can anything be more grotesque?
How will that work out in Germany,
for instance? Would you say on the basis
of the Free German Committee which
Stalin has set up in Moscow—a commit-
tee loaded with ex-Nazi leaders, Junker
militarists ajid anti-democratic Com-
munists —that Stalin’s definition of a
“democratic” and “progressive” regime
for Germany matches your own? There
is no secret about the character of this
committee. A pro-Communist recently
provided the key to it when he wrote—
not, mind you, in condemnation but in
fervid approval:
The novelist Willi Bredel since 1939 has
lived in Moscow. As a member of the
[Free German] National Committee hfe has
the strange experience of working alongside
a former Nazi stormtrooper leader, the man
who had commanded the concentration
camp in which Bredel was tortured.
You leave it to Stalin, who kills off the
Ehrlichs and Alters, and fashions quis-
lings out of Nazi stormtrooper leaders,
to promote a “democratic” future for
Eastern and Central Europe! Yet you
know that whatever hope there is for a
democratic nucleus in Germany rests on
the remnants of the Social Democrats
and the Centre party. Both these groups
happen to be anathema to the Kremlin.
Stalin would prefer a stormtrooper Gov-
ernment in neighboring countries to a
Government of Social Democrats any
day ; those who do not grasp this elemen-
tary truth are disqualified to talk about
Russia —they are living in a never-never
land of their own making.
You say over and over again that
Stalin, for security’s sake, must have next-
door to him, in Poland for instance, Gov-
ernments that are “friendly” and “ac-
ceptable” to him. But what if Poland
were to insist, by the same logic, that it
too wants “friendly” and “acceptable”
next-door neighbors? What if spokes-
men for the Polish people pointed out
that an undemocratic and totalitarian
neighbor to the east, led by the very
officials who partitioned Poland with
Hitler, imperilled their security?
The yearning for security is no more
ridiculous in a small nation than in a
large one. You do not, surely, decide
such issues by counting respective
bayonets and air forces! If you insist
that Russia must have a voice in the kind
of Government set up in Poland you
must, in all conscience, insist on giving
Poland an equivalent voice in Russia.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Eric Johnston tells this story about his Krem-
lin visit with Stalin: He had trouble getting
American newspapermen into Siberia, so he
appealed to Stalin. “Marshal,” he asked, “do
you object to my taking four reporters with
me?” Stalin had none. “Do you think Com-
missar Molotov will agree? He turned me
down,” said Johnston, staring at Molotov.
“Molotov never disagrees with me, do you,
Vyacheslav?” said Stalin. Molotov and Stalin
laughed loudly.— Drew Pearson; N.Y. “Daily
Mirror.”
* * * *
President Roosevelt now is faking personal
direction of the war in the Pacific. The Presi-
dent has made his leadership clear following
his conferences at Pearl Harbor with General
Douglas MacArthur, Admiral Chester W.
Nimitz and other top officials in that theatre.
Mr. Roosevelt thus becomes America’s first war
President to exercise so fully in a personal sense
the constitutional powers of his office as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
Japan cannot surrender very well until her
people have had more punishment. Her
Emperor cannot give up Manchuria, Korea,
Formosa, China, the East Indies until the reason
for that sacrifice is more apparent to the
man in the street. That’s why Japan won’t give
up simultaneously with Germany .—“United
States News.”
* * * *
There is vastly greater unity between the
major- U.S. political parties on peace policy
as they face the 1944 elections than there was
when they faced the 1920 elections. Today
the internationalist wing of the Republican party
is the party’s majority influence, although the
party remains the principal instrument through
which the remaining isolationist forces hope to
affect national policy. Unlike 1920, the Re-
publicans stand committed as a party to their
Mackinac declaration, which advocates Ameri-
can membership in a world security organisation
with power to secure the peace. . The outcome
won’t be clear until the Presidential and Con-
gressional elections shape the answer authon-
Science Monitor.”
* * * «
All in all, it looks as if a noted German
hunker s predictions are in process of coming
true in a way he dld not expect The thinker
was Oswald Spengler; his big prediction, voiced
in The Decline of the West, was that the Western
w ° rl l was Ol L its way ta the , sunset a nd would
SSTXSVToi
birthrates were shrinking and whose creative
energies were doing likewise. A Spenglerian
fate overtook France in the present war, when
the French nation of 40,000,000 could not stand
off the German nation of 80,000,000. It looks
as if it will be long before France becomes a
great Power again. The same fate now appears
to be overtaking Germany. It is hard to see
how the 80 ’ 000 ’ 000 Germans can rise again to
top . flight power with 190,000,000 Russians and
60,000,000 other Slavs hemming them in. Ger-
many in another generation or two may be a
great Power again Anything can happen in
this world. But the betting looks just as good
the other way.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
Gen. de Gaulle said in Washington that the
French flag must again fly over the Rhineland,
Qne of his Ministers> Emmanue i d’Astier de la
yjg er i e , military delegate in London for the
French Committee, said at a recent press con-
ference that General de Gaulle’s statement
meant that France would insist not only on the
return of Alsace and Lorraine sut th J e who ie
“Gau” into which the Germans ; have incor-
porat'ed these provinces. This would include
the whole of Baden and The Palatinate on the
left bank of the Rhine. —London correspondent
N Y “ Times » y
According to them [ Communists ]
our only ally is Russia and our
greatest crime was the delay in the
second front. If they could have
had their way the British and our
people would have hurled them-
selves against the unbroken Ger-
man might two years ago to save
Stalin , We should have reaped
only enormous slaughter and crush-
ing defeat and left Russia without
our all-important ’planes, tanks,
gasoline and food. Imagine what
would have happened if the attack
had been made before the German
submarines were crushed, before
the Luftwaffe was almost driven
from the skies, before German fac-
tories and cities were showered with
millions of tons of bombs. — U.S.
N.B.C. broadcaster Rupert Hughes.
“In determining what States should be rep-
resented on the world council with the great
Powers, it is necessary to apply the functional
idea. Those countries that have most to con-
tribute to the maintenance of the peace of the
world should be most frequently selected. The
military contribution actually made during this
war by the members of the United Nations pro-
vides one good working basis for a selective
principle of choice.” — Canadian Prime Minister
W. L. Mackenzie King.
* * *
The American people will not approve or
support a system which takes over from Axis
ideology the scheme for dividing the world
among the victors. The main responsibility for
the future peace must rest, of course, on those
nations which have the greatest power to safe-
guard it—or to disturb it. But they must exer-
cise this responsibility with respect for the
wishes and the welfare of their smaller neighbors.
The rights of a citizen of the smallest country
are as precious in any just international system
as those of a citizen of the greatest country in
the world. There must be inalienable rights for
small nations, regardless of their lack of material
power to enforce them. The American people
are not likely to approve any system of world
organisation which divides the world among the
major victors and compels the small nations to
make whatever terms they can with _ whatever
Big Power is nearest them. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The weight of the evidence is, I believe,
heavily against the theory that the Fourteen
Points shortened the 1914-18 war. We know
now that the German General Staff knew the
war was lost in early August, 1918, and that
it took the initiative in pressing the civil Gov-
ernment to ask for an armistice. There is little
evidence that the people, trusting in Wilsons
promises, forced the General Staff to sue for
peace. The evidence is that the professional
soldiers knew long before the people knew it
that they could not fight on. Thus the col-
lapse of Germany was not the cause of the
defeat, but, on the contrary, the defeat was the
cause of the collapse. It was only when the
defeat of July and August had brought on toe
collapse of late September and early October
that the German Government turned to Presi-
dent Wilson and invoked the Fourteen Points
in order to obtain the benefit of them. Walter
Lippmann; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.


Personal and Missing Friends.
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill,
Victoria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
fay writing to TRUMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria.
THE CHILDREN of ALEXANDER GALLAGHER at
one time of Tahara, Victoria, now deceased, are
asked to communicate with WALTER H. GALLAG-
HER, of Hamilton, Victoria.
HIRAM FARMER—OR HIS LEGAL PERSONAL
REPRESENTATIVE.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of the above-
named HIRAM FARMER who was born at or near
Melbourne Victoria in or about the year 1891 and
who was on the 4th day of November 1913 married
at St. Mary’s Cathedral Sydney to NELLIE FARMER
also known as NELLIE ((or Nellie Jose-
phine) HUDSON formerly of 55 Fitzroy Street
Fitzroy in the State of Victoria but late of 27
Raleigh Street Thombury in the said State Domestic
Duties who died intestate on the 3rd day of June
1938 please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE FOR VICTORIA who is administering her
estate If the said Hiram Farmer survived the de-
ceased he would have been entitled to a share of her
estate NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that unless the
Public Trustee receives a claim in respect of a share
of the said estate from or on behalf of the said
Hiram Farmer or from or on behalf of some person
claiming through him or as one of his issue before
the expiration of three months from the 20th day
of September 1944 the Public Trustee will distribute
the balance of the said estate as if the said Hiram
Farmer had predeceased the said deceased without
leaving issue.
J. E. DON,
PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ESTATE OF ANNIE LUCRETIA PARKER
IF ALLAN REGINALD DAVY, formerly of New
Plymouth, New Zealand, or anyone knowing hii
whereabouts, will communicate with the undersigned,
who have been appointed by the Court to act for him,
he will learn something to his advantage. Any com
munieation will be treated as strictly confidential. —
NICHOLSON, KIRBY & SHEAT, SOLICITORS, New
Plymouth. New Zealand.
Smooth, Strong, Hard
■ ■
Free
CO N C
{r o m
ORD H
Alkali
DWA L L
A R
Lime
aster
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and othor wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
. Packed in Jute Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
k
mm
m
■yyy'-
SYDNEV
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Pl 4-44
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT." 3s. 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
SECOND
tL
%
1
m ■<
0
opt.
'V
■
m ■
w
m
mmm s
ty}Z4y,,
Every penny you invest in the
Second Victory Loan will speed the
Victory and bring our men home
sooner. Get the Loan off to a
flying start.
MAKE YOUR SUBSCRIPTION lARLY!
2PV-12-I*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy any of Conan Doyle’s books. —3434.
Information Sought.
(1) Origin of A.I.S. dairy cattle? (2) Origin
of the Australian Terrier?
(1) The breed originated with the early
pioneers of the Illawarra district of N. S. Wales
as far back as 1790, at which date the founda-
tion was laid by selecting from the importa-
tions of European stud dairy cattle, and in
some instances ships’ cows, which in the early
days provided milk on the voyages. The
approved cows were of a heavy milking type,
and from them the pioneer breeders made their
selections at the same time setting, as it proved,
a world-famous standard in dairy cattle. (2)
Can discover nothing very definite beyond the
obvious fact that he is to a large extent based
on the English Yorkshire Terrier.
Are there any known instances of polar bears
born in captivity being successfully reared and
exhibited ?
A polar bear born and reared at Taronga
Park (Sydney) Zoo is now on exhibition there.
Another fully-grown specimen born there was
sold to the Cairo Zoo some years ago.
(1) What are relative deadliness values of the
venoms of the tiger-snake, death adder, taipan,
the long green snake of the N.T. and the
deadliest foreign snake? (2) Why is the bite of
the taipan considered to be more deadly than
that of the death adder?
(1) Tiger, death adder, taipan is the order of
deadliness of venoms of equal quantity, but the
order of deadliness of the bite is taipan, death
adder, tiger. Foreign snakes of equal deadliness
to Australian snakers are: India, king cobra,
krait, Russell’s viper; S. Africa, black mamba,
puff adder; America, bushmaster, fer-de-lance,
rattlesnake. (2) The bite of the taipan is more
deadly than that of any other Australian snake
because of its much longer fangs, which can
inject venom more deeply into the flesh. It also
injects a greater quantity of venom.
Brief Answers,
N.C.8.: To polish masonite flooring, first
remove dust and dirt and apply one coat of
Johnson’s floor wax. A week later this treatment
should be repeated. It should not be necessary
to repeat this process more than two or three
times per year except for periodical light appli-
cation to brighten the surface A. 8.: The
black wasp (Microphanurus basalis ) was intro-
duced into Queensland some years ago specifi-
cally for the control of the green vegetable bug,
and is now well established in coastal and near-
coastal cropping areas. Provided the parasite
has survived the winter in reasonable numbers,
the bug should not be a serious pest in spring.
Queensland Department of Agriculture might be
able to supply wasps....C.P.: Bromidrosis
is an affection of the sweat glands in which the
sweat has an offensive odor. The condition is
due to the presence in the glands of contami-
nating germs. The feet should be kept well
powdered, the powder being dusted liberally into
the socks and renewed when necessary. A suit-
able powder is plain talc to which salicylic acid
(2 p.c.) is added. X-rays are sometimes recom-
mended, but should not be employed H.J.R.:
Bone ash is valuable as a fertiliser only for the
phosphate it contains. Its phosphoric acid con-
tent varies from 30 p.c. to about 35 p.c., de-
pending on the degree of burning to which the
bones have been subjected. It must be ground
to a fine powder before being applied to the
soil, otherwise it cannot be readily used by
plants. Bonedust (unburnt bones) contains both
nitrogen and phosphates—about 3.5 p.c. nitro-
gen and 22 p.c. phosphoric acid F.A.McP.:
If good quality seed is used and sowing is car-
ried out at the correct period there is no occa-
sion to bend over or twist the tops of onions to
force maturity. When maturity approaches the
stems become soft and fall over naturally. If
inferior quality seed is sown or if sowing is
carried out too early the resultant crop fre-
quently produces onions with thick or bull
necks. Such onions are invariably poor keepers
and of inferior commercial quality D.E.8.:
You should first ascertain from the authorities
of the countries you wish to visit under what
conditions you would be permitted to enter
You would have to obtain a passport visaed
for the countries you wish to visit before leav-
ing Australia. It is expected that war-time re-
strictions on travel will be considerably modified
when peace returns... .R.V.W.: Only known
scheme under which advances are made over
an extended period and interest is charged at
the maximum rate of 2\ p.c. is the one adminis-
tered by the Rural Reconstruction Board m
respect of approved Debts Adjustment cases.
Get in touch with your local Rural Bank
manager, or if yours is a head office account,
write the superintendent, Rural Bank Depart-
ment, Rural Bank of N. S. Wales, Box 41a,
G.P.0., Sydney. On advances made by this
bank from its own funds the maximum rate
of interest is 4\ p.c. This rate has been cur-
rent since January 1, 1937 J.M.M.: Both
terms are slang and should be avoided... .A.D.:
Siouch hats were not worn by all British troops
in Malaya... .K.M.; Kooriekirra, meaning
“foot of the rainbow,” is the nearest word
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
C.F.8.: Try again with “A Hundred Years
from Now” a hundred years from now
J.O’C.: Time doesn’t fly half so fast as that
poem did... J.N.: “Up on the hill there’s a
sight to see, The billows below seem to beckon
to me.” You need a firmer grip 8.5.: All
bad poems about Hitler or mothers-in-law run
to the devil in the last stanza J.F.: We
have no wold for you to wander on C.M.:
“Please give me your criticism on these
‘Thoughts’ which came to me during my leisure
moments.” Lead as busy a life as you can
W.M.G.: Not so much a poem as a sort of
amiable vacuity E.M.T.: Another spring
poem H. 8.: A glimmer of something genuine
among too many adjectives and too many weak
lines A.T.W.: Elementary C.W.: Anti-
nicotine poem referred to Religious Editor,
who read it and went out for a drink
H.McE.: Thanks; off our beat H.A.C.:
’Possums, kookaburras, kangaroos, koalas,
gliders, bees, lyrebirds, the platypus, the emu,
the abo., pioneers, heioes and (inexplicably)
their daughters—you have had a field day.


£
A:
v)wTf %
%
ro
i**
X
i
It’s your fight—your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
217 D-6-44
Also Special Mild
and Full Strength
YOUR FAMILY'S FUTURE
feJB OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appgint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 58 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company’s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R- Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd. ,
To Re — Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 105,279 4 p.c. = 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ ~ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ ~ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,271 6 „ ~143,618 21,659 1.162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, ]
£lO,OOO ) 27,027 1,189,902
1937. . 204,836 7 p.c. = 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. ..1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938. . 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939.. 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,207,738
1940.- 200,154 7 p.c, = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 64 p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942. . 186,653 64 p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943.. 185,739 6| ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,225,060
1944.. 185,595 p.c.= 175,500 10,095 1,235,155
This more-than-century-old woolbroking,
pastoral-finance, agency and merchandis-
ing business is strongest in its home State,
South Australia. It also has strong and
growing connections in Westralia, de-
veloped mostly during the last quarter
of a century, and in Victoria, where the
woolbroking business of Geo. Hague and
Co. (Geelong) was welded into the
organisation about seven years ago.
For 24 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 shareholders enjoyed a steady
10 p.c,, sweetened with a bit extra in the
richest periods and by a number of new
share .issues. Then, on the heels . of a
long drought in South Australia, came
collapse of the markets, and the div. fell
to 4 p.c. It rose to 7 p.c. in 1937, dropped
to 6j p.c. in 1941 and has remained
steady since.
From the time war broke out sheet-
anchor of the wool trade has been the
British purchase contract, which is for
the duration and 12 months thereafter.
Britain took the exportable portion, or
bulk, of the clip at a flat rate of 13.43 d.
per pound (2.68 d, above open-market
average for the last pre-war season) until
mid-1942. The figure was then lifted to
15.43 d. to help offset rising costs. And
Nature has been kind, too. From the
beginning of 1939 to the end of March,
1943, increase in the number of sheep
pastured in South Australia, Westralia
and Victoria was 4.4 p.c,, 13.6 p.c. and
11.3 p.c. respectively. Over the same
period and for the same States increase
in the number of cattle was 13.1 p.c.,
8.3 p.c. and 19.2 p.c. respectively.
Some idea of what it all means can be
gathered from the following table, which
shows appraised, flat-rate and total value
of the entire Australian clip for the last
five seasons :
Appraised Flat-rate Total
Value. Adjustment. Value.
1939- ..£59,842,279 £4,880,805 £64,723,084
1940- .. 55,251,151 5,708,698 60,959,849
1941- . . 58,471,905 5,167,667 63,639,573
1942- . . 66,651,256 6,874,024 73,525,280
1943- .. 66,850,270 6,851,487 73,701,759
Favorable seasons and the price-lift are
responsible for the record figures of the
last two years. Though the cash position
of graziers has strengthened substantially,
much maintenance and improvement of
properties has had to be deferred owing
to shortage of labor and materials. The
consequent profit inflation resulted in a
lot of money that cannot be spent now
but will have to be spent later being
gobbled in taxation over the last five
years. It was short-sighted policy to
which the “Wild Cat” repeatedly drew
attention. Belated Government recogni-
tion of the fact is now expressed in a
little relief from taxation along lines
adopted in Maoriland. Owners of in-
come-earning assets will be permitted to
make an interest-free deposit with the
Treasury equal to estimated cost of main-
tenance for the year to June 30 next. In
the final wash-up only actual expendi-
ture on repairs and maintenance will be
allowed as deductions.
Last term the co. handled 310,028 bales
wool, or 10,181 bales more than for the
previous season. Service and export re-
quirements helped to keep numbers and
prices of livestock handled at very satis-
factory levels. On the merchandising
side the problem was to get, rather than
sell, supplies. Altogether gross earnings
sprang £31,491, reaching £842,779. That
was after striking £28,474 (down £4330)
off premises and plant. Including the
tax bill, exes. (£657,184) took all the
increase and £144 besides. The net result
was 6.8 p.c. on the £2,700,000 of paid
capital as against 6.8, 6.9, 7, 7.4 and
7.8 p.c. back to 1939.
The co. is in an excellent position to
assist clients when the need arises:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Deposits, etc. .. £935,509 £658,827 £638,413
Sundry creditors,
etc 963,501 1,290,143 1,591,396
Provident fund, etc. 892,936 318,622 189,200
Freehold, plant, etc. 750,340 771,412 750,126
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 2,515,003 2,806,621
Advances, etc. . . 3,854,959 2,688,154 2,480,490
Stock .. .. 245,326 145,813 244,657
Shares other cos... 155,103 166,769 166,769
Last term advances were reduced by
£207,664, leaving them at less than two-
thirds of the 1939 figure. This and addi-
tion of £301,253 to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc.—the etcetera is
credit balances —enabled £291,618 to be
added to Government securities and cash,
£98,844 to stocks and £129,422 net to be
transferred from the provident fund to
the trustees. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£3,279,528) was £51,361.
Drought in the pastoral areas of South
Australia and West Darling is likely to
affect the current season’s wool and live-
stock earnings. Greatest threat, however,
looks like being to prices when the British
wool and mutton contracts run out. Last
season 284,670 carcases were used in
South Australia for canning purposes
alone. Accumulated stocks of the staple,
held mostly by Britain and U.S.A., are
estimated in excess of the year’s world
clip. An organisation with international
ramifications will be needed to regulate
feeding of these stocks on to the market.
And there will be increased competition
from synthetic fibres.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd,
c — Dividends ,
Pref. Towards Re-
June, Profit. 16.2 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 16,287 23,145* Nil 16,454
10 p.c.
1930.. 16,292 14,571 Nil 1,721 18,175
Premiums on leases, £482 .. .. 18,65 T
1937.. 20,084 14,571 24 p.c. = 5,803 18,367
Premiums on leases, £1317 .. .. 19,684
1938.. 24,180 14,571 3£ p.c. = 8,705 904 20,588
Premiums on leases, £2369 .. .. 22,957
6 p.c.
1989.. 22,466 8,571 S| p.c. = 8,705 5,190 28,147
Premiums on leases, £1265 . . .. 29,412
Taxation charged reserves, £6416 . . 22,990
1940.. 19,347 8,571 Nil 10,776 33,772
Premiums on leases, £1204 .. .. 34,976
1941.. 14,407 8,571 24 p.c. = 5,804 32 35,008
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,008
From reserves re leases, £3490 .. 21,518
1942.. 14,490 8,571 24 p.c. = 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO .. 11,633
1943.. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11,607 10,407 22,040
From reserves re leases, £4032 .. 18,008
1944.. 38,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,350 34,358
To staff fund, £5OOO 29,358
* Two years at 6 p.c. p.a., plus £6OOO on account
of arrears.
This co. —headquarters are at Towns-
ville and there are branches at Charters
Towers, Cairns, Innisfail and Bowen —
has been in the wine-and-spirit and gen-
eral merchandising trade since 1890.
Though recent earnings cannot be taken
as a reliable guide to the future, the busi-
ness is on a sounder footing than it has
been for many years. Last term’s show-
ing is easily the best since the co. ran
into trouble during the early 1930’s
slump, when, to tidy up the books,
£150,000 was lopped off capital (prefs.
and ords. alike) and branches opened
during the previous decade in Eastern
States capitals were closed. That left
capital at its present figure in 71,428 first
and a like number of second prefs., both
6 p.c, cumulative, and 232,144 ords. The
prefs., preferred as to div. only, advance
with the ords. beyond 6 p.c.
The prefs. came back into the picture
in 1935, and the ords. two years later ;
that was after being shown an empty
basket for four and six years respectively.
Until the last couple of years it had been
a struggle to pay the pref. div, and hand
the ords. a modest helping. But that was
because the closing chapter of the slump
story was not written until the books were
ruled off in 1940. For the two years tn
that date £60,000-odd was written off for
bad debts. Then war set the north buzz-
ing with activity, and primary producers
enjoyed both a run of good seasons and
satisfactory prices for their products
under Government contracts, all of which
has meant much to traders. Allen’s seized
the opportunity to strengthen its hotel in-
vestments and to jettison some of its
troublesome retail store interests. Net
earnings over the last two years reflect
the benefits.
Turnover further improved last term,
and gross earnings (£174,951) stepped up
£14,912. Including £20,000 (up £5000)
reserved for taxation, exes. (£156,100)
took £6648 of the increase. That'left
the net result £8264 better at £38,850.
After paying the pref. div. enough re-
mained to show 13 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 9.4, 2.5, 2.5, 4.6 and 5.9 p.c, back
to A point was added to the div.,
making it 6 p.c,, and no harm will be
done if it remains there until capital gets
a little more support.
The financial position improved:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Overdraft . . 150,503 130,425 101,728 34,696
Sundry creditors 134,477 149,025 128,447 129,011
Properties and
plant . . 378,217 357,409 353,003 852,423
Shares, etc.*. . 59,037 46,716 18,688 13,020
Stocks , .. 82,298 71,903 69,215 121,608
Book debts . . 188,022 214,009 226,450 150,569
Cash .. . . 300 420 404 2,347
* Amount invested in retail stores.
To lop £67,032 off the overdraft and
carry an extra £52,393 of stocks last
term, debtors’ balances were reduced by
£75,881. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£122,437) was
£37,855. Subject to intangibles in share-
holdings, and excluding the tax reserve
(£45,000), the cover was 21s, 7d. in net
tangibles.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 28,071 8 p.c. = 12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June,
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12it, „ 18,750 89,760
1939.. 15,023 10 ~ ~15,000 23' 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 „ „ 15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ „ 15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 .. 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. = 15,000 3,430 111,197
Loss.
1943.. 11,537 6 „ „ 9,000 90,660
Profit.
1944.. 7,505 5 „ „ 7,500 5 90,605
*Six months,
flncluding 2i p.c. sesquicentenary bonus.
The co.’s vessels ply between Sydney
and Newcastle, and have done so ever
since the old Hunter River and Newcastle
S.S. cos. welded their interests in the
present organisation in 1891. Though
those on the register have not skimmed
much cream from the business —£20,000
of bonus scrip was scattered (one for two)
in 1920 —they have had a long run of
satisfactory divs. For the dozen years to
the close of accounts in 1929 a steady 10
p.c. was paid. Slump and sickness in the
coal trade brought the rate down to 5 p.c.
in 1931, but it had climbed to 10 p.c.
again in 1937, and, with a 2\ p.c. sweet-
ener added in the following year, re-
mained steady until 1942. •
Then for the first time since the begin-
ning of this century a. loss (£11,537)
showed up. While freight rates remained
moored to the buoy of Government con-
trol, rationing and other war-time factors
reduced cargo and passenger takings,
which were also affected by loss of the
Gwydir (not replaced) in 1942. At the
same time, “exceptionally heavy extra ex-
penditure” was incurred, costs generally
kept on advancing, and steamer runnings
were irregular for a while, owing to war
developments. Also, to meet urgent
requirements, a new service was opened
up between Sydney and Port Stephens ;
and seldom is a new service profitable
from the outset. Yet a 6 p.c. div. was
paid, which suggests there was less pitch
in the outlook the loss might indicate.
Last term the balance of the fleet was
taken over by the Shipping Board, for
which the co. now acts as agent. Charter


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
do not experiment with imitations.
a BB.AXDA.OU ft 08. £MU HBUIROHAIL KNO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at all branches
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE
GEORGEST
CAMPEROOWN
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Wanted.
TO BUY. —Small quantities of PRECIOUS and SEMI-
PRECIOUS AUSTRALIAN STONES from prospectors.
—3504.
811 V WAR sft VIH G S CMITIf I 0 A T E«:
T
>
ft** 1
«*«*
~V*‘
oto
%
9tm** *
R & MC Pl 4
[BUY WAR SAVINGS
CER I I
£47J52U)00
OFUNFINISHED
BUSINESS . . .
The Commonwealth securiiies maturing
on 15th October, 1944, amount to
£47,521,000. If is essential that this
money should be converted into an equal
amount in the Second Victory Loan.
As long as the war Is unfinished, the
obligation to place aJJ available invest-
ment money in war loans remains.
CONVERT
YOUR MATURING SECURITIES INTO THE
SECOND VICTORY LOAN
Applications for conversion may
be lodged through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office, or member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
CLI-26
xees, together with a little from outside
investments (mainly Government securi-
ties), were sufficient to cover exes., in-
cluding £3500 (2.1 p.c. of book value of
ship property at previous balance) for
depreciation, affd show a net profit of
£7505, or 5 p.c. on capital. So another
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 5 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follow;
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 16.907 29,738 30,498 21,385
Ship property 122,869 197,751 166,347 162,847
Freeholds, etc. 3,963 2,032 2,083 2,033
Plant, stores, etc. 8,587 11,717 11,849 12,277
Book debts . . 16,414 31,505 48,916 51,697
Consols, cash,
etc... .. 112,347 33,405 46,514 36,947
Last term cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£9567 and the amount coming to out-
siders reduced by £9113. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£79,536) was £2755. The fleet, chief
earning asset, is reported in good order
and condition.
Prospects of the div. going back to
10 p.c. again when controls are relaxed
post-war will depend largely upon the
level of costs, including taxation. In turn,
costs will be governed partly by the acti-
vity of so-called “pressure groups” in
relation to wage levels.
Although no development work has
been done for the last two years, the
Wattle Gully mine, Chewton (Vic.), is
still a few years ahead of the mill. Con-
tinuity of crushing is thus assured, both
now and when the co. comes to its No. 1
post-war job—development of the north
end of the property. Prospects in the
north drive on the 800 ft. level have been
encouraging, and exploration of the whole
area from a new shaft is spoken of. Mine
labor and mill tonnages have been cut
by two-thirds since December, ’4l, with
the inevitable effects on unit costs and
profits;
All-in
Six Treated, Real’n, Costs, Net ( —Divs. —^
Months, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
June,’4l.. 14,166 77/4 34/-£31,294 3/-£27,000
Dec.,’4l.. 16,709 71/10 33/3 32,603 3/- 27,000
.lune,’42.. 12,279 81/8 39/1 26,386 3/- 27,000
Dec.,’42.. 7,519 82/2 46/8 13,552 1/6 13,500
June,’43.. 5.770 72/8 47/7 7,411 1/- 9,000
Dee.,’43.. 5,046 84/6 50/11 8,653 1/- 9,000
June,’44.. 4,844 81/8 49/7 7,949 1/- 9,000
Shrinkage in net earnings for the six
months to June 30 last was £704. Recent
improvement in-the labor position might
swell the volume of mill feed enough to
prevent kitty being raided in order to
maintain a quarterly div. of 6d. a share
—the rate used to be 6d. monthly. At
34/- per share the market values the
mine, plus surplus liquids (£22,600, ex-
cluding shares), at £305,000.
* ♦ * •
Accounts of Central Norseman Gold
Corp. continue to reflect effects of short-
age of labor and materials and of rising
costs. Registered in Victoria in 1935,
the co. took over the Phcenix-Mararoa
leases at Norseman (W.A.) from Western
Mining Corp., which holds 1,300,000 of
Norseman’s 1,600,000 issued f.p. ss.
shares. Gold Exploration and Finance
of Australia holds a par option over
2.000. unissued Norseman shares until
end of March, 1945, in part considera-
tion for a loan (£243,849 in 1940), since
repaid. Por the 12 months to March 31
last Norseman put 8302 fewer tons of
lower-grade ore through the mill:
Yield per ton. Working
Year Treated f * Costs, Net
March, tons. Gold. Silver, per ton. Profit.
1942.. 115.398 B.7dwt. s.9dwt. 32/3 £222,274
1943.. 82,150 9.4 „ 6.0„ 36/9 169,506
1944.. 73.848 7.3 „ 5.2 „ 87/5 79,790
The lift of 7d. per ton in average costs
was due to a rise of 12 p.c. in the price
of fuel oil. Together with lower tonnage,
this also bumped up milling costs
(11s. 2d. per ton) by Is. per ton. Mining
costs were sd. lighter at 265. 3d. per ton,
excluding expenditure on development,
£41,329 (down £11,388). Allowing for
loss on realisation of assets (£1918) and
other charges, the net result (approxi-
mately Is. per share) was less than
half the 1943 figure. A Is. 6d. div.
(£120,000), the second, was handed out,
making total distribution to date 2s. 6d.
per share (£200,000). After payment of
div., more or less liquids totalled
£162,879, including £60,962 of now
precious stores. There was only £7056
coming to outsiders. At March 21 ore
reserves were put at 251,000 tons (down
37,500 tons), averaging 7dwt. gold in the
Mararoa reef, and there was a further
21,000 tons, averaging 7.2dwt., in the
Lady Miller, about four miles away.
About 22 p.c. of development work
(2050 ft., down 1557 ft.) was in pay-ore
as against 15.4 p.c. for previous term.
Average grade (12dwt.) showed a slight
decrease. The drive on No. 16 level
raises hopes of a new series of ore shoots
to the north.
# # ♦ ♦
Mt. Charlotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines,
Ltd, a London co. owing £2463 in direc-
tors’ fees, and with only £466 in the bank
and on hand, reports no change in the
option agreement with Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd. Under the option the latter
co. undertook to further develop the
Hannans Reward-Mt. Charlotte Group,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). War conditions made
it impossible to carry out the terms of
the agreement, which has been extended,
and the position is subject to review every
six months. Something was also said
about unconcluded negotiations for an
option over an area of approx. 100 acres
known as the Maritana Group, adjoining
Hannans Reward-Mt. Charlotte on the
south and about two miles north of Par-
inga. One bore on the Maritana Group
is stated to have disclosed 12ft. of core
assaying 5.22dwt, a ton and 32ft. assay-
ing 5.25dwt. at a depth of around 800 ft.
Combined true width is estimated at
17ft. Another bore is said to have dis-
closed 15ft. of core assaying 4.80dwt.,
21ft. assaying 4.l4dwt. and 15ft. assaying
7.29dwt.; depth between 680 ft. and 800 ft.;
estimated true widths about 40 p.c. of the
core lengths. In boosting these core
assays, co, says the location of ore
at deep horizons in this part of the field
is a new discovery, and development
might prove it to be important.
* * * *
Reports from Kalgoorlie. (W.A.) claim
that Lake View and Gt. Boulder are now
mines of greater intrinsic value than
when the war began. Other Golden-
milers, particularly North Kalgurli, are
also reckoned to have improved their
position. Both Lake View and Gt.
Boulder are credited with recent “impres-
sive” telluride and free gold develop-
ments. So far, neither co, has talked
about them.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Southern Rhodesian Govern-
ment has appointed a commission to
advise on the best way of encouraging
development of the gold-mining industry
by private enterprise, of securing suffi-
cient workers to operate the mines at
full capacity, and of lightening mine-
owners’ existing burdens. No harm
would be done if a similar course was
followed in Australia.


* TAKE CARE
OF YOUR
Pktignum
MADE IN ENGLAND
IT IS DIFFICULT
TO REPLACE
đ
IWPTURE
HCTS
LIKE THE HHIID
t'ADa—NO Jsi'KINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
eifort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARBEBE* DISTRIBUTION CO.
rnont.2lP,'t. RUIZAHETH ST.. SYDNEY.
ď
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Learning the Hard Way
The Bulletin from the beginning of the
war was an advocate of adequate taxation
(including excess-profits tax), price con-
trol and restraints upon new investments
and upon interest rates. It is pleased to
think that it has been one of the con-
sistent supporters of a financial policy in
keeping with the unpleasant realities of
war, even though it has found au-
thority itself inclined to gaze into the
muddy pool of politics rather than into
the clear, chilly water of actualities. But
at no time has this newspaper recom-
mended the continuance of war-time con-
trols simply for the purpose of covering
up the deficiencies of a weak, caucus-
ridden Government. And it finds it im-
possible to swallow the economic con-
tradictions of the Curtin Administration.
The position is really very simple, ex-
cept for the politics, which are involved.
The Curtin Government has insisted upon
doing a multitude of things which create
potential, ultimately irresistible, inflation,
but in pious accents it keeps calling upon
Parliament, or upon the people, or upon
Heaven for powers to enable it to cover
up its inflationary tracks. Some inflation
was unavoidable in our total war effort,
but the most casual observers can now see
flagrant and unashamed waste of public
funds in worked-out war-time “jobs.” The
expenditure and wastage of money is in
excess of the taxation collected from the
people to pay for war costs, and the
excess is being financed on borrowed
money and on bank credit.
It is the bank credit in particular which
constitutes a danger to the Australian
price and credit structure. It represents
an injection of stimulating spending
power into an economic system already
supercharged with spending power in re-
lation to the diminished amount of goods
and services available. The bank-credit
(or Treasury-bill) debt on August 31 was
£365 million. In addition, the savings
banks are holding great quantities of war
loans, much of which it might be neces-
sary to sell if depositors after the war
decide to withdraw their money wholesale
and spend it. These savings-bank invest-
ments in war loans have inflationary
dangers not possessed by direct invest-
ment in war loans by depositors them-
selves. The Commonwealth savings bank
alone has something like £234 million in
Commonwealth loans, an increase of £BO
million last year.
The Curtin Government appealed to
the people at the referendum for the right
tc» continue price control and other con-
trols after the expiry of the National
Security Act. The people’s rejection of
the appeal, in all the circumstances, can
be well enough understood. Arbitrary
legal controls over what is customarily
and basically a free economy can only be
granted in time of financial or similar
emergency, and there is little indication in
the behavior of the Curtin Government,
whatever its words—and it invariably has
plenty of words—to indicate that it has
any knowledge of a financial emergency
existing.
While the Government has talked about
the danger of inflation and the need for
price control, it has avoided all issues which
have been brought up concerning the in-
flationary waste of money, man-power
and materials in “Government under-
takings” and departments, as well as in
cost -plus jobs. It has continued to make
political appointments to the Common-
wealth Bank Board —the centre of gravity
of the financial side of our war effort. A
member of the Government has pressed
for another war-time increase in the old-
age pension rate, to bring it up to £2 a
week. It is not long since that the Prime
Minister himself was recklessly and argu-
mentatively recommending the use of
bank credit after the war, even though
the existing bank-credit debt represents
the sharp point of our inflation danger.
Still full of cheek rather than repen-
tance, the Curtin Government continues
talking of its need for control over prices
in the post-war period. No doubt there
is need for the continuance of certain
controls for a year, perhaps longer. But
administered in the wrong way such con-
trols will merely hide the swelling infla-
tionary potential; and it must be remem-
bered that the artificial, legal controls
which may be exercised do not kill infla-
tion but merely delay or spread it more
evenly over a longer period. There is not
the slightest indication that the Curtin
Government is aware of this fact. The
slippery eels of Labor politics really seem
to think they can beat their own eco-
nomic consequences for all time.
One of the dangers of granting pro-
longed price-control powers is that a Gov-
ernment which is really creating inflation
is encouraged in its basically wrong finan-,
cial policy for the time being, with the
result that by the time price control
breaks down—as it must where the
causes of inflation go on unchecked —the
inflationary stream has banked up into a
flood.
The Budget debate in Canberra shows
that the Government keeps returning to
its complaint that in the rejection of the
request for increased Commonwealth
post-war powers the people have left
themselves open to the ravages of post-
war inflation. The Government’s attitude
in this matter is one of bluff and trickery.
No doubt its referendum was in a number
of respects a double-headed penny—heads
we win, tails we can blame the people for
what has really been administrative in-
competence, But this blaming the loss
of the referendum for the danger of post-
war inflation is a line of propaganda
which will have to be scotched. The
people rejected the request for increased
powers because they mistrusted the Gov-
ernment’s ability and/or sincerity.
Under a well-managed administration
price-control for a limited period after
the expiry of the National Security Act
would be, as has already been sug-
gested, a most desirable thing. But
controls exercised largely to cover up
unchecked administrative failure are far
more a danger than a security. Unless
the Government shows that it fully
realises the urgency of our financial prob-
lems by cutting out the political waste
which breeds and adds growth to infla-
tion, the sooner it is brought face to
face with the country’s problems the hard
way the better it will be for Australia in
the long run.
Butter Across the Tasman
New Zealand dairy farmers, for the
first time for many moons, appear to be
reasonably satisfied with the prices they
are getting. Some months ago they
sought an increase of 1.99 d. per lb. of
butterfat. By the Stabilisation Committee
they were persuaded to agree to 1.47 d.,
which was then whittled down by the
Government to 1.21 d. Now higher prices
granted by U.K. have increased the re-
turn by 2.12 d., a gain of .91d. on the
figure dictated by the Government.
Taking an average efficient factory and
using the standard conversion formula,
the payout for butterfat for butter-making
should be 20.6 d. per lb. and for cheese-
making 22.6 d. for the present season.
The farmer, whose costs are now reason-
ably covered, can plan ahead for in-
creased production and make some pro-
vision for deferred maintenance.
Linked up with the dairyfarmer’s re-
turn and the whole question of stabilisa-
tion of costs is the fate of the lump sums,
totalling £28,000,000, granted Maoriland
by the U.K. Government to offset the
high costs- of imports in relation to the
Dominion’s exports during the war
years. All Prime Minister Fraser has said
is that the money “will be retained for the
nation as a whole.” There is some doubt
about Britain’s intentions regarding the dis-
posal of these funds, and much explaining
still remains to be done from Wellington.
Recently an Auckland paper carried a
cartoon depicting Mr, Nash handing a
farmer a penny, with instructions to guard
it well while he (Mr. Nash) would look
after the pounds. Behind him were two
strongrooms overflowing with banknotes
and coin.
There remains a strong feeling among
dairying interests that they have been a
pawn in the Government’s game. They
have seen their produce and assets com-
mandeered, and they have not received
the full value which their goods have
brought on overseas markets. While
leaders in the industry, most of whom
have been silent since they put their sig-
natures to agreements and stabilisation
pacts, are loth to criticise the Govern-
ment, the more vocal elements among
working farmers consider that the Govern-
ment, as buyer and seller of their pro-
duce, has never honored the promises
given the industry when it was- first
induced to accept a guaranteed price.
Against that must be reckoned the Gov-
ernment’s great but justifiable fear of
inflation. The latest increase in the dairy-
farmer’s price will mean an injection of
another £3,000,000-worth of purchasing
power on to a market where consumer
goods are still shrinking in volume.
According to Guy, M.P., in the Budget
debate, “hundreds of men are going
about trying to get people to commit
crimes so that they can justify their jobs.”
He added that man-power control was
“cock-eyed,” and the food situation
“shocking.” Dr. Earle Page drew atten-
tion to the fact that commitments of the
National Welfare Fund for this year had
already risen to £2O million, and it
appeared that soon £3O million a year
would be the lowest figure for social ser-
vices. The National Welfare Fund was
established on the understanding that
£3O million a year, or one quarter of
the total income-tax collections from in-
dividuals (whichever was the lower),
should be paid into it. This, in view of
the probable commitments of the fund,
indicated that income tax from indi-
viduals could not be less than £l2O mil-
lion a year in future, a sum 15 times as
much as the highest pre-war level of tax.
Mr, Menzies said “the Government must
know that there is a widespread feeling
that the home defence forces not designed
to fight abroad are being maintained to
an unnecessary degree, while there is also
a suspicion that munitions are kept going
for sopie reason, although their produc-
tion has not been maintained.”
♦ * * *
The Federal Cabinet has adopted the
following recommendations of. the sub-
committee set up “to examine the whole
problem of motor-car manufacture in
Australia”:
That the Motor Vehicle Agreement Act
be repealed.
That the Motor Engine Bounty Act be
repealed. »
That all interested parties be requested
to submit proposals for the Government’s
consideration.
When considering these proposals the
question of Government factories for the
production of component parts on a scale
adequate to maintain the factories produc-
tion will be examined.
Should satisfactory proposals not be re-
ceived the Government will set up a cor-
poration to manufacture a complete car.
With a view to decentralisation, finan-
cial assistance will* be provided to enable
effect to be given to freight equalisation.
It would seem that this decision is the
result of two meetings (August 31 and
September 4) of the sub-committee (com-
prising Cabinet Ministers Keane, Chifley,
Makin and Dedman), the second meet-
.ing also being attended by members of
the Secondary Industries Commission. In
making the public announcement. Prime
Minister Curtin said he was satisfied that
ty/, J. Smith, of Australian Consolidated
Industries, did not legally have an agree-
ment with the Commonwealth giving him
rights in the manufacture of cars. (Mr,
Smith disagrees, though nothing has been
heard from Mr. Lawson, now out of
politics, but who was the Minister prin-
cipally concerned at the time.) It has
been suggested that should the Common-
wealth Government be “forced” (by lack
of enthusiasm on the part of private
enterprise) to “set up a corporation” it
may do so on a co-operative basis with
private capital, as in the case of Amalga-
mated Wireless, the Government retain-
ing voting control. It is possible that
aircraft factories and the like, after the
war, may be turned over with advantage
to other purposes. But many of the
machine fools are designed for doing
repetition work on specific aircraft en-
gines, and there is hardly such a thing as
mass production in the industry, nor have
we developed techniques which suggest
that we are all ready to set out on the
production of low-priced cars. Price was
hardly a consideration when manufacture
of Pratt and Whitney aircraft engines was
begun in Australia. Any well-planned
undertaking which holds the possi-
bility of Australian manufacture of eco-
nomical and up-to-date motor vehicles is
loudly to be applauded ; but so far as
the temptation merely to find some use
(and that a political one) for the Govern-
ment’s closed-down munition factories is
concerned it should not be forgotten that
there is such a thing as throwing good
money after bad.
* * * *
The simple blowing-out by experts ot
the statements of Senator Amour in
regard to frequency-modulation radio
sets —the Senator made extravagant
claims about the development of this type
of broadcasting and of television —is but
one case in a long series of charges by
the Labor side of deficiencies of private
enterprise. There is usually a great noise,
as of wind, about what the Government
will do if private enterprise doesn’t pull
itself together and do it first; in this case
it has been pointed out that the control
of broadcasting is in the hands of the
Government, and that no manufacturer
would start making frequency-modulation
sets unless he was advised that the Gov-
ernment was going to arrange for this
type of broadcasting. But Senator
Amour’s claim seems to be part and par-
cel of a general Labor campaign at
present to swing popular opinion round
to setting the Government up in all kinds
of businesses. Motor-cars and refrigera-
tors have also been mentioned lately.
The Government and semi-Gbvernment
shipbuilding activity seems as though it
is being overdone. There are doubts as
to (a) what post-war use many of these
ships will serve, (b) when they will be
finished, (c) what they will cost and id)
whether much of the Government’s
present concern in its revision of the
shipbuilding programme is not that
of keeping trade-unionists quiet. Ship-
building in Australia is a worthy aim, but
it should be planned on an economic
basis, regard being had to present build-
ing costs and the general post-war ship-
ping position. Our Shipbuilding Board
needs to be overhauled. Some say keel-
hauling would be better,
* * * *
According to Dr. Evatt, the Common-
wealth Statistician has computed Aus-
tralia’s national income for 1942-43 at
£l2OO million.


Public Notice.
Mr! V~. ¥. ROBERTS, OPTOMETRIST
OPTICIAN, has left Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
and opened his own business at DIBBS
CHAMBERS, 58 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Phone, B 5479.
€i7/io/- zs-ss tes
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
6»fr mzirely in Austral n
JACKSON
oby SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tlre3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happy relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
OLYMPIC’S VITAL CONTRIBUTION TO WAR, AND
TO POST-WAR INDUSTRIAL RECONSTRUCTION
Olympic Cables kave fulfilled every demand . . .
stood up to every test . . . and are to-day a
tribute to the skill and enterprise of Australian
industry.
BUY S/’
NATIONAL
SAVINGS
STAMPS
For the innumerable purposes of war, as
well as the many requirements of post-
war reconstruction—OLYMPlC Cables
are playing, and will play, an important
and trusted part.
OLYMPIC
TYRES
Olympic
° CABLES
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA j|
RUBBER
INSULATED
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
The following letters are indicative of the service the Pelman Institute
has rendered to members of the Forces during 4j years of war. The only
special care taken in selecting the letters from many hundreds has been to show
clearly the different beneficial effects that the Pelman Course produces accord-
ing to the pupil’s individual needs. The same service is rendered to civilians.
September 15, 1943.
The Course in the first place forced me to
think out my major aim in life afresh; it has
acted as an incessant goad to greater efforts of
observation and concentration; it has given a
useful technique for tackling problems; it has
given very many valuable little tips that lead to
greater mental efficiency; it has inspired the
taking up of two new subjects which I previously
wished to understand but had not the enthusiasm
to grapple with, viz., Maths, and Radio. —
FLIGHT-LIEUTENANT, R.A.A.F.
September 4, 1943.
I have learnt how to use my time to the best
advantage; I can now gather facts together and
classify them into their correct relations; I have
leamt the value of controlling feeling, thought
and will; my memory is also much improved.
—CORPORAL.
September 6, 1943.
I have now been appointed to commissioned
rank. This is a great step towards my final
aim. I thank Pelmanism again.—LIEUTENANT.
These letters emphasise clearly
the value and importance of
the revisional service through
which the Student is in touch
with the Institute. from the
beginning of his training to
the end and by means of
which very full consideration
is given to the particular cir-
cumstances and needs of each
Student.
August 25, 1943.
I find it easier to settle down to the less inter-
esting tasks and complete them without further
procrastination.—LlEUTENANT-COLONEL.
August 28, 1943.
I have clearer aims and purposes. My senses
are quickened and observation better. I have
now systematic working hours, and have formed
regular sleeping hours. —LIEUTENANT,
N.Z.E.F.I.P.
August 23, 1943.
I am growing more confident in the knowledge
that I can do whatever I set out to do. lam
also now studying Mathematics and Soil Man-
agement through the A.E.S. —SIGNALLER.
August 16, 1943.
I have been promoted to Corporal, and I
can say that the Course contributed largely
to my first step of success.—CORPORAL.
August 31, 1943.
The point is, directly anyone starts conversing
with me I subconsciously ask, “What is he
leading up to?” This helps me to converse
more easily and to combat or treat criticism in
the appropriate manner.—GUNNER.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
Copies of
THE EFFICIENT MIND”
sent Post Free on request.
Headquarters: London.
Established in Melbourne
36 years.
To the PELMAN INSTITUTE, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “Tire Efficient Mind. ,?
NAME
ADDRESS
162
Taxation and Jellyfish
The post-war taxation policy of the Com-
monwealth is of very great importance. So
long as there is any needed war cost to
be paid for it is best paid for out of
taxation. When war expenditure is over,
however, the best thing for everyone in
this country will be for the nation to get
back to business, subject to peace-time
defence provisions. Peace-time business
means a return to the development of
our various resources and the building-
up of our living standards and popula-
tion. It also means —allowing for a
reasonable readjustment period —the free-
dom of each person to spend his own
money, after providing for taxation suffi-
cient to cover the ordinary tasks of peace-
time Government.
Before the war began (in 1938-39) the
Commonwealth Government collected
£76.8 million in taxes. Last year it col-
lected £279 million net, allowing for re-
imbursement of State income and enter-
tainments taxes. The greatest part of
that great increase has been in respect
of income tax, which, on the middle
incomes, had ceased to be merely an
incidental item of expense, and has be-
come the major item of expenditure in
a domestic budget. Among such middle
incomes it is probably true to say—cer-
tainly it is true in the majority of cases
of higher incomes—that income tax has
taken the place of annual savings from
earnings. It has been among the lower
incomes where wage increases have offset
tax rises ; on higher incomes tax rates
have risen astronomically, while incomes
themselves, especially from Stock Ex-
change investments, have in many cases
fallen.
The advantages to a country from hav-
ing an economically strong middle and
middle-income class are in danger in Aus-
tralia. The middle and upper income
groups represent the backbone of our
investor class—witness the poor support
to war loans when left to the at-present-
flush “lower” income groups—and they
have been milked of their investing power
during this war. As a rule, the middle
income-earners are a saving class, and it
is from their savings that new employ-
ment-creating industries arise. To over-
tax this class will mean that investment
in the post-war period will be curtailed
and spending and consumption by the
“wage-earning” group emphasised. Such
a state of affairs, even Treasurer Chifley
indicates in his Budget speech, is some-
thing to be avoided at all costs. The
great post-war problem—as well as war-
time problem—is to curb spending and
to encourage saving.
But the political jellyfish who comprise
the present Commonwealth Ministry can-
not be relied upon to do the right, obvi-
ous thing. They do the weak, politically
expedient thing time and again. The
Government has failed the country re-
peatedly through its concern for the
vested interests of Labor politics; the
rights of the individual, politically, are
no rights at all unless they suit these
vested interests. Hence the injustice of
Portland, the flagrant strikes, the “wait-
ing time” paid to unionists, the unrepent-
ant waste of public money under the
heading of “war expenditure,” the neces-
sity for working wharves with soldiers,
the division of our army, the lopsided
and inadequate taxation policy early in
the war which gave inflation its first im-
petus, and the failure on the food pro-
duction front.
The post-war taxation policy of the
Commonwealth, let it be repeated, is of
the utmost importance. Subject to the
financial requirements of good gov-
ernment, as has been said, the policy
should be to allow the citizen to
spend his own money. But the vested
interests of Labor will be against
the reduction of taxation on the middle
and higher incomes to pre-war level.
Having once established a level of taxa-
tion which, while providing a National
Welfare Fund of £3O million a year for
“the workers,” has economically crippled
the middle class, the Canberra jellyfish,
on their present record of “justice” and
concern for real economic circumstances,
will palpitate visibly when the question
of letting-go this magnificent flow of
patriotically-given money arises at the
end of the war.
While the war has been on there have
been many forces restraining the Gov-
ernment from going on a bender of poli-
tical adventures with long-term economic
commitments. But it showed its hand
plainly enough with the introduction of
the out-of-season (and non-contributory)
National Welfare Fund, and it has con-
trived to waste and misdirect millions of
pounds of taxpayers’ money, even when
faced with the prospect of invasion of the
continent by the Japanese, Its grandiose
ideas for after the war were revealed in
its referendum campaigning—high post-
war taxation was forecast both by Min-
ister Calwell and the boss bureaucrats —
and its trifling regard for the national
economy is revealed in the suggestion
that the proceeds of sale of surplus war
goods and factories will be used not to
reduce the war debt but to add more
power to the Governmental spending
elbow when the war is over.
For a long period during this war The
Bulletin was a lone advocate of ade-
quate taxation in order to pay for war
expenditure that of its nature must be
regarded as economic waste, and rightly
to be treated as a charge against the
national income rather than expenditure
on which a debt might legitimately be
raised. But when the need for justifiable
war expenditure ends this paper believes
that war-time taxation should end also,
unless, acting on the advice of economic
experts, the Government decides to con-
tinue overall taxation for a period after
the war in order to eliminate the bank-
credit debt. It is unlikely, however, that
a Ministry of the present composition
would thus run the risk of unpopularity
by levying taxation on “the workers”
without having the compensating attrac-
tion of being able to scatter the money
abroad in political bait. In view of the
record of the Government, Australians
who have contributed generously to the
national war fund will be equally patri-
otic if they become as hard as nails and
as critical as crows in their attitude to-
wards taxation levies when the end of the
war comes.


THE SERVICE MAN
Towards the Philippines.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Forde on the fifth
anniversary of the formation of the
Second A.I.F. said that operations facing
the A.I.F. “soon” would prove as im-
portant as any of the campaigns in which
Australians already had fought.
It is an unfortunate fact that some people
in this country have apparently decided that
the expected early elimination of Germany
indicates that peace in the Pacific is just
around the corner. The task ahead is not
one for small forces. Some of our troops
have not yet met the enemy in battle, but
they have been fully trained and waiting
for a long time. Their period of waiting
is nearing its end. With the men who
have already proved themselves the masters
of the Japs, they will need every ounce of
support the nation can give them.
It is to be hoped that there is more behind
this typically vague pronouncement than
there usually is.
With Australia the only British country
not militarily represented in the ground
forces on any large-scale front during the
past few months, the world must be
misinterpreting the Australian spirit.
The implications of the Quebec con-
ference are clear. Australia’s represen-
tatives were in Quebec under belated
orders, but not at the conference. At the
end Mr. Churchill said that “everything
of the British Army, Air Force and Navy
than can be moved towards the Pacific
will be applied against Japan”; and the
Canadian Government insisted on taking
its share. There were no warlike demon-
strations from Canberra.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Forde’s
projected operations will be on a scale
commensurate with the proved ability of
Australians to fight and with Australia’s
population, which is greater than that of
many European and Latin American
countries, even if it means dropping the
major campaign against the Portland
butcher. At present it is difficult to listen
to overseas radio without hearing an
occasional sneer against Australia’s war
effort. The Germans are featuring this
type of progapanda.
Quebec did not alter the command sys-
tem in the Pacific. The control remains
tripartite—Admiral Nimitz in the Pacific
naval zone. General MacArthur in the
south. Lord Louis Mountbatten in the
Asian sector.
Landing on Morotai
While forces pile up in various battle
areas for the next operations. General
MacArthur’s Americans, supported by
R.A.A.F. and Australian naval units, as
well as the U.S.A.F., made their next
move forward towards the Philippines by
occupying the island of Morotai. Moro-
tai is 300 miles from Mindanao, and well
beyond the Equator and the Australian
militia zone. It also is north of the lati-
tude of the Bornean and south Malayan
prison camps, in which Australians of the
Eighth Division languish.
The landing had the usual features. It
was preceded by a great series of air
battles round the southern Philippines,
and by air expeditions which, according
to Tokyo Radio, struck far up into the
centre of the islands. These attacks were
carried out by the Third Allied Fleet from
Admiral Nimitz’s command, under Vice-
Admiral Richard Halsey, using carrier-
borne aircraft which bombed and strafed
all the leading enemy airfields in the south
Philippines, as well as dumps and harbor
installations. Then a convoy of 32 loaded
ships and 20 sampans were found poorly
guarded in Hinuatan Bay and destroyed.
It was estimated that over 700 enemy
’planes were brought down or smashed
on the ground during seven days in the
area from Halmahera northwards.
Off Tenasserim Coast
Meanwhile Lord Louis Mountbatten’s
command had gone into action in the
week-end, when R.A.F. Beaufighters left
14 merchant ships and three escort vessels
beached or burning in the Indo-Burmese
region. The engagement was fought be-
tween the Andamans and the Tenasserim
coast, with rocket-armed machines.
On September 12 General MacArthur’s
H.Q. reported heavy raids on the Celebes,
during which Mapangei aerodrome, near
Menado, was hit with 159 tons of bombs.
The R.A.A.F. was very active round the
southern side of the tip of New Guinea.
Between September 9 and 11 400 tons
of bombs were dropped between the New
Guinea tip and the Celebes bases. Oil
facilities on Ceram were hit with 126 tons
of bombs. Halmahera had a particularly
heavy strafing.
Tokyo by this time seemed to be feel-
ing the pinch, since its radio began to go
full blast with lists of Allied machine
“losses” —for August 28 B29’s were shot
down over Japan, 58 aircraft over China,
134 in the South Pacific, 58 in the Cen-
tral Pacific, 17 over Burma. Japanese
losses were placed at 27 in the air and
33 on the ground.
On September 15 General Mac Arthur’s
H.Q. reported the new landing on Mofb-
tai, which is a little island nestling against
the north-eastern tip of Halmahera. This
represented the first step forward since
July 30, when American troops went
ashore at Sansapor, on the north of the
Vogelkopf.
There was the usual dawn bombard-
ment by ships, R.A.N. included, while
cruisers and destroyers smashed the
airfield and supply bases across the strait
on Halmahera’s northern peninsula.
General MacArthur’s Account
The official communique said:
The point of landing was unexpected, the
enemy having apparently anticipated it in
the lower parts of the islands, where he had
accumulated strong forces in heavily de-
fended positions. In bypassing these forces
and landing further north we took him by
surprise, and his initial resistance is being
rapidly overcome. Our ground losses have
been very light, and we have no naval or
air losses.
The Halmahera-Philippines line has now
been penetrated and the enemy’s conquests
to the south imperilled by the threat of en-
velopment. The rolling up of the remainder
of this line would cut off and isolate gar-
risons in the East Indies, estimated at
nearly 200,000 men, comprising the 16th
and 19th armies, and would sever vital
supply to the mainland of oil and other war
essentials. We are now within 300 miles of
the Philippines.
Halsey at Palau
At the same time it was announced
that Admiral Halsey’s forces had put
assault troops from the mid-Pacific com-
mand ashore at Palau, on the flank of
the Philippines. Strategically this is as im-
portant as the landing at Morotai.
Great new battleships shared in the
bombardment, and the amphibious force
under Vice - Admiral Wilkinson and
General Julian Smith began to go ashore
on Peleiu, which holds the principal air-
fields of the group.
The enemy launched several strong
counter-attacks with both tanks and in-
fantry. The U.S. landing parties, how-
ever, pushed through well-organised de-
fences and established a beachhead, about
a mile and a half long, on the south-west
of the island within a few hours.
On Angaur, where a landing also was
made, resistance was light.
By the evening of September 17 Moro-
tai was almost all under control. The
South-west Pacific forces were established
beyond the Equator. There was no sign-
et the 40,000 Japs who were supposed
to be on Halmahera. No doubt they will
be heard from later.
It can be taken that their disposal and
that of the forces in Palau are the last
main preliminaries before a definite move
on Mindanaoi or some other area in the
Philippines.
Advance on Kweilin
Things are going badly in China. The
Chinese High Command admits that the
Japanese are within 60 miles of Kweilin,
and that civil evacuation has begun.
The U.S. main Fourteenth Air Force
base at Kweilin has virtually been
abandoned.
This Japanese movement is the most
important that has taken place in China
for many a day. It involves a direct
threat to the security of Chungking.
Last Miles to Rimini.
The September 17 communique from
Italy reported that General Alexander’s
artillery was breaking up the German
defences on the San Martino ridge, the
last holding line between the Eighth
Army and Rimini and the plains of Lom-
bardy,
The approaches to this heavily-fortified
hill which guards the Rimini airfield had
been gained after Canadians and Greeks
had forced the ’ Marano River, established
a bridgehead and pushed forward against
strong tank-force opposition.
In the centre, beyond Florence, troops
were engaged at the week-end in trying
to force the enemy out of some of the
strongest positions yet encountered in
Italy.
The west-coast advance continued and
engulfed Viareggio, 18 miles north of
Pisa.
On the French-Italian border Allied
troops were reported to have reached
Modane, one of the most valuable points
of entry into Italy from the west. With
British, Americans, Canadians, Maon-
landers, South Africans, Indians, Poles,
French, Italians, Brazilians and Greeks
under his command, General Alexander
can claim to be unique among com-
manders.
Into the Siegfried Defences.
“Ek Dum”; The Allied Supreme Com-
mand summed up the position:
On the German frontier our forces are
fighting in the southern outskirts of Aachen,
and strong elements have broken through
the Siegfried defences east of the city,
against heavy resistance. We have also
pierced the defences below Roet, nine miles
south-east of Aachen, and advanced east
into the Roetgen Forest.
Hasty conclusions that this is the last
of the Siegfried Line seem premature.
The line which has been smashed is, if all
the descriptions of the Siegfried positions
printed in 1939 have any approach to
truth, merely the outer skin—two frontal
belts, certainly very strong but ground
to powder in a single day. Each was
about 1000 yards wide, with an interval
of 7000 yards.
The main defence, if it has not been
abandoned, is cored by the Rhine.
In the southern part of the western
front the main positions of the Maginot
Line have not been reached.
Taking Nancy, the U.S. Third Army
French spearheads made the first breach
in the very rear of the old French forti-
fied border zone. The main Maginot
Line is 40 miles by crowfly from
Luneville, which the U.S. forces are be-
lieved to have reached after Nancy fell.
French Ports
The position on various fronts on Sep-
tember 18 was somewhat as follows:
In the far west of France, the
days of Brest as a German-held port
were over; Paris Radio on Septem-
ber 17 announced the capture of
the town. The enemy still holds
St. Nazaire and Lorient, which are
isolated by 400 miles from the German
main lines; also, Boulogne, Calais and
Dunkirk. Canadians took Wimereux, an
anchorage on the rail to Calais, three
miles north of Boulogne.
But Le Havre surrendered on Sep-
tember 11 to the British 49th Division,
part of the Canadian First Army, after
it had been battered to pieces by Lan-
casters and its commander wounded.
Altogether over 9000 prisoners were taken
in and around Le Havre,
But they were no mean fighters these
Germans in Le Havre, nor were those
trying to hold the Calais-Boulogne-Cape
Gris Nez enclave against some of the
toughest troops of the British Common-
wealth. And their gunners were savage.
They inflicted on Dover during the week
the heaviest and most incessant big-gun
shelling to which a British community
has been subjected. .
Beyond Dunkirk, the enemy fought
with desperation across the Leopold
Canal, where the Canadians, according
to report, had them bottled up, 15,000
strong, at the week-end against the Bel-
gian side of the Scheldt estuary. The
Germans were still in possession of
Flushing and the river mouth, thus deny-
ing the Allies the use of Antwerp as a
port. The Poles, ever in the van, were
reported only five miles from the Scheldt
on September 17.
And the enemy was fighting strongly
further inland from Antwerp, in the pro-
vince of the British Second Army. There
the situation was described by the Allied
communique on September 17:
Allied troops yesterday made advances be-
tween Antwerp and the sea. Our bridge-
head over the Escaut Canal continues to be
subjected to enemy counter-attacks but we
are holding firm.
Later a drive from the bridgehead broke
two miles over the Dutch border.
The same day news was broadcast to
the Dutch that troops of the Allied First
Airborne Army had been parachuted and
landed in Holland in strong force. The
landings took place after powerful air
bombardment by 1000 Flying Fortresses
—at Nijmegen, Eindhoven and Tilburg, in
the waist of Holland, the Germans said.
Tilburg is just south of the Wilhelmina
Canal, about TO miles north of the enemy
positions on the Escaut line. Eindhoven
is to the s.-east of this, on the main line
to Essen. Nijmegen is 30 miles further
on, on the Waal Canal, close to the head
of the Siegfried defences. All three are
great railway junctions.
Fight For Holland
Against the British Second Army the
Germans have carried on fiercely on what
at this stage is probably the most crucial
sector of the whole Western Front. It
is manned on the Allied side chiefly by
bodies of British and British Dominion
troops, both tank and infantry spearhead
units being seasoned veterans. It con-
tains great ports adjacent to Germany.
It sits on the flank of the Siegfried de-
fences on the north and is the highway to
the flat plains of North Germany, on
which a large tank force could begin to
spread out in a flood within a few miles
if it crossed the Rhine branches.
A clean victory here would pave the
way for landings further along the Ger-
man north coast if that were later thought
advisable The result of this panic*
battle will have powerful repercussion
on Denmark, and more powerful one-
on the great German northern ports or
by airborne troops beyond the Rhine'
Even Antwerp, which the British
already hoid firmly, is within comfort-
able fighter tange of quite a lot of Ger-
many. Emden is as close to the nearest
British aerodromes as Paris was in May
170 miles. Bremen is about 200 miles
Hanover and Wilhelmshaven about the
same. Dusseldorf—the first German city
bombed by the British of World War I-
with Duisburg, the biggest river port
m Germany till the R.A.F. got at it, and
all the chief towns of the Ruhr are within
the 70-110-mile range of Antwerp.
The enemy is fighting yard by yard
for the Netherlands approaches, in front
of and behind whatever main obstacles
he can command.
It was at twilight on September 10 that
British tanks broke out of their mam
Albert Canal bridgehead; and their
momentum carried them on nine miles
to the Escaut Canal, which is only 1}
miles from the Netherlands border on the
Eindhoven road. Then some of their
patrols pushed over the Netherlands
border. The Germans resisted in the
crossroad areas with powerful groups of
88’s and other mobile weapons, as they
did along the Caen-Falaise road.
British organisation for this kind of
occasion consists of a loose arrowhead
of tanks and mobile guns, moving up
behind a hail of shells from rearward
guns. The core of this arrowhead is tank-
borne infantry, with motorised infantry
to the rear.
Little detail was made available about
the operations. Its scale was measured
by the number of German prisoners:
39,000 in 12 days.
Security enjoined silence on vital points
of information ; but throughout the week
there was bloody fighting along the canal
—attack and counter-attack, with villages
gained, lost and regained.
The R.A.F. tore up the German com-
munications and columns in Holland. By
September 17 the British had three bridge-
heads across the Escaut canal, one at
least into Dutch territory, facing the
woodland and heath which stretches
across the approach to the Netherlands
from below the Hollandsch Diep and the
“Fortress of Holland” —which covers The
Hague, Rotterdam, Dordrecht, Utrecht,
Leyden, Amsterdam and other cities.
The Germans will try to hold this
region, since a break-through to Breda
would isolate the areas at the mouth of
the Scheldt, from Walcheren (of unblessed
memory!) to Bergen-op-Zoom, trapping
the forces clinging to the lower Scheldt
to keep Antwerp immobile as a port.
One of the first effects of the British
bursting of the Albert Canal bridgeheads
was to make the Germans seized of the
need to get hurriedly out of the busy
industrial “appendix” of the Netherlands,
which hangs down the Meuse along the
Juliana Canal between Belgium and Ger-
many. With the British across the canal,
the swampy Peel behind the German
lines, and the Americans at Liege and
pressing from the south-west towards
Hasselt and Rodsteren, the situation was
already enough to make the enemy feel
the danger of being corralled.
The First Army’s Share
So soon as the British break-through
was established and began to expand,
therefore, the Germans weakened in the
“appendix” region. The Americans took
Hasselt without great trouble. They
presently had captured the fortress of
Eben Emmael —an historic spot, where
the Germans first used parachute and
glider troops on May 10, 1940.
By the week-end the Americans had
captured Maestricht and had seen the
abandonment of the appendix. So that
there had been progress all along the
Belgian-Netherlands front in consonance
with movement further south.
It had been a great week for General
Hodge’s First U.S. Army, which had
made the authenticated step on German
soil at 6.11 p.m. on September 11 (after
firing its first shells into Germany at
5.22 a.m.).
Its armored spearheads, after crossing
Luxembourg and covering 40 miles in
48 hours, with little or no resistance on
the way, entered- Germany about four
miles north' of the ancient Roman H.Q
of the Rhineland, Trier (Treves).
By the week-end the First Army had
repeated this thrust along all the
Ardennes routes, which it was here sur-
mised last week would be taken without
serious difficulty. Its columns bad on
September 17 bypassed Aachen on bo:r
sides. They had hit the main highway
where it forks into two some miles
further on on the north side— both the
branches meet later on at Cologne.
Passing round the south in a drive
which began at 2 p.m. on September !-•
the Americans had broken through ro«>
of tank obstacles and taken some pul-
boxes, defended with no great resolution


CD
am
by weak forces. They braved a narrow
minefield and some wire.
Then, according to the correspondents,
they had gone through the Siegfried Line
and were in “open country”—the State
Forest is full of tall, thick, mature timber
—only 30 miles from Cologne, having
travelled parallel to the railway and
obtained control of a north-south road
which crosses the line near Stolberg,
where the German communique on Sep-
tember 17 reported heavy fighting pro-
duced by their counter-attacks.
Here the U.S. drive had come up from
Liege, through Venders and Eupen.
In other places Germany also was
penetrated in the Belgian region—via
Malmedy to Prupi, on the river of that
name, 66 miles from Coblenz, which
was the German H.Q. in the west in
World War I; to Bitburg, 12 miles in-
side the border, further south, and east
of the Prum, at the junction of several
roads, one of which is the main road
from Metz and Trier to Cologne. This
seems to represent a further advance from
the first penetration. Bitburg is almost
within gun-range of the railway from
Trier to Coblenz.
Siegfried Positions
Although it was a great development
to reach enemy soil, all the representa-
tions about the piercing of the Siegfried
positions, of which Aachen, now
surrounded or nearly so, is described as
a “bastion,” is so much rubbish, unless
the enemy has done tremendous demoli-
tion work since 1940.
The western defences of Germany, the
last section of which was opened just
about the time war broke out in 1939,
consisted of a series of lines with an over-
all depth of 30 miles average, though in
some cases the depth, including frontal
and reserve positions, was sometimes up
to 50 miles, and even 100 miles.
Defence from west to east consisted
of the following strata:
From Aachen southward to Trier there
was a secondary frontal outpost line con-
sisting of tank defences, pillboxes, mine*
fields and wire. This was merely a pre-
liminary delaying position. Aachen was
not a fortress city of the “line” —it was
merely a strong outpost garrison town.
This line is the one which the Americans
have broken into.
From Trier this frontal line made its
way to the Rhine inside the Saar border
to somewhere near Landau. No doubt,
it has been reinforced by the restoration
of the old German scheme of things
which ruled from the days of the Franco-
Prussian War to World War I, when the
Saar was given powerful frontal cover
in the fortress areas of Metz and Dieden-
hofen (Thionville). These have not yet
been taken iby General Patton’s Third
Army, though both are being fought for.
Reaching the Rhine near Landau, the
frontal Siegfried defences ended.
East of this line, but still on the French
side, ran No. 1 Main Line, a great
series of detached fortress areas, based
on the Kyll River and its attendant rail-
way, which reach the Moselle.
Each fort had its own deep shelters,
integral power supply, railways and stor-
age beyond the reach of bomb and shell.
In between these forts were tangled
mazes of smaller pillbox areas. This for-
tress series ran down the west of the
Rhine to the region of Karlsruhe, where
it crossed the river and continued along
it past Strasbourg, facing the main French
Maginot positions, all the way to the
Swiss border near Basle.
No. 2 line of the same type hugged
the west bank of the Rhine, embodying
the same type of features. Diisseldorf
was its northmost main bastion.
Next came the Rhine, itself a formid-
able barrier, forming a moat from the
North Sea to the Alps. On the north
it breaks into several wide branches
known by many names, and its banks
are often low-lying and floodable.
Further up beyond Cologne the river
runs 400 yards wide. Still higher it is
squeezed for a long distance so closely
between the mountains on both sides of
the stream that it is just possible to carve
out a road on each bank along the edges
of the cliffs.
In this section, from Bingen to Coblenz,
the current runs at about seven knots.
Still higher in the Strasbourg reaches
above the Moselle, the Rhine is again
wider, but beyond Strasbourg all the way
to its falls, near Basle on the Swiss
border, it is shallow.
Behind the northern part of the Rhine
as far as the Kaiserlauten Gap crossings,
there was No. 2 secondary line, all the
way to the North Sea, with further de-
laying positions still more to the east.
This secondary line southward from the
region of the Gap joined another Main
Line (No. 3) running along the hills
through the Black Forest to the Schaff-
hausen “appendix” —the little balloon of
Switzerland, which was bombed by the
Americans by accident some time ago.
In the central sector defence positions
run back through the mountains and
hills as far as the longitude of Frankfort-
on-the-Main. From the river defence
at Frankfort to the frontal defences near
Trier is 96 miles. Behind these defences
again were said to be reserve positions
capable of accommodating 250,000 men
in shelters as deep as the Maginot Line,
safe from bombing until they are wanted.
“What About the Man?”
The theory of this huge defence, of
which the basic embryo was the Hinden-
burg Line, was not to present a frontal
obstacle which would be insuperable to
an advancing enemy. It was meant to
act like a series of millstones, grinding
the power out of an enemy as he pushed
his way forward into its depth—sapping
his strength, breaking up the continuity
of his formations, slowing up his momen-
tum and preparing him for a final mash-
ing at the hands of heavy mobile for-
mations of reserves, specially equipped
and waiting for him to emerge from the
German side of the grinder.
British-American forces with their huge
bombers, their strong Typhoon rocket-
plane formations, their rocket tanks,
flame-throwing tanks and mobile heavy
guns, are not so susceptible to grinding
as the armies of 1939. And it is not the
same Germany which would have faced
the whirlwind in 1939.
The essential in the German scheme of
things, assuming resources are up to the
job of defending 22,000 pillbox and fort-
ress positions, apart from dealing with
General Alexander and the Russians and
holding Denmark and Norway, is the
possession of large bodies of highly-
trained specialist combat teams.
Whether the Reich does possess such
teams nobody knows. The chances are
that German shock troops in bulk may
be somewhat moth-eaten. But over-
optimism is the worst of vices in war.
In France the German troops were
undoubtedly a mixed lot, with a surpris-
ing number of middling-to-poor foreign
elements. The best of them —the para-
chute divisions, the tank spearheads, the
special defence battalions who are hold-
ing Calais, Boulogne, Warsaw and
East Prussia, would be rated A 1 in
fighting quality in any company. But the
question is “How many are there?”
Division of Effort
A glimpse at the map suggests that
the Allied Command is not taking
chances, but has divided its sectors to
fit in with the conception of the Siegfried
Stellung, as described above.
The British and Canadian Armies have
the sector north of the end of the line,
where several substantial water barriefs
take its place. Munster was the border
Corps H.Q. of this area in peace-time—•
VI Corps. The British job is to get
round the enemy flank and mangle it.
The American First Army faces those
parts of the defence where there are main
lines of forts west of the Rhine —Cassel
(IX Corps) was its peace-time H.Q.
General Patton’s Third Army faces
that portion of the German defence
which is virtually all the way on the
French side of the Rhine, south of the
Moselle—H.Q. on the German side,
Frankfort (XII Corps); partly served
from Stuttgart (V Corps H.Q.), which
ministers to the region of the Belfort Gap.
The Southern Group of two Allied
armies, which have been completed by
the addition of General W. H. Simpson’s
Ninth U.S. Army, has been linked with
General Patch’s Seventh U.S. Army,
which has come up from the Mediter-
ranean. Having been sliced off the Medi-
terranean Command of General Maitland
Wilson, the Seventh Army has become
half of the Sixth Army Group com-
manded by General Devcrs. The prov-
ince of this group appears to be from
the southern flank to penetrate the Bel-
fort Gap, and perhaps the Vosges Passes,
soufh of Nancy, and the Bellegarde Gap,
near the Swiss border.
Here, as elsewhere, a pall of silence
blots out details. It seemed at the week-
end that General Patch’s Seventh Army
spearheads were not far from the Belfort
Gap, but that forces advancing from the
west, along the main road from Paris, via
Troyes, had met with strong opposition
on approaching Vesoul, 140 miles from
Belfort. The Seventh Army up to Sep-
tember 15 had taken 89,000 prisoners.
At the week-end 20,000 enemy troops
under General Elster, cut off in the centre
of France near Orleans, surrendered.
Nancy Falls
General Patton’s Third Army was en-
gaged in the contest to take Nancy and
outflank Metz with a view to capturing
it. The western approaches to Nancy
are difficult. The town itself is under
the plateau heights, and it is surrounded
by wood and ravine and flanked by diffi-
cult river reaches.
General Koenig’s French troops finally
did the trick, as in the assault on the
Gustav Line at Cassino in May, showing
dash and quality.
Immediately the city was taken the
bridgeheads across the Moselle towards
Metz further north began to stretch and
expand, and an advance was made which
took spearheads 15 miles nearer the
Rhine along the Luneville road.
As in the north, a false impression was
given of what had happened here by the
mention of the capture of “a fort of the
Maginot Line,” before Nancy fell.
’Nancy is in the last rearguard section of
French border defences, not in the Magi-
not Line, which differed from the Sieg-
fried positions in bdng a true line, with
rearguard outposts.
The main line runs in sight of the
Rhine, 80 miles by road from Nancy,
along the highway through Luneville,
along which the troops south of Nancy
seem to be proceeding.
It still remains, to be seen whether the
Maginot Line in this region has been
abandoned or destroyed. It would have
needed reconstruction before it could
have been turned against attackers from
the French side.
It is difficult to believe that the Ger-
mans will not have contrived some sort
of defence, if only for delaying purposes,
down the French side of the Rhine Valley
from the Palatinate at the point where
main, defences cross the river near the
border in the region of Karlsruhe.
It was reported two or three times last
week that the advances by General Patton
in the bridgeheads across the Moselle
north of Nancy had outflanked Metz, but
this is a wrong conception.
The German retreat is shaping itself to
the German border and to the Siegfried
frontal defences.
Metz is surrounded by its own ring of
road communications, especially de-
signed in the days when it was the great
French border base of the Kaiser’s armies.
It is fed from several major German
supply centres by a number of railways.
Altogether, it is far less remote than
Nancy from the heart of Germany. The
Germans must fight heavily for it, since
it guards the way to the Saar.
London's Thanksgiving.
“Ek Dum”: London on September 17
celebrated the third anniversary of the
height of the Battle for Britain with
services of remembrance for the dead.
The capital had come through the two
longest blasts from the air ever suffered
by a city, with enormous damage and
loss, but with a high heart.
On September 17 a few flying bombs
fell in southern England. One wrecked
seven houses and damaged others and
two families were blotted out.
These horrors apparently were launched
from aircraft, though they may have
come from one of the small areas within
range still held by the enemy.
The British are getting their own back.
At least 50,000 tons of bombs a week are
being dropped on German-held indus-
trial objectives, despite the opposition of
great packs of enemy fighters. On
Darmstadt the R.A.F. dropped 286,000
incendiaries, also bombing the Ruhr on
a heavy scale the two operations
cost 25 machines. The U.S.A.F. the
same day in widespread raids lost 48
bombers and 29 fighters. But the enemy
losses were 175 aircraft in the air and 42
on the ground, and seven armament
centres and oil refineries were ablaze.
Russians Take Praga.
“Ek Dum”: Reports from the eastern
front continue to be mysterious and
confusing.
In the Baltic States, where the Russians
were nearly two months ago supposed to
be forcing the Germans to a Dunkirk
with all land routes cut off, the Red Army
has still to shut the 15-mile corridor
which allows the enemy communication
between Riga and East Prussia and has still
to cross the German frontier in force.
The two great railway junctions of Yel-
gava and Valk, which seemed to be
Russian for the taking, are still uncap-
tured. No German port in the east is
even within range of the farthest throw-
ing Russian gunfire.
However, on September 15 the enemy-
reported that the Red Army had massed
40 divisions for a Baltic-front attack.
The capture of Lomza, in northern
Poland, was hailed as bringing the Rus-
sian forces within 25 miles of the East
Prussia border on the south. It had taken
the Russians six weeks to do the last 25
miles to the town, which newspapers, out
of consideration for the feelings of opti-
mists, moved bodily across the Narew,
from the southern to the northern side.
Later Novograd, in the bend of the
Narew, also south of the river, was cap-
tured. Actually, the Russians had
reached a point on the south of the
Narew nearer the East Prussian border
long before —Ossiewie'c, between Biely-
stok and Lyck—but this was forgotten.
There is still a long way to go across the
bleak border country of the south before
the Neidenburg Gap is reached.
On September 15 also it was announced
that the Russians had taken Praga, the
suburb of Warsaw on the eastern side of
the Vistula. The heroic Poles on the
other side had been fighting since August 3.
General Bor’s Bad Luck
General Bor has been most unfortu-
nate in his nationality and politics. Had
his valiant little force been, say, Yugoslav
Communists the eardrums of the world
would have been split by the shouting
and the general raucous advertising of
the toughness of guerrillas and partisans.
The western allies would have been
summoned by resolutions to drop their
other preoccupations and relieve Warsaw
at once. Actually, the only help the Poles
in Warsaw received came from Britain,
the aid and comfort of all war-stricken
peoples, with fellow-Poles and South Afri-
cans of the R.A.F., who flew their ice-
laden aircraft over the stricken city at
a cost of 250 Allied lives, while the Rus-
sians were only a dozen miles away-
refusing help.
Australian airmen have been engaged
in this unnecessarily hazardous traffic.
Whether Australian lives have been lost
has not come out.
Moscow reported, again on September
15, that Russian and Polish troops were
storming across the Vistula north of War-
saw proper, and that supplies at last had
been dropped to help General Bor’s
patriots. No doubt a result of Anglo-
American remonstrances, but this was not
stated, Praga had been found to be a
blackened waste, and Warsaw seems to
be in the same condition. The Germans
have been ruthlessly destroying it in pro-
cess of fighting General Bor, preparatory,
it would seem,* to withdrawing to the
main Posen-Lodz-Cracow lines. Signs of
an intention to do this were evident at
the end of July, and General Bor an-
nounced that the objective of his rising
was to prevent their escape before the
Russians could attack them.
If the Russians were actually crossing
the Vistula in force —it is a quarter of a
mile wide—the enemy could scarcely be
resisting very strongly.
The Nebulous South
The position in the south of the Rus-
sian front is nebulous and strange. On
September 12 Budapest Radio pulled
the legs of Europe with a tale that the
great railway junction of Cluj had fallen.
It had not fallen, though the Russians
were reported a few miles from it. Further
south the Russians had pushed up to the
great Rumanian junction of Timisoara.
They are still 80 miles from Hungary.
On Marshal Tito’s front one or two
towns in out-of-the-way corners have
been captured. But although the marshal
is supposed to have control of all the
routes and to command “300,000” men,
who are alleged to have held more Ger-
man divisions in grips than the armies of
General Alexander have done in Italy,
his performance in the last fortnight has
been disappointing. Nothing has been
heard of Mihailovich, abused in Com-
munist and fellow - traveller papers
throughout the world ; but perhaps he
commands more real soldiers after all.
Reports had it that the Russians had
crossed the Rhodope, along the western
Turkish border, had reached the Asgean
Sea, and had entered Sofia. Nothing more
was heard of the Allied landing parties
in the region of Split.
In southern Poland, east of the Gorlice-
Tarnow lines, of evil memory for the
Russians of the last war, the Red Army
pushed down towards the Dukla Pass to
Krosno. Later it was reported that its
spearheads had passed through the Dukla
Pass to join the guerrillas and Czech
troops in Slovakia. If this is true it seems
to mean the abandonment of everything
east of Orsova Gap defences.


Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
eaisrßßeo
Blood, Veins, Arteries. Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long* been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood-
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally: piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
TABLETS
that Elasto la not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It Is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
"No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed, my vari-
cose ulcers.”
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema."
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to "Elasto”, Box 1552 B,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting "Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a£tcr uhM> Atci/e y-ous AxruvuAd /
J' l "'V
V
\
V
yr
PO
pir
\
V
7
v\
' v'r
s^.
S
We
e
*6
ye/*
SPORTING NOTIONS
With an excellent programme, plentiful
entries and the racing likely to be a guide
for the important spring events just
ahead, Tattersall’s Club at Randwick on
Saturday had the bad luck to strike one
of the windiest, wettest and bleakest days
since official records have been kept.
The crowd, including a large proportion
of servicemen having it on the house,
was 39,000 —low for these times—and
half of them were blown away long
before the last race. Even so, £111,897
15s. w r ent through the tote.
It was a great day for The Buzzard
and the books. The first four winners
were at 15, 15, 20 and 20 and the last
winner at 15 to 1. As well. Veiled Threat
(sevens) downed the heavily-backed
“paper” certainty Katanga in the Chelms-
ford Stakes, and Buzz Off (eights) downed
another well-supported favorite. Mustang,
in the Spring Handicap.
Performances by The Buzzard’s stock
would have made a good advertisement
for any sire anywhere. Winning three
of the seven events, sons of this imported
sire, who stands in Queensland, won the
first race, when the track was sound, and
the last two races, when the going along
the rails was a bog. They won at 6furs.
(Lancaster Pilot, Novice first division), at
Im. 3furs. (Buzz Off, Spring Handicap)
and at Im. (St. Quentin, Welter Handi-
cap)—all distances a shade more with
the false rail in use. Also, in the order
given, they won at ages three, five and
four years.
As well, the places behind Buzz Off
in the distance event were filled by two
more sons of The Buzzard —Mustang
(second) and Falcon Knight (third) —and
both these two ran most promising Met-
ropolitan trials. Add that, though he’s
now going on for nine years old, Katanga
very easily beat everything except Veiled
Threat in their w.f.a. event, and that, of
the only other two runners by the same
sire during the day. Kookaburra clearly
led the Spring Handicap field into the
straight, and was still in front 50 yards
from the winning post, and it would all
be hard to beat for progeny soundness
and versatility.
The Spring Handicap was probably a
better Metropolitan guide than might be
expected in the conditions. From the
start Bright Spot and Kookaburra were
ridden as if it was a sprint. The time,
actually, was very slow, but the sprinting
tactics, with Kookaburra’s really good
sustained run, ensured a solid testing for
stamina. Falcon Knight came from
farthest back and looked to be finishing
strongest of the place-getters, but it might
be doubted, from a Metropolitan point of
view, if his run was better than that of
Mustang, who looked more as if some
good hard racing would improve him.
Veiled Threat came from last at the
half-mile to beat Katanga a length in the
Chelmsford (Im. Ifur.), with Shining
Night a moderate third. It was a good
Metropolitan performance by the winner,
who, as winner of two Sydney Cups and
a whole string of other Cups and dis-
tance events, is about the best-performed
stayer now racing in Sydney. Though
it was Katanga’s second defeat at w.f.a.
this time up, this grand old horse may
still prove the toughest of any of them
in such events. He was beaten in the
same race in similar going last year.
Shining Night has been best of the
winter handicappers, but he’s now been
a long time up.
Without overlooking Veiled Threat’s
powerful finish, the Chelmsford running
might prove deceptive. Cream Puff ran
a lot better than even her handy fourth
would suggest, and May fowl looked
nearly as fat as his name; but the most
deceiving of any of the field might be
Castle Frontenac, who appeared to get
a bad bump nearing the seven furlongs,
and who also did not go freely in the
conditions. As well, Castle Frontenac
was at a considerable disadvantage in
the weights. He has recently run one of
the best training gallops in years, and,
with Mustang, Falcon Knight, Mayfowl
and Flight, gives four-year-olds extra-
good prospects in this year’s Metropoli-
tan. Miss Sovereign finished last, but will
be a different proposition in sprint events.
The Tramway Handicap (7 furlongs)
was, allowing for the conditions, a reason-
ably sound testing for the other leg of
the spring double. Second in last year’s
Epsom, and certain to be improved be-
tween now and the big mile this year,
Prince came home extra strongly on the
comparatively firmer going to beat the
Epsom favorite, Versailles, by half a
length. With a furlong further in the
Epsom, Prince must run well; but Ver-
sailles ran a slashing race. Burdened
with 8.10 (91b. more than his Epsom
weight), Versailles was ridden to be in
front all the way, had to stall off the im-
proving Modulation in the straight, and
was running in the bog when Prince’s
nicely-timed run accounted for him.
Versailles, on this run, must be very
hard indeed to beat in the Epsom. His
great pace should ensure his being well
placed in the probably big field, and he’s
evidently as game as they’re made.
Having beaten off Modulation, he looked
at the finish as if he could have mustered
another effort against Prince if the win-
ning post hadn’t then been too close.
Modulation’s was also a sound Epsom
run. Carrying 8.11 (31b. more than his
Epsom weight), he moved up very sharply
taking the turn —more than a furlong too
soon. He is getting better with each run,
and should be a very fit opponent for
Versailles by Epsom day. The company
will only need to be a little weaker to
give Magi a win soon.
What Epsom pointers the final Welter
Handicap (1 mile) may have given were
spoilt by the then muddy going and the
consequent rush of scratchings, particu-
larly that of Abbeville, who, on his un-
beaten performances since he came down
from Queensland, is well in the Epsom
with 7.12. Having won solidly in all his
three starts in N.S.W., including his sterl-
ing win in the Cameron Handicap at
Newcastle, he rates high among the
Epsom possibilities.
In the Welter Handicap St, Quentin,
ridden by W. Lord, a 15-year-old country
boy having his first ride in a race, had to
survive a protest on the ground that
Active Service (second) was carried out
in the straight. He was, a little, but St.
Quentin would have won anyway.
Heavily backed, Betza was a poor third,
an ending right in keeping with the day.
m -- a m
Lawrence, favorite for the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups, was beaten out of
a place in the Underwood Stakes at
Flemington last Saturday. An even-
money favorite, he finished fourth, be-
hind Amana, Tranquil Star and Lilette.
His customary finishing dash was missing,
but, as the distance was only one mile
and the going heavy, it would be inad-
visable to condemn him.
Amana, whose special handicap mis-
sion is the Caulfield Cup, won impres-
sively enough to suggest that he is back
to his brilliant form of last spring, when,
in addition to winning several w.f.a,
races, he finished second to Skipton in a
Caulfield Cup division. Tranquil Star,
racing for the first time since she frac-
tured her jaw in a race smash at Moonee
Valley in April, made a game attempt to
lead all the way, and proved that she has
made a good recovery. Lilette’s forward
running was a surprise, but the distance
was short for Precept; David’s Last hit
the running rail near the five furlongs,
and Counsel was short of a race. Com-
pared with weights carried on Saturday,
Amana will meet Tranquil Star and Law-
rence 41b. better and Lilette 51b. worse
in the Caulfield Cup.
Silver Rocks ousted San Martin from
Victoria Derby favoritism by his narrow
defeat of Prating and San Martin in the
first Spring Stakes. He won impressively
under difficulties, and, with four succes-
sive wins, looks to be the staying three-
year-old find of the season. Badger will
ride him in the Caulfield Guineas and
Derby, but no rider has been engaged
for the Melbourne Cup, and he is a
doubtful starter for the Caulfield Cup.
Excuse was possible for San Martin. He
is still somewhat green, and was not given
much peace in front; but honors were
with the winner.
Hartnell, a full brother to Burberry
(Gay Lothano-Wrapper), justified his 7-
to-4 favoritism for the second Spring
Stakes. He finished gamely, but his time
was a second and a quarter slower than
that recorded by Silver Rocks, and, from
a Derby viewpoint, his performance was
not as impressive. Connections, how-
ever, believe him to be a genuine stayer
and, all going well, he will be a runner
for the Guineas and Derby.
Clayton and Centenary strengthened
their Cup claims by winning the Tru-
ganina Handicap, 13 furlongs, and High-
weight Handicap, 10 furlongs, respec-
tively. Clayton (The Buzzard-Forcen-
elle) led all the way, and Centenary (The
Buzzard-Kaditcha) won well from the
faster-finishing Tahitian, with Valentino,
who weakened over the last furlong, third!
Centenary last year finished third to Skip-
ton and Amana in a Caulfield Cup divi-
sion.
♦ * * *
Fillies brought among the best bids at
last week’s thoroughbred sales in Eng-
land. The King paid 4100 guineas—third
top price on the day—for a bay filly by
the Aga Khan’s Turkhan from the French
mare Terrerose. A filly by Fairway from
Correa brought 9300 guineas (a war-
time record for a yearling), and another
filly by Solario-Silver Fox II brought 5800
guineas. For 123 lots the average was
749 guineas, which also was a war-time
record for yearlings.
Miscellaneous
The Rugby Union “grand” final, East
v. University, was played in foul weather.
The students kicked off against a biting
wind, and soon found themselves getting
the worse of things from a determined
vanguard that broke quickly and tackled
hard. Uni. came back with some spark-
ling individualistic flashes to score an un-
converted try, but East drew level, and
fullback Cameron clinched it for the
Tricolors with a neat field goal; East 7
—Uni. 3. Randwick beat Drummoyne
16-nil for reserve-grade honors, and East
stole the third-grade premiership from
Manly 13-12.
Fitzroy downed Richmond in the
V.F.L. semi-final at St. Kilda, and will
play Essendon next Saturday, the winner
to meet Richmond in the “grand” final.
It was a dingdong go on Saturday, Fitz-
roy taking the lead early and bustling
the Tigers off the ball to lead 7.10-4.3 at
half-time. Then Richmond, with the
wind, tore into it and both sides appeared
in some doubt as to whether it was a last-
man-standing affair or a Rugby line-out.
A trainer who got on the field was
knocked cold, boundary umpires admon-
ished players, bumps and cuss words were
plentiful. But Fitzroy kept its eye on the
ball and let the Tigers growl. At the end
it was 11.15-10.10 in favor of Fitzroy.
* * * »
Tommy Ward, a young Scotch middle-
weight, got there first with a righthander
when meeting Ron Warner (10.6) at
Leichhardt, and it was all over in the
fourth round. Warner was faster than
Ward in the three opening rounds, but
in the fourth each let fly with a right
swing aimed at the chin, and Ward’s
landed, Warner had been down three
times when referee Pearson stopped it.
Bill Hebberd lasted till the eighth round
against Tommy Burns at the Sydney
Stadium. By no means overawed, Her-
berd attacked in every round. But Burns
started Hebberd’s eye swelling with
snappy rights in the second, and in the
sixth the Westralian couldn’t see out of
the organ; nevertheless, he opened
Burns’s left eyebrow with a neat punch.
Burns would not be denied, and, connect-
ing with many clean punches, he had
Hebberd so helplessly beaten early in the
eighth that a halt was called.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
Novice Handicap: Craigie, 1 ;
Paul, 2; Prince Buzzard, 3,
Hill Stakes: Katanga, 1; Flight,
2 ; Hall Stand, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: Shannon, 1 ;
Removal, 2 ; Accession, 3.
Theo Marks Camellia Stakes:
Abbeville, 1; Modulation, 2 ; Magi,
3.
Rosehill Cup : Mustang, 1 ; Fal-
con Knight, 2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Highweight Handicap: D. 5.0., 1 ;
Hauteur, 2 ; Van Eyck, 3.


Public Notices.
I, GUISEPPE CASACELI, of Italian nationality,
born at Canneto, in the Province of Messina, Italy,
and resident 16 years in Australia, now residing at
38 Lilian Street, Campsie, in the State of New
South Wales, but at present employed by the Allied
Works Council and residing at Katherine, in the
Northern Territory, intend to apply for naturalisation,
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, DOROTHY EMMA PAYKOVITCH, Australian by
birth, Yugoslav by marriage, born at Sydney, N.S.W.,
and resident 40 years in Australia, now residing at
No. 6 Etham Avenue, Darling Point, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I, ARTHUR SARANDEDES, of Greek nationality,
born at Crete, Greece, and resident 30 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 60 Gloucester Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, EMMANUEL SARANDEDES, of Greek nationality,
born at Crete, Greece, and resident SO years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 60 Gloucester Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Royal Art Society had about £l5OO
“sold” signals blushing rosily to greet
the visitors to Saturday’s official opening.
This was done by assisting Education
Minister Dickson, deputising for his
chief, R. J. Heffron. He was introduced
by president Howard Ashton, whose,
“Austral Forenoon,” bought by the Mar-
shall Bequest, will be still another
example of the Ashton tradition in the
National Gallery, The rain had not
damped the ardor of R.A.S. faithful, who
came in their hundreds.
Mild excitement of the afternoon was
the absence of the painting of Hitler,
which had aroused the ire of Dobell fans.
They claim it was a parody of his style,
and ran to the cost of lerfgthy telegrams
demanding its withdrawal. And, lo! on
the opening day it was not there, although
the R.A.S. laughs gaily at the suggestion
that it was withdrawn. Lost, stolen or
strayed, but withdrawn —never!
This year, even more than usual, the
painters have expressed the Australian
scene. Erik Langker’s cloud and sky
effects made the worker dream of holiday
time, and in John Banks’s “Blossoms” the
soft cloud in the sky and the tree snowy
with bloom seemed to melt into each
other. The wives of both artists were
there. So were J. Salvana (all his paint-
ings sold but one), Howard Hinton, the
Jimmy Jacksons (both being congratu-
lated on their pictures) and Lyall Trin-
dfill and his wife, Mrs. Trindall’s portrait
in a pink dress and a floppy hat having
been painted by her husband for a wed-
ding anniversary. The soft and flowing
frock cost 62 coupons, and was well
worth it.
The new Braddon lady, smart in black,
was with Mrs. F. Sevan. They are both
on the women’s auxiliary of the R.A.S.
Mrs. Heffron and daughter June hob-
nobbed with Mrs. W. F. Dickson. Diana
Dawson was there, easily recognised from
her portrait by Fred Leist The original
of Jerrold Nathan’s “Judith” was not
seen, but the memory of the painting still
lingers. So does the thought of Lister
Lister’s trees in his bushland scene, Molly
O’Shea’s tranquil, moonlight white azaleas
and Neville - Smith’s glimpse of the
Moorea.
The piano concerto evening at the
Charles Philips’s home in Lindfield i$
just about booked out. But if there should
be an overflow into the flowerful garden
on the night of October 7 it will prove
an added charm. Charles will himself be
the soloist in the Beethoven and Cesar
Franck works, and the orchestral part will
be played on the second piano by Theo-
dor Schoenberger. Constance Burt has
listed Lotti, Guarnieri and Duparc among
her song composers for the spring night,
and R. A. Broinowski will talk a little of
Beethoven, a little of French music. The
Lindfield Red Cross will benefit by this
and by the repeat performance on the
18th, when Connie Stuart will play second
piano and Gwen Selva will be the singer.
At Vere Mathew’s cafe the crisp, green
salad of spring was served by teachers
of the British Ballet Organisation school
of dancing to Eunice Weston. Eunice, a
high priestess of graceful movement, is
examiner for the 8.8., and has been on
a dizzy tour, which took in Wollongong,
Newcastle, Lithgow and many other
country towns. The work of the young-
sters is a constant joy to this dancer,
who arrived in Australia from London
with a reputation already established.
With 16 teachers of the art of ballet
grouped about the table, and a sprinkling
of members of Sydney’s new Ballet
and Theatre Club, the talk naturally was
not on prize-fighting. Mrs. Vera Lacey
was one of the hostesses, and Grace Staf-
ford, of verse-speaking fame, made the
speech of thanks. Betty Pounder, a
former winner of a 8.8. scholarship
(she was in London till ’mid-1940) was
one of the guests.
The Pitt-street Congregational Church
will ring next Tuesday evening with
“Songs of Freedom,” the national
songs of many countries, compiled
by Leonard Hurst and presented by
Clement Hosking. Red Cross head-
quarters Younger Committee will benefit.
The Folk Song Choir, the Pitt-street
church choir and Gwen Howard will take
part in the singing. Lilian Frost will play
the organ, and Jessie Webster the piano,
Glorious Marjorie Lawrence, singing in
the Town Hall once again, gave more
than a concert to her listeners last week.
She gave out warmth and joyousness
and the spirit of Shakspeare’s women.
Apart from her singing altogether. Miss
Lawrence has great power, and none see-
ing her can doubt her talent as an actress.
Jhe Town Hall was not only crowded, it
was as vibrant with excitement as a
Maoriland hot spring is with sulphuric
energy. The singer gave Brahms and
Wagner such neighbors as “Waltzing
Matilda” and “My Ain Folk,” smiling
gaily at the audience and saying she
didn’t think the great ones would be
offended.
At the close of the evening a wounded
soldier brought up a great clutch of wara-
tahs. The stately red blooms toned in
with the lagoon blues and the coral pink
touches of Marjorie’s bouffant frock.
Before the concert banker-knight Alfred
Davidson gave her a boomerang from
Lady Gowrie and the committee of
Furlough House, and as she left the
hall Captain Lawrence stepped forward
with the gift of a pendant made from a
pearl found at Milne Bay. It was from
the captain and his mates.
The Red Cross Roll Call Committee’s
efforts have been very successful. Dur-
ing August 10,000 members were enrolled
in the city, and suburban branches report
hundreds signing up and paying up the
two shillings necessary. The country
results are yet to come, as the drive is
being continued throughout September.
Susan Spencer, member of the N.S.W.
Red Cross Divisional Council, is the
organiser of the Society’s roll-call drive.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
Singing-teacher Roland Foster and his
wife were jumped from the thrill of a
Marjorie Lawrence concert into some-
thing like a thriller film the other night.
On the way from the Town Hail by taxi
(what luck to be able to snare one!} they
were suddenly electrified by the sight of
an athletic policeman hurling himself into
their cab. While Roland and Thelma
looked at him with askance and tremb-
lingly wondered what they had done to
merit arrest, the constable hissed at the
driver “Open her up! I’m after a stolen
car.” At about 90 miles an hour (or so
it seemed) the Fosters tobogganed down
the hill from King’s Cross. Suddenly the
constable said “Cut that fawn-colored car
off.” The taxi-driver manoeuvred the
other car into the kerb. The policeman
jumped into the suspect car, out jumped
its occupants. Then everybody tore off
save the Fosters, who found themselves
standing stock still on the footpath.
Where’er one may walk these days
orchid shows adorn the ways. The
Robert Dixson exhibition (Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, of which Mrs. Robert
is a vice-president, benefits) is enriching
the basement of the Town Hall till to-
morrow evening. These orchids were all
grown out in the open air by Robert
Dixson at his Castle Hill fastness.
A flower stall run by Mrs. Harold Bott
is being massed each day with the flowers
of spring. Mrs. W. R. Dovey commands
the afternoon-tea front.
Artist Douglas Annand, whose show
was opened by Sydney Ure Smith,
has a passion for detail endearing
to the soul of woman. He has just
brought out a book of drawings and
paintings of this land, and in it as well
as the painting of a terminalia-tree (very
lush and green in the picture) he adds a
note to say that it has beautifully shaped
magenta-lined seeds, and that its big
leaves turn in winter to spotted yellow,
Vermillion and rose. The least observant
must recognise a terminalia-tree after
that. Cairns as seen by this camofleur
in the moonlight beats the Spanish-
Americas for romance. In a great fig-
tree encroaching on one of the main
streets “scores of white egrets roost at
night. On moonlight nights the street
wanderer may be rewarded by the sight
and the seductive perfume of flowers of
Papuan blossom trees with white petals
and countless crimson-tipped stamens.’’
Yesterday afternoon, after a fond au
revoir to the orchids in the Town Hall,
Crown-street Hospital enthusiasts made
for the Pickwick Club from five to six-
thirty. The party was in honor of knight
Henry Braddon, and gave members of
the board the chance to farewell him as
president of the hospital, a job he has
done and no complaints for 20 years.
Three merry and bright British
W.A.A.F. officers have arrived in Aus-
tralia as an additional bit of sunshine
to our spring. They are Flight-Officer
Joan Train and Section-Officers Louise
Cook and Sylvia Kent.
From Melbourne
Spring comes to Melbourne with a
proper fanfare, for the street stalls are
heaped high with golden daffodils and
blossoms of all hues, and the perfume of
boronia fills the air. Shops have brought
forth new and tempting wares and have
given materials most fascinating names.
One, lime-green in tint, is “China Tea”
and such wares are makirig women count
their coupons. Added to these is the
tonic of victories in, all fields of war, so
there are smiling faces everywhere. The
peoples of liberated countries are happi-
est of all. This was demonstrated at the
afternoon party given at Mtnzies by
Prof. Maurice Belz, president of the
French-Australian Association, and M.
Pierre Mathis, Vic. representative of the
Provisional Government of the French
Republic, for Andre Brenac and his wife.
M. Brenac has been appointed Consul-
General for France in South Africa, and
over 100 guests were on hand to wish him
bon voyage. To the guests of honor
toasts were given, also to France, whose
days of travail appear to be ending.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Fund has now
reached £30,000, To Claude Flemming
and the cast of “Kiss and Tell” must be
given thanks for helping to make their
300th performance (a matinee in aid of
the fund) such a grand one. Young girls
who under the leadership of Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell had sold programmes helped
to entertain guests and the cast of “Kiss
and Tell” at a cocktail party, held after
the matinee in the foyer of the Comedy
Theatre.
Mrs. Wolfe, back from holidays with
soh Peter, talked of the vagaries of the
Weather—one day they fought bushfires;
the next day saw snow fall. Mrs. Frank
Tait sold raffle tickets in a most impos-
ing array of toy animals. Blonde Mar-
jorie Griffin had brought small daughter
April along to her first theatre. Mar-
garet Saker was busy introducing son,
Sergeant Les, who has been up north for
over two years. The Younger Set girls
were on hand again for the Theatrical
Costume Cavalcade the next day, when
Margot Cornaga displayed her charms
as Tondelayo, Gwenda Wilson, star of
“Kiss and Tell,”' as a doll, and Merri
Hart as Carmen. Garry, youngest of
the Spry brood, had his usual ringside
seat to watch momma, Marjorie Spry
(pictured above), curtsey to the large audi-
ence in her role of Lady Mary Carlisle.
Altogether, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and
her Younger Set have raised £lOOO to
help Limbless Soldiers.
With Commandant Mabel Brookes and
Mrs. Eric Harrison as hostesses, a luncheon
party at Menzies was a cheery, informal
affair. Both hostesses were bubbling over
with the joy which comes from success,
and were full of plans for the future.
Commandant Brookes is busy with plans
for the hostel which will house girls who,
on leaving the W.A.A.A.F., find there is
no room for them at home, and Mrs.
Harrison has in view a nursery rhyme-
book which, when published at Christ-
mas, will net at least £l5OO for R.A.A.F.
Welfare Funds. ■ The book is the brain-
child of Esther and Betty Paterson.
Esther is known for her portraits; Betty
for her pictures of babies.
During five years of war Esther and
Betty have given freely of their time and
talent, and many are the war funds which
have benefited from their generosity. In
private life Esther is the wife of Lieut.-
Commander George Gill, and Betty is
Mrs. Newman, with one daughter, Bar-
bara, who has inherited the drawing and
painting ability of mother and Aunt
Esther, winning many scholarships as a
Melbourne Art Gallery student. Another
youngster of the clan, Elizabeth, daughter
of the Ford Patersons and niece of Esther
and Betty, recently held a show of her
paintings. Elizabeth, also married, has
a small daughter, Amelda. Esther Pater-
son has done the drawings for War-time
Stew. Leila Pirani compiled the stories
contained in this amusing and very Aus-
tralian publication.
A monument to that fine botanist
P. R. H. St. John is there already
in the metropolitan golf links, Oak-
leigh. That club asked the classifier
of the Botanic Gardens to lay out
its links, and he made one of the
loveliest and most unusual gardens in
Australia —an extraordinarily charming
and natural-looking landscape which is a
botanist’s paradise into the bargain.
Groups of tall trees were flanked by low-
growing bushes with fascinating vistas
between them. The piece de resistance
was the red-flowering gum from West-
ralia ( E . ficifolia), planted near the golf
house. In the flowering season it is
almost too overwhelming. A yearly pil-
grimage is made there, and artists have
used up their stocks of crimson lake
painting it times out of number. Lord
Novar, Lord Forster, Lord Stonehaven,
Sir Thomas Gibson-Carmichael and
other Governors and Governors-General
acquired a passion for Australian flora
as St. John’s pupils.
The estate of knight Stephen Morell,
former Lud-Mayor of Melbourne, was
sworn at £57,800. Apart from some
charitable bequest, most goes to the
family. Through a Spanish father, Morell
had property in Spain, and this descends
to his son, Stephen Whitson Morell. A
daughter’s husband is a prisoner of the
Japs.
There are still a few links with last
century’s politicians remaining in Mel-
bourne. Graham Berry was Victorian
Premier as far back as 1875, but his
daughter, Mrs. Woollard, still lives, and
celebrated the 65th anniversary of her
wedding on Sept. 1. Her husband (88)
is one of the State’s oldest retired civil
servants, having been assistant clerk in
the House of Reps., and before that he
was first Sergeant-at-Arms.
The National Theatre Movement,
started at Eastern Hill, Melbourne, by the
energetic Gertrude Johnson, has the tip-
top record of 30 plays, including several
historical Australian dramas, four of
Shakspeare, an original comic opera and
10 grand operas, ranging from Gluck to
Wagner. Miss Johnson was born at
Hawksburn, and was musically educated
at the University Conservatorium, where
she attracted Melba’s attention. A
soprano at Covent Garden, she was the
first to broadcast opera for the 8.8. C.
Beresford Fowler, doyen of Melbourne
amateur producers, has had a play of his,
still in manuscript form," noticed by Scot-
tish reviewers. It is the drama he wrote
in conjunction with Sylvia Archer on the
life of Sir Hector MacDonald, the Scotch
private who rose to be a general and a
national hero, became the subject of a
cause celebre in India and eventually
committed suicide in Paris. A newspaper
published in MacDonald’s home town
says of the Fowler opus: “The subject
is of immense local and national interest,
for Sir Hector’s achievements captured
the admiration of the world. The play is
well set out, readable and coherent. It
should prove of considerable value to
playgoers, Scottish people will wish it
success.” The author intends to produce
it after the war. Winston Churchill
appears in it as a young war correspon-
dent, and, Fowler having sent it to him
for supervision, the busy P.M. made the
time to pencil a note that it needed no
correction.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMA IRINE SCRIMGEOUR late of Sydney.-
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN DALY SCRIMGEOUR has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3030 of 1944 on the
ground of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Thirteenth
day of November next and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from HAROLD MUNBO
Petitioner’s Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
[y
%%
OHj
KODAK
film
AIRGRAPH
REGD. TRADE MARS
3
m
i
i
a
o
I
I
1
I
S
s
I
Iff
It
a
i
s
i
Enquire at any
Post Office
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD. BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
7
5R
AC
COOKERS
On Service /or
A. us trait a
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
... almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call for demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue R 9
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
tit. >852 (lac. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourle Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster *
Sons. Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Pld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers 1 Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
a
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to as for lull
particulars.
SMOKE-OH!
“This lovely Partisan, who is only a slim
lass of 19 summers, is reported to have captured
three German soldiers by knocking them uncon-
scious with a hammer.” — “D.T.’''
One of those stunning girls.
•F *F *F *F
“Away from City Jars.”
—Mountain Health Resort Advt.
And pots.
•F .p
“False eyebrows were a recognised aid to
beauty in the eighteenth century.”
— “World’s News. 1 ”
No pluck was required to wear them.
•F *F *F *F
“Keep the hips in position while bending.”
— Woman’s paper.
Avoid the tendency to slacks.
*F *F *F *F
“The chance of giving birth to more than
one child has been calculated.” — “New Idea.”
And calculating women have one at
most.
•F *F *F *F
Relativity.
The idea came to Professor Willi von
Vacuum as his frau was frying their last
piece of door-mat. He had been idly
diagnosing the perceptible aromas.
Orange-peel and cabbage, that would be
the erzatz fruit merchant who had wiped
his feet here yesterday; real oil (motor
mechanic at wrong address); offal
(Gestapo’s weekly visit); shellfish?—or
was it crushed slugs from the recent rains?
It was hard to say. Yet all this succu-
lence had to cease.
“What would remain, my dear,” he
reflected, “if there were no earth, no
moon, no sun, no stars, no ether?”
“Nothing,” said his wife stonily.
“And suppose there were no nothing.
My theory would prove”
“It would prove that your mind has
at least something in common with our
bl—er, our beloved Fuhrer’s.”
“What is it we’ve got?” inquired the
professor vacantly.
“Nothing!” roared his wife, and
banged the frying-pan in a crescendo of
bangs.
J. B. C.
“Mr. Curtin... .said that the Government
was of opinion that the removal of the minority
malcontents and inresponsibles in the industry
would go a long way towards increased produc-
tion.” — “S.M.H.”
He was referring, of course, to mem-
bers of the Underminers’ Federation.
•F *F *F 4*
“Banjo, open back, five strings, leather case
and teacher. Banjo, this office.” — “Advertiser.”
One of those tough guys of the old
school?
•F *F *F *F
“Twenty-five per cent, on cosmetics is the
rate of a war-time tax imposed in China.”
— “World’s News.”
The money raised will make the
Japanese lose face.
•F *F *F *F
“Fat legs can be a secret between you and
your mirror.” — “Woman.”
If you are under 10 or over 60.
“It seems that any section of the community
may seek its own Utopia—except the nudists.
—Correspondence column.
Why single out the nudists? They
Should be allowed to go where
They’ll find Utopia to their way —
And that, of course, means no wear.
Brian Bureau.
•F *F *F *F
A Point of Honor.
“According to a retired police officer, habitual
criminals, some of whom are well educated,
usually specialise in only one class of crime.”
Horace Fitzßasingthtwaite was check-
ing over the implements in the open sugar-
bag on the table —“soup,” mask, rubber
gloves Suddenly he snapped his
fingers, then got up and searched around
the room until he found his life-preserver.
“I’m always forgetting the dashed
thing, Basil,” he said. “Doubtless one of
these days I’ll profoundly regret my
mnemonic lapse,”
“Personally,” drawled his fellow-
habitual, who shared the flat with him,
“I regard that weapon with considerable
repugnance. The thought of laying open
a chappie’s cerebellum by a stroke with
such a crude tool is revolting. As one who
specialises in the segregation of pelf from
his fellow-creatures by the application of
the garrotter’s art, I must say that the
twisted wire possesses more admirable
features, not the least of which are the
expedition with which its work is per-
formed and the facility with which it
can be handled. But that repulsive blud-
geon”—
Horace lifted an eyebrow delicately as
he put the implement in the bag. “Re-
member, ‘Ex abusu non arguitar ad
usum,’ ”he remonstrated gently. “And,
anyway, I hold a deep affection for it.
Had I the leisure I fain would compose
a sonnet in its honor. It has removed
many a hiatus that might have proved
embarrassing to my noctivigant opera-
tions. Regard it as my dme damnee if
you must, Basil; for myself, I prefer to
think of it as my alter ego. Apropos,
have you an assignment tonight?”
“Assuredly. A bally fellow whom one
of my clients regards as de trap is on my
schedule for attention. I anticipate that
I will have him dispatched with neatness,
speed and a minimum of ado, and by
midnight be back here browsing in
my favorite chair over a spot of Ovid,
awaiting your return so as to toast in
amber wassail the successful accomplish-
ment of both our missions.”
“Excellent, my dear Basil. Well, I must
wait not on the order of my going. Safes
as you know, are my forte. Over the
combinations my fingers, I vow, play with
a skill no whit less than that of the vir-
tuoso whose hands flit lightly over his
beloved keyboard—and tonight, I trow
to a more captivating tune than was ever
evoked from the costliest grand. And
should I happen to be confronted with a
repository that defies successfully the
cunning of even my digits, then have I the
trusty soup with which to persuade recal-
citrant tumblers to yield. Au revoir!”
Three hours later Horace arrived back
at the flat to find Basil absorbed in Ovid.
“Well, how did you fare during your
solivagous sortie?” asked his friend.
For answer Horace upended a small
bag, and notes and coin cascaded on to
the table. “Except that I was compelled
to massage a watchmanly skull with my
trusty preserver,” he observed, “my pro-
fitable venture was without untoward
incident. And you?”
“Like separating an infant from its
lacteal sustenance,” said Basil. “Well,
we have both performed our allotted
tasks with aplomb and the acquisition
of no little of the root of all evil. Ergo,
bibamus! Behold on the sideboard the
needful for the tall glasses.
Horace raised a languid eyebrow. “1
didn’t know you had been to the pub
before six o’clock.” he remarked.
Basil shook his head: “I hadn’t. I got
these on the way back at the side door.
Cost me four bob a bottle.”
Horace bent on his fellow-habitual a
look of severe reproach. “I’m shocked
at such conduct, Basil,” he said. “Don t
you realise that that is breaking the law?
And, besides, doing that might get us a
bad name!”
80.
The Steady Bloke.
“A woman who says three of her nine hus-
bands have been convicts wants to marry a
fellow-convict in Dallas (Texas) jail.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Well, she should be, at all events.
Of husbands quite a “connissooer,”
Since Cupid has vouchsafed to her
Nine marital experiments;
And yet it seems each fiery wooer
Was faithless to his nuptial pact.
Not even prison bars, in fact.
Sufficed to bind her husbands to her.
So if, when choosing Number Ten
From fellow-inmates of the pen,
She happened to become the wife
Of someone who was in for life.
Although the other nine betrayed her.
The tenth, at least, could not evade her.
P. M. LUSK.
Poor Backing.
I often marvel at your wise orations,
Those lengthy views that you have oft
expressed
On economic plans to bind the nations,
Production, surplus values and the
rest.
And yet it seems there must be limitations
To your financial knowledge: I’m
distressed.
Whene’er we two in public places meet,
By those unsightly patches on your seat!
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2fd. per line.
Living Memorials
It would be a good idea to plant
tree for every soldier enlisted in this war
Perth (W.A.) and Orange (N.S.W.) both
did something along these lines after
World War I. Perth planted English oaks
in King’s Park, with a plate at the foot
of each remembering an Australian who
did not return. The memory of heroes
is thus perpetuated in a manner most ol
them would have appreciated. They died
that we might continue to enjoy the trees,
the birds and flowers of freedom. King’s
Park, beautifully situated on a bluff look-
ing down upon a modern, well-planned
city, and sparkling blue water, has en-
riched Perth by giving it a tradition. No
mean gift to bestow upon a city.
Orange planted Memory Park, perhaps
the loveliest, certainly the stateliest, park
in Australia, a glorious and fitting
memorial to our gallant dead. The trees
are well-grown, making a stroll along the
leafy avenues a pleasant experience. A
spiritual atmosphere pervades the place,
a calm that the happy laughter of children
or the chatter of adults does not disturb.
It is not difficult for the sensitive visitor
to feel the presence of a tall, lean, khaki-
clad figure strolling along beside, nor to
sense that, in spirit at least, the boys return
to the trees that were planted for them.
A woman’s conceit? Women placed
the commemorative tablet at Woolloomoo-
loo Bay to mark the Gates of Remem-
brance through which our soldiers passed
to World War I. We could have a
eucalyptus-tree planted for every soldier,
sailor and airman who took part in this
war. Let us honor the living as well as
the dead! Let us plant Australian trees,
and let us begin the good work with-
out delay, and in honoring our brave
render a real service to our country.—
Emily Edwards (N.S.W.).
Schools for Seamen
After the war there is likely to be a big
expansion of Australia’s merchant fleet.
Where are the officers and men being
trained? The Government seems to make
no provision for this aspect of a vital
industry.
The lad desirous of becoming an officer
may join a ship as an apprentice or a
cadet or may go to sea as a deckboy,
rising to A.B. and then, after passing an
examination, to a second mate’s ticket.
But as far as I know there are only three
cos. in Australia carrying apprentices or
cadets. These concerns, and the Com-
monwealth Government, in respect of its
ships, have long waiting lists. For those
wishing to go to sea as deckboys pros-
pects of employment are equally poor.
Even when entry is obtained no en-
couragement is given to either apprentices
or deckboys. The cadet must have an
expensive uniform, he must pay a
premium and provide himself with text-
books. It cost me about £9O to get to
sea as an apprentice, and I considered
myself lucky.
Hundreds of lads who would like to
go to sea are held back through financial
reasons. We have scholarships for uni-
versities and other branches of training ;
why not some provision for training the
seamen of tomorrow? A first step would
be to establish training schools after the
British fashion. All shipping cos. should
be compelled to carry a certain number
of apprentices or cadets, and the condi-
tions of employment of cadets should be
standardised—now they vary with each
company.—M. N. (N.S.W.).
Shrinkproof Wool
Tell “Betawooi” (B. 9/8/’44) that a
process to remove “tickle” and “shrink”
from wool is in use in Australia. Chemi-
cal treatment is applicable to the wool
before or after manufacture into gar-
ments and does not injure the staple.
Such a process is available to any
manufacturer on a royalty basis, and the
chemicals for treatment are manufactured
m Australia. However, I agree with “Beta-
wool” that this is a matter of national
importance; treatment of wool materials
should not be left to individual manu-
facturers but should be compulsory.—
J-R.D. (N.S.W.).
Australian Place-Names
Why have Australians not made
Better use of native names? The map is
sprinkled with them, admittedly, but not
one of the capital cities has an indigenous
name. Adelaide and Sydney look color-
less alongside Singapore and Calcutta.
Kalgoorlie is fine, but why didn’t we get
a name as good for West Australia itself?
Or for South Australia? It was sheer
laziness that turned us to the compass
for State names.
Victoria and New South Wales fit on
to the map just about as happily as a
bowler hat on a stock-rider’s head.
Queensland is a passable label and the
Northern Territory, though trite, sounds
as if it’s somewhere in a new country, at
least. But any myall queia in the Centre
could get on a ridge and holler out a hun-
dred better names for that part of the
country than “Central Australia.”
“Bush” is getting my goat, because it’s
stretched out to cover tall forest and
desert scrub and even treeless gibber. And
when we refer to the blacks why do we
have to call them “abos”? Lazy abbre-
viation of an ugly museum word! Yes,
there are native alternatives, “Binghi”
or “boong,” but whoever selected those
for English currency is not to be con-
gratulated,
Murrumbidgee is a good Australian
name for a river, but most of our river
names sound as if they belong to brooks
in Britain. We haven’t found a more
Australian word for our rolling plains
than downs. Some of the names in the
interior remind me of a two-storey,
oblong stone house I saw rising starkly
out of a gibber plain like a broken-down
toff’s mansion built, by some odd
blunder, in the wrong place, where neither
oaks nor ivy would grow to give it its
authentic setting and cover its nakedness.
“ Don't mind ’im 'angin' about — 'e's me old orfsider."
One day we’ll rename the States and
cities with names as colorful and Austra-
lian as Kalgoorlie. And we might even
find a name for the red central plains
that sounds as if it belongs to that kind
of country.— Waratah (Tas.).
Maimers m the Shops
The question raised by “Lomond” (B.
30/8/’44) has two sides —those of the
shop counter. Courtesy on the shopper’s
part pays generous dividends, for cour-
tesy begets courtesy in all walks of life.
Having been educated at a school where
the motto was “Manners maketh man,” I
have never yet felt the urge to “pull the
nose” of a shop assistant, waitress or bus
conductor.
“Lomond,” who had been coerced into
a shopping expedition with his wife, to
serve as “pack-camel,” was not situated
to give an impartial comment on this
matter. Let him now go shopping alone.
Let him raise his hat occasionally and
use a nice, toothy, society smile and note
the difference in reactions. Furthermore,
let him remember that there are likely to
be quite a lot of shoe-pinches in being a
shop assistant, waitress or bus conduc-
tress in war-time, arising from labor
shortages, disorganisation at home and
other causes.
Finally, let us seek civility— not ser-
vility.—Saltbush (N.S.W.),
Town and Country
Having just arrived in the city from a
grazing region, where some of the folk,
with 1934 and earlier model cars, receive
four gallons of petrol a month, I was
amazed by the sight of petrol-driven
vehicles packed bumper-bar to bumper-
bar along the streets outside amusement
halls,
1 was positively bewildered when
a week-end jaunt round the city sights
and suburbia brought me constantly in
view of groups of cars clustering round
bowling greens and golf courses. All
sporting reserves, even croquet lawns,
had well-thronged parking areas.
The farmer and grazier must save and
husband his resources of juice to use his
auto for essential uses, whereas the city-
dweller goes to sport and amusement by
car, although various other transport
facilities are available. Workers in out-
lying war plants, I am told, get 20, 30
and 40 gallons monthly for running to
work—some give a lift to fellow-workers,
others do not.
Possibly this state of affairs applies
only to Brisbane, but even so it is a
lamentable position.— Adniroc (Q,).
A New Deal for the Farmer
Many people, when a system of co-
operative farming is suggested, say “The
Australian is too free and easy, too rug-
gedly independent.” But his indepen-
dence in many cases has been forced on
him.
This war has proved that, given
the equipment and the men, goods can
be provided in hitherto unheard -of
quantities. It has disclosed unsuspected
possibilities within Australia industrially.
Decentralisation of industry, a necessity
of war, has proved an advantage to the
smooth running of the country. Decen-
tralisation has taught us that the secret
of success is in grouping, for efficiency
and economy’s sake, more or less isolated
but self-contained centres of production
in an arterial method, all over the coun-
try.
So it could be with the farmer. Take
a hundred “farmlets,” each, say, of from
10 to 20 acres. Let these become a centre
in themselves, with a modern picture
theatre, shops, dairy factory, distribution
and collection centre, co-operative stores
and up-to-date schools. With a board of
government controlled by the farmers of
the district the centre could be planned,
administered and controlled efficiently,
without the bungling associated with
indirect control.
There need be no thought nor practice
of regimentation, no lack of opportunity
for improvement. There would be a new
deal in conditions, economic and social,
for the small farmer and farm-worker.
Hallis (Q.).
The Lance-Sergeant
The lance-sergeant isn’t badly off (B.
6/9/’44). He is, in effect, a senior cor-
poral or probationary sergeant. (It is
provided that a unit may appoint lance-
sergeants to number not more than 25 p.c.
of its establishment of sergeants.) The
third “hook” gives him added prestige,
and he has the advantages of more com-
fortable eating and sleeping conditions.
Mess fees are trifling compared with the
privileges of the mess, and he escapes
much of the tedious detail work which
falls to the corporal.
The lance-sergeant should be able to
carry the extra responsibility, or he
should not get the appointment. The bob
a day which he won’t get just yet is a
grievance all along the line. Senior
privates work as lance-corporals, senior
lance-jacks as corporals and so on right
up the scale. It’s just an old Army
custom. — Lucia (A.1.F.),
Communist Teachers
It is useless for Mr. Heffron to deny
that N.S.W. school children are exposed
to Communist influence. Since it is notori-
ous that there are Communist teachers,
it is rather for this Minister to prove that
there has not been a steady flow of Com-
munism poured into the minds of pupils.
No doubt it is necessary for young
people to know that there are “new
social orders,” such as Communism
and Fascism, and that these are the out-
come of tribulation in Russia and Ger-
many, but more attention should be given
to the fact that social orders evolve them-
selves gradually and more comfortably
in countries that have not had serious in-
ternal upheaval.
Britain has not had a revolution. It
should be possible to bring to the notice
of today’s school children this very im-
portant fact, together with the fact that
Democracy has enabled Russia to keep
her Communism by supplying her, at the
expense of British lives, with vital supplies,
without which she would have fallen.
Recently history was removed from the
syllabus as a compulsory subject, and
now children of ages ranging from 12
years (in> some cases, younger) learn
nothing of how England has been
steadying influence from early Eliza
bethan times until the present. This im
portant subject should be included in
every school curriculum to combat Anglo
phobia or indifference, which makes good
soil for the growth of Communism. —
D. L. (N.S.W.).
Political Education
The recommendation of the Press sub
branch of the Perth R.S.L. that a College
of Political Science should be institutec
is worthy of wide support. Few of our
Parliamentarians are really well informed
outside the immediate interests of thei
constituencies.
An English observer has suggested tha;
all candidates for political honors shoulc
be expected to qualify in economics
geography, modern history and philo-
sophy. The importance of economics
requires no elaboration. Geography and
modern history are necessary to appre-
ciate the problems of our neighbors and
their resources, and philosophy, dealing
with “a way of life,” surely is as im-
portant as any subject under the sun.
The greatest enemies of democracy are
the ignorance of the masses and politi-
cians who have their ears to the ground
instead of minds to the common weal
The cultivated classes make very little
contribution to Parliamentary govern-
ment and the method of choosing candi-
dates puts a premium on mediocrity.
Democratic apologists declare that
country gets the Parliament it deserves,
but that is not altogether true. Few have
any say in the selection of candidates ;
cliques and caucuses do the selecting,
which falls on “safe” men rather than
those of high ability or integrity.
Citizens should insist that selected can-
didates possess qualifications comparable
with those in the professions and in the
higher administrative posts. —A. H. M.
(W.A.).
Australian Cars
A committee, a commission and a
board are investigating the possibilities
of complete car manufacture in post-war
Australia. The Tariff Board investigated
the subject just before the war and re-
ported that it was not an economic pro-
posal. Its conclusions were in line with
those of the people in the trade, who
favored step-by-step progress towards
complete manufacture on economic lines.
That the trade was going along on sound
lines was evident from the fact that it
employed over 300,000 Australians. It
proposes to employ many more after the
war, if allowed to do so.
Manufacture may or may not mean a
monopoly, but it will certainly mean
more control, and someone will have to
pay for it. Unofficial prophets predict a
car on the lines of a Continental 8 h.p.
two-stroke-engined front-wheel-drive type,
which was never very popular here and
does not meet the average Australian’s
idea of a standard serviceable car for
city and country.
Behind these investigations is un-
doubtedly the Government’s hope that it
may enter into the business by manu-
facturing parts in what are now Govern-
ment munition factories. When that
happens it will be a bad day for Aus-
tralian motoring and the motor trade.
It is grand, perhaps, to visualise Aus-
tralia making its own cars and trucks,
its own refrigerators and everything else
we require. But then, as an English M.P.
asked, who is going to buy our wheat,
wool, wine and fruit?— Auto (S.A.).
Taper off the Booze
Complicating the question of liquor re-
form are considerations of revenue and
unemployment. Why not set to work on
a 50-year plan? Let the liquor supplied
to every pub and wine bar over the last
10 or 15 years be taken as a basis and
then reduce the average yearly quantity
by 2 p.c. each year until the Trade is
extinguished.
During the period of reduction the
country would be able to prepare for the
time when liquor would be banned. The
Government would be able to adjust its
Budgets to a revenue reduced by the loss
of customs and excise receipts, the license-
holder and owner would know the value
of the license and act accordingly, and
most important of all, the question of
unemployment would solve itself.—R. B.
(Vic.).


edals for Mother
mmm
V-
m
■
13
.■
im
iW
:,
*JT
■s.
w
r V:
_ .. & ' ,v m < ' v •&/££&s£
,
#
Li
|M|
■
S* 3
r*::
vc^
'••* - (tf
■„■ m
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
off to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell-
arid the shopping basket,
» a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of die family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and die children
of all the world.
★ ★ ★ ★
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pty*, Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times " London .
ANZAC HOUSE IS POR ALL SERVICEMEN AND WOMEN. HELP BUILD IT,
