

ẁ
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3385
Wednesday, December 27, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for TraosnusMon by Post as a Newspaoer,
Seppelts
HARLECH CASTLE.
MERIONETHSHIRE, in Wales, has no prouder relic of its
historic past than Harlech Castle. Harlech, itself, is a small
town of only a little more than a thousand population, but for
so long as the Welsh tongue is spoken Harlech will be a name of
great renown. Harlech Castle, although it is by no means the
equal of Conway, has a situation of unusual grandeur. The fortress
is built upon a rugged height rising out of the level plain and
commands splendid views of lofty Snowdon and the lesser peaks
of this mountainous district.
There was a fortress here in Roman times, but the present castle
dates from the reign of the first Edward (1239-1307). In 1408 the
castle was captured by the Yorkists after a long siege, the incident
having probably given rise to the Welsh song, “The March of the
Men of Harlech.” Prior to this happening—which took place in
the reign of Edward IV —Harlech Castle had been the scene of
much fighting, being won and lost by the famous Welsh rebel
“Owain Glyndwr” or Owen Glendower. Following the Civil War,
Harlech was dismantled after having been one of the last places
to hold out for Charles I.


w
Ims Book FKBB to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please tend, without obligation, your Few Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Fame
My Addrett
AGE
The Red Page
PORTRAIT OF CHESTERTON.
“Now I shall always have an audi-
ence,” said G. K. Chesterton. He was
aged five at the time, and he was welcom-
ing the birth of his brpther Cecil.
He always did have an audience. Even
in his schooldays, if he was not quite
so extraordinary a personality as Dr
Johnson, whose playfellows carried him
home in humility and delight on their
backs, he was a sufficiently compelling
spectacle: “Tall, untidy, incredibly
clumsy and absent-minded. When in
the later part of his school life some
sort of physical exercises were made
compulsory the boys used to form parties
to watch his strange efforts on the trapeze
or parallel bars.”
“We thought him the most curious
thing that ever an old schoolfellow
wrote to Maisie Ward, who has told his
life in Gilbert Keith Chesterton (Sheed
and Ward ; Angus and Robertson). “1
can see him now, very tall and lanky,
striding untidily along Kensington High
Street, smiling and sometimes scowling
as he talked to himself,”
“Too much for me,” wrote one of his
masters. “Means well by me, I believe,
but has an inconceivable knack of for-
getting at the shortest notice, is conse-
quently always in trouble.” His head-
master finally decided that he was “six
foot of genius,” and his doctor that he
was a genius or an idiot. He had the
largest and most sensitive brain the
doctor had ever known.
Making an inventory of his property
before his marriage—“A straw hat, a
stick, a box of matches and some of his
own poetry. What more does man re-
quire?”—Chesterton described his body
as idle and omnivorous, “absorbing tea,
coffee, claret, sea-water and oxygen to
its own perfect satisfaction. It is hap-
piest swimming, I think, the sea being
about a convenient size.”
His fiancee tried to tidy him, and Ches-
terton reported progress:
Costume slightly improved. The truth'
is that a mystical and fantastic development
has taken place. My clothes have rebelled
against me. Weary of scorn and neglect,
they have all suddenly come to life and
they dress me by force every morning.
My frock coat leaps upon me like a lion
and hangs on, dragging me down. As I
struggle my boots trip me up—and the
laces climb up my feet (never missing a
hole) like snakes or creepers. At the same
moment the celebrated grey tie springs at
my throat like a wild cat.
The reformation was short-lived. He
wrote a few weeks later, “I am a revolt-
ing object. My hair is a matted chaos
spread all over the floor, my beard is like
a hard broom. My necktie is on the
wrong way up, my bootlaces trail half-
way down Fleet-street.”
On his wedding day he added a re-
volver to his adornments, missing his
honeymoon train because he stopped at
one shop to drink a glass of milk and at
another to buy the gun “to protect his
bride.” “This love of weapons,” Maisie
Ward records, “remained with him all his
life.” He carried a swordstick and—re-
calling Byron and his pistols—slept with
an enormous knife under his pillow.
He played often with a huge knife which
he had had for twenty-four years. He
took it abroad with him, took it to bed;
Frances had to retrieve it often from under
his pillow in some hotel. Once, at a lecture
in Dublin, he drew it absentmindedly to
sharpen a pencil: it was seven-and-a-half-
inches long shut, and fourteen open.
Despairing of making him tidy, says
Maisie Ward, his wife decided to make
hirn picturesque; so came the wide-
brimmed slouch hat and the cloak. At
32 he was already prodigiously fat, so
that Bernard Shaw described him “A
large, abounding, gigantically cherubic
person who is not only large in body and
mind beyond all decency, but seems to
be growing larger as you look at him —
‘swcllin’ wisibly,’ as Tony Weller puts
it.”
He is described at table, the food drop-
ping from his fork and glissading into
obscurity down the rolling slopes of his
chins. He is pictured at his wine, drink-
ing hugely and absentmindedly of every-
thing that came within his reach. “Cigar-
ettes,” one observer records, “set him on
fire in various places,”
“I remember,” says Maisie Ward, “his
appearing once at breakfast in two ties
and claiming, when I noticed it, that it
proved he paid too much, not too little,
attention to dress.” Cosmo Hamilton
describes him at a debate:
To hear Chesterton’s howl of joy when
he twigged how I had slipped out, to see
him double himself up in an agony of
laughter at my personal insults, to watch
the effect of his sportsmanship on a shocked
audience who were won to mirth by his
intense and peahen-like quarks of joy was
a sight and a sound for the gods.
During the whole inspired course of his
brilliant reasoning he caught the little
rivulets which ran down his face, and just
as they were about to drop from the first
of his several chins flicked them generously
among the disconcerted people who sat
actually at his feet. From time to time,
too, unaware of this, he grasped deep into
his pockets and rattled coins and keys,
going from point to point, from proof to
proof, until the Constitution of England
was quite devoid of Law and out from
under his waistcoat bulged a line of shirt.
It was monstrous, gigantic, amazing,
deadly, delicious. Nothing like it has ever
been done before or will ever be seen, heard
and felt like it again.
His behavior was as odd as his appear-
ance. Edward Macdonald tells how he
came very late to a board meeting of
“G.K.’s Weekly”:
Finally he appeared with an explanation.
On calling a taxi at Marylebone he realised
that he could not give the address, so he
told the driver to take him to Fleet-street.
There, as his memory still refused to help,
he stopped the taxi outside a teashop, left
it there while he was inside and, ordering
a cup of tea, began to turn out all his
pockets in the hope of finding a letter or a
proof bearing the address. Then, as no
clue could be found, he told the driver to
take him to a bookstall that stocked the
paper. At the first and second he drew
blanks, but at the third he bought a copy
of his own paper and thus discovered the
address.
Once he set out for an appointment,
arrived in a London suburb and, having
completely forgotten why he was there
or where he was going, sent a telegram
to his wife for directions. She wired
him to come home. When his wife was
recovering from an operation the matron
of the hospital had to telephone the
doctor and ask him to come and remon-
strate with Chesterton, who had been
sittting on the stairs for two hours, re-
fusing to move until he had perfected the
last line of a sonnet he wished to bring
to the patient. An American visitor to
London, who longed to see the great man,
found him very easily by taking a walk
along Fleet-street where Chesterton was
at the door of the Cheshire Cheese com-
posing a poem and declaiming it to the
passers-by as it progressed.
Chesterton’s eccentricities of appear-
ance and behavior were a kind of wit.
And Maisie Ward’s biography, as any
book about Chesterton must be, is a kind
of anthology of his wit. The wit of his
fat; the wit of his eccentricities; and,
not separate but the same thing in a
different form, another expression of a
personality based on laughter, the wit of
his speech and his pen.
The book is rich in quotation, and
every fragment, whether light verse,
letter, reported conversation or extract
from his writings, is a delight to read.
There is always the quality of surprise
that provokes sudden, irresistible laughter
—as when he is writing about the friend
of his youth, E. C. Bentley, inventor of
the clerihew, and paints the beautifully
ridiculous picture:
He was through boyhood’s storm and shower
My best, my nearest friend,
We wore one hat, smoked one cigar
One standing at each end.
Somebody once asked him the tradi-
tional question, what book he would
choose if he were to be shipwrecked on
a desert island. Thomas’s Guide to Prac-
tical Shipbuilding, said Chesterton. Pun-
ning triumphantly, he commented on the
Emancipation of Women. “Twenty mil-
lion young women rose to their feet with
the cry We will not be dictated to: and
proceeded to become stenographers.”
He has an unforgettable portrait of H. G.
Wells as an old hat:
To use the name which would probably
annoy him most, I think he is a permanent
reactionary. Whenever I met him he
seemed to be coming from somewhere
rather than going anywhere. And he was
so often nearly right that his movements
irritated me like the sight of somebody’s
hat being perpetually washed up by the sea
and never touching the shore.
On Bernard Shaw, his other great
adversary, he was equally good. “Is
George Bernard Shaw a coming peril?”
he was asked in America after he had
%iade a speech on the dangers of the
future. “Heavens, no,” said Chesterton.
“He is a disappearing pleasure,”
Dealing with such a character, a bio-
graphy could hardly fail to be entertain-
ing. Maisie Ward has done the job well
and with notable fairness. She is frankly
in sympathy with Chesterton’s religious
and political opinions and was person-
ally friendly with him in his lifetime, yet
she allows full space to criticisms by
Shaw and Wells, and even his personal
detractors are permitted their say. The
book does not attempt very much in
the way of analysis, but presents the full
facts for the reader to draw his own
conclusions.
So much were the two involved in con-
troversy, the book is practically a life
of Shaw as well as of Chesterton and, in
spite of the seriousness with which each
believed in his opinions, conveys as a
whole the impression of two great wits
standing resolutely in the limelight, each
ferociously presenting at the other’s head
a pistol loaded with blank.
Metaphysics and Brontosauri.
Here is an extract from Joseph
O’Dwyer’s The Turning Year (Hawthorn
Press, Melbourne);
If the huge ice floes would only move up this
valley
once again, obeying no traffic laws
and undeterred by hedges, concrete paths
and ornamental fishponds at Chez-nous
and Emoh-ruo, then Robinson could have
the migrating brontosauri instead of the thrips
and aphis to complain of. He would require
more primitive weapon than the mower, yet
might gain renewed importance as a man,
even if it meant defaulting with the instalment
plan.
And here —the book is a long poem
about the troubles of the world —is an-
other extract; —
Warfare and politics
have battered the world’s soul, age
after age, denying its idealism and its
desire to perfect society; murdering
the youth who are the source of
generation’s will to be re-born.
The first extract, though the cadences
are limp enough, lacking the underlying
music that should lift them from prose
to poetry, Would pass as verse ; its flatness
is redeemed by its imagination and its
suggestion—if not its presentation—of
dramatic battle with the prehistoric mon-
sters.
But how is the second quotation to be
distinguished from prose? It seems to
read much more naturally and easily
when set out as such:
Warfare and politics have battered the
world’s soul, age after age, denying its
idealism and its desire to perfect society;
murdering the youth who are'the source of
every generation’s will to be re-born.
It is totally lacking in music ; totally
lacking in color ; totally lacking in excite-
ment, drama, imagination, vision—every-
thing that distinguishes poetry from prose.
Consequently, it is without any interest
as poetry.
The Turning Year is a thoughtful
poem. O’Dwyer follows Eliot and Aldous
Huxley in saying that man could be
“saved” not by action but by contempla-
tion, by “a turning of his mind out of
self towards the centre of the universe.”
The theory may be as good as the next,
but it is hardly worth discussing when it
is presented in commonplace prose. As
The Trojan Doom showed, Joseph
O’Dwyer has power, vision and music
in him, and the ability to sustain imagina-
tion over a long flight; but he has gone
astray in The Turning Year.
If man is to be reformed, which is
doubtful, he is much more likely to be
awed into better behavior by the spec-
tacle of Robinson being devoured by
brontosauri than by the barren meta-
physics that form the bulk of the poem.
And if that spectacle didn’t succeed in re-
forming man, at least it would entertain
him. O’Dwyer’s poetry, in short, will be
saved not by contemplation but by action.
Progressive Publishing Society, N.Z.,
has a £lOO prize for a novel on offer
“open to all persons normally resident in
New Zealand.” Closing date, April 30,
1945. Details from the Society, G.P.O.
Box 956, Wellington.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
An exhibition of technically perfect
collotype reproductions of American art
covering thfee centuries at the National
Gallery in Melbourne seems to indicate
that the art of putting paint on canvas
has developed along much the same lines
as in Australia. The United States had
its Buvelots who brought the European
tradition across the Atlantic and were
followed by artists who tried to use their
own eyes until they arrived at the modern
era, when most of them went gaga. Here
and there are signs of individuality of
expression, but not a great deal, and it
is doubtful whether America has contri-
buted as much to the depictive arts in
300 years as this country has in 100.
A collection of Lionel Lindsay’s tinted
drawings of street scenes in Spain and
Italy, etchings and woodcuts at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, epitomises all
the virtues ■ of this artist’s crisp, firm
draughtsmanship and his command of
the various mediums.
A “Twelve Australian Painters” show
at Farmers Blaxland Galleries contains
a good deal of work that has been
already reviewed. The most notable pic-
tures on view are Lance Solomon’s
“Pacific Sea,” Lorna Nimmo’s “Land-
slide,” Wilfred Peisley’s “Fishing Boats,
Port Hacking” and Eric Langker’s “At
Evening, Middle Harbor.” G. K. Towns-
hend, Clif Peir, Garrett Kingsley and
H. A. Hanke are also well represented.
A memorial exhibition of the work of
the late John Hennessy at the Melbourne
Athenapum goes so far back in history
that it includes last-century pictures. Hen-
nessy learnt his artistic alphabet, a very
orthodox one, from a forgotten Mel-
bourne teacher—One Sigismondo Zacutti
—and he never departed from the methods
of his master. His sincerity was the most
notable thing about him. Among his
works were the allegorical pictures
painted on banners which used to figure
in Eight Hours’ Day processions. He
also specialised in church decoration. He
was so out of the stream of contem-
porary fashions that if a “modern” pic-
ture appeared in his exhibition it would
cause the same sensation as a naked
South Sea islander at a science banquet.
The brooms that protruded through
the curtain while the scenes were being
changed gave an unexpected charm to
“Rio Rita” at Sydney Royal, looking
rather like heavily-moustached villains
taking a peep at the audience and then
hastily retreating. Fred Murray and Don
Nicol are witty enough, Ormonde Doug-
las’s singing is deep and resonant, and
Gladys is Gladys: but the Royal does
sadly need a new broom.
“Princess Ida,” which joined the Gil-
sullivan procession at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, under the damp cloud of a
waning public interest, gave the season
a new lease of life, largely due to the
vivacity and fine singing of Strella Wil-
son, as the deformed King Gama’s
daughter. Like the creators of Era
Malley, Sullivan set out to parody music,
and he produced in “Princess Ida” paro-
dies of almost every style of music.
Being a fine musician, however, he
couldn’t help but write fine music, and
it has seldom been better treated by a
better chorus than it was in the current
presentation.
Violent efforts at Melbourne Univer-
sity Union Theatre to bring grand opera
back into popular favor were unreserv-
edly successful. Directed by the Conser-
vatorium’s able Clive Carey, Australian
artists presented “The Queen of Spades”
of Tschaikowsky, the “Hansel and
Gretel” of Humperdinck and the “Dido
and AEneas” of Purcell. The items were
of a kind that imported companies don’t
usually touch, yet there is nothing in
operatic music in the 300 years since
the Englishman made his lone attempt
at musical drama that excels the beauty
and pathos of Dido’s death-song or the
effectiveness of the sombre ground-bass
painting the despair of the queen who
has been abandoned by her lover. Vera
Terry made an impressive Dido and Wil-
liam Howard an awkward but melodious
AEneas.
At the talkies: — *
Pearl Buck’s “Dragon Seed” (Sydney Liberty)
shows the passive resistance of a farming com-
munity merging under Jap pinprickings into
open rebellion. The strength of the film lies
in the interplay of the Chinese characters:
Walter Huston as the dignified and drily
humorous head of the family, Akim Tamiroff
as an oily traitor, Katherine Hepburn as the re-
strained Jade, and Aline McMahon stealing the
show as the fatalistic, tenacious mother. A
successful innovation is the sepia-tone photo-
graphy.
In “The Lamp Still Burns” (Embassy) the
work of the ordinary civilian hospital nurse
is made absorbingly interesting by Leslie
Howard’s skilful production. A plea for better
conditions is woven in. Rosamund John’s per-
formance as a nurse who determines to suc-
ceed is something out of the box.
An Australian W.A.A.F. provides some heart
and anthropological interest in “Marine
Raiders” (Civic). In the grand old Australian
manner she says “kant” for “can’t” and travels
in her own open car (no petrol restrictions)
at around 60 m.p.h. without a hair of her
perfect perm, being disturbed. For the rest
it is stock-pattern stuff.
“The Constant Nymph,” Margaret
Kennedy’s excellent play about the musi-
cal Sanger family—which some say was
based on Elgar—requires delicate hand-
ling, and it got a remarkably sensitive pre-
sentation from the National Theatre
people in Melbourne. Albert French as
Lewis Dodd, the somewhat ordinary
young composer, Shirley Stevenson as his
socially ambitious wife, Phil Furley as
the vulgar Jacob Birnbaum, June Jago,
Betty Ross and Gloria Mellody as the
savage young progeny of the immortal
Sanger, and George Gordon as the honest
Roberto, were a set of amateurs who
were just as good as, if not better than,
the eminent professionals who gave the
same piece to the world per medium of
the cinema. William Carr was the pro-
ducer. Under the direction of its founder
Gertrude Johnson, the N.T. has become
the liveliest theatrical enterprise in Mel-
bourne,


Anthony Horderns' 'The Senior Store"
m
&
2%
WHILE I LIVE I'Ll GROW
"Truth in Advertising" 121 Years of SeiVice
Another year of war draws to its close, the fifth since the com-
mercial life of the community was plunged into chaos.
Now is it fitting to return thanks once again to our friends who
have so loyally supported us.
Thus have they demonstrated their understanding of the diffi-
culties under which we, as also other Traders, have
endeavoured to render service.
Happily, our stocks were in such shape that we have been
able to meet many urgent necessities of the people.
Only circumstances entirely beyond our control will ever bring
us to a negative reply to a reasonable request.
Not available is a term which we, as the Senior Store, have
strenuously combated.
Yielding to no consideration of trouble or expense we have
tried to prove worthy of our 121 years of service to the
public.
However difficult trading may become before we reach
normal conditions again.
Our unremitting aim will be to maintain the reputation we
have for so long enjoyed,
Rigidly to supply goods of quality at reasonable prices, bearing
only a fair return for capital invested.
Durability is a watchword with us.
Every shopper, particularly in such times as these, when civil
production must of necessity take second place to war
needs, should seek it.
Rightly, we believe, we place it in the forefront of our policy.
Never will we question that quality remains when price is
forgotten.
Such was the faith of the original Founders of the business, and
such is the faith of their successors to-day.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
SYDNEY


SHOTS IN THE ORCHARD
By BRIAN JAMES.
TEMPLETON was singularly free of
crime—major crime, that is. Some-
one tried once to explain that it was
the air and the scenery and the busy
industry of the small farms that made it
so.
You just can’t, he said, imagine any-
thing happening in a place like Temple-
ton —its neat rows of oranges and lemons
and passionfruit are a picture of a
properly ordered life.
Templeton was certainly beautiful in
its orchards, miles of them breaking at
irregular intervals into the drab bush of
stringybarks and bloodwoods and all the
hard tenacious growth of the sandstone
country. It was on a plateau, too, where
one looked over the edge of the world
on to a blue mistiness, empty and endless,
till the Mountains rose against the
western sky—and the world began again.
Not a place for crime—big crime. Even
the very scent of citrus bloom, most of
the year, did not fit in with the larger
misdoings of man.
There were the smaller sins, of course.
Full of interest they were, too. But they
happen anywhere; bound to happen any-
where.
Terry Heydon might get into trouble
with the taxation people about his faked
returns —well, you could hardly blame
Terry, the way things were, but he was “a
damned fool not to have got an expert
to help with the faking.”
The insurance company might try to
catch Peter Armstrong over his highly
successful and profitable fire, but Peter
could account for the kerosene on the
chaff-bag not that everyone else
couldn’t account for it, too, though their
interpretation was different from the one
Peter gave at the inquiry. There might
be Elsie* Youngtree with her illegitimate
twins that was a sensation. “Put
Templeton on the map,” said Roily Grey,
the agent for the big fertiliser company.
There might be the hiding Jack Morgan
gave Wally Prosser; good to hear of,
that was —though it never got to court.
There might be—well, dozens of things
that just happen ip a normal sort of way,
as it were.
But the shooting over at Rath’s place
was different. That was a big event,
something to last Templeton for all the
years to be.
ENOCH RATH lived on the ridge
that led to Halfway, A quiet little
man with eyes of no particular color and
with a hopeless sort of mildness in them.
He was so neutral in feature that he was
really noticeable on that account. Gentle
and religious, too, the very model of Mr.
Samuel Henderson’s small flock. Samuel
himself was a mild-seeming man, but
when he preached he was inspired with
such a divine anger that he almost seemed
fierce. But Enoch was one of the lambs.
Enoch had married, years before, a
woman who most decidedly wasn’t one of
the lambs. She arrived in the district
a stranger, but, incredible as it may
seem, no one ever found out a single item
of her antecedents. She was a full, big
woman with very red, thick lips; but not
at all unpleasant to look on.
She had bits of coral or something
dangling from her ears and a very rich
growth of glossy black hair. Possessive
looking, and not the sort of wife for
Enoch—that is, if anyone could imagine
the right sort of wife for Enoch. He
looked a shrimp beside her; or like a
male spider, perhaps.
How he came to marry her no one
ever heard, but the general view was that
she had married him —why, heaven only
knew. Perhaps it was Enoch’s property ;
he had a tidy bit of a place, well kept,
too, and as profitable as anyone’s. People
conceded that Enoch knew how to work
an orchard, though they reckoned he
wasn’t much good for anything else. And
those who didn’t belong to Mr. Hender-
son’s flock were sure that the very name
“Enoch” had a lot to do with it.
“Them old Bible names don’t sorter fit
now,” was how “Major” Brown summed
it up: “There’s a sort of a twist about
them that they never gets properly over.
Sort of insult to the rest of us they are,
too.” The “Major’s” first name was
Candahar, and “Major” was a purely
honorary affair bestowed on account of
the Candahar, and the circumstance of a
grandfather having been in the Indian
Mutiny; or, at least, “Major” believed
that he had been in the Mutiny.
There was a contract carrier at the
other end of Templeton called Tommy
Ramsbottom, a husky big brute, full of
life and strong language. But he was an
efficient carrier, though it was always a
sore point that Tommy made so much
out of the carrying business—ninepence
a bushel he charged, whatever fruit prices
were. “Makes more out of the damn’
fruit than we do what grows it,” Wise-
man often said. And then Wiseman
„—m ; n t darklv that he was thinking
of getting a truck himself—and then
.. .ww. /"vs a aid iter ot tact, he did get
a truck later, and charged a bob a bushel
and went into a maze of figures about
running costs.
Tommy treated Enoch in a scandalous
fashion. It really wasn’t a fair thing at
all. He would yell at Enoch whenever he
saw him “ ’Ullo, old cock! ’Ow are you
and Gawd getting on now?” Enoch
tried to keep out of his way.
Nor was that all. Tommy spent a lot
more time at Enoch’s than the carrying
business seemed to warrant. Everyone
knew that, and “all about it”; that is,
everyone but Enoch. Not that it would
make much difference, they said, if the
poor sook did know. They knew what
they’d do to Tommy Ramsbottom.
Such matters weren’t discussed or
hinted at when Tommy was about, how-
ever, “Like-ter-see my wife carrying on
like that!” said “Major.” “Just-like-ter!”
Of course, “Major” didn’t quite mean it
that way—he merely wanted to show how
distressing situations of the kind might
be handled. In any case, “Major’s” wife
was a long, thin, very flat woman with a
slight beard and a holy terror of a
tongue. That she might ever, in her long
life, have been detected in the process of
“carrying-on like that” went far beyond
the flights of the higher imagination. So
“Major” could use her only as an abstract
illustration—very abstract.
When Enoch went to McCallum’s store
he was generally in for a bad time,
especially if the gangling youths of the
district were there in force. They always
seemed to be there. Enoch was a diver-
sion to them. They addressed him as
“Mr. Rath” with a mocking emphasis on
the “Mr.” or as “Nocky, old boy, how
are you?”
They made very earnest and serious
inquiries about his oranges and lemons,
and then the “hard case” would ask
“How’s the passions down ypur way, Mr.
Rath?” That was insupportable humor,
and one or two others always fell off
packing-cases in their mirth. Or they
tried out limericks, which were no better
than that simple poetic form is often
prone to be, • They winked and nodded
and nudged when the “hard case” in-
quired if Enoch had seen Tommy Rams-
bottom of late, and someone was sure to
fall off a packing case at that. It was great
sport, for Enoch didn’t seem to “know,”
and, anyway, he was so defenceless.
DERHAPS Enoch knew a lot more
\ than they thought. It may have been
his chicken heart or it may have been his
religious creed or both of these together
that made him take it all.
But certainly something was going on
in his mind all the time, and one day—
a Thursday, yvhen Tommy would be
doing the return with empties along the
ridge to Halfway—Enoch came to the
store and “acted peculiar.”
Not easy to say just how, but even the
“hard case” remembered it later. Looked
straight at everyone for the first time in
his life, queer sort of look, too ; and
when he got into his cart he belted his
horse over the rump till it galloped
rickety-rockety down the road.
After that no one knew exactly what
happened, though everyone heard the
two shots, and everyone knew when they
heard them that “something was wrong.”
“Just sitting in the shade of an orange-
tree,” it went, “and those two shots went
‘bang!’ and after a long time ‘bang!’
again. I said to the wife ‘Nellie, those
shots are over at Rath’s place. I don’t
like them.’ Just like that I said it. And
the wife said ‘Jim, you’d better not go
over.’ Very careful the wife is. And I
didn’t go, but I couldn’t get those shots
out of my head at all.”
But the big news soon got round —
Enoch had shot his wife and Tommy
Ramsbottom: “Got ’em both as neat as
yer like! ”
So everyone went over—lot of the
women did, too, to see if they could help.
The police were there already, and acting
very importantly and officiously; they
wouldn’t tell anything. But those that
got there first said that Enoch was sitting
on the edge of the verandah holding the
.32 rifle and staring strange-like into no-
where. And he just said “I done it!”
Nothing more, and went on staring again.
Tommy Ramsbottom’s big red truck
was still standing near the packing shed,
loaded high with a square mountain of
empties. They found Mrs. Rath near the
grader and Ramsbottom right at the end
of the lemon bed where the thick scrub
begins. Right at the end of the row, 150
yards, if it was an inch. Both dead—
and he got Tommy at 150 yards, and
Tommy running hard and dodging. The
tracks showed that. It was a wonderful
shot. And that sook of an Enoch would
tell nothing more than “I done it! ”
'“THEY took all three to town, of course,
I and then everyone went to look at
Enoch’s place—just casually—and tried
to reconstruct everything, and measured
the distance from where they reckoned
Enoch fired to where Tommy was found.
Some of them stepped it out as 160 yards.
There was a reluctant sort of admira-
tion for Enoch when they said “A won-
derful shot that! ” though some reckoned
it must have been a fluke. Strangely
enough, or perhaps it wasn’t so strange,
there was a lot of sympathy for Tommy
Ramsbottom, even more than there was
for his wife —he had a wife, a poor, color-
less little woman who was always com-
plaining in sing-song tones of which no
one ever took any notice. There were
four young children, too.
In all, it was a ghastly business. Some
of the women went along and did what
they could to help. It was really difficult
to do much. Mr. Samuel Henderson
drove over, too. Deep down in old
Samuel, much deeper down, though he’d
never recognise it, than all his lay-preach-
ing, was a rich vein of gold. And when
he found that Mrs. Ramsbottom didn’t
think, as far as she was able to think,
that it was God’s will at all, he didn’t
pester her on those lines any more.
But most of Templeton and Halfway
went into solemn judgment. In a strictly
fair manner they weighed the evidence
and did what otherwise fair judges often
neglect—they reviewed the principal
actors in the tragedy over many years.
And so the findings ran: —'
“In all fairness, you can’t altogether
blame Tommy Ramsbottom” “She
encouraged Tommy” “I will say this
for Tommy, that he was a decent enough
fellow, though 1 will maintain that nine-
pence a bushel was a bit hot for fruit”
“Something of the sort was bound
to happen sooner or later; but who’d
have thought Enoch could shoot like
that?” “Well, I'blame Enoch for
the whole thing. Wouldn’t have happened
if he’d been half a man”
Then Wiseman went into gloomy pro-
phecy (it was hard to say whether he en-
joyed more the gloom or the prophecy).
“As I was saying to the wife, ‘They
must find him guilty ; and then the Judge
will have to sentence him to hanging.’
But with this crowd in power they'll
Temute’ to life, or something like that.”
Wiseman seemed to think it a pity, but
you could only expect the worst from
“that crowd.” Also, Wiseman had a
special insight into the workings of the
criminal law by virtue of his cousin, who
had sat on the jury in many of the biggest
(and worst) cases in the city. From him
Wiseman had gleaned many features and
highlights of crime that “don’t even get
into the papers.”
In the meantime Templeton was duly
“put on the map.” City papers featured
Templeton for many days, and had long
accounts of the district, and many photos
of Enoch’s house and orchard and crosses
to mark the spots.
The inquest was held in due course,
and was a most exasperating affair:
Enoch had nothing to say, or would say
nothing. Nothing at all beyond “I done
it! ” No questions would shift him from
that —or make him say more.
He was committed for trial. Everyone
said “He’ll talk when it comes to the
trial.” But he didn’t. It was hard to
get him to plead at all, but at length he
became voluble to the extent of “Oh, yes ;
I’m guilty, I suppose.” After that he
relapsed into “I done it.”
Enoch was a shocking disappointment
to those who thirsted for the details.
Many of those who had admired his won-
derful shooting were now inclined to con-
cede that it must have been a fluke after
all. In fact, Enoch fell even lower than
ever in popular estimation, if that were
at all possible.
'T'HEY didn’t hang poor Enoch. After
I much medical and psychological ex-
amination (in which the local “hard case”
and his boon companions did not tender
any evidence) it was decided that Enoch
was insane, and he was sent to an in-
stitution. Mrs. Ramsbottom, who in the
general opinion was “much to blame,”
left the district. Mr. Samuel Henderson
saw to it that she got a fair deal with
her place, even if she didn’t belong to
“his flock.” »
Wiseman remained dissatisfied. He
knew... .and he always had said and
“as I said to the wife only yesterday”
“But I’ll say this much”
In his final findings, influenced not a
little, no doubt, by his cousin the eminent
juryman, he concluded that Enoch was
mad all along, but that Enoch knew well
enough what he was doing. His “I done
it!” was a piece of low cunning (the
cousin had met cases like that before).
And Enoch did the right thing, anyway,
“in shooting the pair of them,” but the
law should have had its course, and they
should have hanged him. Wiseman was
a great believer in hanging; he reckoned
it was a complete cure —and a great
example—“ But what can you
this crowd?”....
Quiet, rural Templeton looked as beau-
tiful as ever, and the citrus bloom smelt
as sweet, but for all that Templeton had
made history and had been put on the
map.
Lady Feeding the Cats.
I.
Shuffling along in her broken shoes from the
slums,
A blue-eyed lady showing the weather’s stain,
Her long dress green and black like a pine in the
rain,
Her bonnet much bedraggled, daily she comes
Uphill past the Moreton Bays and the smoky
gums
With a sack of bones on her back and a song in
her brain
To feed those outlaws prowling about the
Domain,
Those furtive she-cats and those villainous toms.
Proudly they step to .meet her, they march
together
With an arching of backs and a waving of plumy
tails
And smiles that swear they never would harm
a feather.
They rub at her legs for the bounty that never
fails,
They think she is a princess out of a tower,
And so she is, she is trembling with love
and power.
11.
Meat, it is true, is meat, and demands attention.
But this is the sweetest moment that they know
Whose courtship even is a hiss, a howl and a
blow.
At so much kindness passing their comprehen-
sion
—Beggars and rogues who never deserved this
pension—
Some recollection of old punctilio
Dawns in their eyes, and as she moves to go
They turn their battered heads in condescension.
She smiles and walks back lightly to the slums,
[f she has fed their bodies, they have fed
More than the body in her; they purr like
drums,
Their tails are banners and fountains inside her
head.
The times are hard for exiled aristocrats,
But gracious and sweet it is to be queen of
the cats.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
The Caterpillars.
1 doubt if you could catch, my dear.
The caterpillar train.
It’s pretty enough to watch, my dear,
Bristling after the rain.
Each head to a tail, at the pace of a snail
The leader carts them along;
On whatever authority, post or rail,
It’s easy for him to go wrong;
To lead them into a bustard’s bill,
A lengthy tunnel, or, lost
In meaningless circles, be wandering still
When the road’s next dressed with frost.
So many tragedies wait for a train,
So many lives flash by;
I’ll never go away again,
I’ll never say good-bye.
But then, I doubt if you could catch
This caterpillar train:
It’s pretty enough for you to watch
After the tears of rain.
Safely over the crossing of road
Their kindred will travel by air,
If the ants don’t storm and overload
This train, with a menacing air.
Thdugh there may be no safety in crowds
When the bull toad starts to croak.
Snug in the mould they’ll wind their shrouds
As a train disappears in smoke.
Each grub in its web shall doze as a coach
Detached, in its dusty pall;
So unenticing none shall encroach,
Or know that a train at all
Has writhed in fur, like a hissing snake,
Its way through the forest grass,
With only the future to act as a brake
And beak and claw to pass.
So many tragedies wait for a train —•
But so many trains get through;
And here is a train, a most primitive train,
Arriving out of the blue.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—-No. 3385.
Wednesday, December 27, 1944.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
"And you’ll need this—you can’t do anything without it in this country.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
.. Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WE COULD LOSE.
A year glorious for Anglo-American
arms is closing doubtfully. Not because
of anything military that has happened
in any of the theatres in which the British
Empire and the United States are en-
gaged with the Axis Powers, even in the
area of the German counter-offensive
against the Americans. Though Von
RunstedPs blow was shrewd and well-
timed, it can scarcely amount to
anything more than a delaying action.
Broadly considered, it was aimed
rather at the morale of the western
democracies than at their military
strength. On that score the enemy has
none of the illusions which have been
entertained concerning himself and part-
ner in the English-speaking countries,
taught to underrate both and never left
unsupplied with food for unreasoning
optimism by newspaper and magazine
writers and radio blah-merchants. While
always ready to profit by this state of
mind when an occasion for disturbing
it arises, Germany knows that the mili-
tary strength of the United Nations is
overwhelming.. It is their morale and
cohesion that have grown doubtful,
assailed as they are from 1 within and
without.
Under Neville Chamberlain’s leader-
ship the Empire went into the war with
clean hands. It is no use denying that
the abandonment to Russia of nearly
all the Polish territory seized by that
country in 1939, by favor of Hitler and
in defiance of its own commitments to
Poland and to the League of Nations,
represents a moral fall. And the offer to
Poland of East Prussia, without Kdnigs-
berg—that is obviously to go to Russia,
together with as much of the hinterland
as it can take—but with Danzig and
other parts of Germany not clearly
specified, doesn’t make the business
smell any less strong. There is a
case for dismembering Germany, but
the proper time for dismemberment is
at the end of the war. Even if it may
be considered necessary, for undisclosed
military reasons, to square Russia now,
it remains to be proved that squaring
Russia will help to win the war and the
peace ; and proof has not been attempted.
Russia is setting a terrific price on its
services in the war which it did not enter
till attacked. It has been permitted to
annex part of the Bukowina, which
was an Austrian Crownland, and to com-
pensate the Rumanians with Transyl-
vania at the cost of keepiing Hungary in
the war; permitted also to annex part
of Finland and to exact indemnities from
that country, Rumania and Bulgaria—in
the last case after a bloodless war which
raged for four hours. In making these
arrangements Moscow paid no atten-
tion to the “unconditional surrender”
formula struck off by Mr. Roosevelt at
Casablanca, nor was it restrained by the
slightest respect for the Atlantic Charter,
though in Iran, from which Moscow has
since demanded oil concessions in hec-
toring terms and with the familiar com-
munist “demonstrations,” Mr. Stalin re-
ferred warmly to “the principles of the
Atlantic Charter, to which all four Gov-
ernments” (those of Iran, Britain, the
U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.) “have con-
tinued to subscribe.” Mr. Roosevelt
has now explained that, while he still
adheres to the principles of the Atlantic
Chartei;, that instrument never existed “as
a formal document signed by myself and
Mr. Churchill.” All things considered,
this is dreadfully disappointing.
On the subject of Poland' the new
State Secretary has repeated the Presi-
dent’s pre-poll declaration in favor of “a
strong, free, independent Polish State,”
but it now seems that the Administration
has no objection to boundary changes if
“mutual agreement is reached by the
United Nations directly concerned.”
How Poland, Finland, Bulgaria, Rumania,
Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia can be
“strong, free and independent” with
Russia alongside and strong native com-
munist parties inside neither the Presi-
dent nor Mr. Stettinius has explained.
The Russians are carrying into Europe
a new form of imperialism which makes
conquest look easy. One drawback, is
that so much depends upon the life of
one man. In a few years he will be dead,
and no one can be sure who will succeed
him, or that his successor will follow his
policy or command the same allegiance,
or even that his vast empire won’t fall
to pieces. The exodus of Cossacks and
even Georgians with Hitler’s retreating
legions suggests at least discontent with
Moscow rule, and the presence of
not only European Russians but men
from Turkestan in the German armies
in France indicates that the prin-
ciple of nationality is working in
many parts of the U.S.S.R. Ana just
as the word “presbyter” is merely “priest
writ large,” as someone once said, so it
may be contended that the new imperial-
ists, given their heads, are apt to behave
very like the old imperialists.
American reporters were in Bucharest
when the Russians arrived. One wrote
that the equipment was practically all
American. Another, Percival Knauth, of
“Time” (October 23), was impressed with
“the sincerity of pro-Allied,” meaning
Anglo-American, “sentiment,” the people
being a prey to two fears: “at worst they
think their country will become a Soviet
republic; at best they believe that Mos-
cow wants to instal a communist Gov-
ernment, preceded probably by revolu-
tion.”
Before the Russians entered Bucharest
the people were plain scared. The Red
Army entered the city and quietly passed
through, leaving small contingents behind.
But more Russians came....to a country
rich in everything they had done without
for more than three years. They started re-
quisitioning. Some started looting. Some
got drunk and started taking women.
Their officers needed cars. With little
or no ceremony they took them where they
found them. They needed quarters, and
requisitioned them. And the Russian sol-
diers found an easy way to get watches.
They walked to somebody in the street,
asked the time, looked at the watch and,
if they liked it, took it.
After nine o’clock nobody was allowed in
the streets. Russian patrols roamed the
city all night long. They were not used to
peaceful cities; they shot at shadows, even
at one another.
The Communist party claims only about
2000 members. But the presence of the
Red Army makes the communists feel
stronger, because they are able at any time
to brand the Government as “reactionary.”
Democratic elements realise that the present
Government must be changed, but they are
afraid to precipitate a change because it
might give the communists a chance to
stage a coup. Cold, hungry people are
bitter people, easily incited to action, and
many Rumanians this winter are likely to
be both cold and hungry.
In a later “Time” dispatch it was
recorded that “all elements in the popu-
lation and Administration” had been
warned against causing “incidents” with
members of the Red Army, and that the
Premier “and his entire Cabinet” had
resigned. This points to trouble of the
kind that the British have struck in
Greece, though from a different quarter.
One thing is certain: we won’t hear any-
thing about it from the Leftists who
have been denouncing British policy in
Greece and lying like redshanks about it,
even in Australia. It is the only policy
which could have been adopted by the
British Government, concerned as it is
with the military situation as well as with
feeding the Greek nation and protecting
it against a faithless and murderous com-
munist insurrection. But Laborites and
Liberals have joined the Moscow party
in opposing it, and whether this attitude
is attributable to war-weariness or wrong-
headedness or both, it introduces an un-
happy division at a time when the nation,
still exposed to the twin horrors of robot
and rocket bombs, needs all its strength.
Anglo-American reactions to the Russo-
French alliance have not been revealed’
in Australia, but general approval cannot
be expected. Alliance with Russia may
be a political necessity in the present state
of France, with its strong and menacing
communist organisations; but it seems
strange that it should have been entered
into before the French Government
arrived at an understanding with Britain.
And the articles of the treaty, as pub-
lished, give no cause for elation except
to boys of the Leftist breed. As in the
case of the Anglo-Russian alliance, there
is no mention of the war with Japan,
though the De Gaulle Government has
verbally undertaken to fight for the return
of Indo-China ; nor is there any reference
to Spanish policy, though communists all
the world over are trying to whip up a
war with Spain.
These gaps in the story will, no doubt,
be noted by those Americans who are at-
tacking British policy and Russian policy
and railing at their own Government for
acquiescence in both. Strongly moved
by the casualties on the Western Front,
these Americans are flaying the Russians
for their failure to advance in Poland
and East Prussia, and bitterly recalling
General MacArthur’s statement to Sena-
tor Mead that lack of bases in Siberia
would cost the Americans millions of
lives. Much the same conviction has been
reached by Denis Warner, the Middle
East fighter whom the Melbourne
“Herald” engaged as a war correspon-
dent after he had shown his parts in a
contest with one of Mr. Curtin’s Min-
isters. In a dispatch from Admiral
Nimitz’s headquarters, “probably the last
I will write here,” the young man warned
Australia that “unless Russia intervenes
after the defeat of Germany, at least three
or four years will be required to over-
come Japan.”
Both our enemies are fighting for time.
Many of us have fallen into the easy
assumption that time is on our side ; they
think it is on their side, and they have
warrant for so thinking. They cannot
beat us in battle, but by failing on the
home front and falling out in the politi-
cal field we could beat ourselves. Both
began with successes which set their
principal adversaries back two years ; and
for them stalemate, no less than a nego-
tiated peace, would mean victory. For
us it would mean defeat, with conse-
quences appalling to contemplate.
Army for Australia.
As far as any Federal Labor member
these days may be said to be committed
by any statement that member makes,
Dr. Evatt is committed to a strong post-
war army, air force and navy 1 defence for
Australia. Mr. Forde, for another, is
similarly committed ; and, through these
two leading Ministers, the present Com-
monwealth Government would be also if
Ministerial responsibility was now better
than a byword. But even taking their
statements on this subject at full face
value, there is still nothing definite in
them. There is no concrete practical
design for a lasting defence establish-
ment. Dr. Evatt has not even made a
single positive pronouncement on how he
proposes to implement the security terms
of his Australia-New Zealand agreement.
The air force and navy sections may
perhaps be regarded as comparatively
easy. The largest reasonable establish-
ment of either would probably be readily
filled with suitable men, taking to it as a
career. With air-force training kept up
through the war, there would probably
be a surplus of available personnel, even
after civilian requirements had been met.
The comparatively limited man-power re-
quirements of whatever sized navy is in-
tended would probably be as easily met.
It is the army section on which it would
be reassuring to have some concrete
details.
far the only positive proposal is
that put forward by the R.S.L. —repeated
and fostered, if not originated, by R.S.L.
Federal President Gilbert Dyett—for a
permanent army of 100,000. The pro-
posal is that this should be formed from
those who will still be in uniform at the
end of the war. Thus it would necessarily
be a volunteer force, and as such a further
perpetuation of the unsatisfactory “volun-
tary system.” R.S.L. Diggers have at
various times strongly urged universal
military training, and it could be the
intention to have this supporting the
other. Whatever the full intention, the
bare proposal for a permanent standing
army of 100,000 seems open to some
objections.
Mr. Menzies, too, has had something
to say on the subject:
Australia must hav,e as the foundation of
any foreign policy an adequate permanent
defence structure. It may seem a paradox,
but the events of the last few years hayp
shown that the first essential of a real
foreign policy is a good domestic policy x
of military training and equipment. When
this war is over there will be just as great
a temptation as in the past for Australia
to. slip back to some inadequate and sketchy
militia training. If we succumb to such
a notion it may well be fatal. We cannot
indefinitely rely upon others.
Every word of it true, but open to
various interpretations.* An “adequate
permanent defence structure” sounds per-
fect ; but what do “adequate” and “per-
manent” mean to Mr. Menzies? “Per-
manent” could have reference to a “stand-
ing army,” and one of the size the R.S.L.
has proposed might be considered “ade-
quate.” But whether this would square
with “a good domestic policy of military
training” is so doubtful as to make it
almost certain Mr. Menzies has some-
thing better in mind. Taking this more
favorable interpretation, the proper con-
demnation of Australia’s previous “in-
adequate and sketchy militia training”
might not mean mere support for any
proposal of a standing army alone, but
might promise establishing regular militia
training on an adequate and solid basis.
If that is what Mr. Menzies has in
mind he is on sound ground, and laps
ahead of the field. One objection to the
“standing army of 100,000” is that it
would appear so big as to be considered
adequate in itself. Compared with its
actual value it would eat a huge hole in
defence estimates year after year—so huge
that, if peace looked secure, there would
be efforts to have the cost reduced.
Taking the cost and the actual value for
lasting defence purposes together, Aus-
tralia would be getting a poor return for
its money.
Another objection is that it would
probably be most difficult to keep such
an army up to strength. Australians make
willing and good war soldiers none
better —but they have not hitherto shown
any strong liking for regular soldiering.
Probably the officer and n.c.o. ranks
could be filled and kept filled, but what
of the ordinary soldiers? Anybody who
thinks there would be enough Australians
always forthcoming for that sort of ser-
vice on that scale would seem to have
forgotten the desperate, if comic, pre-
war efforts to beat up recruits, and would
need to overlook, too, the normal Aus-
tralian character and the comparative
opportunities in Australian civilian life.
Yet another objection—and a highly
important one—-is that, with a standing
army established and accepted, as it surely
would be, as adequate, the strong fight-
ing instinct and responsibility to their
country in all the better element of Aus-
tralian youth, instead of being fostered,
would be stultified. Over the years it
would coijie to be accepted that the job
of defending the country belonged to that
separate body, the standing army. The
result, in time of need, could be that
Australia would have a probably excel-
lent force for about one stiff engagement,
and nothing but raw material—in part
unwilling— to call oh for its support.
Something better is needed, and the
plans for it should be drawn up now,
ready for putting into operation when
the war is ending. As a tentative scheme,
there should be a standing army plus uni-
versal training. Roughly, ■ the number
needed for the standing army might be
not more than half the R.S.L. figure. The
50.000 permanents in this proposal would
be the core of the Australian land-de-
fence establishment. As well, they would
of course be the training and instruc-
tional staff. The service would have to
be made sufficiently attractive in pay and
conditions to hold that number of the
best of the present-war soldiers for the
purpose.
That would ensure having a useful
force available and would allow for those
Australians who would wish to volunteer
for military service—perhaps, all things
considered, for the total that would wish
to do so. The cost would be half that
involved in the R.S.L. proposal, lessen-
ing the very likely risk of both the cost
and the force of 100,000 permanents being
considered alone adequate. A- force of
50.000 would obviously be inadequate
alone. In addition, there would then have
to be a system of universal military
training. It would need to be universal.
It would have to bring in for suitable
training every fit Australian yputh with-
out any exception whatever. The train-
ing would have to be what the military
experts considered suitable, and would
not overlook the imperatives of war as it
is now fought, or is likely to be fought.
Hence the “inadequate and sketchy”
training rightly condemned by Mr. Men-
zies would have to be drastically amended.
The experts, keeping everything in
mind that they should, would probably
advise one continuous year of training,
rather than bursts of two or three months
a year over a period. At the right age a
year’s solid training will make a fairly
competent soldier. He would end it with
a sense both of his own trained compe-
tence and of responsibility. He could
then go on to a reserve, knowing himself
liable to call-up within a given number
of years—say, up to eight—and knowing,
too, that if called up he would not be a
mere raw recruit, but one trained to use
the weapons he would have to use. At
the worst—after the longest period be-
tween going on to the reserve and
eventual call-up—it would take compara-
tively little training to shape him into
an efficient soldier.
The training year would not need to be
a red-tape fixture. It could be adjusted to
suit each individual’s civilian schooling,
training apprenticeship and the like. Thus
it could begin at 17, at 18, at 19 or at any
other year into the early twenties. Its
effect in the long run on the general phy-
sical well-being of the nation would be
incalculably beneficial, as anyone realises
who has had a son go into the present
forces and train in them for a year. It
would mean, after the first year of opera-
tion, that Australia would have its stand-
ing army of 50,000, plus a supporting
force of well-trained reservists, whose
numbers would be more than dupli-
cated each year. Thus there would
be the solid core of permanents, with,
after a few years, a big, trained support-
ing force with the right mixture of ages
to give it the maximum of efficiency.
Later call-up for refresher courses
might not have to enter into it, since
there would always be the standing per-
manents, plus, after only a few years, a
large force of first-, second-, .third- and
fourth-year reservists in good shape, with
those longer on reserve perhaps needing
a little more time to prepare them. If the
world peace organisation is established,
with sectional divisions and with Aus-
tralia and New Zealand responsible for
a Pacific section, part of the year’s train-
ing could, and should, be done in the
islands of the proposed defence arc.
And if those world defence proposals
fall through some such scheme as is here
outlined —leaving the details to the ex-
perts—will be all the more necessary.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Foreseen Crisis.
And the events that led up to it: —;
It is one of the ironies of the unspeakably
disgraceful situation to which Australia has
been reduced by communist-led larrikinism on
the N.S.W. coalfields and cringing Labor
“government” at Canberra and Sydney that
ail parties to the infamy have proclaimed 1942
the peak year of production.
Yet 1942 was the year in which the outrages
of coalfields workstoppers moved th£ Prime
Minister, brooding on the defeats in the Pacific
and dreading Japanese invasion of the conti-
nent, to tell the union larrikins that “men who
are not in the fighting forces, and who at the
same time will not work, are as much the
enemies of this country as the directly enlisted
legions of the enemy.” He said that in the very
first month, and said also “any Government
that allowed essential work to suffer because
men would not work when provision existed
for the speedy settlement of disputes would be
traitorous to Australia.” And during the
quarter which saw the loss of Malaya, and with
it the Eighth A.I.F. Division, saw the bombing
of Darwin and the Japanese invasion of Aus-
tralian territory, with many more calamities to
British, Dutch and American arms, it was offi-
cially recorded that 8 p.c. of “working” time
on the N.S.W. coalfields —in name 40 hours a
week, in practice far less —was “lost because
of disputes.” How much more was lost be-
cause of absenteeism did not appear on the
record, though Mr. Curtin, giving the produc-
tion-loss for the quarter at 664,000 tons, reck-
oned absenteeism as having accounted for
180,000 tons.
In that same year the “Government” at Can-
berra introduced a litter of National Security
regulations designed to compel N.S.W. coal-
miners to do their duty. Not one of them
was enforced. And Mr. Ward, then Minister
of Labor and National Service, went round
the coalfields preaching hatred of the em-
ployers (presently to be held guiltless by his
“leader” in a detailed account of larrikin
stoppages) and declaring that “nationalisation”
was the “only solution.” He had the face to
repeat this at Lithgow when the union men in
the N.S.W. Government mine at Lithgow were
loafing for the day. Mr. Baddeley, the N.S.W.
Minister of Mines —himself responsible for a
great loss of output by pensioning off
nearly 1800 miners at 60, and that in the
terrible January-March quarter —had to admit
that production in the Government mine had
fallen from 1800 tons a day to 1400 tons a
day, and that operations for the year had in-
volved the taxpayers in a loss of £17,000, plus
what they had to find in interest on capital
heavily written down.
Trying every ignoble substitute for action,
from waiving fines imposed on workstoppers
to suspending the law of the land so that the
communist-bossed Miners’ Federation might
impose the law of the push on members of the
push, the Government “took over” the mine
at Coaldiff. Of this experiment Mr. Chifley,
the Treasurer, said last week —Mr. Chifley, him-
self a representative of a coalmining district, the
one in which a union mob, supported by Minis-
ters and the Teachers’ Federation, boycotted
and tried to ruin the butcher, Peter Dargin—
that the Government “spent money” (amount
unstated) on improvements, and put on an-
other 43 men. "In operating the mine” it
had lost £25,000, and production had dropped
90 tons a day “until recent weeks.” As tor
the N.S.W. Government mine at Lithgow, also
in his electorate, it had “a sad and sorry
history.”
Mr. Chifley made these revelations at a con-
ference of union bosses and Ministers, one of
a multitude with “a sad and sorry history” of
their own. Nearly all the delegates were from
the A.C.T.U., head and front of "socialisation”
on the industrial side of “the movement,” and
another Minister who met his masters was Mr.
Curtin’s deputy, Mr. Forde. Mr. Forde said
that production had fallen so frightfully since
the “peak” year and that the loss had so out-
distanced savings made at the expense of in-
dustry and transport, drastic as these were, that
“in 1944 the nation” had “just been able to
scrape through.” And reserves were so low
that the prospects for 1945 were “terrifying.”
What was worse, his “Government” had been
placed in danger of having to say to Mr.
Churchill “we asked you to send fighting ships
here, but we regret that we have not sufficient
coal to maintain the industrial effort on which
this-lighting effort must rest.” What was worse
still, “the ‘Government’ faces ignominy and
annihilation at the next elections if there is a
failure to get coal.”
Stirred by these representations, the A.C.T.U.
“moderates” asked the communist-led union to
call off its strikes in pits where fines for work-
stopping have been collected from wages (the
“garnishee” strikes —they have caused a produc-
tion-loss of 50,000 tons) —abandon its decision
to take 16 days’ holiday, instead of the ten
days proclaimed in a National Security notice,
and cancel “aggregate meetings” called for
January 10. A dissenting amendment moved
and seconded by communists was defeated. In
the resolution the communist-led union was
promised a Judge-headed commission of inquiry,
“terms to be resolved upon by the Acting
Prime Minister and the A.C.T.U.” and a lot
of other things. The communist-led union re-
plied with a flat rejection of everything.
This should have been straightway treated as
a threat of a communist revolt against Aus-
tralia. The funds of the guilty union should
have been frozen immediately, and there should
have been added to this proceeding a statement
that if present National Security Regulations did
not admit of summary arrests being made there
was time enough to remedy the deficiency before
the unearned holidays, as gazetted, ran out.
Finding that they could get no strike funds
from other unions, the Miners’ Federation
bosses began turning flip-flaps—agreed to with-
draw the garnishee strikes and the 16-day-holiday
notice and the rest, and to let King’s writs run
in their socialist republic, or whatever it is.
Thereupon Mr. Forde saponaceously thanked
one and all and, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, promised everything to everybody, ex-
cept “the capitalist.”
But communist promises are as dicers’ oaths,
and there is no certainty that the workstoppers
will be back in the pits on the prescribed day.
If they are not, Wells, the communist president,
should at once be placed under arrest. And,
placed on his defence, he can be asked whether,
as a notorious Moscow crawler, he considers
himself and his mob at war with Japan.
-<>■ . ■
i
Government I
Home-made ginger pop and tea having so
far escaped the black market, most Syd-
ney citizens had something to drink at
Christmas. Very few had beer. This
though customs men had called at pubs,
asked for bottled beer, searched cellars
and backrooms, and, where hoarded
bottles were found, listed the licensee
for prosecution. Certainly, the im-
mediate result was that a lot of publicans
fell over themselves in their eagerness to
get rid of the stuff. But the beneficiaries
were mainly pub crawlers and oppor-
tunists who had time to lug along a suit-
case and pack it with bottles.
In the newspaper reports of these
doings Sydney got more enlightenment
on the extent and ramifications of the
black market in booze. The citizenry were
not astonished. They had known for
many months what was going on. They
know, too, that their city is notorious
for its black markets, and that Australian
and Allied servicemen hold their noses
when Sydney pubs and shypoo joints are
mentioned.
But they want to know why customs
men were used for this kind of work,
and why their Labor Government, with
about 4000 police and a whole body of
licensing laws, with magistrates to ad-
minister them, hasn’t long since cleaned
up the booze racket? The McKell Gov-
ernment mumbles something about its
being “a Federal matter.” This is the
McKell Government’s habitual excuse for
doing nothing. It mutters the rigmarole
in its dreams.
There is a vocal publican in the Mc-
Kell crowd, a Mr. Geraghty of North
Sydney. Seven (7) months ago Mr,
Geraghty fulminated mightily against
some of his fellow-Bungs.
I am 100 p.c. in agreement with the
senior police officer who told the “Sun”
that supplies for black markets would be
practically cut off if all hotelkeepers sold
their liquor quotas legitimately Not
only are persons in the Trade diverting
to black-marketeers supplies which are
allowed them to serve the public; many
are selling adulterated liquor and getting
away with it....' Such offences should be
met by instant delicensing of guilty persons
.... Supplies could be policed from brewery
or other source until they reached the hotel.
From then on those suspected of illegal
selling should be kept under surveillance.
That, of course, was just before the
State election which left Mr. Geraghty’s
party in power. Since then about the
only thing that has moved Geraghty and
party was the disqualification of a
jockey.
A Spanish Lemon.
Another Spanish civil war has ended.
It cost enormously in ink, paper and
cable charges. Casualties among news-
paper prophets were serious, the Spanish
onion crop escaped by the skin of its
teeth and the garrison of Gibraltar lost
nearly ten minutes’ sleep.
For Australia the Spanish civil war
began early this month. Then daily papers
came out with black headlines an-
nouncing the end of the Franco regime,
Franco’s resignation, his departure for
foreign parts and a general air of fes-
tivity among exiled “Republicans.” There
were hints of Spanish refugees gathering
in the Pyrenees, all set for the rush to
Madrid, and reporters came upon a cer-
tain Don Miguel Maura, “Spanish Re-
publican leader.” Don Miguel they
found “full of toleration and clemency.”
He would have talks with the Falangists
at the frontier. If these were successful
he would make a ceremonial entry into
Spain within a week.
My programme is very simple. I want
to change the regime without bloodshed.
I shall throw open the gates of Spanish
prisons and labor camps by a political
amnesty.
Two days before this it was announced,
on the authority of the communist Lon-
don “Daily Worker,” that “Spanish in-
dustrialists” had arrived in London seek-
ing the overthrow of Franco. But six
days previously a certain Max Lerner
had criticised the Washington-Madrid air
pact as giving “powerful American air-
lines and other business interests” a big
stake in the continuance of Franco’s
regime.
A week afterwards Sydney “D.T.,”
urging support for the Republicans, of
whom there are 57 varieties, chiefly com-
munists, held that “the situation” must
be “clarified by restoring the only Gov-
ernment wh.ch has a legal title to rule.”
“The victorious United Nations,” it
seemed, were to do the “clarifying,” with
Mr. Penton, of the “Telegraph,” Mr.
Pearl, of the “Sunday Telegraph,” and
Mr, Maas, the mushroom-grower, cheer-
ing them on from a long way off.
As suddenly as it began the thing
fizzled out. Don Miguel Maura was heard
no more. The hopes of those Australians
who are eager to rush into foreign dis-
turbances (with tongues and pens) at the
drop of a hat have been dashed.
In October, it seems, there really was
some fighting. “Republicans” crossed the
Pyrenees. Some of them got back —so
badly mauled that they didn’t want to
talk about it.
THE NELSON TOUCH.
“Just the ship for Mr. Forde and his friends—at least, they can guarantee plenty of wind.”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SbLVVYN KING. Managing Director
Making
ecX§
Pf
On Aft
lilt
m
PA
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W..LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
First, the communist-led N.S.W. coal-
miners’ union said it wouldn’t call off its
“garnishee” strikes Or return to work (or
what passes for work) on January 2. Then
it condescended to withdraw its pro-
nunciamento, which was a communist-
larrikin defiance of the law as well as a
profanation of the duty which every
home-fronter owes to the men who are
fighting off the enemy, and many of
whose comrades are dead, maimed and
wracked with fever. Forde at once hailed
this concession as a victory for common-
sense or something. He professed to be
“sure” that “the miners as a body want
to do the right thing by their country,”
and that “their leaders desire that the
coal problem shall be solved without re-
course to a trial of strength.” He and
his crowd have been exuding such com-
pliments, interlarded with appeals and
threats, alike empty, for three years, and
they and the country have been let down
a hundred times. And it is quite on the
cards, the only “guarantee” being a com-
munist’s word, that they and the country
will be let down again.
On Chifley’s admissions at “the
A.C.T.U. coal conference,” his crowd
can’t run coalmines; the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment show at Lithgow has “a sad and
sorry history,” and at Coalcliff, under his
own “Government’s” control, production
flopped, though another 43 men were put
on, and £25,000 went west in a short time.
But even with these proofs of ineptitude
staring it in the face, Chifley’s “Govern-
ment” decided that it could run airways.
The irony of it!
The N.Y. “World Telegram” of
November 11 reproduced “headlines of
the last four days”:
Iranian Cabinet Collapses Under Soviet
Pressure.
Rumania Gets New Cabinet at Russia’s
Behest.
Finnish Cabinet Crisis Forced by Moscow.
Swiss Foreign Minister Quits After Rebuff
from Russia.
Turkey Faces Russian Demands.
De Gaulle Forced to Pardon Red Leader;
Thorez Returns from Moscow.
Poles Say Moscow Terms Mean National
Suicide.
Chiang Kai-shek and Red Feud Slows War
Against Japs.
Tito Follows Russian Policy.
Partisan Reds Dominate Greece.
Headlines of the four days prior to De-
cember 23 would be equally interesting.
One would relate to what “S. M. Herald”
delicately describes as “the rising demand
in the U.S.A. for Russian action, remi-
niscent of the 1942 clamor in Moscow for
a second front in the west.”
F. Ehrenfried Baume, the Great War
Correspondent, with some pre-Christmas
conundrums:
Is anything wrong? Are the western
allies finding the task of deploying and
supplying their huge armies beyond them?
Was all the balanced optimism of the past
few months completely unjustified? Have
correspondents such as myself been mis-
leading newspaper readers?
No. 4 is easy. The answer is in the
affirmative.
The Iranian Cabinet that “collapsed
under Soviet pressure” refused a demand
for oil concessions. There followed, in
the words of William Philip Simms, of
the Scripps-Howard newspapers, “one of
the most startling and significant events
in recent history”:
In Tehran, according to Tass, 20,000
demonstrators, among them members of
Parliament, social and political leaders,
teachers and trade-union officials, thronged
the streets, all demanding the political head
of Mohammed Saed, the Premier and
Foreign Minister. In Tabriz another 25,000
persons demonstrated against the Govern-
ment. Sergei Kavtaradze, Vice-Commissar
of Foreign Affairs, said that Saed’s dis-
loyal and unfriendly position with regard
to the Soviet Union excludes the possibility
of further co-operation with him.
Yet “Soviet scientists that the
U.S.S.R. contains 58 per cent, of the
world’s oil” ( Statesman’s Year-Book,
1944).
The A.C.T.U., Bishop Pilcher, Mrs.
Jessie Street and the “West Australian,”
of all papers, object to Canberra’s be-
lated veto on that Jewish settlement in
the Kimberleys. The “West” argues in
pained terms that “the personnel could
and should be drawn from at least three
or four different European countries.”
In 25 years they would be a community
the predominant section of which would be
English-speaking, bush-bred Australians,
free to mix, and capable of mixing on even
terms with their fellow-countrymen.
“On even terms?” With the competition
at Flemington and Randwick so fierce
the hardy, “English-speaking, bush-bred
Australians” might have to offer six-to-
four the field.
Musing on the completion of his 25th
year as M.H.R, for Hindmarsh, Makin
recalled that his first majority was 960,
and half a dozen papers so reported him.
Actually the figures were Makin 17,195,
“On the last ‘working’ day before Christmas production in northern(N.S.W.) mines which
had no garnishee strikes dropped one-third because of absenteeism and the rush to catch
holiday trains.
This is just our way of endorsing Wellsy’s guarantee that we’ll be back on the
second of January.”
Archibald 16,279, majority 916. It was
the end of poor Archibald, who died
broke.
Peter Fraser, the Maoriland Prime
Minister, closing the session on Decem-
ber 15:
The people of Britain, and especially
millions in London, are facing yet another
winter on_ short rations, tens of thousands
of them in damaged houses, and all sub-
ject to attacks by day and night by flying-
and rocket-bombs. Our admiration for the
fortitude of these people and of our own
men in Italy, fighting/under extreme winter
conditions, could best be expressed in a
practical way by the realisation that our
war effort on all fronts, at home and
abroad, must be sustained with undiminished
vigor and devotion.
Admiration, vigor and devotion are all
wanting on the N.S.W. coalfields, except
among the few.
Queensland public servants and school-
teachers are to get salary increases total-
ling upwards of £400,000 p.a. The
teachers’ share will be under £150,000.
After 16 years’ service the most a first-
class male teacher can expect is £522 a
year. The biggest dullard in his class
can become a State member and get £B5O.
In expansive moments members of the
Caucus at Canberra claim the second
Roosevelt as one of themselves. He cer-
tainly gets the Labor vote, but that doesn t
make him a Labor politician. Consider
what has been called his “credo”
(Chicago, October 28):
I believe in free enterprise.
I believe in the profit system.
I believe that private enterprise can give
full employment to our people—sixty mil-
lion peace-time jobs.
I believe in exceptional rewards for inno-
vation, skill and risk-taking by business.
He said also that he believed in “small
business,” which has “played a magni-
ficent part in producing thousands of
items needed by our armed forces.”
We shall make sure small business is
given every facility to buy Government-
owned plants, equipment, inventories. The
special credit and capital requirements of
small business are going to be met.
Nothing could be more remote from
Australian Laborism than that “credo”
and programme.
According to the communist “Tribune,”
British troops in Greece are disgusted
with the part assigned to them. A Syd-
ney war correspondent in Greece reports
that the bodies of three British soldiers
captured by the communist E.L.A.S. w ( e
dug from a grave in a garden. All had
been shot in the back, one had his throat
cut and another his face mutilated. No-
body need expect the “Tribune” to uttei
a word of pity for the poor Tommies or
of condemnation of the savages who
murdered them.
Bardolph, State president of the A.L.P
in Adelaide, told a Trades Hall audienci
there that
Australian unions are predominantly
business bodies, striving for better wages,
shorter hours and the closed shop.
Ah, if they were indeed “business bodies,”
and if the “closed shop” didn’t so often
mean closed mines and slaughteryards!
The N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation,
which is infested with arrogant Reds and
Pinks, had a before-Christmas confer-
ence. Delegates from the Wellington
branch, fed up with Moscow crawling
and the like, tried to have the Reds and
Pinks restrained by resolution from “in-
volving members in political and in-
dustrial issues not concerning teachers,”
but the crowd in possession had the num-
bers as well as the noise. McGuinness,
the president, boasted that he and his
mob “held the torch for others to fol-
low.” Appropriate as to the color, but
torches are out of date, like Marx and his
system and his “economic interpretation
of history” and McGuinness and his in-
tolerance.
Dunstan must have been interested to
read that the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federa-
tion, which is part of the Sydney “Labor”
Council outfit, had come out with a plan
for spending £25,000,000 on Govern-
ment schooling. N. S. Wales Govern-
ment schooling was mentioned in the de-
bate on the Victorian estimates, and
Dunstan interposed with a few dreadful
remarks:
In that State money is wasted and few
results are obtained. It has the worst
educational system in Australia.
In the same debate, he said “The
greatest tribute that can be offered to
me, the greatest compliment that can be
paid to me, is to be attacked by com-
munists.” And the worst of it is that
the bosses of the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation can’t intervene against Dun-
stan as they did against the Portland
butcher.
Ex-Minister Dash, who lost the Labor
nomination for Mundin gburra (Q.) before
the last Assembly election, was granted
£l5OO out of the Treasury by his
old associates before they dispersed for
the year. Not because he lost the Labor
nomination but because he met with an
accident while travelling in 1932 and
suffered after-effects. It was pointed out
that the after-effects had not prevented
him from drawing “upwards of £10,000”
as a Minister and member before he
failed in the party ballot, and something
was said about the Statute of Limitations;
but the spirit of philanthropy (or what-
ever it was) prevailed. The precedent
will come in handy if some other rejected
politician has a claim on the Treasury
or thinks he has. But State Governments
won’t always be so flush as they are now.
Senator Mead, one of the Congressmen
who visited Australia last year, recently
mentioned again that he “visited General
Mac Arthur, at his Port Moresby head-
quarters and was informed that acquisi-
tion of Russian bases would not only
shorten the war but would save millions
of lives.” And there was a new addition :
If the unity inspired by President Roose-
velt is continued I am positive bases will be
ours. As soon as conditions warrant the
acquisition we will have the help of Russia
as well as the help of Britain in the Pacific.
The second leg of the ill-timed double
was a certainty from the beginning. There
is no present indication that the other
horse will start, but some effect might be
produced by a Senatorial agitation (com-
munist papers, please copy!) for a Second
Front in Siberia Now.
New York “Times,” which supported
Roosevelt, anticipated that the contest
would be close, but not as flose as the one
in 1916, when, with Wilson sure of 264
electoral votes and Hughes of 254, Cali-
fornia's 13 decided it —by fewer than
4000 popular votes “in a total poll of
nearly a million.”
Yet Wilson was lucky in other States.
He could have carried California and yet
lost the election if he had lost New Hamp-
shire, New Mexico and North Dakota.
He had a margin of approximately 2500
votes in New Mexico in a total poll of
65,000; a margin of 1700 votes in North
Dakota in a poll of 110,000; and in New
Hampshire, with a total poll of nearly
90,000 votes, he won by 76 votes.
New Hampshire and New Mexico have
fewer people than South Australia, and
Nevada has fewer than Tasmania. All
have the same number of Senators as
New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois,
which have more people than the Com-
monwealth.
A Christmas card issued by a Sydney
company reminds us that “Continuing
hostilities, plus a serious drought, do not
make a bright forward picture, but each
new problem will be approached with
confidence and resolution.” Recipients
could only hope that “continuing hostili-
ties” referred to the world war, not to
Australia’s three-sided war between pri-
vate enterprise, Government enterprise
and organised labor.


(ytiond*
Special Old
S HERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The chairmanship of Elder Smith’s
head office in Adelaide has again changed
hands. When Barr Smith, son of one
of the founders, died in 1941 it was taken
by Fred Downer, son of the old-time
statesman John Downer; but he lived
only a year, and was succeeded by John
Baker, son of the first President of the
Federal Senate. Baker, in poor health
and a veteran —he was at Cambridge with
Barr Smith 60 years back —has resigned,
and P. A. Mcßride steps up. The last
two chairmen have been lawyers, but
Mcßride is a noted stockbreeder, and son
and grandson of men famous in that line,
M.H.R. for Grey (1931-37), Senator
(1937-1944) and a Menzies Minister
(1939-41), he’s 52.
A sarge in France last war with the
old 39th Battalion, Rupert Lewis Griffiths
has been mainly responsible for the in-
crease of at least 50 per cent, in essen-
tial lines of food-production in S.A. since
the present war started. At Dookie Agri-
cultural College (Vic.) he averaged 92
per cent, in 14 subjects when taking his
diploma back in 1908 —a record that still
stands. Agricultural adviser to the S.A.
Government since 1926, Griffiths was one
of the first to point out to farmers in
the Murray mallee country the danger of
AGRICULTURAL ADVISER.
wind erosion. His articles criticising the
denuding of the land of its trees and sur-
face covering were so resented that he and
his confrere, Jack Sheppard, were threat-
ened with a rough handling if they
showed up in one locality. The handlers
would have had the job in front of them
—both Sheppard and Griffiths are well
over 6ft. and sixteen-stoners. Griffiths’s
eldest son is home after nearly five years’
service with the A.I.F. in the Middle East
and New Guinea. Another son is p.o.w.
in Java.
Professor Dakin (Sydney Uni.) has paid
a striking tribute to the young Sydney
scientist, Dr. H. F. Consett Davis, killed
in an air accident in New Guinea, where
he was doing special scientific war work.
Davis’s short career, Prof. Dakin points
out, was remarkable. Educated at
The King’s School, Parramatta, Davis
was such a brilliant scholar that he took
his “leaving” several times because he
was too young to enter the Uni. on first
passing. Afterwards he was the only
Sydney Uni. graduate ever to obtain
First-class Honors in both Zoology
and Botany. Lecturer in biology at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) when war started, he got
into the R.A.A.F., transferred to the
A.I.F. commandos, and was selected
from that to do his New Guinea
job. “Australia,” says Prof. Dakin, “has
great need of sons like him.”
Several New Zealanders in between
smiting the foe have found time to keep
up their studies and their faith in a future
career. Another of them is Gunner J.
B. Woodward, a son of a New Plymouth
magistrate. Gunner Woodward com-
pleted the third section of the LL.B.
degree while serving in Italy. He was
given a fortnight’s leave to sit for the
exam., succeeding in two contract papers,
company law and bankruptcy.
Million in a bag:
Going by an “American Mercury” article,
any gallery of this war’s more picturesque
figures must include Pat Hurley, first U.S.
Minister to Maoriland, old friend of General
MacArthur and now representing Uncle Sam
in China. The only U.S. Secretary of War
(he was Hoover’s) to work up to that post from
the rank of full private, Hurley was in 1942
engaged by Roosevelt as a sort of world rouse-
about, since when he’s flown both the Pacific and
the Atlantic several times and has set foot on
every continent. His first Roosevelt mission was
to Australia, carrying a bag containing
$1,000,000 in gold coin to secure ships
to run the gauntlet to Bataan. He dipped
into the canvas bag to engage venture-
some captains and crews of all manner
and shape of craft, and when any failed to get
back he dipped into the bag again on behalt
of the widows. “One out of every three got
through,” and, “thanks to Hurley, the defenders
of Bataan never lacked small arms and ammuni-
tion, whatever else they may have lacked.
When Bataan fell Hurley was here to welcome
MacArthur to Australia. After that he held the
Maoriland post for five months. His Pacific
adventures include being wounded three times
—once when a Jap fighter attacked the bombei
he was in over Java; then when another fightei
attacked over the Timor Sea; and again, in the
head, at Darwin, when that place Was bombed
“and there were more ships in the air than in
the harbor.” In the last war Hurley won the
Distinguished Service Medal and Silver Star
for “distinguished and exceptional gallantry.
The bag of coin he carted out here would be
almost like loose change to him. Since start-
ing toil as a boy at 25 cents a day in an Okla-
homa coalmine he’s amassed a fortune put at
up to fifteen million dollars.
Brigadier O. V. Hoad, who moves from
W.A. to an eastern command, was born
in barracks at St. Kilda-road, Melbourne,
son'of the first holder of major-general
rank in the Australian Army. The
younger Hoad, after Melbourne Gram-
mar, was commissioned in the sth Aust.
Inf. in 1907, went to England for training
with the Gordons and the 3rd Dragoon
Guards, got his majority on active
service in 1914-18 and came back to be
director of drill at Duntroon. His only
son, Capt. A. O. Hoad, served in the
Middle East and New Guinea before
being discharged medically unfit, and is
now farming in Queensland.
William Alan Thompson Summerville,
the latest Queenslander to become a
Doctor of Science, for study on the scien-
tific side of growing bananas, did most
of his work around Nambour and
Maroochy. He saw fertile scrub lands
cleared and planted, used to produce
three or four crops of bananas and then
abandoned; Much of the topsoil slides
down the steep hills, and so another
stream is clogged and another patch left
bare. Good virgin soil is getting scarce
now, and so Queensland banana-produc-
tion is on a steep downgrade. Summer-
ville has declared war on this nomadic
aspect of what used to be nearly a mil-
lion-pound industry.
Four Westralian D.F.C. winners:
Wing Commander William John McLean,
born at Gnowangerup, was captain of Albany
High School, a Claremont footballer and, when
war broke out, a teacher at Waroona. In
the Middle East, where he had most of his
action, his squadron flew Churchill, the Duke
of Gloucester, Eisenhower and Montgomery on
their business. McLean got the A.F.C. for
Middle East work and the D.F.C. in Burma.
Flight-Lieut. Edward Charles House, also
from Gnowangerup, went from Guildford
Grammar to his father’s farm, then to the
R.A.A.F. and Middle East service. His award
came for good work on roads and rail targets
in Italy;
Flying Officer John Edward Nicholson, of
Goomalling, is a Scotch College lad. His
D.F.C. was earned during and after the in-
vasion of France for attacks on some of the
“most-heavily-defended targets in Germany.”
Flying Officer Thomas Charles Drake-Brock-
man, of Toodyay, is another of Guildford
Grammar. A star air-gunner on major targets
over Germany.
Dropping in at The Bulletin office to
ask about John Brennan, Alec (Alex-
ander H. R.) Cann was instantly sized
up as a particularly suitable victim for
Ted Scorfield. Like Scorfield, with the
same sort of hefty athletic frame and
somewhat the same sort of phiz, he looks
the kind you’d rather have on your side
in a scrap. He got to know Brennan up
around the Pacific, and reckons pretty
well everyone thereabouts knows and
likes The Bulletin’s lofty, bearded rep.
Cann can claim to be a Sydneysider with-
out being an Australian—the Sydney he
was born in is the one in Nova Scotia.
He got into the war early, starting with
the Canadian Navy —in which he was a
ALEC CANN.
gunnery officer->-in 1939, and having
three years with it in the Atlantic. Before
that he’d used a camera at Hollywood,
and these days he’s using one again with
Netherlands Indies Government Informa-
tion. He specialises in documentaries,
and three of those he has made in the
Pacific have gone the rounds in Australia.
The latest of them, “Going North,” deals
largely with the Australian ships (R.A.N.)
doing their bit in the Philippine landings.
Also, Cann has been on various shows up
north with the R.A.A.F., and he went
with the U.S. bombers on their long-dis-
tance strike at Balikpapan, Borneo.
Getting back to Civvy-street after four
and a half years as m.o. with the
R.A.A.F., Squadron-Leader Bill Coyle is
a son of Judge W. T. Coyle. The name’s
particularly well - known round the
Riverina. Squadron-Leader Coyle was
born in London in 1900, but was in Aus-
tralia as a one-year-old. Educated at
Riverview and Sydney University, he
toured Maoriland with a Uni. Rugby
team. In 1929 he went to finish off his
SQUADRON-LEADER COYLE.
medical learning in London, Paris, Berlin
and Vienna. They’re going to miss his
lanky, grey-polled figure, and especially
his dry humor, in many an R.A.A.F.
mess.
One other, if only as a curiosity, must
have a place in that parade of Blimps (B.
20/12/’44), Koenig, commander of the
French Forces of the Interior. Genera!
Koenig has been a professional soldier
ever since he joined the French Army
as a 17-year-old volunteer in 1915.
“Hamer”: The first Albert Medal
came to Australia 50 years ago, when
“Budge” (H. O.) Hewison dashed into the
surf on a Newcastle (N.S.W.) beach to
drag his brother from the jaws of a shark.
Both the badly mauled brother and
“Budge,” now. 67, are still on deck. A
foundation member of the Commercial
Travellers Club, Sydney, “Budge” was
one of the best-known men “on the road”
in former days. Today he helps the war
effort at Sydney G.P.O.
A Lebanese, R. D. Arida, who lately
passed on at Charters Towers (Q.) after,
58 years’ trading, has been called the
wealthiest of his countrymen in Australia.
In his early days he travelled the west in
a caravan, but for 42 years built up a
business on the old goldfield. Arida
held the Lebanese Certificate of Merit
and the French Medaille d’Honneur. Be-
sides generous benefactions in his life-
time, he left bequests to schools, churches,
hospitals, charitable institutions and his
own staff.
lan Milner, granted leave of absence
from lecturing in political science at Mel-
bourne University to work in the posl-
hostilities division of the External Affairs
Department, is a Maorilander. Rhodes
scholar for the Dominion in 1934, he
studied at Oxford, then went to a fellow-
ship at Columbia University (U.S.A.) to
do research on Pacific subjects. The re-
sult was New Zealand and the Pacific,
published in 1939. His father, recently
dead, was rector of Waitaki Boys’ High
School.
Back from overseas service, Flight-
Lieut. J. B. Suttor, D.F.C., a son of J. B.
Suttor, an M.L.C. in N.S.W. for many
years, joined the R.A.A.F. in 1940, was
posted abroad in 1941, and on the way
up the coast of Africa his ship collected
a torpedo, which gave him 12 days in
an open boat. They were picked up by
a Vichy boat, taken to Africa and in-
terned for six months. Quite a number
of the rescued men died in the camp
through lack of- food and attention in the
first six weeks. On being released Suttor
joined a Spitfire squadron, completing 62
sorties and collecting his D.F.C.
Charles Richard Long, who passed on
at 84 at Frankston (Vic.) the other day,
was for upwards of 40 years Victoria’s
leading writer of “best-sellers.” As editor
from 1896 of the Education Department’s
school paper he addressed a steadily
increasing reading public, and as
the author of “Readers” on all
sorts of subjects he enjoyed a cir-
culation that any author would have
envied. An A. L. Gordon enthusi-
ast, he organised the annual pilgrimage
to the poet’s grave at Brighton, and wrote
two books about him. Stories of Aus-
tralian exploration and Shakspearean
criticism poured from his pen, alternat-
ing with textbooks on the art of spelling
and works on myths and legends. A
scholarly man, he was a Melbourne Uni.
product,
“Walkabout”: Charlie Fleming, one of
the greatest of the old-time shearers, has
shorn his last sheep. He made many big
tallies; his best, 1495 sheep in a week.
Fleming’s figures have been acclaimed an
Australian record, but at Alice Downs
(W.Q.), where Jacky Howe achieved his
321 blade record, Ned Dean'is credited
with shearing 1584 in a week. However,
it is doubtful if any dlher shearer has
pushed more shorn sheep down the chute
'than'Charlie Fleming. He was 72 at the
end.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 75, J. B. Shand, Old Digger
and for the past 19 years member of the
N.S.W. Assembly. He was an hon. Minister
with the Stevens-Bruxner Government - , but was
dropped. Then he left the U.A.P. to become
an Independent.
Fred Ralph, 81, was formerly president of the
Wine and Spirit Merchants’ Association of
S.A., and jsn the Chamber of Commerce
Council; also he was one of the earliest local
exporters of lambs. He was a fine amateur
actor as a young man, and a social ornament
always.
In Adelaide, at 77, William Miller, who had
two great interests in life. A director of Caw-
thornes, the music co., he did a lot for orches-
tras and schools everywhere. At bowls he was
S.A. champion once, a State representative on
the Australian Bowling Council, and in Sydney
in 1926 skippered the four which won the Aus-
tralian rink championship.


Socity
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”: The average city dweller
is generally most unobservant, though
not incurious, a combined characteristic
probably more pronounced these days,
when almost everybody is so wrapped
up in the personal aspect of war-time
inconveniences. Still, the crowd in the
beer queue on a recent afternoon in
Sydney might have wondered what on
earth the two figures in the habit of a
holy order of women were doing there.
Most of them didn’t and the devoted
ladies shuffled along with the rest of
them until a passing wayfarer noticed
them and asked if he could do anything.
“Thank you so much,” came a gentle
voice, “we would appreciate it if you
would take our place and buy two tickets
for Strathlake.” When they discovered
what sort of a queue it was the Sisters
almost fainted.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: That friend of “Hamer’s”
who thinks that the term “give him the
sack” originated in Australia (B.
20/12/’44)" is about 200 years and a few
thousand miles out of his reckoning. It
was the custom in France in the seven-
teenth century for an artisan to carry
his tools in a large bag, which was
handed to the employer when a job was
started. The work completed, the worker
was (literally) given the sack, ‘‘On lay a
donne son sac,” into which he put his
tools of trade and left for his next job.
Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and Fable
mentions the sacks into which Turkish
sultans pushed their discarded wives, but
doubts whether that can be classed as a
giving of the sack. And I knew one
learned clergyman who traced the say-
ing to the days when Joseph in Egypt
gave his brother Benjamin the sack with
a silver cup in it.
* * * *
“Avon”: References to English and
Australian achievements in the way of
under-statement remind me of an instance
which I think supports the claim to Eng-
lish supremacy. The boss of a big manu-
facturing firm I worked for 50 years ago
had a caustic tongue, and when he sacked
a drunken storeman who had spilt a case
of fragile goods he didn’t mince his lan-
guage. We all heard the bawling-out.
A little later in the day the storeman,
drunker than ever, appeared in front of
the premises with a brick in either hand.
These he belted, one through the right-
hand plate window, the other through the
left-hand one. It was left to our accoun-
tant, not long transferred from the Lon-
don office, to break the news to the old
man. I just heard the tail end of the sad
story “ he seems, sir, to have taken
umbrage at something you said to him.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: People concerned with the
nation’s moral outlook would have been
shocked to listen-in to a “quiz” session
on a B-class station the other night. A
fictional situation was posed, three con-
testants were called to the mike, and a
prize of £1 was awarded the one who
the audience considered gave the best
means of escaping from the situation. A
woman shopper was supposed to be
caught with a pair of stockings in her
bag ; she was innocent of theft, but the
thing looked black. One competitor said
that to depend on a good name and
reputable friends and to tell the truth
would be the best defence. Another* said
the best way out was to declare the stock-
ings were bought in another store. The
audience, thought the announcer tried to
dissuade it, insisted that No. 2 get the
prize.
* * * * \
“Adelaide”: Domestic troubles have
excused serious assaults in S.A, A man
who had broken his second wife’s jaw
was released on a bond after pleading
that she had been unkind to his child, and
also had struck the first blow in the
domestic fight. Then a youth of 18, who
had shot a woman in her office, explained
that she had “come between” his farther
and mother and he was trying to help
all parties. The lady, not dangerously
hurt, attended the court, unsolicited, to
explain that she did not want her assailant
punished. Eventually he appeared, on
remand, in A.I.F. uniform, and was sent
a wav with a severe scolding from the
Bench.
“Good old Jessie —Wont have anybody but Dave!”
“Pip” on Yule-tide in uniform:- —
Christmas in the Army on this northern
station began about the first week in Decem-
ber, when presents started to arrive, and gifts
made in camp were sent south. Letters and
post-cards poured in as the 25th drew near,
everybody seemed to have plenty of cash and
the tent food-boxes were stacked to the top.
Christmas Day in camp is strange and the
soldier is never sure whether he is happy or
home-sick. The Army tries to make the day as
enjoyable as possible, fatigues are cut to the
bare essentials and training suspended. Breakfast
is a cake-and-chocolate affair, eaten in the tent
with brew. Dinner is elaborate. An additional
Is. per man has been made available for special
fare by the C.-in-C. and Regimental funds
have been broached. There are pork, poultry,
several kinds of vegetables, and always plum
pudding. Nuts and sultanas adorn the tables
and sometimes a bottle of beer between each
two men. There is even a cigarette each.
Dinner is usually served by the officers, who
enjoy the privilege of being mess waiters for
one topsy-turvy hour. The sergeants do the
honors for the evening meal, cold poultry, salad,
jelly and fruit salad. Many fail to turn up at
all after the midday effort, but nibble at the
hamper, a gift from the A.C.F. Only the
postal sergeant is frankly unhappy. He staggers
around bleary-eyed and weary, and to wish him
a Merry Christmas is to ask for trouble.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Those who love a good
fight will be interested to know that the
two priests of the Brotherhood of St.
Laurence who have been facing wind and
storm, flies and heat on a suburban ver-
andah at Armadale (Vic.) in order to
draw public attention to the inequity of
the landlord-tenant laws, won their battle.
Their involuntary client, an 84-year-old
widow, moved into her own house, and
the tenant and sub-tenant amicably
handed over possession, while the two
clergymen went off to the beds they
hadn’t slept on for five weeks. “Now
for the next case! ” they remarked as they
departed.
* * * *
“Old Boy’s” theatrical memories;
Brisbane’s oldest theatre, for which our
Allies have found a use in recent months, was
the city’s only theatre in the late seventies.
Two other places of amusement were the Town
Hall, where 1 first saw silver-clog Tommy
Hudson,' and the School of Arts, where Harry
Rickards and the Lynch Family of Bellringers
appeared. The lessees of the Royal were
Thynne and Dillon, who ran a stock company,
occasionally engaging a star. Thynne appeared
infrequently, but Dillon always headed the
cast. The sisters Rogers were the leading
ladies, Alick Andrews the comedian. Later on
imported companies replaced the stock com-
pany, among them Baker and Farron, the Stewart
Family (including Nell), Pollard’s Lilliputians,
Maggie Moore, Kelly and Leon, Montague-
Turner, Emilie Melville, an Italian Opera Co.,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s London
Comedy Co. and “The Lights of London Co.”
# * * *
“Craiser”: It has been customary in
the past when royalty has visited Mel-
bourne to assault it with illuminated ad-
dresses of loyalty and welcome, usually
of a very elaborate and cosdy nature.
Unfortunately for those who find employ-
ment on such occasions, Premier Dunstan
has been advised that the Duke, while
appreciating the desire to deliver such
addresses, has suggested that they should
be typewritten as a war-time austerity
measure. He probably murmured under
his breath “and presented in silence,”
H.R.H. knows Melbourne.
* * * *
“Zake”: Jon Hall is one of Holly-
wood’s most dashing film heroes. To
see this beautiful man, with lovely
varnished hair and muscles rippling over
a technicolored torso, dishing it out with
waving sword to the minions of the
usurping prince in “Ali Baba and the
Forty Thieves” was to witness the ulti-
mate in a he-man’s heroic endeavor ; and
in “Cobra Woman” he is performing
deeds of derringdo four times a day in a
manner to flutter the featherbrains down
to their stilt heels. But in a real-life
brawl with Tommy Dorsey, the mildest-
looking fellow in the cahlony, the beauti-
ful Jon, after taking a bashing, went
whining to the Law with charges of
assault and battery, unavailingly. I now
suspect that some of Hollywood’s
toughest gat-toters tatt milk-jug covers
while waiting on the set for their entry,
and that Tarzan sprays scent behind his
ears before going out to bite lions.
* ¥ * *
“Lao-dah”: George H. Johnston, Mel-
bourne “Argus’s” special correspondent
in China, has discovered “China’s Ber-
nard Shaw”—Wen I-to, aged 42, who
lives in a poky little room amidst the litter
and refuse scattered by pigs and peasant-
tenants. Wen I-to, according to Mr.
Johnston, is one of China’s greatest poets,
thinkers and historians, and one of its
most outspoken leaders of radical
thought. Educated in U.S.A., he speaks
perfect English with an English accent
because he prefers it, and he is one of
the greatest authorities on the Chinese
classics. Reading hopefully on through
Mr. Johnston’s description, I expected to
find some examples of the trenchant wit
that prompted the coupling of names, but
I was disappointed. Nothing Mr. John-
ston reports Wen I-to as saying rises
above political platitude.
* * * *
“Bo”: Sydney, after suffering a fish
famine for years—even when the lowly
mullet and leatherjacket were buyable
they cost two bob a pound, bones and all
—has had a glut, and there were frantic
but vain appeals from the fish markets
for the public to “vary their Christmas
menus.” There is nothing strange in
this procedure, for under Government
“organisation” the public is inured to the
disappearance of commodities for long
periods and a brief, sudden and un-
heralded surplus. All the same, if the pub-
lic, having apparently lost the taste for
it, won’t eat fish, that is no reason why
they should be adjured to use the stuff
for spinning out their meagre tobacco
allowance. A flapper paper came out
with the heading “Smoke Your Own
Fish! ” I might find some of the tobacco
bought nowadays in flavor somewhat
reminiscent of that which as kids we
culled from various peculiar sources and
put in the old man’s briar, but I’m darned
if I’m going to fill my cherrywood with
dessicated jewey or try rolling shredded
snapper in rice-paper merely to keep a
fishmonger in receipt of 300 p.c, profit.
* * * *
“Old Jack”: Mention of George Rig-
nold (B. 13/11/ ’44) reminds me of a story
of the veteran told by the late Charlie
Lyons, who kept a boatshed at the Spit
in Middle Harbor, near where George
lived in retirement. Every Friday Rig-
nold used to go up to town, spend the
night at the Athenaeum Club, where he’d
pass a convivial evening with old friends,
and return home on the Saturday after-
noon, Lyons having a sort of contract to
ferry him round to his waterside resi-
dence a mile or so away. On one of
these occasions George was recognised,
as he stood in the boatshed waiting for the
craft that was to take him home, by an
enthusiastic and aggressive admirer, who
approached the old actor effusively with
outstretched hand, exclaiming “Oh, Mr.
Rignold, I’m so glad to see you looking
so fit and well. I’ve admired your art
for so many years. Do permit me to
introduce myself.” George glared at the
gentleman with one of his best tragic
scowls, and then turned to Lyons.
“Charlie,” he inquired in a deep and bale-
ful voice, “who is this fellow?” Hardly
able to restrain his mirth, Lyons replied
“I don’t know the
gentleman, Mr. Rig-
nold.” Favoring the
intruder with another
hostile survey from
shoes to hat, Rignold
growled “Don’t know
him either. Don’t wish
to know him. You, sir,
go to hell!”
¥ *
“Lord Luvus”: The
first sensible suggestion
to hand regarding the
“world police force” so
dear to confectors of
world States emanates
from Dr. Ernest Hooten,
an anthropologist of
Harvard, who suggests
that the international
Johns should all be men
over 45. He reasons
that men over 45 have
completed their fami-
lies, if any, and most of
their life work, and as
the world police force
will doubtless have to
do a lot of fighting, it
can be most economi-
cally done by men no
longer needed by their
families, who have
probably had enough of them, any-
how. Reinforcements could be provided
by those who have failed in their family
life, seeking divorce being the criteron
of failure. Wives emancipated from
maternal duties could do the nursing. Dr.
Hooten argues that when a boy of 18 is
killed the country loses a whole life, but
if a man of 50 falls in battle it loses
one-sixth of a life, and not the best sixth
at that. Nothing has been lost from the
biological standpoint, and not much from
the economic. Finally, he asks why the
old should do all the dancing and the
young pay the piper? His proposal isn’t
likely to be popular amongst politicians.
A NOTICEABLE NAME.
“A. Bondi woman, keeper of a residential for
soldiers on leave, was fined £55 for selling a dozen
of beer for £3 10s. and a bottle of gin for £3 to
Calvin Coolidge, an Allied serviceman.”
She sold him beer for something more than
twice
Its worth, and stuck him harder still for gin.
’Tis right that she should pay a stiller price
For taking inexperienced strangers in.
But why, oh why, some inner voice exclaims,
Is there no copyright in honored names?
Of all the Presidents of U.S.A.
He was the most ascetic and austere.
How strange to find his moniker today
Indissolubly linked with gin and beer
Illicitly obtained, which erstwhile stood
For everything respectable and good.
Calvin! The very word, it’s safe to guess,
Awakens memories your breast within
Of sheer uncompromising saintliness
And vehement hostility to sin,
As preached by that ecclesiastic don
Who thumped the tub four centuries agone.
Great names bob up in curious places. Once
I saw a Matthew Arnold face the Beak
For drunkenness, and, being devoid of bunce,
Incontinently lumbered for a week;
And mildly wondered what the immortal Mat,
The poet-critic, would have thought of that.
Hail and farewell, my estimable Cal!
I do not know nor do I greatly care
If what you’ve called is your original
Font-given label or a nom de guerre,
Employed, satirically, it may be,
For alias against publicity.
Withal I can’t, I candidly confess
(If Calvin Coolidge really is your kin
And can be pictured smit by thirstiness
And savage hankering for beer and gin),
Conceive of a New England President
Submitting to be stung to that’ extent.
N.S.W.
T. THE. R.
THE FRANKNESS OF FORDE.
“The Government faces ignominy and annihilation
at the next elections if there is a failure to get
more coal.”— Mr, Forde to the miners.
Buck up, you chaps the diamonds black who
hew,
Whose tools of trade are shovel, skip and
pick,
If other pleas have no effect on you,
Here’s one that surely ought to do the trick.
Stubborn and obstinate you well may be,
Yet you could hardly fail to deem it shame
To plunge your land in that catastrophe
Which Forde foresees —unless you play the
game.
You’ve oft been told that there’s a war to win
And oft reminded where your duty lies,
To keep the wheels of industry a-spin
While fighting forces dong our enemies.
Retarding Victory would cause distress
And blot Australia’s ’scutcheon, it’s allowed,
But ’twould be worse if your refractoriness
Should toll the knell of Curtin and his crowd.
Where could the country ever hope to strike
Worth-while successors on its council-boards
To Evatts, Chifleys; Dedmans and the like.
To cocksure Calwells and to whooping Wards?
And would you see such paladins as these
From office contumeliously shot
Through your subversive inactivities,
Thrown to the wolves as victims? Surely not!
Bend to your yacker where the workman delves
In subterranean settings cavernous,
Or you will injure, not alone yourselves.
But (what is even more important) Us.
You wouldn’t have “the wild mob’s million
feet”
Applied to us when next we face the poll;
Yet there the danger lies. So, I repeat,
Comrades, it’s up to you to hew more coal.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“McNark”: When I hear politicians
advocating government control of trans-
port by road or air 1 think of w
happened in a N.S.W. town about 1930.
Second-class fare to Sydney, 290 miles,
was 38s. 9d., and the rail journey, m
frequently - crowded, stuffy # carnages
(ovens in summer, ice-boxes in winter)
took 14 hours. A bright lad in that town
bought a couple of modern cars and be-
gan a road service. Fare, 385.; time, six
hours (including a break of 30 minutes
for a snack half-way); and delivery of
passengers to their doors. Then the State
Government enacted its Road Transport
Act and the bright lad was forced to
discontinue the service. What will happen
when somebody (it may even be the bT,
since he’s now a flying'-officer in the
R.A.A.F.) tries to start a ’plane service to
that town after the war?
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Elsa Maxwell (N.Y. “Post”)
takes a touching farewell of Aimee
Semple McPherson, the “evangelist”;
Aimee was one of the greatest natural
actresses who ever lived. She was bom
with golden hair, fine features, large blue
eyes and, I presume, equally large and dis-
turbing appetites. But God carved her
feet and legs in great, big, heavy blocks
of wood. They were simply enormous.
When her ship arrived at Southampton
the two great glamor girls of their time,
Tallulah Bankhead and Beatrice Lillie, met
her at the dock in a car. Ihe first thing
they asked Aimee when they got her alone
in the car was, “Now Aimee, is it true
that you like young boys?” Sister, fixing
them with her innocent large blue eyes,
answered “Why, of course, dear S 11 "!?*
I love all God’s children.” Tallulah said
“That was enough for me—she had us
beaten before we began.”
We old boys of journalism could say the
same of lady writers like Elsa. These
angels venture where we have never dared
to tread.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A young man went to a
Melbourne musician and said he wanted
to become a composer. “Good,” said
the musician. “I can teach you com-
position. But first sit down at piano
and play me something.” “I can’t play
the piano,” said his visitor. “Oh, well,
here is a violin. Play me something on
that.” “I can’t play the violin,” said the
young man. “Well, then, perhaps you
can play the oboe.” “No, I can’t play
the oboe.” “What instrument can you
play then?” asked the musician. “I can’t
play any instrument,” said the young
man. “But then, neither could Wagner.”
“On the contrary,” said the teacher,
“Wagner could play every instrument,
though he wasn’t a virtuoso of any.”
“Oh, if that’s the case,” said the poten-
tial Mozart, “I don’t think I’ll be a com-
poser. I’ll be a painter.” In a few short
months he should become a leading “con-
temporary.”
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne art criti-
cism is beginning to catch up with that
in other centres. Of a recent exhibition
a “Herald” writer let himself go in these
terms:
Mr. Mahlstick has an eruptive person-
ality, and his impact (or frontal attack)
on the sensibilities is immediate, tempest-
uous and vivid. Whether _ he is to be
described as an impressionist or an ex-
pressionist—for he plunges alternate hands
into the pullulating puddle of his experi-
ence —is a question not easily decided
during a hurried first visit.
Undaunted by this consideration, how-
ever, the writer proceeds;
His mind seems infested with a sort of
a cataleptic play whose plunging urgency
surpasses that of normal experience. Under
the lightning-stroke of his scornful and ex-
ultant brush a picture swiftly becomes a
glowing phantasmagoria infested with ner-
vous, and often comic, life. His paintings
crowd and shout and strut together on the
walls like a wayward and sudden insurrec-
" tion—a pictorial barrage, a vortex.
Mr. Mahlstick, it appears, “bears all the
marks of an untutored fauve, a wild
man of art” ; his color “is limited, lor
the most part, to the plangent chime of
primaries, eked into unity with an excit-
ing infusion of graded ochres” ; he will
“clout your nerves and rattle your sensi-
bilities” ; he is “a portent, and, in his own
recalcitrant way, a success,” and “even
if he is without any academic training,
which seems quite evident, there can be
no doubt that he is an artist.” Of all
that rigmarole I like best “the plangent
chime of primaries, eked into unity with
an exciting infusion of graded ochres. ’
Shakspeare never learned to write like
that. Poor fish, he was intelligible.
* * * *
“Pookie”: A report quoted in. the
Manchester “Guardian” strikes a refresh-
ingly intimate note in its description of
the attempt to do Adolf in. It states
that the explosion “blew the off
the whole party, including Hitler.” The
“Guardian” deplores the lack of photo-
graphic evidence for the benefit of pos-
terity, and goes on to predict that the
debagging—no, the “debracation” —: of
Berchtesgaden will rank in history with
the “defenestration” of Prague in 1419,
when the city dignitaries were flung out of
fhe Town Hall windows by Hussites.
“Abrel”: An arithmetical mind gives
one many worries. For instance, I read
on the authority of the “Daily Mail” that
500 Belgians collected 50 tons of
toys, valued at over £1,000,000, and these
toys were to go to British children in a
“specially chartered” Santa Claus ship.
Far be it from me to detract from' the
benevolence of the gesture, but I find
that each of 500 collectors would collect
an average of £2OOO worth of toys, each
ton being worth £20,000 ; and I’m asked
“How about a bit of fillet steak ?”
to believe that a ship was to be specially
chartered to carry a mere 50 tons of
loading!
He % * *
“B. A. Ker” sighs for a lost tradition :
Something went out of the Christmas spirit
when small-town brass bands ceased Christmas-
eve carolling. Before World War I the evening
before Christmas always found the blow-hards
assembled outside a pub, most of them com-
fortably full of beer. “Good King Wencelas,
rendered with gusto, would move Bung to do
the handsome thing, and thus heartened the
minstrels would set out. Their performance
at the first four or five stops would be quite
recognisable, but gradually a certain mistiness
would become evident, generally the result of
a difference of opinion as to whether ‘O Come
All Ye Faithful” or “Good Christian Men
Rejoice” was the opus in hand. By a strange
coincidence, inhabitants known to have home-
made wine received a very liberal share of
music. Before the circuit was half completed
stragglers would be falling by the roadside at
every stop, the survivors leaving the fallen to
darkness and to beer. Only those who didn t
drink and those whom nothing short of dyna-
mite could lay low finished the course. About
two or three in the morning the carolling
Christians would awake, not to “salute the
happy morn,” but to wonder where they were,
how they got there and which was the way
home. The small boys who came around at
dawn with their Christmas-present barrows and
billycai'ts were delighted to supply such ml or-
mation—and to relieve the safari of it's dead
marines. . *
* * * *
“Hamfat”: A Sydneyite who has been
a first-nighter for 50 years (his dad, also
an inveterate first-nighter, took him along
as a boy), says that the best Mr. Middle-
wick (“Our Boys”) he ever saw was Her-
bert Leigh. I never saw Leigh as the
retired butterman, but knew him in
his later years. He was a solid actor
who could always be depended upon to
make the most of a part; now he is
chiefly remembered for his peculiarities.
Leigh never fraternised with fellow-
actors, offering a distant nod to
those who worked with him. I was
only a boy when he told me that stage
intimacies led to entanglements and
trouble. He insisted on changing his
linen twice daily, so the Leigh laundry
bill was a big item, which had to be met
in the most stringent times, for laun-
dresses have a habit of sticking to the
goods until they are paid for. When
the Leigh-Douglas Dramatic Co. was
struggling through M.L. I met the mem-
bers of the company at a railway junc-
tion and inquired how business was going.
“Rotten,” was the reply. “The only thing
we paid in Dannevirke was Leigh’s laun-
dry bill.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: To be the first patient in a
hospital sounds a rather strange ambition,
but the distinction was keenly contested
by inmates of Royal Melbourne who were
waiting transference from the old insti-
tution in Swanston-street to the enormous
ornate new one in Gratton-street, Park-
ville. The mass movement was completed
without a hitch two hours ahead of
schedule. The only difficulty arose when
the last of the staff tried to close the big
iron gates. The annual report carries a
photograph of the gates with the caption
“These gates never close.” They never
had been closed, and it took a lot of
kerosene and several workmen to get
them to do so.
“Melbn”: The post-war plan of rais-
ing the Hume Weir involves the passing
of a death sentence on the picturesque
old Victorian town of Tallangatta. Tal-
langatta, pop. 800, has a racecourse, polo,
cricket and football grounds, tennis
courts, four churches, two pubs, two
coffee palaces, a post-office, butter and
soft-drink factories, five garages, two
blacksmith shops, four banks, a shire hall,
four public halls, a hospital, fire brigade,
courthouse, school and newspaper office •
and all will be under water. When the
weir was first closed hundreds of farms
and several villages had to be evacuated,
and many of the residents refused to
leave until the water actually began to
creep upon them. Then the flooded roads
saw an exodus that resembled the flight
from Paris before the Nazis in its pathos
and disorder. Among the buildings in
the to-be-flooded area was a beautiful
old mansion built by early settlers. The
owner had installed an elderly re-
tainer as caretaker. It was full of
heavy oaken furniture and old tapes-
tries and on the ancient walls hung
multitudes of family portraits. When
I visited the place a few weeks be-
for the evacuation the old caretaker
was still completely unconvinced of the
reality of the official warning and had a
sort of mystical belief that the building
was immune from destruction. I have
often wondered what happened to him.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The claim of New Nor-
folk’s Bush Inn to be the birthplace of
“Scenes That are Brightest” is not undis-
puted, There are two pubs in N.S.W.—
one at Penrith and the other at Maitland
—that used to make a similar claim,
though Wallace, if he ev t er stayed there at
all, probably did so for one night only.
There is a Sydney legend that most of
the scoring of “Maritana” was done at
Wallace’s lodgings at 9 Rowe-street, which
seems to have been his longest Australian
home. The composer came to Australia
to “learn station life,” went to south-
west N.S.W. early and put in some time
"Why don't you tell your visitors to bring something different? I'm sick
of spaghetti sandwiches !”
jackeroomg. _ Twice, at well-separated
intervals, during Wallace s stay in bydney
there were subscription concerts at the
Qohnnl nf Arts (then a new h&ll) at which
bcnool or Arts finen a new i i
“the Opportunity will be afforded for
Subscribers to hear Selections from an
Onera of which the Talented Musician
(Wallace was a
poser. But whether the opera referred
to was “Maritana” or some other early
work is not clear. Sir Robert Stewart,
professor of music at Dublin University,
who wrote a Wallace biography, says
Wallace sailed for Australia in 1835,
and it was not until he had returned and
had lived in London for some years that
he met, in 1845, the poet Fitzball, who
provided the libretto for “Maritana.”
* * * *
“Oxbro’s” churchyard elegy:
St. Peter’s Church of England at Richmond
(N. S. Wales) was consecrated 102 years ago,
but is not nearly as old as its churchyard, which
dates from 1809. Many years back a local
antiquary prepared the following document re-
lating to the old burial ground, which is as out-
standing an example ,of graveyard statistics as
anyone might come across. “In round
numbers,” he says, “the aggregated ages of
persons buried there is 28,420 years. The
burials number 732 and carry with them 973
Christian names. We find 18 persons whose
births and deaths occurred in the same month,
while some 18 names carry no ages. The maxi-
mum age of 108 years was lived by W. Magick,
and the minimum age of four hours was lived
by Stella Mary Ezzy. Thomas John survived
his 100th year and Mary Ann Search died m
her 100th year. From the age of 90 to 100
we find six; from 80 to 90 there are 47; while
102 saw from 70 up to 80 years of mundane en-
joyments. As we descend the scale they become
too numerous to mention.”
* * * *
“Caballer”: “Traymon’s” yarn (B.
13 1 12/’44) about F. E. Smith was only
part of a really lively law report. F.E.
was appearing for the defendant in a
claim for injuries when Judge Willis, in-
dicating the boy victim, said: “Poor little
fellow, hold him up for the jury to see
him.” This looked like bias, and Smith
remarked “Perhaps your Lordship would
to have him passed around as an
exhibit.” “That was a most improper re-
mark, Mr. Smith,” said the Judge. “It
was provoked by a most improper obser-
vation,” replied Smith. “Mr. Smith,” re-
joined Willis, “There is a saying of Bacon,
the great Bacon, that youth and discre-
tion are ill wedded.” “There is another
saying of Bacon, the great Bacon,” replied
the unabashed Smith, “that a much talk-
ing Judge is like an ill-tuned cymbal.”
The passage ended with F.E. contemptu-
ously declaring: “I have been listened
to with respect by the highest tribunals
in the land and am not going to be brow-
beaten by a garrulous old county court
Judge.”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Australian prohibi-
tionists who have been trying to impose
abstention from alcohol on the forces in
the interests of military morale, efficiency
and what not, got a setback from
Churchill when he said that Britons must
have their beer, and ordered it to be
brewed right through the blitz. Now
the same statesman has given them an-
other by ordering every English brewer
to allocate one-fifth of his bottled output
for troops abroad. As a result 100,000,000
bottles of ale will be en route to the
various fronts by the New Year. More-
over, in the hope that breweries in a
going condition will be captured by the
advancing troops, brewers are dispatching
supplies of malt to Europe.
* * » *
“Sextant’s” tale of bread cast upon the
waters:
We were in harbor while our ship, the Willy
Wagtail, had her bows patched up, when a
terrific roar was heard in the distance. It
turned out to be a British minesweeper which
had caught one up. Her survivors were taken
to hospital. This happened on the day Christ-
mas hampers arrived from Australia. I was
preparing to issue each man with one, when a
seaman suggested we should send our hampers
to the hospital for the sweeper’s crew. This
proposal appealed to all hands. The ciuet
P urn y ed oyer the hampers, was almost speechless.
jj e d j d not know w hat to say, but I under-
stood. Some months later, oilstained and weary,
we entered a camp for survivors in Egypt. Ihe
cb ; e f v 0 standing in the gateway waiting to
a jj ocate us to tents was my old friend the
m i n esweeper’s c.p.o. He stared, then, forgetting
dignity, rushed forward, hand outstretched,
wil , y \v agla ij s ” he shouted. Our stay m
camp wa s very enjoyable; the best of every-
thing and nothing to do.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: When Aubrey, the callow youth
who had not long been up from the city,
said he’d have his moustache removed
Andy the barber paused in the act of
adjusting the chair to gape his astonish-
ment, for hitherto Aubrey had regarded
the thin ginger line under his nose with
inordinate pride. Regularly every Satur-
day he came in from the farm on which
he worked to have a few hairs of it
pruned so that it kept to its Ronald
Colmanish proportions. Under a few
shrewd prods by Andy, Aubrey gave the
reason. “The boss sends me inta town
yest’dey to pick up some things,” ex-
plained the youth, “and I have a coupla
beers. When I gets back to old McLaugh-
lin’s I sights Larry, the red bull, tied up
just inside the fence. Larry’s always
looked at me sorta queer, as if for two
pins he’d have me on. Well, I’m feelin’
pretty good after the beer, so I hops
through the fence, boots him in the ribs
and ducks back before he can get inta
action. So when I comes in today I
thought I’d get me mo. hoisted off.” “But
what the hell’s that got to do with the
bull?” asked Andy. Aubrey looked sur-
prised. “Why!” he said, “I wouldn’t be
able to get within a mile of him if I kept
it on. Without me mo. he won’t be able
to reckernise me! ”
“Eureka”: If you have to cross a pad-
dock where there is a wild bull carry a
handful of small stones with you, and
when the bull charges stand your ground
and throw the stones in his face. You
can bet on the bull immediately retiring.
# * * *
“Harap”: There is another version of
the yarn told by “Ad Rem” (B.
15/11 / ’44) about the diffidence shown by
an old Groper in accepting a sovereign.
In the early Coolgardie days the usual
outback currency was an “Order on
Monger”—Monger’s W.A. stores being
then the Anthony Hordern’s of the West.
A T’othersider proffered a sovereign in
payment for some service or other only
to have it refused and a demand made for
an “Order on Monger” ; and it was not
until the donor had the happy idea of
drawing attention to the picture of “John
Forrest spearing a bungarra” that the
coin was accepted as good currency.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Mint weed can compete
with grass (B. 29 /10/’44). In this dis-
trict (Darling Downs, Q.) there are
patches of heavy black clay on which
the perennial grasses never get firmly
established, as it forms cracks 2ft. deep
as soon as it gets really dry. The mint,
being an extraordinarily-fast grower, can
cpme up after good rain, and set seed in
a few weeks before the ground has com-
pletely dried out. Also, its seed lies in
the ground during drought, and comes
up with the first rain, when many of the
grass roots have died. It is hard to con-
trol in cultivation, particularly in summer
crops. It is also fairly frost-resistant.
Urochloa, a recently-imported annual
grass, has done well against it.
* * * *
“J.RJD.”: “Cobber” is correct (B.
29 /11 / ’44) in placing the old shearing
day at eight hours 40 minutes, and
Howe’s record of 321 sheep at Alice
Downs with the blades was accomplished
in an hour short of the full day.
According to records, the shed ran out of
sheep—-hence the short day; the class of
sheep shorn was nine-month-old ewe
weaners. Back in those days, and par-
ticularly in C.Q., the lack of trimmings
and the plain-bodied type of sheep were
in the shearers’ favor. Records are
harder to break nowadays, and most of
the modern deuce artists get their results
with crossbred lambs. Even so, many of
the records claimed are made under con-
ditions that should automatically cancel
any claim. Some years ago at one of the
biggest stations in N.S.W. a phenomenal
average was made—even the learners
tried to deuce ’em. I happened to see the
crossbred lambs in the counting-out
pens ; suffice it to say that when a new
contractor got the shed the following year
none of the “guns” concerned in the
record had a place in the team. In
the old days it was almost impossible to
get in a full day in winter months be-
cause of insufficient light at the begin-
ning and end of the day. Even today,
with shearing starting at 7.30 a.m. and
ending at 5.30 p.m., a full day cannot be
worked in mid-winter unless the clock is
put forward, and this is a bone of con-
tention with shearers at the present time.
Nevertheless, bearing records should be
based on a certain period, say, an eight-
hour clay, and there should be special
classes for (a) Merinos (adult sheep
only) and ( b) crossbreds (adults).
* * * *
“S.G.”: These fellows writing about
dust storms and sandhills covering fences
and so forth ought to have been with me
back in 1912. We were droving cattle
outback in N.S.W. and camped for the.
night on a little plain. That night a big
“Humidity's bad this morning, Prendergast !”
blow came up and smothered everything
with dust. Next morning it had cleared
a little, and we moved off, only to run
into another mob of 500 or so and get
hopelessly boxed. The driver in charge
of the 500 explained that he’d camped
in a railed yard about ten miles away.
All night, as the dust came down, it piled
up in the yards until, just before dawn,
his cattle were able to walk out, the sand
having .raised them above' the fence level.
Best that!
* * * *
“Rover”: St. Helena (B. 6/12/’44) still
has a living link with Napoleon—a
turtle, one of Bonaparte’s pets. Resi-
dents claim it to be the world’s oldest
living turtle. This distinction, however,
probably belongs to the Tongabatu
turtle presented to the islanders by
Captain Cook in 1770. The veteran, now
so feeble that he has difficulty in crawling
about, lives in the gardens of Queen
Salote’s palace at Nukualofa.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: We were anchored
close by a ridge of growing coral, the
summit of which, a glory of rose-red,
sapphire and dull gold, all but protruded
through the placid waters of Torres Strait,
when, between the schooner and a dinghy
in which two of the lads were fishing, a
huge, flabby, diamond-shaped, jet-black
creature appeared, one of the great cow-
tail stingrays. The newcomer’s thick,
roundish body, adorned with pointed
“side-wings,” was fully 10ft. across the
“wings” and 15ft. from the tip of the
blunt head to the whip-lash end of the
powerful tail that was as thick as a man’s
arm near the base and studded along the
upper surface with a row of glistening-
white “stingers”—the serrated poison
spines for which these formidable mon-
sters are noted. A .303 was at once
brought into action; the first and only
shot caused the ray to leap from the water
and flop down again with a terrific splash.
Then, flapping its “wings” madly, the
creature swung round and headed for the
reef, flaying its tail in all directions.
Sweeping past the dinghy the tail struck
the bow of the vessel, leaving one of the
“stingers” embedded in the wood to a
depth of nearly an inch. It could not be
removed intact, the point snapping off.
The “stingers” are dangerous weapons ;
they have backward-pointing barbs, and
at the base is a poison gland from which
the venom is discharged by pressure into
the wound. A N.Q. medico later told
us of a victim who had been laid up for
almost a year when struck on the leg by
one of the “stingers.”
* * sic *
“C.E.”: Returning home one evening
Dad spotted a rabbit in his beloved vege-
table plot, and, grabbing a spade, he gave
chase. Through the peas, over the pars-
nips and into the cabbages they went,
Dad banging right and left and flatten-
ing everything but the bunny. “Ma!
Ma!” he bawled desperately. “Come ’n’
’elp. You ’n’ Polly. An’ tell young Joe
t’ let Lass ’n’ the six pups in ; an’ old
Bruiser.” Soon eight dogs, Polly, Joe and
Ma were all threshing round in the vege-
tables, till Bruiser, scoring a near miss
among the peas, connected with one of the
pups and started a free-for-all. Every-
body piled in to help, and by the time
Dad’s boots, plying indiscriminately, had
restored peace, the patch resembled a
bombing outrage. Then the old ’un
marshalled his forces and led the charge
into a potato bed, drew a blank and went
on to locate the enemy among the carrots.
For the next ten minutes half-grown vege-
tables flew right and left as the attackers
raced, circled, tripped and finally ran the
quarry to earth in a patch of lettuce. The
grand scrimmage eddying back and forth,
laid waste a further 12 feet of battlefield.
“Gripes, don’t talk about rabbit,” wailed
Dad to old Steve an hour or so later,
“y’ jus’ should see what one o’ the flamin’
blankards done t’ me garden t’day!”
“O’Yen”: Tell “Bumpkin” (B. 6/12/’44)
that, contrary to popular belief, it has
been proved there is an artesian flow of
water in the Mallee. Bores in the Murray-
ville and Cowangie (Vic.) distircts pump
thousands of gallons through limestone
strata for stock and domestic farm pur-
poses. Not firmly established, however,
is the extent of this subterranean sqpply,
for the source referred to peters out a few
miles east of Cowangie.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Tell that “Hector”
bloke (B. 13/12/’44) that Mat and I did
our last bit of bag-bouncing at Pinnaroo
(S.A.) in a blazing summer, when the man
bringing the beer from the pub had to
run all the way to stop it boiling away
before it got to the stacks. We never
put up any records, but when the last of
the wheat was in, and an agent frbm
across the border at Cowangie sent us
a wire saying he had a couple of thou-
sand to go, Mat looked at me and said
“Wire back and tell him we’ll slip over
after tea some night an’ chuck ’em in
foi him:” ,
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The black duck had her
nest in a hollow about 20ft. above the
water, and young Tim kept his eye on its
contents till he Reckoned the old girl was
about ready to push the family out and
take ’em away. He borrowed the wings
of a drum-net and staked them just under
the surface and directly beneath the hol-
low, with a running string through the
several bridle-rings he’d sewn into that
net. He was waiting behind some water -
willow, string in hand, when the duck
appeared, nudging the younkers to the
edge of the hollow with her bill. She
pushed the first over, and down the fluffy
ball tumbled, whereupon all young Tim’s
schemes went awry, for that youngster
promptly lit out for the reeds at the edge
of the water, and Mother Duck waited
until it was out of sight before she pushed
the next over, a process that went on until
the seven ducklings were down and out
of sight. Then Tim waited for her to
come down, planning to net her and then
search for the ducklings. But she had
her suspicions, for she took to her wings
and circled round and round, making the
circles larger, until young Tim suddenly
realised that the ducklings were out on
the broad river. We suggested he try put-
ting salt on their tails next time.
* * * *
“Narrin”; When I was a nipper gold-
finches were so plentiful in our near-
Adelaide fruit district that their eggs
were safe, being valued at about spadger-
rate. A few years ago I saw the first
goldie that’s come my way for fifteen
years and now we look for his daily
visits to the bird-bath. Resplendent in
scarlet cap and buff jacket striped with
black and yellow, he is a favorite and
favored caller and we have not yet got
used to the gay picture he makes in the
green hedge. Truly familiarity in a costly
state of mind.
* * * *
“Chuck”; Old Graball never misses
an opportunity, and when he heard
Andrews had a stray bullock in his pad-
dock without brand or earmark over he
went right away to inspect. “Funny how
lost beasts ’ll turn up sometimes,” he
remarked to Andrews as they rode across
the flat. “You know, I never dreamt of
this brute bein’ in your paddock. Had
him a long time, have y’?- Well, it’s a
long time since I lorst mine. What’s he
like? Poll? Gripes, remember them
black polls I had? Prob’ly he’s one
o’ —eh —? led? Aw, well, that’ll
be right, too. I’ll know him.” They
sidled over the ridge and Andrews
pointed out the stray. “Well, well,
now,” gasped Graball, eyeing the
bullock admiringly, “there’s no
doubt a bloke knows his own cattle.
Yair, this beast’s done pretty well.
Bring close on twelve quid, I’d
say.” Andrews rubbed his chin
thoughtfully. “Well, I’ll be glad t’
have someone collect ’im,” he men-
tioned casually, “because his owner
owes me a bob a week feed fT over
five years.” “What! Aw, cut it
out, Andy,” argued the old bloke,
“a bob’s too much. Why, damn it,
that’s thirteen quid. More’n the
thing’s worth.” “Can’t help it,”
Andrews maintained stubbornly;
“it’s worth a bob f’r the crops ’e’s
ate. Y’ see, there ain’t no fence’ll
hold that brute.” Graball scowled
savagely at the bullock, “Awright,”
he snapped presently, “but as I wus
tellin’ ya, Andy, he ain’t mine.
S’long.”
* * * *
“Tiki”: Evolutionary processes
are generally held to be extremely
slow —a million years being just a
convenient unit of time measurement
in such a connection but corre-
spondents of the M.L. Forest and
Bird Society claim to have evidence
of an “acquired characteristic” that
was implanted in just a few years.
A decade or more ago a blacksmith set
up business at Lake Kaniori, in Westland,
flourished for a while and then went
away. But to this day the tuis in the
bush around the lake give hammer-and-
anvil imitations, having forgotten, appar-
ently, their original well-defined calls.
These birds are inveterate mimics,,but all
other birds which delight in imitating
sounds return to their own characteristic
calls.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Some of the principles of
physics are used by even the lowliest
creatures. The mosquito wriggler, for in-
stance, by waggling his moustaches
diverts the food in the water towards his
mouth. And if the wriggler lives in an
open receiving tank or a pond of some
kind he’s probably on nodding terms
with hundreds of much cleverer scav-
engers, too small for the human eye, who
haunt the slimy sides of his home. These
are rotifers. They look like transparent,
telescopic slugs and, when fully extended,
they use two processes which look like a
pair of rapidly-spinning cog wheels to
induce a turbulent current of water
towards their mouths. Another, presum-
ably Scottish, member of the same tribe
can’t bear to waste even the inedible
mud that his wheels sweep in. He has
installed a miniature concrete-mixer in
a circular pit on his chest. With this he
spins the mud into round bricks which
he stacks neatly about himself —building
his house as he dines. Even the very tiny
unicellular animals know this ingenious
method of collecting tucker, a method
much favored in the strange sub-aqueous
universe which, with its teeming millions
of lives, can slip at one gulp into a cow’s
stomach.
PARTING GUEST.
Old Year has rolled his swag at last;
He’ll stay with us no more,
But take the track unto the Past
So many trod before.
He’s silent now who promised much,
He’s grim who once was bright;
His features have a senile touch,
His whiskers now are white.
His swag is full of burrs and dust;
It once was new and sweet;
His quart-pbt falling into rust,
His coat no longer neat.
He shuffles off with hanging head,
His nose-bag thin and mean.
And walks like one who, nearly dead,
Too much has heard and seen.
And Time stands still to see him go,
His swag upon his back.
Out where the silent milestones glow
Along the one-way track.
Somewhere out there, beyond the light,
Where all the old years are,
He’ll find his fellows in the night
And camp upon a star.
And free at last from tyrant Time,
In hourless ease he’ll 1011.
While cosmic bells eternal chime
The centuries’ long roll.
He’ll maybe grin to see below
The Young Year, fresh from birth,
Striding in all a young fool’s glow
Upon this sinful earth.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: One of the most exciting
Christmas Eves I ever put in—and one
with an exasperating climax occurred
the first time I went down the Murray by
boat. 1 booked aboard the Marion at
Euston with a motley collection of bush-
whackers heading for Mildura, and once
aboard we found the vessel crammed with
tourists who’d joined her at Swan Hill.
The supercargo hadn’t expected such a
crowd, consequently there wasn t much
more to drink than river water by the
time we paddled out of the Ninety-Mile
and headed for Mallee Cliffs. Just on
dusk we pulled into a landing; there was
some loading and unloading, then they
cast off for the run to Mildura, about a
half-hour’s steam away. But the Marion
was stuck on the mud. Crew and passen-
gers manned poles and pushed and
levered in vain. The crew took a wire
rope across the river in a dinghy and
fastened it around a couple of gums ; the
winch pulled the trees down. Ihe rope
was retrieved and re-treed, but the winch
pulled those trees down, too. By this
time we were cursing the boat, the crew
and the river, for all hopes of getting
into Mildura in time to celebrate were
vanishing. After another hour or two
in the hot dark, during which we un-
loaded a lot of cargo, the Marion slid
off the mud and we swung downstream.
It was 1 a.m., and it was then that the
mate informed us that all the time we’d
been on that blasted bank we were within
a quarter-mile of the Gol Gol pub!
* * * *
“Pig Islander”: Even a dog knows the
answer to that one about the billy lid of
water keeping the billy cool. A mong
may not care one hoot about the science
of refrigeration, but he in effect is a
miniature freezer. Watch him on a hot
day with his tongue hanging out. Every
now and then he will wipe it round his
mouth to keep it wet, and hang it out in
the sun again. The tongue, being thin,
acts like the evaporator of a freezer, sim-
ilarly to the lid of the billy. In both
cases the sun or wind or both evaporate
the wetness and as long as it is replen-
ished the evaporation goes on. It is
during the evaporation period that heat
is extracted from the container or the
dog’s tongue, resulting in a lowering of
temperature. Sheep dogs from the far
south of Maoriland have porcelain slip-
ons attached to their tongues in the
winter, as cases have been known of
their being found in the morning frozen
stiff!
* * * *
“ Dronestung ”: “ Fancar ” surmises
wrongly (B. 29/11/ ’44) that bees load up
with nectar off one class of flora and
pass on to another to top off with‘pollen
before returning to the hive. Except
when prospecting the lesser blossoms, the
flpwers of one particular type of plant
only are worked op each foraging trip,
pollen or nectar or both being gathered
according to supplies available and the
needs of the hive. Apis gives good
service for her rewards by discriminating
and thus ensuring inter-pollination of
plants of the same families.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad was hunched in the big
armchair by the stove nursing a cold. He
watched the fire burn steadily lower ; then
the door opened and Ma came in, carry-
ing a bucket and dish of separator parts.
“Finished milkin’, Ma?” he sniffed plain-
tively. “I —achoo —ain’t no better. D’ja
feed Polly an’ Bob? Make me fire up
fail! y’, ’n’ git me a hot drink. Y’ better
put the cows inter the top paddick, too.
Take the lantern. * An’, Ma, don’t be so
flamin’ long. A man c’d die ’ere without
no one t’ look after him.” Half an hour
later Ma again returned. “Cripes, Ma,”
was his testy greeting; “I could do with
some broth or somethin’. Better fry me
a coupla chops, too, an’ some eggs. Y’
got to feed a cold, you know. But get
me some asp’rins first, an’ ’ave we got any
whisky?” After he’d finished his tea Dad
leaned back wearily. “ ’Struth, sickness is
a terrible thing,” he wheezed. “I had a
brother died young. I’ll—achoo, aw
blast it —I’ll ’ave t’ get y’t’ attend t’ them
ewes t’morrer, Ma, an’ y’ better go t’
town ’n’ git me some medicine. You can
git me some more rugs, too. I suppose,”
managed the dying voice, “y’ won’t be
goin’ yet awhile, Ma, in case I want
somethin’? P’raps I oughter have another
whisky. Get another hanky first, then
| fix me piller, J bet —achoo—cripes, I
bet you’re glad you ain’t got to put up
with me cold, Ma.” Ma’s discreet smile
as she turned away was a masterpiece.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Found Long Jim building
a new charcoal kiln. As the nucleus he
had the massive butt of a white gum that
may have fallen 50 years ago. The rest
of this giant he had sawn to Bft. lengths
and then butchered up into slabs. Dry
“T' hell with tent inspection — We're on gold!"
as a bone, solid right through, the face
of the butt rang like a bell when struck
with the head of the axe. With all the
slabs in place, a hundred or so summer-
dry saplings completed the pile, except
for a covering of leaves with wet
earth atop. So the kiln was made air-
tight, control of combustion being
through a couple of hollow logs at
ground level. On my expressing doubts
as to the huge butt charring right
through. Long Jim extended an invita-
tion : “Come round in about three weeks’
time and we’ll see.” Three weeks later
I found him opening the kiln. It was a
perfect burn, the charcoal ringing with
an almost musical note, so clean and hard
was it. But the beauty was in the huge
nucleus. It was still whole, and had to
be knocked to pieces. It was charred
right through, beautiful chemically-pure
carbon. “Makes you laugh, don’t it?”
said Jim. “When I first came here and
saw all those big trunks lying around it
nearly broke me up wondering how I was
ever going to get rid of them. Now I go
round wishing there were more.”
“J.R.C.”\- That par (B. 29/11/ ’44)
about “Seventyfiver” may have had
some truth in it. We also have a kero,
frig., and water from a “swagman”
bag hanging a few feet away is a cool
drink compared to the stuff the frig,
keeps in its innards. In fact, we put
milk in the frig, to let it go thick so as
to make curd to feed the young turkeys,
while milk left on the window sill keeps
fresh. We are working out a plan to use
the frig, for an incubator in the cabinet
and a brooder for chicks around the
lamp, as soon as we can overcome the
problem of ventilation.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The shark had been fol-
lowing our schooner for a couple of days,
"I realise you haven t been home long, Son, but that's no way to ask for
the salt.”
scoffing everything that went over from
the galley, so the mate, Norwegian and a
trifle superstitious, decided that we had
had enough. The barbed hook he selected
from his locker might have hung a side
of beef. To its eye he coupled about
six feet of light steel chain; then 70
yards of deep-sea cotton line strong
enough to hold a bullock. Bait was a
lump of rancid bacon, slices of which the
cook had vainly tried to serve for break-
fast. Now he made amends by grilling
it slightly so as to bring out some oil.
The barb was inserted through the rind
so that it lay out of sight in the fat, and,
moreover, was not likely to be plucked
otf. But although he had always been
ready for the galley slops our sea-lawyer
showed little interest when the bait struck
the water. Two remorra, detached from
somewhere on his carcass, swam forward
to investigate, and apparently reported
all well; but even then the shark hesi-
tated. But the mate knew a trick; he
jerked the bait away. Like a flash the
shark snapped—and was hooked. Then
began the finest bit of fishing I ever
saw. With his hundred teeth that
sea-lawyer mashed at the chain try-
ing to bite it through rope would
have lasted only a second. Backing away
like a torpedo in reverse, he tried to break
the line? 1 Then, still frustrated, he per-
formed an inward convulsion, vainly try-
ing to turn his stomach inside out to dis-
lodge the hook. For a full hour this went
on ; then the shark gave it best —stuck
his head out of the water as a sign of sur-
render. A bullet did the rest. Hoisted
out, he taped 16ft., and had a belly as
round as a pig.
<5
“X.E.D.”: “Charlie Munro put me on
fr a fortnight to help with the grass hay
at the Widgee,” said Sam. “The first
mornin’ he sets out to the paddick at a
fast walk, with me moochin’ along at me
usual speed ; the further we go the more
I drop behind. Suddenly Charlie, who
seems to be gettin’ impatient, turns round
an’ sings out, ‘hurry, Sam, hurry. I’m
three weeks behind with me work
already.’ I snatched me job on the spot.
Y’ couldn’t expect a bloke to hurry fast
enough t’ catch up three ruddy weeks in
a flamin’ fortnight!”
* * * *
“W. 0.2”; Pushing our way through
a vast mangrove swamp in the coastal
region north of Cooktown (N.Q.), fre-
quently sinking knee-deep in the sticky
mud, we disturbed a dozen or so mud-
skippers or walking fish. Our arrival sent
the queer little creatures hopping about
the mud in all directions. A plain, greyish-
brown, decorated with pale spots, the
walking fish has fan-shaped and hinged
breast fins used as feet for walking on
the mud and as hands for climbing, in
which a rounded sucking disc on the
lower surface of the body is also brought
into action. The freak spends most of
his time out of water. The cavity con-
taining the gills'is exceptionally large,
the extra space being filled with air, so
that the gill-chamber is really a primi-
tive kind of lung. The fish also breathes
through its tail. We saw /several lying
on the mud with only the tips of their
tails in water: through the skin of the
tail oxygen is taken into the blood. Nor-
mally, the fish only crawls about the mud,
but when alarmed he hops frantically for
the nearest pool, curling his tail sideways
and forward, then straightening it out
again with a sharp flick that shoots him
forward a foot or so. Large, black bulb-
ous eyes close together on top of his head
give the fish a ludicrous appearance, but
enable him to see in all directions.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The favorite “utensil” of
the camp cook on my last fishing trip
was a large potato. Cut in half, it was
scooped out and stuffed with bacon and
beans or some other savory, after which
it was re-assembled, sealed with wet mud
and buried in hot ashes to cook slowly.
The resultant dishes were richer in flavor
than any I ever sampled.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d run out of kero, for
the lantern, and I was contemplating a
dark evening when Seventyfive advanced
a substitute. “Whassamatter with a slush
lamp?” he challenged. And, fishing out
a treacle-tin, he half-filled it with a mix-
ture of melted fat, punched a hole in the
lid and proceeded to twist together a
wick. “There y’ are,” he crowed presently.
“What was good enough f’ y’r gran’dad’s
good enough for us now.” The tiny flame
struggled feebly, its main achievement
being a heavy stench that made even old
Bluey paw his nose in protest. Silently
I groped round for the teaspoon. “Gripes,
there ain’t nuthin’ the matter with that
light,” the old bloke growled suspiciously,
and with extravagant nonchalance he
reached for the paper and pretended to
read. Twenty minutes later he was still
squinting stubbornly over the larger head-
lines, betweenwhiles stopping to prime
or relight the contraption on the table.
“Maybe if you upended the billy over
it y’d stop the moths,” I suggested. There
was no reply as the old bloke struck a
match from a fresh box and returned to
his paper. The pile of matches increased,
so did the moths, and. last thing I heard
as I retired was a sigh and the scratching
of another lucifer. Next morning I break-
fasted early and was off out for my nag
when I tripped over something in the
grass. The slush lamp. Distance from
the hut door —one good stone-throw.
¥ * * *
“H. Dale”; Know a bloke who got his
start in a drought. It was 1900 ; we were
droving lambing ewes through Central
Queensland ; but the ewes were too poor
to worry about the lambs and left them.
This chap followed us, collected about
100 orphan lambs and took them to a
block he’d acquired. Five years later he
had a sheep station. He began hand-
shearing in a bough shed, had a 15-stand
machine shed before long, and 15 years
after picking up those lambs sold out for
about £25,000. But then, those were the
days when a man could make a go of
things on his own initiative and not be
hampered and hamstrung by Govern-
ment interference from dawn to dark.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Bananas, pines, paw-
paws dnd oysters—the choicest any of us
had ever tasted —were among the gifts
showered upon us by the happy islanders
when we landed on Mer (Torres Strait),
exactly 108 years after H.M.S. Isabella
called there. One of the island’s council-
lors, whose father was a noted warrior at
the time, gave us a long and picturesque
account of the schooner’s visit, which was
for the purpose of rescuing two white
boys;,John Ireland, aged 14, and Willy
D’Oyley, aged six, who had been living
on the island for two years. Castaways
from the barque Charles Eaton, wrecked
on Detached Reef on August 15, 1834,
the lads had been captured by Marsden
Islanders, who kept them in a special hut
until Duppar, chief of Mer,
wanting the boys as pets, bought them
after much bargaining for a bunch of
bananas apiece. The Merites christened
Ireland Wak and little D’Oyley, who be-
came the spoiled pet of all the women,
Uass. The lads, according to Captain
Lewis of the Isabella, were “deeply im-
bued with native superstitions;” they
spoke nothing but the island dialect and
wept bitterly when parted from their
dusky friends. The natives have never
forgotten the boys, and Wak and Uass
figure in many of their legends. While
at the island we sampled roasted meat
from the giant clam (Tridacna deresa),
one of the native’s most popular sea
foods, but the tough, leathery, tasteless
stuff was too much for us.
ON GUARD.
Oh, may this moon that lights the skies
And turns the earth to silver grey
Shine on the place wherein she lies
And sleeps away the cares of day,
And while the morning watch goes slow
And tents are caverns dark and blind.
May the white nights of years ago .
Steal shining through her dreaming mind.
And when the sombre clouds of night
Shall glow with dawn from out to , sea,
When she awakes to greet the light
Oh, may she sometimes think ot me.
A.I.F.
GNR. R. H. BYRNES.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 HUGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
\\\fc
O'*
*o*
y
Sift
v*
m
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough.. a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not
only to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to - - -
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Packed in Jute Bags.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY , . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . , . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
BRANDALIERrS
wt
C*
t*"*
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a bbabdaubb * 00, w. bibuesoham. eno
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course* . -.u cuu
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ẅ
w
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY
ALL CHEMISTS.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ŵ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
_ _ “IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mating Hints.
“Bugaldie”: The principal thing when
joining merino rams with merino ewes
is to choose rams with plenty of wool
on them, both in length and density. If
you are to grow wool you want
to grow as much as possible. Don’t start
off with small rams. Don’t join 60’s rams
with 72’s ewes; the progeny will be too
uneven in the wool. The rams should
be stronger than the ewes; join a good
64’s ram with 60-67’s ewes and, all things
being equal, the lambs will produce a
popular and handy type of wool.
Though p.c. is the recognised num-
ber of rams to join, it is far better to join
two good rams—mostly sufficient—than
two good rams and one indifferent one,
making 3 p.c.. Dress their heads with a
good fly-repellant before putting out; it
will save a lot of trouble and maybe a
number of rams.
It is advisable to yard ewes and rams
and leave them in overnight when condi-
tions allow. Rams have the habit of
singling out one ewe and staying away
from the mob with her; yarding will
allow a check of the number of rams and
bring ewes and rams together.
May-time lambs are the best when
everything goes according to Hoyle, but
no good at all if it is the reverse, when
you may lose both ewe and lamb, and,
last, but not least, nearly the whole year’s
growth of wool. It’s safe to lamb in
end-July-August on the lowlands, when
there’s the best chance for a pick of
herbage, and in the highlands in mid-
August-September, when spring is in
sight. The first two weeks of August,
invariably accompanied by hail, sleet and
gales, usually mark the end of winter and
the weather takes a turn for the better.
When people complain that the rams
won’t work nine times out of ten it’s
the ewes that are at fault. Nature knows
how to order things, and in a dry season
ewes will not take the rams, but a green
flush of feed will bring them in season.
The T.B. Difficulty.
“Jock”: Diagnosis is a problem. A
definite one can be made only by seeing
the tubercle bacilli. This is done by
examining the sputum if the cow has a
cough, and examining the milk micro-
scopically, or by inoculating it into
a guinea pig, when the bacilli
multiply rapidly and are seen when the
guinea pig is killed three or six weeks
later. TTiese methods need highly-trained
personnel, extensive equipment which is
not easily transported and are cum-
bersome and expensive.
A presumed diagnosis can be made
using the tuberculin test, with which
every cow-cocky will soon be familiar.
A positive result is only read if the tem-
perature shows a definite rise or the skin
reaction shows swelling, tenderness and
heat. A positive result means only an
infected animal, not an infectidus one.
Although all reactors are condemned, the
great majority have healed up their lesion
and are not infectious to other cows or
to humans through their milk. False
positive reactions also occur, but are less
if the highly-purified tuberculin —P.P.D.
—is used. There is considerable wastage
in condemning all these cows, and yet the
more certain methods of diagnosis are
not practical.
Thus the practical difficulties of ob-
taining a t.b.-free herd are apparent. One
scheme, as practised in Scandinavia,
Canada and the United States, is to
slaughter (as here) or to segregate (less
successful) all cattle reacting to the
tuberculin test. This scheme is highly
successful but involves wastage of non-
infectious animals, as shown above.
The English slaughter only cattle which
react to tuberculin and which are judged
to have an active infection by the look
of the animal and milk inoculation. But
when a cow fulfils these requirements she
has already been infecting the rest of the
herd for some time.
So the wastage will have to go on until
better methods of accurate early diag-
nosis are available. I suggest the use of
the blood sedimentation rate, as used in
humans, to be the standard for slaughter-
ing positive tuberculin reactors. It is
simple to carry out, and shows thwdegree
of activity of the infection, whether
active, healing or cured. Also, the
herd should be restricted to young
animals which have lower incidence of
infection, and all milk for human con-
sumption should be pasteurised.
Summer Pests.
“Pat Ater”; The best way to beat the
bugs, thrips, grubs and flies which sur-
round us is by prevention. That means
having the full complement of dusts,
sprays, solutions, etc., on hand, with a
spray pump.
Arsenate of lead powder (for wogs
which eat leaves and fruit), nicotine sul-
phate “Black Leaf 40” —or nicotine
dust, 2\ to 3 p.c. (to stifle the sucking
pests), derris dust mixture (for sucking
insects and small grubs of cabbage moth
and white butterfly), and white oil emul-
sion (a general addition) are the main
ingredients, also tartar emetic for use
on tomato plants against carrier thrips.
Tomato grubs are very prevalent this
season. Preventive spraying is recom-
mended where they have been busy in
previous years. The small green cater-
pillars soon burrow into and spoil the
fr.uit crop. Sometimes they are born in
the flowers. From the appearance of
first blossoms alternative weekly spray-
ing and dusting with lead arsenate for
six to eight weeks is a method of control.
Washing and wiping of fruit is essential
before marketing or using (after using
arsenate).
Rutherglen bugs have been at work
early on potato crops, lettuce and beans.
They gather in colonies under curled
leaves and, by sucking the sap, cause
wilting and debilitation. In the absence
of pyrethrum, use derris dust or nicotine
dust (2| to 3 p.c.) or nicotine soapy spray.
Bean fly is most active from December
onward. Its small maggot burrows into
stems, turning plants yellow. Plants
generally die. Early spraying from first
showing of plants through the ground ;
then at three- and subsequently four-day
intervals is necessary to beat the young
fly before it gets inside a stem and into
safety. The mixture: Nicotine sulphate,
Ifl. oz.; white oil emulsion, oz.;
water, four gallons. Spray only upper
surface of leaves. For mid-summer crops
six to eight sprayings, later, four to six
sprayings should be made.
Green shield or vegetable bugs are
serious and objectionable parasites on
tomatoes and beans. Try shaking them
into a dish of kerosene solution or dust
liberally with derris
There are some splendid dusts from
proprietary lines now available, mainly
of derris, lime and kaolin, which kill
young caterpillars quickly. Arsenate of
lead in early stages of growth and derris
later will keep all the brassicas clean.
White butterfly grubs are active only on
members of the cabbage family.
The Disease Spreads.
“E.H.S.”: In addition to the devas-
tation on the plains, thousands of acres
of alluvial flats bordering streams in the
foothills of the Dividing Range have
suffered irreparable damage through care-
less drainage. The soil is formed by the
deposition of decayed vegetable matter
over a substratum of sand and gravel.
In their primitive state these flats were
chiefly valueless ti-tree, peat and sword-
grass swamps, but when drained and
broken up they produced astonishingly
heavy crops of potatoes, oats, maize,
tobacco and hops, and when laid down in
clover it was almost impossible to over-
stock them at any time from early spring
to autumn.
When the ditches were excavated en-
tirely in the peaty top-soil, which
averaged about 3ft. in depth, they were
protected from erosion by the texture of
the soil and the growth of acquatic vege-
tation, but where the underlying drift
was penetrated the sand was gradually
carried away by the current until the
bank was undermined and collapsed and
was carried away in turn, to be deposited
as silt in the deeper waters down stream.
This form of erosion continued until in
many instances the original ditch was
transformed into a gully a chain or more
in width and 18ft. or 20ft, in depth.
When this occurred the water dropped
from its original level within 2ft. or 3ft.
of the surface to the bottom of the eroded
section, and the productive capacity of
the flats was reduced to a point where it
was little better than that of the adjacent
upland. Where the water remained at or
near its original level the land continued
practically as productive as ever. Ero-
sion of this nature should never have
occurred.
Cuttings of willow or poplar planted
at water-level on each side of the drain
and spaced 18in. apart would have
afforded ample protection from erosion.
When the cuttings strike the submerged
area is soon covered with a mat of
threadlike roots which affords 100 p.c.
protection against erosion. The damage
caused has not been confined to the
localities in which it originated. Many
fine deep reaches and waterholes on
the main streams have been almost com-
pletely silted up by the eroded material.
Boosting Rainfall.
“Graz”: An enterprising farmer, R. G.
McKillop, Narromine (N.S.W.), has arti-
ficially boosted up rainfall on to his citrus
trees from 20in. to 3Sin. The land, which
has a moderate fall, is contoured and
divided into strips about 20ft. wide. One
strip is ploughed and backed up on the
contours, graded and well rolled while
the soil is moist. The idea is to make
this strip into a hard pan, impervious to
water, so that rainfall will run off this
on to the next strip, which is well culti-
vated to hold moisture.
Along the cultivated strips citrus trees
are planted three to the chain. The strips
alternate, one for catchment, the next for
cultivation. Agostologist S. Ruskin says
the idea might pave the way for growing
fruit and hay crops on the red soils of
western N.S.W.
Hints for the Farm.
“Barolin”: When cattle are allowed
access to barley, rye and wheat stacks
there will be some danger from the awns
lodging in the soft tissues of the mouth
or lips causing irritation. When possible
remove lodged beards with tweezers,
liberating the pus and swabbing the
wounds with tincture of iodine once or
twice and then daily with 2 p.c. solution
of permanganate of potash until healed.
“Bunda”: Brine and pickle are especi-
ally dangerous to pigs. Many a pig has
died after feeding on swill in which a
large amount of salt was present.
“Ninetynine”: A simple method of
preventing a cow sucking herself is to fix
one end of a broom handle to girth and
the other to halter or head stall; this
will not interfere with her in any way at
all. The want of minerals often causes
the habit, which when once acquired is
difficult to eradicate. A good mineral
mixture is dicalcic phosphate 601 b., fine
salt 401 b., sulphur 31b., finely ground sul-
phate of iron 31b,, and iodine of potash
3oz.
“Portergaff”: Before repainting, wash
down greasy walls and fittings with a stiff
lime solution. Never use caustic on
woodwork as particles lie in the open
grain, afterwards burning their way
through the fresh paintwork. Caustic can
be used to remove paint or enamel from
galvanised-iron baths provided it is fol-
lowed with a vinegar wash to neutralise
the strong alkali. Rinse well with clean
water, dry thoroughly, and as an under-
coat apply one coat of aluminium paint;
this allows the enamel to grip and pre-
vents peeling.
“Myrrhee”: For scaly-leg in fowls dip
feet and shanks in crude oil and scrub
with a hard brush, but keep the oil off
the feathers. Dip in the morning to
allow the oil to drain off before the birds
go to roost. One application is usually
sufficient, although bad cases should be
treated again in a month’s time. Another
method: wash the legs in soap and water,
remove scales with a brush and apply a
mixture, nine parts of lard to one of sul-
phur. Spray the perches with crude oil.


“Extreme Disquiet” on Russia.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
(Condensed “Saturday Evening Posf’ editorial .)
If Stalin reads the American news he
must wonder why the “extreme disquiet”
described by Washington columnist
Ernest Lindley as America’s reaction to
recent Soviet policies didn’t break out
earlier. The fact that such an attitude
was reported by a commentator close to
the White House indicates symptoms to
be watched.
What worries Washington months
after the ho-ho-ho of Tehran—is the re-
peated suggestion that the Soviet Union
is building up a vast structure of power
extending all the way from Manchuria to
Germany, and possibly to Italy, France
and Scandinavia. That is a prospect
which would worry us if Russia were
ruled by Ivan the Terrible or a middle-
class regime. It would mean the destruc-
tion of the balance of power in Europe
with no stable international organisation
to take its place.
It would have earth-shaking conse-
quences for Great Britain and its Em-
pire. It would leave the western democ-
racies to face a coalition of puppets as
integrated as the array fabricated by
Hitler before 1939, and aided in every
country by a fifth column more formid-
able than any Hitler was able to con-
trive.
When Stalin managed to veto Smuts’s
sensible proposal for a union of more
or less like-minded European States ex-
tending from Scandinavia to France
some of us were disquietened. And when
Moscow, after urging and even taunting
the Warsaw underground to revolt, left
those heroic men to be butchered by the
Gestapo some of us wondered what was
up. Moscow’s abuse of General Bor,
who was persuaded by Russian en-
couragement to lead the revolt, added
little to the general confidence in Soviet
good faith. We wondered what it was all
about when Russia declared war on Bul-
garia in the midst of armistice nego-
tiations between Bulgaria and the
Western Allies; and we rubbed our
heads when Secretary Hull declared
himself ignorant of the terms of the
Rumanian armistice after Moscow had
described that document as a United
Nations product. The news that even
U.N.R.R.A. would not be welcome in
Yugoslavia unless its relief could be ad-
ministered by local officials—who could
presumably be relied on not to feed the
Wrong people—was equally disturbing.
Reports of Soviet activities in Italy,
France, Greece and Mexico add to the
“extreme disquiet” of people who have
been too busy buying bonds, giving blood
and fighting to pay heed to the evidence
that Stalin’s activities at times seem dis-
tressingly “unilateral.” Not being accus-
tomed to believe communists on any-
thing, the American people mostly
ignored Earl Browder’s boasting that this
menacing situation was cooked up at the
Tehran Conference.
The sentiment here in the United
States for a peace organisation “with
teeth” is powerful, perhaps more power-
ful than it is in Moscow, if Dumbarton
Oaks provides trustworthy evidence. But
it is our belief that use should be made'
of the reported “extreme disquiet” to
make it clear that when we speak of an
organisation to enforce peace we mean
an organisation which respects the rights
of free peoples. America has shed her
isolationist past, but she could retreat
into it again if she came to believe that
the horrors and sacrifices of this war have
brought nothing better than a new division
of spoils among the great Powers.
Russia will be the strongest Continen-
tal Power after the war. She has the
goodwill of every non-Axis nation. She
can afford to meet the “extreme disquiet”
among her, current Allies with a broad
and generous policy toward her neigh-
bors, and more assurances than have
been given so far that she has no plans
for a new hegemony over the Eurasian
“heartland,” Russia should be left in no
doubt concerning American feeling about
this. The commitments which we are
asked to make, and are glad to make,
justify our concern over sore spots likely
to breed new wars. If our diplomacy is
alert to its responsibilities Moscow will
understand the importance of making the
exercise of her new power palatable to
freedom-loving Americans.
Case for Chiang.
(i Condensed from a N.Y. “Post” article by
Edgar Ansel Mowrer, specially remarkable be-
cause both the “Post” and Mowrer can be
described as Leftish.)
There is a movement under way among
influential Americans to threaten the
Chinese generalissimo with the stoppage
of all American aid unless he kicks in
and runs his country to suit Washington.
This plan threatens to disrupt two cen-
turies of Chinese-American friendship.
For Chiang Kai-shek, whatever his weak-
nesses, is no man to knuckle down to
foreign threats.
If he should be told by American diplo-
mats or generals that unless he comes to
terms with the Chinese communists
(which means accepting their terms)
American aid to China will stop the
generalissimo will say no. Millions and
millions of Chinese now critical of him
and his Kuomintang will rally to his sup-
port.
For the Chinese people have not with-
stood the Japanese for seven years in
order to yield to any foreign Power, even
their old friend Uncle Sam.
In theory China’s war effort would
benefit if the Kuomintang and the com-
munists were to come together. But on
whose terms? To expect the generalis-
simo to undo his unifying work of the
last 20 years and accept communist claims
to be a separate Government with a sepa-
rate army and, conceivably, a separate
foreign policy, is like asking F.D.R. to
accept the secession of New England
under a “co-operative” Republican ad-
ministration. Chiang will refuse.
Some Americans will retort that China
is prostrate and that without American
help China will be lost. It is true that
without American support China will
hardly be accepted into the coming Big
Five. But China has been prostrate now
for so long that the Chinese hardly notice
it any more. Especially as we Americans
could not stop fighting the Japs if we
wanted to.
As for military help, the Chinese claim
that they have looked everywhere for it
and haven’t seen much yet. There were
the wonderful Flying Tigers—hired as
mercenaries by the Chinese Government
at incredibly high salaries. Was this
“American help”? General Stilwell
trained Chinese soldiers and did it well.
But they found themselves fighting—as
the Chinese see it —not to defend China
but to defend India, to reconquer Burma
and to reopen a road that would not be
necessary if China had been helped to
keep open a port on the China coast.
Even the American bomber forces pri-
marily bombard Jap industry far from
China in order to ease the task of the
American Navy.
No, among the items in our list of
“Aid to China” only General Claire
Chennault and his fighter ’planes get
China’s full recognition and gratitude.
For what the Chinese mean by help would
be direct American assistance in clearing
Chinese territory of Japs—giving them
the cartridges and rifles with which they
could, according to General Chennault,
have defended the costly American air
bases now so sadly lost.
Maybe this is shortsighted on the part
of the Chinese. But this unquestionably
is how they feel about it. And those
Americans who know China best sym-
pathise with them. These experts say:
(1) China’s present plight is less the
result of Chinese ineptitude than of the
Allied decision to lick Germany first.
(2) If communist troops were so much
better than Government troops the Japs
would never have sat still for six solid
years about a hundred miles from the
communist capital of Yenan without try-
ing to wipe it out —as they have sat still.
(3) Instead of the President backing a
policy of threatening Chiang he would do
well to revise the war plans, abandoning
the obsolete Burma campaign, giving
Chiang tactical as well as strategical
assistance.
Passing History.
(The uprising in Paris at liberation-time, as
reported by Harold Callender, correspondent
to N.Y. “Times.”)
The French credit Raoul Nordling, the
Swedish Consul in Paris, with having persuaded
the Germans not to destroy Paris.
This was how the uprising came about, as
related by M. Parodi (now Minister of Labor),
who—having been unable to get into contact
with General de Gaulle —sanctioned and guided
it:
As early as Monday, August 14, M. Parodi.
was told that one of the three resistance move-
ments within the Parisian police force had called
a strike of the police. There were reports
that the Germans, having got wind of this,
were disarming the police.' M. Parodi feared
this German move might succeed in depriving
the police of weapons. So he suggested that
the three resistance groups among the police
get together and all call a strike.
Virtually all the Paris police struck—all but
about 300 out of the 20,000 —and between
August 15 and 19 Paris was without police.
But the city was suddenly unusually full of
vehicles. The Germans began leaving, and
their departing tanks and trucks, rolling in,
through and out of Paris, formed a bustle of
activity that excited the people, living in a
state of tension and expecting dramatic events.
Assembling in civilian clothes, but armed, the
striking policemen late Friday night', August
18, attacked the Prefecture of Police. By 1 a.m.
Saturday they had occupied the Prefecture and
had arrested the Prefect of Police.
“It was then that the National Council of
Resistance and I decided on an insurrection in
Paris, even without orders froxn General de
Gaulle,” said M- Parodi.
French military men then in Paris and a
British officer who was with them contended
that the decision for insurrection was the wildest
folly because the F.F.I. had few arms, and
these officers thought the only result could be
the destruction of Paris.
This dire prophecy seemed confirmed that
same night, Saturday, August 19, when the
Germans attacked the Prefecture of Police and
surrounded it and the policemen within, who
had few munitions with which to hold it.
But not only had there been no bombard-
ment of Paris by Sunday morning but the
truce arranged by Raoul Nordling to suspend
over Saturday night the fighting at the Prefec-
ture of Police was now about to extend to
all Paris. Each side was to retain the positions
it held and the prisoners captured by either
side were to be treated as prisoners of war.
That is, the F.F.I. were recognised as a regularly
armed force with the status of soldiers.
Both these proposals were made by the
Swedish Consul, who had earlier been in ne-
gotiation with General von Choltitz regarding
the release of French political prisoners held
by the Germans.
To the resistance leaders, or most of them,
this seemed a heaven-sent opportunity to gain
time —for the policemen, who within the Pre-
fecture were standing off the Germans with
only small arms and little ammunition, for the
F.F.1., who were full of combative spirit but
faced a superior foe, for the Americans and for
the Leclerc division approaching Paris.
So the executive committee of the National
Council of Resistance met hastily at 10 a.m.
Sunday, Aug. 20, and accepted the truce—
though the communists on the committee voted
against it.
There were others to whom the truce was
disappointing, coming as it did just at' the
moment when they were keyed up for a fight
but without fully realising what they would
have been up against had the fight gone on.
Then appeared in the streets of Paris and
suburbs a curious spectacle. Motor cars carry-
ing the F.F.I. and loudspeakers rushed about
announcing the cease-fire order.
Behind each F.F.I. car was a German car
containing German soldiers to signify to the
Germans, as well as to the French, that the
order was joint and applied to both sides. In
the suburbs of Aubervilliers German troops in
a car were fired on by some who opposed or
distrusted the truce, but a crowd surrounded
both the F.F.I. and German cars to protect
them.
In the afternoon of the same day—Sunday,
August 20 —the executive committee of the
National Council of Resistance met again.
The truce was debated again, and there were
still misgivings about it. When the Council
of Resistance itself met in a full session on the
Monday these misgivings brought a bitter argu-
ment, opponents of the truce accusing its advo-
cates of lacking courage.
Before this meeting was a plea from the
Parisian Committee of Liberation —now the
municipal Government of Paris—to let the
battle be resumed. M. Parodi still feared a
bombardment of Paris by the Germans. But
he felt obliged to fell Raoul Nordling, who
served as an intermediary between the French
and Germans, that he could not promise that
the truce would be respected. Meanwhile, to
the Parisian Committee of Liberation he said
he would agree to a resumption of the fighting
if a truce were allowed to reign for 24 hours
more —in which M. Parodi hoped that Ameri-
can forces would reach Paris and save the day.
But M. Parodi insisted that, despite the
divided opinions on the truce, all French groups
should stick together in the fight, and on Tues-
day, August 22, the National Council of Re-
sistance agreed to do this. Meanwhile, news
reached M. Parodi that Germans from the west
of Paris, who were crossing the Seine in Paris,
were less numerous than had been thought, and
that the Americans were closing-in on the city.
So Tuesday morning M. Parodi told Colonel
Rol, F.F.I. chief in Paris, and the committee
of military action of the Council of Resistance
that he agreed the fight should go on at once,
as they had urged. .
By noon of that day the fruce had ended in
a general battle. Barricades appeared in, the
streets as if by magic. German cars were fired
on, immobilised and many were burned. By
this time the Parisians were better armed with
weapons that they had taken from the Ger-
mans. Five German cannon were in action in
defence of the Prefecture, captured German
gunners showing the French how to fire them.
All the traditional spirit and audacity ot
Paris and all its combative and revolutionary
traits were combined in one huge explosion of
warlike exaltation that recalled 1789. Through-
out Wednesday and Thursday, August 23 and
24, battles raged in Paris, during which the
Germans burned the Grand Palais and. General
von Choltitz threatened to burn Paris.
By the night of August 24 three tanks from
Brigadier-General Jacques-Philippe Leclerc’s
division had reached the besieged Prefecture of
Police, from which General Billotte, of General
Leclerc’s staff, sent an ultimatum demanding
the surrender of General von Choltitz, who
was in the Hotel Meurice. The Swedish Consul
carried the ultimatum to General von Choltitz
while the fighting was going on.
General von Choltitz rejected the ultimatum,
but requested that the French honor him by
attacking first. Meanwhile he asked, through
M. Nordling, that the women secretaries be
evacuated front the Meurice and the Crillon-
Coislin before the fight started. His idea
apparently was that if attacked he could sur-
render without the loss of honor. This he did.
But the telephone in the Meurice had been de-
stroyed, so General von Choltitz had to send
out an officer to inform his men in other places
that they were to surrender.
M. Nofdling’s aim was above nil to save
Paris. M. Parodi’s aim, and that of resistance
leaders, was to save it, but by its own effort
and at some risk —to save its pride and self-
respect as well as its monumepfs. General von
Choltitz’s aim apparently was that he should
do his duty as a soldier, but within the limita-
tions imposed by honor and civilised standards.
On the morning of August 19, the day the
Paris police seized the Prefecture, Raoul Nord-
ling—who by negotiation with General von
Choltitz had obtained the release of some
10,000 political prisoners in the Parisian region
—was in the office of General von Choltitz in
connection with the release of prisoners.
General von Choltitz told M. Nordling that
he had decided to re-establish the order in
Paris that the F.F.I. had broken. He said he
would order German tanks to attack the public
buildings that the F.F.I. had occupied.
M. Nordling replied that if General von
Choltitz destroyed the beautiful buildings of
Paris and caused the deaths of tens of thou-
sands of innocent civilians his contemporaries
and history alike would forget his humani-
tarian acts in saving the political prisoners from
massacre. „ , ,
General von Choltitz said he faced a cruel
duty, but that he would go through with it,
because he could not permit rebels behind walls
to fire on his men without his attacking with
heavy tanks and aircraft.
M. Nordling then asked whether the German
commander would refrain from his contem-
plated attack if the F.F.I. would cease firing
on German troops. Choltitz agreed to a truce,
and M. Nordling transmitted the proposal to
the Prefecture, where it was accepted.
When the success of the truce seemed doubt-
ful M. Nordling made an effort to carry it
to a higher level by arranging negotiations be-
tween General von Choltitz and General Dwight
D Eisenhower to prevent a battle in Pans.
General von Choltitz told M. Nordling that
he had received from Adolf Hitler orders to
destroy the 62 bridges over the Seine in Greater
Paris and to evacuate Paris only when his losses
were so heavy as to compel that action.
After having consulted resistance leaders,
M. Nordling decided to send an envoy to the
Allies High Command. General yon Choltitz
would not give a pass for an envoy, but
agreed he might leave Paris at his own risk.
M. Nordling was ill, and sent his brother,
accompanied by M- St. Phall and M. Arnoud
of the Red Cross.
These three left Paris August 22 and reached
headquarters of the American Third Army some
20 miles from Paris. Rolf Nordling explained
the Paris situation to Lieutenant-General George
S. Patton, and asked permission to explain
it to General Eisenhower. General Patton re-
plied that General Eisenhower was inaccessible,
but that Lieutenant-General Omar N. Bradley
had all the authority necessary. General
Patton provided a ’plane to take the three
emissaries to General Bradley, who listened to
M. Nordling’s story and said he likewise de-
sired t'o spare Paris, but that the fight was on.
General Leclerc then received orders to speed
up his movement into Paris.
Another Phillips Letter.
fin “Uncabled Additions” 11/10/’44 was
given the full text of the letter on India written
by U.S. Ambassador William Phillips to Presi-
dent Roosevelt, which was bitingly com-
mented on by British Secretary for India Amery.
Here is an addition, as reported by Drew Pear-
son in N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”]
Ambassador Phillips, F.D.R.’s former
personal representative in India, wrote
two critical letters on British policy in
India, urging independence. The first
letter caused Phillips’s recall from Lon-
don, where he was political adviser to
General Eisenhower. Phillips’s second
letter to Roosevelt follows:
“Gandhi ended his fast, pnly result
is more bitterness against Britain. The
Government handled the case from legal-
ist view. Gandhi is the ‘enemy,’ must
not escape punishment, British prestige
must win, Gandhi’s followers think him
semi-divine.
“The British think they are reasonable.
Have been in India 150 years and, ex-
cept for mutiny in 1857, internal peace
has been maintained. They realise new
world forces affect their hold and have
gone out of their way to offer freedom to
India when the Indians can form a secure
Government. This the leaders could not
do.
“The political struggle increased and
made it more difficult for the leaders to
reach a compromise. Gandhi and all
Congress leaders, 60,000 Congress sup-
porters, are in jail. Congress is the strong-
est party, with no one to speak for it.
This forms a deadlock.
“With British approval, Indian political
leaders could discuss the future, the
assembly could be presided over by an
American, harmonising castes, religions,
races, political views. The conference
might be under patronage of the King
Emperor, President of the U.S., President
of the Soviets and Chiang Kai-shek, with
assurance of intention to transfer power
to India on a certain date and a pro-
visional set-up for the duration, though
British promises here mean little.
“Leaders, notably Gandhi, might be
freed to attend the conference. The
British may want an excuse to release
Gandhi.
“The British announced willingness to
grant freedom to India after the war if
the Indians have agreed as to its form.
They say they cannot agree because they
have no confidence in British promises.
England and Europe.
(From a “Harpe/s Magazine” article by Peter
F. Drucker.)
Under the Three-Powers plan for the
future of Europe (B. 20/12 / ’44) England
is asked to give up her traditional position
as the leading Power of Europe. Politi-
cally and economically she is to be a non-
European Power. Traditionally it was
on her position as the leader of Europe
that England’s claim to be a Great Power


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRITAIN'S LEAD.,
-
m
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
'T'HE telephone, most useful and übiqui-
* to us of modern instruments in business
and social life, was invented by a British
engineer.
In the forward march of civilisation
British inventions and discoveries have
always played a leading part. Particularly
in the realm of textiles, the British record
is one of continuous progress, and no single
firm has contributed more to raising the
standard of living than have Courtaulds through
the development of rayon.
In the course of a mere generation, untiring
research and experiment carried out by Court-
aulds succeeded in establishing rayon as a
recognised and valuable addition to textile pro-
duction throughout the world, and in the
creation of a vast new industry not only in
Britain, but also in the United States, in Canada
and elsewhere. Courtaulds rayon yarn and the
beautiful fabrics made from it have brought
luxury and variety into the lives of millions in
almost every land.
Today, unfortunately, the demands of total warfare
leave only a limited amount of rayon fabrics available
to the public; but present research and development
will place an even wider variety of lovely rayons
within the reach of everyone when normal times return.
rs-
ALEXANDER
GRAHAM BELL.
Born Edinburgh in
1847 and settled in
Canada. Invented and
exhibited in 1876 the
apparatus from which
the modern telephone
has been developed.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries originated
within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics;
Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns:
Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry, England.
m.
\
Wekncw"
that, after the war, as
before, most people
throughout the British
Empire will ride on
DUNLOP TYRES
DUNLOP
An Empire Institution
\ ' \
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA ' t
rested. The question arises whether she
can keep a Great-Power status without
being the leader of Europe.
In a remarkable article some months
back the London “Economist” said
bluntly that England by all standards is
only potentially a Great Power. In popu-
lation, industrial resources and strategic
position she is overshadowed not only by
the United States and Russia but by Ger-
many as well. She can be a Great Power
only as the head and leader of a combi-
nation of nations. At the same time her
economic structure makes it absolutely
essential to the physical survival of the
population that she be a Great Power,
How then can she accept the peace plan
of the Great Powers which asks her to
abdicate as the leader of Europe?
It is obvious that Mr. Churchill fully
realises all this. According to all reports
he fought hard against the Great-Power
plan. When he was finally forced to
accept it he did so only because he ex-
pected to be able to base the Great-Power
status of Britain on a closely integrated
British Empire. Hence the sensational
speech made by Lord Halifax, in which
he raised the demand for a unified Empire
with a unified foreign and military policy;
hence, too, the report that these very
demands were presented by Mr. Churchill
himself to the recent Commonwealth
Conference of Dominion Premiers in
London. But Lord Halifax’s speech in
Montreal was at once sharply attacked
by Prime Minister King, of Canada, and
the Dominion Premiers seem to have
turned a deaf ear to every one of Mr.
Churchill’s proposals at the Common-
wealth Conference. Close as are the
bonds between England and the Domi-
if . : „i- .• .
mons, the latter show no inclination to
subordinate themselves to the mother
country.
• . .«■ 1 ;| P „ „ j.
Opposition to Mr. Churchill s plan for
a unified Empire is not confined to the
Dominions and to India, but can also be
found in England—both on the Right
„ . rf-f. T 7
and on the Left For, it is argued, in
such a unified Empire England would
soon lose .her dominant role and would
become a vassal of her Dominions—which
, r t ;,,v
would defeat Mr. Churchill s purpose.
Therefore, British leaders have been
moving towards the other alternative —
,r>,, . , . -
that Great Britain should become again
the leading Power of Europe. The first
man to come out publicly in opposition
to the plan of the three Great Powers
was Field-Marshal Smuts, who demanded
that Britain organise a Federation of
Western Europe, comprising the Scandi-
navian countries, the Low Countries and
France. In England the main proponent
of such a view is Mr. Churchill’s closest
colleague and possible successor, Mr,
Anthony Eden. He has backed De Gaulle
against his chief and against Washington,
and the Polish Government in London
against Moscow. He has repeatedly,
though cautiously, voiced his belief in a
Federation of Western Europe; he was
responsible for the —officially denied —
proposals of federation which England
made to Belgium, Holland and Norway.
Under his guidance England has also
been working to bring about a united
front of the colonial Powers —Britain,
France, Belgium and Holland —in inter-
national affairs.
It is very doubtful whether England
will actually attempt to become the leader
of Europe, and even more doubtful that
she wifi succeed if she does. But if the
Great Power plan should fail to solve
the French and German problems, and
to offer a working basis for the transi-
tion period, then the alternative proposed
in England may well come to appear as
the only way to a permanent settlement.
And for this reason alone England is
likely to emerge as the pivotal Power in
the Council for Europe, and English
policy as the dynamic element in the
European picture.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
There is all too much evidence that,the Poles
are being pressed by Moscow to accept in the
west a frontier on the Oder, a step which would
involve the annexation of German territories
which no sane Pole dreams of claiming or is
willing to take over. There is something re-
markable —and, it must be added, sinister — in
the attempt to lay on Poland a responsibility
which she is plainly incapable of bearing, in
palpable violation of the sound principles laid
down in the Atlantic Charter. — London “Spec-
tator.”
* * * *
Russia is paying gold to Canadian-American
owners of nickel mines in the Petsamo district
of Finland, which now will become part of
Russia. A precedent thus is established for
U.S.-owned property in some other regions.
Rumanian oil fields are outside the area Russia
is taking in that country. — “United States
News.”
U.S. Army finds that its total man-power
strength is several hundred thousand greater
than originally planned owing to the fact that
casualties in Europe have been much lower
than anticipated.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
We were impressed with the suffering and
sacrifice, and the vast material needs of our
men in the services—so vast that even a day’s
loss of production due to strikes or other pro-
duction interruptions cannot be condoned. All
of us returned with a renewed conviction that
Labor’s no-strike pledge must be maintained
and our production effort redoubled for the
final and victorious blows against the Axis. —
U.S. Labor leader R. J. Thomas, in “Free
World,” after visiting the fighting fronts with
other U.S. Labor leaders.
As many hands as possible were
needed to work on the newly-taken
airdrome near Patras in Greece.
There were hundreds of ready
applicants—men and women, old
and young, and even little children,
hut none was of any real use; they
were too weak. — N.Y. “Times.”
_ .... ... .....
Experience with both military and political
booby traps tells us Hitler must have planned
his political retreat frorri France as bitterly as
his military defeat. If he was able, he left
behind men and money to carry on his work in
the highest places and by the strongest means
possible. He considers this war only a phase
of his movement, a temporary failure, as indeed
his less crafty but equally fanatical Mussolini
has publicly proclaimed in a book, predicting
that years hence facism will be the popular
world system. So we are not quite up to the
facts when we wonder only what we will do
with Germany to make her a peaceful neighbor,
We must plan to stamp out a ruthless under-
ground world movement plotting, in defeat, its
future victory— Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Journal American.”
* * * ■*
The Allied armies have been on the Italian
mainland for more than a year and today con-
trol a good three-fourths of all Italian soil,
Yet it would not be too great an exaggeration
to say that the situation is worse now than it
was under the Germans. Indeed, conditions
have got so bad that we read of bandit gangs
operating within 10 miles of Rome, of workers
writing with bitter irony on the walls of their
tenements that they want Mussolini back—the
implication being that things couldn’t be worse.
It would be obviously unfair to blame the whole
thing on the Allies. The country has been
devastated; foreign trade has been ruined and
the enemy holds the industrial north. Yet that
is not the whole story. Unbiased reports
from Italy tell us that there is a stifling air of
indecision over that country which is prevent-
ing Italians of goodwill from making any posi-
tive contribution toward their own and Euro-
pean democracy.— Washington correspondent
"Christian Science Monitor.”
The British are dropping hints that the ex-
pansion of the British Navy will compare favor-
ably with expansion of the U.S. Navy when
all of the facts are available. — “United States
News.”
* * * *
In 1940 the Communist party denounced Mr.
Roosevelt as a “warmonger,” a “dictator,” a
“usurper” of power and an oppressor of labor.
It was only when Hitler attacked Russia, and
Mr. Roosevelt made American supplies avail-
able to Russia under lend-lease—as of course he
he should have done —that Mr. Roosevelt be-
came anything but a villain in communist eyes.
He will become a villain again the moment
communist loyalty to Russia calls for the
shaping of a new party line. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
About Oct. 15 or 16 Chiang Kai-shek sent
an angry message to President Roosevelt de-
manding Gen. Stilwell’s dismissal. He charged
Gen. Stilwell: (1) Disobeyed Chiang’s orders in
launching the North Burma campaign, which
Chiang said he had agreed to only if sea
forces occupied South Burma. (2) Was re-
sponsible for the loss of the U.S. air bases in
China because he failed to send adequate sup-
plies to the Chinese army. If Gen. Stilwell was
removed, said Chiang, he himself would carry
out reorganisation of the Chinese war effort.
In reply, it is understood, President Roose-
velt advised Chiang that Gen. Stilwell would be
removed, but that the “charges” against him
would not even be considered, and that it was
now Chiang’s responsibility to carry out the
proposals which Gen. Stilwell originally was
named to achieve.— U.S. United Press war
correspondent Darrel Berrigan.
* * * *
British ownership of the world’s two largest
liners has proved an invaluable asset to the
United nations in the past four years. Very
extensive and unexpected have been the
wanderings of the two ships. In April, 1940,
the Queen Mary was at Capetown; in May,
1942, she 1 was reported at Rio, and from sub-
sequent accounts she would appear also to
have been to Sydney, Singapore, Bombay and
Suez. Incomplete when war began, the Queen
Elizabeth suddenly arrived at New York from
the Clyde in March, 1940, wearing. a con-
spicuous de-gaussing girdle. She left again in
the following November, only a month after it
had been rumored that she was to be used as
a floating home for refugees. She was next
reported off Trinidad, and in January, 1941,
arrived at Capetown. Like her consort, she
had much to do with maintaining the strength
of British forces in Egypt. Reports of the
Auditor-General on the Cunard White Star
Insurance Fund suggest that from 1941 onwards
both ships were almost continuously at sea.
Together, the troops which they have carried
must have reached a total equivalent to several
army corps. It has been stated, indeed, that
on a single voyage the Queen Mary has trans-
ported as many as 16,000 American soldiers.
Arrangements were made for these men to take
their sleep in watches, so that 4000 of them
were always in bed, and there was not so much
crowding as would otherwise have been inevit-
able.—Manchester “Guardian.”


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men S’Wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S
Big Fleas have Little Fleas
" '
y m
vXv^X;
/ W
mi
**3f
?& : : : fvS;
US
1
it
iillP
' ■;
:*,.."'.0' II «
■ ■ / mm
mm
sss
/
■*mm
mm
mm
//
- j
mwMMk
>P^J
* i*^
S£&BggSEs
»3-a8
T. 2
I JX
II
w
~ , x ? (
R*:<*»wS
mmmmm
: zsm?.
\ sV
.... upon their backs to bite ’em, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum.” The
significance of this jingle should need no emphasis in war-time. Man is the recognised meat
of blood-suckers like fleas, bugs and lice, and his property and the crumbs that fall from his table
feed an army of insect pests like houseflies, crickets, cockroaches and clothes moths. Even in
temperate and sheltered islands there are six species of flea and three of lice which may attack
human beings. We are prone to dismiss them too lightly, especially at the present. History shows
plainly how parasitic insects have, for example, by spreading typhus and plague from rat to human
being, caused death-rolls higher than the deadliest weapons of man’s devising. We owe
an immunity from such diseases to our cleanly habits, and the unremitting vigilance
of our health authorities, backed by the research of our scientists and the products of our
chemical industry. Research has unravelled the mysteries of infection and the complex life
histories of pests and parasites: the chemist has provided an extensive armoury of dusts, sprays,
fumigants and disinfectants with which to attack them, either directly or by assisting man to keep
his house, clothes and person clean and wholesome. War has intensified old problems and
new ones. Evacuation, crowded tubes and air raid shelters, congested camps, the dispersal of
foodstuffs in store and warehouse have all given pests better opportunities of contact and scattered
them over wide areas. Air traffic has increased the danger of new pests and diseases. The health
services are on their toes to protect the community. At their back the British
chemical industry is constantly at work to maintain the output of essential
insecticides and to discover new ones in order to uphold the nation’s immunity
from insect-borne disease.
No. 14 in the "Services of an Industry” series
issued by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
c
m
\
m
X '-■;
mmm\?
mmm
r \
>.. •. •< _
55638
For Tour M’s Saks.
CRAVEN I
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy Tillyard’s Insects of Australia and
New Zealand and A Cluster of Bees, by i.
Raymond.—3s62.
Information Sought.
When was the N.S.W. Prohibition Referen-
dum held? Voting on question?
(1) On Ist September, 1928. (2) 1,254,436
votes were recorded—357,684 for and 896,752
against.
Top price brought by Australian butter in
London during last war? Average Sydney price
in 1928-29 ? Price now paid by U.S. forces ?
(1) 2525. per cwt. (2) Is. 9.3 d. per lb. (3)
1665. lOd. per cwt.
Greatest measurement of snakes and crocodiles
in (1) Australia and (2) the world?
The largest Australian crocodiles do not
exceed about 20ft. The Indian gavial and the
Cuban crocodile measure up to 30ft. Queens-
land pythons of 22ft. have been recorded. The,
largest snakes are the S. American anaconda
and the Indian python, both reaching 30ft.
Do legacies of money if undistributed after
a certain time bear interest ?
Subject to any express provision in the will,
pecuniary legacies carry interest at the rate of
4 p.c. from 12 months after testator’s death
until payment.
Origin of kelpie dog? General information
on breed? Where could they be bought?
A sheepdog named Kelpie was imported from
Scotland. Her pups were known as Kelpies,
and the name stuck. They are now a distinct
breed, registered as such and indigenous to
Australia, where they have become common.
Kelpies are generally of a reddish-brown color,
with good eyes, suitable for sheep work at any
altitude. F. Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney,
can supply at 6gns. to Bgns. each.
History of the first international exhibition
held in Australia ?
It was opened on Sept. 17, 1879, and closed
on April 20, 1880. A Garden Palace was
specially erected for the occasion in the Sydney
Inner Domain. This building, with many ex-
hibits left there, was totally destroyed by fire
on Sept. 22, 1882.
Dimensions of deck quoits court? Restric-
tions on method of delivery?
There are two sets of concentric circles with
41ft. between the centres. Measurements are;
Inner circle, S^in.; middle circle, Ift. 2|in.;
outer circle, 2ft. 2in. All lines are lin. wide,*
and these figures are outside measurements.’
Distance from centre of circle to forward line is
3ft. llin. and 3ft. from centre to back line.'
There are no restrictions on method of de-
livery.
Recipe for household soap?
Melt 6ilb. fat in one tin. Dissolve lib.'
caustic soda in three pints cold water. Let both
stand till just warm and stir soda solution
gently into soap. When thick pour into lined
wooden box. Next day cut into jars; put
aside for two to three months before using.
How to protect billiard table cloths from
moths ? j
Melt 2oz. naphthalene (or mothballs) in one!
pint petrol, guarding against fire, and sponge,
cloth all over freely. Open all windows and
do not use table for two days. When all odor
has dissipated raise the pile by brushing.
Date and outcome of the Jack Johnson-
Tommy Burns world’s heavyweight champion-
ship fight at Sydney Stadium?
Took plate on Dec. 26, 1908. Johnson had
Burns practically helpless by round 14, when
the police stopped the fight.
What boxing titles did Tasmanian Reg. Mid-
wood, hold?
Australasian amateur middleweight champion-
ship in 1908 and 1909.
Brief Answers.
K.J.: (1) He is : looking at a photograph of
his son. (2) No E.R.: Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research, 314 Albert-street,
East Melbourne, C 2, Vic K.W.N.: W. A.
Cox, Ltd., 193-5 Clarence-street, Sydney
S.S.: Coin is worth 6d. to Is.; hardly worth
submitting to a dealer L. 8.5.: Quotation
from Browning’s “Asolando” ; Epilogue,
stanza 3 J.H.G.; Float cakes of alumino-
ferric on surface of dam; all sediment, etc.,
will be attracted to them, leaving water clear.
R.E.P.: Rumsey’s Seeds, Ltd., P.O. Box
74, Parramatta, N.S.W., can supply Vetomold
seeds J.S.H.; Dept, of Agriculture will
reply to you direct.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
C.N.: Couldn’t you find any more rhymes
for “wool”? C.W.8.: Chopped-up prose.
D.H.R.: Some strength at the end, but
there’s not a single phrase that gives a real
picture of the volcano,J.F.l Featherweight,
.., .D.H.! We’ve seen Worse first attempts,,,.
P S.i The end’s pretentious for such a tiny
poem.,, .N.B-Cjl N-b.g..,, -W.L.B, i It moves
on heavy feet,,. .A.J.E. i About as funny as a
broken bottle,., .LJP,! You don’t have to affect
illiteracy to make literature,,. .8.8. s Poem
stamped in and stamped out again, madly
waving its eighteen exclamation marks -., .O.W. i
A hackneyed rhyme such as “magic” and
“tragic” might be pardonable once, but not
twice -.. -R.M.: Doubt if the caterpillar actually
“yearns to become a chrysalis’*,.. ,H.E.R.!
Good theme marred by vagueness and clumsiness.
and E.H.: Sentimental.-J.Q.; Don’t
see why his happy dusky children should have
had to “chase madly” after anything as lethargic
as a grub,,,,D.P, Don’t say “mayhaps,” don’t
try to rhyme “wealth” with “self” and don’t
say “thou” unless thou art really desperate.
~, -8. C,; “How I wish I was in Aussie to
spend a bob on getting groggy.” Judging by
your rhymes, you’re doing all right where you
arc.


tlt*
It’s your fight — your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
' 5/- National Savings Stamps.
XS22D-7.44
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
|J OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
"■ under his Will. The, burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company’s
service and what it costs. ,
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1934.. 137,934 10 p.c. c= 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. 74,428 7 on oqc iny qq-i
Staff fund. £15,000 .. f J0.3J6 167,891
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. ~ 81,870 27,831 195,721
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
Kgsgivbs.
Patent rights, £85,811 .. .. 187,064
1939.. 132,578 10 „ „ 89,035 43,548 230,607
Prom suspense account, £22,800 .. 253,407
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. 90,511 19,968 273,375
1941.. 103,089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 285,953
1942.. 125,192 8 „ „ 72,408 52,784 838,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 395,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 434,742
1944.. 140,300 9 p.c. = 86,697 51,603 486,845
Chairman and managing director, knight
Ernest Fisk, to whose enterprise and long-
sighted policy the co. owes much of its
success, retires at the end of 1944, when
he goes to London to join the board of
Electrical and Musical Instruments, Ltd.
Technical control and direction of
A.W.A. will then pass entirely to general
manager L. J. Hooke, who also has played
no small part in the development of the
undertaking.
Besides providing an important link in
international and other communications,
the co.’s activities include design and
large-scale manufacture of all kinds of
modern radio equipment. The story of
its highly-specialised contribution, in both
personnel and equipment, to the navy,
army, air force and merchant marine
cannot yet be told, for security reasons.
Excepting its broadcasting activities, the
co.’s efforts are still mostly devoted to
war and essential service requirements.
The co.’s beam service, which began in
1927, quickened and cheapened inter-
national communications. Although ex-
panded to over four times its pre-war
capacity, difficulty has been experienced
in handling the flood of official and press
dispatches and commercial business that
have come forward. And in the manu-
facturing and other sections of the busi-
ness war has created new demands, which
have called for expansion of productive
capacity.
Last term the co. paid over £1,500,000
(down £100,000) for goods and services it
required, and, together with subsidiaries,
handed £640,000 (up £67,000) to Govern-
ment in taxes, duties and service charges.
An extra £26;422 was set aside for depre-
ciation (£117,476). Gross earnings
(£1,089,467) eased £49,234. Including
something for taxation and other contin-
gencies, exes. (£949,167) were pulled back
£55,991. That left the net result £6758
stronger at £140,300, equal to 14.2 p.c.
on capital, as against 13.8, 13.8, 11.3, 12.2
and 14.6 p.c. back to 1939, The div.,
which dropped from 12 p.c, in 1938 to
10 p.c. in 1939 and to 8 p.c. in 1942, was
raised a point, making it 9 p.c. The
£51,603 that remained lifted nominal re-
serves to £572,157, in addition to which
there is a lay-by of £922,214 (up £102,685)
for depreciation, some of which might
be genuine profit.
Twenty-two years ago the Government
took up half a million of the co.’s pound
shares. It is reported to have since re-
ceived in dividends alone some £576,000 ;
and at present market price (61s. 9d. per
share) its holding is worth over
£1,540,000; and there have been the tax,
etc., collections as well. This compro-
mise between the two extremes of the
Government having no direct interest in
business or having the lot has proved
highly profitable to the Government, and,
therefore, to the people generally. And
this without dulling the incentive of indi-
vidual enterprise to grasp new oppor-
tunities, speculation and otherwise, which
add up to progress, full employment,
social security and a high standard of
living.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the undertaking and a com-
fortable financial position:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944
Paid capital.. £905,106 £905,106 £985,518 £985,518
Sundry creditors 412,277 1,326,412 936,305 852,208
Freeholds* .. 609,389 628,807 646,106 672,270
Plant, etc.* . . 570,159 689,776 896,972 1,012,187
Stocks . . 379,369 1,014,823 606,868 583,667
Beam services. .179,718 195,439 „
Book debts .. 317,164 625,660 793,246 '802,208
Cash, etc. .. 150,036 244,771 272,320 225,289
Patents .. 85,811 85,811 85,811 85,811
Other intangibles 49,067 49,067
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£859,224).
The year’s net addition to the book value
of freehold was £26,164, and to plant and
equipment (mainly the wireless service
and Ashfield workshop) £115,215. The
more or less liquid surplus (£758,896)
was £22,767 stronger than at the previous
balance.
War-time radio developments can be
expected to create new demands for the
co.’s equipment post-war, when there will
also be a strong deferred demand for
receiving sets and valves and other
replacements.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 134,483 7$ p.c. = 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8J „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ ~ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 11J ~ ~160,894 53,303 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 „ „ 143,017 49,193 777,578
1941.. 194,343 10 „ „ 143,017 51,326 828,904
1942.. 198,818 10 „ „ 143,017 55,801 884,705
1943.. 193,179 10 „ ~ 143,017 50,162 934,867
1944.. 188,984 10 „ „ 143,017 45,967 980,834
Formed 35 years ago by Henry Jones
and A. W. Palfreyman, this holding co.
stepped in where there was waste in buy-
ing and selling, as well as overlapping in
organisation, and reduced the lot to a
minimum. The subsidiaries, which are in
the jam and fruit-canning and -preserving
business, are scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland and ex-
tend to S. Africa and England as well.
For the first 20 years divs. averaged *a
shade over 11 p.c., sweetened with
£455,492 of bonus scrip in 1927. Over
the last 15 years, which include slump,
overproduction of canned fruits, price-
cutting by Government-assisted factories
and the present war-time controlled eco-
nomy, shareholders have averaged 9.8 p.c.
War brought big shifts in demand and
created many difficulties connected with
labor, shipping, production and distribu-
tion. Service demands —our own and
Allied—for canned fruits, jams, tomatoes,
asparagus, fruit juices, meat and vege-
tables, etc., more than filled the vacuum
caused by the shrinkage in civilian sales.
But service contracts carry narrow profit
margins, and the taxgatherer and in-
creases in wage and other costs gobbled
most of the financial gain, leaving the
parent’s net earnings on a fairly even
keel since the outbreak of war. These
net earnings are dividends received from
operating cos., less the holding co.’s
own exes—£6Blo last term.
The next table/which shows combined
net earnings of the entire organisation,
after deducting outside interests, gives
shareholders a truer picture of the posi-
tion :
Net income— 1939. 1943- 1944-
Australian .. .. £ 192,667 £ 197,803 £ 158,153
Other sources .. 75,622 80,349 78,667
Total •• .. £268,289 £278,152 £236,820
The sharp drop of £39,650 in net returns
from Australian sources last term was
due mainly to shortage of labor and the
embargo on jam exports. The labor posi-
tion was responsible for a decline in out-
put of canned fruits, which fell to about
half the 1939-40 level. According to the
Commonwealth statistician civil mer-
chandise exports of canned fruits, jams,
etc., have been as follow:
T , , . „ 1938-39. 1942-43. 1948-44.
Jams and fruit jellies £262,516 £498,097 £46,928
Canned fruits .. 1,273,316 289,625 216,739
Total .. .. £1,535,832 £787,722 £263,667
The figures raise the question of recap-
ture and rebuilding Australia’s overseas
markets (chiefly Britain) for the canned
goods in question. Chairman A. W. Pal-
freyman says:—
Of the tasks ahead of us in this industry,
none is more important than that we
should be enabled forthwith to commence
this export rehabilitation work And to
this end the loosening at least of many of
the war-time controls that have outlived
their purpose should begin now. Some
that affect the export trade should be with-
drawn in their entirety without any delay.
... .The removal of unnecessary restric-
tions, and the anticipated co-operation as
before of the sugar interests, will do much
to assist in the attainment of the recovery
of the export markets.
Fruitgrowers as well as canners and pro-
cessors are involved, and both are entitled
to a statement from the Government as
to what it proposes to do, if anything,
to assist and protect post-war prospects
of the industry.
Last term’s £236,820 (down £41,332)
of combined net earnings was 16.5 p.c. on
capital as against 19.4, 19 and 17.4 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances;
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,430,178 £1,430,173
Outside interests* 79,477 101,190 108,382
Creditors, etc. .. 419,858 578,859 636,866
Tax reserve, etc.. . 159,478 416,648 492,513
Suspense account. . 7,691 16,456
Freeholds, etc. . . 697,928 756,330 801,897
Plant, etc. . . 279,590 322,447 375,50'8
Stocks .. . . 872,099 1,291,236 1,374,741
Debtors . . . . 785,068 920,716 1,088,381
Shares .. .. 101,245 100,917 103,694
Cash, etc 745,328 961,164 923,556
Goodwill , . . . 62,542 50,935 50,985
Suspense account.. 63,784
proportion reserves.
The growth in the book value of free-
hold and plant mainly reflect activities
outside Australia. Excluding suspense
accounts, the improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£2,361,493) was
£82,967.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
1934.. 26,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 „ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
Insurance reserve taken in, £12,120 .. 127,019
1938.. 27,910 10 p.c. = 22,188 5,722 132,741
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 .. 160,241
1939.. 29,732 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,544 167,785
1940.. 32,461 10 „ „ 22,188 10,273 178,058
1941.. 23,303 10 „ „ 22,188 1,115 179,173
1942.. 26,975 10 „ „ 22,188 4,787 183,960
1943.. 28,046 10 „ „ 22,188 5,858 189,818
1944.. 31,480 12i„ „ 27,735 3,745 193,563
f Subject to trade-marks,/ etc., £72,500, and ex-
cluding contingencies, depreciation, etc., now
£210,421.'
It’s a snug business and has been ever
since the public became interested
about 22 years ago, when Brown and
Poison’s was absorbed. Shareholders
have since enjoyed a steady 10 p.c.,
sweetened with a p.c. bonus for the
half-dozen fat years to the close of ac-
counts in 1930, and again last term, and
there were some new share issues at par
as well. The co.’s success in a field where
many others have tripped has been due
largely to experienced, able and cautious
control, efficient plant and an extensive
goodwill, built up on service and quality
of goods turned out, which include some
well-established proprietary lines.
With war came rising costs, heavy raids
upon earnings by the taxgathfcrer, wide
and rigid price controls, and a host of
other restrictions and difficulties. And
Japanese aggression cut off supplies of
some Asiatic lines the co. used to handle.
However, the Government stabilisation
policy, introduced in April, 1942, slowed
down the advance in outgoings, and turn-
over kept on expanding because of grow-
ing service demands. These include re-
quirements of Allied forces in the S.-W.
Pacific area. Hence the steady improve-
ment in net earnings over the last three
years.
After setting aside £38,500 (up £2000)
for taxation, allowing £18,333 (up £4237)
for depreciation and an unspecified
amount for other contingencies, the
board figured last term’s net result £3434
better at £31,480. That was 14.1 p.c. on
capital as against 12.6, 12.1, 10.5, 14.6
and 13.4 p.c. back to 1939. It leaves
out of the reckoning a net addition of
£26,466 to the reserve for contingencies
and depreciation, making it £210,421,
equal to 123 p.c. of the book value of
plant, or 55.7 p.c. of the book value of
premises and plant combined. Another
comforting feature is that, including the
depreciation reserve, etc., and after de-
ducting intangibles, capital and reserves


Queensland
insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'aolders* Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Accountancy
THIS war has proved the vital
necessity for trained and qualified
accountants, both for business and
government departments. That neces-
sity will be even greater because of
the great problems of administration
and finance in all aspects of post-war
reconstruction.
NOW is the time to prepare, study
and to qualify in Accountancy-Secre-
taryship, and thus put yourself in the
way of securing a key position and
with it professional status and an
assured living. The success of your
training under H. & R. is certain,
because for 45 years H. & R. students
have consistently secured more honours
places in the Accountancy examinations
than secured by all other coaches
tombined.
Why not consult H. & It-
ch out Your future career, and
the opportunities of the post-
war period ?
Call, write or phone lor lull
particulars.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
tfousdsd and Owned by Hwntagwov S Robertso* fty. l*dl
Professional Tutors
J 24 Bank House. Bank Place, Melbourne
P 24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St.. Sydney
Please sent! me FREE copy ot your
96 pp. ’Guide to Careers in Business.’
Name Age
Address
Tnrpar Interested In
24ZM2
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Gnliith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Auvi.
•** * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anvr.
Divorce Notice.
TO JAMES KERR whose last known address was at
George Street Bendigo in the State of Victoria in the
Commonwealth of Australia now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GWENDOLINE KERR
has instituted proceedings against you for Divorce
on the ground of desertion and unless you enter
an appearance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court at the Law Courts Pall Mall
Bendigo in the State of Victoria in the Common-
wealth of Australia on or before the fifteenth day
of February 1945 and thereafter file your answer
within ten days from the date of such appearance
this suit will proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs.—MACOBOY AND
TAYLOR, 299 Hargreaves Street, Bendigo aforesaid,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
ŵ
'At
UlWu/ TlZ&cfi&dd
toec&
USE
ẁ
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
ẃ
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
T. & G. Mutual Life Society
STEADY PROGRESS
The Sixty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Society was
held on Thursday, 14th December, at the Society s
Head Office in Melbourne.
NEW BUSINESS.
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:
“The New Business, which resulted from opera-
tions in Australia and New Zealand only, com-
prised 106,271 Policies, Ordinary and Indus-
trial, assuring £13,485,325. In the Accident
Department New Business assuring £2,864,033
was written. An appreciable part of the New
Business was derived from Group Assurance
operations. The Society has specialised in
Group Assurance business over a long period
and has been entrusted with the superannuation
of the employees of many of the largest Com-
mercial and Industrial Organisations. Those
employers who are contemplating the adoption
of a superannuation scheme in the future are
recommended to seek the expert assistance of
the Society’s highly trained staff. The increase
in the New Business Completions is also in-
dicative of an abundance of money due to full
employment. The diversion of any surplus of
purchasing power into Life Assurance is an im-
portant safeguard against inflation, with its
evil consequences, and is, therefore, of immense
value to the economic structure.
INCOME AND PAYMENTS TO
POLICYHOLDERS.
“The Income increased by £403,810 to
£7,828,690. Payments to Policyholders amounted
to £3,285,410, the largest total ever recorded.
Death Claims were slightly below the previous
year’s figures, due to a reduction in the amount
paid in claims due to war casualties. The Ex-
pense Rate was again completely satisfactory
in every Department.
ASSURANCE FUNDS.
“The Contingency Fund has been increased
by a further £lOO,OOO, and after the withdrawal
of this amount from revenue the Funds
amounted to £43,825,838. Life Assurance Funds
should never be regarded as a reservoir of
public credit. They arise from the contri-
butions of members who have co-operated for
their mutual protection against the hazards of
life and the uncertainties of old age, and are
held by the Directors for the one definite pur-
pose of meeting liabilities under the policy
contracts. The Funds of this Society are held
in respect of 1,307,996 Policies. Neither the
members nor the Directors of the Society are
likely to forget that these funds are sacrosanct,
and that every precaution must be exercised in
the investment of them until they are required
for payment of claims.
WAR LOAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
“In normal times the Society’s funds are
largely invested in Government and Local Body
Loans for Public Works, and the financing of
such undertakings obviously is of great benefit
to the community. However, during the past
year investments have been confined almost en-
tirely to War Loans, the contributions during
the year amounting to £4,425,000. More than
£15,000,000 has been subscribed to War Loans,
and the total invested in Government and Public
Body Securities is not less than 68.1 p.c. of the
Assets. The assistance given by the Life Offices
by investing freely in War Loans operates to
reduce the rate of interest on the Funds. The
Society’s rate showed a reduction to £4/4/1 /j
p.c. on the Mean Assurance Funds. The
Society’s Home Purchase Scheme continued to*
operate on a restricted scale. The post-war
housing plans are nearing completion and will
be so attractive that a heavy demand for finan-
cial assistance is sure to be experienced.
THE ACTUARY'S REPORT.
"After the transference of £lOO,OOO from
Revenue to the Contingency Funds, the
Actuary’s Report discloses that a surplus of
£783,324 remained. Of this, £115,000 has been
reserved for unforeseen contingencies and the
possible consequences of the war, and the
greater part of the balance distributed, pro-
viding for certain increases in last year’s bonus
scale in the Ordinary Department and for
bonuses on the same scale as for last year in
the Industrial Department. These bonuses will
be credited in the Society’s records to partici-
pating Policies and will commence to operate
from Ist January, 1945.”
The Chairman said that the public support
which this Society and kindred Institutions are
receiving is a triumph for the voluntary system
of collective security which is afforded by mem-
bership in a Life Society conducted on the
mutual or co-operative principle. The desira-
bility of State provision for old-age benefits,
even for the improvident, is now generally
accepted, but imposes such a strain on the
public revenue that not much in excess of what
is really necessary for subsistence can be ex-
pected from this source. In any event, the
majority of people will endeavor through self-
denial to secure a competency in old-age as well
as to make provision against the possibility of
untimely death, and membership in a Mutual
Society is the best of all known methods for
the accomplishment of this purpose. This system
has been tested over a very long period, and has
emerged more fully established in public confi-
dence than ever before.
STAFF.
After extending the sympathy of the Board to
relatives of members of the Staff who had been
wounded or killed in action, the Chairman
expressed appreciation of the efficient services
of both the Field and Indoor Staffs.
The retiring Directors, Col. Sir Charles E.
Merrett and Mr. A. W. Relph, and the retiring
Auditors, Messrs. A. McK. Hislop and C. A.
Holmes, were re-elected.
LEND NOW— SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
combined need turn in only a shade over
4 p c. to show 10 p.c. on capital alone.
The financial position improved:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
xfade debts . . 30,090 17,334 38,214 44,140
tS reserve.. 16,500 35,000 36,500 39,000
Properties .. 197,973 204,564 207,216 210,829
Plant etc.* 158 922 168,943 170,398 176,650
Stocks 93,660 89,420 117,794 118,740
Debtors .. 45,030 59,371 55,154 53,369
Cash etc. V. 21,909 37,890 54,364 93,467
*At cost.
The year’s surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation, etc., enabled
£39,103 to be added to cash, etc. Stocks
(up £946) are above the 1940 level. The
advance in the more or less liquid surplus
(£64,196) was £29,392.
During the first half of current term
service demands can be expected to taper
a bit, and drought conditions have
brought about a shortage of oats, from
which some of the co.’s breakfast foods
are, made. Still, there is nothing to sug-
gest anything serious in the way of con-
traction in earnings.
Zinc Corporation, Ltd.
Various changes had to be made in the
original scheme for re-capitalisation of
the undertaking, said chairman J. R.
Govett at the annual roll-up in London
at the end of Oct. last. In its modified
form the plan has received the blessing
of the Association of Investment Trusts,
and has now been sent to the appropriate
Government authorities for their appro-
val. When this is received, details of
the proposal will be broadcast, and special
meetings of shareholders will be called
and asked to give final approval. Paid
capital now stands at £572,261 in 245,692
£1 cumulative participating prefs. and
653,139 ords. of 10s, each. In addition
to their cumulative dividend of 20 p.c.
(= 4s. per share), the prefs. are entitled
to participating divs. on each of their
pound shares equal in amount to the div.
paid on each ord. share, all subject to
taxation, of course.
Owing to man-power shortage there
was a contraction of approx. 50,000 tons
in the volume of feed handled by the
mill during 1943. The effect of this upon
earnings was partly offset by a rise in
the grade of ore. Treatment results have
frequently shown that the management
has calculated metal values on a conser-
vative basis. The board figured net earn-
ings at £103,716 (down £874). That was
after allowing £228,930 (up £17,325) for
taxation, £31,521 (up £998) for deprecia-
tion, and £BOOO (down £12,000) for shaft-
sinking, but leaves out of the reckoning
unexplained additions of £36,993 to re-
serves. Divs. paid were 6s, (=3O p.c.)
prefs. and 2s. (=2O p.c.) ords., together
£135,022 gross, or £102,832 after deduc-
tion of British tax. These were the same
rates as for the two preceding years.
At the end of 1943 ore reserves were
put at just under 4,000,000 tons, and there
is a lot more pay-ore outside the meas-
ured limits. Since war began exploration
and development have been sacrificed to
the needs of production. The Freeman
main shaft, commissioned in 1939, is the
largest of its kind in Australasia, and is
designed to handle ore from the adjoin-
ing property of New Broken Hill Con-
solidated, for which Zinc Corp. agreed
to act as general manager for 20 years
from July 8, 1936.
Early this month the new ventilation
shaft was completed at 1938 ft. The work
involved excavation and removal of some
42.000 tons rock, consumption of 6000
c.y.' crushed stone, 3000 c.y. sand and
1250 tons cement. The work was carried
out under contract by a party of 24 men,
who averaged over £3 a shift of 35 hours
a week of five days. Maximum rate of
advance in any four-weekly period was
196 ft. of stripping and 194.5 ft. of con-
creting. The shaft represents an inno-
vation on the field, being circular in sec-
tion.
Chief trouble at the moment is water
—and it will continue to be until ade-
quate rain (only light falls have been re-
corded recently) replenishes the reservoirs
at Stephens Creek and Umberumberka.
Supplies are being drawn from the Dar-
ling River at Menindie, and the haulage
can be increased to about 5,000,000 gal-
lons a week, or approximately half the
normal draw from the reservoirs.
The £lOO,OOO Federal grant to Wes-
tralia for goldmine maintenance is
running low. The State Government,
however, considers the money has been
wisely spent, and that its chances of
getting a further handout are stout. Gold-
mining rehabilitation is in the forefront of
the West’s post-war jobs. The industry
has an immediate absorptive capacity of
12.000 hands, whereas only about 4000
are now employed. A number of new
mines await development, and overseas
feelers are already out.
* * * *
First Hit’s profit from goldmining at
Menzies (W.A.) rose from £4950 in 1943
to £9251 in 1944. Gross value of produc-
tion was £36,981 (up £8185). The cost of
producing a fine oz. of gold has risen
from £6, 1942, to £7 35,, 1944. Ore re-
serves are estimated at 4620 tons (down
775 tons), of which 250 tons, averaging
11.62dwt., are broken, 1960 tons, averag-
ing li.36dwt., are positive, and 2410 tons,
averaging 7.97dwt., are probable. A 3d.
div, (£4660) was paid. At the balance
date co. had £18,500 in cash and bullion
and £3550 worth of stores and supplies.
The amount coming to outsiders was
£324.
* * * ♦
What the Westralian Mines Depart-
ment described as a really fine State bat-
tery return was got from 522 tons ore
put through by the owners of Mountain
View mine, Cue. In all 26670 z. 17dwt.
of bullion was extracted and 3dwt. 3gr. a
ton was left in the tailings.
H= * ¥ *
During the six months to Sept. 30 last
Kalgoorlie Goldeh Mile mining cos.
bought from the Westralian Government
178,000,000 gallons of fresh water, piped
nearly 400 miles from the Mundaring
reservoir in the Darling Ranges. This is
about the same quantity as that bought
in the previous half-year. Costs were
Sept, half £47,178, March half £43,893.


/V LITTLE PELLET
goes a long, long way . .
This incendiary bullet pellet is only one of
millions destined to fly fast and far. Because
it is made from Precision Seamless Steel Tube
instead of bar stock, each of these millions of
pellets saves 25 of its high-grade steel besides
the machining time that would be used in drilling
and turning. Every time Steel Tubes replace bar
steel there are vast savings in time
and material —and peacetime, no
less than war, will gain immensely
by the ever-widening scope of the
Steel Tube Industry.
8114
mmiur
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
La !}y°H look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is No,” just consider how, a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost 1
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, I.TD.
Head Office; A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P, J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the (hates.
Business. Rollery. Ete.
A Year of War and Politics
Australia has passed through a year of
decreasing defence expenditure, heavier
taxation, decreasing enthusiasm on the
part of the people in subscribing to war
loans, partial failure of the rural industries,
failure to achieve a safe level of coal pro-
duction, increasing industrial stoppages
and growing political activity from the
direction of the A.L.P. While the non-
Labor political forces are rearranging
their organisation the communists are
coming more into the open. The Govern-
ment is toying with socialistic plans, and
is making political use of some National
Security Regulations,
In spite of the decreasing defence ex-
penditure, from a number of causes it
has been noticeable that there has been
no general improvement in the availability
of civilian goods. In respect of many
things, especially food, the supply posi-
tion has become worse. Drought has had
something to do with the fall in land
production, but “controls,” man-power
misdirection, the lack of balance between
returns to city and rural inhabitants and
the increasing cost of living on the land
have had a great deal of influence in our
present difficulties.
Bureaucrats have bitten off more than
they can digest. The absence of a sound
central administration in dealing with the
war-time problems of our industries has
resulted in much clashing and frustra-
tion of effort. Where central planning of
a nation’s industrial life is undertaken,
even for war purposes, it needs to be out-
standingly aware of the interrelated prob-
lems of all industries, and the plans must
be carried out with efficiency and realism
if a fall instead of a rise in total pro-
duction and effort is not to be the net
result. In the Commonwealth during
the past year politics, waste and
departmental and sectional friction, as
well as. bad initial planning, continued to
prevent the achievement of a first-class war
effort. Political outbursts and demonstra-
tions, even where present “regulation”
was not excessive, frequently scared or
discouraged private enterprise from mak-
ing the best immediate use of its re-
sources and from planning confidently
for the future.
An illustration of bad planning in Aus-
tralia has been the failure of the wheat
crop. There has been a severe drought,
but its coincidence with acreage restric-
tion has been the real cause of the harvest
failure. Soon after the war began plans
were laid for the erection of grain dis-
tilleries in N. S. Wales, Victoria, South
Australia and Westralia to turn millions
of bushels of surplus wheat into power
alcohol. A big story can now be very
briefly told by saying that the Victorian
distillery, though completed, has not yet
commenced operations because of (a) a
shortage of coal and (b) a shortage of
wheat.
Although Australia’s budgeted war ex-
penditure has fallen, a general factor in
the lack of improvement in the civilian
living standard has been the demands of
Empire and Allied Governments for Aus-
tralian foodstuffs, other materials and
labor. Even where money is received for
goods supplied to, say, the British Gov-
ernment, in present circumstances it is
difficult to convert this money overseas
into civilian goods wanted in the Com-
monwealth. This difficulty is readily
enough understood when the demands by
the United Nations Relief and Rehabili-
tation Association are considered, but not
many Australians will be prepared to
absolve the Federal Governijient from
blame in regard to our food production
failure. They have seen much “regula-
tion” muddle in matters relating to
rationing and “austerity” clothing, etc.,
and the same signs of muddle are visible
in bigger things.
“Pay-as-you-go” taxation was intro-
duced during the year, accompanied by
a 25 p.c. tax slug. This added income-
tax revenue, plus falling defence outgo,
has helped to produce a better balance
in the war Budget, revenue now paying
for a bigger proportion of war expendi-
ture than hitherto, and the reliance on
bank credit being reduced. Though there
will be some carryover of the taxation
“surcharge” into next year, it is a
diminishing source of revenue, and unless
outgo is further cut in 1944-45 the revenue
position looks like falling back again.
War loans have been poorly supported
by the public again this year. There
were 452,000 subscribers to the First
Victory Loan and “about 410,000 cash
subscribers” to the Second Victory Loan.
Though it is stated in both these cases
—£23B million was involved —that no
trading-bank or central-bank money was
used in filling the loans, it was apparent
that the savings banks were called upon
for tens of millions to make up what the
public failed to provide directly. The
money flowing into the savings banks
went on at a great rate during the year,
but very little of it went into war loans
direct. Between January 1 and October
31 this year there was a net increase of
almost £B9 million in Australian savings-
bank deposits, the total rising to £503
million, compared with £244 million at
the outbreak of war.
In the final stages of the Federal Par-
liamentary session the Financial Agree-
ment was amended to allow the States
39 years to pay off their depression deficit
debts. Their liability to make a contri-
bution to the National Debt Sinking Fund
of 4 p.c. a year was reduced to 1 p.c. a
year, the Commonwealth to pay a quarter
of the contribution. Another amend-
ment legalised the transfer of contribu-
tions to the sinking fund in respect of
overseas debts being made at the Mint
par of exchange instead of the actual
rate.
There was a continued rise in the note
issue until near the end of the year, when
the withdrawal of United States troops
caused a definite but comparatively small
decline in the issue, which has fallen to
£196 million—still nearly four times the
pre-war figure. Much note-hoarding is
going on to avoid taxation.
There has been some loosening-up on
the Treasury control over sales of real
estate and the raising of new capital by
industry, but the Stock Exchanges are
still subject to vexing and often unfair
regulation. There is a wide difference
between Australian and New Zealand
prices of some front-rank Australian
stocks, Maoriland quotes generally being
much higher, in the case of Morris Hed-
strom shares particularly so.
A shortage of homes continued during
1944, with the position growing worse
as married men were released from the
armed forces. The great number of war-
time marriages and births has increased
the demand for new homes, and the con-
gestion of two or more families in one
cottage, even where they are relatives, has
increased the war strain imposed on many
women. Shopping has become a first-
class domestic problem in some cities,
particularly Sydney; striking coalminers
and slaughtermen combining with de-
partmental interferers to make the posi-
tion often one of exasperation.
Though the Government lost its refer-
endum asking for post-war powers it
continues with its policy of socialising
industry. It has been announced by the
Acting Prime Minister that inter-State
airlines are to be taken over by the Gov-
ernment, and there are some “banking
proposals” in the offing. The attitude
of the Government to these undertakings
is unfair and unjustifiable.
The Jensen report cast cold water on
Government ambitions where salesman-
ship and training of personnel were neces-
sary in launching new industries; there
is more than a tendency among some
Ministers to take the view that because
the Government has a number of muni-
tion annexes and factories it should be
simple and profitable for the Govern-
ment to take out the plant for making
munitions and replace it with machinery
and staff for making civilian goods. So
far there is no record of Mr. Ward hav-
ing attacked Mr. Jensen for his frankly-
expressed views on this matter.
A bill has passed through both Federal
Houses authorising a contribution of
£1,500,000 towards the establishment of
an aluminium industry in Tasmania, the
Speck to put up a similar amount —
though R. G. Menzies raised the ques-
tion of whether the Tasmanian contribu-
tion would not later appear in the Fed-
eral estimates as a “grant” to the Island
State. The bill was hotly debated in the
House of Representatives, Menzies re-
marking that Parliament was being
treated with impatience by the Govern-
ment, even if not with actual contempt.
The man-power position throughout
the Commonwealth remained something
of a mystery during the year, there ap-
pearing to be an ample supply of labor
in most engineering trades but a shortage
on the land and in textile factories. Em-
ployees in the metal trades seem to have
become a major concern of the Govern-
ment. In Sydney there are an increasing
number of mechanics returning to motor-
garage work, and the Government’s ship-
building and aircraft-manufacturing pro-
gramme would seem to aim at keeping
unionists employed as much as anything.
Economic realities will have to be re-
approached in 1945 and afterwards. Poli-
tics have had a wild fling for two or
three years, and it is time we started
to appraise the consequences and plan
our national life on a more practical
and less wasteful basis.
During the first five months of the cur-
rent financial year (to .November 30)
Australia spent £197 million on war, a
reduction of £35 million compared with
the preceding year. Commonwealth Gov-
ernment civil expenditure was unchanged
at £53 million. Because of an increase
of £2O million, mainly from income tax,
revenue provided £77 million towards
meeting the reduced war bill, and bor-
rowing was £55 million lower at £l2O
million. There has still been recourse to
Treasury-bill borrowing during the period,
but reliance on this dangerous form of
finance is growing less. The P.M.G.’s
department showed a surplus of £3.6 mil-
lion during the period, and even the Com-
monwealth railways disclosed something
on the right side. The post-office surplus
was equal to nearly a third of the takings.
* * *
How many Australian brokers could
say, as did the chairman of Auckland
Stock Exchange, that “members have
every reason to be thankful that our busi-
ness activities have been so slightly cur-
tailed”? Apart from a few war-time
regulations, which, with one exception,
had been willingly accepted as necessary
for the economic life of the Dominion,
N.Z, brokers have had little to complain
about. The one exception, however, is
the direct outcome of the fixation of
Australian share prices as against the
free market in New Zealand. In cases
of deceased estates duty has to be paid
in Australia on the Australian assets ; but
as money cannot be sent out of Maori-
land for this purpose the securities, or
portion of them, have to be sold in Aus-
tralia at fixed prices considerably below
those ruling on the Dominion’s Ex-
changes. Yet for probate purposes the
shares have to be valued in N.Z. at the
Dominion’s market values. An example
can be quoted of Colonial Sugar shares,
the market for which is at least £5 higher
in New Zealand. For every share sold
in Australia to provide duty there
the deceased estate loses £5; yet
to arrive at the total value of the estate
for death-duty purposes in N.Z. the
shares have to be valued at £5 more than
their “limit” price. Representations to
remove the anomaly have been made ; but
since mainly large estates are affected
the likelihood of Labor Governments on
both sides of the Tasman taking action
is not bright.
* * * *
Knight Ernest Fisk is leaving the em-
ploy of Amalgamated Wireless, in which
the Commonwealth Government owns the
predominant shareholding, to go to a
job in England that offers him “greater
scope,” The name of Fisk is almost
synonymous with A.W.A. He now joins
Electrical and Musical Industries, Ltd.,
the Columbia and H.M.V. people, as
managing director. It is clear that Aus-
tralia will be in danger of losing many of
its best citizens if the present confidence-
shattering Government continues in the
Federal sphere. 'ln its gross ignorance and
impudence the Government has done
widespread damage to the Australian
industrial and social outlook.


ŵ
RUPTURE
Vj NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Ur.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BA RRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity
Write To-day tor
FREE LITERATURE.
ẁ
f
RCTS
LIKE THE HHnO
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lM), ‘in ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY
ẃ
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
*u,lt'mirth in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
IjACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
IT — ,i SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Bat You Musi First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that therO
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubed
iand filters. Every throe minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to bo
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
[Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous Impurities, these tubes become
fclogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufliness under the
feyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
hess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
S’our chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
SACKACHB KIDNEY FILLS to-day.
AMP
m
WO< l, C<»> *X • - •
STAFF SUPERANNUATION
BENEFIT TO EMPLOYEES
THROUGH the A.M.P., many Companies, Firms and other
Employers throughout Australia have established Superan-
nuation Funds for the benefit of their employees on retirement.
They pay a substantial portion of the premiums: the employees
pay the balance.
The strength of the A.M.P. Society is a guarantee to Employees
that their Superannuation' Fund will be well managed and will
provide for the future financial welfare of themselves and their
dependents.
The members of the A..M.P. hold 1,790,000 policies to the
amount of £427,000,000. In the last five years the Society has
paid out £40,905,324 to its members^
The Society will be glad to send an experienced representative
to talk the matter over with any interested Employer.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttlield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
m
‘Si
Design and high-speed quantity production of the Avro Lancaster heavy bomber
rate as an outstanding engineering feat. A civil version with especially designed
fuselage—the Avro York,—is also equipped with Rolls-Royce engines and is on
Transport Command service
PACKING THE BIG PINCH
British heavy bombers achieve the most concentrated
attacks in the history of War. Each unit of the Empire’s
night armadas carries in its bomb bays a destructive
load of unprecedented size and power. No other air-
craft in service in the world can carry the huge bombs,
weighing no less than six tons, which are included in
their armament. A load which formerly needed the
operation of three bombers is now transported by one.
Bomber Command is thus able to organize the heaviest
raids without congestion at the airfields, and to achieve
the maximum concentration over the target.
The fruits of the British aircraft industry’s effort in
planning quantity production of these air giants were
seen when, for month after month, British bombers
unloaded twenty times as many tons of,bombs on
Germany as the enemy, despite years of preparation
for war, could drop on Great Britain.
The British aircraft industry will devote itself with equal
determination to the problems of peace-time aviation.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS, LONDON, ENGLAND
Though there have been Ministerial
denials that Government members’ mails
have been swollen by the public concern
about the proposed banking legislation,
Senator Ashley, the P.M.G., has been
driven to protest that the telegraph ser-
vice is being taxed by messages of alarm
sent to M.Ps. He says that these tele-
grams have coincided with the Christmas
rush ; but if they aren’t numerous they
should do no more than balance the fall
in Christmas greetings sent to Gov-
ernment members this season by coal-
miners and others. Latest development
in the banking situation is a report that
the Commonwealth Bank has established
two branches in Westralian centres where
trading banks formerly operated, but were
shut down under the* Government ration-
alisation scheme.
* * * *
In Australia the present rate of in-
terest on savings-bank deposits is 2 p.c.
up to £5OO and U p.c. from £5OO to
£lOOO. The maximum permitted by law
on trading-bank fixed deposits is 1| p.c.
for two years, while the long-term war-
loan rate is 3i p.c., short-term 2\ p.c.
Treasury bills carry H p.c. In Britain
the Post Office Savings Bank pays 2\ p.c.,
in Canada a similar institution pays
2 p.c., S. Africa 2 to 2\ p.c., New Zealand
2} p.c. on first £5OO and 2 p.c. on next
£l5OO, India 2 p.c. Though Australia
has cut down the interest allowable by
private banking institutions and the savings
banks to levels below those prevailing
in most other parts of the British Empire,
the Commonwealth Government’s bor-
rowing rate is generally higher than else-
where and its war-loan operations are
less successful.
* * * *
The British “horse-power” tax on motor
cars (in Australia vehicles are taxed ac-
cording to weight) is being changed as
from January 1 to a tax based on the
cubic capacity of the engine. The new
tax will be at the rate of £1 for every
lOOcc., with a fixed minimum. The
change aims at removing handicaps on
post-war exports, the horse-power tax
in the past having induced the production
of small, high-revving cars not always
popular away from paved areas.
* * * *
It is sad indeed to hear reports that
vineyards in the Hunter Valley (N.S.W.)
have been reduced in area by nearly half
in recent years. Dry wines from this part
of the Commonwealth are among the best
in the land. Drought has perhaps played
some part in the decline in the industry,
the Hunter Valley suffering severely in
the last decade, but marketing problems
have never been attacked intelligently and
successfully by any Government authority.
At the moment Government control of
wheat, plus a drought, has succeeded
in leaving Australia short of the stuff
from which bread is made ; it is, there-
fore, too much to expect the Government
to do anything helpful so far as the wine
industry is concerned. But it can be
asked to refrain from doing damaging
things. If it permits the adulteration of
light wines with sugar it will be doing
the sounder part of the industry no good,
and the use of cane-sugar alcohol as a
fortifying spirit should not be allowed.
All winegrowers have heard of interest
lately from Canberra is that the Govern-
ment has. decided to extend the wine
bounty until February, 1947. Mr. Forde
has observed that after the war Australia
will have to look to overseas markets to
absorb some of its wine. All the more
reason why its purity should be safe-
guarded now. There is no present
difficulty in disposing of stocks, consump-
tion per head having almost doubled
since war started.
* * * *
R. G. Menzies, in the course of a re-
view of a 56-day “working” year in the
House of Representatives:
We had a striking illustration on the
last day of the sittings of the subordination
of Parliament to the Labor Caucus, when,
in reply to an attack by Mr. Cameron, the
Treasurer bluntly admitted that the
report had been laid before members of"
the Caucus in their capacity as advisers to
the Government. This, of course, simply
means that there are now three branches
of the Federal Parliament —the Caucus,
which demands all the information, both
public and private, and gives the orders;
the Government, which carries them out
so far as it understands them; and the
Opposition, who are allowed to have a
somewhat distant view of the whole pro-
ceedings.
Mr. Menzies also pointed out that the
most important report concerning the pro-
posed aluminium industry, of which there
were six copies, did not reach the hands
of himself or the leader of the Country
party. The attitude of the Government
towards Parliament was one of im-
patience, if not actual contempt.
* * * *
Those connected officially and unoffi-
cially with attempts to solve post-war
housing problems by perfecting cheaper
methods of building are finding themselves
strangling in red-tape. Departmental per-
mission to do anything in the domestic
building line involves months of delay.
Experiments which may have the hearty
approval of one authority are baulked
at the next step by another authority.
Labor .politicians as a whole seem to be
too interested in furthering their grudges
or their fads to attend to the real, im-
mediate problems of government. Where
the people have had their rights and liber-
ties taken from them on a large scale
for war purposes it really means that the
Government of the day has in its hands
a vastly greater responsibility than in
peace-time. The present Government
has far too little sense of respon-
sibility in economic and industrial
matters. The Wards, Calwells and the
rest of them squabble and squall with
their critics while the country’s affairs go
hang. And the Acting Prime Minister,
probably the most flatulent politician
who ever rose to that position, is always
prepared to go a good distance with the
“bhoys” on the Left side. Forde it was
who, before the war, used to beat the
nationalisation drum every time B.H.P.
was mentioned. But as the member for
Capricornia he endeavors to exercise a
political discretion that is vastly enter-
taining to those acquainted with him.
He is as nimble with his political feet as
a Charleville goat. It is a pity his ad-
ministrative brain is not equally agile.
* * * *
In quantity Britain’s exports in 1943
fell to 29 p.c. of the 1938 figure ; because
of higher prices the value declined by
more like 50 p.c. —from £471 million to
£232 million. Private incomes rose from
£4560 million in 1938 to £8075 million in
1943, Savings from personal incomes
moved up from p.c. to 20 p.c. in the
same time, while income tax and other
direct taxes during the five war years
totalled £5525 million, and personal sav-
ings £6604 million. Civilian goods and
services bought during the period are
estimated to have fallen 21 p.c., without
taking into account a drop in qualities.


Pressing the Japanese.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”; There was activity in the
Pacific and East Asian zones over several
thousand square miles in the week before
Christmas.
Striking advances were made in Central
Burma where, the Chindwin bridged and
Bhamo surrendered, it became obvious
that the Japanese intended to retire at full
speed to the dry area of the centre.
The western side of the enemy defence
system appears to have caved in com-
pletely, allowing the British-! ndian Fourth
Corps units from across the Chindwin to
make an almost unresisted advance from
the river to the Irrawaddy railway.
Headed by a Welsh regiment, this forma-
tion took Wuntho, 50-odd miles south-
west of Katha, where the solid hill tract
to the north gives way to the ever-
broadening valley of the Mu River,
through which the railway runs for about
90 miles to Schwebo. Front here onward
the Mu and Irawaddy valleys join, to
make a much broader valley, near the
base of which, another 60 miles to the
south-east, is Mandalay. On December
22 a further eight miles advance had seen
Kawin taken, Schwebo was then in im-
minent danger.
All efforts from the west are likely to
concentrate on Mandalay as a first ob-
jective, since it is the communication
hub of the whole of North and Central
Burma, and its capture would cause a
general withering of whatever military
system the enemy possesses in those
regions.
The British - African troops in the
Kalewa region are further south than
the Wuntho spearhead, ready to converge
on the enemy flank at the right moment,
while the Chinese from Bhamo, with
strong American support, Behind them,
are pushing towards Lasnio and the
Burma-road. Lashio is roughly 100 miles
to the south-east of Bhamo,
Fighting in Arakan, though fierce in
spots, was local.
From Sabang to Mukden
Air-raiding has increased in magni-
tude and in range, and some of the
Superfortress attacks now are reaching
a respectable scale. On December 18
Hankow was attacked by 250 bombers
and fighter-bombers in the heaviest raid
yet made on an objective in China, when
1000 tons of bombs were dropped. This
attack was followed later in the week
by a Tokyo-reported assault on Sabang,
the -island base off the north-western
end of Sumatra, said to be blasted
from Sir Arthur Power’s Royal Naval
carriers, and an attack on the air-
craft * industry at Mukden by a “sub-
stantial force” (60 by one account) of
829 s of Major-General Curtis Lemay’s
U.S. Twentieth Air Force. It was claimed
that substantial damage was done to the
works of the Manchurian Aircraft Co.,
and that 15 enemy aircraft were shot
down, seven probably shot down and 11
damaged. The loss of two Super-
fortresses was admitted.
On December 22 a “sizeable force” of
829 s from Saipan raided Nagoya ' and
other Jap cities.
End Near on Leyte
On Dec. 21 General MacArthur’s com-
munique announced that the Yamashita
Line on Leyte was now completely de-
stroyed, and that “all integrated resistance
on the island had ended,” after exactly
two months of fighting.
The 77th Division had progressed ten
miles north from Ormoc, and was re-
ported on Dec. 20 only a mile from the
Seventh Cavalry driving south, about 7£
miles from Limon.
General Mac Arthur reported:
The enemy’s cohesion is now completely
broken—the small remnants of his force,
divided into isolated groups, are able to
resist only at independent points.
On Dec, 20 1541 Japanese were killed
and large quantities of supplies captured.
On Dec, 21 the U.S. forces north of
Ormoc —10th and 24th corps, pioneers
of the Leyte operations—joined hands,
and the last concerted Japanese manoe-
uvre, an attempt to cut a way out to the
west coast, failed. The enemy left behind
a further 2032 dead.
Mindoro land operations amounted to
next to nothing throughout the week, but
air activity was substantial, and the
enemy, who has only 150 miles to fly
from Manila bases to reach the new air-
fields, which have been put into working
order by the R.A.A.F. construction
units at St. Jose and elsewhere, has done
his best to prevent the fields from being
operated. On December 20 a substan-
tial force had to be driven off by Light-
nings and Thunderbolts —29 heavy
bombers and escorts. This was the first
attack of any magnitude against the
Mindoro landing forces. It cost the
enemy 11 machines and probably three
others against one Thunderbolt missing.
A feature of the Allied effort in the
air was a widespread series of strikes
against harbors and airfields all round
the Philippines group, Celebes and into
North Borneo.
Late in the week columns of smoke
marked the spots where ships of 1000
to 6000 tons were reported on fire from
Kendari to Luzon and Jesselton (N.
Borneo). About 80 enemy machines
were reported destroyed during the week.
Shadows Before
The first half of the coming year will
usher in a momentous period of the
Pacific war. The year 1944 ends with
plans for a* concerted advance by Allied
naval forces being made at Pearl Harbor,
to which Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser flew
from Australia to meet Admiral Nimitz,
The Burma campaign is in its infancy.
The next move by the A.I.F. is to come.
Whatever happens, 1945 should see the
screen* islands north of Australia once
more largely in Allied hands. But the
price in men and ships will not be cheap.
Enemy Blow in the West.
Ek Dum : Events on the Western
Front Jiave pointed the warnings here
given ever since the battle of Caen that
Germany was far from defeated and that
the evidence was all against the theory
of correspondents that the victories of
France had left the enemy only a ragged
remnant of senile pantaloons to defend
the borders of the Reich.
On two occasions the U.S. First Army
was reported (not in General Eisen-
hower’s communiques) to have “broken
through the Siegfried Line.” On neither
occasion was the main line reached.
As the year drew to its close the enemy,
for the first time since his Ukrainian
thrust last winter against Marshal Vatu-
tin, whom he pushed back 50 miles west
of Kharkov, showed his hand in offensive
action. He must have at his service ex-
cellent long-range weather forecasting,
and, thus aided, he chose his moment
cunningly.
He waited until the British Army of
the Netherlands, the newly engaged
American Ninth Army in the sector
north of Aachen, the armies of General
Patton (Third) and General Patch
(Seventh) and General Koenig’s First
French Army had all reached a stage at
which they could not let go or transfer
troops.
Then he struck in a carefully selected
area at a carefully selected time.
He picked a period when he could
reasonably expect some days of fog
which would hide his forces’ movements
and ground Allied front-line battle air-
craft. And he chose a sector which was
relatively dry underfoot, well drained and
high, with fine highways giving the choice
of several main routes towards their ob-
jectives, These roads run through forest
country which could be depended on to
hide Germah movements to a large
extent.
The piece of line on which the Ger-
mans elected to strike was about 70 miles
long. It was anchored on the north to
the Roer River, of which they held the
eastern bank, and closed off from General
Patton’s Third Army in the south by the
considerable barrier of the Moselle River.
On the southern part of this front, in
Luxembourg, the drive was taken for-
ward with just sufficient momentum to
keep the American forces engaged and
to make it necessary for their com-
manders to provide ample reserves and
material in case of the attack increasing
in intensity.
The blow here was aimed towards the
Sedan Gap, 60 miles away; towards the
Bastogne routes to Dinant (Belgium),
where a breakthrough might bring a
very real threat to the whole of the
land communications of the four Anglo-
American armies of the north. By the
week-end it had made marked progress.
Further north up the line the pressure
for some distance remained comparatively
easy at first, but there was sufficient versa-
tility of routes and of lateral communica-
tions to allow the enemy to increase it
with very little notice. Lateral move-
merit of large bodies of troops up and
down a fighting line is one of the most
difficult of military operations. It is per-
formed in the face of a strong enemy in
action only once in a blue moon. But
the Germans are operating out of an
established, well-covered and fortified
line, so that it is much easier for them
than for the Allies, who are not long
established in their forward positions.
The Main Attack
The main blow of the German spear-
head was struck at the far north of its
selected offensive front—at the joint of
an Allied salient with the Ardennes line.
It was the most vulnerable area between
the Swiss border to Holland. Here the
south wall of the American First and
Ninth Armies’ salient ran roughly north-
eastward.
The salient itself was, therefore, sus-
ceptible to attack on its southernmost
flank, much of which was scarcely fixed,
from two of the best of the main routes
from Germany—those from Coblenz, a
German H.Q. in the last war, and Frank-
furt and Mainz.
The salient had to be held. Its frontal
positions were from Monchau to the
Dutch border—almost all the way along
the Roer. That flooded river was acting
as a defensive barrier for the Americans,
just as much as for the Germans ; while
our allies were preparing for their next
push towards Cologne.
They could not afford to weaken their
position at any point along it except under
the stress of dire necessity involving a
general retreat. To fall back from it
would inevitably mean the loss of every-
thing that had been gained east of the
Meuse, including Aachen though
Aachen is not of great strategic value.
At the same time, holding the salient
involved the risk of a major break-
through by the Germans to the south-west
of it at the joint, endangering communi-
cation lines and northern France itself,
along with Belgium and southern
Holland.
Immense Attacking Force
To readers of war news brought up
on Russian-front statistics, which have
always indulged in fanciful delusions
about attacks in which 40 or 50 divisions
were thrown about like platoons, the
weight of the enemy assault might seem
negligible—-13 to 15 divisions, five or six
of which were armored.
In plain fact it is a thundering force
to be launched on such a front and
under such conditions, especially in view
of its power of swift movement, its short
communication lines, the inability of the
Allies to use air power against it, and its
strongly fortified rearward bases and the
cover which the terrain offers it.
For purposes of comparison. Von Fal-
kenhayn set aside only 18 divisions for
the assault of Verdun in the last war, and
of these nine divisions were in reserve.
Also, the attacks against Verdun were
against one of the world’s most powerful
fortress areas manned by veteran, well-
blooded French troops.
The attacks against the American First
Army are against an army more or less
in the melting-pot, only part of its re-
serves blooded, and so recently moved
into horribly devastated country that its
protection by fortification was far from
being beyond initial stages.
Its communication lines were fed from
ports on the other side of France not
yet fully organised, through a country-
side not yet recovered from occupation,
and cloaked in winter.
The First Army’s Task
The First Army has proved itself a
very good army. But only sections of it
have seen any heavy fighting comparable
with that of the British sector of Caen
or With some of the battles in Russia —
and that not until recently. Its role in
Normandy was that of capitalising the
effects of General Montgomery’s opera-
tion rather than of initiating the major
breakthrough, which occurred when the
British and Canadians had forced the
enemy to concentrate against them to de-
lay a complete debacle towards the Seine.
The First met a severe test on the drive
to the Roer, and, always fighting gallantly,
has had a very rough time. During its
recent advances it suffered heavy casual-
ties, and had not had time to refit and
reorganise its man-power.
Up to December 20, less than a week
after the first shots in the offensive were
fired, the enemy had made his way 35
miles into Belgium. He had by-passed
Malmedy on the flank to Savelot, down
the Ambleve valley, making for Huy and
the crossings of the Meuse below Liege ;
for Charleroi and Philippeville and the
main battlegrounds of south-western Bel-
gium where so many wars have been
brought to a decision. He was 14 miles
from Liege.
He was following, in fact, the routes
which his main forces followed in their
overwhelming attacks against the French
Ninth and Second Armies in 1940
across the Ourthe to Dinant, avoiding the
Namur fortified area; towards Mau-
beuge, through Bastogne to the area just
north of Mezieres; through Neufchafeau
to the Sedan Gap. Before the week-end
the more southerly drives were far from
the border objectives, but apparently
still moving—how fast nobody knew,
since censorship shrouded the battle.
Further north, with large sections oi
the First Army obviously isolated, the
rate of the drive showed that the Liege
Line and the whole Allied flank to the
north were in danger, the more so be-
cause it was obvious that the enemy
hadn’t yet used his .main weight, and that
his drive was likely to be supported b>
fresh offensives in other sectors, such as
the Saar, where the forward areas were
reported to be crammed with his troops,
armor and guns facing General Patton’s
newly - acquired positions. Between
the U.S. Saar positions and Paris and the
French coast are the rain-drenched and
torn-up roads of the Lower Vosges, diffi-
cult enough in their complexity even in
dry weather.
It was too early at the time of writing
(Dec. 23) to estimate the situation —even
the German communiques did not, at-
tempt to do so, though they made a claim
on Dec. 21 that they had shattered the
frontal defence system of the northern-
central part of the U.S. First Army, cap-
tured 20,000 Americans and destroyed
nearly 400 U.S. tanks in Jess than a
week’s fighting.
Towns have been taken and re-
taken. The First Army’s communication
route along two south flanks of its
salient —the Liege road —was reported
cut. Many American frontal positions
had been isolated. But all the facts meant
nothing important except that a very big
battle of defence was in progress.
It was not necessarily alarming that
the Germans had made a deep penetra-
tion, since the objective of the modem
method of defence is for the army im-
plementing it to turn itself into a sponge
and absorb the elements of the attack
until all are sopped up and wrung out
down the drain.
Nor is isolation of units necessarily a
matter for disquiet—the fate of the Japa-
nese offensive in Arakan, after it had sur-
rounded islands of the Fourteenth Army
early this year, should be remembered.
In this instance, however, it is serious,
since islands of troops depend on
air supply, to some extent, at least, and
also on air protection, which in the fog
and winter weather it has been hard to
give.
And the loss of 20,000 prisoners, if con-
firmed, would be no light matter.
But up to the time of writing there had
been no Allied confirmation of what it
was to be hoped was one of Goebbels s
normal fairy tales.
No Surprise Likely
It is unlikely that the Allied Command
was taken by surprise. The haste with
which it pushed its fronts to river lines,
no less than the manner, places and
timing of the German withdrawals, was
a pointer. The absence of movement on
the Luxembourg sector was in itself
something- to raise suspicion, since a Ger-
man withdrawal there was to be expected
in keeping with other withdrawals if
the enemy was engaged in a permanent
retreat. The repeated warnings of Allied
commanders about shortages of material
and man-power over the past few weeks
are now easily explainable by the fact
that they must have had some inkling of
what was coming and of the magnitude
of the threat which they would have to
face.
The situation is not one to be treated
lightly. In Russia, attacks of the sort —
at Kharkov after the Stalingrad retreat,
and in the Ukraine after the Battle of
Kiev—were not a grave danger to the
Red Army campaign, since the Russians
had plenty of flat land in which to man-
oeuvre, a long front on which to create
diversions which would suck up enemy
aircraft and an almost endless rear for
retreat.
But for the Allies in the confined west
it is a different tale. The spearhead of
the German drive when last heard of be-
fore -this was written was 90 miles
from Antwerp, 100 miles from the
Channel and only a few miles from some
of the Allies’ main central lines of com-
munications through France and Bel-
gium,
Whatever the ultimate result, it should
dispose for ever of the delusion that the
German armies have been beaten into a
ragged pulp on the Eastern front.
That fable is as untrue as the ones
which told how Marshal von Rundstedt
was twice sacked and in disgrace—after
Stalingrad and after the Battle of Nor-
mandy,
General Eisenhower’s Order
At the week-end (Dec. 23) there was
still no trustworthy news of progress.
Berlin claimed the taking of another
7000 Americans, the destruction of 50
tanks and the capture of 136 more. It
asserted that penetrations had been made
across the Ourthe in several places, and
that heavy fighting was taking place
along the south flank of the U.S. First
Army’s Roer salient. It was also alleged


Public Notices.
I LUDWIG CURT HECKMANS, of German nation-
ality, born at Dortmund, Germany, and resident
over five years in Australia, now residing at ii
Summer Street. Orange, New South Wale B , intend to
apply for Naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936. __
I HARRY KATSOH, of Estonian nationality, born
at Leningrad, Russia, and resident 17 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 567 Harris Street, Pyrmon ,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936. ■
Personal and Missing Friends.
GIFFIN, Agnes.—Miss Agnes. Giffin, formerly of
Euroa and Prahran, daughter of the late Thomas
Giffin, or any person having knowledge of Agnes
Giffin’s present address, is requested to communicate
without delay with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 401 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
TO MARJORIE JOYCE FLETCHER formerly of
29 Goulbum Street Yarraville and 44 Austin Street
Footscrav, Victoria, but now of parts unknown
Married Woman.—TAKE NOTICE that your husband
WILLIAM HENRY FLETCHER has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for Divorce for cause of
Adultery UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the Twenty-seventh day of
January, 1945, and also file an answer on or be-,
fore the Sixth day of February 1945 the Jase may
proceed your absence notwithstanding.—W. H. JOJNEb
& KENNEDY, 214 Nicholson Street, Footscray, Vic-
toria, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
Tn iTR ANK MALCOLM DUNN late of Sutherland
Itreefpadtogton -TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
MAY DUNN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3886 of 1944 on the ground of your desertion with-
out iust cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish 6 to defend you may enter an appear-
_j. fv,o Tiivorrf* Office Supreme Court Kin,-,
Street Sydney g K%£"» «"“J
obtain a copy of the without charge fro
CD.
am
from Berlin that General Patton had
withdrawn his Third Army positions
north of Saarbriicken across the baar,
burning his bridges.
No exact data was given regarding the
depth of the penetration into Belgium,
but it was deducible from the German
accounts that they wished it to be be-
lieved that Panzer spearheads were within
12 miles or so of Liege and the Meuse
on December 22, and 40 miles inside
Belgium. „ , ,
None of this was confirmed from
Allied sources, but it was certain that the
enemy in some unknown strength was
almost within artillery range of the out-
skirts of Liege and down on the Ambleve
valley and across the Ourthe, several
miles west of the longitude of Aachen.
And it was coming perilously near to
being a complete break-through of the
First Army front beyond the Meuse. On
the other hand there was news that the
flank of the American salient from the
Roer had held.
On December 22 General Eisenhower
issued an order that “by rushing out of
his fixed defences the enemy might give
us the chance to turn his great gamble
into his worst defeat”:
The enemy is making a supreme effort
to break out of the desperate plight into
which you have forced him by your brilliant
victories of the summer and autumn.
He is fighting savagely to take back all
you have won, and is using every treach-
erous trick to deceive and kill you. He is
gambling everything; but already in this
battle your gallantry has done much to foil
his plans....ln the face of your, proven
bravery and fortitude he will completely
fail. . .
But we cannot be content with his mere
repulse Let everyone hold before him
the single thought—to destroy the enemy
on the ground, in the air, everywhere.
The battle proceeded in its cottonwool
setting of white winter fog. The trees
among which rockets, shells and V 9
weapons were falling, and among which
the tanks rumbled, were weighed down
with moisture and icicles. The roads were
ice-encrusted, the streams partly frozen
over. A thousand square miles of country
resounded on the days before Christmas
to the roar of artillery.
It is difficult for the ordinary man to
picture the scene. The enemy force is
a giant molten mass of armor which con-
tains at least 10,000 guns, from machine-
gun level upwards, capable of firing—
literally—at the rate of millions of mis-
siles per minute. Among these guns,
mounted behind facial plate armor, some-
times four inches thick, are at least 1000
weapons of 3-inch calibre or more, re-
inforced by much heavier rearward artil-
lery coming forward on rubber tyres. It
is/like a vast mob of mastodons which
has got itself under way. It has
the impetus of a train, the fluidity
of lava. Any blow which could disin-
tegrate it while in movement or stop it
dead would have to be of such weight
that it would take long to organise, and
would be beyond the resources of a single
army. It must be handled like a stam-
peding herd in the hands of skilled
drovers, contained, slowed down by skil-
ful droving, till it comes to ringing point
and then to a standstill and is finally
broken up by counter-attacks. But be-
fore it can be successfully counter-
attacked it must have nearly all the
momentum taken off it, or, better still,
be stopped in its tracks.
In the Mediterranean.
In Italy the taking of Faenza opened
the way for bitter fighting along the
Bologna road, on which the Canadians
of the Eighth Army picked up the torch
so brilliantly lighted by the Maonlanders.
The Canadian advance was compara-
tively rapid, but the way forward is
scored with little rivers and other water
barriers and flanked with canal positions
which provide good protection for delay-
ing troops.
However, the Canadians made good
progress for ten miles northward of
Faenza across the Raviblio Canal, from
a bridgehead on which they reached the
Senio River, opposite Fusignano. They
took the town of Bagnacavallo, 10 miles
north of Faenza.
Operations against the main perimeter
of Bologna are not far off if the country
continues to be cleared at the present
rate.
The Piraeus Cleared
In Greece the British obviously have
held their hand against the few thousand
armed ruffians who are at present dis-
organising the war effort and whose
actions have undoubtedly delayed the
liberation of a large portion of the
/Egean areas, beside allowing numbers ot
Germans, who might have been caught,
to escape.
While communist E.L.A.S. troops
who were, incidentally, in November re-
ported by a N.Y. “Times” correspondent
on the spot to be flying the Red flag in
preference to the blue and white Greek
flag—shoot British soldiers and their fel-
low countrymen, fellow-communist Tito
has adhered to his theory that there are
200,000 of the enemy “trapped” some-
where between Greece and his lines in
Yugoslavia. But the E.L.A.S. toughs pre-
fer civil war and war against their de-
liverers to the pursuit of enemy fugitives
—if the fugitives are not a figment of
Marshal Tito’s imagination.
General Scobie’s communique before
the week-end stated that the British-held
section of Athens was being steadily
cleared of Left Wing “troops,” and that
wherever British troops have entered
cleared regions they have been received
enthusiastically by the inhabitants. The
whole of the port of Piraeus is now in
British hands, and the Mayor headed a
delegation to thank the British Com-
mand for freeing the town, in which one
of the leading squares has been re-named
in honor of Mr. Churchill.
Bitter fighting continued in the
northern part of the capital, where the
H.Q. of the E.L.A.S. was located, and
this delayed negotiations for the armis-
tice. To General Scobie’s offer of terms,
which involved a preliminary cessation
of hostilities and of the general strike
called by the insurgents, there came no
reply.
Whatever happens, it seems that Greece
is faced with a black future, in which the
chief ingredient will be civil war, imple-
mented by a bitter, savage internal move-
ment, whose guiding spirit is that of all
communist movements for revolution
hate.
More Russian Mystery.
“Ek Dum”: The silliness of much of
the stuff which Moscow correspondents
have perpetrated becomes more evident
day by day. Only people who believe in
fairies and astrology now believe that the
Russian westward drive swept the Ger-
mans out of Russia and Poland like chaff.
The tremendous Russian offensive which
was to begin, so soon as the Allied inva-
sion forces secured their foothold in
France has not come about. And the
enemy who, in Moscow reports, was
beaten as far back as February, 1943,
needing only a coup de grace to be .ad-
ministered by Britain’s “4,000,000 armeo
men,” is all too obviously very far from
that condition.
On the Russian front he retired far
enough into Poland and the Balkans to
involve the Anglo-American Govern-
ments in political difficulties with Mos-
cow over Polish boundaries. He allowed
his allies in the Balkans and Finland to
capitulate without bothering either to help
or punish them, realising, it is now plain,
that in the situation thus brought about
there would arise political conditions
which would be worth many divisions to
him —E.L.A.S. is a case in point.
Virtually all the Russian advances
since the beginning of August have been
made through countries which have been
abandoned by the enemy or held only by
his rearguards. It is beyond belief that
there has been any great fighting on the
Danube front.
The time factor and length of com-
munication lines, weather difficulties and
the route which the advancing Rus-
sians have had to follow have pre-
cluded the chance of intense operations
on anything like the scale of those on the
Norman front. And the persistent repre-
sentation that the scale of the Russian
effort in Hungary has been such that to
cope with it the Germans have had to
withdraw divisions from the Western
Front and Italy has proved to be non-
sense.
So far from having to withdraw
divisions, the Germans have been able
to mass on the west an offensive combat
force which is comparable to any Allied
army group in point of armament, and
which consists of picked troops. And
they obviously have not reached the end
of their offensive resources on the Bel-
gian-French fronts.
The armies of Marshal Tito, heralded
as a great fighting force under miracu-
lous leadership which was pinning down
30 divisions in the Balkans, has pfoved
to consist of the most inactive “300,000
fighting men” in history. Though it
seems that the Germans are trailing
miserably home in tens of thousands
through country in which the Marshal
supposedly had smashed all commumca
tions early in September, Tito s pur-
suing” legions now appear in the news
only at rare intervals. When they do
appear it is only in isolated forays in t e
Albanian mountains —last week they
crossed a flooded river on improvise
rafts and “stormed” a Bosnian border
village.
There is no sign of co-ordination be-
tween Russian armies and those of the
west. The position has been summed up
in Mr. Churchill’s remark that he does
not know what Russian intentions are,
and its dangers are pointed by his recent
stress upon the urgency of the need for
a new Three-Power conference.
The reports of what is happening on
the Russian fighting fronts are as unsatis-
factory as the general strategical position
in the east. A fortnight ago correspon-
dents were convinced that Budapest was
in desperate straits, surrounded by vic-
torious Russians. Some members of the
corps subscribed to the idea that the
city was in process of abandonment and
about to fall. A week saw this theory
exhausted. The Russian advance from
the south, like a hundred other Russian
operations, plunged into abysmal fog
when within 17 miles of the suburbs. By
the end of last week “Budapest” was an
almost forgotten word. The centre of
interest has seen two shifts within a few
days.
Advance in Slovakia
Eyes were drawn from the assault on
the Hungarian capital to the edges of
the ranges 150 miles north, where Russian
units were, at the week-end reported
to be shelling the edges of Kosice
(“formerly the headquarters of the
Czechoslovak Third Army Group”),
menacing the town from three sides.
Kosice is an important railway town in
the Abaj valley, about 50 miles north-
east of Miskolcz, which the Russians took
some time ago. But its capture is scarcely
likely to lead the Russians towards any
great objective, since the path beyond
it is closed by the high snow-bound ranges
of the Tatras to the west and of the
Beskidens, towards Tarnow, in the north.
If the Red Army cannot make its way
through the Tarnow-Gorlice area from
the flat Polish plains in the north it seems
scarcely unlikely that it can break into
the heart of Czechoslovakia across the
Tatras, unless the Germans are prepared
to give up Czechoslovakia ; and that is
unlikely in the extreme.
Here the Russians claimed to have
taken prisoner “1000 Hungarians and
Germans.” And it was said by a “Times”
correspondent in Moscow, about 1000
miles from the front, that the Germans
were retiring along the line in southern
Slovakia, where hard winter had set in,
and that the Russians were taking large
but uncounted hauls of prisoners. This
does not mean that the German retreat
need continue. Any forces in the present
combat regions north of the Danube
Bend are likely to be only screen outpost
troops and rearguards.
At the Vienna Gap
On Dec. 21 another drive was reported
to have begun between Lake Balaton and
the Danube Bend, to the west of Buda-
pest —that is, along the axis of the main
road from Buda to Vienna. This is the
most likely avenue of attack for a main
drive into Austria. It is served by the
main Oriental railway, and by a magni-
ficent straight-running road, mainly over
low levels, through Gyor (Raab). Much
of the country is fairly open and ideal
for tank warfare. The main defensive
position is along the wooded hills of the
Vertes mountains and the Bakony Wald,
which run from inside the angle of the
Danube Bend south-westward down the
Austrian side of Lake Balaton.
It would need a well-organised effort,
heavily supplied with tanks and artillery,
to force this 50-mile-wide gap if it is
anyway strongly defended. And if, in the
time at their disposal, the Russians have
been able in winter conditions to bring
up sufficient forces and armament for
such an attack against established defence
it must be accounted a modern miracle.
On December 22 another offensive
against the supposedly isolated German
army on the Libau coast in Latvia was
reported by Berlin.
Offensives to Come
The general Russian offensive which
was supposedly about to .begin all
along the Polish line three weeks ago is
now reported to be three weeks ahead.
If this is so, the Russians are allowing
themselves very little time to break the
German defences on the east. By the end
of February the snow will be melting.
The countryside behind the Russians will
become a sea of mud in which all heavy
vehicular traffic will bog down. On the
other hand, the high passes on the Ser-
bian and Slovakian routes may still be
choked with snow.
The Russians will be attacking under
enormous difficulties, with only a month
of campaignable weather ahead before
the spring thaw. They will be pitting
communication lines, served by poor rail-
ways hundreds to thousands of miles
long against the best rail and road com-
munications in Europe. The prospect is
not alluring, unless the enemy is very
much weaker than he appears to be.
Wirraways.
.“Senerni”: A statement that “the
R.A.A.F. in 1938 consisted largely ol
Wirraways” calls to mind a very useful
craft, which actually only made its
appearance towards the end of 1939, and
in 1938 was only to be seen in the guise
of its two imported forebears-—the North
American NAI6 and NA33. The Wirr-
away, in the words of the service,
“doesn’t owe the side anything.” From
the beginning, along with the faithful
old Aggie, it carried the brunt of the
Empire Air Training Scheme in Aus-
tralia, and in addition has a small but
honorable battle record, starting with the
.gallant but hopeless sortie by six Wirr-
away pilots against more than a hundred
Jap aircraft over Rabaul, setting a
standard of endeavor which has been
equalled but never surpassed, and reach-
ing its zenith with its army co-op. work
for th£ A.I.F. in the Buna show. It was
here in late 1942 that Flying-Officer
Archer made Wirraway history by shoot-
ing down a Zero. On paper he didn t
have even Buckley’s chance, as he was
hopelessly outclassed and outgunned, but
he made a split-second decision to attack
immediately on sighting, and dead-eye
shooting plus his aggressive spirit carried
the day, his first burst knocking
Hirohito’s Wild Eagle as cold as a
cucumber. Jubilation of his fellow Wirr-
away pilots was punctuated by the •seri-
ous concern that “They’re sure to try
and make fighters out of us now.
Wirraways also flew for 18 months oyer
Malaya, but were not flown in action
there by R.A.A.F. pilots. At least one
sortie is to their credit there, flown by
R.A.F. pilots, but their ultimate fate m
that theatre is obscure, and they can only
be listed, like their gallant countrymen,
as “Missing, believed p.0.w.”


—y "vx
a
w
P
K^Z
B
5
'
■ •: •
ITWON'TBEIONG
—before the Japs have taken the knock-out
and George is back from the war to take you
places, on a full tank of petrol. But, mean-
time, look after your battery. Your nearest
Masse dealer will be glad to service it once a
fortnight, and an occasional re-charge should
you many extra months of service.
Masse
ARE TIGERS
E
BATTERIES
for work
2-44
The MARS High -Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from hiah-soeed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ẅ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co, Pty. Ltd.
Bridge StreeL Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The holidays have upset The
Bulletin’s routine, and consequently I
have to attempt selections for the
Carrington Stakes and Tattersall’s Cup
without Villiers and Summer Cup form
as a guide. However, on Rosehill
running Hall Stand must be given a great
Carrington chance. Felbeam, Panchio,
Nobleman and Majesty are other enter-
ing strongly into calculations.
* ns * »
The winner of the Summer Cup may
be rehandicapped up to an extra 101 b. in
Tattersall’s Cup, and while that may dis-
pose of him (or her), it would seem
that Tattersall’s winner is bound to come
from one of the first five in the Summer
Cup'. If Royal Peer wins the Summer
Cup he should, even with a penalty, also
pay a prominent part in Tatt’s Cup. With-
out a penalty his prospects should be
particularly bright, as should those of
Betza, Kiaree and Easter Time. Of those
below 7st. Prince Buzzard and Skip
Bomber may have best chances, but
Royal Peer and Betza are the two to
which I am pinning my faith. There is,
of course, the possibility of Summer Cup
running upsetting all present ideas.
Taking a line through last year’s
Summer Cup result it may be unneces-
sary for backers to go beyond the first
two in that race for the winner of Tat-
tersall’s Cup. A year ago Cream Puff
(7.2) won the Summer Cup from Grand
Fils (7.13) and Moondarewa (7.10). The
penalty earned by Cream Puff took her
weight up to 8.0 in Tattersall’s Cup, and
Grand Fils (7.13) was too good for her.
Moondarewa (7.10) ran fourth.
* * Sic *
Williamstown still purposes giving the
“magic eye” a trial, but, even if. it is
almost infallible in judging results,
backers of beaten horses will still remain
unconvinced. Demonstrations against
judges may occasionally—but rarely—be
warranted, but they are generally unfair,
and are due to many spectators being un-
able to realise that the angle from which
they see a finish is different from that of
the judge. The few possible mistakes I
can recall were consequent on the judge’s
eye following a horse finishing fast on the
outside, while one near the rails was
stopping,
* * * *
Despite her hard races in the spring
Tranquil Star is reported as looking very
well, and it is anticipated the autumn will
see her at her best. It will not take
more than one good w.f.a. win and a
minor placing to take her beyond Desert
Gold’s record of £23,133 for a mare in
New Zealand and Australia. She is now
£893 behind that total.
* * * »
The closing of Ascot will add to Syd-
ney trainers’ troubles during the coming
year. With Victoria Park and Ascot un-
available as training tracks, and Rand-
wick already used to its limit, it is hard
to see what the S.T.C. can do to help
trainers.
* * * *
It is difficult to foretell what the next
few months will bring forth, but it does
not seem as if staying three-year-olds
will be numerous in Sydney in the
autumn. At present Tea Rose stands out,
the spring disappointments including
Shannon. Removal and High Tension
are two improvers, and it is likely they
will have to be reckoned with. Three-
year-olds have won their share of Sydney
Cups, but unless there are marked de-
velopments on the part of some it is un-
likely that in their early lists double-
layers will have any of that division
among those at the top of their Cup
favorites.
* * ♦ *
The number of useless horses in train-
ing in Sydney is testimony to the ability
of some trainers to tell a flattering tale.
It must be added that some owners resent
being told their horses are “no good,”
and persevere with them against the
advice of their trainers.
* . H= * *
Melbourne jockeys are asking for
more jumping events, and it is a pity
hurdle races have entirely ceased in Syd-
ney. They gave variety to programmes,
even though the competitors were occa-
sionally very ordinary. Perhaps some of
the “hopeless cases” now racing in
novice classes on the flat might fare
better over the jumps. Anyhow, in the
way of paying expenses they could not
do worse than at present.
* * * *
E. Britt continues to do well in im-
portant races in India, At Poona on
Sept. 23 he won the Governor’s Cup on
the Maharajah of Gaekwar’s Guiding
Star (3 to 1, favorite) and two other races
for the same owner. Touching on Indian
racing, the tote treble is very popular
in that country, and there are occasion-
ally some surprising dividends. At Poona
on Sept. 16 only two tickets were taken
on the winning treble, and each lucky
received Rs. 15,004 (£A1125) for
his 7s. 6d.
* * * *
In racing, as in so many other things,
luck plays a big part. For instance, men
with a fair knowledge of horses, and
advice from good judges, have bought
yearlings over a long period without ever
getting hold of anything of much account.
Others, who have been successful in busi-
ness and have suddenly decided they
would interest themselves in racing, have
been fortunate in their first purchases
and then tell you all about “their judg-
ment.” Trainers, too, have been brought
to the fore by one or two horses, though
previously they had not accomplished
anything to put them above the rank and
file of those in the same calling. Even
if they did not possess the ability to turn
them to account, their temporary suc-
cesses impressed some owners, and gave
them chances that did not fail to the lot
of more capable men.
It is often much the same with
jockeys. A trainer may have a couple
of lightweight apprentices. One may be
really superior to the other, who, how-
ever, has the luck to be fairly “carried
home” in a couple of his early races.
His services are almost immediately in
demand with some owners, and, naturally,
his interests are pushed by his employer,
while the better lad may rarely get a
mount from his own stable or any other
that has a good winning chance. As a
result, he becomes too heavy for oppor-
tunity to come his way before the con-
clusion of his apprenticeship, and he
either merely becomes a stablehand or
drops out of the game altogether.
* * * *
Racing inquiries open to the press are
doubtless quite fair, but occasionally
might not be appreciated by owners and
trainers. There would be the possibility
of it transpiring that association with un-
desirable people was not for the good
of the game. Featured in newspapers, a
little too much light for their liking might
be thrown on their operations. There is
no getting away from the fact that there
are trainers who are more dependent
upon the doings of other stables than
their own to make ends meet.
* * * «
At Sportsman’s Park (Chicago) next
year there are to be various innovations,
one being prize-money for the fifth
horse, and another a $5O war bond for
trainers of horses winning at a mile or
further. There will again be a big sum
in war bonds to be divided among win-
ning jockeys, the most successful getting
$2OOO, second $5OO, third $3OO and fourth
$2OO. Sydney jockeys would appreciate
something similar, and perhaps when it
gets firmly established the S.T.C. may
give consideration to something of the
kind.
* * * *
L. B. Mayer, known to Australians be-
cause of his purchases in this country,
owns one of the best three-year-old fillies
in America. In October she won her
eighth race, and made her earnings this
year $106,855 (about £A32,490). Whirl-
about is her name.
* * * *
Alsab, who so greatly distinguished
himself in America as a three-year-old in
1942, but went amiss last year, has been
retired to the stud. He finished with 25
wins and $350,015 in prize-money. He
was one of those lucky purchases which
occasionally fall to the lot of a buyer.
As a yearling A. Sabath paid $7OO
(about £A2I3) for him. Alsab’sstud fee is
advertised at $2500, which sounds some-
what stiff for a newcomer, especially as
he is to be limited to approved mares. »
* * * *
Breeders are entitled to look forward
to the coming sales with optimism.
Horses were seemingly never more valu-
able in Sydney, and when a tried mod-
erate like Courier realises £lOOO it is hard
to say what a good horse would bring
at auction. Anyhow, the prospects of
yearlings selling well are particularly
bright, and, as usual, some of the higher-
priced lots will not return as many shil-
lings as they cost guineas.
* * * *
We are repeatedly told how much
superior old-time racehorses were to
those of today. Perhaps, but hard facts
do not uphold that idea. With race-
courses not improved to a remarkable ex-
tent, present-day “degenerates” make
times at all distances that would have
been considered almost impossible a little
oyer 50 years ago. When Hova won a
mile-and-a-quarter race in 2.6 at Flem-
ington in 1893 the time was so much
better than anything previously recorded
at that track that the impression was
general that something had gone wrong
with the timekeeper’s watch. Hova’s
record stood for many years, but now the
best over the same course is 2.2.
* * * *
The Victorian Jockeys’ Association is
moving towards Melbourne summer pro-
grammes including more jumping races,
as well as an addition to jumpers’ flat
races. Highweight flat handicaps re-
stricted to jumping jockeys are also
favored. Riders on the flat were never
better off, but as it has been a lean time
for those earning their living over the
jumps their requests deserve full con-
sideration.
* * * *
On the concluding day of the Belmont
Park meeting at the beginning of
October the tote turnover was $3,618,240,
a little over £A1,101,500, claimed to be
a world’s tote record for one day, and
certainly big business for an attendance
of 36,000. The total amount wagered in
18 days by 401,669 people was
$40,724,736.
* * * *
Santa Anita (California) racecourse,
famous before the war, is being restored,
and from December to March is to have
55 days’ racing. When America entered
the war 22,000 Japanese men, women and
children were interned at Santa Anita, and
later it was used as a training centre for
18,000 American soldiers.
* * * «
One thing that has not been given
much consideration in Australia —prac-
tically none—is that of fourth money.
It is common in America, and even allow-
ing for the fact that there are many more
valuable races there than here, various
handicaps in Australia could stand a
similar deduction. It is aggravating for
an owner or trainer to see his horse just
nosed out of third, and while no re-
muneration is forthcoming he knows it
has done just well enough not to receive
a weight concession that might enable it
to win at its next start or two.
* * * *
A correspondent wishes to know how
trainers with small teams and rarely
a winner manage to make ends meet.
Well, some of these are excellent judges
of a gallop, and, even though they may
not be sufficiently lucky to turn out win-
ners of their own, information will
always command its value.
* * * *
Sydney country clubs are asking that
the fixtures now allotted them should be
increased. That is not an unreasonable
request, and, if acceded to, would prob-
ably reduce the number of inferior horses
now racing at metropolitan meetings.
They might prove worth training for
some country meetings, even though they
have little hope of paying expenses in big
fields at city meetings.
* * * *
Up to the end of September the un-
beaten two-year-old Pavot had earned
more prize-money than any other horse
in America in 1944, his total for eight
wins being $179,150 (about £A54,545).
Miscellaneous.
Alleged to be fighting (at Leichhardt)
for the Australian middleweight cham-
pionship, Tommy Colteaux and Cliff
Bowen failed to show a glimpse of cham-
pionship form. Colteaux’s showing was
more like that of a preliminary boy.
Bowen landed wild right swings on the
“champion’s” left eye. When the ninth
round arrived Colteaux could not see out
of it, and another wild right swing
floored him for four seconds. At the end
of the eleventh the referee interposed
with a decision for Bowen, who may now
call himself champion if he can find any-
one to agree with him.


Public Notice.
AUSTRALIAN ART FUND,
TO help liquidate the debt of costs, incurred by
the two artists who lost the equity case (Mary
Edwards and J. Wolinski versus the trustees of the
National Gallery), in which they contested that in
the S award of the Archibald Prize the winning
picture was not a portrait. Donations will be re-
ceived by MRS. E. ANDREWS,
654 Pacific Highway,
President: Lady Braddon. Chatswood, N.S.W.
WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Sydney
By now Christmas, 1944, has dropped
into the past but its spirit remains to
help everybody to face whatever the New
Year has in store. Perhaps for some
the candle of hope that burned so bright
midway through the almost-ended year
has blurred and dimmed. But there are
always new tapers to light. Let Australia
light them at the shrine of remembrance.
Remembering the brave who suffered,
died, and have been made prisoners of
war in the cause of Australia’s safety,
none should falter in. the tasks ahead.
Twice last Thursday there was a pro-
cession of guests to Government House
to view the just-completed portrait of the
Governor by Dobell. In the morning
Mayor Bartley, grouped about by civic
importants (former Town Clerk Layton
among them), officially handed over the
painting. This was a gift, as the small
brass plate says, “From friends and
admirers.” In the afternoon many of
these friends and admirers, women as well
as men this time, were bidden to G.H.
for tea and a private view of the work.
In the picture Lord Wakehurst is wear-
ing the uniform of his office, and this is
built on what women’s tailors call “slim-
fitting lines,” which show the Governor’s
tall figure off to advantage. It is dark-
blue, and on it are many decorations. In
the crook of the left artn is a respondent
white-plumed cocked hat. The face looks
longer than it appears to the everyday
observer, and one misses the twinkle.
Lady Wakehurst finds it “fascinating,”
and says it reminds her of older mem-
bers of her husband’s family.
. For the afternoon party, at which the
artist was a guest, the painting stood on
an easel in the dining-room. A portrait
of Lady Wakehurst may soon be painted
by Mr. Dobell, as on behalf of the sub-
scribers Mayor Bartley asked the
Governor to accept a copy of the finished
work or a portrait of Lady Wakehurst.
The Governor was very pleased with the
latter suggestion.
The Greg McGirrs, taking tally of
their grandchildren and finding the total
six, decided on having an old-time family
Christmas party. It must have been like
turning back the clock for the young
mothers and fathers, for all the trim-
mings they knew as youngsters were
brought out again. The tree was a real
one in the garden, and the great after-
noon saw it heavy with gifts. Dr. Tom
Bateman and his wife brought their
three, Edmund, Rosalind and Beatrice
(the last-named after mother), the Dr.
John McGirrs came with Gregory and
Jocelyn, the Greyor Molyneux couple
brought baby Philip.
The girl in the flat opposite says she
is sorry that while in Maoriland she did
not become an expert at Rugger. Christ-
mas shopping this year has been like
being caught in some crazy scrum, and
a knowledge of tackling would have
come in very handy. The departments with
coupon-free articles seethed with bargain-
seeking females, and simply tons of
soap, face powder and talc were bought
to send out as presents. Silk stockings,
cigarettes, sweets and wine are no longer
thrust on the bachelor girl. Instead, this
year, she was handed books, good, bad
and indifferent household gadgets and
shopping bags.
Turning a coldly calculating eye on the
season’s haul, the girl in the flat opposite
summed up: quantity as great as ever,
but quality never getting into the luxury
class. There’s no grumble about that
because it was a war-time Christmas. But
though gifts were more simple, the shops
had a boom season. According to bank
managers there were millions of pounds
rolling around, and many rolled across
the shop counters. Australia was in the
money.
Overseas Leaguers had a guest of
honor after their own hearts for their
Christmas week “five to seven.” The
club rooms above Martin-place were
crowded when Rear-Admiral G. D.
Moore, big and genial, arrived with his
slim little wife. She looked cool in
willow-green and white-patterned silks
and a tiny white boat-shaped hat. The
Keith Smith lady received them. - Her
hat also was small and white. Pearls
and 1 a dove-grey suit were other items
of an attractive ensemble. There w’as a
cable of greeting from knight Keith.
Arthur Rickard introduced the guest, and
Aubrey Halloran combined a speech of
thanks with words of welcome to the 30
or so servicemen present, and to a group
of fresh-faced young English service-
women.
Among these were Allyce McCallum,
second officer W.R.N.S., V.A.D. nursing
members of the British Red Cross Alice
Rabberts and Audrey Boston, all in
tropic whites, and Field-Officer Ada
Marjorie Drew, of the Land Army, in
khaki. The Admiral’s speech was;, easy
and eloquent and ended with a stirring
quotation: .
We sailed wherever ship could sail,
We founded many a mighty State,
Pray God our greatness may not tail
Through craven fear of being great.
Secretary Kathleen Gaden skated busily
around the bowls of hydrangea and flam-
ing bottle-brush seeing to things. Well-
known hockey girls Tory Wicks and
Annis Rees proved they also serve who
wait by'handing around the sherry.
Poetess Dame Mary Gilmore’s Christ-
mas greeting is typical. It is a card about
octavo size, and on it is printed Mary s
own stirring “No Foe Shall Gather Our
Harvest!” Here is the last verse:
We are the sons of Australia,
Of the men who fashioned the land,
We are the sons of the women
Who walked with them hand-m-hand;
And we swear by the dead who bore us,
By the heroes who blazed the trail,
No foes shall gather our harvest,
Or sit on our stockyard rail.
Mary adds a characteristic footnote:
“In the good old cattle days, the stranger
was entertained in the parlor (he might be
a disguised trooper), but the friend was
taken down to sit on the stockyard rail.
No gentleman ever saw hide, hoof or
brand he shouldn’t.”
This is the wife of Rear-Admiral
G. D. Moore, the smiling new hpstess
of Tresco. It is unnecessary to intro-
duce her to Sydney as before her mar-
riage she was the popular Doretta
Russell, of Bellevue Hill. Only daugh-
ter Barbara is already proving herself
as likeable as her friendly parents.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
The Australian Comforts Fund does
not believe in an over-swollen bank bal-
ance. It believes that moneys raised to
provide comforts for soldiers should go
back in mountains of the things that
make the life of the fighting man easier
and less monotonous. The N.S.W. divi-
sion of the A.C.F. held its yearly meeting
last Wednesday, and the report told that
of the £1,552,088 received £1,499,050 had
been spent. Lord Wakehurst, patron of
the fund, spoke of the necessity of con-
tinued support. Mayor Bartley and
Mayor-to-be Neville Harding were other
speakers.
Probably the stress of year-end busi-
ness has delayed the reply of Great
Britain’s Prime Minister to the invitation
of the Nothing Under Seventy Club to
become an honorary member. However,
the members expect to soon receive an
acceptance. Meanwhile, midway through
last week the club celebrated its thirteenth
Christmas party. The club has long hqld
a niche of its own in the life of the city.
Many of its members are musicians,
singers and elocutionists. Musical
director is Ad Cree, a Scots comedian.
Mrs. Polly Symonds played accompani-
ments and dance music at the party. The
club has raised almost £lOOO for war
funds.
The Paddington Town Hall was blithe
with childhood when the Lebanon
Ladies’ War Comforts Auxiliary held
Christmas revel. The party surrounded
a very large cheque—it was for £2OOO,
and it was handed to Rear-Admiral G.
D. Moore by Lady Wakehurst. The
cheque was the fulfilment of a promise
made to Rear-Admiral Muirhead-Gould,
and in all made up £3OOO from the
auxiliary for renovations and improve-
ments to Royal Naval House. Rear-
Admiral Moore told listeners when
accepting the cheque of the service
rendered to the men of the R.A.N. by
Royal Naval House since 1876. Lately
Allied navies, too,'had availed themselves
of its comforts.
The children’s fancy-dress party was a
very happy idea. It had been arranged
by president Mrs. A. A. Alam on the
inspired note that even the children who
did not win a prize got one anyway to
console them for not winning. The
admiral’s wife, Mrs. Florence Taylor and
Mrs. Bertie Kelly were the smiling
judges.
From Melbourne
Summer has come at last, and with it
the holiday spirit. Great queues have
been lined up outside the Tourist Bureau,
down Coll ins-street, into Elizabeth-street
and almost to Bourke-street, shepherded
by policemen, to buy train tickets. Those
most eager to get away took their stances
at a very early hour in the morning, and
many of them whiled away the weary
hours playing cards as they sat on the
pavement. One day the bureau closed its
doors at noon, having* sold travel tickets
at the rate of 800 an hour. The heat had
no effect upon shoppers, for each train
and tram brought them to the city in the
last mad rush which comes at this time
of the year.
The president of the Victorian War
Nurses’ Comforts Fund, Mrs. Charles
Allum (pictured below by Broothorn),
entertained her committee recently at a
late-afternoon party to show her appre-
ciation of the work done during a very
successful year. A shop stocked and
staffed by members of the committee and
Next-of-Kin Auxiliary brought in £l70 —
an excellent sum for a one-day effort.
Mrs. Hugh Marsland is secretary and
Mrs. R. Drew treasurer of this very busy
committee of twelve. Close on 1100
parcels were packed and dispatched to
Victorian girls serving with the Army,
Navy and Air Force Nursing Services.
These nurses are scattered all over the
Commonwealth in base hospitals and in
the Northern Territory and New Guinea.
Nurses sick in hospital each received a
parcel, and so did Victorian girls serving
with the British Army as members of the
Queen Alexandra Nursing Service. Much
care and thought went into choosing the
contents of these parcels, each of which
contained eau de cologne, face powder,
talcum powder, hand lotion, powder base,
powder puff, lipstick and two torch
batteries.
The V.W.N 4 C.F. has had many gener-
ous donations during the year, but 50 p.c.
of the money has been raised by personal
effort of the members of the committee
and of the Next-of-Kin Auxiliary. Plans
for the coming year include a garden
fete at the home of one of the members.
Though R. G. Menzies dispensed with
the traditional trappings of Father
Christmas he handed out the presents
with suitable smiles and sallies to the
children who were guests at the recent
children’s party given by Bowen and
Janet Pain. Janet is never happier than
when entertaining. From a gaily-lighted
Christmas-tree the children received their
presents and were regaled with Christmas
cake and hundreds and thousands on
bread and butter.
Lady Cross, whose smile is ever present
and whose dressing is always a joy to
behold, brought small daughters Karm
and Susanah to the party. The Consul
for China and Madame Wang had fun
with the children, among whom was their
schoolboy son Wei. With Mrs. R. G.
Menzies was daughter Heather, and Mrs.
James Hayne dressed David in his white
sailor suit for the occasion. Anthony
and Pat, sturdy sons of Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, were also guests, and M. Rista,
manager of the French bank, took time
off to bring daughter Jan.
When the children had finished their
party another took place in honor of
attractive Strella Wilson, who was having
a birthday, and also of R. G. Menzies,
who was on the eve of his fiftieth.
Strella wore a striking corsage of small
purple lilies, a gift from Bowen and
Janet. A small group of guests clustered
around R.G. as he told some of his ex-
periences of air raids when he was in
London during the blitz. Winston
Churchill has no greater admirer than
Mr. Menzies, and guests were interested
to hear first-hand impressions of the
Empire’s strong leader.
A bevy of charming English W.R.N.S.
officers has arrived in Melbourne. They
have as their chief Betty Samuel, a
brunette who has seen service in France.
Next in command is First Officer Betty
Tilley, happy choice for service in this
part of the Empire. Betty left her home
in Adelaide with a view to a trip round
the world, but in 1939 she joined up with
the workers for the Duke of Gloucester s
Red Cross and St. John’s Fund, and the
next step was the W.R.N.S. Another
brunette is Second Officer Bridget Charl-
ton, who has five sisters. Two of her
sisters have married and have families.
One sister, a Waaf, is a colonel s wife.
Sister Rosemary, a V.A.D., expects soon
to be transferred to Australia to carry
on her work with the forces.
Last but not least there is the youthful
blonde Second Officer Kay Martin. At
17 this lass became secretary to the head-
master of Stowe School. Kay, an only
child, volunteered for service in France,
but switched to Australia at three days
notice when the chance arose to go to
Australia. These officers look most
attractive in full-dress uniform, which
includes a ducky tricorne hat, but even
more chic in tropical white ducks, then
summer uniform. Chief Officer Betty
Samuel has given permission for them to
go stockingless during the hot weathei.
Australian women’s services might well
copy. «
Over four years ago Mrs. Norman
Martin, wife of Agriculture Minister
Martin, gathered together a band ot
women to form the Country Leave Club.
The main object of the club was to care
for men of the forces who were in Mel-
bourne from country districts and othei
States and who had no friends. the
possibility of spending a miserable Sun-
day was banished for these men, because
Mrs. Martin and her helpers arranged to
serve luncheon and tea at night. During
the afternoon and evening there were
games and dancing, and concert parties
came and gave their services to entertain
the men. The Country Leave Club is
now set in very pleasant surroundings,
for the kiosk at Fawkner Park is among
trees and green lawns, and here the men
may play tennis or golf.
Generous friends have provided the
wherewithal to purchase the food served
every Sunday, and knight William Angliss
has donated all the meat used since the
club opened. Just prior to Christmas
Mrs. Martin with her vice-president.
Doreen They, and helpers served a special
tea to 500 servicemen and merchant seamen.
Waiting on the men were 100 hostesses
who through the years have worked so
well and made the Country Leave Club
popular. Norman Martin had the ser-
vices of the Parliament House dining-
room manager, who, with ah assistant,
cooked and carved the turkeys. Many
of the hostesses baked cakes and made
the jellies and trifles, and Lord Mayor
Nettlefold and the Lady Mayoress were
guests of honor. Chief Secretary Hyland
and Mrs. Hyland were in the party. The
Prahran Council earlier in the year donated
£250 to the Country Leave Club, and
Prahran’s Mayor Ellis and his wife came
along to have tea with the boys. Each
year Mrs. Martin wonders if she is serv-
ing the last Christmas tea, but peace has
not yet come, and so she is prepared to
carry on, with the valuable assistance she
has, for another year.
Students of Albert-street Con., under
the direction of Clive Carey, presented
“Scenes from. Opera” in the Union
Theatre. The operas chosen were “The
Queen of Spades,” by Tschaikowsky, Acts
I and II of “Hansel and Gretel,” by Hum-
perdinck, and the final act of “Dido and
yEneas,” by Purcell. These students
being trained in singing are also taught
stage deportment, and the young singers
made an excellent job of singing and
acting. Vera Terry was regal in her part
as Dido, Queen of Carthage, and her
lovely voice won great applause. Very
appealing were the scenes from “Hansel
and Gretel.” The proceeds of two nights’
presentation were donated to the Chinese
Relief Fund.


FOOD
for Thought
:-..yv
V;
2% -
sgip
alpi
When you are “burning the midnight oil ”, and you
feel your energy is flagging, pause for a cup of
Bournville Cocoa. You will go back to the job
refreshed. The reason is that Bournville Cocoa is
a food in drink form. A cup of Bournville is a
a supper in itself. Because of its food value, Bourn-
ville Cocoa is in great demand by the Army, Air
Force and Navy, but you can still occasionally obtain
it from your grocer. Ask for Bournville the
Cocoa with that real chocOlaty flavour.
rAoaow 's
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Made by the makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
8CP3.13 .
PUBLIC NOTICE
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
As from Ist January , 1Q45,
the Name of the above Company
is changed to
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS
(N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
—ln a cU*M ok its own
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GO.
SMOKE-OH!
“A horse-drawn vehicle entered for the
worst turnout was BotT Johnston’s matrimonial
agency. Well ... it might have attracted some
clients!” — Tenterfield (N.S.W.) "Star.”
But wouldn’t the sight of a sulky nag
scare his clients away?
4* «J*
“Child’s three wheel tricycle.”
—Suburban for sale ad.
Two- and four-wheel tricycles are out
of stock, evidently.
•f*
“Eddie Ward the Opium of the People.”
—Chalked on a wall at King’s Cross.
Do they mean a dope?
•J*
Handy.
“In which sport is superior reach of the
greatest advantage?”— Radio quiz question.
With pugilists a super reach must tell
To great advantage in the fistic fray.
With anglers, though it’s indispensable
When they describe the one that got
away.
F.M.
“Pair black lady’s shoes, size 31, hardly
worn.” — For sale ad. in suburban paper.
Lubras usually go barefooted, anyway,
•f* •£• "h *F
Constancy.
Collectors call so often that
The knocker’s constant rat-tat-tat
Makes life for us a bore.
Though opportunity is shy,
It’s clear that importunity
Knocks ever at our door.
Brian Bureau.
“Lost, Hornsby Overhead Bridge.”
— "Advocate,” Hornsby ( N.S.W. )
Detainer rewarded by Progress Asso-
ciation,
nr. j *, *F
Round cocky s cage for sale.”
“ Clarion” ( Willoughby, N.S.W.)
Suitable for circus parrot only.
•F *F *F
The Victim.
Of all the contemptible people in this
world, the dirty, black-marketeering mon-
grels at the corner pub are the worst. I
bought a couple of dozen bottles of beer
off them for the New Year celebrations,
and do you know what the murderous
cows charged me? Four bob a bottle!
Nearly three times the set price. No
wonder people talk about revolutions!
It means that if X retail the blasted
things at Bs. each I’m only making 100
per cent, profit.
Nat.
•S* »F
“My secretary and I are in love, and between
dictation plan our future together.”
Correspondent in "Sun.”
If her plans work out, he will be taking
the dictation without any between.
“He had no eyes for the fat housekeeper
with the straggly hair, nor for the lovely wil-
lowy brunette. He saw only the accusing face
of an angular maiden schoolteacher.”
— Woman’s paper.
A case for an eye specialist, this.
* * * *
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1945.
Jan.; —A beautiful 17-year old Yugoslav girl
will kill her 359th Nazi with her air gun and
her photo will appear alongside that of Marshal
Broz-Tito. A miner at a N.S.W. pit will smoke
a cigarette too far down and the miners will
go home after holding a pit-top meeting. A
Stockholm message will reveal that Hitler now
runs a small ginger-beer factory and that
Himmler has had Goring put through a spiked
mangle after having tortured out of him a
confession that he sold the V 2 rocket plans
to Churchill through a neutral businessman.
Feb. —Following a police report that pillaging
from Sydney wharves has now reached £150,000
p.a., a man found guilty of thieving soldiers’
parcels being loaded on a ship will be fined
ss. and will immediately demand and be granted
reinstatement. The Artichoke Board will decide
to spend £40,000 on a publicity campaign to
encourage public demand tor its product, and
will appeal to growers to increase acreage. An
Austrian refugee will be found in Sydney who
is not making £75 a week out' of his antique
shop. A millinery designer will create a sensa-
tion by popularising a woman’s hat that looks
like a woman’s hat.
Mar. —A miner at a N.S.W. pit will throw
away a half-smoked cigarette and the lodge
will call a general strike. “Terewth” will an-
nounce that tne most stupendous plunger of the
season at Flemington is a Polish refugee named
Paddy Sullivan. Ihe Artichoke Board and
the growers will reach a deadlock over the
fixed price. The Nazi Food Minister will
announce that steak evolved by German
chemists from Che plane-tree gives more gravy
than rump or porterhouse and has the added
advantage that chips to go with it can be
picked up straight from the cutter’s axe.
Apr. —A beautiful 19-year-old Filipino girl
will kill her 127th Jap using only her boio.
Tokyo radio will announce the appointment of
232 more admirals to replace those killed since
Jan 1. The secretary of the Artichoke Growers’
Association will blame the Government’s mis-
handling for the chaos in the industry. “S. M.
Herald” will publish an In Memoriam verse that
rhymes. A Moscow correspondent will reveal
that a company of Cossacks armed with sabres
put a whole Panzer division of Panther tanks
to ignominious flight, destroying 118.
May. —Admiral Wakko Takyafoto, writing
in the “Ichi Ichi Shinbone,” will announce that
the gods protecting Nippon have revealed that
the time is opportune for the conquest of India,
Australia and North Amercia. The Little
Bend (Ind.) “Bugle” will predict that within
a week Russia will launch a devastating air
blow at Japan’s heart from Vladivostock. The
chairman of the Artichoke Board will blame
growers for their high-handed attitude. A man
who wins the comic song section of a competi-
tion for Australian composers will disclose that
he set the music to a Sydney “D.T.” leading
article.
June. —A N.S.W. coalminer will swear at a
pit pony; he will later call a pit-top meeting
to protest against ponies being exposed to bad
language, and following this the men will go
home for the day. Sydney “Sun” will an-
nounce that there will be no Ring at Randwick
because the books are all broke. A tobacco-
hungry man will work his way after a two-hour
wait to the head of the queue to find that it is
for some just-released corsets. A suburban
grocer will smilingly apologise for being out of
a certain line.
July.—A man who for 10s. a week keeps
“warm” a miner’s place at the pub while he is
away will be called up by Man-power, and the
miner concerned will call a pit-top meeting.
Russia and Japan will renew their Non-Aggres-
sion Pact and Pisheries Agreement, with good-
will speeches. Gandhi will lose his tooth. Alter
a chase through suburban streets at 70 m.p.h., a
car thief will wreck the car against a wall and
will not be able to run off and elude the police.
Aug.—The Miners’ Federation will demand
a Royal Commission on the question of bar-
place “warmers” and will threaten a complete
stoppage if this is not granted. The secretary
of the Artichoke Growers’ Association will
claim that if the Government doesn’t act swiftly
artichokes must inevitably hnd their way on to
the black market. Some hail will fall in Mel-
bourne and the daily press will unaccountably
fail to refer to it as a “freak” storm. A cen-
tenarian interviewed by the “Argus” will attri-
bute his longevity to his life-long addiction to
hard manual labor.
Sept. —The Deputy P.M. after stating that
the Government is determined to govern all
sections impartially, will announce that it has
agreed to recognise the vital princiuple of bar-
place “warmers” for miners provided coal
production is maintained. The chairman of the
Artichoke Board will claim that only planned
regulation of marketing can save the industry
from ruin. A man will die of shock at a
Sydney suburban station, and at the coronial
inquiry it will be disclosed that the train came
in on time. The Sydney Government will
decide to spend £35,000 on installation of hot
showers, library, billiard-rooms, cinema theatre
and bedside telephones in order to discourage
escapings from the Gosford Boys’ Home.
Oct. —As a protest against a new wheeler
who has a wart on his nose being allowed to
commence work, 1500 miners at a big N.S.W.
pit will go on strike and ten more pits will
come out in sympathy. There will be a glut
crop of artichokes, which growers will threaten
to burn if the price set by the Board is not
increased. The work of a modernist artist will
be hung by mistake in the Education Dept.’s
Kindergarten Exhibition, and nobody will notice
the error.
Nov.—The Artichoke Board will announce
that £50,000 is to be spent on a publicity cam-
paign to discourage public demand for its
product. Tokyo Radio will announce that
the sole damage done in a 2000-ton Super-
fortress raid in Nagoya were two. broken win-
dows in an orphanage. Seventy-four more
delinquent boys will escape from the Gosford
home and none will be recaptured. A centen-
arian interviewed by the “Argus” will attribute
his great age to the fact that' for the past 55
years he has led a sedentary life,.
Dec. —A man in a N.S.W. coalfields town
will die, and 1000 miners will take the day off
as a mark of respect, deceased’s grand-uncle
having once been a popular “dog” bookie.
A Hollywood star will obtain a divorce because
her husband’s mother wears dresses too close
in pattern to her own. J.C.W. will make a
splash and revive “The Arcadians.”
80.
Dilemma.
“Should I be true to my husband and pay
for my meat, or accept the butcher’s affec-
tions?”—“D.T.” letter.
If in your week-end meat you find
Some blushing sausages entwined
In dainty lovers’ knots, and see
A tender sirloin cunningly
Embellished with a tiny bow.
By these phenomena you’ll know
Somewhere among the chops and steaks
A passion just as tender wakes.
Think carefully before you choose
With outraged virtue to refuse
The butcher’s proffered gallantry.
Or do you want to stand in queues.
And suffer to a worse degree
The usual frank discourtesy ?
P. M. LUSK.
The Danger.
. “After, the war penicillin lipstick will make
kisses germ-proof.”— "Sun.”
’Tis good to know that sultry kisses
May soon be lavished on a maiden
Without the fear of getting laden
With microbes that may end our blisses.
But how I wish some preparation
Could yield us adequate protection
Against that fatal heart affection
That oft precedes the osculation!
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placuu urst is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2l;d. per line.
Schoolteachers and the New Order
If there is going to be any New Order
it will be our children who will grow
up under it, and it will be left to th®
teachers of today to inculcate in the citi-
zens of tomorrow the high ideals which
are necessary for such a New Order.
What a task lies ahead of the teacher !
While people everywhere disrupt indus-
try over personal matters he has to instil
in the children a sense of national pride.
He has to convince them that we are all
Australians, all working for the good or
our country. He has to make them
understand that they must take their place
in the world as members of a commu-
nity, not as individualists. He has to
convince them that they must place their
country’s needs above their own persona!
grievances.
For five years the teachers (here m
Queensland, anyway) have been carrying
on under adverse conditions., .Schools
have been over-crowded and under-
staffed. Air-raid shelters have had to be
dug (and filled in later), and it fell to the
teachers to see they were done. War saving
was introduced into the schools ; extra
coupons were issued through the schools ;
books, waste paper, aluminium were col-
lected through the schools, and evacua-
tion details were left in the hands of the
teachers, just to mention a few additional
burdens imposed.
I read of salary rises for politicians,
for councillors, for miners, for dozens
of others. But nowhere do I read of a
rise in teachers’ salaries. Are they not
worthy of a decent professional salary?
I think the man who moulds the child’s
brain is as important as he who cures
mortal ailments. —E. A. C. (Q.).
Social Education
“Sub-Looey” (B. 25/10/’44) touches
on an aspect of education which is too
often neglected. To secure a degree at
a university proves that the holder pos-
sesses a foundation upon which to build
for the future, but academic achievement
alone is no guarantee of future useful-
ness.
Let me illustrate. A college friend of
mine left his university holding a B.A.
degree and a licentiate in theology. He
took holy orders, was appointed to a
country parish and proceeded to spout
undiluted philosophy at his congregation
of cow-cockies and farm laborers. In
a few' months only a few faithful hearts
attended his church; his flock could not
understand his language, and he could
not speak theirs; he knew nothing of
farm life, nor did he make any serious
attempt to learn and understand. He was
a failure, and was soon allowed to return
to England.
Another college friend, also English,
had some years’ war service, some years’
wheat-farming and a little ordinary busi-
ness experience. No great scholar, he
only just managed to secure his licentiate
in theology. He also went to a country
parish. This man could speak the cockles’
language, understood their life and ways
and knew how to play with their chil-
dren. He liked the people and under-
stood them. They liked him, and his
ministry was useful and successful.
I believe that every boy should be given
an academic training, including the classics
and a language or languages as well
as the three Rs, but as a foundation only,
not as an end in itself. I believe also
that every youth leaving school or uni-
versity and destined for law, medicine or
church should spend, not a meagre 12
months as suggested by “Sub-Looey,” but
two or three years in two or three hard-
working jobs. I recommend farming,
laboring and, above all, specialty-
selling as training grounds for our future
lawyers, doctors and bishops, for it is
from this personal contact that a student
can learn how to value and apply aca-
demic knowledge.— Bahut Achcha (Fiji.).
Curing the Bad Soldier
The persistent a.w.l. is and has always
been a problem for the Army. I suggest
that the American scheme might be the
best cure for the disease.
For a first offence the soldier is given
a light punishment, and is warned that it
must not happen again. If he appears
a second time, involving a charge of
being away for more than a defined
period, he is brought before the unit
Standing Court-martial. Minimum sen-
tence is six months’ detention and for-
feiture of two-thirds pay. The delinquent
serves approximately one month in the
prison and then is shipped overseas to
the front line, where he must serve his
sentence as a fighting man, the forfeiture
of pay continuing.
These men are placed on the ship
under guard and are given the worst of
the ship’s fatigues. As the main object
of this type of man is to avoid going to
the war, the only sound punishment is to
send him there as quickly as possible, and
see that he is sent where the fighting is
thickest. — Recco (N.S.W.).
Preference in Queensland
The Queensland Labor Government
has passed a bill to amend the Industrial
Act which has staggered the Opposition,
the returned soldiers and everybody else,
in the definite manner in which it
guarantees preference to returned service-
men and -women. It is even more to the
point than the bill drafted by the R.S.S.
League.
Because of the party’s previous attitude
to preference and the persistence of the
unions in declaring that under a Labor
Government there will be so many jobs
that preference will not be necessary, a
vigorous search is being made for the
“I still think We could dispense with that A.B.C. accent, George !”
nigger in the woodpile, with no success
so far.
The fears expressed by “Lieutenant,
A.1.F.” (B. 29/11/ ’44) are covered
(in Queensland) by absolute prefer-
ence to the serviceman. These are
also important amendments adopted:
“As between applicants who are
members of the fighting forces the length,
locality and nature of the service of each
such member must be taken into con-
sideration,” And
It is hereby declared that where a member
of a fighting force has been appointed to
any office or employment by way of re-
instatement in such office or employment
such reinstatement shall be deemed to con-
fer upon such member all the rights and
privileges, including promotion, to which
he would have been entitled had he not
served as a member of the fighting forces.
Wonders will never cease! — Lea (Q.).
The Interfering Mob
Interference by bystanders with police
arrests is becoming a frequent feature
of Melbourne life. As an Australian I
can’t understand this strange develop-
ment, which seems to be derived from a
blind dislike of any form of authority.
Lately I saw three policemen arrest
seven youths after a disturbance in Flin-
ders-street, and their efforts to hustle
the fellows off the streets before the
trouble festered were considerably ham-
pered by a witless mob that knew noth-
ing about the cause of the trouble.
Such is not the case in London, where
the police in most parts can rely on the
aid of the man in the street.
The Londoner appreciates that the
forces of law and order make streets safe
for the peaceful citizen. —D. J. W. (Vic.).
“Issue Notes”
Australia is facing a drought, and Mr.
Forde proposes to call a conference
to overcome the consequent shortage of
food. Why waste time holding a confer-
ence when the obvious solution of the
difficulty is at hand? Nationalise the
banks and print notes —lots of notes.
Here is the sovereign remedy—the
panacea for all our ills. Bakers have
no flour with which to make bread
issue them notes. Butchers have no meat
—give them notes.
Gold will not serve (as King Midas dis-
covered), but paper is another story.
With notes there could be leisure for all.
No wheat need be grown nor harvested-
rest for the farmer. No cows need be
milked —the dairyman’s children can go
to school. No coal need be hewn —eter-
nal holiday for the miners. No books
need be kept, so the army of clerks can
be dispensed with.
No worries as to “rehabilitation” of
returned men ; give ’em notes, plenty of
notes.
Our war debts? A shipload or two of
notes should liquidate them. Secgen
Ausdig (Q.).
Flooding the Dead Heart
I don’t know whether it is possible to
alter the climate of the Centre by flood-
ing some of it with ocean and I suspect
a lot of other people who are expressing
opinions on the subject don’t know either.
But one of the stock objections that there
is an evaporation rate of lOOin. a year
doesn’t seem valid. High evaporation is
just what is wanted, because a lot of
moisture will be returned in rain and that
is what changing the climate means.
As an example, Port Phillip is a third
the size of Lake Eyre and the rainfall
round it, due to evaporation from its
surface, is considerably lower on the
windward side than it is to leeward. Mel-
bourne gets 25in. and the Mornington
Peninsula 37in., while Werribee, to the
west, has a much lower average. The
process could be observed, during recent
rains, which were of local origin. A suc-
cession of hot, humid days produced
heavy black clouds over the sweltering
bay, and every evening the rain fell for
some distance inland. Then the sky
cleared, the temperature rose and the
process was repeated.
If this phenomenon could be repro-
duced at Lake Eyre the surrounding
country would soon become covered with
verdure, as are the surroundings of Port
Phillip, and this would again tend to in-
crease the rainfall. Nature would do its
part competently unless mucked up by
the politicians who, if the experience of
the past is any criterion, would reproduce
the conditions in the Mallee. — Bumpkin.
(Vic.).
“Rats of Tobruk” Criticised
Apart from the puerility of the plot
and the sickly sentimentality of the
characters, the “Rats of Tobruk” film
teems with military malapropisms and
anachronisms.
Here are a few examples of some mis-
takes which caused ribald amusement
amongst a Ninth Division audience at a
pre-release of the film. Australian n.c.os.
do not wear badges of rank on their left
arm. The A.I.F. saw no “jeeps” in the
Middle East until 1942. A divisional
headquarters is not a G.H.Q. The
terrain around Tobruk is much more
reminiscent of the Nullabor Plains than
of the sands at Cronulla.
Neither the facts nor the atmosphere
suggest much research on the part of the
producer. The action described as taking
place on Easter Sunday took place on
Monday—in daylight. The enemy’s dis-
mounted elements were engineer shock
troops and machine-gunners, not in-
fantry. No front-line infantry spent rest
periods in the town ; they were spelled
in a semi-reserve area, where they were
engaged in digging an inner defensive
line, and their only relaxation during the
rest period was an occasional swim,
strictly regimented. Only on one sector
of the perimeter were Australian troops
unable to move freely by day, and on ail
other sectors it was a matter of pride and
morale amongst commanders that their
troops, and not the enemy, “kept their
heads up.” Terms such as “ear bash”
and “get off my back” are of much more
recent vintage than Tobruk days. Tin
“meat tickets” (identity discs) as worn in
the film are a comparatively recent inno-
vation.
Nor do the characterisations please an
audience which has grown rather proud
of a tradition of good discipline and
smart turnout, and more than a little tired
of the “Bluey and Curly” type of soldier.
Australian officers are not pompous per-
sons who address their troops as “my
man” in a condescending tone. Digger
humor is dry and pungent, and nothing
like the buffoonery and Cockney clown-
ing of George Wallace. And more than
one member of the audience objected to
the absence of reference to the Tommy
Royal Horse Artillery and to the fact
that the sole representative of the Royal
Northumberland Fusiliers was portrayed
as a bomb-happy nitwit.
The few incidents in the film which
struck a responsive chord were (1) that
all too fleeting glimpse of Tobruk from
the far side of the bay ; (2) the kangaroo
outside the Salvo hut which made some
of the audience remember the late Bill
Tibbs and his inexhaustible supply of
coffee for front-line troops. Otherwise
the true atmosphere of Tobruk was
missing: the dust; the flies; the
monotony of the diet; the incredibly
feverish zest for letters from home ; the
eternal digging and more digging—for
the old Italian concrete posts used so
much in the film were frowned on by
Higher Command and occupied as little
as possible ; the improvisation with cap-
tured equipment and decrepit worn-out
vehicles.
In short, Tobruk was not a war of
action. Its claim to fame lies in the per-
sonal nature of a drab and slow-moving
campaign in which ill-trained and ill-
equipped troops learned their trade as
they went, and in the face of difficult
mental and physical conditions. The fact
that the Ninth Division went into Tobruk
a band of recruits and came out an
efficient fighting machine represented the
real glory .of the campaign.
It seems a pity that the name Tobruk
should be used as a peg on which to hang
a few disjointed incidents which bear
little or no resemblance to the war as
the Ninth Division has seen it. — P. M.
(A.1.F.).
Southern Westralia
Most of south W.A. is still in the
“covered wagon” stage, but cheap elec-
tricity would work wonders. With cur-
rent everywhere for power, light, re-
frigeration we might hope to see the vision
of the American ambassador brought to
reality, as when he pictured at least three
towns the size of St. Louis lying between
Perth and Albany.
One much-discussed scheme is a power
plant at Collie, using the coal of that
district. This scheme has now become
more attractive because a process has
been evolved for gassifying that coal, pre-
viously reckoned unsuitable. Another
idea is the harnessing of the River
Murray, which rises in the ranges east
from Pinjarra and has a sufficient fall
to sea level to make it a source of hydro-
electric power. Any normal season sees
the Murray pouring countless billions of
gallons into the Indian Ocean. — Charlie
(W.A.).
Labor’s Advantage
As one who has worked in polling
booths in many parts of N. S. Wales,
I can testify to the tremendous advantage
given to the Labor party through its
short, plain and apparently straight-
forward descriptive name, especially
amongst unread and “can’t-be-bothered ’
electors.
On dozens of occasions I have
been asked on polling day “Whom do
you think we ought to put in?” and had
to reply “I cannot tell you that. I can
only tell you that X is Labor, Y C.P.,
Z U.A.P.” —or whatever the labels of
non-Labor parties of the time might be.
“Oh, well,” would come the conclusion
of the easily-satisfied countryman, “we
are all working for our living—it is plain
I should vote Labor” —and so X scored
another vote, no matter who he was.
It is important, therefore, that a party's
name should be easily read, easily under-
standable and full of meaning.—N. M.
(N.S.W.).


=.;V
fe. >
35
X;
•y.
2*3
hi
(S
M
Y
m
Sa
.^Syz
SSS
$k
rS' S
m
■Y
'■ A t
\
3
Vj.
X. ■ r.
V,
3
///
During THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless-—at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services.
When Victory is ours, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
The post-war Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
ŵ
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
