

df
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3354
Wednesday, May 24, 1944
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
SHAKESPEARE’S HOUSE, STRATFORD-ON-AVON, ENGLAND.
"THE little town of Stratford-on-Avon is famous only as the
* birthplace of the immortal Shakespeare. Fortunately the house
in which the poet was born on the 23rd April, 1564, is now national
property, and is most carefully protected. Hither come every year
about 14,000 visitors, most of them Americans. The building has
undergone some changes since Shakespeare’s time, but the old
timbered framework is the same. On the first floor a little room
facing the street is pointed out as the one in which the Bard of
Stratford first saw the light. The walls are literally covered with
inscriptions, written or carved in every tongue, and indicating thus
an endless throng of pilgrims of all ranks, from prince to peasant.
Elsewhere these names would be an outrage; but here, in memory
of this universal genius, they seem a proof of the spontaneous,
world-wide homage of mankind. Among them are the names of
Byron, Sir Walter Scott, Thackeray, Dickens, Tom Moore, Washing-
ton Irving and the Duke of Wellington. In other rooms are
exhibited many interesting relics of Shakespeare, including his
portraits, his school desk, several early editions of his works and
his signet-ring. Not far from this house is the lovely church in
which all that was mortal of this sublime genius was laid away to
rest beneath that weird and well-known epitaph:
Good Friend, for Jesus sake forbear —To dig the dust
enclosed here. Blest be the man who spares these stones,
And curst be he who moves my bones!


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOPfE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to\ Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.^
My Name
My Address
S.B.
AGE
The Red Page
LIFE IN LITERATURE.
No book with the title The Ballad of a
Government Man (Hawthorn Press, Mel-
bourne) is likely to be accused of lifeless-
ness these days; certainly not when on
investigation Niall Brennan is found to
have written a satire on civil servants,
By licking the boots of all above him,
fawning on all who tried to shove him,
and taking root like a giant fern
he rose by simply waiting his turn.
Without pretending to be more than
popular rhyming, it runs along pleasantly
and will please thousands who have suf-
fered.
War poems, also, are too topical to be
uninteresting. T. W. White’s Sky Saga
(Hutchinson), a spirited narrative poem
about Empire airmen; “Christopher
Penn’s” anthology War Songs (A. H. and
A. W. Reed, Wellington), mingling stand-
ard English poets with some prominent
Australians and New Zealanders; Wil-
liam Wannan’s The Corporal’s Story
(Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne), a
longish reflective poem about the Pacific
war ; T. P. Deegan’s Mystic Moods of
the Australian Bush, another longish
patriotic poem from the Bread and
Cheese Club ; W. R. Titterton’s Poems
for the Forces (Werner Laurie, Ltd.), light
ballads about the British fighting forces ;
H. H. Wilson’s Occasional Verse (Pater-
son’s Press, Perth), mainly conventional
reflections on war and nature, with occa-
sionally, as in “Returned Soldier” and
“Ruin Ridge,” a flash of deep feeling
pithily expressed; John Quinn’s Battle
Stations (Angus and Robertson), verses
by an A.I.F. writer who served in
the Middle East and the North ; Anton
Vogt’s Poems for a War (Progressive
Publishing Society, Wellington, N.Z.) —
all these books have something of im-
mediate interest to say.
But, of course, a poem needs some-
thing more than topicality if it is to last.
It needs life. Of all the poems in books
sent in recently for review the one most
likely to live is Allen Curnow’s poem
about Tasman in his Sailing or Drowning
(Progressive Publishing Society), and
Tasman, though he has topical signifi--
cance, lived a long while ago.
Topicality can give a poem a brief,
spurious sort of existence ; but only great
technical ability, the impress of an out-
standing personality and the sense of an
original vision will make it endure. Limp
in technique, outworn in language, Mys-
tic Moods of the Australian Bush is an
example of a topical poem born dead:
This and half a dozen other of his poems
were first printed in The Bulletin ;
“Troopship at Night,” a striking picture
of the A.I.F. at sea, was in Australian
Poetry, 1942.
Free verse is dangerous stuff. It has a
way of looking stark and impressive
when it first appears ; and, a few years
later, flat. It is doubtful now if anyone
finds much profit in Ezra Pound’s early
poems or any of Richard Aldington’s.
Whitman survives, but Whitman was a
great personality and spoke for a
nation. In “Troopship at Night” Quinn
comes interestingly close to Whitman’s
characteristic rhythm and, although noth-
ing like Whitman’s strongly individual
personality emerges from his work, he
has this further affinity with him that, as
an A.I.F. writer, he speaks for a nation.
His talent—though a subsequent volume
may prove this judgment wrong —seems
essentially that of a prose-writer; these
rhythms are not quite what men have
agreed to hold and cherish in the mind as
poetry. But they should last for their
emotional depth, their purity and keen-
ness of phrase—a style like a bayonet —
and for their significance in the life of
the nation.
Anton Vogt’s is a very different type
of war poetry:
We will remember them, they said;
And they put away the big guns.
But next day in Paris, Berlin, London and New
York
They started fighting each other all over again
Over stocks and shares and markets and
monopolies
And a lot of other things that don’t matter a
damn.
We will remember them, they said;
And they put away the big guns.
But they left all the ammunition lying around.
An outcry of conventional disillusion,
this poem is vers litre without either the
sparkle or the cadence of Quinn’s ; with-
out vision ; with nothing to distinguish it
from prose and only its rancor to carry
it on into the future. Elsewhere, how-
ever,, in a poem about Norway,
the technique is surer and the vision—the
climate —of poetry is manifested:
Only the ski-track and the carol cut the white
silence
Where smoke spiralled from stone chimneys
Slow and detached like a question-mark
Expecting no answer.
It was toboggan and ice-axe under the sharp
north;
Heavy weather clutching the umbrella on the
windswept street'.
But the people were tough. They could take
it;
Make it ripen and flower.
This is a poem that, like all Quinn’s
verses, has something to say and says it
well. It is a poem “about” something ;
about Norway, as Quinn’s are about men
at war.
It’s a curious fact of out times that,
generally speaking, the better a poet is
technically the less he has to say to the
ordinary reader. From Eliot downwards,
poets have been for the few. There has
not been the Elizabethan universality of
appeal; or the universality of Keats and
Byron. Except in Murder in the Cathe-
dral Eliot has had nothing to say to the
general body of readers. Quinn and
Vogt are consciously or unconsciously in
revolt against the intellectuals. Both can
be “taken seriously” as poets ; both use
the contemporary idiom; both experi-
ment in their forms; and both can be
read by as wide an audience as that
which enabled Tennyson’s publishers to
pay him a retainer of £lO,OOO a year.
Allen Curnow, except in his Tasman
poem and a lively ballad called “The
Unhistoric Story,” is an intellectual of
the Eliot period. As a technician, he is
by far the most accomplished of all the
writers surveyed here. And yet, with
those two poems excepted, he has less to
say—less of commanding interest, less of
excitement to offer —than Quinn or Vogt.
Niall Brennan doesn’t profess to be a
“serious” poet, but he has at least some-
thing lively to say about government by
civil servants. The Corporal’s Story
could not rank high as poetry, but it is
at least a corporal’s story.
Curnow works with a high purpose.
He strives in poem after poem to dis-
cover exactly what New Zealand is ; to
place it in the Pacific in its correct his-
toric perspective; to analyse what it is
now ; to prophesy' as to its future. But,
after giving an interesting account of the
skeleton of a moa in a museum —
The skeleton of a moa on iron crutches
Figures in no waste land; a private swamp
Was where this tree grew feathers once, that
hatches
Its brood of dust, and guards them from the
damp.
Interesting failure to adapt on islands . ..
he concludes that someone else will have
to solve his problem for him:
Not I, some child, born in a marvellous year,
Will learn the trick of standing upright here.
He does not seem to have perceived
that, when he can write a poem about a
moa, he is already “standing upright” in
New Zealand. He is at home on his
native soil, presenting an image of it to
the world. There is much thought about
New Zealand in his work, careful
thought, precisely expressed, but there
are too few images of New Zealand: no
landscapes, no people ; no picture of New
Zealand to compare with Vogt’s crisp
painting of Norway. All he has to do to
“stand upright” is to write more about
the moa and less about the difficulty of
writing about it.
The phrase about “no waste land” and
the development into narrative and por-
traiture in his Tasman poem show that,
like Vogt and Quinn, Curnow is essen-
tially a rebel against the “cerebralism” of
Eliot and the Auden-Spender group.
There is character in the Tasman poem:
O you had estimated all the chances
Of business in those waters, the world’s wafers
Yet unexploited.
But more than the sea-empire’s
Cannon, the dogs of bronze and iron barking
From Timor to the Straits, backed up the chal-
lenge.
Between you and the South an older enmity
Lodged in the searching mind, that would not
tolerate
So huge a hegemony of ignorance.
There where your Indies had already sprinkled
Their tribes like ocean rains, you aimed your
voyage;
Like them invoked your God, gave seas to
history
And islands to new hazardous tomorrows.
There are places in the poem. And—at
Murderers’ Bay—something happens in
it; —•
Death discovered the Sailor
O in a flash, in a flat calm,
A clash of boats in the bay
And the day marred with murder.
This is contemporary poetry swinging
away from Eliot to the true modern,
Browning ; away from icy intellectualism
to a poetry of people and places and
action. It is the accomplished writer ad-
mitting he has something to learn from
the “popular” poet who writes a satire
on civil servants or his reactions to a
world war. An admission that a poem
should have life in it.
Curnow seems like a poet who has
found his feet. And found them on solid
earth. A younger writer than Curnow,
Adelaide’s Max Harris, who, after pub-
lishing several small books of Verse, now
offers his first “novel,” The Vegetative
Eye (Reed and Harris), is still imprisoned
in intellectuality.
“Barjai” (No. 13), a magazine sub-
titled “a meeting place for youth,” pub-
lished in Brisbane, offers a review of The
Vegetative Eye that may be typical of
the way in which it will be received:
“Some of the allusions baffle me.” The
book is “most difficult to assess.” And
so, because it is baffling, because it is dif-
ficult, it is accepted as an important
achievement. And that, possibly, will be
the general opinion.
About every fourth page there shines the
word “pornographic.” Other key-words
are: Page 9, “loathing”; page 10, “mur-
deress”; page 11, “pimples”; page 12,
“coarse” ; page 13, “stupid little brat” ;
page 14, “pox” ; page 15, “ghastly old
men with grinning fangs”; page 16,
“dropsical” ; page 17, “worm” ; page 18,
“coarse, crude and tragic”; page 19,
“musty, headachy smells”; page 20,
“tubercular” ; page 21, “blurted” ; page
22, “manure”; page 23, “inverted”;
page 24, “bowels”; page 25, “malig-
nant” ; page 26, “disease”; page 27,
“bestial”; page 28, “loathsome” ; page
29, “blood” ; page 30, “bashed” ; page
31, “smashed”; page 32, “picking my
teeth”; page 33, “pus”; page 34,
“snake” ; page 35, “horrible” ; page 36,
“murder” ; page 37, “amputated” ; page
38, “dead woman” ; page 39, “cancer” ;
page 40, “itch” ; page 41, “ugly”—and
so on from the “living worms in the
narrow steaming dungheaps of country
towns” on page 117 to the triumphant
conclusion, “The ecstasy is achieved.”
Apart from the simple fact that it is
not very good fun to take this tour
through Mr. Harris’s private inferno —
even if, as he submits, it is the common
inferno of humanity—there are three
other objections.
In the first place, the style is not
“witty” but coarse and flippant. The
attempts at fine writing are invariably
marred by pedantry.
In the second place, the “novel” can-
not possibly be fully comprehended with-
out reading or re-reading Proust, Dos-
toevsky, Rilke, Blake and Baudelaire.
And, lacking some extraordinary compul-
sion—which is not present —nobody is
going to undertake that labor for the sole
reward of learning exactly how a young
man, aged 23, employed as a research
officer in the Department of Economics
at Adelaide University, achieved ecstasy.
The game is simply not worth the candle.
Particularly as Mr. Harris does not
seem to light any candle to shine like a
good deed in his dark world. Both Blake
and Rilke were true visionaries. They
brought angels into the library. Mr.
Harris says he has achieved ecstasy, but
he fails to communicate it. He brings in
nothing more elevating than a bucket of
blood. And that is the third great objec-
tion to The Vegetative Eye: it is an in-
ferno from which there is no compensa-
tory ascent into paradise. It lacks vision.
Like most surrealist works, whether in
paint or in words, the book is built up
out of Freudian commonplaces—the
CEdipus complex, multiple personality
and so on —and amounts to a pic-
ture of the struggle of an adolescent
into maturity; a matter always of more
importance to adolescents than to adults.
The book is not without its passages
of interest, always where the author is
analysing the nature of genius. Here it
confirms the impression given by his
later poems —which have always been re-
ceived by the coteries if not with liking
at least with respectful alarm —that his
gift is not creative but analytical. He
may do well in expounding the works of
other men, but he himself has—so far —
nothing more to offer than the crudest of
horrors ; not the life of body or mind
or spirit but their decay.
Let all the nations know the story
That hallows thee and keeps thee free!
When wanton enemies invaded
The rights and freedoms that were ours—
Foes with whom we oft had traded . . .
Of the war poems listed above —not
counting those in “Christopher Penn’s”
anthology—John Quinn’s and Anton
Vogt’s have the best chance of enduring.
Quinn has made the most dramatic state-
ment yet to come from the A.I.F.; —
I have heard soldiers laughing,
(You do not forget the sound of soldiers’
laughter,
Deep, hard laughter, like anvils beaten in
granite caves,)
Their challenge to blind, stupid fate.
Knowing her blindness.
Hating her blindness,
Mocking her blindness.
The laughter of soldiers.
Ghost echoes,
Sounding back from the grey desert,
Splitting across the red, bellowing air
Above Thermopylae,
Faint on the Syrian hills.
Crowing bitterly in lost Tobruk,
And crashing through torn, empty Darwin
streets.
The Vegetative Eye proves most difficult
to assess. One could write a whole essay
on the form alone. No one, after becom-
ing accustomed to the form, can fail to be
interested in this novel that is really an
autobiography. The firm handling of the
prose excites admiration —“When the police
gave us twenty-four hours to leave the town
because of our larking about, it had only
been a matter for further laughter, and we
hiked on nine miles to the next town and
gotten ourselves jobs there. It was rough,
splendid, and rich, like blood.”
This absorbing revelation of a person-
ality is emotional and intense and the wit
comes as a welcome relief. The novel
sometimes drags when necessary essays are
too long, some of the allusions baffle me,
and the style of printing does not please,
but these are small objections compared
with the achievement as a whole.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
One of the big back rooms of the Syd-
ney National Art Gallery is occupied with
what the “Sunday Telegraph,” its spon-
sor and collector, calls a “Children’s Art
Show.” It was opened by the State
Minister for Education —presumably be-
cause such exhibitions have nothing what-
ever to do with art or education. Shelley
notwithstanding, “unpremeditated art” is
a contradiction in terms. A collection of
scribblings and dabblings by youngsters
who obviously have never received even
the rudiments of instruction in drawing
or in the laying on of pigment has neither
artistic nor educational significance. It
may have some interest for the psycholo-
gist, but only in the direction of further
corroborating the oft-noted fact that the
first efforts at drawing and coloring of
the uninstructed young have a family
resemblance in all ages, climes and con-
ditions. It is like the psalmody of men
going home drunk at 3 a.m. —unmistak-
ably the same in Sydney or in Santiago,
and whether the men are stokers off a
tramp or fine gentlemen on the spree.
Albertc Casellp’s “Death Takes a Holi-
day,” at the Sydney Independent Theatre,
is an ingenious drama dealing with
Death’s desire to learn why mortals fear
him. Assuming the form of an old friend
of his host, he joins the house-party of
an Italian noble. John Carlson as Death
and Verity Marina as Grazia —the beauti-
ful fellow-guest with whom he falls in
love—are exceptional, although Grazia’s
air of complete detachment is rather over-
done. An interesting play well cast and
well acted.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, with a
membership which has climbed to 1500
and a, big outside public demand, finds
three shows in the big Tivoli for each of
its eight plays in the season not enough,
and announces Saturday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Saturday sessions for the
future. Its latest show is “The First Mrs.
Fraser,” with Mimi Mattin giving the
Marie Tempest touch in the name-part
and Arthur Fay (who was producer also)
as husband.
At the talkies:
“San Demetrio, London” (Sydney Embassy)
is the story of one of the ships in the convoy
attacked by the Von Scheer when the Jervis
Bay met her gallant doom. The crew of the
fleeing tanker San Demetrio abandoned her
when fires broke out, but reboarded her two
days later. The amazing story of the way they
got the fires under control and the ship to
Ireland has been made into a stirringly realistic
film by Ealing Studios.
In “Riding High” (State), a screwball musical
set in a colored Middle West, it isn’t' Dotty
Lamour who keeps the film hitting the top
spots but a top-notch comedienne, Cass Daley,
who sings an uproarious parody on Western
songs and does a cleverly arranged bit' of
clowning with a band wrecking itself through
sheer enthusiasm.
A painful attempt to “build up” a flapper
idol is evident in-“ Higher and Higher” (May-
fair) with the dragging in of Frank Sinatra.
A rather gaunt fellow with no particular per-
sonality, he opens his mouth every few hun-
dred feet of film to emit noises not unlike those
of a dying gander.
“Feng-Shui”: I saw Walt Disney’s
“Victory Through Air Power” at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum and thought it ex-
tremely bad. Disney’s line is as common-
place as his color, and he is so obsessed
with the film technique, of which he is
an undoubted master, that he can’t leave
anything to the imagination, even the
simplest situation. His theme in the pres-
ent case calls for the needle of a Goya
rather than the pen of a cartoonist.
Seversky’s monologue pictures the de-
velopment of aviation much more vividly
than the animated drawings which, like
Disney’s interpretations of Beethovens
music, come as slapstick interruptions.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIO r 3!
w
■ ' ' :S||
3
i vm
mf:
»
M W
3&SS
msm
m
i*
si
; s« : . :•:: •. : \ ;
s 3 33*
\v j •
ii
*
■
■•.X3 \:
3
33 'V
w*
■
kJ
Ivl
s'v/
"33-1 Ct
/
Oi
>"4
/
sBra3SBSE3®^
an
m
rf
V'j
'Jil
;■
r'.
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
, Victory Slogan, * •«
. kEEP FIT” is V fey day .
are brings mon tbs, *•
T ° Ke6P « blTort-ld against disease germs-
system must ota „ge !««*•
H --r: unpaiatabie «sh * -
*** d ' S hefamiiyW-
keep Y oU and
„ . combination of
_ & Hanburys Habbut-U equa , , n vitam.n
A nful of Ha\»borange with
One teaspoonfui o Cod Live r on,
to one teaspoon 5/6 and B/^
POte " CY onsfu' of fresh ° ranBe '
two teaspoonstui
per bottle-
/
./V'
//■
V':
.
/ M
* y
m
Ay o
1
yy' •><** y y>
v .-y x
/
<xi>r .^v
%/ /
.y- y> y
.-0 /
m
/y
m
/y
y.
/
/
•>y-
ri^f;
c>
/J
FAMOUS LOW PR' CES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
■
m*.
k
The nicest way of taking
Halibut-Liver Oil
A combination of
Allenburys Halibut-Liver Oil
with additional Vitamin O and
AJlenburys Orange Juke.
»♦* frawH»-p'OmoN*|
A. *nd aniirachit*
ViUanin 0. mltb »h« 4ljt'*cv*vy
Vitamin C.
Da* teaspoonfut *f HafihofQfif*
is eouiroleitf »V vtfomn'n frofrncy
tv vo9 hnispovnfat cf Cod-Liver
Oil with two tea spoonful* *7
fresh Oranst Jottr.
f«r ih»rttarn o>» W
b*cfc tA fcot»k.


INSURRECTION AT KARRAPOON
By HAROLD THIRKELL.
HEN a man
is thoroughly
VV di s gruntled
with life, his
resentment is apt to focus itself on one
object. Mr. James, the new teacher at
Karrapoon, centred his on the boy Snaith.
Mr. James was not pleased with his
transfer from an assistant-maste,rship in
a big city school to this little weather-
board place with twenty-five farmers’
children. It did not gild the pill that, in
spite of his comparative youth, he was
in full charge here. He suspected that
the transfer had been engineered out of
jealousy and dislike. More than once he
had overheard himself called “that clever
little swine.”
Nor did it lessen his displeasure to dis-
cover that running this little place was not
as easy as he had confidently expected.
His complete ignorance of bush ways
kept tripping him up. His new rules
were resented because they cut across
country customs. His misconceptions on
rural matters amused his pupils until
he taught them the unwisdom of laughing
at him. Most of all it galled him that
this lad Snaith persisted in trying to help
him with explanations. He felt patronised.
By the end of three weeks his temper
was ragged and he was anxious to make
himself unpleasant.
It was Snaith, of course, who at this
juncture broached the subject of the
school’s traditional leap-year holiday. He
explained politely that the 29th February
had always been a school holiday at
Karrapoon, celebrated with sports and a
picnic.
Mr. James procrastinated for twenty-
four hours before flatly announcing:
“There will be no holiday on the 29th.
I am not satisfied with your work and
conduct. You will all attend school on
that day.”
The reactions surprised him but did
not shake his determination. Snaith, of
course, lingered after school to plead—
no, remonstrate with quietly repeated
“But, sirs.” The parents tackled him,
one or two individually and then the
P. and C. Association in a body. There
were heated words (echoes of that “clever
little swine” gibe rang in his ears), but he
remained adamant.
“The children here need to leam dis-
cipline. I have given an order and ex-
pect my authority to be supported.”
TWO days later he found chalked on
the blackboard; —-
“THERE WILL BE NO SCHOOL ON THE
29TH.”
He kept the whole school in without
inviting the perpetrator to confess.
The next morning the words were back
again and he decided viciously to fit the
punishment to the crime. “On the 29th
you will not only come to school but
you will all do an extra hour’s work.”
On the third morning—the 28th —the
words reappeared. He faced the class
and asked “Leslie Snaith, did you write
that?”
The boy’s “Yes, sir,” was unhesitating.
There was venom in the arm that
thrashed him.
Leslie’s first “no school” boast had
been made with great confidence that,
under his leadership, the kids would stay
away while parents turned a blind eye.
By the 28th he realised ruefully that his
following was more afraid of the teacher
than loyal to himself. Most of them would
sullenly attend school on the morrow.
As for the grown-ups, if their caustic
comments and the row between Mr.
James and the P. and C. meant anything,
they would at least wink at truancy even
if they did not order it.
His father disillusioned him. To his
tentative “I s’pose we needn’t go to
school on picnic day?” had come the
ponderous answer: “That wouldn’t do,
Leslie. Whatever we may think of his
ideas, Mr. James is in charge of our
school and his orders must be obeyed.
That’s discipline. You wouldn’t like to
be a leader in disobedience, would you?”
It was Leslie’s first experience of sac-
rificing justice to principle.
Rebelliously he put into action the first
plan that came into his head.
RY nine o’clock on the 29th he was in
” ambush in a clump of granite boul-
ders on the scarp of the ridge under
which the little school was built. The
building stood side-on to the hill and its
gate and door were both in his view.
Like many bush schools, Karrapoon
served a district and not a village. It
stood centrally but solitary by the road-
side, the nearest farm (where Mr. James
boarded) half a mile away.
At night and in the holidays it was
locked and lonely. During term it woke
to life from nine to half-past three; then
slept again.
Leslie could watch the dusty road
winding along the hillside to the bend
round which Mr. James would shortly
stride into view. The broad valley below
was already shimmering in the heat; a
great pattern of dun stubble, red-brown
fallow and occasional patches of lucerne
still greenish despite midsummer. There
was little sign of human activity, only
the dust cloud and muted clatter of a
tractor working fallow a mile away.
The school stood twenty yards off the
road, a narrow, dusty track, worn by the
children’s traffic, running to its gate
through the intervening tangle of spiky
dead star thistles.
Across this track Leslie had set up a
barrier of pepper boughs cut from the
trees in the school pony paddock. A
notice hung on the barrier.
The fence round the school grounds
was a substantial affair of five-foot posts
and barbed wire, erected in exasperation
by a working bee of the P. and C. be-
cause the ponies kept breaking out and
leaving the children stranded.
That fence was a bit of luck. It made
the gate Mr. James’s only means of
entry. The gate was thoroughly wired
up—three Queensland hitches of No, 8
wire would puzzle a better bushman than
the teacher.
So far Leslie had planned clearly ; but,
if the gate failed to baffle the master,
what? He had with him his pea rifle, a
repeating Winchester, his dearest posses-
sion, Twenty-eight yards from the hide-
out to the gate, thirty-two to the school
door; at that range he could hit or miss
as he chose. He had a vague plan to
frighten his opponent away.
He settled in his cleft between two
boulders with leafy pepper boughs laid
overhead for shade. He had brought
water and food. He was prepared to
stay all day.
K/f R. JAMES tramped to school that
IVI morning in the bad temper of a
man who has stubbornly insisted on hav-
ing his own way but wishes someone had
foiled him.
He could see by the group waiting on
the road that most of his pupils had
obeyed him ; more than he had expected.
Chatter stopped as he came up. A swift
survey showed that Snaith was absent.
He ignored their “Good morning, sir,”
and asked impatiently “What are you
waiting here for? Why don’t you go in?”
A chorus answered him. “The track’s
blocked, sir, and there’s a notice.”
“Rubbish!” he snapped, and strode on
with a rabble of small figures in his wake.
The square of white cardboard—lid of
a box —was lettered in red crayon:
“NO SCHOOL TODAY.’ KEEP AWAY.
DANGEROUS.”
He flung it into the thistles and swept
aside the pepper branches with hand and
foot. “Come on!” he ordered.
It was not until the gate resisted his
impatient thrust that he noticed the wire
twitches.
“What’s this silly business?” he de-
manded. He pushed and rattled the
gate, fiddled feebly at the wires with his
soft fingers and with bits of stick which
broke. The sun was very hot; he was
sweating and his mouth dry.
To his “Anyone got any tools?” a
small boy reluctantly admitted “There’s
a spanner on me bike.”
The spanner was useless in his hands,
though a bushman might have made it
serve.
He stood nonplussed, looking at the
gate and along the fence. Scale it, at
the risk of torn pants, with all his school
following him? What a fool he would
look if anyone were watching! At that
moment he felt instinctively that he was
watched, and he knew by whom. Leslie
Snaith had issued his challenge.
The mid-morning heat was fierce. He
ordered the children to the shade of a
tree down the road while one lad, on a
bicycle, went to the nearest farm for
tools. Himself, he remained stubbornly
in the sun.
He watched the boy returning, leisurely
pushing his bicycle, beside the lean figure
of the farmer, Tom Giles. Why couldn’t
they hurry, damn them!
When they reached the children under
the tree, he heard shrill giggles at some
remark, “Locked the teacher out of
school, have y’?” The whole group
trailed toward him.
“Struck a spot of trouble, Mr. James?”
the farmer greeted. The teacher did not
return the man’s grin. Giles had a pair
of pliers and a file and he led the way
to the gate.
“A neat, solid job,” remarked Giles.
“Who done it?”
Mr. James bit off the words “I don’t
know” and said flatly “Leslie Snaith.”
“It might be,” admitted Giles; “he’s
handy with tools.”
It took time to cut the wires and free
the gate.
“Thanks,” Mr. James said curtly, and
to the children “Come into school.”
“Wait a minute,” interrupted Giles.
“Look ’ere, Mr. James, it’s just on mid-
day and flamin’ ’ot. You’ve ’ad your
way and spoiled the kids’ ’oliday. Now
some of ’em ’ave ’ad a bit of a come-
back at you. ’Ow about calling it quits
and letting ’em go ’ome?”
Temper flared up. “Don’t be a fool!”
snapped Mr. James.
Giles eyed him with disfavor.
“If that’s ’ow you feel,” he declared,
“you ain’t in a fit ’umor to take school.
We told you you were on the wrong tack
in this business, but we let you ’ave your
way, and even backed you up. Now it’s
time we ’ad a say. I’m sending the kids
’ome. You can like it or lump it.”
j ESLIE could have whooped at the
1—- success of his plans.
He saw the schoolmaster left alone,
while up and down the road the other
players melted away. He might have
followed, but a sense that the play was
not yet finished held him. This was a
personal feud. It needed a personal
showdown.
Impulse governed his next act. Mr.
James moved presently to the school ver-
andah, set down the case containing his
books and lunch and fumbled in his
pocket for the door key. It was a stubborn
door, always a two-handed job to open.
As it yielded, the boy, with complete
confidence in his own markmanship, put
a pea-rifle bullet through the centre of
the attache case.
The shot, the thud of the bullet, the
teacher’s startled leap through the door
(as though he had been shot) were simul-
taneous and actively funny. Leslie
laughed aloud.
He saw a cautious
arm reach out for
the case, and glee-
fully put another
bullet in the woodwork over the door.
The door slammed shut.
MR. JAMES retreated hastily from
the shut door. Bullets could pierce
it. He was shaken and completely at a
loss. In the city there would be a tele-
phone, passers-by, police to summon to
his aid. Here he felt deserted and help-
less. The window showed him a heat-
bathed countryside as lonely as a desert;
there were only slender chances of any-
one passing along the road to hear his
calls or see his signals.
He knew the identity of his antagonist
but could not gauge the boy’s irrespon-
sibility. He might be mad ; panic might
make him shoot to kill.
Cautiously the master surveyed the
rocky hillside through a window corner
and fixed the boy’s position by the gr.een
boughs of his shelter. Mr. James made
a round of the windows. That damned
substantial fence girdled him like the wire
round a prisoners’ compound.
The feasibility of clambering out of the
back window under cover of the build-
ing, negotiating the fence and stealing
away out of range calmed him. He
ceased prowling from window to window
and sat down to think.
He wanted more than an ignominious
escape. He must outwit this little devil,
lay hands on him and thrash him. But
how? Supposing he secured help, wonid
not the fools (like that man Giles) treat
the whole thing as a joke? He sat glower-
ing at his puzzle.
An idea came to him at last—fruit
perhaps of some adventure story read
long ago or some Wild West film seen
and forgotten.
He surveyed his field of operations
through the window. Below the boy’s
hideout was a stretch of open ground
covered with dry grass and thistles ; then,
by good luck, another large boulder. He
proposed to get himself behind it unseen.
He climbed out of the back window
and found it easier than he had expected
to negotiate the fence
He dropped to hands and knees in the
dust —feeling a fool —and wormed his
way painfully through the prickly dead
thistles up the slope behind the school
until he could rest behind a patch of
rocks. He was sweaty, filthy with dust
and acutely uncomfortable with thistle
thorns, but filled with a sort of elation.
Action was ousting indignation.
His plan was practicable. The boy’s
attention was on the door; tumbled
granite rocks were plentiful. He belly-
crawled from cover to cover, pleased
with his ability at stalking. It took him
an hour to reach his goal.
A few moments to recover his wind
and he began to collect dry grass, scrap-
ing it together with his fingers until he
had a sizable sheaf. Very carefully in-
deed he thrust the bundle round the
corner of his rock and pushed it firmly
among the stalks of a dead thistle clump.
He fumbled back in his pocket for
matches. It was his intention to burn the
little fool out.
He had never seen grass fired at mid-
summer. The explosive blaze startled him
to his feet; startled him so that he did
not see Leslie leap up, grab the branches
of his shelter and come hurtling down
the slope. A branch was thrust into his
hand and, “Beat, you fool,” he heard
himself ordered, “or you’ll have the whole
district afire.”
Bewildered by the fury he had loosed,
Mr. James obeyed.
ONLY that the air was utterly still,
they would have had no chance. They
beat and stamped and panted. Leslie
alone realised the narrow margin by
which they won. He stood shaking and
drooping from the strain and tension of
fifteen furious minutes. The school-
master lay back exhausted against the
rock; he was grimed, panting, speech-
less. He had released forces which had
beaten him.
Leslie looked at him and brought his
bottle of water.
“You’d better have a drink,” he said
and watched the man gulp greedily.
“You might have burned thousands
of acres,” the boy went on. “Haven’t
you any sense at all?”
He collected his rifle and bag of food.
“Better go back to the school,” he
advised the still silent man, “and rest and
clean yourself up. I’m going.”
He turned away, paused and came back.
“Look,” he offered, magnanimous in
his appreciation of the respective gravity
of their crimes, “I won’t say anything
about the fire if you keep quiet .about
the shooting.
“You won’t be here long, anyway,” he
concluded with complete certainty.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Japanese Dead.
Execution summary ~ . Odor of decay on the hill.
By death-watched track in the cane ..,
Useless, hopeless, black,
Done for,
Dissolving,
They ignobly lie.
Hard bullets had it best—
The earth is doing the rest:
A thousand leagues from home*
Not a dust to remain.
Sudden!
Crack troops these were
(The proud insignia there clear showing)
And equipped for a dashing blow;
Well fed, new landed, boot studs scarcely worn
Imperial conquerors:
Then this.
Nothing of good appears.
Now perhaps photographers come
And white barbarians’ eyes profane the sight
° f s° ns of heaven made lower than the earth
—Odd consummation for oblivion!
The victors all unseen pass silent by.
Does some departed force of these go on“>
trom these do fervid souls attain some heaven?
Or censor-place refine them where they go
ln( * ea crue hy. insane aggres-
Well, let their gods and them reflect on that
And such-and-such or so-and-so be theirs.
They were no abject, passing, casual things;
Were flesh-and-blood, it’s true, and spirit,
certain :
Beyond their knowing
Dared much,
Protested, questioned little,
Strode lands and seas,
Held man himself at naught.
These lost.
But gods and devils witnessed when they fought'.
A.I.F.
SITREP.
Sunday Morning.
The eager thorn breaks into virginal leaf,
The young lambs in the pasture butt and gambol,
Pale lights adorn the dog-rose and the bramble,
The whole village street is spiced with roasting
beef.
Here come, out of the church, the somnolent
bodies
Carefully bearing the souls all freshly laundered,
And there’s the man that his long half-hour has
maundered,
Trying to tell the rustical folk what God is.
The week comes sniggering on with irrelevant
toilings;
The shining surfaces shrink, buckle and wilt;
The parson’s iron lies cold, buttered eggs are
spilt—
Never mind, the stuff stands up to many assoil-
ings.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3354.
Wednesday, May 24, 1944.
WHO PUT AUSTRALIA ON THE MAP?
“His bitterest political opponents will have to admit that Mr. Curtin has done a good job for Australia at the Empire conference. He has put Australia on the map."
From London to the Sydney "Sun."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
UP FOR JUDGMENT.
Mr. Ward did something last week which
no previous Labor Minister could have
done since the first Labor Administration
arrived —chastised the press on the score
of its “sudden decision to reverse support
of the Government,” He was referring
to the Sydney daily papers. Though a
startling reminder of the political change
that has come over three of these jour-
nals, and enough to agitate the shades
of a generation of editors and leader-
writers, the chastisement was unjust.
In spite of all that has happened in
the last few tumultuous weeks, Mr.
Curtin and Mr. Chifley are still heroes to
these organs. So is Mr. Beasley, his
Donnybrook act at Philadelphia notwith-
standing. The other member of the Big
Four is out of favor, having, for one
thing, defended Commonwealth Peace
officers who invaded the University to
“investigate” a story that the undergrads’
protest march against the seizure of news-
paper issues was a newspaper stunt;
but, the censorship wrangle having
been settled by mutual consent, it
will not be for long. And to Mr.
Forde, so difficult to praise, there has
been extended the quality of mercy which
droppeth like the gentle rain from heaven,
while for an intimate domestic reason
there has been a special issue of com-
pliments to Senator Keane.
And in the field of State politics, ex-
cept possibly in the case of the “Daily
Mirror,” there has been no withdrawal
of support from the McKell Government.
Alone among Labor leaders, past and
present, Mr. McKell has been praised as
Premier for negative virtues and per-
formances —for being inactive, inert,
torpid, affably null. The “Daily Telegraph,”
from which Mr. McKell borrowed a pub-
licity man, and in which he has had
many articles, testifies that he has “made
no bad breaks.” The “Morning Herald”
certifies that he has “best served the State
and the nation by going along quietly.”
And the “Sun” affectionately recalls that
before he and Mr. Lang parted company
he sparred four rounds at the Stadium
“glistening in magenta trunks.”
Mr. McKell has put away the magenta
trunks, but his bent for sparring remains.
When an awkward problem of govern-
ment arises and cannot be ignored alto-
gether he throws himself in the correct
attitude —and spars. During his term
the people of his province and city
have been plagued with food, clothing and
housing shortages, black-markets, booze,
gambling, rent, taxi and union rackets
and anarchy in war industries, the
wickedest strikes in the world. Though
possessed of power to deal with most of
these inflictions and make the way of the
transgressor hard, he has never come to
grips with any of them. It has been his
invariable practice to withdraw to a safe
place and spar.
When bidding for the Premiership, Mr.
McKell made an indignant survey of the
Sydney milk business, saying that dairy-
farmers and consumers alike were at the
mercy of “two large distributing com-
panies which % exercise virtually monopo-
listic powers.”
Milk is vital for expectant and nursing
mothers and for children. With its availa-
bility at a cheap price is bound up the
whole health of the people and the coming
generations. Under the existing control ,
there is a great unexplained gap between the
return to the producer and the prices
charged to the consumer. This gap must
be closed We are determined to change
entirely the present iniquitous situation.
All that his Government did was to
appoint a new Milk Board with a union
organiser (one of “Balance Sheet” Thorn-
ton’s men) as consumers’ representative,
and all that the board did was to hold
another inquiry. Last week the dairy-
farmers serving Sydney and Newcastle,
rejecting a proffered Commonwealth sub-
sidy of 2yd. a gallon (a characteristic
election stunt, montrously unjust to tax-
payers in other parts, the “situation”
having been brought about by State poli-
ticians and their board), threatened to do
what N.S.W. coalminers and slaughter-
men have done so many times —strike. The
strike was averted by Mr. McKell sparring
up the difference between the subsidies
offered and demanded, a penny a gallon.
Another McKell pre-election promise
Was to abolish the unemployed-relief tax.
His way of “honoring” this promise was
to scourge taxpayers in the middle and
upper groups by tacking the unemployed-
relief tax on to income tax. As it hap-
pened, this political chicanery served his
Government well and Australia ill when
uniform income taxation —to which Mr.
McKell had objected until the State
A.L.P. organisation made him eat humble
pie—arrived. Adopting a foolishly gener-
ous distribution, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment gave Mr. McKell £ 15,000,000-
odd a year out of the proceeds, at the
same time relieving him of responsibility
for unemployed, child-endowment and
widows’-pension payments. It also be-
came so vast a patron of his Railway
Department that N.S.W. Government rail-
ways receipts, £54,754,600 in 1939-40,
shot up to £72,333,900 in 1942-43.
High on Mr. McKell’s list of pledges
was “full co-operation in the war effort.”
With 63 per cent, of his consolidated
revenue fund and a great part of his
immense railway receipts found by the
Commonwealth, he is in a position to
make a substantial contribution to the
cost of the war effort. Last year, though
he spent lavishly in many directions, and
met losses on the State coalmine, £lO,OOO,
and on the State charcoal enterprise,
£130,571 altogether (expenditure increased
from £60,319,000 in 1940-41 to
£71,189,500 in 1942-43), he was hard put
to it to keep his surplus down to
£1,144,300, and at the end of the year
the Railway Department, a sink for tax-
money before the war, had, thanks chiefly
to the Commonwealth, an accumu-
lated reserve amounting to £6,200,000.
The legality of this item the Auditor-
General has questioned, it being laid
down, he points out, that “the amount at
credit of this reserve account shall be
available only ( a ) to meet any losses in-
curred in any year by the Commissioner
and ( b ) for reduction of rates and fares.”
Has Mr. McKell offered to place the
£6,200,000 at the disposal of the Common-
wealth Government, so hard pressed for
war funds, or to give it and the public
a corresponding (or at least a very sub-
stantial) reduction in rates and fares?
Not he! He tried to smite land men
(many now suffering from drought
trouble) with a special tax, and if the
thing had gone through the other Cham-
ber it would have taken a heap of money
from war funds.
Child welfare is one of the McKell
Government’s pet subjects. Of its per-
formance in this field, with which
Mr. C. Evatt, the Minister of Education,
is peculiarly identified, Professor Tasman
Lovell, chairman of the Child Welfare
Advisory Council, said in a speech at the
University that the failure to “rehabilitate
anti-social boys” and girls had been
“dismal,” and that “the methods em-
ployed” were “increasing rather than
decreasing delinquency”—there is, in
fact, a serious outbreak of juvenile
crime. One of the “methods” is
to buy up mansions for bad boys—
this when it is on official record that
there is a shortage of 45,000 houses,
and when many decent families are living
in one room. And the Government has
made all sorts of promises to fighting
men, serving and returned. Yet it is a
disgraceful fact that a railwayman had
to sue the Commissioner for a war pen-
sion deducted from his pay—he was
awarded £lB 14s. 9d., plus costs. Accord-
ing to the secretary of the Diggers’
League, there is “a number of cases of
the kind,” and the League’s honorary
solicitor has standing instructions to sue,
deduction of war pensions from railway-
men’s pay being not only mean and de-
testable but “contrary to the Repatriation
Act and National Security regulations.”
During their period of office the 15
Ministers have qualified for life passes
over the Government railways, tramways
and bus routes of Australia and New
Zealand. In this matter alone they are
to be envied by the people for whom
Labor’s heart is alleged to bleed, and
who often find it hard to get standing
room on Government vehicles and im-
possible to hire taxis—by prohibition of
the sale of platform tickets they are now
to be denied the privilege of seeing
children and old and ailing relatives off
by train. It is an increasingly bad time
for families on small incomes, particu-
larly mothers struggling with the prob-
lems of securing food, fuel, clothing and
shelter for their children. It is a gala
time for hard-faced men on the make.
Exploiters of the craze for gambling have
flourished as never before. The sale of
Government lottery tickets has been ac-
celerated, especially when war loans are
on the market. And the Government,
while neglecting the things that matter to
those who matter, has set up a racing
club which looks to it for finance, hav-
ing no resources of its own.
This ignoble war - time improvisa-
tion, without parallel elsewhere, makes
nonsense and humbug of the pre-
tence that the party in office is
powerless to cope with the abuses
and evils that abound, they being “Fed-
eral matters.” It has enormous powers
and, with 56 Labor Assemblymen hang-
ing round, should exercise enormous in-
fluence. Its coalmining powers are such
that when the Japanese were in Rabaul,
Kavieng, Lae, Singapore and Timor, and
were bombing Moresby and Darwin and
sinking H.M.A.S. Perth, it was engaged
in pulling nearly 10 per cent, of the
miners out of the pits because they had
reached 60—the craziest example of
paternalism in history. The Homebush
slaughtermen, whose record of larrikin
strikes and stoppages is as evil as that of
the coalminers, are its employees. There
is a great body of State industrial laws,
with a Bench of Judges to administer
them. The taxis that cater for drunks
of both sexes and mixed colors are under
N.S.W. Government “control,” The
making and enforcing of the licensing and
criminal laws are not “Federal” but State
“matters.”
For iarrikinism in industry and for
ruffianism and rascality in other fields
force is the only remedy. By this
N.S.W. Government it has never been
applied. Industrial larrikins know they
have nothing to fear from this Govern-
ment and perform accordingly. Criminal
racketeers know that, if caught, which
seldom happens, their punishment will be
of the mildest description, so they laugh
at the unaltered laws.
And yet this Labor party expects to
be returned with another overwhelming
majority. It is counting on the press
being favorable, its opponents divided
(there are three Opposition groups, two
of which are railing at one another) and
the electors apathetic where not habitu-
ated to voting the ticket. In other days,
when people had more time for and
greater interest in State elections, a party
with such a record and recommendation
(“going along quietly”!) could not hope
to get back. As things are, this crowd
may command the “success which it
doesn’t deserve, but so many people have
so many causes for being fed up with
Labor and with government by bushels
of regulations and swarms of Jacks-in-
office that Mr. McKell’s present compla-
cency may suffer a shock.
Bombing.
In 1868 the, American poet Longfellow
spent a night at the Cassino monastery.
He wrote afterwards of the “high
window” from which he “beheld the
scene the mountains and the valley.”
The conflict of the Present and the Past,
The ideal and the actual in our life,
As on a field of battle held me fast,
Where this world and the next world were
at strife.
To the men engaged in fighting for Cas-
sino in February the poet’s “actual” was
grim and bitter; the personal matter of
their own death and suffering.
Suggestions have been made in print
that morale was not always at its highest
in the early Cassino operations. If this is
so it is unlikely that it was helped by the
very considerable delay before the de-
cision was taken to obliterate posts the
Germans were known to be using. The
fact is that there were five' weeks of
gruelling fighting before the decision was
reached. Moreover, the bombing and
shelling were preceded by so many
express warnings that there was plenty
of time to remove everything movable
if the Germans had been agreeable.
Prior to that the New York “Times”
man at Cassino met American soldiers
coming down from the front line and
saying almost in unison: “They ought to
wipe that monastery off the hill!”
Their battle weariness was apparent in
every gesture and every word. Their uni-
forms were stained and wet, their faces
and hands were grimy. They had been
without sleep for days. Through snow,
sleet, rain and machine-gun and mortar fire
they had done all that tired men could to
push the Germans from the position that
the enemy had taken in the protective
shadows of the Abbey.
“Stars and Stripes” reported that the
U.S. troops engaged in Italy had read of
objections to the bombing with “humilia-
tion and embarrassment.” It published
soldiers’ letters criticising “17 Protestant
churchmen” in America who signed a
letter of protest. Not one of the soldiers’
letters upheld the protest. On the other
hand, there was a statement by a U.S.
chaplain with the forces in Italy:
If wishful thinkers could have an enemy
bomb come streaking down into their nicely
feathered nests some night, their pacifist
ideals would turn to realities.
The subject is, of course, of far wider
range. A protest made by the Bishop of
Chichester in the House of Lords was on
phases of the bombing offensive against
Germany. He pointed out that “when we
entered the war there was no doubt in the
Government’s mind that the distinction
between military and non-military objec-
tives was a real one.” Today
The whole of Hamburg is a ruin
In Berlin, it is said, 74,000 persons have
been killed and 3,000,000 are homeless.
The policy is obliteration, openly acknow-
ledged, and not a justifiable act of war.
Defending the policy, and declaring
flatly that it would be continued, Lord
Cranborne said, among other things;
War, which is a horrible thing, cannot
be carried out without suffering even to
'= those not immediately responsible for
causing the conflict. It is calculated that
the bombing of Hamburg cost Germany in
three months 400,000,000 man-hours and an
immense reduction of her capacity to manu-
facture materials of war. This could have
been achieved in no other way. It may
well be that these great German war indus-
tries can only be paralysed by bringing the
whole life of the cities in which they are
situated to a standstill. This we may have
to face. I do face it, and it is to me a full
justification for the present bombing cam-
paign. We shall continue it against' proper
and suitable targets in increasing power.
An R.A.F. spokesman claimed that
“half of Germany’s principal cities” had
been “very heavily damaged by Allied
bombs,” and that 17 of them had “be-
come a liability to the German war
machine” ; that was in October, 1943.
In January the London “Times” air cor-
respondent wrote that Germany’s front-
line air strength was mainly stationed in
north-western Europe “to meet the threat
of the night and day attacks by the Allied
air forces based on Britain.” There were
“only a small number of single-engine
fighters on the Russian front and in
Italy.”
In other words, the enemy obviously
attaches greater importance to warding off
our bombers’ blows and saving his war in-
dustries than he does to giving his armies
in the field adequate air support.
In addition, the “Times” man stated that
some 900,000 men, representing approxi-
mately 70 per cent, of Germany’s anti-
aircraft and searchlight crews, were im-
mobilised on home soil for defensive pur-
poses, together with over 70 per cent,
of the enemy’s heavy flak guns.
In April the Scripps-Howard Washing-
ton staff reported that “German airplane
production has fallen from an estimated
1300 a month to about 300, or perhaps
fewer” as a result of bombing. Ordinary
caution about such reports makes this
seem doubtful, but if it were half-true
it would leave nothing to be said on the
military value of bombing, the purpose
of which is both to win and shorten the
war. The real extent to which this aim
has been helped cannot be known until
the war has been won, but it is certain
that those who are directing the job of
beating Germany are not continuing this
form of warfare merely because Hitler
started it. They continue it because it
“has undoubtedly done much to reduce
German armament production and to
multiply Hitler’s domestic problems;
without it neither the past victories nor
final victory are thinkable.”
It has been unanswerably pointed out
that Hitler’s Germany not only wanted
war, but wanted total war. Few
but Germans, who exulted openly
when this kind of war was going their
way, have regarded it as anything but
detestable. But what is the alternative?
Implicit in protests is the suggestion
that bombs can be dropped so that they
will destroy military targets only. In
total war what are military targets? The
home-fronter has become an active par-
ticipant in the war effort. How can it
be distinguished that, while the fighting
men must, as ever, put their lives to stake,
the war-worker is not as reasonable and
legitimate a “military objective”?
It goes further than that. Where in a
city of a country at war could a heavy
bomb be dropped without causing posi-
tive military damage? Protesters appear
to suggest that there should be degrees
of violence —that if there is only, say,
one war factory in a street and all the
other buildings are dwellings or “monu-
ments” it goes beyond the right degree
to bomb that street.
It seems that what those who protest
really protest against is war itself. In
countries where the majority prefers
fighting for its way of life, this protest
seems a little unseasonable, especially as it
feeds the enemy’s last remaining hope —
that this side will grow tired of fighting
him.
One of the inspirations of the majority
opposing that hope is the greater hope
that wars may henceforth cease. What-
ever may be thought of the real prospects
of that, the inspiration is there. It is
even conceivable that that end may be
achieved as much through war now hav-
ing become total as through all the efforts
of the planning peace-seekers. Fortunate
countries like Australia still have only
a vague idea of what war really is, but
people in Europe are getting to know the
full horror at first hand —something the
Germans did not get to know in 1914-18.
Many “monuments” —and many fine lives,
too —will yet go before it is all over, but
by then millions not bearing arms will
have a far different outlook on war from
anything that the bulk of civilian popu-
lations have had in the past.
The United States has not even been
touched by bombing, but the Senate there
modified a resolution expressing gratitude
to the Wrights by deleting the words
“Their achievement has been of incalcu-
lable value to mankind.” It might be
doubted if this feeling would have arisen
if bombing had been restricted to the kill-
ing of only the flower of the United
Nations’ manhood in the front lines. It
arises because war has now come to the
home front. One of the uplifting hopes is
that the men doing the fighting shall this
time not have made their sacrifices in vain.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Postscript to Calwell.
In the spirit of Mr. Calwell’s “economic
conscripts” speech and his branding of
“advocacy of one Australian army for
service anywhere in the world” as “an
Imperialist view which the Labor party,
with its healthy Australianism, strongly
opposes,” is the opening paragraph of a
State Labor election leaflet “authorised
by W. E. Dickson, M.L.C., Parliament
House, Sydney”: “Labor is naturally the
soldiers’ party, because eight out of every
ten soldiers come out of the homes of
the workers.”
This, from a State party which, with 55
members in the Assembly, 25 in the
Council, 21 in the House of Represen-
tatives and five soon to be six
—in the Senate, and men of military age
among them, cannot claim one soldier
with front-line service in this war (ad-
mittedly a few did their job in the last
war), is too much. Especially as four
front-line soldiers of this war have
come from the attenuated N.S.W.
Assembly Opposition, which has a large
proportion of Old Diggers as well.
To quote a notorious case, Mr. Ward
has boastedi in Parliament that he didn’t
go to the last war. Since 1917 no member
of any of the parties opposed to Labor
could have made such a public vaunt and
kept his seat.
In the lexicon of Labor “the workers”
are all trade-unionists, no others being
so defined. By and large trade-unionists
are as patriotic as other sections, and
many unionists got early into khaki, even
members of unions (more power to their
elbows!) whose Communist officials
were for 18 months conducting a sullen
anti-recruiting and peace-by-backdown
campaign, and no doubt, in some cases,
applying ugly forms of pressure. These
good Australians form a valuable element
in the A.1.F., but it is mathematically im-
possible for them to be in the majority
in any of the fighting forces.
The national register of July, 1939,
records that there were then 778,336 male
members of unions, on Mr. Curtin’s
figures a number considerably smaller
than “the number of men enlisted since
the outbreak of war, more than 870,000.”
And they had not all “come out of the
homes of the workers” either. It is
common knowledge that the great
majority of these 778,336 men and of
those who have joined unions since have
been exempted from military duties to
carry on transport and other services,
make all manner of war machines and
munitions, man clothing and pro-
cessing factories and the like and work
in the Civil Construction Corps. This
wholesale exemption was necessary in
most cases, questionable in some —notably
that of the legion of trade-union officials,
who are not “protected” in America, and
to which there have been curious war-
time additions; but it has certainly
worked out to the political advantage of
Labor parties and Governments, es-
pecially as many Labor-unionists have
been transferred to borderline electorates,
especially in the country.
There has been no “protection” for
farmers and graziers, and no section has
a finer enlistment and service record.
Farmers and graziers have been in every-
thing, and have won all the decorations,
from the V.C. (for example, Anderson,
now a prisoner of the Japs, and those
splendid fellows Edmondson and Middle-
ton, all three from N. S. Wales) to the
M.M. It is due to the Country party to
say that it has not tried to make capital
out of facts so honorable to the land
men from whom it draws its support,
nor whined at the loss of the seats that
enlistments and the shifting of Labor-
unionists to country electorates have cost
it.
If Labor really thought “eight out of
every ten soldiers come out of the homes
of the workers” it would never have
issued men honorably discharged with
fifty-bob suits.
On the Milky Way.
Mr. Forde is gratified. It’s a periodi-
cal and recurring complaint with him, so
nobody need be unduly alarmed. It
broke out this time in a sort of milky
exudation last Thursday night, when Mr.
Forde learned (hat nearly 1| million
people in Sydney and Newcastle would
arise next morning and find a ration of
milk on the doorstep:
I am gratified to learn that reason has
prevailed in regard to the milk dispute, and
that milk will be supplied as usual to the
public as a result of the direction by repre-
sentatives of the dairymen’s organisations
to their members to deliver milk as usual.
“Supplied as usual” and “deliver milk as
usual” are too sweeping. The “as usual”
hasn’t been current in Sydney or New-
castle since milk came under board con-
trol and thereby suffered the fate of every
other commodity similarly afflicted. Mr.
Forde’s Government is to give the dairy-
men a 24d. a gallon subsidy and an in-
quiry; Mr. McKell’s Government is to
give them Id. a gallon subsidy until the
inquiry is complete, a consummation
tipped for next September.
Ever since milk came under board
control there have been inquiries. This
one, apparently, is to be confined to pro-
ducers’ costs. It will undoubtedly cost
plenty, and there will be witnesses and
statements and reports galore to add to
the accumulations of previous years.
And in the end nobody will be a glass
of milk the better for it. Messrs. Forde,
Scully, McKell and the rest of them stick
stubbornly to subsidy and inquiry and
board. The average person would cheer-
fully swap the lot for a pint of milk or
a couple of eggs.
Belated Howl for Reform.
Nowadays when N.S.W. Labor politi-
cians talk “nationalisation” the concerns
they have in mind are banks, insurance
companies, coalmines and Broken Hill
Proprietary. No others are ever men-
tioned. In earlier times “the liquor
traffic” figured high on the list of things
to be “nationalised,” the tied-house sys-
tem, as well as the tribute levied on the
people (part was to be reserved for
“works of culture”), being mentioned with
burning indignation, or what passed for
it; but not in these latter years. The
party has not only dropped “nationalisa-
tion of the liquor traffic” from its plat-
form and its catalogue of subjects for
sizzling speeches and articles, but has no
objection to publicans as candidates. Far
from it.
One of its publican-members is a Mr.
J. L. Geraghty, M.L.A. for North Syd-
ney. Mr. Geraghty, it seems, has strong
views about the state of the Trade and
the goings-on of fellow-publicans, “many”
of whom, he confided to a Sunday paper,
are “treating the public wickedly.” In-
deed Comrade Geraghty is “100 per cent,
in agreement with the senior police officer
who told the ‘Sun’ that supplies for black-
marketeers would be practically cut off
if all hotelkeepers sold their liquor quotas
legitimately.”
Not only are persons in the Trade divert-
ing to black-marketeers supplies which are
allowed them to serve the public, but
many are serving adulterated liquor and
getting away with it. On the information
of a high police authority, I have learned
that in one district 11 out of 16 hotels
inspected had bulk rum and gin consider-
ably below the legal limit. In one case
rum was 91 degrees underproof, or 9 p.c.
proof spirit—the same strength as beer: the
legal limit is 65 p.c. proof spirit. The gin
showed a 16 p.c. increase of added water,
and Australian whisky had 25 p.c. added
water. In a Sydney suburb four hotels
showed an average of 26 p.c. added water
in their bulk gin and rum.
Publican-member Geraghty could have
mentioned cases in his own electorate in
which it was proved in the Licensing
Court that liquid poison has been sold at
plunder-prices without cancellation of the
license being ordered, but possibly he
felt that there was a limit to what he
could get printed. For watering of grog
and the bottled-beer ramp he suggested
remedies:
Such offences should not be met by fines
but by instant delicensing of the guilty
publican. Supplies could be policed from
the moment they left the breweries or
other sources until they reached the hotel.
From then on those suspected of illegal
selling should be kept under surveillance.
Well, why haven’t even these mild
measures been applied? Why has the
public been left at the mercy of adultera-
tors and “black-marketeers” when there
are jails that yawn for them? Why have
prosecutions been so few and punish-
ments so paltry that it is an abuse of
language to mention them as such? Why,
when the Government supported by
publican-member Geraghty, a Govern-
ment with 15 Ministers and 56 votes
in the 90-member Assembly, has had full
control of licensing legislation and en-
forcement, with the Premier himself for
a long time administering a police force
with a personnel of nearly 4000?
And why has publican - member
Geraghty left it till an election campaign
for an uncertain seat to denounce the
rottenness that offends him to the soul?
Obviously and notoriously it has been
going on for a long time.
More Interference.
So far the Commonwealth Rural Recon-
struction Committee has achieved nothing
more than a general conclusion that not
only must present official interference
with agriculture be continued, it must be
increased.
. In its first report (there are to be others)
the committee suggests that “an all-
Australian agricultural policy is neces-
sary to develop primary industries on
sound lines with the minimum of waste
and frustration,” and that “Australia has
been backward in the study of all
branches of rural economics,” It seri-
ously proposes the setting up of an organ-
isation for making a continuous survey
of rural problems.
It is doubtful if any other nation suffers
official interference with its land indus-
tries, in peace and war, as does Australia.
The country is chock-full of agricultural,
land, forestry, irrigation and commerce
departments, farmers’ relief boards. State
agricultural banks, closer settlement
boards and a multitude of boards and
commissions to control the sale of every-
thing the land produces, from canary
seed to cattle. And the general result is
that land industries are loaded down
with debt, hog-tied with rules and regu-
lations and bogged in a morass of experts.
Also farms are being sold or abandoned,
families are leaving the land and Aus-
tralia’s primary basis of security, its land
wealth, is threatened.
It never seems to occur to any of these
authorities, from the Rural Reconstruc-
tion Committee downwards, that what
our agriculture needs, above all, is a fair
go and a chance to stand by itself. It
can do that, but it never will while the
political attitude is that any or all of its
evils can be cured by the creation of
more authorities.
Incentives.
“An incentive system worked out on
the basis of a quota for each important
war industry. An average expected out-
put per worker, with higher pay for those
who exceed it. Managers well dressed,
trained technical men living in the best
houses, the workers on a far less preten-
tious scale.”
Condensed account of industrial con-
ditions ruling in some capitalist country?
No, in Soviet Russia, according to
reports brought back to the U.S.A.
by Governrfient officials returned from
war missions. And “where an aver-
age worker might receive 600 roubles
a month, workers exceeding the normal
set might receive 1000 roubles a month,
together with special honors and the
rating of ‘Stakhanov worker,’ a title de-
rived from the Soviet worker who had
much to do with instituting the incentive
system.”
Stakhanov is a coalminer. He and
the incentive system are never mentioned
by Communists on the N.S.W. coalfields.
BEFORE THE BATTLE, MOTHER.
“‘Tiger’ McKell, gentlemen! Trained to the minute, and ready to put a head on anyone his weight. Reggie
Weaver, Mick Bruxner and ‘Winalot’ White preferred. Strikers, racketeers and black-marketeers barred.”


THAT
$
Th E *
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, ©.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
msmmmmmmsm
Hr
B
-
I
■
m
m
m .
■
1
POLITICAL POINTS
The Empire Prime Ministers have
finished their palavers. They were
doubtless very interesting, but judgment
on the decisions arrived at must be sus-
pended until it is known what they are.
Before separating, all hands subscribed to
a resounding declaration, obviously pre-
pared by Churchill. It was issued to
Australian newspapers by Forde, with a
Fordean assurance in his Singapore-cam-
paign vein: “If anything further were
needed to convince our enemies of theii
ultimate defeat this declaration will do
it.”
“I now extend the hand of friendship
to this most commanding, competent and
wholehearted leader of the Australian
people” Churchill’s final gesture to
Curtin. Very pretty. Before the recipient
of the compliment returns to Canberra he
should visit the soldiers in forward areas,
as Churchill, Smuts and Fraser have done.
Fraser has seen his Maorilanders in Libya
and the Pacific zone, and has announced
his intention of dropping in on those
in Italy. The men in New Guinea have
yet to get a call from their P.M.
Six days after the advertised closing
date it was announced that the First Vic-
tory Loan of £150,000,000 would be fully
subscribed, though individual subscribers
might be 310,000 short of the 750,000
asked for. On the same day it came over
the cables that Canada’s Sixth Victory
Loan of $1,200,000,000 (£343,000,000
Australian) had been oversubscribed by
$200,000,000 (£57,000,000 Australian).
While the late war loan was on the
market 17 N.S.W. Government lotteries
were drawn. Selling of tickets (1,700,000
at ss. 3d.) and other operations occupied
a large staff, all withdrawn from the war
effort and qualifying for State Govern-
ment pensions, and agents’ commission
would take the total outlay to £470,000
or so. And that’s “full co-operation in
the war effort.”
The 15 N.S.W. Labor Ministers who,
in “S. M. Herald’s” admiring phrase,
“best served the State and the nation by
going along quietly” are, it seems (same
paper), “now eligible for gold passes
entitling them to a lifetime of free travel
on Australian railways, trams and buses.”
Sieyes, when asked what he did during
the Terror, said “I lived.” These Labor
worthies, if asked what they did during
the second World War, can beat the Abbe
—they have qualified for “a lifetime of
free travel on railways, trams and buses.”
Speaking for Clyne, the N.S.W. Labor
Speaker, in the King electorate (Clyne
has a Lang Labor opponent, Dr. Foley),
Ward demanded “radical changes”: the
“nationalisation of financial institutions,
including banks and all forms of insur-
ance.” Hands up, all you A.M.P. and
M.L.C. fellows who would like your
societies and the banks that hold your
balances to be “nationalised” by Eddie!
(Forest of hands remains down.)
Bespeaking support for the McKells,
Ward blurted out that “Labor must seek
control of the State Governments that
remain,” because “the people are not yet
ready to give the Commonwealth the
powers it seeks.” This when (he prepara-
tion, printing and posting of referendum
pamphlets to nearly 4\ million electors
are already well advanced. It’s crool
hard on Dr. Evatt, who on other scores
is being scolded by papers that con-
spired to praise him. At that he is
not faring as badly as his brother the
State politician, whose administration of
the Child Welfare Department is rarely
mentioned withoilt jeers and sneers.
Apparently the only sure way of getting
house-room in N. S. Wales is to disguise
yourself as a delinquent boy and seek out
Evatt, the Child-welfare Minister
(“Uncle Clive”), weeping profusely. Then
you can count on being accommodated
in a mansion.
At the end of April Queensland Gov-
ernment had a cash balance of
£5,438,407. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment provided it and the Commonwealth
Government needs it, but the Common-
wealth Government won’t take it, though
the Commonwealth Government could.
It takes up to 18s. 6d. in the £ from pri-
vate taxpayers and has imposed an addi-
tional 25 p.c. in the name of pay-as-you-
earn.
A Fair Rents Court has been operating
successfully for years in Melbourne.
Senator Keane isn’t satisfied with it, and
wants a nation-wide concern composed
of Federal and State Rent Controllers.
If he gets his desire the first case his new
department ought to inquire into is the
50 p.c. gross return on outlay charged as
rent by his own Government for muni-
tions workers’ flimsy sleepouts. Eight
p.c. is the private houseowner’s permitted
limit.
Premier Dunstan has been informed
that good progress is being made in build-
ing new homes for settlers burnt out in
the last lot of bushfires, and that, “view-
ing the position broadly,” excellent work
has been done considering the abnormal
circumstances and the difficult conditions.
“Viewing the position broadly” is a habit
with city-dwelling politicians. Photos in
the papers tell a different story. One
shows a farmer’s wife cooking in the
open, the family being accommodated
in a tent. A pile of tiles in the left-hand
corner is the only indication of the good
progress being made in building.
Kipling’s Dopper, after the Boer War:
Here, where the senseless 'bullet fell and the
barren shrapnel burst,
I will plant a tree, I will dig a well against the
heat and the thirst.
In Canberra, the capital of Federated
Australia, it is a case of “You can’t do
that there here.” Nobody but a unionist,
paid award wages with all the trimmings,
may now dig a hole to plant a tree. For
“free” citizens tree-hole digging is banned.
It’s a forecast of Australian life under
Labor-union rule, and everybody in N. S.
Wales in favor of it can signify in the
usual manner with a vote for Labor on
Saturday.
The Communists have captured the
A.L.P. Don’t be startled, Mr. McKell —
it isn’t your A.L.P., but the American
Labor party. By confession of Dean
Alfange, who ran for Governor of New
York in 1942, “the captured A.L.P. is
now the Communist Labor party.” In
N. S. Wales the Corns, have been secur-
ing control of union after union, and
they expect to take possession of Mc-
Kell’s A.L.P. next month. Lang, who
hates them, says they will.
“Japan loses Face. A complete and
bloodless victory for the U.S.S.R.” That
is how the latest lot of Russo-Jap agree-
ments was summed up in Australia, even
in an anti-Communist paper, and the
Russia-Is-Always-Right gentry expanded
the theme. The Chungking interpreta-
tion was that the agreements set the laps
free to launch an all-out attack on Free
China, and events have proved that
Chungking had the right idea.
In consideration of the surrender of
“Japanese oil and coal concessions in
northern Sakhalin,” agreed to “simul-
taneously with the signing of the Neutral-
ity Pact on April 13, 1941,” the U.S.S.R.
Government undertook
to pay to the Government of Japan the
sum of 5,000,000 roubles, and to deliver
each year to the Government of Japan
50,000 metric tons of oil produced in
northern Sakhalin, on ordinary commercial
terms, for a period of five consecutive years
after the cessation of the present war.
The documents were signed for Russia by
Solomon Lozovsky (in English, Solly
Lewis), known in former years for the
copious instructions he gave to the ser-
vile brotherhood in Australia. The bit
about the 5,000,000 roubles wasn’t cabled
to this country.
The censorship wrangle has been
settled. Silently, invisibly, the Govern-
ment’s tail went down, as always when
it comes up against organised trouble.
It “accepted the assurance of the press
proprietors that in taking action to test
the validity of the regulations they acted
bona fide” and gave them its own assur-
ance that “There is not, nor was there
ever, any intention that censorship should
be used in any way for political pur-
poses.” Then a new code was born, with
no coalminers to laugh it out of existence.
Provisions of the new censorship code:
Censorship shall be imposed exclusively
for reasons of defence security.... shall not
be imposed merely for the maintenance
of morale or the prevention of despondency
or alarm [and] shall not prevent the re-
porting of industrial disputes or stoppages.
Criticism and comment, however strongly
expressed, shall be free. The Censor’s
directions shall be given solely in relation
to the requirements of defence security.
In the case of a prosecution, the onus of
proof will be on the prosecutor except in
the case of immediate and obvious danger
to defence security. A breach of censorship
directions shall be dealt with by prosecution
and not by seizure. In any court proceed-
ings following the seizure, the onus of
justifying the seizure will rest on those re-
sponsible for authorising it.
Now both parties can return to their
muttons, if Government slaughtermen’s
disputes or stoppages have left any about.
According to the Corns,, who are
running five candidates for N.S.W.
Assembly seats, the “Queensland electors
of Bowen recognised” the value of Com-
munists when “they elected Fred Pater-
son.” Paterson has been speaking in Syd-
ney for the Com. ticket. He hasn’t
blazoned the fact that he got in on a
minority vote —Paterson 3434, Riordan
(Lab.) 2988, Hancock (C.P.) 1310. Noth-
ing like that can happen next Saturday.
Reactions to the appearance of dis-
charged Diggers in fifty-bob suits have
been so hostile, especially in N.S.W.
country electorates, that there is to be an
issue of seventy-bob suits. The Sydney
and Canberra Labor Governments are
making great mouthfuls of what they’ll
do for the Digger, but, though the Sydney
Government seeks his vote on Saturday,
it hasn’t mentioned the slop suits.
“Mr. Tully, the Minister of Lands, has
been driving about the Temora electorate
in a Ministerial car, accompanied by his
son, the Labor candidate.” So said
Bruxner last week, and no reply ap-
peared in the paper that published the
charge. In March Tully was accused by
Drummond, M.L.A., of having toured
his electorate, Armidale, “in a car, pre-
sumably paid for by the State, in which
he brought the Labor candidate.” On
that occasion Tully replied to the member
without denying that particular allega-
tion. It is not to promote political dead-
headism that men bring tankers across
perilous seas.
Sydney’s Lud Mayor Bartley is out for
the Woollahra Assembly seat as an Inde-
pendent. He has no doubt been tempted
by the political success of mayors in other
cities—Coles was Melbourne’s chief
magistrate before he became M.H.R. for
Henty; Soundy (Hobart) is an Assem-
bly fixture; and Chandler (Brisbane)
scored the greatest individual Assembly
vote (7916) and majority (5302) in
Queensland last month. He is sure to
poll well; whether he’ll beat Treatt is
another matter.
Congressman Miller to General Mac-
Arthur:
There is a tremendous ground swell in
this country against the New Deal. They
have crucified themselves on the cross of
too many unnecessary rules and regulations.
You should permit the people in this
country to draft you. When drafted you
should accept the nomination by saying
“I accept the nomination as a candidate
for Commander-in-Chief of all our armed
forces.” You should indicate that you will
remain Commander-in-Chief in the Pacific
unless and until you are elected Pxxsident. ,
I am convinced that you will carry every
State in the Union, and this includes the
solid South. The people of the country
vote their emotions'
There was a lot more, but that was suffi-
cient.
A Gallup Poll in April showed that
more than half of an Australia-wide
cross-section favored one Parliament for
Australia. Anderson, the sausage man,
who led a One Parliament for Australia
party which lost most of its deposits at
the Federal election, doesn’t believe it.
Individual subscribers to the previous two
Australian war loans numbered 1,000,000;
to two of Canada’s, upwards of 5,000,000.
The difference in population, about
4,300,000, doesn’t nearly account for the
difference in sentiment and attitude.
Canadians, no doubt, are exposed to mob-
orators, and even politicians, who have
made a point of sneering at patriotism
and bellowing that robber capitalists have
all the money and that it is Canada’s
destiny to become a Soviet Republic,
perhaps with a Governor from Moscow,
like the “autonomous republic” Wendell
Willkie found in the wastes of Siberia;
but they don’t seem to pay much atten-
tion to them,
N.S.W. election survey:
Meetings, for the most part, have been poorly
attended and canvassers report a great silence
among electors. Laborites consider this a
favorable augury for them. Perhaps; perhaps
not.
Depopulation, chiefly by enlistments,, or areas
in which the Country party is normally strong,
and the mushroom growth of war factories in
country towns, where Labor always starts off
with a substantial railway vote, have hit the
C.P. hard. Young land men who would have
made good candidates are otherwise engaged
and far away. Still the Bruxner group hopes
to regain a few seats, especially Liverpool
Plains, to send the Labor members packing in
Hawkesbury and Orange and to win Gloucester.
Abie Landa is laboring in Bondi and Bob
Greig in Drummoyne. Other electorates which
the Weavers may weave from the Government
are North Sydney, Coogee, Randwick, Dul-
wich Hill and Concord ; but in some of these
districts, normally anti-Labor, there has been
a great inrush of newcomers, largely union-
ists. The Lib. Dems. may make their best
showing in Rockdale.
Lang Labor’s strength is unknown, but the
deadly Communist threat to the other A.LP.
organisation will be a help, and the raw deal
L.L. got from A.B.C. will be no hindrance.
The Big Fellow himself is a certainty, and he has
never yet returned from an election without
followers.


TOJO LIKES YOU TO WASTE MATERIALS
Careless use of your Exide Batteries helps the enemy. It wastes vital materials needed by
our Armed Forces who depend upon Exide for over 100 services. Take no chances with
your house-lighting equipment and car and radio batteries. Immediately you suspect the
need for repair, replacement or recharging, consult your Exide dealer. Remember extra
care of your Exide means months of extra service.
f
HOUSE-LIGHTING
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
m
&
\ ■\;v'Da\Vv^ e ‘ xX
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lempriere Abbott, S.A.’s new Attorney-
General on the elections defeat of Jef-
fries, was born at Wagga (N.S.W.) and
lived as a boy in California, but since
the age of 17 has been in Adelaide. He
is chairman of the State Traffic Commis-
sion and a member of the Uni. Council
and of the Australian Law Council.
M.L.A. for about 11 years, he is, strange
to say, the first K.C. to be Attorney-
General this century, Kingston having
been the last of them to hold the office.
Good at most games, Abbott has done
much for S.A. lacrosse, both as player
and as president of the association.
Jenkins, who becomes Playford’s Min-
ister of Agriculture, is a practical grazier
and farmer. He held the same office, and
was “Public Works,” under Barwell 20
years back, and later had the Crown
Lands office under Butler,
Just one of those little personal stories
of the war that make fiction look silly;
The sisters of Pilot-Officer Charles Edward
Suffren, of Ballarat (Vic.), were officially advised
early this month that he was missing after an
air operation over Europe. Soon afterwards, a
Danish press service put out a story of a
wounded Australian airman, about to be
operated upon by two Danish doctors in the
presence of a German doctor, being arrested
by Germans and taken away before the opera-
tion was ended. The report said the airman
died. Now comes a Stockholm message that
the airman didn’t die, that his name is Suffen
or Suffren, that he is in a German military
hospital at Horsens, Jutland, and that the
Horsens newspaper publishes a picture of him
in bed, bright and apparently well looked
after. Stockholm authorities (whoever they are)
are reported to be sending photographs to Aus-
tralia to allay anxiety.
Some of the very best reporting on
the present war was written by the
“S. M. Herald” correspondent Roderick
Macdonald, the second outstanding
S.M.H.” man to be killed in Italy. As
game as they’re made, Macdonald ac-
companied the glider troops into Sicily,
wrote a striking story of that fighting
and had been getting better and better
with every dispatch since. With an Eng-
lish correspondent, Cyril Bewley, Mac-
donald was going forward near Cassino
when both correspondents were killed by
a mine. It was within a couple of days of
Macdonald’s 32nd birthday. The only
son of Mosman’s former Presbyterian
minister, D. P. Macdonald, M.L.A. since
1941, young Macdonald (“Ken” to the
family and to his Mosman chums) was
born in Argyllshire, but had been in Aus-
tralia from infant days; educated at
Scots and Sydney Uni., and then roam-
ing the world as a journalist. He put his
war adventures in China and elsewhere
into a book, Dawn Like Thunder.
When Italy caved in the handing over
of its air force was put through for the
Allied side by a Maorilander, Group-
Captain H. D. McGregor, D. 5.0., R.A.F.,
a Napier airman, who, at 33, has now be-
come Air Commodore. He was beating
about the air before this war started,
having joined the R.A.F. 15 years ago,
and was the youngest holder of the rank
of squadron-leader when sent to Pales-
tine in 1938. There he bagged his D.S.O.
strafing rebel Arabs. He took a hand in
both the Battle of Dunkirk and the
Battle of Britain, commanding the station
where N.Z. Spitfires and Typhoon fighters
were based. Later he joined Tedder in
the Mediterranean scrapping.
A. Head, first-aid man at the West
Melbourne gasworks, wanted to assist in-
fantile paralysis patients at the Austin
Hospital, and tried to make a device that
would enable them to overcome their
disabilities in various occupations. He
lacked the technical equipment, so went
to a fitter, Lindsay Boyd, of Pascoe Vale,
and after two years of trial and error
Boyd has evolved a whole series of
gadgets which will also aid limbless sol-
diers, and may become the world-wide
standard.. One of Boyd’s inventions, for
limbless book-readers, is a strap buckled
round the head from which a light steel
arm equipped with a rubber finger pro-
jects. By moving the head the user can
turn over the pages of a book or news-
paper. Food can be picked up by an-
other device of hinged spoons and knives
working in conjunction with the steel arm,
and another enables draughts, cards and
chess to be played. Umbrella ribs,
bicycle spokes and the ordinary waste of
a factory provided Boyd with all the
material he needed.
“His vast experience of war surgery,
sound judgment and surgical wisdom
have been an inspiration” is part of the
citation which accompanied the C.B.E.
awarded to Colonel William Allan Hailes,
of Melbourne. The citation went on to
say that Col. Hailes was responsible for
the high standard of surgical work
throughout the A.A.M.C. Born at
Moonee Ponds in 1891, Colonel Hailes
was educated at Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University. His sterling work
for the A.I.F. in the last war earned him
the D.S.O.
Four Australians were among the 47
Allied airmen shot dead when, according
to the German report released in London
last week, 76 “attempted a mass escape
from a prison camp on March 22.”
Squadron-Leader James Catanach, D.F.C.,
after education at Geelong Grammar,
joined his father in
Catanach’s, one of the
best known of Mel-
bourne jewellery
firms. He enlisted in
1940, at 18 ; got his
wings in Canada and
was a squadron-leader
in England before his
21st birthday. Squad-
ron-Leader J. E. A.
Williams, D.F.C.,
went from Mosman,
Sydney, to join the
R.A.F. in 1937. He
was brought down be-
hind the German lines
by machine-gun fire
in 1942. He was 24.
A 20-year-old brother,
Lieut. David Wil-
liams, is in the A.1.F.,
and an 18-year-old
brother, Barry Wil-
liams, is in the Navy.
Flight - Lieutenant R.
V. Kierath came of
one of the best-known
families in western
N.S.W. His father
founded Kierath and
Nelson at Narromine
over 50 years ago.
Warrant Officer A. H.
Hake, born in Sydney
in 1916, was a
draughtsman when he
enlisted in the
R.A.A.F. in 1941. Two New Zealanders,
Flight-Lieutenant A. G. Christensen and
Flying-Officer P. R. J. Pohe, were also
among those killed.
Henry Peter Zwar, M.L.A., president
of Victorian Football Association in
place of the late J. J. Liston, is a mem-
ber of over 100 sports organisations and
president of 40. The list includes every
known Australian sport except two-up.
In his youth Zwar was a cricketer, sharp-
shooter and footballer ; he was one of
the ruck stalwarts in the Ovens and
Murray League at Beechworth. A good
idea of the sort of chap he is can be
had from the fact that he holds the R.S.L.
Australian Certificate of Merit, Aus-
tralian Gold Medal of Merit and the
Victorian Certificate of Merit, Limbless
Soldiers’ Badge. M.L.A. for Heidelberg
since 1932, he has missed only one Par-
liamentary sitting in the 12 years.
The Queensland Presbyterian Assembly
has “recorded its approbation” of the ser-
vices of Dr. J. Lockhart Gibson, who,
on the eve of his 84th birthday, has re-
tired from the chairmanship of Em-
manuel Presbyterian College after 33
years’ service as a board member and 21
years in the chair. He served on the Uni-
versity Senate from its foundation. The
doctor, a leading opthalmologist, was one
of the many young Australians who, in
the ’eighties, rejected greater opportunities
abroad to return to their own country.
Son of a ’Wales Bank manager in
Ipswich, young Gibson went to Edin-
burgh, took a brilliant M. 8., C.M. exami-
nation at 21—first-class honors —won his
M.D. with a gold medal at 25, and was
sent for special study to Berlin and
Vienna. He became senior demonstrator
and senior assistant to the professor of
physiology at Edinburgh and president
of the Royal Medical Society of Edin-
burgh, and gained the coveted M.R.C.S.
He returned to Brisbane, then a quiet
little colonial town of about 100,000
people, and has been a power there in
medicine and education ever since. He
served with the First A.I.F. during its
Anzac period, and for many years his
help was a free gift to any old A.I.F.
man who needed it.
The Bulletin has special reason to
say “Hear, hear” to the appointment of
Captain J. A. Collins, C. 8., as commo-
dore, first class, in command of H.M.
Australian squadron, succeeding Rear-
Admiral Crutchley. Well before the war
started this paper long advocated the
appointment of Australians to captain’s
rank in the Navy, and a look into files
will show it was the only paper to do so.
The advocacy has been thoroughly justi-
fied by the ships of the Australian
squadron, and now the squadron itself,
(Modelled by Frith.)
COMMODORE COLLINS.
at present under Australians. One of the
first graduates of the Australian Naval
College, which he entered at 13, Commo-
dore Collins was with the Grand Fleet
in the 1914-18 war. Soon after that he
qualified as a gunnery expert, which was
to prove its value when, by great shoot-
ing, his ship, the Sydney, sank the Italian
cruiser Bartolomeo Colleoni in the Medi-
terranean in 1940. Latterly he has been
commanding officer of the Shropshire, J.
Bull’s gift ship to Australia, in actions
against the Japs at Arawe, Cape
Gloucester and the Admiralties. A native
of Deloraine (Tas.), he’s 45.
Rev. Daniel A. Brown became Queens-
land Presbyterian Moderator just before
celebrating his silver wedding. A Vic-
torian, he went north as a home mis-
sionary in 1913, and was ordained in
1925. Secretary of Missions since 1936,
he has been in practically every corner
of Queensland. Moderator for next year
is Rev. R. S. R. Innes, 8.A., a Queens-
land Uni. lecturer, who has already been
Moderator in W.A.
New Presbyterian Moderator for
N.S.W. Rev. H. J. Hillman was a brilliant
student in his St. Andrew’s College days
at Sydney University—Mitchell Prizeman
and highest in Australia (with first-class
honors) in the exit exam. A native of
North Sydney, he has been for the past
10 years minister at Albury; a great
friend of present-day Diggers thereabouts,
and so good a preacher that he’s been
broadcast over the national stations.
A Commonwealth Literary Grant goes
to “Bill Bowyang” Reid, who runs a
page called “On the Track” in “N.Q.
Register” and is probably better known
in North Queensland than anybody else.
“Bowyang” is an old Bulletin contri-
butor who keeps alive the humor and
lore of the old days up north —his page
first published Lex McLennan, the bal-
ladist —and the grant is to enable him to
write a history of the Great Barrier Reef.
“Bowyang” served with the Australian
Camel Corps in 1914-18 and put the story
of the Corps between covers as The Fight-
ing Cameliers.
“Hamer”: One-time Bulletin verse-
writer Bernard Ingleby, who lately passed
on, started out as a trainee of weather-
man Clement Wragge, and spent four
months snowed in in the first hut Wragge
put up as the crude beginning of the Mt.
Stromlo Observatory. But Ingleby did
many things and was highly successful
by spasms. Once he started a magazine
on a capital of 12s. 6d. (drawn from The
Bulletin) and (mainly) MS. for which
The Bulletin had not had space. He
called it “White Australia,” and it actually
ran (with the help of a confiding printer)
for three issues. Ingleby was doing well
in advertising when a quarrel with a head
caused him to drop it all. “Gone into the
country chasing butterflies” ran the wire
announcing the break.
“Pequena”: Horace Graham, who
paid top price for a filly at the Adelaide
yearling sales (B. 17/5/’44), began selling
papers when he was ten. In 1916, when
headlines featured the drowning of
Kitchener in the Hampshire, Graham
shouted so loudly and so often —then a
City Council offence —that he had to
quit his job to escape fines. Joining a
circus, he figured in buck jumping and
clowning for a couple of years, then
took a job as farmhouse boy, bathing
children, scrubbing floors and getting
meals ; wages 7s. 6d. per week. Later he
resumed paper-selling in Adelaide. With
his first horse, Silver Dash, purchased
six years ago, Graham won several races
and some good bets.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 85, Digby F. Denham, Premier
of Queensland from ,1907 to 1915. A Somer-
set man, he came to Queensland via South
Australia and with his brother launched one
of the biggest produce agencies in the State.
At 75, schoolmaster Bob (Robert John)
Prentice, a man who could claim that there was
a whole battalion of Diggers in whom he had
a personal interest; he’d taught so many of
them. Prentice went to the only State school
Bondi (Sydney) had at the time, and subse-
quently, as sportsmaster, passed on his enthusi-
asm for pretty well all sports to a multitude of
youngsters in one of Sydney’s keenest sporting
districts. Alan Kippax was one product of his
cricket coaching.
In Adelaide, at 78, A. A. L. (“Moss”)
Rowley, who came into a lot of money as a
young man, and for the rest of his life worked
hard for the Blind Institution, Freemasonry,
Prince Alfred College, Deceased Soldiers’
Children, etc. Also, possessor of a fine tenor
voice, he was chairman of the Orpheus Society;
succeeded Alfred Roberts as president of S.A.
Tennis Association; and claimed to have played
in Australia’s first inter-State lacrosse match,
S.A. v. Victoria, in 1886.
In Melbourne, Andrew Ramsay, for over
46 years with Moran and Cato and one of the
big men in Victorian Masonry. He was a past
master and secretary of two lodges as well as
a past principal of the Victorian Naval and
Military Royal Arch Chapter. Grand Lodge
conferred honors on him on a couple of
occasions. Also, he was a Presbyterian elder
and an ardent worker in youth movements.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 56, R. H. Melville,
of “N.Z. Herald,” president of the N.Z.
Journalists’ Association and lecturer in journal-
ism at Auckland Uni., where he graduated in
1912. He was badly wounded at the Gallipoli
Landing.
At 50, in a ’plane crash in Spain, Mel-
bourne-born British Minister to Madrid Arthur
Yencken. Twice wounded and winner of a
Military Cross in the last war, he was in the
British Diplomatic Service from 1920, includ-
ing terms at Washington, Berlin and Rome.
In Sydney, A. G. M. Pitt, K.C., chairman
of directors of the old pastoral agency con-
cern Pitt, Son and Badgery, which originated
in G. M. Pitt, who over a century ago took
up the Moree. properties which later became
known as Boolooroo and Coorah stations.
A.G.M. was a B.A. and LL.B. at Sydney Uni-
versity. A barrister since 1905, he latterly
gave practically all his time to the many com-
panies in which he had an interest.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“K.”; Such actors as I have met have
mostly been quiet, competent men who
dressed no more conspicuously than does
a stockbroker or a schoolteacher. I was,
therefore, sceptical about the actor de-
picted in The Bulletin many times
equipped with walking-stock, fur-collared
overcoat and Homburg, and given to
striking attitudes in pubs. But it seems
the breed survives. When Ivor Novello
came to a London court to appeal against
a jail sentence for conspiring with a
Novello-struck girl clerk to get a week-
end car-driving permit, he had on a fawn
“teddy-bear” coat, posed for a photo-
graph and then minced his way through
the throng waiting to see him. When the
Court announced he’d have to do a month
in chokey “he rumpled his oiled hair,
swayed, muttered a few words and, as he
was led away, whispered ‘Good-jaye! ’ ”
In a stage whisper, of course. And no
doubt the gallery-girl mesmeriser, when
he got into his cell, slid his right hand
between the buttons of his “teddy-bear”
coat and boomed in sepulchral tones to
the warder; “That was pos-it-ively my
last appear-rance for thirty days, laddie ;
but tell me —don’t you think I went over
well?”
* * * *
“Avon”: The ground crews of the fly-
ing forces also serve. Here’s the simple
story of a job done by three young
Maorilanders, Corporal Yates, L.A.C.
Ohms and A.C.I Hendrikson, at Empress
Augusta Bay. The Japanese heavily
strafed the bomber field there, and the
N.Z.A.F. ’planes were taken up with
great precipitancy —all save one, a dam-
aged Ventura, undergoing repairs. The
big ’plane was a fair mark for Japanese
artillery on the surrounding hills, and in
the course of three days hundreds of
shells were directed at it. Fifteen
fell within 50 yards; 150 within 200
yards, and shrapnel flying from some of
these tore holes in fuselage and tail
plane. The repair team worked through
it all, and completed their job. That took
guts.
* * * *
“W. Sykes”: I wish youse Bully
blokes’d do somethin’ about these soljers
wot’s disturbin’ a man’s rest these
days. They reckins they can’t get a bed
anywheres and the cops let ’em sleep in
the cells, and they snore somethin’ ter-
rible. It’s an insult to a man’s profeshun,
that’s wot it is. If I catch malairia or
scrub tyfoyds or wotever it is I’ll get the
Burgyulars’ Union to institoot proceedin’s
aginst the Guvmint. It’s pretty tuff when
a man carn’t ’ave a few weeks away from
the missus on ’is own. And them soljers
are alwus broke and ain’t worth friskin’
anyways. If this keeps up I will be re-
luktantly compelled to give up my pro-
feshun and start sellin’ black-market
likker —Man-power or no Man-power. A
man only cops a fine fer that, anyways.
“T.McN.”: Every time I hear ancient
politicians—and by ancient I mean those
who’ve been in the game too long as well
as the long of tooth —I’m convinced that
Nature overlooked an important thing
when she provided that, though a man’s
arteries harden and all his other mobile
parts slow down with age, there’s never
any diminution of his jawbones’ acti-
vity. That probably accounts for many
of humanity’s troubles.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: I am interested in Tokyo
Radio’s announcement that Mr. Ba Maw,
puppet Premier of Burma, has arrived in
Nippon with the authentic ashes of the
Buddha, which he is presenting to Japan
“for safe keeping and as a token of amity
between the two nations.” I have seen
a tooth of the Buddha in Ceylon and his
footprint, impressed on a piece of rock,
in Java, and Chinese bonzes have shown
me other relics of the Enlightened One
in monasteries, from Hankow to Ningpo.
I am ready to believe anything about a
man whose birth near Kapilavastu in
Nepal about 560 b.c. was accompanied by
many signs and wonders, but I doubt the
“Of COURSE I was with the boss! Who d'you think rounded them up ?”
authenticity of the ashes, because, accord-
ing to tradition, when Buddha die|i at the
age of 80 under the trees of the grove of
Kusinagara and was laid upon the funeral
pyre, the pile ignited of itself and the
difficulty of separating his ashes from the
heap of cinders must have defied even
the devout enthusiasm of his disciples.
Though a mass of mumbo-jumbo has
cluttered up the Buddha legend, it is
reasonably certain that there was such a
person and that he had a definite doc-
trine. If it were understood and prac-
tised by Mr. Baw and his co-believers
their behavior would be very different
from what it is. But Buddha hasn’t got
that on his own.
* * ♦ *
“Ex-Englishman”: Didn’t know that
“backside” is still considered a word for
censoring (B. 26/4/’44). In Victorian
days it certainly was Impossible, in print
or in the presence of ladies. I still recall
the pathetic story told by a father of his
agitation when, reading Mark Twain
aloud to his family, he suddenly came on
the description of an ignorant man “as
unlettered as the back-side of a tomb-
stone.” I wish he were alive today to
hear some of the expressions his grand-
daughters use!
* * * #
“Pitt St.”: Was idling about the Syd-
ney waterfront when I overheard three
fellows in a political discussion. One,
obviously a Commo., was asserting that
all men were comrades. He turned, and
his eyes lighted on a Lascar quarter-
master drifting by. With an “I’ll show
you,” he strode up to the Lascar, held
him by the lapel with one hand, patted
his shoulder with the other and said
“Good on you, pal. WeTe brothers, ain’t
we? No difference, eh, comrade?” The
startled Dravidian hastily stepped back,
fastidiously removed the other’s hand
from his person, muttered something that
sounded like an imprecation in Hindu-
stani and fled. “Brother,” mocked the
doubter, “your name’s mud.” But the
Commo. wasn’t dashed. “Aw,” he said,
“you can’t do anything with these blanky
Fascists.”
* * * *
“Matros”: Ever since The Bulletin
blue-pencilled my “on a freighter” to “in
a freighter” I have been noting the speech
habits of merchant seamen. They say
“I’m on a tugboat” or “I’ve a job
on deck on the hungriest workhouse I
was ever on.” But I will admit that
everyone, grammarian and sailor alike,
says “in a sailing ship.” Those of us who
would never say “in a freighter” would
without question speak of Captain Cook
“in the Endeavour.” But to say “in a
tanker” when that vessel’s inside is filled
with 15,000 tons of octane fuel is just
nonsense,* and no modern seafarer would
be guilty of it.
* * ?! *
“S.T.S.”: A nice mixture of law and
sentiment in S.A. Supreme Court. Squad-
ron-Leader Robert Bungey came home
last year on leave from active service with
high flying honors. But his young wife
died, and he could not stand the shock;
was found dead on the beach, with their
infant son apparently dying, too. His
will thus left all he had to his brother,
Sergeant David Bungey, A.I.F. But the
child lived ; and now David has obtained
the leave of the Court to make oyer for
its benefit the whole sum, over £l5OO.
He received high praise from Judge Angas
Parsons and the lawyers.
* * * *
“Tiki”: A Maoriland soldier from the
wars returning, with a pocketful of pay
in English currency, got a shock when
he took his money to a bank and was told
it couldn’t be accepted without a permit
from the Customs. The Customs heads
explain that what they are nowadays most
concerned with is the possibility of quan-
tities of English currency seized by Ger-
man and Japanese troops being reintro-
duced to the Empire to the profit of the
enemy. Uncle Sam is taking the same
precautions for the same sort of reason.
However, the Enzed soldier got his money
changed.
* * * «
“Three Pips” (in N.G.) remembers
scenes of his youth:
Recollections of my boyhood in the English
Lake District link that great old sportsman Lord
Lonsdale, subject lately of slightly accurate
obituary notices, with Grasmere Sports. At this
annual gathering of dalesmen, held within a mile
of Dove Cottage, where Wordsworth lived and
wrote, the Lonsdale canary-colored limousine
was as conspicuous as the white-waisfcoated,
side-whiskered, cigar-chewing old lord himself.
Each lakeland valley holds a sports day in late
summer, but Grasmere is the best known of all.
It nearly always rains on t’ sports day—
Lake District weather is as damp as the Owen
Stanleys —but the dalesmen like it that way.
Lakeland sports still retain events peculiar to
the district of mist, fells and black-faced sheep.
Three most notable are Cumberland and West-
moreland wrestling, the guides (or fell) race
and the hound trails. T’ fell race is a scramble
to the top of some near-by crag, then a flat-
out race back to the sports field in the valley,
the men leaping like goats down the steep
fellside. Competitors—mostly shepherds and
laborers —reach the finishing line completely ex-
hausted. Prize-money is £lO to £2O. For
punters and bag-swingers t’ dog trails are
the main attraction. A sack soaked in aniseed,
fox dung and other lures is dragged around
the fells for five to 10 miles, a circular route
that will be in view from the valley for the
most part being chosen. The hounds are small,
neat-footed dogs, a streamlined strain of the
local foxhounds. The field takes about 40
minutes to cover the trail, so punters see a real
dog-race, not a 40-seconds affair. Betting con-
tinues while the race is in fhogress and lasts
until the field is close to home. I’ve never
recaptured the thrill I had as a 12-year-old when
the favorite, leading, stopped to drink at a
puddle on the run home and my 6-to-l fancy
romped to the front. 1 had a bob on him be-
cause he was owned by our cook’s father.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: “Harry Peck” (his name is
on the meat tins) shares honors with
“Foo” as the Second A.l.F.’s Mrs. Harris.
Legend is that when the 7th Division
was at Ingleburn in 1940 a soldier,
anxious to explain away the ownership
of his untidy bed, declared “It’s Harry
Peck’s.” The officer of the day was put
off the scent, and the name became popu-
lar. The origin of “Foo” has also been
traced. During the early mass-move-
ments of troops in liners converted to
transport duty, Diggers were puzzled by
freshly-painted signs marked “F. 0.0.”
displayed at vantage points throughout
the ship. They soon found it meant
“For Officers Only.”
* * * *
“Hamer”; What, in these days of food-
rationing, would happen to a trencher-
man like Jack Niven of 30-40 years ago?
Niven was a Sydney “turf commission
agent” who took life easily and had any
amount of time to spare. He always
lunched at two places; sometimes three.
It might be Comino’s, the Cafe Franfais
and Roberts’s, where meals that would
astonish the modern diner could be had
cheap; or he might go to Woodward’s
for oysters, prawns and steak and eggs,
and then drift up to Walker’s in Park-
street for his real lunch. And that was
only lunch, Niven ran a poultry-yard
behind his house in Waverley, then a
spacious suburb, and a fowl a meal was
his boast. He died peacefully in his
sleep long before thin times came.
» * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: I wonder
what has happened to the movement,
started 25 years ago by one Thomas
E. Looney, to place upon the shoul-
ders of Edward de Vere, seventeenth
Earl of Oxford, the mantle of Shak-
speare. Looney’s line of reasoning
was that Oxford is known to have
written plays and poems, had his
own company of players and echoed
Shakspearean ideas and phrases in
his sonnets. Further, being a cour-
tier, he knew the language of Courts,
of which Shakspeare must have been
ignorant. Other points of the argu-
ment are that Oxford, having visited
Italy, could be the only person cap-
able of writing “Julius Caesar” and
“Romeo and Juliet” ; that Juliet was
the same age as Oxford’s sweetheart,
Anne Burghley, and that the most
prolific period of the Bard’s life is
a complete blank in Oxford’s, the assump-
tion being that the peer went into retire-
ment to write the dramas. Aristocrats in
those days despised the theatre, and would
have been ashamed to be connected with
it, so if Oxford wrote the plays the
natural thing for him to do would be to
ascribe the authorship to some plebeian.
That last point is nonsense. In Eliza-
bethan times many of the great lords were
patrons of poets and writers, and not in-
frequently got their proteges to write
lyrics and sonnets which their employers
sent tb fair ladies, claiming themselves to
be the authors.
THE WATCHDOG.
“In his policy speech Lang’s indictment of
the mob in office was comprehensive and contemp-
tuous. In the whirligig of events John Thomas has
become a watchdog.”— B. 17/5/’U.
“ ’Tis sweet to hear the watchdog’s honest bark
Bay deep-mouthed welcome as we draw near
home.”
But far from sweet, it’s needless to remark,
When snarling fangs and jaws that fume and
foam
Denote your former canine trusty pal
Has turned into a hostile animal.
Time was, McKell and Baddeley, when you
were
’Mong those who held his name a synonym
For truth and righteousness and justice. There
Was nothing you could say too good of him.
And now—how strange it is and yet how true!
There’s nothing he can say too bad of you.
How often, Lazzarini, Dunn and Knight,
You greeted him as courtiers hail a king;
Hung on his nod and bellowed “Lang is Right”
In rhapsodies that made the welkin ring.
Yet now the bitter burden of his song
Is that you’re all calamitously wrong.
How little, when contending for his smile
Or cheering him along his devious tracks,
You glimpsed you were preparing all the while
A future rod in pickle for your backs.
One who incontinently turns and rends
For foulest foes his former firmest friends.
Well, none can tell what Fate may have in
store.
How could you know your hero would emerge,
He whom you idolised in days of yore.
To be your flagellator and your scourge?
No more inscrutable the twists and tricks
Of Providence than those of politics.
“Esteem no mortal happy till he dies”
Some wise old Greek —I think Twas Solon —
said.
And I’d suggest it’s equally unwise
To “place” a politician till he’s dead.
For who can tip what next he may achieve
Or keep in contemplation up his sleeve?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE THEORIST.
“Professor Copland, whatever his scholastic qualifi-
cations, has no first-hand knowledge of the milk
industry.” —Aggrieved dairyman.
For academic lore you’re rated second
To none upon thg professorial lists.
As primus inter pares you’d be reckoned
Among political economists.
Vast stacks of everything that’s taught at college
Are doubtless hid behind that massive brow,
But haunting doubts persist about your know-
ledge
In re the lacteal output of a cow.
John Stuart Mill and Adam Smith I’ll bet you’re
Familiar with, and all that ponderous ilk,
But where the blithering blazes did you get your
Acquaintance with the mysteries of milk?
Lac mihi non cestate —you must know it,
Of course, old Virgil’s memorable line,
But he’d the pull of you, the Roman poef,
In some experience concerning kine.
Will mastery of erudition’s mazes
Enable you to estimate the sum
Of skittish Strawberry’s or gentle Daisy’s
Requirements in the way of pabulum?
At Canberra you rule, supreme assessor
Of just what dairymen should get and how
Their craft be run. But tell us straight, Pro-
fessor
Whether you ever tried to milk a cow.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Tocsin”: A spirit of purposeful, effi-
cient activity pervaded the camp ; soldiers
were busily cleaning find polishing items
of equipment ;* fatigues were tidying up
the lines. When all was done the O.C.
carried out an inspection, from which he
returned satisfied that all was fit for the
eyes of the brigadier. At last the gieat
man arrived. The men were inspected,
the lines were inspected, each drawing
favorable comments, while the O.C.
thrilled with pride. On the point of
departure the brigadier snapped “What
about Fire Orders?” and he was proudly
shown instructions which had been very,
very carefully’ 1 drawn up. His glance
wandered to a two-foot chunk of railway
line painted a brilliant red hanging from
the roof of the orderly-room verandah.
“That is the fire gong,” he was told.
“Well,” said the brigadier, “ring it.” The
silence was shattered by the strident
sounds of the fire alarm. Passers-by (who
appeared to resent the peaceful quiet
being broken in such nerve-jarring
manner) exchanged pained glances, .but
nothing else happened until the orderiy-
room clerk marched up to the 0.C.,
saluted and asked “Did you ring for
something, sir?”
*, * *
“Lao-dah”: After his return from Aus-
tralia Lord Knollys painted, for the Royal
Empire Society in London, a picture of
air travel of the future. “On a Friday
evening you will step into a large air-
craft weighing 50 tons and as roomy as
a Pullman and fly comfortably 30,000 ft.
above bad weather at about 240 m.p.h.
Next morning you will be awakened in
your bunk with early-morning tea to find
yourself looking over the shores of the
Eastern Mediterranean. After breakfast
you will be heading for India ; that night
you will cross India to Singapore and
reach Sydney on Monday morning in
time to do a day’s work, or you may
fly on and arrive in Auckland six or
seven hours later.” It will be of no
interest to me, but some people may en-
joy it. I once a§ked a much-travelled
man if he had ever been in Rome. “I
don’t know,” he said. “My wife buys
the tickets.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; It had to come. A
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” correspondent:
Men who do not smoke should not
clutter up smoking compartments on trains.
They shut out women smokers who are
entitled to a few moments’ relaxation and
a puff on their way to. and from work.
It is signed “Miss 1944.”
* 4= *
“S.T.S.”: The word “serial” has had a
come-down since the days of Dickens and
Trolfope, and even Anthony Hope. It now
seems to mean either (1) a domestic
story running for years as a radio feature,
about matters of no particular import-
ance, or (2) a cinema thriller containing
a wild whirl of shocks, quite unexplained,
with an extra one at the end of each in-
stalment. One of the latter seen recently
had some lines that would have been
pie to the gallery gods' of old. One of
the muddled characters made a sugges-
tion, and another objected “But it
doesn’t make sense.” To which came the
answer “Nothing makes sense in this
business. It’s all incredible, impossible.”
What a yell of agreement that would
have got in the days of yore! Not that all
radio serials are rubbish. Australia could
do with some more like Barclay’s “Into
the Light” and “As Ye Sow.”
* * * *
“Caballer”: Details of the Austra-
lian uniform (B. 10/5/’44) have always
been pitfalls to overseas artists. Even
Caton Woodville, who specialised in mili-
tary subjects, committed at least six errors
in the dress of an Aussie sergeant in a
full-page picture of the capture of Mor-
lancourt which appeared in the “Illus-
trated London News.” Stripes on both
arms were one of his minor errors. As
the sergeant was in action and wore the
“battle bowler” there was no brim to
turn up the wrong way. There is an
excuse for switching the turnup from
left to right. Before the Aussie uniform
came into being there were many units
that wore slouch hats, some of which
turned up on the right side. Diggers in
the 1914-18 war always felt that Gurkhas,
C.I.Vs., West African and South African
troops infringed their patent; but the
climax came in 1916 when a London
hostess remarked to some of us “Oh, what
quaint hats —just like Westminster dust-
men!” We swallowed hard as we recol-
lected that the garbage men around
Horseferry-road wore slouch hats and
(because they carried the garbage cans
on their left shoulders) had the left side
turned up.
* * * 4=
“T.P.”: News that Bishop Green, at
87, is celebrating his jubilee reminds me
of the locust-eaten time when “Arthur V.
Ballarat,” as he signs himself, invited
his clergy to meet a friend, Priminister
Watson. Grafton-Armidale territoty had
cemented, that friendship. The clergy
rather dreaded meeting so noted a radi-
cal, and their forebodings were strength-
ened when, amongst the greenery sur-
rounding Bishopcourt, they overheard
their bishop storming at the visitor,
meanwhile pounding a fist into the palm
of his other hand. They stalked warily,
until the episcopal voice thundered
“These thousands of acres of arable land
locked up in this diocese, the western
half of the State! If we could change
positions for six months, my dear Watson,
] would show you” He paused for
breath, giving Chris a chance to chip in
with “Show me how a continent and
a diocese can be smashed in 26 weeks!’
“Do you know,” said our vicar to me
next day, “I was quaite surpraised. Our
dear bishop was the firebrand ; and Mr.
Watson, quaite a man of culchah, gave
us a charming address, quaite moderate.”
*. * * *
“Melbn”: With the approach of the
European invasion, though graves haven’t
given up their dead or spectres gibbered
in the streets or statues poured blood, as
they did before the death of Julius Caesar,
signs and portents have not been lack-
ing in Melbourne. One night rain was
seen by many people to fall from a cloud-
less sky. At the same time a brilliant
rainbow, observed from Warburton to
arch from Little Joe to Mount Donna
Buang, made its appearance. The rain-
bow was blotted out by a huge black
cloud, which a sudden high wind fol-
lowed up and sculpted into the shapes of
“Gentlemen , I can't see a hotel open anywhere in the metropolitan area!”
monstrous creatures. The superstitious
found in the visitation an omen of the
obliteration of Hitler. Other people point
out that rainbows often occur under
cloudless skies when rain is blown there
by a high wind. % The moon was respon-
sible for the rainbow.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A harmless trick which
has grown into a monomania and annoys
the police is that of a man of 32 who
must sing in city streets. He has just
had his 22nd conviction for the same
offence, and, scorning the £lO fine sug-
gested, cheerfully accepted 14 days in jail.
ik * * *
“Pip”: The last twelve months have
seen a determined and successful effort
by the Army to improve meals and mess-
ing conditions. In forward areas bully
and biscuits, “goldfish”, and dehydrated
rations are inevitable, but in most stand-
ing camps food is given glamor. Mess
huts are decorated with jungle ferns and
adorned with nostalgic posters. Tables
are no longer liable to collapse, and the
planing down of forms spares the medi-
cal orderly a lot of tweezer Work. Many
huts boast a blackboard with a chalked
menu, and, though there is no choice,
identification of the food helps to soothe
the qualms of the queasy. The meal is
dished up attractively, use being made
of parsley and lettuce leaves, with tomato
slices to add color. Cooks look clean—
possibly are —and the addition of a
caterer to camps (even to units) has
helped the rationing business consider-
ably. More than just benevolence is
behind it all. It has been realised at
last that the best of food, served hap-
hazardly and eaten in uncomfortable sur-
roundings, is not palatable, and often
wasted. So longer mealtimes, allowing
greater leisure, brighter huts, elimination
of delay in serving dishes, hot meals
served hot and cold meals served cold.
and the encouragement of asking for
more are now the rule. It is a long,
long step from the stew, boiled apple and
stale bread days, and old soldiers are
still looking for the catch.
% * * *
“Pawang”: It is often said that chemi-
cal and medical research has found out
all there is to know about old wives’
remedies. A Dutch doctor I know in
Java used to declare that the native
dukuns and bomors, who undoubtedly
used effective remedies on patients, had no
knowledge hidden from Western science.
Now the Society of American Bacterio-
logists announces the discovery in onions,
cabbages and other vegetables of a
germicidal substance which provides jus-
tification for some of grandmother’s
home-confected doses. Plant juices taken
during the process of fermenting cabbage
into t sauerkraut were found to have a
murderous effect on bacteria. Grandma
may have known her onions better than
was suspected.
* * * *
“Indaba” on an aeronautical develop-
ment :
Chance played a part in putting Wing-Com-
mander Frank Whittle’s jet-propelled ’plane in
the air. Whittle, a young R.A.F. apprentice,
won a cadetship at Cram well. There he con-
ceived the idea of his novel ’plane while
sharing a sitting-room with Cadet R. D. Wil-
liams. He went to Digby in 1930 as a flying
instructor. With more time to spare, he set
about perfecting the engine he had worked out
at Cramwell. The work complete, he took out
a patent, approached industrialists, but failed to
interest them in his invention. He was appointed
experimental test pilot for seaplanes, then went
to Cambridge, where he was associated with
Prof. Sir Melvill Jones. Meanwhile Williams,
who had shared Whittle’s mind at Cramwell and
later served with him at Felixtowe, had been
invalided out of the R.A.F. He joined in
business J. C. B. Tinling, another invalided
R.A.F. man. Williams and Tinling thought a
lot of Whittle’s engine, went to Cambridge,
talked with the inventor, were given a permit
to build a full-power engine, and formed
Power Jets, Ltd. An old foundry in a desolate
part of the Midlands (all very secret) became a
workshop, and in April, 1937, an engine was
ready for ground testing. Expectations were
fulfilled, but large capital would be necessary
it the co. was to carry pn. After many reverses
an investment banker was interviewed. On his
staff was L. L. Whyte, a man with qualifica-
tions in the sciences. Whyte examined the
engine and advised favorably. The Air Ministry
placed its first order in 1939, Power Jets, Ltd.,
to supply the engine and Gloster Aircraft Co.
the machine. Through the links of chance,
Whittle and Williams, Williams and Tinling,
Tinling and Whyte, Whittle’s ’plane was pro-
duced at the right moment, perhaps, to play a
part in the impending Allied invasion. Aus-
tralia has some interest in this wonder ’plane.
Mrs. J. C. B. Tinling is an Australian —she was
Nancy Edols, a Frensham girl and a daughter of
C. H. Edols, of Burrawang station, N.S.W.
* * * *
Jack Brennan on the new Centralia;
Alice Springs is busy these days. On an
average, three trains a day carry supplies, equip-
ment and troops going or coming on leave.
They all move out up The Track from Alice
to the North. All day long a vehicle a minute
passes the Administrator’s corner. And there are
army staging camps, depots, transport com-
panies, workshops, all the necessary ramifica-
tions round the headquarters of the busiest
Lines of Communications area in Australia.
Administrative headquarters of the Allied
Works Council are here, too, with two acres
of office buildings and, down along Todd-
street, staff hostels going up.
The two picture shows do good business, and
so do the cafes and ice-cream joints. But Army
and A.W.C. have their own canteens —the Army
makes and supplies “lolly-water” throughout
the Territory at threepence a bottle and
shortages of stock make things difficult for the
storekeeper in the town. The hotels are still
rationed on the basis of pre-war population.
The Administration is to move back to
Darwin after the war. The Army will go; so
will the A.W.C. Many of the new buildings
—temporary affairs that have cost very little
less to erect than would have similar buildings
of permanent value to the town —will be tom
down. . .
But some things will remain. The Army nas
shown how plentiful is the water supply arounu
Alice. Before the war concern was felt ir
they took more than 80,000 gallons a week
from the town wells; sixteen electric pumps
are now drawing off 247,000 gallons daily with-
out causing any noticeable fall in the level.
You can strike excellent water at between
twenty and sixty feet. It's already being use
to water lawns and gardens; it will be usea
for citrus orchards. There will be a lighting
plant of 1000 kilowatt capacity for Alice alter
the war. * . .
Better communications should bring plenty
of visitors to the Centre. At this time ot the
year the climate at Alice Springs is well-mgn
perfect. The days are warm and dry, tne
nights cold, and the country is looking ns
best. There is plenty to interest the tourist
in the ranges that encircle the town, with their
strange bluff-cut gaps and the changing lights
and colors of their steep walls. 1 here are
huge ghost gums along the dry river beds, and
just outside the town emus and kangaroos and
scrub turkey. Alice will always be quiet and
slow-moving and without bustle. Even now
there is no hurry and the hawks circle slowly
above the town between Anzac Hill and Billy-
goat Hill all day long, and at sunset the galahs
shriek and chatter in the trees.
s|: ’ ♦ * *
“Melbn”: There is a movement afoot
in Melbourne to rename “the world-
famous St. Kilda-road” Churchill-avenue.
If that tree-lined thoroughfare is world-
famous it is throwing away an asset to
rename it.- It would be better to take
some one of the many wind-swept main
roads like the Calder Highway, plant
Australian trees along it and call it
ChurchiiK
* * * ♦
“Bo”: “To ticket as a copper one who
cops” (“Iford,” B. 17 /5 / ’44) has sound
lexicographic warrant. The latest Web-
ster’s International Dictionary says a
copper is “one who cops,” and
is slang for “capture.” Now, wouldn t
any trap —er —policeman fly off the
handle if he heard someone refer to him
as a “capturer” of evildoers? I oftce
saw a rozzer —er —policeman so over-
wrought at hearing a lisping five-year-old
criminally refer to him as a bobby that
the John —er —policeman misfired with a
pint he was upending at the side door
at 6.25 p.m. and got his chest soaked.
*%* * *
“E.S.M.”: “Bacchus” (B. 26/4/’44) is
wrong about the Babinda Hotel (Q.). It
was built by the Queensland Govern-
ment, provided the best accommodation
in the district, was one of the few profit-
able State ventures and was eventually
sold for £40,000. “Bacchus,” apparently
a South Australian, should know of the
beautiful and profitable community hotel
at Renmark, probably the best-equipped
hotel in Australia, the profits of which
have been devoted to local charity and
culture. It has a counterpart at Barmera,
about 25 miles distant, and it is a marvel
that with these two examples before them
the people have failed to call for more.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The most remarkable case of
mistaken identity in Victorian history has
occurred at Shepparton. The body of a
man of 61, a bone broken in the left foot,
a scar on the bridge of the nose and only
four lower teeth, clad in an old brown
shirt and two pairs of trousers, was found
in a deserted hut. At the morgue eight
persons identified it as a man who had
been employed as temporary gravedigger
at Mooroopna cemetery. Then some-
body had the nous, to make some in-
quiries as to the whereabouts of the
gravedigger. He was found digging a
grave for the corpse that had been
saddled with his own identity.
* * * *
“1.A.5.”: For the umpteenth time the
Westralian Government and the Perth
City Council are trying to reach an
agreement on a site for a new town hall.
The present building was erected in 1870.
The history of negotiations for another
site would fill a couple of Bulletin issues,
and many of those who took an active
part in them are ifowi dust, though the
old town hajl remains. The thing is up
for discussion again as a sort of post-
war job. In 1938 the council wanted to
erect a building on the northern section
of the Esplanade ground, but the Gov-
ernment wouldn’t have it.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Admiral Sir Andrew Cun-
ningham, who cleared the Mediterranean
of the enemy fleets, and his brother,
Lieut.-General Sir Alan Cunningham,
who drove the mandolin-players out of
Abyssinia, might' have been born in
Maoriland had their dad realised his am-
bition when a young man at Edinburgh
University. A vacancy at Otago Uni.
for an anatomy prof, was advertised in
English newspapers. Cunningham, senior
(then unmarried), applied for the job, but
stipulated that he be allowed to remain
to finish his final exam, in the event of
his application being successful. Otago
Uni. made another appointment, but Cun-
ningham’s application was later framed
and today adorns the walls of the Otago
institution, for the man who signed it
became a world authority on anatomy.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Taloa HepaTorki”: To master belong
Bulletin, —me boy belong mission. Me
savvy talk along newspaper. Which
way you all a time makem plenty
no-good talk along Eddie Ward. Eddie
he Big Fella Master too much. Time
he stop along New Guinea me hear
him tell altogether boy no be afraid along
Japan man. Eddie he say me makem
line along New Guinea all same me
makem along Brisbane. Now Japan man
go away finish. Eddie tellem boy,
you no work along white man for
three year all same before. You boy
makem one fella union. S’pose you
makem union you start late and finish
early. You tellem master you wantem
plenty too much bullamacow, biskit, rice,
tabac, matches. S’pose master no givem,
you sit down and no work all same coal-
miner along Sydney. Eddie savvy too
much. Bulletin no savvy and all time
cross too much along Eddie. Byemby,
senser man catchem Bulletin and
burnem finish along fire. Then Eddie
laugh strong fella along belly belong him
and makem big kai-kai and dance for
debil-debil who killem Bulletin finish
one time. Me talk true.
h= * * *
“C.E.”: Ben was jogging dreamily
towards town in the old cart when his
mong started a rabbit, and the old fellow
pulled up to watch the chase. Back
down the road they went for about half
a mile, through ferns and tussocks, over
logs and gutters, till dodging through a
culvert the rabbit doubled on his tracks.
A few yards behind, the tonguing dog
stuck to the job, urged on by an empty
stomach. They were almost opposite the
cart when by a masterpiece of strategy
the mong caught bunny by the head. Ben
jumped down. “Let go, Darkie,” he
ordered, taking hold of the rabbit. “Y’
know we’re short o’ meat at home.
Awright, blast y’. I’ll give y’ a bit. Here,”
and slitting the catch with his pocket-
knife he threw out its inner mechanism.
Reaching town, Ben fixed up a lot of
business, using his chequebook overtime.
Mooching back to the cart later he found
Darkie squatting dejectedly in the shade
pondering the trials of a dog’s life and
casting wistful glances at the rabbit strung
on the cart. Slowly Ben counted the few
bob left in his pocket, took a look at his
bankbook and,^bending down, held out
a fist to Darkie. “Shake, old man,” he
said sympathetically. “I know just how
y’ feel.”
**. * *
“Narrin”: Those ants of “Caballer’s”
(B. 26/4/’44) must be the most effete
emmets that ever milked an aphis if they
can be stopped by a mere dab of vaseline.
The steel mooring lines of my old house-
boat on the Murray were regular ant
highways ; not even the dipping of the
slack in the water as the boat swung with
the wind discouraged the little blighters.
And as for baffles of rabbits’ fur, vaseline
and my own mixtures of tar, oil and fly-
spray, they enjoyed climbing over those.
I’ve stopped exercising my ingenuity on
ants ; now I buy a green patent mix-
ture that settles them whenever they in-
vade the house. ,
* * * •' *
“Solitude”: I rode up to the yards to
find Seventyfiver dosing sheep and turn-
ing them back into the paddock as they
were finished. “How many y’ done?” I
inquired. “Dunno, but there they are,”
he answered, pointing to several rows of
potatoes arranged along the rails. “This
here row is the hundreds, this’n ten each,
an’ on the other side there’s singles.
Count ’emi up, will y’? There’s one fell
off the top rail somewhere, an’ a couple
in the yards is from that second row.” I
stalked a spud among the sheep,' cap-
tured another from an old hen, and
began to count. “Three sixty-four,” I
announced. The old bloke looked
puzzled. “Gripes, that all I done?” he
asked. “How many’d y’ put back on this
rail? There should’ve been three more
there. An’ don’t ferget that stone’s a
hundred, an’ them two sticks ten each.
Then I owe two on this row because the
“ Dammit , girl — ain't the bull got ENOUGH i' do?"
spuds run out, an’ y’ gotter allow an extra
for the rotten one 1 chucked away. That
there half counts five, an’ four on here
belongs t’ the second row only it’s full
up.” “Aw, cut it out,” 1 groaned, “What
started you on this arrangement, any-
way?” The old bloke bridled. “Why, I
got t’ make sure of ’em, ain’t I?” he
asked. “An’ y’ know I can’t always re-
member the tally when I just count ’em.”
* =i- * *
“Sur Cingle”: Tell the Council’s Chief
Knowall (B, 26/4/’44) that' I’ve used
sugar, and sometimes damper and bread,
for years as a species of: bribery and cor-
ruption for youngsters worth the trouble
of making into decent hacks. But the
only prad I’ve known voluntarily to
tackle sweet stuff was a bald-faced colt
who learned to drink tea while we were
on a dry stage. However, it seems that
“The 0.D.” is talking about a different
breed of horses from those round here:
I’d like to see him climb into my saddle
on a frosty morning and tell old Boko
that he’s a “domesticated herbivorous
animal.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The circus pitched on the
clearing opposite the School of Arts.
Gradually a scoro of grey, taffy, piebald
and skewbald ponies, not forgetting a
donk., grazed down towards the creek.
The sign outside the pub was temptingly
visible, and the rouseabout was only
human. Just before sundown the pound-
keeper bustled up to the circus proprietor
and pompously announce 4 that 20 horses
and a donkey had been impounded in
consequence of their depredations on the
flower garden outside the Council
Chambers. The ringmaster took the
reasonable view. Regretting the hor-
ticultural tragedy as much as his
inability to bail out the culprits until
the night’s takings were in the bag,
he supposed he’d have to put on
the show without horses, but, realising
that a poundkeeper must do his job,
he presented the official with a ring-
side seat. Contrary to all Big Top
the show opened with a trapeze
act, followed by the wirewalker and the
trick cyclist. But when, to a fanfare of
trumpets, a pair of horses cantered into
the ring for “the greatest equestrian act
ever performed,” an amazed and sus-
picious poundie made a beeline for the
exit. His suspicions were confirmed —the
pound was as empty as a politician’s
promise ; and yet the high post-and-rail
fence was intact, while the gate was still
fastened with the thick chains and mas-
sive padlocks. He raged back to the
circus, arriving just in time to see the
escapologist outdo Houdini by releasing
himself from a pair of leg-irons, two
pairs of cuffs, 20 feet of rope and a tjrace-
chain secured by a pair of massive pad-
locks similar to the ones on the pound
gate.
* * * *
“U. Calyptus”; The tombstone of the
American miner is still at the little Vic.
township of Diggers’ Rest (B. 29 /3 / ’44),
but the township didn’t owe its origin
to it. I have known the place since it
consisted of a railway siding, a pub
(Lock’s “Oval”) and one ancient resi-
dence. Actually the township took its
name from the fact that, as a camping
ground, it was the first “rest” out of
Melbourne for diggers on their way to
the Bendigo fields. Incidentally, near by
is the site of a Plumpton, and it was on
this field that Houdini, in the early part
of this century, cdme very close to a
premature death through trying to per-
suade a contraption to fly with himself
aboard.
* # * *
“Botano”: After five # months of abso-
lute drought a fine mist of rain began to
fall. Immediately the mock-orange
creeper which festoons a near-by fence,
and has somehow managed to grow fairly
well despite the drought, opened its
flowers. Perfume filled the surrounding
air, and though the drizzle continued with
a threat of heavy downpour an army of
bees appeared, obviously in a hurry to get
in the harvest before other influences in-
tervened. Their judgment was good, for
after about an hour the threatened break-
ing of the drought petered out, the sun
shone and the creeper closed its flowers ;
the bees made for home. Since then there
has been a week of brilliant sunshine, but.
not a flower has bloomed on that creeper,'
nor has one bee paid it a visit. That is
just one of Nature’s odd tricks. Rain
causes many flowers to close their petals.
With others rain washes the nectar away
or so dilutes it as to be worthless to the
bee. In some subtle way the mock-orange
creeper is aware of this, so opens its
petals to the rain ; with other competition
eliminated it thus receives the concen-
trated attention of the bees, and so its
flowers are fertilised.
* * * *
“Law Jik”: “The 0.D.” (B. 3/6/’44),
contending that the buck rabbit’s aban-
doning of the does and the young to
their fate when danger threatens “could
be due to warren morals, since free love
rules therein, and any buck may dally
where he chooses,” contrasts the buck’s
conduct with that of the stallion and the
ram, each of which having given warn-
ing places itself between the females and
danger. And since when have the stal-
lion and the ram become monogamous?
“Caballer” on seeing in the dark (B.
3 / 5 / ’44): —-
One is born with night sight but it. can be
improved by practice. As a bey in the country
I used to marvel how city visitors, used to
lighted streets, would wander at right angles
from a path or make straight for a pond when
I could see quite plainly. A useful trick,
learnt in the hard school of Courtney’s Post and
The Pine, is to look over and not direct - at the
object you are trying to make out. Seeing it out
of the corner of your eye will give a much
clearer view than a direct stare will do. At
first I was quite pleased about the way I could
see in the dark. So was my company com-
mander. When for the umpteenth time he sent
for me and announced that he wanted me to
take two men and see “How Doth the Busy
Little Hun Employ the Shining Hour” the
glamor of having sight like a*mopoke waned.
“There is nobody there,;’ he would assure us
airily. We would point out that early in the
evening two large cross-looking men had been
mending wire opposite. “Only the caretaker
and his wife,” the c.c. would assure us.
“Imagine you are going out to gather butter-
cups. I wouldn’t Jet you go if there was any
danger.” Then we would crawl through the
wire while grinning sentries warned us not to
tear or soil our clothes and asked if a hurri-
cane lantern would be any use. -I regard that
period as a university or finishing course in
seeing after dark.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Saturday afternoon ;
the usual bunch in the back bar, talking
stock and crops over a noggin or two
while Mum and the girls bust the last of
their coupons up the street. Another
of the type drifts in and is greeted “ ’Day,
Joe. Didn’t see you in town last
Saturd’y.” “No,” said Joe, “me dog
died.” “Your dog died?” “Yair,” and
Joe took a long pull at his pot; then,
“Bloke looks a fool in town without his
dog.”
* * * *
“Blime”: For ten years Jim claimed his
old “boyproof” as the best watch on
earth. Then one day it lost an hour;
and it went on losing every day. Jim’s
efforts to mend it failing, he began
noting its eccentricities in an effort
to keep pace with the contraption.
The first hour after winding, he reported
after a week of study, jt lost 19| minutes,
the second hour 33 minutes, the third
47| minutes and so on. Entering the
paddock where he was working the other
day I spotted him seated on a log some
distance off, and as he was still there
quarter of an hour later I rode over to
see what was wrong. With a notebook
on one knee he frowned over a couple of
pages of figures. “And with, say, another
20 minutes added for working it out,
that’ll be a third of 47|,” he mumbled as
I approached. “What are you doing?” I
asked. He waved me aside. “Forty-
seven by three —er —working out the
time,” he answered hurriedly. I glanced
at the sun. “Well, if you want to ktiow,
it’s just on 11.” “1 know that,” he
snapped, “but what’s the good of a bloke
havin’ a watch if he don’t use the blanky
thing?”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; A somewhat decrepit
pelican, weary from a long flight up from
Lake Victoria or, somewhere, glissaded
down to our sandspit, lit, stretched,
yawned and settled down for a doze in
the sun. The hut kitten, a rather infan-
tile creature, sighted the apparition and
began to stalk it with all the ignorant
bravado of youth. Kitty circled warily
behind a ridge in the sand, crouched with
tail-end waving as an inquisitive wag-
tail flitted overhead, then arose and
inched forward again. Within six feet of
the big bird it stopped, sniffed the air
curiously, then crouched and gathered
itself for the spring. Whereupon the
pelican opened one bleary eye, turned its
head towards the kitten, opened its great
beak and yawned wearily. Kitty got one
glimpse of the enormous cavern disclosed,
whipped round, streaked for the hut,
shot up the verandah post'and fled to the
ridge-cap. There, with every hair erect,
it watched that pelican until the bird,
refreshed, rose heavily and drifted north.
Kitty was very scary of white Muscovy
ducks and similar fauna after that.
* * *
“S.G.”: When the Scot blew into our
western Queensland mining town we wel-
comed him and congratulated him on his
playing of the pipes. It went to his head,
and we got the blasted pipes night after
night till everybody was fed up and dark
threats were muttered against Caledonia
and all its works. One hot Saturday
Scotty got into the bar with the mob,
leaving his pipes on the back verandah,
About three hours later, barely able to
remain perpendicular, he picked up the
pipes to “gie the boys a blaw.” But no
sound came, though the Scot swelled and
blew like a frog. Presently he slept.
Later, cold sober, he awoke and investi-
gated those pipes, gave one startled
shriek and demanded the “bluid o’ the
mon wha feeled ma pipes wi’ mood an’
maggots.” Some mud-building wasps had
got busy on those pipes, but you can’t
tell an enraged Gael anything, so we
locked him in the stable to swear it off.
THE BACHELOR CRANE.
He stands in the pool. For all that the plovers
ring
Him about with ripples of sound, superbly
alone
He stands, his blue robe upon him and carved
in blue stone.
The reeds may be darts that the air has flung
to sting
His breast with poisons of death, or the eagle-
hawk
A boomerang brown, or the water bring its lips
Of pity to shattered silk of a bleeding wing—
But he has no thought of these. A thin chrome
stalk
Of’ lily eddies his shadow, and exquisite tips
Of water-weeds move below him —a vision of
grace.
But a jelly of slime Should a child drag it up
from its place.
It is cold, yes, the water is ice, but faint blue
steel
His legs in the shallows, not smooth like a
rifle barrel
But cruder, the metal unfiled. His neck is a reel
For mist’s white embroidery cottons, and above
his back
The plumed rider pampas rears like a brown
cloud wrack.
The bachelor crane. He must be as old as
the grey
Gnarled she-oaks straddling the ridge. We
children dreamed s
Him a stork and mused in wonder upon his
might ;
Of how he carried the babies that kicked and
screamed
In passionate .rage against such wild wayward
flight.
We knew he was old as the pool, and that God
had set
Him there when He made earth dry and the
water wet.
He stood here yesterday and the day before;
And a week ago and a month ago and a year
He was standing here like a bird on a Chinese
vase.
When the gold-lashed eye of the sun first blazed,
it saw
The bachelor crane in the pool, aloof, ( austere,
Lovely as dusk, mysterious as the stars,
With the ripples curling his shadow and, close
behind.
The tawny scrub and the wattles climbing the
wind.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Wippegong”: Count among the
casualties of these fretful times the toler-
ant grins with which officials once
allowed liberties that meant extra work
for them. The mail stopped at a country
town, there was some cheery scuffling by
a small bridal party, and a Digger with
his new wife scrambled aboard through
a light fall of confetti and a deluge of
seasonal advice. The stationmaster was
ready to wave them out when he spotted
the best man chalking the customary
captions across the carriage, and battle
commenced. Didn’t the so-and-so young
ass know that cleaners were working
day and night because there were hardly
any of them left? Couldn’t the old goat
recognise a wedding when he saw one?
And so it waged. Then a big, brown,,
rugged, rural woman —the sort who can
fix a sick husband or a sick cow with
the same fierce efficiency—decided the
row had gone far enough. She dropped
her grin, dived into the refreshment
room, shot out again with a dripping
dishcloth, scattered the contestants, and
with half a dbzen swift swipes the offend-
ing lines were gone. She wrung out the
rag, returned it, vanished ; and the bride
smiled, Mum waved and the big engine
tooted and settled down to making up
the ten minutes we’d lost.
He * * *
“Esk D.”: In the Victorian Alps the
topography is an open book to the ob-
servant eye, altitude, terrain and rock
formation defined by the vegetation.
From the creeks and rivers upward to
3000 ft. or so peppermints, stringybarks
and giant gums predominate ; underfoot
a more or less dense jungle growth of
hopscrub, bracken and wattle, according
to local features. Gullies are distinct with
the rich dark-green of blackwoods and the
varied greens and silver of tall shrubs
and the tree-ferns. Upwards, the red
mountain-ash forests come in, magnifi-
cent timber trees with woblly butts like
stringybark for a few feet, then tall, white
and shining spars up to where the
branches commence. Higher, the timber
is more stunted as the winter snowline is
reached, till only the straggling snow
gums are left and the tufts of snow grass.
The bare patches conspicuous on the
peaks and steep slopes are chiefly mas-
sive bars of granite outcrop.
« ¥ ¥ ¥
“Plane Creek”: Poison effects (B.
3/5 / ’44) ? A few years ago wallabies
among my cane and vegetables had me
close t« humping my bluey. Then I
poisoned very young cane with powdered
strychnine, and defunct wallabies soon
decorated the landscape. My foxies
waxed fat on the carrion, but none of
them showed a sign of strych. poisoning.
One day, almost six months after the
slaughter, I found three of the dogs gnaw-
ing the bones in an old wallaby “ceme-
tery.” Within the hour two were in con-
vulsions and the other in the “stretched-
out” stage. I rammed strong mustard
into them, and after retching the bone-
chewings they were soon on their feet
again. It was a dry year, which prob-
ably caused the strychnine to remain with
strength unchanged in the wallaby bones
for so long.
* * * *
“Sarina”: Nobody can say that origi-
nality is lacking in our war-struck N.Q.
daily. Stating that numerous citizens
were breaking national security regula-
tions by burning rubbish in the Mackay
city area after dusk, it upheld ’em by
stating that “everyone knows fires burn
better after dusk.” The whole district
is laughing because it knows that the
opposite is the case. Fires are lighted
in the evening because the dew on the
grass and the absence of wind effectively
curb their ardor. Even in the dewless
early-summer months, with everything
dry and strong winds blowing night and
day, night brings the extinction of many
fierce grassfires in the coastal region.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“D.R.H.”: For Walt Disney’s next
animal extravaganza I suggest, for a lead-
ing role, my friend Jack-in-the-box, alias
the larva of the lictor casemoth. So far
as appearance goes he fills the bill:
handsome plates, tastefully decorated in
brown mottled enamel, cover his head
and fore-body. And his range of expres-
“Garn, the on'y race you'll ever win'll be inside a grey'ound!"
sions would be the envy of any female
film star presenting her latest husband to
the press. When he coyly emerges from
his neat, reinforced-silk, self-contained
bungalow he raises himself and clasps
his front pair of hands —even a French-
man couldn’t compete with an actor
equipped with six paws—obviously pos;
ing, with an interchangeability of sex
that is one of his many attractions, as
the shy village maiden, alone in a crool
world, humble, appealing, meek, a sight
to soften the heart of even a butcher-
bird. Next he portrays the dauntless
ambition of the poor young man deter-
mined to conquer the world and become
President: that’s exactly his attitude when
he gazes longingly but firmly at the green
leaves far above his head. He could even
be cast as a super-burglar. Not even
Hollywood can produce a criminal cap-
able of shinning up a sheer wall by means
of a silk ladder which he fabricates and
fixes as he ascends. He’s an engaging,
roving, enterprising, hearty sort of
insect, and I’ll be only too pleased when
Mr. Disney offers appropriate terms to
prepare him and a few of his relations
for the trip to Hollywood.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Hamer”: An old dog friend of mine,
reputedly 15 years old, but still vigorous
enough to give intruding curs a hiding,
has a curious way of sprawling himself
with his head actually on the ground
instead of on his paws, and turned on
one side so that the flap of his ear is
spread. Cobber is totally deaf, and he
has developed this method to catch the
vibrations of any footfalls. And he is
able to distinguish between them: my
approach has him on his feet with a
greeting, but'at the footsteps of his master
he bounds up with greater celerity and
enthusiasm. He uses the same method to
judge traffic before attempting to cross
a road.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
‘.‘Mat’s Mate”: We were a pretty wild
mob on the railway construction job,
most of our spare time being spent in
two-up, booze and kindred pastimes. Our
language, too, left much to be desired, and
when Long Tom threw his alley -in and
the parson turned up to do his duty a
sort of uncomfortable silence fell on the
camp. It was even more uncomfortable
at the graveside, where parson had
something to say about people who led
reckless, godless lives and came to Judg-
ment with scarcely a friend to recom-
mend them. When it was over Mat and
I walked away, thinking, until Mat said
“Well, poor ol’ Tom might have been a
roughie, but he’s among the good people
now.” Not sure of this philosophy !
gave him an inquiring look. “Well,” said
Mat, waving a hand around, “you’ve only
gotter go an’ read them headstones if y’
don’t believe me. There ain’t a bad ele-
ment in the whole place.”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Avon”: Maoriland, ever -since Prof.
Owen got interested in the reconstruction
of the moa, has been recognised as a
happy hunting-ground for the palaeontolo-
gist, though of late the morfe easily get-
at-able deposits of south-western Ameri-
can States have been monopolising atten-
tion. Prof. B. J. Marples, of * Otago
Uni., during his eight years in the
Dominion has been making week-end
trips to the Duntroon district, where the
cliffs are studded with old bones. His
most sensational find, just recently, has
been the skull, sft. long, of a type of
whale which went out of* business 30 mil-
lion years ago. Near by were relics of
penguins of the same era —fine upstand-
ing fellows, up to sft. high. Of course,
30 million years is not so very far back
by modern geological standards (com-
puted on the rates at which uranium
and thorium disintegrate to produce lead).
The oldest known minerals are estimated
to have had their origin at least 1500
million years ago.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Caballer”: What is it that causes tree-
climbing animals to jump from or climb
down trees when the trunk is jarred by
the blows of an axe? Squirrels will jump
wildly from near the tops of trees that
are a foot or 18 inches in diameter if
you keep on hitting the trunk with the
back of an axe. The tree-climbing
kangaroo of N.Q. comes down slowly,
tail first, feeling each foothold with great
care. The look of contempt in his eye
when he nears the ground makes you feel
as if you were something the cat had
brought in. But within two or three feet
of the ground he seems to panic, and
streaks for the jungle like a Canberra
politician for the Sydney train.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Old Camp”: Does “Aglum” (B.
19/4/’44) imagine that sight, stereoscopic
or otherwise, plays any important parf in
the migration of birds,, say from Siberia
to Australia? An aeroplane might fly the
same route, and most of the way the
pilot could hand control over to
“George.” And in any case he would
need no greater power of sight than
would enable him to watch his instru-
ments. Migratory birds are guided not
by sight but by inherited instinct, the
whyness of such being beyond the ken qf
man.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Strawinthehair”: Regarding this grass-
hopper pest (B. 19/4/’44), I’d like to
know if our Aussie ’hopper is in any way
identical with the locust of Palestine, on
which in Biblical days venerable gentle-
men like John the Baptist used to dine,
along with wild honey. If it is, mhyn’t
we in our wild attempts at extermination
be destroying a valuable war-time food
and throwing away a means of rehabili-
tating the soldiery? I suggest that our
socialised Commonwealth start a locust
cannery, or perhaps a dehydratery, with a
view to turning the ’hopper into a valu-
able item of export. As a method of
catching them I suggest a couple of out-
of-work ’planes, complete with pilots,
and a 100-yard-long bagnet slung be-
tween them. lam confident that another
young Australian industry would thrive —
well, anyway, until the canners struck
for another six pounds a week and
caviare sandwiches with the morning
coffee.
He ¥ ¥ ¥
“Sou’-west”: One night, visiting the
Mandurah Bridge, the long pile-and-wood
structure that for 60 years has straddled
the mouth of Peel Inlet (W.A.), we found
the usual crowd of rod fishermen hope-
fully angling for kingfish. Crabs were
coming down in thousands, swimming on
top of the water, but mostly too small for
eating. But three soldiers on leave were
putting in good work. Two had 15ft. lines
baited with meat; the other used the dip
net. If small crabs swam on top
big ones evidently kept to the
bottom. For as fast as the lines
could be dropped and hauled up
the chap with the net scooped them
out. Only when they had filled a
chgffbag did these anglers cease.
We contented ourselves with a
sugar-bagful, using one line and a
bait the lads gave us. When we
left around midnight the crabs
were still coming down in their
thousands. Boiled and paten with a touch
of pepper and vinegar—well, few non-
anglers will refuse a helping.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Gumsucker”: It is easy to see that
“Caballer” (B. 19/4/’44) never ran a
greengrocery, otherwise he would never
opine that a didn’t hold enough
water to supply an animal the size of a
rabbit. Lettuce is nearly all water, as
can be seen when a crate decays and the*-
water literally streams out. The same
with beetroot and turnip-tops, which with
the lettuce are favorite foods of captive
bunny. Indeed, so much water do the
whole three contain that a human given
a sufficient supply could live on them
without other water.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“D.R.H.”: Of all vegetables that
sturdy old battler the she-oak must be the
world’s prize mug. The branch I have
before me is swelled in seyeral places*
and from the centre of each swelling
appears about three-eighths of &n inch
of hard, brown wooden tubing, terminat-
ing in a neat, conical cap. This tube is
lighthouse-shaped: little more than an
eighth of an inch in diameter at the top,
rather more than a quarter at the base,
which, within the branch, is firmly seated
on the heart wood. Neatly fitted into the
circular base is a round, flatfish bag, eye-
less, mouthless, legless but with a tail
which stretches up the tube. This is the
female she-oak gall before fertilisation.
In another similar tube the tail has dis-
appeared and the baglike animal is cov-
ered with a white, horny cap. Under this
cap is a pinch of what looks like very
fine brown sawdust. But each particle
is a young she-oak scale, complete with
six legs, compound eyes and feelers fore
and aft. These specks escape, wander
over the bark and settle down to feed.
Their saliya presumably irritates the she-
oak, causing a swelling and later a per-
fect home for the tiny intruder, who,
comfortably housed, turns into the afore-
mentioned featureless bag, feeding by ab-
sorption from the wood and entirely de-
voted to reproduction. The whole of the
marvellously specialised business goes on
for the sole purpose of perpetuating a'
queer species at the expense of the she-
oak, which eventually dies.
“ 'Oo do I see about winnin' the five thousand?"
MARCHING TREES.
Lately, as I idled
In a place of trees,
Through whose tops, unbridled,
Roamed a vagraht breeze,
Hither, thither questing
Over plain and height,
Came to me a fancy
Whimsical and bright.
For, as lone and lazy
Through that place I strolled,
Like a man gone crazy,
This did I behold;
There and then I witnessed,
Seeming wide awake.
All the trees around me
Martial motion take.
Under skies o’erarching
Hill and slope and glen,
Proudly moved they marching
Like to marshalled men:
Strange ’twas thus to see them
Like to warrior folk,
Sassafras and ti-tree,
Ironbark and oak.
As the waves of ocean
Shoreward shining pace,
So, with measured motion,
Kept they time and place,
Leafy banners tossing
Boles and limbs aglow.
Thus, 1 thought, Australians
Forth to battle go.
N.S.W
RODERIC QUINN.


INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
mm
■ :x...
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Imported by the Government to ensure efficient rood transport.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emeegency
Road Transport Board.
o CAPACITIES: Up to TONS.
• REAR AXLES: Sturdy, Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
• CABS : Imported. ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available :
• IMPORTED PLATFORM with steel skid strips.
Front Loading Board, Coaming and Rope Hooks.
• IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
® DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
• OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase and immediate delivery may be obtained
as usual from our branch house in the capital city
of your State, and also from any Authorized
Metropolitan Distributor or Country Local Agent
for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
A-110
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863) ,
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
ALSO AT
GENERAL
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES LONDON.
AGENTS IN NEW. SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
SAVES
MANPOWER
k
(Regd.)
“IT'S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM’
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Industry.
“R.N.”: TJie wool industry has put up
records of production and revenue since
the war began. The average annual pro-
duction for the five war seasons is
3,630,000 bales, a total of 17,902,591
bales for the period, worth £338,000,000.
This season the revenue is a record,
£75,500,000, the average price under the
British purchasing scheme being 15.543d.
per lb.
Outlining these figures Winchcombe,
Carson’s review points out that higher
costs and taxation greatly offset the high
revenue: —
Superficially, many pastoralists owing
money on their properties when the wax-
started have since appreciably reduced the
debt. But that is not all financial gain.
Through lack of labor and inability to buy
materials development work has stopped,
maintenance has slackened, plant has not
been renewed. When normal times come
again the cost of all this necessary work will
cut heavily into reserves and future income.
The firm notes the increase of the rab-
bit, and remarks that much of the good
work done against the pest since 1920 has
been lost. Noted also is a decline in
breeding, with an increase in wethers
over ewes and the replacement of sheep
by cattle on some holdings because cattle
need less care.
Ready provision of the necessary money
fo finance the wool scheme by the British
Government is cited as the sound foun-
dation for the success of the scheme, an
important feature of which is the speed
with which appraisements are made and
the money paid to growers. The advan-
tage of this is shown in the reduced
amount of financial accommodation
sought by growers for shearing expenses,
etc.
An unintentional reply to various
attacks on private enterprise is contained
in the firm’s statement that the Australian
woollen mills have “forcibly demon-
strated” their great value to the Common-
wealth in war-time. If they could have
got more plant the output would have
increased ; as it is, local mills now use
450,000 bales a year,
A larger consumption by these mills,
together with a wide demand for woollen
goods, is forecast by the firm for a long
period after the war, and it points out
that the war has provided new oversea
outlets for Australian tops. As to that
future, the firm has this to say for the
growers’ benefit:
As an alternative [to the present acquisi-
tion system] it might be possible to establish
a fund which would take surplus wool off
the market in periods of slackness and hold
it for sale when business brightens. Such
an organisation would not make the market
immune to variations but it might help in
lessening the severity of fluctuations. It is
really akin to a factory reducing its output
when demand falls off and reviving it when
demand improves Co-operation from
Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and
South America would be essential in such
a scheme so would'that of the manu-
facturers.
But the compilers of the review are
careful to remind woolgrowers that no
reliable prophecy as to the post-war value
of wool can be made. Peace terms,
tariffs, rates of exchange, public buying-
power, transport, mill machinery, com-
petition from synthetic fibres are listed
among factors that will affect post-war
wool. Some such reminder is necessary
for people other than woolgrowers in
this country.
Zone Shearing.
“Bungaree”; Latest instructions define
the classes of sheep that may or may not
be shorn outside the prohibited periods
for the various zones. An owner and
his permanent hands may shear at any
time ; he may engage labor to shear rams,
stud ewes and their progeny during a
prohibited period, but not flock sheep.
Culls, although carrying ear-tags, are to
be regarded as flock sheep once they go
into the general flock.
Where the boundary of a zone runs
through a property the station will be
regarded as in: the zone in which the
shearing-shed is situated. Applications
for permission to shear flock sheep dur-
ing the prohibited period should be made
on a special form, which can be obtained
from the local secretary of the Graziers’
Association, from the National Service
Officer or the local police station. Appli-
cations concerning Zones 1 to 7 in-
clusive should be made to the Deputy
Difector-General of Man-power, Sydney,
but those parts of N.S.W. included in
Zones 8 and 10 will be administered
by Man-power, Melbourne, and appli-
cations should be addressed there. That
part of Zone 9 within N.S.W. will be
under Man-power, Sydney. The new
regulations cover lambs and all flocks, no
matter how. small.
Shearing arrangements should be made
to begin early enough to allow for cut-
out before the season closes. When cal-
culating the date allowance must be made
for wet weather, mechanical breakdown
and possibility of labor shortage. Appli-
cants for extension of time to shear will
have to satisfy Man-power that due
allowance was made for these factors.
Lean Pigs Wanted.
“Hux”; A. F. Gray, N.S.W. piggery
expert, says that local production tends
towards too many overfat and thickset
types. Lean, long-bodied pigs are what's
wanted. Breeding stock should have a
carcass that shows full developmeht of
high-priced cuts ; flesh should be firm and
a good color. Other characteristics
needed; Roomy chest, straight shoulders,
strong muscular back of even width
throughout its length and ribs well sprung
from the backbone and giving long, deep
and straight sides in alignment with shoul-
ders and hams. Hams should be full and
shapely, with flesh to the hocks ; belly
firm and straight in the underlines, and
flanks somewhat full; feet and legs
strong.
Other features being satisfactory, the
trade measures carcass quality by the
thickness of the back fat. A 701 b. porker
should show approximately |in, and a
1401 b. baconer lin. of fat on the thinnest
part of the back. These measurements
don’t apply to the live pig. To secure
carcasses with the right proportions of
bone, muscle and fat, pigs should be
slaughtered as they come to the fattening
stage. All pigs don’t reach this stage at
the same weight; porker types finish
at lighter weights than baconers. Weigh-
ing the pigs regularly as they near market
age puts a check on overdevelopment.
A Handy Forge.
“Jiff”: Here’s a good use for your dis-
carded separator. Cut a fan from a scrap
of galvanised iron and fit on the separator
spindle. The best way to do this is to cut
out two rectangular pieces which, bolted',
together with small gutter bolts cn each
side of the spindle, fit firmly. The ends
can then be bent apart to form a four-
bladed fan. A tin fitted down tightly
over the fan completes the blower unit
of the forge.
The bottom of an old metal drum will
make a good fire-pan. It should be about
six inches deep and the bottom covered
with clay or small stones to act as a bed
for the charcoal. Connect up the blower
and fire-pan with a piece of old piping,
which is best soldered around the inlet
of the blower cover to get the best out of
the airblast produced. At the other end
the pipe can protrude an inch into the
fire-pan and must be covered with a dis-
carded footvalve or wire gauze to prevent
the pipe clogging up with charcoal.
The completed forge qan then either
be installed as a fixture or can be fitted
with a light stand to make it portable.
It is easy to work and as efficient as any
ready-made hand-crank forge.
Red Clover and Fertility.
“Myrrhee”: Potato soils exhausted by
heavy cropping can be built up by using
red clover in the rotation. Clover re-
stores fertility by adding nitrogen and
organic matter to the soil, and is valu-
able for grazing and as stored fodder.
Red clover grows well in most coastal
and tablelands districts.
Sow in autumn or spring, 41b. seed
and lewt. super, to the acre. Super, is
essential. The seedbed should be fine
and firm, prepared after potatoes have
been dug by working the land with a disc
harrow. Sow from a grain-drill with
grass-seed attachment, by hand or with
a fertiliser distributor, but don’t mix the
fertiliser with the seed for more than 24
hours prior to seeding. Lightly harrow
after seeding.
If the stand is’ to be grazed 3-41 b.
Italian rye grass to the acre could be
sown with the clover. During growth
graze as required, preferably with cattle,
and to obtain the heaviest possible con-
centration of droppings large numbers of
stock should be used. Watch out for
bloat. After grazing, harrow the stand
to distribute the manure. For potatoes
put a third of the land under red clover
annually and plough in at the end of two
years.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kay”; To ease the weight of the
automatic milking machine on the cow
place a chain over each animal’s back
during the milking. This chain passes
under the udder and beneath the pul-
sator, is linked firmly, prevents strain on
the cow and aids the flow of milk.
“Hux”: An effective antidote for sor-
ghum poisoning is loz. washing soda dis-
solved in one pint of water and ioz. sul-
phate of iron in one pint water in a
separate dish. Don’t mix until imme-
diately before application as a drench.
Two pints for a cow; half a pipt for a
sheep. Both mixtures should be stored
in glass or wooden vessels. Molasses
diluted sufficiently to make an easy
drench is satisfactory. One quart for a
cow.
“L.C.Q.”: A heavy fall of citrus fruit
may be due to the soil’s low capacity
to take in water or lack of lime. Try
digging in stable manure or ploughing
in green crops. Follow up with appli-
cations of slaked lime dr ground lime-
stone about a fortnight later.
“E,2” : Fruit-trees live longer and bear
better if raised in nursery beds and
planted out at one or two years (B.
12/5/’44). They suffer no serious check
if this is done while the plants are dor-
mant. Seedlings grown without being
shifted usually develop large taproots,
with the feeding roots confined to a
limited area. When transplanting, prune
the taproot and spread the other roots
so that future growth comes out evenly
around the tree. •
“Plane Creek” (<B. 12/4/’44)
gave some good advice on planting fruit-
trees, but omitted to state that when
growing fruit-trees from seeds the trees
will have to be grafted or worked over
to the variety needed, as few seedlings’
will produce any fruit worth the growing.
One could plant 1000 Granny Smith
apple seeds and they could all germinate
and grow into healthy trees, but probably
none would ever bear either Granny
Smith or any other apples.
“E. 2”; Along watercourses, around
swamps and on any waste land suffi-
ciently moist to give them a good start it
pays to plant cuttings of weeping willow.
Thick stakes driven well into the ground
sprout quickly, and a tree soon grows.
Good for shade, their roots bind banks
against erosion. At two or three years
they may be lopped, thereafter whenever
stock feed is scarce. Cows fatten on ’em.
“Graz”: Pyrethrum, without which fly-
sprays aren’t worth a cracker, can be
obtained by powdering the dried flowers
of chrysanthemums. Four ounces of the
powdered flowers are stirred into a quart
of kerosene and left for eight hours with
an occasional stirring. The mixture is
strained through fine cloth before using.
To overcome the kerosene smell, add } fl.
oz. of oil of wintergreen. Chrysanthe-
mum seeds should be sown in April-May
and October-November periods.


is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy,
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . , .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT YOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Mo
ox
vT\
STS.
.*' *
During 1943 the planes of Australian National Airways
flew six million, seven hundred and five thousand miles
... equivalent to fourteen trips to the moon and back.
Since its inception eight years ago A.N.A; has developed
so rapidly and efficiently and under such competent
administration that the Company operates the largest
internal network of airlines in the world.
It is the policy of A.N.A. so to expand its service to the
community that it will adequately meet the nation's
needs in the great days of peace that lie ahead. Help
hasten peace by investing all you can in Victory Bonds.
W AUSTRALIAN
tional Airways
m
FIRST IN PEACE ..
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Night Naval Battle.
[This first-hand description, from a letter
written to his father by Edward T. Cooper,
second in command of H.M.S. Duke of York,
gives an incidental picture of the grim sea route
over which Britain’s huge supplies to Russia
have been taken.]
As an action it was unique. A day
action between individual capital ships
is unusual, but a night action almost un-
known.
The start of the whole affair on Christ-
mas Day was a gale which tested the
main structures of the ship, let alone the
details of its interior or its company. We
thundered through vicious and heavy
beam seas with the gale on the bow. We
shipped thousands of tons with resulting
superficial damage.
At 3.30 a.m. I was informed that the
Scharnhorst was out. A moment later
the captain said to a messenger: “Broad-
cast the Scharnhorst is out.” Mistaking
in the gloom and wind what was said, he
shouted across the ship’s microphone:
“The bastard’s oot.” So it was a good
hilarious start.
Christmas Day was thus spent in a
reeling ship in a latitude of no sun at
all, with a few hours’ (11 a.m. to 2 p.m.)
dismal gloom called Arctic twilight, with
driving snow and hail and the upper deck
a swirl of crashing seas and wreckage.
To catch hold of a metal rail was danger-
ous, and you had to be mighty careful
of cold hands which appeared to have
got warm but were, in fact, numb and
might quickly become frostbitten. Sup-
plies to Russia go over the dead bodies
of many naval officers and men and the
health of some has never recovered. Hell
is the only word for that very desperate
strip of sea between the permanent ice
of Bear Island and the North Cape.
For the whole of the morning I wan-
dered, looking at this and that and talking
to these West-Country men, Devonians,
Cornishmen, Welsh miners, and realised
why we rule the seas. They were quite
unmoved, just hopeful that we would
save the convoy at least, if not bring
the enemy to action.
Why Scharnhorst didn’t fight her way
through Bob Burnett’s cruisers and beat
up the convoy will never be known, but
she didn’t like her reception the first time,
and tried again, to be met again, and her
courage failed. Here a good touch:
Four destroyers had joined the cruisers
who had lost touch with Scharnhorst.
On arrival the senior officer made signal
to the admiral: “Request permission to
attack with torpedoes at my discretion.”
But the last three words got lost in the
wind, and Bob Burnett thought he had
seen Scharnhorst and made back: “At-
tack what?” Reply; “Anything.”
And so the Scharnhorst ran for home,
followed like terriers by the cruisers,
reporting his every move to us coming
in from the west to intercept. It is part
of my duties in action to supervise a
complete picture of the movements of all
ships, friend or enemy, so that in the
event of my captain’s being killed I can
carry on at once.
To watch that absurd fool steaming
straight into us was too good to be true.
We chose the range, we chose the
moment, and when ready the commander-
in-chief (Admiral Fraser) said “Well,
captain, now it’s your turn.” He was
magnificent, and never turned a hair in
what must have been a crushing respon-
sibility in such devilish waters, where
damage and shipwreck means the end
very quickly.
Our first broadside woke up the Hun,
as well it might; ten fourteen-inch guns
suddenly letting drive in the night niust
have augured ill, but he didn’t know we
were there, and if he did he only expected
a cruiser. Such is the skill of admirals
and the much-laughed-at Whitehall.
From that moment the fate of the
convoy and the cruisers and not a little
the morale of our own and the Ger-
man navy depended on us. We hit
him early, but not seriously, and he made
smoke and turned east, a fatal error. A
seaman would have turned west into the
still howling gale to shake off the de-
stroyers.
We opened fire at 4.45 p.m. in a pitch-
black and howling night. Every time
he was loaded he turned and fired and
then again turned away to bolt. Nine
yellow rings of fire in the gloom is a
frightening sight; then the tracer shells
can be seen coming. However, the Guar-
dian Angel sat over us, and, thanks to
superb handling by the captain, we were
only hit in the masts.
The Hun deserved more. He did some
very good shooting, and he was unlucky
not to do us some grave injuries. We
were all becoming rather depressed about
6.20 p.m., when the range was increasing
and we thought she might escape. Then
we hit her and reduced her speed to 21
knots. The destroyers, in consequence,
got in to attack, and right gallantly they
did it. In an area where a little damage
would become vital in such weather, they
pressed in to very close range, and
Scharnhorst let go with all she’d got:
tracer, high-angle guns and big guns;
but sure enough we soon heard those
metallic clangs on our own bottom which
meant torpedoes exploding on our enemy.
A very gallant and most successful attack.
Meanwhile, we had closed in, and with
our first broadside hit her very hard, and
five hundred feet of flame went up. We
pounded her to a pulp. Destroyers and
cruisers closed in with torpedoes. At
7.45 she sank, good luck to her, colors
still flying. The bonfire of that 20 minutes
was a paralysing spectacle.
We picked up 36 men out of 1400.
Those that were not hurried in the blaz-
ing furnace would last a very short time
in a sea only a few degrees above freez-
ing. The destroyers had a really good
look around, but that’s all they could find.
John L. Lewis on Coms.
(From an interview with a Scripps-Howard
staff man.)
“About once a week somebody asks
me about Communists as though 1 saw
a place for them in our country’s labor
picture. There isn’t any place for these
parasites as far as I am concerned, never
has been and never will be. Fifteen years
ago I had a clause written into the Con-
stitution of the United Mine Workers of
America outlawing any Communist from
membership. 1 do not know a single
Communist in that union today, and i
you can find one in it for me he will go
out on his head tomorrow,
“If I had my way not a single tom-
munist would belong to any labor union
in the United States.
, “As heroic Russia battles against oui
German enemy in Europe, the Commu-
nists in our Labor movement naturally
hang on to the coat-tails of the Red Army
and try to build an ideological bridge
between our loyalty to Russia and their
own pet schemes. This is a sheer abuse
of our goodwill towards Russia. And,
of course, the Communists in our labcu
unions are not even Russians,
“What good citizen is not for a Re-
sian victory over Germany in this war .*
Yet the Communists in the unions play
hard on the trick idea that we cannot
fight side by side with Russia in the war
and at the same time fight against Corn-
munists and fellow-travellers here. That
is an outrageous contention.
tb f course of their rank oppor-
tunism the Communists and other hal -
baked intellectuals m our Labor move-
™ent and elsewhere on the home front
do a § reat device to Russia They
cause . countless mil ions to confuse the
question of loyalty to Russia as our ally
with a dread of Communism here.
U.S. Foreign Vote.
(Condensed from the “United States News.")
In America an Irish vote hung in the
balance when Mr. Roosevelt asked Eire
to throw out the Axis diplomats. Large
numbers of Italians are opposed to the
recognition of the Badoglio Government
Poles look with suspicion on Russia. All
of these have a bearing upon die Ameri-
can foreign policy.
America is a land of minorities. Fifty
million persons fall into the minority
groupings of race, culture and national
origins. Of these 34,500,000 are persons
who were born in other countries or were
born in the U.S.A. of foreign parentage.
They are not far removed from the in-
fluences of a‘ foreign environment.
Often they speak a foreign language,
read foreign-language newspapers, listen


ss
CLOTH
%
wLz
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HERBERT FREDERICK WALL late of New-
town.—TAKE NOTICE that HARRIETTE CLARE
WALL has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3321 of
1943 alleging that you the said Herbert Frederick
Wall have been guilty of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
desire to defend the suit you must enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the tenth day of July One thousand nine
hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of the
petition free of charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James Buildings 109
Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales. —DATED
this Sixteenth day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-four.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH HOOPER late of Burwood in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that OLIVE EILEEN HOOPER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1884 of 1938 on- the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King > Street Sydney by the 26th of June
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FRED. A. NEWNHAM Solicitor 28
Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT HENRY BURNS.—TAKE NOTICE
that JULIA ELIZABETH BURNS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2102 of 1942 on the ground of
your desertion for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend the suit you should enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
June One thousand nine hundred and forty-four and
obtain a copy of the petition filed herein from
GEOFFREY DYSON BONAMY Solicitor 56 Hunter
Street Sydney.— '(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD RICHMOND SMITH late of 19
Flavelle Street Concord and 167 Brougham Street
King’s Cross—TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY
ISANIEL HUGHES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 735 of 1944 against his wife GLADYS MAY
HUGHES on the ground of her alleged adultery
with you If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 21st June 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from W. R. THOM-
SON Solicitor 14 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C,
K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH,
WALES—In Divorce.
TO MARY SCRIVEN late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES ROBERT SCRIVEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2048 of 1943 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
King Street Sydney by the 4th August 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
WILLIAM CHARLES MOSELEY Solicitor 51 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MONICA MARY McCORMAC late of Hereford
Street Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that EDMOND
DANIEL McCORMAC has filed a Petition for Divorr.e
No. 426 of 1944 on the grounds of (a) desertion
without just cause for three years and upwards (6)
habitual drunkenness and neglect of domestic duties
during three years and upwards and (c) habitual
drunkenness and unfitness to discharge domestic
duties during three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 10th July 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from W. B. SCOTT Solicitor 153
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — IN Divorce.
TO ARNOLD ADOLF FIGGE late of Tumbi Umbi
and 1080 Victoria Road Ryde.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE HENRIETTA FIGGE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 729 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th July 1944 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from A. D. McKENZIE
Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C.
K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID HENRY SEYMOUR of 187 Edgar Street
Bankstown.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY MILLI-
CENT SEYMOUR has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 1619 of 1943 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-sixth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS. A. D.
WHATMORE O. C. M. GEE & CO. Solicitors 14
Spring Street Sydney.— (l.js.) O. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
‘C
m
%
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh • .
smooth
IT
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
Carreras Ltd—l 34 Years* Reputation for Quality
5064 8
to foreign-language broadcasts. In some
ways they live more closely in accord
with the cultural pattern of the land from
which they or their parents came than
they do with America. They are open to
pressure impacts from abroad that older
Americans, whose roots have been trans-
planted longer, do not receive. They
watch for nuances in foreign affairs that
are missed by other Americans.
European political battles are being
fought out among these nationalistic
minorities on American soil. Govern-
ments in exile are well financed. Some
have money of their own. They have
ready access to these close kin of their
home folks who make up the national
political minorities. They are using these
minorities as sounding boards in an effort
to sway the American foreign policy in
their direction, to sustain themselves in
pbwer after the war or to win points they
consider at stake in the peace.
New York is the biggest political prize
of any State. And New York has a
bigger collection of persons of mixed
foreign origins than any other area in
the world. Big blocks of voters in New
York are the Irish, Italians and Jews in
New York City and a scattering in other
cities, and those of Polish parentage who
centre generally around Buffalo. New
York State has 670,000 of Irish Free
State ancestry, 1,500,000 of Italian
parentage, 688,000 of Polish descent. Of
the nation’s 4,700,000 Jews 2,000,000 live
in the five boroughs of New York City.
The voting influence of all of these groups
extends far beyond the environs of New
York State, however, though often the
leadership for political opinion is found
there.
Altogether there are 2,700,000 persons
of Irish descent in* the United States,
4,500,000 of Italian ancestry, 2,900,000
of Polish aiicestry, 1,300,000 of Swedish
ancestry, 900,000 of Norwegian ancestry
and 2,600,000 of Russian stock, 1,000,000
of these last in New York (they are chiefly
White Russian).
The minority groups are likely to
decide the November Presidential election.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Nobody in this war has a right to mention
his contribution or sacrifice in anything but
joking terms unless he has been in an infantry
company committed to the front lines or in one
of the branches in close support of the infantry or
on operational flights or in a naval engagement.
The infantryman couldn’t do without all the work
that others do in his support. But anybody who
mentions “sacrifice” or “hardship” ought to
think about being sent to charge up a hill at night
with a bayonet for your only weapon. No
ammunition, because a rifleman can’t hit what
he can’t see, and bullets are heavy. These are
the men who can legitimately talk about their
parts in the war.— Former member of the “New
Republic” staff; now an artillery officer.
* * * *
Something of an inside stir is being caused by
a report that Great Britain has been able to
build up a dollar balance of approximately
$2,000,000,000 during the war period. It appears
that dollars acquired by much of the Empire
are siphoned to Britain in exchange for pounds
sterling.— “ United States News:”
* * * *
Convinced that labor costs and taxes will not
decline rapidly after the war automobile manu-
facturets and dealers expect consumers to pay
between 15 and 35 per cent, more for essen-
tially the same models as rolled off the 1942
assembly lines. Automobile company execu-
tives have been particularly impatient with
what they term the flamboyant and ill-considered
promises of low-priced cars from war producers
who have had no experience in the field. — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
“I feel that the principal obstacle in the
Pacific now is not Japs but geography—the size
of the Pacific Ocean. If some of you would
devise a method of shrinking the Pacific down
to one-fourth its size, we cduld move much
faster.” — U.S. Admiral Nimitz.
* * * *
In Britain airfields now cover 250,000 acres,
and estimated expenditure on aerodromes and
other establishments for the Allied air forces
in Britain alone is approximately £615,000,000.
The total area of paved runways and perimeter
tracks is almost 160,000,000 square yards, the
equivalent of -9000 miles of 30ft.-wide road.
Thousands of tons of ballast are required for
the building of each bomber station, and the
airfields programme to date has entailed the car-
riage of 30,000,000 tons of these materials. For
buildings 1,000,000 tons of steel and cast-iron
have been used, over 1,000,000 accommodation
huts, 18,000,000 cubic feet of wood, almost
7000 electrical transformers, 9800 switchboards
and 336,000 miles of cables. — London ‘‘Times.’'
* * * *
In all this thinking and planning we believe
the main thing for us to keep in mind is the
tenacity of the Japs. Their leaders openly
philosophise that Japan may lose this war,
but that Japan will keep on starting more wars
until it rules the world. That is precisely what
the Jap warrior caste intends. We shall be
fools if we do not do everything in our power
to make Japan after this war powerless to fight
any kind of war except a civil war.— ‘‘Collier’s.”
* * * *
A Parliamentarian representing a London
constituency has been canvassing the opinions
of the working classes and find they are much
more concerned about existing personal prob-
lems arising out of war-time regulations than
about long-term planning. Most of them want
to get rid of all controls as soon as possible
and return to a world “where their own effort
and initiative will bring immediate reward in
cash or kind.” They want better education
and health services, but they want to choose
their own doctor and don’t want him to be a
civil servant. — London correspondent ‘‘Wall-
street Journal.”
* * * *
“We do not know what the policy of the Ger-
mans is going to be with regard to the herds in
Europe. If they do a kind of blitz policy on
these herds and destroy them all as they depart,
then they will only have themselves to blame,
-because it is not likely if they pursue that policy
that they will be the first people to get any of
the meat and dairy products that are left. For
three years at least we shall have a shortage
of meats and of all dairy products. It may
take us five or more years to get up to equilib-
rium on these particular supplies.”— British
Minister of Food Colonel Llewellin.
* * * *
The legend of Jap invincibility has been shat-
tered, and the weak points of the Japanese
soldier are being shown up. If you cut the Jap
off he will fight to the death like a cornered
rat, but if you should outflank him, leaving a
way of retreat open, he will normally take it,
even though he starves to death in an attempt
to escape. More amazing is the way in which
smart fighters in the Allied forces are turning the
Japanese willingness to die into a military weak-
ness. What it all adds up to is that once
we and the British can concentrate our major
strength in the Pacific the battles are likely to
be neither so long nor so difficult as many
have believed, nor is it likely that we shall have
to exterminate all of Japan’s soldiers in the
process.— Pacific war correspondent Frank L.
Kluckhohn; N.Y. ‘‘Times Magazine.’''
* * * *
The life of a prisoner in Germany varies
according to the camp and even more accord-
ing to the camp commander. Americans stress
that they are better off than some, and their
principal demands are voiced on behalf of more
unfortunate prisoners of other nationalities.
The prisoners do considerable reading. Books
are shipped by the American Y.M.C.A., which
also provides games, musical instruments,
phonograph records, textbooks and play scripts.
Every camp has study groups, languages being
a favorite subject. Another pastime is keeping
pets. By all sorts of trades with neighboring
farmers, the prisoners manage to obtain dogs,
cats, chickens and rabbits. One prisoner has
been the talk of all the prison camps and intern-
ment centres in Germany. In exchange for
three Red Cross parcels he got a horse.— U.S.
United Press report by Mel Most, former corre-
spondent at Vichy, who has been interned in
Germany.
* * * *
Russia is not likely to provide a large market
for American exporters in the post-war period,
since German industry will probably be im-
pressed into service to supply Russian needs,
and imports will undoubtedly be confined
principally to capital goods, it was asserted at
a meeting of the Foreign Credit Interchange
Bureau. Despite shipments of non-military
goods under lend-lease, it was pointed out by
members, Russia may not be expected to be-
come an important market for American mer-
chandise, and may even become a strong com-
petitor, with purchases certain to be “closely
controlled” by its Government. “I believe
that there will be very strong competition from
Germany,” one member declared. “Russia will
put German industry to work for them first
before she will export gold. Buying here will
be very selective —principally capital goods and
things which are better or cannot be obtained
elsewhere.” — N.Y. “Times” report.
* * sis
Philip K. Hitti, Professor of Semitic Litera-
ture at Princeton University, asserted at a hear-
ing before the House Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee on the Wright-Compton resolutions on
Palestine that “political Zionists of New York”
were the chief advocates of converting Pales-
tine into a Jewish commonwealth. He called
it an undemocratic step which the Nazi radio
was telling the Arabs would be only a prelude
to “Jewish capture” of the Trans-Jordan, Iraq,
Syria, the Lebanon and Saudi Arabia also.
The Wright-Compton resolutions require the
United States to promote the free immigration
of Jews into Palestine and help the Jewish
people reconstitute Palestine as “a free and
democratic Jewish commonwealth.” Dr. Hitti
insisted that “the Arabs have the natural right
of occupancy to their country.” He told the
committee that the resolutions “adopt political
Zionism,” whereas the Jewish people sought
“a spiritual and cultural, not a political home.”
“To the Arabs, many of whom were in the land
before the Jews, and to all Moslem society, a
sovereign Jewish State in Jerusalem constitutes
an anachronism,” he said. “What chance of
survival has such a State before the objections
of the Arabs and the Moslems? _ Will the
people of the United States be willing to send
their navy to project such a Jewish common-
wealth?” — N.Y. “Times” report.


Missing Friends.
EDWARD JAMES WILSON HOBBS.
Would anyone knowing the whereabouts of any
of the members of the family of -the abovenamcd
deceased person please communicate with the under-
signed ?
The parents of the deceased were Frederick Hobbs,
a brickmaker, and Lucy Hobbs, nee Wilson, who
were -married at Liverpool, New South Wales, on
the 26th July, 1883, and at the date of birth of the
deceased were living at Chalder Street, Marrick-
ville. New South Wales. At the date of birth of
the deceased on the 13th June, 1886, he had one
elder living brother.
J. E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Public Notices.
I, BARTOLO RUSSO, of Italian nationality, born at
Panaria, Italy, and resident over five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Mary Street, Peakhurst,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, CARMELO BARBERA, of Italian nationality,
born at Trapani, Sicily, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 73 Ferris Street, Annan -
dale, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, GEORGE ADOLF MAEHL, of Danish nationality,
born at Kalundborg, Denmark, and resident 17 years
in Australia, now residing at 28 Gamack Street,
Mayfield, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
4 Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office :
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
KZEMA
O ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
11l
CRAWLED UPSTAIRS ON HANDS & KNEES
Surprising Recovery after
all Hope Lost
Boarding-house keeper once
living life of pain from Rheu-
matism now runs residential
and does her own work.
Mrs. L. M. A. Wilson, of 47 Craig-
end Street, King’s Cross, was un-
able to bath herself and, in her
complete wretchedness, was even
given gold injections, amongst
many other treatments.
She writes: “I would like to- tell
you of the wonderful benefit I
have derived from R.U.R. Up to
six months ago I was not able to
move without the aid of my stick
at all, and you have my permis-
sion to use my case for advertising
purposes, as I would be only too
happy to know that someone else
was deriving the same benefit
that I did through taking your
treatment.”
INTERNAL CLEANSER
R.U.R. cleans the body of poisons,
acids, and wastes. These poisons
and acids cause the unbearable
pains of rheumatism, neuritis,
lumbago, and sciatica . .. the dull
eyes and muddy skin of liver
troubles . . . the headaches and
half - asleep
feeling of con-
stipation, as
well as the
pain of kid-
ney troubles
. . . the un-
plea s ant,
“Can’t - eat -
a-thing” feel-
ing of indi-
dsf
gestion and Mrs. L. M. A. Wilson,
Jast-if ic 47 Craigend Street,
Im helps. King’s Cross.
all these disorders because it
gently reaches every eliminative
organ of the body, toning liver,
kidneys, stomach, and bowels.
Harley S+. Prescription
R.U.R. is derived from a Harley
Street Specialist’s prescription.
Many users say that they obtain
real benefit from the very first
dose, and report remarkable
restorations to health from dis-
orders listed above.
When you realise that R.U.R.
costs hut 4/- a packet to make 26
ounces of active mixture and 7/6
to make 52 ounces, it is no exag-
geration to say that R.U.R. is by
far the cheapest and most effec-
tive treatment you can use.
Take R.U.R. and Right You Are!
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
iii
m
mm
Caterpillar D 8 with logging winch, handling
65,000 feel of timber per 8-hour day .
m
c
i 3 •
.■v
mm
for a fighting nation
Out in the Australian forests our timber men have helped to lay
the foundation for victory. In fair weather or foul ceaselessly, tire-
lessly, day in and out, they have hauled the great logs from valley
and mountainside to the mills. Timber to build hangars and docks
. . . timber for the thousand and one needs of a fighting nation.
Among timber men Caterpillar Diesel Tractors with their brutish
strength and safe track-type tread, have become the accepted means
of getting the logs out in record time at record low cost. When
peace conies again, Caterpillar will once more
play its part in helping to build the wealth and
prosperity of Australia. In the meantime, the
whole of our resources are devoted to help
in winning the war as quickly as possible.
I TJ1.I
n-
ik'
CATER PI 1K aR MRR
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS end WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland;
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Twcedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone- 2od'* 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. ‘Phone—lnnisfail 475.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CT6-33-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Poets and Prophets, by Andre
Maurois.— 3465.
To buy Eleanor Glyn’s The Man and the
Moment. —3466.
Information Sought.
What does the R.A.A.F. Educational Service
teach, and what fees are payable?
Courses come under the following main head-
ings: Agriculture, Art, Building Trades, Com-
mercial, Electrical Trades, Printing, Public
Health, Mechanical Trades, Women’s Handi-
crafts, General Education. Students pay a de-
posit of 15s. for each subject, which is refunded
on satisfactory completion of the course.
How to preserve iron from rust?
Immerse in solution of blue vitriol, then in a
solution of hyposulphite of soda, acidulated
with hydrochloric acid. This gives a blue-black
coating unaffected by air or water.
Treatment for tick fever ( spirochcetosis ) in
poultry ?
The treatment is difficult and expensive;
better results are achieved by eradication of
ticks. Birds should not be bought from known
infected areas, and newly-purchased birds
should be isolated for eight to ten days in coops
with wire-netting floors, under which are frays
containing kerosene-covered water. Roosts,
houses, etc., should be painted with sump oil,
kerosene emulsion, wood-preserving oil or strong
sheepdip at five-day intervals until mortality
ceases. Old, cracked timber in houses, perches,
etc., should be replaced and all refuse burnt.
What is the world’s record time for a 440*;
yard footrace, who holds the record and when •
was it made ?
The American Ben Eastman did the course
in 46.4sec. on March 26, 1932.
Treatment to free scalp from dandruff?
Shampoo scalp two or three times a week;
dry and apply the following lotion: Resorcin,
salicylic acid and castor oil, of each one
drachm; spirit, 2oz.; water, 6oz.
Brief Answers.
J.M.D.: (1) Now out of print. (2) Cannot
trace firm P.K.: Kerosene helps to loosen
rust already formed, but it has to be scraped,
chipped or filed off H.S.; Yes. The regula-
tions .are administered by the Defence De-
partment. .. .R.H.B.: It is his duty to leave the
fence in as good a condition as that in which
he found it F.C.G.M.: Recipe will do for
waterproofing duck and calico J.F.8.:
Jimmy Pike rode Phar Lap in the 1931 Mel-
bourne Cup, won by White Nose L. 8.:
There is a town named Williams in W.A
Taswegian: Send stamped, addressed envelope
for reply.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editoi'.
J.X.: Put a bit more beef into it and resub-
mit. .. .R.W.: For a religious paper... .G.G.P.;
“The laughter of life is a tonic sublime.” True,
but atrocious H.R.: Just another sunset
W.L.D.: You can’t make poetry simply by
saying “and thus the features marred” instead
of “and thus marred the features” J.G.:
Elementary P.T.R.: “Moonshine” is just
that W. 8.: So that old swaggie’s still dying
under the bluegum... .L.K.: It might interest
the horse J.C.D.; There is an attractive
comma in the third stanza, but that is its only
merit R.P.; “So far I have shown this story
only to my wife.” Don’t you love her any
more?... .F.H. : “What would you do on a
sunny day if you happened to see a dear wee
fay?” Shoot it T.R.: Since you sent no
stamps with her, Alice is in the w.p.b R.E.:
Morass of sentimental cliches... .K. 8.: *“A low,
heartbroken cry pierced the air and, mingling
with old Sandy’s moan, passed away.”. That
was the office-boy after one passing glance at
that story J.A.S.: Not a hope M.C.:
Sounds youthful F.A.D.: It’s not a story
K.E.K.: Slight E.A.: A “personified fable”
is off our beat... .1.5.: Frothy... .D.M.: All
lightweights L.C.D.: Agonising.


SOUTH AFRICA * YOUR POST-WAR EXPORT MARKET
KEENE & COMPANY
( Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact -with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias.
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY—or write direct.
Made hy
FORD SHERINOTON LTD.
I
Owing to war needs,
supplies of “Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
GLOB IT E Travel Cases
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
Parent Co.
/ Dividends ,
_ , Pref. To Re- Defl-
x eb., Profit. 7 p.c. Orel. serves, clt.
£ £ £ £ £
1.134 4,946 Nil Nil 4,946 155,290
... Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,530 75.353 S Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 833 7,059
3 937 101,089 20,799 12* „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20.825 12* „ ~ 79,646 904 8,607
3 939 3 03,528 20,851 121,, „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
Assets revaluation. £4882 .. .. .. 179,249
3 940 154,060 20,851 12*p.c.= 79,646 53,503 232!5i2
3941 112,206 20,851 12£ „ „ 79,646 11,709 244,521
3942 111,386 20,851 12J „ ~ 79.640 10,889 255.410
3943 99,505 *20,851 10 „ „ 63,73 7 14,937 270,348
3944 90,289 *20,851 10 „ ~ 63,717 5,071 276,019
Less deduction of 1.72 d. a share as proportionate
share of War-time (Company) Tax. § Arrears from
Sept. 80, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
The figures since 1939 show net earn-
ings of the whole group ; before that they
relate to the holding co.’s accounts only,
and do not take into consideration un-
distributed earnings of the subsidiaries —
Metiers, Ltd., and Metiers K.F.B. Pty.,
Ltd. There is also an associate, Metiers
(N.Z.), Ltd., in which Metiers, Ltd., is
interested, which operates on the other
side of the Tasman, and which paid 5 p.c.
on its £64,937 of capital last term.
As with others in the heavy industries,
■war brought big changes in the nature
and direction of production. Factories
at Sydney, Footscray, Adelaide and Perth
used to turn out a wide range of stoves
’ the line on which the business grew
up—baths, gas-heaters, enamel goods,
builders’ hardware, radiators and other
electrical equipment. Thus the fortunes of
the group are normally part and parcel
of those of the building trades,,which
explains the jolt earnings received in the
early thirties and their subsequent
recovery.
Though war-time controls and restric-
tions on labor, materials and investment
brought private building practically to a
standstill, a big substitute demand for
production of war goods took its place.
Considering the technical problems of
plant conversion and precision work
associated with the change-over, and the
dilution of skilled labor, scarcity of
materials and steady rise in costs, includ-
ing taxation, the business has made a
very satisfactory showing over the last
five years. Only a fraction of output,
and that “drastically rationalised,” has
been available for civilian consumption
since the danger from Japan quickened
industrial mobilisation.
Factors mainly responsible for the
tapering off in aggregate net earnings over
the last two years have been the rise in
costs and man-power difficulties. After
making unspecified provision for taxa-
tion, depreciation, etc., last term’s £90,239
(down £9266) of profit which includes
£1751 dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, was enough to pay the parent’s
pref. divs. and show 10.8 p.c. on its
£637,167 of ord. capital as against 12.1
p.c. and 14.2 p.c. for the two preceding
years. The div,, stepped down from 1 2\
p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1943, was kept at the
lower figure. The £5671 that remained
lifted visible reserves to £276,091. But
in this class ®f business much depends
upon the efficiency of plant, chief earning
asset.
Finances are comfortable, as the fol-
lowing comparison of combined balance-
sheet figures shows:
General Industries and Subsidiaries,
n , 1940 - 1942. 1945. 1944.
Paid capital. . £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors . . 182,808 170,160 91,423 145 799
Tax reserve .. 98,441 265,388 238,178 190,713
Staff fund . . 12,645 15,621 14,200 13,243
Freeholds . . 814,176 385,164 823,675 321,552
Plant, etc. .. 400,119 428,206 420,139 423 931
Stocks .. 485,047 593,438 519,949 480,818
Book debts .. 242,875 285,841 155,526 177 176
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24 630
Cash, etc. . . 837 32,453 170,156 206,’847
Taking the tax reserve, staff fund and
final divs. (£74,142) into the reckoning
the year’s improvement in, the more or
less liquid surplus (£465,574) was £13,256.
The growing holding of cash, etc. (up
£36,691), should prove a comfort to the
management when transfer from war
back to civilian production begins.
The acute home and other building
shortage promises to set up a strong de-
mand for the co.’s products post-war.
But the change-back promises to be more
difficult and complex than was conver-
sion to war purposes. The problems will
fall broadly into three groups, namely,
contract termination, plant conversion
and surplus disposal. Each of these is
closely related to the other two. Conver-
sion of plants cannot be started until
contracts have been terminated and war
contractors and sub-contractors author-
ised to dispose of Government-owned
equipment and surplus materials on their
premises. The sooner the Government,
in consultation with traders concerned,
works out its policy on these questions
the less dislocation will there be when
the time arrives to make the change.
Selfridges (Australasia,), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
193 °-.- , 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles. £6480 .. 16J162
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. - 8904 )
Written off intangibles, £560 J MSS 17,785
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
,Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,283
Added intangibles, £2544 .. .. 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23 613
Ad decl intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
, Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38 810
Profit.
1940.. 19,728 Nil )
To >tax reserve, £l,OOO ~ | IB>'2B 20,082
1941.. 37,809 5 p.c. = 14,249 )
To tax reserve £12,500 _ jH,060 9,022
Reserves.
Tax reserve written back £15,020 .. 5 998
1942. . 50,766 6 p.c. = 17,100 ) qi „„„ ’
Tax paid, £1,694 .. .. f 3l >9<2 3<,9,0
1943.. 59,668 6 p.c. = 17,100 ) „ 0 „ 7
Tax paid, £38,621.. ..f 3,90 ‘ 41,917
1944.. 47,624 6 p.c. = 17,100 )
Tax paid, £45,080.. .. j ~ 27,301
Because of the method of treating
taxation in the accounts, too much notice
need not be taken of the profit figures in
the table from 1940 to date. In 1940 and
1941 £lOOO and £12,500 respectively were
set aside out of earnings for the tax-
gatherer. Then, owing to the changing
rates and retrospective nature of taxes
and the difference between the co.’s
balancing date and that of Treasury de-
termination of the new rates of tax, the
board concluded that: — *
As the existence of an arbitrary rate
might be misleading, it has been decided
to transfer to p. and 1. appropriation
account the provision formerly made for
taxation and to charge in the appropriation
acccount all taxes actually paid during the
year and to carry forward the whole of
the undistributed credit balance... .to cover
tax liabilities not assessed at balancing date.
Accordingly, £15,020 was transferred from
tax reserve to p. and 1. in 1942, and
thereafter no specific provision was made
lor taxation. Tax bills received were
£1694, 1942; £38,621, 1943 ; £45,080,
1944. That covers assessments on all
profits to the end of July, 1942. So for
the 3y years to this date net earnings
(after deducting taxes paid in respect
thereof) aggregated £52,742, out of which
divs. totalling £39,899 (average 4 p.c.)
were paid, leaving £12,843 in the business.
That is assuming that half the 1943 pro-
fits were earned during the six months to
the end of July, 1942. The position might
be a little better than stated, as some tax
refunds are expected.
Exactly what the net result for each
of the last two years is will not be known
until the tax bills arrive. What is plain
is that since the change in control in mid-
-1938 the business has become profitable,
and earnings continued to expand until
last term, when reduced turnover, higher
costs and impaired trading efficiency
were common experiences among traders
as. the result of a managed-and-rationed
economy, prime aim of which is to cut
down civilian consumption and liberate
maximum resources for war. Subject to
easing of Government controls, which
are in turn subject to war needs, there
is little prospect of early improvement in
trading conditions.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the board figured net earnings,
after paying working exes, and allowing
£15,831 (down £456) for depreciation,
£12,044 lighter at £47,624. This included
£2532 (5 p.c., same as for the previous
term) from the Westralian subsidiary.
The parent’s holding in this offshoot is
62,600 £1 shares, of which 15,000 are
fully-paid and the balance paid to 15s.
each. In the Maoriland subsidary 73,850
£1 shares are held, of which 26,000 are
fully paid and the balance paid to 16s.
each. For the year to January 31 last
the Westralian co. again paid 5 p.c. and
the Dominion co. a maiden H p.c.—both
payments will appear in the parent’s next
accounts. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
though it is by no means secure.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1935. 1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . . £56,067 £284,397 £285,000 £285,000
Sundry creditors' 26,252* 76,356* 101,963 93,466
Freeholds . . 18,801 19,561 19,561
Leaseholds .. 8,969 53,118 36,223 31,825
Plant, etc. 21,441 83,736 85,178 74,986
Stock . . . . 38,789 87,593 216,264 206,674
Debtors, etc... 5,724 7,949 11,536 13,103
Cash . . . . 708 2,424 2,947 2,985
Shares subsidiaries 109,320 74,270 74,270
‘ * Including taxation, etc.
Within the limits of finance the stock
.position (down £9590 last term) has been
protected as far as possible. There was
little change in the more or less liquid
surplus (£129,296, excluding sharehold-
ings).
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 6i „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 7* „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ ~ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 B*., „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 9* „ ~ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 81,, ~ 23,800 7,815 72,981
1941.. 24,932 81 „ ~ 23,800 1,132 74,113
1942.. 26,132 8i „ ~ 23,800 2,332 76,445
1943.. 32,320 81,, „ 23,800 8,520 84,965
t Not including depreciation reserve—£222,6B4 at
31/12/’43.
A surprisingly good result, considering
the difficulties being experienced by the
industry as a whole. “We have to record
the lowest production of cane in Aus-
tralia for the last 16 years,” said presi-
dent W. A. Brand at the recent annual
meeting of the Sugar Growers’ Associa-
tion. A dry spell, shortage of fertiliser
and man-power, and difficulties associated
with transport and mechanical aids to
cultivation were the chief troubles. Aus-
tralia’s output of raws for the 1942-43
season was 627,000 tons, down 94,000
tons. The figure for the last pre-war sea-
son was 938,000 tons, over half of which
was exported at a very low figure. Only
about one-third is exported now, but it
fetches a very much higher price, with a
consequent better average price to miller
and grower, thanks to the contract with
the British and other Empire Govern-
ments. Still, owing to shrinkage in out-
put, gross return to the industry has con-
tracted, in round figures, by a million
pounds annually since 1939.
Flowever, this co. and other growers
and millers in the Bundaberg district have
felt the pinch less than those in the north
of the State, where most of Australia’s
cane is grown. For the 12 months cov-
ered by the latest accounts, the Gibson and
Howes outturn of raws was 19,690 tons
as against 19,931 tons for the previous
season, thanks to the co.’s irrigation
scheme, which has proved excellent in-
surance against adverse weather con-
ditions. The final price of raws is ex-
pected to be £2O I.os, per ton as against
£l9 Is. and £l7 18s. 6d. for the two pre-
ceding seasons. It was thus the lift in
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
T/le fifty-seventh annual meeting of the Company was held on the 27th
April, 1944. The Chairman. Sir John Peden, in moving the adoption of the
Report, Balance Sheets and Accounts, said :—
The Company has continued to support
the national war effort by subscribing to
war loans without stint, and by restricting
with rigid economy its use of man-power
and materials. From the outbreak of war
the total subscribed, including conversions,
in Australia, New Zealand, Canada and
the United Kingdom, in each of which we
carry on business, has exceeded fourteen
millions. During the year we subscribed
more than four millions. This amount
again exceeded the growth in our assets,
and absorbed . the whole of the year’s
accumulations and almost the whole of
the moneys repaid by borrowers. Our
subscription to the current Australian
Victory Loan was £2,500,000.
Although the Field IStaff has been drasti-
cally reduced by enlistment and by em-
ployment on essential war service, the new
business approached the high level of the
pre-war years. In the Ordinary Branch
the new policies assured £6,800,388, and
in the Industrial Branch £4,142,727. The
number of policies in force continues to
increase, and now totals 838,767, assuring
with bonuses £111,873,756, the average
sum assured for each policy being £l2O.
At the end of the year the total assets
of the Company, comprising all funds for
backing and meeting policy and other
liabilities, were £39,357,695, an increase of
£2,803,295. The total income from all
sources was £5,914,805. Payments to
policy-holders were £2,038,385, an average
disbursement for each working day of
over £7OOO. Payments in respect of war
deaths were £174,598, bringing the total
since the war began to £459,358. The
total payments to policy-holders since the
inception of the Company amount to
£47,271,886.
Although interest' rates have been falling
for the last decade, and since the outbreak
of war there has been a large diversion of
our assets into Government loans, with a
corresponding decrease in the average
rates of interest earned, the securities in
which the assurance funds are invested
earned during 1943 £4/9/9 per cent, for
the Ordinary Branch, and £4/10/- per cent,
for the Industrial Branch. After deduc-
tion of taxes these rates reduce to £3/19/11
and £3/19/9 respectively.
Bonuses tor 1943 have been declared for
eveiy class of participating policy on
scales which are the same as or greater than
those of last year, and compare favorably
with those ol life assurance offices here
and abroad. The new bonus added to each
policy is recorded in our books, but, in line
with other life offices, to meet the wishes
of the Directorate of Man-power and the
Department of War Organisation of In-
dustry, the Company does not propose
to issue the usual bonus certificates.
By careful and economical management
the Company has reduced expense rates
in both the Ordinary and the Industrial!
Branch to levels which are notable
achievements in Australia or in any other
country, with consequent benefit to policy-
holders. The expense rates in the Indus-
trial Branch are so low that they approach
closely to the rates which are usual in the
Ordinary Branch in life assurance offices
in North America.
Assurance on the lives of breadwinners,
particularly of those serving in the forces,
has given a sence of security to many
families, and disbursements to policy-
holders and their dependant's have an
added value and significance in these times.
Life assurance and disbursements have
both contributed to high and resolute
morale.
In seconding the motion, Mr. A. M.
Eedy said:
The year now under review is the 25th
since the close of the last war. At the
end of 1918 the sums assured in force in
the Ordinary Branch in Australia and New
Zealand were £22,511,275. At the end of
1943 they were £67,377,032. In the In-
dustrial Branch the growth has been even
more remarkable. The 1918 total of
£5,460,478 for Australia and New Zealand
rose to £26,118,677.
I speak for the Board as well as for
myself in paying a high tribute to the
manner in which the whole staff has dis-
charged- its duties. I can speak, too, for
everyone associated with the Company
when I say that we do not forget the
tribute that is justly due to those who are
serving or who have served in the war,
and to those who laid down their lives.


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hasset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
» * * ♦
DAVIES k COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
$
0
3
W
&
GREAT
HAVE
THEV
AND
JOB TO DO
The war years have proved the sterling qualities
of OLYMPIC Cables. The vital part they are
destined to play in meeting the requirements of
#urS/
WAB
JAV/AUrS
STAMPS
OLYMPIC
TYRES
post-war reconstruction will provide
further proof of the completely depend-
able character of Australian workman-
ship.
Olympic
E,
RUBBER
INSULATED
THE OLYMPIC TYRE &
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
m
m
m
mmmi
mm
Wiiererer fhe wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
heather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
IWjIJL 0
4%
4
K
m
VERNON
LOeiMfß
1
ran
n
Every penny saved is a direct contribution to the
war effort.
We do help the war effort if we place our money in a
Savings Bank account, or if we buy 5/- National Sav-
ings Stamps, thus avoiding unnecessary spending.
One page of a National Savings Stamp book will
contain enough stamps (£2) for use as a deposit or
instalment on a War Bond, while the full book will
purchase a £lO Bond outright. Single pages of
stamps (£2) will be accepted as a deposit to a Sav-
ings Bank account if required.
Get your free book and purchase your 5/- National
Savings Stamps from any Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office and put your savings on service to
speed the victory.
commonuiEßLTH
9 sflumos brnk
. OF Australia
C. 8.8
average price, due to receipts for exports,
that put the spring of £6lBB in last year s
net earnings. These were figured after
making unspecified provision for taxation
and allowing £13,896 (down £686) for
depreciation. The £32,320 of profit
claimed was 11.5 p.c. on capital as
against 9.3, 8.9, 11.2, 12.2 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1938. The div. was kept at 81
p.c., and £8520 was put on the shelf, lift-
ing free reserves to £84,965. In addition
there is the depreciation reserve
(£222,684), some of which might be genu-
ine profit. So, altogether, capital has the
support and assistance of £307,649 of
accumulated earnings, which makes 81
p.c. on capital alone a moderate return
on total shareholders’ funds.
Here is the position looked at from
another angle:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 51,453 118,978 103,560 145,780
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 484,138 492,763 512,540 527,956
Stocks.. .. 42,192 143,879 122,392 163,837
Government *
securities, etc. 20,000 28,000 40,000 50,000
Sundry debtors 40,707 14,403 4,317 2,030
Cash, etc. .. 11,272 1,524 1,444 1,526
* Including provision for taxation.
Liabilities (up £42,220 last term) include
an unspecified allowance for taxation.
This and other allowances, together with
the year’s surplus earnings, enabled the co.
to carry an extra £41,445 of stocks, put
£lO,OOO into Government securities and
spend £15,416 on fixed assets. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£71,613) was £17,020.
What the post-war period holds for the
industry remains to be seen. War-time
multiplication of producing centres
threatens to complicate the overproduc-
tion problem. Australian growers are
anxious to resume their obligations in
terms of the pre-war International Sugar
Agreement, under which Britain took a
minimum of some 400,000 tons of Aus-
tralian raws annually.
Mt. Morgan (Q.)
The co. will soon offer a new issue of
pref. shares for the purpose of repaying
the present pref. issue and providing
additional working capital. Details of
the new issue, which present pref. holders
will have the right to take up pari passu
with their existing holdings, have yet to
be announced. The existing 200,000 £1
8 p.c, prefs. were put out in 1938, redeem-
able in eight years or after five years at
the co.’s option.
At June 30 last pref. capital redemption
reserve stood in the books at £132,912.
Government securities figured at £125,506,
and more or less liquids totalled £352,671.
There was only £18,218 coming to out-
siders. Fixed and wasting assets had a
book value of £779,774, of which the
mine accounted for £53,420, and plant,
etc., the balance. In October last there
was still about £40,000 to be spent on
completing the new reverbatory furnace,
and an electric shovel was installed in
March, 1944. Another power shovel is
in course of delivery, and a third is ex-
pected to be shipped from England by
the end of June next.
For the year to June 30, 1943, net
return from mining was £79,947 (down
£44,963). For the five-odd months to
Dec. 11, 1943, a deficit of £47,276 showed
up, after providing £24,232 for deprecia-
tion and £14,238 for Federal gold tax,
of which “a substantial part” is expected
to be refunded. Losses continued until
last month, when a working surplus of
£2285 was claimed, before allowing for
depreciation, etc.
The losses have been due to treatment
of a smaller quantity of lower-grade ore
in both No. 1 (ore reserve) mill and No.
2 (overburden) mill. Overburden, which
had previously showed a handsome profit,
has not much more than covered work-
ing costs. Last month’s improvement
followed installation of the power shovel
already referred to. Additional shovels
should further increase ore deliveries to
the mills and reduce costs, which have
climbed rapidly over the last couple of
years.
Man-power remains the co.’s chief dif-
ficulty. Though closing down of Mt.
Chalmers mine provided Mt. Morgan
with some 30 additional men, another
100-odd men are still required for full
and normal functioning of the under-
taking.
Commonwealth expenditure in the hunt
for war minerals amounted to £774,126
in 1942-43, while £33,637 was received
from metal sales, etc., leaving net outlay
at £740,489. Grants to State Mines De-
partments for assistance to producers
took £144,100; mining of wolfram and
copper in Centralia, £221,756; mica
mining by the Allied Works Council,
£67,439 ; other mica activities, £39,000 ;
a dozen projects worked as Government
enterprises elsewhere than in Centralia,
£168,036 ; search for oil, £33,064; com-
pany loan for copper production, £29,947.
While some shows may still be in the
development stage and war needs may
have justified abnormal risk-taking,
results by departmental-operated pro-
jects appear a poor advertisement for
Government enterprise. Including a
further £113,800 sunk in the five months
to November 30, a total of £368,939 had
been spent on copper and wolfram
mining in Centralia for mineral receipts
of £29,217, while mica expenditure to
June 30 had visibly produced only £7084
worth of that basic material of the elec-
trical trades,
* * ♦ *
From London : Gold is selling at a
high price in India. Producers there are
permitted to dispose of their output in
the Bombay bullion market, where the
price is approx. £l4 an ounce as against
the London official price of £8 Bs. The
bulk of the premium, however, is taken
by the Mysore Government.


! S5*V
a
V;
SJf
' : 2VV
S£sSS
. <
gg
a 5
F\»
ms
=\s^
r-y^p
lm .
s
fteep Unto
If out 4-Jo me
If you're a good Australian, you're saying now, investing in
War Savings Certificates, contributing to the Government
Loans. But the money you lend is still YOUR MONEY.
Are you one of the thousands who will use that money to
buy a home?
If so, you are interested in materials and you should Investigate
the advantages of SISALKRAFT which will protect ceilings
from roof drips and ensure that the walls are damp-proof in
all weathers.
SISALKRAFT is doing a war job today but after Victory it
will play an important part in post-war building plans.
5 \$A LK MFT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty,, Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co,, Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
for Growth
3
m
■ .
Bournville Cocoa is a grand food for growing children.
Milk in itself is a valuable food, but when Bournville
Cocoa and a little sugar are added, you obtain forty-five
per cent, more nutriment than from milk alone. More-
over, in Bournville Cocoa you provide a drink that
is welcomed by children who often refuse milk. The
rich chocolaty flavour of Bournville Cocoa is the secret.
CABBOR* S
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Made hy the makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
8CP1.15
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Our Real Problems
Australia is a country of many proven
natural resources. But its pre-eminence
in woolgrowing and its remarkably cheap
steel, among other advantages which come
readily to mind, cannot be taken as in-
dicative of the economic position of all
its industries. Ironstone deposits in this
country, so far as they have been proved,
have their limits, and, though the Broken
Hill mines are famous for lead and
spelter, a Coppermine that could compete
economically with those of Rhodesia and
other parts of Africa is unknown in the
Commonwealth. Flow oil has not been
discovered so far, and water-power is
scarce in this dry, brown land, sharply
contrasting with Canada, now the most
progressive of all Empire countries in
spite of its deficiency of developed iron
ore. The immense Minnesota deposits
just across the border in U.S.A. have
solved the Canadian problem so far, but
the Dominion is not leaving it at that.
This country, indeed, is only partly
developed. It is difficult to say what
natural resources a more intensive
survey would reveal, but unless there
exists in Australia an incentive to
explore and re-explore the land no
such survey will be made. The con-
tinent is still in that rough state where
gamble and adventure hold the key to
much future development. The gambler
who puts up the money and the adven-
turer who goes forth and takes other
risks must see before them the chance of
fortune as well as of failure. The right
to cash-in must not be denied by ob-
structive economic conditions, by union-
ism that has turned into racketeering or
by red-tape, otherwise all individual in-
centive will be destroyed, and the nation
will decay instead of progress.
Our manufacturing industries are at a
critical stage. More and more their exist-
ence will depend on economical produc-
tion and increasing population.
The world outside Australia is chang-
ing rapidly. There are threats to our
wool industry from overseas synthetics,
and in various countries struggles are
going on which get down to the very
blood and the very bone of existence.
Science, grown into a giant, while tend-
ing to solve economic problems for some
countries, is creating new ones for others.
At this stage of the history of the world
the Australian Government is intensely
preoccupied with party doctrines and poli-
tics, and is dictated to very often by union
bosses who were not bom in Australia.
The Commonwealth’s representative at
the conference of the 1.L.0. in Phila-
delphia, Mr. Beasley, cut the figure of a
politician oblivious of the troublous reali-
ties of the present or the future. He ap-
peared ignorant of Australia’s increasing
production costs and other growing
economic difficulties, and of the prob-
lems of Great Britain.
Class hatred, ear-tickling fallacies and
untruths are still part of Labor’s political
repertoire. All tend to add artificially-
created difficulties to those which existed
in Australia before Captain Cook set foot
on it. The Labor party now stands un-
compromisingly for the maintenance
and/or increase of bureaucratic strength
in the public offices and for the control
of private initiative after the war. While
ostensibly a champion of improved living
standards, the party, by its policy of
increasing bureaucratic deadheads, by
its love for obstructive “controls,”
by its dislike of increased produc-
tion per man notwithstanding use
of mechanical aids, and by the law-
less and militant attitude displayed
only too often by some of the more
powerful unions, is doing much to impair
living standards and to deny to this coun-
try that larger and more secure place in
the world to which it would otherwise
seem entitled.
Lacking petroleum and short of water-
power, the Commonwealth relies greatly
on its coal resources. Years ago Aus-
tralia exported coal to eager buyers in
other parts of the world. Now, in a time
of great strain, the coalminers have deli-
berately cut down production to a point
of extreme national embarrassment. Mr.
Curtin has said he doesn’t know how to
get more coal. Largely because of his
party’s policy other industries are ap-
proaching a similar state of failure. And
yet the Government continues to play
at politics, to order productive industry
about, and to dream of an Australia tied
up hand and foot by bureaucrats and
trade-union bosses, with permits, priori-
ties and coupons ordering our lives.
The time is approaching when bureau-
cratic grandiosity and regimented sec-
tionahsm should be booted out. The
future of Australia lies in its capa-
city for working hard with what Nature
ritL P nT;' ‘L “d >n the abdity ot its
citizens to use their individual mtelli-
gences and to make ventures. When the
only private venture Australians may
make becomes the buying of a ticket in
a Government lottery or a totalisator we
had better hand ourselves over to the
care of what remains of the continent’s
original inhabitants.
...
Minister Calwell, in the process of
labelling “quite a number” of members
of the second A.I.F. as “economic con-
scripts,” was no more fair in his descrip-
tion of Australian economic affairs,
Conditions of 1939 would not again be
tolerated in an Australian community, he
said. He added that the Government was
now spending £5OO million a year on the
war, and practically everyone willing and
able had obtained remunerative, full-time
employment. When war expenditure
ceased “it would be for the people to de-
cide whether Australia would be as pros-
perous in the post-war years as at pres-
g£*J2% M „ r „ C j“r el1 ’ 7 hiS S f iSfaC '
tion with the present employment posi-
tion and the alleged “prosperity,”
overlooks is that there are something
approaching 800,000 Australians in the
armed forces, many of them on 6s. 6d. a
day, and that is far more than were on
the dole in the early ’thirties. With those
men looking for jobs the present Govern-
ment would have every bit as much
trouble in giving them employment as had
Australian Governments in 1938-39—not
that 1938-39 was a bad year by any
means; unemployment was less than
10 p.c. of registered trade-uriionists, and
living standards were far higher than
at present. In any case, it is strange
to hear a Labor member like Cal-
well saying what he did about war as an
employment-giver. The party has been
more in the habit of conferring the plums
of office on previous recipients of the dole
than on returned soldiers.
• • • • • •
Even though the end of the war may
not yet be in sight—Mr. Calwell does not
expect peace before 1946—the Govern-
ment is having trouble in keeping its
munitioneers employed, as disclosed by
Comrade Ernie Thornton in “Labor
News” and by N. S. Wales Opposition
Leader Weaver, and as indicated by
Navy Minister Makin in his naval
construction plans that will take four
to five years to complete. Mr. Cal-
well after his asse rtion that 1939 condi-
ions would no , ain be toleratedj said
h , who considered that
“ \ £ y . u ~ *
Australia after the war would be the
same as ln would be disillusioned,
as well as those who expected a great
reduction in taxation. The accumulated
debt of the Federal and State Govern-
ments was £2OOO million, on which in-
terest had to be paid. Although The
Bulletin likes this debt no more than
Mr. Calwell, it is, nevertheless, aware
that j n sp i te of an increase from £1295
million in the debt on June 30, 1939, to
£2104 million on December 31, 1943, the
interest bill rose only from £46.2 million
to £63.6 million—a rise of £17.4 million.
In the same period Commohwealth and
State taxation combined rose from £124
million to £283 million up £159 million,
The interest bill alone is not going to
stand in the way of any great reduction
* n post-war taxation. But the Govern-
?*»? » social-secunty nonsense taken
“ W 1 h the bloatad bureaucracy and other
“O'. l£ allowed to contmue
W lcn tle war ls over -
Income tax during the 10 months to
.
April 30 collected by the Commonwealth
authority was £ll4 million, compared
Wlth £76 million in the corresponding
previous period. The pay-as-you-go
25 p.c. slug was partly responsible, but
there has also been the assistance of
higher taxation rates generally since
April, 1943. Rates were then lifted with
the double objective of aiding war finance
and establishing a “national welfare”
fund.
_ .* ~ * , * .' *
During the current financial year to
April 30 only £1,896,000 had been paid
into the national welfare fund, though the
round sum mentioned at the announce-
ment of the scheme was £3O million. If
anything like £3O million a year is taken
during the war it will alter the present
improving ratio of taxation to expendi-
ture, and the 25 p.c. “surcharge” on wages
that is going to be mostly collected this
year will be non-recurring. There will still
be the impost on property income to come
in over the next three years.


STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
o
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
Please use less
Hi
*
BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yes! you can use the last drop.
Lay-by for Victory. Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
m
OH
*'
LYSAGHT'S
GALVANIZED IRON
LYSAGHT'S
ZINCANNEAL
LYSAGHT'S
BLACK IRON
Wherever the war is being fought—on the farm,
in industry, and in the front lines—you'll find
Lysaght's Galvanized Corrugated Iron playing its
part. That’s because it has been proved time
and time again that there can be no satisfactory
substitute for the great strength, long life and
economy of this outstanding building material. Capable of quick erection, and
with the ability to stand up to the hardest wear and weather, its popularity on
the fighting fronts has meant a severe limitation of supplies for civilian use, but
it Is hoped that the day is not far distant when this famous building sheet
can again be made available in greater quantities to the general public.,
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
S I D I EI MELBOURNE BRISBANE A D E I 1 i 0 E PERTH
1107*3504 ’
-t I—
f*
»i
i nv
« V!\
S'
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue R 5.
AGA
REGO. TRADE MARK
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
cm
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
Mr. Beasley and Private Enterprise
From Oliver Hogue, press secretary to
the Minister for Supply and Shipping:
In B. 10/5/’44 you say, on page 20, “Aus-
tralia’s Mr, Beasley has had a sneer at' private
enterprise in this country while addressing the
1.L.0. in Philadelphia and has incidentally mis-
represented the more sober and praiseworthy
section of the Australian economy”; and on
page 21 you say, “Supply Minister Beasley,
from the distance of Philadelphia, has thrown
a gibber at B.H.P. and the rest of Australian
private industry.”
You do Mr. Beasley a great injustice by per-
petuating a daily press report which he repudi-
ated as an unfair summary of what he had
said and by omitting all reference to his later
statement that he recognised that Australian
manufacturers had performed miracles in
strengthening the nation for war and that for this
the people of Australia should be most grateful.
It follows that the inference you draw from
this repudiated report that Mr. Beasley “has
thrown a gibber at the B.H.P. and Australian
private industry” is false.
Any suggestion that Mr. Beasley belatedly
paid this tribute to Australian industry after he
had been criticised is refuted by the fact that
on many occasions and at many places in Aus-
tralia he has publicly acknowledged the great
work private enterprise has done. A few days
before he left Australia for Philadelphia he
publicly praised Australian firms which, he
said, had brushed aside peace-time considera-
tions of cost, risk, and capital in the interests of
the war effort, and a few weeks before he had
said that if we had been left without the facili-
ties to develop the meagre war equipment.we
had when Japan struck Pearl Harbor the results
would have been too horrible to contemplate.
He said that fortunately in iron and steel we
had a flourishing undertaking and in clothing
and scores of other directions we had plant
and skilled operatives. They had meant well-
nigh the difference between victory and defeat
and our gratitude must be expressed to all who
had planned and worked for that development
in the years gone by.
I am sure any impartial person will agree
that in the circumstances blunt reports that Mr.
Beasley has condemned private enterprise are
not fair to him, and consequently I feel confi-
dent, in asking you to publish the foregoing
facts that you will do so.
The A.A.P. cable, as published in vari-
ous dailies over the last week-end in
April, read;
The Australian Minister for Supply, Mr.
Beasley, told the employment committee that
Australia would have been invaded long ago if
she had waited for private enterprise.
He was speaking during a discussion on a
statement by Mr. Myers, for the U.S. em-
ployers, which strongly favored increasing
employment by full development of private
enterprise.
Mr. Beasley contended that the proposals
could not be adapted to Australia.
Under the heading “Mr. Beasley’s
Statement: Says 1.L.0. Report Was Un-
fair,” the Melbourne “Herald” reported
on May 4:
Mr. Beasley said: “I said the value of private
enterprise depended on the conditions in each
country. America has developed a railway
system, but if Australia had depended on a
profitable railway system Australia would not
have had the present vast systems built with
public funds, and without these systems we
would have been invaded.
“The Australian manufacturers had per-
formed miracles, for which the Australian
public should be most grateful.”
Whether or not the “repudiation”
makes any more sense than the cabled
version, it is well worth putting on record
that Jack Beasley believes that Austra-
lian manufacturers have performed
miracles, and that he, as a member of the
Australian public, feels bound in grati-
tude to them.
The First Victory Loan of £l5O million
was filled by “more than 440,000 sub-
scribers,” after an extension of the sub-
scription period. The preceding war loan,
of £125 million, was supported by 567,700
subscribers, though the Government said
during its flotation that the Treasury
would not be satisfied with Jess than
750,000 applicants. It has been stated in
the press that the latest loan was filled
without the help of the central bank or
the trading banks. It appears, neverthe-
less, to have been supported strongly by
the savings-bank department of the cen-
tral bank and other savings banks, as in
the past. Only one Australian in
every 15 supported the latest loan
directly, so it is logical that the popu-
lar repository of the people’s sav-
ings should have beln looked to for in-
direct investment in the loan. The sav-
ings banks have been accumulating funds
at the rate of about £lO million a month,
and so long as the people decline to with-
draw their money for direct investment
in war loans the s.-bs. are almost obliged
to invest in such loans the money left
in their care —there is no other major
outlet left for them. But it would be far
better if people took part of their money
out of the banks and put it directly into
war loans. And in view of their apparent
reluctance to do this it might help, at the
next flotation, if all racing and other
gambling conveniences, including lot-
teries, were shut down for the duration
of the loan. The “gamble bug” is just as
much a menace to sound war-time finance
as is the publicised “squander bug.”
* * * *
Declaration by M.L. Government that
war-time controls , are to be rapidly
abolished after the war has put commer-
cial circles in a ferment, and some very
pointed questions were asked by the
Associated Chambers of Commerce.
While expressing pleasure at the an-
nouncement, they want to know whether
controls existing before 1939, which have
been greatly intensified during the war,
are to be retained. They point out that
fixed prices for many commodities were
introduced before the war, and plead for
a clearer definition of the term “war-time
controls.” They are unlikely to get it.
Labor swept into office in 1935 on a plat-
form from which the objective “socialisa-
tion of the means of production, distribu-
tion and exchange” had not been deleted.
Since then nothing of that aim has been
heard from Labor circles, official or other-
wise, but students of political affairs in
the Dominion have watched the develop-
ment in recent years of a system of State
monopolies and private monopolies aided
and abetted by the State.
Recognition of the need for some post-
war controls is general among the busi-
ness community across the Tasman ; what
is urged is the speedy removal of in-
numerable petty regulations and restric-
tions which hamper development in every
field. Before the war the Fraser Gov-
ernment took over control of dairy
produce, fruit, honey, hops, eggs and
various forms of produce. No one looks
to the removal of these controls by the
present Government after the war or at
any other time. But while there has been
no declaration by the Government clari-
fying its policy concerning post-war con-
trol the Opposition, too, has maintained
a discreet silence on this point. A blanket
promise by Mr. Holland’s party to re-
store private enterprise, though encourag-
ing to a wide section of commercial life,
conflicts with statements by members of
his party affirming the necessity for a
measure of State regimentation and con-
trol. Many businessmen in M.L. are
thirsting for details of policy from both
sides of the political fence.
* * * %
Assuming that First Victory Loan sub-
scriptions just made the £l5O, million,
then public borrowings during this war
have now reached £660 million. For the
present financial year the total is £276
million, apart from war-savings certifi-
cates. Money coming in from the latter,
plus borrowings from internal funds,
should bring the final total near to the
£3OO million aimed at by the Treasurer
in his Budget. It is likely that tax revenue
will be greater than anticipated, and that
the resort to Treasury-bill finance will
not exceed the £lO3 million set down in
the estimates. Total expenditure on war
in the Commonwealth is not exceeding
estimates so far this year.


THE SERVICE MAN
Onward in the North.
“Ek Dum”: Further advances by
Allied forces in the East Indies-New
Guinea area were reported by the week’s
communiques, with new co-operations
which showed how soon general drives
against the Japanese are likely to be fused
into a whole.
The sign of this coming union was the
participation of Lord Louis Mountbat-
ten’s South-east Asian forces in the air
bombardment of Soerabaya, which took
place on the night of May 17.
The main attack was made at dawn,
the converging mid-Pacific and South-
east Asian forces being ship-borpe. Aim-
ing at oil facilities, dumps, shipping and
harbor installations, they wrecked a
powerhouse at the refineries, set fire to
storage and stills, damaged a couple of
dry docks, sank ten ships totalling 35,000
tons, smashed the Braat naval engineer-
ing works and destroyed 21 enemy air-
craft. Three naval aircraft were lost.
Some hours later in the darkness round
midnight Australian heavies arrived after
a 1200-mile flight and blasted railway,
yards and facilities. Though the journey
involved a 2600-mile round trip all came
safely home.
This was the seventh raid on Soera-
baya. Neither sea-borne machines nor
long-distance heavies can carry the same
lethal loads which are dropped by indi-
vidual bombers in Europe, but consider-
able damage can be done by them and the
way paved for greater things.
Wakde Landing
On New Guinea the Americans at
Hollandia leapt forward 120 miles toward
the last great enemy bases in Dutch
N.G, by landing on Wakde.
The landing was a cat of quite another
color to that at Hollandia. In that region
there were supposed to be 14,000-odd of
the enemy, but resistance was small, the Jap
being reported to have taken to his heels.
When the Americans attacked Wakde
on May 21 they found there elements of
the Japanese Thirty-sixth Division, which
took part in the capture of Singapore,
backed by a strong corps of snipers.
Fighting spirit had not been knocked out
of the enemy by air bombardment which
had torn the island’s military areas to
pieces the previous day, though the bomb-
ing and strafing runs of the R.A.A.F. ahead
of the landing forces had a good effect.
Against well-placed sniping posts the
Americans had to approach on open-
decked boats. As they landed they were
met by a blast of machine-gun fire. The
beach was blocked with the wreckage of
enemy barges and other debris.
When the Americans were ashore the
defence slackened until they reached the
airstrip, when they came under more
m.-g. and considerable mortar fire. They
had to wait for the tanks to come up
before they could tackle the wide field of
foxholes and bunkers well hidden all over
the island in every conceivable kind of
cover in every possible type of terrain,
from cliff faces to flat sand. These hide-
outs were winkled clean of troops or
blown out by the guns of the Shermans
or rocket guns. But after a morning of
hot work the Japanese still had enough
kick left in them for a strong counter-
attack.
A further landing was made near
Sarmi, on the New Guinea mainland, off
Wakde, and up to May 19, a week after
the advance, 550 enemy dead on Wakde
and the mainland, many armed with
Australian and U.S. weapons, were
counted. Allied casualties to that date
had been 16 killed, two missing and 83
wounded.
Allied air squadrons are now busy
softening up Manokwari, the main Japa-
nese base on Geelvink Bay, and other
footholds on the mainland and islands
round the bay.
On the Australian Mandated mainland
coast, Australians from Madang and
Americans from Aitape have pushed
closer together. There is still about 120
miles of coastline, with Wewak as its
centre, to be cleaned up.
Bombing continued over Rabaul and
most of the other main bases of New
Guinea and the old Jap Mandate and
Wake Island, but operations had an air
of marking time.
The Rains Arrive.
“Ek Dum”: The Burmese border cam-
paign can be reckoned as over till
November, The final battles of Kohima
Ridge were fought in the first heavy
showers of the rains. Our men regained
all positions on the ridge, making the
Manipur position generally safe.
The final fighting cost the Japanese
3000 casualties, bringing their losses in
c ° f , AAA
p U ™ a for s ? as f/ 1 aear y ~
British casualties in the final stages, how-
ever > were admittedly heavy, as was to
be expected in this type of fighting against
foxholes on hillsides, where armored sup-
port is difficult or impossible,
The Hukawng Valley American-
Chinese forces of General Stilwell reached
the outskirts of Myitkina, the northern
terminus of the Irrawaddy railway in
the heart of Burma, having captured the
airstrips. On May 21 Myitkina was im-
mediately threatened,
Th Tananp(jp nrn u aWv nnt regard
this area as of ™ ch ™P“‘ance.
British and Kachin levies from Fort
Hertz region are bearing down on Myit '
kina from the north, and to the south the
British Wingate firce under General
T antai „ n _ ha „ alrpaflv mt the line—
*ough whether permanently is not known
• £• A . T+
needsthe capture ofthelntermediate
Mogaung control
r * t
Meanwhile, a force of about 20,000
Chinese is reported to have crossed the
Salween from the Yunnan side and cap-
tured towns in ‘‘the greatest Chinese
offensive since the beginning of the war
with Japan.”
The Salween is a big river. The country
along it is wild and difficult. And if the
Chinese have made a successful crossing
with so small a body of troops in that
region it can mean only one of two
things •
( i)'Either the Japanese are getting out
of Burma, as the comparatively easy estab-
lishment of the Wingate force in the heart
of the north rather suggested, and their
attacks in Manipur and strong actions in
Ar ,^ a ° w< f re cover for
(2 ) Or the Japanese wish the Chinese to
lengthen their lines of communication to
the edges of the dry heart of Burma before
they deliver a main assault against them,
The rains wjH aSect campaign
almost as much as that on the j£ di | n
border in ways ,
/ ~ , ,
They need not, of course, block naval
operations. They might even assist the
ies in foo holds in Burmese,
Malayan and East Indian ports in cer-
tam circ u mstances -
Great hopes are being built by Ameri-
can newspapers on the opening of the
Burma Road to Chungking. It is of no
importance in terms of the major cam-
P a ign against Japan, except politically,
The long, winding, dangerous highway
has only capacity to deliver in Chung-
king from week to week the war supplies
of a division or so fighting on scant
rations and ammunition,
The vital thing for China is for the
Allies to acquire defendable ports on the
Chinese coast.
Summer on the Channel.
With a pause of 24 hours owing to
bad weather, the month-long bombing u f
interior Europe from Britain was con-
tinued on May 14. At the same time
German raiders attacked districts in south
and south-west England dedicated to in-
vasion assembly, particularly Avonmouth,
the port of Bristol, where, the enemy
declared, “great” forces of barges and
ships lay loaded. The raiders lost 15
machines.
They were in small force compared
with the armadas, from the heaviest
“heavies” to the fighter squadrons, which
passed into occupied Europe and Ger-
many from Britain, with some excursions
towards the Russian front. But the
weather was far from perfect, and there
was another cessation at mid-week.
Like clockwork the second fortnight in
May begins with fogs in the Channel and
tempests every year. On May 17 the
temperatures fell in Dover to the forties,
following a limited attack on Berlin by
R.A.F. Bomber Command, which had
no losses. This raid was followed by
U.S, day attacks on a small scale on the
German capital, but operations did not
again reach their full scale till May 20,
when 4000 sorties were flown across the
Channel against Western Germany, the
Lowlands and northern French approaches
and in mining operations off the North
Sea coasts. Dieppe suffered a substan-
tial attack.
Preparations for the invasion are obvi-
ously well advanced on both sides of the
Channel, if not complete. In London
all the great Government buildings in
Whitehall are being fitted as dormitories
so that staffs can sleep on the job.
In Germany the Command in the west
was announced. Marshal von Rundstedt
continues C.-in-C. The two army groups
are commanded by Marshals Rommel
and Blaskowitz, with General Sperrle as
Chief of the Luftwaffe, and General
Christiansen, developer of German para-
troop and glider forces, in Holland.
It is indicative of the length of prepa-
ration and of the general trend of
German strategy that Rundstedt and Blas-
kowitz were withdrawn to the west before
the German retreat from the Volga be-
gan in November, 1942. It can be
reckoned that at the end of 1942 the
west had become vitally important in
German eyes and it was thought worth
while to place it under the most success-
ful group-front commander of the Rus-
sian war surrounded by all his best staff
men and organisers—General Stuepnagel
and others.
On May 29 summer officially comes in
in Britain—the day when Guards and
Chelsea pensioners normally change into
their scarlet coats.
Alexander Calls the Tune.
“Ek Dum”; The news from Italy
makes good reading. The Germans are
falling back before the British, Indians,
S. African armored troops, Canadians,
French, Americans and Poles op the
Roman side of the Garigliano and
Rapido rivers.
One of those newspaper “experts” who
used to trap 750,000 Germans in Russia
dt a time advanced the theory that
General Alexander has “at last aban-
doned frontal assault in favor of Rus-
sian tactics by-passing a strongpoint
and then storming it after having starved
it of supplies.” Shades of Clausewitz
and Bonaparte, whose bones must have
creaked with laughter in the Invalides!
Actually, the technique of this battle
dates back to Alamein, and has been
copied on some occasions by the Rus-
sians, and followed in principle in most
of the battles of the west. And Alamein
owed much to classical models.
At Alamein Montgomery gnawed into
Rommel’s best-covered and strongest
flank as his first move while pounding
the enemy’s whole line and keeping him
occupied elsewhere. When that flank
began to crumble —it was our Ninth
Division and the Scotties that did it —
Rommel had to use every available man
to hold it together, relaxing his abdomi-
nal muscles in the centre in the process.
At that point, Montgomery hit him fairly
in the breadbasket with about the most
powerful lump of armor which had ever
been seen in a real set battle —“a ball of
fire,” Mr. Churchill called it. It went
right through Rommel, its hard core
being Freyberg’s armored Maorilanders,
and came out looking for more fight on
the other side, as certain Germans learnt
very quickly at Mersa Matruh.
At the Mareth Line General Mont-
gomery varied the attack only slightly.
The Americans were grappling on the
landward flank trying to grip it. The
other German flank was on the sea, as in
the Gustav Line battle. Montgomery
chose a point near the sea flank and hit
with all his might of artillery, with in-
fantry following. But the desert giving
him a chance to manoeuvre with secrecy
and speed, he did not try to crush the
inland flank until he had sent Freyberg’s
men to sneak round and join the Ameri-
cans, making the Allied inland force
irresistible. Rommel’s game was up.
The final Tunisian battle was the same
in principle, with a few variations dic-
tated by elastic minds of good strategists.
General Alexander feinted hard at the
enemy’s left flank, near the Gulf of
Tunis, with the Eighth Army and the
French. And as the Germans and
Italians had become accustomed to look
for their main trouble where the Eighth
Army was, they watched that point and
provided for dealing with it. But Alex-
ander struck the first heavy blow with
French Moroccan and other African
troops and Americans in a force which
the enemy had not bargained for on the
opposite flank, towards Algiers. While
the enemy was staggering on that flank,
the British C.-in-C, borrowed a large sec-
tion of the Eighth Army and, with con-
centrated bombing, artillery and an irre-
sistible block of infantry and armor, he
smashed open the centre of Von Arnim’s
line as a nine of gelignite opens a log.
The whole enemy defence broke in little
bits from the vibration.
Alexander’s Methods
General Alexander and his coadjutors
have very little to learn from the Rus-
sians about strategy and tactics.
At Cassino, neither of the earlier main
attacks was a frontal assault on the main
Gustav Line in any sense.
Until spring arrived it was impossible
to attack up the valley on any scale, and
the Fifth Army had not resources enough
for a general attack. Its efforts, there-
fore, have been directed almost entirely
against the keyposts of the German left
(inland) flank.
The first attack by the Americans and
French in February tried to do to that
flank, before the Germans could
strengthen it, exactly what has been done
now, according to the best principles of
Clausewitz —to envelop it and crunch it
up, thus endangering the whole defence
line by getting behind it.
That nearly succeeded, but only nearly.
Some troops got as far behind Cassino
as Terella four miles and Mt.
Albaneta, but they were beaten back with
considerable loss.
The second attack in mid-March began
right at the north end of the German
Gustav Line after the great air bombard-
ment. The Enzedders and Indians aimed
to chew up that flank altogether. They
failed partly because of the weather;
partly because of the obstacles created
by the all-too-heavy bombing which dug
60-foot craters in the paths of the tank
support; partly because the avenues of
approach were so limited as to make it
impossible to deploy any great number
of attacking troops; partly, also, because
there were no diversions possible on other
parts of the line and the enemy could
concentrate entirely on Cassino flank
defence.
In the present battle General Alex-
ander’s force was sufficiently large to pro-
vide adequate reserves for all emergen-
cies, and to carry on concerted operations
well supported by artillery, tanks and air-
craft, on all sections of the frontal line,
thus making it impossible for the enemy
to transfer troops and guns to meet emer-
gencies unless he had big reserves handy.
The troops on the Cassino hill flank
had the advantage that the Germans were
now defending only ruins there, and that
in any case the Maorilanders and Indian
mountain troops in March had broken
into main defences, stayed in part of
them, learned valuable lessons in the tac-
tics of approach to the higher mountain
objectives and collected invaluable re-
connaissance data. There, part of the
battle —the part represented by the first
advances of the Ninth Division at Ala-
mein—had been largely achieved before
operations began in the all-out attack.
All being set, General Alexander let
off his barrage all the way along the
Garigliano and Rapido to the coast, or on
such parts as were necessary to keep the
Germans in position and the enemy’s
guns off the necks of his Liri Valley
infantry.
The main weight of his artillery blow
he threw at the floor of the Liri Valley,
south of Cassino, where the German de-
fences ran across the breadth of the
valley behind the Rapido River. They
were intersected by the road and railway
to Rome.
On this sector Alexander launched his
first infantry assault much on the lines or
that of the Australians and Scotties at
Alamein. It was a fujly-prepared-for at-
tack, made in early darkness, with proper
sapper preparation ahead to take care of
what the guns had left of the minefields.
There were pre-fabricated bridges to fit
the Rapido and carry an invasion force
swiftly across, and plenty of tanks and
mobile guns to come up in support.
While Allied guns and aircraft
blanketed the enemy artillery support on
the heights to right and left of the valley
the infantry went forward. They ad-
vanced in a matter of hours about two
miles, on an average, over the valley
floor.
The artillery support against the Ger-
man guns in the Cassino monastery area,
on the Allied right, had served the double
purpose of keeping the batteries quiet
and acting as a cover barrage for the first
enveloping moves of the Poles and other
troops round the Cassino positions and
to the north of them.
Counter-attack and Advance
The enemy did not take all this lying
down. He mustered material for a power-
ful counter-attack on the valley floor as
early as possible, because it was quite
obvious that if he could not ram a wad
into the hole the Indians and British were
boring at that place they would go clean
through him and turn and envelop his
flank on the seaward side, as well as
putting all the Cassino-monastery area in
danger of being enclosed. Perhaps he
knew already that the hole had been bored
too far for stoppage, and his counter-
blow, a fierce and heavy one, was cover


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL BRELSFORD late of Kogarah New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANCES
BRELSFORD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
162 of 1940 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that the said FRANCES
BRELSFORD is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 [2(a)] AND if
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th July 1944 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS. G. W. L.
CHARKER & CAHILL Solicitors of 109 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
for his first withdrawals, which were
decidedly ticklish.
It was about the stage when all this was
happening and the British and Indians
had started the leak along the German
communication lines that the gallant
French in the centre began to make
ground fast, taking Castelforte and scal-
ing the buttresses of the Arunci hills.
That they were helped to this by the suc-
cess of the first penetration by British,
Indian and Dominion troops does not
detract from their glory.
Castelforte stands —or rather clings—
high up the side of a forbidding sort of
mountain approached by a pretty long
incline. It is protected by hill flanks
which fall away fairly suddenly. It is yet
sufficiently low to be well dominated by
artillery and m.-g. fire from above.
The French and Moroccans did a good
job. Their subsequent adventures on
their northern flank, where they linked
hands with the British, were genuine bits
of mountaineering which took them up
3000 ft. with comparatively exposed flanks
and with terrain behind them suitable
for surprises. But their advance drove
the needed rivets into Alexander’s battle
structure.
The Americans on the sea side occu-
pied a bit of terrain after the heart of
romantic correspondents. The seaward
end is in mostly marshy country or re-
claimed marshy country facing along the
seaside to Formia, and beyond to the
high promontory of Gaeta, and abutting
hills cutting it off from the Pontine
Marsh.
At Formia Cicero was murdered.
Somewhere in the adjacent swamps
Marius quelled the assassin sept by Sulla
with his glance. A little further towards
Rome was the lair of Fra Diavolo,
remembered now in most histories only
as a “savage brigand.”
Gaeta was celebrated through the ages
as an impregnable position round which
Goths, Vandals and Normans raged in
vain. In Gaeta Garibaldi’s wars died in
a last bloodless victory. It is no longer
impregnable but a trap.
This sector, for the Germans, was only
worth defending so long as they could
hold back the French and the British in
their advance. They fought fiercely for
some time, losing and retaking villages
where the French and American flanks
joined ; but once the French gained the
heights on the right of Castelforte and
the British advance up the Liri Valley
began to gain momentum the enemy re-
treated fighting along the coastal sector.
Formia and Gaeta fell in quick succes-
sion. Only one more bit of rugged hill-
track flank remained to be taken. Where
the promontory runs to the sea at Terra-
cina and Trajan’s cutting cleaves a path
120 feet deep through it, the eucalypted
levels of the Pontine Marsh come into
sight, with broad Appian Way and rail
hugging the hill flanks to the right. The
Nettuno perimeter is little more than 20
miles away. Any German who stayed in
that area after the lock of Terracina was
forced would be asking for trouble.
On the Hitler Line
At Itri, a few miles onward from
Formia, a road runs inland, strik-
ing the railway from Cassino at Piedi-
monte. This road provides the rear-
ward lateral communication on the
Tyrrhenian flank across the Arunci
hills and through the vineland of Fondi,
for the second line of defence on the
Cassino front, known as the Hitler Line.
This line was merely a stratum in general
defence in depth, reaching back to Rome
or further. Its rear pivot is Arce, from
which one road goes up the Liri, swinging
towards the Adriatic to meet the Pescara-
Rome road at Avellina; the other,
directly up the broad Sacco valley and
along the Via Gasilina and rail to Rome.
The Germans abandoned the southern
approach to this line (Itri) and one of
its anchors (Fondi) as soon as the British
breached the Liri Valley defences, the
French advanced through the Gustav
positions and the Poles on the right flank
took the old Monastery Hill positions,
which began to be abandoned when the
enemy counter-attack against the British
and the Indians had failed.
With Terracina under heavy naval
fire, and Itri and Fondi in Ameri-
can hands and the British and French
near Ponte Corvo, Arce was in
danger at the week-end and the whole
seaward flank of the Germans on the
Tyrrhenian side of the Lepini moun-
tain barrier with it. It seemed likely
that the enemy, if he could not stem an-
other British break-through to Arce, must
retire at once to the Alban Hill lines of
defence in front of Rome, which are
anchored to the Nettuno-Anzio bridge-
head, or even further, with perhaps an
intermediate stand for breath before
Frosinone, 40 miles from Rome. But the
break-through, though threatened, had
not been accomplished.
The Germans were the objects of an
attack as densely manned as any in the
whole war on so short a line—Berlin
estimates the Allied forces at 140,000 in
the advance, apparently exclusive of
naval forces and those in the Nettuno-
Anzio bridgehead. They, on the other
hand, by May 20 had brought up much
heavy artillery, and the widening of the
valley was due soon to give them more
lateral mobility and service roads if they
continued to retire.
The enemy is fighting fiercely, but at
points where he could be expected to
fight when covering a retreat rather than
when holding ground. In places he left
behind fairly considerable stores —the
French in their sector found great caches
intact. Up to May 20 5500 enemy
prisoners had been taken.
But the best sign was the appearance
in enemy reports of phraseology empha-
sising the grimness of the struggle in all
sectors and the power and superiority of
Allied equipment. The battle was de-
scribed officially by Hitler’s H.Q. as a
great defensive battle, and the Allied
armies as far superior to the German.
Alexander’s Band
All was far from over, as some corre-
spondents seemed to think, on May 20,
but the fight gave promise of being a
neat, clean job, especially with the Allied
forces of Anzio, on the Roman side, and
the men in the old Eighth Army positions
before Pescara waiting to join in on oppo-
site flanks.
As has often been pointed out, how-
ever, speculation about the future in
battles on a large scale is a fool’s game.
The only battle clairvoyant who is worth
anything is one who knows what each
general is thinking in terms of strategy
and what reserves and transport each
possesses. Victory comes only when the
enemy is routed —and it often arrives
after the victors have seemed in danger of
defeat, as at Waterloo and Austerlitz.
Certain it is that Kesselring is dancing
to the tunes of Alexander’s Band. And
if Alexander has 140,000 fighting men for
the present battle he has 200,000 in the
front lines of Italy at least.
And 200,000 is a whale of a force. Well
served with modern equipment and naval
and air cover, it can do very great things.
Memories of Calais.
“Ek Dum”: The day on which this is
printed is not merely Empire Day in
the calendar of the British Common-
wealth. It might be celebrated as Salva-
tion Day in the calendar of this war. It
was the crucial day in the battle of Calais,
which made the Dunkirk evacuation pos-
sible in all its glory, and which changed
the whole course of the war.
Calais is in sight of the cliffs of England.
It is low-lying, its only high points being
in the old fishermen’s quarter of Cour-
gain along the frontages of the Avant
Port, inside the breakwater. From Eng-
lish cliffs you can pick out quite clearly
with a glass the two landmarks which dis-
tinguish the old town from the new —the
stout old square-based grey spire of
Notre Dame, just north of the Citadel,
and the ornate red brick and gilt column
of the tower of the Hotel de Ville, just
outside the inner perimeter in the new
town.
On May 22, 1940, the 30th British In-
fantry Brigade, under Brigadier Claude
Nicholson, landed at Calais. It consisted
of a battalion each of the K.R.R.C. —
the old 60th, raised in the American wars
—Queen Victoria’s Rifles and the Rifle
Brigade, with a battalion of the Royal
Tank Regiment and an anti-tank battery
of the Royal Artillery, Some straggling
units already in France joined this tiny
force; a few fighters came over, and the
small destroyers Vimiera and Windsor
were out at sea. They were heard firing
so long as there was life in the combat
which followed.
When the brigade arrived the town was
in confusion. Terrified civilians were
rolling in from as far away as the Bel-
gian border. All that was left of the
French garrison was 800 ill-armed men
in the Citadel. Trains of wounded added
to the muddle. When shipping was used
to take them away a large part of the
ammunition supplies which had been
brought in the ships was carried back
to England—it is surmised that this was
due to an order by one of the fifth
columnists who teemed in Calais in all
sorts of uniform, stirring up the con-
fusion, sniping and obstructing and
spying.
From the afternoon of the first day the
town was under growing shellfire. Re-
ports came in of great forces of Germans
rolling in from the south and south-east.
But British companies were flung out
towards Sangatte (on the Boulogne side),
Beauraarais (in the Dunkirk direction),
Adres and St. Omer in an attempt to
establish road blocks.
Gradually, fighting every inch of the
way, these companies or their remains
and the battered remhants of the all-too-
light tank squadrons were drawn inwards,
first to the eight-mile-long outer peri-
meter, then within the narrow inner peri-
meter round the Citadel and the Gare
Maritime, finally to the only high bit
of Calais, its oldest part, Courgain, by
the harbor. There in the dark of the
night on March 26 the last remnants fired
their last cartridges.
From the first it was obvious that all
or nearly all were doomed. They could
not be told exactly what reasons had
developed why they should defend Calais
till the death, because those reasons had
become potent and urgent only after their
arrival, when it became a question of
holding Calais to bar the progress of the
Germans towards Dunkirk, which they
hoped to reach in time to cut off the
whole expeditionary force.
It was on May 24 that the crisis came.
That day Brigadier Nicholson received a
wireless message from Whitehall:
Defence of Calais to the utmost is of
highest importance to our country as sym-
bolising our continued co-operation with
France. The eyes of the Empire are upon
the defence of Calais, and his Majesty’s
Government are confident that you and
your gallant regiments will perform an
exploit worthy of the British name.
Every man who heard it —it was sent
to all units —must have known it for a
death sentence.
That day the last ship, the Kohistan,
went out and took away a few techni-
cians who, it was thought, would be more
useful in Britain The passengers looked
back on men of the 60th waving and
cheering.
As the water supply failed two new
additions were made to the garrison.
About 100 Jollies came in from the
sea and joined the French at the H.Q.
in the Citadel with quiet Royal Marine
efficiency. And 125 men of the Royal
Artillery, an anti-aircraft battery detach-
ment from Belgium, marched stolidly
into the town. They had literally
fought their way out in three weeks’
incessant combat. They had fired their
guns point-blank down the roads till the
pieces burst, and they contributed only 20
rifles and six revolvers and a couple of
small a.-t. guns to the Calais armament.
But they paraded as if they were at Aider-
shot, in the square before the Musee and
the Burghers’ monument, and joined the
fray.
On Sunday, May 26, the Horse Guards
sent their last message to Brigadier
Nicholson:
Every hour you continue fo exist is of
the greatest help to the B.E.F. The Gov-
ernment has decided you must continue to
fight. Have greatest possible admiration
for your latest stand.
It is doubtful whether the message was
ever received. Nobody knows. That
morning a smirking little German with
a white flag came in between two tall
riflemen who cracked ribald jokes over
his head. He presented a demand for
surrender. Nicholson said briefly; “The
answer is no.”
By this time most of the new town was
in German hands. In the inner old town
by the port food and water had almost
run out. Every approach was a sheet of
machine-gun bullets. The tall, ancient
buildings with their Norman trip stairs
were crashing one by one into rubble.
Dive-bombers roared over incessantly.
Brens chattered. The two destroyers out
at sea were providing the only artillery
support for the British and French.
Late in the afternoon a mass of Ger-
mans with automatic arms broke into the
Citadel and trapped the brigadier—the
C.O. of the Rifle Brigade troops had been
killed the day before.
The last remnant of the British force,
the right company of the Sixtieth and a
company of the Vies., retired under heavy
flank fire across the lock gates to the high
narrow triangle of Courgain, with only
an average of five rounds of rifle am-
munition left and with no anti-tank cart-
ridges. They held till dark; then they
were ordered to separate and try to in-
filtrate through the enemy lines.
Next morning when Army co-operation
units flew over the Channel to parachute
supplies into Calais there was little of the
town left. And there was no sign of
British soldiers, though prisoners were
marching with high heads to the railway
station.
About 50 men were crouched out on
the end of the northern breakwater. That
night. May 27, they flashed a torch to
sea, and the watchful R.N. sent a boat
under German machine-gun fire. The
47 men carried to the ships were all that
were left of 3000 and more gallant
Englishmen and 800 French. The rest
were dead or prisoners.
The two German panzer divisions and
others roaring up behind them raced for
Dunkirk, but the gate had been opened
too late. Mr. Churchill’s fear that there
would be disaster had been staved off,
mainly because of the fight in Calais,
which had altered the course of the war
and saved a catastrophe which must have
rocked to the foundations the morale of
the British people standing alone against
their enemy.
Yet the story of these men has never
been told in Australia by newspapers
which babble of Russian vigor and sneer
at British hesitancy, and which see merit
and courage everywhere but in the one
nation which went voluntarily to war
against Hitler on the basis of a pledge,
the only one of all the present Allies
which did not delay in fighting until
surprised and attacked,
Russian Quiescence.
Save for patrol actions Russian activity,
as at this time last year and the year
before, was almost at a standstill, except
in two sectors. On the Lower Dniester
the Germans alleged that they had sur-
rounded a Russian division, and claimed
3000 killed. Russians gave an emphatic
denial to this story.
Moscow reported that the enemy lost
500 men in fierce fighting at the Tyraspol
bridgehead over the Dniester, and 300
south-west of Stanislawow. In this area
the Budapest Radio mentioned a drive
to the Carpathian foothills west of
Kalomea. But what is going on seems
more like sparring for positions. ' If the
Ukraine dries quickly there may be major
activity along the Carpathians within the
next two weeks, but a generalised cam-
paign along the whole front is scarcely
possible before July. Even if the mud is
cleared, it will take some time to turn
the improvement to account.
In brief:
The Japanese offensive in Honan, China,
appears to have bogged down at Loyang, but
weather has been bad and it is too early to
estimate the position.
* * * *
The captain of the British frigate Affleck,
Commander C. Gwinner, has reported a battle
with a U-boat in which the commander of tire
latter and 20 of the crew were killed on deck
and the submarine went down a raging inferno.
One German was taken prisoner. Affleck’s
steering was damaged. The gallant little ship
had sunk another U-boat only a few days
before, picking up 16 survivors.
* * * *
The escorts of an R.N. convoy to Murmansk
reported contests with U-boat packs while
transporting 250,000 tons of tanks, munitions
and aircraft through the Arctic. Two U-boats
were sunk and two damaged, and many others
probably damaged; but H.M.S. Mahratfa, a
Tribal destroyer, was torpedoed and lost.
* * * *
The Swiss Government, as protecting Power,
is making “urgent inquiries” into the German
shooting of 47 Allied airmen, among them four
Australians, all prisoners in Stalagluft 3, which
holds 4000 to 5000 R.A.F., Dominion and
Allied pilots. The victims were apparently in-
volved in an attempt at escape. It was the
third from the camp—in the first the escapees
tried to tunnel their way out, and, as in the
second, in which 90 were involved, all were re-
captured. It looks sinister that the enemy did
not notify the protecting authority of the
deaths. A Swiss Government official says there
is nothing to suggest that the shootings were
either a punishment or a reprisal.


IM
.
gHm
f 'i
I s X
m
g i
SSKW
MBE
.
ss®
i J
NUGGET
/Vrtsorvative
hPS
PO
a* /
y
7 1
MAKES THE SHINE
AND THE SHOES
LAST LONGER
THERE'S greater PERMANENCE in Nugget's brilliant shine greater
PROTECTION in its extra "body" . , , Nugget penetrates deeper into
the leather—keeps it extra supple stops "crows-feet" cracks. You
need less per shine, so every tin lasts longer. You save in every vay
by using Nugget Shoe Polish.
NP 13
SPORTING NOTIONS
Smaller attendance, 20,000, made racing
more comfortable at the Hawkesbury
meeting at Rosehill on Saturday. Totali-
sator turnover, £53,160 10s., was £BOOO
less than the Rosehill record, but the
machine still held more on one race than
it did a few years ago on a whole day.
Interference spoiled the chances of
many horses in the Flying Handicap, and
the main offender, Warbird, won nar-
rowly from Bruce Wood and Soho. War-
bird raced to the front shortly after the
start and, though he ran wide in the
straight, fought more stoutly than at
some earlier starts. Warbird, who was
got in England but foaled in Australia,
did his early racing in Melbourne.
Although brilliant, he was regarded more
as a middle-distance horse. Starting at
25 to 1, he gave the Ring almost a clean
sheet. Soho was one of the horses ham-
pered early, and so was Riverton, who
was cut back last in the first 20 yards.
Riverton finished a close fifth and will do
better for a stronger rider than stable-
apprentice W. Hogg.
High Flight was not headed in the
second Highweight division, though his
backers were temporarily scared by
Hauteur in the last half-furlong. When
Cook shook the whip at High Flight,
however, he raised an effort and won
clearly. Cook, who rode a winning
treble, has won five races since his un-
lucky run ended at Moorefield a fort-
night ago. It is amusing to see many
prominent racing men, who were in-
clined to turn the other way when Cook’s
luck was out, again, hanging upon his
words. Last Bowl ran third, his best
performance in Sydney, and he can be
placed to advantage in weak winter com-
pany.
Winter form seldom is good, but Buzz
Off won the Hawkesbury Handicap so
easily that he may prove an exception.
Like many of The Buzzard stock. Buzz
Off has taken time to develop, and until
Saturday was eligible for restricted races.
He was not prominent when Turn Again
and Overjoyed made the early pace, but
ran up fourth at the home turn and
dashed clear at the furlong. Phalaran
and Overjoyed, both of whom have
raced in the Newcastle district, filled the
minor places. Boomanulla, who started
equal favorite, finished only fifth. He
looked slightly above himself in condi-
tion, and should benefit from the run.
Swan River, who started favorite and
won the Two-year-old Handicap, is a
leggy colt who has much to learn about
racing. He was inclined to look about
when he raced to the leader, Clever Lass,
at the furlong, but Bartle kept him going
to win by half a length. High Tide
(third) looks an early winner. By Mid-
stream from High Class, he is closely
related to Riverton and Talking and cost
375gns. as a yearling. Courier was the
pick of the field in appearance and con-
dition, but apparently he is only moder-
ate. He was galloping easily at the turn,
but does not stay.
When Highgate raced past Cradle Song
more than a furlong from the post, he
looked a certain winner of the first High-
weight division. His weight, 9.9, stopped
him in the last 50 yards, and Clarion
Call beat him by a long head. Highgate
now may be rested for the winter. He
should develop into a good horse next
season. Clarion Call was improved by
recent racing, and showed a determina-
tion not always apparent in his two-year-
old races. One of the bargains of the
1942 yearling sales in Sydney, Clarion
Call cost 70gns. and already has won
£2144 in prize-money.
Barrenjoey would have won the Trial
Stakes in any circumstances, but he made
things easier for himself when he ham-
pered his opponents at the furlong. Con-
nections of the second horse. Marquis,
protested, but Barrenjoey was so clearly
superior, winning by four lengths, that
it was a forlorn hope, Barrenjoey had
not scored since September, 1942, but he
was always favorite. Second-last early,
he moved so quickly to the field at the
turn that, at that stage, odds were laid
on his winning.
Massena overcame a wide barrier
position to win the Novice Handicap.
Beginning smartly, he was quickly with
the leaders and had the race won when
he shot clear at the top of the straight.
Massena, who cost 200gns. as a yearling,
was a wayward two-year-old who could
not be trained, but he has settled down
now and should win better races. Fin-
ishing strongly in second place, Russia
improved on his Canterbury third, but
the favorite, Prince Buzzard, again was a
failure. He is proving as costly to W. W.
Ryan and W. J. Dunlop as he did for
his first owner, A. Basser.
* * * *
Cape' Hero and Winterset enhanced
their Grand National prospects by win-
ning the jumping double Kororoit
Hurdle and Spotswood Steeple— at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Cape Hero, 7-to-4
favorite, won impressively from Sligo and
Benghazi to make his jumping record
two starts for as many wins. Further
improvement is probable, but it is ques-
tionable whether he will improve more
than Benghazi, who was racing for only
the second time after a long spell.
••• • *
V. Courtney, a promising cross-country
rider who had won his first Melbourne
race on Hullabaloo two weeks earlier,
sustained fatal injuries when that gelding
fell with him in the Hurdle. Hullabaloo
crashed over his fallen stablemate, Gay
Invader, near the mile. Meenan, rider of
Gay Invader, escaped serious injury and
later won on Winterset. Gay Invader
appeared to be hurt badly, and it might
be some time before he can race again.
Last year he was runner-up in the G.N.
and Australian Hurdles.
Winterset, who had failed to complete
the course in his last two races, rehabili-
tated himself as Australia’s champion
fencer by carrying 12st. 71b. to success in
the Spotswood Steeple. Favorite at
5 to 4, he led most of the way, and,
though seriously challenged on several
occasions, won decisively from his stable-
mate, Highland March, and Parentena.
Winterset pulled up remarkably fresh,
and probably will be early favorite for
the G.N. Steeple.
Grecian Rule, a Maoriland-owned
mare, outstayed Philfred and Sir Locket
in the Bay View Handicap, She was
eligible for trial company, but probably
would have won good races earlier had
she not been difficult to train.
L. Robertson, leading Melbourne
trainer, landed a double with Big Sister
and Martial Law. Big Sister, a two-year-
old filly by Kinderscout-All Chatter, is
the first horse raced by Mrs. A. G.
Hunter, wife of the breeder of the
winner.
A section of the crowd in the flat re-
serve hooted Ellipsis and his rider, H.
Badger, after winning the first Beach
Welter. Ellipsis was the medium of sub-
stantial support, and his form contrasted
with his failure when favorite at Men-
tone a week earlier,
* * * *
After B. 17/5/’44 had gone to the
printer, the S.AJ.C. committee upheld
the appeals of the woman owner of Line-
mond and the jockey, both of whom,
with the horse, had been disqualified for
two years by the stipes. The successful
appeals left Linemond eligible for Satur-
day’s Adelaide Cup, but he did not start,
the Cup going to Chief Watchman, who
when trained in Melbourne was only
moderate.
H: * * #
The campaign of Sydney stewards
against race interference reached a climax
on Saturday, when three riders were sus-
pended. Official determination to stamp
out carelessness never has been doubted,
but minor penalties apparently are no
deterrent. The stewards are not tied to
any suspension limits, and it would be
interesting to note the effect if one or two
jockeys were stood down for three or
more months. The interference is not de-
liberate, but that does not lessen the risk
of a serious accident.
* * ♦ *
One can sympathise, to an extent, with
trainers whose difficulties have not been
lessened by man-power shortages and in-
creased prices for feed. But they seem to
be making more noise than is warranted
over the scarcity of petrol for motor-
floats. It is very nice for horses to travel
in comfort to race meetings, but the old-
timers found that a leisurely morning
walk to a course did not affect form.
Some of the moderates today might show
more consistent form if they were pam-
pered less,
* * * *
Keen interest is being taken in the
selection of secretary to the Sydney Turf
Club, upon which will depend largely the
success of the new club. The S.T.C.
wisely is not confining to Sydney its
search for the right man. It is still un-
explained how the club will get the
money to take over any Sydney race-
courses either now or after the war.
* * * *
Garden Path (Fairway-Ranai), winner
of the Two Thousand Guineas at New-
market last week, is a sister to Watling
Street, who won the English Derby two
years ago. Garden Path was not out-
standing as a two-year-old and was rated
well below other fillies, Fair Fame and
Fragrant View. However, Garden Path
must have shown some promise to
prompt one English critic to write of her
that she was a fine, big filly who might
develop into a Leger winner.
* * * *
It is surprising that so many regular
racegoers who are well placed financially
and bet heavily do not make a direct
contribution to the sport in the way of
owning a horse or two. Evidently they
are satisfied to avoid the cost and cares
of ownership when they can get all the
information they desire from friendly
owners and trainers.
* * * *
Bull Dog, Bel Aethel and Sir Galla-
had, three of America’s most successful
sires last season, are from the same dam
—Plucky Liege, by Spearmint from Con-
certina. Playaway, winner of a Newmarket
and a Caulfield Futurity Stakes, was very
closely related to Plucky Liege, being by
Carbine from Concertina. Playaway was
at the stud in N.S.W. but threw nothing
of much account.
Miscellaneous
“Red” Green, a returned- soldier
middleweight, showed Digger pluck and
capacity to take it opposed to Ken Peter-
sen at Leichhardt. What he lacked was
experience. He had the better of the last
two of 12 rounds, but only of those two,
and the decision went to Petersen.
Declared to have lost his first bout at
the Sydney Stadium, Jackie Daniels was
adjudged the winner of his second —with
Bill Hebberd. Both verdicts were wrong.
At the end of 11 hard-fought rounds
Hebberd, who comes from Westralia, was
clearly in the lead. Daniels could not get
away from William’s straight lefts. The
Victorian attacked tempestuously in the
last round and won, but he had not made
up the leeway. The decision was hooted.
* * * *
Geelong, the V.F.L. club that dropped
out of the game for a couple of seasons,
because of war conditions, has been wel-
comed back by at least three rivals,
Footscray, “Sowth” and Hawthorn, each
of which has belted the Pivotians in a
callous hunt for points. Hawthorn did it
on Saturday, 22.12 to 13.13. The other
matches provided a feast of goals for all
concerned: Footscray, 16.9-13.19, v.
’Wood; “Sowth,” 9.10-7.10, v. “Saints”;
Carlton, 14.8-12.5, v. Melbourne ; Rich-
mond, 22.19-16.14, v. Essendon; Fitz-
,roy, 16.11-11.16, v. North Melb.
| * * * *
Down 8-5 at half-time, Randwick
showed better combination in the second
half to down West 14-8 on Saturday and
remain unbeaten. Eastern Surburbs
backs, getting a feast of the ball from the
scrums, made good use of it to beat Uni.
16-6. Randwick leads, two points ahead
of Parramatta, with West and Uni.
(equal) third. Other games:
Parramatta 33, North 12; St. George 16,
Manly 12; Drummoyne 19, Gordon 6.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances.)
Three-year-old Handicap: Scene,
1 ; Sunfel, 2 ; Craigie, 3.
Two-year-old Novice Handicap:
High Tide, 1; Goldmine, 2 ; Good
Idea, 3.
Trial Handicap: Commando, 1 ;
Massena, 2 ; Lance, 3.
Flying Handicap: Nobleman, 1;
Soho, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Warwick May Handicap: Faerie
Queene, 1 ; Nightbeam, 2; Mac-
arthur, 3.
Welter Handicap: Riverton,;
Grand Prodige, 2 ; Gold Head, 3.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO CHARLES ALBURY RUSSELL formerly of 77
Alma Road St. Kilda in the State of Victoria
Manager but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DORIS RUSSELL has com-
menced divorce proceedings against you on the
ground of desertion during three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the Fifteenth day of June 1944 and file
an answer within ten days of such appearance the
suit may px-oceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
P. J. RIDGEWAY, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the petitioner.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The return of the violets is like an extra
spring coming in the greyness of winter.
Just when colder, shorter days herald a
shortage of other flowers and a bleak
world, bunches of violets suddenly pop
up in florists’ windows and street barrows,
sending their scent everywhere. Other
brave flowers which dare the winter are
sweet peas.
There will be a good many more
than the much-sung-about “one dozen
roses” in the Town Hall basket that’s
being hung out so that members
of women’s organisations may contribute
their quota to an extra-generous bouquet
for Lady Gowrie. The giant posy will
be presented at the farewell reception to-
day, May 24. The Lady Mayoress asks
for two roses from each group or society,
and urges that they be particularly fine
ones.
The Brookes lady has entered upon her
new duties as W. A.T.C. commandant with
a will. W.A.A.A.F. recruiting authori-
ties are keen to attract as many girls as
possible, and regard the W.A.T.C. as the
best source of material. At her house
last week the new State C.O. outlined her
plans to assembled reporters. She hopes
to increase corps strength by several hun-
dreds more in the next few months. The
most desirable recruits, she considers, are
girls just leaving school who can be
trained in maths, and the like, which
gives them a chance to take interesting
jobs when they enter the W.A.A.A.F.
The expected substantial increase in
W.A.T.C. numbers will, of course, call
for increased funds, and the Brookes lady
is putting her organising ability to money-
raising. Planned for September is the
main event, a bazaar in the lower Town
Hall, proceeds from which will be shared
between W.A.T.C. and Air Force Auxili-
aries Committee. Both will work for the
fair’s success and will share stalls. With
four months in which to prepare, organ-
isers have hopes of launching a really
worth-while money-spinner.
Mrs. Constance Hughes, who has kept
the wheels of Melbourne Hospital’s
Auxiliary running smoothly for some
years past and who has resigned because
of ill health, has been associated with the
institution for over 30 years. She began
her training there as a nurse in 1913, and
has since been organiser and secretary of
the Almoners’ Auxiliary, in which
capacity she has made many friends
among patients and co-workers. Her
work brought her in contact with the
seamy side of this city.
New secretary of Melb. Hospital
Auxiliary is Mrs. C. H. Mackay, one of
those whom war in the East brought to
these shores. She has been helping Mrs.
Hughes and knows the ropes of her new
job well.
The well-deserving Woolies Appeal
being its sponsor and a good collection
of new work by well-known painters
being on its walls, the exhibition at the
Myer Mural Hall should be an excellent
fund-raiser. The cause benefits by sale
of catalogues and by a third of the pro-
ceeds from the sale of pictures. A large
Meldrum canvas (800gns.) dominates the
show, and there are two similar still-lifes
by the same artist, contrasted with a pic-
ture of the same object by daughter Ida
Meldrum. To pick the master hand, if
the signatures were covered up, would
be a good test of expertise in art.
Not all the pictures shown are on the
high-price level, and some attractive
things are within reach of the buyer who
has to think of the rent. Ola Cohn has
some terra-cotta heads which would do
well in any modern room, and Marguerite
Mahood contributes some covetable
glazed earthenware plaques and figures.
The Woolies Appeal hasn’t been over-
much before the public eye of late, as its
organisers have been too busy with the
immediate aim to leave off to publicise
it. To date some 40,000 garments have
gone out from the dispatching depot. The
work is done at home by members and
sent to any spot where warm clothing is
badly needed. Some hundreds of gar-
ments went to blitz-torn Malta. Some
of the best workers, organisers say, are
invalids who gain thereby a feeling that
they are a useful part of the community
instead of being a drag.
Homes of the future are having a pre-
liminary airing at the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation’s Exhibition, which opened on
Tuesday. On show are pictures and plans
of houses which should interest home-
makers. Each grade of income has a
special type of house, and the aim obvi-
ously has been to produce as much com-
fort as possible for the amount expended.
An enthusiast for the exhibition is Martin
Hannah, champion of Australian woods.
During the course of the show
addresses are to be made by A. Gay, of
the Forestry Department, and Oswald
Barnett, of the Housing Commission.
Dancing and a floor show of merit are
promised by the Opportunity Club’s fund-
raising committee for Sunday, May 28.
Claridges, in Toorak-road, South Yarra,
is the spot chosen for the affair, and
bookings can be made by telephoning
there after 2 p.m. any day. Performers
will include youthful Elizabeth Pounder,
winner of British Ballet Society’s scholar-
ship, who will contribute a “Blue
Danube” item, Don Humphrey is to be
there with his piano-accordion, and Ailsa
MacKenzie will be singing.
Putting her hand to the charmingly-
named celeste at Saturday night’s orches-
tral concert was pianist Margaret Scho-
field. The instrument is included in the
orchestra only occasionally, and for
special effects. Margaret, pictured here,
played in a concert of the young people’s
series last week, when Edwin Mc-
Arthur, much impressed by the quantity
and quality of local talent, was in the
audience. She will be a performer at the
free concert for the forces on June. 2,
when the W.A.A.A.F. choir will appear
also.
Joy Youlden chose a blue costume and
amusing little hat instead of traditional
bridal rig for her marriage with Des-
mond Connor on Saturday. After the
ceremony friends of both repaired for a
spot of conviviality at the bride’s home.
The pair have been lucky enough to find
a flat quite near the city, and will take
up the domestic round when they return
from their honeymoon. Des is still con-
valescent after his recent illness, but has
continued to wield his skilful brush to
provide decor for Uni. Union Theatre
dramatic shows.
Women have served as shire secretaries
in various parts of Victoria for some
years—and successfully, too. Margaret
Brennan, however, creates something of
a record in being the third generation of
her family to take up the same job.
Grandfather Michael Brennan, forebear
of the well-known Brennan clan, was first
s.s. of Strathfieldsaye. He was followed
by his son Richard Brennan, just retired.
Margaret, Richard’s daughter, carries on
the tradition. On the feminine side the
Brennan family has distinguished itself
in both legal and artistic spheres. In
Margaret’s own generation cousins Laura
and Clare Brennan have qualified in law
and music respectively.
Reporting the amount collected on
Flower Day for children’s welfare organ-
isations the Lord Mayor went into the
history of the day. It dates from a visit
to Australia of the King and Queen (then
Duke and Duchess of York). At that
time the giant York pansy, the tawny-
brown petals of which have been prized
by decorators and florists ever since, was
named in honor of the royal lady.
From Sydney
Saturday was a great night for this
city’s musical. An opera was presented
on the Conservatorium stage for the first
time in its career. That it will have a
career, and that a successful one, among
the musicianly seems certain. Dr. Bain-
ton’s “Pearl Tree” will bloom on many
an orchestral programme. Conserva-
torium listeners followed it with rapt
attention on Saturday. Its story is one
of the Krishna legends, Krishna, visit-
ing the earth as a young cowherd, brings
happiness to whatever group he ; s in.
Hearing a friend, the head cowherd of
the village, expressing the wish as he
gazes proudly on his cows that they could
be adorned with necklaces of pearls (at
the present crisis of this city’s milk prob-
lem it seems a very worthy desire),
Krishna sends a message to Radha, whom
he loves, asking her for a pearl to plant
so that he may raise a tree bearing thou-
sands of pearls. Radha refuses the re-
quest in anger. Krishna’s mother, Yas-
hoda, however, gives one of her pearls,
and the tree springs into being. The
second part of the work relates Radha’s
sorrow for her pride and her final recon-
ciliation with her divine lover.
The music conveys the atmosphere of
spiritual simplicity, and there are fervid
and dramatic scenes in which Krishna
and Radha are the soloists. The chorus
of the cowherds preceding that of the
miracle of the tree is a true pastoral.
Lighting and costumes wove a bright
pattern. Hilda Mulligan, Roland Foster
and Livingstone C. Mote had made it a
labor of love, and producer Hilda well
deserved the armful of roses served to
her. Dr, Bainton brought his own work
into the world and was rewarded with a
laurel wreath from sources unknown. A
double list of principals included Reginald
Willoughby, Raymond Nilsson, Isolde
Hill, Ruth Pearce-Jones, Harold Williams,
Stanley Clarkson, Dorothy Helmrich and
Alice Gange. Florent Hoogstoel took
over the conducting on Monday night.
Lady Gowrie and a party from
Admiralty House were in the audience;
so was the composer’s wife. Also there
were India’s Commissioner in Australia,
Dr. Saksena, and his wife, who with Miss
Simpson had given great help in the
matter of costumes and effects.
Since foodstuffs have taken to waltz-
ing off the supply list practically over-
night, a kindly Government has decided
to instruct its people in the uses of the
substitute. No one is more qualified to
do this than the girl in this Rembrandt
photograph. She is Una Stewart, a
bachelor of science of Sydney University
and the first woman appointed by the
Department of Health to the position of
dietetics adviser. Miss Stewart will go
into the problems of the individual house-
wife, or of housewives as a group, and
will tell how to keep the diet varied, nutri-
tious and as full of health-building con-
stituents as in the good old days of full
and plenty.
Rex Julius, whose father was the kindly
and well - liked black-and-white artist
Harry, is another who has laid down his
life for King and country. Rex, a gifted
artist who loved Australia and had cap-
tured the spirit and the color of its desert
and what somebody has misnamed its
“dead heart,” went off to England at the
first beat of the war gong, and saw ser-
vice with the R.N. in the English Channel,
Mediterranean and elsewhere. He then
served with the R.A.N. in Indian waters.
Early this year, having returned to Aus-
tralia on leave, he was appointed an offi-
cial artist and was attached to Naval His-
torical Records section. Six weeks ago
he went to N.G. Cause of death was a
throat trouble.
The winter days are short, and rain
Splutters across the gusty night;
Franz Schubert sings of love again
And spring comes back, and warm sunlight.
And cold hearts beat, swift melts their rime
Under the sway of “Lilac Time.”
Current revival at the Royal is the be-
loved “Lilac Time.” Once again Sydney
audiences have taken it to their hearts.
Dr. Thomas Woods, musician and
novelist, proves just the sort of man you
expect him to be from his book Cobbers.
He twinkles at life. He spoke at the
Institute of Journalists’ lunch last Friday,
his subject Truth —“Truth is in my
Trust.” It was a serious talk, but there
was laughter in it. He said: “Well, here
I am, a Jack-of-all-trades and master of
arts.” He asked if everybody could hear
him speak, then hurried on to tell the
story of the interjector at a meeting in
the North of England who called out to
the lecturer: “Speak up, man. I can’t
hear.” Thereupon a man sitting in the
front row shouted.*! “Shut oop, lad,
and be grateful.”
There was quite a big day at the King
George V Memorial Hospital last Wed-
nesday. The King George is just another
unit of the Prince Alfred, and the open-
ing of its fifth and sixth floors by Lady
Wakehurst means that there will now be
614 beds and bassinets in the service of
the newly-arriving Australian. And yet
this does not meet the demand. Chair-
man Dr. Bertie Schlink told that the hos-
pital has to turn away 1500 mothers a
year, "There are now 2303 maternity
cases booked for admission. After Dr.
Schlink had reeled off these and other
figures it did not sound so staggering
when he told that the cost of running
Prince Alfred’s was over £lOOO a day.
After the vice-regal lady had done her
bit, Mahdi Henry, whose father gave it,
unveiled a statue, “Maternity,” standing
in the grounds of the King George V.
The figure of the woman with a babe on
her arm is very erect, and seems to have
its gaze on the future. The sculptor was
Andor Meszaros, and his wife posed for
the figure. The statue is carved from
Hawkesbury River sandstone.
The Society of Women Writers had a
stimulating guest last week at their
monthly luncheon. He was Francis
Sheed, and his native wood notes, not
wild, but cultivated, were lifted on the
subject of sociology. He is a clear-cut
speaker, direct and forceful and with, no
ambiguity lurking about his sentences.
He was just back from Brisbane, where
he had spoken in the stadium. His de-
scription of himself dashing from corner
to corner of the “ring” to confound dif-
ferent interjectors was spirited and the
sort of thing that would go well with
a Ted Scorfield accompaniment. But
that was not part of Mr. Sheed’s talk to
the women writers. Dame Mary Gilmore
sat on his right and he talked of old
Labor days very happily.
Sydney’s Mayor Bartley opened the
Australian Art Society’s eighteenth exhi-
bition with apt speech midway through
last week. Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries
were crowded with the painters and their
works, their wives and friends. Vice-
president Jerrold-Nathan introduced the
Mayor, and vice-president John Salvana
passed the vote of thanks. John has been
helping to open art shows since his very
youthful days. He told of one in which
he took no active part but where he over-
heard a very neat rejoinder. The show,
which was enriched with the best on the
home front and with offerings from Aus-
tralians winning fame in London and
Paris, was having “Sesame” pronounced
by Sir Harry Rawson, who said to presi-
dent Arthur Collingridge “Now, Mr. Col-
lingridge, a knowledge of art is not my
strong point, so I depend on you to point
out the little gems.” “Sir,” replied Col-
lingridge from behind his impressive
black beard, “they are all gems!”
There are 131 paintings in the present
exhibition, and if they are not all gems
at least they all have a feeling for Aus-
tralia, its sea-sweep and landscape. For
a people who seldom see oranges or
lemons now, there is hypnotic attraction
in Cathcart’s “Citrus Orchard.” As far
as could be seen no artist had been in-
spired to paint a glass of milk. Judging
by the trend of things, by next year such
may be a museum piece. However, red
spots bloomed nicely, and Allied service
men, who are keen on Australian art,
were early visitors.
School holidays brought companies of
college girls and boys to the Minerva
matinee last week to see “Pygmalion.”
Bernard Shaw in this play appeals tre-
mendously to the adolescent in the scene
where ’Liza Doolittle in crystal-clear Bel-
grave accents recounts family episodes
which have a very Limehouse flavor. Pat
McDonald as Eliza was a glance-arresting
young woman even when suffering semi-
eclipse under a large befeathered hat
and a somewhat decayed shawl. Eliza’s
shameless father (Campbell Gray) and
his, to say the least, non-moral philosophy
put a sparkle into the midwinter audi-
ence. Favorites Betty McDowall, Minnie
Love, Hilda Dorrington of the slim and
shapely legs, and Dorothy Dunckley
moved about with ease and charm.
Leonard Bullen was the phonetics pro-
fessor Henry Higgins, in the absence of
Edwin Styles, who kept forced tryst with
the ’flu. In these days of no domestic
help the eye of every woman in the
audience enviously dwelt on the trig
parlormaid, Sheila Helpman.


oFfanmmGAs
COAL TIPS 1
Turn lights oft
promptly. Use a bowl,
NOT the sink, for
washing up. Don’t
FILL your kettle to
make two or three
cups of tea. Keep
pots and saucepans
covered — they’ll boil
quicker.
Be a Sherlock Holmes in your own Kitchen!
Remember that gas wasted is coal wasted.
Don’t let the flame flare round the sides of
kettles or saucepans. The maximum heat
is in the TIP of the flame ! Every time
you waste gas or electricity every time
you use more hot water than is necessary
you are using up the coal so sorelv
needed to speed the national war effort.
BE A FUEL WATCHER IN YOUR OWN HOME I
CUT DOWN ON CAS, [UCTRICITY AND HOT WATER
m
$fSAV£Pf
Issued by the Commonwealth Coal Commission.
GE.2O-27
WAR SERIES
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
Save for Victory! Buy War Savings Certificates and Stampsl
AUSTRALIAN and Allied armies have adopted refrigera-
. tion to relieve many of the hardships of war. This
refrigerator unit (with a 2f h.p. type “NA” Ronaldson-Tippett
Vertical, Air-cooled Petrol Engine) serves a cool room
measuring Bft. x 6ft. by (approx.) Bft high, in which food is
conserved under the most rigorous climatic conditions.
Although our endeavours are confined to the manufacture
of the engine only, we are deeply conscious that everything
depends upon the efficiency of this unit. Therefore, we do
not deviate one hair’s breadth from the precision standards
which have made Ronaldson-Tippett engines famous.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTand Distributors: Bonaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE!
m
wmm.
j|p
L.J
m
INFECTION!
GUARD
AGAINST IT
with
Double “D"
Cuts and other minor every-
day injuries can cause serious
trouble if permitted to become
infected.
The high antiseptic properties
of Double “D” Ointment will
greatly assist in preventing any
infection and also help the
injury to heal in double quick
time.
Double “D” Ointment is a
soothing, healing antiseptic
ointment for all emergencies.
1 /6 a jar.
r
BATHE cut with warm water
and Double “D” Eucalyptus.
APPLY Double “D” Ointment
and cover with bandage.
Double “D”
OUiUpuzstt
OTHING HEALING AN T I S E P T I C
SMOKE-OH!
“Aitape is now clear of the enemy, "the rem-
nants of the estimated force of 500,000 prob-
ably having fled into the hills.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser
Have some reporters been transferred
from the Russian front?
4* 4*
‘Don’t be frightened of lipstick.”— “Woman.”
Never let it get you down in the mouth.
Geometrical.
“Math, student desires meet lady, good posi-
tion, honest Euclid.”— Melbourne paper.
His desire was to meet a young woman
on the square who mixed in the best
circles and had the right angles on life
—not obtuse, yet not too acute, for in
that case she might take points. Of
course, he didn’t want her to be too
great in diameter, but otherwise as long
as she lived within a fair radius of his
own residence he was prepared to do a
line with her.
H. M.
“As no pigeon has yet described its feeling
on being tossed out of a ’plane at 250 miles
an hour at a height of 10,000 ft., we don’t
know what makes it do a dead drope to about
2000 ft. before opening its wings.”
—Adelaide “Radio Call.”
And there’s even less likelihood of get-
ting a pigeon to say what a dead drope is.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boxer becomes musician.” — “Daily Mirror.
A swing artist?
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“She declared that sometimes when she pre-
pared their meals he would eat her share as
well as his own.”— Divorce item.
Curiously, she was the one who got fed
up.
A Watching Brief.
“Could anyone tell me whether one should
keep one’s eyes open or closed while being
kissed.” — “D.T.” correspondent.
A connoisseur perhaps would claim
The ultimate effect’s the same
In either case; yet I contend
Your optic action must depend
Entirely on the type of face
You’ve undertaken to embrace.
But if you find, when darkness falls.
That sightless osculation palls.
And, struggling to the surface, try
A glimpse with one inquiring eye,
The chances are you’ll gaze upon
Another cold and fishy one.
P. M. LUSK.
Pastoral.
“A band be biowed! I’d sooner listen to the
mooing of cows than to the blaring of brass
instruments.” — Shire councillor.
This queer-eared councillor steers shy
Of bands that blare and bleat;
Yet reckons —to quote Keats awry —
Herd melodies are sweet.
F. M.
Recollections.
It happened on a Friday in the merry
month of May,
Or maybe ’twas September—it is rather
hard to say.
No, I think that I’m mistaken, for it can’t
have been September:
I was suffering from sunburn, so it must
have been November,
Though there’s quite a possibility it might
have been October,
For that’s the month when Aunty Mae
declared that I was sober.
Still, why should I be worried o’er the
time that it occurred
When I can’t recall what happened ? It
is palpably absurd I
T. W. NATHAN.
In Proletaria.
The Personal Clerk to the Chief Clerk
of the Rhubarb Board knocked with quiet
deference on the door of the Chairman’s
office and entered. As he approached
noiselessly over the thick, costly pile
carpet the figure seated at the enormous
glass-topped, three-’phoned maple desk
stirred uneasily. The Personal Clerk could
never be quite sure whether the Chair-
man, when seated thus with his head
thrown back, mouth open, eyes closed
and the tips of hi£ fingers together, was
asleep or thinking or both. The Chair-
man had the reputation among his staff
of being a great thinker, a deep thinker,
and this deep thinking was reflected in
all his decisions. And on those decisions
the smooth working of a great industry
depended, .
As the P.C, to the C.C. coughed dis-
creetly the Chairman opened his eyes and
yawned. “Oh, it’s you, Mr. Filer,” he
said. “I was—er —just thinking out —let
me see —oh, yes, ways of discouraging the
use of rhubarb. You know, Mr. Filer,
it struck me that if we make consumers
too rhubarb-conscious the demand for it
may, in view of the limited acreage now
under rhubarb, prove embarrassing to
the Board.”
“Quite, Mr. Taper,” said Mr, Filer.
“And now, I was wondering should we
get in touch with the Priceless Commis-
sioner again. The question of the fixed
ceiling price for our product by the
bundle, stick and half stick hasn’t been
finalised.”
“Doesn’t this rather savor of impor-
tunacy, Mr. Filer? After all, the Price-
less people have only been investigating
the position for 18 months or so. When
did you write them about it last?”
“About six months ago, sir.”
“H’m! Well, we should be getting a
reply any month now. Just mark the file
‘resubmit in three months.’ ”
“And what about the price for the
rhubarb-growers, sir? In a letter which
came in last week they complain that
the Board’s fixed price of a penny three
farthings a bundle contrasts strangely
with the current price charged to the
public—elevenpence. They threaten that
if they aren’t granted an increase they’ll
plough their rhubarb under.”
“They do, eh? Well teach them they
can’t threaten the health of the commu-
nity by withholding a vital product like
rhubarb. I’ll arrange for a regulation
to be issued making it an indictable
offence to plough under and/or refuse
to pull, pick or cut rhubarb, stalks of.
If necessary we will freeze all growing
rhubarb.”
Two months later, when through a
complete suspension of the Board’s
£27,000 Eat More Rhubarb advertising
campaign, the public had lost all interest
in the vegetable—or is it a fruit? —the
seasonal glut which somehow the Board
had failed to provide for began flooding
the shops with rhubarb. Consternation
reigned in the Board, and then the Chair-
man called a conference, consisting of
himself, the Chief Clerk, the Business
Manager, the Inspector in Chief, 14 In-
spectors of Inspectors and 36 Field
Inspectors. After a three-day session
it was decided to start a campaign to
popularise rhubarb-and-apple pies.
A month later approval had been ob-
tained from the Treasury, the Advertis-
ing Control Board and 17 other authori-
ties for the rhubarb-and-apple-pie cam-
paign to commence. Then one morning
when all the daily papers were carrying
full-page rhubarb-and-apple-pie ads., the
Chief Clerk came to the Chairman’s
office. The great man could see by his
subordinate’s face that something was
amiss.
“What’s gone wrong now?” he asked.
The Chief Clerk tapped a typewritten
letter he held. “It’s from the Apple and
Pear Marketing Board, sir. It seems the
apple season’s finished. They’ll have no
apples to go with our rhubarb for the
pies we’re popularising.”
Not that it mattered much, anyway,
for by then the rhubarb glut was over
and the growers, most of whom had got
debit notes instead of cheques, had swung
over from rhubarb to potatoes.
Bo.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
Loan Campaigns
Now that the First Victory Loan is one
with Queen Anne perhaps one may be
permitted to express the hope that num-
ber two will be better advertised.
A well-planned advertising campaign
operates to attract favorable attention to
the goods offered, gain the confidence of
the prospective buyer and sell the goods
quickly. The campaign just dead made a
poor fist of the first two items, and failed
demonstrably in the last, and I think I
know why.
Australians have never taken kindly
to threats, direct or the other sort, yet
there were ominous references by loan
spouters to the amount lying idle in the
savings banks. That was not only in bad
taste, but showed rotten judgment. If
the spouters didn’t think (or know)
they fiad a better proposition than the
savings bank to offer people who were
socking their money away they should
never have stopped paying out election
stuff.
The savings banks long ago realised
that to get working people to save they
had to be led along the right lines, slowly
and tactfully. Their success is so com-
plete that quite a large proportion of
wage-earners know of only one way to
save their money.
Future loan organisers should be able
to teach people another way to save. But
(and it’s a big “but”) they will have to
scrap nearly all the ideas that at present
make up their stock-in-trade.
Approach an Australian in the right
way and he will respond. Try to drive
him, even if it’s for his own good, and
you will get resistance, passive and active.
When that fact sinks home we shall not
have the sorry sight of a loan closing
date being held over, and our radios will
be free of sobbing politicians spending
weeks at a time telling us how hard-
hearted we are. — Aglum (Q.).
* %
Lieut.-General Bennett
You quote The Manual of Military
Law as prescribing that an officer cannot
claim as a matter of right to resign his
commission whenever he pleases. This
has no bearing on Bennett’s transfer to
the reserve of officers. First of all the
M.O.M.L. is a bluff as applied to A.1.F.,
C.M.F. or A.M.F. Because we have no
Manual of our own our brass hats use
one designed to cover Waterloo, not
Woolloomooloo. It is about the most
costly prehistoric effort in print. Bennett
asked for transfer, and it was granted by
Minister for the Army Forde. The latter
could have refused and told Bennett to
stay put. As he granted Bennett’s request
there can be but one inference —Bennett
was not wanted
The Bulletin and Bennett have one
thing in common, and some of us do not
forget. Pre-war The Bulletin stressed
the wisdom of being prepared. Bennett
for years gave all his spare time to train-
ing officers for invasion. He conducted
staff rides and exercises when our Army
was “phut.” In this war many of his
youngsters have risen fast and high ; some
are dead. But for such unselfish and un-
paid service in peace-time we would have
been in Queer-street.
I know Bennett as a man to tie to in a
fight, and if my sons were under him I
would feel better about their sacrifice,
knowing his first thought is for his men
and to hell with politicians!
Had Bennett been sacked he would
remain silent. The chances are he may
be worth an army corps to us as an un-
employed constructive critic, provided
only The Bulletin and the other papers
continue the fight for freedom of speech.
In order to shut him up he may be re-
employed. Meantime, he is still a din-
kum Aussie, and, as such, surely he has
some rights. Or must he, like Hawker,
Holden, Percival, P. G. Taylor, Matt
Banks, “Smithy” and the rest (after being
decorated) seek employment outside Aus-
tralia? — Eric N. Birks (N.S.W.).
When lan Morrison wrote in Malayan
Postscript “There is no doubt that it is
of the greatest value to the Australian
Government to have the services of a
senior officer with actual experience of
fighting the Japanese in the field” he knew
little of the mentality of the Australian
Government and of its military ad-
visers. On his return to Australia this
general, the only one experienced in
Japanese and jungle fighting, was rele-
gated from the Malayan jungles to the
sand dunes of W.A., where the possi-
bility of action was slight, while generals
from the sand dunes of the Middle East
were sent to the jungles of New Guinea.
It does not make sense. —B. (N.S.W.).
Service Medals
The present-war sergeant who was
merely asked to send in certain service
particulars before getting his Africa Star
(B. 17/5/’44) wasn’t very badly done by.
After four years of the last war, en-
titling me to three service medals, I didn’t
get them, and still haven’t got them.
When they were being made available
I wrote from the Tweed River, where I
was then toiling, asking Victoria Bar-
racks, Sydney, to send my three to me
there. Some time later I received a letter
from them stating that the medals had
been sent to me by registered post, and
that somebody had signed for them at
Murwillumbah. Whoever may have
signed, I didn’t.
I put the matter in a letter to the
R.S.L., of which I was then a member,
but it wasn’t interested. —C. M. (N.S.W.).
War Memorials
Port Wakefield has set a fine example
of foresight in the erection of a war
memorial, not a stone edifice, but a
community centre, a monument not only
beneficial to the town but to the country
as a whole.
This is an example which might well be
followed. Why not build hospitals,
“Don’t be fooled by loud-mouthed demagogues! I promise"
orphanages or schools as memorials’ to
our dead? That is what they died for —
bigger and better things beneficial to
mankind— Retep (Vic.).
Housing and the Birthrate
“One of Six” (B. 3/5/’44) says
“mothers don’t want their children grow-
ing up in flats or small dwellings,” and
maintains that the falling birthrate is due
to bad housing conditions. Is he aware
that the average birthrate is higher
among women from poor areas than
those who live in prosperous suburbs?
J. W. Innes, in Class Fertility Trends,
says “There is a direct positive relation-
ship between fertility and size of tene-
ment more or less irrespective of social
class,” and this relationship shows that
the smaller the house the larger the
family is.
Undoubtedly, we do need more and
better houses. But when we have them
will the birthrate necessarily rise? A
hundred years ago housing conditions
were vastly inferior to those of the
present day, and if mothers had limited
their families then on account of poor
homes this present generation would be
practically non-existent. As it is, with im-
proved houses and a gradually rising
standard of living, the birthrate has
fallen, so “One of Six” must look else-
where to explain the present population
trends. — Another One of Six (S.A.).
Needed—A Philosophy of Life
Today we stand in a crisis of history
searching for a philosophy which can be
the inspiration of a New Order. This is
the concern of the whole community not
less than of the educationist. We have
failed in one of the great purposes of
education, that of making sense of life
for the mass of our people. We can all
make fife bearable by a certain amount
of pleasure such as cinemas, football and
the like, but when modem civilisation is
stripped bare of its trappings, as, for
instance, when unemployment or war
overtakes us, modern man becomes be-
wildered.
We have failed to make sense of fife
because we have failed to establish any
co-ordinating principle, any ultimate end
or governing purpose. For the majority
education has been the acquiring of a
jumble of unrelated knowledge, leading
nowhere except to a school-leaving certi-
ficate and to a job.
It is obvious that the mere extension
of school years is useless ; something far
more searching is required. Our civilisa-
tion is in danger of losing its soul. The
Liberalism of the past century divorced
culture from dogma, not realising that
that divorce provided in itself a dogma
of fife —the false dogma that man is a
being of body and mind unrelated to any
supratemporal life or purpose. Training
in the choice of right ends is the real
meaning of education. Without this,
education has been used for the destruc-
tion of true social living. —D.E.J. D.
(Vic.).
Youth and the Peace
The switch from destruction to pro-
duction, when peace comes, is going to
require a great deal of human readjust-
ment. It is not sufficient to say that there
must be jobs for all in the peace.
Young men who have played their part
in war and dealt out death and destruc-
tion and have seen death and destruction
dealt out with a prodigious hand need
more than a job. So do youths who
have worked in war industry under
unreal and wasteful conditions of war
production and Governmental control.
Everyone has been affected in some
way by the war, but it is youth who will
need the most help in readjustment. It
must be trained to again take a place in
a normal world, and the responsibility
for this rests with both employers and
the Government. — lago (Vic.).
Commonwealth Powers
It is argued that unless the Common-
wealth referenda proposals are carried
by the electors the Commonwealth Par-
liament will have no powers adequately
to legislate for the repatriation of mem-
bers of the forces or for the care of their
dependants. I disagree.
Queensland, N, S. Wales, S.A. and
W.A. have passed legislation giving the
Commonwealth Parliament such powers.
Hence, so far as 78.53 per cent, of the
area of Australia is concerned, the Par-
liament can go right ahead now and
pass whatever laws it thinks desirable
regarding repatriation to apply to these
four States. The Commonwealth has
legislative powers over its own territories,
and hence could legislate for a further
17.63 per cent.
Victoria passed a Reference of Powers
Act, but put hobbles on it by declaring
that it would be proclaimed when the
same or similar legislation was passed
in the other States. Tasmania made
these hobbles legirons by throwing
out its Powers Bill altogether and hence
rendered Victoria’s Act a dead letter.
However, even Victoria and Tasmania
need not despair. For if they look with
greedy eyes on a beneficial Common-
wealth repatriation law applicable to the
other four States they can avail them-
selves of the part of the Commonwealth
Constitution which says that laws of the
Commonwealth apply to those States re-
ferring the powers and to those States
which afterwards adopt the laws. In
other words, Victoria and Tasmania could
pass an Act adopting the Commonwealth
law, and it needs must apply to those
States whether the Commonwealth liked
it or not. —I. Refer (Q.).
Compulsory Voting
What proportion of Australian voters
exercises its privilege intelligently? How
many votes are informal? The answers
to these questions would cast a lurid light
on the theory of “democratic” govern-
ment. This is so because the citizens of
a country which affirms “freedom” are
forced, on penalty of court summons, to
place a mark on a ballot paper, which
they of course do, often without giving
it a single intelligent thought.
Thus our elections are swayed by a,
say, 20 p.c. section of irresponsible voters.
Our Government is elected not by the
people’s decision but by luck!
Compulsory voting should be abolished,
and increased opportunities for political
education should be given through schools
and newspapers.— James Merran (Vic.).
A Word for the Classics
“A Bo” (B. 10/5/’44) seems to look
forward to a post-war generation of per-
forming gorillas. A prize of a toy parrot
should be awarded to the next person to
suggest scrapping Latin, not to mention
“such subjects as geography and history.”
If “A Bo” can show me any school that
does any more than “touch” on the two
latter subjects I’ll willingly eat it, teach-
ing staff and all.
Latin was the bane of my schooldays.
I liked it about as much as I like seed-
cake and income tax. Owing to what
seemed sheer pigheadedness on the
Head’s part I had to do up to Intermedi-
ate Latin. That was 16 years ago, and
now the only thing I have against the
Head is that he didn’t make me do Greek
as well, because now I find that my main
interest in life makes a knowledge of
Greek and Latin almost essential.
The “more practical” subjects may be
very desirable; introduce them by all
means, but to scrap Latin, etc., to make
way for them is intellectual suicide. Why
not close up the universities? It would
be almost as sensible.
The aim of school education should be
to enable the developing boy or girl to
make a choice from a wide field of en-
deavor when schooldays are over and
not to fill him or her with a lot of merely
“practical” stuff. The latter idea would
leave behind it a mass of potential vic-
tims for doctrinisation. If we are ever
so misguided as to decide on this system
of education let us do the job thoroughly
—call it kultur and invite Herr A. Hitler
to run the show. — Mudlark (N.S.W.).
One-teacher Schools
From Queensland “W.M.S.” (B.
26/4/’44) serves up a richly deserved
panegyric on one-teacher schools; but
I’m afraid they must go if Australian
ybuth is to be trained for nationhood,
if remote schools are to have qualified
teachers, and if the extra teachers re-
quired, when the school-leaving age is
raised, are to be available. Consolidation
means well-equipped central buildings, a
teacher for each grade, release of worth-
while teachers for remote schools where
pioneers deserve the very best and of
others to prevent overlarge classes, too
common in the biggest schools.
Wireless and petrol have changed the
old order past all recognition, minimising
the local get-together spirit. Serving a
Scholastic 50 years, 30 of them under
Frank Tate, the champion of the tiny
school, I question whether the change-over
is all to the good; but why kick against
the pricks? Area schools are now a
necessity. Let the mainland stop patronis-
ing little Tasmania and learn from what
she has accomplished. Leading Victorian
educationists have gone over, perhaps to
scoff ; anyway they remained to pray. Dr.
Tate, son of Frank Tate, filmed moving
pictures of the schools there; and Pro-
fessor Browne, at the invitation of the
Teachers’ Union and other interested
bodies, has exhibited them and explained
the scheme. This educational publicity
merits wide extension.
Australia should abolish educational
State boundaries —six States, each jealous
of the other ; six Ministers of Education,
rarely fitted for their jobs, bossing six
directors and six departments; and, to
make confusion worse confounded, six
Premiers as supreme bosses, and six Par-
liaments afraid to deal with the multipli-
city of bosses. — Pedagogue (Vic.).


WEAR THE SOMBRE COLORS OF WAR
YARRA FALLS’ production is severely limited by man-power difficulties; the greater portion
of its output is required for the Australian and Allied fighting forces, the remainder being
limited to the cloths made to the standards ordered by the Government, leaving no opportunity
to make for the public the high-class fabrics on which Yarra Falls’ reputation has been established.
A
&
II
FALLS
D
c '"4
•«^«r
Renowned for tie excellence Worsted
Manufactures, att made from Australian virgin mot
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA - AUSTRALIA-
