

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3370
Wednesday, September 13, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
PRIORY CHURCH; GREAT MALVERN.
ANCIENT British fortifications crown the summits of the famous
lofty Malvern Hills, at the foot of which is cradled the old town
of Great Malvern. Famous for its ecclesiastical associations, this
Worcestershire region was once a royal chase. The Malvern Priory
Church belonging to a Benedictine monastery was founded in 1085
by St. Walstan of Worcestershire, and is externally a perpendicular
edifice with a fine tower resembling that of Gloucester Cathedral.
The interior of the church reveals the Norman nave of the original
eleventh-century building. The chief decorative features of the
church are its fifteenth- and sixteenth-century stained-glass windows,
including a window with the legend of St. Werstan the hermit, and
another, with portraits of Henry VII and of Prince Arthur.
In the immediate neighbourhood is Malvern College, founded in
1863, which ranks high among English public schools, while in
Malvern Cemetery, Jenny Lind lies buried, Malvern also is noted
for the medicinal quality of its springs.


Siui
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244 ....AGE
The Red Page
The Flight of the Dragonfly .
“The Dominions,” said Mr. Shean,
“have produced one writer of genius.”
“Henry Lawson, I presume,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“Wrong,” said Mr. Shean. “Guess
again.”
“Hugh McCrae, of course,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “I beg his pardon.”
“Wrong,” said Mr. Shean.
“Genius,” said Mr. Gallagher, “is a
large word. I do not like to use it lightly.
But I will grant you there ,is something
very close to it in the' poetry of Shaw
Neilson; in the novels of Henry Handel
Richardson, in Such Is Life, in a score
of minor classics. And then, of course,
in the great tradition of Australian paint-
ing”—
“We do not mention Australian paint-
ing,” said Mr. Shean. “Indeed, such is
our reticence on the matter, I suspect we
know little about it.”
“Weil, then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “we
don’t know a bee from a bull’s foot. Is
it some New Zealand critic who speaks
of this solitary genius the Dominions
have produced, and is the answer
Katherine Mansfield?”
“The critic is Mr. William Plomer, a
South African expatriate,” said Mr Shean,
“and in Penguin New Writing (No. 17)
he opines that the lonely genius of the
Dominions is Olive Schreiner.”
“Ah, that is very natural,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “and—if I do find the lady a
Jittle damp —I have no wish to depreciate.
The Story of art African Farm. I recall
Mr. Plomer as a sort of minor Roy Camp-
bell and the author of a very pretty little
piece of poetry about the amours of
dragonflies ; and if, having space in an
English publication, he wishes to boom
his fellow-countrymen, good luck to
him.”
“But Mr. Plomer is not concerned only
with South Africans,” said Mr. Shean.
“Under the general heading ‘Some
Writers from New Zealand’ he attempts
to give a general survey of Dominions
literature. ‘The Dominions have pro-
duced one writer of genius, Olive
Schreiner, and a number of writers of
talent.’ ”
“Surely,” said Mr. Gallagher, “he con-
cedes Australia at least one or two
writers of talent.”
“He does, indeed,” said Mr. Shean.
“ ‘Australia had a poet in Kendall and
a novelist in the author of For the Term
of His Natural Life.’ ”
“That,” said Mr. Gallagher, “is as in-
contestable as that England had an author
in the Venerable Bede. But perhaps Mr.
Plomer’s article is restricted to what we
might call the basic books of the
Dominions, the first steps towards a litera-
ture?”
“On the contrary,” said Mr. Shean,
“his references to New Zealand literature,
derived chiefly from stories contributed
to the Penguin New Writing series and
from a study of the centennial Letters
and Art in New Zealand, are confined
strictly to contemporary writing. Yet he
has nothing whatever to say about any
living Australian writer. Of Canada he
says: ‘The name of no single Canadian
writer springs to the mind,’ and I am
forced to conclude that his mind is not
exactly steeped in the literary history of
that Dominion.”
“Does Mr. Plomer,” asked Mr. Gal-
lagher, “at least express the hope that
Australia, some time among the rolling
of the years, will produce a novelist to
succeed Marcus Clarke and a poet to
follow Kendall?”
“By inference, yes,” said Mr. Shean.
“He says of New Zealand, at any rate,
that ‘it may yet save its soul.’ 1 should
warn you, though, that he agrees with the
author of Letters and Art in N.Z. that
‘whether in the next hundred years New
Zealand will add anything great and dis-
tinctive to the tradition of European civi-
lisation will not be decided wholly in New
Zealand nor wholly by New Zealanders.’ ”
“Really,” said Mr. Gallagher, “if a
wholly great New Zealander decided to
write a wholly great book I don’t see
what the devil there is to stop him.”
. “Mr. Plomer,” said Mr. Shean, “gives
hope; ‘The Dominions are now
very ‘different ■ those remote places
to which convicts,* penniless immigrants
and remittance men were‘shipped to get
them out of the way.’ ”
“I had always thought,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “that the immigrants shipped
themselves.”
“Still,” said Mr. Shean, “I think we
must admit he is right when he says of
the early writers, ‘Too many of them
wished to convince themselves —and their
sheep-stealing neighbors—that they had
culture. Too many looked to Lon-
don’
“Sheep!” said Mr. Gallagher. “To
which Dominion is Mr. Plomer refer-
ring?”
“Vaguely to all of us,” said Mr. Shean.
“It is true that, except in such ways
as a little extra may legitimately be
picked up in politics, the police force or
the licensed victualling trade, the Sheans
have always behaved with singular pro-
priety.”
“We,” said Mr. Gallagher, “stole
horses.”
Macbeth and McCuaig.
ŵ
of shout. The word “nothing” should
drop into the abyss like lead.
One other complaint must be made
against Tales Out of Bed, and that con-
cerns the footnote to the essay on Ken-
neth Slessor’s poetry: “How many realise
that here is a poetry more alive, more
various and more wonderful than that of
the reverenced W. B. Yeats?” Yeats not
having been a clergyman, when he might
have been called “the reverend,” the cor-
rect adjective is “revered.”
Apart from this momentary lapse into
trailing the McCuaig coat, the essay,
which first appeared on the Red Page,
is a lovely piece of work. Throughout
the book, one is struck by the delicate
strength of McCuaig’s prose, a fineness
of style immediately recalling the same
quality in his two books of lyrics, Vaude-
ville and The Wanton Goldfish.
Tales Out of Bed is intensely a per-
sonal statement. Made up of as odd a
medley of material as ever was gathered
between one set of covers —ten short
stories, very light and very gay: half a
dozen critical articles, all of rare distinc-
tion, and some short humorous sketches
on all sorts of subjects—the book has a
queer kind of unity. As Frank Dalby
Davison once said in The Bulletin of
another book, it is “held together by a
quality of mind.”
And the quality of mind in this in-
stance is a fine-drawn, ironical sensitivity.
Fine-drawn in its appreciation of the
Elizabethan lyric above all other forms
of poetry; ironical, because it holds that
nothing except the Elizabethan lyric is
ever to be taken quite seriously ; sensi-
tive because both in the literary criticism
and the domestic satires there is an under-
lying aversion from anything in literature
or life that will not fit into a pattern of
aristocratic grace.
With his preference for the fine and
the small things of life, McCuaig would
have made an excellent Chinaman. The
present commentator inclines to a larger,
perhaps more barbaric form of art, Mar-
lowe before Suckling ; but there is no
quarrelling with the distinction of Mc-
Cuaig’s prose. One wishes that there
were more of it, and that it were pre-
sented in a more suitable format. Criti-
cism in Australia sadly lacks style,
personality and dignity, and McCuaig
could give it all three.
History of New Zealand.
Alan Mulgan’s From Track to High-
way: a Short History of New Zealand
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.) claims to
present “the wood without the trees” of
the Dominion’s story: the facts, that is
to say, without the trimmings.
The trouble with that sort of book is
always that the trees are more interesting
than the wood. For instance, it is mildly
interesting to learn from Mr. Mulgan,
concerning the Hauhaus and the Pai-
marire cult (which resulted in the most
ferocious of the Maori wars) that “the
new faith was a blend of ancient priest-
craft, of belief in spells, with (in Mr.
Cowan’s words) ‘smatterings of English
knowledge and English phrases and per-
verted fragments of church services’
but it is much more interesting to go to
Cowan’s New Zealand Wars and learn
the actual ritual of the Hauhaus—to see
them marching round their pole of wor-
ship, chanting:
Kiwa, warn, tu, tiri, wha — Teihana!
Rewa, piki rewa, rongo rewa, tone, piki tone —
Teihana!
Rori, piki rori, rongo rori, puihi, piki puihi—
Teihana!
Nota, no te pehi, no te hihi, noriti mino, noriti,
korini — Teihana!
Hai, kainu te ti, oro te mene, rauna te niu —
Teihana !
Hema, rura wini, tu mate wini, ka'mu te ti
Teihana !
Which, being interpreted, was the
Maorification of the English words:
Kill, one, two, three, four —Attention!
River, big river, long river, stone, big stone —
Attention!
Road, big road, long road, bush, big bush —
Attention!
North, north-by-east, nor’-nor’-east, nor’-east-by-
north, north-east, colony —Attention!
Come to tea, all the men, round the niu —
Attention!
Shem, rule the wind, too much wind, come to
tea —Attention!
The bare facts can never convey the
full drama; only the details, showing how
men worked themselves up into a fury
of blood-lust by chanting this fantastic
mumbo-jumbo, can give the real spirit
and flavor of the times.
It is Mr. Mulgan’s express intention,
however, to arouse interest in those fuller
histories of New Zealand which do pre-
sent the trees as well as the wood. And,
of course, many colorful details force
their way into his narrative.
Gracefully written, the book fulfills
admirably its purpose of drawing for
Americans and others the outline of New
Zealand’s history. The author makes a
good point when he stresses that, instead
~ ... 5 1 ?? grabbed by a land-hungry
British Government m the way that popu-
jg\”es the Empire was made,
, °ffiuially declared a
f y / ,! Bre f* reluctance and
r £ S k S ' Unless t ! le Bri tish
n a b^. en prepared to order
f seamen and its adventurers, its whalers
“f £ s traders ? to. say m England, it could
annexalfonTnevitabk. P ° Sltl ° n that made
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Two plays:
Faced with a beauteous Spanish gipsy who
seduces the master of a household, his son and
their faithful manservant, the Sydney Royal 5.30
audience tittered unbelievingly, and the dailies
wrote reprovingly about melodrama. Yet no-
body at Sydney Minerva’s “Distinguished
Gathering” showed the slightest signs of aston-
ishment when Richard Parry, Kathleen Robin-
son, Leonard Bullen, Honor Sim, Phyllis Best,
Hilda Dorrington, Hal Thompson, Ben Lewin
and Daphne Winslow, impersonating various
ladies and gentlemen of England, murdered a
man (John Carlson) who was intending to libel
them in his memoirs. Which, when you come
to think of it, is odd: for husbands, their sons
and their manservants are seduced every day
by the equivalent of beauteous Spanish gipsies,
but nice people hardly ever commit murder.
The real trouble with “The Squall” is not
so much that it’s in the outworn convention ot
melodrama instead of the modern convention
of detective plays, but that it is lamentably
casted, acted and produced. Everything in the
Minerva show is slick and smooth and sophisti-
cated, and only minor quibbles can be made
against it—Kathleen Robinson needs a touch
of sparkle, and the present commentator never
cares for Hal Thompson’s voice when there are
tears in it. But at the Royal a priest, obviously
intended to be fat, red and Falstaffian, looks
pale, miserable and ascetic; Dorothy Whiteley
plays an old village woman as if she were a
witch in musical comedy; John Macallura,
supposed to be a middle-aged grandee, the
father of Hal Lashwood, looks so youthful that
he must have become a parent at the age of
five; Lashwood plays the son with an impos-
sible mixture of winsomeness and petulance;
Marie Rosenfeld when, as the injured wife, she
threatens to kill the beauteous gipsy, is wholly
unconvincing; and Carlotta Kalmar, as the
beauteous gipsy, looks as if she had been
stewed in tea-leaves and dishwater.
At the talkies:
The British Admiralty’s imprimatur is stamped
on “We Dive at Dawn” (Sydney Embassy); and,
although a fictitious name is used for the Nazi
battleship in the story, the under-water sequences
look real. The tenseness is strongly salted with
typical English humor. John Mills is quietly
authoritative as the sub. skipper, and Eric Port-
man as a torpedo hand does a fine job of work.
It is “the trade” in its best traditions.
At the same address is “Dear Octopus,"
Dodie Smith’s play of a family drawn together
for the parents’ golden wedding. There is a
notable family brawl, and an English cast makes
a great job of it.
Playwright Moss Hart demonstrates in “Lady
In the Dark” (Prince Edward) that Freudian
complexes can make snappy comedy; a fashion
magazine editress who, as her chief photo-
grapher banteringly tells her, would rather pro-
duce a magazine than a baby, seeks the advice
of a psycho-analyst. Ginger Rogers and Ray
Milland carry the comedy through on a high
note.
“Four Jills In a Jeep” (Plaza) cashes in on
the concert parties, comprising a few Holly-
wood notables, who go to “battle areas.
Martha Raye turns in some broad comedy and
tosses explosive wisecracks, but for the most
it’s flapper-fodder.
Adelaide Repertory has revived Brig-
house’s old Lancashire comedy, “Hob-
son’s Choice,” based on the idea, always
popular with an audience, of a managing
young woman who picks her unlikeiV
man, annexes him and teaches him to
beat her own domineering father in busi-
ness. The play depends on these three,
finely played by Beryl Kook, Don Ou-
ham and the veteran George Whittle.
Mimi Mattin produced,
A collection of sketches in water-color
and pencil, the work of Douglas Annand,
on view in David Jones’s new gallery,
Sydney, derives its inspiration almost en-
tirely from war-time N. Queensland. Two
of the water-colors have been bought by
the Victorian National Gallery. Mr.
Annand is a practitioner of the current
English fashion in water-color, a sor
of pictorial shorthand, intelligible enougn,
but devoid of feeling or emotion to thos.
not capable of clothing the conventions
of the style with their own imagination-
To anyone not blinded by fashion t* e
drawing appears poor, the color unin-
teresting and the composition haphazar
There is an unusual variety about the
show at Melbourne Athenaeum of Fere.
Watson, who teaches at the Warrnam-
bool Technical School. Some of it seem
to have come about more through 100
ing at other people’s pictures than
Nature, but the artist is sufficient or
craftsman to make the old forms lo
refreshing. Some of the Van Goghlike
landscapes are the nicest, and a Lnui
portrait is skilful.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
W
■
f:
m
m
1
:*¥
m
m
m
mm
m
I
mm
■
m
%
0 ....
m
m
mm
I
mmm
wwSiWj^
s
&&&&1
Piiifiii
mmmmm
mmmzm
• "si
s??xs;
Wmm
m s
■
m
im
wsm
s
•¥®
mm t<
msmmmmrnm
aL
*wi r*V^4Ww»w*»wSiiwntati'i <»4 1 r • r ii w» vua i**t i i>^>>Wwiv-
THONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
Embroidered Art Silk Bedspreads in Blue, Rose, Green or Gold.
Single Bed Size 467-
Double Bed Size 607-
No Coupons Required.
12-inch Parchment Lampshade, painted with Rosebud designs
and finished with Chenille tufting in Rose, Blue, Green or
Gold 5/9 each
No Coupons Required.
Ready-made Burlap Curtains, 72 ins., obtainable in two widths.
Specially made to meet your immediate needs during this
period of shortage of furnishing fabrics. Colours are Green.
Brown, Rust, and Burgundy. Sorry! But we can't guarantee
this material to be fadeless. Half Width 21/- pair
Full Width 35/6 pair
No Coupons Required.
Felt Wadded Edge Cushions filled with pure wool. Obtain-
able in shades of Green, Brown, Rust, Light Burgundy, and
Dark Burgundy 35/- each
No Coupons Required.
Fawn Repp Cushions with wadded edge and filled with new
wool and flock 21/- each
No Coupons Required.
Shower Curtains made of substitute waterproof sheeting.
Single Width * 25/- each
Double Width 47/6 each
No Coupons Required.
• Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


<-• «•
V/*
♦ *l*
<v
*0 4
/o*
SB
•A
s?
•:V
&V
&
m
<4
f.u
V
•••:
r;
,: •
*5
Si
• *!: •;
• • ** ••
v • • • ...
• . .
1
V, .:. -. .
. . "
• »>
* ** . ,
•vl-V: *•■«•.
• ■ >'v
•. . •
-.'A
■. V • •
h•• : •
v/
e'v-';
* V ■
'y * .••
KK
v‘.‘
V'. > \ '•
\
3
m
'* ■ *
: : v-
V*
iy t
A
*•*.,* ■ •■' -,r‘ -• ‘-’ •• >
A * * * » • - i •*» • • • •• ..
.*• ••••
and other Famous Products
including:
CREME de MENTHE
ADVOCAAT
CURACAO
GILBEDENE
CHERRY BRANDY
ORANGE & WHITE
CREME de CACAO
ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY - RUM - GIN SLING
BRONX S MARTINI COCKTAIL - SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH & GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. &A. CUBEY LTD.
Distilleries at
Moorabbin . . Victoria Toronto . . . Canada
London .... England Cincinnati . . . U.S.A.
Address all enquiries to: W. & A, GILBEY LTD., 33 ROSSLYN STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams and Cables: "Silbeys" Melbourne
or 109 Regent Street, Sydney Telegrams and Cables: "Gilbeys" Sydney


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3370.
Wednesday, September 13, 1944.
GYMNASIUM WORKOUT.
"The law against strikes and absenteeism will be ruthlessly enforced."—Prime Minister .


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"LABOR PRINCIPLES."
The coincidence of the great events in
Europe with the Prime Minister’s an-
nouncement in the House at Canberra
that 30,000 men were to be “released”
from the A.M.F. and 15,000 from the
R.A.A.F. was remarked not only at home
but abroad. In a cablegram from Cal-
cutta a Sydney “Morning Herald” man
mentioned a question put to him “very
frequently” by “British and American
servicemen in India,” the question being:
“Is the Australian Army pulling right out
of the war?”
The correspondent, it seems, has done
his best to “explain the conditions under
which men are to be released,” but he
suggests that “it would be a very good
thing for a very full statement to be
made available for overseas consumption,
to prevent misunderstandings.” The times
and the circumstances are such that mis-
understandings might remain even if mas-
sive additions were made to the overseas
staffs of the Department of Information,
as is now proposed. Though the crowd
in office has a great opinion of press
agents there are doubts beyond the capa-
city of these young gentlemen to resolve,
however numerous and industrious and
ingenious.
New Zealand and South Africa, with a
combined white population less than half
that of Australia, have each a division in
Italy, and New Zealand has another in
the South Pacific. Canada has a corps
in Italy and an army in France. The
army is not wholly composed of
Canadians, there being powerful units of
British troops and Poles and other
European contingents, but it bears the
proud title of the Canadian First Army,
and is under Canadian command, that of
Lieut-General Crerar. And it has had a
glorious share in the defeat of three Ger-
man armies, the isolation of the Channel
ports and the freeing of the people of
London, Portsmouth and other parts of
southern England from the horrors of the
second blitz.
There are Australians who remember
that their country was the first Dominion
to put a full army in the field, an army
unsurpassed for valor, skill and leader-
ship, and who are proud of their kinship
with the officers and men of the present
A.1.F., the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.
These Australians will never cease to re-
gret the absence of Australians from the
forces liberating “the Flowre of Cities
All” and the Home Counties and the
parts of France and Flanders which Old
Diggers know so well. And no words
could express the disappointment of the
soldiers, above all, perhaps, the fine
fellows of the unemployed armored
division, when they turn it over in their
minds that, save for the airmen doing a
man-size job, as always, Australia Is Not
There.
The regret and disappointment would
be allayed if it could be felt that Australia
was all out against the Japs. This is cer-
tainly not the case at present, whatever
may be in contemplation. The enemy
who went close to invading the con-
tinent in 1942 is still in occupation of
territory held for 23 years under Aus-
tralian Mandate; still in Bougainville,
New Britain, New Ireland and parts of
north-eastern New Guinea ; still in the
town that was the seat of government of
the Mandated Territory till just before he
swooped down on it. It has been
suggested by alleged “experts” in the
U.S.A. that Japs who have taken
refuge in “inaccessible” parts of the
islands should be left there to rot or “to
inter-marry with the native women.” If
the present Government or any other
Government accepted so monstrous a
proposition, so cowardly, inhuman and
dangerous a betrayal of the natives, the
ghost of Hubert Murray would start from
the tomb and haunt it.
And there are the officers and men of
the unhappy Eighth Division, taken into
captivity on February 15, 1942, and still
unredeemed. Their fate should be always
in the minds of Australians with red
blood in their veins, and the nation
should never rest until it has delivered
them and their companions in misfortune
captured in the Mandated Territory and
in the Dutch East Indies. In cold fact,
it is rarely reminded of them by a news-
paper press which gives acres of space to
the doings of racing men and profes-
sional footballers and pugilists, who,
while severe financial and transport re-
strictions are imposed on much worthier
people, seem to be able to do what and
go where they please. Even by politicians
the victims of the cruellest fate that ever
befell Australians are rarely mentioned
except when a war loan is on the market.
One of these occasions having arrived, it
was given out that they are believed to
number 22,919. But among the 22,919
are 2877 (137 officers and 2740 other
ranks) of whom, since they were reported
missing, “no news at all has been
received.”
The honor and credit of Australia are
in the hands of politicians who, with one
exception, entered office without any ex-
perience of war except as spectators,
and with ideas about the duty of
Australia which were ignoble when not
confused. In the last war, from October,
1916, onward nearly all of them exerted
themselves to prevent the A.I.F. being
reinforced by the only effective method
that presented itself, the method uni-
versally adopted by Australia’s part-
ners, from the U.S.A. to N.Z. Their
opposition to conscription prevailed,
and they carried it and the senti-
ments associated with it into the period
between the wars and into the present
war. For at least some of gentry
the great deeds of Monash’s and
Chauvel’s men had no meaning. They re-
garded themselves as the real heroes of
the struggle, “fearless fighters” (a favorite
expression in N.S.W. Labor papers, often
self-applied by candidates for seats in
Parliament), and so were apt to regard
the Diggers as dupes of imperialism, so
insensible to the beauties of “Labor
principles” that, coming together with
seamen and flying men, they called their
organisation the Imperial League. Of
course, the politicians and their friends
were careful not to parade this particular
feeling, having a lively sense of the im-
portance of the soldiers’ vote, which they
exploited for all they were worth.
From foreign wars Geneva would
save us. Defence measures, over and
above the provision of a limited number
of jobs and occasional unemployed-
relief undertakings, were thus useless and
dangerous. So Labor said. There was an-
other war on, an internal war, and that
war must proceed until ended by the
attainment of Labor’s objective, the
socialisation of production, industry, dis-
tribution and exchange. The class war.
On the one side “the workers,” possessors
of all the virtues and producers of all
the wealth and vastly in the major-
ity, yet held down and robbed of
their. inheritance and of most of the
fruits of their labors. On the other
side “the capitalists,” numerically small,
even contemptibly so, and as inefficient
as they were ravenous, yet supreme.
Supreme partly because they drew
strength from England, the home of im-
perialism, a land inhabited by an inferior
race called Pommies, and by the greediest
and most tyrannous of all capitalists,
bloodsuckers, who condescended to lend
Australia money for railways and so
forth, but —like Mr. Micawber’s creditors
—expected to be paid.
And into the picture came Soviet
Russia, the Workers’ Paradise, perfect in
everything except the means by which
the ideal system was effected. “Soviet
Russia, in which more progress has been
made in 25 years than has been achieved
by any capitalist country in ten times that
period.” That was said by Minister
Ward in the course of his latest foul
attack on the English, delivered when
Mr. Curtin was about to visit Mr.
Roosevelt and commune with Mr.
Churchill and other Prime Ministers. It
momentarily disturbed Mr. Curtin’s com-
placency, but Mr. Curtin went on his
way, cheered (perhaps!) by the words of
Mr. Breen, the Labor M.H.R. for Calare
(N.S.W.); “my benediction to him before
his departure,” Mr. Breen explained—“l
say that in 1917, when they sent him to
jail for his war activities, he did more for
humanity and for Australia than he did
in 1944.”
Such is the teaching. It has been am-
plified by Communists, who have ser-
vants in influential positions, and whose
propaganda has taken many forms. The
subtlest and most successful is war
“news,” the manufacturers of which not
only never let the Nazi dogs get the
better of it but go in for or suggest false
and wounding comparisons at the expense
of Britain. And Communists have been
assisted to gain control of unions and
practise their knavish tricks by Labor’s
cowardly desertion of the decent
elements, which might long ago have
asserted themselves effectually had secret
ballots and publication of balance sheets
been made compulsory. “All power to
the union bosses and mobs! ” has been the
“policy” of the Labor and Communist
parties alike. We are now witnessing
some of the results, and they are ugly.
Not only has the war effort been endan-
gered and the reputation of Australia
blotted, but in the name of unionism,
though in the spirit of sheer larrikinism,
detestable injuries have been and are being
inflicted on unionists and their families
—by unionists.
And in the case of the Portland
(N.S.W.) butcher executive power has
been invoked and twisted to down the
one man who has had the pluck to resist
a mob of coal strikers, went on taking
control of his business or ruining it and
him. Three of Mr. Curtin’s Ministers,
himself defending them, have descended
from their high places to strike at this
one man, whose stand was vindi-
cated by one of their servants, a Con-
ciliation Commissioner in Justice Hig-
gins’s “new province for law and order,”
in which writs no longer run. In spite
of excuses which wouldn’t deceive a half-
wit, these Ministers and their leader stand
revealed as servile instruments of the
most contemptible kind of despotism,
that of an unwhipped mob, the bottom
having fallen out of Labor’s so-called
philosophy and methods of government.
After the Victory.
With the extraordinary speed at which
the war in Europe has been racing to a
climax, those who will meet and try to
arrange a durable peace must now be
closely conning their final briefs for the
big job ahead of them. If they had the
briefs from the Russia-ls-Always-Righters
it would be ail very simple, in more ways
than one. They would oply have to go
along and say “Yes.” In fact, they are
already cast by those gentry as the
villains of the piece if they don’t.
As others see it the business is not
nearly so cut and dried, “By the wise
use of our victory,” Walter Lippmann
has written, “we can now put an end
to the series of wars which have devas-
tated the world for some 30 years.” Mr.
Lippmann, very highly regarded in the
United States as a thinker on foreign
affairs, pins his hopes, or anchors them,
to a tremendous “If.”
Mr, Lippmann’s great concern and his
optimism—possibly pessimism might be
the word—is for an enduring peace. A
temporary peace would be easy, and will
be tempting. Once Germany and Japan
are defeated. they can both be kept iii
order for a time —so long as the coalition
against them remains a working concern.
If it is—as all like coalitions in the past
have been —merely a temporary affair,
loosely welded together by the immedi-
ate menace, the end of the peace and
the beginning of the next world war will
be heralded by the first breaks. Then a
resurgent Germany would be ready for
an alliance with Russia or against
Russia; or a resurgent Japan ready for
an alliance with either Russia or China.
Therefore, in Mr. Lippmann’s view, the
primary war aim must be to make it as
impossible for Germany to hold the bal-
ance of power in Europe as for Japan
to hold it in Eastern Asia.
This postulates, obviously, a continuing
arrangement to keep Russia as one of the
peace-ensuring nations. Mr. Lippmann
mentions initial difficulties:
The Soviet Union’s relations with the
United Slates, and indeed with all other
European and American countries, are
beset by profound contradictions which in-
hibit confident collaboration. We encounter
them first in the fact that diplomatic inter-
course is not on an equal and reciprocal
basis. The Soviet Government maintains
a quarantine against free intercourse with
us. The outgoing censorship permits us to ,
know about Russia only what the Govern-
ment deems expedient. The incoming cen-
sorship permits the Russian people to know
about us, even about our official acts, only
what the Government deems expedient.
Thus, in foreign affairs the Soviet
Government can use secrecy and sur-
prise to manoeuvre in ways which demo-
cratic Governments cannot do. It has, of
course, done so more than once, even
with the war still on ; what it might do
in the same line with the war over can
as yet only be imagined. On the other
hand, “our [democratic] institutions are
such that we could not, without destroy-
ing them, equalise intercourse by estab-
lishing our own quarantine; unlike the
Soviet’s, our policies can be formed only
after deliberation and debate, which put
the whole world on notice.” The differ-
ence is most clearly to be noted in the
fact that, “while the Soviet Constitution
is protected by its police against being
subverted by democrats, the democracies
are inhibited by their own principles from
protecting themselves conclusively against
being subverted by totalitarians.” The
bearing of this on the peace-making:
As long as this inequality exists there
cannot be true collaboration between the
Soviet Union and the Western World.
There can be only a modus vivendi, only
compromises, bargains, specific agreements,
a diplomacy of checks and counter-checks.
Or, in the final analysis, only at the most
a temporary peace.
Since 1941 Soviet foreign policy has
“disavowed the project of revolutionary
international Communism and has pro-
fessed full support of democratic institu-
tions and principles abroad.” But, Mr.
Lippmann points out, though the Soviet
Constitution of 1936 is democratic in
character and contains a bill of civil
rights, these particular provisions of it
have never operated.
It is inevitable then that the world should
ask whether the new democratic professions
of Soviet foreign policy will, in fact, be
operative. We cannot gloss over this matter
if our object is to come to a full under-
standing with Soviet Russia. Too much is
at stake.
Mr. Lippmann holds that all Russian
distrust of the others in the coalition
should be “finally overcome by our sup-
port of a peace settlement which ends con-
clusively the German and Japanese threat
to Russia’s security.” On that founda-
tion—which means, of course, accepting
that security will be the limit of Soviet
ambition —“we can then proceed to seek
boldly a durable understanding with the
Soviet Union.” “We have a right to
hope” that the “conflict over elemental
civil rights the root of the difficulty”
can be resolved, the hope based on the
Soviet’s having, “sihee we became allies
in war,” been “committing itself more
and more definitely to a foreign policy
based on democratic principles.”
Mr., Lippmann sees a looming bone of
contention in one declaration to which
the other Allies as well as Russia are com-
mitted —“Fascism shall be destroyed.”
“Measures which Russia deems neces-
sary to destroy Fascism may elsewhere
be interpreted as measures to promote
Communism ; measures which non-Soviet
States may regard as a proper defence
against Communism may be interpreted
in Russia as the support of Fascism.”
In the vital interest of the Russian people,
as in our own, we must break' this vicious
circle. Otherwise the Russians—fighting
Fascism as they define it —and the Wes-
terners —fighting Communism as they de-
fine it —may end up as mortal enemies in a
world war.
Speaking specifically of, and without
any question for, the United States, Mr.
Lippmann declares that, however correct
diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union
may be, “they will not really be the good
relations they need to be until the basic
political and human liberties are estab-
lished in the Soviet Union ; only then
will there be full confidence and a free
intercourse on a basis of full equality.”
In the universal society which the Moscow
and Tehran agreements call for there
cannot be genuine consultation and, after
deliberation, common action, if between
the Soviet Union and the other nations
there is not an equal and reciprocal ex-
change of public information, if all the
Governments which wield force are not
publicly accountable to their peoples and
to the opinions of the world. The world
order cannot be half democratic and half
totalitarian.
And only the Russians can settle the
argument once and for all, by what they
do when the war is over, and even as the
war proceeds. “What,” Mr. Lippmann
asks, “is the world to make of it if they
do not implement fully the democratic
principles of the 1936 Constitution?”
One thing the world might sadly have
to make of it eventually is simply that
what Mr. Lippmann regarded as a first
essential to the ensuring of a durable
peace was also an impossibility. For
what is it that Mr. Lippmann is really
asking but that the Soviet Union will now
promptly turn its utterly totalitarian estab-
lishment into a democracy modelled on
that of Mr, Lippmann’s country? It is
not only a matter of preference. It
might be that the prevailing Russian
system, whoever may find it objection-
able, is the only one possible for Russia.
“The Russians,” Mr, Lippmann rightly
insists, “simply cannot expect the rest of
the world to believe in the democratic
principles of their new foreign policy if
they do not then practise those principles
at home.” The test will be “in the measures
they take when the war is over to validate
their own Constitutional promises, and
make free, equal and reciprocal the ex-
change of news and opinion between their
own people and their present Allies,” The
alternative:
If they refuse, we can still do our very
best to get on with them, persisting through
the ordinary channels of diplomacy in the
effort to prevent a third World War. But
if they refuse, it will be better not to de-
ceive ourselves, and to become relaxed in
the semblance, which will have little reality,
of a universal society for the maintenance
of peace.
And in view of what actually is here
asked as a prerequisite of that, it cer-
tainly might be as well not to become re-
laxed.
It might, of course, be argued that
as the democratic Allies are dcing
all right with a totalitarian war partner
—the pretence that Russia is any way
democratic being mere guff for goats—
there should be nothing insuperable about
continued collaboration among them in
peace. This overlooks the one important
fact that, by the sheer necessities of fight-
ing a world-size war, the warring democ-
racies are now for the time being them-
selves totalitarians. But with the peace
they will sharply change into democracies
again ; and the plain essence of th° Lipp-
mann thesis is that for all to remain en-
during peace partners Russia will then
have to change into their form as they
are now temporarily changed into
Russia’s. Otherwise good-bye, sweet
Peace; it was nice having you around
for a while.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unionism Run Mad.
South Australia has suffered two rail-
way strikes in two weeks. After the first
and when the second was threatened
Mr. Curtin issued a back-to-work order,
but had no more success than he has had
with N.S.W. coalminers, Portland strikers
or Sydney gasworkers. Indeed, it’s get-
ting that way that employers pray that
Mr. Curtin won’t issue any more.
The S.A. strikes were against the
power vested in the Railways Commis-
sioner to impose fines for breaches of
discipline, the strikers holding that this
power is a “harsh disciplinary by-law”
and an offshoot of Fascism or capitalism
or something, though they are employed
in a Government undertaking in which
pyramids of tax-money have disappeared
over the years.
The first strike was against the fining
of three junior porters who had failed to
attend lectures in their own time. When
approached by the A.R.U., the Commis-
sioner, expressing doubts about legality,
said he would discontinue the practice
and remit the fines. This touch of reason
merely excited the union appetite. Aboli-
tion of all fines for breaches of dis-
cipline was demanded. This the Com-
missioner refused and in the jargon of
Labor-union politicians and mobs “the
fight” was “on.”
To show what he was up against the
Commissioner released seven samples of
excuses given by railwaymen for being
absent from work:
(1) I refused to do a job on account
of knocking off at 4.15, and he asked me
to do it at 4.10. I also refused to write
out a report because I got sick of writing
them out. (2) I absented myself (for 45
minutes). I went for liquid refreshment at
an hotel. (3) Went to a midnight dance.
(4).... I had too much booze and stopped
in bed all day (5) I was feeling
sick owing to a few drinks I had.... so I
went over into a carriage and went to sleep.
(6) I was a very sick man, drinking giggle
juice. Interesting, wasn’t if? I didn’t ring
up because I was full as an egg. I was too
tired to go down to the ’phone box. Love
and kisses. (7) I went up to the hotel to
have a drink.
The penalties inflicted were; (1) and
(3) fined two days’ pay ; (2) cautioned and
warned ; (4) and (5) cautioned and fined
one day’s pay; (6) fined one day’s pay;
(7) fined £l. Mild enough, since rail-
ways are highly complicated concerns
running to rigid railway timetables.
But the A.R.U., doubtless inspired by
Dr. Evatt’s pre-referendum dictum that
the right to hire and fire must be abol-
ished, and by Mr. Curtin’s spineless treat-
ment of other work-stoppers, won’t have
cheeky boozers disciplined.
It stopped the S.A. railways for two
days at the second strike, though the
Commonwealth Conciliation Commis-
sioner was to hear its case for abolition
of penalties.
As sure as night follows day, this
country will have to restrict the power
of unions to hold it up or go down into
industrial anarchy and mob rule,
"Insurance."
For 15 weeks of 1939-40 the Finns had
no more ardent newspaper champion than
“S. M. Herald.” Since the end of June,
1941, Granny has never wearied of berat-
ing them. The latest example was the
worst:
The attack on Finland was essentially of
an insurance nature to gain a little more
breathing space in front of Leningrad before
the German blow fell. The Russian action
was carefully calculated in the light of the
Russo-German war that was to come, and
the apparent inefficiency of the Red Army
was intended to deceive even the Germans.
Pestilent rubbish, and Granny should
have turned up the articles she published
during the 15 weeks’ war and what Molo-
tov said at the beginning and the end.
Molotov gave the Russian casualties as
158,000 men killed and wounded. No
Country ever imposed such losses on its
soldiers out of an intent “to deceive.”
As for “the carefully calculated action,”
in an address to the Supreme Council
of the U.S.S.R. (October 31, 1939) Molo-
tov dealt with the attitude of his Govern-
ment in these words:
The Non-aggression Pact of August 25
put an end to the abnormal relations that
existed between Russia and Germany. The
traditional policy of unprincipled manoeuvr-
ing and playing off one against the other
has suffered complete bankruptcy.
It is evident that Britain and France are
for continuing the war on the ground,
obviously unsound, of their undertaking
to Poland. There can be no question of
restoring the old Poland. There is no
justification for the war.
Ideology cannot be destroyed by war.
It is not only senseless but criminal to
wage subh a war for the destruction of Hitler-
ism, covered as a fight for democracy.
Britain and France went to war out of fear
of German claims to colonial possessions.
The imperialist character of the war is
obvious to anyone who wants to face
realities.
If a big country may rightly attack a
little neighbor on the score of “insur-
ance” (in the process tearing up a Non-
Aggression Pact and a sheaf of other
engagements, as Moscow did) Hitler
could have appealed to this “principle”
when he went into Czechoslovakia, and
on the “principle” the “Herald” would
have been bound to support him. As it
happened, it denounced the invasion of
Czechoslovakia as a crime, which it was,
and called upon the Empire to fall on
the criminal at once —Australia with its
30,000 militia and its few dozen Wirra-
ways.
Not Being Coalminers ....
A Perth solicitor, appearing for a young
woman charged with failure to obey a
Man-power direction to work in a mental
hospital, obtained a fortnight’s adjourn-
ment in order, as he said, to subpoena the
Prime Minister. He held that the Prime
Minister had said, “You can’t take a
miner’s body and put it in a coalmine,”
and so thereby nobody could take a
girl’s body and put it in a mental hos-
pital.
Practically the entire population of
Toowoomba (Q.) would like to hear from
the Prime Minister on this subject. Early
in August a batch of Toowoomba young
women was summoned and fined for dis-
obeying Man-power directions to work
at mental hospitals. Eighty cases were
listed. Three were defended. Fines in-
flicted totalled £290, plus professional
and court costs of £164.
The young women were shop-assistants
mostly. One was a barmaid ; one a 16-
year-old, fined for failing to register.
Others had reported to the mental hos-
pitals and then found they couldn’t do
the work.
“These girls,” remarked the Bench,
“must get it out of their minds that they
can do as they like.” His duty, of
course, is to uphold the law —in this case
a National Security edict —and it didn't
occur to him to say anything about this
mental hospital business. But care of the
mentally afflicted is, or should be, a job
for qualified persons with the strength of
mind to endure horrible sights and inci-
dents. To drag shop assistants and bar-
maids off to the work is absurd and cruel.
Not the reluctant young women but the
persons responsible for issuing the orders
should be called upon to explain them-
selves.
Still, the moral of the Toowoomba
cases is that Mr. Curtin’s Government
is not afraid to deal with people who defy
it, provided that they are not coalminers
or other unionists.
There was (need it be said?) a thump-
ing majority for No in Toowoomba on
the referendum. .
"Free" Medicine and Beds.
It occurred to someone at Canberra
that free medicine would promote the
good of the greatest number —or at least
those with the greatest number of votes.
Some sceptic suggested that it would be
a doubtful blessing to a nation so tra-
ditionally addicted to dosing itself with
pills and potions, and that in any case
the cost would be immense, especially as
there could be no such thing as an abso-
lute check. The answer was that the free
medicine would be confined to a speci-
fied number of doctors’ prescriptions.
At once doctors began murmuring, and
thus far the “reform” has not material-
ised. Cynics expect that before the
general election there will be a universal
demand for free patent medicine, head-
ache tablets, hang-over powders and the
like, to which Labor will accede as part of
the new order.
Then Canberra hit upon the notion
of offering the State Governments 6s. a
day *‘in respect of all patients occupying
beds in public-wards at hospitals.” Objec-
tions came from Victoria and Westraha,
and the scheme was altered, the promise
being “6s. a day for every patient in inter-
mediate and private wards at public hos-
pitals and in private hospitals, as well as
patients in public wards. This was
accepled by the Premiers at the Canberra
Conference, but the B.M.A. straightway
expressed gloomy doubts as to the effect
on the medical profession and on poor
patients themselves, since they might lose
their “first choice of public beds.” Other
objections came and are coming from
organisations which contribute to the
financing of hospitals, whether by col-
lecting weekly subscriptions or periodical
voluntary gifts or both.
Before the present situation arose. Dr.
H. H. Schlink, chairman of Sydney’s King
George V Hospital, made some pertinent
remarks on the subject of hospital main-
tenance problems. He referred to the re-
port of the Joint Parliamentary Commit-
tee on Social Security, which recom-
mended that there should be paid “out
of general taxes a contribution of
£2 ss. 6d. a week for a bed that costs
£7 2s. to maintain.”
Where is the difference of £4 16s. 6d. to
come from? If the State receives a national
hospital subsidy people will cease to con-
tribute, and the hospitals will be left worse
off than they are at present.
The general hospital position in Sydney,
Dr. Schlink proceeded, was that the city
was over 1000 beds sho\t of require-
ments. As for finance, “it is astound-
ing that the Hospitals Commission must
o Continued on page 8.)
THE CAT THAT CAME BACK.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance,
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shl WYN KING. Managing Director
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
FCTA/BU-I
ŵ
POLITICAL POINTS
The no-confidence motion on the Gov-
ernment’s surrender to coal strikers and
absentees was voted out, and an adjourn-
ment motion on its surrender to those
who aim at putting the Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher out of business was talked out.
Before that happened Chifley, who is
member for the district, complained that
the butcher was “very offhanded.” This
can never be said of Chifley’s Govern-
ment. If there are two mobs Chifley’s
Government shouts with the larger ; if
one mob, like the Portlanders, it crawls.
As reported in the friendly “Argus”;
Warning that Australia could not con-
tract out of Europe, Dr. Evatt said that
countries like Australia should see that, as
the first step, the way should be thrown
wide open for the resurgence of democracy
in Europe.
Poland is in Europe. Mr. Maloney, the
Evatt-appointed Minister to Moscow, was
commissioned to look after Poland’s in-
terests there, the Polish Embassy having
been given marching orders. When the
Poles in Warsaw were putting up a grand
fight Moscow notified Mr. Maloney that
Australia would no longer be recognised
as Poland’s Protecting Power. Perhaps
its idea is that Australia has “contracted
out of Europe.”
If the N.S.W. Diggers have their way
militiamen who have served in a war
theatre and servicemen who have volun-
teered to serve anywhere will be admitted
to the League. And their Congress passed
a solid preference motion and went into
action against the N.S.W. Railway De-
partment, which it accused not only of
deducting pensions and a.w.l. fines from
returned-soldier railwaymen’s pay, but of
having “failed to reinstate others in posi-
tions not less favorable than those they
would have occupied had they not en-
listed,” as specified in National Security
regs. Perhaps aware that the League is
going to be a greater power than ever,
Canberra is taking over the latest batch
of cases against the delightful (the Dig-
gers have other words for it) department.
Mr. Hartigan is the Commissioner, and
Mr. O’Sullivan the Minister; and it is
suing Mr. Hartigan.
Tully, the Sydney Minister of Lands,
has given birth to an Idea —“Big land-
owners should give part of their estates
for soldier settlement as a voluntary ges-
ture of gratitude.” Splendid ; but there
are some comfortably-off landowners in
Tully’s Ministry, notably McKell,
Graham and Tully himself. How about
their setting the example?
General Sosnkowski, the Polish C.-in-
C., is in trouble for referring in an
Order of the Day to “the tragic and
ghastly riddle” of the heroes of Warsaw,
“abandoned on the common battle front
against the Germans,” and their leader
“blamed because he did not foresee the
sudden halt of the Soviet offensive at the
gates of the city.” He was tartly told that
his cry from a stricken heart was “con-
troversial,” and had “created an unfavor-
able impression.” Immediately after-
wards Masaryk, the Czech Foreign Min-
ister, announced, without being re-
proached from any quarter, that Czechs
and Slovaks were fighting in Slovakia
with “weapons received from the Allies
within the last forty-eight hours”
A wrong impression was conveyed by
the statement of British Empire war
casualties published at the end of the
fifth year of the struggle with Germany.
To service losses there should have been
added casualties among merchanl seamen,
29,381 dead and upwards of 4000 miss-
ing, and civilian air-raid casualties in the
U.K., 56,195 killed and 75,897 injured and
“detained in hospital.” All losses are
reckoned at 1,091,628. And since, for
one thing, killed and wounded British sub-
jects serving in ships on foreign registers
are not included, even that total does not
tell the whole sad and proud story.
In flat rejection of Percy Spender’s
advice, the electors of Warringah (N.S.W.)
polled the biggest No majority in Aus-
tralia. Percy was so agitated that he
addressed a letter to them ; and this was
the part he intended to be most impres-
sive ;
It will be a sorry day when the political
integrity of a public man may be chal-
lenged merely because on constitutional
and national issues he happens to hold a
different view to that held by the majority
of the electors. If that day does come it
will be the day of the complete political
hack, who will trim his sails to any wind
that blows and stifle any opinion he may
hold. ,
Unfortunately for Percy, it was read
with gales of laughter.
Frank Burke, who lost his seat (New-
town) to a Lang supporter (lady) at the
N.S.W. elections, has been “appointed by
KEANE. J., DELIVERS SENTENCE.
“Peter Dargin, you have been found guilty of standing up for your rights. The
judgment of this Court is that half your business be taken away from you
[“You beaut!” from the jury], and God have mercy on the rest.”
the Public Service Board to be an assis-
tant to the Assistant Minister” Mr. Clive
Evatt —whom the Assistant Ministei
assists hasn’t been stated. Burke is past
the civil-service retiring age, but on these
interesting occasions little things like that
don’t matter.
A Harrison contribution to the debate
on coal:
Mr. Curtin has referred to “the lions”
in his “path.” The full quotation from
Scripture is “A slothful man saifh there are
lions in my path." And on his own show-
ing what a mangy lot of lions they are—
s.p. bookmakers, taxi-drivers and dog-
trainers who have gone into coalmines to
avoid being called up.
Superb; but it wasn’t reported in the
Sydney dailies, Harrison being merely
Deputy Leader of the U.A.P. and a Syd-
ney member.
Reporting to Congress on lend-lease,
which he does every three months, the
President stated that from March, 1941,
it amounted to $28,270,000,000. Reverse
lend-lease to June 30 totalled over
$3,000,000,000, “principally from the
United Kingdom, Australia and New
Zealand.”
To April I, 1944, the U.K. contributed
$1,934,4U0,000. Australia 5457,623,u0d and
New Zealand $109,368,000; total,
$2,501,391,000.
In Chifley’s Budget lend-lease aid to
Australia to Dec. 31, 1943, was reckoned
al $741,000,000. Reciprocal aid to the
U.S. forces in Australia and the
South-west Pacific last year reached
$360,000,000, “approximately 20 per cent,
of our war expenditure.”
In the Roosevelt review of lend-lease,
there is a reference to “lend-lease ship-
ments to the Mediterranean theatre,
$3,070,829,000, primarily military sup-
plies for the British, Indian, Polish,
French, New Zealand, Australian, Greek
and other Allied armies in that area.”
Australia has no army “in that area,”
though it had in the time of that fellow
Menzies.
In September, 1918, Bulgaria was at
war with the British Empire and Russia,
but not with the U.S.A. In September,
1944, it was at war with the U.S.A. and
the British Empire, but not with Russia.
Then Moscow came to light with a
declaration of war, and within a few
hours the Bulgars were asking for an
armistice and trying their hands on a
declaration of war with Germany. Three
times since 1913 the Bulgars have robbed
their neighbors by force of arms
without being able to hang on to the
booty. They ought to have learned that
conquest doesn’t pay.
Referendum report from a New Guinea
camp;
The area was littered with Communist Yes
“literature," pinned to every second tree on all
the roads. The official pamphlets containing the
(or and against did not arrive till three
days before voting day. They were not accom-
panied by copies of The Bulletin —the only
Bulletins about were pre-referendum issues.
Nor were there any No speakers, but an
Army Education service speaker arrived the day
after the official pamphlets were delivered and
djd his stuff. He was a Yes man, very thinly
disguised, and 1 suppose he influenced a good
many soldiers to vote his way. But he didn’t
have the field to himself, for a young fellow
who had read the Evatt and Menzies arguments
plied him with questions. Like other A.E.S.
spouters, he was no slouch at dodging awkward
ones and changing to an easier line. He held the
floor for a couple of hours, but he could scarcely
have left camp with the impression that it would
be 100 p.c. Yes.
And evidently it wasn’t. Effective service
votes counted numbered 413,600- 218 45">
were Yes and 195,148 No. This was
really a greater shock, to the crowd in
office than the towering No majorities in
N, S. Wales and Queensland.
Europe had a Rumor Day last week,
reports that the Germans had turned it
in coming thick and fast. One Rumor
Day wasn’t enough for the Sydney even-
ing papers, so they made it two. The
“Tirra Lirra” had a thrilling tale about
“the blacked-out ’plane that carried Herr
Primavena and eight other passengers
from Tempelhof to Barcelona at mid-
night” (best of all times for thrilling
tales), and learned “on the highest
authority” that “Field Marshal von Run-
stedt and Dr. Karl Goerdeler, former
Mayor of Leipzig, would lead a sur-
render party.” The “Bun” sourly re-
marked that “the ’plane carrying Herr
Primavera was just another myth,” that
Dr. Goerdeler had been arrested and that
the “rumor about Rundstedt was only a
rumor” ; but its own “news” was just as
speculative. Both papers had the Huns
all sewn up, the only thing in doubt being
whether they would surrender to Tommy
Gurr, of the “Bun,” or F. Ehrenfried
Baume, of the “Tirra Lirra.”
Two brothers employed in a Westra-
lian Government ship-building yard have
been sentenced to four months’ for hav-
ing absented themselves for three days.
They said they had spent the time in
their home foundry “making low-pressure
ball-valves urgently needed for cattle
stations.” More fools they for not being
dog-trainers or s.p. bookmakers and hie-
ing themselves away, fully qualified to
loaf, to some N.S.W, coalmine.
A line from the West;
What’s this about Keith Murdoch being a
Yes-man in Perth? He has long ceased to have
any interest there, must less influence. A vice-
president of the Wheatgrowers’ Union alleged in
January that the “West Australian” was “con-
trolled by Eastern States money and by a
prince of publicists, Murdoch.” The “West"
coldly replied that this was “a lie,” 83.31 p.c.
of the share capital of West Australian News-
papers being held by resident Westralians.
Mr. Ramon Mas, “former Acting
Consul-General in Australia for Republi-
can Spain,” and Mr. Cyril Pearl, editor of
the Sydney “Sunday Telegraph,” have
combined to tell Churchill that he should
start another war by “handing a ‘Get
Out’ ” to Franco, “backed with guns and
tanks.” Mr. Mas morosely allows that
“we have not much faith in his willing-
ness to do it,” having “little time for a
man who said T have no sympathy for
those who think it clever or funny to
insult and abuse the Government of Spain
whenever the occasion serves,’ ” so “our
hopes are in De Gaulle and Roosevelt.'
There is no assurance that Mr. Mas and
Mr. Pearl would themselves go into the
proposed war with big boots on. Mr.
Mas grows mushrooms, Mr. Pearl sells
mush.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
If
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
:>
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Melbourne’s latest K.C., Major M. S.
Ashkanasy, was one of the officers who
had the approval of General Goruon
Bennett to escape from Singapore* and
did it sensationally in a lifeboat. Ash-
kanasy was congratulated in court on
the K.C.-ship by Chief Justice Herring,
under whom he served when Herring,
C.J., was a general in New Guinea.
Rev. H. C. Gumey, M.Sc., is an un-
usual parson. Starting out as a 12-year-
old painter, he took to science, got a
degree at Adelaide University, did four
years’ research there, then threw up
science to become a missionary in Persia.
There, in his spare time, he went back
to painting, and his show at the Myer
Mural Hall in Melbourne covers pretty-
well everything in Iran, from irrigated
ricefields to ancient ruins and mountains
as gaunt in their nakedness as anything
in the Centre.
Both Brain brothers, the noted Queens-
land airmen, now have the Air Force
Cross. Squadron-Leader Lionel E.
Brain’s has been awarded for his work
as an R.A.A.F, instructor during the last
years. Captain Lester J. Brain, who
taught Lionel to fly at Eagle Farm, Bris-
bane, in 1927, and who has been for over
20 years Qantas operations manager, was
awarded his in 1929 for finding the lost
fliers Anderson and Hitchcock, and later
Moir and Owen. Last year the brothers
were both officially commended —Lionel
for his work as an instructor and Lester
for his rescue work after the Japanese
raid on Broome (W.A.) and for his man-
agement of aerial supply services in
North Queensland. At the moment Lester
is engaged on Qantas’s post-war aviation
plans. At Archerfield he lately inspected
work in progress on converting Doug-
lases and a Liberator from their war-
time set-up to airline standards.
Dr. H. M, Rees, in attendance at the
birth of the Duke of Gloucester’s son,
as also of the previous one three years
ago, is an Adelaide man—-Prince Alfred’s
and the Uni. He took his degree 20 years
ago, but for the last 10 has been a
Harley-street gynaecological specialist.
After the past four years as naval
officer-in-charge in Sydney, Rear-Admiral
Muirhead-Gould returns to the Royal
Navy, probably to go on to the commis-
sion that will control conquered Ger-
many. Former Naval Attache in Berlin,
he knows both Germans and their lan-
guage very well, and he’s under no
illusion that controlling their country will
be any soft snap. He said he expects the
job “may last 10 years,”
“S.T.S.” remembers an old friend;
It was about 40 years back that A. G.
Stephens in the Red Page charted Adelaide for
not recognising that it had resident a real poet.
C. H. Souter was a doctor from Aberdeen;
but three years on the Castlereagh (N.S.W.) and
three more as a ship’s surgeon, before he settled
>n S.A., always retained a great influence on
his mind and shaped most of his poetry.
One of my recollections of his enthusiasm is
a sudden telephone ring. “I have discovered
a new author. He’s something between Charles
Reade and Rudyard Kipling, but better than
either!” It was P. C. Wren in his Sword and
Snake Anglo-Indian stage, before he had dis-
covered the Foreign Legion and the popularity
that Beau Geste could give.
Souter had a curiously exact mind—for a
poet. The word “meticulous” might have been
coined for him. He once talked seriously of a
libel action against a critic who had, with the
best intentions, spoken of him as “the well-
known anthologist”; he being, as he justly
protested, not a mere collector of poems but
a writer of them.
Till his final breakdown in health he was in
his right setting as one of the experts of 5AD’s
“Information, please” session, where he showed
a wide mixed knowledge of science, literature
and ships. And one remembers his indignation
when, after describing carefully the abatement
by science of the malaria plague in the Panama
Canal Zone, he was told instead —on the strength
of an American newspaper “story”—that it
was all due to the importing of small Australian
fish, that ate the mosquitoes before they would
hatch out. “That accounts for it,” said Souter
quite politely. “We have no mosquitoes left
in Australia, and so have to export the fish.”
A newspaper edited by an Australian
and printed in English is circulating in
Java ; editor, Flying-Officer H. F. Bar-
clay ; readers, his fellow-prisoners in a
Japanese p.o.w. camp. Barclay was
formerly a Melbourne “Herald” football
writer.
S.A. Cricket Association has reap-
pointed Blinman president, Hodgetts vice-
president and Middleton treasurer. The
two latter and Claude Jennings (of the
Australia XI of 1912) are the delegates
to the Board of Control. Bradman has
joined the Ground and Finance Com-
mittee, the only Test player on it except
Jennings, though Blinman must have gone
very near an English visit about 1890
and Middleton about 1912.
One of the degrees conferred by Jus-
tice Lowe at Melbourne University the
other day goes to a prisoner-of-war camp
in Germany. Justin Hinton Stevens,
8.A., was in the Victorian Education
Department at Bright before he enlisted
in the A.I.F. The Red Cross did the
necessary work of communication.
Alex Melrose (he stressed that spelling
to lessen the confusion with Alec J.,
M.H.A. and a nephew) is dead in Ade-
laide at close’ on 80. He was one of the
big pastoralist Melrose family, but the
very type of literary lawyer. In partner-
ship with Homburg, father and son, he
stuck to office work when not visiting his
stations in N.S.W.; and writing was his
chief pastime. He published a lot of his
Bulletin verse in a volume Slapstick and
Song, and wrote several plays which the
Adelaide Repertory staged. As a mem-
ber of the old Board which managed
Adelaide Public Library, Art Gallery and
Museum, he gave £lO,OOO to have the
Gallery doubled in size, and when' the
three institutions were separated he be-
came the National Oakery’s chairman.
Also he founded a Melrose Prize to en-
courage portrait painting in S.A. Society
of Arts, and presented to the National
Gallery some fine portraits of the Scotch
school of a century back.
Herewith Mayo-Harris, in naval uni-
form in lieu of apron and gaiters, and
smiling because it won’t be long before
he’ll be wearing the top hat with the
funnel guys, a hat he hasn’t worn since
1937. That year the world conference on
Faith and Order was held in Scotland,
and Dr. Temple, the present Archbishop
of Canterbury, presided. Mayo-Harris
was there as one of the Maoriland dele-
gates, with others from 45 nations and
102 different denominations. Mayo-
Harris saw the light of day in 1894 and
from Wellington House Prep., in Berk-
COMMANDER H. MAYO-HARRIS.
shire, entered H.M.S. Worcester in 1907,
becoming a midshipman R.N.A. in 1913.
In the last war he served in Cruiser
Squadron until captured in 1915 by U 36
off the Hebrides, when taking the full-
rigged ship Pass of Balmara to Kirkwall
for examination. This ship later became
better known as Von Luckner’s Sea Adler.
Back in M.L. after being p.o.w. till the
Armistice, Mayo-Harris returned to the
N.Z. Shipping Co., and as an officer of
the Wiltshire was in her when she went
aground off Auckland in 1922, when all
hands were saved, after two days in half
a ship. Switching in 1927 from sea to
church, he was ordained into the C. of E.
ministry, later becoming Archdeacon of
Fiji and Vicar General of Polynesia. Re-
joining the Navy at the outbreak of the
present war, he did a job as recruiting
officer for N.S.W. before joining
H.M.A.S. Bungaree as a watch-keeper ;
next was given command of H.M.A.S.
Geraldtown, and saw service in the
Eastern Fleet and the Mediterranean,
taking part in the Sicilian landing. He’s
a cousin of Major Mayo, who designed
the first successful double-banking air-
craft.
Bob Morris comes from where the
apples grow and is as cheery and spark-
ling as a whole orchard of them turned
into cider. It grieves him to see the waste
of them down there ; great stacks of them
heaped up under the Tassie trees ; enough
to add apple pies for all to the quart of
milk for everybody in the American Vice-
President’s post-war vision. Still, there
are brighter things—such as just one
BOB MORRIS.
committee of workers in Hobart collect-
ing clothes (not cast-offs, but good stuff)
and sending them to bombed-out folk in
Britain in woolpress-size “bundles,” by
the ton. Born in Hobart, where he learned
bookselling with Charles E, Walsh, 45
years a bookseller and publisher there,
Morris is managing director of 0.8. M.,
which doesn’t, as is locally supposed,
stand for Old Bob Morris, but for
Oldham, Beddome and Meredith. These
are extraordinary times in publish-
ing, in Tassie as elsewhere. This
My Son, by Joan Kinmont, pub-
lished by Bob Morris in Hobart, has
already sold 50,000 inside 12 months and
is still selling as fast as Sydney black
market bottled hops.
Percy Bayley (63), of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser’s” London staff, refused to let the
1940 blitz or the 1944 flying-bomb attacks
disturb him. He continued living in one
of London’s most heavily-bombed areas,
sleeping in a shelter every night and get-
ting to his office through ruined streets
and dislocated transport every day. His
death in London last week happened in
his sleep. Editor of the A.A.P. at the
outbreak, Bayley joined Reuter’s, where
he was regarded as ah ace cable man ;
but he was anxious to tell Australia about
the war and joined the “ ’Tiser” London
staff to do so. He was a’Press Club com-
mitteeman, was prominent in the Institute
of Journalists and his three sons are
serving in the war.
At the inter-Dominion Labor confer-
ence in London, if held, Australian
delegates will be John Frederick Walsh,
president of the A.L.P. in S.A., and T. G.
Davies, general sec, of the W.A. branch.
Walsh has done a lot of this sort of thing.
In 1929 he attended a Pan-Pacific Trade
Union conference at Vladivostock, in
1935 represented Australia at the Inter-
national Labor conference at Geneva,
and three years later visited Maoriland
for the Australian Trade Unions.
“P.P.”: Had a 79th birthday, Bill
Kerr, timekeeper at the Johnson-Burns
world championship fight in Sydney.
Kerr’s stop-watch has given the time in
all manner of sporting events, from horse-
racing to swimming and footrunning.
Also a few years back it timed .how long
it took to turn the wool on a sheep’s
back into a suit of clothes. Kerr first
acted as timekeeper when Sydney High
School’s sports were started 59 years ago,
and he’s kept the times at these sports
ever since.
From “Recco”:
Entry for the most-decorated bomber-crew
stakes: Leader, Ft.-Lt. A. W. Wales, D.F.C.,
D.F.M., and the Wales team comprises F.-O.
J. R. Richardson, D.F.C., D.F.M. (navigator),
F.-O. J. W. Moore, D.F.C., D.F.M., (wireless
air-gunner), F.-O. R. W. Lawton, D.F.C. and
bar (bomber) and F.-O. A. M. Sanders, D.F.C.,
D.F.M. (air-gunner). In two operation tours
overseas the crew took part in 13 consecutive
raids over Berlin, and their tours involved 50
operational flights and about 400 hours’ flying.
An extraordinary amount of research
into visual education has been done in
R. laboratories, and Melbourne
University is so impressed with results
that it proposes to continue the work in
its academic cloisters after the war. Much
of the credit goes to an ex-schoolteacher,
Squadron-Leader N. R. Rosenthal, 8.A.,
B.Sc., of Xavier College, Melbourne,
whose interest in the subject started long
ago. In 1927 he began making amateur
films to illustrate the ionic hypothesis of
chemistry and Galileo’s theory of falling
bodies. Among the falling bodies was a
cat, which consistently turned over in the
air and landed on its feet. The clearness
of the demonstration set the teacher
thinking on the possibilities of the screen
for visual education. Films made under
his direction are now screened on a
bigger circuit than most cinema concerns
—R.A.A.F. stations.
Rev. A. C. Hill, new President-Gen-
eral of the Baptist Union of Australia, is
a Ballarat native, who went to Adelaide
as a lad, studied at Angas-street and the
S. Baptist Union College and gradu-
ated B.A. at Adelaide Uni. He was a
pastor at Jamestown and Goodwood be-
fore going to France with the First A.I.F.
as a padre. General secretary of the S.A,
Baptist Union since 1942, he’s 60.
Reported missing from a Baltimore
bomber over the AEgean, Flying-Officer
Ken Adamson, of Ivanhoe, Melbourne,
assistant-manager of the Metro Theatre
before he enlisted in the R.A.A.F. Aus-
tralian table tennis champion, he cap-
tained the team that visited Japan.
Into the silence;
In Sydney, at 75, Dr. Otto Bohrsmann, for
many years treasurer of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union and manager of its 1912 overseas team.
He was a doctor in Sydney for over half a
century.
At 74, Thomas Vivian Dangar, noted breeder
of racehorses in N.S.W. He raced several
fairly good performers..
At 72, George Brown (Hamilton, Brisbane),
Queensland timber merchant for over 40 years,
in the partnership of Brown and Broad, of New-
stead. He was one of the contractors interested
in the City Hall foundations (they went down as
deep as 120 ft.) and built many miles of the South-
port-Brisbane and Chmderah roads. Vice-presi-
dent of the Boy Scouts’ Association for 20
years, for some years president of the National
Democratic Council, president of the Royal
Queensland Golf Club for 14 years and past-
president of Queensland Golf Council, he re-
tired a few years ago and had been a sick man
practically ever since.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 77, Rev. Percy Nor-
wood Knight, former Methodist Conference
president. Australian-bom, he filled many
charges in M.L.
At 90, F. T. B. W. Kock, formerly of the old
Royal Bank of Queensland and the National.
When not banking he was soldiering, in both the
Queensland Defence Force and the C.M.F.
Two of his four sons fought in the South
African War, and all four in 1914-18, all rising
to commissioned rank. The youngest earned
the M.C. with the 15th Battn. in France and
is now an R.A.A.F. flying-officer in N.G.
In Hobart, Lady Clark, wife of the Governor
of Tasmania. A daughter of J. T. C. Wing-
field, merchant and Deputy Lieutenant of
London, she was active in women’s movements
and the Red Cross.
At 51, in Melbourne, James Arnold Rodgers,
a leading member of Sfhe A.N.A. A civil ser-
vant, he went with the First A.I.F. as one of the
wireless unit which later, as the first Australian
Wireless Squadron, did yeoman service in Meso-
potamia. Rodgers was frequently co-cmted by
Canberra for conferences on taxation matters.
In Melbourne, Miss Evelyn Augusta Con-
yers, C.8.E., R.R.C., one of Victoria’s most
distinguished ladies with the lamp. Matron-in-
Chief of the Australian Army Nursing Service
in 1914-18, serving from the outset to the finish,
she received the rare award of the Florence
Nightingale Medal, the Royal Red Cross and
the C.B.E. Maoriland was her birthplace.
In Sydney, at 87, Dr. A. Watson Munro,
founder of the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital. A Scot, he had been in Australia for
over 60 years.
In Sydney, the widow of former Chief Jus-
tice and Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W. Philip
Street. Over many years a great worker for
charitable interests, she was on the Royal Alex-
ander Hospital for Children board for quarter
of a century.


One Australian in nineteen dies from Tuberculosis ! Help fight
this national menace ! Support the Ami-T.B. Appeal for £50,000.
Help towards the building of an up-to-date Clinic and provision of
Mobile Service to Country Districts. Send all donations to the
Honorary Treasurer, And-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The I Anti-T.8.£50,000 Appeal
More Books for the Million
The Science of Living. A Practical Guide.
By Dr. Adler. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
This Puzzling Planet. An Introduction to
Geology. Mr. E. T, Brewster. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
Working With Tools for Fun and Profit.
By F. Collins. 7/6 (post. 5d.). x
Public Speaking for Everybody. How to
Make a Speech, how to make it stimulating
and effective. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
Kari Marx. His Life and Work, 7/6 (post.
6d.).
1680 Health Questions Answered. By W. W.
Bauer, M.D. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
Sacred Writings of the World’s Great Re-
ligions. Gives the reader a clear understand-
ing of the principles of the various great
religions of the world. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
Modern Chemists and Their Work. Start-
ling achievements that have changed the entire
outlook of industry, agriculture and science.
7/6 (post 6d.).
World History at a Glance. By J. Keither,
446 pages. 7/6 (post. 6d.).
Biographical Dictionary of Music. Over
8500 entries, together with a pronouncing dic-
tionary. 9/- (post. 6d.).
Basic Teachings of the Great Philosophers.
By S. B. Frost. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
The Art of Enjoying Music. By Spaeth.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
Desk Book of Errors in English. By Viza-
telly. 5/9 (post. 4d.).
Old Civilisations of the New World. By
Virrill. 7/6 (post. 5d.).
The Home Book of Music Appreciation. A
simply written guide to the understanding and
enjoyment of music. By H. L. Kaufman.
7/6 (post. 5d.).
A Dictionary of Synonyms and Antonyms.
With 5000 words often mispronounced. 7/6
(post. 4d.).
Plots of the Operas. 266 stories of the
Operas A convenient pocket-size handbook.
7/6 (post. 4d.).
Complete Rhyming Dictionary and Poet’s
Craft Book. By Clement Wood. 619 p&ges
17/6 (post. 1/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
<2?
<55
5$
3
I
\\\
\v
Ns
, v &*<"
'peVo' e
qO'A
tee a V® nd
® Pr® d rME B^ r ‘ sW ftH
40^^- er ‘‘- Lor6 -^ 1 '
d<*
e« -,v i,o r & ,»,
<4 trV'® _n#®
ved
\o
» <e V,S>S« co *
st^ ' ,n
fe«°'
tyjm cm be £ute
SHELL MOTOR OIL
Jii V'uy-ftee
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
IIItCDmiUUD IN ENGLAND)
LO 4 4-5
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Budget
Following a war expenditure of £562
million in 1942-43 and £544 million in
1943-44, for 1944-45 Mr. Chifiey, the
Commonwealth Treasurer, is budgeting
for a war outlay of £505 million (includ-
ing interest and price subsidies), which is
£39 million below last year’s figure and
£57 million below the peak reached in
1942-43. It is officially claimed that the
reduction is due to the smaller need for
capital outlay on war establishments, and
to the fact that a reduction in the strength
of the fighting forces has been agreed to.
It is probably also true that output of
many munitions has caught up with
demand, and there have already been
substantial releases from the fighting
forces on various counts. The relative
cost of war is now really a good deal
less than the Budget figures indicate.
There is progressive inflation occurring
in some costs and figures, and there are
reports that some munition and similar
undertakings are marking time —at the
taxpayer’s expense—rather than energeti-
cally carrying out needed work. It has
been evident for a long time that politics
have entered into our war effort, especi-
ally the cost of it, on a large scale.
The present stage of the war is one of
speculation and change, in both cases in
a political and industrial as well as mili-
tary sense. In some respects Australia’s
contribution ,to the Allied war effort has
been grand ; in others, it has been neither
as effective nor as ably handled as it
might well have been. The Ministerial
showing has been deplorable.
On the home front the best of the
work has been done by co-opted indus-
trial leaders like Essington Lewis, by
eminent civil servants like knight Harry
Brown, by such as knight Claude Read-
ing, of the Commonwealth Bank Board,
by the engineering and many other in-
dustries, by the transport services (in-
cluding State railways—which, however,
have been well paid for it), by the private
banks, by the Post Office, by thousands
of “white-collar” managers and the like
throughout all industry, and by the mem-
bers of the less-Red and less-militant
unions. Thousands of unionists would
have done better if they were allowed to
by their friction-creating union bosses and
militant minorities,
A Government which has felt obliged
to “baby-along” militant unionists and
curry voting favor at the Budget expense
was bound eventually to find that
appeasement has not paid in respect of
production objectives, and that the cost
to the nation has been excessive both
directly and in the consequent inflation-
ary influences going. The administra-
tion of the present Government has
placed grave disabilities upon the
effectiveness of our fighting machine
and upon the functioning of our eco-
nomic system. Australia will have all
the backwash of this to swallow when
the war is over, in addition to the sacrifice
of men, manpower, wealth and income
during the war itself.
The Budget now before us does not aim
at any reduction in taxation rates ; which,
generally speaking, is a good thing. While
there is still war waste to be paid for,
the maximum amount possible should be
met by taxation; and* in any case,
the money in the hands of the people as
spending power is already excessive in re-
lation to the amounts of goods and ser-
vices which they may buy, and their re-
sponse to voluntary war loans has been
poor. There are to be increased tax re-
bates in connection with medical expenses
(which now include dental expenses up
to £10) and in respect of dependent
school-children.
An overdue concession is being made
in regard to plant maintenance. Depre-
ciation of plant during the war has been
excessive, and the taxation allowances
have been inadequate. It is now proposed
that owners of income-earning assets will
be permitted to make an interest-free de-
posit with the Treasury equal to esti-
mated plant maintenance up to June,
1945. The deposit will be allowed as a
tax deduction. As it is withdrawn it will
be treated as taxable income, but expen-
diture on repairs and maintenance will
be granted as a deduction. From the
Government’s viewpoint, it will get the
money now as an interest-free loan, and
for the present loses no funds by the
arrangement.
Notwithstanding these concession, in-
come and payroll tax is expected to bring
in £15.5 million more than last year at
£167.2 million, the increase being mainly
because of anticipated collection of
arrears and the effect of pay-as-you-go.
Allowing for reimbursement to the States
of income- and entertainment-tax collec-
tions, total revenue is estimated at £325
million, including business income and
profits on coinage, the note issue, etc.,
compared with £309 million in the pre-
ceding year. Here is a summary of the
Budget figures generally:
Expenditure.
Actual, Actual, Budget,
1942-43. 1943-44. 1944-45.
War— £mil. £mil. £mil.
Australia .. 482.8 488.0 452.0
Overseas .. 79.0 56.0 53.0
561.8 544.0 505.0
Civil .. .. 108.0 142.0 148.0
Total .. 669.8 686.0 653.0
Revenue and Loans.
Taxation .. .. 230.0 270.5 286.0
Business income, etc. 37.0 38.5 39.0
Loans —
War loans .. 223.8 308.01 328 0
Treasury bills .. 179.0 69.0 J
669.8 686.0 653.0
The reduced reliance last year upon bank
credit —£69 million, compared with £179
million —was a great improvement, but
the increase in proceeds (£265 million)
of public loans was partly accounted for
by large subscriptions from the savings
banks—it appears that approximately £BO
million was put into war loans last year
by the Commonwealth Savings Bank
alone. Recourse was also had to £43
million of Treasury balances, among
which would be proceeds of taxation to
establish the National Welfare Fund.
Last year £27.9 million was paid into
this fund, of which £2.3 million was ex-
pended on maternity allowances and
funeral benefits. This year it is expected
that £3O million will be paid in, of which
£l2 million, it is estimated, will be paid
out again in social services. It is antici-
pated that sickness benefits will cost £8.5
million in a full year and unemployment
£2 million for every one per cent, of
unemployment. Pharmaceutical benefits
are put down at £2.1 million a year.
Hospitals benefits would cost £4.4 million
when put into effect. Other social ser-
vices to be met outside the National Wei-
fare Fund are estimated at £37 million
this year, compared with £36.7 million in
1943.44.
Civil expenditure has been rising prin-
cipally because of the cost of social ser-
vices and the National Welfare Fund,
The proportion of war expenditure paid
for out of revenue was about 31 p.c.
in 1943-44, compared with 28 p.c. in the
preceding year. Up to June 30, 1944,
£343 million of Treasury bills had been
discounted for war purposes.
Mr. Chifley puts the cost of the prices
stabilisation plan at £7 million for* last
year and at £l2 million for this. But
these figures are only part of the subsidies
to prices met by the Commonwealth.
Reciprocal lead-lease aid cost Aus-
ivuciy
tr^ a ,^> 10 ™ llh0 ? ' a . s ‘
with £59 miHion m, theßeding term
The Budget is providing tor unchanged
reciprocal a.d this year. Releases from the
Australian armed forces exceeded enlist-
ments by about 25,000 and about 18,000
SST tort Be lfCnfirr n ” e ti.‘ememi
through old age, etc., there was a net in-
crease of 20,000 in all sexes in the services
or in employment. Expenditure by o her
Governments in Australia last year made
the drain on our material resources actu-
ally higher instead of lower the a o
of Australian[resources used for war pur-
poses, says Mr. Chifley, was £558 mhli ,
an increase of £2B million. This makes
allowance for our expenditure in other
countries.
Mr. Chifley very rightly emphasises the
danger of inflation and excessive bank
credit use, the need for continued
price control and taxation for necessary
war spending, and says “there has been
a real increase in the drain on our phy-
sical resources and man-power.” Mr.
Chifley is the Treasurer among 19 Min-
isters, and notice of his Budget speech
needs to be taken by every one of the
Cabinet, not only by the people. It is
odd that while the Treasury appears so
concerned about the cost of war and the
drain on our resources other departments
should be so much at cross purposes,
As to the man-power position, there are
also contradictions. For instance, quite
recently men describing themselves as
moulders were seeking employment at a
Sydney foundry. And there are now
unnecessary war-time establishments,
work on which someone started but
which nobody seems at present able to
stop.
Julius Krug, acting chairman of the
United States War Production Board, has
indicated to Americans that motor-cars
for civilians are a distinct possibility
within three months of the defeat of Ger-
many. He told the press that people
would be amazed to find how soon pro-
duction for civilians would be available
once reconversion started. Australia’s
Department of War Organisation of In-
dustry has been unable to make any simi-
lar predictions—even for after the defeat
of Japan—so far as Australian industry is
concerned. It seems to be lost in a maze
of frustration of its own creation. The
Bulletin believes that a little really intel-
ligent groundwork undertaken now would
work wonders in Australian civilian pro-
duction when the end of the war comes,
The speedier our return to adequate
peace-time production the smaller will be
the inflation menace,
*T • *
A London journal, The Banker.
tenders the same reasons as this paper
for not expecting much, if any apprecia-
tion in the Australian pounds relation
with sterling. Principal reasons are (1)
the passing nature of the conditions
which have enabled the Commonwealth
to build up its London funds to such an
unusual drtent; (2) the extent to which
Austra j ia ’ s external debt m exceeds its
overseas funds and (3) the depreciation
fte (he Australiail
a |a art ot this depreciation,
£ ’ e artificial controls, not yet
being visible in costs and prices. <
jj-, e woo l agreement with Great Britain
runs Qut w j ien one cb p t jj e cessation
tbe £7 uro p ean war has been disposed
of> The AUies have not been short o{
WQol during the and the price . paid
b as ensured a satisfactory overall return
tQ the Australian grower; there was an
j ncrease G f 15 p c on tbe original price
- n m 2 Metals have been scarcer than
woo} Qn the AUied side> and th g Barrier
mines have provided both the British and
Australian Governments with lead and
spe i ter at considerably below world parity
during the war. It is certain that in the
p oSt . war rebuilding of Europe there will
be a great demand for metals, in which
j ead> spe iter, tin and copper will figure,
bu t it is not yet clear that there will be
an o p en market for these things in
L on d o n. Australian metal producers as
a body wd i no t wa nt to profit out of the
rebuilding of blitzed Londoners’ homes,
but those which have accepted low prices
during the war for their output will ex-
pect t b a t i ea d, etc., used in ordinary
manufacture will be paid for at a price
in keeping with the statistical position of
tbe metal and quotations for other metals
and commodities. There has been no
war _time profiteering in the sales of Aus-
tralian metMs to any Allied Government
buying for war purposes, and it is only
f a j r to put emphasis on this fact when
p ro bable inflation in production costs has
to be faced after the war.
* * * *
A British authority has stated that
according to present calculations a tilth
of the post-war electricity requirement*
of Great Britain could be met by the
Scottish hydro-electric schemes and the
Severn Barrage. In view of the mcreas-
ing cost and declining output of coat,
hydro-electric power is becoming increas-
ingly important in the Old Country.


Tenders.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase,of; The Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Company’s TIN DREDGING
CLAIMS at Battle Creek and Nettle Creek, North
Queensland, .Australia. Full particulars may be ob-
tained and technical data examined by those inter-
ested at the Office of The Broken Hill Pty. Co., Ltd.,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND STEEL LTD.,
422 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
R. Q. NEWTON, Secretary.
FOR YOUR POST-WAR PLANNING & PRODUCTION
<o
ARC
ESSs
S '
CHEMICAL PLANTS
SHOP FRONTS
«
HOSPITALS
;
DAIRY PRODUCTS
When the war ends, Australian industry will turn to new fields—
to new products, new materials.
N ow —before that day comes —is the time to plan your produc-
tion and processes; to consider, among other things, the almost
unlimited possibilities of Comsteel Stainless Steels.
In aircraft and ships, in hospitals and surgical equipment; in
chemical and explosives plants, textile and food-factories; in
scores of other wartime applications, these steels have proved
their quality in actual service.
They can be used to equip the modern hospital, or a home kitchen;
in architecture, engineering, food-packing, chemical processes,
restaurants, transport, in hotels, shops and offices; the list is
almost endless. So are the opportunities.
Our knowledge of all that Comsteel Stainless Steels can do is at
your disposal. We suggest that you avail yourself of it now—
discflss these steels and stainless steel products with our Technical
gtafif—so that both you ancf we are ready when the time comes.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS AND
HEAT-RESISTING STEELS
FOR ALL MANUFACTURING. CONSTRUCTIONAL * ENGINEERING
REQUIREMENTS
1 IWHilfl »
COMMONWEALTH STEEI COMPANY LIMITED - - - BEAD OFFICE & WORKS: WARATAH. N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
Pointing the Bone
Great store is set in some Australian
quarters by political popularity or un-
popularity. Witness the Big Four —Curtin,
Chifley, Evatt, Beasley—who had such
a build-up from what were once Conser-
vative dailies: consider their rise on
paper and radio talk, on Left-wing and
Communist propaganda, and consider
their collapse in public estimation on the
results of their inglorious administration.
Extravagant vote-buying and spineless
bowing to the demands of the more
selfishly militant sections of the commu-
nity could not for ever go on without
revealing themselves in productive and
financial disorder. Our dairying in-
dustry is suffering from partial strangu-
lation, and the shameless neglect of
their war-time responsibilities by coal-
miners—largely because they have been
successful already in extorting too much
money from an embarrassed country —
threatens to paralyse other production
and transport. Government failure is
showing up in many other places. So
much for the Big Four and political popu-
larity.
The build-up boys who are so strong
on political glamor for their pets or
stooges are frequently propagandists of
another order for the persons or things
they don’t like. Take the case of R. G.
Menzies. He can never be accused of
having resorted to vote-catching stunts
possessing deadly industrial hangover,
and he has an economic brain far sur-
passing anything possessed on the Labor
side. In his politics he has been frank
and courageous, even visiting the coal-
fields, a job which Prime Minister Curtin
seems to find strongly distasteful. Yet
Menzies consistently has the bone pointed
at him by Labor and the Communist
tribes. He represents order as opposed
to the chaos of Labor doctrines, and
therefore he is to be blackguarded from
political leadership. He is called “Pig-
iron Bob” or something, and hoarse, per-
sistent voices charge him with having a
relationship with the B.H.P. The same
voices would just as doggedly and unin-
telligently accuse him of having a private
arrangement with St. Peter if it fell in
with their bone-pointing plans.
Pointing the bone was an aboriginal
custom whereby the person at whom the
bone was pointed, it was hoped, would
die. The custom, with suitable adapta-
tions, has become a prominent feature of
Australian Labor politics.
Broken Hill Proprietary has the bone
of envy and jealousy pointed at it con-
tinuously. It is efficient, progressive and
increasingly productive of employment;
it provides Australia with the cheapest
steel in the world, and has been the back-
bone of our munitions production. But
it does not bow to the militant union
racketeers, who are jealous of its success
and resentful of its independent and
progressive spirit. So, as it repre-
sents something far above the ob-
structionism and parasitism of regimented
unionism, fantastic lies are told about
B.H.P. The actual war-time record of
the co. is most creditable, and the divi-
dend rate is now 5 p.c. on money paid
in by shareholders since the steelworks
were started. But, in pointing the bone
at 8.H.P., its parrot-mouthed detractors
are not above lying in terms of hundreds
per cent. And it is remarkable how the
propaganda seeps even into the skulls of
honest but boneheaded citizens who are
not trade-unionists. They are not above
confusing B.H.P. the silvermine with
B.H.P. the steelworks. Although premium
moneys paid in by shareholders and some
accumulated profits have been capitalised,
B.H.P. as a steelworks has never “watered”
its capital.
Sir Otto Niemeyer came to Australia
during the depression and gave Australia
excellent advice. But as there was
commonsense in it the Labor brain-
scramblers began to fear that some of
their adherents might become politically
intelligent; so the bone of slander was
brought out and pointed squarely in the
direction of Sir Otto. He spoke of recov-
ering from slump and improving our liv-
ing standards by increasing production
per head; and as that was altogether too
plain and obvious a solution of our diffi-
culties he had to be discredited. Labor
had been teaching that class oppression
was the root of our troubles,and, in any
case, wage-earners living in contentment
on a high living standard would not want
to be bothered with union agitators. So
Sir Otto Niemeyer had to be placed in a
particularly loathsome light, and, regard-
less of truth, the bone worked overtime.
A little later on Australian Govern-
ments adopted the Premiers’ Plan. It
aimed at purging inflation from our eco-
nomy, reducing interest rates, balancing
Budgets and restoring employment. But
as its operation involved a temporary re-
duction in money wages and encouraged
an increase in production per employee
it angered the doctrinaires who insisted
that the remedy for inflation and over-
spending was a hair —or several hairs —of
the dog that had bitten us. The Premiers’
Plan, accompanied by a severe eclipse of
militant Labor, helped a resourceful Aus-
tralian people to recover from the depres-
sion more quickly than even the larger
nations. But because the plan was anti-
inflationary, and as it induced greater
production per head and cut through job-
control and the like, the propaganda bone
has been pointed at it ever since, in case
Labor policy at some later period reduces
us to a condition where similar economic
first-aid is called for.
Dr. Lloyd Ross and others of his ilk
have set out to point the bone at “eco-
nomic conditions in 1939.” Although a
period of great prosperity in conditions
of free enterprise, it suits the bureaucrati-
cally and socialistically minded to dis-
credit the pre-war way of life. No one
wants the post-war world to be exactly
lik<* that nf IQ3Q nor i<j it Hkelv to be
like that Ot lyjy nor is it llKe y tO D< r-
But a policy of Liberalism in politics will
be as beneficial to this country alter the
war as it was before. Those who want
to see the socialisation of industry find it
necessary to point the bone consistently
at “1939 conditions " Otherwise someone
might realise that those conditions repre-
sented the basis of something which, with
perhaps better political management,
might have been made grow into a very
satisfactory way ot life.
r , , , ..7 —T f nr
Ganadas sixth war-time Budget fo
the first time since war began offers con-
cessions to individual company taxpayers.
Basic income-tax rates remain unchanged.
But compulsory savings are suspended as
from July 1, a concession to low-income
groups in particular. Agriculture will
benefit by elimination of existing tariffs
and of the war-exchange tax of 10 p.c.
on farm machinery and implements, the
purpose being to ensure post-war agri-
culture that “its costs of production
should be at the lowest possible rate.”
Further income-tax concessions:
In-laws benefit as dependent relatives.
Allowances for children extended to cover
not only the taxpayer’s own child but any
child actually dependent upon the taxpayer
case where a person employs a house-
keeper in supporting his dependent child
m a self-contained domestic establishment,
Medical expenses deduction broadened to
inc]ude
expenses incurred outside Canada,
Deduction of £AI33 allowed from income
f o r blind persons as alternative to present
deduction in respect of wages of a full-
fime attendant. Deduction from income
£*%*£*?£££
cdved upon retirement by employees for
long serv i C e to be spread over five years
for income-tax purposes. Contributions to
an approved pension fund through trade-
be allowed as a deduction
A royal commission is to be appointed
/ ke recommendations on (a) taxation
Qf Ufg annuities and similar kin ds of m-
come; (fc) cases of hardsh i p arising from
cornb j ned income tax and succession
duty in the case Q f tbe deat h of the chief
shareholder of a private company with
a i arge undivided profit,
* * * *
From the beginning of the war until
the end of 1943 Britain turned out 83,000
tanks, armored cars and carriers; over
115,000 guns of calibres larger than
20mm.; 150 million rounds of gun arn-
munition ; nearly 5,500,000 machine-guns,
rifles, sub-machine-guns and automatic
pistols ; nearly 7000 million rounds ot
small-arms ammunition ; more than a
million wheeled vehicles of unarmored
types ; and just on 90,000 aircraft, mainly
combat types.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo.” The literary ratbags who bow
and scrape before the great god Modern-
ismus will be delighted to learn that
Gertrude Stein, “famous authoress, grey-
ing, close-cropped,” as the cable has it,
was able for two years of German occu-
pation of the French alpine town of
Culoz to keep her identity secret from
the invaders. The residents, of course,
were mum. Perhaps the Gestapo mis-
took her for a disguised Swiss yodelleress.
Gertrude’s recreations are listed in Who’s
Who as “walking with white poodles and
driving a Ford car.”
“Cauboy”; I find it difficult to believe
that Maurice Chevalier, reported to have
been shot for being a “collaborationist,”
did anything more than carry on with his
entertaining, as he had done for 40 years,
entrancing millions of Frenchmen, Eng-
lishmen, Americans, Germans and mem-
bers of other races. Chevalier was no
ordinary comedian. He had an extra-
ordinary power of capturing an audience
the moment he walked on the stage. I
have seen Chinese, completely ignorant
of the language, melt in his presence.
The latest report of him doesn’t tally with
the early ones that filtered out of occu-
pied France. He was then said to be mak-
ing subtle jokes at the expense of the
Teutons which went completely over their
beads.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The closely-settled Colonel
Light Gardens, an Adelaide suburb on
the site of last war’s Mitcham camp, has
had an incredible bombardment from a
low-flying U.S. Liberator, Its bomb door
somehow worked loose and spilled its
cargo. Down into back gardens and
bathrooms crashed a crate of beer, an-
other of wine and lots of cool drinks,
with eggs and oranges and the door itself.
Some damage and many narrow escapes,
but no actual casualties.
* =H * *
“Tuart”: Sydney newspapermen not
of the fashionable cult, adherence to
which requires a total lack of humor,
are merrily discussing the severance of
relations between the morning papers.
Together since they came out strong
against Menzies at the 1940 election and
ran tickets of Outstanding Candidates
who other than the certainties prud-
ently picked—all flopped, they parted
company on the Evatt referendum, after
taking a very long time to make up their
minds. Now, as a declaration of inde-
pendence or something, Granny “Herald”
has come out with a picture of three
specimens of the ex-Soviet soldiers cap-
tured in battalions and regiments by the
Americans in France. So young as obvi-
ously to have been brought up under the
marvellous System and to have known
no other, they must make an exceedingly
bad impression, by their appearance as
well as their change of allegiance, on all
but the elect. And the worst of it is that
they are Georgians, like Uncle Joe. It is
due to the “Telegraph” to say that it
wouldn’t think of publishing anything
so destructive of the belief, impressed on
the confiding popuiace, that Russians are
Always Right and always win—unlike
the fumbling Tommies who were never
taught to “hate Fascism” (Mr. Jimmy
Aldridge, of the “Sun”), and promoted
“Blimps” such as Montgomery and Alex-
ander who sport the Old School Tie.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The remarkable success of
the Borovansky Australian ballet has
moved the Taits, with a little persuasion
from Nevin Tait, their London represen-
tative, to engage a British ballet for a
post-war Australian season. International
by name, but mainly British by com-
position, the co. has been conducting a
four weeks’ season at the Adelphi. In the
cast is the Australian Rose Pavinoff. An
old friend is Algeranoff, who has paid
several visits to this country.
3tC * * ♦
“Notis”: “Nakh” (B. 16/8/’44) evi-
dently assumes that the Oxford baby’s
parents would accompany it to Foots-
cray and that they would retain their
“I'll tell you what is wrong with Bob Menzies — he's got no sense
of humor.”
Oxford accent. His small-boy acquaint-
ance upholds my opinion that speech is
the result mainly of expediency, Aus-
tralians who lately have heard the voice
of Dr. Thomas Wood may be interested
to know how he acquired his manner of
speaking. He describes the process in his
book True Thomas :
The speech of Oxford graduates was new
to me—standard English mostly, which
gives no hint of the speaker’s birthplace
or origin or status. I set out to learn it as
one learns a foreign tongue. It was indeed
that to me, for my own speech was an un-
regulated vocal echo of every port I had
called at, overlaid with an intonation that
might be Furness, Cumberland, North
Lancashire, West Lancashire, Border,
Ulster, East End in turn; it must be con-
trolled, I ordered myself, turned into Eng-
lish. I made it so by reading aloud night
after night (and listening as I read) plays
and ballads and poems that I borrowed
from the college library—Meredith’s “Love
in a Valley” was a standby—until I could
change the vowel sounds at will, and know
the value to a shade as I changed, and
could think ahead vividly, accurately, and
be sure; and it was mine, I told myself,
mine, this standard English, the speech of
the new world I was living in; mine as natu-
rally as breathing.
I would suggest that many Aussie under-
grads, as well as others, could, with ad-
vantage, follow this excellent example.
» * * •
“Curtain Raiser”: Never has any
singer, native or foreign, finished a season
in such a blaze of public approbation or
so dramatic a manner as Marjorie
Lawrence at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
Miss Lawrence has a habit of doing almost
as much talking as singing, but her audi-
ences like it. At the final concert, after she
had made the usual curtain speech, some-
body said they would like to see her hus-
band. “Here he is,” she said, indicating
a man who was assisting attendants to
change her position so that she could
give the organ gallery the benefit of see-
ing her face while she was singing. The
unusual medico, who has devoted his
recent years to a single case of infantile
paralysis, and that of a great prima donna,
bowed slightly, kissed his wife’s hand,
then her cheek, and bolted.
# * * *
“Epsilon”: Accounts of a giant calcu-
lating machine, weighing 35 tons and
housed in a room 51ft. long, recently pre-
sented to Harvard University (which
apparently is using it to revise the
standard logarithmic and trigonometrical
tables), may puzzle people who regard
mathematicians of the higher sort as hav-
ing a high talent and strong affection for
arithmetic. The fact is, of course, that
almost all mathematicians hate, if they do
not despise, arithmetic. The pure mathe-
maticians hardly ever need to descend to
it—their work is all done with symbols—
and the great theoretical scientists who
use the algebraic processes as tools of
trade do just as little figuring as they can
manage. Prof. Sylvanus Thompson in his
breezy and unconventional mathematical
treatises makes frequent reference to the
laziness of his colleagues in this respect.
They lean heavily on calculating machines
and on assistants when a numerical solu-
tion of a problem is called for. It is not
surprising to learn that the Harvard
machine has already turned up 11 errors
in tables that have been used for half a
century with implicit confidence,
* * * *
“Harikari”: If the Japanese are super-
stitious with regard to dates, today, the
13th, should make them feel a little
nervous. On September 13, 1912, the
funeral of the Emperor Mutsuhito took
place at Tokyo, and as the funeral pro-
cession left the palace General Count
Nogi, of Port Arthur celebrity, and his
wife committed suicide.
* * * ♦
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne doctor
with a reputation for making quick diag-
noses was interviewed by a citizen who
complained of severe pains in the
stomach. The sawbones gave the patient
a rapid examination, and found him in
very poor condition. “Something is
obviously poisoning your system, and I
always suspect the teeth in these cases,”
he said. “You had better go to a dentist
before we go any further. He will prob-
ably want to take your teeth out.” “We
needn’t put him to that trouble,” grinned
the patient. “I’ll take them out for you.”
And suiting the action to the word, with
one swift motion he removed all his
molars and placed them on the doctor’s
table.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”: Berlin Newsagency quoted an
alleged report from a French paper which
described how, when an American bomber
was shot down, a negro “dressed in tails
and silk hat” jumped out and took
the opportunity solemnly to castigate
“this combination of jesting and mur-
der which is peculiar to the Allies’
air-war methods.” Naturally it might
be asked how the bomber crew
knew they were going to be shot
down and thus give Tails and Silk Hat
a chance to do his stuff. The an-
swer is that the pilot, so as not to dis-
appoint his comic passenger, deliberately
aimed his ’plane at an ack-ack shell. But
surely Jerry is habituated by now to
the convention that every American
bomber carries a dusky vaudevillian.
It is a common thing during day
raids on German cities to see hun-
dreds of Christy minstrels floating
down from shot-down ’planes, tap-
dancing on the surrounding flak, tell-
ing funny hambone - and - watermelon
stories, juggling billiard balls and cues
and doing tumbling turns as they descend.
The tactics are obvious. German workers
will all down tools to rush out and gaze
in rapt attention at the free show—and
this sabotages the war effort. It also
gives them the opportunity to compare
their entertainers with such humorists as
Goebbels and Goring. Mind you, it is
remotely possible that m’sieu the editor
was elongating a Teutonic limb.
**♦ • *
“Sturt”: The abolition in Adelaide of
bookmakers’ offices, but not of the mer-
chants themselves, has led to a curious
position. They ply their lawful calling
on the racecourse, but admittedly can’t
settle everything there after the last race.
So settling takes place on Monday morn-
ing in a city street, and mainly at a cer-
tain busy spot. The police wanted to call*
this betting, not-on-the-course; but au
official ruling has been given that debts
incurred lawfully may be paid in this way
without, blame, provided the parties don't
“loiter.”
♦ * * *
“Craiser”: Dobell isn’t the first artist
who attracted attention by painting elon-
gated figures. Eccentricity always pays
dividends sooner or later. At the Paris
Salon somebody would always send in
something that set the critics roaring. One
year it was a statue made of drainpipes:
the next year, something else. One sculp-
tor made a hit only after long years of
persistence. He sculpted nothing but cats,
and every year he got one of his felines
into some exhibition. Nobody took any
particular notice of him until the sculptor
placed one of his cats on his father’s
grave after a long fight with the cemetery
officials. The commotion called public
attention to the sculptor, who became
famous overnight.
h
“Ex-1.Y.”: While “Rooibaatje” (B.
16/ 8/ ’44) is correct in stating that no
British regulars sweltered up in red coats
in the S’African stoush of 1899-1902,
scarlet tunics and the equally unsuitable
green jackets of the rifle regiments could
be seen in the streets of ’Maritzburg and
Cape Town almost up to the week before
the declaration of hostilities. These coats
and jackets, with the blue of the artil-
lery and Royal Engineers, were the walk-
ing-out dress of the formations compris-
ing the S’African Imperial Command.
Red coats and green jackets, with drab
Bedford cord breeches and puttees, were
worn in Bulawayo, if not in the field, by
the Mounted Infantry companies (Kip-
ling’s “Ikonas”) detached from various
regular battalions for service in the Mata-
bele Rebellion of 1896. The Stowhasser,
or puttee, legging (a most uncomfortable
contraption compared with the field boot
worn by the old C.M.R. and other regular
S’African units) formed part of the equip-
ment of certain formations of the Im-
perial Yeomanry, .whose uniforms were
provided from funds subscribed by their
country organisations.
* * * *
“Avon”: That Maoriland commission
on apprenticeship conditions (B. 16/8/’44)
got a bit of a shock when a 16-year-oW
boy, an engineering apprentice of a year’s
standing, offered to give his testimony.
The youngster had a good deal to say,
and he had to face a stiff cross-examina-
tion, but after it was all over the chair-
man, Judge Tyndall, said the commission
had learned more from this witness than
from any other, “though some very emi-
nent men have been before the commis-
sion.” Main points made by the witness
were (1) apprentices should be paid more
than 16s. a week, because just now any
lad could earn £4 or £5 a week at un-
skilled laboring. (2) Training given by
employers was much inferior to that
given in technical schools. The witness
said he had learned more in three months
at school than in six months at work.
♦ * * •
“X.S.”: The girl who saved Ned Kelly
has had a war-time avatar in a Mel-
bourne waitress who rescued an Allied
sailor from a detention camp. The young
woman got a girl friend to assist her, and
went to the camp in a taxi with a second-
hand suit of civilian clothes. They suc-
ceeded in getting word to the prisoner,
who climbed the fence and changed into
civvies. While military police scoured
the environs the trio hid under bushes,
and eventually the sailor and the girl
reached Bairnsdale. There they were
intercepted. When the case came before
the South Melbourne Court the defend-
ing counsel made a moving appeal tor
leniency for his client:
Love is a powerful and age-old passion.
Eve tempted Adam with an apple. This
girl, being more prosaic and grimly realistic,
tempted him in a detention camp with a
second-hand suit of clothes.
Month, suspended on a £lO bond to
be of good behavior for two years.
SPRINGTIME.
So many a devotee of bright Apollo
Has tuned his harp and hymned an ode to
spring
That any modern, fain the mode to follow,
Will find there’s nothing left whereof to sing.
In all the range of verse-pegs upon show.
From east to west, sub-arctic zones to tropic,
It’s pretty well established that there’s no
More hackneyed topic.
The student through anthologies who ranges
Will very soon acquire perception clear
Few famous poets haven’t rung the changes
On this blithe section of the rolling year,
From Shakspeare, Shelley, Swinburne, names
renowned,
And Tennyson—the list you’d scarce exhaust
in
A column —down to chaps like Ezra Pound
And Alfred Austin.
What glamorous conceits, what gay romances
Are woven round the season when the air
Loses its nip and adolescent fancies
Are featured lightly turning—you know
where!
With all the verses memorised to spout,
I cheerfully submit it’s not in reason
To look for any new remarks about
This vernal season.
Try as you will, you’ll always be frustrated
In questing for some simile or trope
On spring that hasn’t been anticipated
By Keats or Thomson, Longfellow or Pope.
The board’s been bare a devil of a time.
Our predecessors haven’t left a single
Image for fashioners of stately rhyme
Or artless jingle.
Stay! There’s one bard, proclaimed of merit
sterling,
Who might have hymned the goddess all
adore
In measures fresh, in phrases wild and whirling,
Like nothing ever writ or heard before.
Unto his memory a dirge I croon
(No theme his swift decease for sprightly
sally).
A thousand pities that he died so soon,
Poor Ernest Malley!
N.S.W
T. THE R.


AFTER THE MATCH.
How silent now, how still the trodden held
Where late the thirty heroes, strong and nimble,
Struggled and strove, staggered and swerved
and reeled, . ,
Tossing madly aloft their suffering symbol.
Now, by the trampling feet cruelly used
The patient grass, battered and maimed and
bruised,
Uplifts her broken blades and breathes once
more.
Silenced, the rapt spectators’ ragged roar;
Silenced, the happy players’ farewell cheer
That in the winter dusk rang brittle and short.
The winter trees bite viciously and clear
Upon the pallid sky their pattern of boughs,
While a disgruntled drift of wandering cows
Query the mangled feed and damn the sport.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The seasoned whisky-
drinker becomes most indignant if you
tell him that he can’t distinguish between
Irish and Scotch, and concertgoers are
much the same about music. But there
is usually an Era Malley waiting for the
cocksure. After Ormandy’s departure
from Melbourne Mr. Blank was billed to
conduct a concert at the Town Hall. At
a party in the suburbs somebody sug-
gested listening-in to the local lad’s per-
formance. “It won’t be any good, but we
might as well,” was the general verdict.
The radio was switched on in the middle
of a movement and the company listened,
but one could see by the expressions on
their faces that from Mr. Blank no more
than could be expected was being re-
ceived. Then the music finished, the
applause rolled forth and the announcer’s
voice was heard declaiming: “This is the
Australian Broadcasting Commission
broadcasting from the Brisbane Town
Hall over the national network. You
have just heard Mr. Eugene Ormandy
conducting the Brisbane Symphony Orch-
estra in a performance of Beethoven’s
Seventh Symphony.”
* * * *
“Hamfat”: “Tararaboomdeay” (B.
2/8/’44)? It is 52 years since the ditty,
with its chorus of high-kickers introduced
at the Tivoli, took Sydney by storm —
for weeks everybody whistled it or
hummed it. The early-morning milk-oh
“boomdeayed” as he rattled the jugs, and
the telegraph messengers chirruped the
lively air. Less tuneful ballads have been
dug out of the past and revived on the
air; but some better things in that line
have been missed entirely—such as “Yid-
disher Coon,” original in its day and very
catchy, which enjoyed tremendous popu-
larity for a season.
* * *
“K.G.C.”: The Captain Cook contro-
versy recalls that some years ago Miss
Sophia Kennedy, of Deepdene (Vic.), pro-
duced documentary evidence that she was
a descendant of Cook’s sister, Mary, who
married Charles Gould. The Goulds’
daughter married Joseph Alexander
Davisson and a family of 17 resulted, the
youngest daughter of which married
Alfred Caswell Jenkins. The eldest Jen-
kins girl, Sophia Frances, married
Allan Kennedy, who had as issue the
Deepdene lady, her sister in Colac (Mrs.
Margaret Connelly) and a brother in
Freeburg (Vic.), Alex. C. Kennedy.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Although spring has
burst gloriously on Melbourne there is
“The ten past is travelling a bit light-on this mornin', Joe."
marked lethargy on the home vegetable
front, whose warriors started out so full
of courage a year or so back to rescue
the nation from starvation. Some growers
have given up their backyard industry
because of painful failures; others have
become discouraged at finding that there
is as much official red-tape to be sur-
mounted when you plant a plot 30ft. by
40ft. as when you Open a canning fac-
tory. A citizen who was so full of en-
thusiasm for the business last year that
he even planted radishes in the motor-
camp on his Christmas holiday told me
the other day that this year all the dig-
ging he would be doing would be on the
g°l£ links.
“Kina”: “Hamfat’s” little essay on an
ancient stage convention (B. 6/9/’44) set
me thinking of the long struggle of the
cinema to rid itself of those conventions.
Nowadays on the silver screen a character
writing a message of several words does
not accomplish the task in two swift
strokes of a pencil; the stars do not
“make an entrance” and pause palpably
to receive the ?.ccustomed ovation (Sey-
mour Hicks did that in a dozen English
films of not so very long ago); there is
no rule against a character turning a back
on the audience while speaking his or her
lines, and dialogue is growing as natural
and convincing as are the real settings
that the cinema play enjoys. English
directors, especially, are becoming deadly
foes of heroics and sloppy sentiment-
such films as “In Which We Serve” and
“The First of the Few” achieve drama
by vigorously resisting the temptation to
dramatise. But there’s one old stage tradi-
tion no director seems to care to shed the
convention that a blaze can be kindled in
an open grate by tossing two heavy logs
into it and applying a match.
“Cauboy”; Mention of “East Lynne”
and the importance once attached to the
leading role (B. 30/8/’44) recalls the
occasion when Muriel Starr revived the
old-timer at the Palace, Melbourne, in
an endeavor to salvage a drifting season.
All the co., with one exception, regarded
the ancient melodrama as a farce, and
insisted on playing it as such at re-
hearsals ; the exception, however, was
the leading lady, who took Lady Isabel s
emotional conflicts with all seriousness.
On the opening night nobody knew in
what vein the piece would be presented,
but in the end Miss Starr’s viewpoint
prevailed, and the thing was played
with the solemnity of Shakspearian
drama. The audience insisted on tak-
ing it as a joke, and howled with delight
every time Lady Isabel made her appear-
ance. Yet I doubt very much if the anti-
quated bromide is any more ridiculous
than the average modern movie melo-
drama.
* * * *
“Melbn”: In Victoria recent regula-
tions on truancy, by which fines for a
second offence are considerably increased,
are being applied, with spectacular results.
One parent at the Richmond Court was
fined £32 on 16 counts connected with
four children, and the p.m. remarked
that if he liked he could have made the
figure £BO. The village Hampden who has
conscientious scruples about entrusting
his offspring to the Cabbage State
pedagogy must needs have a long pocket.
* * * *
“Tiki”: That retired admiral of Nel-
son’s time who took with him on his
country rambles a pocketful of acorns
and rammed one into the soil with his
walking-stick wherever he thought a big
tree could grow, so that material for
Britain’s fighting ships might never run
short, has a kindred soul in M.L., a
Christchurch man, R. B. Owen, who for
years has been collecting acorns from the
“finest oak in the country.” He has grown
many oaks himself, and he sends the
acorns all over the Dominion. There are
many fine old oaks in M.L., particularly
in Canterbury, but the tree, being a slow-
grower, has not been favored by farmers,
„,irnoctUr nlantations
whose windbreaks are mostly plantation
of poplar or Pinus insignis. The coniter
attains something like full growth in 20
, , • . . „ „„ lin „ c t o r
years, while an oak is just a youngstc
at the century mark. The tree-conscious
Maorilanders, who have enthusiastically
observed Arbor Day for half a century,
are just now debating a scheme to insti-
tute plantations as the main memorials
"This is King’s Cross. Yank."
“Say, why don't you guys change the name to ‘Double Cross'?"
of every phase of the Dominion’s parti-
cipation in World War 11.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Magister” tells us (B.
30/8/’44) that the word “as” [rather than
“like”] “has been the almost unanimous
choice of writers and speakers for the
past two or three centuries when they
wished to complete the comparison with
a clause.” 1 suggest that plenty of in-
stances could be quoted to show the
unanimity is very far from what he
assumes. Take, for a start, a few lines
from one of the best-known and most-
quoted sonnets in the English language,
that of Keats on Chapman’s Homer:
Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken;
Or like stout Cortez, when with eagle eyes
He stared at the Pacific.
“As,” however technically correct, would
surely be a poor substitute for “like” here.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Like a lot of other people,
I’ve often wondered what the Department
of Information did to justify its existence
■—and cost. I therefore record with
pleasure that it has published a most
useful little booklet called Know Aus-
tralia, which contains facts, figures and
other information which are very handy
when available at a moment’s notice.
I don’t know how many the department
printed but I’m advising everybody to
send for one.
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne inventor
has complained that a device of
his which would make it impos-
sible for a robomb to reach Eng-
land had been unsympathetically
received by the Australian Inven-
tions Directorate. The Directorate
retorted that his plans had been
considered most sympathetically,
and that there was not the slight-
est justification for transmitting
them to Britain. That, of course,
proves nothing. The invention
might have been like that of the
ingenious bloko who proposed to
avoid railway collisions by laying
rails over the roofs of all trains
without explaining how it could
be decided which was to go over
and which under. On the other
hand, it may have involved a new
principle (like Galileo’s theory of
the movements of the celestial
bodies or the Bostonian’s idea of
keeping off the rain with an um-
brella, which led to the stoning
of the inventor), and therefore
have been beyond officialdom’s
comprehension. Nobody can
judge on the correspondence. It
was a Melburnian, by the way,
who scotched the magnetic bomb,
Hitler’s first “secret” weapon.
“A.1.K.” on a sporting development in
the war area:
When Australian troops arrived in this area,
hundreds of scraggy Timor ponies were running
wild, their Indonesian and Kaja owners having
fled before the blasting of Japanese bombs dur-
ing the eventful days of Buna and Gona. Digger
eyes lighted up at the sight of the little horses.
Quickly several were roped in, and training
commenced. Bulldozers and shovels cleared
and drained a suitable flat and soon a three-
furlongs course was marked out and a grounds
committee appointed. Judges, stewards and a
clerk of the course were nominated; all slouch-
atebrin-yellowed Diggers. Bookmakers
and pon i es were registered and a tote estab-
fished! Jockeys at first wore variously-marked
singlets, and later, gaudy pyjama coats. Mow
thiey swank proudly on their diminutive steeds
j n deviously manufactured regulation rig.
Stakes amounting to almost £l5O were avail-
dumped his legion of supporters as he finished
badly behind the place-getters after becoming
bogged sticks in our memories. Wendoe Lady s
exciting finish in the A.C.F. Plate, and the
form of Vanity, The Squire and Tit Bit are
matters we also like to discuss. They bring
back race thrills of the happy pre-war days
down south.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The appointment by the
Victorian State Government of the Rev.
C. Irving Benson, author of The Craft of
Prayer. A Century of Victorian Method-
ism and other devotional works, to report
on library systems in Canada and the
U.S.A., fills me with forebodings. The
Melbourne Public Library is already
under heavy Puritan shackles. A woman
medico went to a librarian and asked for
a work of Freud’s. She was told that she
would have to see the Chief Librarian as
“such books” were not available to
women. “But I’m a doctor,” she pro-
tested. “That doesn’t matter. Those are
the rules,” was the reply. After consider-
able correspondence she was permitted
to see the dreadful volume in a private
room through the offices of a friendly
trustee.
* * * *
“Pip” on camp beer-gardens:
Despite the dearth of grog, the beer garden is
becoming an increasingly popular feature of
camp life. The old custom on beer nights was
to tap the keg down at the bottom of company
lines. The Digs, filed past, got their issue, and
sat down on the rocks or logs to drink it. Now
most shows have built a beer garden and sur-
rounded it with plants, shrubs, jungle ferns and
frangipanni. Some of the structures are elabo-
rate. Mountain timbers have been converted into
rustic benches and tables. The river bed has
been denuded of gravel for floors. Nearly every
beer garden has a rock fireplace, although in
these parts no fire could ever be needed. It
gives a subtle touch of home. No two gardens
are alike. Some are built to resemble hotel bars,
others have the atmosphere of a cabaret or
country club. A few have followed Continental
ideas, even to the dais for musicians—mostly a
bloke with a mouth organ and his mate bang-
ing two sticks on a petrol drum. Finest garden
in my experience has a sanded floor, murals
depicting a South Sea Island shore, moon peep-
ing through the palms, and four dusky damsels
with figures like Betty Grable giving the comq-
hither look. Above them two cherubs bear a
scroll with the legend “Keep your mind on the
grog, mate.”
« * • •
“Cine Ma”: A controversy has broken
out in Melbourne anent smoking in flick
theatres. If the practice reaches the
dimensions that it does in Paris I am all
against it. On my one and only visit to
the Folies Bergeres I could hardly see the
fair forms of the ballet for the dense fog
that enveloped the theatre. In those days
only men smoked. Despite rationing,
everybody smokes in Melbourne in these
days, including children.
# * * *
“C. 8.”: A show at the Sedon Galleries,
Melbourne, of works by 22 deceased
Australian artists reveals that as yet no
painter in this country has reached the
status of an Old Master, if prices are any
criterion. Eighteen guineas was the
highest figure asked for a Longstaff, and
a Hilder, which might have fetched 200
guineas 20 years ago, was priced at
45 guineas. Twenty-five guineas was the
price put on the “Windsor Castle” of
Arthur Streeton, and work by Fred Mc-
Cubbin, a fine, sensitive painter, was
rated around 20 guineas. Young artists
of the fashionable “modernist” persua-
sion don’t mind asking more than that
for their very first picture.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: Choom is a decent little
joker who fought for his native land in
the last war and tried hard to have a cut
for his adopted country in the current
scrap; therefore, when the new fellow
started holding forth about immigrants,
one of those uncomfortable silences fell
upon the rest of the crowd. But the new
bloke wasn’t sensitive to audience re-
actions, and raucously he continued :
“Immigration! Don’t they” (“they” obvi-
ously embracing Authority in all its
guises) “never learn nuthin’ by (gory)
experience? They bring rabbits ere;
what ’appens? They overrun the place”
(“they” apparently also embracing rabbits).
“They bring foxes ’ere; in no time they’re
a (bloodstained) pest. They bring spags,
and they play ’ell with the crops. They
bring starlin’s, and they nest in yer roof
and make the place lousy. They bring
Pommies, and they get all the good (Ver-
million) jobs. And yet they’re still talkin
about blasted immigration! This would've
been a decent country if they ’adn t
started importin’ pests.” The speaker
stopped, exhausted by his own vehem-
ence, and knowing Choom’s mettle we
waited for the spirited reply But Darky,
who is not at all ashamed of his abo.
blood, was quicker off the mark. “That’s
funny, y’ know,” he drawled. “That’s
exactly what my great-grandfather said
as he watched ’em march your great-
grandfather off the ship.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Tell “B. A. Ker” (B.
23/8/’44) that we never worked for a
tough contractor. We met a few of ’em,
but the minute one started haggling or
side-stepping we left. Our theory —or
perhaps it was Mat’s —was that the
country was wide and there was more
work in it than you could poke a stick
at. We also agreed that it was a darned
sight better to hump the bluey, even if it
meant doing a bit of a starve, than to
take on a job that meant tribulation.
When we put our price on a job we got
that price or someone else did it. Prob-
ably that method cost us some good con-
tracts, but it also saved us from some
bad ones; and being good mates, young,
strong, healthy and born optimises, what
did we care? I’ll admit that not every-
body could be like us in not caring
whether or not we worked; we were
lucky in that respect.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: In his primitive existence
the aboriginal was not without his indi-
viduals who tried to raise themselves a
little in the eyes of the herd. He had his
poets and singers, his doctors and sur-
geons. Most of the doctor stuff was
sheer hocus-pocus, results, if any, being of
the faith-cure variety. But the surgeon
did a real job. Spear-extracting was his
forte; for although only made of wood,
with perhaps barbs of stone, the abo.
spear could be deadly enough. Well
thrown it could pierce the human thorax
from side to side. If the point and barbs
were of wood, all in one piece, there was
little the surgeon could do but push barbs
and point right through, then break off
the shaft and so extract front ways, as it
were. The result was a ghastly wound
which, back and front, was treated with
plastic clay and bark bandages. If the
spear barbs were of storte, fastened on
with gum and fibre string, the operator
endeavored to confine the injury to a
single wound. Twisting the spear gently
but firmly he finally broke off the barbs,
leaving them in the wound while the
shaft came free. After a time these would
fester out, the surgeon assisting the pro-
cess when the time was ripe by squeez-
ing. A successful surgeon rose to fame,
and would often be sent for. His reward
would be no more than a share in the
family’s meal or perhaps merely appro-
bation.
“Old Camp”; The abo. in his primi-
tive state didn’t attempt to keep warm in
winter minus clothes. He, and she, made
a cloak of skins, deftly sewn together
with thread of various kinds, and ample
to keep them warm in all circumstances,
frequently reaching nearly to the knees.
True, in the excitement of the chase he
would throw his cloak aside and race
stark after the quarry, being for the
moment indifferent to the cold. It was
the destruction of tribal life by the white
invasion and the turning of the abo. into
a landless mendicant that reduced him
to nakedness.
“Go on! Give it a go!"
“The 0.D.”: I don’t know what “Old-
timer” thinks about “Sur Cingle’s” latest
outburst (B. 30 /8 / ’44) on his silly notion
that a horse has to be taught to eat tasty
things, but why does “S.C.” persist in
twisting other people’s statements? Some-
body ought to Scotch-hobble him and
make him read ”0-t’s” par. again, word
for word.
* * * *
“Wester”: I weep for the certain end
that awaits Sandy’s snake-killing cocker
spaniel (B. 30/8/’44). Car dogs and
snake dogs all end the same way—there
comes at last the car or the snake that
downs them for good. I have seen
numerous snake-killing canines, from
terriers to wolf-hounds, and not one but
has died from snake venom, even unto
Spieler, a stag-hound that took to the
pastime at a time when most dogs
acquire sense and seek only the camp-
fire and the innocent beetle hiding
under the bag. Spieler slew some score
of serpents and then died ignominiously
from the bite of a torpid adder turned
out by a plough one cold spring morning.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “H.S.G.” (B. 23/8/’44) misses
the point. He postulates a camping out-
fit comprising sheets, blankets and bala-
clava nut-warmer; that would smother
a cocoon. A fire would be superfluous
within a mile of such a swaddle-bag. The
marvel would be for a benighted bush-
whacker to yard himself inside the
straight-jacket and repose with all that
novei nightgear hugging him. Me for the
V-shaped logs lit for victory over the cold
when flat out on the bare ground, even
if I coerce geometrical assistance to posi-
tion them.
* * *
“Betcha”: Horrie, on holidays from
the city, came over the home ridge rifle
in hand, as Kelly rode in. At sight of
the fox swinging behind the stockman’s
saddle he turned towards the yards and
made the usual inquiries. “Trapped him,”
Kelly replied indifferently, “What’ll y’
take for the pelt?” The old hand looked
Horrie over, twisted his mouth specu-
latively, and s’posed he’d take 30 bob.
Horrie examined the trapped paw. “No
marks there that’ll matter,” he decided.
“How’d y’ kill him? Sure it won’t show
on the skin?” Kelly assured him the
skin would be clean. “All right, then,”
Horrie agreed, “I’ll take it” ; and placing
the fox on the ground he moved back
several paces, took careful aim and
planted a bullet square through the
shoulder. “Gripes, what’s the idea?”
asked Kelly wonderingly. “Don’t y’
know that fox’s been dead ’bout two
hours?” The city bloke leaned the rifle
carefully against the fence, inspected the
bullet hole and rose with a satisfied
grunt, “Kelly,” he explained solemnly,
“I’ve done a lot o’ things in me time
that wasn’t straight, but, d’ y’ know. I’ve
never grown so lousy I’d lie to ’em back
home about the game I’ve shot.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: The faculty of seeing
depends primarily upon the absorption
by the eye of light rays. Thus an animal’s
eyes in the darkness are engaged all the
time gathering in vagrant rays that every-
where stream around. Thus it is that the
torch suddenly flashed upon them tem-
porarily blinds them. The less adaptable
human eye is not so easily blinded by so
poor a beam as that of a torch, since its
capacity to absorb the light quickly is
more limited. Men confined in a pitch-
black dungeon gradually over a period
of weeks or months acquire a certain
degree of sight, possibly from obscure
light rays that penetrate some distance
into the earth. But such men released
into the sunlight instantly become blind ;
would, ipdeed, lose their sight perma-
nently did they not instinctively shield
their eyes and permit themselves gradu-
ally to become accustomed to the light;
which might take a week or more, accord-
ing to the time confined.
“T.G.”: If “The 0.D.” (B. 23/8/’44)
wants a cure for his astonishment at the
thought of a wild duck perching in a
tree he has only to visit Gleesons Weir,
from which Townsville (Q.) draws part
of its water supply. At various periods
thousands of ducks arrive. On being
disturbed many, mostly whistlers and
blacks, may be seen to rest in the trees
along the waterside. Other breeds prefer
the water or the water’s edge,
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Get y’t’ gimme a hand with
them ewes soon’s y’ turn the cows out,
Ma,” said Dad at breakfast. “They got
t’ be all hand-picked ’n’ some of ’em
drenched.” Ma packed the dishes,
grabbed a hat and hurried up to the
yards, where for the next few hours she
dosed ewes and raddled their heads as
fast as Dad could pick them out. “Think
that’s about the lot,” he at length de-
cided. “You c’n take the dosed bunch
down t’ the creek paddock now, an’ I’ll
see t’ these others.” An hour later Ma
returned, chopped an armful of wood,
lit the fire and was just starting in on the
breakfast dishes when Dad arrived.
Wearily he flopped on the doorstep and
reached for the newspaper. “Here’s Ted
Williams an’ his missus drivin’ in, Ma,”
he reported presently. “Must be cornin’
f dinner.” Ma redoubled her efforts in
a frantic attempt to clean up before the
visitors arrived. Dust flew, cupboard
doors banged and there was an excited
rattle of crockery. “I say, Dad,” she
puffed urgently, stepping over him to get
a dry towel, “I s’pose y’ couldn’t wipe
those dishes for me, could, y’? Or sweep
up the hearth?” The old bloke looked
up in astonishment. “Aw. cut it nm
Ma,” he protested. “What if they seen
me? Gripes, Ted’d think I’m nuthin’
but a blasted oV woman!”
* ♦ * *
“B 4”: One of the best weather
prophets on the eastern sea-board is the
silver-eel. On a placid moonlit night
prior to floods these riparian squirmers
wend their slithery way to a secluded
pool where moonbeams rain down on a
burnished patch margined by the black
shadows of ambient trees. Anon the sur-
face becomes alive, as, sweeping forward
rapidly, the thrusting sinuous shapes dart
curve and twist in a watery maze of
gleaming circles. The tempo quickens
the eels quiver, roll and splash in tremu-
lous ecstasy. Suddenly they slow down
and submerge. A brief spell, a questing
head here and there and the shimmy-
shake is resumed. Lines cast in are
ignored, as the eels at carnival time are
oblivious to all else but the impulse to
assemble and parade in the coming Wed-
ding March to the blue Pacific.
* * * *
“Tap”: Reading of the exploits of
H.M.S. Antagonist, one of Britain’s
destroyers, recalls that the first H.M.S.
Antagonist, by foundering on a reef off
Badu Island (Torres Strait) on August
22, 1865, was indirectly responsible for
a terrible massacre. Divers from Badu
recovered from the sunken warship a
quantity of brand-new cutlasses. After
a little practice the Badu warriors soon
became proficient in handling the new
weapons, which they decided to use
against their chief enemies, the natives of
Moa Island, about a mile away to the
south. Two canoe-loads of warriors
landed at Moa on a sandspit known as
Karabai (the white crane); they were
apparently unarmed, carrying only rolled
cane sitting-mats. But each man had a
cutlass hidden in his mat. As soon as
they landed the warriors unrolled their
mats and calmly sat down to wait for
the Moaites to gather round. Curious
to know what had brought the apparently
unarmed visitors, the Moaites flocked
down to meet them. Then at a signal the
warriors brought out their cutlasses. All
the Moaites were massacred with the
exception of a young mother, who
escaped in a canoe with her six-months-
old baby and ultimately landed on Ham-
mond Island, where friendly natives gave
her protection.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: We were sledging quartz on
a steep, rugged spur ; Joe was driving the
horse, and I was following at a fair dis-
tance behind to clear the track of up-
rooted stones for our next tripe A sizable
boulder slipped from my grasp and began
to roll down at the side of the track. I
shouted a warning. The stone gathered
pace a little and started to hop, getting
faster at every bound; then it grazed a
tree, changed its course and made straight
for Joe, who after one swift glance around
stood as if petrified. The boulder caught
him on the thigh as it bounced, lifted him
and turned him right over before he hit
the ground again. When I got to him
he was limping about and groaning, and
a greenish tinge showed through the
brown of his face. “Had t’ block it orf
the horse,” he managed to gasp, “It
might’ve broke his leg!”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: As his offsider I helped
Sam the drover turn a big mob of wool-
lies into a Murray bend to bed down
for the night. Over on the river bank
there was a humpy made of rusted iron
leaning against a tree, and as we arrived
a little, whiskery cove popped out and
came trotting to meet us, excitedly wav-
ing a shotgun, “ ’Day,” he greeted. “Y 1
campin’? Good. Thought y’ might try
out me dawg Tracy an’ make a deal. See
y’ in the mornin’.” Several times that
evening we saw him rush about with the
gun, and once he fired a blast into the
air, I took my blankets and put in the
night under a wire fence half a mile away.
Next morning we made to get away
early with the sheep, but the old chap
was waiting at the road for us ; he still
had the gun. “About the dawg,” he said.
“Want a fiver f’r him. Watch him work.”
He whistled, and Tracy set off and
brought some stragglers back to the mob.
“I’ll take him,” Sam said, more con-
cerned with the gyrations of the gun than
the dog’s performance. The bloke of
the bend patted the dog and whispered
a last message in his ear. Tracy turned
out to be a crackerjack, and for
tiuee days his working was a pleasure to
behold. On the third night he bedded
down contentedly under the van, so we
didn’t bother to tie him. In the morning
he was gone. Sam offered me a tenner
to go back for Tracy, but the thought of
the erratic way the old cove k an^e JjLr e
lead-sprayer was too much for me. When
I asked him why he didn’t go back him-
self and have the old bloke on about it
Sam muttered something about having
to push the damn’ woollies on.
TO “SUR CINGLE” AND
SOME OTHERS.
Oh, you who’ve drilled with a twenty-two
A neat round hole in a black snake’s head
At a thousand yards from a fast canoe
While rapid the river’s current sped,
Have you ever fought with a Yang-yang bird
On a deep, dark night on the Wantajen,
When the only sound that could be heard
Was the scratch of an Aboliar’s pen?
And you that have seen a wild duck perch
On the topmost twig of a red-gum tall,
While a fool dog yiped in futile search,
Misled by,the duckling’s piping call,
Have you ever seen, on a far brown plain,
The great, green willy-wampoos float,
When the house cat gallops to meet the train
And another Abolie is wrote?
You who have neddies that won’t eat sweets,
Except by a course of lectures taught,
Or have seen wild Herefords on their seats
Slide down a hill where they didn’t ought,
Have you ever heard on a Bogong height
The web-toed Gippsland cockies cry
And quake in a strange inhuman fright
At the gleam in an Aboliar’s eye?
Say you, with the big mate known as Mat,
And you with the oonts in the far dry West,
Recorder of Seventyfiver’s chat,
And dice in “Curyo” Charlie’s vest,
Have you ever met, on your dinkum oath,
Old Back-to-Front and his three-pronged ears,
Who swears he sprouted this curious growth
On hearing an Aboliar’s jeers?
Oh, I have seen when the moon was low
The bob-tailed fish in the Murray pool,
And old ewes dancing toe to toe
Where the peanut-trees are straight and cool.
But never mine eyes in wonder saw,
And never mine ears have had to gauge
The sights and sounds I watch with awe
Week by week in the Abo. page.
N.S.W.
“THE O.D.”


“Ned”: “A bloke strikes some queer
bosses,” said Peter, “but the most pecu-
liar cove I’ve come across was an old
geezer on the Upper Clarence. Although
he was always complainin’ about bein’
sick, the feelin’ never put him t’ bed,
and he was the best offsider for yacka
a man could meet. His pioneerin’ old
man had left him pretty well lined, but
this cove would as soon give his best cow
away as pay cash for anything but
tucker. He was always writin’ cheques t’
meet instalments on milkin’ machines,
piano-accordeons, books on home cures
for all sorts of diseases, and so on. He’d
buy anything offered him on the t,-p
plan. One mornin’ he surprised me by
not bein’ ‘crook as blazes.’ By after-
noon he’s down to it, with his sons and
daughters and their wives and husbands
rushin’ to his bedside. When they’re all
gathered around, glum-looking, he tells
them he’s provided for all, but he has
one last request to make. ‘Promise me
you’ll keep up the payments on the
Children’s Encyclopedia I bought for
you.’ They promised. The next week
he’s helpin’ me sink postholes for the
dividin’ fence.”
* * * *
“Filcoin”: This winter, on the New
England Range (N.S.W.), I caught a big
dingo haying all the points and appear-
ance of a pure-bred. Well-conditioned,
a perfect specimen of the native dog, he
exhibited one remarkable feature. Instead
of the usual single canine tusk in each
side of the upper jaw, he had two on
each side, spaced so that when he took
a grip the lower tusk fitted neatly be-
tween the double upper tusks, giving him
a grip which would be hard to break.
* * * *
“W.A.McH.”: Homicidal though the
box-gum be in intent, it rarely kills. On
the lower reaches of the ’Bidgee I’ve seen
huge limbs weighing many tons cast off
with a loud report, and an earth-shaking
crash, but never a casualty. Folks —and
stock—down that way are too canny to
go near a big box when climatic condi-
tions are ripe for a “burst.” The occur-
rence is more common when shade tem-
perature has been over the 110 mark
for a week or more, particularly during
drought, and on river flats more than in
“high” country. The crash is often pre-
ceded (perhaps hours before) by loud
creaking or groaning within the laboring
giant.
i|{ a|e s|e s|c
“Zake”: “The 0.D.” (B. 6/9/’44) con-
tends that only “the inland” may be re-
garded as being the outback. His inter-
pretation—presumably that it means well
back from the coast —is too literal. The
country between the Clarke Range and
the Burdekin ; the Dawes Range district
nor’-west of Bundaberg ; the New Eng-
land country in to Glen Innes; the
Bogongs-Snowy River area —all these are
within 100 miles of the coast; would
“The 0.D.” class them as urban districts?
In any case, isn’t the term “outback”
purely relative? The man from along
the Condamine may well claim, on “The
O.D.’s” basis, to be an outbacker; but
compared to the sheepman on the
Warrego he is almost a Brisbane
suburbanite. And no doubt the Warrego
man would be regarded almost as a
coastal dweller by the stockman around
Avon Downs in the centre. To my way
of thinking “the outback” is anywhere
where the amenities of even small-town
life are not,
♦ * * *
“Larry”: Felton’s bull was notorious
in the district for bailing up unwary
horsemen. Bearing this in mind, Dan
told Nick to be careful and to take a
stockwhip with him when he went to get
the bull from the neighboring farm. But
Nick didn’t need any whip—he could
handle that boneheaded hunk of beef.
Some time later when Dan was riding to
get the mail he saw Nick, on his pony,
and the bull galloping round a clump of
trees in the centre of a small paddock,
both gates of which were shut. “Git me
out o’ this, will y’?” yelled Nick as
he saw Dan. “An’ hurry up; I’m
giddy!” Dan looked on for a couple of
minutes; then taking his hat off he
scratched his head in a thoughtful way.
At last he seemed to make up his mind.
Coming over he opened the gate and
drove the bull through it. “Why didn’t
y’ chase the cow orf before? Me pony
h ave fallen an’ me been gored to
d ® th \ ” nrnfested Nick “Well ” replied
~5 at f rot te r a ,*r ~ *’
Dan, “y see, I couldn t make up me
mind whether you were chasin’ the bull
or-the bull chasin’ you.”
* * * *
* r
“J.T.W.K.”; As I see it, Bert didn’t
w in that crib game after all (B. 19/7/’44).
What happened to the seven Alf had left
in his /and after Bert had played his
"Sit down, you silly cow!"
three sixes? Where I play you get one
for your last card in a three-card game.
Alf scored two for pairing Bert’s six,
and having first take scored two more
for his pair of sevens. This with one for
his last card would have given him five
points and the game.
* * *
“Bo.”: Cotter had a team of 14 bul-
locks, Baldy being his offside leader.
Baldy had a streak of cussedness.
Neither continued application of the whip
nor the choicest bursts of language nor
even a fire lit beneath him could get him
to move off; he must be addressed
always by his name. One day Cotter
took his team down the gully to haul out
some logs. When he didn’t show up next
day a search party went out. They found
Cotter sitting on a log while his team
patiently waited. The leader of the party
wanted to know what the trouble was.
Cotter looked up, a puzzled look deep
on his face. He scratched ,his head
through his hat for a minute, then his
face cleared. “I got it!” he drawled at
last. .“It’s been on the tip o’ me tongue
since yestiddy mornin’, but I just couldn’t
remember his name. Gee-dap, Baldy!”
Then the team moved off.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We lay off to spell the
hacks, and from full length on the grass
I took in the surroundings. It was
pleasant up here on the ridge, warm and
still. Not a leaf stirred, and the sun, pick-
“While I must commend your initiative. Private Smythe, it is my duty to
remind you that the Q store is a non-profit-making organisation!”
ing out small rock pools in the valley
below, lit them dazzlingly. I rolled over.
Rugged peaks crowded into view
through a saddle in the near range, a
group of snow gums in the foreground
lending their twisted white trunks as a
foil for the darker tints climbing to the
skyline. It was all so wild, so unrelent-
ing and so beautiful. Presently, from
watching the small cloud shadows chas-
ing each other across the opposite slope,
I glanced at Seventyfiver. The old chap,
too, was surveying the scenery. His eyes
were full of dreams as they roved on
slowly from one well-known peak to the
next. How he must love this country!
Without the gift of expression, the old
bushman must at least have the soul of
an artist after nearly three-quarters of a
century spent on these old tops. Covertly
I watched his gaze drift to a large colored
fly that had suddenly dropped from
nowhere on to a near-by tussock. For a
few seconds the insect remained, the
green and bronze of its back shining
against the reed like a miniature rainbow ;
then it was gone, droning softly through
the blue haze over the gully. Seventy-
fiver watched it out of sight, his time-
faded eyes stared mistily into space for a
minute, then with a slight, unconscious
sigh, he turned. I waited eagerly for his
thoughts. “Sol,” he murmured deeply,
his voice betraying his feelings, “I dam’-
well f’got t’ chuck out that blasted hunk
o’ blown meat before we left.”
* * * ♦
“E. 2”: Always thought the jackass
made a three-point landing when descend-
ing on a grub discerned waving an eye-
brow above the surface. Not so;
Jack lands fairly on his beak. In a trap
set for a rabbit one pushed the plate right
down and the jaws closed at the base of
his beak near the eyes Don’t know how
long he’d been there, but when released
he flew to a near-by limb and chuckled.
The trap would have killed any other
bird.
* =l= St *
“Old-timer”: Dan, who was deaf and
couldn’t read, lead a somewhat isolated
existence behind the Wakool swamps,
until one day in 1926 when he drifted into
Barham and disported himself quietly
among the river town’s fleshpots. He was
in the bar when he noticed, with the
sensitiveness of the deaf for change, a
gathering of the crowd toward one end
and the adoption by >all of a strained,
intent, listening attitude. Dan looked
from one to another, trying to fathom
it, when a voice announced “They’re off,
and first to break the line is Pantheon,
while in second place is” Dan,
stricken with astonishment, searched the
faces to find who was speaking, then
made signals of distress. By much yelling
and writing on paper he was at last con-
vinced that he was hearing a voice speak-
ing 200 miles away, and got some idea
of how it was done. “By cripes,” he said,
in his high, flat voice, “that’s wonder-
ful.” Then he strode to the loudspeaker,
put his whiskers into it and cried “Thanks,
mate. You’ve done me a real turn.” They
hadn’t the heart to tell him the announcer
couldn’t hear his gratitude.
* * * *
“S.G.”: In the old days the Queens-
land blacks were willing enough to do
odd jobs about a place, provided they got
something for it. Out our way we gener-
ally paid in tobacco or painkiller. A
favorite dodge when water had to be car-
ried was for a lubra to take on the job.
She’d lug her bucket almost to the house,
when a buck would take it and, with
the lubra limping behind, finish the
job, announcing that “Mary hurtem leg
belonga him too much.” Whereupon the
sympathetic white would cough up
enough tobacco and painkiller for both,
and they’d head for the scrub to cele-
brate. My mother promised a lubra a
bottle of painkiller for a jqb. When‘she
came to pay she found the bottle half-
empty, and made up the difference with
water, which turned the stuff a milky
color. Mother got a demonstration that
day that convinced her,that Mary wanted
her painkiller neat or not at all.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Many dairy-farm dogs, mostly
nondescripts and a few greyhounds, kept
for pest destruction, soon pass from the
incipient stages of furious night barking,
spasmodic rushes, throaty threatenings to
indifference, and later to fraternising with,
and active participation in destruction
wrought by prowling dingoes. Grey-
hounds are especially prone to desert;
traitorous Quislings of the night, they
assist to destroy their whilom charges.
However, their short hair renders them
susceptible to scrub-tick infestation, and,
being unable to remove these poisonous
pests, they become paralysed and perish.
The weird noises made by these imitation
warrigals, half-breeds and hoodlums,
combined with the desolating howls of
the real Mackay, would make a boogie-
woogie fanatic expire in ecstasy.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Although, like “The
Heel” (B. 2/8/’44), I have never suc-
ceeded in lighting a grass fire with a
cigarette, I have seen a fire thus started.
Tossed from a speeding car, the half-
burnt cig. had the roadside stubble well
alight by the time I had walked the inter-
vening 1000 yards. It depends on the
grass ; this stuff was of a fine ribbonlike
variety and dry from an exposure to hot
sunshine over three rainless months.
* * * *
“Blime”: Andy and young Bob were
working together out at Gregson’s, and
from the wisdom of his superior years
Andy was always at the kid to take
things more seriously. He lectured Bob
on his carelessness, his lack of interest
in everyday affairs, and on wasting
his money; and still the kid didn’t
improve. The climax came when, re-
turning down the hill one afternoon,
Andy overtook the youth idly grinning
at a couple of half-grown pups wrang-
ling over a coat sleeve, while a few yards
away the rest of the litter were disputing
the possession of another piece of the
garment with Gregson’s poddy foal.
“Strike me, Bob,” roared the old man,
“why don’t y’ look after y’ things?
Don’t y’ know clo’es is hard t’ get? That
coat should ’a been hung in a tree while
we was workin.’ ” “It was,” nodded
Bob. “Must ’a blew down.” “Blew
down, me eye! ” was the disgusted snort.
“There ain’t been no wind. Plain care-
lessness, that’s all. Yair, an’ it’s no good
y’ cornin’ t’ me f’r help; I only got one
coat meself, an’ what’s more me coupons
is all gorn.” “Mine, too,” said Bob,
chuckling heartily at the pups. “Awright,”
growled Andy, “but y’ won’t find it so
funny before the winter’s over.” Bob
turned to follow. “Well, I durnio why I
should worry,” he grinned, “it’s your
coat.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: The water hen (B. 30/8/’44)
may be Australia’s happiest bird, but I’m
entering the red-shank for the Humorist
Stakes. Some people think the kooka-
burra is a humorist, but Jacko takes him-
self far too seriously for that, despite his
appearance. Red-shank not only looks
funny ; I’m prepared to swear he knows
it and finds it a source of endless amuse-
ment. Get a few of him tame enough
to hang round the hut for titbits and
you’ve only to watch their antics, em-
phasised by their long legs, enormous feet
and the red dab on their beaks, to keep
you in a simmer of merriment. And
don’t be astonished if the bird joins in.
STUDY.
The crested bronzewing whirrs his wings
In flight; but while young wagtails stare
The brown hawk keeps his equipoise
And nonchalantly sits on air.
He gives no loud compelling screech
To let us know that he’s about;
Performs his daily miracle
Without the aid of sing or shout.
Tail-feathers spread against the sun,
He hovers, silent and morose,
And sings no joyous morning song
To charm our ears. He’s not verbose,
But his keen eyes see all that moves;
Aloofly concentrated, he
Swoops to the kill, or soars again
Into the blue infinity.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


DADDY’S
quickly relieved
ẅ
w th
CIN PILLS
IV OT so long ago daddy was scotty
and ill-tempered. He suffered
with nagging Backache. He’s fine
again now because he got speedy
relief with GIN PILLS.
Relief from Backache (caused by
weak inflamed Kidneys) comes
quickly when you take a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Gin Pills
assist the Kidneys in their action . ..
help them to become stronger. . .
more active .. . and free from in-
flammation. Then with your
Kidneys working normally again,
nagging backache is soon forgotten.
Dr. SHELDON'S
Small Size - - 1/9
Lar?e Size - - 2/9
m
F-o.lt THE KIDNEYS
Inactive hours pass quickly away
Often, when time drags wearily during convales-
cence, our boys find grateful relief in a programme
of recordings. To them, as well as the other
sections of the armed forces, we are in duty and
honour bound to give first priorities in the alloca-
tion of our restricted output of records.
• YOUR DEALER will give you a leaflet
fully explaining why the particular records
you want are sometimes unavailable.
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE" • COLUMBIA • PARLOPHONE
DECCA • REGAL-ZONOPHONE
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty.Ltd.
The Parlophone Co. Lid. (Inc. In England) • HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. A.T/44
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Queer Goings On.”
(As recorded in Washington correspondent John
O’Donnell’s column in N.Y. “Daily News.”)
The strange neutrality between Russia
and Japan—a relationship costing thou-
sands of American lives because it pro-
hibits us from following the easy road
to Tokyo—is developing even more mys-
terious dimensions.
From various sources here in Wash-
ington, some Russian, some military,
reports are now leaking out indicating
that in avoiding a break with Japan, Pal
Joey Stalin is allowing his citizens to
suffer various indignities in Jap-occupied
Asia so that an “incident” may be
avoided.
As the situation unfolds, according to
one source, the border between Manchu-
kuo and Russia is likely to flare up into
new and serious shooting affrays, but all
the time neither of the Eastern Powers
will do any formal war-declaring. This
report stems from a semi-Russian source,
perhaps anxious to leave the impression
that Stalin is about to crack down on the
Japs for a few things they are doing.
Another report reaching Washington
is that Russians in Jap-occupied terri-
tory, since Hitler invaded Russia in June
of 1941, have found it almost impossible
to get back to their homeland. These
non-voluntary exiles applied for pass-
ports. None received them because, it is
said, Japan controls the mails and the
applications strangely disappear.
These Reds in Asia reportedly must
take off their hats and make humble bows
of respect in passing Jap soldiers. In
addition, the Japs, on any impulse, enter
Russian homes, ransack the rooms and
generally make life miserable. If Rus-
sians have radios, they can keep them
only by permission of Jap censors. News-
papers from Russia never reach them.
Only rumors have come out about an-
other aspect of these queer goings on in
the Far East, but the latest report in
Washington concerns trouble at sea. The
Japs are understood to have sunk several
Russian vessels en route from the U.S.
west coast to Vladivostok with war
materials. In retaliation, Russian war-
ships reportedly have sallied forth and
sent to the bottom Jap freighters plying
between the island of Sakhalin and the
Nipponese homeland.
The Shanghai “Evening Post and Mer-
cury,” now being published in New York
by Randall Gould, one-time American
newspaperman in China, insists that “the
day is fast approaching when there will
be fighting in Manchuria on a greater
scale and with greater fierceness” than
ever in the past.
In its June 30 edition, the “Post and
Mercury” said that anti-Soviet feeling
“on the part of the Japs seems to be on
the increase.”
“In 1943,” the dispatch says, “of all
foreigners in Shanghai, only the Russians
were free to pass the Jap sentry at Broad-
way Bridge without bowing in reverence.
Now they must do as others do.”
Public Inflamed by Unions
[U.S. Labor leaders’ warnings to unions
against putting further strain on public patience
by war-time strikes and the like were quoted
here on 6/9/’44. Another is here given as re-
ported by N-Y. '‘World-Telegram.”]
R. J. Thomas, president of the United
Automobile Workers (which has a paid-
up membership of 1,000,000) and vice-
president of the C. 1.0., in a statement
addressed to U.A.W. members:
“A minority, even a handful, can do
a union irreparable harm, even destroy
it. The workers who insist on taking
part in unauthorised strikes may be such
a minority. There have been too many
wild-cat strikes. Public opinion has be-
come inflamed against our union. Word
of these strikes is going to our millions
of men in uniform.
“Our union cannot survive if the nation
and our soldiers believe that we are
obstructing the war effort. Our loyal
membership must face that fact. They
must see to it that the good name of our
union is maintained, that the acts of
isolated handfuls are not permitted to
continue, to the detriment of all of us.
“Already many thousands of our
American brothers have been killed m
action. Many more have been maimed,
many of them for life.
“Does any reasonable and responsible
person believe that, in the face of these
terrible facts, our union can tolerate wild-
cat strikes in war plants and still survive?
It can’t be done.
“Either we set our own house in order
at once, cease all wild-cat strikes, or we
will face an attack such as no union can
withstand,
“We must restrain ourselves and our
hot-headed brothers today. If we do not,
there will be no union after the war.
“In fact, restrictive legislation, worse
than anything now on the books, will be
enacted before the war ends.”
U.S. World Air Plans.
( America’s intended future air routes, as out-
lined authoritatively by “United States News.”)
America is letting the world know the
routes over which it expects U.S. trans-
port ’planes to Ay in post-war.
From New York passengers and car-
goes would Ay to Cairo in 30 hours.
From San Francisco they would cross
the South PaciAc to Sydney in 37 hours.
From Chicago to Hong Kong would be
a 44-hour Audit.
Other lines are expected to operate
from Seattle to Tokyo, from Miami to
Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires, from
New Orleans to Guatemala City, and
com Brownsville, Tex., to Trinidad and
Cristobal.
PaciAc Clippers from San Francisco
and Los Angeles would Ay to Manila,
Singapore, the Netherlands Indies, Shang-
hai and Calcutta, meeting other liners
that had Aown from Chicago or Seattle,
or both places, across Alaska, Siberia
and China
The Clippers and the Chicago and
Seattle liners also would meet transport
’planes of another American line pro-
jected from New York across the North
“I haven’t met a man yet who
plans to stay in the Pacific after the
war is over; even the men who’ve
married New Zealand and A us-
tralian girls plan to bring them
back to the States. We want to get
home—and quick. But fust going
home isn’t enough. My dad fought
in the last war and got a piece of
shrapnel in his leg at Chateau-
Thierry. He came back from
France convinced that the United
States had fought its last war. So
did most of the rest. Obviously
they were wrong, and a lot of their
sons are wondering why. We tried
the isolationist way, and it failed.
It failed so bad several million of
us are scattered from hell to break-
fast clearing up a mess that almost
everybody now agrees is definitely
our business. Maybe getting to-
gether with the rest of the world in
a strong, determined organisation
won’t work. Maybe we’ll still have
World War 111. Maybe not. Down
here a lot of us want to give the new
way a chance.” — U.S. Sgt. James
Keeley, South Pacific; quoted by
N.Y. “Daily News.”
Atlantic to Europe and across Asia to
Calcutta. A Aight from Calcutta to New
York, by way of Cairo, Paris, Eire and
Newfoundland or Labrador, would take
40 hours, and an air journey around the
world about four days. America expects
its liners to fly, too, from New York
to Berlin, Leningrad and Moscow, and
across Africa to Cape Town.
World routes like these, and a net-
work of new air lines through the interior
of South America, constitute the U.S.
pattern for international air transport.
No new routes can be started until the
State Department negotiates agreements
with dozens of countries for landing
rights. Nevertheless, the United States
stealing a march on other nations. It
is first to disclose its plans in detail; to
put lorwaid its claims
c l. aims B°*° the vitals of inter-
national issues. They include strongholds
Britlsh Em P ire trade such as Sydney,
Calcutta and Cape Town. They by-pass
a possible international authority to
parcel out landing rights and move
straight to direct agreements with each
concerned,
. But P.S. does not ask exclusive
rights ; it is willing to compete, to grant
reciprocal rights. And it acted only after
negotiations with Britain and con-
±erences with Russia. _
. U.S. accepts the Air Age as a fact. It
is determined to have a leading place m
the world Aying of that Age.
Uncle Sam: “Never Again.”
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by U.S. Secretary of the Navy James
Forrestal.)
In the two decades after the first World
War we [U.S.A.] scrapped or sank, under
treaty obligations, 30 battleships, includ-
ing seven partially completed new ones.
We junked 15 cruisers, 139 destroyers and
52 submarines. A sizeable American navy
went to the bottom of the sea or to the
scrap pile. Moreover, we agreed to a
ceiling on new-ship construction and
accepted incredible technical limitations.
Although some of the vessels stricken
in 1920-1938 were second-line ships,
others were the newest and best of their
kind. Naval officers still wince at the
recollection of the Washington, a good
fighting ship 75 per cent, completed, being
towed to sea and sunk by our own guns
and torpedoes on November 25, 1924.
The foresight of our then Chief*of Naval
Operations, Admiral R. E. Coontz, saved
for us in the 1922 Disarmament Confer-
ence two partially completed battle
cruisers, which we converted into the air-
craft carriers Lexington and Saratoga.
But we tore up four sister cruisers which
would have made equally good carriers
—and four more carriers would have
been a vast comfort in 1942.
Some of the things we did under the
terms of the treaties and under subse-
quent agreements seem unbelievable now.
It is plain that we lightly gave away the
means by which we could have kept the
peace of the world or, at any rate, by
which we could have swept from the
seas —assuming a public willingness to do
so —anyone who dared to start trouble.
Secondly, we decided not only to sink
part of our Navy and hamstring the rest,
we also discredited the industries and
individuals upon whom we relied for


TrM>
&JE *
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C, H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901, Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44,
. <Zf. . \
SATTACK GUNS
NTO 0 N BRIDGES
BE A UFO RI BOMBER PARIS
PARTS OF AUSTRALIAN-BUILT
I
Australia notv produces Australian-built torpedoes for
Australian-built planes. General Motors-Holden’s have
played an important part in providing our fighting men
with these and other weapons—another example of the
contributions to the Nation’s War Effort made possible
by the initiative and driving force of Free Enterprise.
EXPERTS will tell you that it is indeed an achievement that
Australia is making torpedoes—among the most intricate
pieces of mechanism which man has devised.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S is one of a number
of organisations whose combined efforts produced this
weapon in the manufacture of which extreme precision
is needed. The sections entrusted to General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd. comprise the exceedingly complex Engine,
the War Head (which eventually contains the explosive),
the Balance Chamber (to house the steering and balance
gear), the After Body (which shrouds the propelling mach-
inery), and the Tail Unit.
ONCE AGAIN the skill acquired in peacetime manufactur-
ing has enabled the Company’s engineers to devise new
methods and techniques which have resulted in a product
which has been highly praised by competent experts.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH ,
★ Buy Bonds for Victory—lnvest in the 2nd Victory Loan
BEDFORD • BUICK . CADILLAC • CHEVROLET
O.M.C. - OLDSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALI
C7BB - 22
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
ships and guns and aircraft. In 1935 the
armaments industry was hit broadside by
a wave of “merchants-of-death” criticism.
Asa result of it the Bethlehem Steel Cor-
poration, the finest big-gun-forging unit
in the world —its only rival was the
Krupp wofks of Germany—scrapped that
forging capacity almost entirely. The
Navy had to rehabilitate it in 1940 at a
cost of $2,500,000. Du Pont, one of the
largest manufacturers of explosives in
the world, likewise was attacked, and sub-
sequently it tried to divest itself, to a
large extent, of its powder-making capa-
city. Only at the urgent request of the
Army did Du Pont continue in the manu-
facture of explosives. The Morrow Board,
reporting to the President iq 1926, in a
document notable for its brevity and
good sense, had recommended the en-
couragement of a large and vigorous
private aircraft industry. The competitive
energies of private designers of ’planes
and engines gave to the infant American
aviation industry an impetus that sent its
products around the world. But it was
accused of being an international sales-
man of death.
In the meantime, the Japanese were
building their navy to the full limits
of the 1922 and 1930 agreements —how
much more we won’t know until after this
war is over.
Since July, 1940, America has been
the greatest sea and air Power on earth.
We have, besides building warships for
our Allies, added to our own fleet nine
battleships, over 70 aircraft carriers,
34,500 ’planes, a score of cruisers, more
than 500 destroyers and destroyer escorts,
over 100 submarines and thousands of
landing craft, auxiliaries and patrol and
mine craft.
We have had time to do it—time
gained for us by the single-handed de-
fence of England in 1940-41, and the
mighty resistance of Russia. Next time
there may be no such breathing spell, and
whatever our potential power may be, the
swift tempo of modern war will not per-
mit that potential strength—man-power,
raw materials, manufacturing capacity—
to be made into the weapons that war
demands. In the next war the enemy may
be over our homes on the first day.
What shall we do with these armadas
of sea and air that we have built and are
still building? Shall we sink or destroy
them again and go back to the dream
that peace is the natural state of man
and that geography insulates us from
war?
The peace of the world and our own
security demand the retention of the sea
and air power which America will hold
in its hands when the war is over. Just
how much, in terms of numbers of ships
and ’planes and other equipment, needs
to be kept in active operation as our con-
tribution to the peace which we and our
Allies evolve is a matter for skilled judg-
ment by professional naval officers. But
the fundamental assumption—that we
need to keep our relative naval sea and
air power—must become a matter of
national doctrine.
If we accept the postulate of a strong
sea-air power and the premise that poten-
tial enemies must be beaten before they
reach our coasts, then seven corollaries
inevitably follow:
We must have adequate bases wherever
our strategists and tacticians advise us
they are necessary.
We must have access to adequate raw
materials, especially oil and iron ore,
both in America and abroad. With the
advent of air power, mechanised land
armies and oil-burning ships, the control
of large oil reserves became of paramount
military importance.
We also should keep intact, under
grease if necessary, the key munition
plants.
An alert navy must have appropria-
tions for extensive research in time of
peace. Research before a war is the only
research which will do us any good on
the day the enemy strikes.
To avoid becoming outmoded, the
navy must have funds to build the new
weapons which its research discovers;
volume of new construction will depend
upon the importance of the new inven-
tions and upon the current blood pres-
sure of the world community.
If we are to keep our navy and naval
air arm in fighting trim we must main-
tain reserve-naval-training courses in the
leading colleges, and, what is possibly
more important, must see to it that we
have ample numbers of those men who
are the backbone of any fleet —petty
officers and chief petty officers. Ships
and ’planes and guns are the bone and
sinew of a navy, but trained men are its
heart and brain.
We must maintain such a navy as I
have described in continuous training.
That again means spending moderate
sums of money. In peace-time it was an
epochal event to have a live torpedo
fired in practice, because torpedoes cost
$13,000 apiece. Yet the only way to be
sure that torpedoes have the lethal punch
which we expect of them is to try them
out in peace-time. Although the Ameri-
can Navy had more adequate gunnery
practice than any other, the total amount
available for gunnery, bombing and tor-
pedo practice for the fleet in 1937 was
$4,000,000. Even in 1939 it was only
$7,000,000. In contrast, I saw surface
vessels alone pump $3,000,000 worth of
shells into the tiny Kwajalein islands of
Roi and Namur in three days.
In spite of this war we shall continue
to be a peace-loving nation, with neither
greed nor desire for world domination.
The very concept of imposing our rule
upon other people is not consistent with
our national character and would be re-
pugnant to our people. Therefore, it is
good and desirable that we keep the
dream that some day, somehow, a frame-
work of permanent peace will be evolved
by men of sense and goodwill through-
out the world.
In the meantime we dare not forget
an anonymous admiral’s words after the
last war: “The means to wage war must
be in the hands of those who hate war,”
That should be on the desk of every
Representative and Senator, at the mast-
head of every newspaper and in the mind
of every voter.
Sent by Fighting Men.
Letter received by the U.S. Asso-
ciated Press from the crew of the
Coos Bay:
“We the crew of the U.S. Coos
Bay, which consists mainly of sur-
vivors of other naval ships or vet-
erans of major naval engagements,
and all who have seen action not
once but many times and who,
while on this cruise, have not had
a liberty for one full year, feel that
we can do more than fight and even
give our lives if necessary for our
country.
“We are willing to help pay the
wage increase from our meagre pay
that money-hungry strikers are
demanding if they will just con-
tinue to produce the implements
necessary so that we can end this
war. We have seen war-—and we
hate it.
“We have chosen you as our
agent or go-between to represent us
in our campaign to ‘buy off ’ the
present strikers of the Wright Air-
craft Corporation with the money
we have collected from our small
crew : a total of 41,200 pennies.
“Please implore them to end their
strike and accept our offer to help
pay their wages increases which
they feel is more important than
our lives.
“Ask them not to strike in the
future, but, instead, to let the men
in the war zone know of their dis-
satisfaction and they will gladly
chip in each month to save them
from starvation so that they may
continue to produce arms for us to
defeat their enemy as well as ours,
and so that we may come home
soon to see the ones we love, our
sons and daughters whom we have
never seen and our wives and
mothers who haunt us with mem-
ories day and night; also to see our
country for which we are willing
to die — yes—and to see you
strikers ; do you want to see us ?
“Out here we are close to our
‘foreign enemies’ and can properly
deal with them; our enemies at
home we cannot reach. Therefore,
in desperation, we can think of
nothing but to offer our money to
‘buy’ them back to work; this
money having been earned honestly
and in the belief that our efforts
were the salvation and protection of
those who are striking against us.
(, Signed) “The Crew of the U.S.S.
Coos Bay.”
“P.S. —If the Wright strike is
over, just choose another. There
are always plenty at hand.”
New Guinea Changes.
(From a report by N.Y. “Herald Tribune” war
correspondent Lewis B. Selbring .)
If upon my return to New Guinea after
a year away from this fascinating island
I thought that Port Moresby had
changed, I didn’t know the half of the
New Guinea changes until I visited
Dobadura, a once insignificant native
village along the north coast, across the
Owen Stanley Range.
Dobadura as 1 saw it, and as hundreds
of other Americans saw it in December,
1942, was a collection of native huts set
among palm-trees. Every village in New


O.VICK RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATION
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM. S SINUS TROUBLES
mo
These distressing complaints are all
.aused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
tected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth) and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician Upon
absorption into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisons)
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Typei Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples,
for Rheumatism,_ Neuritis, Sciatica, Carbuncles. Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
Myositis. Fibrositis. Lumbago and matitis. Eczema. Impetigo. Septic
Spondylitis. Sores and most Skin Infections,
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 c.c ’s). 6 weeks’ll/ Medium size (15 c.c.'s). 3
treatment for Chronic Cases .. Zl * treatment for Acute Cases ..IZ O
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to:—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St., Melb.. Cl
VAxosn
ORAL VACCINE
w
For fastrtempo drama keep tuned tot
PETER CHEYNEY"S
9 p.m. every
Mon., Tues. and Wed. from 2CH, 2KO.
THE WORLD FOLLOWS RRLTALJVS LEAD,,
'sm
?
i I
V'
TPS*f*S‘3S&.
IIH.
u
- S i-.V
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was'
made in 1941.
1 JET PROPULSION
1 FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per*-
fection in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the. means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London. England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England
Guinea seemed at that time to be a col-
lection of native huts set among coconut-
palms.
Where, when I left, there had been
yawning patches of that hellish shoulder-
high, sharp-edged tropical kunai grass,
interspersed between areas of jungle
which I had come to know too well, and
in which Americans and Australians
fought and died for weeks afterwards,
acres of airdrome runways seemed to
stretch out in every direction, criss-cross-
ing.
On roads as good as any secondary
ones in the United States, some of them
macadamed, trucks, jeeps, tankers, road-
buiiding equipment passed in steady
streams, and all around was the constant
roar of airplanes landing or taking off
from the collection of airfields.
“Where is Dobadura?” 1 asked the
driver of my jeep. He said “This is
Dobadura,” as though he felt I didn’t
know where 1 was. “But I mean Doba-
dura village,” I persisted. “Village, hell,”
he said, “I didn’t even know there was a
village here. The whole thing is Doba-
dura,” I felt like Rip Van Winkle.
White House Oddities.
(.From Walter Winchell’s N.Y. “Daily Mirror”
column.)
Truly a product of the melting pot is
the White House. Charles Pierre L’En-
fant, a Frenchman, chose the site. James
Hoban, a Dublin Irishman, designed and
built it. Whites and negroes representing
11 different countries had a hand in its
construction.
It cost the Government just $50, the
price of a gold medal, to have the White
House designed, Congress sponsored a
national contest for the design. Hoban
won it. The prize was either the $50
medal or $500 in cash. Hoban patrioti-
cally chose the medal. In his 42 years
of subsequent work in Washington,
Hoban never designed another building.
No one today can tell where the
cornerstone of the White House is placed.
Successive layers of white paint, from
which the mansion gets its name, have
effectively concealed it from sight and
knowledge. Part of the money for build-
ing it came from lotteries. Congress was
very niggardly in its appropriations in
those days.
George Washington, who helped super-
vise the construction of the White House
until the week of his death, always re-
ferred to it as the Federal Palace or
Mansion. With typical modesty, which
should be a lesson to some of the poli-
ticians of our day, he never called the
city of Washington by that name. To
him, whether in public or private, Wash-
ington was always the Federal City.
It took eight years, from 1792 to 1800,
to make the White House ready for its
first occupant, John Adams, but the place
was so uncomfortable Adams and his
wife, Abigail, spent as much time away
from it as they could at their own estate
in Massachusetts.
Diplomats now consider Washington
the prize post. It wasn’t so in the old
days. Washington, and particularly the
site of the White House, were considered
so unhealthy the British Government de-
creed its representatives should be
awarded additional pay for serving there.
It did not become the White House
officially until Theodore Roosevelt moved
in. He ordered that simple name en-
graved on his official letterheads after it
had been almost completely rebuilt.
The White House staff has never been
known to betray an important secret.
Woodrow Wilson inadvertently made
known his decision to declare war on
Germany to at least two members of the
White House staff, but not a word leaked
out in advance of the official declaration.
Gruff old Andrew Carnegie during his
lifetime saw to it that the White House
had plenty of Scotch, no matter who was
President. He’d order it in kegs from
Scotland and have it sent directly to
Washington and the Chief Executive with
his compliments. President Wilson, how-
ever, refused to accept the Scotch, and
Carnegie discontinued the practice.
Andrew Jackson, for sentimental rea-
sons, turned the White House around by
putting the formal entrance on the north
side, facing Pennsylvania-avenue. He
wanted to save his good friend, E. P,
Blair, some steps. Blair had built his
house on the opposite side of the avenue
to be near the President, and Jackson
reciprocated by putting the entrance that
much closer for his boon friend.
Petty pilferings are higher at the White
House than in any other official building
in the world. Individuals high in public
life have been known to filch knives,
spoons and forks for souvenirs. Lesser
fry will grab anything for the same pur-
pose, even to snipping off tassels from
draperies or cutting out pieces of tapestry
from chairs.
The mistress of the White House must
be a canny shopper, since she must
wheedle the money to replace her lost or
broken articles, not from a tolerant hus-
band but from Congress. Since President
Harrison’s time every mistress of the
White House has given at least one dress
a year to the Smithsonian Institution for
historical display. It’s usually an evening
gown.
All packages and gifts sent to the
White House go automatically to the
White House garage eight blocks away to
be meticulously and scientifically ex-
amined against any attempt on the Chief
Executive’s life.
The White House has undergone in-
numerable changes and modifications, and
has been completely rebuilt twice, but
the changes have all been in line with
the plans laid down by Hoban back in
1792.
Dragnet Digest.
{Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The President’s statement outlining possible
organisation of the world for security after the
war means that Mr. Roosevelt has come up
with a retouched photograph of the old League
of Nations. According to the President, the
world’s union for security will be based on a
representative organisation of peace-loving
Powers —the old League Assembly—and a
council to include the Big Four —the United
Stales, the British Commonwealth, the Soviet
Union and China —and a “suitable” number of
smaller countries —the old League Council.
There is to be an international court of jus-
tice—the League’s World Court. The Presi-
dent added that nobody in the State Depart-
ment had been thinking about a super-State,
with an international army and police force
to enforce its decisions. The peace-loving
“I have travelled the U.S. in
recent months and know what
American people are thinking.
They want a just peace, but not a
soft peace. They want America to
be helpful in the world. But they
do not favor a profligate foreign
policy that would lower our
standard of living. They whole-
heartedly agree that America should
take her place in a co-operative
organisation of sovereign nations,
bent upon peace and supported by
a will for peace among their
peoples. But they want no dic-
tatorial world State, no military
alliances, no international police
force/’ U.S. Republican Vice-
Presidential candidate, Governor
W. Bricker.
nations would maintain forces which would be
available lor joint action —the old League man-
dates. —ALT, “Sun.”
* * * *
Contrary to the popular view, it is not true
that Winston Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt are
personally fond of each other. These two
leaders get along, but cannot be described as
pals. —“ United States News.”
* * * *
We can all agree that the immediate aim of
the present war is to destroy them [Germany
and Japan]; and the simple fact is that if we
are now in a position to destroy them it is
because after the collapse of France the British
Empire as now constituted was there, with its
solid power, to carry on for 12 months single-
handed a tenacious and successful resistance
without which Hitler would have long since
won the war. The present moment is indeed
a singularly inopportune one for the people
of the United States, who cannot even repeal
a poll tax designed to deprive Negroes of their
rights as citizens, to cherish tender scruples
about the purity of British imperialism.— Prte
lessor Emeritus of History at U.S. Cornell Uni-
versity Carl L. Becker.
% He ♦ *
The evidence of history indicates that war is
a normal, not an abnormal, affliction of man.
I am not defeatist enough to believe that we
should reconcile ourselves to this condition as
permanent or that we should surrender our
ideals of world peace. But 1 do most emphati-
cally believe that, until firm foundations are
laid guaranteeing world peace, we must assume
that there will be aggressors, that those aggres-
sors will have to be curbed, and that force will
be necessary to do the curbing. As Pretmer
Jan Smuts, of South Africa, said last November,
“Peace not backed by power remains a dream.
— U.S. Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal.
* * * *
Naval observers realise that they are seeing an
absolute miracle in the Pacific. Starting from
the body blow of Pearl Harbor, our forces
in two and a half years have generated the
power to lake them within 1500 miles of Japan,
to dominate the Pacific, and to make the future
for the Jap look as black as the inside of an
abandoned coalmine. — N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Mr. Churchill has a startling way of think-
ing out loud and refusing to censor his utter-
ances when they shock the sensibilities oi ttu.
vocal minority which insist that the post-war jod
is to make the whole world over in our image■
His perverse insistence on speaking kindly
words’* about the wrong people belongs to tne
eighteenth century rather than this one, but, as
a means of stirring up what ought to be “
profitable argument about the Future and vvna
Can Be Done to Prevent It, there is no more
stimulating exercise than perusal of the Bnus
Premier’s addresses. —“Saturday Evening rost .
" * * *
I get around a good real and I listen to
the fattening refugees who infest our countr
[U.S.A.], giving us instructions on how wc
ought to live, what we ought to do at
and in the post-war era, of how much of o
money we ought to spend and how. These to!
are doing their own countries incalculable ham
and are partly responsible for the recurrence
intensified nationalism among the Amenc
people. If these refugees butt into our Pra
dential election, we are likely to get rouga


AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
buy bonds In second Victory loan.
ŵ
Clvxtic/ -usec^/it
USE
mms
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
i J
m
mi
//
N f.
* V f
*'///>
WSw
*
n\
U!
////
?> / /
j I
J ; ?
\w\
vw
w\\
■•., \\
\
I
X
M
V //, '
1
J
Churchill
proved that
It takes an old dog
for a hard road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut,* fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
with them. Many of these volunteer lounge-
lizard advisers are responsible for the messes
in which their countries now are._ When the
American people need their help, if ever, we li
ask for it, but today we’re feeding them, lend-
ing them money, leasing them the munitions
of war, and presenting them with plenty that
we could use for ourselves. And we don’t owe
any of them anything. Therefore, they ought
gracefully to shut up, and if they insist upon
yapping they may find themselves on the un-
pleasant side of the argument. — George E.
Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
In spite of all the propaganda of all the
foreign agencies and their American satellites,
in spite of the pillorying of every adherent of
nationalism, America enters upon the 1944
There is definite U.S. official per-
turbation over the amazed reaction
of American soldiers in Italy and
France who discover themselves
risking their lives in what is offi-
cially described as a ‘‘war of libera-
tion” whde many young Frenchmen
and Italians sit on the sidelines,
and many wealthy people in those
countries maintain a living stand-
ard higher than in war-time U.S.
There are signs that a brand of
isolationism more violent than after
the last war is being bred. —“United
States News.”
Presidential campaign positively nationalistic,
antagonistic to subordination of America’s prime
interests to any internationalistic programme.
And in spite of all the flirtations with straddling
ideas, it is becoming increasingly clear that
just as in 1940 both candidates promised peace,
so in 1944 both will proclaim national sove-
reignty.—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”
* * *
Twelve days’ operations by the R.A.F. and the
United States Air Forces based on Britain now
consume about the same amount of high-octane
gas as the R.A.F. used in the whole year of
1940 when the Battle of Britain was fought.
Every time 2000 bombers are sent against the
enemy from 12,000 to 20,000 fighting men of
Britain or the United States are in action
against the enemy. It takes pretty close to 10
divisions of men on the ground to keep them
flying. Every time 2000 ’planes come back
there are 8000 engines to be overhauled and
checked, more than 15,000 electrically heated
flying suits and oxygen masks to be folded, in-
spected and repaired. Armorers who fit bombs
into bombbays, weather men who decide which
of several targets offers the best conditions,
telephonists and countless others who play their
inconspicuous but important parts in the opera-
tions all are on duty around the clock. —
London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The Atlantic Wall was no myth, as some
hastily written dispatches from the front sug-
gested. It was a grim reality, and its forward
defences were breached only by hard fighting,
grim determination and superior weapons. Of
course it was not actually a wall. It was just
about what one would expect in the outpost
zone of a coastal defence system. It included,
first of all, submarine obstructions. These
were destroyed by naval gunfire and by assault
engineers. Next came obstacles on the beaches
themselves, and anti-tank obstacles on the roads
and paths leading inland, together with land
mines. All these had to be removed or blasted
by the engineers and by assault infantry
equipped with special demolition outfits. But
the effect of our powerful air support and of the
naval gunfire, the remarkable accomplishments
of our assault engineers and the determined
bravery of our infantry overcame the plan of
the Germans. — Major George Fielding Eliot;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
v * * *
“The characteristic mood of the returned
soldier is one of bitterness, resentment and dis-
illusionment. The veteran knows he has been
sacrificed in the national interest and that the
nation will never return to him what it has taken
from him. The veteran has many hatreds,
easily displaced from one object to another.
He particularly hates men of words.” — U.S.
Professor Willard Waller.
« * * *
The Boy Scout of 18 who accompanied
Sir Ernest Shackleton’s last voyage in the Quest
—now Lieut.-Commander J. W. S. Marr ot the
Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve —is back in the
Antarctic leading the most secret expedition
of discovery ever to leave Britain. He has with
him an exploration party of 14 British scientific
and research workers, all volunteers, who have
established a base camp of huts and tents amid
the snow and ice near Hope Bay, Grahamland,
the nearest land mass to the South Pole. The
explorers will remain in the Antarctic for two
years carrying out intense research into polar
meteorology and radio conditions, the mineral
wealth of Grahamland, biological and botanical
facts, bird movements and the habits of whales,
seals and fish. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
♦ * * *
A newly-returned soldier won’t welcome re-
marks like “I’ll bet you can’t wait to get an-
other crack at ’em! ” He won’t want to hear
how much we had to pay in taxes. He will
look pained if he hears a civilian say “I’d have
given anything to get in it, but I felt it was
my duty to guard the home front”; and he is
likely to give the wrong answer to, “Well,
now that it’s all over, you must admit you
wouldn’t part with that experience for the
world!” — Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The only ultimate guarantee that Germany
will not win the war by a compromise peace
is Allied determination to fight' until total vic-
tory and unconditional surrender, no matter
what it costs or how long it takes. In the end
that will be the cheapest and shortest way,
because anything less means another world
war. — N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The greatest single result of World War I,
from the standpoint of international trade, was
the emergence of the United States as a creditor
nation. The most important single fact of
World War 11, from the same standpoint, is
that Great Britain is coming out of this war a
non-creditor nation for the first time in modern
history. Britain stands to emerge not only with
a huge short-term external debt but with her
foreign investments, one of her staple sources
of income, greatly reduced. Nor is this the
entire story. The shipbuilding programmes of
the United States and other Gentries during
the war raise questions as to Britain’s competi-
tive position in that area, while her other tra-
ditional trade services, such as banking and
insurance, might also sutler should exchange
and trade controls be unduly prolonged. The
picture is not all black, however. London is
and will continue to be after the war a great
world centre of commerce and banking, and a
large part of the foreign credits will be left
there. A tremendous shortage of goods
has grown up during the war, the replacement
of which should tax the export facilities of
both Britain and the United States for some
time to come. But this will require the re-
conversion of British industry and its restock-
ing with raw materials. British experts esti-
mate that the change in Britain’s creditor posi-
tion will call for an increase of some 50 p.c. in
its exports to balance its international pay-
ments. If this is so, it is going to require
great financial ingenuity on Britain’s part and
it is going to call for sympathetic understanding
by America if a policy of economic as well
as political co-operation is to be achieved after
the war. Certainly, it is going to call for a
much clearer understanding than we [U.S.]
showed with respect to the implications after
World War I of our own emergence as a
creditor nation. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
“Roosevelt understands and enjoys the game
of politics as other men enjoy their favorite
sport, and he has no more conscience about
toppling over an opponent than a half-back in
the throes of a hotly-contested game. He has
the shrewdness and a lot of the ruthlessness of
the political adept. He thinks in deals, bar-
gains, blocs of votes and pressure groups as
naturally as you and I, if we are both business-
men, think in terms of markets, costs, over-
heads, profits and losses. There are few men
in public life I venture to say, more skilled
in dangling the carrot of promises before the
eyes of plodding political donkeys.”— Eric
Johnston, president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.
* * * *
Perhaps the country’s greatest domestic need
at the moment is a commission to electrocute
superfluous post - war plans.— “ Wall - street
Journal.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
, T „ . SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
„„„„ „ TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
E6ELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
Orders are now being booked for the
rams dropped in April, 1943, and shorn
in April, 1944.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
H. E. KATER & SON - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W,
Telephone: Warren 10
32
y//
mm
★
PROPRIETORS OF THE FOLLOWING BRANDS
"C.O.R Plus" Motor Spirit. *. "C.O.R"
Power Kerosene . . . "Coralite"
Kerosene . . . "C.O.R, Light Dieso-
leum" . . . "C.O.R" Diesel Oils . . .
and "C.O.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils.
OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
Branches in All States
m
7
* \
- - K *.<
M
*r
< v-; ; :v-"
Owing to the disruption in transport, and shortages of
manpower, refrigeration is playing an increasingly
important part in the foodstuffs industry, from the
primary producer to the finished goods.
ZEROHEAT Low Pressure Refrigerators, either auto-
matic, electric or engine driven, are made for walk-in
cool rooms, food storage cabinets, milk cooling and
storage, or mobile units.
There is a ZEROHEAT Refrigerator Unit suitable
for every use.
Agents:
HENRY BERRY & CO.
(A’ASIA), LIMITED.
w
ECKERSLEY & SONS PH. LID.
SOUTH MELBOURNE .... VICTORIA
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo-fly.
“Drover”: “M.T.A.” (B. 16/8/’44) is
right. Although the fly has been estab-
lished in north-west Queensland for nearly
15 years, no successful efforts have been
made to stop its spread. Since as many
as 4000 buffalo-flies have been found on
one beast, it is easy to imagine how
cattle suffer.
There is danger of buffalo-fly spreading
into N.S.W. What the tick did the
buffalo-fly can do, and it’ll be a bit late
once the pests get within striking dis-
tance of the N.S.W. border. Eggs of the
buffalo-fly hatch out in less than 24 hours,
and though one thorough dipping may
account for all the flies on a beast it
won’t do the eggs much harm. The
buffer-area idea is of little value. What
is needed are dips erected where neces-
sary and the policing of all travelling
stock to ensure that cattle and horses
entering clean country are dipped two
or three times.
Admittedly it is a big problem, but
waiting won’t" provide a solution. Fly has
spread from the Gulf Country to as far
south as Mackay in Central Queensland,
and under existing regulations there’s little
or nothing to stop it reaching the N.S.W.
border before another decade has passed.
The Land After the War.
“Bungaree”; The first report of the
Rural Reconstruction Committee con-
tains an excellent survey of the land
industries of Australia, though why it
was necessary to appoint a committee to
find what has been obvious for years is
a nice question. Still, if some of the
recommendations can be put into effect
they will benefit the country.
The history of agriculture in Aus-
tralia is a record of over-reliance on
natural resources and far too little effort
toward maintenance of soil fertility and
fodder conservation. We tend too greatly
to regard the land as a gamble, but farm-
ing is skilled work, and success depends
on more than brute force. In other
countries, and under much more stringent
conditions, farmers are making a profit-
able living on areas a fraction of the size
of many Australian farms and of less
natural fertility.
Every district has its successful farmer,
while on the other side of his boundary-
fence is a neighbor scratching along with
poor stock, less feed and poor crops, and
probably toiling twice as long and hard.
What is the reason? A thousand may
be given, but they’ll boil down to the fact
that one is a good farmer, the other isn’t.
And it will generally be found that the
successful farmer is usually the most
eager to absorb information about his
work, while the other regards the offer of
trained advice with suspicion if not
downright hostility, »
That suspicion can be overcome by
men with land experience who can talk
to the farmer with assurance and in his
own language. Every district should have
its experimental farm, where theory
and practice can be tested and trials con-
ducted to find the most suitable crops
and grasses for that district. These
farms could be the bases of an extension
service staff, and could be used as schools
for young farmers and for classes and
demonstrations to older men.
Schools on army or V.D.C. lines and'
occupying one to four weeks could be
run at the experiment farms, where
students would be comfortably housed
and where a syllabus would ensure the
maximum amount of instruction in the
time available. These things can’t be
done at the wave of a wand. It will be
a huge undertaking and a difficult one,
but, whether viewed from the national
or the individual point of view, it is per-
haps the most important of any em-
braced by the term “post-war reconstruc-
tion.”
A Mammitis Claim.
“Outback”: Ever since 1936 F. H.
Lock, of Sandgate (Q.), has been en-
deavoring to get an official test of his
claim that his method of treating cows
for vaginitis will control and eventually
eradicate mammitis. A dairy-farmer,
Lock was treating his herd for vaginitis
when he noticed a slackening off of mam-
mitis. He then switched to mammitis re-
search, and claims now that mammitis
of the udder is the result of periodical
activity of tubercle bacilli already estab-
lished in the diseased flesh tissue in the
vagina. These disease-producing organ-
isms invade the reproductive organs of
the cow through the vagina and enter
the body through the blood and lymph
streams. Floating about, they kill large
numbers of white corpuscles and break
down disease-resistant power.
While some vets, contend that strep-
tococci have not been found in diseased
matter from the vagina, according to Lock
others of equally high standing contend
that streptococci are the chief microbes
in vaginitis.
Lock has placed the results of his ex-
periments before Dr. L. B. Bull, of the
C.5.1.R., Professor Wadham and Dr.
Coombes, of the Post-war Reconstruction
Commission.
Repeated applications to the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture and
Stock for an investigation have received
no encouragement, although enthusiastic
testimonials from Queensland dairymen
who have used Lock’s treatment have
been produced. Lock has offered to
supply the materials and conduct the
tests himself on the practical side, free
of cost, provided the State Department
will be responsible for the scientific side,
and provided, if the tests prove successful,
his formula will be officially recognised.
Pig Breeding.
“Myrrhee”: Mate gilts when around
2501 b. liveweight. Any that come in
season before that weight should be kept
from breeding if future breeding capacity
is not to be endangered. Sows which have
ra lS ed a litter weaned at eight weeks 3d
usually come into season during the fol
iowing week, and if in fair condition
should be mated then. Earlier matins
unless the sow is rearing a very small’
litter, is not advisable. 7 mah
It is best to run the pregnant sow in a
pasture paddock, but pen her on her
own for farrowing and watch for con-
stipation. Use guard rails on farrowing
pens to prevent injury to young pi ES
Feed the mother lightly for a few days
after farrowing, but gradually increase
the size of her meals until she is getting
all she can eat when the litter is two
weeks old.
At two weeks provide the litter with
food in a low trough or self-feeder in a
creep away from the sow. If the feed
is dry see that the suckers get either
water or milk. Liberal feeding through
the suckling period increases the growth
rate and gives the youngsters an advant-
age which helps them through their grow-
ing period. Wean at eight weeks. If the
young pigs have been self-fed they can
be easily weaned by reducing the sow’s
food and separating her from the litter.
Dog Ticks.
“Hux”: They’re appearing already in
coastal country. Signs of tick are extreme
restiveness, constant scratching and loss
of appetite. As the poison spreads the
dog may twitch its legs when asleep,
develop a dry cough; peculiar bark or
stertorous breathing, vomit thick yellow
mucus or drag the hind legs. Chances of
recovery are slim once the dog is com-
pletely paralysed.
Feel the dog over every day, burrow-
ing the fingers through the fur to the
skin. Ticks attach themselves anywhere,
inside ears, between claws or on the tail;
spots most favored are neck and head.
Pulling the tick out forces it to inject
the poison into the system. Apply iodine
or turps on or around it, allow it three
minutes to loosen its grip and cut off
level with the skin.
Ticks won’t'attach themselves easily to
dogs washed once a week in soapy water
to which derris root has been added at
the rate of one teaspoon to every pint
of water A weekly dusting with derris
is also good ; applying it too liberally
causes a running at the nose and eyes.
Rubbing a cloth damped with kerosene


For
ŵ
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
n
"//II
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLYENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
CERTAIN DEATH
ẁ
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
°n's. i ;*. l> ke.'p°” BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
throughout Australia.
The “VENUS” 7-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
I
ẃ
Dynamically
Balanced
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd., Clarence
St.. Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
St., Melbourne; Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
INVITATION
TO COMFORT...
S*
a
■m
(of
KJ
f
s'
i
INSULATION WITH
CANE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
The restful beauty of modem wall and ceil-
ing treatments is important . . . and the
attractive finish of Cane-ite, whether in its
natural state or coloured to your taste,
assures this. But Cane-ite does more than
this. Cane-ite insulates against heat and
against external noise giving you comfort all
the year round. When you plan your post-
war home .. . use Cane-ite Insulating Board.
40 IP
C fIN E-ST E
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Material* Diviiiom
MARKETING: CANE-ITE • SLAGWOOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d„ POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
over the top of the fur daily is an excel-
lent repellant. Daily searching is neces-
sary with either method.
Keep a parlysed dog in a warm room
with a thick padding underneath and a
home-made coat of thick material that ties
round the throat and body over it. Don t
force feed or drink on the patient. Water
in small quantities occasionally if the
dog laps easily, but if there is difficulty
in swallowing, water is often forced on
to the lungs and congestion results. In
these cases and during the crisis one part
of brandy and four of water at the rate
of one small teaspoon per hour is the
best stimulant; spoon in at the side of
the mouth.
Dogs recovering from tick paralysis
need careful feeding for a week or so ;
soup, thin gruels or finely-shredded meat
are best. Violent exercise too soon may
bring on bronchial trouble. Recovery
doesn’t bestow immunity ; no dog is ever
immune. Tick serum is hard to get.
_
Hints for the Farm.
“B.”: Rearing calves on the bottle cuts
out breaking them in to drink for them-
selves. Use quart bottles, fill with warm,
fresh milk, according to quantity required
by the age of the calf, and place a feed-
ing nipple over the top. Cut a hole in the
end of a small box so that the neck of
the bottle fits snugly through it, and leave
the calf to it. Bottle-fed calves thrive
better than bucket-fed. Add a small
quantity of lime-water and an occasional
tablespoon of cod-liver oil to the milk,
Sterilise the bottle thoroughly after each
feed.
“Will C”: Use the oesophageal tube
for degassing stricken cattle (B. 7/6/’44).
Admittedly, the tube may become blocked
with decomposing food when pushed
down the gullet into the rumen, where-
upon trochar and canula must be used
as a last resource. Deflate with care, or
flop will go the suddenly-relieved patient,
Then pump some lime chloride into the
paunch to stop gas formation. Drenches
containing a lot of water aren’t so good,
because they tend to increase fermen-
tation of food in the paunch, but are
good against impaction unaccompanied
by gas. A 6ft. length of *in. hosing
makes a capital tube.
“Sarina” • If dairvmen generally were
~ ‘ ~ y , ® ' , y.
wiser there wouldn l be so much mces-
sant grazing o£ 20-acre paddocks m
SSSfrfSeed*’cautd'lfSLS oatUe
wastage oi teed caused by grazing cattle
favoring certain parts of a paddock and
leaving the rest of the feed untouched,
but there is also serious drop in food
value when old grass is grazed. For ex-
ample, young, green paspalum has
20.6 p.c. crude protein and 1.6 p.c. crude
fat, whereas old, tussocky paspalum has
only 4 p.c. of protein and 0.9 p.c. fat.
Money expended on wire and labor for
subdividing big grazing areas into small
blocks soon comes back with interest.
“B.”: Impaction caused by drought
feed or tree fodder can be cured by add-
ing molasses or salts to the drinking
water. In addition, feed some bran or
lucerne hay. For individual treatment,
mix half-pint of raw linseed oil with
half-dram of powdered nux vomica, or
half-dram of liquor of strychninae hydro-
chloridi; repeat four times daily. When
strychnine compounds aren’t available
substitute alcoholic stimulants with the
oil. .
“Sarina”: Sow maize or gram sorghum
with cowpeas for stock feed. Cowpeas
mature at months and are safe for
cattle when in flower. When young and
rank, molasses should be fed with ’em
to neutralise poisonous acids. The cow-
peas run up the maize stalks, supplying
good protein, while the maize or sorghum
supplies digestible carbohydrates. Cow-
peas will grow reasonably well anywhere
in the tropics, but maize needs good soil
and moisture.
“Myrrhee”: To maintain even growth
between fine and coarse plants in a pas-
ture alternate with horses or sheep (both
close-grazing animals) and cattle. The
latter pay more attention to the coarser
giowth. If there is much coarse grass
use store cattle rather than milking cows
or fats. Good pastures used solely for
horses will quickly degenerate and revert
to coarse growth. Sheep, by their prefer-
ence for the low-growing, finer plants and
neglect of the coarser species, will eat out
the better grasses and encourage the
coarser types if left too long on a pad-
dock.
“Gip”: It is a good idea to use down-
piping instead of open guttering to con-
vey water on a down-grade. I used Hin,
galvanised pipes to bring water to a high
level above the creek and gravitated the
water to the garden tank by means of
2in. downpiping connected to the end of
the pipes and supported by posts 4ft.
apart. You can solder the 3ft. lengths
into a couple of long lengths, then solder
together when placed in position. It will
last for years and won’t leak if properly
soldered. At lOd. a 3ft. length it is a
big saving on galvanised piping.
“Portergaff”: Ensure a plentiful supply
of rhubarb by planting three varieties ;
Wilson’s Ruby, Topp’s Winter, Stone’s
Everbearing. Plant out roots in June,
preferably in a bed that’s been kept free
from animal manure. Light dressing of
stable manure is recommended when the
plants begin to grow. Plants will grow
rapidly if they are not picked too heavily
during the first year. Mildew in form
of brown spots on leaves is chief disease.
Destroy all affected leaves. Spray at
regular intervals with a solution of 6oz.
slaked lime in 2gals. water.
“Sari”: Onions are risky on weedy
country. Always sow thickly. Some
burn the ground before making seed-
beds, but it is better to row-sow
the seed and thin out backward or
crowding plants. They transplant
quite well. Just bury the wiry roots
and allow ’em 6in. space in the
rows. N.Q. growers should grow early
maturers only, for the hot days that be-
gin in August destroy late varieties. For
ordinary home use they can be. grown on
good, firm sods without manure, but
when intended for sale or show manure
them heavily.
“Bennie”: Manure is used for numer-
ous reasons on gardens, but its principal
use is to give the soil back those essen-
tial ingredients which have been re-
moved by successive crops. Nitrogen is
vital to a plant. Nitrogenous manure
produces a richer and darker color in
the foliage and superior growth. The
use of potash is to assist in the greater
production of starch, for this particular
substance cannot exist unless potash is
included
“P.R.A.N.”: To grow large-bulbed
shallots in ordinary well-worked soil
draw out narrow drills about 2in. in
depth at 12in. intervals. In each sprinkle
fresh fowl manure £in. to I in. in depth,
then fill the drill with soil, making a
small ridge on top. In this plant the
bulbs at 6in. intervals after trimming off
roots. Water regularly and freely.
“Myrrhee”: For a wound in a horse’s
hoof first dip the hoof into a bucket of
warm disinfectant solution. Then pare a
cone-shaped hole right through the horn
at the site of the puncture to release the
pus. To guard against dirt place a pad of
cottonwool soaked in Stockholm tar on
the wound and keep it there with a piece
of tin placed over the pad and kept in
place by fixing the ends of the tin between
shoe and hoof. Dress once or twice a
week, making sure the horn doesn’t grow
over the wound before all discharge has
drained away.


a \ •-'> v'-v
mm
. „,ut.>> wl * y^.
V 1 ... £a»p« e ’ . Qtao d w®* 9
*• :££»*"'
* e e,i “‘ A. ert"*" 11 ”
boWW® 10 •cations* atte t
Aii CwnUW 0 f neatly a . q “ pe ace
\fitb a Vxist to tbe bt»P lt tt a-
Ly« fBet n ireAi^ 8 ’ a nd
a otaB fcioV ir o p e tal° t 9
avra t, Q Airlio 6 JtheCoO® 10
4 „,pditc‘l ße t g ta«as tett / , c Uai
«**'“ .1 6i*» “
•<“ (at.
Oatof^reatV^
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
S Y DNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE : TOWNSVILLE
ALL OUT TO WIN—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
//OH
Production Is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Keep ’em fit! You’ll have to make your Gillette
“Standard” blades last longer, just as you did the
Blue Gillette and the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. They can take it and give you the
finest shave you can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SMOKE-OH!
“In the early stages of their acquaintance
he felt certain that he could cure her addiction
to stealing, but later he began to doubt this.”
—Psychology magazine.
She even shook his confidence,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A passage in the book indicated by a code
the method by which access to the castle could
be obtained.” — “Daily Mirror.”
It was a secret passage.
4- 4- 4* 4*
“James admitted that he had refused to allow
Ball to see his daughter, Ball’s wife.” — “D.T:”
He objected to his coming on the
bounce.
Deduction.
Down by the cowshed Sarah’s nostrils
dilated suddenly. Hardened as they were
by years of acquaintance with the cow-
shed, Sarah’s nostrils were not in the
habit of dilating when she was in that
vicinity. This time, borne from afar on the
breeze, she thought she smelled smoke.
To the brain of the bush-bred woman
smoke could mean only one thing.
Feverishly her min'd analysed the impres-
sions transmitted from her now twitch-
ing nostrils, seeking some other explana-
tion.
She could distinguish the hot reek of
blazing undergrowth, the stinging, acrid
smart of green leaves smouldering where
the fire had passed. Overtones of singed
fur and charring flesh told of how some
hapless bush creature had been overtaken
by the blaze. Sarah’s sensitive nose even
distinguished the pungent odor of burn-
ing rubber, and she divined how the fire
must have searched out an old tyre lying
in the bush, or perhaps trapped an unlucky
motorist on the road.
Thus, for a few seconds, the whole
picture crystallised in her brain. There
was only one conclusion—only one thing
to do. Like a flash she dived behind the
cowshed and dragged out young Dave,
who had been enjoying a secret session
with some of his father’s war-time quality
tobacco
' Plum
4. 4. 4,4, '
“One thing the spring 1944 girl must have is
a trim , streamlined figure.”— Woman’s mag.
To have a high priority?
T T T V
“Shorter skirts, no stockings and more walk-
ing have made all of us more leg-conscious.”
—Magazine.
Hence the many pin-up girls.
4* 4* 4* •I*
Fact and Fancy.
Each day his missus takes his car,
So Bill must hoof it to the bar.
In spite of this his cronies think
His better half drives Bill to drink.
B. B.
4* »!• 4* 4*
Youth at the Helm.
‘Girls between 15 and 45 wanted.”
—Employmetzt advt.
My Aunt Sheba, a sprightly young miss
not long past the half-century mark,
decided to falsify her age and apply for
one of these positions. She had no diffi-
culty in deceiving the boss, an inexperi-
enced lad of 63.
All went well until he put on another
girl, a blonde bombshell, who was
scarcely 30 years out of her teens. He
a’* i this lass immediately became victims
of calf-love, and Aunty was demoted to
junior typist. This was no good to Aunty,
and in a moment of girlish hysteria she
eloped with the office boy, who had been
Stde eczema §
Our family is very much afraid that
he will have difficulty m moulding her
character. We do hope that they will
not regret the step when they grow up.
4. 4. 4. 4. ' ■
Descriptive.
“In appearance he was like rhe murderer in
a ‘Who Dun It?’ mystery story.”—' '‘Sun?’
This extraordinary person, in fact,
looked like the fragile, gentle old lady,
the jovial-looking Mr. Goodfellow of the
corner grocery, the aesthetic professor
whose thoughts were only of humanity’s
future perfection ; the kindly old Bishop,
the politician who has made social reform
his hfework, the bookworm who used
to give pennies to the kiddies, the dead
man’s devoted daughter and the detective
who was called in to elucidate the mys-
t er V-
“Where do old suits go to when they’ve seen
their day?— Woman’s paper.
To work every day on their owners.
4* 4* 4* *l*
“The girl was like a fur coat —sleek and ele-
gant.”—Woman’s paper.
She was wrapped up in herself, too.
•J•
Giving Statistics a Fly.
“In proportion to its size a fly can walk 35
times faster than a man.”—“ World’s News:”
The worst of research findings these
days is that they are too slipshod, too
half-hearted.
What of the other forms of locomo-
tion? Can it be boasted, on the fly’s
behalf, that it can run anywhere near as
fast as a Rumanian front-line soldier
going flat out? Athletic as the common
house-fly undoubtedly is, has it been
proved to be in the same class at somer-
saulting as a “Daily Telegraph” leader?
The blowfly may have a great reputation
among its own species at running up a
brick wall, but would it stand any chance
in a match with a bureaucrat who through
long practice has become a champion at
running up the cost of his department?
As for crawling—well, wouldn’t any
fly, challenged by a Sydney Labor Min-
jester who had just heard the words
“Homebush slaughtermen” mentioned
signify the hopelessness of its chances
by immediately immolating itself on the
nearest flypaper.
Then again, what type of man is the
fly f aster than at walking? feu
concerned in the test—presumably there
must have been one _ mi ht h ' b
selectcd t d * rh Jf”
the time moving a, ’the enLf feigaretK
a s b°P' ass ‘ stan l C0I)i-
-ot^r 1 (la « d he ‘‘, d ten '
mnlnn n’ t . UUCI uavc 06611 a
w h ho £ ad just of e
beer was “on,” with schooners allowed,
before 11 a.m.
• It is doubtful also if the public will
accept this snippet of statistics as valid
without hearing details of the methods
by which the fly’s comparatively high
walking speed was gauged Was the fly
restrained by hopples, like the trotter
f rom its natur al desire to break into a
gallop, or was one specially selected for
i ts high degree of intelligence, and trained
to obey oral orders t 0 k stric tly t 0 a
wa i k i ng gait? if the latter, then it was
obviously not a fair test, unless a man
w ith intelligence as proportionately high
was selected as its opponent—and what
was the basis for the comparative intel-
lectofeach?
is clear that, for the test to be a
genuine one, both fly and man would
have to start walking simultaneously, and
either just after each had had a heavy
meal—again the proportions would have
to be weighed meticulously on the basis
of body weight—or on empty stomachs.
Patently, it would be unfair to put the fly
to a severe walking test during the mating
season, when its thoughts might be else-
,,,uara -----v,,,
. wbere ’ the detriment of its perambu-
effort.
The research workers who carried out
the test would naturally be aware of the
fly’s ability to look back at its opponent
to see if he was gaining ground—assum-
! ng il got to the front earl y from a stand '
”* *"*! bot ? ?■> the same mark-with-
bpt turning its head, due to its multiph-
cljT eyes. Unless those surplus eyes
which perform this function were band-
aged the test could not be regarded as a
J, rue . £ °" e - Nor would il be fair t 0 the
fl y„ lf . the contestants were not made to
walk m separate lines. The fear of get-
bng trodden on would distract it, though
11 has to be admitted that this also might
act as a “ incentive to the fly to walk
as t er an d get away from the menace,
Anyway, the question may be asked,
what is the object of finding out why a
can walk 35 times faster than a man?
The answer should be obvious: it settles
once for all the vexed question as to why
* be mortality ra j e among walking flies
a * railway level crossings and in road
accidents is so amazingly low.
80.
Biology.
“Why do some animals eat their young?”
— ‘World’s News.”
Those animals that eat their young
Are strange and sad to contemplate.
Next door there dwells a piebald mong,
Which had three puppies. Two it ate.
After this tragedy occurred,
I grieve to say, it ate the third.
~■ x t
In searching for an explanation,
I think this unmaternal beast
Perchance may plead self-preservation:
The hapless progeny ( deceased)
Might, fired with fierce heredity,
Have later eaten HER! You see?
T. W. NATHAN.
The Tender Plant.
“British doctors disagree on the advisability
of girls taking part in tug-o’-war contests.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Though women seem unsuited for
The travail of a tug-o’-war,
There’s one who can, with cool aplomb,
Emerge victoriously from
A much more strenuous affray —
The weekly battle for my pay.
And medicos who disagree
Upon this matter ought to see
A struggle still more elemental —
The sex that used to pass as gentle
Cleaving a passage through the jam
That clogs the average Sydney tram.
P. M. LUSK.
Paradox.
“ ‘Our divorce has brought us closer together
than ever,’ says Rudy Vallee’s wife.”
When they were close ( don’t ask me why)
Their separation started.
So, disinclined to live a lie,
They kissed proximity good-bye.
And, proving life and love’s awry.
They’re nearer now they’re parted!
P. O. M. C.


Missing Friend;
IF DUNCAN COOGAN MITCHELL, last heard of
when residing at 155 Hoddle Street, Richmond, Vic-
toria, in 1915, will communicate with the undersigned
he will hear something to his advantage.—(MßS.)
HENRY JOSEPH HOLLOWAY, 4 Johnston Street,
Ashburton, El 3, Victoria, Australia. ’Phone,
WM2803. .
IF this should meet'the notice of D. W. HENRY,
of Irvinebank, N.Q., last known address, 9 Countess
Street, Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W., or anyone knowing
his address, kindly communicate with TED HENRY
TULLY, N.Q. _
FREDERICK LITTLE, son of John Little, of Dilston,
Corbridge, Northumberland, England, or his descen-
dants, communicate with the undersigned re inter-
est in late father’s estate.—VlNDlN & LITTLE-
JOHN, Solicitors, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IVOULD JOHN LLEWELLYN, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with the under-
signed. He was born at Nowra and was for some
time a traveller both in New South W T ales and Queens-
land and when last heard of his address was Broad-
wav, Sydney. If still alive he would be aged about
40 ~ years.—RAND & DREW, Solicitors, 2 Hunter
Street, Sydney. ___
ESTATE OF ANNIE LUCRETIA PARKER
Deceased.
IF ALLAN REGINALD DAVY, formerly of New
Plymouth, New Zealand, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, will communicate with the undersigned,
who have been appointed by the Court to act for him,
he wiU learn something to his advantage. Any com-
munication will be treated as strictly confidential. —
NICHOLSON, KIRBY & SHEAT, SOLICITORS, New
Plymouth, New Zealand.
■
O' ■ V; -.<
m
m
* v
m
'j. XV
■MM
i
f
ft
i
1
Mnmi mmmmmmtm § m m mm mm
,J Vv Sj :
UOtSMUj
maiiaiai aqi if
Here we see three of thousands of “Caterpillar” Diesel-Powered No. 12
Motor Graders forming, in record time, an airfield on one of the fighting
fronts. Once the field is formed the Allied bombers and fighters move in
to use it as a base to harass the enemy, cut communications, and pave the
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
road to Victory. When peace comes,
“Caterpillar” tractors and earth-mov-
ing machines, with their tremendous
power and amazing economy, will do
their part to build a new world. Then
will be made available for your use,
and in an unending flow, the “Cater-
pillars” whfch are now going to the
Allied fighting fronts.
CATERPILLAR D/estC
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH • MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors tor New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Pori Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fi g h k, Buy War Savings Certificates
CTI -33-
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
❖
Thrift is a weapon that
defeats the enemy—save
and invest ail you can.
CRAVEN"A
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
'S
:• v ">^>
Atys.
i
9/VP
4
55648
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy books by Louis Becke.—3513.
Information Sought.
(1) Number of coalmine owners in Australia?
(-) During 1933, what proportion of Australia’s
married men were earning under £3 a week, and
what proportion earned over £5 a week?
(1) At the 1933 Census there were 71 male
employers (other than companies) in the coal-
mining industry, and there were 77 working on
their own account. (2) (a) 51.4 p.c.; (b) 20.2
p.c.; 405,269 persons stated they were unem-
ployed.
What are'the qualifications for the General
Service Medal?
It is a 1914-18 award, issued to members of
defence forces, nursing services, philanthropic
bodies and war correspondents, who went out-
side territorial waters and returned to Australia,
irrespective of whether such voyage was com-
pleted or not.
Who was the first English concert singer to
appear in Australia?
Madame Wallace-Bushelle, who arrived from
England in 1836.
(1) Some details of the facaranda festival in
Grafton, N.S.W. ? (2) Do similar festivals take
place anywhere else in Australia or N.S.W. ?
(1) It is held each year in the last week in
October and the first week in November. This
year it will commence on October 29 and con-
clude on November 4. It follows the lines of
the flower festivals in European countries. (2)
Have heard of no other.
In what Test matches did Laurie Nash play,
and what were his performances ?
He played in one Test match only—the fifth
at Melbourne, February 26-March 3, 1932, in
which he took 4 for 70 in the first innings
and 1 for 34 in the second. He scored 17 runs
in 75 minutes.
Recipe for making ice-cream ?
Make a boiled custard, using two eggs ant.
three dessertspoons sugar to each pint of milk.
Beat eggs well and stir in sugar. Bring milk
slowly to boil, pour on eggs, stirring constantly,
empty mixture into a vessel standing in boil-
ing water and stir till thick. Remove, allow
to cool, and freeze.
Brief Answers.
■ G.W.: Ashy deposit in kettle is not alu-
minium flakes. If inside it is probably due to
impure water (remedy, clean out and put
oyster shell in kettle to collect the lime). If
outside, probably due to gas action on the
kettle. Condition is unlikely to be permanent
and is not likely to be harmful M.E.M.:
Field-Marshal Montgomery was born in London
in 1887 a few weeks before his father sailed for
Hobart, having been appointed Bishop of Tas-
mania. .. .R.G.H.: To make stiffening fm a
white dispensary coat, put ilb. gum arabic in-
jar, cover with cold water, leave 24 hours,
then stand jar in water and heat till gum melts;
strain through muslin and bottle.- Add one tea-
spoonful to one cup of the water used for
making starch... .E.F.P.: For white ants in
fruit trees, cut out damaged wood if possible.
Avoid scarring healthy trees, as termites attack
scars. Pull out and burn dead or dying infested
trees and vines. Use paradichlorobenzene as
a fumigant' by trenching 3in. to 4in. deep in a
circle about 6in. from trunk, and scatter 2oz. of
the fumigant in the trench, then filling it up. The
soil must be dry and warm for this. For young
trees loz. is enough. Be careful to use these
amounts, more may kill the trees. Repeat the
dose if necessary. About one-sixth ounce of
Paris green dust blown into a iin. hole bored in
the trunk just above ground has worked. Seal the
hole with wax or putty.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; ana no MS. mill be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.T.: That tearful ancient drops in—and is
dropped out again—every week... .8.R.; Shak-
speare’s phrase is the best part of if V.V.:
Beware of the hyphen H.V.8.: Still patchy,
D.F.J.: Free verse of that sort nearly
always reads like thin prose R.G. What on
earth do you mean by “Nor can fair Nature’s
bounty be immuned”? D.H.W.S.: Sono-
rously empty F.E.P.: It is a distressing
thought that you cannot rhyme “Hun” with
“scum” Anon: In prose or in conversation
you’d never tell her she has “a mien demure”;
why in poetry, then? C.R.E.: Too much
jargon C.D.T.: “I’ll hear the kooka laugh-
ing and the good old maggie sing.” More likely
you’ll hear the 2574 poets who have preceded
you back to the bush reciting, in abominable
rhyme, their denunciations of Sydney C.A.:
No “doths”... .L.M.N.; The fact that the
moon controls the tides has been known for
some time F. 8.: Curious mixture of the
very good and the very bad J.N.C.: Style
chirpy, rhymes ragged, language obscure and-
story pointless R.D.: All parodies of Kip-
ling’s “If” are immediately plunged into the
w.p.b R.1.M.: Lambs, sheep and goats in
red wigs all milling in inextricable confusion.


Because it offers many economy
cal advantages for replacing,
extending, or re-lining small
bridges, Armco Multi-Plate is
gaining wide-spread popularity
among local authorities and
engineers. For one thing, these
heavy corrugated iron plates can
be designed to suit individual
needs. And they go together
quickly and easily on the job.
Wj-.. /■ , ■; s#' j’L
m
B
SB
RS
FOR SMALL BRIDGE
WORK
For the many jobs which will
be undertaken as soon as cir-
cumstances permit, investigate
the merits of Armco Multi-
Plate . . . and write to your
nearest Armco office for any
information or advice you may
require,
ARMCO
MULTI-PLATE
R
mm
l /• v. .
lii
m
m
r
hb-T'^jS!
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE - BRISBANE ADELAIDE
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
FOUR JAPS
By JOHN BRENNAN.
IT was intended as a patrol in force to
find what Japs remained in the south-
ern half of Guam. While a Marine
and Army division began to push north
to drive the larger body of enemy before
them, a reinforced Marine company, two
hundred men, moved out to scour the
untouched country to the south.
It began inauspiciously—difficulties of
supply held the main body of the patrol
at a small village six miles from the start-
ing line for two days. It developed as a
triumphal procession cheered on by the
liberated natives of the south.
The going was rough. South of Agat
the mountain range thrusts steep ridges
out to the seashore. The patrol toiled
up their slopes, slithered down the other
side in the muddy gutters left by the rain.
It was slow-moving, the Point probing at
likely clumps of bushes, investigating the
pillboxes and dugouts which the Japanese
had everywhere through the hills, search-
ing the grass-thatched shacks they had
used as storehouses.
There was a long, meandering column
through the hills: .two hundred men in
single file, spaced as to sections, Point,
machine-gunners, mortars, radio section,
headquarters of platoon, spread out over
a mile of trail. Smaller groups clamb-
ered around the coral cliffs, looking for
the caves where a lone Jap might hide.
That first day one Japanese was shot
as he scuttled up a cliff face ahead of a
scouting squad.
Another disappeared over the ridge
ahead of the patrol and fled into the
jungle. Not even the two dogs which
accompanied the patrol—Doberman Pin-
chers, “combat” dogs, well-trained to hunt
the enemy and jungle-wise from their ex-
perience in the Bougainville campaign—
could hunt him out.
'“TOWARDS night the line filed down
' into the little village of Umatac. Here
were a few Chamorran families, a large
number of old people and infants who had
been unable fo cross the hills into the
American lines where most of the native
peoples were gathering now for food and
medical attention. Almost all were in
urgent need of a doctor’s care and of food.
The patrol could provide neither. Its
own rations were to have been sent down
the coast by amphibious trucks. But this
is the storm season in the Marianas. The
wind began to come in from the west,
a heavy swell rolled hcross the reef into
the tiny Umatac Bay. All small boat
movement along the coast was “secured.”
The “Ducks” did not arrive.
Next day there was still no sign of
them. The Chamorrans—Guamanians
they prefer to be called —are a proud
people. They were pathetically glad to
see the Americans. The need they felt to
welcome them honorably was obvious.
Umatac was Ihe centre of Chamorran
culture before the Spaniards came ; here
it was that Magellan landed in 1521 and
a monument at the end of the village’s one
street commemorated the event; the
ruins of an old Spanish church are beside
the modern concrete structure ; latter-day
tablets record the establishment of an
open-air library, the building of a village
fountain.
The condition of the people in recent
months was best exemplified by the em-
aciated dogs which lay by the side of
the road or sniffed through the grass,
scavenging for some slight morsel of
food. But Umatac must necessarily
“feast” the Marines, The people went
searching for breadfruit which they fried
and handed around. There were no
vegetables. The Marines shot a couple
of the pigs which were foraging half-
wild on the slopes behind the village.
All that day they lay about in the church
and schoolhouse while they waited for
their supplies to catch up.
That evening a doctor came in in a
rubber boat from a gunboat lying off-
shore. He brought medical supplies and
tinned milk for the infants. During the
night he performed an appendectomy and
delivered a woman of an infant. Their
evacuation to hospital areas on the beach-
head would need to be delayed till the
seas had calmed.
Next morning the first of the “Ducks”
carrying rations arrived ; it was damaged
by the iourney.
There’s a road leading south from
Umatac. The rations were loaded on to
a Jap ammunition cart and an old native
bullcart, two water-buffalo were yoked to
pull them and the patrol started on again.
Ali along the south of the island the
Japanese had strong defences. The shore-
line had been ringed with barbed wire ;
coconut logs had been planted in rows
between the trees as tank traps; mile
upon mile of trench systems and anti-
tank ditches had been dug; pillboxes
covered the beaches commanding enfilad-
ing fields of fire ; there was much aban-
doned ammunition but no signs of recent
enemy occupancy.
Three times the water-buffalo were
changed for others found grazing by the
roadside, then within a few minutes of
each other both carts collapsed and had
to be abandoned. Rations for one meal
for each man were added to packs already
heavy with ammunition and equipment.
The patrol trudged on the 11 weary miles
to Inrajan, just round the bend of the
east coast.
As the point rounded the southern tip
of the island small groups, three here, two
there, five here, began to join the patrol
They linked up with the patrol and seen,
mgly having no homes nor anywhere tr
go, followed into Inrajan. tC
INRAJAN was deserted. It had been
1 half-expected that a fairly large group
of Japanese might make a fight there and
the patrol pushed cautiously into the
town. There was no one.
It had been a large community, and
many of the houses were solidly con-
structed of concrete and Spanish
masonry. The town had been badly dam-
aged by bombing while the enemy still
occupied it, but there was still sufficient
cover to give shelter from the rain which
had been falling heavily for the past two
hours. The Marines formed a perimeter
for the night and lay in their sodden
clothes trying to rest.
A small Piper Cub ’plane flying from
the captured airfield on Orote Peninsula
dropped emergency rations shortly after
dawn. It was learned that no further
supplies could be had that way, and there
was still no sign of the “Ducks” which
should have been following. There was
nothing for it but to keep on.
A half-dozen small groups were sent
to investigate reports of varied numbers
of Japanese hiding in caves and huts in
the hills. One group came into a clearing
where was a small village set in the centre
of a highly-developed farming district. A
lone Japanese was standing at the edge
of a field. He turned and ran for the
jungle. Two shots missed him before he
was out of sight. The patrol searched for
an hour without finding him. The other
groups found nothing.
It was raining continuously now. The
men plodded along the muddy roadway,
up one ridge, down the other side, up
again. There was no sound but the heavy
breathing of the men, the plodding feet,
the creak of packs and the rattle of rifles.
One youngster on whose face the hair
hadn’t yet begun to show after five days
without shaving muttered “Now I know
what the old man felt like in France.”
All that day the men walked. Some
few of them had saved a couple of bis-
cuits to nibble during the midday halt;
most had nothing but coconuts fallen
from the trees. Every few miles was a
group of laughing, happy natives coming
back to their villages. They offered sake,
but no food.
That night the Marines slept in a field.
It rained. Running in drains, the water
damned up against the sleeping men.
They rarely moved.
Next morning there were other reports
of Japanese to be investigated. The hunt
yielded one prisoner, hiding in a shack in
the hills.
For four hours during the afternoon a
native family made a soup from coconuts
and breadfruit and a bag of Japanese rice.
Two hundred men who haven’t eaten
in twenty-four hours need a lot of soup.
In the late afternoon the patrol pushed
on into the hills." It was raining harder
now than it had rained since the landing
on Guam. The rain poured straight down
as from a waterspout. On the hills it was
bitterly cold. When night came the halt
was made at a small farmhouse that had
been used as a Japanese supply dump.
In the pouring rain men built fires from
the house timbers to cook the rice they
found there. Afterwards they lay in the
mud beside the fires.
There was a trunk filled with women’s
clothes in the house. A few of the men
were able to find shelter inside. They
dressed themselves in kimonos, slips, any-
thing to get rid of their wet “greens.” A
bulky sergeant, a veteran Marine, dressed
in a pink silk nightdress, tried to explain
to seven or eight Guam boys the wider
meaning of the war.
Next morning the patrol sloshed nine
miles back across the hills to Agat. It
had circled the southern half of the island.
It saw only four Japanese ; one was shot,
two got away and the fourth trudged
wearily in with the patrol. It had found
no combat, but its fantastic foodless
march “liberated” the south of Guam.


CRAWLED UPSTAIRS ON HANDS & KNEES
Surprising Recovery after
all Hope Lost
Boarding-house keeper once
living life of pain from Rheu-
matism now runs residential
and does her own work.
Mrs. L. M. A. Wilson, of 47 Craig-
end Street, King’s Cross, was un-
able to bath herself and, in her
complete wretchedness, was even
given gold injections, amongst
many other treatments.
She writes: “I would like to tell
you of the wonderful benefit I
have derived from R.U.R. Up to
six months ago I was not able to
move without the aid of my stick
at all,, and you have my permis-
sion to use my case for advertising
Eurposes, as I would be only too
appy to know that someone else
was deriving the same benefit
that I did through taking your
treatment.”
INTERNAL CLEANSER
R.U.R. cleans the body of poisons,
acids, and wastes. These poisons
and acids cause the unbearable
pains of rheumatism, neuritis,
lumbago, and sciatica .. . the dull
eyes and muddy skin of liver
troubles . . . the headaches and
half - asleep
feeling of con-
stipation, as
well as the
pain of kid-
ney troubles
. . . the un-
pleasant,
“Can’t - eat -
a-thing” feel-
ing of indi-
gestion and Mrs, L. M. A. Wilson,
gastritis. « Craifcend Strect.
R.U.R. helps K,ngs Cross -
all these disorders because it
gently reaches every eliminative
organ of the body, toning liver,
kidneys, stomach, and bowels.
Harley St. Prescription
R.U.R. is derived from a Harley
Street Specialist’s prescription.
Many users say that they obtain
real benefit from the very first
dose, and report remarkable
restorations to health from dis-
orders listed above.
When you realise that R.U.R.
costs but 4/- a packet to make 26
ounces of active mixture and 7/6
to make 52 ounces, it is no exag-
geration to say that R.U.R. is by
far the cheapest and most effec-
tive treatment you can use.
Take R.U.R. and Right You Are!
ŵ
Digging for Victory
111 |
BlisliP
S3sS
**
1
r.
f
mm
wmsmssm
wm-
-1
5
/T does not need much experience o£ gardening to discover the part played by the
chemist in the production of our war-time vegetables. We need lime to sweeten the
soil and make it crumbly and easy to work. We dig in compost rotted down by special
chemicals. If the soil lacks plant food, we apply balanced fertilizers that have a hundred
years of chemical research behind them. We go round the paths with weedkiller chosen
to suit our purpose from a range which varies from deadly poisons to chemicals that
are harmless to man and animal. Today these things are taken so much for granted
that we seldom pause to consider the months and years of patient research in the
laboratory and factory that has led to their development. When disease appears the
achievements of the chemist show up more noticeably. It is no mean problem to kill
plant pests without injuring plant foliage. Each demands the right chemical applied
in the right strength at the most vulnerable point in the life history of the parasite. Yet
the chemist has made it possible for any amateur to control all the insect pests and
plant diseases he is likely to meet by providing stomach poisons for biting insects,
chemicals that kill by contact for sucking pests, fumigants for mass extermination in
the enclosed space of greenhouses, tar-oil winter washes to destroy insect eggs on fruit
treeis, fungicides to prevent mildews and blights, and many special products such as
insect repellents, soil fumigants, and wetting agents to make sprays spread evenly over
the foliage to be protected. It is a long list to which the chemical
industry is ever adding cheaper or better products, but a few selected
items are usually enough to keep crops in health and enable us to
harvest the full reward for our labours in garden or allotment.
No. 20 in the fr Services of an Industry ” series
issued by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
ICI
CHARLIE WOOD'S HATPEG
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
WHEN Charlie Wood came indoors
he always threw his hat on the
floor behind the kitchen door,
and everyone knew that spot as
Charlie Wood’s hatpeg.
Charlie’s hatpeg was like a barometer.
It gauged the rise and fall of his likings
for people, just as surely as the swallows
gauge the going and coming of summer.
No one but a friend was ever invited to
put his hat on Charlie’s peg.
Amongst the unprivileged were the
local ministers. The ban on ministers
began when one of them, at a send-off,
neglected to call on a speech from
Charlie. Charlie was deeply hurt. He
left immediately after supper. “The
day,” he always maintained, after that,
“one of them praying mantises puts his
hat on my peg. I’ll have'me head read!”
He stuck to his word. Ministers came
and went in the district for twenty years,
and not one of them ever got past sitting
uncomfortably on the back porch of
Charlie’s place with his hat balanced gin-
gerly on his knee.
Then the Rev. Thomas came into resi-
dence. Thomas was an earnest young
man, with apologetic smudges of pale
eyebrow and a small ginger moustache
that sat out on his top lip like the bristles
on a pig’s back. He had a deep admira-
tion for “the arts.” It was because of
his love of music that the ban on
Charlie’s hatpeg was lifted.
Charlie played the violin. The only
one who had any illusions about his
ability as a violinist was Charlie himself.
He loved it. Sometimes he made it sound
like a winter wind in the chimney, some-
times like a windmill that needed oiling.
One thing was certain —he never made it
sound like a violin.
Occasionally he played it in the even-
ings at home. He would have played
more often if he’d been given the slightest
encouragement. As it was, the children
went on playing noisy games or learning
homework aloud, and his wife went on
badgering him about a new floor in the
kitchen or some such thing, and Charlie’s
musical evenings usually ended with him
going to bed in a huff.
Once, at a dance, before he and his
violin became notorious, Charlie was
asked to play. He was very enthusiastic.
He put everything he had into his per-
formance. He was never asked to play
again. But he didn’t give up hope.
Always, before going to a “function,”
he would say casually “Think I’ll stick
me vilin in. Someone might like a bit
of music.” No one ever did.
With the Rev, Thomas it was different.
He didn’t know either Charlie or his
violin, and when Charlie volunteered at
once to devote himself and his music to
the musical society the reverend was
forming he accepted gratefully.
Charlie told his wife afterwards that
he reckoned Thomas wasn’t a bad sort
of little bloke, and he could put his hat
on his peg any time he wanted.
THE first rehearsal was held in the
Town Hall. Charlie had spent most
of the day polishing up the woodwork of
his violin. His wife told him he would
be better off mending the fence where
everyone’s stray stock got in. Charlie
was haughty. He told his wife she had
no soul for music and he reckoned he
and the reverend were about the only
two blokes in the district who did.
He arrived at rehearsal that evening
full of enthusiasm and with a pot of
scalded cream and a dressed rooster for
the Rev. Thomas. The rehearsal got
under way. After the first few bars of
“The Holy City” the reverend raised a
hand and what there was of one of his
eyebrows. He thought, he said gently,
he could detect a slight discord.
The discord was traced to Charlie,
And it wasn’t so slight. Charlie was hurt;
then, when the discord continued to be
traced to him, annoyed. He said he
wouldn’t mention names, but he thought
some people he knew had no ear for music.
The reverend’s moustache twitched.
His knowledge of music was being ques-
tioned. He said he wouldn’t mention
names, but he thought it was sheer
sacrilege that some people were allowed
even to handle certain musical instruments.
Charlie began packing up his music.
He said he wasn’t going to sit around
being insulted, and in his opinion some
people were just ginger-ziffed little up-
starts, and he would like to draw Some
people’s attention to the fact that he,
Charlie, was highly thought of in the dis-
trict, and that his, Charlie’s, bull had once,
won a first prize in a Melbourne show.
The reverend said he did not for one
moment doubt the integrity of both
some people and his bull, but he failed
to see that that had any connection with
some people’s playing off key.
There was a lot more. Charlie had the
l ast WO rd, Then he collected his violin
anc j b j s pot , 0 f cre am and his rooster.
anc j i e ft,
The ban on ministers was on again,
j t was stronger than ever. This time they
did not get even as far as Charlie's back
porch. “The day,” Charlie told the dis-
trict, “one of them praying mantises gets
his hat on my peg you can measure me
f° r me coffin. h
second ban
( that g harlie was seen in the
bto le £ ve a pot of beer half-finished,
That could mean only one thing. Charlie
was not himse i f He was ill. Some said
it came througb b is refusing to wear
woo i next t 0 tbe s kj n ; som e that it was
a grow th he’d got through always chew-
j ng at b j s dirty old pipe. Others thought
j t was tbe drink “come against him.”
whatever it was, Charlie was a sick man.
He took to his bed.
They missed him at the pub, and one
day Paddy Walsh the publican called at
Charlie’s place to see how he was. There
was no one in the kitchen when Paddy
went in. It was very quiet, and on the
floor behind the door he saw the min-
ister’s neat black hat lying beside Charlie’s
dirty grey one. He didn’t stay. Fherc
was no need to ask how Charlie was.


BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria under the ‘'Companies Act 1890”)
As at Close of Business on 30th June, 1944.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each
LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares fully paid in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid in cash to 10s. per share
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Pinal Dividend proposed payable August, 1944
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including provisions for
Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation .. ..
Balances due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities
(As per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
£6,593,127 5 6
62,789,623 11 9
6,175 0 0
159,707 16 11
£69.548.633 14 2
£2,492,920 10 6
_ anoniij.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand Notes and Cash
at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks .. .. .. ..
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government £4,670,000 0 0
Other Government 605,000 0 0
Public Securities—
(At or under market value)
Australian Government
Other Government
Local and Semi-Governmental
£4,595,417 12 6
3,551.320 14 7
Authorities .. .. 173,899 1 5
Special War Time Deposit Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia ..
Bills receivable and Remittances in Transit .. ..
Stamps ..
£6,578,223 910
1,309,391 411
243,379 19 0
5,275,000 0 0
8,320,637 8 0
23,297.000 0 0
1,982,096 15 5
20,376 10 9
£47,026,105 8 5
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted .. .. .. 21,230,422 15 9
(After deducting provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) _ „„ .
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites 1,292,100 10 0
(At cost less amounts written off)
£69,548,633 14 2
Contingent Assets £2,492,920 10 6
(Comprising Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts. Guarantees, efc., as per contra.)
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1944.
To Expenses—Head Office, 422 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees. £31(59 11s. 5d.)
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1944
Final, proposed payable August, 1944 ..
„ Balance carried forward
£359,790 18 10
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange. Commissions and Other Income
after deducting Interest Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for all Bad and
Doubtful Debts has been made)
£1,330,942 14 11
£1,330,942 14 11
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year ..
.. £112,766 7 8
247,024 11 3
£359,790 18 10
By Balance
£116,763 12 3
I, PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDOJSI, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve, the Exchang
Adjustment Reserve and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best oi m.
knowledge and belief, true in every particular. tjtttthM
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, Shipowner, Melbourne: unaa. -
HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMBS BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne;WlLLlAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour Miner,
Melbourne. ~ fa i se
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a
declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 24th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-four. _ nT , nnß
Before me—H. F. CLARKE. P. F. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.” , T '..ainU do
We, JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE and WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, of Melbourne, being Directors of the Commercial Bank of Australia Limi,ieu,
hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company
and that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
Dated at Melbourne this 24th day of July, 1944. On behalf of the Board. JOHN BYRNE
W. S'. REID.
To the Shareholders of AUDITORS’ REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS. Tlllv 1P4 4.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED. Melbourne, 24tn juiy,
Ladies and Gentlemen, a true
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 30th June, 1944, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and ex ... 0 f the
and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view ot toe re
business of the Company for the year, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company. liabilities
The London Office figures to the same date have been accepted by us on cabled advice from the London Auditors, Messrs. Jackson, Pixley and Co., and the Assets a
at the Branches taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants. . ....
We have received every assistance from the officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have required.
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
Wm°S K PHILIP \ Chartered Accountants (Australia).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,083
1936.. 850,361 12* p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937.1,183,171 12i p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938. 1,340,461 p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,3 38
1939.1.431,513 124 p.c.= 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share .premiums, £139,073 .. .. 9,225,229
S'hare premiums capitalised,
£4,445,859 .. .. .. ~ 4,779,370
1940.. 979,139 7J p.c.= 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941.. 963,279 7 i „ ~ 854,770 108,509 5,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £585,282.. 4,419,908
1942.. 687,711 6i p.c.= 821,103 4,286,517
Marine insur. fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943.. 697,791 5 p.c.= 694,251 3,540 4,921,266
1944.. 728,675 5 ~,, 694,245 34,430 4,955,696
This big iron and steel undertaking and
its associated and subsidiary enterprises
are an able and efficient lot. They are
the core of armament and munitions pro-
duction, which greatly increased the local
steel appetite. Not only was production
stepped up to war requirements at short
notice, but steel for armaments, etc., was
sold to the Government at cost —a patrio-
tic gesture that won high praise from the
Minister for Munitions. And that price,
though it had to be raised owing to fac-
tors outside the co.’s control, is less than
would have to be paid for steel from any
other part of the world. For these and
other achievements thanks are due to an
efficient staff and plant, and to the long-
sighted policy of the management in
building up large stocks of iron ore and
other raw materials before outbreak of
war.
Many items vital to steel manufacture
and not previously produced in Australia
are now turned out. A ferro-alloy plant
makes ferro manganese, ferro titanium,
ferro zirconium and ferro molybdenum,
all previously imported. And from the
same plant comes calcium carbide, an in-
gredient of magnesium, which is lighter
than aluminium and used extensively in
aircraft production. An outstanding
achievement has been manufacture of
tungsten carbide, one of the hardest
minerals known, next to diamonds, and
pre-war a jealously-guarded German
Krupp patent. Bullet-proof and stainless
steel were also added to the list of new
manufactures.
Last term output at the Newcastle
steelworks —figures are covered up for
the duration —was assisted by addition
of a new open-hearth furnace and an
18in. skin-pass mill at the cold-rolling
plant. Three blast furnaces were out of
commission for an aggregate of 36 days
on account of repairs, with consequent
loss of production. The new sintering
plant is nearing completion, and the coal-
washing plant and electric locomotives
for the collieries are in course of construc-
tion. Here the aim is to further improve
blast-furnace practice and increase pro-
duction of basic iron and steel output.
The shipping position eased a little, but
dilution of rich Iron Knob ore with low-
grade stuff mined in N. S. Wales had to
be continued, to the detriment of produc-
tive efficiency. But main difficulties
underlying nearly all production prob-
lems these days are shortage of suitable
labor, coal and materials.
Creeping paralysis in the coal trade,
brought about by the anti-social strike
technique of the miners, has seriously
depleted the co.’s coal stocks. Since the
close of accounts it has also resulted in
closing down of the blast furnace at
Whyalla and slowing of production at
Newcastle and Port Kembla, with, of
course, the inevitable reaction on employ-
ment. Reorganisation of the Borehole
seam of the co.’s Biirwood colliery and
mechanisation of Australian Iron and
Steel’s South Coast pits has been put in
hand.
More ore was mined at Iron Knob,
where a new bench was brought into full-
scale production. The furnace at Why-
alla turned out pig-iron and ferro man-,
ganese consistent with available coke sup-
plies and time lost in shutting down for
repairs. Limestone for smelting continues
to be drawn from the quarries at Rapid
Bay. At the shipyards a second cargo
vessel for the co.’s own fleet was com-
pleted, a standard merchant freighter was
delivered to the Shipping Board, a second
was launched and a third is being con-
structed. In addition, two other steamers
are in early stages of building. Also, the
forge plant, built for the Government for
use in the electric smelting shop, is ready
for use, and retriculation of the Govern-
ment water supply from the Murray is
well advanced.
The subsidiaries dealt with all steel that
could be made available during the
period. A.I. and S. has again put in
hand equipment and development of the
big Yampi iron-ore deposits on the nor’-
west coast of Westralia. The co.’s earlier
attempt to develop these deposits, claimed
to be among the richest it*the world, was
smothered by depression in the early
1930’5. Then, for a time, Japan became
interested in the area through a London
co.
B.H.P. put on no fat because of its war
activities; net earnings shrunk, and the
div. dropped from p.c. to 5 p.c. The
spring of £30,884 in last term’s net profit
(£728,675) was mainly due to lighter pro-
vision for taxation (£680,000, down
£175,000). Allowance for depreciation
(£1,046,265) was £77,281 heavier. War
requirements have imposed heavy wear
and tear on plant, and prevented normal
maintenance, which means substantial
provision for renewals and repairs if post-
war efficiency is not to be impaired. Be-
lated Government recognition of the fact
is now expressed in a little relief from
taxation for this purpose.
The position is better than B.H.P.’s
accounts alone suggest. Including subsi-
diaries, combined p. and 1. figures com-
pare as follows:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings:— 1941. 1943. 1944.
Working profit.. £5,815,816 £4,921,941 £5,287,127
Divs., etc. .. 169,895 67,343 181,439
Total.. .. £5,985,211 £4,989,284 £5,468,566
Depreciation .. 2,164,905 2,459,538 2,454,057
Taxation .. .. 1,963,076 1,366,650 1,533,482
Other exes. .. 272,882 277,346 288,476
Total exes. .. £4,400,863 £4,103,534 £4,276,015
Net profit .. 1,584,348 885,750 1,192,557
Last term gross earnings sprang £479,282,
and an extra £166,832 was allowed for
taxation. Still, the net result (up
£306,807) was £391,797 short of the 1941
figure. B.H.P. and outside equities are
not separated in the published n and 1
account. *•
figure?:- re C ° mbined
Consolidated Figures.
T! tj r. Outside
* Reserves/'
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,735,845 £2,003 938
1941.. 12,111.623 7,545.197 2 128 453
1942.. 13,882,889 6,818,493 2,155,696 ffiH?
1943.. 13,884,977 7,429,252 2 142 Oil
1944.. 13,884,902 7,805,256 2.155,984 SfiSS
Fixed Stocks, Book rw-k
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889.077 £1,383,603 £2 mtm
1941.. 18.360,574 4,024,461 1294177
1942.. 18,929,700 5,340,173 3,480,561 2548,
1943.. 18,188,610 5,069,191 3.621,412 s’K
1944.. 16,682,191 5,796.160 2.977,326 iffi
Including proportion reserves. *
Main factors in last term’s improvement
of £2,062,395 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£7,329,925) were provision for
depreciation and taxation.
Although plant is heavily committed
for some months ahead, demand for steel
in high-priority categories is beginning
to ease, and time is approaching when
production will have to be switched from
war to peace requirements. The manage-
ment and staff are alive to the problems,
and the degree of self-sufficiency and
experience gained should stand the co. in
good stead to meet the heavy demands
likely to be placed upon it.
Berlei, Ltd.
r Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. Ord. serves, senes.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. cr11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ ~ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 60 729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,766 7426 68,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,75 6 7 707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 3522 77,919
1940.. 23,206 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 5450 83,360
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~13,756 10,296 93,656
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. .. 83,656
Unexplained additions, £2500 .. .. 86,156
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. .=13,7 5 6 9,614 95,770
To staff fund, £22 24 .. .. .. 98,646
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7,304 100,850
To staff fund, £3021 .. •• I o 012 inflam
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 J
Women of the Commonwealth and
neighboring Dominion depend upon this
co. and its Maoriland and Victorian off-
shoots for most of their foundation gar-
ments. The London associate has long
done good work as buyer of basic ma-
terials for its antipodean confederates.
The improvement (£4729) in last term’s
net earnings was largely the result of in-
creased production and sales. At Gov-
ernment request the co, withdrew from


STOPyour Rupture
Worries!
Mark ® location,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
Work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials" and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(De"t. 27). V |>tn'-o w
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEOROE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862,
DIRECTORS:
E. R, Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland. F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips. G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, gainful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness. '
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
tailes of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
fraste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you weU.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
How to Plan Your
Financial Future
EVERY man should plan his financial future. He
should have a private budget and set aside so
much every week, every month, towards establish-
ing his financial independence.
The simplest, surest, cheapest way—the imme-
diate way—for a man to provide financial protec-
tion for his family and himself is through an A.M.P.
policy or policies.
For instance, a man of 28 in good health can provide
immediate protection to the extent of £5OO by paying down
£3/0/5 and undertaking to pay that sum each quarter. Even
if he die the next week, the £5OO will be paid to his widow or
other beneficiary. If he live to 60, that £5OO will be greatly
increased by the addition of annual bonuses.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office or representative to help you
plan a future that will be without financial anxiety. You incur
no obligation when you ask for advice. Write to-day. Even
to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith. Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
H. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
its service contracts, and concentrated
upon production of corsets and brassieres
to relieve the acute shortage of these gar-
ments in the civilian market. A similar
shortage exists in Britain, U.S.A., Canada
and New Zealand. So, despite removal
of import restrictions, it is chiefly to the
Australian corset manufacturer that the
local market will have to look for relief.
And substantially increased output will be
necessary before demand can be over-
taken.
Here, as in all other industries, the main
problem is shortage of labor, especially
female labor, which figures prominently
in Berlei’s payroll. Owing to marriages,
service enlistments and transfers to muni-
tion work the co. lost 600 skilled opera-
tives ; and staff is still only about half
its pre-war size. To help overcome the
difficulty a new workroom has been
opened at Wollongong, where labor is re-
ported “ample for our purposes” ; and
suitable premises are to be erected there
when conditions permit. The possibility
of opening up at other centres is also
being investigated. War shortages have
led to local manufacture of an increasing
amount and variety of corset materials
previously imported, A mill to turn out
corset cloths has been planned for the
Newcastle district, and elastic fabrics are
being made in quantities limited only by
the availability of rubber. Con'-JHorqhle
expansion in output of these fabrics is
expected when the Jap is anven oui of
the Indies and Malaya and supplies of
raw rubber are available again.
The two subsidiaries paid their usual
divs—Berlei (N.Z.) 11 { p.c,; the curtain
is kept drawn over the figures of the Vic-
torian offshoot. The London associate is
operating at a profit, but it is not clear
from the parent’s accounts what it con-
tributes to the pool, if anything. After
allowing for taxation, etc., and deducting
staff profit-sharing divs., the, parent’s net
return from all sources last term was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
18.4 p.c. on the £140,057 of ord. capital,
as against 15, 16.7, 17.2, 13.7, 12.5 and
15.9 p.c. back to 1938 The div. was kept
at 10 p.c., and £3021 was sent to the staff
fund. The £9012 that remained lifted
visible lay-by to £109,863.
The robust state of earnings reflect the
enterprise and sound policy of the man-
agement. Given freedom from meddle-
some Government interference, there is
no reason to suppose that the co. will not
continue to give as good account of itself
in the future as in the past. Finances are
comfortable;
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 82,133 51,815 17,224 19,913
Sundry
creditors*.. 19,194 40,235 30,486 30,494
Freeholds .. 62,792 62,587 62,526 62,410
Plant 10,964 11,034 9,632 8,048
Investments!.. 89,854 90,761 90,799 90,354
Stocks .. 105,757 161,778 135,101 103,325
Book debts .. 54,507 53,588 36,852 42,131
Cash, etc. .. 4,297 17,005 22,584 62,335
* Including taxation, f Shares in associated cos.
Stocks, down £31,776 last term, are now
below the 1939 level. Cash, etc., aldne
(up £39,751) more than covers outside
liabilities, including provision for taxa-
tion. The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£298,145) was
£60,519.
I
The De Bernales Tangle
The story begins with Australian
Machinery and Investment Co., a con-
cern registered in Victoria, in which
De Bernales was the guiding influence,
buying at small cost a number of West-
ralian mines which had been unworked
for years and selling them at juicy
prices to cos. in an interlocking group
promoted by De Bernales in London
during 1933-35.
The London cos. constituting this group
are: Anglo Australian Gold Develop-
ment, Beryl Gold Corp., Commonwealth
Mining and Finance, Gt. Boulder Mining
and Finance, Meekatharra Gold Mines
and North Kalgurli United Gold De-
velopment.
The trouble started in 1939, when
shareholders in the London cos. asked
for, and got, a Board of Trade inquiry.
Then the committee of the London Stock
Exchange banned transactions in shares
of the group. Later Apley Estates, Ltd.,
and other shareholders issued writs for
damages against De Bernales and others,
alleging that they (the plaintiffs) had
been induced to buy shares in eight cos.
by misrepresentation in prospectuses and
by failure to publish in the prospectuses
matters which ought to have been there,
and had been induced to exercise options
and take*up more shares by a barrage
of recommendations by defendants in the
shape of speeches at co. meetings, circu-
lars to shareholders and newspaper puffs.
So far as the “Wild Cat” knows, these
issues have not yet been heard and deter-
mined by the English Courts.
Meanwhile, shareholders’ committees
were set up in each of the London cos.
to devise plans for reorganisation and
amalgamation of their interests. At the
end of last year it was jointly proposed
(1) that the mining and other interests of
group cos. in Australia and elsewhere
should be amalgamated into an Aus-
tralian co. in which the seven London
cos. should hold shares, and (2) that the
London cos. should be reduced in num-
ber to two.
After further consideration and consul-
tation, the shareholders’ committees and
boards of the London cos. jointly agreed
upon a revised plan, of which details were
made available in London last month.
This plan has three main features. The
first is omission of the Australian cos.
Comet Gold Mines and Yellowdine Gold
Development from the reorganisation, so
that their shares may be distributed
directly to members of the London cos.
interested in them namely, Common-
wealth, Gt. Boulder Mining, Anglo, Beryl
and Meekatharra. The second is use of
one of the existing Australian mining cos.
(Emu Gold Mines, which has changed
its name to Australian Gold Production)
as the main co. in Australia. This co.
owns the Waroonga mine and is to
acquire the Gladiator, Phoenix,, Beryl,
North Kalgurli and interests in Columbia
Exploration and Carmen Valley. The
third feature is a provision that certain
assets of Kalgoorlie Foundry, Australian
Mines Management and Secretariat
(Perth), Australian Mines Management
and Secretariat (London), New Mines
Department and the Mercers’ Trust and
Wada be acquired one half by Comet and
tiie other half by Australian Gold Pro-
duction (formerly Emu).
One effect of all this is that the share-
holders in the English cos. will hold their
shares in the three Australian cos.—
Comet, Yellowdine and Australian Gold
—directly, not indirectly as formerly. The
basis of exchange will be as follows;
,--llolders will
Yellow- Austin.
Comet dine Gold
For every 100 shs. in;— 1/- shs. 2/6 shs. 1/- shs.
Anglo (5/-) .. .. .. 51 77 103
Beryl (5/-) .. .. ... 38 3 59
Commonwealth (2/6) ..27 64 46
Great Boulder Mining and
Finance (5/-) .. ..42 23 43
Meekatharra (2/-) .. .. 20 6
Murchison (5/-) .. .. i — 10
N. Kalgurli Utd. (5/-) .. 10
To enable Murchison and North Kalgurli,
which would not normally participate in
the distribution of the Gold co.’s shares,
to retain an interest in the group, the
other five English cos. and Austmac In-
vestments (one of the De Bernales’s
family group) are each handing over a
small number of their own shares. Thus
Murchison and North Kalgurli are to
receive 80,767 shares and 43,815 shares
respectively in the Gold co. for distri-
bution among those on their own
registers.
The seven English cos. will be placed
in voluntary liquidation. Moneys total-
ling £921,971 owing by seven mining cos.
(Phoenix, Gladiator, Beryl, North Kal-
gurli, Riverina, Columbia Exploration and
Carmen Valley) to the English cos, are to
be owed to Australian Gold Production,
Application is to be made to the Stock
Exchanges in Australia and London to
list the shares in Comet, Yellowdine and
Australian Gold Production.
Westralia cheers chairman Darling’s
announcement that B.H.P. intends to
step up development of its iron-ore de-
posits on Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound.
A former State Mining Engineer, A.
Montgomery, estimated that there were
97,00,000 tons of high-grade iron ore
above water level at Yampi. Dr. Simp-
son, formerly State Government mineral-
oloist, said the Cockatoo bed measured
130 ft. in thickness and formed a wall a
mile and a quarter long and up to 30ft.
high, raising from the deep-water shore
of the sound for half its length. On<
Koolan, the other Yampi island, of which
Brasserts, Ltd. (London), hold a lease,
Dr. Simpson said the main bed, prob-
ably a continuation of that on Cockatoo,
outcrops for over 3£ miles in precipitous
cliffs, rising out of the sea to 600 ft, He
added that with Yampi’s deep-water
harbor there was probably no other place
in the world which offered better natural
loading facilities. Before the war Bras-
serts’s outlay there had run into six figures,
and, because of a contract to supply
Japan with approximately a million tons
of iron ore a year, the co. had budgeted
to spend a lot more on plant and de-
velopment. Some machinery consigned
to Yampi was grabbed by the Japs when
Singapore fell.
* * *
Word comes from New York that
Yankee- and Canadian-controlled Big
Bell (W.A.) will be reopened soon after
the war. Owing to labor shortage, rising
costs and difficulty in getting essential
supplies, operations were suspended in
January, 1943. Property is held on a
long-term lease from a London syndicate
at a royalty of 5 p.c. The mine is
equipped with fine grinding and direct
cyanide plants, capable of treating 1400
tons daily, and about 20 miles of Gov-
ernment railway connects it with Cue on
the Murchison goldfields main line.
Before production began in 1937,
manager Dale Pitt put ore reserves at
3,000,000 tons, averaging 3.7dwt. To the
end of 1942, 2,199,860 tons were treated
for 286,3950 z. gold and 98,3990 z. silver.
Divs. paid have exceeded subscribed capi-
tal (£400,000 stg.). Chief shareholders
are American Smelting Co .39.2 p.c., Pre-
mier Gold Mining Co. 40 p.c., Terra
Nova Properties 15 p.c. and Mining Trust
5 p.c.
* * * ♦
London shareholders of Edjudina Con-
solidated (W.A.) are pressing the board
to do something. Some time ago it was
announced that a director, Herman
Mandelstam, was “going out to the
mine,” but so far he hasn’t got there. In
the light of other opinions of tonnage
and values, last estimate of ore reserves
was surprisingly substantial —it ran into
hundreds of thousands of tons. Funds
were advanced to the operating co., but
further working capital was required, and
operations were suspended in July, 1937.
Since the outbreak of war British
Treasury restrictions have stood in the
way of remitting further funds, portion
of the plant was requisitioned by the
Federal Government, and, it was reported,
negotiations as to price for further units
were proceeding.
* * * *
Yukon Consolidated, Klondyke
(Canada), of which G. Goldthorp Hay,
chairman of Lake View and Star, is presi-
dent, and in which Australian investors
are interested, netted 18,975 Canadian
dollars (down 492,342 dollars) for 1943.
That was after chipping off 427,024
dollars for depreciation, taxation, and
other charges. Gravel ore reserves, ex-
clusive of 36,457,342 c.y. of unstated
value outside the main workings, are esti-
mated at 112,106,374 cubic yards, valued
at 39,972,690 dollars with gold at 35
dollars an ounce.


Cadbury’s
BOERNVILLE
COCOA
. . the Cocoa
with the
REAL
CHOCOLATY
FLAVOUR
m
CARRIED RY
AVIATION'
freight flies the skyways in this air age.
Machine parts, serums, documents, in-
struments and all kinds of goods are
speeded across the nation by air. Nearly
four million pounds weight of such
parcels was carried by A.N.A. Airliners
last year.
Australian National Airways operates
the world's largest internal airway ser-
vice. Its organisation, geared to the needs
of Australia at war, will play a major
part in Australia's post-war future.
INVEST All YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONDS
USTRAUAN
TIONAL JIIRWAYS
FIRST IN PEACE
PT V. LT O.
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
OLDSMOBILE
supplies the AERIAL ARTILLERY
B 25’s, armed with the terrific fire-power of 75 mm.
cannon from the Oldsmobile assembly lines, are
strafing the Jap on land, and smashing up his surface
craft and submarines. Oldsmobile have long manu-
factured 75 mm. cannon for‘tanks—but now they’re
FLOWN into battle as well. Other weapons include
automatic air cannon and high explosive and armour
piercing shells each one forming part of Olds-
mobile’s contribution to Allied supremacy in the air.
£
fc° F .>S
m
VMJXHALI
OLDSMOBILE
WSSM&mi lac
enemy shore must be
''self-contained,” ana
his burden must be easy to carry*
His safety depends on his web-
bing equipment, woven from fine'
flax thread grown and spun in
Australia. Flax thread is another'
essential item for which Army„
Navy and Air Force depend upon
Australian cordage workers.
THE ROPE, CORDAGE AND TWINE MANUFACTURERS OF AUSTRALIA
A NATIONAL INDUSTRY
in the NATIONAL EFFORT


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: Of recent weeks the most
important progress in the land war in the
Pacific has been made by the British-
Indian forces in Central Burma and on
the Tiddim road, along which the Japa-
nese have receded 110 miles since their
retreat began. In fact, the Allies have
regained nearly one-tenth of Burma ; and
Burma is a big country.
Within three months bigger movesi,
both land and naval, are likely to be in
train within the scope of Lord Louis
Mountbatten’s command. The Japanese
report growing British naval concentra-
tions in Ceylon ports.
Last week heavy routine bombing in
the mid-Pacific extended from Kieta and
Kahili, on Bougainville, to the Bonins
and the China coast. U.S. heavies
sank a Jap destroyer at the week-end.
In the Bonins and Volcanos during the
week the enemy lost over 50 aircraft
against five lost by the Allies.
Several fighters were smashed in and
around the Davao Gulf (Philippines) and
Halmahera, in the area of General Mac-
Arthur’s probable next stage of advance
towards the Philippines. And great work
is being done around the Vogelkopf Pen-
insula of New Guinea, mainly by the
R.A.A.F., which has flown up to 100
bombing and strafing sorties in a single
day and 1555 sorties in the past week.
Towards the end of the week all
attacks towards the Philippines, Celebes
and Moluccas were stepped up. A 180-
ton attack which wrecked Langoan aero-
drome, on the Celebes coast, on Sep-
tember 2 was a record for the region,
U.S. Catalinas that day sank a 10,000-ton
tanker near Zamboanga.
Tokyo reported a heavy attack on
Palau by sea and air forces. There also
were several Super-Fortress raids On
Manchurian industrial centres trom
Changtu. Tokyo claimed that the Ameri-
cans lost seven machines, and that Jap
fighters followed the B29’s back to their
bases in the Changtu region and shot
down five while landing.
The Chinese High Command an-
nounced the capture by the enemy of the
U.S. air base at Lingling in Hunan Pro-
vince.
There was considerable Japanese troop
movement in Northern Kwangsi and
Northern Indo-China, suggesting an
attempt at a link-up, which would give
the enemy land routes from the north
all the way to Singapore and Rangoon.
If this is £is plan the Jap has moved
very late.
New Guinea Operations
On September 8 General MacArthur’s
H.Q. reported its conviction that the
Sixth Japanese Air Division, consisting
of several hundred bombers and fighters,
charged with the control of the western
New Guinea area, had been wiped out.
The remains of the Japanese Eighteenth
Army on the north coast of New Guinea
are still being harried, largely by the
R.A.A.F.
On September 6 it was reported that
ground forces had counted 722 enemy
dead and had taken 242 more prisoners.
Battle of the Centre.
“Ek Diim”: Reports of the war in
France and Belgium as retailed to Syd-
ney in the first week in September read
as if they had been written by an opti-
mistic female boat-race barracker under
the influence of benzedrine. Terrific
energy was infused into the task of per-
suading Australia that so soon as the
“Siegfried Line” was fired on it would
crack open ; that Hitler had only a few
ragged divisions to defend it a mere
100,000 men, though he had 160,000 in
Finland ; that it was obsolete anyway;
and that peace negotiations had been
initiated by a terrified Hun Government.
All these ideas were eagerly encouraged
from Berlin. Berlin is always ready to
encourage any idea which is likely to
make Allied troops or war workers grow
slack or over-optimistic, or which is apt
to sow distrust among the Allies.
The facts at the beginning of the week:
(1) The Siegfried Line had not been reached.
In any case it is not a line, but a series of
fortress positions, in places as much as 80 miles
deep, scored across by powerful and highly
defendable river, mountain and forest barriers,
and with its battle resources of armament and
repair an integral part of its area. . .
(2) The only test so far as to whether it is
obsolete or not has been the experience of air-
craft crews. That experience has shown that its
sky defence is efficient, intense and terrible.
Even against night bombers its centres are cap-
able of very heavy attrition. Its defences have
been Costing the Allies heavily every week in
killed or captured airmen, apart from wounded.
(3) Germany may be short of man-power, but
has been able in the last few weeks to provide
effective reserves on every sector of the Eastern
Front which was essential to holding the other
defences of Germany. The enemy could afford
to leave behind substantial bodies of men in all
the Channel ports. The High Command was
able to check the momentum of the armored
spearheads of five Allied armies in France and
involve them in bloody fighting while at the
same time heavily engaged in Poland and on
two Italian fronts, and while coping with the
readjustments necessary through the defection
of Rumania and Bulgaria and the revolt in
Slovakia. „ .
(4) There is no sign that Germany is perilously
short of transport. Its High Command has
been able so far to deposit large reserves and
supplies in crucial areas.
(5) The frequent statements of Allied held
commanders and political leaders that Germany
is beaten in the west means exactly what it says.
The battle for the west and for France and,
more important, for the Atlantic, is over and
won. So is the battle of the east.
East, west, north and south, the Battle
of the Centre is beginning. This is the
decisive campaign of the war.
The stage which has been reached in
this battle may be defined by saying that
the enemy has begun to draw in his out-
posts with stubborn slowness under the
heaviest kind of armored spearhead
att&ck
Beyond the Belgian border on the
Scheldt and the Meuse, along 300 miles
of front, the arrangement of General
Eisenhower’s armies advertises that the
battle for Germany proper begun in
France and Belgium, even if it is only in
its infancy.
The signs are that the sectors occupied
by the advancing troops have shaped
themselves to the military divisions of
Germany proper.
The British at Antwerp
The first of these sectors is the Belgian
sector on the sea side of the Meuse, This
has been allotted to the British and Cana-
dian armies for more reasons than one.
In front of this sector lies Holland, yet
to be rescued. Beyond lies the First
Army Inspection District of Germany,
with attached conquests. The district’s
northern boundary is the sea coast across
Denmark the whole way to the East
Prussian front, along the Baltic. It em-
bodies all the flat land north of the moun-
tain masses of Germany and all the great
naval ports: Wilhelmshaven, Bremer-
haven, Emden, Kiel and the rest.
The Dutch, Norwegian and Poles at-
tached to the British and Canadian armies
on this North Sea front are' all moving
towards their own countries. It is a front
which calls for naval co-operation and
can best benefit by it; a front of which
Britain is the natural supply base.
It is the area about which the Ger-
mans are showing the greatest nervous-
ness. Their fear is that, by combined
land and sea efforts, the British-Canadians
might open the Baltic and achieve old
Jacky Fisher’s favorite strategy. Then
there would be the devil to pay.
At the week-end Berlin nervously men-
tioned the assembly of an expeditionary
force in Scottish ports and guessed that
it might be bound for Denmark.
Over the Albert Canal
The British reached Antwerp and
captured the port intact. The Germans
seemed to be in 'control of the east ap-
proaches at the week-end. The port is of
little use until the Scheldt mouth is freed.
The Scheldt makes a sharp angle with
its estuary at Antwerp —before it reaches
the city it runs almost parallel with the
North Sea coast. Many miles to the
west at Ghent, where it junctions with the
Lys, it touches a loop of canal. One
side of this loop runs into the Dutch
shores of the Scheldt estuary, on which
there is a detached enclave of Nether-
lands territory. The other loop runs on
the western side of Bruges to the North
Sea, west of Zeebrugge.
At the week-end the Canadians and
Poles had taken Ghent and had broken
across the canal into Bruges In that city
they were still fighting on September 11,
when it was reported that the Canadians
nearer the sea had taken Zeebrugge, itself
only a hop, step and a jump from the
Netherlands border. With these forces
between the Scheldt and the sea, coastal
Belgium has become just as much too
hot for the Germans as the Channel coast
of France. Their escape boats on the
Scheldt estuary were being torn to bits
by Allied aircraft over the week-end. The
Canadians now hold all the coast from
Gravelines to Zeebrugge except for Dun-
kirk.
The British Second Army, south-east
of Antwerp, had meanwhile broken
across the Albert Canal —one report said
at Gheel and Beeringen. Gheel is far
across the main canal, on one of the out-
post loops, almost on the Netherlands
border. It sits on the fifth degree of
longitude. If the British are there they
must have crossed the Lievre River and
be heading for Tilburg and the timber
and heath country which lies between
the Fortress of Holland, on the coast, and
the marshy Peel, towards the German
border. This is good holding country, but
not very good for offensive operations.
A second report said, that to the s.-east
of this position the British had pushed
to Bourg Leopold, about five miles across
the canal from Diest, on a direct route
from Brussels to Eindhoven, the great
wireless centre of Holland, which-, has
powerful branches and investments in
Australian radio manufacture, to Amster-
dam,
It was reported that the Germans were
making a fight of it. Reinforcements had
arrived in strength. The Luftwaffe, in-
cluding the latest jet ’planes, was operat-
ing. The British spearheads were facing
fierce counter-attacks, but yard by yard
were making headway.
The joint of the British-Canadian sec-
tor with the Americans on the south is
the Liege defence area.
Here begins the province of General
Hodge’s First American Army. The
Meuse, which has been crossed at half a
dozen points since the taking of Namur,
is the central point. Bridgeheads were
established at Givet, Dinant, Huy, Liege
itself and further down in the Sedan Gap
district.
The southern limit of the U.S. First
Army’s territory would be somewhere
round the Luxembourg border.
Thus one of its wings would seek to
drive up the Moselle to the Rhine at
Coblenz, The other would be aimed for
Cologne and Dusseldorf. In between it
began, to exploit the traditional routes
through the Sedan Gap and elsewhere
used by the enemy in his attacks across
the Ardennes and Luxembourg—Longwy,
up the ledge of the Titelberg, through
the industrial iron and coal district of
Esch, along the French border inside
Luxembourg (Americans were reported
inside Luxembourg on September II).
Also through Arlon, Bastonge, Neuf-
chateau, Malmedy. The Ardennes routes
are not difficult, except in winter; then
they are often snowbound.
Liege has been taken, and on Septem-
ber 11 it was reported that Limbourg, on
the Eupen-road, one of the two main
highways to Aachen (Aix la Chapelle),
had been reached. It is 16 miles from
Aachen.
Roughly speaking, the First U.S.
men are about 100 miles average by road*
from the Rhine. They are starting on
the task of biting a preliminary 100 miles
square out of Germany (including little
annexed Luxembourg), bounded by the
Meuse (on two sides), the Rhine and the
Moselle.
Their sector is designed to deal with
the German Third Military District, of
which the boundary was from Osnabruck
to the Longwy approaches.
The immediate prizes in the area are
the great Luxembourg industrial district;
the coal districts of Holland, in the only
hilly land owned by the Netherlands
round the Maestricht Appendix ; Aachen,
capital of the First Reich of Charle-
magne ; Cologne, most of which is on the
western side of the Rhine, and some great
German industrial centres such as Krefeld
and Glad bach,
Patton Threatens Metz
South of the U.S. First Army facing
the borders of the former Fifth German
Inspection District is General Patton’s
Third U.S. Army.
The province of this body, described
as “the greatest aggregation of armor ever
assembled in one piece,” is the Vosges.
The Vosges are approached on the
French side from a high limestone
plateau. The system is about 150 miles
long. It begins in the north with the
Kaiserlauten Gap, through which the
Franks made their descent on western
Europe, and ends in an abrupt jump down
from the Balon d’Alsace (4100 ft.) in
about 10 miles into the Belfort Gap.
The Belfort Gap is 15 miles wide,
bounded on the south by the high Jura.
This entry to the Rhine was Caesar’s
invasion route. There, in 1870, Denfert-
Rochereau gave the Prussians and the
world the first sample of what long-
range artillery could do as a defensive
weapon—his guns fired a whole 5000
yards!
The Vosges are divided into two parts.
The Low Vosges, in the north are of
much the same material as the Hawkes-.
bury country, but are much more fer-
tile. They are no higher for the most
part than the French plateau, but their
red Triassic sandstone is carved with
precipice and gorge, and intersected with
long, rambling mountain valleys.
The High Vosges, from the Balon
d’Alsace, above Belfort, to the latitude of
Strasbourg, is a 4000 ft. crystalline central
mass of peaks about 80 miles long and
50 miles wide, with a sandstone casing
on the w*jst. The Moselle and the north
Meuse run along this broken country,
which faces the mountains off the French
plateau. Many rivers run out of the
mountains, which are not difficult to
cross, because the valleys and cols run
east and west and generally up to the
highest points.
On the east side of the ranges is the
long flat strip of country, about 15 miles
wide, on the French side of the Rhine.
The most northern gap in the Vosges
is the Kaiserlauten Gap.
This route General Patton has been
following from Meaux, Montmirail and
Chalons-sur-Marne, crossing the Aisne
and entering the forest of the Argonne
at a place well known in American war
history—St. Menehould.
Across the Aire from here, the Third
Army climbed down to Verdun to force
its way across over the steep terraces of
the C6tes-de-Meuse and to fall upon Metz,
formerly the pivot of German military
activity west of the Rhine in Alsace-
Lorraine. It is a busy, whirling sort of
a city on the French side of the Moselle.
General Patton on Sept. 10 seemed to be
still trying to push on to the last heights
before Metz from the Mars le Tour road.
On these heights stands the battlefield of
Gravelotte, beyond which the drop to
Metz is sharp. A report from New York
on Sunday that Metz had been taken and
later bombed was not confirmed next
day. General Patton was here 200 miles
from Paris; more than 330 from where
he was on July 31.
He had to fight stiff resistance on the
Moselle lower down.
Over the river he was only 55 miles
from the Saar, one of Germany’s two
richest industrial areas in the west, with
the road ahead falling away in rolling
gradients much easier than those which
he has encountered. He is on the main
Paris rail and highway to Mannheim, 130
miles from Metz, on the Rhine, and to
Frankfort-am-Main. Also, by another
route, he was about 90 miles from Stras-
bourg.
Further south. General Patton’s spear-
head from Vitry is on the main route
from Paris to Baden, the Black Forest,
* the Danube, Munich and Vienna. Here
again there has been an up-and-down
climb from Vitry into the Toul Gap,
entered over the steep C6tes-de-Meuse
and established two bridgeheads over
the Moselle. For the next 15 miles the
spearhead will have to fight its way into
the Meurthe River valley, through the
forest of the Haye Plateau.
After Nancy is taken the long weary
fight towards Zabern (Saverne) and
Strasbourg will begin. The Allies reported
that the first fort in the Maginot Line
in the Nancy region had been taken at
bayonet point: Fort de Ville le Sec, one
of the guard forts of the Haye approach.
The Allied Command is wisely saying
little about its progress at this stage, but
it is obvious that the Germans, who have
the advantage of both hill and river bar-
riers and of the great military lateral
roads of the Rhine Plain, plus con-
trol of the Belfort Gap, on the
southern flank of the advance, have been
fighting a fierce delaying action. They
contested the routes strongly after the
Argonne was reached, but not with any
attempt to gain a decision.
The real test of what they intend to
do, or what they have the power to do,
will come within the next few days,
which will show whether the Maginot


NEVER MUID THE MILLIONS
55
'■■■UIII0 1
o
J.
mm.
Whufs
Your Share?
Yes—millions will be needed to carry
the battle to Japan. The huge pile of
munitions, of food and supplies, will
soon diminish as our troops and those
of our allies move forward.
This will be a test year for Australia
—a test of. our manpower, a trial of our
valour, our endurance and our ’ self-
denial. The call to full duty is a clarion
call to every man and woman to share
this great year of attack with our armed
forces.
If each does his share, the millions
needed for Victory will be raised.
Shorten the road —get your money into
service now.
ẃ
KEEP ON SAVING
Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
Paste them in the free National
Savings Stamp Book to buy more
Victory Bonds.
MAKE AN ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
LOAN
2PV-10-19
Line has been wiped out; whether the
enemy will give up the Belfort Gap —
from which General Patch’s Seventh
Mediterranean Army was about 20 miles
after taking Besan?on on September 10 —
and the Saar without an attempt at a
main battle.
If the Gap and the Saar are surren-
dered, then the Rhine will be the first
main barrier to be defended all the way
to the North Sea, as Berlin has suggested
that it may be.
It is a very formidable barrier, some-
times 1500 ft. wide, sometimes racing in
a six-knot current between cliffs, at the
feet of which there is barely room for
a road on either side of the stream.
Behind the Rhine, all the way from the
Ruhr to the Swiss border, is country in-
finitely more defendable than the Vosges
—a tough land full of mountains and
forests, seamed with rivers and gorges, in
which the valleys run the wrong way for
an invading army.
If the enemy is as strong as he has
shown himself in Poland and Italy, there
is a long, slow job ahead, of which the
winter will not see the end.
Achievement in France.
“Ek Bum’s” review:
In the first 28 days of operations the Allies
landed 1,000,000 men, with 183,000 vehicles and
650,000 tons of stores. Sixteen convoys are
going across the Channel every day like clock-
work, despite the fact that the only great regular
peace-time port in Allied hands is Cherbourg,
which was not put in workable order until the
breakthrough to Brittany at the beginning of
August.
With the thoroughness which has character-
ised all their engineering preparations, the Allies
had preconstructed equipment which enabled
them to turn the whole of the Seine coast, from
the mouth of the Orne canal along the 50 miles
of beaches to the Cotentin Peninsula, into a
series of docks and landing stages. The full
details are still secret, but Admiral Ramsay has
given a hint of how it was done.
Minefields were swept by special craft.
Blockships specially constructed were sunk to
form docks and landing stages, from which,
in many cases, cargoes were driven straight
ashore on wheels from the freighters or car-
riers which had brought them across the
Channel.
The enemy did his best to stop this traffic.
His aircraft was hampered (as was ours) by the
weather. But the sea was thick with his one-man
submarines—loo were sunk. Also, the enemy
directed explosive-filled t.b.ds. against shipping,
the crews jumping overboard and taking to
rubber boats when they had been aimed for their
objective.
The sight of the Allied capacity to supply
itself evidently determined the enemy to evacuate
the west save for the ports behind a powerful
armored screen. The emptiness of Rennes and
other towns which were reached immediately
after the German line broke at the Brittany end
showed that these already had been evacuated.
German Losses
German casualties, including wounded, total
well on towards 750,000. General Eisenhower
has reported to the Allied Chiefs of Staff up to
August 25 — i.e., until about the time when
General Montgomery handed over operative
command of the whole of the forces in France
and assumed command of the British Army
Group. General Eisenhower’s figures: —
Enemy divisions eliminated .. 20
Plus divisions badly cut up .. 12
Divisions trapped in Brittany 2
Divisions trapped in Channel
Islands .. t 1
German killed, wounded and
prisoners, about 400,000
Total prisoners, included above,
about .. .. .. .. 200,000
Prisoners captured July 25-Aug. 25 135,000
Tanks, captured or destroyed .. 1,300
Motor transports, captured or de-
destroyed .. 20,000
Heavy guns, exclusive of coastal
artillery .. .. .. .. 2,000
Luftwaffe losses in air, machines 2,378
Luftwaffe losses on the ground .. 1,167
Na 'al vessels of all classes surik or
damaged 300
Since this was written the First U.S. Army
alone has reported that it has taken 168,000
prisoners and the British-Canadian additional
figures are over 50,000. The British Second
Army took 12,000 in three days ended Sep-
tember 10.
Thus, the German Seventh Army and the newly
formed Fifth Panzer Army were decisively de-
feated, and into this defeat have drawn the bulk
of the fighting strength of the First and Fif-
teenth Armies.
AFo: —
Three field-marshals and one army com-
mander have either been dismissed or in-
capacitated by wounds. One army com-
mander, three corps commanders, 15 divi-
sional commanders and one fortress com-
mander have been either killed or captured.
The final British - Canadian break-through
finished the hash of the enemy in France.
When it came it developed a momentum faster
than the other drives further south and much
faster than anything achieved in Russia during
the German retreat. The average of some of
General Dempsey’s troops was 40 miles per
day. Lieut.-General Horrocks fetched up at
Antwerp after a run of 206 miles in six days.
General Dempsey’s Story
General Dempsey has explicitly told the story
—his narrative differs from the patchwork one
of the correspondents. The general said that
after closing the Falaise pocket, with the extra-
ordinary destruction and writing off of the
German Seventh Army, the British forces held
back while the American First Army withdrew
across the British Second Army’s boundary:
While the Americans were withdrawing I
met the American commander (General
Hodges) several times, and the British for-
ward movement, in fact, was delayed by
this circumstance for 48 hours.
But the field being clear, the race began. The
starting line was the Seine. The capture of the
C.-in-C. of the Seventh German Army on the
river left no doubt as to the enemy s intention
to try to make a stand there. But the two
British spearhead corps went through him.
One was commanded by General Ritchie—he
had quietly given up his army command in Libya
under General Montgomery, had opened the
battle of advance of bl Alamein with his corps
and had fought unadvertised with great enter-
prise and gallantry ever since. Another corps
was under General Horrocks.
These two formations included the 51st Scot-
tish Division, The Guards’ Armored Division
and the 11th Armored Division, the last two
divisions hard trained for three years without
a chance to fire a shot at the enemy. The
Scots and the Wessex men crossed the river
on August 26 and 27. On August 27 and 28
the bridgeheads were developed and bridges
built. . , . , .
On August 29 the leading corps, headed by
Generals Ritchie and Horrocks, started, paral-
leled by the Canadian Army nearer the coast.
On August 31 the British had Amiens, the first
great objective 80 miles or so from the Seme.
On September 2 they stood on the line Douai-
Lens-St. Pol and had covered 1301 miles in
four and a half days.
The last 100 miles from Douai to Antwerp
was a race by flower-decked vehicles. Brussels
was taken unharmed save for the firing of the
Palace of Justice and some minor damage.
Bridges everywhere seemed to have been
left intact, but as fhe British force approached
their old line of the Dyle and the Belgian lines
of 1940 from Antwerp southward the enemy
began to put on the brake.
The Dyle was the line which marked the
transition to the new battle from the old one,
in which General Dempsey declared that the
German had “lost grip before we gcot him,” thus
developing something which “if it is not a rout
is certainly a hasty retreat against the intention
of the German Command.”
Thus, in spite of German strength and in-
tention to hold on the Seine and Somme —the
British and Canadians had to force strongly
held crossings on the Second Army’s left flank
on the Somme —the German High Command,
in General Dempsey’s words, “completely lost
control of the situation and was unable to
offer a completely united front.”
The situation in fhe west is now peculiar.
At every port except three or four —Caen, Cher-
bourg, Rouen, Dieppe—there is an enclave
of Germans prepared to die before surrendering.
Though theirs is a hopeless case arid their end
only a matter of time, these delaying actions
are vital to German defence of the main lines.
Events of 1940 tell how crucial these small
desperate stands can be; how many troops can
be held back from a main objective by them.
It was General Nicholson’s few thousands of
British and few hundreds of French at Calais
who held back the main German forces from
Dunkirk long enough to make the difference
between sheer disaster to the Allies and a
glorious withdrawal of the Allied forces pouring
from Belgium to Dunkirk.
We have to reckon with the probability that
every German from Brest to Rotterdam who has
a chance of clinging to a port or a crossroads
will shoot it out.
Inside the territory of the British-Canadian
Army Group, in spite of vile weather, mopping-
up continues. On Sept. 10 the Canadians were
on the coast at many points, even between
Calais and Boulogne. They were on the edges
of Dunkirk,
How many Germans are in Brest, Lorient,
La Pallice, St. Nazaire. Le Havre, Bou'o-me.
Calais, Gravelines, Dunkirk, Nieuport, Ostend
SIS v r S
the state and nature of
The End of the Buzzbomb
But the days of the buzzbomb have been
ended unless the enemy can shoot from "
longer range. The crowds along the Dover
Chris can watch British and Canadians shoot
mg up Germans as five years non th°l
watched the Germans shooting up British
French troops. All the great shags o?t he Pas
de Calais have receded into history. And brave
stone-laced little Dover, in which almost e ep
house and building has been damaged, will find
more relish from now onward in the “Punch-
joke which depicted one of its sturdy residents
timepiece in hand, watching a 20-inch shell eo
over and remarking disgustedly “By Jove the
11.15’s late again.” ’
The weekly, and for long daily, visits of the
terrible fighter-bombers which have catapulted
at roof-level down the main streets of Channel
towns for years seem to have ended.
The “V” bombs—“V” for Vergeltung re-
taliation —as the Germans call them, were last
seen on September 6 when the 8060th was
launched from somewhere near the Hook of
Holland, after an 86-hour lull.
Resistance in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: -The advance of the
Eighth Army in Italy came to a halt after
the first movements towards Rimini. The
army of General Alexander is forcing its
way through a narrow corridor lined
with hills and rivulets, between the crags
of San Marino and tha sea, and the
enemy has been strongly reinforced and
the weather wet and tempestuous.
Whether the Eighth Army is really
stalled for a time or whether it is engaged
in another of General Alexander’s little
mobile games, which discomforted the
enemy and the peahen press in Tunisia
and both on the Cassino and Gothic
Lines, remains to be seep.
The development of a new Eighth
Army thrust north of Florence which has
made gains on the northward hill country
suggests that this may be so.
Nobody seems to complain that the
Fifth U.S. Army is stalled on the Ligurian
sea side, though its moves have been
limited during all the period when the
Eighth Army was taking Florence and
making the recent drive. And nobody has
mentioned that the U.S.-French forces
driving from Nice towards Genoa also
have been stalled near Ventimiglia.
All that can be said is that if the Ger-
mans did not make desperate attempts to
hold the Rimini Gap it would be a sign
that they had given up industrial Italy,
And if the Eighth Army could pierce the
gap without a struggle against anything
like competent resistance it would be a
miracle.
The Strange Eastern War.
“Ek Dum”: A Sydney paper, the
“Sun,” discovered at the week-end that
“the Eighth Army’s break-through at the
Gothic Line” in Italy had “missed fire.
Not a word about any “misfire” on the
Eastern Front. That isn’t done.
On July 31 an American weekly maga-
zine discovered that: — t
The Germans no longer had much sem-
blance of a line on the Eastern front, ex-
cept on maps. They had only bloody, be-
wildered fragments of armies, of divisions,
tossed about and swallowed like debris on
a tidal wave.
On August 9 Sydney “D.T.” reported:
In Warsaw Polish patriot troops smashing
their way out of the city are within two
miles of Russian spearheads driving down
from the north. Every blow struck has
been perfectly timed with attacks by Rus-
sian troops closing on the city from north
south and east German forces are
attempting to destroy it before they are
forced to evacuate it.
Further south, the Russians “stormed
over the Vistula on a 40-mile front and
arrived within 65 miles of Cracow. Cm
August 3 in East Prussia, the whole
panicking population was allegedly bolt-
ing, headed by the Gauleiter’s wife.
None of the shining promise of those
days has so far materialised.
From Warsaw the Russians were
driven back several miles. They are
now, after Berlin has declared that
General Bor’s resistance has ceased, inch-
ing back to the Warsaw suburb of Pf a ,S a ’
apparently at the cost of heavy casualties.
The Poles, despite Berlin, are still resist-
ing in Warsaw, .
Elsewhere in Poland the position
all important points save one is mteno
to the position on August 4.
No Progress
Moreover, the Russians are further
from Riga than they were at the end o
July. They have not been able to take tne
great railway junction of Valk, thong .
with the caving-in of Finland, the Oer-
mans have made withdrawals down t
western side of Lake Peipus,
“trapped” enemy has opened a corn t
between Latvia and East Prussia.
On the East Prussian border there have
been three Russian offensives in a month.
Each was supposed to be about to hu *
across East Prussia to Kdnigsberg.
Two have failed. On the I nst ? r^ r=
and Lyck fronts the Russians are inn
from their goal than three weeks ago-
- below the southern border-lin
from Bielystok' and the railways to


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Druramoyne,
Vo'''
CHARTS
Circular Charts lor all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
. of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
' Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation*
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, 010.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
'S
,
Established 1808 In Kelgn of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY U. HEATH, Manager. N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER.
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONA UL) PKTTITT,
Manager for Australia Si New Zealand.
Public Notices.
I ANGELO D’AMBRA, of Italian nationality, born
at Cannetol ipari, Messina, Sicily, and resident six
and a half years in Australia, now residing at 127
Curranulla Street, Cronulla, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I ANTONINO VENUTI, of Italan nationality, born
at Rapano, Rometta, Province of Messina, Italy, and
resident 17 years in Australia, now residing at 592
Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
1, SIRIO BOCCACCINI, of Italian nationality, born
at Pistoia, Italy, and resident 19 years in Australia,
now No. C.A.N.6505, Group 16, Allied Works Council,
Darwin, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936-
/
m
A
U
good spin from B.T.M.
We can impart a highly accurate spiral groove
to our Cold-Drawn Precision Seamless Steel
Tubes without machining away an ounce of
metal. This is only one of many B.T.M. manipu-
lative processes that will make
more amenities available to a
greater number of people in the
post-war years.
x.a Me.
1874
TUBE MILES
The Greater
Tour Estate
The Greater Tour Responsibility
Those who carry the responsibility
of property ownership owe it to
themselves as well as to their depen-
dants to share that responsibility
with others worthy of their trust.
They should draw upon the pooled
wisdom and advice of experienced
men to guide them while they live;
they should so make their disposi-
tions and appoint their executors to
ensure that their intentions will be
correctly and faithfully interpreted.
The Union Trustee Company, after
over 50 years of trusted service, and
the handling of tens of millions oi
pounds worth of assets, completely
meets all these requirements.
The Union Trustee is a manager who
knows by mature and varied experi-
ence, an executor who never dies nor
grows old n**r, weary, who is always
Independent and favours none, yet Is
friendly and approachable.
The greater your estate the greater
your responsibility, and the greater
your need of expert and permanently
service.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITER
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 18S5
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larriti
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson-
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); I. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman'
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.C.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Brad field, a.f.i.a., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—®. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
south-west, has made progress to the
Narew. According to one report Rus-
sians established bridgeheads over the
river in the Lomza region, within 25
miles of the East Prussian border and
near the military area of Modlin, at the
junction of the Bug and the Vistula.
Later reports said that the Red Army
had reached the river, taking Ostroleka.
This seems to have been done at severe
cost. At the week-end Moscow was re-
porting that the defence here was the,
strongest ever encountered, and that it
was bolstered with “many new devices,
weapons and fortifications,” which in-
cluded electrified barbed-wire and mov-
able pillboxes—old stuff to Alexander's
“misfire” army.
In this Lomza-Modlin sector it was re-
ported that the “bloody bewildered frag-
ments of armies” had been transformed
into the “most powerful German fight-
ing forces on record,” including 12
armored divisions —another report said
“elements of 12 divisions.” In the Kielce-
Sandomierz area, in the Upper Vistula
bridgehead, the Russians are further back
than they were supposed to be a month
ago.
Fog in the Balkans
There remains the Rumanian position.
The reports of what is happening there
are typical of the Balkans, but the fads
seem to be;
(1) The Germans cleared out of southern and
south-western Rumania, and the Russians
were able to cross the Transylvanian range in
some parts, and take Brasov and Alba Julia and
threaten Cluj. What is more, they drove
to the point where Rumanian-Yugoslav and
Bulgarian borders approach each other on the
Danube, near the Iron Gates, where the tail
of the Carpathian range system is broken by
the river.
(2) Russia declared war on Bulgaria, an action
interpreted as meaning that she desires equality
at the peace conference in dealing with Bulgaria,
which already was at war with Britain and the
United States and nearly all the rest of the
Allies. Within nine hours Bulgaria made a re-
quest to Moscow for an armistice, which was
ignored. At 6 p.m. on September 8 Bulgaria
declared war on Germany.
(4) An Allied force from General Maitland
Wilson’s Mediterranean Command landed near
Split on the Yugoslav coast.
To this it was later added on Sep-
tember 8 that the Russians had ad-
vanced in Bulgaria 40 miles and had
taken the port of Varna on the Black Sea.
Enter Tito ,
Color was supplied by Marshal Tito s
Radio and other authorities.
Tito says there is a general rising in
Serbia. He has cut communications be-
tween Nish and Pirot —that is the main
road and rail to Bulgaria. He has cut
the Belgrade-Zagreb railway in 380 places,
has destroyed all the communications of
Macedonia and wrecked a troop train on
the Belgrade-Skoplje line, here causing
the Germans “more than 1000 casualties.”
Troop trains usually carry 300 men—4oo
at a pinch. He has taken “Zajecar, the
biggest town in Eastern Serbia, defended
by 4000 Germans and 1000 Chetniks.”
To geographers it is not much more than
a bush village.
Further good news supplemented that
about the arrival of the Russians before
the Iron Gates —they had “linked hands
with Tito’s forces,” apparently without
crossing the Danube. And:
There seems little chance of the Germans
defending the Yugoslav side of the Danube,
as they are fighting with their backs to a
wall of mountains infested with Partisans,
and their main supply line —the Nish-Bel-
grade railway—is cut.
Correct; except that *”here are no
mountains at their back —only on their
flank. Their rear line is covered only by
hills pierced by broad river valleys—
unless Tito has shifted a few ranges since
the writer was in those parts.
Also the Belgrade-Nish railway would
not be their main supply line, and Par-
tisans “infesting” hills are scarcely a
match for trained divisions.
However, the Allied Mediterranean
air forces report all main routes from
Bulgaria and Greece impassable for the
Germans.
The test in that region is whether the
Russians can break across the Danube
or across the Szrtinya Mountains into
the plains of Yugoslavia, north of the
river, to cut the Timisoara railway, or
whether they can secure the route from
the Turkish border, through Sofia and
the Dragoman Pass, into Serbia. This
road up the Maritza River was one of
the best military roads in the Balkans
when the writer traversed it 16 years or
so ago, but there are some tough nuts
to crack on the way into Yugoslavia —
particularly the Dragoman Pass.
One set of authorities held oh Septem-
ber 8 that the Russians already had
crossed the Maritza, scoured down the
Turkish border through the narrow
Greek enclave between Bulgaria and Tur-
key—the traveller passes through it on
the way from Sofia to Istanbul —and
reached Demotika, about 30 miles south
of the Greek border. But this seemed
unlikely.
It will take some time for the Allies
to develop their Adriatic beachhead,
which is on a very difficult coast. '
Tito’s Radio denies Allied landings on
the Adriatic coast, while admitting that
British and U.S. aircraft are transporting
supplies and wounded. But the Allies
appear to believe that they have a bridge-
head in the Split region. The Germans
devote almost their whole attention to
Adriatic operations by the Allies. Berlin
confirmed the report of the landings, and
on September 10 asserted that reinforce-
ments had arrived to deal with them.
Japanese Break Camp.
On September 9 the Prime Minister
announced the details of a regrettable
affair at a Japanese p.o.w. camp in Aus-
tralia.
Nine hundred Japanese were involved.
Having provided themselves somehow
with knives, baseball clubs and other im-
provised weapons, and with gloves and
padding to enable them to get through
the barbed wire, they fired huts and made
a mass attack on the guard. The time
was 2 a.m. on August 5. Prisoners broke
through the outer fence, wiped out an
Australian machine-gun crew and tried,
to storm the garrison quarters.
The Australian guard, the Prime Minis-
ter said, showed excellent discipline and
restraint. But they had to fire. By sun-
down on the evening of August 5 most of
the escapees had been cantured, but not
before an Australian officer had been
“brutally murdered.”
Japanese casualties were one officer
and 230 other ranks dead (36 committed
suicide) and 108 wounded. Losses among
the Australians were described as “light.”
Had the situation not been dealt with
promptly and firmly a greater loss of life
would have resulted.
A military court of inquiry could find
no cause for the outbreak in anything
done or omitted by those in control of
the camp. There had been no complaints
on any score. Housing was satisfactory
and the food equivalent to the Australian
military issue. The camp had been regu-
larly inspected by representatives of the
Protecting Power.


.. r , v
The Science of being
“BROKE”
The only dividends you get from spend-as-
you-go are down-trodden heels and frayed
trouser cuffs. Thrift may be an old-fashioned
virtue but it still keeps a man (or a woman)
“on top of the world". By the simple invest-
ment of even a few shillings a week in a
Commonwealth Savings Bank account you
can lift yourself out of the rut, and put your-
self in a position to assure your future
prosperity by the easy purchase of War
Bonds or War Savings Certificates. Make a
start out of this week's pay envelope.
torn********
n WITH THE
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
CB.M
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman _, F. W. Dvesbvry ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three Pnes> : HTHfil. in AH Stales 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WATCH OUT! FOR SLIGHTEST
SIGN OF BLEEDING GUMS, IT’S OFTEN
PYORRHE
4 out of 5 May be Victims
often leads to tragic loss of teeth
Everyone even young people—
should beware of those first signs
of sore, tender, bleeding gums.
This may be Pyorrhea—a danger-
ous infection where gums Join the
teeth —so common to-day—many
people never even suspect they
have It. IF NEGLECTED. Pyorrhea
often causes soft, shrinking, pussy
gums—then actual loss of teeth •
Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Easy FORHAN Way i
Every morning and night massage
your gums and brush your teeth
With Forhan’s Toothpaste—the
ORIGINAL toothpaste for mas-
saging gums and cleaning teem;
recommended and used by many
dentists themselves.
This Forhan method Is effective
because it not only helps gums to
be firmer—thus able to ward off
this terrible infection—but also
cleans dingy teeth to their “natu”
ral” brightness. Forhan’s actually
helps remove acid film that often
starts tooth decay
Use Forhan's—the only toothpaste
containing R. J Forhan's D.U.5.
special antl-Pyorrhea astringent.
A/xian Aeents: The Sheldon Drug Co.. Sydney. Price. 2/4. Extra Large Tune. 3/6.
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans Teethr—Saves Gums
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The last-moment decision that special
trains would be available gave Canter-
bury a great day, there being a large
attendance and a tote turnover of £62,078,
a record for the course.
In racing almost anything can happen,
but Sydney punters have rarely received
a greater setback than Flight’s failure to
get a place in the Canterbury Stakes, for
which she started at 2 to 1 on. Early in
the piece it was apparent she was not
going like a probable winner, and at the
turn it was palpable she was well beaten.
The success of Tea Rose was almost as
great a surprise, as, though excuses were
made for her failure at Randwick the
previous week, a win for her seemed out
of the question. Modulation did better
than in his recent races, but Hall Stand’s
third did not suggest early repayment of
the price paid for him. It seems as if
Moorland and Mayfowl can be wiped off
as sprinters, the latter in particular.
Neta Linette’s 71b. allowance stood to
her in the Canterbury Handicap. Little
Tomlinson got her to the front half a
mile from home and kept her there to the
finish, though she had nothing to spare
from Craigie, who is one of Sydney’s
unlucky horses. Air Link’s third was
good enough to make him a middle-dis-
tance possibility. He was somewhat un-
lucky. Ron Rico’s racing is not improv-
ing him, and Royal Peer again fell short
of what was expected of him a little while
back. Bon Terre was also disappointing.
Highgate had an easy win in the Flying
Handicap, the punters who follow Dar-
won’s stable making no mistake in send-
ing him out equal favorite with Soho,
who ran one of his poorest races. Winni-
peg was a fair second, but was scarcely
as impressive as Prince Buzzard, who
may not be long in having a winning turn.
Grand Fils is coming on again, while
Tidemark, who was having his first run
for several months did no better than
could be expected, finishing near the tail
of the field.
The winner of the first division of the
Three-year-old Handicap turned up in an
outsider, Fire Chat, from the same stable
as Main Topic. Always well placed, he
was too good at the finish for Royal Tip.
Luck in running was against Rag Eater,
who may do better next lime. Without
quite looking like winning, Insolvent,
Murray Stream (a longer distance would
have helped him) and The Flame ran re-
spectably, while Gay King’s chance was
settled when he blundered badly at the
start. Fire Chat is by Talking from Gold
Spark (an A.J.C. Anniversary Handicap
winner) by Scintillation.
Ridden a quieter race in the early part
than at Randwick the previous week,
Accession accounted for the Canterbury
Guineas, being a shade better than Beau
Monde, who, after leading round the
turn, hung on well at the finish, in fact,
seemed to be doing quite as well as the
winner. In getting third Victory Lad
showed something of his spring form. It
was not so with Scaur Fel, who was never
further forward than fifth. Liberality
completely failed as a stayer, after being
third at the turn. On track work his form
was all wrong. Silver Link was second to
the turn, and that was the end of him.
Cragsman again showed his brilliance
when he ran away with the second divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap in a
second faster time than the first. If he
improves as a stayer he will be a tough
proposition for any of his age up to a
mile at least. Though they had no chance
against Cragsman, Simla, Wilton Park
and Prince Galahad shaped promisingly.
Cockcrow gave W. Cook his third
winning mount of the afternoon, and
owner W. B. Mackay deserved a winning
turn. Kookaburra led for home, but
Cockcrow was too good for him over the
last bit. Phalaran beat Denton for third
money ; “while, though they were well in
the betting, St. Quentin, Dick Whitting-
ton and Lambeth never gave their sup-
porters much hope. Buzz Off’s fifth was
a fair effort, and it is probable he will
improve.
* * * *
Kintore, fastest Victorian juvenile over
a short course last season, spreadeagled
the field for the Leslie Stuart Stakes at
Mentone on Saturday. Easing from
sto 4on to .V°. 2 against, and starting
at 7 to 4 against, he revelled in the mud,
led all the way, and won as he liked
from The Bohemian and Mermeran.
Kintore has to be taken on trust as a
stayer, but, all going well, he will be a
runner for the Caulfield Guineas (one
mile) and the Victoria Derby (one and a
half mile). According to his owner, how-
ever, he will not contest either the Caul-
field or Melbourne Cups. In the autumn
Kintore was outstayed by Delina and
San Martin in the Sires’ Produce and
Ascot Vale Stakes.
Temple Chief improved on his Caul-
field form of a week earlier to defeat
Cavallo and Cloudy Bay in the Mentone
Cup, He won decisively, and it is in-
tended to start him in the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups. An aged gelding by
Pantheon from Pistyll, Temple Chief won
the Perth Cup, two miles, among other
races in W.A. before it was decided to
try him in Melbourne. Fairway Freddy,
who has been well backed at long odds
for the Caulfield Cup, shaped well enough
to suggest that he will shortly do better
over a distance beyond a mile and a
quarter.
A pronounced betting drift preceded
Regal Coin’s success in the first Yarra-
man Handicap. Early backers accepted
2 to 1, but he eased to 6 to 1, and started
at 5 to 1. Hard ridden, he finished gamely
to win by half a head from Mount Joy,
with Blue Horizon third. Regal Coin
might never be in the same class as his
half-brother. Hall Mark, but he has won
his last two races in rather impressive
styie thereby focussing attention upon
his Caulfield Guineas and Derby pros-
pects, v
* * * *
Racing at Canterbury on Saturday did
not throw much light on probable
winners of big races at Randwick Tea
Rose won the Canterbury Stakes in good
style, but the distance was too short to
reveal much concerning her Derby
chance. It looks as if Liberality can be
passed over for the latter race, and, in
opposition to Shannon, it cannot’ be
claimed that the prospects of Saturday’s
runners are particularly bright. Modula-
tion was the only Epsom candidate to
raise the hopes of his backers. Winnipeg
did well in his race, but a mile at Rand-
wick may be a trifle far for him, and it
seems as if Hall Stand can also be ruled
out. Craigie’s second in the Canterbury
Handicap was a fair effort, but did not
really strengthen his Metropolitan chance,
and nothing that ran in the Ashbury
Handicap could be accorded particularly
bright Epsom prospects. The next three
meetings in Sydney are likely to tell us
much more than we know at present.
* * * *
Victorians who have been sceptical as
to Flight being as good a mare as Syd-
neyites believe will be on good terms with
themselves after her failure at Canter-
bury. Next autumn the question of how
she compares with Victorian horses may
be settled, and it may be again demon-
strated that no horse should be con-
demned because of one bad race, A run
through the performances of Australia's
best horses will show it was impossible
for them to always be at their best.
Flight’s close second in the Doncaster
with 81b. over weight-for-age at three
years will always stand to her credit as
an exceptional effort.
* • * •
Even at the most fashionable race-
course in England they continue to give
them long programmes. At Ascot on
June 24 there were ten races, three of
which were won by horses owned by
Miss D. Paget, and a fourth by Lady
Dudley,
* * * *
English trainer J. L. Jarvis was too ill
to attend the Derby, which was won by
Ocean Swell, whom he prepared. He
listened to the broadcasts, and got plenty
of thrill out of that.
* * * *
There was general satisfaction when,
even though it was at the last moment,
the ban on special trams or trains for
race meetings was lifted last week. If
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Paul, 1;
Oberon, 2 ; Burlington or Simla, 3.
Tramway Handicap: Magi, 1 ;
Fermanagh, 2 ; Tahmoor, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Murray
Stream, 1 ; Wheatland, 2; Rag
Eater, 3.
Chelmsford Stakes; Removal, 1 ;
Shining Night, 2 ; Beau Monde or
Katanga, 3.
Spring Handicap: Craigie, 1 ;
Mustang, 2 ; Castle Frontenac, 3.
Welter Handicap: Prince Buz-
zard or Air Link, 1 ; Nightbeam, 2 ;
Merrimba, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BARRY CHARLES GILBERT.—TAKE NOTICE
that RENE JOAN GILBERT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3078 of 1944 alleging that you the said
Barry Charles Gilbert have been guilty of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 24th November 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
JAMES E. CARRUTHERS & CO. Solicitors of 72
Pitt Street Sydney N.S.W. Australia DATED sth
September 1944. —(L.s.) ,C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GORDON BRYAN BELLETTE.—TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN ANNA BELLETTE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3077 of 1944 alleging that you the
said Gordon Bryan Bellette have been guilty of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 10th November 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
JAMES E. CARRUTHERS & CO. Solicitors of 72
Pitt Street Sydney N.S.W. DATED sth September
1944. — (L.S.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO AUSTIN EDMOND BULLEN late of Alberts near
Tottenham New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
MILDRED HOLLY MAY BULLEN has filed her Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2467 of 1944 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 16th October next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
C. L. SHEEHY Petitioner’s Solicitor Wingello House
Angel Place Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN TAIT formerly of Punchbowl N.S.W.—
TAKE NOTICE that NORA CHRISTINA TAIT has
filed a Petition in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales (No. 3036 of 1944) praying for a divorce on
the grounds of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years or upwards You may enter
an appearance by the 10th November 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN & CO. Solicitors of 33-39
Hunter Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
WS 164
SPLITTING AN INCH
INTO/00.000PARTS
COMPARATOR “MAGIC” AND YOUR POST WAR PLANS
. '•
m
V
V
■
If your post • war production plans
involve any problem of precision
engineering, or call for precision tools,
gauges or instruments, the resources of
the A.T.L. organisation will be at your
disposal, in your advance planning the
advisory services of that organisation
are available to you NOW*
on
C ONS(j
*Ny
lt
A -r-L
' NV °LVI N6 P * OB L£M
/‘JISC,.
P * ec 'sio„
» o N
w
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, ENGINEERS
SYDNEY ... . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
, . ATL 3-4 D
that had not taken place, it is no telling
where the move would have ended. Flem-
ington and Caulfield without transport
for their Cup meetings would have dis-
rupted racing, without anything really
being gained, and the cutting out of
trams would have played havoc with the
A.J.C. spring meeting. Rosehill would
have fared very badly without special
trains.
» * *
There were some surprise withdrawals
from the Canterbury Guineas, a £lOOO
race. It looked easy for Shannon, but
his owner evidently preferred to keep
him for Rosehill or Randwick, the latter
a course by which he knows the colt is
suited. Presumably it was the same with
Removal, who would have found nine
furlongs to his liking. However, it shows
the flourishing position of racing in Syd-
ney when owners of three-year-olds can
afford to turn down the chance of
winning a £lOOO race.
• * * *
Flying Spy, who recently won the
Grand National Hurdle Race at Riccar-
ton (Christchurch), was the first mare
successful in that race since it was insti-
tuted 55 years ago. Maoriland generally
has good hurdlers, but it is said that there
is marked falling-off in that respect this
year.
♦ * * *
The greatest amount put through the
totalisator on any race in Auckland last
season was £53,616, on the Auckland
Cup. For nine days the total turnover
was £1,588,073, or £224,402 more than
the previous season.
* * * *
The precautions taken last month to
prevent possible interference with Abbe-
ville before the Newcastle Cameron Han-
dicap, and then the attempt to bribe his
jockey to stop him, leads one to
think there are some very tough men
in the racing game in N.S.W. A “hold-
up” on the return trip from Randwick
would seem within the bounds of possi-
bility. It therefore behoves heavy-betting
cash bookmakers and punters to be care-
ful. An armed car and a tommy-gun may
shortly be a portion of the equipment of
each section on race days. By the way,
we hear a lot about successful punters
who bet thousands in cash. Wonder how
long they will last? It is not so long
ago that there were spectacular bettors in
Melbourne and Sydney who rejoiced in
fancy names. We do not hear of them
now. They were outstayed by the books,
and it would be safe to bet it will be
the same with the new set.
♦ * * »
If the weather is favorable it is on the
cards the A.J.C. spring meeting will give
a record in the number of runners,
attendance and tote turnover. Last year
the attendance for the three days was*
139,722. There were only 26,376 present
on Derby day, which was showery, but
68,985 saw the Metropolitan on the
second day. The tote turnover for the
meeting was £370,416, which, going on
the figures for recent fixtures, is likely to
be left a long way behind.
* * * *
Fields for all the principal races at the
coming A.J.C. spring meeting will be
large, even if past records are not
reached. Thirty-eight in Aleconners year
is the best for the Epsom, and there were
35 starters when Qumologist won the
Metropolitan. A.J.C. Derby record is
17, when Trivalve won.
* * * *
Leading positions for -the . recently-
concluded season in Maonland were as
27 wins ; jockeys, J. Broughton, 30 ; race-
horses, Lord Chancellor, £5330 \ sires,
Foxbridge, £28,256 ; Mr. Standfast,
£18,710.
mISCeIiCIIIGOUS
The V.F.L. made ready for a record
crowd at the semi-final between Foot-
scray and Essendon at St. Kilda ground,
but a wet day, uncertainty of transport
and fear of being jammed in a big crowd
on a small ground cut the attendance to
about 30,000. Footscray began like a
scratch picnic team, kicking wildly,
crowding the play, fumbling the ball, un-
able to use the advantage of the wind.
When the ’Dons got the wind they
romped away, to be 7,6-1.1 at half-time,
’Scray woke up in the third term, slam-
ming on 6.3 to a goal; and it fought on
in the last quarter in a hopeless effort to
beat Essendon and the wind: Essendon
14.17, Footscray 8.4. It is Richmond v.
Fitzroy next Saturday.
■ * ‘, J. • ,
In the Sydney Rugby Union final
Randwick kicked off against a strong
wind. It ran into a Churchillian wall
of deadly tackling, and its forwards found
themselves losing the bdttlc for possession.
against a determined pack of virile East
ruckers. At “lemons” East led 8-3. The
wind dropped in the second half, but with
hooker Alby Stone winning most of the
scrums and the Tricolor backs giving the
Greens little room to move, Randwick
found the task too much: East 19, Rand-
wick 11. East will now meet University
in the “grand” final.
* * * *
Hockey Bennell made some easy money
at Leichhardt, Sydney, on Thursday, the
other party to the contract being Cliff
Bowen. Bowen went the 12 rounds, but
the best that could be said for him was
that h“ was willing. Unlike the game
but oft-defeated Bill Hebberd, who is to
be stacked up on Saturday, unless the
S.P.C.P. intervenes, Bennell would be a
fit opponent for Burns. Hebberd was
easy meat for Petersen, whom Burns
skittled in a round.
With a left to the body and a right to
the chin, A 1 Watkins had Alf Weymark
out in exactly a minute at the Sydney
Stadium. Dally Moran and Jackie Wil-
son turned on fireworks in the other con-
test, Moran winning on points.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The reception rooms at the Town Hall
were gay with spring flowers for the first
tea-party given by Mrs. Beatrice Camp-
bell to mark the beginning of her third
year as Mayoress of Melbourne. Lud
Mayor Nettlefold, for whom Mrs. Camp-
bell acts as official hostess, was returned
at the last election by a large major-
it At this informal party wives
of newly-elected councillors were wel-
comed, among them Mrs. Burns Camp-
bell. Mrs. Oliver J. Neilson, head of the
Town Hall Patriotic Group, and Mrs,
Harold Wootton, wife of the Town Clerk,
were also guests. The Angliss lady, who
spends her days in an office busy with
affairs of the Red Cross and Australian
Comforts Fund, also took time off to
attend. During the afternoon guests were
entertained by songs by Eva Clarke, an
English visitor from Singapore. Kath-
leen Gepp, in the midst of afternoon-tea,
was called away to help sister Constance
pack her clothes, for orders had come
through for Constance and Curtis to
begin the first stage of the journey which
will take them overseas.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Appeal is mak-
ing great headway, and daily some func-
tion is given to aid this cause. One of
last week’s was a doll display which made
visitors wonder why this country has
depended so long on imported dolls and
toys for Australian children. Dolls and
toys on view are practically all home-
made. A baby doll was made by a man,
and brides in flowing veils and with
orange blossoms in their curls are lovely
to behold. Even Field-Marshal Sir Ber-
nard Montgomery, wearing his badge-
bespangled black beret, is in the collec-
tion. All the bodies and faces are home-
made, all limbs are jointed and there are
even some sleeping dolls. Marjorie Law-
rence, ever generous, gave a doll which
wears a copy of her favorite gown—
white satin sprinkled with sequins and
with pink and white aigrettes in its fair
curls. Fluffy koalas, kittens, puppies and
even monkeys and elephants are featured
in this entrancing display of toys which
will be sold for the Limbless Soldiers’
Fund.
Other functions soon to be held are the
Theatrical Cavalcade (already successful
in raising £lOOO for Red Cross) and the
Gala Matinee which will celebrate the
300th performance of “Kiss and Tell.”
Arrangements for both these affairs will
be in the hands of Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
and her Younger Set.
Up to date the National Theatre has
raised £14,000 for various war funds, and
“The Scarlet Lady,” presented under the
direction of Bill Carr, was to help Red
Cross funds. Flower stalls, lucky en-
velopes and a produce stall, presided over
by Mrs. Colin McKay, made the takings
swell, and caused Gertrude Johnson,
director of the National Theatre, to smile
happily. President Robert Knox and his
lady received the Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell, and as the president is on the
council of the Red Cross, the success of
“The Scarlet Lady” was for him a winner
both ways.
Dorothea Dixon, a promising young
actress whose career has been interrupted
by a lot of useful war work, will come
back to theatrical life to play Luka in
“Arms and the Man,” to be presented by
the Tin Alley Players at the Union
Theatre.
The opening night of “The Gondoliers”
found the “House Full” sign up long
before the performance started, and judg-
ing from the applause during the evening
the show was enjoyed as much as ever.
Dr. “Bill” McDermott, with wife Ann,
found one night out of his busy life to
relax. The McDermotts were with Nor-
man and Marjorie Spry, the latter wear-
ing one of her striking hats, this time a
black pleated tulle frill attached to a
narrow band of black velvet. Merri Hart,
taking time off from her munition work,
wore a white crepe frock, liberally
trimmed with gold sequins.
Melbourne’s tramway girls have put up
what is believed to be a record for Aus-
tralia for a competition of the kind by
raising £15,000 for the Prisoners of War
Fund in a Popular Conductresses’ Com-
petition. Mrs. S. Mitchell, of Ballarat,
who won the contest, raised £3580 of the
amount.
His Majesty’s Theatre was en fete for
the gala performance of the ballet, to
aid the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund. Stalls
in the foyer displayed luscious home-
made cakes, and Mrs. George Haines
made a very enticing saleswoman.
Flowers displaying all their lovely spring
coloring were banked high on the stall
and were matched by the bevy of beauties
who sold programmes and raffle tickets.
Every seat in the house was booked, and
during an interval Claude Flemming
Dutch-auctioned a case of 1866 cham-
pagne. The lucky winner who made the
last bid got the case containing this liquid
gold for two bob. Honored guests were
patients from the Heidelberg Military
Hospital; most of them physically dis-
abled. Greeted enthusiastically by his
friends, Flying-Officer Robert Dunstan,
was all smiles. Robert lost a leg in
Tobruk, but in spite of this loss, joined
the Air Force and went, after training,
on operational flights.
Among the programme-sellers were
Jean Darragh, Eileen Hattam and Eileen’s
pal Betty Lego. Great was the excite-
ment when it was seen that General
Blarney was in the theatre, and later he
was besieged by raffle-ticket sellers. To
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and her Younger
Set must go most of the credit for a suc-
cessful afternoon. Organisation and staff
work were perfect. Alannah Coleman, a
decorative lass, wore two saucy bows
in her hair; one red, the other blue.
Alannah has finished her entry for the
Archibald Prize, and for the next few
weeks will be busy managing the exhibi-
tion given by the Contemporary Artists.
Interested in the Ballet and the stalls
was Lieut.-Col. Lydia Shaw, principal
matron of Vic. A.A.N.S. In the dress-
circle foyer Alice Wyatt was in charge of
the wheel which was spinning merrily
most of the afternoon, bringing in cash
to the fund for limbless soldiers, Madge
Aubrey was one of many anxious to win
Danny Boy, a pedigreed golden cocker-
spaniel pup.
Glowing sunshine, filtering through the
stained-glass windows of the Toorak kirk,
blessed one of the prettiest brides who
ever walked up its aisle. Golden-haired
Gloria Ladd, daughter of Mrs. W. J.
Horsfall, went to her marriage with
Licut.-Col. Harold Myslis (A.1.F.), only
son of Mrs. S. and the late Mr. L.
Myslis, Double Bay, Sydney, wearing a
gown of heavy white slipper satin. The
long bodice, scalloped on to the full-
flowing skirt, was heavily encrusted with
pearls. The short sleeves, scalloped to
match the neckline of the bodice, also
featured the pearls. From a flat crown of
jasmine and opalescent orange-blossoms
a tulle veil fell softly over the face and
almost covered the train of the gown. A
bouquet of white pink-centred orchids
added a delicate note of color to this
gold-and-white bride.
Two bridesmaids, Margaret Crisp and
Merle Tompkins, attended Gloria, and
they wore pink slipper satin, with Dutch
bonnets of unusual green lace, and carried
orchids matching the bride’s bouquet,
Mrs. W. J. Horsfall chose a beige en-
semble, the short sleeves of her coat
trimmed with fox fur in deep brown. Her
large hat was softly trimmed with pale-
green satin ribbon and pink and green
roses. In a church full of distinguished
men and smartly-gowned women, the
bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Kathleen
Hedley, was outstanding. Her silver-fox
cape was worn over a black gown ; her
small hat made entirely of gay flowers.
Supporting the bridegroom were Cap-
tain Alec Chapman and the bride’s
brother, Sergeant Hedley Ladd. Among
the guests were Mrs. Cummings Parry,
formerly of Adelaide, Mr. and Mrs.
S. Tompkins, the latter wearing a dyed
ermine coat and small flower-trimmed
brown hat, Brigadier and Mrs, Chapman,
Brigadier and Mrs. Lucas and Colonel
and Mrs. J. Wilson. After the ceremony
Mr. and Mrs. Horsfall gave a dinner
party at the Australia.
Director Lindsay, of the National
Art Gallery, is making this treasure house
more and more interesting to the general
public. Latest development is the Stree-
ton Memorial Exhibition, which Lieut.-
Governor Frederick Mann launched last
week. On the opening day many society
folk attended, among them blonde Betty
Baillieu and Mrs. Douglas Stevens.
From Sydney
Saturday was one of September’s best.
There was a sparkle in the air, there
was sunshine, and a light wind was blow-
ing. It was a grand day for a coronation.
Out at the Showground the stands were
crowded with the many subjects of the
nine candidates for the title of Miss Syd-
ney. Among them they had raised
£325,451 for Anzac House, and all present
waited anxiously for the final judgment,
and the crowning of the Queen. Film
actress Pauline Garrick, representing the
Liquor Trades, raised £100,921, and had
the diadem set on her brow by Premier
McKell. The float on which she and her
attendants made royal progress around
the ring was white and gold, and adorned
with a golden rising sun.
Joan Read, who was the Police Force
queen, brought a dowry of £98,488.
Gladys McArdle, Miss Retailer and
Gladys Moncrieff, R.S.L. Women’s
Auxiliary, were well in the money and
came third and fourth in the contest.
The sun shone on the graceful white
frocks of queens and their attendants.
The afternoon was filled with applause,
laughter, music, Gladys Moncrieff sang
“Land of Hope and Glory.” Everybody
was happy because there would now be
an Anzac House worthy of the fighting
man who bears that proud title.
For weeks past, though there was no
public announcement of the engagement,
Sydney has known" that wedding bells
were about to peal for knight Henry
Braddon and. Mrs. Violet Inglis. Last
week their marriage was announced.
Everybody knows the bridegroom, who
is one of the established personalities in
this country’s business world. For years he
has given his genial and experienced
leadership to many of this city’s charit-
able movements. For 20 of them he was
president of the board of directors of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. He
lately has resigned that office, also the
presidency of the English - Speaking
Union. His wife is attractive and in-
terested in the arts, particularly painting.
She has one son, Dr. William Inglis,
resident at Royal North Shore Hospital.
The knight has three children.
A good fairy from the Housing Com-
mission must have gone to the christen-
ing of Mrs. J. G. Barclay (pictured here
by Norton Trcvaire) saying “A home she
shall never lack, yea, even when the tide
of life takes her to Canberra a roof-tree
shall be waiting.” The wife of Maori-
land’s High Commissioner in Australia
went straight to the home in the Federal
Capital of the former Enzed High Com-
missioner and his wife. The Barclays are
already very popular, and will soon have
as many friends in Australia as they
have in their land across the Tasman.
Marjorie Lawrence, by the warmth of
her personality, evokes the friendly
interest of her audience before she sings
a note. After she has sung once her
listeners are as clamorous as the birds
around a cherry-tree. This Australian
singer with the great voice has been the
woman in the news, as far as concert-
goers and listeners-in are concerned, since
her opening concert last week. This
packed the Town Hall, whose hoary
arcades have never echoed anything more
lovely or more stirring than Marjorie’s
singing of “The Linden Tree” and
Brunnehilde’s “Plea,”
Before her opening number two
screens were drawn aside to disclose the
singer sitting on a small gilded divan.
Her frock of bouffant white organza
spread and cascaded in glinting softness.
Painted green fronds curled up from its
hem, and the same design was on the
long-fitting sleeves. Altogether, it was
fairy princess faiment, and it had been
worn for the first time in a film in which
the singer made appeal for the Aus-
tralian Red Cross. Kathryn Kuhn
designed it, 3 unn
The stage was packed organ-high with
servicemen and servicewomen; and th'v
occurred with frequency in galleries and
on the floor of the house. Esmee
Mauchee from Moree was a rapt listener
The Harry Twigdens came from Manlv'
and the H. J. Bradys from Vaucluse MrV
Greg McGirr and daughter Mrs Tom
Bateman were applauders; so were the
Charles Moses couple, the Roland
Fosters, Mrs. Stanley Vaughan, Lute
Drummond, Alice Prowse. In fact the
whole musical world had turned up And
after the concert they waited on the steps
of the Town Hall to give her another
hand Wagnerian and “Waltzin"
Matilda” enthusiasts alike.
Members of the council and commit-
tee of the United Nations’ Rehabilitation
and Relief Association and other
groups interested in post-war rehabilita-
tion were the guests of the People’s
Foreign Relations Association of China
last Thursday. Mrs. Fabian Chow, rep-
resentative of the P.F.R.A., was hostess,
serving jasmine tea and Chinese delicacies.
Under the genial influence there was
general discussion of plans, and presently
U.N.R.R.A.’s vice-chairman Gaden’s
ideas burgeoned into a speech, as did
those of Padres Davidson and Crockett.
Bishop Cranswick and the chairman of
the P.F.R.A., who voiced practical good-
will to man, were others. The arrival of
peace to the devastated countries will be
swiftly followed by the U.N.R.R.A.
This will distribute the food, clothes
and comforts supplied by such countries
as England, America and Australia.
Not only will its mission deal with
material well-being, it will also bring
mental and spiritual comforts to the
world’s suffering.
Two mauve blooms of great beauty
and opulence, in fact, two prima donnas
of the orchid world, were sent by Aus-
tralia’s queen of musical comedy, Gladys
Moncrieff, to Marjorie Lawrence at this
artist’s opening concert in the Town Hall.
Gladys is addicted to the stately flower,
and indeed Sydney women are becoming
keen connoisseurs of Cymbidium, Catt-
leya and even the perfumed Vandas. A
fine collection of these will be shown
in Mr. Carrington Deane’s display in
Anthony Horderns’ art gallery on Sep-
tember 27, 28 and 29. This exhibition
will aid the Red Cross. The John Bissett
show dated for the 13th, 14th and 15th
of the month will enrich the Kindergarten
Union Jubilee Fund. It is claimed that
this will be the biggest display of orchids
ever held in Australia.
There isn’t a busier girl in this city
than Elva Collins. Elva founded and is
president of the First N.S.W. Wives and
Fiancees’ of U.S. Servicemen’s Club. It
has a membership of 250, and Elva is
kept busy finding accommodation for out-
of-town members, or sometimes even
arrivals from other States who have come
to Sydney to marry U.S. servicemen. The
club is a happy centre for the girls, and
the president’s experience is invaluable
for those departing for a pew country.
The club’s first birthday will be on Satur-
day, and patroness Mrs. Ely Palmer, and
General Rilea, of the U.S. Army, will be
the guests of honor at the celebrations in
Vere Mathews’s cafe. Miss Collins is en-
gaged to Chief Warrant-Officer Maurice
Newton-Hager, of the U.S. Navy.
The Younger Committee working tor
Furlough House, the seaside holiday
home for soldiers’ wives and children,
had a grand night last week. The com-
mittee gave a party in honor of Marjorie
Lawrence in the Australia, and the singer
insisted on shaking hands with every guest.
There were a flower boomerang and
a map of Australia for Marjorie, the one
presented by graceful Mrs. Lynette Shep-
herd, president of the group, the other by
vice-president Mrs. Crawford Vaughan,
who made one of her fluent and happy
speeches. The singer herself is no mean
weaver of words. She said that helping
to raise funds for the Marjorie Lawrence
wing was one way of saying “Thank you
to the women of Australia for the inspir-
ing letters written to her in her illness-
There’s to be a Bob Hope wing also. I
had a lift on the way from the H°"V
wood party at the Roosevelt. Dinner-darn-
ing and entertainment made up the fare.
The bone of contention this week is
being growled over by butcher and house-
wife. The butcher wants to have a holi-
day every Saturday, but the housewi
says “What about me —the legions or m
who have no refrigerators, have
culty in getting ice or even have no i
chests at all?” If the butcher gets his
holiday it looks as though the g° od
traditional week-end roast dmner
go into the ashes of the past. Or
Sydney could go vegetarian. Or =■
the butchers could arrange it -
themselves and have alternate we< - *
free. But why bring the matter up
when the woman in the home ha
food problems than ever before.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed hrst is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
forest Fires and Erosion
The Australian Alps cover a large slice
0 f territory, most of which is dense forest,
uninhabited except for a mere sprinkling
0 f timbergetters, cattlemen and prospec-
tors. Every summer thousands of square
tfliies of bush are burned ; smoke rising
from one or more fires may be seen from
a high peak at any time during a dry
s pell, and some of these fires burn for
weeks in virgin country. Only those with
sensational news value are ever men-
tioned in the press. Except in certain
ar eas these forest fires are seldom dan-
gerous to human life, although proper-
ties fringing the bush sometimes suffer
severely. But losses by erosion are
iriounting steadily.
Ten years ago I saw heavily-scrubbed
mountain country burnt out, and with
the succession of rainstorms that followed
inches of soil were taken off the slopes
in a few weeks. Today those ranges are
bate of scrub ; once-permanent creeks go
dry early in summer, and the spurs and
gullies are scoured and torn from rush-
ing water after each fall of rain. This sort
of thing is happening every year on a more
or less grand scale throughout the Alps.
Normally, the soil on a mountain slope
is loose and friable, a decayed leafmould
held by a network of roots from the
scrub. Without the protective covering
of scrub it offers no resistance to a heavy
fall of rain. The trees, though hit hard
by fire, manage to survive after a fashion
and will in time rehabilitate the area, but
several decades without fires must elapse
before the damage is repaired. At the
present rate of fires badly-damaged areas
will never recover, and the catchments of
the Murray and other fine rivers are suf-
fering great damage.
Many of these fires are caused deli-
berately for the stimulation of fresh
growth for cattle feed on river- and creek-
flats not settled, or are the outcome of
downright larrikinism “to see it burn” ;
others start from carelessness in burning-
off on outlying farms or from fires left
by campers in remote areas. Prosecu-
tions for fire-lighting are few, and the
penalty is a fine of a few pounds. Burn-
ing our forests should be regarded as a
criminal offence punishable by a jail
sentence.
Forest officers have large areas to
patrol and many other duties to per-
form ; rural police are kept busy with
normal routine tasks. Neither have time
or much opportunity for detection of
firebugs. The remedy is to appoint special
patrol officers to police the forests.
Canada and the U.S.A. put aeroplanes
and radio to good effect for these pur-
poses. Unless we are to lose vast areas
of forests and water catchments, the task
of prevention and treatment of forest
fires should be taken in hand immediately.
—Esk D. (Vic.).
The Australian Army
As the months go by more and more
Patriotic Australians (especially the mem-
bers of the 1914-18 A.1.F.) are wonder-
ing at the inactivity of Australia’s huge
army, doing garrison duty when the rest
of the British Empire and its allies are
flat out in all theatres of war.
It is deplorable that we are not repre-
sented by the A.I.F. in either France or
Italy. One does not blame the individual,
as from every lad on leave one hears the
same tale: learning nothing, doing noth-
ing, fed up. It is up to Curtin and
Forde to remedy this sorry state of
affairs before the finger of scorn is
Pointed at us. —1914 Digger (N.S.W.).
Soldier-settlement
“Fair Play’s” suggestion (B, 16/8/ ’44)
to group soldier-settler homesteads on a
central reservation makes good sense. The
average Australian is town-minded. Some
are already working their farms from the
township, and more would like to ; but
the shanty on the farm is rent-free, while
the township house and the travelling
back and forth between it and the farm
cost money.
One thing that will split any settlement
scheme open is the sense of failure of
the individual—often an illusion, but
Understandable in the man who has
"Worked and lived with a mob and re-
ceived sure and regular pay for years
cmly to be shunted off on his own and
ieft in the dreary economic desert that
stretches between far-apart wool or har-
vest cheques. Let anybody used to regu-
lar pay try it; after several months with-
out any money coming in one feels pretty
destitute and despondent. When eventu-
ally a fair-sized cheque arrives there is in
place of the sense of poverty and failure a
false optimism and feeling of affluence
with resultant unwise expenditure.
The soldier-settler (or any other just
starting out) would have a better chance
if for the first two or three years he could
get his money as regularly as he formerly
got his pay. It could be done by fort-
nightly advances against his wool or
other cheque, and it shouldn’t be impos-
sible to arrange that. — Enveen (Tas.).
History threatens to repeat itself, as is
evident from the unsuitable type of
land selected for soldier-settlement in
the Northern Rivers district (N.S.W.)
Some of the Diggers who drew blocks
refused to have anything more to do with
country on which they were expected to
make a living.
Any scheme of soldier-settlement will
be doomed to failure if administered by
any Government department. The Com-
monwealth Government, must find the
finance, certainly; but that’s no reason
why practical men, free from any red-
“Gambling is strictly forbidden in this camp. If you want a game there's
one on in Hut D.”
tape restrictions, should not be appointed
to control land selection, choice of appli-
cants and general administration until
each soldier-settler is firmly established.
The most successful of all attempts in
the way of soldier land-settlement was
that achieved after the 1914-18 war by
A. H. W. Cunningham, who established
the Diggers’ cattle station in N.Q.,
and had the satisfaction of seeing the
venture turn out trumps almost from its
inception. With a practical man like
Cunningham at the helm, the station
proved . a highly successful venture, so
much so that from the profits many thou-
sands of pounds have been provided for
the welfare of returned soldiers and their
dependants in the north. Owned by a
trust and worked by returned soldiers
only, the Diggers’ cattle station has
proved a godsend to many families, and
the station owes its prosperity to A. H.
W. Cunningham solely. No wonder the
R.S.S. and A.I.L.A. awarded him its
highest honor.— Ex-Digger (N.S.W.).
Officers and Discipline
“Lieutenant” (A.1.F.) (B. 30/8/ 44)
must be very young. Otherwise he might
remember what happened to the creator
of “Ole Bill” of the “Better ’Ole” during
World War I. For many moons Captain
Bruce Bairnsfather made the British
Army laugh at his sketches of careless
Tommies and discomfited officers, till
Authority suspected him of undermining
morale and ordered him to sheath his
pencil. , , ,
Then came the dark days when the
Tommies forgot how to laugh amid
the mud and blood of the trenches.
Authority remembered the once-depre-
cated funny man and sent an urgent mes-
sage requesting him to resume the clown-
ing which had enabled brave men to
laugh at death and discipline in the same
breath. They tacitly admitted that a car-
toon can be mightier than a cannon, and
that saluting the Loot doesn’t cut much
barb wire in the imminent deadly breach.
If “Lieutenant” (A.1.F.) will try to see
The Bulletin’s service jokes through the
eyes of the rankers he may see himself
as others see him —with due allowance
for artistic license —and be able to avoid
some of those foolish notions in airs
and dress that make ungodly privates
laugh and the angels weep.— Ha Ha
(S.A.).
Army Truck Drivers’ Grievance
An army truck driver, except when
under direct orders to the contrary from
his 0.C., is answerable to the civil
authorities of the district in which he is
moving. If he is charged with a breach
of civil traffic laws he must find his own
defence, and, unless one can be sub-
peonaed as a witness, no officer may
appear in court to stand by the soldier.
Js.Pt, unaware of the G.R.O. in this re-
spect, often take it as a circumstance
against the accused that it was not con-
sidered worth while for an officer to speak
on his behalf.
Testimony re a man’s character would
not commit the Army to anything, and
from my own experience it might make
all the difference between conviction and
acquittal.— Driver (A.1.F.).
Air Crew Decorations
I and my fellow-ground-staff members
take exception to the remark of “Bolin
(R.A.A.F.) that the value of “mentioned
in dispatches” “has been ruined because
about 90 per cent, of such awards are
to non-flying personnel.” We would like
to remind “Bolin” that but-for the n.-f.p.,
particularly fitters, he and his fellow-
heroes might never return from their
spectacular operations.
We expect no decorations or glory, but
resent this attempt at disparagement.
Needless to say, most air-crew members
realise and appreciate the ground crews’
unceasing vigilance and service.—Pom-
pom (R.A.A.F.).
National Projects
Before the tumult and shouting of the
referendum campaign had died Dr, Eyatt
had discovered the Tennessee Valley irri-
gation project. The only lesson to be
learnt from it is the extent of the muddle
bureaucrats can create when turned loose.
The traffic bridge at Peat’s Ferry,
Hawkesbury River, provides a nearer-
home lesson. Building by Government
has been going on for years and years.
Any private contractor who failed to
overcome the anticipated engineering dif-
ficulties in half the time would have gone
broke and been chopped to pieces by
public opinion. But it is a Government
project, and only visitors from abroad
have been mystified as they crossed the
river in a primitive punt.
Sydney’s North Shore Bridge (and what
a good job!) went through on the dot,
but private enterprise built it, teaching
Australians a new craft.
Management of a productive enter-
prise such as irrigation should be free
of red tape. The red tapeworm nearly
killed the Tennessee Valley scheme, and
no American is proud of its history.—
E. N. B. (N.S.W.).
Nationalisation of Mines
Despite the severe rebuke which the
Curtin Government received at the polls
on August 19, one of its members —the
irrepressible Eddie Ward —advocates the
nationalising of coalmines.
For the Government to attempt this
in the face of the referendum vote would
mean committing political suicide. The
suggestion of nationalisation implies that
the fault rests with the mineowners,
which is not in accordance with fact. It
is the strikers who need nationalising, not
the mines. If the mines were taken over,
either the miners would continue to strike
to get better conditions or to get rid of
bureaucratic control which they would
find galling, or else they would receive
preferential treatment over other workers
in industry.
Private enterprise has developed the
coalfields in the past and will continue
to do so if the miners will do a fair thing.
And in war-time that is not asking too
much.
Apologists for the men inform us that
“more coal is being produced now than
ever before.” That is beside the point.
Under modern conditions we have a right
to expect treble production—and would
get it but for having a spineless Govern-
ment at Canberra. , „
At the back of these upheavals is the
desire of Miners’ Fed. leaders for
“absolute control.” In other words, they
want the mines Sovietised, which would
spell ruination to the country. —A. Daly
(S.A.).
Strikes
The real reason behind the majority
of strikes and the tendency to stop work
on any trifling pretext lies in the increas-
ing scale of taxation on all additional
effort. The more money a man earns the
more he is taxed, so, as a result, the
worker says “What’s the use?” He can
earn a sufficiency by working half a week
—six months in the year.
Increased production could be obtained
and maintained if an incentive were
offered. The idea that loyalty or patriot-
ism comes into the picture has been con-
clusively disproved by events.
Tax for piece-workers should be based
on a normal weekly output. That tax
would constitute a prior claim on earn-
ings, so a certain amount of work would
have to be done before the worker had
any cash coming to him. But whatever
he might earn over and above his quota
or weekly sum on which he is taxed,
should be tax-free.
The efficiency of the scheme would
depend largely on the equitable fixing of
the fair weekly wage, and it would not
do to use recent averages in most mines.
Nevertheless, if the Priminister wants a
solution to his coal-production problems
here’s one to his hand. —J. J. H. (N.S.W.).
Taxation Hampers Production *
Despite the scarcity of labor, to which
it is fashionable to attribute all shortages
of supply, there need be no lack of meat
in Australia if the Government realisti-
cally encouraged production instead of
seriously hampering it, as is the case at
present.
Prices for stock are admittedly good,
but the farmer, sheepman and beef-raiser
are discouraged by the anomalies of tax-
ation, which practically compel them to
keep production at a minimum if they
want to make profits. Surely it would be
in the best interests of Australia and
Australians to adjust taxation so that
increased production becomes worth
attempting instead of a liability.— Jiff
(N.Q.).
Thrift and the Thrifty
Will “A Daly” (B. 12/7/’44) and other
writers who have harped on thrift define
the term? In the stratum of society to
which I belong the thrifty fellow is gener-
ally childless —that’s how he owns his
house and has money in the bank. Is he
the citizen who ought to be pensioned in
his old age, or should not rather the
couples who have reared families get a
pension?
My wife and self will be dependent on
M.L.’s pension scheme in a very few
years, and shall not blush when drawing
the pension. Of our three sons, two were
fit and went overseas as volunteers. One
was killed ; the other is wounded and a
p.o.w. Three of our four daughters are
the wives of soldiers, and our grand-
children are the sons and daughters of
soldiers.
We think we have done better for
our country by rearing a family than we
could have done by having no children
and saving money.
The property of the thrifty would be of
little value to them if the sons of the
thriftless were not ready to defend it. —
Seamus Dhu (M.L.).
A Free Hospital?
So Scottsdale (Tas.) has a free hos-
pital, has it, “Derwent” (B. 2/8/’44)?
It is free to some at the expense of
others. The property-holders foot
the bill; rates have jumped 3d. in the
pound. The reasoning is that the land
is the source of all wealth, and therefore
should bear all the charges.
The next step may be free cars, fol-
lowed by free trips round the world —if
the Official Receiver hasn’t taken over the
municipality by then.— -Kenn Scott (Tas,).


-
S.O.S.
\
H.M.S. "Kelly” torpedoed
in the North Sea
The exploits of His Majesty’s destroyer
“Kelly” inspired the great film “In
Which We Serve”. Here is told just
one incident of her career.
On the night of 10th/11th May,
1940, the “Kelly” was torpedoed in
the North Sea during an engagement
with enemy E-boats. Radioing to
base, air protection was requested.
Hudsons located the “Kelly” at 6
a.m. She had listed so badly her star-
board decks were awash. But she had
not been abandoned by her crew. All
day Hudson aircraft, in relays, kept
guard. Next morning they were back
again. Twice German aircraft tried
to bomb the destroyer. Admiralty
tugs arrived, and the “Kelly”, with
the air protection maintained right
throughout, was towed to port. Little
more than her upper works was visible.
It is radio which makes possible
this co-ordination amongst the services.
* * *
Australian industry is turning out wonder-
ful equipment for her armed forces ...
planes, ships, guns and radio. But it is
radio which makes the smooth working
possible in combined operations. Let us
now and then give a thought to the Aus-
tralian initiative which made possible the
building of all such equipment in Aus-
tralia. And whilst Australian industry
retains this initiative, we need never fear
of being cut off from our sources of
supply. Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia)
Ltd.
GO NOW
and
make
ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION
fho
Second
VICTORY
LOAN
