

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3350
Wednesday, April 26, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnanef.
Seppelts
LIME STREET, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
NT INE-TENTHS of all the visitors who land in Liverpool stay
N there as little time as possible. Their memories of the place
are chiefly those of a hurried struggle to get from the steamer to
the railroad station, or from the railroad station to the steamer.
The principal building, therefore, which they recollect in Liverpool
is the one outlined in this illustration, namely, the London and
Northwestern Hotel, upon the other side of which the trains of the
London and Northwestern railroad start for London. As a matter
of fact, however, Liverpool deserves more attention than is usually
paid to it. It is the principal seaport of England and its second
city; its architectural features of a high order. St. George’s Hall,
directly opposite this hotel, must always command the admiration
of even the most hasty traveller, for it is in the form of an immense
Greek temple 600 feet long and 170 feet wide, adorned with
Corinthian columns and many sculptures. Around this also are
equestrian statues of Queen Victoria, the Prince Consort and the
Earl of Beaconsfield. Some literary associations also make Liver-
pool interesting. It is the birthplace of the “Grand Old Man,”
W. E. Gladstone ; and the house in which he was born (No. 62
Rodney Street) is still visible. Americans should not forget that in
Liverpool from 1853 to 1857 the United States Consul was their
gifted novelist, Nathaniel Hawthorne.


s;.,n|Wr|U,'Hl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Addrets
S.B. 241 AGE
The Red Page
CASEY IN A PAPERBACK.
Presumably to avoid those delays in
publishing which break authors’ hearts
as well as their bank accounts, Gavin
Casey has allowed his second collection
of short stories, Birds of a Feather (R. S.
Sampson Printing Co., Perth), to be
printed as a paperback; a garish piece
of work in red, white and blue, probably
designed to catch the eyes of bookstall
buyers. ,
There are many printer’s errors in the
text, and, by a strange oversight, various
Bulletin catchlines to the stories —
“Comedy* of Miners,” “Good, Breezy
Yarn of Gold-thieving,” etc.—have found
their way into the book.
Format is important. Many a bad
book has passed for good because it was
impressively presented, and it seems
likely 'enough that a good book badly
produced could at least temporarily miss
its mark. Birds of a Feather won’t miss
sales by its format, but it might conceiv-
ably miss some of the respect which a
new Casey collection would normally
receive as a contribution to literature and
the development of the Australian short
story.
That’s the disadvantage of publication
in this form ; but there' are also some
advantages. Here is Casey presented not
as a “serious” artist in the short story,
not impressively as a recent Prior Prize
winner, not, as it were, canonised, but
simply as a popular author to be bought
on the bookstalls as Lawson was pre-
sented in his day. He is to be read on
his merits as an entertainer, judged by a
very wide audience.
How will the bookstall-buyer who,
unless he is also a reader of The Bulle-
tin, may never have heard of Gavin
Casey react to this book? What will he
find to entertain him?
It seems most likely that he’ll react
very favorably indeed. He will find two
men drinking in a bar together and re-
calling days of shared adventure; an s.p.
bookie in another pub, fat, hard and
purse-proud, revealing that once he was
an athlete, and, beneath his mask of arro-
gance, still longs for the old days when
he was one of the boys on the river. And
then the reader will come upon a farce
about a goat that, like all the best goats,
will eat anything from the canvas hood
of a car to a packet of detonators, and,
when feeling unwell, “jist pecked about at
jam tins an’ so forth till he got well
agin.”
Then a powerful study of a hit-and-
run driver, a weakling who will spend
the rest of his life in secret nightmare.
Then a young fellow making good as one
of the expert ball-mill gang at a mining
mill. And an amusing yarn about gold
stealing and family feuds. Then an ex-
ceptionally strong drama of motor-bike
racing. A study of a small boy who puts
up a fight for his father, looked down
on by more successful relatives.
A story about a miner who wishes to
cut his finger off for the compensation
money but is afraid to do so. Portraits
of an old man who loses his job and the
young man who, unwillingly, takes his
place. A successful businessman who
finds at a gathering of pioneers he will
never command the affection that the
old-timers feel for his merrier and more
adventurous brother. A sympathetic
study of a girl in love. A nervous
young car-salesman making good. Two
more comedies of gold stealing and
another comedy of “compensation.” The
first struggles and eventual success of
miners who take up a new trade in the
city.
The people are alive; the situations
are strong; there is a balance of tragedy
and comedy; the backgrounds are always
convincing: the bookstall-buyer should
be more than satisfied. And it is im-
portant that he should be. Art is not for
coteries, but for the world. Casey has
here succeeded in one of the essentials of
writing: to be “popular” without mak-
ing concessions to bad taste.
Successful, therefore, as a paperback,
how would Birds of a Feather be received
if it were presented in more dignified
format as “serious literature”?
Though no story has the outstanding
quality of “Short Shift Saturday,” and
though the collection as a whole does
not seem quite up to Casey’s standard,
it may do something to counteract the
impression of drabness given by his first
book.
Reviewing It’s Harder for Girls in a
recent ‘.‘Southerly,” H. M. Green, ad-
mitting that the stories were “powerful
and compelling,” made the point that
the tone was “grey”: “The greyness is
almost unredeemed except by -the con-
tinually unsuccessful aspiration of the
character who runs through most of the
stories. He is a miner, and it is always
clear that ahead of him and his are
inescapable decline and drab tragedy.”
If it were applied to Birds of a Feather
that criticism could be proved untrue.
The two men in the title story have en-
joyed their lives of adventure ; the young
man in the ball-mill gang is a success ;
the girl in love succeeds in attracting the
attention of the youth she wants ; the car
salesman wins an order from his most
difficult “prospect” ; the miners who start
a factory in the city become wealthy
men. People in this book do escape the
“inescapable decline,” and there are the
humorous yarns to relieve any drabness.
The criticism could be proved untrue,
yet an impression of its truth, in spirit
if not in fact, would remain. Casey’s
tragedies are always so much stronger
than his comedies.
The “continually unsuccessful miner”
whom H. M. Green discerned to be the
hero of it’s Harder for Girls— the man
who failed when other men were success-
ful, the man who was alone and miser-
able when everybody else was enjoying
himself at the “Bucks’ party,” the man
who was afraid when other men were
bold, the man to whom successful men
are repellent and secretly pathetic (“The
Fat Man”) or snobbish (“A Blow for the
Family”) or unpopular (“The Pioneers”)
—this suffering character, yearning for
his lost childhood, reappears in Birds
of a Feather. He is the hero of
the outstanding story of the book,
“Horsepower,” and, successful though he
is as a dirt-track racer, his secret longing
is to have done with it all: “To have
come through the whole business honor-
ably, without being a squib, and yet to
be finished with it.”
What Casey has yet to do, if his work
is to have balance, is to portray, as
strongly as he depicts the man who wants
to be finished with life, a man who loves
it; to write a comedy equal in power to
his tragedies. Dyson is remembered for
“The Golden Shanty” ; Lawson as much
for “The Loaded Dog” or “The Ventri-
loquial Rooster” as for “The Union
Buries Its Dead.” Birds of a Feather
shows that, if he has not yet written any-
thing in comedy or farce to equal his
tragedies, Casey has at least made the
attempt.
Artist and Gorilla .
Stuart Cloete’s Congo Song (Collins)
is remarkable for the creation of one
character, Sebastian the painter. A
“Christian Communalistic Anarchist” in
his politics, disliking missionaries because
“they have no souls,” usually drunk with
absinthe and always drunk with words,
consoling himself with two black wives,
but living only for his painting, Sebas-
tian is a familiar type —the artist as a
chaotic child —but he is drawn with the
most delightful vitality and humor.
Set in the heart of the Congo, a com-
plete change from Cloete’s stories of the
Boers, the novel is peopled by characters
who decrease in interest in proportion to
their significance in the plot. Sebastian
and his two wives, who really, have little
to do with the central theme, are excel-
lent. Channel, a French doctor who
serves as a sort of Greek chorus, com-
menting learnedly on the action from a
biological viewpoint; Relief, a chemist,
a man broken by a passion he despises ;
Professor Le Blanc, fanatically botanis-
ing and blind to his wife’s infidelities ;
Bentinck, a hunter; Marais, a German
agent; Von Brandt, a typical Nazi—these
are all well done.
Henry Wilson, who with Olga le
Blanc, the professor’s wife, carries the
burden of the action, is as colorless as
his name. In its essence, the novel relies
for its drama on the love story of Wilson
and Olga and on Wilson’s defeating a
Nazi plan of sabotage, and there can’t
be true drama when one of the protago-
nists is hollow.
This, the. weakness of the central
character, is common in novels. Wilson
is a sort of mirror reflecting the people
and the action ; and, since he works satis-
factorily as such, perhaps it doesn’t matter
that he’s not a living person.
But it does matter that Olga is not satis-
factorily drawn as a personality. She
is an excursion into the bizarre; the
exotic • the abnormal. She keeps a tame
gorilla; she has had an affair with
Sebastian and, while the story progresses,
conducts affairs simultaneously with
Relief, Von Brandt and Wilson. In spite
of all this, she is colorless. Sebastian’s
two black wives are alive, but Olga is
like an exhibit in a waxworks.
In spite of its faults, the love story
moves along more interestingly than the
spy story, which is clogged by unneces-
sary mystification. Not until page 231
is it revealed that Brandt and Marais
have a plot to blow, up the barrier of
Lake Victoria and stop the flow of the
Nile, and there is no good reason why
this should not have been made plain
from the start. Bentinck, like Wilson, is
a secret-service agent in disguise and
knows more or less what the Nazis are
up to, but after weeks in his confrere’s
company he dies muttering incomprehen-
sibly, never revealing what he knows. In
this respect, the book is an unsuccessful
attempt at blending the mystery story
and the novel proper.
The denouement of both the love and
espionage stories, when Olga’s gorilla
kills Marais, the professor and Relief
and is itself killed by Channel —a sym-
bolisation of the outbreak of war —takes
more than a bit of believing.
In style, plot, thought, characterisation
and even in its evocation of the spirit of
the Congo it’s a novel that doesn’t quite
arrive; but it’s an interesting journey
and shows a promising development in
Cloete,
Bird Watcher Abroad,
Somewhere in The Incredible Year
(Angus and Robertson) Alec Chisholm
hits on what would be a good subject for
an essay—the English passion for bird-
watching. He lists Chamberlain, Bald-
win, Grey, Malcolm MacDonald and
John Masefield as nature-lovers, and re-
prints from The Bulletin a cartoon
by Frith of Chamberlain bird-watching
at the time of Munich.
< The diary of travels in England and on
the Continent from May, 1938, to early
in 1939, The Incredible Year is somewhat
hampered by the fact that Chamberlain,
Baldwin, Grey, Malcolm MacDonald,
Masefield and their thousands of fellow-
enthusiasts have watched every bird in
England from the egg to the tomb.
Mr. Chisholm finds oddments of news
when he meets an Australian cockatoo --
a sort of Lord Haw-Haw of birdland —
speaking German in Germany ; when he
encounters a lady in Holland who has
an overwhelming affection for James, the
lyrebird that used to enchant the tourists
at Melbourne’s Ferny Creek ; and when
he sees a collie bitch foster-mothering
three baby tigers in Regent’s Park Zoo ;
but—though it is pleasant enough to ac-
company him in search of the nightin-
gale and the other well-known friends of
the bird-watchers—it is not exciting. It
is not news in the way another book by
Alec Chisholm about Australians birds
would be.
The same criticism applies to those sec-
tions of The Incredible Year (the greater
part of the book) in which Mr. Chisholm
observes places and people. It is refresh-
ing to meet an author who doesn’t rage
at Chamberlain but sees him as Churchill
did, as the man who took England into
the war with clean hands ; it is almost
news —so quickly does contemporary his-
tory fade into the background— to read
first-hand reports of Hitler’s speeches
round about the time of Munich: but it
has all been done before.
And, though it is pleasant to take a
tour round the old places again and there
are always a few fresh points of interest,
there is not much new to say about
Stratford-on-Avon, the Roman relics in
Dorset, the Burns country and Edinburgh
Castle. Probably realising this, Mr. Chis-
holm has done his best to discover less
familiar places, Avebury instead of Stone-
henge, historic Bass Rock near the Firth
of Forth, and Gilbert White’s Selborne.
Lacking distinctiveness in purpose, out-
look or style, this is a muddled book,
readable but of no lasting interest. The
reverse would be the case if Mr. Chis-
holm had written a new book about Aus-
tralia, where Prime Ministers have yet to
learn that birds as well as voters are
worth watching.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: “The Day Is Gone,” by W.
Chetham-Strode, put on by Melbourne
Little Theatre at Smith Yarra, is con-
cerned with a chemist who has a more
than ordinarily obnoxious wife and is
in love with another woman. A friend
drops the observation that to commit the
perfect murder one must make it look
accidental. The husband wraps his wife
up in a heavy coat, takes her fishing in
a boat, tips her over and marries her
rival, but he has forgotten the important
detail —a police inspector who has an
obsession for crime detection and, more-
over, is the brother of the murdered
woman and is in love with the other. The
inspector-succeeds in convincing the new
wife that her husband is an English
Landru and, just as he disposed of the
first wife for her money, so he ig engaged,
by the simple means of arsenic, in dis-
posing of the other. The distracted
creature, who is about to become a
mother, reveals her suspicions to her hus-
band, and he confesses to the first murder
but denies that he projects a second. She
believes him, but now there is a shadow
between them. He goes out, ostensibly
to give himself up, and throws himself
under a passing railway engine. The play
isn’t oversubtle. Anatole France dealt
with a similar theme in “Jocasta” but
with a difference. Nevertheless, the play
is good theatre, and the audience was
kept bubbling between laughter and ap-
prehension. Lance Nicholls as the hus-
band, Mabel Thatcher as the first wife,
Irene Mitchell as the second, and Fred-
erick McMahon as an incipient film star
were the best of a band of natural actors.
At the talkies:
Dreams and prognostications of seers, and
their impact on human destiny, comprise the
subject matter of three stories by Oscar Wilde,
Lasio Vadney and Ellis St. Joseph which are
neatly tied together in “Flesh and Fantasy”
(Sydney State). There is a fine irony in the
story of the wealthy man who, forcing from a
palm-reader something which the seer obviously
wishes to suppress, leams that he is fated to
commit a murder. The revelation so plays on
his mind that he selects as his victim his elderly
hostess. Her death from natural causes between
decision and execution of his resolve further
unbalancing his mind, he finds his eventual
victim—the seer. Edward G. Robinson gives
full play to his undoubted dramatic talents as
the doomed man. There is drama, too, worked
out with a nice restraint by Charles Boyer,
Barbara Stanwyck and Charles Winninger in an
entertaining tale of a tight-rope walker who
dreams that he plunges from his dizzy height
during a performance, the horror-stricken face
of a girl in the audience vividly impressed on
his memory as he wakes. He meets her, and
the tension is as taut as the rope on which
the performer balances.
“The Battle of Russia,” in the series of
documentary films “Why We Fight,” bears all
the hall-marks of propaganda. Simply a series
of newsreels strung together, it gives the im-
pression that Russian soldiers who don’t sing
without pause, morning, noon and night, are
scarcer than fur on an emu. Apart from some
horror shots and some authentic scenes of
street fighting in Stalingrad, it is an hour and
a half of noise and unconvincing stuff, such as
Cossacks, clad in black, charging the enemy
across an endless waste of snow, and not a
man falling. A much more interesting film
from Australia’s viewpoint is a short, spoken
by Joseph Grew, the former U.S. Ambassador
to Tokyo, on the strength and weakness of
Japan. An absorbing and informative piece,
but not long enonugh.
“Cauboy”: The fact that the audi-
ence at “Tennessee Johnson,” when the
present writer saw it at Melbourne
Princess, started to drift out before it was
over was almost a tribute to the realism
of the producer. Andy Johnson became
President after the murder of his friend
Abe Lincoln, and followed reconstruction
policy inaugurated by Abe, but shortly
after got involved in trouble with Con-
gress and was impeached and tried before
the Senate, one of the charges being that
he frequently spoke when in a mixed
state of rage and intoxication. In the
film he is acquitted on the vote of a
Senator who has fainted, probably from
disgust, is carried back into the chamber
and records his judgment, apparently
while still unconscious. This is so like what
has happened here that any patriotic Aus-
tralian audience can be excused for walk-
ing out from such a painful reminder of
democracy in action. Nevertheless, taken
as a satire on government of the many
for the many by the few, the film has
points about it. Van Heflin is the im-
mortal Andy, and Lionel Barrymore,
looking extraordinarily like Mr. Roose-
velt, sadly overacts the part of the Presi-
dent’s chief opposer.
“Mac Hoots”: X celebrate the refor-
mation of Sydney “Morning Herald. In
her latest leader on Australian art Granny
declared: “There is undoubtedly talent
in this country.” True, the Old Lad)
went on to complain as usual that the
nation and its artists are revolving ‘ m
a small Australian backwater,” and “ e l;
admission that talent exists was qualified
by the phrase “if properly directed ; yet
the admission was made, “There is un-
doubtedly talent in this country.” Granny
is weakening.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
(Own...
V
l, ...v
n ; m
m
W v
/
x
A "V
"V* % \ > »
~% \^hM>
i 1
, 7
M /
s>«*
y~‘>
POULTRY HUMOSS
Fire Fly Hand Garden Plough. A
very useful implement for gar-
deners who have a large area to
cultivate. Opens a furrow up to
6 inches wide and 3 inches deep.
Cambridge .. . 40/-
im? o nos a3uwaawH
No. 16 Hand Cultivator. This machine does all the
work in the garden of ploughing, furrowihg, hilling
and cultivating. Equipment consists of one plough,
three cultivator tynes, one pair weeding hoes and one
three and one five tooth rake. Mintern 68/6
Cambridge 807-
No. 17 Hand Cultivator. The same as No. 16, only
without the rake. Mintern 61/6
Poultry Humoss. A scientific blending of poultry
manure and humus material, making a safe and
efficient manure for all garden purposes. 71b., 1/6
14 lb., 2/11 28 Ib., 4/9 56 lb., 9/- I cwt., 15/6
Vitamold. the all humus material for improving soil,
plant life, and moisture retention. Ideal for seed boxes,
pot plant, fruit trees, vegetables, etc. 50 lb. bags, 10/-
100 lb. bags ; 18/6
Clensel Insecticide. An ideal, all-purpose spray mix-
ture which will keep your plants healthy and free from
disease, i pt., 1/6; 1 pt, 2/6; 1 qt., 4/-; i gal., 7/6;
1 gal., 13/-; 4 gal, 48/-
Dutch Hoe Heads for
weeding, etc. 5 in., 1/5
6 in 1/6
F
Five Tyne Adjustable Hand Cultivator. A
handy tool for cultivating between rows of
vegetables and flowers. Heads only . . 5/-
Complete with handle 6/6
'ft
\l\; V\
l\ I
/(U W
% 0
*lK\
JS
TUNE IN TO STATION 2GB EVERY
SATURDAY MORNING AT 8.25 FOR
HELPFUL GARDENING ADVICE GIVEN
BY MR. ALBERT EVANS, MANAGER
OF OUR AGRICULTURAL DEPT.
y g
/*•
m
m
%
m
sta/
: m
■f
>',VA
■ /
i" Hu.vzm
L
A
V 7 r "■ ’/ I
U/ i. w n
ywy
o^7
"J
f -y
ip
.VI
£>7 .
m!:X
A \
1 '••/•
, V
o \
•-• <;
A
ANTHONY
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


IN THE GREAT FIRE
By JAMES HACKSTON.
HE always liked to be in things ;
not to be left out. One year, when
the farmers were saved by the
breaking of the drought, Father
was saved, too, although he had nothing
that a drought could have attacked —
even the greatest drought on earth could
not have ruined him. But when men
were saying that they could not have
lasted much longer, that they were almost
ruined, thank God they’d just been saved
in time. Father was also almost “ruined”
—he could not have “held out” much
longer either.
But he was not a selfish man, for,
although he liked to share people’s good
fortune with them, to be doing well when
they were doing well, to be on good gold
(although doing badly himself) when
others were getting good gold, he also
liked to share equally in men’s misfor-
tunes, liked to be one of the staunch and
steadfast sufferers of the bush, partaking
of their losses, sharing their misfortunes,
as when the grasshopper pest destroyed
the crops.
On that occasion also he was a severe
“sufferer,” and shared the ruin with those
agriculturists who had lost their crops,
although the only crop he could honestly
lay claim to was a small patch of green
stuff that had been put in for Mother’s
eleven fowls (not counting the rooster),
and it was not the grasshopper pest that
got it either —it went under to the rabbit
pest. Its demise coincided with the ruin
of the real crops, and Father had to be
in on it; so he destroyed it with the
grasshopper pest, refusing absolutely to
recognise the rabbit pest, and that was
the end of it. He told the townspeople
about it, shrugging his shoulders com-
plainingly—yet bravely.
Yes, he always liked to be “ruined”
when other men were being ruined, and
had he had a real, legitimate, hundred-
acre crop in at the time I think he would
have felt slighted had the grasshoppers
passed him over and left him out of the
band of stouthearted sufferers.
He had not suffered any material loss
from the pests, droughts, floods and fires
that had from time to time attacked the
land, but he took his stand beside ruined
farmers, suffered with them their sad mis-
fortunes, held high his head with them
against the cruel blows of fate, and car-
ried on with them, brave and undaunted,
in a hard and ruthless land.
He had never, unfortunately, been able
to squeeze into anything big; had never
shared the troubles of the squatter
kings ; had never basked in the warm
sympathy people showed for the big men
when they had their —also big—losses.
He never had anything he could pool in
with w 7 hat they lost.
ONLY in the smaller field had he been
successful, as when the fire from the
west destroyed a belt of timber. Luckily
for him it reached the southern fringe
of our place, where there happened to
be some saplings, before the wind turned
it. It sucked in these saplings before it
left and so let Father into the timber loss.
Say what you will, he did lose timber,
and, as the local paper said, the destruc-
tion of the timber (not Father’s) was a
great loss to the owners. There was a
good bit of talk about it in the town, so
Father took his “loss” into the town —
took it philosophically in the bar (with
the barman) of the Black Swan Hotel.
He might have suffered a “severe” loss
of fencing at the same time—some men
had —but, unfortunately for him, our
place had no fence on its southern boun-
dary, nor on the north or west, so in this
case he was left out in the cold. Miles
and miles of fencing in the district had
been burnt at odd times, but Father
could never do anything about it —
couldn’t “lose” a post or a rail even. It
was a wonder he did not put a fence up
to relieve the situation.
There was a fence on his eastern boun-
dary, but Father had had such a row
with the owner of the adjoining land
when the owner had put it up (Father
had not paid his share) that Father re-
fused to recognise this fence, and had a
fire claimed it he would not have looked
upon it as a loss, for he had threatened
at the time of the row to burn it down
himself, and had a fire taken it he would
have jumped for joy and put it down to
his good fortune.
The time of the water shortage I was
carrying water home in kerosene-tins
from a dam half a mile away when a
man passing asked me what I wanted
to be carrying water for when my old
man was carting it up from the river.
I didn t say anything; he didn’t know
my “old man.” And he didn’t know that
we had no cart to cart it in, and no horse
either.
Father was unlucky with the fire that
destroyed acres of good grass. It was
a serious loss to settlers, and Father might
have come in on this, too, but for- the
wind again. The fire was making straight
for us when the wind changed and the
fire bypassed us. But for this regrettable
bit of bad luck he could have also “lost
all his grass,” not that our pipeclay had
any grass on it; but who was to know
that there was not good feed somewhere
at the back of our place? And, anyway,
Father never had any of his “losses” near
home where he’d be found out; he “lost”
only among strangers and in the town
—people who wouldn’t know otherwise.
That was why the Cross Roads Hotel was
out of bounds to him on such occasions
—it was too near home. The Black Swan,
in the town, was safer ; they didn’t know
much about him.
BUT he came good retrieved this
grass “loss”—in the big flood that
followed; and he wouldn’t have been
out of this flood for worlds.
All the people were in it: well-to-do
people and smugglers. Everybody lost
something. Mrs. Popp, of the Cross
Roads Hotel, lost her trade, for her bar
had been submerged beneath the flood-
waters, much to the annoyance of two
drinkers from up north, who had been
on the spree and were marooned on the
hotel roof.
Yes, everybody lost something. Fowl-
houses deserted their posts; poultry of
every description left home ; sheds packed
up and left. Houses left their moorings
and sailed for unknown destinations;
others drowned; some, half-drowned,
waved their chimneys for help. Suites
of furniture cleared out, some pieces
going one way, some another, and the
people down south getting everything that
belonged to people up north.
And then, like a miracle, boats ap-
peared—boats with men rowing them on
lakes where a short while before passing
carts had raised clouds of dust; boats
rescuing people from island chimney-tops
and roofs —the young people having a
whale of a good time. In the town the
Mechanics’ Institute had a “full house,”
this time with free lodgers. But beneath
the new lakes that had arrived lay the
season’s potato crop. This was the big
loss, the main item of conversation, and
all the other losses were as nothing com-
pared with the loss of the spuds.
Even had Father lost Mother’s eleven
fowls (not counting the rooster) he would
not have shared the loss with people who
had lost fowls, or had he lost his shed he
would not have shared his shed loss with
the shed losses of others —he had to be
in on the big spud loss.
Although the floodwaters had not
drowned our place, submerged our house
or stolen Mother’s eleven fowls (not
counting the rooster) or done any other
damage, the same floodwaters had not
absolutely neglected Father. But it was
only the bottom of our land that was
submerged ; that part Mother thought had
a little real soil attached to it, and where,
as was her practice, she had planted her
potato peelings. In this spot she had a
little patch of struggling, top-heavy pota-
toes growing, and now (alas for her and
hooray for Father) these, too, with
the rest of the district crop, lay drowned
at the bottom of the grey-brown waters.
It was a godsend to Father ; he had
got in among the main losers of the flood.
But although Father had been “lucky”
the family reckoned they were unlucky.
My young brother, for instance (he was
always wanting something), wanted a lake,
too, such as other boys had, and cried
for a lake, and cried for a boat as well,
to row on the lake he was crying for.
And being out of things—out of it all
—was a sore point with other members
of the family; they wanted, also, to go
into the town and stay at the Mechanics’
Institute as other people’s children were
doing; they were sorry our house had
not been flooded or gone under with the
other houses; they wanted to be rescued
off a chimney-top or off a roof, to be
rescued by a man in a boat and to be
entitled to eat the scones and cakes kindly
women had made and were feeding to
the lucky homeless ones. Father said he
had never known such a lot of young
imbeciles; such a selfish lot of children.
This time the local paper said it was a
serious loss to the growers, and that those
growers who had lost their crops had the
sympathy of the community.
And so Father, as one of the “growers,”
went into the town again, and into the
bar of the Black Swan Hotel again, to
share, thankfully, in the sympathy of the
community, and also share, bravely and
uncomplainingly, his “loss” with other
men’s losses; but not with the barman
this time, for he had shared his timber
“loss” with the barman and he couldn’t
very well “lose” his potatoes with him
as well. For the potatoes he chummed
up with men whom he had not “lost”
with before.
How many acres had he lost? His
lips were sealed —he was not a com-
plainer—but the wave of his arm, the
wide sweeping wave of his arm and his
hand meant much ; or, it was all over
and what was the use of crying over
spilt milk?
KJ OW, when the grey-brown lakes had
* long gone and the choking dust had
returned to the white road, a drover came
down the road with his sheep, and there
was a young lamb that was too weak
to travel, and fhy young brother, still
wanting things, saw it and wanted it, and
the drover, only too glad to be rid of it,
gave it to him.
Father asked what was the good of it.
What were we going to do with it? It
would be a nuisance, a pest. It would
have to be fed on milk ; where was the
milk coming from? Mother said that it
was a dear little lamb, she’d find milk
for it; my brother held it in his arms,
and Father looked askance at it.
Billy, the lamb, grew into a fine ram
and as time passed had the run of our
place and adjoining land, until one day
when he was feeding in the back pad-
dock —a hot day with a north wind fly-
ing a careless swagman set the dry
scrub on fire and a small bushfire was
seen raging. But it was only a small
blaze, and two men working on the back
road put it out.
In comparison with other fires it was
hardly worth calling a fire. And yet,
insignificant as it was, it had a lot to do
with Father’s “future.” In this piffling
blaze my brother’s pet was caught.
Scared, it had made for the wire fence,
jammed itself into the corner, and then,
too panic-stricken to move, was caught
in the flames. Father and I found Billy
lying black and lifeless on the wires.
“A jolly good job,” said Father un-
emotionally. “It was neither use nor
ornament.”
Father never mentioned this loss to
anyone; it was evidently beneath his
notice.
But then, six weeks after this, came the
great fire on the northern plains. Station
pastures swept, sheep destroyed.
The local paper gave a lot of space to
it, and Father sat reading it; and as he
read I saw a light come into his eyes ; a
new expression to his features ; a subtle
expression of satisfaction and disappoint-
ment. And then he began to talk, and
as he talked I saw it all as plain as a
pikestaff.
I knew just what he was thinking.
What a pity that Billy had perished in.
such an insignificant blaze ; what a pity
that Billy had not been lost in a fire
that coincided with this great fire —then
he could have lost Billy in this great fire,
even though it didn’t come near his place.
Had he not kept Billy’s blaze and death
a close secret in case something like this
did turn up?
LIE began to tell me what the sheep
‘ * kings had to put up with. He said:
“You saw, in a lesser manner, what
happens to them. You saw our sheep
‘huddled in a corner and burnt to death
—evidence of the grim ravages of fire.’ ”
Father’s voice had almost a note of suf-
fering in it. “Yes, the men who own
sheep suffer—only big men with stout
hearts can stand up to it.” He shrugged.
“A life of hardship and loss.”
And now his expression registered satis-
faction only. Father was going to steal
the death of Billy for himself. He would
cancel Billy’s fire and Billy’s death, and
burn him in this great fire so that he
would now be a sufferer with the big
men in their great loss.
There was talk everywhere of the
squatters’ losses and I was not surprised
when Father said he’d better go into town
and get that new pick he wanted and
Mother’s small bag of flour at the same
time. And I was not surprised when he
put on his best suit in which to buy the
flour and the pick. Mother said for
goodness’ sake he did not have to have
his best suit on to buy a pick ; but Father
said it was a lovely day, and he might
bump into somebody in the town —just
as well to look prosperous even if
hard-up.
On the way in I thought that Father
was changing as we padded along, that
he was a little patronising to me, up-
stage in his bearing, as if I actually be-
longed to a class beneath him, and that
he was more than pleased with himself.
I also noticed that when he reached
the town he was deserting the Black
Swan. He couldn’t be a sheep king and
lose his sheep there; he’d “lost” his
timber and “lost” his potatoes there, and,
anyway, the clients of the Black Swan
were not the sort of people he’d have a
big loss with. A big loss with big men
was his motto. And quite apart from
that, although they did not know very
much about him at the Black Swan, they
knew enough to know that he was no
sheep king.
And so Father, dignified and collected,
a man of good bearing, and smoking a
cigar he had just bought (he always
bought a cigar—if he had the money—
when about to mix with important
people), and with the cigar-band removed
to show that he knew how to smoke a
cigar in the correct manner, entered the
calm, cool, tony atmosphere of the Com-
mercial Hotel. He sat me down in
the hall; the refined hall that breathed
the well-off, well-fed, well-dressed spirit
of its patrons.
Of course Father didn’t have the bag
of flour and the pick with him ; he made
his call at the Commercial before he
had bought such prestige-lowering
articles.
AND so the long-wished-for day had
arrived—Father’s hour. He strutted
into the shaded bar and merged with the
quiet hum of voices. And in this clois-
tered sanctum of the best people he was
absolutely unknown ; had probably never
been seen by its habitues; never heard
of, or, if heard of, forgotten.
I could see into the bar and saw that
Father had soon made contact with his
victims and had turned the conversation
into the right channels —for Father. I
could hear every word. Now he talked
mostly by shrugging, as if he did not
wish to complain; long shrugs; short
shrugs; quick shrugs; slow shrugs;
high shrugs; low shrugs; half shrugs;
full shrugs; and shrugs that shrugged
away the blows of fate, the arrows of
misfortune. But now and again, as if
unavoidable, his assumed voice could be
heard.
He had lost his sheep. Yes, all of his
sheep; and cool, calm eyes registered
deep understanding.
Father’s well-bred cigar still held its
long aristocratic grey ash.
At the end of an hour Father lost his
ram, and there were murmurs of deep
concern. They supposed it was an im-
ported ram —a prize ram? They knew
what an imported ram cost. Big loss!
Hard to replace! Would he import an-
other ram from England?
Father shrugged again: a will-o’-the-
wisp shrug that neither affirmed nor
denied, that gave the impression that
he did not wish to talk about his own
affairs when so many men had had so
many losses, and yet suggested at the
same time that he would have to import
another ram from England.
Then Father’s party broke up, and they
came out into the hall, Father with them,
and they shook hands before parting;
and as two of the men were passing I
heard one say “No, I don’t know his
name. Owns a station somewhere up
north.”
When they’d gone (Father gave them
enough time to be well away) he bought
the flour and the pick and set off by a
back route for home. But when a mile
on our way and about to come out on
to the main road —Father feeling that it
would be safe —a turnout came down
this crossroad and. passed us; and as it
passed the two men Father had shaken
hands with turned round and stared hard
at Father; stared unbelievingly—at the
squatter they had not long left, trudging
along the road on his way home to his
station up north with a bag of flour and
a pick on his back.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3350.
Wednesday, April 26, 1944.
FIRST VICTORY LOAN.
“Come on, Australians—don’t squib it!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westrai-IA : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
CENSORSHIP AND
COMMUNISM.
For obvious reasons there was no black-
guard rush to applaud the Publicity Cen-
sorship’s blow at newspapers and news-
paper readers, but support for it has come
from the Sydney Labor Council, which
is stiff with Communists, and from the
Federal Council of the Clothing Trades
Union, whose headquarters are in Mr.
CalweU’s electorate. The Sydney con-
cern arranged a Domain meeting. The
Melbourne body, presuming to speak
“for a membership of 50,000 in all
States,” added to its archives a resolu-
tion that “Mr. Calwell took the only
appropriate action for the benefit of Aus-
tralia and the welfare of the Australian
people.”
The Sydney Labor Premier “hastened
to assure” two-fifths of the Australian
people that he did not agree. His
Police Commissioner had “hastened to
assure” the two-fifths, lest they derive
false impressions from press photographs
of pistol-pointing officers “wearing uni-
forms closely resembling those of the
N.S.W. police force,” that the pistol-
pointers were not his men: “no member
of the N.S.W. police force is in any way
connected with these incidents.” The
P.C.’s statement, uncensored, reached Mr.
Calwell at Adelaide, where he was im-
pressing his views, unsolicited, on the
State Parliamentary electors, his own
Parliament, very conveniently for him and
the other Labor f Ministers and members
still in Australia, having been shut up
because Mr. Curtin is abroad ; and Mr.
Calwell’s temperature mounted again. He
had the face to send Mr. McKell a tele-
gram saying it was the duty of the State
police to assist the Commonwealth police
in “enforcing Commonwealth law,” and
asking for “disciplinary action” against
the P.C.
To this Mr. McKell replied, with a
nice economy of words never shown in
bigger matters of finance, that “action on
your part to ascertain facts before arriv-
ing at conclusions and forwarding tele-
gram in terms of yours,” terms resented
“strongly,” would be “more in keeping
with Ministerial dignity than this rash and
ill-considered approach typical of conduct
which already seriously embarrassed my
Government.” Mr. Carlton, the McKell
Whip, came in with a long-winded state-
ment, the latter half of which read: “Both
Ministers and Government members
wholeheartedly support the Premier in
any action which he has already taken
or may feel disposed to take to prevent
interference by Mr, Calwell or anyone
else in spheres of activity which lie within
the ambit of the N.S.W. Government
administration ; furthermore we will un-
hesitatingly endorse any future action the
Premier may take or any statement which
he may feel disposed to make in regard
to the whole matter.” In ordinary cir-
cumstances both gentlemen may have re-
pressed their noble rage in the sacred
name of solidarity, but with an election
coming on and a host of their associates
at the mercy of newspaper readers “soli-
darity” was inexpedient.
Mr. Lang, who is leading another
party, from which Communists have
been excluded, was also obliged to dis-
sociate it and himself from the forcible
prevention of newspaper publication. But
in his paper, the “Century,” he dealt very
gently with Mr. Calwell, hitherto one of
the “Century’s” heroes, turning from that
gentleman, after one cautious mention
of his name, to “the Fascist basis of our
war administration,” for which he blamed
Mr. Menzies as the architect and foun-
dation-layer and Mr. Curtin as the
builder, with “S. M. Herald” as approv-
ing reporter. “Under the powerful pro-
tection of the ‘Herald,’ with its flattering,
fawning flapdoodle about the genius of
the Big Four, a Fascist Administration
has been set up that has robbed us of
every vestige of democratic government,”
and it was “inevitable that the day would
arrive when the newspapers would be
suppressed.” Thus the “Century” ; but it
allowed that the “Herald,” though “get-
ting a little of what the people of Aus-
tralia have been taking from a power-
drunk bureaucracy,” shouldn’t have got
any of it; “what happened should never
have happened in Australia; it is the
blackest spot on our record of democ-
racy.” The most ingenious article bore
the heading “Good Night, Referendum!”
and here 1 Lang is certainly Right for once.
Mr. Menzies also was in his best form.
Had he cared to be unkind he could have
commented in his polished way on two
ironical features of the position—his
being asked to take up the cudgels for
anti-Menzies and Labor-extolling news-
papers and the Sydney Labor Council’s
equally odd championship of Mr. Cal-
well, the anti-Communist, with whom the
young lions of the journalists’ union, one
of the Sydney Labor Council’s string,
have a long-standing feud. Resisting both
temptations, the Opposition Leader said it
would be “difficult to find a precedent in a
British country —which this Government
should be reminded we still are —for the
abrupt suppression of publication of six
great daily newspapers and a weekly, not
by the ordinary process of law, but by
the authority of the Executive.”
The matter cannot be confined to the
ineffable Mr. Calwell. The fact that he is
still in office shows that his colleagues sup-
port him. The scandal now attaches to the
whole Cabinet. The meagre facts which
officialdom allows Australians to know in-
dicate that newspapers have been attacked
for seeking to inform their readers on Aus-
tralian events of domestic moment and to
make such criticisms, including criticism of
the Executive, as seem to them to be just.
In a word, they have sought to exercise
that “freedom of speech and of expres-
sion” which Ministers are proposing to
write into our Constitution. But a
blatantly and increasingly political censor-
ship has pounced on them.
Mr. Forde had pleaded that it would
be “improper to comment on certain
aspects of this amazing censorship affair,”
Characteristic of Mr. Forde, but merely
an attempt to “muzzle public discussion
of what must be regarded as the most
astonishing incident in our local history.”
It was for the High Court to “decide the
questions of law which arise in relation
to the censorship orders” ; but “the poli-
tical and social propriety of the use made
of whatever powers exist can and must
be debated, preferably in an immediate
session of Parliament.”
From the other side of the Pacific came
a bleat from the Prime Minister, whose
long-delayed tour was the excuse for
closing a Parliament which has done
precious little, though the British Parlia-
ment, which has done a great deal, is
kept going in Mr. Churchill’s absence.
“My own view,” said Mr, Curtin, “is
that censorship should never be used to
censor political opinions, and should
never be used in relation to civil order
other than that made necessary by secu-
rity.” This, as “S. M. Herald” protests,
while pointing out that “the ‘Herald’ has
given general support to the Govern-
ment,” is different from the Prime Min-
ister’s December statement of what the
Publicity Censorship is for. Even so
it may be construed as a rebuke
to the Publicity Censorship and the
Minister for Information. But Mr. Cur-
tin’s rebukes never come to anything.
Mr. Ward has had several, and coal
strikers have had heaps without being in
any way disturbed or having any occa-
sion to be.
Mr. Menzies referred to “the revela-
tions of Gestapo methods recently made
in the House in the debate on the Aus-
tralia-First internments,” to him as “typi-
cal of the Nazi mind” as the “intoler-
ance of criticism, fear of the facts and
use of political power to destroy or sup-
press adverse opinion” exhibited in the
seizing of newspaper issues, with pointed-
pistol accompaniments. The arrest and
imprisonment without trial of the returned
soldiers and others called Australia-
Firsters was an even more serious affair
than the forcible suppression of news-
paper issues, serious as that is; and the
evil effects remain.
Mr. Menzies mentioned the case of a
man known to him, a Melbourne soli-
citor, “whose only connection with Aus-
tralia First was in paying i 10s. 6d. sub-
scription.”
Taken out of his home suddenly, interned
for months without charge or trial and then
exonerated by a tribunal, he comes out to
find his practice and reputation gone and
his friends ostracising him, because there
is no more sinister stain on a man’s name
than that he was in an internment camp in
war-time.
Sydney men of blameless antecedents,
certain of them returned soldiers bearing
the scars of battle wounds, had as bitter
an experience. Communist papers pub-
lished the names of victims, with gloat-
ing proclamations of their guilt, and,
although this was done in contempt of
Parliament as well as the censorship,
not one of the foul creatures respon-
sible was punished. Dr. Evatt owned that
in one case, that of “an Australian
writer” who was wounded on Gallipoli, “I
ordered his release on my own respon-
sibility within an hour after reading his
papers.” Mr. Ward nevertheless charac-
terised the men so monstrously treated as
“quislings” and Opposition members as
associates of quislings; and he got away
with it.
Mr. Menzies in conclusion:
The stark and ugly truth is that freedom
is undoubtedly in peril in Australia. Un-
less we wake up and resist the attacks
constantly being made upon it we may find
that we have defeated one tyranny in the
field and succumbed to another at home.
It is all too probable. Communists
obviously regard what is going on as an
aid to their capture of the Labor move-
ment and as a preparation for the estab-
lishment of a Red dictatorship working
through a horde of officials. They have
persuaded themselves that Australians
don’t and won’t mind being kicked
around.
If We Only Knew !
“I often wondered if the folk in distant Aus-
tralia ever knew of these smart little craft
manned by their own flesh and blood, if they
realised the work and fighting by night and day
they were engaged in to keep Australia white.”
—Leading Signalman Bromilow, in The Silent
Service, by Torpedoman T. M. Jones and lon
L. Idriess.
Leading Signalman Bromilow, of the
destroyer Yarra, sunk fighting in the
Sunda Strait, can be quickly answered.
Australia didn’t, and doesn’t —and that
goes for magnificent achievements in all
branches of the fighting services.
Australia, of course, is not altogether
to blame. Right at the time real first-
hand-experience accounts that would cer-
tainly bring the realisation home cannot
be told for “security reasons,” of which
humanly fallible officers or officials are
the judges, with no court of appeal. When
“security reasons” no longer prevail,
authentic, detailed accounts are still
left untold, as far as newspaper pub-
lication goes. Apparently it is held that
they are then no longer “news.” The
final result is that, instead of sharing
details that would make all the difference
injhe country’s appreciation of what this
war’s heroes in all the fighting services
have done and are doing all the time,
there is only a vague, generalised picture
which naturally leaves the home-fronter
unimpressed—so much so, in fact, that he
very widely accepts that it is he who is
making the war sacrifices.
The Yarra went down fighting to pro-
tect a convoy. The order had been given
to the convoy to scatter. With three big
Jap cruisers and four large Jap destroyers
coming in for the kill, “there was only
one thing left for Yarra to do.” She
wheeled and dashed straight at the lead-
ing enemy cruiser. Captain Ranken
called to the gallant little craft’s com-
pany: “We don’t stand much chance,
lads, but we can at least show them how
a good ship goes down.”
The gun crews, stripped to the waist,
slammed shells into the breeches —of their
comparatively puny four-inch guns! With
these barking her last defiance, Yarra
rushed in to her death. An eight-inch
shell, crashing through her side, exploded
in the sick bay. Salvo after salvo struck
her “in blinding explosions and screaming
hail of steel.” Through
choking smoke a glimpse now and then of
grim-faced men at action stations, a glimpse
of smashed men and breaking metal and
blood. From down below after a blinding
crash came the scream of escaping steam,
enveloping writhing bodies still struggling
to feed the furnaces. Things sublime
happen in tragedies like this, for meh are
humans no longer; they are spirits fighting
to a terrible death....
A few of them, when the Jap salvos
had finally done their job, got away on
rafts. They had neither food nor water.
The blazing sun poured down on them.
Land was 350 miles away. After three
days the strongest were trying to prevent
the weakest from drinking the salt water.
“For God’s sake,” one pleaded with an-
other, “stop drinking salt water!”
“It’s not salt water!” shouted the man,
as he glared around. “It’s beer—cool beer!
Look!” He cupped his hands in the
water and held them up. “Beer! Cool
beer!” he shouted triumphantly, and let
the water fall into his mouth. I felt
frightened. His eyes told the tale; he
really didn’t believe the salt wafer was cool
beer. I saw the same look growing in the
eyes of other men. “Mine’s champagne!”
shouted another. “Cool, sparkling cham-
pagne.” He splashed the water up into the
air and laughed wildly.
Next a man suddenly sprang out of a
coma, and pointed wildly across the sea.
“Look!” he cried. “A city! See it?
We’re saved.” One of the saner men
told him to sit down: “We’ll be saved
all right; but that city really isn’t there.”
“It is. It is,” screamed the man.
“You’re mad. Look! Look! See for
yourself.”
Another roan sprang up beside him,
stared a while, then turned wildly towards
us. “It’s there,” he screamed. “Can’t
you see it? Look at the buildings!”
“Why, I can swim to it,” shouted the
first man. And he plunged into the sea
and began swimming away. We shouted
to him, but he would not turn back. He
was swimming so strongly, too, that the
strongest man now left on the raft could
not have caught him,
A little later the other man who had seen
the city plunged in and swam towards it.
Those on the raft included a Dutch
skipper. The others were relying on
him to guide them eventually to land.
He had earlier been babbling to himself.
Now the city madness infected him, too.
He Jumped up and plunged into the
water ; came up laughing and blowing
water from his blistered mouth. He was
half-coaxed, half-pulled back on to the
raft, but a little later jumped over again.
Then the third time —and a shark got
him. It tore the flesh from his side.
The others fought off the shark and
hauled the captain aboard in a welter of
blood. Soon he died and they passed
him over the side.
Some of them still had strength even
after more days of this. One of the
strongest crouched, gripping a paddle in
his hands and glaring at an albatross
that was hovering close. Suddenly he
leapt up and struck. He missed, over-
balanced and fell into the sea.
Clambering back like a man possessed, he
crouched on the raft again and watched
the albatross. Time dragged on. With
silent interest we watched both man and
bird. Again the albatross came, gliding
very low. Vic struck like lightning, killing
the albatross, which flopped into the sea.
A shark snatched it from almost out of
Vic’s hand.
Of the 34 men originally on the two
rafts only 13 were left alive when they
were rescued by a Dutch submarine. Aus-
tralia knew nothing of all that, and it
is merely typical of countless first-hand-
experience stories of the fighting men in
all the services, if only they could be
brought home.
Another account describes the last of
the cruiser Canberra. She was slanting
over, a wreck of twisted iron and blood
in the darkness. Word was passed around
from the commander to prepare to aban-
don ship.
This meant that the doctors and their
parties must with all speed bring the
wounded to the casualty station, then up
on deck. A frightful job when you re-
member the narrow and intricate passage-
ways, ladders, quarters, decks, rooms,
compartments of a big cruiser, away down
below. A thousand times worse when that
cruiser is heeling over, badly damaged,
flooding in places, and roaring with fires.
Wonderful things were done that night
in the furnace which was Canberra below.
The overtaxed doctors, busy over casual-
ties, were called again and again to yet
more serious cases, sometimes up on deck,
sometimes deep in the bowels of the ship.
And all the time the engine-room parties
and pumping parties and repair parties
were battling to keep the ship afloat until
we could find all the wounded.
Himself one of the mortally wounded,
Captain Getting refused medical aid.
Propped on a stool in a corner by his
coxwain, he directed operations as best
he could. A doctor who came to treat
him was weakly waved aside and ordered
to attend to other wounded. Men were
grabbing hot shells, liable to explode at
any moment, rushing to the side and
heaving them over. Through pungent
smoke Commander Walsh, followed by
his bugler, was walking around the decks,
calmly giving instructions to officers who
had charge of various parties. “The
organisation,” one of the survivors has
said, “made us feel proud.”
Australia would feel that pride also
if all the stories of the fighting men, such
as the one or two typical ones given as
examples here, were fully and well told.
The tendency in the official quarters that
could see to that telling seems to be all
the other way—to extend the “security”
silence indefinitely. In article, paragraph
and cartoon The Bulletin protested
against this policy, and since it belled
the cat objections'have come from other
papers, notably the Melbourne “Age” and
the Brisbane “Courier-Mail.” But while
Americans and Maorilanders receive full
and particular accounts of what their
warriors are doing, and who are doing it,
Australians are fobbed off with such
“reports” as that of the “anonymous ‘
brigadier reviewing his “anonymous"
brigade (the “Courier-Mail’s” expres-
sions) on the scene of its glory in New
Guinea.
The official policy appears to be that
patriotism also is out of date. Certainly,
if that isn’t so, the official appeals to
honest national feeling have been decid-
edly clumsy.
In effect, Australia doesn’t know any-
thing approaching the real story, which is
as good as anything on historical record.
If it did, the home front would be
somewhat different. Australians are not
as bad as their home front makes them
appear to be. But they can hardly be
expected to imagine what their fighting
men have done and are doing all the
time when the recording of the entire
human-interest side is reserved for a
current book or two, or perhaps for
the war historians to tell some
time when the whole immediate value of
patriotic appeal has passed.
What stories such as those of the
Yarra and the Canberra emphasise
is the need for a complete change
of outlook towards all the fight-
ing forces by Australia’s propaganda
amateurs. Among other differences that
that could easily bring about would be
a sudden end to lagging in war loans.
More than enough words have been spent
on the current loan. There is everything
right with the loan and everything wrong
with the words. The right appeal is lack-
ing—inexcusable when the whole per-
formance of this war s Anzacs in all tn<-
services has been so stirring and heroic.
But saying so would seem to be giving
away a profound official secret.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Tremendous Hour.
On the shores of Britain is gathered a
mighty host of Britons, Americans and
Canadians, with their ships, their ’planes,
their vehicles and their guns, poised for
invasion of the European continent.
Not far away a mighty force of Germans
awaits them. Even as this is written the
signal may be given, and the last great
land battle of our time begun.
Thoughtful people everywhere must be
struck by the historical significance of
this hour, for it means, among other
things, that descendants of the people
who left Europe to seek freedom across
the seas, and found it, have now come
back with their arms and their courage
to carry freedom into Europe.
All over the world people are await-
ing the thunder of the clash. The imagi-
nation baulks at trying to conjure up a
picture of what it will be like. All ordi-
nary things fade into insignificance
against the tremendous scene of the great
armies drawn up, ready for battle. Who
pan contemplate it without feeling a
tug of the heartstrings? Who can wait
without a qualm for the gallant men
who’ve put everything behind them for
this one great hour? Who can read with-
out a sense of shame that, at this crisis
for which all of us have waited so long,
Australia’s first Victory Loan is lagging?
The Minority Triumphs.
When 421,960 formal votes had been
counted in 55 contested Queensland
Assembly electorates, the Labor Govern-
ment had 187,587 and the two Opposi-
tion groups 179,676 —111,297 were cast
for Lord Mayor Chandler’s People’s party
and 68,379 for the Country party. Yet
Labor was virtually assured of 31 of the
55 seats, whereas the two Opposition
groups could claim only 18. Labor
having gained five seats in unopposed
returns (six Labor and one C.P.),
the election was over bar the final
determination of the winners’ grossly
excessive majority. Once more favor-
able electoral boundaries, plus in this
case a return to first-past-the-post
and proxy voting, had given the “demo-
cratic” party unchallengeable control of
Parliament without a majority of votes
in the constituencies.
Out of the total of 421,960, 44,535
votes went to Independents and 10,612
to Communists. Five Independents and
a Communist were elected. One of the
Independents was returned three years
ago as a U.A.P. member; he beat an
Official Labor man on each occasion. The
other four were unendorsed Laborites
of different brands, one of whom, Mr. L.
J. Barnes (Cairns), got at least half his
votes from the Country party, which,
though it polled 3193 votes in Cairns
three years ago, did not run a candidate
this time. Other Independents, such as
the former U.A.P. members for Wynnum
and Toowong, received substantial sup-
port; indeed, two-thirds of the Indepen-
dent votes can be reckoned anti-Labor.
Even if it is allowed that the six
unopposed Labor members, if put to the
test, would have polled two to one, which
actually only one opposed Labor member
succeeded in doing, the party would still
have won 37 of the 62 seats on a minority
vote.
A comparison with 1941 figures shows
that the official Labor majorities slumped
almost everywhere. The greatest indi-
vidual vote (6713) and majority (4389)
were scored by Mr. Chandler in Hamil-
ton, the next-biggest total being that of
a member of his party, Mr. Hiley (6566)
in Logan, the most populous division
(16,032 electors). No Labor member got
anywhere near these figures, and when all
the returns are in Mr. Chandler at least
may have more supporters in Hamil-
ton than there are electors in the
Labor pocket borough of Carpentaria
(6801), and nearly as many as in the
Labor pocket boroughs of Warrego
(7434), Gympie (7640) and Charters
Towers (7827).
In almost every instance the candidates
put in the field by the two Opposition
groups received substantial support, and
half a dozen were defeated by small
majorities. Only one of 18 elected had
first-past-the-post to thank for his suc-
cess, the other 17 winning hands down.
By contrast, four of the five leading In-
dependents, the successful Communist
and seven of the lucky Labor members
are the choice of minorities. The one
in Wynnum and the one in Keppel, both
easy for the Opposition in 1941, couldn’t
possibly have won under the preference
system.
And that’s how Queensland Labor won
its election. Federal Labor couldn’t win
its referendum that way, and can’t win
it anyhow as things have turned out.
"Kid-glove" Prophecy.
A pamphlet, “prepared and issued for
departmental [Man-power] circulation”
under the authority of Mr. Wurth,
Director-General of Man-power, assures
members of that department that their
Mr. Wurth considers their jobs to be
permanent.
Paring the war we have applied the man-
power regulations, as it were, with an iron
list in a velvet glove. After the war, the
corresponding gesture will be merely a kid
glove.
Kid gloves and the hands cased in them
have to be paid for, and those cast for
the parts of paying and suffering are
unlikely to give three cheers on learn-
ing that some “present functions of
Man-power” and “certain of the powers
conferred by regulation” will “un-
doubtedly” disappear after the war. Espe-
cially as it is stated that
any residues of unemployment would be
regarded as a reflection on the effective-
ness of Government policy and of the
administration, and they would certainly
be a source of political embarrassment
Shortages of raw materials might, for in-
stance, reduce the capacity of an industry
to absorb further labor and control would
be necessary to prevent further labor mov-
ing into the industry.
And there is suggested
the retention of Regulation 13, which
requires Man-power permits to engage
labor.
After which it is added that the obser-
vations in the pamphlet are speculation
“and not an attempt at prophecy.” That
they prophesy continuation of Man-power
control ought to be sufficient to make
Australians grit their teeth and swear not
to have a bar of them after the war.
Man-power control as a means of saving
an Administration from “political em-
barrassment” would be a wonderful let-
out for politicians. The excuse for its
retention, that it might be necessary to
stop men going into an industry which
didn’t want them because it was short of
raw materials, is a fair example of how
departmental minds think.
No, Mr. Wurth, this country, while it
will have a place for you in the job from
which you were taken, won’t want
your department after the war. It
will have enough to do and enough to
worry about without being hampered by
officials who, whatever the value of their
war-time function, will have no place in
post-war Australia if post-war Australia
is to get anywhere.
"Full Co-operation."
South Australian Labor entered upon
the State election campaign with the con-
viction, boisterously expressed, that it
would not only oust the Playford Gov-
ernment but unseat the Premier. Since it
has had leisure to study Queensland elec-
tion voting and the performances of Mr.
Calwell, it is not so cocksure.
In an unfortunate moment Mr.
Richards, the Labor leader and depres-
sion Premier (for 10 minutes or so),
undertook to “co-operate to the full with
the Federal Government,” and it has
been borne in on the South Australian
mind that “full co-operation” is fraught
with embarrassments.
In one important matter non-co-opera-
tion, unsought, but accepted as a neces-
sity, is yielding results. When the coal
position became serious—and serious it
remains Premier Playford decided
to open up and work the Leigh Creek
coalfield. Canberra promised support.
Then somebody took thought and, with
one eye on the N.S.W. Miners’ Federa-
tion and the other on the A.C.T.U., with-
drew the support. Mr. Playford went
ahead and got the field working.
There then arose an official with the
imposing title of Commonwealth Con-
troller of Utensils and Appliances. To
a big South Australian maker of pots
and pans the Commonwealth Controller
of Utensils and Appliances issued this
instruction, euphemised:
1 now request that no deliveries of hollow-
ware be made by you outside the State
of South Australia until further instructed
by myself.
In the “full co-operation” spirit Mr.
Richards produced a long report by Dr.
Evatt, attempting justification and work-
ing in a bit of State election stuff. The
Attorney-General accused Mr. Playford
of “using this position for purely poli-
tical purposes,” and declared that “the
aim of controls of distribution is to pro-
tect the interests of citizens in the smaller
States.”
While S.A. manufacturers were simmer-
ing, those in the agricultural-machinery
trade were notified by the Commonwealth
Director-General of Agriculture, the
former Queensland Minister Bulcock, that
24 items of agricultural machinery manu-
factured in S.A. might not be exported
to other States without a permit. First
mention of the ukase was made in a letter,
addressed to the Deputy Controller of
Agricultural Machinery in S.A., which
contained an extraordinary statement—
“as agricultural machinery manufactured
in your State is on a small scale only,
the amount of work involved would be
quite small.” This when South Australia
pioneered the manufacture of agricul-
tural machinery and has for many years
exported it to other States,
Accompanying the edict was a schedule
showing that, while S.A. manufacturers
were allowed to export only grain drills
of the combine type without a permit, and
that only to Westralia and Tasmania, Vic-
torian manufacturers were authorised to
export, on permits “issued without refer-
ence to the Department of Commerce
and Agriculture,” milking machines, two
types of ploughs, five types of cultivators,
fertiliser - distributors, mowers, reapers
and binders, hay-rakes and -presses,
headers, strippers and harvesters, chaff-
cutters, fruit-graders, grain-grinders and
-crushers, and maize- and cotton-planters
to all States. Perhaps with a notion of
mollifying the agricultural - machinery
makers, export of S.A. farm horses to
Victoria was forbidden. Export of S.A.
footwear, apples and potatoes has been —
er —“restricted.”
Hoping to speed “full co-operation,”
ensure the success of Mr. Richards and
party and beat up votes to vest more
powers in the Parliament which sits so
seldom and is out of action till September,
o Continued on page 8.)
CHURCHYARD SCENE FROM “OMELET.”
FIRST GRAVEDIGGER: Arthur Augustus Galwell.
SECOND GRAVEDIGGER (unavailable —gone native in New Guinea).
OMELET: Dr. Evatt.
“Alas, poor Referendum!”


■
I
i
I
THAT*
/V
on *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS— James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong ■ Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
.
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
a parcel of Commonwealth Ministers and
members has descended on South Aus-
tralia. It was expected that Mr. Ward
would be among them, but that gentle-
man had a prior engagement in New
Guinea. However, Mr. Calwell, of press-
censorship notoriety, was among the visi-
tors, A dreadful mistake in campaign
tactics, but Mr. Calwell very obviously
didn’t think so.
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell’s war on the dailies gave Men-
zies a chance to indulge his talent for
irony. On one aspect he was generous,
though not to the Calwells. Pointing out
that “the Government’s first act, after
passing the Constitution Amendment
Bill through Parliament, was to shut the
mouths and the businesses of the press of
three great cities,” he refrained from
mentioning that two bitterly anti-Menzies
concerns had rushed to him for consola-
tion and support. “Before long,” Bob
said, “we shall have Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Calwell and their colleagues shouting
from every platform about freedom of
speech and expression and how they are
its guarantors and defenders.” But shall
we? It would be a waste of breath, time,
ink, paper and mox|ey.
In Hobart last week Dr, Evatt had an
opportunity of meeting one of his boy-
hood idols, Joe Darling, and another old
Australian Eleven man, Charlie Eady,
both being among the Ms.L.C. who have
thrice vetoed the transfer of powers on
which he has set his heart. The thing is
to be put up to the Leg. Council again,
but the doctor left the Speck with the
word “hopeless” xinging in his ears. He
will have another headache if he studies
Queensland election figures, which show
a substantial majority of votes, though
not of seats, against one of the two Gov-
ernments that approved of the transfer
of powers.
As Playford has doubtless noted with
satisfaction, the Big City vote in Queens-
land, preponderantly Labor at several
Commonwealth and State elections,
turned against Labor on April 15. With
'a few thousand more ballot papers to be
distributed among all the candidates,
though not so many as to disturb the
balance. Chandler’s People’s party had
86,818 votes, Labor 81,221, Independents
19,137 and a Communist 1705. • Yet, the
election arrangements being what they
were. Labor won 11 seats (one, Wynnum,
with 3771 votes out of 10,565) and the
P.P. only seven, two others going to an
“unendorsed” Laborite and a former
U.A.P. member. There was a startling
slump in the Labor vote since the Com-
monwealth elections, but these things
don’t matter at Assembly elections.
An outbreak of rheumatic fever
amongst Melbourne children is traced to
the number of sub-standard houses in the
Queen City of the South and the number
of families who live in two rooms or even
one room, and in some cases sleep three
to a bed. Tuberculosis is said to be
another unfortunate offspring of the same
conditions. The Dunstan Government
is launching an elaborate and expensive
anti-t.b. campaign, but the suspicion
arises that it is tackling the problem at
the wrong end.
The Italian King has undertaken to
step down in favor of son Umberto when
the Allies reach Rome, and Badoglio,
to oblige the Allied Governments, chiefly
the Russian, has a new lot of civil Min-
isters —a Communist, a Labor Democrat,
a Christian Democrat, a Liberal, a Social-
ist,, a member of the Action party and
an Independent. Disraeli said “England
does not love coalitions,” and Australia
has never had much use for them. It
is possible that Italy will be different.
Ward, spouting to New Guinea natives
in his Sydney Domain vein, paid out a
lot of rubbish about “helping them to
develop” the island “in their own in-
terests.” “No other interests,” he boomed,
would be “allowed to exploit it; there
is no part in post-war planning for re-
garding the natives as a subject race.”
Native spokesmen had an answer. It coft-
sisted in the simple statement that “we all
look forward to the time when we can
return to our villages with our women
and children.”
“BE AS LIKE US AS YOU’RE ABLE TO BE.”
“MacArthur is a good general, but his correspondence with Congressman Miller demon-
strates that as a politician he belongs somewhere near the foot of the class.” — N.Y. “Sun."
“Cheer up, Doug—we can’t All be both."
To excuses for N.S.W, coal strikes
there is no end. At the Elrington (N.S.W.)
pit there arrived a letter from Dig-
gers (officer, non-com. and private) in
New Guinea, who gave an outline
of what the A.I.F. is up against, and
sarcastically said that after an eight-
hours’ fight with Japs the men heard of
21 coalmines being on strike and knew
their “mates had not died in vain.” The
letter was stuck on the notice-board.
Then the stoppage started.
Judge Stretton’s mordant comments on
commission life at Yallourn have
prompted Dunstan to promise the Yal-
lourners “self-government in civic affairs
and the right to own their own homes
instead of renting them from the commis-
sion.” “Yallourn,” he says, “was founded
on a system of socialisation” (it is not
really that) “and central control which
has eliminated the spirit of competition,
and it is not surprising that the people
have not relished such a system.” It is
surprising that the leader of a C.P. Min-
istry didn’t discover their disrelish till it
was pointed out by a city man in the
tenth year of the Dunstan consulship.
Countering Labor’s prediction that
Playford will be unseated in Gumeracha,
the Playfordites maintain that Richards
will be hard put to it to hold
Wallaroo. A strong local man. Heath,
is out against him, and though on
Federal-election figures Heath has no
chance Federal-election figures may not
be repeated—they were certainly not re-
peated in Queensland. However,
Richards has been the local member for
26 years, and that will stand to him,
though there has been a steady exodus of
Labor supporters from Wallaroo.
Senator Ceilings is never tired of prais-
ing Canberra’and its full cradles, and he
hit the roof when the arid Leckie attri-
buted ’Berra’s attention to the birthrate
to there being “nothing else to do.” The
enthusiast was not present to rebuke Ded-
man when that worthy addressed a beg-
garly attendance at an Albert Hall loan
rally which was preceded by a free con-
cert. Deddy said smartly that he could
understand people not being interested in
talks by politicians but his “Scots in-
stinct” rebelled at their absence from a
free show. Old Deddy has his moments,
and it is a wonder Curtin didn’t make
him Minister for the Army. His Scots
instinct as well as his knowledge of war
and soldiers would have been useful in
a job where Forde will always be hope-
lessly at sea. '
A son of Harry Hopkins, the Presi-
dent’s closest adviser, was killed on
Namur in February. Described by his
commanding officer as “a good fighter
with a lot of guts, a good Marine,”
he was only 18. Our Mr. Forde, who in
his clumsy announcement of the reduc-
tion of A.M.F. strength by 90,000 said
the normal army intake would be cur-
tailed “considerably” and, when chal-
lenged, did not return to that phase of the
subject, should bear the case of Private
Hopkins in mind. Americans show signs
of being increasingly sensitive in these
matters.
Stung by “S. M. Herald” criticism,
B. J. Waterhouse, president of the Syd-
ney Art Gallery, replied in an eye-open-
ing letter outlining the needs and diffi-
culties of the Trust. A truly shocking
statement is that the gallery once got
£5OOO a year from the State Government,
and was cut to £2OOO in the “depression”
and since, though the Sydney Govern-
ment is so hard put to it to find some
way of spending its bursting surplus that
it is backing a racing club.
Dicky Darcey’s farewell “revelation”
(29/3 / ’44) in the Senate ;
At Versailles in 1919, when the Peace
Treaty was drawn up, two members of-the
N.Y. banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb and Co.
—Max and Felix Warburg—the real rulers
of America, one representing President Wil-
son and the other representing the Kaiser of
Germany, dictated the reparation terms....
Who started the Russian revolution?
Kuhn, Loeb and Co. A secret communi-
cation was sent from the secret service of
America to the French Government, and
afterwards the two Jews 1 have mentioned
took over the necessary money from
America. As a reward, they were allowed
to finance the first, second and third
Russian five-year plans. Stalin is as much
under the heel of high finance as the ruler
of any other country.
And who started the war between King
Arthur and the Sydney papers? Kuhn,
Loeb, of course !
To Melbourne “Herald,” “Dewey’s
views on foreign policy are even more
liberal than Willkie’s” —for one thing, he
came out for an alliance with Britain
—and “on domestic issues Dewey has
unequivocally denounced extremists.”
But he is Reactionary Dewey to the
Sydney “Sun’s” Sunday supplement. Per-
haps this only means that he is not a
Com.
From a letter written by Major C.
Hardin, U.S. Army Medical Corps, pub-
lished in the “Reader’s Digest”:
I have seen the magnificent Aussies, the
“Rats of Tobruk,” go shouting and laugh-
ing into battle against the little yellow men,
and die.
Very different in spirit from the carping
at “Allied service men” by one or two
Sydney politicians. And it could be
matched by scores of like tributes to the
Diggers by American service men.
Nobody took much notice of it at the
time, but Deputy Prime Minister Forde
told the Victorian A.L.P. conference that
“the problem of increasing the population
by stimulation of the birthrate and a well-
balanced immigration policy must be
tackled firmly by future Administrations.”
If his own Government, with 19 Minis-
ters and heaven knows how many de-
partments, can’t tackle it “firmly,” at least
he shouldn’t pass the buck to “future
Administrations.”


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
f
vai
mm
m
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need tor
renewals or repair.
ftxidc HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A long-distance record that will take
beating anywhere was associated witn
the Anzac Day celebrations that stirred
Australia yesterday. Knight Gilbert Dyett
had been officially taking a leading hand
in the annual commemoration as R.S.L.
Federal president since 1920, and he’d
then been president nearly a year. On the
other hand, N.S.W. this year was without
an actual president for the occasion. J. C.
Neagle is acting in the job in the place
of Col. Hyman, who resigned to go to
Repat., and the post won’t be filled till
next month.
H. H. Womersley gets the rare Verco
Medal given by the Royal Society of SA.
for “distinguished scientific work pub-
lished by one of its Fellows.” He is the
present president of the whole society,
but his special line is insect life ; he’s chief
entomologist of the Adelaide Museum.
Bruce Shearer, managing director of
A.C.F. and Shirleys (Brisbane), is here
depicted by Frith digging in the products
of that firm which are reckoned to make
the pictures on the seed packets come
true, and hence are an important item in
Australia’s present big food-production
programme. Also chairman of directors
of the Brisbane furniture firm of Car-
ricks, Shearer hailed originally from the
Clarence, on the N.S.W. North Coast,
where his father started one of the early
sugar mills. A vice-president of the Tax-
BRUCE SHEARER.
payers’ Assoc, in the northern State,
Shearer these days has most of his spare
time taken up with war-time Y.M.C.A.
work.
As this page was going to press J. F.
Dexter (“Pilot”) was in hospital very ill.
Australia’s best-known racing writer,
“Pilot” has been writing on the Sport
of Kings for upwards of 50 years. He
joined The Bulletin in 1939. Four of
his talented family have followed in
father’s footsteps in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. “Pilot” came to Sydney from
Toowoomba (Q.), where an uncle of his
was an early secretary of the Toowoomba
Racing Club.
Taking over a torpedo-boat flotilla pre-
viously commanded by Lieut.-Com-
mander Dickens, grandson of Charles,
a New Zealander, Lieut. J. McDonald,
R.N.Z.N.V.R., has wbn the D.S.G. with
bar. He has also won the Royal Humane
Society’s medal for saving a seaman from
a sunk torpedo-boat. Aged 17 when war
broke, McDonald was then a member
of the Wellington Naval Reserve and had
charge of the stamp box at the Bank of
N.S.W. in Wellington. Receiving a call
to proceed to Auckland on a Sunday, he
handed the box keys to one of the bank,
staff, asked him to inform the manager
that he couldn’t wait to see him, and was
speeding to Auckland the same night. At
20 he was claimed to be the youngest
commander in the Royal Navy.
Had his silver jubilee celebrated at a
Pontifical High Mass in Sydney, Dr. John
Panico, the Apostolic Delegate to Aus-
tralia. Born in 1896, Dr. Panico had
been at a wide range of addresses before
coming here in 1935, including the Argen-
tine, Prague, Bavaria and a special mis-
sion to the Saar. Among his honors, he
is a Grand Officer of the Order of the
White Lion of Czechoslovakia and a
Commander of the Legion of Honor.
The Rufus Morris drawing of the
farmer's family (B. 12/4/’44), with the
Old Man saying grace “ And please
do something about the Egg Board, the
Milk Board, the Apple and Pear Board
and Mr. Chifley,” goes to the last-named,
with The Bulletin’s compliments to the
Federal Treasurer on his sense of humor.
It tickled him so much that he wanted to
buy it!
“X.S.”: Right or wrong, Ambrose
Pratt (B. 19/4/’44) had the courage of
his opinions. After a sojourn in Siam
and Malaya he wrote an engaging travel
book and appended a glossary of Malay
words and phrases. As he hadn’t been
more than a few weeks in either country
he asked a man who had lived many
years in those parts to look the manu-
script over and correct any mistakes he
might have made in the Malay words.
The friend did so, but when the book
was printed he found that Pratt had re-
turned to his original version.
L. R. Macgregor, Director-General of
the Australian War Supplies Procurement
Mission in America, now back for a brief
visit connected with his job, was trained
in law and banking in Scotland, and had
some useful practical experience in India
before first coming to Australia. Last
war-time he managed W.A. Farmers
wheat department, and in 1919 went to
London on special business for the W.A.
Government. After that he was Director
of Agricultural Organisation in Queens-
land, then Australian Trade Commis-
sioner in Canada (1938). In 1940 his
job was expanded to cover North
America, and in 1942 he was given the
top post in the U.S.A.
“Ballaratite”: When Bishop Arthur
Vincent Green retired-from the see of
Ballarat 27 years ago his friends hardly
thought he’d put up a record for Aus-
tralian bishops. May 1 will be the 50th
year of his consecration as bishop ; no
other Anglican bishop in Australia has
had an episcopal golden jubilee. For
the last 23 years Green has held
a lectureship at Trinity College, Mel-
bourne. In his day Ballarat diocese
took in half Victoria. Before the
new diocesan registry offices in the
cathedral buildings were occupied the
church offices were housed in com-
mercial premises over the road, with the
inscription “Bishop’s Registry” across the
windows, which explains a letter in the
episcopal mail one morning addressed to
“Mr, Bishop” asking him to supply a
good all-round house servant. The
bishop’s garden at his quiet Heidelberg
home now occupies his spare moments.
Brigadier Douglas Duke Paine, chair-
man ~of the Victorian Public Service
Board in succession to J. Harnetty (retir-
ing), joined the State’s service in 1909 as
a clerk in the Statist’s office, transferred
to Taxation and left that to enlist in the
A.I.F. and serve on Gallipoli and in
France. In this war Brigadier Paine was
Assistant Director of Supplies and Trans-
port, Southern Command, .before doing
a like job in Libya, Greece and Syria.
Brought back in 1942, he became
Deputy Q.M.G. of the A.M.F. Among
his decorations are the D.S.O. (1918) and
the Greek Military Medal (1941). He
was gen. sec. of Melbourne’s Centenary
celebrations.
Maoriland’s oldest inhabitant and held
to be the oldest white man in the British
Empire, Patrick Lucas Hamilton cele-
brated St. Patrick’s Day by having his
114th birthday anniversary. Born in
County Donegal, he has lived under
seven British monarchs.
Though professional scrappers get big
splashes of publicity on the strength of
being “in the forces” —the latest is Joe
Louis, gone to England “to give boxing
exhibitions” —they seem to figure in about
the same class as jockeys when it comes
to front-line fighting. Former welter
champ. Barney Ross, decorated for good
work with the Yanks in the Solomons,
appears to stand as an exception. It may
be different with amateurs. At least, the
TOM DERRICK, V.C., D.C.M.
pros, certainly have nothing to compare
with Sgt. Thomas Currie (“Diver”) Der-
rick, V.C., D.C.M., as a front-line
scrapper, and Derrick (here depicted as
Coventry sees him) lost only one of 20
engagements boxing as an amateur round
Murray River districts. Working on a
fruit block near Berri (S.A.) when he got
into the A.1.F., he won his D.C.M. at El
Alamein find his V.C. at Sattelberg (New
Guinea), for “refusal to admit defeat in
the face of a seemingly impossible situa-
tion.” He is the first South Australian-
born winner of the V.C. in the present
war. Now 30, he’s short and thickset,
and as quiet, modest and unassuming as
they make ’em.
Back in 1913 T. L. Fulton, of the E.,
S. and A., acquired a hobby. He met
Flynn of the Inland, who already had a
vision that “this newfangled flying busi-
ness” was going to be of great import-
ance to the outback. Hence, in due
course, the Flying Doctor Service, which
goes on expanding, despite even the war,
and which Fulton has all along made a
main interest outside banking hours. Born
at Brighton (Vic.), Fulton joined the
E., S. and A. in 1898, when he was 14,
and has since held down practically every
T. L. FULTON.
possible sort of banking job in every
capital city of the Commonwealth except
Hobart. In 1937 he became his bank's
Brisbane manager and head serang for
Queensland. A daughter is a comman-
dant of the V.A.D.
Awarded the Military Cross in New
Guinea, Captain H. C. Morphett, of
Adelaide, is the only son of George Cum-
mins Morphett, former M-H.A. for
Murray, and great-grandson of the
pioneer John Morphett, who became first
Speaker in the S.A. Legislative Council.
While at Oxford, where he received an
arts degree, young Morphett rowed in
the inter-’Varsity race, and was president
of the Oxford Uni. Boat Club, the only
Australian to hold that post. Back in
Australia he became assistant manager
of Australian Pastoral’s Noondoo station
(Q.), but was with the Shell Co. in S.A.
when he enlisted at the outbreak.
When Rex Battarbee, the Melbourne'
painter, taught his camel-boy, Albert
Namatjira, how to handle pigments he
probably never imagined he was starting
a movement, but today there are at least
a dozen natives of the Centre busily
engaged in struggling with the problems
of form, tone and color. One of Albert’s
pupils, Gustav Malbanka, a labor-gang
worker, is said to paint like Van
Gogh, though, unlike city painters who
think they paint like that master, he
has never seen a Van Gogh. One of
Albert’s daughters is a water-colorist like
her father, and Edwin Pareroultja, a
champion runner, is also an assiduous
dauber. Namatjira’s latest exhibition at
Myer’s, Melbourne —his first, at. the Fine
Arts, sold out completely—has been com-
manding prices that would make the
mouth of the average metropolitan
dauber water —40 guineas in some cases.
A big, bulky, genial, handsome-featured,
full-blooded abo., he owns a cheque-
book and puts a quarter of his earnings
into war loans —the rest seems to be
shared by the tribe on a communal basis.
His master, Battarbee, now has the job
of managing the old Lutheran mission
at Hermannsburg, and acts as liaison
officer between his artistically-minded
charges, the Government and the Army.
New president of the N.S.W. Chess
Association M. E. Goldstein has been
champion of Victoria, New Zealand and
Westralia and a close runner for the
N.S.W. title. Another of the new officers
is Harold Mercer, who has organised
many chess events. Mercer —known to
Bulletin readers over many years by his
own handle and a score of pen-names —
can claim the singular distinction of hav-
ing made money out of freelancing for
Australian newspapers, though, he'd
probably add, not enough of it. Still,
not many have made more.
Frederick and William Newnham came
to Victoria from Surrey in 1849, and in
1908 their descendants decided to have an
annual reunion. Several weeks back 100
members of the clan assembled at Heidel-
berg Park (Vic.) and heard the reading
of the family tree, which now numbers
469 known living members. The oldest
present was George Newnham, 81, and
the youngest the three-year-old son of
the clan secretary. There are 50 in the
fighting forces.
Into the silence:
J. R. Wilton, Prof, of Mathematics at Ade-
laide Uni., after a long illness, at close on 60.
Son of a leading “Advertiser” journalist of the
last century, he took a first-class B.Sc. at
Adelaide at 19, and went on to Cambridge on
the advice of the famous Bragg, who called
him “the greatest natural genius for maths, in
my 20 years in S.A.” He won all sorts ol
honors there, was lecturer at Sheffield and
Manchester, and returned to Adelaide as prof,
from 1920 till his death, with a special D.Sc.
■ sent him from Cambridge in 1930. “A born
mathematician,” says Chancellor Mitchell;
“published papers on the frontier beyond tthe
reach of ordinary students. And his devoted
and saintly character gave him a unique in-
fluence.”
In Melbourne, John Saunders Grieg, M.A.,
modern languages master at the Melbourne
Boys’ High School. His specialty was German,
and for many years he and his pupils printed
on his own hand-printing set editions of the
school magazine in that language.
At Toorak (Melbourne), at 80, Dr. Edward
Alan Mackay, of one of the very early pioneer
families. His father, also a doctor, was among
the first to take up land in the Ovens Valley.
In Sydney, A. R. Bluett, “guide, counsellor
and friend” to every local-government body
in N.S.W. and many in other States for nearly
30 years. There seemed to be nothing he didn’t
know about the subject and no man wrote more
interestingly about it. Wagga-bom, Bluett was
educated at Bathurst and Sydney’s Fort-street
High, became a solicitor, and was secretary of
the Local Government and the Shires Associa-
tions when he retired.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”: Peering hopefully into a
city tobacconist’s I spotted a cove odng
served tobacco, and barged in. Caught
with the goods, as it were, the salesman
mumbled doubtfully “Well, you’re not
a regular customer, y* know.” With a
sudden inspiration I drew myself up and
replied, “Sir, I am not a regular cus-
tomer and have no intention of becoming
one. I prefer to remain one of the many
thousands of casual customers without
whom joints like yours could not pros-
per. Regular customers could not buy
a tenth of your stock; it is casuals
who make your profit. And, being
a casual, I am able to retain suffi-
cient pride to refrain from creeping
humbly to you for a dole and to be able
to tell you, without fear of reprisal,
since I seek no favor, to fry your face
in your ruddy tobacco and go” But
by that time the astounded man had
parcelled up two ounces and. was push-
ing them at me.
* * * *
“Matlow”; The ship’s company of an
Australian warship serving in the tropics
received a signal from an Allied shore
base inviting them to play softball. The
“buzz” quickly spread that according to
the signal beer would be provided.
There was a rush to get on the list, as a
chance to drink beer under the waving
palms was too good to miss, though
hardly any of us had any knowledge of
softball. The P.T.I. eventually selected
11 players, who went over the side deter-
mined to do their best, especially with
the beer. From the beginning it was
obvious that the home team would have
a walkover, as the Aussies were novices,
though their thirsts had become profes-
sional. After the game ended and polite
inquiries into the living conditions, recrea-
tion, etc., had failed to materialise any
stingo, the Australian spokesman sug-
gested that “the beer mentioned in the
signal would go right well now.” This
remark seemed to pass over their hosts’
heads, but at last the Allied skipper took
a tumble and asked one of his team to get
a copy of the signal, which when pro-
duced read; “Would like to play you
softball, gear provided.” The pinnace
returned to the ship with a thoroughly
dejected and disappointed bunch of
sailors, whose thoughts and suggestions
regarding softball and unreliable sig-
nallers were unprintable,
* ♦ * *
Pip”: As the years roll by the various
leave and transit depots are becoming
efficient machines. The leave draft
arrives, is promptly marched off by an
n.c.o. and in five minutes every man
knows when his train will be leaving,
when he must report back, the location
ot rest rooms and hostels and what pubs
in the place will have beer. Those who
have still to collect pay or coupons are
spirited away for immediate issue, and
an hour after entering the depot every-
body not moving on immediately has a
24-hour leave pass and is on his way
into town. Very different from the early
days of the war when L.T.Ds. were a
place of terror to some and dismay to
211. Many a soldier entered on transit,
bound for a cooking course in Victoria,
and found himself a few weeks later
behind a machine-gun in Libya. Others
have just been lost and never seen again.
Many wandered around for months,
wanted by nobody, because their papers
had gone astray. Even now there are
occasional mistakes to exasperate the sol-
dier, and one recent victim has chalked
his disapproval across a depot sign. With
his soul he has written:
When men come back from overseas
They’re messed around by L.T.Ds.
• * * *
“Hamer”: Granny “Herald’s” belated
conversion to front-page news recalls
that there was a time, long, long ago,
when the “Herald’s” front page keenly
interested Sydney. The day of numer-
ous department stores had yet to dawn,
but there were two in the field. Las-
setters, with something of the status of
a bank, for a long while was the only
advertiser to be allowed a full single
column on a page devoted otherwise to
shipping cos,, banks and other exalted
advertisers. Then Anthony Horderns’,
growing to greatness, managed to secure
a column alongside. The opening ad.,
with a sarcastic remark that any firm
claiming to be the “only universal pro-
viders” was out of date, nettled Las-
setters, and a lively duel ensued. Refer-
ences to the military status of Col. Las-
"He'll make no more nuisance raids on us."
setter got that gentleman on the raw,
and after that no punches were barred.
Freelances found a new market. I picked
up more than one guinea by suggesting a
line of attack for one ad. man and dupli-
cating the cash by providing a snappy
reply to the other. Ninety per cent, of
Sydneyites turned to those ad. columns
to see the latest sarcasms before they
looked at anything else in the paper. The
argument suddenly ceased. The public
loves a fight, but loses interest in it if it
drags on too long.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Though barely half gone
when this was written, April, 1944, gave
Australia’s biggest city four tragic deaths
of young girls. The first, found floating
off Bondi, was 18 ; the next, who went
over The Gap, was 19 ; the third, who fell
130 ft. from a hospital roof, was 20; and
the fourth, found gassed in her room, was
24. Epidemics of this kind aren’t un-
known, though so far no sound psycho-
logical explanation has been given.
♦ ♦ * *
“Avoca”: At the recent swarry of
the N.S.W. Oyster Farmers’ Association,
T. C. Roughley, Superintendent of
Fisheries, declared that, though the oyster
producer was now reaping a slight in-
crease in his price, “the cost to the public
had not been increased,” I like that!
Apart from the scarcity of oysters for
civilian consumption, often the unpro-
curability, my experience is that the price
of bottled oysters has increased. For-
merly I used to get a bottle of a dozen
oysters for a bob. Then the price gradu-
ally began to rise, first by a penny or two-
pence. Now I sometimes pay Is. 3d. a
bottle, but generally Is. 6d. or 2s. And
what paltry oysters they are as a rule!
The best value is the Is. 3d. bottle. Though
the contents usually consist of a mere
seven or eight, they are of fair
size and succulence and at least leave
the feeling that one has been eating
oysters.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Most of us were a bit
in the dark about it all on the morning
when Sydney dailies were banned. Not
so the large, heavy-faced gentleman sit-
ting opposite me in the tram. “It’s that
there Pyjama Girl,” he told us. “The
papers have found out the truth and the
police won’t let them print it.”
* * * *
“Avon”: The people of the little M.L.
town which last year was the scene
of celebrations attendant on presentation
of the V.C. to the first Maori recipient,
Lieut. Te Moana Ngarimu, are a little
perturbed and puzzled about an account
of the proceedings cabled by an Ameri-
can press correspondent to his newspaper,
cuttings of which, have filtered back to
the Dominion. He describes the town,
Ruatoria, as “an exact replica of an
American frontier town in the wildest
days of the West,” and that hurts the
Ruatorians, whose town enjoys electric
light and power and modern sewage, and
certainly does not contain the saloon-
cum-dancing hall-c«m-gambling hell es-
stablishments of the old American West.
The correspondent describes some color-
ful events:
The Maori cowboys came racing into
town on their ponies, dismounted in a
cloud of dust, tied their horses to hitching
posts, and popped into the meeting-place.
They play the part well, mainly because
they have seen so many American films.
Naturally they are partial to Westerns, and
Tom Mix is still their favorite. The saddler of
the town learned this well recently. After see-
ing a Mix picture one evening, some of the
cowboys, all friends of the saddler, talked
over the fine points of cowboying. Then
they all mounted and raced toward the
hills. A short time later they came gallop-
ing back info town, forced open the
saddler’s door, burst into the back room
where he slept, forced him into a straight-
backed chair, and proceeded to tie him up.
Then they rode off into the night.
In rebutting these allegations with some
force, the inhabitants point out that the
investiture the American reporter attended
was held in stormy weather just after
several days of torrential rain, hence no
dust. Furthermore Thomas Mix hasn’t
been seen on the screen in Fernland for
at least 15 years, and the Maori popula-
tion of Ruatoria is more interested in
Fords and Chevs than in gee-gees. But
what of that? It made a lovely stahry.
* * * *
“Alfanuther”: A news item from
Pennsylvania (U.S.A.) tells of a man who
knocked at what he thought was his own
door just before dawn and stopped a
bullet. When he recovered—in hospital
—he learned that it wasn’t only the wrong
house but the wrong town. Fellers, hats
off to the kind of party he’d been attend-
ing!
* * ♦ *
“Cook’s Mate” on a historic Bible:
H.M.S. Endeavour carried no chaplain on
Cook’s most famous voyage, so sometimes on
Sundays the captain used to read Divine service
himself. Whilst at Tahiti he did this on two
occasions, and an hour was chosen when the
natives could attend, “that they might see our
behaviour, and that we might, if possible, ex-
plain to them the reason for it,” says Joseph
Banks. Cook no doubt did this in the conscien-
tious fashion in which he did everything. The
Bible he used is in Che Australian Museum at
Sydney—it was treasured by his widow all her
long life. As an old woman—she survived her
husband 55 years—“she kept four days in the
of solemn fasting, during which she came
not out of her own room.” They were the
anniversaries of the death of her husband and
of her three sons, and were passed wholly in
prayer and meditation. This Bible was printed
in 1765, three years before the Endeavour be-
gan her voyage. It contains some quaint and
wonderful illustrations the animals going
aboard Noah s ark and David’s destruction of
Goliath stick in the memory.
* ♦ * *
S.”: Nobody spoke more eloquently
on the banning of the Sydney dailies than
Mr. Harrison:
Jhe Opposition demands that Parliament
should be called together immediately to
determine what action should be taken to
ensure preservation of the liberties of the
people and to discipline this irresponsible
and extraordinary Minister [Mr. Calwell]
who has been tampering too long with the
people s freedom and the free press of Aus-
tralia.
I am so moved by this that I can almost
—but not, alas! wholly—dismiss the
recollection of a former Customs Min-
ister who, with his hair “standing on
end,” banned Ulysses.
* • * *
“Petrie”: “S.T.S.” (B. 19/4/’44) is mis-
taken in saying that all the Guardian’s
crew were saved. Captain Riou sent away
the ship’s five boats, holding about 70
men. A French merchant ship picked up
the launch, containing five survivors, 10
days later, but nothing was ever heard
of the other boats. The Guardian her-
self managed to reach Table Bay. She
was wrecked by a hurricane while being
repaired there.
• * * *
“J.H.M.A.” on Melbourne’s beginnings:
In 1836 Bourke sent a Commissioner from
Sydney to inspect the place. Melbourne then
consisted of 13 little buildings—three of weather-
board, two slab and eight turf huts. A result of
this “look-see” was that Lonsdale arrived as
Resident Magistrate. Early next year Bourke
nunsell came down, and authorised the survey
ol a town. Lonsdale wanted to place it at
the mouth of the river, but there wasn’t enough
fresh water there for a capital, so that site
was named after William IV, whilst the 13
shanties up the river were made the seat of
government and called “Melbourne,” after Great
Britain’s Prime Minister. The village hadn’t
any lack of names in those days. Tasmanian
newspapers spoke of it as “Batmania” and
Glenelg”; other references of the time are
o “Bearbrass,” “Bearport,” “Barsheep” and
‘Bearbury,” all of which were probably varia-
tions of the aboriginal title of the locality—
“Berrera” or “Bararing.”
* * * *
“O’Queen”: The editor of a count:y
weekly, seeking a new trainee, interviewed
a raft of applicants, including several
alumni of the local high school, with
dominie’s testimonials as to efficiency
in essay writing. Remembering Monty
Grover’s adage that for a journalist
there’s no such thing as a misspent youth,
he chose an undersized youngster whose
drooping cigarette and general air of
abandon showed no past desire to lead
the higher life. The choice proved a good
one; the kid had a nose for news and
commonsense, and the editor sent him
off to his first big assignment, a race
meeting in a neighboring town, with an
easy mind. The cub turned in a correct
if colorless account of the racing, but
was scooped by a rival sheet, which gave
a full description of the chicanery that
involved the disqualification of one
of the jockeys. The enraged editor ac-
cused the youth of not even visiting the
races. The lad looked at him scornfully.
“I was there, ail right,” he declared. "I
was the jock they rubbed out.”
THE OLD AND VALUED
CUSTOMER.
the man—and lucky, too, the dame —
\i7^ 10 ’ arin 8 forth to buy in days like these
” ares such as custom has been wont t'o claim
As indispensable commodities.
From ham and eggs to —anything you please
Esteemed desirable by him (or her),
Can find the way to shops where he’s (or
she s)
Classed as an old and valued customer.
t good to know sufficient brass you took
a j° r .double your requirements to provide
Ail- l hat your ultra-precious ration book
With coupons is abundantly supplied.
Essentials these, it cannot be denied,
Wheie stores with busy trading are astir,
But not of maximum account beside
Being an old and valued customer.
Though, if a woman, you’ve engaging smiles
Wherewith your pleas for this or that to
press,
Or, if a man, more brusque, imperious wiles
1 o combat hesitant unwillingness,
It s odds against the ultimate success
Ot any straight request you may prefer
For something that’s in hot demand —unless
xou are an old and valued customer.
I wonder, when we pass the Golden Gate
And scout around to where are kept on show
Necessities of the celestial state,
Flarps, wings and crowns and suchlike things,
you know,.
Some angel voice will murmur, clear and low,
Fo new arrivals passing to and fro
The warning word that worries and deters:
‘These goods for sale? No, Sir (or Madam),
no!
They re kept for old and valued customers.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
OUT AGAIN.
“Exit W. M. Hughes from his fifth party—expelled.”
—B. 19/iJ’U.
What ups and downs have been his chequered
lot
Since first the Parliament’ry track he hit!
What has he been in turn? you ask. What not?
Would be a better way of putting it.
Now, after a celebrity that dates
From half a century back or thereabout,
His last assortment of associates
Have “tfarun him out.”
Time was no voice rang out so bold and loud
As his, none nailed his colors to the mast
More fearlessly among the Labor crowd
Or heavier bricks at capitalists cast.
Who could foretell that he would live to see
Those whom he’d led in many a hot debate
Show him the door or (more colloquially)
Give him the gate?
Time was when he “bestrode this narrow world
Like a Colossus” and a lengthy line
Of those at whom he erst had insults hurled
Hastened to otfer homage at his shrine.
They sang his praise, the crowd that once had
willed
Him naught but harm, received him in the
fold
With cheers, and (metaphorically) filled
His mouth with gold.
Dizzy with power he ruled, aloof, alone,
Resenting counsel, scornful of advice;
“Bore, like the Turk, no brother near the
throne”
And paid, like other autocrats, the price.
His colleagues, goaded to their last resort,
Chafing at such dominion absolute,
Bounced him incontinently out. In short,
He got the boot.
William, take heart! You haven’t ceased to be
An elder statesman yet. And anyhow
The situation holds no novelty,
You must be quite familiar with it now.
’Twere best you stay a party, sect or clique
Of one, from now until your hour is struck.
Then none can cast you forth or (so to speak)
Give you the chuck.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”; On the fateful day when
“S. M. Herald” shifted its choicest news
to the front page and congratulated itseu
on having put Mr. Calwell’s party m, i
junior contemporary, though already i
sworn ally in the Fight against Tyranny,
came out with a cartoon of the Old Laciy
in Queen Victoria rig getting monkey-
gland treatment from Dr. Voronott. _
wasn’t a bad piece of work, and it
amused the medical profession mightily.
Not exactly as a tribute to the cartoonist s
cleverness and attention to detail but be-
cause the doctor was shown giving the
patient, each with an overhanging ape,
a shot in thd arm. My chuckling g.p.
assures me that the Voronoff operation
is invariably performed on another pait
of the anatomy which I tear to name.
Mention of the place on divers occasions
was one of the counts in the official in-
dictment against “Esquire” which led to
that rorty magazine being deprived of
mailing privileges. Apropos, one of the
many writers who sprang to “Esquire s
defence was the perfervid Dorothy
Thompson. Addressing the inexorable
Mr. Walker, of Washington, Dorothy m
a withering sentence demanded to know
whether he never used the term “back-
side.” *
* Me • * *
“X.SA: A phenomenon which seems
to have escaped the notice of the Food
Control people is the almost complete
disappearance of Chinese market-
gardeners from the rich flats of the
Yarra. Time was when these gardens
were a picture. They stretched from
Abbotsford to Heidelberg, and every inch
of soil was cultivated. From what I can
gather these abandoned gardens are a
sort of negative -tribute to the excellence
of Chinese cooking. With traditional
adaptability the Chinese cafes of Mel-
bourne have adjusted themselves to war-
time shortages, even of the peculiarly
Chinese ingredients which have been cut
off by Japanese expansion. As they pro-
vide the best cooking in the city they
have become generally popular, and the
ex-market gardeners have become cooks
and scullions. Others may have set up
as herbal wizards—there is a great boom
in hefbalism these days —and are using
their experience with the ills of cabbages
and lettuces to cure sufferers from war
neurosis,
* « * *
“Si Anu”: T would be most surprised
if Australians weren’t frequent occur-
rences in South America (B. 12/4/’44).
They crop up in the most unlikely places.
On one occasion I visited a monastery in
a remote province of China, and my
attention was arrested by a crowd around
some object in one of the temples. Work-
ing my way through I discovered a white
woman calmly sitting at an easel paint-
ing—a pupil of Julian Ashton. On an-
other occasion I thought I was the only
Australian on a small island in the Malay
Archipelago. One day I noticed in the
distance the long figure of a white man
disappearing into the billiard saloon of
Eng Wat, the leading merchant. The
moment I entered the stranger got up and
left and, somewhat intrigued, I made in-
quiries, I learnt that he was an Austra-
lian who for 15 years had lived a solitary
life 14 miles down the coast. He came to
town once a month, spoke to nobody and
was supposed to be engaged in prospect-
ing in the innards of a Spanish galleon,
crammed with gold and silver, which had
sunk there in the seventeenth century.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: The village Hampden of
daylight saving has been found in Tas-
mania—Councillor Dunbabin, of Rich-
mond Council, a farmer. He didn’t have
to put his clock back an hour on March
26 because he didn’t put it on last year.
He informed his fellow-councillors that
he didn’t take any notice of daylight sav-
ing and so ordered his life that he didn’t
suffer any inconvenience thereby.
* * * *
“Zake”: Hollywood’s Australian refer-
ences are usually unfortunate. In a cur-
rent film, “Stage Door Canteen,” a lone
Aussie sergeant is presented. He wears
stripes on both sleeves and has an accent
that makes a Covent Garden coster-
monger sound like an Oxford Don in
comparison. But in “Mr. Lucky” there’s
an authentic touch. Cary Grant,' saying
he picked it up from an Australian, gives
an exposition of the principles and prac-
tice of rhyming slang. It is, of course, of
Cockney origin, but Australians over the
last 30 years have made it their own and
added frills never dreamed of in the Hub.
Grant talks of walking down the frog-
and-toad with his twist-and-twirl, of slap-
ping a pal on the hammer-and-tack and
sinking a gay-and-frisky. He goes on to
explain that in time the second, and
rhyming, word gets dropped, so that one
adjured to shut the Rory knows that
Rory O’More, signifying door, is meant,
a whisky becomes a “gay-an’” a mate,
or china plate, becomes a “china,” and
so on. The Bowery, prolific source of
American slang, may be expected to fall
upon this discovery with cries of joy,
and in six months’ time it will be claimed
as a home-grown development.
* * * *
“Hist”: “Bo’s” kind words on King
Carol (B. 5/4/’44) remind me that the
Balkan monarch had one small direct
"I'm askin' two an ten a gallon—same as petrol."
contact with Australia. The committee oi;
the philatelic show at Melbourne’s cen-
tenary celebrations remembered that
Carol was a collector and invited him to
supply an exhibit. Carol didn’t send
stamps, but he very politely phrased his
regret that he couldn’t do so and sent a
donation sufficient for the purchase of a
couple of prizes. One of these, inscribed
“Presented by H.M. King Carol of
Rumania,” sits on my mantelpiece.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; A married art student
of the “modernist” dispensation whose
husband is in the Army rented part of
a house in the country owned by an old
lady. After she had been installed for a
couple of weeks she gave a party, among
the guests being a distinguished Mel-
bourne landscape painter. Observing that
the walls of most of the rooms were coh -
ered with pictures, he remarked “So the
old lady paints. Is it one of the condi-
tions of your lease that you have to en-
dure her pictures?” “S-sh!” whispered
his hostess. “They weren’t painted by
the old lady. They were painted by Mr.
Diagonal, the post-primitivistand don’t
speak so loud, because he’s in the next
room.”
t- * * *
“Bo”: When graziers forgather annu-
ally in the city to discuss their woes the
menu of the banquet with which the
convention is topped off may range from
flounder to porterhouse, from roast pork
to lobster mayonaisse ; but were a sheep-
man to even hear a waiter mention grilled
chumo chon or roast lamb he would turn
a pale green about the gills and stagger
out for fresh air. Fishermen, meeting
convivially once a year to curse scarce
fish, low prices and Government control,
“It’s some daft stunt he learnt in New Guinea —but it won't trick old Bob."
stipulate vehemently before sitting down
that nothing that ever wore scales shall
be set before them. Were the Society of
Rabbit Trappers to partake of an annual
get-together,-the chef who sent in rabbit
pie would undoubtedly be kicked to
death. “Modernist” painters, so I’m told,
bar tripe at their annual spread. But to
all rules there’s an exception. The oyster
farmers of N. S. Wales lug huge bags of
their own produce to their corporate feast.
This year 70 of them wrapped themselves
around 300 dozen bivalves they had
grown or reared or bred or whatever they
do with the darned things. And these
were just an appetite-sharpener to the
main feed!
« * * •
“Cauboy”: A.B.C. is out with its con-
cert programme for the coming season,
and it promises to be a bumper. Sub-
scriptions in Melbourne are so heavy that
each Town Hall concert is to be repeated.
Those who can remember the symphony
concerts of former days when Alberto
Zelman used to play just as good pro-
grammes with just as good performers to
a few hundred listeners surrounded by
vast empty spaces wonder whether the
A.B.C.’s success in selling music to the
people is an unmixed blessing. In the
old days more people made music, if
fewer listened to it.
* * * *
“P. Ater”: “Zake’s” story of Charlie
Macartney’s masquerade (B. 12/4/’44)
brings to mind another case of the kind.
I was keeping wickets for an Army eleven
in Cairo in a match against Gezireh
Sporting Club on that club’s ground. Our
opponents included Dr. Eric Barbour.
Several early wickets had fallen cheaply
to South Australian Bill Sterling, when a
monocled batsman strode to the crease.
He asked for all the “blocks” he could
get, marking each carefully on the mat-
ting with a piece of chalk from his pocket.
After addressing me as “wicketkeepah
and looking round to note the disposi-
tion of the field, to the accompaniment of
much Digger ohiacking, he took stance.
The first ball he picked off his toes and
sent to the leg boundary. Then he gave
us a glittering variety of pulls, cuts and
drives, finishing 50-odd not out, witlr his
monocle as steady as the Rock of Gib-
raltar. When the roar of applause was
over we rushed the scorers, to find it was
C. B. Fry. He’d worn the windowpane
for a bet. But we won the match.
# Jfc * ♦
“X.S.”: W. S. Gilbert’s sentimental
bobbies aren’t paralleled in the Mel-
bourne police force. A bride and bride-
groom had just been made one before an
East Melbourne church altar, the “Wed-
ding March” had been played and the
fiappy couple were emerging from the
door when a young man sprang briskly
forward and swung the door of their
waiting car open. The couple stepped
inside and so did the brisk young man,
while a second brisk young man took his
seat beside the driver, laconically remark-
ing “Detective office, Russell-street. ’ The
bridegroom had been identified during
the wedding service as being wanted to
do a stretch of two months, imposed in
October for failing to register for mili-
tary service. He spent the night at the
watch-house while the courteous police-
men sent the bride back in the car to the
wedding reception.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: In Westralia 40-odd years
ago there lived a fine old chap named
Andrew Barr. He had a farm at Dood-
lakine, but was less interested in coaxing
wheat from the stubborn Doodlakine soil,
brick-red and almost brick-hard, than in
constructing a flying machine. The asso-
ciation of the odd habit with the odd
place-name and the gift of a ready-made
line captivated verse-writers from Perth
,to Sydney (a Bulletin poet of the period
fell for it), but Andrew Barr took all their
jeux d’esprit with the philosophy which
seems to console inventors who are ahead
of their time. Farewelled, I think, by
“T. the R.” (“We said ta-ta to Andrew
Barr, To Andrew Barr of Doodlakine”),
he took his invention to England, and
was there swallowed up ; anyway, Dood-
lakine and the Perth press boys, who liked
him immensely, knew him no more. Now
Australia has another Andrew Barr —
Squadron-Leader Andrew Barr, D.F.C.
and bar, “one of Australia’s distinguished
night-fighter pilots,” with 12 Axis air-
craft to his credit and three escapes from
the enemy. Like so many other young
fellows who have served in this war, the
young Andrew Barr is a Rugby Union
footballer and has played for Victoria and
Australia. I suppose this par. ought to
end with the statement that he is a son
or grandson of his namesake the luckless
inventor, but for this I can’t vouch,
though he may be. He is a native of Wel-
lington (M.L.), and I fancy the Doodla-
kine man was a Maoriiander also.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A Melbourne “Herald” art
critic, after a visit to Geelong, suggested
in a broadcast that a grimy old painting
in Sleepy Hollow’s Art Gallery might
be a Titian, and the “Herald” came out
with the headline “Grubby Painting May
Be Sixteenth Century Masterpiece.” Duti-
ful but not very expectant, Victorian
National Gallery Director Daryl Lind-
say journeyed next day to Geelong, to
find that the cause of all the pother has
been in the Geelong gallery for at least
30 years, and until the “Herald” man’s
visit had been accepted for what it doubt-
less is, a copy of Titian’s “Danie in a
Rain of Gold,” valued at £75,000, which,
if the Huns haven’t stolen or destroyed
it, is in the Naples National Museum.
There are in existence dozens of copies,
good, bad and indifferent. One of these
days a wandering reporter may be ex-
pected to drop in at the National Gal-
lery and “discover” the Velasquez that
was copied by Longstaff under the terms
of the Travelling Scholarship.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”; That N.S.W. Aid
Russia Committee balance sheet was
recalled to my mind recently when a
droving trip took, me down river to the
old Dawson-side township of Taroom
(Q.). From the secretary of its War Effort
Committee I received some astounding
figures. A Bushman’s “Carnival” yielded
a profit of £1035 17s. Bd. The expenses*
were £8 17s . Beneficiaries: the Austra-
lian Comforts Fund (local), Red Cross
(local), Red Shield Huts and Dig-
gers’ Distress Fund (local) and, yes,
the Commonwealth Government, in the
Government’s case for the duration
of the war. Inquiry elicited the
further information that this move-
ment had already made a free gift
to the Government of £1416 and in-
vested with it £l2Ol in interest-free loans.
The amount on hand to be forwarded for
the duration approximates £924. Taroom
itself is very small, but the hearts of its
citizens and district residents are other-
wise. But, then, it is the heart of the real
cattle country. Practically all of its!men and
women cut their teeth on bullock horns.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Tartan”; One afternoon in town we
were all surprised to see the old boss,
who was not renowned for pious ardor,
standing, apparently absorbed, in the
doings of some itinerant religionists.
Wandering- over we found Bluey Bulloak
just finishing off an impassioned recital
of his conversion. As soon as the halle-
lujahs died down the boss walked up and
said “Here’s a fiver, skipper, for convert-
ing that bloke.” “God bless you,” inter-
posed the captain. “But wait a minute,”
said the boss. “That fellow’s got six
brothers, and I’ll give you a fiver for
every one you convert. Y’ see, I reckon
they pinch over 200 of my sheep every
year.”
*= * * *
“Old-timer”: Sausage, the half-grown
staghound pup, all legs and tail and
whiskers and grin, was bumbling along
the river bank hurling coltish abuse at
the soldier birds, when he spotted a move-
ment below him. It was a tortoise, lazily
moving along the mud under two feet of
clear water. Sausage whooped enthu-
siastically and sprang. When he struck
the water the pup’s shriek of astonish-
ment was cut short by the gallon or two
that swept into his open mouth, and he
staggered up, shaking his head and clap-
ping his teeth. Then he cocked an eye
at that tortoise, still slowly moving,
appeared to cogitate, experimentally,
dipped his mouth in the water, studied
the prey again, then began digging with
both feet at the water, obviously to
scratch a hole through it to the tortoise.
Getting -nowhere, Sausage hopped out on
to the bank and looked eagerly at us.
Bill reached down and yanked the tor-
toise out. It promptly withdrew into its
carapace. Sausage snuffed all round the
armor plate, issued challenges to come
out and fight, wiped his mouth on the
tort.’s back and then, with an air of
supreme contempt for a creature that
would neither play, parley nor fight, lum-
bered off in search' of a grasshopper or
something.
“Blime”: Puddler never trains a sheep-
dog ; he imports high-priced pups, takes
them round the sheep, and if they turn
out natural workers he claims the credit.
Recently I watched him yard a mob of
ewes. Calling his three pups he rode to
the other side of the paddock, where two
of the pups immediately went rabbiting.
The other one, on spotting the sheep,
dashed out so wide that not once were
the jumbucks aware of her presence. Then
Puddler began to muster. “Go ’way there,”
he called authoritatively to the atmo-
sphere, and, digging home the spurs, raced
off to collect the ewes. Puffing mightily,
he forced his sweating nag backwards
and forwards, slowly working the sheep
towards the yards. “Steady there, steady,
don’t rush ’em,” he sternly ordered a tree
stump. “Here, come over. Come over,”
he waved urgently, and charged across to
execute his own order. “That’s it,” he
commended. “Fetch ’em on. Here,
speak up. Woof, woof. Steady now.”
With the gate finally closed on the mob
I turned to Puddler. “If I were you I’d
give those two useless mongs to Joe for
the rabbit pack,” I suggested. “And that
one” —pointing to the third pup, still
surreptitiously eyeing the sheep from a
bunch of cover 30 yards up the paddock
—“if you like to give it to me for a
while. I’ll break it in for you.” Puddler
thought it over. “Yair, I s’pose a bit
more work wouldn’t hurt her,” he agreed
uncertainly; “only—well, what’d I do
in the meantime? I certainly can’t mus-
ter me sheep without a flamin’ dog.”
* * * *
“Walkabout”; Poeppel’s Peg, which
stands on the site where the Northern
Territory, South Australia and Queens-
land meet, is a coolibah post about four
feet high, erected by the South Australian
Government surveyor, A. J. Poeppel, in
1879, when he fixed the site of the junc-
tion of the three States. It is cut to a
triangular shape, arid each surface bears
the name of the State it faces. When last
I saw it the peg was in sound condition,
but the wonder is it hasn’t been buried,
standing as it does in an area where
heavy sandstorms are frequent. Unless
a housing is provided for the peg and
some preservative applied it must in
course of time rot away, but a more
fitting resting place for this relic of a
great piece of surveying would be in the
museum at Canberra.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: You can’t beat an official.
Some months ago a Melbourne daily
published alarming reports of the state
of the koalas on QuailTsland in Western-
port, which were said to be literally
starving. A film taken substantiated the
report, and Government officials reluc-
tantly made an inspection. They reported
that not one indigent, ill-fed or under-
nourished koala could be detected. The
“ 'Ow’s this , Lil? ‘Mixed farm for sale , owner must sell, health reasons .’”
paper, however, continued to make its
charges, which bore the signature of
some of the State’s most eminent natural-
ists. Now the Chief Secretary reports
that the gloomy forebodings that the
koalas would die by the end of the year
have been proved totally unfounded. All
the same, his department has com-
pleted the first mass transportation of a
native population in the history of Vic-
toria with the removal of 200 of the
quaint creatures from Westernport to new
colonies on the mainland. By the end
of the winter 700 bears will have been
transferred to Trentham, Daylesford,
Mount Alexander, Kyneton and other
places. Unless they have been trans-
ferred for fun, it is difficult to see why
this isn’t some justification for the alarm
of the naturalists. One of the new
colonies that have been established, in-
cidentally, is at Creswick, birthplace of
Norman Lindsay, the bears’ chief
delineator.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: One night in Echuca
(Vic.) we discovered a belligerent bloke
who insisted on having a piece of Mat.
Others have been similarly deceived by
the big fellow’s mildness of manner.
When the cove recovered he withdrew,
muttering threats, and a well-meaning
local warned us that he was one of three
brothers who had a reputation as street
fighters and that we could expect the trio
to be looking for us henceforth. I had
to see a bloke about a clearing contract
and left, promising to pick Mat up later
at a fish cafe. I got back to see a small
crowd gathered and Mat leaning casually
against the cafe door blowing on his
knuckles. “What happened?” I asked.
“Aw,” he said, “that bloke’s brothers
turned up. They wanted t’ have me on.
He eyed a somewhat dazed youth sit-
ting on the kerb holding his face. “Well?”
I inquired. “Aw,” said Mat, “one of ’em
got flurried, frightened and fled. This
bloke”—indicating the moaning figure—
“was cool, calm and collected.” Then
the lout on the kerb turned his face into
the light and I saw that he’d collected all
right.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That cove “Sur Cingle”
(B. 19/4/’44) seems to move among a
funny lot of animals if he believes a
horse has to be taught to eat bread or
sugar. Domesticated herbivorous animals
will tackle both without any coaching,
as can be proved by simply putting bread
or sugar out in the paddock where they
graze. I can’t help wondering what
“S.C.” would have thought of a tabby
he-cat I once owned. It chewed tobacco!
What’s more, it acquired the habit of its
own volition.
♦ * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Fifteen months I
lost a Green River butcher’s knife. It
wasn’t a bad one, but it didn’t take quite
as good an edge as I like. The other
day I found it in a tussock of dry grass,
rusty as blazes. Old Charlie was about
at the time, and, of course, he said “Now
y’ll have a real beaut, knife, boy. Grind
her up an’ she’ll take an’ edge like a
flamin’ razor.” Well, J did, and she does.
But what I want to know isDoes oxida-
tion really affect the temper of steel —if
so, there are a few other knives I’m going
to lose —or did the grinding-down reach
a harder layer of steel?
* * Ms *
“Herbert Dawson”: First it was Scor-
field, that most careful of detail-careful
artists, some weeks ago when illustrating
a meat-rationing joke in which a Here-
ford bull and two small dogs figured.
Now (B. 5/ 4 / ’44) it is Rufus Morris.
Both present such good sketches of bulls
that it is rather remarkable that they
should both make the same mistake. The
gentleman that keeps the beef industry
on the hoof wears his ears below and
behind the horns, never in front. Inci-
dentally, the realisation of this fact is
useful when pulling a stubborn unbroken
heifer into a bail with a rope round the
horns. Put the rope behind the ears so
that it squeezes them against the horns
when she sits back, and in a moment she
will walk in as easily as a coalminer
walks out.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Bill Blobbs, who useter
work with me fer a cocky one time,” re-
marked Bogan Bob, “had a good whack
of what they call a sense of the dramatic.
He came limpin’ up at dinnertime an’ took
his seat at the table. ‘Hurt y’rself?’ asked
the boss. ‘Oh, it’s nothin’,’ replied Bill;
‘jist a snick from an axe. I bandaged it
up an’ it’s all right.’ It didn’t seem to
affect his appetite. After he’d scoffed
down his second helpin’ of meat an’
spuds he remarked, casual, ‘Who’s that
ole coot what lives in that hut down near
where I’m workin’?’ ‘Oh, that’s Uncle
Alf, Dad’s brother,’ replied the missus.
‘Bit of a crank, ain’t he?’ said Bill, ‘fie
come over t’ where I wus workin’ carry-
in’ an axe, an’ ordered me orf,’ continued
Bill. ‘Oh, that’s just his way,’ ses the
boss; ‘does it t’ try an’ frighten people.
But he’s quite harmless.’ ‘Yes, I know he
is now,’ remarks Bill, grinnin’; ‘but, all
the same, he made a swipe at me with
the axe an’ got me in the leg.’ ‘Jest play-
actin’ on his part,’ ses the boss; ‘he
must’ve slipped.’ ‘P’raps,’ ses Bill; ‘but
I didn’t know he was funnin’, so I ducked
behind a cow grazin’ down there, an’ he
makes another swipe an’ dongs the cow
on the head and croaks her.’ ‘What!’
yelps the boss, jumpin’ up; ‘killed one
of me cows, did he? I’ll fix him!’ ‘lt’s
all right,’ grins Bill; ‘he’s tied up ; quite
harmless now. When he sees what he's
done he drops the axe an’ rushes t’
his hut. I sneak up a few minutes later
t’ see what he’s doin’, an’ find him, as I
sed, quite harmless an’ tied up —by his
neck to a rafter.’ ”
* * * *
“Zake”: That champion unbeliever
“The 0.D.,” in his argument with
“Naturala” (B. 19/4/’44), says “all gre-
garious things, from man to rabbit, use
sound as a signal of alarm,” and a few
lines further on asks: “Since when has the
rabbit given two hoots about the safety
of the other rabbit when danger ap-
pears?” Why then does the rabbit, caring
not about his fellows, bang his hind foot
on the ground—or is it that he is merely
giving himself the office to scoot for the
warren?
* * * *
“Lomond”: The dog had been gazing
uneasily to the north-west all morning,
whimpering from time to time. The
steady thud! thud! cff the mine battery
five miles away to the south came faintly
over the dead air to my hilltop camp.
The temperature in the bough shed was
106 ; in the open the sun hammered down
remorselessly from a brassy sky. Sud-
denly the sound of the battery ceased and
a gust of north wind, like the blast from
a furnace, rustled the brittle leaved of the
mulgas. A thin coppery line appeared on
the horizon. Rapidly it approached, and
as it grew the entire bush seemed aflame.
Red dust! It billowed over the treetops
and rolled around the rise with a sound
like surf breaking on the shore. The
landscape was drowned in dust, but my
hilltop stood above it all, alone in the
blistering sunlight—an island lost in a
blood-red sea. With every passing minute
the heat increased and the air was now
tinder-dry. The dust was creeping up-
wards, and little by little my island of
isolation was becoming submerged.
Already swirls of dust? were
eddying around the aban-
doned shaft not more than
20 yards downhill from where
I was standing. Reluctantly
I decided that the time had
come for me to take what-
ever shelter the oven-hot iron
walls of my camp would jpve
me. I turned to the door
and was raising the latch
when, looking northward, I
saw a vivid splash of green
waving like a banner trium-
phant above the engulfing
dust. It was the topmost
branches of my favorite kur-
rajong. Then as suddenly as
it had come the storm passed.
But this was no orderly
retreat. I watched it, a roll-
ing turmoil rushing over the
flat-like a routed army. In a
few minutes it was lost over the horizon.
Then the cool breeze came, delicate and
gentle at first, but gradually strengthen-
ing until it frolicked over the ground and
through the scrub. The cool change was
here at last and the whole bush breathed
again. The dog yawned luxuriously and
settled down to sleep.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: I don’t think anyone
need feed carob bean or any other seeds,
no matter how hard-hided, to emus
before sowing to ensure prompt germi-
nation (B. 22/3/’44). Heat is the thing
to soften the protective shells of seeds.
Notice how thousands of wattle seedlings
bob up in the bush after a grass-fire.
Wattle seeds are very thick-skinned, but
great heat puts them in growing condi-
tion after an enforced dormancy that
often runs into months. Despite their
need for heat, however, it may perhaps
not be advisable to water them with boil-
ing water.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; The currawong is a glut-
tonous eater ; he’ll clean up a bush of ripe
hawthorn berries in double-quick time. If
he gets half a chance he’ll clout on the
kitchen scraps and then tackle other bush
berries. When the fleshy berries are
masticated the loud-voiced black larrikin
will give a heave and a compact ball of
unwanted seeds will be regurgitated.
Among these can be found complete blue
dianella and the yellow berries of the
white cedar, with harmful or poisonous
flesh intact, but no soft edible refuse.
Whether or not a system of chemical anti-
pathy enables the rejection of these harm-
ful substances, it’s certain the black
demons would be, like the crow, hard to
poison. By that means Nature has done
a remarkable job to safeguard one ot
her best bush scavengers.
MURRAY NIGHT.
Far in the night, unfathomed and deep,
The voice of the bittern booms
Down in the reeds where the night wraiths
sleep
And the wall of darkness looms.
Gripped by frost the singers are dumb
Whose voices greeted the morn; %
The drowned logs bob in the current’s drag,
In a senseless jig, forlorn.
Where, on the lovely curving reach,
The pelicans swam by day—
High-pro wed and bold, like viking ships
Joined for a landward fray—
Is only the sigh of the night breeze now
And the star king’s broken spears,
That gleam on the river’s moving breast
As each one disappears.
And the white wraiths pass, unsteered and
vague,
While the night-hawk’s ghastly cry
Rings through the silent ranks of gums
And shudders up to the sky.
And, lone and lost in the outer dark,
The curlews, wailing, go ,
Where the barren, sandhills raise their
shapes—
What is the sorrow they know?
But hark! On the rim of the river’s tide
A living tocsin rings,
As a plover starts at a silver ray
And lifts on startled wings.
And a white light grows on the rolling stream
And livens the long lagoon.
Where the cold frogs raise their strident song
To welcome the risen moon.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“S.G.”: In my Queensland backyard
was a nice little patch of watermelons
which, however, appeared to hang fire
when approaching maturity. Along came
the inevitable advice to feed the melons
with sugared water by running a piece of
wool from a tin to a slit in the stalk. By
way of experiment I added a couple of
nips of whisky a week to one melon s
water. All the melons galloped along
after that, and I’d never have noticed any
difference between them except that one
used to stand on its end and adopt a belli-
gerent attitude every time anybody went
near it.
“B. Sting”: Ever since the slogan “Dig
for Victory” first made its appearance
Mum has been one of our district’s most
enthusiastic campaigners. Under her
generalship, with the aid of the family
bath water, Dad has grown more pump-
kins than there are ants at a'pumic. The
family has been hanging back from the
table a bit lately, so last week Mum, just
quietly, sent a cartload over to the Auc-
“Quick, run and get the iodine!
tion of Gifts, a do that always follows
the Harvest Thanksgiving. At the shivoo
Mum was hard at it in the supper-room
while Dad followed the bidding. When
they got home Dad began to haul a
globular mass from the back of the car.
“They were giving away a packet of fags
with anything bringing more than seven
and six. I had to give twelve bob for
one of them pumpkins you’re so blamed
fond of ; still, I suppose, it’s all in a good
cause.”
* * * *
“Louden”: I am writing this by my
campfire in a Murrumbidgee bend.
Above me the white stars are blazing like
diamonds, and there’s a touch of frost in
the air. Somewhere along the upper reach
a powerful owl is screaming like a
woman. Only a couple of days before in a
small city street I waited with six women
at the closed door of a* cafe in the hope
of getting a meal. Presently the door was
opened and a waitress with a wildly
excited look in her eyes popped her head
out and said: “The place is full of
madmen; a woman’s likely to get her
throat cut in here!” She then slammed
the door and locked it. Wearing startled
expressions the six women hurried away
without uttering a word. My curiosity
was aroused, and I hung around until the
blood-congealing yell of a female in the
cafe caused me to beat it. I am wonder-
ing—aw, I wish that screaming farther up
the river would cease! Perhaps there is
a woman in distress. I’d better get my
gun and investigate.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Civilised man’s most
revolutionary thought has been the
theory of evolution ; that man, instead
of being a separate creation, has really
evolved through the ages along with the
animals and still owns kinship to them.
Primitive man seemed to have an inkling
of the same idea. To a great extent his
life was ruled by totems. A totem was
a mystic relationship to some member of
the animal world, even to an insect, a
fish or a mollusc. Everybody had his
totem, the tribe being divided into totem
groups —black snake, eaglehawk, kanga-
roo and so on. One was supposed never
to eat the flesh of one’s totem animal.
Although dispensations were granted
where certain seasonal conditions,
drought, etc,, made it desirable, this was
often scorned by those to whom totem-
ism appealed with a religious fervor.
Hastening back to Perth in 1839 Lieut.
George Grey had with him one Kaiber,
a Swan River native. Exhausted with
hunger they came to a pool containing
fresh-water mussels. To Grey these were
a lifesaver, but his companion refused to
eat; mussels were his totem, and, though
he die, he would not eat the flesh of his
totem brother. And he starved on until
Grey was able to shoot a crow, which
not being of his totem he was able to eat.
* * * *
“Caballer”: “Edjudina” (B. 12/4/ ’44)
needn’t worry about ants raiding his
tucker. Water dries up and kerosene
taints food, but a dab of vaseline on the
string of a hanging safe or the legs of a
standing one will stop them dead and will
continue to stop them for six or nine
months without renewing. No need to
smear it over two or three inches of the
part they use ; a quarter-inch ring put on
thickly will serve the purpose.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad came into the town-
ship’s pub - in an angry frame of mind.
“It’s that damned ‘Hungry’ Murphy, ’ he
explained to Bung. “Met him down, be
the blacksmith’s an’ the cow had the
gall t’ ask me t’ lend him a coupla quid
t’ pay fer repairs to a dray he had there.
“An’ did y’?” asked Ryan. “Never in
y’r life,” cried Dad; “the cow ain’t t’ be
trusted.” “Go easy,” said Ryan m a low
voice ; “that bloke sittin’ over on the other
side can hear you.” “Well, let him,”
bellowed Dad without even glancing at
the other occupant of the bar. “My good
cash payin’ that cow Murphy’s debts.
’Struth, if ever I was guilty of that I d
never ask him t’ pay me back!” A few
days later Dad, returning from the town-
ship, was nearly abreast of “Hungry’s”
place when he heard a gunshot, followed
by a shriek. Rounding a bend in the
road he discovered the cause of each,
and gasped in alarm. Murphy was
perched in the trunk of a tree 20 feet
up while at the foot of it capered a wild-
eyed fellow with a gun. “What the hell s
goin’ on here?” demanded Dad. The
cow owes me ten quid an’ won’t pay it,
shouted the man with the “He s
on’y paid me five, an’ if he don’t cough
up the rest I’ll blow him t’ bits,” and
another shot went sailing among the
branches above Murphy’s head. This was
too much for Dad. Murphy wasn’t the
best of neighbors, but he couldn’t see
him shot full of holes for the want of a
few quid. “Here,” he yelled in alarm,
dragging a handful of notes from his
pocket and peeling off five singles, “fer
heaven’s sake take them an’ don’t com-
“I know you’re proud of your promotion , Lance-corporal, but don't
overdo it!”
mit murder before me eyes. ’ The other
grabbed the notes and disappeared
quickly. Two days later a horrible rea-
lisation came to Dad. He saw Murphy
and his importunate creditor coming out
of Ryan’s pub together laughing. “That
feller with Murphy was the chap in the
bar the other day when y’ was in here
sayin’ if ever y’ paid any of Murphy’s
debts y’ wouldn’t ask for it back,” Bung
told him a few minutes later. “He's
Murphy’s brother!”
* * =l= *
“Esk D.”: Old Mick Bogan’s open
camp oven stood at the side of his fire-
place, in it a messy concoction of stew,
blowflies whizzed about the kipsy and,
drawn as if by a magnet, fought among
each other for a sip of this doubtful
luxury. “Y’ had y’r dinner?” Mick asked.
1 had. “Well, I’m just goin’ to have
mine,” he said. He picked up the pot
and stared into it thoughtfully. ‘You re
not going to eat that ?” I said, my
stomach churning over at the idea. Well,
I was,” said Mick. “But I’m not now.
There’s a beetle in it. Never could stand
the thought of those blankards in me
scran.”
% % ♦ *
Will Lawson: My first Australian
coastwise trip was on the old Archer as
a boy 60 years ago. I still remember
the ship’s smell —she had been an onion
boat between Oporto and London. Her
saloon was right aft, with a poop-deck
above it, the only communication be-
tween the two being outside ladders, with
an open rail. We- were carefully shep-
herded up and down this, for the ship
rolled like a sausage. The run from
Sydney to Brisbane took two and a halt
days, and the many free fights, nearly
always the effect of booze, were broken
up by the old, white-whiskered skipper,
who was a dandy with his fists. The fire-
men fired so badly that a 6ft. flame flared
from the funnel all night. Later the ship
was acquired by the Newcastle and
Hunter River Co. Once she approached
Morpeth with too much way on, having
a flood tide behind. As she shot past
the wharf, snapping bow and stern lines
and “spring” as if they were string, and
responding but little to the ‘full astern
on the old ark’s engines, the Old Man,
hanging to the bridge rail as if he would
stop her that way, roared in stentorian
tones “I can’t stop the blighter! ” When
the Archer was fitted with steel masts
forward to handle the heavy lifts the old
wooden ones were left in her, which gave
her a queer look. Built in 1882 of Low-
moor iron, which apparently lasts for ever,
her compound engines with a long, slow
stroke didn’t give her much speed. In
contradistinction to her homely exterior,
the ship’s saloon was beautifully finished
in bird’s-eye maple. Many art lurnisheis
tried to buy these panels, but her owners
would never sell, .and in the end she was
.“sold East” all standing, after having
suffered the indignity of a petition by
Sydney Harbor residents to have her
•shifted from her moorings, where she was
being used as a shark-products factory.
Probably the Japs are using her now.
*** ■ *
“Bughouse”: In Australia before the
whites arrived such men as roamed
the continent’s vast areas were poor
things, incapable of progress; indeed,
showing many signs of retrogression.
The animals were little better: hopping
marsupials, a large, flightless bird, the
quadrupeds represented only by a bark-
less, slinking dog. The real owners of
Australia were the trees. Voiceless, with-
out conscious thought, immovable, they
nevertheless were majestic, veritable
giants, living, breathing and in due season
bringing forth their kind. The trees
owned Australia. And possibly their
most triumphant domain was in the West.
Captain Stirling’s men gazed with awe
on the stately jarrah forest, uncountable
trees that lifted leafy tops a hundred feet,
and at their bases were commonly four
and five feet through. Nobler still was the
karri —200 ft., these, rising often 150 ft. to
the first branch. In smaller forests grew
the noble tuart, branched like the oak
and probably the most massive hardwood
tree on earth. These vast cathedrals of
the trees in south-west W.A. alone cov-
ered more than 20 million acres.
* * *
“Plain Angas”: Old Holstein, who
valets a herd of cows, and “Greenfeed”
Jack, the tea-an’-sugar drover, were hay-
ing an argument in the best Saltbush Bill
tradition. “Y’ lousy cow,” stormed Hol-
stein, “y’d pinch the crutches off a cripple.
Y’ought t’ be in jail. Cornin’ round here
thievin’ water f’r y’r blanky crawl
sheep, pinchin’ wire outa me fences t
mend y’r rotten buggy, pinchin’ sheaves
o’ hay for y’r horses, openin’ me gates
an’ pinchin’ me grass f’r y’r mob, campin’
in the lane an’ goin’ inter my paddocks t
pinch wood” He stopped for breath.
“Yair,” said “Greenfeed,” gathering up
the reins, “an’ if I was lousy enough t
pinch the milk outa the mouths o’ little
calves like you, y’ flamin’ poddy-robbsr,
I’d sit down an’ cry.” And, with his
dogs barking, he drove off.
* * * *
“Nor-west”: Touching this question of
settling the Kimberleys. During the dry
season aridity prevails. After tne
wet, rivers and creeks are full, gras,
springs shoulder-high. At the various
mission stations, on sites selected more
or less haphazardly, gardens have
shown most promising results. ine
soil seems fertile enough, and, w
irrigation, water is obtainable in quan-
tity the year round. The chief hand.c p
is distance and lack of harbors. Another
difficulty is the frequency of barrier
ranges of massive weather-eroded sand-
stone which shut off much good countiy
from the coast. Which is w,hy the W.A.
Government is making its big irrigation
experiment on the Ord River, at .J’ lver
area being accessible through Wyndham,
where deep in the Cambridge GuL har-
bor and anchorage are passable.
BOTTLES BY THE WAYSIDE.
Old bottles by the roadside.
They're seen on every track.
Between each scattered township,
Beside each lonely shack,
By bridle paths and highways,
Upcountry and out back.
Half-hidden in dry runnels,
Half-buried in green grass,
Or stark upon bare gravel,
Cold skeletons of glass.
With impotent wan glances
They chide us as we pass.
Or, stuck at stupid angles
With stick or stone supports,
Like long-abandoned cannon
Of Lilliputian forts,
Against the sky that smote them
Each gaping mouth retort's.
From one more-recent victim
A half-stuck label flaps;
Dim-seen upon another
Are faint, rain-scattered scraps;
Beneath one’s naked belly
A fly-gorged lizard haps.
Once flattered and once toasted
At tables richly spread,
How quick is their undoing
When once they lose their head!
Useless, both men and bottles
Are classed amongst the dead.
But take heart, empty bottles,
You yet may leave your mark —•
A dark and lethal weapon
When underdogs shall bark;
When tyrant’s tyres are on you
You’ll bite them in the dark.
But better far, old bottles,
Since you for joy were made,
We hope your unknown future
In higher planes is laid —
May you for nobler purpose
Be brought up from the shade.
May some divine collector
Come round and gather you,
Take you and purify you,
Then fill you full and true
(A sweet reincarnation!)
Once more with heavenly brew.
VICTORIA.
TAGGERTY.


INTERNATIONAL
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Imported by the Government to ensure efficient road transport.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
0 CAPACITIES: Up to TONS.
• REAR AXLES; Sturdy. Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
9 CABS : Imported, ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
• IMPORTED PLATFORM with steel skid strips,
Front Loading Board, Coaming and Rope Hooks.
• IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
• DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
9 OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase and immediate delivery may be obtained
as usual from our branch house in the capital city
of your State, and also from any Authorized
Metropolitan Distributor or Country Local Agent
TRUCKS
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
A-no
E
Invest Your Savings in the'First Victory Loan
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO..
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
FD
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace. .
The only way to cany the maximum number of sheep is to cieai
out all the rabbits.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Hand-fceding Sheep.
“H.C.”; Don’t let the sheep lose con-
dition before you start. Begin with small
amounts while they’re healthy and there’s
some natural feed left. Roughage is
necessary. Any kind of hay, edible scrub
or leaves will help keep their organs
active. Molasses, Epsom salts or salt will
prevent impaction or the forming of balls
in stomach or intestines.
Sheep can live for Jong periods on
silage. Start them on lib. per day and
increase up to 31b. Sheep fed lib. to
Hlb. of cereal hay daily were lighter but
in good heart at the end of 12 months,
and cut a good fleece. Lucerne-hay is
invaluable. Bush-hay is a good standby
and palatable. Straw is an emergency
fodder. Soak it in or sprinkle it with
molasses and water when chaffed. If
steamed before feeding it’s more easily
digested. Grain or concentrates must
go with it.
A varied ration is best. Sheep fed
lib. hay and silage a day will do
better than those fed 31b. silage; l£lb.
silage and 4oz. maize are better than b.
silage. Maize should be soaked for
young or poor sheep. Wheat isn’t as
good as maize, but will keep sheep going
when fed 4oz. per day with roughage.
Soaking it in molasses and water in-
creases its nourishing properties. Don’t
give wheat to young sheep or to ewes
with lamb at foot.
Oats and barley should be crushed.
Mangolds, swedes and potatoes, if avail-
able cheaply, are valuable. Molasses is
great; it makes food palatable and acts
as a laxative.
One food is not sufficient for lambing
ewes. Hay is the best roughage for them,
plus a nutritious supplement. Try to feed
the ewes well during gestation; place
them in paddocks on their own once the
lambs are dropped. Don’t let the lambs
run with the rest of the flock. Graih for
lambs or weak sheep should be boiled or
soaked ; don’t let it go sour.
Pig Feeding.
“Large White”: The nutritive ratio of
sow’s milk is 1 : 2j, hence the sow needs
very good feed to give the piglets a good
start. Bulk without excess fibre must be
the rule—grazing and root crops should
be young and succulent.
Yellow maize is perhaps the best grain,
but unless home-grown is too dear, and
barley and wheat are so little inferior
that they are usually preferred. A mix-
ture of two or more grains is always
better than one. They should be very
coarsely ground. Where there is not a
good supply of skim-milk, meatmeal
should be given—up to 15 p.c. of the
total concentrate ration.
Minerals are important—lib. sterilised
boneflour and |lb. salt to every 1001 b.
of feed. Exercise is not only desirable
but vital —the closed sty should be
abolished. Pigs are notoriously subject
to maladies due to vitamin deficencies
which are automatically countered by
grazing of good pasture and plenty of
sunlight and fresh air. Tuberculosis, in
Queensland at least, is responsible for
more carcass condemnations than all
other causes combined. Where there is
the slightest suspicion of the milk supply,
heating to 17 deg. Fahr. for 15 minutes
will make it safe.
• --
Dry Farming.
“Plane Creek”: In the central Queens-
land cane country heavy cultivation is the
rule, and there is good reason for it when*
the land has been thoroughly saturated
by a record “wet.” But with wet seasons
declining, such constant turning over of
the soil is surely unnecessary. Why
shouldn’t pre-planting cultivation be re-
duced to avoid too complete drying-out
of the soil before planting time? The
conserved moisture would then be avail-
able to the cane or other crop when it
would be needed most.
Many firmly believe that the best way
to conserve soil moisture is to cultivate
incessantly. They go to immense trouble
preparing land for crops, work unceas-
ingly after sowing, inter-row cultivating
and so on, until their crops are far
advanced. Others go to less trouble.
Nobody can call ’em lazy, for they do a
good job of cultivating before and after
planting, but they don’t overdo things.
They know the story of capillary attrac-
tion and of how moisture escapes from
packed soils. They don’t allow their
soils to pack in dry times; they keep
weeds down. Though maintaining a
loose surface, they don’t cultivate, culti-
vate, cultivate, but study the character
of their soils and grow green manures
where possible to improve their water-
holding capacity and fertility. In my
experience they generally reap heavier
crops than the slaves of cultivation.
Clover for Nitrogen.
“Pat Ater”: Potatoes make heavy
demands on nitrogen in the soil, which
accounts for the time-honored practice
of growing spuds in new ground. Most
virgin soils have ample nitrogen, but it
is depleted or lost with continuous crop-
pings. Throughout our best potato districts
crops are grown year after year on the
same ground, with benefits only of winter
fallow and fertiliser dressings.
Nitrogen is the most expensive of all
food items, and to give it in sufficient
quantity to renovate a worn-out paddock
is usually too costly. Andy Moodie,
N.S.W. Chief Agricultural Instructor,
suggests a crop of red clover to create
nitrogen. This clover is a splendid im-
prover of poor soils, and its nitrogen-
fixing properties are proverbial. Sow it
now or in spring on a fine seedbed at
the rate of 41b. of seed to the acre, with
lewt. of super. Lime helps in coastal
and high-rainfall areas. Do the sowing
after autumn rain firms the seedbed.
The stand can be grazed before being
turned in as green manure. For winter
feed the addition of 31b. to 41b. of Italian
rye seed per acre will help.
“Red clover makes a free gift of nitro-
gen to the soil,” says Moodie, “and is
one of the best ways of increasing potato
production when used as a soil renovator.
It grows well in all coastal and tableland
districts.”
Useful Insects.
“Merci”; N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has distributed thousands of shiny
black wasps, Microphanunis basalis,
measuring about one twenty-fifth of an
inch in length. They are parasites of the
eggs of the green vegetable bug (Nezara
viridula ), destructive in bean and tomato
crops this season. The wasp does not, as
is commonly thought, attack the bug
itself ; it lays its eggs in the green bug egg
masses, thereby decimating them and
heavily reducing the number of green
bugs.
Original stocks of this wasp were
obtained from the Government entomolo-
gist in W.A. in 1935-36. He had obtained
colonies from Egypt and successfully
liberated them in W.A. in 1934. Since
then the wasp has been loosed in N.S.W.
from the Tweed to Nowra.
For propagation purposes adult green
bugs are kept in wire-gauzed cages and
are provided with fresh and constant sup-
plies of beans hung on wire. Bean plants
growing in pots are sometimes put in
the cages and egg masses are laid on the
under surfaces of the leaves. Egg masses
are collected daily, glued on cards and
inserted in tubes. A few adult parasites
are introduced in the tubes and allowed
to remain with the bug eggs for 24 hours.
When the bug eggs turn black they are
parasitised and at the pupal stage. Tubes
containing cards of eggs and instructions
how to Jiberate the wasps when they
emerge are then forwarded to growers
for the mere asking.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”; In Victorian piggeries the
most serious winter need is a food to
replace separated milk. A supplement
of lib. of grain or pollard will replace
a gallon of separated milk and help make
the smaller quantity of milk go further.
A dry and warm sleeping place, with
plenty of dry, clean straw to allow the
pigs to burrow into it for warmth, is valu-
able.
“Jiff”: A good remedy for greasy heel
is zinc ointment. Cut the hair clear of
the horse’s heel and spread ointment on.
Within a couple of days the nag will be
rid of the irritation. Get at it in the
early stages. The ointment can be had
fiom any chemist.
“Myrr”: Weaned foals should have
plenty of nourishment; half a pound of
crushed oats mixed with a tablespoonful
of dicalcic phosphate is a good daily
addition. If good pasture isn’t available
one or two tablespoons of a cod-liver oil
substitute in a little damped bran and
chaff, added to the ration twice daily, is
good.
“Graz”: Symptoms of grass tetany
(staggers) are: Nervousness, staggering
gait, wild eyes, charging, frothy saliva-
tion ; later if disturbed the animal may
take convulsions, lie sideways pedalling
its stiff legs, head stretched back, jaws
stiff and breathing difficult. Victims
often become comatosed and die without
further struggle. Post-mortem reveals low
magnesium and often low calcium supply
in the blood. For treatment inject 2oz.
Epsom salts and 7 fl. oz. sterilised water
under the soft skin behind the shoulders.
The disease may be curbed by gradu-
ally working cattle on to lush pastures
and providing chaff, hay or silage to
balance the ration.
“Agro”: An anti-rust paint for
troughs and tanks can be made of a mix-
ture of dry cement, boiled linseed oil
and driers mixed to the consistency of
stiff paint. Brush this on to a clean, dry
surface, and to ensure the maximum
amount of protection repeat every two
or three years, or when necessary.
“Plane Creek”: Because their oil con-
tent is very high, peanuts are fattening
(B. 29/9/’43). They are all right for
nags doing light duties, but are too heat-
ing and fattening for those doing heavy
work. Fowls should be given peanuts
sparingly or they will grow hefty and
stop laying. Peanuts cause undesirable
oily flesh in pigs if fed generously. The
vines of peanuts and cowpeas are harm-
less to stock provided they are not too
young.
“L.C.”: Weight of a quart billycan
filled but not tightly packed equals;
Wheat or peas, 11b. 140 z.; maize, lib.
120 z.; oats, lib. 40z.; wheat- or meat-
meal, lib. 8oz.; barley, 11b. 60z.; com-
mon salt, 21b.; bran or pollard, lOoz.
“Sarina”; While the buffalo fly moves
south stockowners in the infested country
are fighting the curse as best they can.
Fly-killing sprays, sump oil and various
assorted insect deterrents are being tried,
but appear to give only temporary results.
Cattle are kept busy thrashing at the
bloodsuckers with their tails, are eating
less grass and giving less milk. South
of the fly-swept country (they’re at
Hughenden and Ayr), every fly that hovers
around grazing stock is viewed with sus-
picion. A new cocky on the C.Q. coast
swore he Md buffalo flies but dropped
ten years when they were identified as
bots.


Ruwolt
m '
~w
Hydraulic
Press.
Capacity
1200 tons.
Finished
Weight
20 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of a Hydraulic Press.
Ruwolt’s have designed and built many types and sizes of
Hydraulic Presses, to give up to a pressure of 2000 tons or
more.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past. * *
CHARLES BUWOLT PXY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
>.r r -,
YOUR
/^1
JM
' i
A*,/fa
w
W 9
r
% r^‘
-
.
. y >‘
|* II SIR A LI AM
TiOHAL IIRWAYS
I*l V. LTl>.
imXM HMI H v* Fl*** » *«R ♦ ♦ m F»*T IK FBTBRE
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Why the Panzers Surrendered
[Major Peter W. Rainier, who tells this extra-
ordinary war story in his book Pipe Line to
Battle, was for two years in charge of the water
supply for the British Eighth Army in Africa.]
At El Alamein on July 3, 1942, Rom-
mel smashed our centre, and what was
left of three Panzer divisions plunged
through. Before nightfall they had
covered half the 50 miles between Ala-
mein and Alexandria.
The following day Rommel’s men
could see the towers of Alexandria, the
goal for which they had striven through
two years of bitter desert warfare. Rest,
food, water—particularly water for their
parched throats—seemed almost at arm’s
length. They started forward.
But suddenly a dust cloud rose in the
desert between them and their prize. It
was scuffed skyward by a remnant of our
British army: 50 tanks, a few score field-
pieces, lorries, filled with weary soldiers.
In this sector the enemy had about the
same strength as we —their tanks had also
been reduced to about 50, and they had
an equal number of men, some 5000. The
only difference was in fire power ; we had
nothing to match the German 88’s.
Great was the issue left to the valor
of so few! Had we failed to stop Rom-
mel’s Panzers that morning Alexandria
must have fallen, all Africa would have
been lost, Russia might well have been
outflanked in the Caucasus and the Axis
tentacles could finally have stretched
across Asia to join Japan.
All through that hot desert morning
the qpposing forces pounded at each
other. Men on both sides were so close
to exhaustion they could hardly see to
aim through the sweat-packed sand cak-
ing their bloodshot eyes. Each army was
close to the breaking point even when
the battle began. As soon as the grim
will-to-fight had been drained to the last
drop one or the other would collapse.
The sun was almost overhead, and our
men were fast reaching the end of their
endurance when the Nazis broke. Ten
minutes more and it might have been
we. Slowly, sullenly the Mark IV tanks
lumbered back from their battle smoke.
And then an astounding, incredible
thing happened. Eleven hundred men of
the 90th Light Panzer Division, the elite
of the Afrikakorps, came stumbling
across the barren sand with their hands
in the air. To have captured a mere
handful of the 90th would have given a
British regiment something to boast about
for months; but for 1100 of them to
surrender when escape lay open—that
was nothing short of a miracle!
As the Nazis stumbled wearily closer
the plot of that dread desert drama began
to unfold. Cruelly cracked and black
with coagulated bloqd, their swollen
longues were protruding from their
mouths. Crazily they tore water bottles
from the necks of our men and poured
lifesaving swallows between their parched
lips.
Later I talked with some of them.
When they had broken through Alamein
the day before they had already been
24 hours without water. But at our
overrun defences they found a six-inch
water pipeline. At various points along
a two-mile stretch where it was above
ground they shot holes in it and men
dropped to their knees to drink the cool,
gushing stream. They took great gulps
before their parched throats gave a be-
lated warning —the water was salt!
All night those men suffered unspeak-
ably. Only the lure of quenching their
thirst in Alexandria sustained them
through the hours of that grim desert
battle next morning. But when the Nazi
tanks turned tail the infantrymen could
bear the agony no longer. In a mass they
started for our side —and fresh water.
Why was that pipeline full of salt
water? As the officer responsible for
supplying the Eighth Army with water
through all its desert campaigns, I can
give the answer. The pipeline was a new
one, and I never wasted precious fresh
water in testing a line: I always used salt
water. If the PanZers had punched
through Alamein the day before that
pipeline would have been empty. Two
days later it would have been full of
fresh water.
The balance of that crucial desert battle
was so even that I believe the enemy—
without that salted torture —might have
outlasted us. And then defenceless
Alexandria would have fallen into their
hands.
On so small a turn of fate is history
written!
Labor Against Itself.
[Condensing from the “Cosmopolitan” the
article an extract from which is here given, the
“Reader's Digest” described its author, Thur-
man Arnold, Associate Justice, U.S. Court of
Appeals, as “a friend of Labor and an ardent
New Dealer.”]
How does it happen that Labor unions
have become one of our great national
headaches? If you travel over the coun-
try you find Labor unpopular with small
independent businessmen and consumers.
If you talk with soldiers you discover
bitter resentment and threats of future
retaliation. Farmers, who should be
Labor’s natural allies, because high wages
in industry increase the farm market,
regard present Labor management as an
enemy.
Most surprising is the dissatisfaction
among the workers themselves. In a
recent “Fortune” poll only 13.4 per cent,
of factory workers believed Labor unions
have done an excellent job and should
be given more power; 29 per cent,
thought that Labor unions have gone too
far and should be watched closely. Less
than a majority were willing to say that
Labor leaders have been fair with
management. Only about one-third be-
lieved that most Labor leaders were
honest with money.
In view of the extraordinary accuracy
of “Fortune” polls, it is time for the
liberal friends of Labor to make a real-
istic analysis of Labor’s recently acquired
power. Some unions have political and
financial power to coerce Government
agencies, to threaten individual Congress-
men and to frighten liberal critics by
labelling them as opponents of a great
moral cause. Union power is being used
more and more in ways that anger the
public. And the great body of public
approval essential for effective support
of Labor unions appears to be crumbling.
“Drang nach Westen.”
(From a London “Nineteenth Century”
editorial.)
The Russian Declaration of January
11 uncovered the biggest political crisis
of the Second World War so far. Ail
Europe is looking on. The conflict be-
tween Russia and Poland does not con-
cern the “Curzon Line,” it does not really
concern the frontiers of Poland or her
demographic structure.
The questions are not: Shall her eastern
border be shifted westward? Shall she
lose her eastern territories, or, losing
them, acquire in their place, western terri-
tories at the expense of Germany?
The question is: Shall Poland exist?
Beyond this, there is another question:
Shall Europe exist—the Europe we have
known and hope to know again, the
Europe for which the war is being fought,
the Europe which alone gives the war any
meaning, a Europe that is neither an-
archy nor servitude, the Europe that is
a balanced and integral whole, the
Europe of systems and ideas, varied and
yet related, the Europe of many sovereign
States, big ang small, the Europe that is
so much more than a geographical ex-
pression, Europe, the stronghold of the
Graeco-Roman and Christian heritage?
That is the question.
Without Poland there can be no such
Europe. That is why,- in September,
1939, England and the Empire went to
war. The threat to Polish independence
was a threat to Europe—and, therefore,
to Great Britain and the Empire. The
threat to Polish independence is still a
threat to Europe, no matter whence it
comes. The threat was twofold in 1939,
for hardly had Poland been invaded
from the west when she was invaded
from the east and, for the fourth time
in her history, partitioned—this time
between Russia and Germany.
Today the threat is twofold still. What
the Russians, in effect, demand is this:
that Great Britain and the United States


7 '
v/
zj
%
%
%
a—>i -
%
4s
'V
4f,
%
*t.
'-A
<b
%
Q
%
WUiL
e
f SAVZ
we may alia PJIAft
Today's "austerity" living enforces most of us to save and
we are glad to invest our savings in War Bonds, realising
we only LEND.
When Victory comes we can spend again and undoubtedly
the first and biggest job will be home building.
SISALKRAFT for sarking roofs (to protect ceilings), for
sheathing walls and for even hydration of concrete mix
will undoubtedly play an important role in our postwar
building plans.
When you think of the building, investigate the numerous
advantages of
S \3A LK M FT
N.S.W.; E. W Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA; Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond street,
Melbourne, 0.1.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & 00. Aust., Ltd., opp. G.P.0., Adelaide.'
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & 00. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington
Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & 00. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & 00. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
„ William Crosby & 00. Pty., Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place,
Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen
Street, Auckland.
o
1
m <*ks
w
k
mu)
' M
I! V
<o*
m
&
/
f*
*
S'
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the FisK Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . , .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
THE FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT YOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
TRADE-MARK
“CELLOPHANE.”
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manu-
facturer, is the registered owner in the
Commonwealth of Australia of the fol-
lowing trade-mark,
“CELLOPHANE,’
which is registered under No. 40461 in
Class 50(3) in respect of Cellulose sheets
made from pulp and all products and
articles manufactured from the said
sheets.
The application of the word
“CELLOPHANE” to goods of the above-
mentioned class means that such goods
are the goods of British Cellophane
Limited.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
recognise the Partition accomplished in
connivance with the Germans. But with
this difference, that, whereas the eastern
half of Poland is to be annexed by Russia,
the western regions shall form a vassal
State on the border of the Soviet Union.
The Drang nach Osten was thrown
back at Stalingrad. It has now been
succeeded by the Drang nach Westen.
Poland is the victim of the one as of the
other. But not Poland only.
Science Lends a Hand.
(From N.Y. “Daily News.”)
Our scientists from the laboratories of
American colleges and the research plants
of great industries insist that 1943 will
go down in history as the decisive year
of the great war —and this not because
of the victories of Tunisia or Stalingrad,
nor because in that year we knocked Italy
out of the war, licked the U-boat threat
or pounded German war industries into
rubble with our air-bombardments.
The decisive factors in 1943 which
turned the tide of war, according to the
scientists, were four mighty discoveries
produced in the laboratories of the Allies.
The big four contributions of science to
the warriors of 1943 were:
1. The anti - submarine weapon, or
combination of weapons, that last March
and April wiped the U-boat from the
face of the sea.
2. The anti-fog and radar devices
which last autumn permitted Allied
bombers to hit their targets in Germany
no matter how bad the weather.
3. The anti-aircraft methods now being
used by Allied bombers and fighters over
Europe.
4. The anti-rocket ’plane defence which
has nullified the effects of the Germans’
latest “secret weapon.”
All that can be said about any of these
scientific wonders is that they exist, are
being used, and are working extremely
well. The stoiy must remain untold until
the final shot is fired.
Casualty Changes.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report .)
The U.S. Office of War Information
reports U.S. Army records as showing
that only 35 out of every 1000 men
wounded now succumb to their battle
injuries, compared with a deathrate of
60 for each 1000 in the last war. The
Navy now loses only 31.6 men in each
1000 wounded, less than half the 73.5
who died of wounds in the last war. The
Marines report 31.5 deaths for each 1000
wounded, down from the 120 deaths out
of every 1000 recorded a quarter century
ago.
One soldier was killed by 1918 wea-
pons for every six wounded. The deadly
power of today’s weapons is shown by
the fact that one soldier is killed for every
three wounded. Navy records show a
ratio of one killed to on c-plus wounded
(6076 dead and 7810 wounded at the
time of the survey), which is twice the
rate of world-war days.
Between 50 and 60 per cent, of men
whb suffered head wounds died in 1917
and 1918. Deaths from head wounds
have been cut to 9 per cent, in the current
war, due to plasma and sulfa treatments.
The percentage of necessary amputa-
tions has been reduced in this war, be-
cause of reduced infection and hemor-
rhage.
The pain of wounds also is greatly
minimised now, through the more wide-
spread use of morphine syrettes, which
even an inexperienced man can use.
The present conflict is a todgher war
all around than the first world war. The
greater incidence of mental breakdowns
is due to the increased strain and danger
of the campaigns. Hospital admissions
for mental ailments averaged between 20
and 10 for each 1000 a year 25 years ago,
but the rate is up to between 50 and 60
a 1000 in this war. In some particularly
rugged theatres of war 20 to 25 per cent,
of all hospital admissions are mental
cases.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Few Chinese, no matter how sympathetic to
parachuting Allied fliers, dare risk having their
homes obliterated for succoring an enemy of
Japan. The U.S. 14th Air Force is feeling the
pinch. Not long ago the Tokyo Radio an-
nounced the capture of seven American fliers
who had been shot down over Canton. Accord-
ing to Tokyo, one of the fliers said he landed
among Chinese and offered good American
money to be led to safety. Yet the Chinese
turned him over to the Japanese.— M. C. Ford,
for 12 years Far Eastern correspondent for
International News Service.
* * * *
The Communist press is not what it used to
be. The “Daily Worker” comments thus on
Henry Wallace’s Seattle speech: “Vice-Presi-
dent Wallace unfortunately doesn’t help the
struggle against the anti-Tehran elements by
his general attack on Wall-street. The widest
kind of national unity is necessary to defeat
them, including clear-headed businessmen from
Wall-street.”— “Nation,” U.S.A.
* * * *
Recently I asked Admiral Nimitz: “At the
present rate of progress, do you think the
Japanese can hold out until 1949?” “I doubt
it,” said Nimitz with an emphasis that indi-
cated 1949 was nowhere near the mark, in his
opinion. For what it’s worth, after a year with
the fleet in the southern and central Pacific,
following months in the Alaskan sector, my
opinion is that 1945 is much closer to the
mark. If we can beat the great German mili-
tary organisation in 1944, why can’t we beat
the Japanese in 1945? To that 1 would add
one qualification. In the words of General
Eisenhower, we can win speedily if the armed
forces abroad receive the fullest co-operation
from our home front. That is a big “if.” —
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” Pacific war corre-
spondent Joseph Driscoll.
* * * *
One hundred trusted women do their work
amidst the secrets of the Second Front—they
are the cleaners at Invasion Headquarters,
“super-cleaners [who] are on their honor to
say not a word about what they may see or
hear as they scrub and polish.” They even
have a password. “Who goes there?” a sentry
demands. The magic answer; “Cleaner.” —
London “Daily Mail:”
* * * *
Perhaps the most remarkable statement of all
[on the Japs as soldiers] came from Maj.-Gen.
William H. Rupertus, second-in-command of
the Marines of Guadalcanal and their com-
mander on New Britain. General Rupertus
asserted that his opposite number, Lieut.-Gen.
Idao Matsuda, “has shown himself a clever
soldier but has been handicapped by troops
crazy to die for the Emperor’s sake.” —Pacific
war correspondent Frank L. Kluckhohn; N.Y.
“Times Magazine.”
* * * *
Thirty-two British shipping companies, with
a total capital of £75,000,000, have to date
acquired power to operate air lines. They range
from the £10,000,000 Gunard White Star Co.,
leading ocean liner owner, to Stanhope Steam-
ship Co., with a capital of £60,000, owning
a fleet of tramps. It is not likely, according to
competent views, that all these companies will
combine air operations with their shipping
activities. Some have had their articles of
association altered merely as a precaution
against future necessities, but the fact that so
many companies have made the preliminary
move is an indication of wide British interest
in civil aviation and its co-ordination with
shipping.— London correspondent N.Y. “Herald
Tribune. v
* * * *
Napoleon once said “Give me allies to fight
against.” The war in Italy is showing the
great difficulty of co-ordinating the disparate
forces of many nations. Tactically and
psychologically, the Allied armies by no
means possess the flexibility of the German
army they face. The co-called German “Einheit
system” enables rapid creation of what amount
to task forces, the switch of one battalion to
another regiment or division, or similar organi-
sation changes, with a minimum of confusion.
—Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. “Times.”
* :f. *
Total earnings of Britain’s industrial workers
have risen every year since the war began.
Average weekly wages are 76 p.c. above pre-
war. Average weekly working hours are 53
compared with 48 before the war, but that only
partly explains the increase in earnings. Ordi-
nary, overtime and piecework rates have all
been stepped up.— London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
When you think the war will be over the
day after tomorrow you are wrong. It’s going
to take many more bond issues and war loans
before this fracas is over. You’ve only been
skimming off the cream here at home. You will
have to dig and dig and dig, no matter what
the cost. Even if you’re left stark naked, you
still have your liberties.”— Captain Edward V.
Rickenbacker, U.S. air ace and industrialist.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN BENTLY SEYMOUR late of 33 Victoria
Street Burwood. —TAKE NOTICE that CLARICE
EMMA SEYMOUR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 460 1 of 1944 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Ist June 1944 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. SHAW MCDON-
ALD & CO. Solicitors 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.
—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO REXIE NORMAN CLARENCE TROTH also
known as Rex Laurence Troth late of Nyngan New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN FRANCIS
MATHA TROTH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
747 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
New South Wales on or before the Twelfth of June
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
cHarge from the undersigned.—P. W. REILLY, Soli-
citor, 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO CECILIA HAYNES late of Devonshire Street
Surry Hills. —TAKE NOTICE that EDWIN FRANK
HAYNES has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 670 of
1944 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the First of June 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from the undersigned.
—F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, 2b Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. '
SlCftoupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® local-ion,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you dive. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
that is to be ....
Into the land
m
M
A fy/I. >&* /S\ > • " • $ •*/-. ;
v *:* 4 km
liisSiiil
': *
.... i •■<,
M
mMM
m
wm
"if, 4»
mm.
X ■: ■
■xxm
, ■ m
111
f * '
&*£ *> * *
'1;
V •
o
w
\\w
r ne day peace will come again to
Australia and with it new purpose and
new obligations. If we are to take our place amongst the nations
of the earth ... if we are to deserve a leading part in world
prosperity, then we must modernise our methods.
We must take water to the fruitful earth through large-scale water
conservation and irrigation schemes. Our soil must be conserved
and cultivated. Roads must be formed in record time to transfer
the products of the land to our cities and to docks for export.
Airports must be built.
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Equipment will be ready to do their part in peace as they have in
war, at a record saving of time and record low cost.
CATERPILLAR D/SSCI
& JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
SEG. U.S. PM. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwins Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney, 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone —Gunnedah 326.
Serrice Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Jveedle, Port Macquarie.
Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. 0. McDougall, 9b Kincaid St., V/agga. 'Phone- 2839. 102 Melbourne St..
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail, ‘Phone—lnnisrail 475.
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
CT4-33-43
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Save • or Slave. Put
all you've got into £10
National Savings Bonds.
5065 a
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
liability is undertaken re contributions volun J
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
Silva Orr:
The fearful sums absorbed in beer
May be all right but seem so queer. ?
... .K.M.: We don’t reprint....J.M.: We can t
pay, as it went Betelgeus: You might as
well have signed ’em Beelzebub. They re tne
very devil... .J.L.: Come in, and bring the
dogs;—
For is he not a callous breed
Who treats his dogs with scorn
And chains them up as a “break” all mght
To release them in the morn?
Poor faithful brutes, they are wet and cold
And hungry in the main;
They emit a thankful whimper
When taken off the chain.
W.C.: Pleasant nothings A.P.McC.:
Raw material....M.U.S.: “There where once
savages did well” is this week’s limpest line....
S. Call again.... S.S.S.; “A Mishap m the
Never-Never” is just the right title... .V.C.:
Prosy... .H.R.: Very nearly.... R.M.: The
quotation’s the best of it 1.W.: Slight....
F.0.H.: Ever tried short stories? J.N.:
None up C.0.C.; That ancient with the pipe
hhs called too many times 0.M.: Not far off.
R.M.: Yorkshire’s a long way off V. 0.:
Only a par. in that one, but come again....
T. Forced humor J.S.: Lightweight.
A.S.McL.: Melodramatic N. F. W. :
Magazinish K.R.F.: “Ever a source of
aggravation are these old-timers.” Exactly.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy cloth-bound editions of Steele Rudd s
On Our Selection in good condition. —3454.
To buy Quiller-Couch’s Oxford Book of
Ballads, Clarendon edition of Oxford Book of
French Verse, Ida Ward’s Phonetics of English,
Bradley’s The Making of English, Heffer at
Cambridge, Robinson’s or O.U.P. edition of
Chaucer, and Globe or Macmillan edition ot
Shakspeare.—34ss.
Information Sought
What happened to the American boxer W. L.
{“Young”) Stribling ?
He received fatal injuries in a motor-cycle
accident at Ma?on, Georgia, on October 3, 1933, ,
while, going to see his wife in hospital.
Proper way to store hot-water bottles when
not in use?
Hang upside down in a dry place for a few
days, then shake a little French chalk into the
bag, shake and beat well. Turn out any ghalk
left, rub the outside with chalk and hang up-
side down in any dark place.
Brief Answers.
S.M.E.: Those rates are correct J.H.P.:
All persons receiving taxable income of over
£lO4 a year are liable L.C.L.-W.: (1) Aus-
tralians’ eligibility for the 1939-43 Star has not
yet been announced. (2) No information can
be given about specific units J.E.8.: The
A.M.F. is subject to the Imperial Army Act
save in so far as that statute is inconsistent
with the Federal Defence Act, and subject to
certain modifications and adaptations Bur-
leigh: A testator can dispose of property to
illegitimate children J.G.: (1) Cannot say
without seeing contract. (2) Most unlikely,
Could not estimate price. (3) Any member of
file Melbourne Stock Exchange K.A.S.:
Inquire through Army Intelligence, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne... .J.H.R.: Can trace
only the middle quotation; it comes trom ac
I, Scene 2, of Shakspeare’s “Henry IV, It.---
M.F.D.: 1939 Morris 10 (Luvax P 4 s/a) an
Chevrolet Master 6 (Delco s/a at rear;.- ■ -
P.M.; Italians had to obtain permits Horn T .
Department of the Interior before admission,
no quota was imposed, but restrictions were
placed on the admission of those who pro-
posed to settle in certain areas, such as the
N.Q. canefield districts.


TV
..ll othing lost in this BUSH
steel for the war effort by turning out bushes made
from Cold Drawn Precision Steel Tubes to such
close tolerances that no machining was necessary.
Post-war transport will require
bushes by the thousand, and every
B.T.M. saved many tons of valuable
bush that begins as a B.T.M. Tube
will pave the way for lower travel
costs and wider travel facilities.
COMMAND PERFORMANCE
WITH RECORDS AND GRAMOPHONE
Music is made of emotions. It must suit your
own mood to be fully enjoyed. That’s what
a good record library provides ... the music
you want when you want it. But, if your
collection of records is not as complete as you
would wish it, remember our resources are
severely taxed in meeting the needs of the
Services. Soon, we hope, you’ll be able to
obtain again all the finest recordings of the
world’s greatest artists, orchestras and bands.
Meanwhile, please remember that enter-
tainment for the Services is of paramount
importance.
Columbia
The Finest Name On Record
COLUMBIA GRAFHOPHONE (AUST.) PTY. LTDf
HOMEBUSH
N.S.W.
Cl/44
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
, — 1 —Dividends— —^
Year, Pref. Towards De-
S°pt., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, flcit.f
£ £ £ £ £
Added intangibles, £846 .. .. 306,739
’39..389,099 48,293 6 p.o.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12,947 .. 220,750
’40..404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,1187 112,373 108,377
Added rights, etc., £163 .. .. 108,540
’41..354,981 50,000 5 p.c.= 213,9407 91,041 17,499
Rights, etc., disappear, £lBO .. 17,319
Reserves, t
’42..370,788 50,000' 5 p.e.= 224,6377 102,151 84,832
Added intangibles, £l2B .. .. 84,704
From inner reserves, £1843 .. 86,547
'4 3..394,016 50,000 5 p.c.= 235,8697 108,747 195,294
Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles. 7 Paid in scrip.
Registered in Victoria at the end of May,
1928, this co. (paid capital £5,717,370 in
1,000,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and
4,717,370 ords.) is an offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co., Eng-
land (issued capital £74,378,000), which
holds a controlling interest in the busi-
ness. That the association has been a
valuable one to the Australian war effort
can be judged, among other things, from
the fact that the parent, with its large
team of chemists, physicists, metallurgists
and engineers, has solved many technical
problems for both the fighting forces and
producers on the home front. The
answers have been made available through
the British Government to Governments
of all Allied countries and to the associ-
ated cos.
The Australian co.’s pref. capital was
put up by the public in 1938 to help
finance erection of works to turn out
synthetic ammonia and nitric acid, etc,,
in Victoria, and to establish new alkali
works for a Subsidiary in South Aus-
tralia, Such leading industrialists as
8.H.P., A.C.1., the Barrier lead-zinc pro-
ducers, Electrolytic Zinc and Common-
wealth Fertilisers also hold parcels of the
ords. Activities of the co. and its subsi-
diaries and associates embrace manufac-
ture and/or distribution of explosives,
chemicals, dyestuffs, leathercloth, ferti-
Users, ammonia, paint and aircraft, etc.;
that is to say, all the chemical sinews of
war, which basically are those of peace
also, and therefore a welcome addition to
our industrial equipment.
The co. followed the policy of the
parent. One unit has been added to
another until today a series of inter-
dependent industries has been built up
upon efficiency in research, production
and marketing and by the support one
gives to the other and the use one makes
of the others’ products. For each of the
last four years ord. divs. (total £916,564)
have been capitalised, money being
wanted in the business to finance expan-
sion of the undertaking. Though ord.
holders are not hungry for cash, this pro-
cess will work its own cure in time.
Last term the value of sales was the
highest on record, despite decline in the
demand for commercial explosives and
restriction of civilian usage of leather-
cloth, slide fasteners and sporting ammu-
nition. All factories worked to capacity
of man-power available, and output of
annexes under control of the Ministry of
Munitions was maintained at the required
level. Each pound of sales of the co.’s
Australian production was made up in
this way; —
s. d.
Raw materials . . . . ..99
Outside services . . . . ,.14
Wages and salaries . . . . 5 3
Trading expenses.. .. .. 4
Depreciation . . . . . . 11
Taxes . . . . . . ..10
Profit 15
After setting aside £301,440 (up £1407)
for the taxgatherer and providing
£190,560 (up £30,083) for depreciation,
pet earnings of the group were £17,828
better at £394,616. This was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 6.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as it will stand after capi-
talisation of the last .5 p.c. div.
The financial set-up and rapid expan-
sion of the group over the last five years
are seen in the next table: —
I.OJ.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1942. 1948.
Paid capital .. £4,639,409 £5,492,733 £5,717,370
Outside interests*. . ■— 15,692 15,746
Sundry creditors. . 271.271 1,138,689 1,096,287
Taxation, etc. . . 213,247 468,675 477,473
Freeholds, etc. •• 1, r35 f 1,234,066 1,376,330
Plant, etc. .. 3 1 1.644,358 1,824,537
Stocks . . . . 1,090,747 2,173,531 2,165,698
Debtors .. . . 511,987 1,075,563 1,153.765
Investments . . 857,859 1,158,098 1,199,366
Cash .. . . 1,106,483 148,533 28,462
* Including proportion reserves.
Last term £142,264 was added to the book
value of freehold, etc., and £180,179 to
plant, etc., partly on account of the new
factory, at Botany (N.S.W.). Still, the
shrinkage in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£2,939,927) was only £42,038.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
i — —Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1933.. 24,514 15 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 21,250 3,264 55,966
1934. .32,331 7f ~ 7J „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7J „ 75 „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Insurances surrendered, £2OOB .. 77,363
Written off, £2900 .. .. .. 74,463
1936.. 21.127 7J p.c. 75 p.c. 22,822 72,708
1937.. 31.827 7£ „ 7| „ 24.412 7,415 80,183
1938.. 29,437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939 . .32,338 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940.. 32.730 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000.. 112,188
1941.. 27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29.964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
1943.. 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 7
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. f 589 113 ’ 692
Pref. div. subject to 224 p.c. cut from l/10/’SI.
War and the Government-controlled
economy and other things to which it has
given rise have not yet seriously impeded
net earnirtgs of this co., which turned
out a variety of hosiery, underwear and
other silk and cotton goods from efficient
plant at Boundary-street, Sydney. To
meet heavy demands from the services
and the situation which arose from
Government acquisition of most of the
raw silk stocks production of civilian
requirements had to be curtailed to the
point where rationing became necessary
to ensure equitable distribution. This and
other restrictions on production, together
with price control, shortage of labor and
absenteeism, seriously affected the out-
turn of high-grade goods and lowered
the standard of service the co. used to be
able to give the public.
All this, the official taboo on use
of trade-marks on goods supplied to the
services and dislocation of the pre-war
inter-State trade which the co. had built
up on the basis of service and quality
have created a new series of goodwill and
other problems upon which the manage-
ment will have to try its teeth under
post-war conditions. At the moment
nobody is exactly sure what these condi-
tions will be. The switch from service
to civilian occupations, which looks like
being protracted, will alter the emphasis
of demand. To what extent volume will
be affected remains to be seen. There is
a reservoir of spending power in accumu-
lated savings, and there is Government
talk about maintenance of “full employ-
ment.” Much will depend upon this and
upon continued interference in the shape
of remoulded Government restrictions
and controls. These might easily prove
the crippling element in costs, which
promises to be the hardest nut the manu-
facturer will have to crack.
Last term higher prices for raw
materials bumped up production costs,
and there was a contraction of £24,304
in gross earnings (£111,928). Including
£22,731 (down £2571) allowed for depre-
ciation and an unspecified provision for
taxation, but leaving £5OOO sent to the
staff fund out of the reckoning, exes.
(£78,439) were got back £27,889. The
net result (up £3525) was sufficient to pay
the prefs. their full contract rate and
show 11.4 p.c. on the £226,667 of ord.
capital as against 9.9, ft and 10.7 p.c. back
to 1940. T,he div. was kept at 9 p.c. The
Newcastle factory, opened in 1941, con-
tinues to be “fully satisfactory,” and the
subsidiaries—Lustre (N.Z.), Ltd., Silktex,
Ltd., Sphinx Engineering Pty.—are all
operating at a profit.
Chief earning asset, plant (down
£15,781 last term), now appears at little
more than half the 1938 figure. It is
reported in first-class condition, but tech-
nical developments might call for capital
outlay when the war is over:
1938. 1940. 1942. 1948.
Ord. capita]. . £226,607 £226,667 £226,067 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928 31,928 26,500
Overdraft . . 72,740 163,243 77,218 112,775
Creditors . . 37,010 68,855 58.305 42,423
Tax provision 16,597 37,731 42,650 26,800
Freeholds .. 122,381 ' 122,847 128,469' 120,545
Plant.. .. 164,725 133,485 107,902 92,121
Stocks . . 159,158 332,250 290,862 312,074
Debtors . . 108,275 115,820 78,733 75,750
Cash, etc. . . 509 3,287 20,878 20.440
Shares subsid. 10,452 15,206 25,210 25,210
To carry an extra £21,212 of stocks and
snip £5428 off the mortgage and £15,882
off the amount coming to trade creditors
the board went to its bankers for a
further £35,557 last term. The year's
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£224,976) was £19,294.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, —* —‘Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. • serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 8,910 720 2tp,c.±= 4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,388 3,385
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ ~ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 ~ ~ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ ~ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
1939.. 17,039 720 5$ „ ~10,231* 6,088 16,961
1940.. 13,492 720 5J „ ~10,232* 2,540 19,501
1941.. 15,836 720 5*,, ~10,232* 4,884 24,385
1942.. 11,275 720 5-1 „ ~10,232* 323 24,708
1943.. 17,056 720 51,. ~10,231* 6,105 30,813
1944.. 25,913 720 6 ~ ~11,162* 14,031 44,844
* Includes special payment to directors, £B4O last
term.
Clothes rationing and price ceiling have
limited the amount of our war-time in-
flated national income that can be spent
at the drapers. But owing to temporary
influx of population these controls have
thus far not reduced the turnover-of Bris-
bane retailers but only slowed up the
rate of expansion. The next table illus-
trates what has happened. Compiled by
the Queensland Bureau of Industry, it
shows the percentage change in aggregate
turnover compared with the correspond-
ing period of the preceding year for 12
large department stores in Brisbane:
AvebaOS Three Months Ended
t *“■“ “ \
Sept. Dee. Mar. June. Year.
1938- .. +3.7 +l,l +0.7 +3.5 +2.6
1939- . . +6.1 +9.9 +9.1 +8.7 +3.5
1940- . . +5.3 +3.0 +5.9 +B.B +S.S
1941- .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 —l.O +ll.O
1942- ... 0.0 +0.7 +1.4 +13.9 +4.1
The sharp increase in the figure for the
March quarter of 1942 was on account ot
rush buying in anticipation of rationing,
while the jump in the figure for the June
quarter of 1943 reflects final spending of
the years unused coupons.
McD. and E., which has been steadily
improving its trading technique over the*
last decade, and more, got its full share
of business available —the revival of Fin -
neys and appearance of Wool worths,
Coles and Pennys brought a lot of trade


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
v * * m
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, CM. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Auvt.
m« s * *
,tlo«
~ v e |||
iSg ?C *. *-#ssh *rt£s I
; Food o od t®* detna"^ 3 ® r food P r<a tn« st
| there’- J oi the de f a ct, ««* 1 nG vJ, * e lVl e
I are a* ** e w ®gp in
I capa^; t been so g bet l i Y o^\f eiP
§ ae®»” 4 ’i/SU**'*” a .^»«aßew
p this B teal V
YOU HELP INCREASE
PRODUCTION IF YOU ...
• Grow Your Own Vegetables.
• Produce Eggs in Your Own Back-
yard.
• Preserve all the Food you can.
• Conserve the nation's Food sup-
plies by avoiding waste.
• Plan your meals to get the maxi-
mum benefit from the Food you
eat.
YOU DISCOURAGE
PRODUCTION IF YOU . . .
• Object to more Food being pro-
vided for the Services and for
Britain.
• Grumble about less varied diet.
• Expect all the sacrifices to b*
made by the Armed Forces.
• Join the ranks of the "Knockers"
by making wild allegations about
failures on the Food Front.
"Knockers" on the Food Front
help nobody but the Enemy
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control
F. 25.27
■ .
:
m
m
vsessmsmi
mmm
mmmmm
1
m
m
Have y
i
iMM
to read
ini
“Don’t worry Mum I’ll soon be all
right and back on the job again
amongst my cobbers, the best bunch of
blokes you could wish to meet. It’s
tough going here at times but all the
boys arc anxious to keep on hitting the
enemy until we drive ’em back to
Tokio. If the people at home will keep
on and on getting us more machines,
planes, guns, ammunition and supplies,
we must soon win. We know that you
arc all paying heavy taxes, doing
without lots of things, subscribing to
War Loans, buying War Savings
Certificates, but go on buying still
more to keep us supplied with every-
thing needed to win the war. I am sure
every dinkum Aussie will drop a few
more pleasures and sock some more
quids into War Bonds and War Savings
Certificates. We know that the people
at home won’t let us down.”
CONTRIBUTED TO THE NATIONAL EFFORT BY THE MAKERS OF
Mobiloil
THE WORLD S QUALITY OIL
VACUUM
PRODUCT
QUALITY
SERVING THE NATION ON LAND, SEA, AND IN THE AIR
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated In Australia)
back to the George-street end of the city.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the improvement in gross earn-
ings (£111,952) was £1954. Trading exes.
(£56,039) were pulled back £19,903, largely
owing to curtailment of advertising. But
provision for the taxgatherer (£30,000,
up £13,000) reduced the net gain to £BB5B.
Ihe £25,913 of profit was easily the best
since the present co. took over the then
19-year-old business of McDonnell and
East in 1920. After paying the prefs.
their £720, enough remained to show
14.6 p.c. on the £172,027 of ord. capital,
as against 9.4 p.c. and 6.1 p.c. for the
two preceding years. Only half a point
was added to the div., making it 6 p.c.,
and £14,031 was put on the shelf, lifting
the lay-by £44,844 in excess of goodwill
(£8000), not treated as an asset herein.
Improved trading results are further
reflected in the financial position:
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 47,250 82,187 24,435 23,685
Overdraft .. 47,901 50,512 31,417 21,058
Sundry creditors 17,903 21,398 37,071 31,116
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 127,539 126,283 115,334 110,660
Stocks,. .. 107,682 130,662 166,396 189,670
Book debts .. 60,680 59,304 29,732 16,906
Cash, etc. .. 20,923 14,945 19,520 26,404
Stocks, up £23,274 last term, are the sen-
sitive point in the co.’s armor. The reduc-
tion of £12,826 in debtors’ balances re-
flects the cash basis of trade these days.
The overdraft and amount coming to
trade creditors were reduced by £10,359
and £5955 respectvely. Growth in the
more or less liquid surplus (£157,121) was
£34,396.
Four-ounce yields continue to come out
of the A 1 battery, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
and another 3s. a share is to go out on
May 2, making total distributions for the
year to date 7s. It’s a welcome change
from the dry spell experienced by share-
holders last term, when all hands and the
cook were mustered for shaft-sinking and
development, because the mill was ahead
of the mine. Altogether, 1795 tons has
been crushed during the current term for
8049 fine ounces gold, the present run of
rich ore being entered last November. No
sloping has yet been done, all mill-feed
coming from development on Nos. 14
and 15 levels. While the formation is
disturbed, the ore-body is ranging up to
14ft. wide in the drive on No. 14, aver-
ages 4ft. on No. 15 and shows a mean
width of about sft. in the rises above
each level. How long 4oz. returns will
continue remains to be seen. Expecta-
tions are that yields won’t average much
below the 2oz. mark for some time yet.
The present co. has taken just on
37,0000 z. gold out of the north of its
holding since taking over in 1932. The
southern portion of the property was pre-
viously worked for 145,5000 z. over a
70-year period, and it is believed that
further development at depth will prove
worth while when labor becomes avail-
able. Mine strength is compulsorily
limited to 24; manager Lake could do
with 60.
* * ♦ *
Width of the formation across the
saddle in Deborah G.M., Bendigo (Vic.),
is 16ft. Taking this in conjunction with
the quartz and spurs of the Deborah
back a total width of 30ft. of crushing
material is available. Preliminary stop-
ing at the junction of the east and west
dipping faults, where best results are
usually obtained, has yielded up to
9£dwt. to the ton, but further work is
necessary to determine average value,
height and extent of the find. There is
always the chance that bedded forma-
tions will “live on” at Bendigo ; and the
adjoining North mine is preparing to
drive to Deborah boundary in the hope
of picking up the continuation of the de-
posit in its own area. Meantime, the
western spur system, located some 40ft.
above the bedded reef, is opening up
satisfactorily and providing the bulk of
mill feed. Other ore-bodies to the west
of the Deborah back also appear to offer
scope for development between the 915 ft.
horizon and the fault zone at 1000 ft., and
driving on the inner reef at the 600 ft.
level in the southern portion of the mine
has disclosed colors at each firing in 6in.
to 12in. of mineralised ore. A shilling
div. is payable on April 21, bringing total
distributions to £177,350.
**' * *
Federal authorities are being chided by
the Westralian press for not doing more
for the goldmining industry. Thirteen
Stock-Exchange-listed Westralian gold-
mines have closed down since man-power
of the industry within the State decreased
from 15,000 to under 4000. They are Big
Bell at Cue, Gladiator at Laverton, Bur-
bidge at Marvel Loch, Porphyry at Edju-
dina, Marvel Loch at Marvel Loch, You-
anmi at Youanmi, Triton at Mt. Magnet,
Ora Banda at Ora Banda, Spargo’s
Reward at Coolgardie, Evanston at
Yilgarn, Mt. Sir Samuel at Mt. Sir
Samuel, Nevoria at Marvel Loch and
Beryl at Kundip. Others continue
to struggle on with one - third of
their former complement of men, de-
pleting their ore reserves and unable to
do essential development and mainten-
ance work. Some of these are likely to
give up at any time.
* * * ♦
Reduced circumstances have overtaken
Yellowdine, the best and most spectacular
of the De Bernales Westralian gold group.
Except a small patch here and there,
all the high-grade ore has been taken out,
and in place of former substantial profits
losses are showing up. There is talk of
the mine closing down until after the
war. Production to date amounts to
between 150,000 and 175,000 fine ounces.
Workings have reached a vertical depth
of about 600 ft,
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) gold return goes on
averaging 2dwt. per ton or thereabouts,
which doesn’t pay. No official announce-
ment has been made concerning the
application to the Federal Government
for a subsidy to produce arsenic, which
is associated with gold in the ore. With-
out a subsidy operations aren’t likely to
continue very long.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) reported a
sharp fall of £21,477 in profit (£140) for
the year to June 30, 1942, and stated that
mining had ceased owing to shortage of
labor. Now it announces a loss of £2943
for the year to June 30 last.
* * * *
Linden (W.A.) reports that work has
ceased on its Mt. Monger option, owing
to the gold shoot shortening with depth.
They mostly do or cut out,altogether on
that field, a fact which the “Wild Cat”
has previously pointed out.


YOU
AND
YOUR
NEIGHBOURS
CAN
WN
THIS
HohovrTmmm
H
i
A
/
&
W.S
7
ra
qn
R
■
, f 7
ABOUT HONOUR PENNANTS
Pennants are awarded to each community that
reaches its quota either in amount of money or
number of subscribers. Special red pennants go
to the towns in each population class who most
exceed the quotas set. Mark your application
form and be sure your subscription is credited
to your district.
SMASH YOUR DISTRICT’S QUOTA
IN THE FIRST VICTORY LOAN
Victory won’t just happen. It must be wop, and
it will come sooner if each of us redoubles his
efforts. That means buying more Victory Bonds.
A fair quota has been set for every town and
municipality throughout Australia, so every dis-
trict has a chance to win one of the fine honour
pennants awarded for outstanding success in the
First Victory Loan Drive. When you apply for
your Victory Bonds, write the name of your
district on the form you sign and help to estab-
lish you and your neighbours as amongst those
who have fully backed our fighting
men.
WATOH THIS BAROMETER
You’ll see it at different places round
your district—at the Town Hall, School
of Arts, Pictures, Leading Store. It
tells how well you and your neighbours
are responding to the urgent need to
fill the First Victory Loan.
SPEED THE VICTORY'
INVEST IN LOAN
Make your application at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker
V.4.19
py
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Union Asks for More
The Commonwealth Government, as
charterer of nearly all merchant tonnage
trading inter-State on the Australian coast,
is employer of most merchant seamen,
with the shipping companies as managers.
According to the “Seamen’s Journal,”
Comrade Elliott V. Elliott, general secre-
tary of the Seamen’s Union, wrote to
Treasurer Chifley on February 10 last ask-
ing that the war-risk bonus paid to seamen
be exempt from income tax. Mr. Chifley
replied that he was unable to do this,
but would grant the same special taxa-
tion deduction applying to members of
the defence forces in Australia. The con-
cession would not apply to seamen en-
gaged in the Spencer Gulf trade, as vessels
employed therein were expressly excluded
from provisions relating to “seagoing
ships,” though the war-risk bonus was
paid.
There has been sad loss of life on the
Australian coast in merchant vessels sub-
jected to submarine attack, though such
loss has not been nearly so heavy as in
the Atlantic, and, according to latest Gov-
ernment statements, there has been no
loss for a considerable period. On
the face of it, there is a case for the
claim by the merchant marine that it
be treated the same as the fighting ser-
vices in the matter of taxation. How-
ever, there seems to be considerable reluc-
tance on the part of the Seamen’s Union
to accept service men’s conditions in
other directions.
Early in the war with Japan, and soon
after the Labor Government took office,
a 44-hour week was introduced into the
industry by regulation under the National
Security Act. This replaced the 52-hour
week previously in operation. The result
of this big reduction in working hours
was to increase greatly the cost of run-
ning ships at a critical period of the war.
It is impossible to work the 44-hour week
economically at sea, and what happens in
nearly every case is that seamen .work
56 hours a week and collect overtime on
the extra 12 hours. In other yvords, the
introduction of the 44-hour week has
simply been a means of obtaining a very
substantial increase in pay apart from
any cost-of-living allowances,
These alterations since the beginning
of 1942 apply to the ordinary wages of
the men. But, in addition, the whole
crew is entitled to a general 33| p.c. war-
risk bonus on wages, the rate rising to
50 p.c. where a seaman has been on one
ship for six months or in the continuous
service of more than one employer for
that period. In effect, the merchant
marine, though entitled to service men’s
taxation treatment, has had two very large
increases in pay since war started. This
is strikingly different from the circum-
stances of rankers in the fighting forces,
a seaman who, after one month’s ser-
vice, does no t wan t to continue going
t o sea for any reason at all may,
on arrival in his home port, give 24
hours’ notice and quit the service alto-
gether. How many service men, or, for
that matter, how many civil workers in
essential industry, are in that favored
and free condition? In vessels plying
north of Cairns seamen are entitled to
pne to two bottles of beer a day, depend-
ing upon whether the liquor is taken
aboard in Queensland or in N. S. Wales,
This beer has to be paid for, but the
fact that there is a quota allotted to each
man is a privilege which civilians and
most service men do not receive. And
on troop transports leaving one Austra-
lian port seamen are allowed to buy their
cigarettes free of excise, while soldiers
embarking on the same ship must obtain
their smokes ashore and pay ordinary
prices.
The allowance for seamen in the case
of meat is something like 101 b. a week
per man. In addition, his meat coupons
are not surrendered to the shipowners, and
are usually left at home. Also, in the
case of butter, sugar and tea, he is entitled
to the civilian ration, but does not have
to surrender coupons. In effect, he is
entitled to at least double the civilian
ration in the case of all rationed foods.
He is also on a quota of three ounces of
tobacco a week or 105 cigarettes, less 10
p.c. Bacon is a staple article of food in
the merchant marine, an(i dried and
tinned fruits, pork and rice are in regular
supply ; like the meat, butter, sugar and
tea supplied aboard, these items form
part of the seaman’s “keep,” and are in
addition to his wages.
Under present war-time conditions it
is often difficult to supply all the fresh
food that shipping cos. would be willing
to provide. That should be obvious to
anyone in a country where fresh oranges
are now unobtainable even as food for
babies. Substitute foods are not neces-
sarily any cheaper than fresh meat, vege-
tables or milk. But there does not appear
to be much willingness about grinning
and bearing it in the Seamen’s Union.
According to the “Seamen’s Journal,”
official organ of the Seamen’s Union of
Australasia, Mr. Smith, .secretary of the
Sydney branch, was invited to give evi-
dence before the Maritime Industries
Commission on the food position aboard
ship.
In discussion he stated the the food position
generally in all ships was bad, particularly in
vessels going north, the quantity being inade-
quate and the quality inferior; also that meat
is always of an inferior quality. This also in-
cluded dry stores, jams, sauces, pickles, etc.
Mr. Smith said he considered that an inquiry
should be made into the whole position, par-
ticularly the difficulty in obtaining adequate
supplies north of Brisbane, the serving of food
in a common dish, and the inadequacy of suffi-
cient refrigeration space in which to carry the
necessary supplies of fresh food.
Facilities should also be provided to enable
the men’s food to be kept hot, and the same
menu served to all members of the ships’ crews.
The last part of the opinions of Mr.
Smith represents the basis of a fresh cause
of complaint by ordinary seamen: they
want the same menu as the captain,
officers and engineers. To dine under
conditions similar to those prevailing in
the officers’ mess, as it were. Actually
there seems to be very little basic differ-
ence between the food served to officers
and to the crew, especially on cargo
ships, and the “Seamen’s Journal” is
obliged to record that
Chairman [Judge] de Baun said that menus
furnished by various shipping cos. appeared to
contain all the essential foods which more or
less were served to all sections of the crew, with
only a slight difference of one dish, or, maybe,
the choice of an extra course.
In another part of the same issue, how-
ever, the “Seamen’s Journal” is careful to
publish a comparative bill of fare as pro-
vided to the “saloon” and to the “crew,”
representing a “true copy of the food sup-
plied on one Australian ship.” It is
apparently the bill of fare of a passenger
ship, a rare bird on the Australian coast
these days. But the same authority has
some further interesting remarks to make;
The meals for the saloon are prepared by
the cooks, who eat them, and served by the
stewards, who also eat them. The crew menu
is that supplied to the sailors and firemen.
Although the menu labelled “saloon” has
more variety, that labelled “crew” does
not seem bad to a soldier or ordinary
civilian. For breakfast on “Friday”
there are rolled oats, grilled steak and
onions, fried fish and chipped potatoes.
For dinner there are pea soup, roast
beef, corned pork, parsnips, baked and
boiled potatoes and sweets. For tea,
smoked fish, haricot chops, cold meats,
salad and pastry. There are some who
cannot understand why potatoes, fruit
and vegetables are not mentioned, or
mentioned more frequently, in this
“crew’s” menu, as on most ships, where
these items are obtainable, they are also
supplied—potatoes often at every meal.
The menu for “Saturday,” as given, is
no less attractive than that for “Friday.”
According to the “Seamen’s Journal,”
representatives of all the seafaring unions
are not unanimous in their opinions of
the merits of the food allegations. At
the food inquiry
Mr. Tudehope, of the Cooks’ Union, said
there was very little difference in the bill of
fare supplied to the saloon and to the crew,
but there might be some ground for complaint
in regard to the method of serving meals.
....Mr. McPherson [of the Engineers’ UnionJ
said that members of the Seamen’s Union got
larger issues of sugar, sauces, pickles, jams, etc.,
than the saloon and that these stores were
taken on shore by the men.
In the issue of the “S.J.” from which
these extracts are taken there is an out-
burst against the Maritime Industry Com-
mission itself headed “Why Such a Mari-
time Commission?”
The “S.J.” publishes “a report from
crew of a recent trip of the s.s.
from Sydney to Darwin.” A shortage of
fresh milk and fresh bread is alleged;
also, “discussion with the chief steward
revealed that there would never be green
peas or beans for us, as the cook re-
quired two hours’ overtime to prepare
them, and the company, via chief steward,
refused to pay.” Then the freezer broke
down, the report says, and perishable
foods “had to be dumped,” “The potatoes
also gave out. The sailors and firemen
were thus forced to live on bully beef
and raw onions until the vessel reached
Darwin, as the chief steward refused to
issue canned vegetables, of which he had
an adequate supply.” (Except for the
raw onions, it will be seen that the crew
of this ship claim that they had almost
got down to the level of the food of men
on active service.) “The issue of beer,
which lasted for 16 days, ended on
Christmas Eve.”
Christmas dinner consisted of buffalo meat
and packet peas and marrow; bully beef and
a slice of ham (the first and only ham we saw)
and onions, followed by the usual weekly
“duff,” the poorest undoubtedly that anyone
has ever seen.
The soldiers ashore in Darwin had turkey,
ham and everything that goes with the ideal'
dinner (Christmas).
The name of the vessel concerned is not
given, nor is that of the agent. If all
the allegations are true —and allegations
of this kind certainly are not invariably
true —a state of war and food shortage
have to be taken into consideration, just
as they have to be in every part of Aus-
tralia —and New Guinea. The owners
of a ship, for instance, do not aim to
allow food to go bad and have it dumped.
Then there is always the question of the
service rendered by those fellow-unionists
the cooks. And from the “true copy” of
the bill of fare published in another part
of the “S.J.” it is clear that the case
quoted is not a representative one.
Having obviously gone the limit in the
matter of pay and war risk bonus the
Seamen’s Union is now bickering about
food. Boiled down, the seamen want the
same service as the saloon. They appear
to want their “new order” even before
the war is finished, war bonus and tax
concessions now received by them not-
withstanding.
Australia is the only Allied country in
which a ceiling price has been placed on
investment stocks. In no country has
response to war loans been worse.
* * * *
The crude and clumsy sharemarket
ceiling in Australia is unfair to many
people desiring to sell their shares in
order to subscribe to war loans or to
meet their income tax. Price limits have
been in operation for over two years now,
and for long periods better-class shares
have been at their ceiling. Difficulties
imposed on the transfer of shares (apart
from the five-month holding stipulation,
for which there may be some war-time
excuse) has encouraged black-marketing
in other property.


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
M l '-'
Jr
Dontrisk worry & trouble
from an ou
irreplaceableTrador!
Vroperluhrication isyour
safeguard! Resureitis
CALTEX
CflCsfiMS ®ot
* formerly knoivn as TEXACO
DO YOU MOVE IN
THESE CIRCLES ?
CABIN
n-.:
I : ■: : : :
( ♦AfcjklEWLfi.
v-i/
+COOtTA*IZtX
EWCASTLE]
BE
SYDNEY
V ffv. VSALKANALD
iil
m
yoooatauw
O
WAGOA
GkR
<3ANB£
•coon, a
Vs
Within each of the circles, of 25-mile radius, shown on this map,
one or more AGA Cookers are providing the recognised advan-
tages of AGA heat-storage cooking for N.S.W. district hospitals.
(NO OTHER INSTALLATIONS ARE SHOWN ON THIS MAP.)
The AGA makes possible savings in fuel bills (up to 80%) and
accurate budgeting of costs; ensures continuous, scientifically
efficient service night and day, and keeps kitchens cooler and cleaner.
The AGA Model J 1734, illustrated, is guaranteed not to burn more
than 11 tons of coke in a whole year, and will cater for 80 to 120
people. Smaller AGA COOKERS burn less fuel. All AGA
COOKERS are guaranteed for ten years against faulty material
and workmanship.
We will gladly forward particulars of the correct AGA Model for
your Hospital’s individual problem. Write or call for Catalogue R 4.
With an AG A, using only a
small quantity of coke, you
are assured of continuity of
cooking services in spite of
any emergency involving fuel
restrictions.
AGA
REG D. TRADE MARK
The Original Heai Storage
COOKER
MADE in BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 18S2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd.. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Old. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
According to a U.S. Treasury state-
ment, 34 nations, including the U.S.A.,
Great Britain and the Soviet, have agreed
to an international currency stabilisation
fund based on gold (instead of, as Baron
Keynes proposed, a fund the proportions
of which were to be based on each coun-
try’s world trade). The United States
will kick in with, $2500 million to
$2750 million in gold, Britain will contri-
bute 51250 million (“at least 25 p.c.’
in gold and the balance in cur-
rency), and the Soviet will put up
$lOOO million on terms similar to those
of Britain. The total fund will be $BOOO
million. As voting power will “be distri-
buted in close relation to the quotas,”
Britain and the United States, if in agree-
ment, could practically control the fund.
The American Associated Press is re-
ported as saying that the. agreement is a
clear-cut U.S. victory over the Keynes
(British) plan to relegate gold to a minor
role in favor of pre-war trade quotas
as a basis for voting power, and that
Russia is understood to have supported
the American stand. A number of Ameri-
cans, especially Republicans, are of the
opinion that Keynes sold Roosevelt the
idea of the New Deal.
* * * #
N. S. Wales Opposition Leader Weaver
last wefek said that “in one big war plant
in the west the management asked Man-
power to be allowed to dismiss about
2000 workers because no work was avail-
able. Canberra authorities, in collabora-
tion with the McKell Government, issued
instructions that no one was to be put
off until after the State elections.” If
Weaver’s charges are true they show how
hopeless life under the complete control
of politicians and a bureaucracy would
be. Standards of living cannot be im-
proved while labor forces are made a
plaything.
* * * *
Last Thursday night the Deputy Prime
Minister, Mr. Forde, broadcast that only
120,000 people had contributed to the
First Victory Loan up to that time. Pre-
vious speakers during the week had
pointed out that the great part of the
early subscriptions had come from the
“financial institutions,” and that further
such subscriptions would not be available
to assist the loan in its later stages. It
was pointed out that the national income
was in the vicinity of £l2OO million a
year in relation to a war bill estimated
at £570 million, and that deposits were
accumulating in the savings banks at the
rate of £lO million a month. It is true
that there is no monetary excuse as to
why the Australian people as a whole
should not be able to fill this loan com-
fortably.
* # t- *
Several circumstances, including the
great demand for Australian wines at the
present time notwithstanding the quota
placed on civilian consumption, brought
the highest profit since 1926 to Caldwell’s
Wines (N.S.W.) last year, in spite of a
record taxation bill levied. Net profit
was £16,515 (up £9210) after tax provi-
sion of £25,000 (up £17,500). The 6.2
p.c. pref. requirements were attended to,
5 p.c. (against 2\ p.c.) went to the ords.,
and £B3ll was left for reserves. The co.
has been disposing of more of its better-
grade wines, though the book value of
stock increased £21,740 (to £60,275) dur-
ing the period ; apparently a large quan-
tity of new vintage was put down. Be-
cause of tha extraordinary circumstances
prevailing, the directors do not look for
maintenance of greatly increased profits.
* * * *
There has been no stopping the in-
crease in the Australian note issue. It
has now swollen to £lB3 million (about
four times pre-war), and the proportion
in the hands of the public is fantastic
when compared with the legitimate uses
to which the issue may be put. That is
taking into account increase in the float-
ing population and similar factors. Cur-
rency hoarding (to avoid taxation and
to serve other purposes) and black-
marketing in property of various kinds
have been responsible for a large part
of the increase.
* * * *
Special war-time deposits by the trad-
ing banks with the Commonwealth Bank
are now up to £174 million, an increase
of £77 million in a year.
* * * *
Travellers to Canberra bring back
many stories of incipient socialism in the
attitude towards private enterprise and
the control of labor after the war. In
other accounts the bug is more open,
bragging and vigorous. The would-be
socialists are invariably non-combatants,
of course ; had they anything to do with
the actual fighting undertaken against
socialism-mad Axis countries they might
change their views. It would be an ironi-
cal thing if in its war against totalitarian-
ism Australia falls for socialism itself.
“Freedom,” said Woodrow Wilson,
“exists only where people take care of the
Government.”
* * * *
The Rationing Commission involved
the Commonwealth in expenses totalling
£327,431 during the year to June 30,
1943, That is Government expense only,
and excludes costs which have had to be
borne by traders themselves. Salaries
totalled £124,392, general exes. £203,039.
During the year 36 persons were sen-
tenced to jail for rationing offences and
92 were fined. During the current fiscal
year the commission has co-operated with
censors snooping into private correspon-
dence in other to get more convictions.
* * * *
Dedman’s show, the Department of
War Organisation of Industry, cost con-
solidated revenue £255,818 in 1942-43,
and that does not take into account ex-
penses of the Rationing Commission,
which ran to £327,431. In the W. 0.1.
figure there is £81,301 of financial assist-
ance to university students. Not included
in the W. 0.1. figures, however, are the
costs to Australian industry of the exp,eri-
ments of Dedman and friends in “ration-
alisation.” And “rationalisation” has
gone far beyond the ban on pink icing
and the outlawing of Father Christmas
It has created a great deal of industrial
frustration and has done considerable
damage to the textile trade.


THE SERVICE MAN
Rabaul to Hollandia.
“Ek Dum”: Till near the week-end
activity in the South and South-west
Pacific areas was limited to the air,
though the tempo of the bombing was
rising.
Rabaul, Aitape, Wewak were blasted
with a terrible monotony, and there were
excursions further afield —to the edges of
the East Indies, to Timor, to the Kai
Islands and into those parts of the Solo-
mons still held by the enemy.
Wewak was reported to be completely
immobilised, and Hollandia, Dutch N.G.,
became the main target of the South-
west Pacific air forces. Attacks in-
creased in fury and were extended to
the air strips on Noemfoor Island, which
lies in the mouth of Geelvink Bay, almost
at the north-western end of Dutch New
Guinea.
Truk had its quota of attrition, and
there were an extension of Admiral
Nimitz’s grip to further Marshall Islands
atolls, more bombing of the Carolines
and the first landbased-bomber expedi-
tions against Saipan and Tinian in the
Marianas — a remarkable advance when
it is remembered that at this time last
year the Allies were nowhere within
2000 miles of those bases.
And bombing of the Kuriles continued.
Colonel Knox said on April 19 that these
air attacks were obviously a prelude to
the seizure of these bases —“but no one
could say when.” Fog had hampered ob-
servation, and it was not known whether
the islands were heavily fortified; but
there were certainly strong enemy forces
in the islands.
New Landings
The South-west Pacific Command an-
nounced on April 24 that, with the support
of'Australian cruisers and destroyers and
of aircraft-carriers from the U.S. Pacific
Fleet, multiple landings were made along
the north coast of New Guinea, the main
ones at Aitape, Hollandia and Tanah-
merah Bay, with slight losses on our side.
Aitape is the most westerly district post
in the Mandated New Guinea area.
Hollandia and Tanahmerah Bay are
slightly to the west.
According to S.-w. Pacific Command,
by these landings the Fifth Japanese
Army is isolated, with its communica-
tion and supply lines severed; indeed,
60,000 enemy troops distributed along
the New Guinea coast are said to be cut
off.
The command estimates that there are
now 140,000 Japanese trapped in the New
Guinea-Solomons area, and that since the
beginning of the New Guinea-Solomons
campaign 110,000 have been wiped out.
Of this number 26,000 have been killed
this year.
The Air Raids in Europe.
The attacks on Northern France and
Germany continued almost non-stop
throughout the week. On April 21 it
was announced that 10,000 sorties had
been made in 48 hours and 17,000 tons
of bombs dropped in four days—more
than in any month up to June last year.
Each day’s climax of bomb-loads and
fury was climaxed by the next.
On April 18 the main weight of the
stroke fell on communications and war
industries of Paris and Rouen. Vichy
said 700 persons had been killed in Paris
and 1200 in Rouen, and Petain emerged
from his retirement to protest against
these attacks by “our Allies” from which,
he said, thousands of dead and maimed
were still buried under the ruins.
It is one of the awful features of the
new type of heavy bombing that in de-
stroying vital objectives the blast is so
great and widespread that it is apt to
reach outside its intended range. Hence
the careful instructions which have been
issued to the R.A.F. about the use of the
new 12,000-pounder, which is not dropped
if there is the slightest danger of its
missing its objectives.
April 22 was the heaviest day’s bomb-
ing of the war, and, as with the bulk of
the raids earlier in the week, it was mainly
concerned with enemy railway junctions
and marshalling yards. About 4000
machines based in Britain kept up a con-
tinuous attack on the West Wall area.
A thousand Fortresses attacked the great
Hamm marshalling yards, while well over
1000 R.A.F. machines made savage night
onslaughts on Brunswick and Dlisseldorf
railway junctions. On April 22 42 R.A.F.
machines were lost. The week’s Allied
losses were not clear, but they exceeded
200.
Between April 18 and April 22 14,000
sorties were flown by Allied machiqps
and 20,000 tons of bombs dropped.
It is reported in Britain that fresh
man-power is pouring in from all parts
of the British Commonwealth, and last
week the Canadian Minister for the Air
announced that «all training personnel
and maintenance crews in Canada had
been withdrawn to Britain, indicating that
the crisis in the attack was not far distant.
There were several small enemy raids
on Britain, including one on London in
which 10 people were killed in a work-
ing-class suburb and a hospital with 2000
patients was hit and set on fire. Four
of the staff and seven patients were killed.
Thirteen raiders were shot down.
Invasion Problems.
“Ek Dum”: The season in western
Europe changes swiftly, but April is an
uncertain month. It will be the end of
May before any real security of weather
can be guaranteed and before the danger
of sustained Channel fogs is over for the
summer. The enemy High Command
reckons that only on April 15 is winter
over in eastern Europe.
Critics, however, look forward to an
almost immediate invasion of Europe —
they may be right—and President Benes,
of Czechoslovakia, always the optimist,
prophesies that Germany may collapse
inside three months if the Allied invasion
is successful.
But questions to be solved by invasion
will be whether Germany has really been
crucially weakened by the war in
Russia and whether bombing has mortally
damaged German defensive lines, robbed
coastal defences of, supplies and neces-
sary communications and generally
opened the breach to the attackers so far
that the march into Germany will be
quick and easy.
The Germans profess to be open and
frank about their defences and to “wel-
come” the prospect of invasion. Some
of the interned newspapermen at Baden
who were released this year were taken
down the Rhine and shown 31 casemates
ready for heavy guns in a single mile
along the river covering the approaches
from Strassburg. Their guides claimed
that Germany had put 10,000,000 tons of
cement into the Atlantic wall and had
pressed into service millions of French-
men and Italians to build a Mediter-
ranean wall anchored to the Pyrenees on
the west and the Alps at the Italian end.
Ten Thousand Heavy Guns
Much of what comes out of Berlin is
plain and fancy lying, and much more is
gross exaggeration. But, for what they
are worth, the enemy’s claims are as fol-
lows :
That the whole face of nature has been
lifted in the defence areas in a vast camou-
flage operation which has frequently de-
ceived the Allies’ bombing fleets regarding
major objectives.
That from the Franco-Spanish frontier
near Bayonne to The Hague there are 6000
permanent heavy guns behind steel and
concrete and 3000 mobile guns, many of
the latter heavy railway guns and mobile
long-range 170 mm. guns of the type used
at Cassino.
This works out at one heavy gun for
every 180 yards of open-sea perimeter
front. It takes no account of such trifles
as long 75’s, 28mm. anti-tank guns, heavy
machine-guns, tank-mounted guns and
rocket-guns, or of the supplementary help
which might be given against a fleet or
large bodies of troops not in fortified posi-
tions by aircraft.
The enemy claims, also, that along the
Norwegian coast right up to the Finnish
border there are guns in fixed positions at
the rate of one a mile.
The nature of much of the coast of
France, especially in the Brittany and
Biscay areas, and more of Norway is
such that attack upon it by large, heavily
equipped forces is improbable, if not im-
possible. At points in the British zone
where a landing is physically practicable
the enemy’s heavy-gun concentration
must be much heavier than one to 180
yards if his statements are true.
To supplement this aggregation of
artillery the enemy says the coast is brist-
ling with flame-throwers and smoke
batteries, the sea and its beaches in
possible landing areas have been sown
with thousands of acres of protective
mines, some designed to explode on con-
tact, some electrically operated from the
shore. Beaches and creeks, also, are de-
clared to be everywhere mined and in-
cluded in machine-gun arcs.
Furthermore, the approaches which
landing barges and ships could use are
said to have been studded with obstacles
which would rip the bottom out of
approaching shipping. Defensive centres
along the coast are said to contain bomb-
proof barracks, with their own electrical
plants and water supply.
The Somme and the Maginot
Behind this there is supposed to be a
second line of defence, which corresponds
roughly with that on which General Wey-
gand attempted to halt the enemy advance
in May, 1940—a series of cross-road
fortifications and road-blocks across the
Somme plains, forming a system-in-depth.
This is said to connect with the age-old
defence line of the Ardennes and the
Meuse, and also with the Maginot Line,
which, according to German accounts,
has been reconstructed.
The Maginot Line has been much
jeered at. But it was never forced by
the enemy in 1940. He went round it
through the area which had not been
covered by French heavy fortifications
in deference to Belgian opinion.
With its guns turned westward and the
experience of the present war embodied
in its reconstruction, the M.L. is a for-
midable fortress not to be stormed lightly
over a well-mined apron of approach
reached through defence-in-depth.
Next comes the Rhine. It is a deeper,
faster river than any seen in Russia, with
swifter currents and frowning heights
overlooking the greater part of its length.
The West Wall
Behind the Rhine are the defences of
the West Wall. The Siegfried Line, on
which washing was to have been hung,
with the blessing of popular-song pub-
lishers, is not really a line. It is a
series of interlocking fortress defences,
in depth running back 60 to 90 miles,
served with one of the finest military
road systems in the world, in many places
moated and trenched with deep ravines
and fast-running rivers across the path of
the invader. A maze of these streams
complicates the invasion path to Berlin
even before such main barriers as the
Weser and the Leine and the Aller and
the stately Elbe are reached.
Almost all round Germany and its im-
mediate satellites, in fact, is a vast de-
fensive chain of mountains —sometimes a
double chain —masking or masked by
great rivers. They are unbroken as they
sweep round the south of and across the
Reich, Austria and Czechoslovakia.
The only gaps are in the north-west —
about 80 miles from the Ruhr to the Zuy-
der Zee, this part being protected by a
heavily sandbanked and shoaled coast-
line unsuitable east of the Rhine for
large-scale landings ; by the line of the
Meuse to the west; also by the floodable
country of the Netherlands and the Rhine
at its widest with its delta.
On the Russian side there is the gap
north of the Dresden-Breslau mountain
region, 200-odd miles north to south,
doubly shielded by the outer moat of the
wide Vistula and the overhanging
northern defences of East Prussia and its
maze of lakes, stretching 200 miles along
the Baltic.
Food for Thought
Let those who believe that defeat of
Germany should be a walkover, judging
it on the basis of recent Russian cam-
paigns, consider the following facts:
Even if the Germans were not able to
oppose a landing and adopted active
mobile warfare, France is as big as the
area which the Russians have recovered
since June last year. And much of it is
mountain country far more defendable
than anything in Russia ; some of it as
defendable as Italy. The Allies have not
the secure land communication lines
which the Russians possess to their rear.
They must carry every pound of equip-
ment, food and armament they need by
sea and air. The Germans, on the other
hand, have many short lines of land
communication which will give them a
great advantage.
The Allies will find awaiting them in
France 40,000,000 or so suffering people
torn by internal problems. They will
have thrust on their shoulders as they
advance (unless they advance like a whirl-
wind) large towns and cities smashed by
bombing—Allied bombing and artillery
fire —and stripped of water supply and
food and power by the enemy to increase
the load on British-American shoulders.
They will find a community in which
there are millions threatened and cowed
for four years by a military tyranny which
has held and still holds hundreds of
thousands of French men and women as
hostages in Germany and uses them as
instruments through whom, to intimidate
the French population in general. (“Help
the British if you dare and we will hang
your husband! ”)
They will have to face, in the racked,
starved, bombed and beaten population,
all the aberrations and illogicality of
thought which come from such suffer-
ings and humiliations as the French have
endured through four years which must
often have seemed hopeless to them.
They will be invading, not countries in
which a people unaccustomed to domi-
nance and suppression are still savage from
recent conquests, but countries in which
the enemy for years has done his best to
destroy, weed out or cajole the strongest
elements; from which millions are work-
ing in military slavery abroad, while a
large section of the older regime have
died or become old. Every French
kindergarten baby of the days of the col-
lapse of France is now a well-grown
child. The men reaching this year’s nor-
mal military call-up age have spent all
their adolescence under the German
whip.
These are matters for newspaper opti-
mists to ponder on.
Prudence is always on the side of the
pessimist in the preparation for major
military operations, especially for opera-
tions such as those impending, which
have no precedent either in scale or
nature in the whole of history.
While it is permissible to hope that the
invasion will be easy and that our troops
“will march into Germany soon,” ex-
perience so far has proved that the opti-
mist about conditions, is always a pessi-
mist about the quality of British and
American generalship, and most inclined
to panic when everything does not work
out exactly as he dreamed it in his
amateur-strategist mind. He is nearly
always a menace to confidence when
stout hearts are most needed.
It is just such dreamers as those who
think that Germany is about to collapse
who began to panic about the battle of
Manipur on the Burma frontier before it
had even begun.
Lincoln’s grave words to Grant are
more pertinent to the task ahead of
Eisenhower: “And now, with a brave
army and a just cause, go forward and
give us victory.” f
Burma Position "Sound."
“Ek Dum”: The Burma campaign
continues to be reported in such a way
that the military operations are apt to
be considered less important than the
grievances of correspondents. The South-
east Asian Command is accused of not
clearly stating the facts of the campaign.
It may not know all the facts, and neither
may the Japanese. And the more con-
fusion the South-east Asia Command
creates about the situation in the present
stage the better, no doubt, it likes it.
In a game of hide and seek, the players
do not advise each other when they find
out the whereabouts of somebody who is
walking into their arms. The command
will pretend and bluff all it knows.
Australian Parallel
A fair idea of the general nature of
the campaign may be had by imagining
it taking place on Australian soil. Imagine
that the Pacific is the Chindwin River and
the Japanese line of communication.
Imagine that the enemy had decided to
work his way across the Bowen and
Mannion ranges on a line all the way
from Australian Capital Territory to
south of the Victorian border, converg-
ing on Cudgewa railhead, hoping to con-
centrate there and grab the railway.
Imagine that the ranges have grown
so that Kosciusko and other mountains
are a few thousand feet taller than at
present, and that they are covered in
their lower levels on the seaward side
with thick tropical foliage. Also that
there are no roads on the seaward side,
only mule and cart tracks, not many ot
which cross the mountains.
The enemy is using only a few thou-
sand men. He now distributes them in
parties from the Victorian border to the
borders of the A.C.T. Where the wild
Snowy flows he may send them in
platoons to sneak through the rough, un-
inhabited country and join many other
parties coming along, perhaps 10 miles
apart, in perilous clambers at some given
point. Where a road comes toward the
ranges from the inland to join a cart
track to the seaward side, and he can
bring along light artillery and light tanks,
he sends a strong brigade, while at the
same time his filtering platoons try to
join up across a road in the rear of the
communications and cut the British de-
fenders of the roadhead west of the range
off from their bases. Inevitably, in such
rough country the Japs succeed at times.
The Australian command, operating
from, somewhere round the Hume Dam,
knows that it will be an endless job to
comb all the gullies, crevices and bush
tracks leading across to the sea. To do so
in any case would be to disperse its forces
all over the place ; and success in modern
campaigns is won by concentration at the
decisive place and time. Instead, the
scheme is to pull back all patrols
into an area in which they have a
chance of swift lateral movement. And,
while mopping up small enemy parties
as they arrive, they combine against the
larger ones, attacking them only when
sure they can be wiped out with man-
power and weapons sufficiently strong to
reduce casualties to a minimum.
Sometimes the defenders will be caught
napping. Sometimes the enemy will be
caught napping. But, as in all battles, ths


Public Notices.
I, ALICE GERBER, Stateless, born at Brussels,
Belgium, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at Baulkham Hills, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936 *
I, SIGURD PREBEN WJOQUIST, NX82233, L/Sgt.,
A.1.F., of Danish nationality, born at Copenhagen,
Denmark, and resident more than five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 6 Belmont Flats, Yeo Street,
Neutral Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of JOSEPH
PEDROTTI, brother of John Pedrotti, of Smeaton,
Victoria, please communicate with CUTHBERT.
MORROW, MUST & SHAW, Solicitors, Lydiard
Street. Ballarat?
SUTCLIFFE, THOMAS RICHARD
(Eldest son of Arthur William Sutcliffe, deceased),
who left his home town, Christchurch, New Zea-
land, for Australia about 1912. Anyone knowing
his whereabouts please communicate with: —
MESSRS. WHITE & CHAMPION,
Solicitors,
Box 663, CHRISTCHURCH,
NEW ZEALAND.
HENRY BELL BINNEY (also known as Henry
Binney), late Llandaff Street, Waverley, or anyone
knowing his present address, kindly communicate
with ALBERT G. KENCH, Solicitor, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
DERIS RYAN, late of 121 Clarke Street, Port
Melbourne, Victoria, Cartage Contractor, deceased,
died on 3rd August, 1938. —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of his brother, JAMES RYAN (a
Saddler), is asked to communicate with FITZ-
GERALD & FITZGERALD, Solicitors, 396 Little
Flinders Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Sfyyte/td cloyedtfiujtle ffhm
ultimate decision rests with the side which
can produce the maximum of reserves
when the enemy has reached the point
of major action.
The strategy, tactics and strength of
the enemy now having been clearly
defined, the Assam command has begun
to deal with him effectively. The Japanese
plan seems to have been to throw con-
centrations on both sides of Imphal, cut-
ting both the main roads to Dimapur,
on the Indian side of Kohima, and the
cart track to Silchar, as a preliminary to
any further adventure that might seem
to be justified pending the monsoon. Dur-
ing the monsoon the enemy no doubt
would like to sit down, if accommoda-
tion were available, to hold a watching
brief on Indian preparations for the
winter.
The danger to the Silchar track and
to Imphal from attacks coming from the
south seems to have been removed, and
operations in that direction during the
week-end were confined to the chasing
of numerous pockets of Japanese out of
gullies and hillside positions.
The Indian hillmen who have under-
taken this job have killed over 400 Japs
in six weeks, and effectively prevented
concentration of their infiltration parties.
In the northern sector the enemy
claimed several times to have taken
Kohima. On a recent occasion in the
South-west Pacific he claimed to have
fought five large naval battles and sunk
about half the American Navy. The
claim about Kohima was just as true.
A.B.C. chronicled the raising of the siege
of Kohima and the reinforcement of the
garrison, but it does not appear that
Kohima has ever been really besieged,
though road blocks were thrown on two
sides of it and cut it off for a week by
main routes. At any rate, road communi-
cation seems to have been re-established,
and the Ukhrul road north-east of
Imphal has been cleared for over 30
miles.
Admiral Louis Mountbatten on April
23 said that the enemy had failed in his
primary objectives, Imphal and Kohima.
His drive was losing its original impetus,
and he was still confining himself to in-
filtrations and local attacks. Imphal was
firmly held, and the enemy apparently
believed that he must capture Kohima
before he embarked on any move against
our communication lines. Until the
present threat was dissipated, the situa-
tion could not be fully satisfactory. The
Japanese had not attempted a showdown
at Imphal, and when they did they must
ultimately face the concentrated British-
Indian forces.
The situation seems to be well in hand.
Major-General Cowan, who has been
conducting the fighting south of Imphal
with his 17th Indian Division, told cor-
respondents on April 20 that British and
Indian troops were now better jungle-
fighters than the enemy, and that the
14th Army had created a technique which
had stood the test.
U.S. Secretary for War Stimson said
the following day that the military
position on the India-Burma border was
sound ; the Allies had ground and air
superiority and there was no occasion for
mystery.
Naval Operations
The most interesting developments
were in the naval area. Admiral Mount-
batten’s removal of his H.Q. was fol-
lowed by the appointment of Lieut.-
General Pownall, formerly chief of staff
to Lord Wavell in the Malayan campaign
period, as C.O.S, South-east Asian Com-
mand.
Almost immediately a naval force,
under Sir James Somerville, went out into
the southern part of the Bay of Bengal,
and from carriers made a severe aerial
attack on Sabang, a strong enemy base in
Dutch territory guarding one side of the
entrance to the Strait of Malacca, and an
adjacent aerodrome on Sumatra. It is
about 700 miles from Singapore, 900
miles from Ceylon and 300 miles from
Penang. A British spokesman in Wash-
ington said that the objective was to
bring out the Japanese naval squadrons
in Singapore, but they stayed in port.
Two merchant ships were hit, two de-
stroyers were set on fire, 22 ’planes were
destroyed and dockyards, barracks, power
station and hangars were heavily dam-
aged.
Though the monsoon will hold up land
fighting within a month in Burma, there
is nothing to prevent purely naval opera-
tions in the East Indian zone.
Admiral Mountbatten has an advan-
tage which Admiral Nimitz on the other
side of the East Indies does not possess.
The boundaries of the South-east Asian
Command zone were designed to fit the
range of battleships from Trincomalee
and Indian bases —about 2000 miles.
Admiral Mountbatten therefore can
operate at once against main objectives
as far as the Sunda Strait, between Java
and Sumatra, without much further
preparation. Admiral Nimitz must build
up new bases and supply them several
hundred miles in advance of his present
positions in the Marshalls before he can
strike heavily into the heart of enemy
territory in the equatorial Pacific.
Enemy Strikes Back.
“Ek Dum”: Reports that the Russians
were within three miles of Sevastopol on
April 17 proved incorrect. By April 20
they had reached Balaklava, which is
about eight miles from the town proper.
Next day it was announced that they
were at Inkerman and about to attack
the Malakov, which dominates the town
proper. Then silence fell.
Sevastopol is a very strong and deferr-
able position, and the Germans had a
solid legacy of fortifications from the
Red Army when they captured the city
in July, 1942. The approaches are con-
stricted ; and if the enemy were deter-
mined to hold out and could keep his
sea communications open he could resist
for some time. However, he is likely to
need the shipping and men for purposes
more important to him, and he has obvi-
ously been trying to get them out. Many
will never see Rumania ; the Russians
claim t,o have sunk several small trans-
ports up to 3000 tons. But the sensa-
tional rubbish which depicts a vast fleet
and air force operating by night and day
against evacuation fleets which are try-
ing to escape through a sea “mined
every yard of the way to Constanza” is
on a par with the usual stuff which comes
out of Moscow newspaper dens.
It takes a very few ships to move a very
large force which is prepared to leave its
equipment or has removed it in Advance.
The air trip to Rumania can be made dur-
ing the hours of darkness. And the fact
that Russia’s small naval ships are able
to bombard the port shows that there
is little or no heavy gun-defence
Offensive in Poland
Operations on the mainland have been
hampered along the lower Dniester River
by floods. But in the Stanislawow sector,
which holds the joint between the armies
of Marshals Zukhov and Koniev, and
which forms the pivot of the Russian
advances, there has been intense fighting
for several days, and at the week-end the
issue was still in doubt. This is the area
in which the Germans broke through the
week before and rescued whatever re-
mained of their divisions surrounded in
the Skala district.
The ground on which the fighting is
taking place is part of that on which the
Germans are supposed to have lost more
dead and prisoners in three weeks than
they lost in any whole year except one
in the last war. Control of the area is
essential to the Russians before a real
attempt to force the Jablonica Pass into
Rumania and Hungary is made. The
Pass is the best and easiest route across
the Carpathians, and is only about 2000
feet high.
It would have been expected, anart
from the fact that the German armies
thereabouts were supposed to have been
reduced to panic-stricken remnants, that
this joint between the two great Russian
armies would have been more strongly
held than any other part of the front.
But so far from being shattered by
the blows which they were reported to
have received, the Germans were able
to bring up reserves and powerful tank
and artillery and strike back on a long
front, driving a dint into the Russian
lines for some miles between Tarnopol
and Stanislawow. They claimed the
recapture of Nadworna by the Hun-
garians. Moscow replied that the Rus-
sians had never claimed its capture. They
had been credited with having actually
reached the mouth of the Pass and being
in control of its entrances.
Nadworna is on the junction of the rail-
way from Lwow through the Pass, with
a branch line into, another pass on the
flank of the Jablonica route. Strategically
it is of much importance. It is only seven
miles from the mouth of the Pass
approach.
The Germans also claimed to be ad-
vancing on Tarnopol from the north-east,
after an absence from the town of less
than a week, and to be already in the
suburbs.
Russians admitted the heaviness of the
German attacks. Fifteen, they said, had
been made in one area ; all had been
beaten off; and they, were holding their
ground and inflicting heavy casualties.
It was not easy to judge the status of
the operation or to estimate whether it
was the beginning of a full-scale drive
to break the Russian joint and explode
the wide Russian spearhead aimed at the
Lemberg (Lwow)-Cracow area; whether
it was merely a move in the defence of
the Jablonica Pass; or whether, again, it
was only a harrying move to interrupt
the regrouping of Russian forces after
their long drive from the Dnieper and
the Bug and upset the consolidation of
the Lower Dniester bridgeheads. But
reports of the concentration of large
forces in the Kowel area suggested that
a blow on a large scale was beginning.
At the same time Berlin reported heavy
fighting in the North Russian sector,
centring in Ostrov, 30-odd miles south
of Pskov, where, it was asserted, the Rus-
sians were concentrating for a fresh blow,
moving up heavy formations from the
east. Berlin asserted that the Germans
also had moved up stronger forces in the
area and strengthened their defences, tak-
ing advantage from the lull.
The same day the Germans made a
savage thrust south of Narva, between
Lake" Peipus and the Baltic coast. They
alleged that they had gained ground.
Moscow announced that the attack had
been repulsed and 2000 of the enemy
killed and that the western bridgehead
on the Narva River, the main objective of
the Germans, was still held by the Red
Army. On April 23 the Germans claimed
to be making progress in the Narva
sector,
Berlin Claim
Little news came out of Moscow in the
five days ended April 23. Official Rus-
sian communiques were the shortest for
months, but it was reported that fierce
enemy attacks south-east of Stanislawow
had been repelled, 1500 Germans killed
and 68 tanks destroyed.
The enemy High Command claimed
the capture of Ottynia, south-east of
Stanislawow, with further progress. If
there is truth in the claim, the enemy
had moved eastward 17 miles in two days
from Nadworna, had cut the Kolomea-
Lwow railway and was threatening to
make all Russian positions in the region
of the Jablonica Pass approaches unten-
able —temporarily, at least.
Berlin did not suggest that its opera-
tions were part of a large-scale offensive.
Actually, it suggested that the Russians
were preparing for another offensive by
massing new and large groupings of
specially-trained troops on the line be-
tween the Dniester Estuary and the
Pripet Marshes
• Moscow Radio hinted that the Red
Army had held up other operations to
prepare for a new general attack co-ordi-
nated with the invasion of western
Europe,
Room for Caution
While most Australian papers have
accepted the sensationally optimistic
accounts of the German retreat, overseas
commentators of reputation are warning
their readers that the Germans are in con-
trol of their movements and that the main
fight has not yet begun on the Eastern
Front.
The Moscow correspondent of the
“Times” said it would be misleading to
refer to a German collapse. German
resistance was very stiff wherever terrain
was favorable to digging-in, and Ger-
man counter-attaqks were frequent and
sustained.
Captain Liddell Hart mentioned a re-
port that the enemy was concentrating a
heavy new force, largely consisting of
armor, behind the Pruth area, indicating
that he was contemplating a counter-
stroke —this was before Mannstein’s drive
south-east of Tarnopol.
Melbourne “Herald’s” London corre-
spondent wrote last week that “the
Wehrmacht is by no means a beaten
force. It has unquestionably lost heavily
on the Eastern Front in men and
material, but in both east and west it is
still capable of strong resistance”:
Objective observers here [London] still
interpret the German withdrawals in Rus-
sia as a plan to make their defensive lines
more compact and conserve all their im-
portant reserves for battles to come. Cer-
tainly the speed with which the Red Army
crossed river after river in its lightning 300-
mile advance can only mean that the Ger-
mans have not offered organised resistance
because they had not reached the line on
which they proposed to stand —as stand
they eventually must.
F. O. Miksche, a Manchester “Guard-
ian” military critic, wrote that the
unexpectedly swift advance of the Red
Army had given rise to much exaggerated
optimism; but without in the slightest
degree detracting from the achievements
of the Red Army, it was possible to form
a sober estimate of the position and thus
restrain excessive hopes. Miksche be-
lieves that to force the Carpathians, the
most serious physical obstacle the Rus-
sians have encountered in the march
from Stalingrad, is an indispensible pre-
liminary to the execution of any strategic
conception aimed at deciding the war in
the Danube Basin. With the mountains
in German hands, every attempt by the
Russians to penetrate southwards into
Wallachia would be open to a serious
threat to its flank, and there would be
great danger that the German forces
pouring down from the Carpathians
might force the Russians into the great
elbow of the Lower Danube and bottle
them up.
The Carpathian system is, in effect, a
vast rampart which the Germans must
defend or face general defeat. It is, in
fact, one of the two great claws of the
main eastern defences of Germany, the
other being the East Prussian system in
the north. It links with the mountain-
chain defences of the "Silesian ranges
running northward along the German
border proper. And it has been in the
minds of every German strategist,
whether bent on offence or defence, since
war with Russia was first thought of.
So, too, has been the thought of offen-
sive retreat which would draw the Rus-
sians back and attack them in a favor-
able position. German strategists have
not even accepted .the dogma preached
at the moment that the Lwow-Crakow
area is necessary to German security.
What is going on at the moment re-
calls Hoffmann’s counterstroke against
the last Russian offensive in 1917, when
his planning of the swift blow against
Tarnopol compelled the whole Russian
Galician front to recoil. He called the
Eastern Front of his period “a widow’s
cruse of oil,” from which necessary re-
inforcements could always be dredged to
save some other front by the use of
some astute strategic device or other
based upon mobility in the vast flat
spaces of the war zone.
But it was a game of a ticklish nature
and for heavy stakes then, as now,
which led Hoffmann himself to remark:
“In these situations one has the need of
nerves like ropes.”
One mistake could put the whole Ger-
man southern front in a bad way.
In brief:
An Australian p.o.w. escaped from Malaya
confirms previous news that A.I.F. men are
still operating as guerrillas. He reported a
petrol shortage in Singapore.
* * * *
The Japanese have begun a new drive in
Honan Province of China, apparently aimed at
the wheat crop, destruction of which plunged
the province last year in a famine which cost
tens of thousands of lives.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy reports the sinking of a
further 15 enemy ships in the Pacific.
* * * *
Reported from Cairo that Greek officers and
ratings, under orders from Vice-Admiral Voul-
garis, boarded three small Greek naval vessels
whose crews for three weeks had refused to
obey orders, demanding the formation of a new
Greek Government. There were casualties
from m.-g. and rifle fire.


,
Wm
M W
m
'
■
mm.
■ SS i
m a
.
MmX
7 You Cannot
Buy a
Better Polish I
You cannot buy a better polish than 'NUGGET' - for Nugget contains the
fine waxes that give the brilliant all-day shine.
You cannot buy a more economical polish than NUGGET'- it lasts longer,
it's blacker, it's brighter and gives a better shine for less polish and less effort -
nugget:
SPORTING NOTIONS
The totalisator whirred to another
record when £61,792 was staked at
Rosehill on Saturday. The crowd, 26,000,
also was the best for a Rosehill Club
meeting on its own course.
Bangster broke the track record for six
furlongs when he won the Flying Handi-
cap by three lengths from the dead-
heaters, Bruce Wood and John Halifax.
Bartle held him together for two furlongs,
then gained a winning break before the
turn. Bangster’s owner, Mrs. J. Stirling,
perhaps is unfortunate that her gelding
has regained his two-year-old form when
there are no big races to win, but prize-
money, even at the suburban courses, is
high enough now to please any owner.
On the strength of his Randwick win a
week earlier, Bangster was the logical
favorite, but he* started at 9 to 2 after
slightly longer odds had been laid. Win-
nipeg, the ultimate favorite, was affected
by a throat swelling and did not gallop
strongly at any part of the race. Nor did
Soho, of whom his trainer, J. A. Scully,
had extended his lease for another 12
months. Soho does best when the sting
is out of the ground and winter track
conditions may suit him better.
Encouraged by prominence given to
their outbursts, some racegoers like to
read wrong intent into every case of form
improvement. Their hooting of Dewar
after his win in the Autumn Cup would
have been humorous had it not added
to the incidents which, to inexperienced
minds, are placing racing in a bad light.
Dewar was suited by the way the Cup
was run. Thompson held him together
until Shining Night and Cream Puff had
fought themselves to a standstill in the
straight and then pounced on them in the
last 100 yards. Shining Night spoiled his
own chance by fighting for his head when
the early pace was slow, and Bartle had
no alternative but to let him race in
front for nearly six furlongs. Shining
Night had the lead again at the turn,
and was not beaten until well inside the
furlong.
Mayfowl’s unexplained mishap rather
spoiled the Autumn Cup, He was gallop-
ing easily behind Spear Patrol and Shin-
ing Night just before he stopped sud-
denly, and apparently he could have raced
to them whenever his rider desired. Offi-
cials and the colt’s trainer, Webster, left
nothing undone in their efforts to solve
the puzzle, but they could find no cause,
and 15 minutes after the race Mayfowl
was walking freely. Among other tests,
the veterinary surgeon even examined
Mayfowl for dope. With huge amounts
of money available for racing these days,
there is rich incentive for outsiders to
try to prevent a popular horse from win-
ning. Most trainers, however, are alive
to the possibilities of outside interference
and have their stables well protected.
Babillard appeared a possible Derby
colt when he won a Three-year-old Han-
dicap at Rosehill in August, 1942, but
he did not win again until the Welter
Handicap on Saturday. Queensland ap-
prentice G. Moore, whose indentures
have been transferred to P. Riddle at
Randwick, always had Babillard well
placed, but he had to ride desperately to
hold off St. Elmo and Van Eyck, Van
Eyck seemed likely to win when he ran
to the others close to the post, but his
effort ended just before the finish. Boor-
chief, who will be improved, ran well
enough to suggest an early win, and
Valoroi, racing for the first time in five
months, was never far from the leaders
and finished a promising eighth.
Owners with money to burn usually
rushing the lOOOgns, offerings, bargains
at yearling sales often are found among
the comparative discards. Top Line, a
shapely filly by Harinero from Great
Lady, cost only 75gns. in 1943, but she
won a £352 prize in the April Nurseiy.
Top Line just caught the favorite, Vic-
trix, who damaged her own prospects by
trying to get away from the rails prac-
tically all the way, Victrix is speedy,
and, though she may never be outstand-
ing, she will win her share of races.
Third was Ducal Gem, but a more prom-
ising effort was that of Platonic, who
chased Victrix to the turn and finished
sixth.
Melhero had the April Juvenile won
when he ran clear at the furlong, but his
jockey, W. Fellows, took no risks and
rode the colt out to a four-lengths suc-
cess. His example could be followed
wisely by experienced jockeys who be-
lieve the art of horsemanship is to win
as narrowly as possible, and thereby often
throw away a race. Bought as a yearling
for 220gns., Melhero was having only his
second race. He had shown pace in trials
earlier in the season, but suffered a slight
knock and was given time to develop.
Murray Stream, favorite at 2 to I, fin-
ished only a moderate third behind
Prince Verity, whom he had beaten by
four lengths at Randwick a week earlier.
Murray Stream appeared to have light-
ened off and was not a winning possi-
bility from the turn.
Only 55 tickets of a total of 13,199 on
the win totalisator were taken on Lady
Marie, winner of the Three-year-old Han-
dicap. The dividend, £53 19s. 9d., was
one of the biggest ever on a Sydney
suburban course. When Enthuse raced
to Lady Marie a furlong from home, her
backers seemed certain to collect. Lady
Marie, however, finished the better to
win by two lengths, while Enthuse only
just beat Boomanulla for second. With
racing, Enthuse has lost her brilliance.
She was a long way back early, but was
compensated by a perfect rails run to the
turn. Boomanulla came from even
further back than Enthuse, and he is a
likely stayer for winter racing. Lady
Marie, a lightly-raced filly by Air Bal-
loon from Whimsey, completed a double
for owner R. Wootton, who had won the
Maiden Handicap with Wansey.
Wansey did not leave the rails to win
her race. She had enough early pace to
escape the scrimmaging inseparable from
a big field, and then she just held Prince
Buzzard by a neck, with Commando
third. Many of the 26 runners were not
so lucky, among them Prince Buzzard,
who carried his 9st. well and may be
worth following with a lighter weight in
better class. The favorite, Chief Man,
suffered in a mix-up opposite the leger,
but, though he may have been placed,
he would not have won.
* * * ♦
Extra race days this month left Mel-
bourne horse-float proprietors short of
petrol, with the result that for the Men-
tone meeting on Saturday trainers walked
their horses from as far away as Caul-
field. None of six trainers who did so—
H. Bird using the Newmarket winner
Denko as a hack to lead two entries
saddled up a winner, though the eight-
miles walk did not appear to nave ad-
versely affected any of the dozen or so
“hikers.”
Second favorite Virile winning the Bois-
dale Hurdle, favorite Provoke the Avon
Handicap, favorite St. Bryde a division
of the Stratford Handicap and second
favorite Errand Boy the Powerscourt
Handicap, punters had little to complain
about until Attorney led from start to
finish to win the Tinamba Stakes very
narrowly from Orcadian and Burma. At-
torney had not had a win since he won
the Stradbroke Stakes as a two-year-old.
He was even less fancied than Man-
rico, who has been a hack for the last
couple of years, but nonetheless had 9.7
to carry, giving over a stone to the next
topweight, Fur Trader, Even so, Man-
rico paced it with the winner and Ports-
mouth to nearing the straight. Burma was
cut out at the start and with better luck
probably would have won.
Errand Boy, who has three owners,
including his trainer, S. T. Breasley, had
just enough in hand to hold off the heavily
supported Azores at the end of Powers-
court mile and a quarter. Azores was
near the tail of the field for more than
half the journey, was forced wide at the
turn and then hung in, so that William-
son had to stop riding him. He finished
strongly, to fail by only a neck. Still,
Errand Boy’s win was not out of his
turn. He has been a heavily-backed dis-
appointment on a number of occasions.
Of the others, Paramente (third). Frill
King and Zara were the most promising
runners.
One of the most consistent horses in
training, St. Bryde had practically an
all-the-way win from Regular Hope and
Dukedom. St. Bryde, at 5 to 4 the short-
est favorite of the day, has had two wins
and a dead-heat for first in his last four
starts. Another good performance was
that of Provoke, who scored her second
successive win in the Avon Handicap.
Hemmed in on the rails to the turn, she
had to be taken to the outside by Badger
and hard ridden to just beat the fast-
finishing Rainbird.
t ** * *
Whatever his method of gambling or
of selecting his horses, the system punter
ultimately must have that long losing
sequence which exhausts his bank. Pro-
gressive followers of W. Cook have not
collected in 29 successive races, and, as
many of Cook’s mounts have been short-
priced, the outlay to get square must be
alarming. Cook is riding as well as ever,
but he is out of luck. The little breaks
which make the difference between win-
ning and losing are not coming his way.
* * * *
A.J.C. stewards will be widely com-
mended for continued action in impress-
ing jockeys with the need to ride their
mounts out. They advised D. Munro at
Rosehill that, although satisfied his
mount, Oliver, could not have been placed
in the April Juvenile, the rider could
have been more vigorous at the finish.
No one appreciates the spectacle of an
obviously-beaten horse receiving a severe
whipping. Officials do not ask for that:
but they realise that place-bettors are as
entitled to consideration as the straight-
out punter, and they will not tolerate a
jockey easing his mount from a place
because he cannot win.
» * * *
There are plenty of hopeful owners in
America. The Kentucky Derby of
$75,000 is to be run on May 6, and when
entries closed at the end of February
they totalled 148. Of these only 13 were
fillies, and many entrants had nothing
in the way of form to recommend them.
Miscellaneous
Melbourne and Sydney held “modified”
head-of-the-river races on Saturday. On
the Yarra Melbourne Grammar led most
of the way, but Geelong College, rowing
in a strange boat, won by a length and a
half from Grammar, whose No. 4 caught
a crab, with Wesley third. On the Parra-
matta, after a false start in which the
Newington and Grammar boats collided,
Sydney High took the lead and held it
despite a strong challenge from “Shore”:
Sydney High 1, “Shore” 2, St. Joseph’s, 3.
* * * *
Despite service requirements and losses
to the professional code, Sydney Rugby
Union clubs have no shortage of eager
young recruits. In the opening series of
matches Drummoyne downed Manly 15-
11, a lucky field goal by full-back
McLam clinching the issue. Manly has
held the premiership for two. years. Uni-
versity, strong in backs and forwards,
had a field day against North, scoring 11
tries to one to win 52-5. Other games:
East 17, West 3 ; Randwick 30, Gordon
17; Parramatta 8, St. George 6.
* * * *
Young featherweights Leo Robbo and
Sid Knight put plenty of spirit into their
scrap at Leichhardt, every round being
crammed with action. Straight lefts had
Robbo’s face well marked before half-
way was reached, Robbo gashed Knight’s
left eyebrow in the tenth, and his consis-
tent crowding from start to finish won
him a verdict that was unanimously en-
dorsed, a miracle for Leichhardt.
Footballer-fighter Herb Narvo gave
away weight, reach and height to Alec
Stanton (14.2) at Sydney Stadium, but
Stanton was too slow to avail himself of
these advantages. He was down three
times in the sixth, and never won a round
afterwards. Narvo the winner on points.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances .)
Trial Stakes: Eastralia, 1; Wee
Laddie, 2 ; Orderly, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Laudus, 1;
Victrix, 2 ; Melhero, 3.
Bankstown Handicap: Young
Valais, 1 ; Riverton, 2 ; Easter Time,
3.
Canterbury Handicap: Wellesley,
1; Goose Boy, 2; Cordale, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Chinook,
1 ; Hauteur, 2 ; Valoroi, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Boorchief, 1 ;
Chatham’s Choice, 2 ; Gendower, 3.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO DANIEL THOMAS DREW formerly of 6 May
Road Toorak in the State of Victoria.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EMMA DREW of 32 Essex
Street Prahran in the said State has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the grounds
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s office Law Courts William Street
Melbourne in the said State on or before the 17th
day of May 1944 the said suit will proceed in
vour absence and a Decree for Dissolution of
Marriage may be granted and you may be ordered
to pay costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on or
before the 29th day of May 1944. —E. K. O’DONNELL
of 421 Bourke Street Melbourne in the said State
Proctor for the Petitioner.
TO FRANK BRIO LATTIMORE formerly of 87
Hotham Street East Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife KATHLEEN
EILEEN LATTIMORE of 15 Jackson Street St.
Kilda in the said State has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the grounds of deser-
tion UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office Law Courts William Street Mel-
bourne in the said State on or before the 17th day
of May/ 1944 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a Decree for Dissolution of Marriage
may be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on or before the
29th day of May 1944.—E. K. O’DONNELL of 421
Bourke Street Melbourne in the said State Proctor
for the Petitioner.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
This city’s reputed coldness towards
city-street marches was not evident in
the reception given to Seventh Division
by the great crowd that saw the march
last week. Paper and. confetti were
showered over the marching column, and
the high wind took these sailing into the
upper air, giving the city an appearance
of gaiety most unlike its usual staid
demeanor. The crowds cheered every
detachment wildly, and continued to line
the route even when the rain came down
heavily.
Most vocal were the small boys who
had given school a miss for the occasion.
They jumped about in terrific excitement
and, in defiance of horrified parents and
even of policemen, shinned up verandah-
poles and sat at precarious angles on shop
roofs and the ledges of buildings.
Y.W.C.A. organisations are getting
themselves into inspection order for the
coming of Mrs, Arthur Grenfell, who
has arrived from England as a delegate
from the British Y.W.C.A. She is a
friend of Mrs. Winston Churchill. Mrs.
Grenfell will no doubt make a very thor-
ough investigation of the welfare work
that is being done in these parts.
Not for a long time has there been so
much curiosity aroused as was stirred by
the publicity preceding the concert put
on by Joseph Schepsi (a hairdresser by
profession) to bring his tenor voice
before the public. As seats were adver-
tised at four guineas each, quite a lot
of music-lovers couldn’t be present, but
everyone was eager to hear what the
concert was like, and many crowded
round the Town Hall to interrogate their
more fortunate brethren at the interval.
Inside the hall members of the audi-
ence (the house was packed) looked one
another up and down trying to decide
whether their neighbors were four-guinea-
ites or deadheads, for there was a lot
of “paper” about. The audience decidedly
wasn’t made up of the usual concert-
going crowd. Loyal supporters of the
singer were his wife and son, who
watched from the front stalls and con-
sidered he was “doing pretty well.”
Saying it with jewels is becoming diffi-
cult now that all jewellery except the
wedding ring is on the restricted list, and
even resetting and cutting are hedged
about with regulations. The import trade
is in the doldrums because, so jewellers
believe, there is a fear that gems stolen
in invaded countries by the Germans
are being pushed by them through
“neutrals” to obtain foreign currency.
The “old and valued customer” is the
only one to receive any consideration at
the moment. Appointments have to be
made by telephone or letter.
The Housewives’ Assoc, gives the lie
to the good ojd chestnut “It’s not those
who make the most noise who do the
most work.” Meetings are lively affairs
in which members speak with force and
freedom. Unlike some reformist bodies,
the housewives get things done. At
present the assoc, is devoting its pep and
vim to a scheme for providing mothers
of young children with domestic help.
Addressing the gathering on the sub-
ject last week were Dr. Featonby, Dr.
Doris Officer and Jean Daley, of the
Women’s Employment Board, this last
lady a wise choice,.as §he could put the
case of the lasses who will do the help-
ing. Eventually blessing was given to
a plan mainly suggested by Dr. Officer
to form a “home army,” members of
which should work in the domestic sphere
on the same lines as visiting nurses work
in the medical one. Safeguards have
been thought of to prevent the domestic
army worker being made a general house-
hold drudge.
Another season of light opera (last
year’s included a particularly attractive
“Hansel and Gretel” performance) is
planned by the National Theatre Move-
ment. Beginning on May 6 is “Martha”
(to which Flotow naturally gave a Ger-
man setting), rewritten for an English
country background. Scenes are set in
Richmond Forest, and the period is 1815,
so beloved of historical novelists. Lennox
Brewer will organise the musical side,
and roles will be allotted to Etta Ber-
nard, Eric Liffmann, Reginald Wood and
Colin Hipkins, all experienced operatic
singers.
Time was when art shows were opened
only by the “arty* at at least by some
public person who could claim a link
with the world of artists. Now the aim is
to select a declare-this-show-open-er who
can attract a crowd on his or her own
account. A couple of shows ago Claude
Flemming, backbone of the comedy “Kiss
and Tell,” did the honors and drew a
packed gallery. Early this week the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society co-opted Major-
General Vasey, commander of the
Seventh Division.
“Just what kind of corsets do you
ladies like?” is the question Mr. Fred
Berlei is in Australia to ask. He’s tour-
ing the English-speaking bits of the globe
asking this question. It’s not a frivolous
one either, because materials are in short
supply, and the best use must be made of
what there are. A get-together of press
representatives and the question-asking
gentleman took place early this week. He
had some good tales to tell about similar
gatherings in the U.S.A. and the reaction
of tough reporters to the delicate subject.
Announcing her engagement this week
is Charmian Dane, second daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Dane. Betrothed is
Army Air Corps Lieut. Robert Matthews,
of Philadelphia, U'S.A., who before the
war was well known on the American
concert stage as a violinist. The marriage
will take place at St. Paul’s Cathedral on
June 6 with all the traditional trimmings
of veil and orange-blossom. The couple
plan to make their home here so long as
military necessity dictates and later to live
in the U.S.A. Charmian has been at a
war job since she left St. Catherine’s.
Broothom made this picture of her.
The small State-school pupil who re-
marked that he was “full as school”
when offered a second helping of rice
pudding now shares his impression with
the secondary schools and other estab-
lishments of higher learning. Head-
mistresses complain that they simply
haven’t the heart to limit the numbers
of their students to pre-war levels as
parents are desperately anxious to give
their young the most expensive type of
education they can manage. Result is
huge increases (amounting to several
extra hundreds) at most suburban
secondary schools. Main reason may be
that there’s more money about, but a sub-
sidiary one is a rise in the birthrate after
the depression years.
Plans are cooking for a wide drive for
funds for the Gowrie Scholarship Trust
Fund. Among many others who are
working enthusiastically for this cause
are kindergarten organisers, to whom the
Lady Gowrie has given so much encour-
agement.
From Sydney
Church services on Sunday, ceremonies
of remembrance held in the schools on
Monday had Sydney’s mind and heart
attuned for the ever-touching dawn ser-
vice at the Cenotaph, the march of the
Anzacs, the under-the-open-skies service
in the Domain on Tuesday, Anzac Day
itself. The Governor read the Dedi-
cation as the night began to turn to day
at the tryst with our immortals in Martin-
place, and later placed the wreath of the
Australian Legion of Ex-service Clubs
on the Cenotaph. Today the flowers and
the wreaths are piled in glowing tribute
at the base of the memorial, and a city
walks softly with its dead, still temem-
bering.
Elizabeth Larke is a Red Cross veteran
entitled to four blue chevrons. She was
the first member of the society’s Field
Service, and as far back as 1940 was
working in Australian military hospitals
in the Middle East. She was among the
first Red Cross workers in New Guinea.
Even wasps nesting in her tin helmet
failed to shake her in her daily round of
cheerful service to the sick and wounded.
Nor did such trifles impair her adminis-
trative ability as commandant in control
of her area.
Australia, together with all the rest of
the Empire, took its mind off thoughts
of war last Friday, and for a happy little
interlude turned to the picture of Princess
Elizabeth, enjoying her eighteenth birth-
day. At 18 the Princess became royally
of age, and if all the wishes for her hap-
piness expressed on tram and train, on
ferry and in the street could have been
woven together they would have formed
a bright ribbon long enough to stretch
from this continent to Buckingham
Palace. Pictures of her show the Prin-
cess’s bright and animated youth.
Two gifts from the sea helped cele-
brate the birthday. One was the pearl
given by the King to add to the 17 with
which he has already marked each suc-
cessive birthday, the other was the stur-
geon caught in the North Sea. Accord-
ing to tradition this was offered to their
Majesties, and accepted. Presumably it
had a place of honor on the dinner table.
From Sydney’s British Children’s Com-
forts Fund go 1000 fleecy cot blankets,
pink and cream and blue, 1000 knitted
garments for babies, and a large case of
layettes. These are for the Princess to
distribute among the bombed children of
Britain. Part of the general make-up, too,
are lots of sheepskin toy lambs, made
by members of the C.W.A.
Whenever a train full of soldiers draws
into Quorn (S.A.) there is a hot sit-down
meal waiting for the travellers. Probably
in their lives nothing ever has and noth-
ing ever will taste just sp good as that
food does to the soldier from the war
returning. As many as 4000 men a month
have been refreshed and renewed by this
voluntary service of six members of the
C.W.A. When it is considered that 300
men have this meal at a time and that
15 minutes must see it begun and ended,
the job sounds a bit staggering. Two
schoolgirls lend a hand. The work of
one is to see that all the butterdishes
(with butter) are on the tables, as well
as fruit. The men to be entertained
have heard so much talk about the splen-
did job that they always save a clean shirt
in which to greet the ladies of Quorn.
The C.W.A. conference at which the
foregoing was related filled the Assembly
Hall in Margaret-street with delegates
from every corner of the State, from
Queensland, S.A., Westralia and Vic-
toria. The place was as fragrant
of Australia as the bush after a
good rain. This year’s is the first
really big powwow since the early
days of war, and the mere voicing of
the work the members have already done,
their plans for the dwellers in the far-
flung places, their war effort, their aims
for school standards, their protest against
synthetic wool ousting the real, make
up the pattern of Australia’s days and
ways.
The freedom of the press and the
Cowrie scholarship fund had great sup-
port, the first by speech, the latter by
solid cash. In about ten minutes almost
three thousand pounds was subscribed
by the delegates in the names of their
branches. Willow Tree, Werris Creek,
Ungarie, Tahmoor, Oberon, Rowena and
such sylvan-sounding spots proportion-
ately held their own with the larger
branches. Lady Wakehurst opened the
conference in a speech that allied the ideal
with the practical. Nor did the horizon
of the members limit itself to the
Pacific. Even as their physical gaze is
used to great distances, so their mental
gaze took in the great sweep of the plan
for the Commonwealth of Women ad-
vanced by Mrs. Fabian Chow.
If the tea party at Government House
last week had been a gamble, with sal-
vation for the stakes, then the Governor
and Lady Wakehurst could have reserved
their seats in the heavenly choir. For
they had a full hand of bishops and other
ecclesiastical dignitaries. They were
sprinkled over the lawns and the terraces
of Government House, and they walked
about in the smoky dusk of the autumn
day, and there was a feeling of benevolent
calm over all. The clergy had come from
their synod talks, and they arrived earlier
than the other half of the party, which
was made up of delegates to the C.W.A.
conference.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst received in
the drawing-room, and then everybody
moved on to the terrace. Here the tea-
tables were spread. Here came all the
re-elected office-bearers, the once-again
president Mrs. Jack Garry and secretary
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax among them. An-
other notable was Mrs. Whitney. Oberon’s
president, Mrs. Wilson, was there, with
Mrs. Lee and Mrs. Buckley, looking very
pleased with the compliment Minister for
Health Kelly had paid to their branch at
the opening of the conference. America
came to the party, too, in the person of
Miss Root and Miss Townes, of the U.S.
Library of Information. The John But-
ters lady was among the handsome. Mrs.
Pon and Mrs. Chow (the latter launched
her idea for a Commonwealth of Women
at Thursday’s meeting) were among the
well-kndwns. Mrs. Cullen, one of the
active young C.W.A. members, is show-
ing the ability to be expected from a
daughter of Mrs. Tilden, formerly Mrs.
Linda Littlejohn. Mrs. Bob Skene (Lady
Wakehurst’s new secretary) and Peter
Lubbock helped to keep the party bright.
Unofficial Head of the River, or call
it what you will. High won the G.P.S.
eights on Saturday while thousands
(40,000 or more the estimates have it)
cheered the victors and the vanquished.
The last official H.O.R. was away back
in 1940, but the various schools seem to
have been keeping the rowers to the
oars. “Shore,” St. Joseph’s, Scots,
Riverview and The King’s had their
colors flown by eager supporters. And
the sun shone on all alike. In the even-
ing there were dances and parties for the
girls and boys to round off the day.
Jimmy Bancks sketching the infant
with the strongest likeness to Churchill;
a microphone working overtime telling
parents that their small boy, two and a
half or upwards, in a grey, blue or other
colored suit, had been found and was
waiting at the microphone (small girls
were equally numerous in the lost-and-
found broadcast); guests, if not exactly
star-scattered, still very closely settled
on the grassy lawns, and above all
the clang of the turnstile letting in more
and more humans all the afternoon.
Those were all part of the bustle and
fever that made the success of the fair
for the Crown-street Women’s Hospital.
The grounds of Government House
have never been more crowded —not even
at a sesquicentenary party. Sweets and
lucky dips were sold out about lunch-
time. A cauliflower fit for a giant’s dinner-
party was the show piece on the vege-
table stall. The taxi-dancing had crowded
audience. The children’s corner was
trysting place for all children and their
parents, it seemed. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst, president Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Peter
Lubbock apd knight Henry Braddon
were among the thousands in the sun-
shine.
In these days of coupons for tea and
uncertainty about sherry, to beg, borrow,
steal or save enough liquid to float a
party is an achievement to be recorded.
The drama circle of the somewhat high-
brow Lyceum Club with determined per-
severance garnered a sufficiency of bottles,
and wassail (on rationed lines, of course)
flowed last Monday between five and
seven at the King-street address. Presi-
dent Mrs. A. G. Thomas was the hostess;
playwright Max Afford the guest of
honor.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOHN CLARKE formerly of Quirindi
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that THELMA MAY CLARKE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No 259 of 194.4 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney before 12th
June 1944 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from WILLIAM HEATH MANN Solici-
tor 247 George Street Sydney New South Wales. —
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY WILLIAM FIELD.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET EMILY FIELD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2691 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court 'King Street Sydney by 12th July 1944 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
HARRY R. ANDREWS & 00. Solicitors 92 Pitt
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar.
Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being
make the most of it when you have a
will sufficient to keep your hair
made is going to the Services, please
supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
smart and healthy. And remember,
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con*
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
He’ll be home sooner if we fill' the First Victory Loan.
FD
'**
■
the Royal Australian Air Force expanded so too did the Nation’s
demands for Lysaght's Galvanized Corrugated Iron. Chosen for its
great strength, its economy, its ability to give complete protection
against fire and the elements—and finally ;the speed with which it could
be erected—this famous building sheet proved itself caoable of meeting
every emergency. This oopularity among those responsible for the
construction of giant defence works has
naturally meant a severe limitation of
supplies for civilian use but the farmer,
the builder and the plumber are asked to
remember that the value of Lysaght's
Corrugated Iron to the community is an
indication of its value to the fighting
forces and until victory has been won
needs must come first.
LYSAGHT’S
GALVANIZED IRON
LYSAGHT’S
ZINCANNEAL
LYSAGHT’S
BLACK IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT
• (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
STDHET MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
SPEED THE VICTORY—SUPPORT THE Ist VICTORY LOAN
m
Wmi
Let the figures talk”
says Snowy (Arthur) Mitchell
Heavy Press Operator .>•
mmmm
M
“These big presses were installed to make Richards
uni-steel motor bodies you know what a grand job
they used to be. But their war effort is positively startling!
Since the war started we’ve turned out MILLIONS of
ammunition boxes and containers! Australia would have
been badly handicapped without these machines, and the
men who know how to adapt and operate them. That’s
why we’ll have a big say when Industry
is free to tackle the problems of peace-
time reconstruction, and when the
lifting of motoring restrictions puts
‘Body by Richards’ back on the road.”j
k. a MC,
SMOKE-OH!
“Representing himself as a pawnbroker called
up by Man-power and closing his business he
pawned a sign he had taken from the front of
a pawnbroker’s shop. He pleaded- he was
drunk at the time.” — “Sun.”
Instead of pledging the sign he should
have signed the pledge.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The night your face is due for a pack is the
night when all your friends decide to visit you.”
— “Woman.”
And your name will be mud if you
pack them off home.
And Their Parents.
“Schoolchildren today know more than their
teachers,” says a headmaster.
When I offered to help my ten-year-
old with his homework he declined
with a patronising “Finished it hours ago
on my head.”
Discouraged, I went to the typewriter
and started my regular monthly first-aid
article for “Mother’s Marvellous Maga-
zine.” I could feel him breathing on my
ear as he read over my shoulder.
“Hey! Hold on. Dad!” the boy ex-
claimed. “Who told you to probe bleed-
ing wounds?”
“Hang it all, sonny,” I defended my-
self hotly, somewhat taken aback, “sup-
pose a piece of glass”
“Well, for a piece of glass you might,”
the heir granted grudgingly; “but,
generally speaking, you don’t probe
bleeding wounds.”
Boiling, I ripped the paper from the
machine and got up. “Perhaps you’ll
write the article for me?” I suggested
sarcastically.
“0.K., Pop—just this once,” he agreed
with a superior air. “But what would
your editor say if he knew I did your
stuff for you?”
P. O. M. C.
“R.A.F. gunner spends his birthday over
Berlin.”
The Germans won’t wish him many
happy returns.
4* 4* 4* 4*
At the corner of the dark street a number
of men were drinking and singing.”
—Short story.
A tight comer?
“Do not use brushes on a plain surface.”
—Sunday paper.
Combs are usually discarded by the
bald also.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hundreds of call-up notices unclaimed at
King’s Cross.”
Written in English?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Keep your legs free from whiskers.”
— Woman’s paper.
Conversely, keep calves out of yom
beard.
Financial Problem.
A Chicago woman left her husband 10s. in
her will, on condition he used ss. to buy a
rope to hang himself.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
She left him half a quid to buy
With half of it a hempen collar.
But failed, it seems, to specify
How he should “blew” the other dollar.
So if, to spend the pittance quicker.
He bought a flagon of the dope
That passes nowadays for liquor —
Well, then he wouldn’t need the rope.
P. M. LUSK.
Evolution.
“During the early days of Parliament knights
often attended in armor.” —Historical article.
Those first Ms.P. donned armor on
election —
A wise precaution, then a helpful guide
When Nature superseded such protection
By giving politicians steel-like hide.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Impatience.
Darling, the moon is riding high
And calling us to sweet romance.
Such golden hours go swiftly by;
Let us not waste this rosy chance.
’Tis time for joy to fill my cup,
’Tis time to kiss your perfect lips.
For heaven’s sake, dear, hurry up
And finish off those fish and chips.
NAT.
Causation.
Let us, in search of truth, review
The subtle question of causation.
I say this causes that, while you
Deny all causative relation.
Asserting that must follow this
By accident. Though courting friction ,
I find your logic most amiss,
And, furthering my own conviction,
This jingle’s caused, beyond all question,
By headache, gin and indigestion I
T. W. NATHAN.
Infectious.
“Horses, contracting a mysterious disease,
ran round in circles.”—“ S. M. Herald.”
This strange complaint may trick the vets.
And other symptom-hunters,
But it’s the painfulness of bets
Misplaced which this disease begets
That’s apt to sicken punters!
P. O. M. C.
New Meaning.
“The Associated Steamship Owners, asking
the Department of War Organisation of Indus-
try for a ruling, were informed that under
National Security Regulations a racehorse is
classed as a piece of racecourse or horse-racing
equipment.”
The seedy-looking individual leaned
over the counter at W. 0.1. “Look, I’m
after some info.,” he began. “I got a
racin’ greyhound”
The official looked at him sternly.
“You mean,” he said loftily, “that under
National Security Regulations you are
the possessor of a bit of the furniture
(animated section) of a coursing ground
and/or organisation devoted to the
pursuit and possible destruction of an
animal of the rodent type, to wit, a hare,
which”
“Coursin’ me eye!” broke in the seedy
one. “’E only races on tin-’are tracks.
I jist wanted to know if I could”
The official held up an admonitory
hand and then ran a finger down a long
printed list on the counter. “Ah, yes,”
he said. “In that case, the animal is
classified as a portion of the paraphernalia
(natural movement, as distinct from the
artificial quarry’s automatic movement)
of a mechanical-hare-pursuing concern
which is permitted to engage at certain
stipulated times in”
“Listen, Mister, y’ can call me dawg a
lounge chair or a paraffin whaddycallit
or aiiythink y’ like. But I bought ’im
as a grey’ound, see?”
“I must impress upon you,” said the
official severely, “that the W. 0.1. refuses to
recognise a canine as a dog—it is either
furniture or paraphernalia according to
its specific activity under the reg”
The greyhound owner banged his fist
on the counter. “Look,” he said slowly,
“me dawg busted his muzzle, and I can’t
take ’im to the Wyong meetin’ without a
new one, see? They told me I’d have
to apply here fer a permit to git a new
one.”
The official consulted another bulky
list. “Under the regulations,” he an-
nounced, “a muzzle cannot be consid-
ered a muzzle. It is an auxiliary piece
of upholstery for the nasal portion of a
piece of furniture of a coursing ground
and/or organisation. Before a permit
can be given for the replacement of such
upholstery the old one must be produced
with an affidavit signed by a J.P. and
two independent witnesses who saw the
old piece of upholstery break.”
The seedy one started to wind in the
hound by the leash. “Y* know wot to do
with all yT regulations, don’t y’?” he
snarled, “I’ll make a blasted muzzle
meself.”
“To engage in leather manufacture
without the express permission of W. 0.1.
given in writing,” the official proceeded
inexorably, “will render you liable to
prosecution and heavy penalties.”
“Well,” shrieked the dog-owner, “I’ll
take ’im to Wyong without a muzzle. If
’e bites a bloke that’s the bloke’s bad
luck, see? And it’s no good ’em ’avin’
me up for it. Wot’s the use of a bloke
cornin’ into court an’ complainin’ that
’e’s bin bit on the stern by a junk o’ fur-
niture? So long, sport!”
Bo.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Central Schools
At every education conference of late
the advantages of the area school, as
organised in Tasmania, have been ex-
tolled. In Queensland the idea of wiping
out small schools and conveying rural
pupils daily by bus to a central school
has been in the limelight in the election
campaign.
Admitting some gains, what of the dis-
advantages of such a development? In
Queensland the country school is the
centre of communal life ; the school com-
mittee may be the pnly organised body
of residents in the districtlocal dances
held in the schoolhouse are the most
accessible form of entertainment, and
the local sporting body generally meets
in the school.
Many of these schools have developed
an intense loyalty to their small districts,
and have inculcated in their pupils a
sturdy initiative not usually found in city
children. With the advent of “area
schools this must go, and it is not suffi-
cient to pffer in return large centralised
schools elaborately equipped and with, a
teacher to each class. —M. W. S. (Q.).
The Reconstructors
It is poor argument and worse taste
to write about Post-war Reconstruction
(B. 5/4/’44) as an excuse to sneer at
those advisers of the Federal Government
who are distinguished by a university
degree.
Apparently The Bulletin would like
Australia to be handed over to illiterate
businessmen of that “practical” type
whose one idea in life is to amass wealth
and to hell with any individual or
national interest which gets in the way.
You are welcome to that idea, but you
might advocate it without implying that
men who have spent years of study and
research upon sociological problems;
men. who have proved themselves able
administrators in many spheres, includ-
ing the Commonwealth Bank Board and
the Rationing Commission; men who
have been successful in improving indus-
trial relations ; men who have been called
in by the leading public companies of
Australia for advice ; men who are good
Australians —all are useless because they
hold degrees in Economics, Philosophy,
Arts or Commerce.
One would have thought that even
The Bulletin would test any body set
up to consider the nation’s future eco-
nomic policy by checking the qualifica-
tions of the members against any per-
sonal vested business interest they might
have in past methods of perpetuating eco-
nomic insecurity and misery in Australia.
The hard-working Federal Treasurer
cannot be assailed because his staff has
such ulterior interests or lacks qualifica-
tions or experience, so you sniff at quali-
fications in general and thereby suggest
that education is a liability in the public
service. I cannot believe that The Bul-
letin would abolish university degrees
altogether or insist on them only as a
luxury for the offspring of those altruistic
practical, hard-headed businessmen.
We may all have different ideas about
democracy and how it should be gov-
erned, but surely it is self-evident, on the
most limited definition of the words, that
democracy and education must not be
separated. Any attempt by any organ
of the press to bemuse “the other fellow’s
mind” by cavilling at knowledge is de-
plorable. The Bulletin will be truer to
its pioneering traditions if it demands
more education in the public service,
among Australians generally and above
all in Parliament and press. — Frank S.
Chamberlain (Vic.).
Militiamen
For the last two years I have had an
NX number without getting near the
show. Before that I was a militiaman for
four years, including the time during
which we were not allowed to enlist
A.I.F. When the ban was lifted the first
drafts away were militiamen. My own
unit here includes men who enlisted direct
into the A.I.F. over two years ago, but
who never got away.
Amongst the militiamen we sent away,
after marching them up to 35 (yes, 35)
miles per day, was a sniper who died
charging a Jap foxhole with an empty
tommy-gun in his hand. He was a good
friend and soldier, and there were many
like him. —M. (A.1.F.).
Owen and His Reward
With reference to your remarks about
Owen’s meagre reward (B. 29/3/’44) I
should like to suggest to all members of
the A.I.F. who used Mr. Owen’s remark-
able weapon that they protest to their
members of Parliament. Public opinion
ought to have some effect.
I have been saved time and again by
the reliability of the gun, and I am sure
there are hundreds of others who could
thank their lucky stars for one. There-
fore let them show their gratefulness by
stirring up the Ms.H.R.
I haven’t got one, so I must voice my
protest in your columns. —M- C, (8.5.1.).
The Tax Slug
It is saddening to see a service man
and a civilian trustee co. officer (B.
29/3/’44) come out as apologists for the
extortion that is so much more than
25 p.c dishonest.
“What does il matter how this tax is
labelled?” asks “F.M.C.” It matters
a great deal. If more money is
wanted the Government has open to it
many channels as yet either untapped or
not contributing a fair share. Yet it
deliberately chooses to impose this 25 p.c.
surcharge scheme. This would be unfair
even if the basic scale of income taxation
were equitable, but, as The Bulletin has
“ Hey , Yank —give us a light!”
so often pointed out, it is craftily, though
clumsily, inequitable, amounting to con-
fiscation on the higher incomes and mere
token contributions on the lower.
“Trust Officer” is right in saying that
payment of 25 p.c. now would be a cheap
way of escaping a possibly crippling tax
from the estate of a deceased taxpayer.
That would be all right if the fact that
there is a “lag” had been established, but
it hasn’t been. So the 25 p.c. slug , may
be nothing but a bribe accepted by a
“democratic” Government in return for
which it undertakes not to ask Widows
and orphans to meet a payment of doubt-
ful legality.
To resign ourselves to accept any
authority’s say-so on this or any other
matter ; to adopt a cynical attitude where
we should and must get hotly indignant,
is to invite Governments to further in-
equalities and injustices, further filchings
of our rights and liberties. We must
continue to kick like the very devil at
each and every one of these transparent
deceptions instead of demonstrating an
inability for clear thinking such as “Trust
Officer” has been guilty of when he
classes The Bulletin as an opponent of
“pay as you earn” ! — Toowong (Q.).
Taxes and High-priced Horses
Certain grades of income are taxed, I
read in The Bulletin, higher in Australia
than in any other Allied country, 18s. 6d.
in the £, and, with pay-as-you-owe, 25 p.c.
additional, over 20s. in the £.
That being so I should like to know
what grades of income were capable of
buying 78 yearlings at an average of 646
guineas each, paying 3400 guineas for
one and 3600 for another, on the first day
of the Melbourne yearling sales.
It wasn’t the £4OO to £6OO grades, I’m
sure, but whatever grade it was neither the
Victory Loan nor the Commissioner of
Taxation could have been worrying it
much.—X. R. I. (W.A.).
Liquor Problem
The liquor trade should be run for the
people’s benefit (B. 29/3/’44), but it
should not be placed under Government
control. The function of the Govera-
ment is to govern, not to trade. More-
over certain Governments have been
notorious for mismanagement. In 1915
the Ryan Government took over the
Babinda Hotel (Q.), but the transaction
proved a sink for taxpayers’ money. The
same is true of other ventures in which
the State meddled at that time.
Many reforms are needed in the liquor
business, and the introduction of drink-
ing gardens as in Continental cities is one
your correspondent overlooked.
Prohibition is not called for; what
needs stressing is the practice of modera-
tion. This is a matter for education. —
Bacchus (S.A.).
Pubs and the Home Shortage
Melbourne pubs have become beer dis-
pensaries, and most of them have gone
out of the lodging-house business alto-
gether on the plea of man-power short-
age. When the beer runs out, or is
alleged to have run out, they shut up.
Why can’t they be compelled to let their
hundreds of unoccupied rooms to essen-
tial workers at a moderate rental, the
necessary staff to be supplied by Man-
power? When the pubs are closed the
beer providers could look after their
guests or grow vegetables or something.
—C. Q. (Vic.). _
Settling the North
“Hamlet” (B. 22/3/’44) may gaze
from his window on thousands of
acres of good dairy land and sneer at
what he alleges is the Australian’s dis-
inclination to settle on the land. But
who owns that land? What price must
be paid before a man is able even to put
one fence-post into the soil? Without
question such a stiff price, either to a
private owner or to the State, that the
would-be farmer is shouldering a stagger-
ing dead horse of debt before he even
gets a start.
If that land was free there would be a
hundred putting in their pegs tomorrow.
Where can young Australia look for his
land? In W.A. there are hundreds of
thousands of acres locked up. Even the
Kimberleys are not open. Try taking up
a holding along the Fitzroy Valley and
you’ll find it’s owned or leased for a life-
time to somebody.
If there were free land in Australia
this continent would become populated
just as quickly as happened in U.S.A.,
where for over a hundred years all a man
needed to do was to mark out his selec-
tion, start operations with a plough and
the land was his. —W. C. C. (W.A.).
Buffaloes for Beef
Up to 1942 an average of 20,000 buf-
faloes were shot annually in the Northern
Territory for the sake of their hides
and the carcasses were left to rot. A few
hunters are still operating, and the same
shameful waste of good meat continues
because no one wants it —they’d rather
eat poor old horses.
Buffaloes were imported into the Terri-
tory 120 years ago to relieve a beef short-
age in those days. People found the meat
palatable enough then, so why not now?
There are thousands of buffaloes within
50 miles of Darwin, so surely the mili-
tary authorities or someone could arrange
transport and refrigeration to convey the
carcasses to Darwin, where the disused
meatworks could thus be put to some
use. —Gip (N.Q.).
Clothing Reform
“Fitzjay” (B. 16/2/ ’44) seems to be-
lieve that male clothing as commonly
worn is “dignified” (horrible >vord), and
implies that commonsense attire as cham-
pioned by “Avelona” is not so. I disagree
entirely.
Well-cut shorts and short-sleeved shirt
or white linen or drill two-piece suits are
the rule here, and everyone looks com-
fortable, efficient and perfectly respect-
able ; there is certainly no loss of dignity
such as “Fitzjay” seems to fear.
Comfort with suitability to job and
climate should be the aim of every man,
with thoughts of convention and false
notions of dignity thrust well into the
background. The man who i£ comfort-
able in his work is a happy man ; far too
much physical and mental energy is
wasted struggling against the discomfort
and handicap imposed by heavy, stiff, un-
suitable attire.
“Fitzjay” claims that men today wear
conventional clothing because they are
civilised. Jf this is true, then civilisation
is letting us down badly. We can learn
a good lesson from many “uncivilised”
native races who dress or undress accord-
ing to the demand of climate and per-
sonal comfort, and who in no way suffer
loss of dignity thereby. More power to
the “uncivilised!” Bahut Achchha
(Fiji).
Statecraft and the Future
N. G. McDonald (B. 5/4/’44) says it
is not the object of statecraft to provide
work for all; that the goal is leisure and
security. That’s just the trouble in Aus-
tralia.
Statecraft, as we know it, has always
encouraged the leisure and security out-
look.- It has been successful in obtain-
ing a good deal of leisure, but seems to
have missed out on security. For years
the Labor movement has preached the
right of individual security, but not the
responsibility of the individual toi render
service to the community necessary to
make security possible. Rather has it
encouraged strikes, go-slow tactics and
industrial discontent, at the same time in-
troducing all kinds of non-contributory
pensions and benefits ; feeding the desire
of men to do as little as possible for as
much as can be extorted in the way of
privileges and remuneration.
The Parliamentary Opposition to Labor
has generally proceeded on very njuch
the same lines, lest Labor draw all the
prizes in the election lucky dip, with the
result that statecraft in Australia, if
allowed to go on in the same old way in
the post-war years, will have to put thou-
sands to work on digging holes and fill-
ing them up again.
This is the only solution our brand of
statecraft is capable of finding to the
problem. It is possible, however, to find
employment for everybody. When every-
one has all the clothes, all the food, in-
cluding milk and fruit, that is needed,
together with proper housing embodying
every modern convenience, and everyone
has all the books and pictures he or she
desires; when every educational and re-
creational need has been met, then and
then only should there be any room for
unemployment. This should be the goal,
not leisure and security.
Such a goal cannot be reached by the
fixing of basic wages or by the payment
of doles and pensions. It can be attained
only by complete co-operation in indus-
try. Ideally every man should be a share-
holder in the industry in which he is
employed.
Of course, the so-called champions of
the workers will not encourage this. They
get into Parliament on the votes of the
discontented.—W. E. N. (N.S.W.).
More Competition Needed
Australian electors are already being
prepared for the political battle which
will take place in the post-war period be-
tween the exponents of capitalism and
socialism. Little thought is given to the
possibility that a majority might prefer
the system of private enterprise which
was in force prior to the first world war,
when combines were almost unknown.
The gradual absorption of small en-
terprises has become an accepted fact, and
exploitation of the middle class will in-
crease —until it is understood that liberty
is a matter for the individual and depends
upon the use of initiative to keep free of
fetters. — Male (R.A.A.F.).
Fingerprint Everyone
For the inquest on the Pyjama Girl a
great many witnesses have been called
upon to undertake inter-State journeys,
and the cost of the proceedings has been
considerable. And there has-notoriously
been a conflict of evidence as to iden-
tification.
If the fingerprints of everyone were
recorded all this could have been
avoided, and the identity of the victim
settled ten years ago. Apart from that,
universal fingerprinting would certainly
assist in the early detection of crimes,
both minor and major, and probably
prevent some youngsters from develop-
ing into hardened criminals before they
first face the magistrate and corrective
treatment— Stanus (Vic.).


AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland 1895.
Assets exceed £2,660,000
The Report for the year ended 31st December, 1943,
discloses:—
Very satisfactory New Business figures
Record Increase in Income.
A further reduction in Ratio of Expenditure.
A further strengthening of Actuarial Reserves.
Reduction of the rate ot Interest assumed for
valuation of all participating Ordinary Depart-
ment policies to 2 J per cent.
Maintenance of Bonus to Industrial and Ordinary
policyholders at the same rates as those declared
for the previous year.
Over 59 per cent, of the Company’s Assets is
invested in Commonwealth Inscribed Stock.
HEAD OFFICE:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
BRANCH OFFICES:
MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
