

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3343
Wednesday, March 8, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ELLEN’S ISLE, LOCH KATRINE, SCOTLAND.
ONE of the loveliest features in the Trossachs is the little sheet
of water known as Loch Katrine. It is diminutive, but so
incomparably situated that its small size makes it the more enchant-
ing, since not a single charm escapes us. What can be more attrac-
tive than the combination here of light and shade, when its fair
surface is flecked by touches of the sun and clouds? Around it,
mountains rear their massive .forms like giant guardians of the
peaceful lake, within which they again appear like an inverted
world, until we can with difficulty tell which is the real and which
the counterfeit presentment! Moreover, its heathery banks and
limpid waves, so long as they endure, will be fondly associated
with memories of Sir Walter Scott and his fairest creation, the
“Lady of the Lake.” In fact, the pretty island in the centre is
still known as “Ellen’s Isle,” for, according to Scott’s fancy, this
wave-encircled sylvan retreat was the home of that fair Lady of
the Lake. “Her head thrown back, her lips apart, like Monument
of Grecian art.” Scott is the special genius of this place, and here
one fairly revels in the scenes portrayed with .absolute perfection
by his magic pen. Each point recalls some stanza or some well-
known line, so accurate are his poetical descriptions. Never was
a writer more particular in this respect than Scott. For example,
while writing the “Lady of the Lake,” he once galloped the entire
distance from Loch Achray to Stirling to prove to himself that
his hero could have ridden it in a certain time!


m
tii
This Book FREE to YOU*
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
TOO Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit as
advertised m the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
SB - 144 AGE
The Red Page
HEEMSKERCK SHOALS.
(Nanuku Reef, Fiji, 6th February, 1643.)
Too many councils and committees, too ma
making decisions beforehand —that was no
to run an expedition. Still that catchpenn
assembly in Batavia had last say
and first say too; and there it was all set dow
what had to be done; yes, even to the way
you must keep your face, indifferent, lest
betray
the excitement of gold and let its worth be show
if an Indian brought you gold. How would th
like
the faces held on a vessel trapped between wine
and a half-circle reef? Just now to strike
as the ships drove through, shot through, wh
the lashing thinned
a little to calmer water, would have made know
rather death’s cast for faces. What one coulc
guess,
however, was faces round the board-room tab
growing graver and longer as the report show
less
and chiller prospect of profit. There was n
much
gold for them in this trip; and that dear fab
of a rich continent was whittled back
to New Holland, known already, and a pack
of snarling reefs and jagged islands, such
as these to leeward, and that murderous coas
of murderous savages which now could boa
at least a label, States Land; and of course
there was Van Diemen’s Land. Shake fho
from your purse
and count the pieces. He’d tell them in pla
Dutch
what Abel Tasman thought of it! The gain
was learning what not to expect: that was tl
most
a practical man could show them —no Ne
Spain,
no Mexico, no Peru, no treaty struck
with turban’d monarchs who’d take beads an
muck
in exchange for pearls and spices. Yet to lo
the wind’s direction, the sea’s rankest mood
in the emptiness of the forties, even to plot
Wide, open, landless ocean, was to unfog
the foot of the atlas, fill its amplitude
with better than spouting dolphins. And was no
knowledge, in the end, itself a weightier gooc
than puffed-up trade? A point not understooc
by the Company of course! The line to tak
with the Company was that there was unlatchec
an eastern door to America, which could
be pushed whenever they might choose to brea
a quick route open through clear seas no
watched
by jealous competitors ...
More could have been done
but for such tight instructions. They shoul
have run,
for example, east from the Three Kings rock
to make
round the last cape cut on the clouds, then on
to explore
all States Land, length and breadth. And
proved mistake
was dropping back Van Diemen’s Land in th
wake,
instead of working to windward when that shore
swinging away to north might well have solver
the problem of New Holland, closed its extent
and patched a gap or two in the continent
by nmifs fixed. But northward would have in
volved
departure from the instructions wanting more
authority than his own hands held. That mean
calling the officers of both ships to council,
talking, persuading; and their bare consent
was hardly enough: _ it needed written reports
from each of them in overwhelming favor
of such a change of plan; and to win them over
to what they would see as simply making charts,
forsaking business for a cartographer’s pencil,
was more than could have been hoped for In
any event
Batavia would have misered anything big
under a pile of archives lest there follow
others to chew what Dutchmen couldn’t
swallow;
shortsighted though that was while the Portu-
guese
were still to be reckoned with and there were
these
Englishmen everywhere. There would not lag
others too far behind to rediscover,
then claim for themselves. You could not hide
m a bag
thousands of miles of trafiicable seas.
As a practical man he disliked these dreams —a
child’s
of gold-roofed castles choked with kings and
candies...
It was a long time now since there were left
any forgotten empires lost in the wilds,
with inconceivable treasure to be reft
by right of being well-armed—believed some
gift
of moral superiority! Nor were Indies
unheard of if they were rich and their hot soil
supported millions on rice-fields, or in toil
at the loom, or carving ivory and such litter
tor merchants to gorge bales with. It was
unthrift
of the faculties to dazzle them on a glitter
of wishes that dulled the mind; men would do
better
to ask of the southern land in sober terms
what could be made of it that they could put
their strength and skill in making. Think of
farms
growing into the hills and foot by foot
driving the wastes before them; cities, unbuilt,
only awaiting builders; shipyards bursting
with vessels on the slips about' to be spilt
into the stream of trade; and a harbor mouth
crammed with those vessels bringing home to
the south
wealth fairly won, not milkers come from thirst-
ing
ports of the foreign north.
, , ~ , No one as yet
had considered settlement; the land was poor—
Pelsart had said so —almost desert, and set
right round the world from home. But should
you moor
your destiny in a place, why! home is the door
you enter at night for food and shelter, met
by love and, little children; some other spot
is right round the world, and soon what some-
one forgot
a generation ago. And perhaps the ground
was not all barren; it would be one task
to learn its needs and fill them; good was not
found
but by that ache of striving which might ask
too much of ordinary men. Though that
was what the thought in his mind was biting at:
the necessity in men, deep down, close cramped,
not seen in their own hearts, for some attempt
at being more than ordinary men,
rising above themselves. It was an urge
that swung from wars to follies, being the purge
of stagnation from the veins, and violent when
there was little to work it off against; but was
man s only greatness also. Then, because
room hungered there for greatness, gaped in
demand,
men could give greatness gladly to that land.
It was strange the love he had for it—for a
country
he had not seen; so that its future stood
above his own time’s fortunes in a mood
that came on him very often. Little doubt
this love was that old urge thus pressing out
from himself also; which was why an entry
m the ship’s log at noon, a day’s advance
through blue uncertainty, a desperate chance —
like that these minutes back, which taught the
feel
of coral running inches under the keel—
and all that was the venture in action, had
(his heart was sure of it) significance
beyond the loss on the ledger. There increased
conviction that the voyage was not to the bad
but notable: the place which lay, unleased,
beneath its empty centuries and stars turning
was waking under his love and would call those
bred with the same unreasonable yearning
who d take it for their own. And they must
hear
always that call and watch that nothing close
their sons ears to it. Watchfulness, discerning:
these there must be that year should pass to
year
assurance for restless bodies and minds burn-
mg,
of fields opening before them, crafts to pursue,
aims for them outside servitude. For the rest',
it might not matter who came, his countrymen
or others thinking like them. As one who
knew
the millions propagating in Asia’s pen,
yet knew the jangling, unsatisfied States were
filled
with hate in Europe, where were overtilled
soils and men too, squeezed penury at best —
consoled by wars—his thoughts turned more on
race
than national arrogance, that pitiful jest.
And lately he had feared the Atlantic’s west,
where much fresh hope was pivoted, could
drown
in a black stream it drunkenly gulped down—
slaves who might not stay slaves. There was
one place—
only the south was left —where spread clear
floors
for feet of the European. He’d have it the test
of southern citizenship how much the need
to preserve it so by battle and vigilant doors
was sacred in men’s bone, immutable creed.
Meanwhile his reckoning was disputed, since
Le Maire had traversed this latitude, yet the
chart
was dumb on islands hereabouts. Were they
part
of the lost Solomons? It was hard to con-
vince
even himself of reckoning—which, truth told,
was guesswork a little refined. He must accept
his pilot-major’s view of it; they had crept
westerly—though he doubted—and, overbold,
run down Espiritu Santo. Was this cluster
Espmtu Santo? Not to his way of thinking,
but that must be set aside. He would have to
muster
another precious council after all,
collect opinions on the apparent shrinking
of twenty degrees of Pacific toss and fall
and discuss and record the course that thev
must hold J
in these new circumstances. It was well
a council hadn’t been needed when disaster
boiled all about them a committee on sinking
the vertical course to coral.
~ , . Oh, to confound
them and their chart, to prove the reckoning
sound,
aS ju s^ow id the outcome! Here could
more findings out of waves and ignorance, but
31 breecfk Cnd ong rec koning. Some new
°i s h°uld be thought of (none too
though unless you carried time round in vour
pocket
y ° U read W ° Uld miSS y ° Ur easting - You might
amormng height of the sun, like that at noon
tor Mitude, compound and interlock it
with tabled declination, then oppose
hour-angle to ascension—very close
and very pretty; but time stayed out to mock it'
How could you carry time? a glass
kept under rigid watch and neatly turned
at every run of the sand? No, let it nass-
that wouldn’t do; one should not be concerned
with such an insoluble problem. Bad enough
to have populated the southland with the stuff
of fantasy and imagined there old forces
at their old interplay about the sources
of Tl P fnH° n and - struggle v ali in the span
could h be d m 3 breatfi! Such things
though likelier meriting laughter; but if you ran
chasing the rainbow back where it began
you d not catch longitude. A big decision
might come for acquisitive settlement, a plan
to establish depots, bases—hardly free
nationhood and endeavour as in that vision-
nff ° ne i^ 011 d take l° n gffudes at sea, ’
and attei all one was a practical man.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The Cardinal Who Cooked .
In 1674 Giulio Alberoni, aged 10, was
a bellringer at a Parmesan monastery.
In 1714, when Elisabeth Farnese became
the second wife of Charles V, Alberoni
was master of Spain and one of the most
powerful figures in the complex inter-
national intrigues of the period. He was
perhaps unique among diplomats in that
he cooked his way to power.
In a colorful biography, Alberoni; or,
the Spanish Conspiracy (Faber), Simon
Harcourt-Smith suggests that from his
earliest infancy Alberoni was forced to
realise the supreme importance of food
for the very good reason that he was
born into a house where meals were few
and poor:
His father was a poor gardener, his
mother a seamstress disturbed by frequent
pregnancies. Amid all the plenty of
Piacenza, the six Alberoni children could
rarely fill their hungry little bellies. It
must' have been a tantalising thing to starve
among the mysterious artichokes, the
smoked hams that the quality cut as fine
as lawn, the spiced sausages with their
almost liturgical taste.
Launched on his political career, as
secretary to the aged Bishop Roncovieri
on a diplomatic mission to the Court of
Louis XIV, Alberoni made himself use-
ful : he found wigmakers and a portrait
painter for the officers of Vendomes
army, he gave them the cheeses and wines
of his native land, he cooked banquets
for them with his own hands. During
a winter lull in the war, while Marl-
borough was bogged in Belgium, Alber-
oni charmed the notables of Versailles;
Did they want Venetian goblets? Presto!
Their tables glittered with them. Did some
memory of Italian travel foster a taste for
mose delicious spiced sausages from
riorence (without garlic, of course, for that
would not be practical at Court)? In a
trice the cherished dish was conjured up.
Seeds of Italian flowers, masks from Venice,
the curiosities and luxuries of Italy were
used to gain powerful friends for Parma
and for himself.
Alberoni’s great dream was to see Italy
freed from German domination. For that
he needed the help of Spain ; and to be
sure of Spain’s help it was necessary for
the French Phillip V to be maintained
on the Spanish throne. After Malplaquet,
when France was talking peace with the
Allies and Phillip’s deposition was being
discussed, Alberoni campaigned for
France’s ablest general, Vendome, to be
lent to the Spanish to enable them to
carry on the war; and, once again,
“Italian delicacies embellished the tables
of all his potential allies.” “It’s small
presents for the table,” Alberoni de-
clared, “that make the French remember
you and keep them friendly.”
Vendome goes to Sjsain, reorganises its
armies, and Alberoni cooks for Phillip’s
then Queen, Maria Louisa of Savoy:
“Alberoni was constantly in the Sover-
eign’s company, discussing the. prospects
of peace, cooking Lombardian dishes that
recalled her tranquil childhood.”
When Maria dies and, at Alberoni’s
instigation, Elisabeth Farnese is selected
to console the king, she becomes, as it
were, the Parmesan’s culinary master-
piece. She is a simple girl, not interested
in politics, with an enormous appetite.
It is necessary for Alberoni’s plans that
she sho'uld become interested in affairs
of State: he works through the appetite.
Wine from Italy; truffles in oil; goose-
berries; marzolini cheeses —he fed her
on the dishes she loved. After the birth
of her son the appetite became “fero-
cious.”
Gradually she came to eat only what was
prepared for her in Alberoni’s kitchen—
generally with his own hands—ravioli,
fegato alia Veneziana, aromatic polpet-
toni
As a corollary to his dream of freeing
Italy from German domination, Alberoni
dreamed of alliance with England.
Smiled upon by the queen, Alberoni
cooked his way into the heart of the
British ambassador, who rejoiced in the
name of Bubb.
Bubb liked Alberoni’s hospitality, and
he liked Alberoni; reasons of commerce
and reasons of State —the French were
assisting the Pretender —made an alliance
seem feasible. “Had it been realised, the
histoiy of the British Empire and the
New World might have been altered ;
one overwhelming combination of power
might have dominated the Atlantic sea-
board of Europe, and the Americas from
Cape Horn to Hudson Bay.”
The alliance, of course, did not even-
tuate. One reason was that the idea of
war with the Germanic Powers—which is
what alliance with Spain would have led
to —was unthinkable to the Hanoverian
George I. Other and probably weightier
reasons were that the Whigs could not
believe in a Spanish renaissance and that
Spain, as part of its revival, built a Navy
—which the British, a little more hastily
than was strictly polite, sank.
That —the picture of a man bom ahead
of his time, who perceived the mutual
advantage to Britain and the Mediter-
ranean Powers of alliance against the
Germans—is the real purpose of Har
court-Smith’s biography.
Although there are plenty of sidelights
on Alberom—his diplomatic cooking for
example—and although the motives of
his policies are convincingly revealed the
book is better as a colorful re-creation
of the period than simply as a biography
There is the Duke of Alba taking to his
bed with a vow never to leave it until his
mistress returns to him, and, the lady not
returning, dying there ; an ancient noble-
man travelling in his glass coffin as he
follows Phillip in sad retreat from Mad-
rid when Stanhope marches in; Phillip
sleeping under a tree on a pile of cap-
tured standards after Vendome’s defeat
of Stanhope and the Austrians; Alberoni
trying to reduce the household troops to
half strength and finding that they are
already at half strength—the colonel and
his officers having been pocketing the pay
of 1800 men who didn’t exist; the fan-
tastic Peterborough, disguised as a
woman but wearing around his leg the
ribbon of the Garter, thrown into prison
by the Pope ; Laura Pescatori, the queen’s
old nurse, brandishing her bare feet at
the courtiers and crying that she is not
given enough money to buy a pair of
slippers part of a comical but seriously
embarrassing campaign against Albe-
roni ... A rich scene richly described,
with Alberoni still somewhat mysterious
in the midst of it; prominent as a poli-
tician, shadowy, except in his cooking,
as a personality.
Madeline by Moonlight.
In one of his later poems W. B. Yeats
told humanity to “cast a cold eye on life,
on death” ; it was sound enough advice,
but in his early period, at any rate, he
wouldn’t have liked the world to turn too
coldly critical an eye on his own poems.
Professor W. A. Osborne in Essays and
Literary Sketches (Lothian) turns an ex-
tremely cold eye on John Keats’s “Eve
of St. Agnes” and discovers :
The poem opens with a description of a
hard frost which makes the reader feel cold.
The grass is frozen; even the carvings and
metalwork _ seem to be congealed and
suffering; it is dead calm, for the breath
rises like incense; the beadsman’s fingers
are numb and the sheep are silent. Despite
this painfully low temperature, fair Made-
line removes all her clothing in a room with
a large window and no fire, and in a state
of pitiable nudity stands pensively in a day-
dream—a likely story.' Then, when the
young lady is asleep in bed, Porphyro sets
a table and brings out viands. And what
are they? Dates, candied apple and jellies.
What a cold collation for such a night.
It’s a pity to have anything marring
the magic of “The Eve of St. Agnes,’
yet it has to be admitted that this is fair
criticism. Much can be said for Keats
but it remains true that it is desirable for
even poets to keep their wits about them
Casting an equally cold eye on Essays
and Literary Sketches, it must also be
said that Professor Osborne’s book
as a whole is a good deal less interesting
than the note on Keats might suggest.
The essays—on geometricians in the time
of Diocletian, on an English hospital in
1834 and on the effect of weather on
great events —are impressive historical
reconstructions; the Diocletian piece,
even for those whose only interest in
geometry is in the effort to shake off the
memory that there was something hor-
ribly important about the angles at the
base of an isosceles triangle, having much
charm. But the sketches ares far too sketchy.
Even a “sketch” should have form, a
sense of completeness, and these are like
only the beginnings of sketches: the be-
ginning of a sketch on the villainies of
the kookaburra, the opening paragraphs
of a sketch about the black opal. So
little happens in a note about pearlers
at Broome entitled “Five Fathoms Deep”
that the reader feels rather as if the pro-
fessor had invited him to come for a
walk and escorted him with much cere-
mony as far as his front door.
Not that any sketch is without its point
of interest. There is, for instance, a good
article on “the romance of terminology,”
in which, as an aside, a pleasing scandal
of the ancient world is unearthed;
The Greeks did not pretend to dissect the
human body and, in consequence, a number
of their descriptive terms are true only of
the lower animals. There is one exception,
however, which is rather a “give-away.”
The azygous vein was so named because it
was unpaired—that is, found on one side of
the body only. Such is its condition in the
human being, but it is symmetrically paired
in most other mammalia. The word makes
one inclined to think that the Greek philo-
sopher may have dissected human bodies
occasionally on the sly.
There are points about Bret Harte and
the “Sydney Ducks” in San Francisco;
the possibility that modern spectacles
would have saved Milton’s eyesight; the
Ulster-Scottish influence on the Brontes;
Carlyle and Goldsmith as scientists; Poe
as an astronomer, well ahead of Einstein
in pronouncing that “space and duration
are one”: a succession, as Professor
Osborne himself might say, of /points that
have position but no magnitude.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
m
: :
I i
I
Military Officers'
Uniforms. Made
ready-to-wear of all
wool Olive/Fawn
Officers' Twist.
Tailored by An-
thony Horderns'
with careful atten-
tion to detail.
Price £7/9/6
Military Officers'
Uniforms. Khaki
Drill Uniforms,
ready - to - wear.
Specially tailored
in Australian San-
forized Drills or
English Drills. 95/-
POST FREE
Anywhere in the
Commonwealth
these uniforms are
post free. When
posting your order
please send Auth-
orization.
120th Year of Service
aSvif
5
sm
A—Men's Khaki Military Handker-
chiefs 1/5/ 1/7
HALF COUPON
B—Soldiers' Money Belts in a soft
quality Calf Tan hide. Each .... 15/6
NO COUPONS
C—Men's Tan Calf Officers' Shoes in
first grade leather, stout leather welted
soles. Full and half sizes 37/6
12 COUPONS
D —Men's Tan Officers' Boots with
light sewn soles. Full and half sizes.
Also stocked in Black 23/6
12 COUPONS
All types of Military and Air Force
badges, stripes and accessories are
kept in stock.
Military Officers'
Greatcoats.
Ready - to - wear,
double breasted
greatcoats, with
Lancer fronts,
deep collar, turn
back cuffs and
made on the Brit-
ish Army pat-
tern. From 250 z.
proofed woollen
greatcoating.
Price .. £6/3/6
Military • Requisites—Ground Floor
George Street.
mm
m
m
i
o
w
o
u
M
A
>
PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE PIG AND WHISTLE
By A. P. GASKELL.
THE old man was standing beside
me in the bar. It was the middle
of a warm, sunny afternoon, and
we were the only customers. After
the sunlight outside, the place was
dark and cool, with a fly buzzing some-
where, and George, the barman, down at
the end, clinking glasses as he rinsed them.
“Drink,” said the old man, “it’s the
ruination of this country.” He put his
handle down on the bar counter and
looked at me. “I know,” he said, “you
young fellows —yes, and girls, too, with
red fingernails; I’ve seen you all. It’s
ruination the way you go about it.”
“You seem to be doing all right your-
self,” I said, nodding to where his handle
stood in a wet ring on the bar.
“Beer is one of God’s gifts,” he said,
“as long as you don’t abuse it. My old
father told me that, and it’s still true.
I take it, but I don’t abuse it. I used to
once, when I was young. But not now.”
He stood there, tall beside me in his
dark grey suit and hat with the brim
turned down all round, leaning one elbow
on the bar. His shirt was clean, and he
had one of those ties old men wear tied
in a big loose knot slipping down a little
from under his collar. His pipe jutted
from under the brown-stained part of his
moustache, and he regarded me steadily
from pale-blue eyes. His face had that
tanned, weathered look, as though he’d
worked outside for a long time.
“Wait,” he said. “Have yqu ever heard
of Little Akaloa?”
“You mean Akaroa,” I said. “I’ve
heard of that.”
“Akaroa be damned! I mean Little
Akaloa. Listen, it’s sixteen miles from
Akaroa on the north side of the Penin-
sula. It’s a long, narrow valley leading
down to a bay. My father lived there. I
suppose you’ve never heard of the Pig
and Whistle either —the pub at Little
Akaloa? Years ago, of course. It’s
not there now. Do you know why?”
“No.”
“I’ll tell you,” he said. “My father
was a drunkard. My mother couldn’t
stop him drinking. The vicar used to
pray for him. No good. He couldn’t
stop. No money, no work; he couldn’t
keep a job, so they came out from the
Old Country to Little Akaloa.
“The trip out cured him, the long trip
out in the old sailing vessel. He worked
his passage out and got a job here in the
bush. The Peninsula was covered in trees
in those days, you know. When I was
a boy I used to take his lunch up to him
every day through the trees. I can re-
member him at the sawpit, standing on
top of the log and heaving up that long
saw with the curved handle. My father
had a big dark beard. Sometimes he’d
let me ride down the tramway on the logs.
He worked hard. It’s hard work, pit-
sawing, but he didn’t drink. He broke
it right off.
“Then they opened a pub, this Pig and
Whistle. My father had to pass it every
day going up the valley to work, and
coming home hot and tired at night.
“You think of my mother. There he
was, the man who came out here to get
away from drink, passing the pub twice
a day. Imagine how she’d feel. But he
never touched a drop. Every night he’d
come home sober, and before bed he’d
take down the Good Book. You don’t
see them that size now. When I was
small I could hardly lift it, and it was
full of pictures. Every night he’d read
us a passage, sitting there with the Book
on the table and his head bent over it.
His beard nearly touched the pages.
When he’d finished he’d look up and shut
the book with two hands, and the two
halves would smack together just below
his whiskers.
“'"THE next thing,” he said, “is that
A I’m a young man with a mous-
tache. They wore them big in those
days, and mine was growing. I was
proud of it, because it made me look
grown-up.
“I was working on a farm. As they
pushed back the bush they needed more
fences, and that’s what I was doing.
“Splitting posts, then lugging posts and
wire up those steep hills for miles. You
think of that for a job on a hot summer’s
day. And digging postholes standing on
a slope so steep that in summer when the
grass was very dry and slippery your feet
would slide from under you. Those hills
are all rock underneath, and often I’d
have to chip out the holes with a six-
foot bar. Think of that for a hot day on
the hillside.
“Then is it any wonder,” said the old
man, “that I’d get into the habit of drop-
ping in at the Pig and Whistle for a drink
before I went home?
“The landlord didn’t live there; it was
just a drinking place. It had stables and
a shed at the back. I’d come down off
the hills, hot and thirsty, and I’d go in
and drink beer with the young fellows.
Ir wasn’t long before a lot of my money
was going across into the landlord’s
pocket. The place was shaded by trees,
and with the verandah outside it would
be dark and cool in the bar, and along
the wall there were the hogsheads that
had come by boat. The landlord was one
of those hearty men, and he’d be pleased
to see me, and I’d feel grown-up leaning
on the bar ordering drinks.”
“What did your father think of that?”
I asked.
“That’s when he told me,” said the old
man, “ ‘Beer is one of God’s gifts as
long as you don’t abuse it.’ He told me
that. A good many times. He told me
about himself, too. That was when I
first learned that he’d been a drunkard
in the Old Country. Not that it worried
me ; I was young.
“My old father was a religious man,”
he said. “He thought that the fruits of
the earth were for us to use. In modera-
tion, mind you. He was a simple man,
and he saw his duties very clearly. Once
he’d made up his mind he acted. What
do you think he did?
‘ < L_l E started drinking again himself.
1 I My father said ‘lf you must drink,
well, drink with me.’ So in the evening
when I came off the hills he’d be there
at the pub waiting, and we’d go in to-
gether. Of course, that wasn’t the same.
I didn’t like it. I couldn’t feel so free
and bold witli him there. I couldn’t drink
so much. I wasn’t a man in the bar any
longer; I was just a young fellow along
with his father.
“I -didn’t say anything, but I didn’t like
drinking with him. It didn’t seem right.
And my mother blamed me for starting
him off again. Not that it ever came to
anything. He just drank glass for glass
with me, and left when I left. But it
annoyed me to be watched over like that.
“It annoyed me so much,” said the
old man, “that one night I didn’t say
anything, I just kept on drinking glass
after glass. I talked to the landlord, and
out of the corner of my eye I watched
my father.
“Glass after glass. And there, along
from me, where you are now, was my
father, quietly puffing his pipe, and when
I drank he drank.
“He wanted to shame me, but that
night I was determined. I kept on drink-
ing glass after glass until I could no
longer look from the corner of my eye.
I had to turn round and lean on the bar
and stare at him to see him properly.
He was still gravely puffing his pipe and
drinking with me, standing there, bearded,
in his old work clothes, a little along
from me. And he was still standing there
waiting quietly while I was outside being
sick. Then he took me home.
“After that,” said the old man, “I never
went in again with him. I’d dodge him.
Sometimes I’d come down early from the
hills and go to the pub and leave again
before my father stopped work. I lost
my job over that. Then it was easy, I
was free all day. But when my money
was gone I had to find work again.
“I was growing away from home, if
you understand what I mean. It
annoyed me to stay round the house and
have my mother and father looking at
me, so I got into the habit of going down
to the Pig and Whistle at night. Of
course when I went out they knew where
I was going, and that made me feel bad.
Still, I went.
“And then one Sunday night,” the old
man went on, “I came home drunk. It
was Sunday, you understand. That made
it worse. When I got home and blundered
into the lamplight my father was read-
ing from the Good Book and my mother
was sitting there in her place by the fire.
It was the first time I’d ever missed the
reading. I stumbled in and sat in my
place. I was ashamed of myself and
could not look at them, but they took no
apparent notice of me. When my father
had finished the passage he looked up
and slapped the covers together just be-
low his whiskers in the same old way.
They were not nearly so dark by this time.
“Then he put aside the Bible and
reached for his hat.
“ ‘You go to bed,’ he told my mother.
“He took my arm. ‘You come with me.’
“In the dark we went down the track
to the pub, with me swaying about and
sometimes bumping against my father
and sometimes feeling his tight grip on
my arm as I lurched out the other way.
He f didn’t say a word to me even when
we got to the pub. He knocked on the bar
door. We could see a crack of light below
it and near voices and laughter inside;
then the landlord opened up and stood
there holding a candle and looking out.
“He held his hand above the candle,
shading his eyes so he could see us
better. ‘Hello, it’s you,’ he said. ‘Come
in. Haven’t you had enough yet? The
others are still here.’
“ ‘We’re not coming in,’ said my
father. ‘This lad has had enough for
now, and for always. The drink’s got a
hold on him. Help me to break it, I
want you to promise you won’t serve him
any more.’
“The landlord laughed.
“When my father walked me home
again through the darkness that night he
held my arm so tight that it hurt.
“I kept on drinking,” the old man said,
“but I tried not to go home drunk. Mind
you, they never said a word.
“That would have been a relief; but
they were silent, and I hated them for
it. And night after night as I went out
I would feel them watching me, and hope
they would say something so that I could
turn on them. It made me feel so small,
you understand, to be acting against their
wishes like that. I felt like a small bad
boy, and that made it more necessary
then ever for me to go and talk with the
men and feel grown-up buying my own
drinks and pushing my own money across
the counter, 1 felt that I had to go down
to the pub to be really appreciated.
i < A ND that went on till I came home
Ca drunk at night a second time.
While I was still outside I could hear my
father reading the passage, sp I sat down
on the doorstep to wait until he had
finished, but they must have left the door
unlatched for me. When I leaned back
against it it swung open and I fell on my
back into the room. I was very drunk,
and it took me a long time to realise
what had happened and climb to my
feet. I stood there in the light, swaying
and blinking at them. They were both
looking up at me. As I sat down my
father smacked the Book shut very loud.
It made the lamp on the table flicker.
Then he took his hat and went out.
“I suppose you know how it feels to
be really drunk? I turned and watched
him go out and shut the door; then,
some time afterwards, I thought ‘He’s
gone out.’ I felt nothing at all—no
curiosity or interest. I just accepted it.
I accepted everything and felt as though
I could go on with my body sitting there
heavily in the chair for ever. My mother
pushed me into the bedroom, and I fell
on the bed and slept at once.
“Later someone was shaking me;
they’d been shaking me for ages before
I could struggle up far enough towards
consciousness to stop them. It annoyed
me, and they wouldn’t stop. I opened
my eyes and the room was full of bright-
ness. A glare from the ceiling beat down
into my eyes and started my head aching.
“My father’s head and shoulders, black
against the ceiling, leaned over me. ‘Get
up, get up,’ he kept saying. ‘Your pub’s
on fire. Wake up.’
“Down below us in the valley, some
two hundred yards away through the
pine-trees, I saw a brilliant yellow-red
light. The pine-trees stood black against
it. Small dark figures were running about.
In the morning the Pig and Whistle was
just a black mess on the ground,
“I missed my drink the next two days,
but more than any desire for beer and
company, I hated the calm, pleased look
on my mother’s face. She didn’t say
anything, but her pleasure was plain to
see. My father said that it was unfortunate
for the landlord, but he must have saved
plenty money from all the trade he did.
“Two days later, after the boat had
brought the landlord more liquor, he
shifted his license to the shed and opened
a bar there. We had a big house-warm-
ing party. He told us he thought a care-
less smoker had brought this bad luck
upon him, but he wouldn’t let a little
thing like a fire stop him. He said he
would build a new pub twice the size
of the old one. We all laughed. It was
good fun drinking there in the shed
among all the empty hogsheads and tools
and straw and sacks.
“A couple of nights later the shed was
burned down. When the boat made its
next trip the landlord opened a bar in his
stables. He was worried now. ‘You don’t
have two fires by accident,’ he told us.
“He said he was going to watch the
stables every night and sleep there if
necessary ; but that very night the stables
went up in flames. The old, dry wood
and all that hay and straw seemed to
vanish at once in a huge mass of flames.
“That was the finish. The constable
came over from Akaroa, but he could
find no evidence. The landlord swore
vengeance, but he was afraid to build a
new place, and after a short time he went
away.
“Of course everyone talked about these
happenings. They all had ideas —some
said it was the work of God, others said
they knew who’d done it. You’ll realise
how I felt, how furious I was that some
interfering busybody had stopped our
meeting and drinking. I was young and
I was angry. Yet in a strange way, at the
same time I had a feeling of gladness
that now the strain between me and my
parents would be eased.
“But that first day anger was upper-
most in my mind when, after work, I went
home hot and dry, wanting a drink very
badly. My father was in the kitchen.
“He said T suppose you would like a
drink,’ and he put a jug of beer and a
mug on the table before me. I fell on it
and emptied the mug at one gulp.
“Then a strange idea struck me. I
looked at my father, but he wouldn’t
meet my eye.
“ ‘Father,’ I said, but he wouldn’t look
at me. ‘Father, where did you get this?’
“He filled his pipe very elaborately,
pressing in the tobacco carefully so that
not a shred hung over the sides. He was
looking at it as though it absorbed all
his attention.
“ ‘Where did you get this?’ I asked.
“ ‘Oh, I’ve had it a few days,’ he said
offhand. T thought you might like a
drink.’ But he wouldn’t look at me, and
I knew.
“So I knew then that he’d done it all
He’d done it for my sake. I felt a sense
of wonder that the desperate character
everyone was talking about was actually
a man I’d known all my life.”
THE NET.
My wings were blue in the ocean green,
The prettiest things that ever were seen,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
Rose were my legs and rose my side
And who would have thought as I roved the tide
While the red crabs watched me scuttle or glide
I would come to dance in a net?
The fisherman sits by the water and chuckles,
Clams are his ears and limpets his knuckles,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
The beard of a mussel droops on his chin,
The scales of mackerel cling to his skin
And his eyes roll out and his eyes roll in
As he watches us dance in the net.
His eyes are hard as berries of kelp
But sweet is his daughter who comes to help,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
They take the ropes in their lean brown hands,
They haul us up on the shine of the sands
And the girl she laughs as the fisherman stands
And watches us dance in the net.
Let her hang up her clothes on a gooseberry
bush
For the waves say crash and the foam says hush,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
The surf is red with struggle and slaughter
And somewhere on earth or in sky or water
That scaly man and his long-legged daughter
Will dance like fish in a net.
There’s a horrible man with a silver eye
Who stares like a demon out of the sky,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
The waves run here and the waves run there
But they can’t escape that eye in the air,
And all of the seas in that silver flare
Must dance like fish in a net.
The fishes dance to the fisherman’s tune,
The waters run to the pull of the moon,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
And there on the sand at the edge of the tide
The fisherman’s daughter dancing in pride
With her rosy legs and her rosy side
Is less than a fish in a net.
Let her hide away in the deepest caves
Where the octopus threshes his arms and raves,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
Let her crouch with the drowned in the mid-
night pall
Where the oyster turns his face to the wall,
But water and woman and moon and all
They dance like fish in a net.
For somewhere glaring in wastes of space
There’s a monstrous eye in an empty face,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
And round and round in the spell of that stare,
Splashing and flashing and biting the snare,
Go all the glittering shoal of the air
Dancing like fish in a net.
Somebody sits in space and chuckles
With hair like a comet’s and stars for knuckles,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
Glimmer of side and swirl of fin,
His arms are huge as he hauls them in
And his teeth are a shark’s in a mile-wide grin
As he watches them dance in the net.
There I am going and there go you,
I with my wings of butterfly blue,
The gurnet said to the catfish.
The moon comes in and he swallows it whole,
Now it’s the girl with the wings on her soul,
Now it’s the fisher and the great eyes roll
As he watches him dance in the net.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


GRAPE VINEGAR
Vol. 65—No, 3343.
Wednesday, March 8, 1944.
JAPSCOTCH.
“Speaking over Tokyo Radio, Admiral Takahashi, a former Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese Fleet, said ‘We may have ample time to seize Australia after
the enemy fleet is sent to a watery grave.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
FORETASTE OF SOCIALISM
To paraphrase Macaulay, there is nothing
so ridiculous as the Sydney daily press in
one of its periodical fits of offended
virtue.
It had another of these paroxysms
when Major Cameron, M.H.R., charged
the Government with having allowed its
censors to open and hold up non-mili-
tary letters addressed to him as a member
and written by him as such. If only
Cameron correspondence had been tam-
pered with the matter might have been
dismissed in a four- or five-line para-
graph, with a passing sneer, in a signed
article or column, at the South Australian
“hillbilly” or “troglodyte,” for the Sydney
daily press has never had any use
for the member for Barker. But, as was
immediately obvious, there was much
more in it than that. The Prime Minister
(Our Leader to “S. M. Herald”) blithely
acknowledged that censors had opened
and read letters addressed to him, and
when Mr. Cameron pronounced it “an
absolute scandal for anyone to open the
Prime Minister’s mail,” Mr. Curtin’s
reply, to which there can be no counter-
part in the history of the King’s first
Ministers, was that “it is the law, and a
perfectly good one.”
Then, forgetting all its kindness to the
Government since October 8, 1941, and
all the turgid praise of its star writers
for favored Ministers, the Sydney daily
press let itself go. Not only, it thundered,
had a breach of privilege been com-
mitted ; a great deal more was involved.
The inquiry which the Government had
been forced to concede must be extended
to cover the whole question of censoring
private letters. It was common talk that
information conveyed under seal had
been used by officialdom to the detriment
of persons writing or written to. The
sacredness of the mails must be re-estab-
lished, the rights of the individual re-
asserted, the triumph of democracy over
the new despotism proclaimed—and so
on.
Nearly two years ago 16 N.S.W. citi-
zens, nearly aIL residents of Sydney and
all readers of the Sydney daily press,
were arrested and confined in a deten-
tion camp. They were alleged to be
members of the Australia First group (at
least one man arrested was not), but this
was no breach of any law or regulation ;
the Australia First group had the same
legal standing as the Communist ‘organi-
sations, from which the ban imposed by
the Menzies Government when Com-
munists were sabotaging the war effort
and crying for a “Hitlerian” peace had
recently been removed. Again and again
the Government promised that the
arrested persons would be charged with
a specific offence and placed on trial.
They never were. Their cases prejudiced
by Parliamentary discussion and daily
newspaper headlines and by vile attacks
in Communist publications, which boasted
that Communists had settled their
hash, they were held in custody for
several months until it became impossible
to hold them any longer. One man re-
fused liberation on the terms offered.
The others emerged, grievously injured
in pocket as well as reputation, one to
find his business gone and his wife and
children (fourth-generation Australians
on one side of the house and third-
generation on the other) victims of
persecution crueller even than that meted
out in industrial districts to the families
of men who resist when a union boss or
mob orders a strike.
Did any of the Sydney dailies interest
itself in the case of these 16 N.S.W. citi-
zens against whom nothing was charged,
much less proved? Did any of them de-
mand to know what part of the vast
official outfit had arrested them, and why,
and whether they would be brought to a
speedy trial or returned to their homes
and callings with apologies, if nothing
else, and without delay? Not one did.
Nor was any of these newspapers moved
to indignation when the N.S.W. Chief
Justice, referring to another case of de-
tention without trial in which the only
matter at issue was the validity of the
regulations, said, in burning words, that
“members of Parliament” had “in effect
authorised the executive Government to
confer on the Minister arbitrary powers
over the life and liberty of every Aus-
tralian citizen, themselves included.” The
Minister was, and is, Mr. Forde,
of A.I.F. shoulder-badges and grave-
crosses notoriety. Before damning the
Australia-Firsters he had gone out of his
way to release two Communists, found
guilty of helping to beat up recruits for
the Communist party “on the basis of
Lenin’s slogan ‘Every mine, factory and
workshop a fortress of revolution,’ ” to
influence youth “against the war and for
the fight against conscription and com-
pulsory military training,” and to run a
peace-by-backdown propaganda factory
in a bush hideout.
To tamper with members’ mails is a
serious matter, but not nearly so serious
as to arrest citizens without laying charges
against them and to hold them, defamed
and, in some cases, named in larrikin
sheets of the Communist persuasion, for
month after month without trial. It may
be held that the lesser outrage was bred
by the greater one. When censors saw
what could be done with impunity to the
persons and liberties of returned soldiers
and other Australians of good repute, why
need they hesitate to tamper with
members’ and other individuals’ mail?
When they singled out Mr. Cameron they
picked the wrong man, but in view of
Mr. Curtin’s acceptance of the indigni-
ties imposed on him—that must have got
round—they had every reason to believe
that the Government would support them
whatever they did.
With Parliament meeting seldom, and
for the most part shirking prescriptive
duties when it does meet (Mr. Cameron
is one of the exceptions), Australia has
become a paradise for non-elected per-
sons dressed in authority which is neither
little nor brief. The Labor party has
been moving towards this consummation
for years, and moving very rapidly since
it assumed office at Canberra, Every
member of it takes a pledge that he will
strive to make “the socialisation of in-
dustry, production, distribution and ex-
change” a reality. It is on record in the
Commonwealth Year-Book that the
party’s Central Labor Organisation, the
A.C.T.U., which Labor Governments
and private members hold in such awe,
is committed to “the socialisation of in-
dustry, i.e., production and exchange.”
And the proceedings of Labor Adminis-
trations are, though (fortunately for
Bung and the Bookie and the lottery
business and the tin-hare industry) not
always, informed by the socialist mind.
Socialism, wherever established and
in whatever form, implies the subjection
of the individual to the State. This is
never brought out in books like The
Socialist Sixth of the World, ndr, in fact,
does the author of that speciously dis-
honest volume explain that the “Sixth”
was the fruit not of socialist endeavor
but of imperialist conquest of many
countries and peoples, much of it in the
nineteenth century; but the catch is
always there. The State, working through
a multitude of instruments, is master of
the individual’s fate. In Australia, with
socialism still on the way, and with such
weakness at the top that the Prime
Minister himself not only acquiesces in
but defends censorship of his letters, the
depository of delegated power, be he
boss bureaucrat or insignificant Jack-in-
office, tends increasingly to act as if he
were the State.
Pacific Security.
To make doubly sure that there should
be no misunderstanding anywhere on
what the five globe-flying U.S. Senators
reported in “secret” session after their
return to America, their speeches, re-
peated in open session to correct the
sensational versions that leaked out, have
been issued bound together in printed
form, and no doubt will be studied with
interest in Canberra.
Pertinent sections of the speeches, to-
gether with a clause of the general find-
ings of the five as a committee, have a
decidedly close bearing on the decisions
of the Australia-New Zealand Conference
relating to future controls in the Pacific,
and on sundry official and other utterances
on this topic since. Conversely, the Can-
berra Conference decisions and, particu-
larly, Dr. Evatt’s more recent comments
on Australian Pacific policy will be con-
sidered with special interest by the five
U.S. Senators and by other Americans.
As a committee the Senators—three
Democrats and two Republicans
jointly reported:
The United States has constructed huge
airfields all over the world at tremendous
cost to our people. The use of some of
these fields in the future may be just as
essential to our security as battleships or
divisions. We have no post-war rights of
access to these fields outside the Western
Hemisphere at the present time. These
rights of access are also indispensable to
the vitally important growth of commercial
aviation.
Individual statements were more
pointed. Declaring that “the British have
a definite foreign policy with respect to
every corner of the globe,” whereas
Americans had none extending “longer
than six months after the conclusion of
the war,” Senator Russell (Democrat, of
the Senate Committee of Naval Affairs)
insisted that Americans could not afford
“to rely upon even so splendid an ally as
the United Kingdom” to protect all their
interests.
Certainly we [Americans] occupy a better
position to negotiate now than we will
after the war is over. We cannot expect to
have sovereignty over all bases that we
have constructed for military purposes, but
we should assure to American enterprise an
equal chance with others in these bases we
have paid for, and the right to operate in
all parts of the world. We have rights in
these [Pacific] islands that are being pur-
chased today with the blood of American
boys.
Regarding New Caledonia —the Aus-
tralian-New Zealand policy towards
which, as stated by Dr. Evatt, is that, in
accordance with “public pledges,” the
full sovereignty of France will be
restored “after victory”—Senator Russell
pointed out that it “has been transformed
by American dollars and American sweat
and sacrifice into an all-but impregnable
fortress,” which would have to be first
reduced before either North or South
America could be safely attacked on the
Pacific side. Therefore, there should be
early negotiations “looking to the acquisi-
tion, by fair and just arrangements, either
to title of all of New Caledonia or per-
petual rights in and to the bases and
facilities we have constructed.” This was
neither “imperialism” nor in derogation
of the terms of the Atlantic Charter, but
a realistic step to prevent another genera-
tion of Americans, who will undoubtedly
still be paying for the present war, from
being compelled to pay again in blood and
treasure taking these islands back from
enemies who may obtain them if we follow
the policy of take-and-abandon after this
war is over.
On the same theme. Senator Chandler
(Democrat,- of the Senate Committee on
Military Affairs) insisted that “we must
talk plainly to our allies now. We must
have them realise that we have adopted
a realistic policy in our dealings with
them.” As to this in the Pacific,
Three things are vitally necessary:
1. Maintenance of our defences in the
strategic area which our military strategists
have found to be necessary in the defence
of this country in line with our commit-
ments.
2. Permanent rights to the use of the air-
fields and harbors for our air transporta-
tion and merchant marine which we have
constructed and improved af great expense
to the people of this country.
3. Equal rights to the trade in this area
with any other country.
In Senator Chandler’s view there
should be no occasion for haggling over
such “equal permanent rights”; it
“should merely be the result of common
courtesy and fairplay in an area that we
are committed to protect—and have pro-
tected from Japanese invasion and have
improved at great expense to our people.
The American people saved the continent
of Australia from being overrun by the
Japanese. It would be foolish for us not
to insist upon a well-anchored and well-
protected supply line to Australia in the
future.”
We have already spent more than
$500,000,000 on airfields and equipment all
over the world. In most places we have
no right except to get out when the war is
over. We have constructed these fields and
placed these installations on land belong-
ing to other countries. It is obvious that
this situation must be remedied, as practi-
cally all of our bases outside of continental
United States are on this basis. We must
hold bases in the islands of the ocean
which, in possession of hostile nations,
would constitute a threat and a menace
to the people of the United States. Many
of these bases have been won by the blood
of American soldiers. The men who are
making the sacrifice want it that way.
One other of the Senators on the
subject—Senator Lodge (Republican, of
the Senate Committee on Military
Affairs); —-
We want no dominance over other-peoples
or races. The places I have in mind can
be secured for us without violation of this
principle, because they are all so sparsely
populated. American blood has been shed
to get these places. Some of these places
must remain in American hands. I devoutly
hope for effective international co-opera-
tion to keep the peace. We cannot, how-
ever, assume that this relieves us of the
responsibility of maintaining an adequate,
a model and a forward-looking military
establishment.
All of these views were expressed
before the Canberra Conference decided
that
The two Governments [Australian and
New Zealand] accept as a recognised prin-
ciple of international practice that the con-
struction and use in time of war by any
Power of naval, military or air installations
in any territory under the sovereignty or
control of another Power does not in itself
afford any basis for territorial claims or
rights of sovereignty or control after the
completion of hostilities.
Neither that clause nor any other in
the Canberra Agreement was supposed
by anybody taking an impartial view to
represent absolute finality. The Can-
berra Agreement did not, as has been
wrongly represented by Mr. Keith Mur-
doch, claim “to settle the future of her
[Britain’s] colonies and our Allies’
colonies.” It merely set forth the jointly-
accepted Australian and New Zealand
policy on these matters. It is one thing
to agree, in accord with past international
practice, that construction of war instal-
lations does not in itself afford a basis
for territorial and other claims. It is
quite another thing, and a wide misrepre-
sentation, to suggest that such a declara-
tion of principle rules out future negoti-
ation between the countries concerned.
Negotiation there will be; and if it can
lead to mutual understandings on the
sharing of bases, naval and air, and such-
like defence measures, that cannot help
but be beneficial to all concerned. If
there is to be anything like lasting
security in the Pacific against the possi-
bility of future Asiatic attack, there must
be such a sharing.
Mr. Murdoch’s suggestion for the
handing over to America of “New
Britain and the easternmost section of
German Papua” is best treated as a mere
piece of flamboyant evening newspaper
stunting. Not the most irresponsible
quarters in, America would put it forward,
and nobody at all there has done so.
That an Australian can suggest it may be
one of the results of the practice of keep-
ing dark as possible the great share taken
by the A.I.F. in the fighting in the north.
There is an appeal of Australian senti-
ment here, as there is a like American
interest in the U.S. Senators’ views on
the future of Pacific islands which
Americans have fought for and won back
from the Japs. Apart from that potent
matter of sentiment, there is the very
close self-interest of Australia as a
Pacific nation. No other country has a
comparable self-interest in New Britain
and Papua.
The Australian-New Zealand policy on
New Caledonia is as soundly justified by
the advantage to all concerned in having
a revived, friendly France when the war
is over —and a strong France ; impossible
if the French were parted from their
Pacific and other former possessions by
anybody.
A clause in the Canberra Agreement on
the part to be taken by Australia and New
Zealand jointly in future “policing” of
the Pacific indicates that both will seek
assurances on the defence measures to
be taken in these areas by their owners.
What Americans might well have doubt
about is the ability of Australia and
New Zealand to protect areas the
protection of which Americans re-
gard as vital to their own security. For
all the probable good intentions and the
talk of “policing,” there is no correspond-
ing talk of putting military establishment
in these parts on a strong and permanent
basis. Dr. Evatt, practically alone of his
party, has spoken of the necessity of keep-
ing up a strong army, navy and air force;
but what warrant have Americans for
accepting that this will be binding either
on Dr. Evatt’s party or on post-war, tem-
porarily secure Australia?
Perhaps it might be better for all
parties to think over occasionally one of
Mr. Churchill’s earlier prophecies: “We
must remember that it will not be given
to any one nation to achieve full satis-
faction of its individual's wishes.” To
which might be added the rider that,
unless Australia and New Zealand and
the other owning countries involved can
give conclusive evidence of both their
willingness and ability to protect the
areas in dispute, the degree of satisfaction
to be divided up in the Pacific will most
likely be finally measured by Uncle Sam,
who, after all, will be the one most
strongly in possession when the peace
arrives.
Meanwhile, every one of the Allied
countries with Pacific interests will no
doubt heartily approve of the proposal
advanced by Mr. Walter Lippmann that
the United States should annex the
Japanese mandated islands, which, also,
would have overwhelming support in
America just now. The one development
that could be disastrous would be the
withdrawing of Americans back to their
own continent in an isolationist revival,
though the air threat has done much to
make that highly unlikely.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Trade on Trial.
One fact made clear to N.S.W. people
who resort to bars by the shocking series
of adulteration and black-market cases —
not, of course, confined to N.S.W. nor
has a tithe of the disgusting story been
told—is that N.S.W. licensing law and
practice give them no real protection
against plunderers and poisoners. An-
other fact, especially interesting to the
many thousands of Australians who are
making sacrifices to serve their country,
is uiat very young men have been per-
mitted to get their living by hanging
round pubs, some in joints which have
become notorious. It calls for a Man-
pdwer statement which should be made
through Parliament.
In the Waterhouse case a woman who
pleaded guilty to the sale of adulterated
wine, vile stuff bought from an M.I.A.
Italian, was fined a paltry £2O, though it
was her second offence. When she was
about to be convicted a third time, which
would have meant forfeiture of her hotel
license, the Metropolitan Licensing Court
transferred it to one of her sons, aged
23, described as “grazier” and book-
maker, on' condition that the mother, a
brother (also under 30), and an uncle
under sentence (subject to appeal) for hav-
ing had in his possession a vast quantity
of goods reasonably suspected of having
been stolen were refused harborage on
the premises, and that he himself did not
make a book there. And two of the four
accused in a conspiracy case, the charge
being that they conspired to obtain and
sell, mostly to service men, spirits and
wine at black-market prices, were pre-
sented as David Blank, hotelkeeper,. 24,
and Gordon Casey, hotelkeeper, 24,
though some reports made them a year
or two older.
The Waterhouse joint was mentioned
in the conspiracy case. There was a
reference to grog having been “obtained
from time to time from ‘W,’ which
meant Waterhouse, who kept a hotel at
North Sydney,” and wine from “an
Italian in the irrigation area” —presuml-
- the one concerned in the Water-
house case. But mostly supplies were got
from country publicans at black-market
prices, and sold at a great deal more,
chiefly to service men.
The Crown case was that Kempley,
an accountant, and Blank got hold of the
Macquarie Hotel in Wentworth-avenue,
appointing one Laidlaw as manager, and
then became possessed of the Sussex
Hotel, with Casey as manager on a salary
and 3 p.c. on all black-market sales —
he made £5O or £6O a week that way.
The Criterion Hotel was added to the
string. Black-market stuff was kept
separate from legitimate stock, being
designated “8.M.” in a paper in Kemp-
ley’s handwriting. Another entry was
“additional b.m., value £3900.”
The jury found the four guilty, and
Justice Halse Rogers sentenced all to im-
prisonment ; Laidlaw for 12 months,
Casey for two years, Kempley and Blank
for three years—the maximum. Not
nearly enough, most people would say,
but severe compared with a Police Court
penalty imposed on a Wollongong publi-
can convicted of having sold adulterated
rum and kept illicit spirits, a sample of
which contained copper salts and copper
oxide —£115.
Unrelated to these cases, but an
absorbing topic in Perth, was the affair
of the Gormans, son and father. Lavus
O’Connell Gorman, aged 33, lawyer and
“former legal officer to the Man-power
directorate at Perth,” was sentenced to
18 months’ imprisonment for having
“attempted to obtain a bribe of £lOO
from Hudson Taylor in regard to an
application of Man-power regulations”
Thomas Gorman, his father, a caterer
with an old connection with the Trade
and with the fringe of Labor politics.
Was sentenced to keep him company for
a year for attempted juror-squaring in the
son’s case, and Thomas Deane, licensee
of the Central Hotel, Perth, was con-
victed on two similar charges, the sen-
tences being “15 months’ concurrent.”
In a very real sense the Trade itself is
on its trial. Unless its putrid elements
are purged, and the decent elements
should be active in the good work, it may
wake up one morning and find its occu-
pation gone.
Resident Since 1940.
“A.A.” from Melbourne:
In B. 6/2/ ’44 reference was made to the un-
desirability of admitting “masses of Continental
Jews” to this country. In the event of such an
undesirable happening, the migrants would at
least—it is presumed —be submitted to the usual
tests as to health, past record and ability to
sustain themselves without becoming a charge
on the community. They might, and probably
would, after the usual probationary period of
five years, apply for and be granted naturalisa-
tion and full British citizenship and a vote.
The conditions precedent are the absolute mini-
mum which should be applied to all foreigners.
Jew or Gentile, seeking admission.
In September, 40, a vessel disembarked in
Australia some hundreds of persons classed as
enemy aliens, largely German Jews, rounded up
in the South of England after Dunkirk, when in-
vasion of that area, seemed a certainty Con-
ditions of their admission to Australia were that
cost of transport, maintenance and guarding
should be borne by Great Britain, and that they
should be interned here and shipped away at the
end of hostilities. Hundreds have now been re-
leased, some into the Labor Corps, to wear full
Australian uniform, and others to reopen shops
and businesses closed by men called into the
services.
These internees, I repeat, were brought to
Australia at the request of the British Govern-
ment. They arrived under armed guard, and
were detained in wired and guarded camps.
They were not subject to the immigration laws
or regulations, or any procedure thereunder.
Numbers of them have, by newspaper advertise-
ment, given notice of intention to apply for
naturalisation, and the irony of it is that they
give their residential qualification in Australia
as three years and three months, that period co-
inciding with their arrival under armed guard.
There is a saying in Melbourne that “the
English have St. George, the Scots St. Andrew,
the Irish St. Patrick, and the Jews St. Kilda.”
Nasty, perhaps, but it gives point to the fact
that these particular “migrants” characteristically
herd together and are non-absorptive under any
conditions. Parts of Sydney—Bondi and Belle- ,
vue Hill have been mentioned—can furnish sup-
porting evidence.
rr6T6rGBICG 111 IWO
It came out last-week that Mr. Roose-
velt had directed “beads of Govern-
ment departments and the Civil Service
Commission” to give “preference of em-
ployment to veterans of the present war,”
and had requested the House “to enact
legislation giving veterans of the present
war exclusive opportunities for employ-
ment in certain specified Federal posi-
tions” over which Congress has control.
The message contained this passage:—
Those who are fighting for the life of the
nation today will, upon return to civil life,
be in a position to make a unique contribu-
tion to the administration of the Govern-
ment. We should take full advantage of
ims ‘ , , , . . ,
And so we should in Australia, where,
according to Minister Holloway, since
the outbreak of war 100,000 men have
i j• -i , rt M o
been discharged from the fighting forces.
But does Federal Labor propose to take
“full advantage of this,” or to “direct”
heads of Government departments and
the Public Service Commission to give
preference of employment to veterans?
Not it!
A few days before the President issued
his direction and message Old Digger
Brand moved the adjournment of the
Senate as a protest against the Govem-
u r ° , , cUollv-
ment s procrastination and shilly-shally
ing on the question of preference to re-
turned service men.” Objecting speeches
ma de by Senators Tangney and
. , A , rtf-f-r-
Amour, the lady, who supports p
ence to unionists, declaring that preter-
ence to one section” (i.e., fighting men)
“unfair” “Who is to sav ” the
was . unfair WUO IS to say u
gentleman asked, that the man W* lo ,
the gun is better than the man who made
it?” He was promptly and most em-
_Lof;„Q]i,r u,, p n Huish
pnatically answered by R. U. tiais. ,
Queensland president of the K.0.L.. .
The man who makes the gun may be the
equal, physically and mentally, of the man
who fires the gun. The resemblance ends
there.
xi,e man who makes the gun works his
regular shifts, has his home to go to and
enjoys life as much as he ever did, except
f or a f ew restrictions which may prove a
little irksome. He suffers none of the dis-
comforts of the man who fires the gun.
He is not on duty for 24 hours of every
day like the front-line soldier, and he does
no t risk his life daily, like the man who
fires the gun, who cannot go on strike when
everything does not go right with him.
There must be some degree of preference
for the man who risks his life at 6s. a day
for the privilege of firing the gun. There, is
a big difference between the individuals;
consequently there must be a difference in
the treatment between the individuals when
the war is over.
i n the same week the inter-State exe-
cutive of the A.C.T.U. gave the “pro-
crastinating and shilly-shallying” Gov-
eminent its orders. The orders were
conveyed in a resolution to the effect
that “preference to ex-service personnel
is not in the interests of the nation and
should be abandoned.”
This rigmarole preceded it:
That, in view of the all-embracing nature
of the present war, the contribution of
n r JrmB about an
' n
1
Lr anri
L-operatioS between the <
munity and the members of t ■ i : ; -
gether with the need for such .g . .
to be carried over into the post-war period,
this executive is of opinion that no section
of the community is entitled to or can be
given any privilege or preference for their
war-time service in respect of post-war em-
ployment.
Unionists excepted, of course. Chronic
strikers and absentees included, they are
to get preference, that being A.C.T.U.
policy, and they are to pay taxes to and
receive orders from union, bosses,
(Continued on page 8.)
“TO YOU FROM FAILING HANDS WE PASS THE BUCK—WE MEAN THE PICK.”
“Don’t weaken, Mr. Mighell—we’re behind you!”


WOLFE'S
< z^iromdtm r
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
W.S.IG6
'Si
m
-
mi
C. S.R. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
pl( S#e«
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division), u
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - P^ TH
P. I-40.
many of them Communists, who howled
for peace with a then-victorious Hitler
and have since squealed for a Second
Front, which not one of them ever pro-
posed to attend.
Mr. Roosevelt knows what is due to
the men who offer all, and in many cases
give all, for their country; the Federal
Labor party and the A.C.T.U. executive
haven’t even begun to learn.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Shout with the larger mob!” was Mr.
Pickwick’s prescription at the Eatanswill
election. “Crawl to the crowd you fear
most!” is the motto of the Cut-and-Run
Government and the Miners’ Federation
bosses in N.S.W. coal matters.
Caucus objecting to the powers con-
ferred on Commissioner Mighell in the
Coal Bill, the Government altered the
thing by placing Mighell “under Minis-
terial ‘control,’ ” as he has been all along.
Obliged to make some sort of a decision
on the military call-up of South Coast
strikers, the Miners’ Fed. bosses procras-
tinated for five days and then went to
Canberra —by car! Back in Sydney, they
“ordered” the strikers to return to their
pits, “no man to do the work of any of
those called up.” The strikers refused
to return on that condition or any other,
save total and ignominious surrender by
the Cut-and-Run Government. Freez-
ing of their bank accounts and those of
their lodges and union should follow,
and, armed with the necessary power,
Mighell would do it like a shot. But he
is “under Ministerial control.” 1
Chifley’s exposition of his pay-as-you-
earn scheme was no clearer than mud.
Pay-as-you-earn, applicable to all wage-
and salary-earners and without a catch in
it, is to be introduced in Britain next
month. Chifley and the Caucus ought
to have a good look at the British plan
before they go on with their wretched
imitation.
Old Tom Crawford, often missing
when a Thursday or Friday division is
taken in the Senate, has been joined in
the disappearance act by old Tom Arthur.
During a recent Labor search for Arthur
another “A” Senator had to talk against
time without his teeth, and all to no
avail. Wanted again for a Coal Bill vote,
Arthur was rounded up at a pub, where
he had “gone for a discussion on per-
sonal matters,” He has to retire on June
30. Crawford can go on drawing his
£lOOO p.a. for another three years.
When Joe Lyons was P.M., C. W.
Grant and H. J. M. Payne were two of
the six Tas. Senators and G. J. Bell was
Speaker. Since it reassembled on Feb-
ruary 9 Parliament has had to express its
regrets to the relatives of Grant, Payne
and Bell, all dead since December 13.
Bell became member for Darwin in 1919,
beating Lyons, then a Labor man, and,
with his warm approval, was succeeded
by Mrs. Lyons last August,
Speaking on the Coal Bill, Johnson, the
A.W.U. man from Kalgoorlie, said “the
leaders of the miners haven’t the courage
to fight inside their unions,” a self-
evident proposition. As for the miners,
“they have everything to lose by bringing
about the downfall of the trade-union
movement and by trying to wreck the
Government.” Nothing about the coun-
try. Trade-union movement first. Gov-
ernment second, country not even men-
tioned.
A report on the Commonwealth elec-
tions shows that 98.5 p.c. of the men
enrolled (2,123,225) and 94.24 p.c. of the
women (2,169,430) received ballot papers,
the percentage for both sexes being the
highest on record. But although Curtin
has said there are 850,000 men in uni-
form the estimated number of votes cast
by service men was only 417,831, women
accounting for 16,707. This raises doubts
as to the arrangements made for taking
and receiving service men’s votes, and the
doubt should be resolved. The party in
office has been fond of claiming that an
overpowering majority of the men in uni-
form voted for it.
“The Right to Strike is a dearly-won
prerogative of the working class, written
indelibly in the hearts and minds of all
true democrats
“Care must be taken in differentiation be-
tween a strike caused by irresponsibles and
stoppages caused through genuine mass
frustration.”
From some Communist rag? No. from
THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND HUGHES.
(Drawn before the Dean broke it.)
the “Standard Weekly,” N.S.W, organ of
the Australian Labor party, in office in
the Commonwealth and four States
and supposed to have abandoned strikes
for industrial arbitration many years
ago. Another “Standard Weekly” “argu-
ment” is that “the soldiers go on
strike when they are A.W.L.,” but that
“dearly-won prerogative” is not accepted
in any army. soldiers exercise it
on the field of battle. in all armies
is called desertion in the face of the
enemy, and in all except one or two it.
is punishable with death.
Militarily the war is going well —so
well in the Pacific that even N.S.W. coal-
miners might be expected to show some
gratitude to the men who are digging
the Jap out of the haunts from which
he threatened the continent and deso-
lated Darwin and Broome. Politically,
it is not going so well. Signs of this are
Turkey’s definite refusal to become a
belligerent and the explosions in South
America, which, it is feared in the U.S.A.,
may extend from Argentina and Bolivia
to Chile and Peru. They are loosely attri-
buted to Axis agitation, but may con-
ceivably be the outcome of.fears and
resentments bred of events in Italy and
of the acceptance of Moscow policy in
Poland, the Baltic States and Yugoslavia.
When Churchill announced in the Com-
mons that his Government would sup-
port the Russian claims in Poland, Mc-
Govern interjected “So you have become
Stalin’s Charlie McCarthy?” Now the
U.S.S.R. is to get a\ third of the Italian
fleet.
Six separate committees are investi-
gating the housing situation in Victoria,
but it is now pretty well established that
there is a round shortage of 50,000
houses, and that the deficiency is being
increased at the rate of 10,000 a year.
Nothing much is being done about the
matter, and Dunstan blames Federal re-
strictions, with some justification. But
additions are being made to the ornate
new police headquarters in Melbourne,
and alterations have been made to Caul-
field racecourse. Horse-racing is a re-
ligion in Dunstan’s State.
To the artless astonishment of young
Mr. Aldridge, who obviously had his leg
pulled—a frequent experience of Leftist
reporters since 1937 —Moscow, influenced
by Washington, offered Finland peace
terms. They looked fairly liberal, except
on the main point, which was that the
Finns would have to choose between fight-
ing Russians and fighting Germans. In his
comfortable quarters in Sydney Professor
Roberts can’t understand why they hesi-
tate.
The Sydney Minister for Transport, a
Mr. Owe Sullivan, who has the softest of
jobs, announces that after the war trams
will be replaced by motor-buses. It means
not only that the N.S.W. coal trade
will lose another market, though this is
a feature which will not worry many,
but that nearly all of £9,000,000 of good
borrowed money sunk in Government
tramways will go west. Nor is that all;
the Owe Sullivan issues a threat that
regulations and restrictions which many
people find irksome will continue after
the war. And they will—if the electors
continue to return Owe Sullivans and
Wards.
Dunstan decided that no good would
result from conceding Cain’s request for
a special session to discuss busLUres. He
was right there. But, then, what is the
good of State Parliaments?
U.S. war supplies sent to Russia under
Lend-Lease, October, 1941, to December,
1943:
7800 aircraft, 4700 tanks and tank de-
stroyers, 170,000 trucks, 33,000 jeeps, nearly
25.000 other vehicles, over 6,000,000 pairs
of army boots, 1,350,000 tons of steel,
384.000 tons of aluminium, copper and
other metals, 740,000 tons of aviation petrol
and lubricating oil, 145,000 tons of refinery
equipment, 177,000 tons of explosives,
$400,000,000 worth of industrial equipment,
machinery and machine tools, and
2.250.000 tons of food and 9000 tons of
seed.
One comment on the report is that it was
meant as a reminder to Moscow that it
musn’t play a lone hand in Finland and
Poland. It may also have been meant as
a reminder to the ill-conditioned Wards.
Working up a domestic tragedy on his
own account, Thornton, boss of the Red
Racket, said his mail had suffered from
the attentions of somebody or other.
Possibly a union member looking for a
balance sheet,
“All these years,” said Senator Dicky
Darcey, back on the old stand and dis-
coursing on his one subject, “I have been
trying to hammer into the heads of Sena-
tors opposite the necessity to understand
our present financial system, because it
is the greatest racket in the world.” And
unhappily Dicky has only another four
months in which to go on hammering.
Had he been less of a bore he mightn’t
be counting the days of his expiring
glory as the one “endorsed” Labor Sena-
tor who was licked last August.
Queensland’s Health and Home Affairs
Minister Hanlon was unwontedly silent
when he learned that T. R. Groom was
the Q.P.P. choice for the Ithaca Assem-
bly seat. Hanlon has held Ithaca since
1926. Groom beat Labor for it in the
municipal counterpart last year—the
boundaries are the same.
In expansive moments Labor politicians
are given to asserting that their party and
programme are “just like Roosevelt’s.”
They have certainly borrowed part of the
President’s social security programme,
though not the contributory part, and
have added free medicine on their own
account. So far only doctors’ prescrip-
tions are to be free, but when pressure
groups get to work aspirin tablets, head-
ache powders and patent medicines are
sure to be added; indeed, the creation
of a new breed of medicine millionaires
may be expected.
It has seriously been suggested that
among next year’s entries for the Wynne
landscape prize at Sydney Art Gallery
should be a picture of the N.S.W. coal-
fields. An apt title would be “Seat of
Government, Australia.”


r
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
General Montgomery’s birthplace con-
tinues to be given as Ireland in Australian
newspapers. Montgomery settled the
matter in a telegraphed reply to a Lon-
don representative of N.Y. “News”:
“My birthplace St, Mark’s Vicarage,
Kennington Oval, London.”
Seldom, if ever, has a barrister been
admitted to the Victorian Bar with as
remarkable a record as that of Dr. P. L.
Henderson, one of the batch over whom
it was new C.J. Edmund Herring’s first
job to perform the initial ritual. Chief
engineer of Monsanto (Aust.) Pty., and
consulting engineer to Nicholas Pty.,
Australian Fish Derivatives Pty. and
Excelite Resins Pty., the new barrister
has the degrees of Doctor of Philosophy
and Engineering, of Cambridge, and
Master of Engineering and" Diploma of
Science, of Sydney; is president of the
Australian Society of Instrument Tech-
nology, member of the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers (London) and the
Institute of Engineers of Australia. Start-
ing in' the N.S.W. Railways, he got leave
to enter Cambridge in 1930 as the first
Charles Rolling Travelling Scholar in
engineering. He was engaged as an engi-
neer on the Sydney harbor bridge and the
Sydney underground railways, and de-
signed the first English railway coach
equipped with electrically-welded under-
frames and bogies. Taking a fancy to the
law, in his spare time between 1936 and
1940 he studied at the Middle Temple.
Rev. Kolinio Saukuru, of Millingimbi
Mission, Northern Australia, was a note
of color at the Methodist Conference in
Melbourne. He is a burly six-foot
Fijian who was educated at the Methodist
Missionary College in Fiji. As well as
his theological equipment he has his
engineer’s and master’s certificate for
navigating island schooners and a degree
in agriculture. Seven years ago he elected
to save souls in Northern Australia, and
last year saved the lives of two R.A.A.F.
fliers. Commander F. W. B. Mann and
Sergeant Harben, who made a forced
landing in a swamp in Arnhem Land with
their Beaufighter full of bullets.
Ken Milne, Adelaide architect, and
grandson of a leading local politician of
last century, has had the unusual tribute
from his profession of seeing his own
home chosen for the annual prize it
gives. The profession, after calling in
McCubbin, of the National Gallery,
Goodchild, of the Arts and Crafts, and
Lindsay, Architect-in-Chief, agreed that
the Milntf home has everything it should
have —“efficient and economical use of
the site, correct technique, compact and
economical planning, decoration dis-
tinctive, fittings first-class.”
“Ek D.” surveys a clan;
A strong movement is afoot among the friends
of the Cameron clan to induce all prominent
members to wear identification badges explain-
ing which Cameron they happen to be. It was
bad enough before the war, but it is becoming
intolerable. Prior to 1939 nothing worse could
happen to the scribe who wrote of the deeds
of Lt.-Col. Donald Cameron —now chairman of
the R.A.A.F. Recruiting Committee —than a
mild protest from him that Lieut.-Col. Donald
Cameron from Scone was the real Man from
Lochiel. Since then a perfect forest of Camerons
seems to have grown up—the first D.S.O. won
by an A.I.F. man in this war went to a Cameron.
And Clan Cameron has sent a cable to Lochiel
passing on congratulations to another Cameron
who won the last Empire V.C. for an attempt
to remove the German battleship out of
a Norwegian fiord. The fact that this gallant
descendant of Black Ewen (who charged at
Killiecrankie in his bare feet) is in a prison
camp has not relieved the confusion which exists
in Australia, where well-wishers insist on be-
lieving that Donald Cameron, the R.A.A.F.’s
foster-father, who looks like the fighting chief-
tain he is, is identical with Senator Donald
Cameron, Minister for Aircraft Production, who
looks nothing like a fighting chieftain, though he
was in the Boer War. Even Archie Cameron, of
Barker, was warmly hailed the other day in a
public place by a State Labor Premier with the
greeting: “How are you, Senator?” But possibly
the good Premier had become confused by the
sudden access of respect felt for the man from
Barker by the young Etonians of the peahen
press, who have ceased to refer to him with
Old World courtesy as “snipe-nosed Archie
Cameron” and who even concede him a
“Mister” since he operated on the censorship
ulcer with a verbal claymore.
In accordance with what is almost a
tradition, a doctor succeeds a doctor as
president of Melbourne Cricket Club,
Dr. W. C, McClelland, senior vice-presi-
dent, taking the place of the late Dr.
Ramsay Mailer. Dr. McClelland has
been a committeeman since 1910. Presi-
dent of the Football League, he played
for Melbourne from 1899 to 1904, and
was its captain for three years.
Chairman of the British Overseas Air-
ways Corporation Lord Knollys is mov-
ing round the earth these days at the
whizzing speed Frith’s depiction suggests.
Before dropping in on Sydney last week
he’d flown 18,000 miles in the month
since leaving England, and before that
had flown 40,000. One curious statement
he made to a gathering of Sydneysiders
was that people in England aren’t “air-
minded.” .It seemed odd in view of the
magnificent performance of the R.A.F.
and the fact that quarter of a million
English acres are now aerodromes. Lord
Knollys explained that English people
know ’planes rather too well, and not in
the best sort of way—’planes come over
BRITISH AIRWAYS BOSS.
them to drop bombs, to kill and cause
destruction while, on the other hand, of
~ , ,
their ’ Pj an f s that the y se | t 0"
wards the Continent many don t come
back. This sort of familiarity doesn t
produce either a particular fondness for
’planes or confidence in them. Another
odd j tem was Lord Knollys’s mention of
h British > plane he travelled in landing
, T . , , .. • nri tr .
at Lisbon and being followed in on to
the same neutral tarmac by a German
’plane. The crews didn’t get together and
talk to each other. “Why,” someone
p resen t asked ; “is that by order of the
corporation? ” “Oh, no, no,” Lord
7 • , « T .. »
Knollys said. Isn t doi. .
Joshua Tilley Stops, who has been re-
piaced by knight John Morris, Tas-
manian chief Justice as Chancellor of
. TT . . T iinivoroltu
Tasmania University, is a Tas. University
institution. He got his LL.B. there in
1896, and has had 44 years on the coun-
cj] as Chancellor for the past 11. Also,
h been • tb i e profession
p to P s bas been m me legal proression
longer than any other Hobart practitioner
still on the job.
Diffe . ring f ™ arkabl v n h I his , £ ™j
accounts of actions in which Australians
took part up north, accounts of the
Admiralty Islands landings named the
rtllfcts , ndbia rio officers rm the snot
outstanding U.b. officers on me spot,
from General MacArthur to the first man
ashore First-Lieutenant Frank Hen-
shaw, of the Fifth Cavalry Regiment,
from Alice, Texas, who was awarded a
D.S.C. by General MacArthur. Another
in the listing was Lieut.-Gen. Walter
Krueger, Commander of U.S. land forces
in the South-west Pacific. “Not unusually
for the American Army,” a U.S. news-
paper has said, “Krueger is foreign-born.
He came to the U.S. from West Prussia
at eight.” Krueger, who speaks four
languages fluently, started soldiering
early, volunteering at 17 for the Spanish-
American war. “Something of a humor-
ist, more of a scholar, most of a soldier,”
he came to these parts a year ago, when
General MacArthur specially requested
him as commander of the then newly-
formed Sixth Army.
Elected, president of the Methodist
Conference in N.S.W., Rev. A. E. Walker
is the third of his family to fill a Metho-
dist presidential chair in Australia. He
was one of the earliest to go in for broad-
casting church services in Sydney.
Walter Cawdell (B. 1/3/’44) had a
warm send-off, plus a 200-guinea offering,
on retiring from the E., S, and A. Bank
managership in Adelaide. He says he
has been stationed in five States during
his 45 years of banking, the last 13 in
S.A., where he means to settle. Walter
Duncan, Lavington Bonython, and Lord
Mayor Walker joined in praising him,
and in welcoming his successor, H. R.
Gledhill; and Ewing, general manager
of the E., S. and A,, visited Adelaide for
the occasion.
Going to Singapore on a British
Government publicity job before war
started up that way, Australian journa-
list C. E. Sayers now becomes Director-
General of the British Ministry of Infor-
mation’s Far East Bureau. Before join-
ing the Australian Department of Infor-
mation he worked on newspapers in
N.S.W., Queensland and Victoria.
Lieutenant-Colonel D. Claude Robert-
son, appointed State Government nomi-
nee and chairman of the Victorian Dis-
charged Servicemen’s Preference Board,
brings a lifetime of legal and military ex-
perience to his new job. One year a lawyer
when the last war broke, he served overseas
from 1914 to 1918, was one of the tor-
pedoed Ballarat’s survivors, and was in
the legal department of the army from
1923 until the present outbreak, when
he became group legal officer to No. 13
p.o.w. camp. He was one of the original
members of the R.S.L. war service fund
executive and a member of the State
council.
William Fox Longley Ward, deputy-
governor of the M.L. Reserve Bank
since its inception in 1934, and acting-
head since Leslie Lefeaux’s term expired,
succeeds* to the governorship. He has
been associated with banking (with a two
years’ interregnum after his retirement in
1932) for 57 years, having joined the staff
of the ’Asia at Wanganui in 1887 at the
age of 16. He was an inspector when he
quit that bank’s service. Now, at 73,
be not only bosses the Reserve Bank but
is chairman of the Mortgagors’ Relief
Committee. *
Previously reported missing, now be-
lieved to be dead, Flight-Lieutenant W. J.
Dowling was captain of a Sunderland
flying-boat which achieved fame. After
searching the Bay of Biscay for the ’plane
in which Leslie Howard, the film actor,
was shot down, it had a four-hour fight
with eight Junkers, five of which were
brought down and the others all damaged.
Dowling was shortly afterwards over-
whelmed by a huge force of Junkers
after shooting down eight of them. Born
at Echuca (Vic.), he was educated at and
rowed for Xavier College, Melbourne.
C. F. Eggleston, who moves to the
Walkerville parish in suburban Adel-
aide, is an Anglican Englishman who has
been in Australia since his youth, getting
his theological training in Ballarat, and
after service at Warrnambool (Vic.) re-
turning to Ballarat Cathedral for the
past nine years. Walkerville is the parish
where Bishop Wilson rested between
Melanesia and Westralia,
Into the silence:
At Burnie (Tas.), at 72, knight George Bell,
Speaker m the House of Reps, from 1934 to
1940, and before he went info politics in 1919
a distinguished soldier of two wars. Born at
Sale (Vic.), he went to the Boer War with the
Victorian Mounted Rifles, was badly wounded,
twice mentioned in dispatches and won the
D.S.O. A Light Horseman in 1914-18, he re-
ceived the C.M.G. after service on Gallipoli and
in Sinai and Palestine. He represented Darwin
(Tas.) in the Reps., first from 1919 to 1922,
then from 1925 on to 1943, when failing health
caused his retirement. He was knighted
(K.C.M.G.) in 1941.
At 67, well-known Sydney solicitor Archibald
Walter Gardner. One of his briefs was repre-
senting plaintiff in Rufe Naylor v. A.J.C. a few
years ago.
In Hobart, at. 50, Stanley Deegan, the Speck’s
Superintendent of Mails. He served in Egypt
and France in 1914-18.
At 67, knight Hubert Ostler, one of the
brainiest of M.L. Supreme Court Judges. He
was associate to Chief Justice Robert Stout from
1903 to 1907, and for three years was editor
of the M.L. Law Reports, while practising as
a barrister; then was appointed Crown Prose-
cutor and Crown Solicitor in Wellington. In
1915 he joined the Auckland firm of Jackson,
Russell and Tonks, and in 1923 went to Eng-
land and successfully prosecuted a case of
appeal before the Privy Council involving an
insurance of £lO,OOO.
At 78, Harold B. Lusk, Crown Prosecutor at
Napier (M.L.). Sixty years ago he was one
of M.L.’s star cricketers and once represented
M.L. against Australia.
At 75, Edward George Barrymore (“Cestus”),
sporting and general writer of the Townsville
“Daily Register" and “North Queensland Regis-
ter” for the past 25 years. A Brisbane native,
he had a nice descriptive touch with the pen
which, whether applied to a story of pioneers,
a leading article or a turf item, gave it vividness.
His wife, who survives him, was formely Freda
Sternberg, herself a well-known journalist and
onetime secretary to Melba.
At Caulfield Military Hospital, Melbourne,
Colin Chisholm, a Digger and a former black-
and-white artist. He was the third generation
of the name to live in Maryborough, the first
being Colin Chisholm, who joined in the gold
rush of 1854. A. H. Chisholm, ornithologist,
of the “Argus,” is a brother.
In Brisbane, at 63, J. M. Gregson. Born
at Bairnsdale (Vic.) and educated at Wesley,
he joined Howard Smith 45 years back and was
in Queensland with the firm for 37 years,
Brisbane manager since 1931. He was doing a
fine job right up to the end as chairman of the
Brisbane Committee of the Shipping Control
Board.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 60, Rabbi Solomon
Katz, who arrived from New Rochelle, New
York, in 1931, but had spent from 1911 to 1920
as assistant at Auckland before going to the
U.S.A. A native of Bessarabia, he was official
Jewish chaplain to the American forces in M.L.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 78, A. C. Hanlon,
M.L.’s greatest criminal advocate of his day.
Dunedin-born and barrister and solicitor since
1888, he published an autobiography about five
years ago, Random Recollections, packed with
interesting history. He was keen on yachting
and racing.
In Hollywood, Maorilander Rupert Julian, a
big figure as film actor and producer in the
days of the silent movies. Born in M.L. in
1885 he was being educated for the priesthood,
but, deciding on a theatrical career, he went to
Australia when 18 and toured with George Rig-
nold, Julius Knight, Johnny Sheridan and
Beatrice Holloway. Serving in the Boer War,
he was taken prisoner.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; The refusal of the Government
to squelch, with its usual inflexible stern-
ness, the strike of the ladies of the Can-
berra Volunteer Air Observation Post
may well imperil the nation. At any
moment a Jap ’plane might get within
2000 miles of Molongloside and, with the
ladies absent from their post, the result
to the throbbing heart and—er —brain of
our country could be catastrophic. And
all because the ladies have no overhead
protection from the sun. Who could
remain unmoved at the heroic words
of one stout upholder of the rights
of women air-spotters to have unsun-
scorched complexions: “We were all as
solid as a rock!” Her addendum that
“there were no scabs” must surely have
evoked tumultuous applause at the Trades
Hall. I can vividly envisage these rock-
like ladies, with eyes deliberately turned
away from the circumambient skies,
assembled on their roof-top, downing
teacups and bridge-markers and, with a
concerted cry of “One out, all out!”
marching down from the roof waving a
dusty-pink flag.
* * * ♦
“Pip”: I nominate sentry duty as the
most hopeless and boring job in the
army. Even mess orderly or hygiene
fatigue shows some tangible results for
"The judgment of this Court, two of my learned brethren dissenting,
is that”-
the work done, but pacing a beat is with-
out satisfaction. Early in the night when
there is movement at the station it’s not
but th f ee small hours brin B
that how much longer to go?” feeling,
especially when the ram is pouring down
and mists come creeping out of the jungle,
£' rov^ s u i £ l on the job is common to every
guard (unless in the thick of things) and
most of the stories in relation to sentries,
based on fact, deal with this drowsiness,
The guard, for example, who comes out
of his trance to ask “Halt, who am I?”
is a well-known rookie figure, and often
a late homecomer, stumbling on the
sentry, has demanded “Who goes there?”
and got the meek reply “It’s only the
guard.” Not a few sentries have been
sorely perplexed by the answer “Foe” to
their challenge. But nobody trifles with
the Commandos, who, theoretically, are
always in action. At a rustle or a strange
shadow they let go a quick burst.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; A curiosity among registra-
tions of multiple births is that of
Maureen and Neil Linton, of Melbourne,
Although they twins, Maureen has
had four birthdays and Neil only one.
The boy was born 70 minutes after mid-
night on February 29, 1940, and his
sister five minutes before the twelfth
hour,
* * * *
“Lawnston”: Taking warning from the
epidemic of white-marble buglers which
broke out in every Australian country
district after the last war the Tasmanian
Government has decided to encourage,
with a £1 for £1 subsidy, the erection of
community halls and hospitals as war
memorials. But there have been a few
good memorials whose appeal is mainly
aesthetic. One is the Shrine of Remem-
brance in Melbourne that cost a quarter
of a million. The stone came from Vic-
torian quarries, the marble from Buchan,
the conception being the work of two
returned soldiers who followed the design
of the tomb of King Mausolus erected at
Halicarnassus 353 b.c. The judge who
used his casting vote in their favor was
John Monash. The sculpture was done
by Paul Montfort. Sydney’s Anzac
memorial, architecture by Bruce Dellit,
sculpture by Rayner Hoff, is another
worth-while memento of the carnage.
* * * *
“P.McM.”; American newspapers and
magazines apparently attach a wide mean-
ing to the word “editor.” The “Reader’s
Digest” claims 47. There are two plain
editors, an executive editor and a manag-
ing editor. Senior editors total seven,
followed by 17 roving editors (possibly
these are the chaps one might meet in
the Pig and Whistle during working
hours), and 19 associate editors.
* * * *
“Taipo”: It is a commonplace that the
Puritan spirit which gained for the British
so many civic liberties has sometimes an
influence on legislation in quite the other
direction. Maoriland liquor laws are a
case in point. It is still legal to sell beer
and spirits, under license, within certain
hours, if nobody considers a nuisance is
thus created and if no customer as a con-
sequence falls “under the influence of
liquor,” but beyond that any contact with
intoxicants seems to be not only illegal
but outlawed. There was a revolt in an
Auckland court the other day when a
lawyer defending a man who had three
dozen bottles of whisky in his house
against a charge of keeping liquor for sale
without a license protested against con-
viction on bare assumption in such cases,
He claimed that his client must be con-
sidered innocent until he was proved
guilty. The police had not proved the
man kept the liquor for sale ; had not
even attempted to do so. Recent Appeal
Court decisions in England, it was
pleaded, had conclusively proved that the
ordinary Common Law rule could not be
set aside in these cases, no matter what
the regulations might say or how many
precedents police magistrates had created.
The S.M. looked surprised, and reserved
his decision.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; A “humorist” questioned
by the police about wearing petty-officer’s
uniform told them “I believe in the
Fiihrer and am out to get military secrets.
Put me in a concentration camp if you
like, but I will escape to Germany.”
Later he said instead that he was merely
a liar. The Court believed that one, but
gave him six months for stealing the uni-
form from a laundry.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Among establishments
which answered the appeal to fly the
Russian flag on Red Army Day was one
which has always stood as the acme of
"W e have bacancies for a fast shearer and a wheatlumper not afraid
of Work.”
conservatism and loyalty to the Throne
and Person. The sight of a huge hammer-
and-sickle flag on the building was almost
too much for old hands and customers,
who went about during the day with
drawn and apprehensive countenances.
However, the clouds have cleared, for the
concern has traded ever since under an
outsize in Royal Standards, floating from
its topmost pinnacle.
♦ * * *
“V. Cluse”: Sydney’s toniest subbub
still suffers various emotions when it
remembers the Commonwealth elections.
Which may explain the following tele-
phone dialogue between a small shop-
keeper and the N.S.W. Egg Board:
5.5. : Any chance of getting some eggs?
We haven’t had any since
Egg Board Voice: Sorry. No eggs avail-
able for the Eastern Suburbs.
5.5. : But I know you’ve sent eggs out
to
E.B.V. (firmly): No eggs for Eastern
Suburbs.
5.5. (suddenly shrill): Yes, and I know
why! Just because we didn’t elect your
Jessie Street!
And before the Egg Board could deny
it the telephone was slammed down in
its ear.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; As one of the very few
Australians now living who in 1880 saw
“The Pirates of Penzance” performed at
the Opera Comique, London, I noted the
comiqg of 1944 with satisfaction.
Frederic, the hero, was bound apprentice
till his “21st birthday,” and as he was
born on the 29th of February he found
that he was bound till 1940, a date which
then seemed as remote and fantastic to
all of us as a.d. 2000 seems today. But
nobody then seems to have noted that
1900 would not be a leap year. In fact,
Mark Makeham wrote a clever skit four
years ago showing the aged lovers re-
united. But, to be accurate, the date
arrived at the end of February this year.
jjj j|j jjc
“Wodgil”: In the U.S.A., as in Aus-
tralia, there is a sporadic agitation for
a uniform divorce law.. One difficulty
there which does not exist here is that
there is a State, South Carolina, which
bans divorce; at the other end of the
scale is Nevada, which “will grant a
divorce almost at the drop of a hat.” A
worse obstacle is the Constitution, which
requires Constitutional amendments to be
ratified by 36 States. In a 1942 judg-
ment of the U.S. Supreme Court it was
laid down that Reno divorces —Austra-
lians have been parties to them —are valid
and must be upheld by the Courts of
other States. A New York State Judge,
however, recently pronounced a Reno
divorce null and void on the ground that
the petitioner, a woman, was not domi-
ciled in Nevada, having gone to Reno
solely to get a divorce, meanwhile retain-
ing a New York domicile by paying rent.
The N.Y. “Daily News” thinks the deci-
sion, if it stands, will only encourage
“polite perjury; forced testimony about
having gone to Reno to see the scenery
or investigate the Reno sewage disposal
system or buy some beefsteaks from the
near-by cattle ranches, and so on, as well
as to get a divorce.”
* * * «
“Ike Hollar”: In an old apprenticeship
agreement that came my way recently
the employer bound himself to instruct
the apprentice in the “full mystery of the
craft” —in this case, gold-beating. That
was a usual wording of such documents
up to half a century ago. “Mystery,” of
course, meant the details unrevealed
except to the trained or informed. To-
day the word suggests an Edgar Wallace
story or an unexplained crime.
“Bumpkin”: Another attempt is to be
made to raise the ship Kakariki, which,
after a collision in 1937, sank near the
Gellibrand Light in Port Phillip. Numer-
ous contractors have expended time,
energy and money in trying to lift the
wreck to the surface by various methods,
including “camels,” but a hoodoo similar
to the one that adhered to the ship in
Joseph Conrad’s story “The Brute” has
dogged all their efforts. Storms have
arisen at the crucial moment, workmen
have been injured and lives lost, but the
old hulk still obstinately sticks to the
bottom. The new attempt will take the
form of dragging the hull ashore with
Ijlin. hawsers attached to a winch. The
wreck lies seven furlongs from the shore.
“J.S.W.”; J hope the par. by “Strict
Veg.” (B. 9/2 / ’44) about the food value
of beer catches the eye of a parson whose
son I once taught. To illustrate a lesson
on food values, I sketched several glasses
containing various drinks —milk, fruit
juice, beer, wine, etc., with relative food
values shown in colored chalks. I still
think that was a good lesson, and it cer-
tainly didn’t play up the Demon Alcohol
unduly. But it didn’t do. I was soon
on the carpet before a cold-eyed head-
master who demanded why I was teach-
ing children there was any food value in
alcohol. The parson’s kid had given him
a faithful report of my disquisition.
ON THE FENCE.
“In recent replies to inquisitive press interviewers
Mr. Hughes has likened himself (1«) to the Sphinx
and (2) to a periwinkle.”
“You are old, Father William,” insisted the
press,
“And our questions are always polite, '
Yet you never vouchsafe a straight No or a
Yes. ;
Do you think at your age it is right?”
“For most of my lifetime," the veteran said
i( As he put his acousticon on,
“I’ve found in my deafness so useful an aid
That I’ve made it a sine qua non.”
“You are old,” they pursued, “as we’ve men-
tioned before.
And a foxy campaigner, it’s true,
But now, with this new party mix-up in store,
What the deuce are you planning to do?”
“Well,” parried the sage as his fancy began
To turn to some golf on the links,
“In matters like these it’s an excellent plan
To take a few tips from the Sphinx.”
“Tell us this, only this,” the foiled news-hunters
urged,
“And the contest we’ll gladly surrender,
Now the paths of these two have so sharply
diverged,
Will you travel with Menzies or Spender?”
“Did you ever,” the ancient observed with a
grin,
“See an unskilful Cockney essay
To prise a sea-snail from its shell with a pin?
On your way, you young chaps, on your
way! ”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE PAUL PRY RACKET.
When envelopes you’re closing
It’s somewhat discomposing
To think there may be “nosing”
On what therein them lies.
They may be slit and rent for
Some undisclosed intent for
Perusing what was meant for
Entirely tliff’renf eyes.
We need some light to glow on
What principles they go on,
Their various names and so on,
And just how much a nob
These unknown sleuths are scooping
For arbitrary swooping
On prospects, in their snooping
And stickybeaking job.
There must be quite a lot there.
But how and why they got there
And just exactly what there
They’ve been empowered to do —
These things which Cameron’s questing
For Canberra’s digesting
Are just as interesting
For chaps like me and you.
’Twill eke be worth the knowing,
Upon their present showing.
When will these coves be going
Back to less tortuous trails,
Those whom we make our debtors
For snapping postal fetters,
The blokes who read our letters,
The birds who censor mails.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“L. Luvus”; Further to the Australian
idiom. Two Melbourne citizens were
talking and one said to the other
“Who’s that chap?” “That’s Smith,’’
said the othef. “What’s he do?”
“Oh, so far as I can see he’s a
gummer-up.” “What’s a gummer-up?”
“One who gums things up. Smith, you
see, is in the Department of Disco-ordi-
nation. When Jones, of the Department
of Circumambulation, releases cuckoo
clocks or takes an embargo off flypaper
his decision has to pass through Smith’s
department, and Smith gums things up.
Jones doesn’t like that, and when Smith’s
department wants to conserve razor
blades or pepper pots Jones’s department
has the say-so and Jones has his chance
to gum things up.” “And what happens
to the country?” “Oh, it just gets
gummed up.”
* * * *
“Tuart”: I rather think the Corns, are
overdoing it with their May Day, Revo-
lution Day and Red Army Day, which
in Sydney are so apt to be expanded into
Weeks ; in these matters the Australians
resemble the Greeks, who in the end
were bored stiff by the blah about
Aristides the Just. But after listening to
a “quiz” (if that is what they call them)
1 can understand the comrades feeling
that the process of conversion is far from
complete. “The liner, she’s a lady,” and
so was the corporal who giggled when
the M.C. barked that she could win 15s.
by giving the Christian names of three
Famous Historical Characters. The
subsequent proceedings went something
like this:
“Corporal, the first Famous Historical
Character is Columbus. Christian name?”
“Christopher.”
“Splendid. One up, Corporal! Now,
Drake?”
“Francis.”
“Wonderful! Another, and the money’s
yours. Lenin?”
Long pause.
“Come on, Corporal; I am sure you
know the Christian name of the illustrious
Lenin.”
Another pause. Then the corporal pipes:
“Never heard of him.”
Burst of laughter.
“Come, come. Corporal; I can’t really
believe that you have never heard of the
marvellous Lenin.”
“Never heard of him.”
More laughter. Loud voice interposes:
“Why, he belongs to Joe’s country.”
Louder laughter. Gong. Next victim.
* if if if
“8.P.”; C. Evatt, the Sydney Minister
for Education, who seems to have his
hands full these days with complaints
about his Child Welfare Department, has
decided to open the public schools at
night for lectures to parents as a means
of getting the nippers to improve their
behavior. That proposal seems to arise
out of faulty diagnosis. A sizable pro-
portion of the juvenile misfits comes
from homes well above the breadline,
w'here the parents are of better-than-aver-
age educational standard. With children,
as with livestock, what’s in ’em will come
out, and modern society’s complications
are such that outside influences may
prove stronger than parental precepts. If
Mr. Evatt wants something effective for
the young of the nation he must dig a lot
deeper.
* * * *
“Pawang”; I, too, am far from con-
vinced that either alcohol or riboflavin
has anything to do with the sprightliness
of certain oldsters who have ail their
lives been consistent topers (B. 23/2/’44),
but the fact that they exist rules out the
theory that beer is poison. No race,
as far as I know, has yet been discovered
that hasn’t brewed or distilled alcohol,
and most of them have managed to sur-
vive, especially the white race. Untold
generations have been conditioned to
drink liquor, just as Eskimos have been
conditioned to eat blubber. Scientists
who estimate the effect on different indi-
viduals of various foods and drinks by
their vitamin content are just as old-
fashioned as the wowsers who judge the
effect of beer on other persons by their
own feelings about it.
* * * *
“Norther”: I see where a man com-
plained to the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Pro-
gress Association about a bunch of blokes
at a flourmill near him who held a yodel-
ling contest at four o’clock every morn-
ing, To which the mill foreman replied
that it showed the men were happy at
their work. I wouldn’t bet on that. In
my youth I worked in gangs in various
parts of the country, and when the gang
became annoyed it was liable to burst
into song, something on the lines of
prisoners who show their resentment
against conditions by kicking up a row in
their cells. On one job where I was a
sort of pannikin boss, when the real boss
intended to visit the place he’d ring up
to ask about the men’s temper. If 1 told
him the blokes were singing he’d post-
pone his visit.
*** - *
“Strict Veg.”: There is a very good
reason why rabbit hasn’t taken an im-
portant place in the national diet since
meat rationing was introduced, and it
isn’t altogether the fault of'bunny. At
the Melbourne markets I watched a
housewife buying one of the coneys. She
simply asked for a rabbit and got one
handed to her. She would not have
bought beef, mutton, pork or poultry so
trustingly. She would have selected the
best cut or the tenderest-looking chicken.
As it was, she probably got an old buck
rabbit, and s4ien it turned out tough and
tasteless accepted that result as confir-
mation of all the prejudices that keep
rabbit off most menus.
* * if *
“T. McNark”: There lately fell into
my hands a book. How America Lives,
compiled by J. C. Furnas and the staff
of the “Ladies’ Home Journal,” which
rivals the circulation of its /‘Saturday
Evening Post” brother. The compilers
made an intimate survey of the lives,
conditions, aspirations, etc., of 16 Ameri-
can families ranging from wealthy to
poverty-stricken. The chief point for
Australians to note is the disclosure that
life in the U.S.A. isn’t at all as depicted
by Hollywood. The authors found that
95 —yes, 95 —p.c. of American women
do their own housework; fewer than
10 p.c. of American houses are anything
to write home about; fewer than half
the country’s dwellings have baths, and a
still smaller proportion of them are roomy
enough to accommodate a family. So
some of Our Girls are in for shocks.
* * *
“Cauboy”: The thirteenth anniversary
of Melba’s death was celebrated in Mel-
bourne, the diva’s birthplace, with much
“Got any chewing-gum, mister?”
solemnity, and as part of the proceedings
some of the singer’s old recordings were
played. Listening in to the A.B.C. presen-
tation was a party some of whom had
heard the Voice in all its glory, some
who had heard it in its decline and some
young folk who had never heard it at
all but had heard a lot about it. “That
can’t be Melba,” said one of the young-
sters ; “that’s a contralto,” and the
general feeling amongst the younger
listeners was one of acute disappoint-
ment. It would be better for the diva’s
reputation if the records were locked
up in a museum.
“Chev.”: A feature of the Melba
memorial celebration this year was an
oration by a personage who, as far as is
known, has had little to do with music.
.Strange but true that public eulogisers of
artists are seldom in the same line of
business. The diva’s funeral presented
the strangest example. The address was
given at Scots Church by a parson who,
after speaking in the warmest tones of
the dead singer’s genius, her devotion to
her art and her marvellous performances
in such roles as Gilda, Mimi and Lucia,
confessed that he never entered theatres
and had never heard her golden voice.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Cultivating the land-
lady’s goodwill is a boarding-hbuse
necessity these days, with Allied service
men allegedly simply frothing to pay £5
a week for a bed. Coughing-up clothing
coupons is about the best way to stay
in her good books, buttressed by gifts of
an occasional bottle of beer, cigarettes,
fruit and flowers in that order of import-
ance. Remarks about how quickly the
lawn grows shouldn’t be ignored, and
making your own bed and keeping the
room tidy is part of the schedule. A hot
tip for the races helps—but make sure
it’s a moral.
“Exdig”: Wearing on his sleeve the
assortment of insignia that betokened a
W. 0., my friend Ted Colies (he was a
former Bulletin artist and writer) had
to salute the numerous spare generals and
colonels to be met near Horseferry-road
during the last war. He accompanied
his excellent salute with a casually-
breathed “Hallo, Joe!” The mixture of
perfect discipline with cheeky familiarity
brought bewilderment to the spares;
sometimes they stood staring after the
perfectly unconscious W.O. wondering if
their ears had played tricks. If Ted
did not turn a deaf ear to any recall for
an explanation his surprised “Me, sir? I
saluted” usually convinced the spare that
it was his ears that were playing up. One
colonel, however, evidently took the
assured denial with a pinch of salt. “All
right, carry on,” he said. “All the same,
I’d like you to know that I’m not Joe ;
I’m Jack.”
H* * *
“Chev.”: The strange assortment of
reading matter in the libraries of units
commented on by “Pip” (B. 16/2/’44)
isn’t entirely due to donors seizing the
opportunity of getting rid of books
they had no use for. When the Govern-
ment decided to educate the army some
department sent round uniformed young
men armed with boundless cash to city
bookshops. They swooped down on the
shopmen, taking whole shelves in one
sweep. Some of the more cautious would
throw out an occasional volume with the
remark: “Don’t think the C.O. would
approve of this” ; but generally speaking
the buyers were catholic—very catholic.
If they had any particular preference it
was in the direction of translations from
the French. De Maupassant has been
skinned right off the market.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Medical marvels, which
used to come from the U.S.A., now arrive
weekly from Soviet Russia. The latest
achievement is that of one Alexander
Gobomolets, who is reported to have
discovered a serum which, unlike most
serums, which attend to specific diseases,
affects the entire body and may ultimately
prolong man’s span to 150 years. Nona-
genarians need not build too great hopes
on the Russian miracle, however. Voro-
noff, also a Russian, made similar claims
for his attempts at rejuvenation by the
transplantation of the sexual glands of
young animals to middle-aged and elderly
human beings ; and Steinach and other
researchers have also offered sensational
vistas of prolonged vitality. The world
goes on its humdrum way.
* * * *
“Simon” ; Despite “Zake’s” talkie ex-
perience (B. 23/2/’44), I’d advise him, if
he fancies himself as a boxer, not to go
up against a wrestler, for he wouldn’t
be in it. A boxer with “muzzled” hands
has to observe the rules of the Ring. The
wrestler is an all-in fighter who does his
most effective strafing on the ground.
Were it not for the heavy mattresses
underneath and for latter-day—er—cus-
toms of the trade, many wrestlers would
be killed. In a bout against a boxer the
mattress might not be in position nor
the —er —customs followed. I recall a
fight in a country hotel yard between a
strong, game and willing boxer and
a fellow who had a reputation as a
wrestler. The wrestler whispered that he
would win without striking a blow —and
he did. No sooner were the contestants
shaped up than the wrestler ducked,
caught his man by both legs below the
knees and threw him over his head on the
gravel. In the next round the mat-man
grabbed his opponent’s extended left by
the wrist and, getting under the helpless
arm and using it as a lever, threw his
opponent heels over head. In varied form
this happened half a dozen times till even
that rough pub crowd had had enough
and stopped the slaughter.
* * * *
“F.S.”’: The latest development in the
trend of thought started by the Archibald
Prize controversy is a demand by a Dan-
denong woman who strayed into the Mel-
bourne Gallery for judicial consideration
as to whether the terms of Alfred Fel-
ton’s will permit of the purchase of the
“atrocious, hideous rubbish” she says she
saw there cheek by jowl with the Rae-
burns, the Gainsboroughs and the Van
Eycks. According to the lady, Felton’s
intention was that the income of his be-
quest should be devoted to the purchase
of works of art “honest, pure, beautiful
and elevating,” whereas the trustees have
departed from his intention by the
purchase of “caricatures, unnatural and
repulsive.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Contemplation of the
screen version of Leon Gordon’s “White
Cargo” makes one think that if it is a
true and complete picture of the tropics
the worst fate we could imagine for the
Japs would be to let them keep such
regions. But Mr. Gordon has not given
a complete picture. Places like that and
people who react in that way can cer-
tainly be found in the tropics, but the
fault lies not so much in the climate, the
damp rot and the weevils in the
biscuits as in the defects of char-
acter of derelict white men who
were already failures, had made a
mess of their lives in the environ-
ment that produced Newton and
Shakspeare and had taken their
failings and prejudices to the
tropics. The architects and crafts-
men who produced the temples of
Angkor Wat in French Cochin
China and Parambanan and Born
Budur in Java worked in the
tropics. Such men as Francis
Xavier, Raffles and Rajah Brooke
came from colder climes and found
their great opportunities in the
tropics. Alfred Russel Wallace, co-
author of the theory of evolution
(he and Darwin, working indepen-
dently, reached the same conclu-
sions at about the same time), pur-
sued in the tropics the researches
that placed the key to a great generalisa-
tion in his hands. And Tondeleyos are
by no means confined to the tropics, nor
are those who fall for such temptresses.
«c * * if
.“Harold Hardupp”: A deaf chap I
know goes to all the big concerts in
Sydney and enjoys them, though he is so
hard of hearing that conversation has
to be shouted at him, and even then he
usually hears wrongly. “Actually, it’s only
since I developed deafness that I have
enjoyed music so much,” he told me.
“It’s the harmonious vibrations, I suppose.
The music has to be good for me to hear
it. Sometimes even at first-class per-
formances there are gaps in which I hear
nothing, though the musicians are going
at full blast. And I never hear anything
on the wireless except a jumble of
sound.” A doctor friend says that the
condition is puzzling but not impossible.
* * * *
“El V.”: “L.H.B.’s” little yarn about
the origin of “no good to Gundy” (B.
23/2/’44) would be all right if the phrase
had not been in use about umpteen years
before 1905, to which he attributes it. It
was one of the first bits of Australian
slang I learnt up in the Queensland
south-west. And up there we believed
that its home town was Goondiwindi, and
that it arose in the days when the cheque
and the shinplaster were normal currency
in the west. Thus, a note of hand might
seem to possess all the virtues of ster-
ling if it were payable by the bank or
store in the district metropolis—the name
was always and still is pronounced Gun-
diwindi, and affectionately shortened to
“Gundi.” But if it were a suspicious
document unlikely to be convertible to
real cash on presentation in the town
it was “no good to Gundi,” and this was
the normal formula of rejection of shin-
plasters likely to become waste paper.
* * * *
“Stanford”: Adelaide isn’t the only city
that echoes Melbourne suburban and
country nomenclature. Sydney provides
many duplicates. Both States have Bur-
wood, Auburn, Canterbury, Carlton,
Abbotsford, Windsor, Brighton (the
Harbor City tacks on “le Sands”), Cam-
perdown, Newtown and the already-
mentioned Surrey (or Surry) Hills and
Richmond. Sydney has Waverley, Mel-
bourne both a Glen and a Mount Waver-
ley, while Sydney’s Darlinghurst, Darling
Point and Darlington find a cousin in
Melbourne’s Darling.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Cobb, of Trunksap. was a bache-
lor cocky. Trunksap, lacking anything
else in the shape of a record-holder, took
a kind of pride in his meanness. Cobb
had two fellows working for him: one
very tall and so skeletonlike he was
known throughout the district as
“Death” ; the other, Sam, a merry little
cove of somewhere between 50 and 70
who had a laugh that could almost shake
the ironbarks. It was opined in the dis-
trict that the strangely assorted pair were
too dopy to wake up to their boss. One
day Cobb went on his hack towards the
heavily-timbered country at the back of
his run looking for scrubbers. When he
didn’t turn up by dark the two hands
went out to search. Having no success,
they organised two search parties next
day, when Cobb’s horse came back limp-
ing badly. Towards dusk on the second
day Sam’s party came on Cobb in thick
scrub. His horse had trodden in a hole
and gone down, and Cobb had sprained
an ankle and, catching cold, had lost his
voice. It was with something between
respect and awe that Bung told me, when
I was passing through the hamlet shortly
after Cobb had been found, that the
champ, had docked “Death” and Sara
two days’ pay for taking that unauthor-
ised time off.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: At the end of the
longest, hottest, driest and hungriest track
we’d ever been on, Mat and I found our-
selves in a hamlet that was practically
depopulated. Only one of the three pubs
was functioning, most of the houses were
empty and burrs grew in the main street.
On the verandah of the sole working pub
sat an inhabitant, and to him we re-
marked “Hot.” He shook himself awake
and replied “ ’Course it’s hot. This is
the hottest place this side of ’ell.” Mat
looked round at the deserted scene.
“Yair,” he said. “It’s hot, all right. Y’
can see that. It’s so blasted hot that all
the people in the place have to live some-
where else.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: Every boxing mentor prays
for the pug who will obey orders.
Coached a likely lad up to the semi-
finals in a bush tourney, when he met a
pretty tough proposition. They made it
willing, and between the second and third
rounds I said to my white hope “Get in,
set your teeth and hit everything you
see and hit it hard,” In he went, landing
a sizzling left hook on the opposition
chin which spun the recipient round and
draped him over the ropes. My boy let
go a raking left which connected with
the other’s hip. It swung him off the
ropes, and down he went for the full
count. The ref. couldn’t see that punch,
being on the other side. “ ’Struth,” I
yelped when 1 got the victor into his
corner, “what did y’ hit him there for?
You could have lost on a foul!” He
gave me an indignant look. “Didn’t y’
tell me t’ hit anything I seen an’ hit it
hard?” he demanded.
* * * *
“Nine Down”: When I gave up the
easy life of the bush for the strenuous
and exacting urban existence I was per-
suaded by some misguided person to take
on golf, with the result that I soon be-
came incurable. I never could manage
the game well, except the putting, and
that I mastered through my fencing ex-
perience, Since no man can sight a
straight fence line on two posts, I couldn’t
see how you’d get a straight line with
only two points—ball and hole. So now
I get behind the ball, sight over a bit
of grass as I would a fence line, apply the
putter and there you are.
* * * *
“Botano”; The Cape was responsible
for quite a few vegetables arriving in Aus-
tralia, some beneficial, some the reverse.
The much-cursed double-gee, or Three-
pronged Jack, is an instance. Yet even
the d.-g. has one virtue: while green,
before its seedpods have hardened, it
makes the finest fattening for sheep. In
fact, no matter how thick it may grow,
it can be cleared from a paddock the
following spring merely by turning
the jumbucks in. Next on the list is
the Cape weed, sometimes cursed for
strangling the growing wheat but of
good fodder value and, when in
flower, a banquet for the bees. Nor must
its beauty be overlooked ; to stand on a
hill like Mt. Bakewell, York (W.A.), and
view the undulating dales, spreading as
far as the eye can reach, the whole coun-
try carpeted with gold, is to sit in at a
feast of floral loveliness. The Cape goose-
berry, too, but because it is highly
“There' s another! Well get the crop off yet , Mum”
esteemed it is difficult to grow. Cape
broom was another, a thick-growing bush
with soft leaves and a tiny yellow flower,
not despised by goats around the old
Victorian diggings, where it seemed to
have a liking for the slummy ground
where tailings from the puddling
machines had run. But, oddly, the broom
never made a success of living in W.A.
though its seeds must have been imported
by the million in fodder from the Cape
during the first decade.
* f! * *
“B. A. Ker”: I must insist that my
window-climbing frog was not of a tree-
climbing variety (B. 16/2/’44). He was
one' of the big green fellows with the
whitish coloring under body and legs;
the type that magically appears from no-
where immediately after rain and com-
mits racial suicide through his penchant
for squatting on wet roads. I’ve seen his
like under logs and similar things, in
gardens, grass, low vegetation, swamps,
creeks, gutters, downpipes and tanks, but
I’ve never yet known one to climb up a
tree. Still, that croaker climbed a vertical
brick wall and pane of glass, and if that
can be done without some sort of vacuum
valves or suckers on the creature’s feet
I’m quite prepared to listen to any other
feasible explanation.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d finished the third
stage of our seven-day trip, and throwing
the cattle into a blind gully I whistled the
dogs and turned to make camp. “Hey!”
I called presently, catching sight of
Seventyfiver’s mong, “old Bluey’s lost
one of his boots.” The old bloke nodded
unconcernedly. “But see here,” I re-
minded him, “that dog gets sorefooted
in no time, and we can’t do without him
till we make the tops.” “Aw, don’t worry ;
he’ll see it out.” The old chap’s predic-
tions seemed correct, for through the
following days Blue did his job well
enough. It wasn’t till sundown of the
sixth day that a sudden roar burst from
the old chap. “Blast yV’ he bawled,
“y’ve lorst another boot. With a big day
t’morrer, too. Gripes, y’ careless, un-
grateful cuss, what in hell d’ y’ think I’m
goin’ to make another out of, eh?” The
old cattle-dog dropped dejectedly while
for ten minutes Seventyfiver broadcast a
vivid description of his sins. “But he
lost one the other day,” I chipped in
wonderingly, “and you didn’t get mad!”
“Why should I?” growled Seventyfiver,
glaring at the mong. “It don’t hurt the
silly cow t’ carry one foot, does it?”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Big blows, is it (B.
l/3/’44)? Was camped with a mate in
the lee of a sandhill in N.S.W. western
Riverina one October night when the
equinoctial gales were on. About mid-
night we found ourselves being buried in
sand coming over the ridge, so we rolled
the geaj - , crossed the hill to the windward
side and bunked down in a clump of wild
currant. Next morning we thought we
must have got on to the magic carpet in
the night, for instead of the sandhill there
was a flat and running across it a five-
wired fence. Yes, that fence had been
buried for years under the sandhill until
that night.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Hobbs rented one of the
station houses, and boosted his self-
esteem by allowing strangers to think he
owned everything in sight. Dropping in
one day for a drink Smithie noted a
bunch of steers grazing behind the house.
He glanced at the station brand and,
knowing of Hobbs’s weakness, settled
down to enjoy himself. “Nice mob o’
youngsters y’ got there,” he remarked
admiringly. “Yair, a good line,” replied
Hobbs, “if* I do say so meself.” “Tell
y’ what,” suggested Smithie, “I’ll give y’
ten quid a head for ’em.” Hobbs shook
his head. “It’s a good price,” he agreed,
“but, well—er —l don’t want t’ sell
’em.” Smithie raised the offer a pound
a head, and Hobbs was still backing off
with excuses as the town John walked
round the corner. “Just tryin’ t’ buy
them steers,” Smithie explained to the
official amusedly, “but it seems this bloke
won’t sell at any price. Look here,” he
grinned, pulling out a cheque book,
“we’ll make it 12 quid, an’ I’ll give you
the cheque now. What about it?”
“Awright, I’ll take it,” nodded Hobbs.
“I didn’t want to sell, but it’s three
pound more than I paid for them a week
ago. I’ll get y’ the station receipt.”
**, * *
“The 0.D.”: I wish “Naturala” (B.
l/3/’44) would be more precise. If
Bunny uses the bobbing White tail as a
signal of alarm to the other rabbits, how
the deuce do the others see it at night?
In my part of the country Bunny’s alarm
signal is a solid thump on the ground
with the hind legs; you can hear it in
the dark though you can’t see a thing.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Dave had booked his
weaners with the agent for Saturday’s
sale, and three days before the event was
passing the pub when Bung hailed him.
“Say, Dave,” he called, “old Stocker left
w r ord for y’ to bring your weaners in
early Saturday and put ’em in the lower
right-hand yard.” “Righto.” Next day
the mailman dropped in. “Stopped off
with a message, Dave,” he ihformed.
“Stocker said he’s keepin’ the lower right-
hand yard for y’ on Sat’d’y, an’t’ put ’em
right in.” “Awright.” That night it was
the ’phone. It was Stocker. “Look, Dave,
I want y’ to put them weaners in the
lower right-hand yard. Y’ got that clear
now?” ‘Sure,” sighed Dave wearily.
“Well, I got t’ be particular, y’ know,”
came the voice. “If you’d had as many
mess-ups as I’ve had, y’d know. That
right then? The lower right” Dave
groaned. Up at the crack of dawn on
sale morning he arrived at the .yards to
find another mob in possession of his
promised enclosure. “Hey, Stocker,” he
yelled, “some silly cow’s put his sheep
in here.” The boss hurried over. “Yes,
they’re Hackett’s,” he explained. “I want
’em handy. Yours? Eh? Sure I told
you that yard? Well now, cripes, I
must’ve clean forgot.”
* * * *
“Graz”: Has “Ex-C.G.” (B. 23/2/’44)
ever seen bad erosion along the tops of
ridges in forests or on grassland? Water
runs, not along mountain crests and down
the tops of spurs, but down hillsides,
gullies and valleys. Where else would
his “proper authority” burn breaks with
less likelihood of causing erosion than
along the tops of ridges which carry no
pressure of water?
* * * *
“Blime”; At the first ominous crack
Jim slipped the saw from the cut,
motioned to Dan, stepped back a couple
of paces. The tree tilted slowly, gathered
speed and was halfway down when Dan’s
sheep-dog dashed out to investigate. Dan
bellowed half a dozen cursetul orders,
but before the mong could work things
out he was caught under the crash of
the three-foot trunk. There was a
moment’s silence, then Dan walked slowly
forward. “Gorblime, Jim,” he gasped
presently, “he ain’t dead!” Jim passed
over the axe. “Better finish him then.”
Dan’s jaws clamped ; he raised the axe
grimly and glanced down. The dog’s
eyes followed his every movement, then
he whinged. Dan hesitated, gulped and
slowly the axe slid to the ground. He’d
had that mong a long time. Then he
noticed a small bend in the trunk above
the dog, and grabbing a shovel he began
to dig. In a few minutes the animal
crawled out, leaving to view a five-inch
bend, covering in all about a foot of
the otherwise straight 30ft. trunk. The
dog seems none the worse for his ex-
perience, but Dan—why, even after Dan
had dragged me up to inspect the tree
he still shook his head and bet it couldn’t
be true.
* * * *
“Hist”: Andrews sold a mare in foal
to Bates, 20 miles away. The mare died
soon after foaling and the youngster was
hand-reared. Bates is, an open-gate
farmer whose team grazes as often on
the roads as in his paddocks, and in due
course the youngster was turned out with
the other horses. It promptly and per-
sistently wandered back toward Andrews’s
place. Two points: the mare had lived
all her life at Andrews’s ; the youngster
had never been there prior to its first
voluntary visit. It must be that the hom-
ing instinct of animals is subject to pre-
natal influence.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: A cocky let a small con-
tract for the erection of a milk-room. The
builder and youthful offsider arrived,
were given a mild warning: “Just keep an
eye on old Billy—he might get spiteful with
strangers.” An hour or two later the
contractor, pausing to straighten his back
and reach for “the makings,” felt some-
thing almost touching his hip pocket.
Turning, he beheld a huge, placid-looking
ram standing less than six inches away.
“Hullo, Billy,” he said ; and the woolly
seemed to enjoy being patted. “Spiteful! ”
scoffed the man to his assistant; “look,
quiet as a lamb! ” He lit the fag, picked
up his trowel and was just stooping when
. —whoosh! something a bit harder than
a cannon-ball hit him on the ( widest part
of his overalls. He was wiping the mortar
off his face when a shout from the
boy (who had taken refuge on the brick-
stack) awoke him to another peril. Only
an inspired sidestep prevented that charge
from getting home —then the old ram
trotted back a few yards and stood calmly
gazing as though the incident was closed.
But the builder’s ire was aroused. With
a wild yell and an eight-foot lath he flew
in to the fray. Billy made no attempt
either to retreat or defend himself. Neither
did he register pain, fear or annoy-
ance. Finally, the lath broke. “There!”
panted the avenger, hurling the end at the
animal, “perhaps that’ll teach y’! And
you,” turning to the kid on the brick
stack; “you young swine, sittin’ up there
laughin’; if” Whoosh! The impetus
of that charge nearly jerked his head off.
I often think ,what a comic picture it
would have made, even to the final fade-
out with the old man and I both sitting
on the brick stack.
THE HOLLOW.
Where the lowlands cease and the uplands rise
And the roads grow steep to follow,
Deep sunk in the tumbled hills there lies
A vast and shadowed hollow.
Hewn out of the heights by tireless powers
At work on cliff and boulder
With shaping hands through countless hours.
It startles the beholder.
For no cloud dulling the skies o’er him
Or dim mist wreathing under,
His feet he halts on its lofty rim
In breathless fear and wonder.
Like one by a vision spelled and bound
Its shadowed depths he traces
To bastions of stone that wall it round
With scarred and rugged faces.
Yet should he be minded to further dare
The track he treads down-wending,
Not unrewarded shall he fare
When he has reached its ending.
For as he strays ’neath oak and gum
Through fronded glade and alley,
Anon that hollow shall become
For him a verdant valley.
Changed shall it's grimness be to grace,
And he shall see its shadows
At play with sungleams gaily race
Across green groves and meadows.
And as a river with siren song
Bids him its course to follow,
He’ll thank the powers tfiat through ages long
Delved deep that mighty hollow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Old-timer”; I had changed a tenner
in the pub and was passing through
the door counting the notes when a
sudden sort of person grabbed the cash
with one hand and shoved me forcibly
over with the other. When I rebounded
I saw my ravisher breaking evens past
Dan O’Kane’s bullock team, swinging
slowly up the main street drawing a load
of wool. At my yell a sunburned, cap-
able youth arose on the wool load,
quickly took in the situation, leaped from
load to the bullocks’ backs, lightly ran
along them until he was level with the
flying robber, then leapt forth and
brought him down in the dust. As we
surrounded the tangle we heard mixed
profanity and thuds, then the youth stood
up, holding his captive. I retrieved my
cash, joyfully shook the youth’s hand,
offered him a quid and drinks and turned
towards the pub, expecting - him and Dan
to follow. “Aw, well, mate,” said the
youth, “it was this way: Them blasted
bulls stuck us up this mornin’ an’
wouldn’t budge. Me an’ Dan had just
got 'em movin’ nicely when that bloke
come runnin’ to cross the leaders. Gripes,
I couldn’t let him do that!” He paused,
spat thoughtfully into the dust and added
“Still, I reckon I could hold one down
just the same.”
H: *
“Lower Tops’l”: “Bumpkin” errs
when he mentions that the first shipyard
in Victoria was on Preservation Island
(B. 23/2/’44). That low, narrow, tree-
less, storm-lashed isle, not two miles in
length, is 120 miles from the Cabbage
Garden, and like almost all Bass Strait
islands it belongs to Tassie. Lying be-
tween Cape Barren and Clarke islands,
and less than 20 miles from the Speck,
it got its name for harboring the cast-
aways of the historic Sydney Cove until
they were rescued in 1797. Although un-
inhabited, it is a favored anchorage for
small vessels in the strait trade; and,
richly grassed, it is used by the Mac-
laine brothers, of Clarke Island, as a
topping paddock for bullocks for the
Launceston market. Also it is renowned
for its large flocks of Cape Barren geese,
and I’ve seen over 100 there in a mob.
The ruins of a hut in which a romantic
“It is indeed gratifyin' to see the interest the troops are takin' in their art,
Mr. Angelo !”
Dr. Allen lived 90 years ago and an old
stockyard are the only signs today of
civilisation. But, as “Bumpkin” states, it
wasn’t always so. Six bottles of brandy
with their corks nearly rotted away found
hidden in the sand there some years ago
by Captain Harry Burgess are undoubt-
edly a relic of bygone occupation.
* * * *
“Louden”: An hour after the circus
came out the netv John stepped smartly
into the deserted main street and came to-
wards the pub. Immediately the “cocka-
too” at the pub door did his stuff, and
the after-hours mob stampeded. Next
morning every member of the a.-h.
brigade, with the exception of Lou,
was at his post. We thought he
might be locked up, but inquiry
at the police station proved that
he was not, so the inquirer went
home. Lou was at home in bed,
and the doctor had been to see
him. “It’s synovitis,” said Lou,
by way of explanation. “Last
night when we bolted from the
pub I took the track across the
paddock behind the circus, ran
into the elephant, and before 1
could recover my balance the
blanky zebra booted me on the
knee.”
“Colonial Cove”: When Major Lock-
yer set out for King George’s Sound (B.
19/1/’44) he thought to provide for
every contingency, but soon after land-
ing found he had forgotten one—he had
failed to bring a “scourger.” For there
was one Brady with whom nothing could
be done except with the lash. So Brady
duly was triced up and the Commandant
called for a scourger. The 23 other con-
victs were there assembled, and the
soldier guard, but there was no volun-
teer. Never a convict moved to take up
the cat, and apparently there was no law
to force them. So, faced with a show-
down, Lockyer took off his coat and did
the job himself. But he must have been
disappointed with his effort, for when a
week or so later another delinquent was
triced up he again called for a volunteer.
As before there was no response, so he
put the word on the nearest soldier, by
name Jones. But Jones demurred ; he was
there to carry a musket for the King, and
he’d be damned if he’d serve as a flogger.
He was promptly put under arrest, to be
referred to Sydney for refusal to obey
orders, though he still declared that he
wasn’t disobeying, since no one had a
right to order a soldier to do such a
thing. The. next along the file proved
less staunch ; but he laid it on as though
merely killing flies. That for the time
ended flogging at K.G. Sound, but as
an example of general toughness and
staunchness to principle—well, I fancy
the British always were tough.
* * »
“Nor’-west”; Australia is the Dry Con-
tinent ; even considerable sections of its
sea coast fall under the description of
practically rainless; from Shark Bay
north along the Exmouth Gulf to Onslow
as an instance. Yet birds live there in
numbers; so do ’roos and wallabies. The
western bank of this vast gulf is a long
nameless peninsula terminating at North-
west Cape and backboned by a range
of hills. Exploring these hills
we rested awhile in a wide cave. The
rock was a spar resembling quartz, but
evidently containing an appreciable quan-
tity of lime ; for here where it rained so
seldom stalactites were in the making.
Nothing spectacular, merely long lime-
stone carrots hanging from the roof. But
the- floor stalagmites were curiously
absent. Except at night the suspended
drops seldom reached ground. As we
lay quiet there was a continual flutter of
wings as small birds, mostly parrots,
flashed in, hung upside down for a
moment and took drops from one stalac-
tite after another until thirst was
quenched. On one wall, too, was a slope
smooth as glass and showing just a seep
of moisture. A ’roo pad to this showed
how the marsupials came in to lick the
moist stone, winning just sufficient mois-
“Spare a drop of petrol, oT boy? ”
ture, along with the morning dew, to en-
able them to live.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I only want to ask two
questions: How can fibrous balls in a
neddy’s stomach press on, the optic nerVe,
“Nepean,” and how did that bobtailed
lizard keep the green identification mark
on its back if it sloughed its skin every
year, “H.H.” (B. l/3/’44)? I’m waiting.
* * H= *
“Wang”: “I wus trampin’ along one
day, stony-broke an’ hungry,” related
Dan, “when I sees a kipsy a bit orf the
road. As I’m about t’ turn in towards it
I spots a saWny-lookin’ coot bangin’ over
the sliprails in front of the place. I
nods t’ him an’ ses ‘Think a bloke’ll have
any luck up there?’ noddin’ towards the
Joint. He stops chewin’ the bark orf the
rail an’ ses, mis’rablelike, ‘Dunno ; I ain’t
had any meself.’ Well, I ambles up an’
a middle-aged woman comes t’ the door,
not a bad-looker either. When I asks
her fer a handout she looks me over,
slow an’ crit’cal, sorta sizin’ me up like
in a languishin’ sorta way. Til tell y’
what I’ll do,’ she ses, confidential-like ;
‘there’s a man down be the road ; y’ prob-
ably seen him when y’ come up. I’ll
give y’ a pound if y’ll go down an’ boot
him orf the place. He’s been annoyin’
me for munce ; wants t’ marry me, on’y
he ain’t game t’ ask me. Then come
back,’ she says, coylike. ‘The quid first,
please,’ I ses, ‘in case he knocks me
about’ She laughs an’ gets me the ‘flag,’
‘Well, if he does,’ she ses, ‘he can come
up here an’ I’ll marry him. But there
ain’t much chance of that.’ But wasn’t
there! That bloke belted hell outa me,
an’ I cleared off as hard as I could lick.
I heard later that he married her ; but I’ll
bet she never found out that the beltin’
he gave me cost him a fiver. I on’y
hope he found out it paid him a good
dividend.”
“Physician”: An unex-
pected war benefit may be
the disappearance of pid-
gin in the islands. The
Australian, a notoriously
slow linguist, won’t trouble
to learn it, and the natives
pick up good English
quickly. I found, for in-
stance, in the Trobriands
that I could make myself
understood quite well in
normal English; the
natives, though hesitant,
replied intelligibly. Their
“Boss Dokiter” was as
understandable as the “Big-
shot Doc” by which I’d
heard myself described by
an Australian sergeant.
There is a close parallel
in Australia. The other
day I met the son of a gin
I’d known many years ago.
His mother had been
“Mary” of the plurry-
and-pfeller sort of talk;
he was Mr. and his wife Mrs., speaking a
soft English much better than many Aus-
tralians do. There was no moral or
intellectual decline with it —quite the
reverse. Ask any Digger who has an abo.
in his company and he’ll tell you the same.
« * * *
“Ned”: The new fettling job, chip-
ping khaki weed off the rails of the Pros-
perity Valley branch line, suits me,
although I think the ganger’s being a
bit personal when he’s always harping
on blokes getting shickered and being
the cause of trains jumping the rails.
But when he comes home from the town-
ship without the hobnails I asked him to
bring and he complains about being
terrible sore and sick inside, I send me
blood pressure sky-high rushing him to
hospital. He comes out in a few days,
right as a full head of steam. “Just food
poisoning,” he explains; “I won’t have
any more of that Dago’s fresh fish.” At
the week-end I sews me old sneakers
together with binder twine and goes in to
get me trilbies, and it’s only natural,
after I help the publican lift a five-gallon
on to the bar, that I tell him how the
ganger nearly throws a sevener. “Yair,”
says Bung, “he gets a bout of fish poison-
in’ seven or eight times a year. He
cleaned up me month’s quota o’ gin and
stout and me reserve supply o’ Red Ned
in a couple o’ hours. That’s why he
nearly conked.”
« * * ' *
. “Bumpkin”: The Dunstan Govern-
ment is once more bothering itself about
the Port Phillip seals. The last time Dun-
stan offered rewards for their destruction
nobody came forward. Possibly the
fishermen aren’t any more sure of the
benefits of having no seals than the
farmers are of having no sparrows. A
market gardener friend tells me that he
welcomes the appearance of the sparrows
because it means the disappearance of
the harlequin bug, and he is quite re-
signed to losing a few of his tomatoes
to any alleged pest that performs this
service. Some years ago there was a
similar agitation about the shags on the
Murray, which were said to be eating
the fish. Every year a party of scientists
went up with guns and had a grand time
blowing the shags to bits until one of
their number, being of an inquiring dis-
position and a bit dubious of the charges
laid against the creatures, dissected a few.
He found no fish in them, only a lot of
yabbies, which are the biggest menace to
the irrigation farmer.
* * * »
“H.H.”: JBourke, they tell me, is a
lively place these days. That can scarcely
be said of Wilcannia, that outback
pastoral centre on the Darling mid-
way between the Queensland border and
the Murray, but Wilcannia retains its
picturesque quality. There, in the dust of
western N.S.W., 100 miles from a rail-
way and where camels and donkeys
hard by, stand imposing two-storeyed
houses, a large jail and courthouse,
many warehouses and other buildings,
solid in design and construction, erected
before the days of Broken Hill, Then
the town supported 13 pubs and a popu-
lation of 6000 and was port for the White
Cliffs opal fields, 67 miles n.-w. All
goods were water-borne to Wilcannia, and
no fewer than 100 teams, besides
800 coach horses, ran on the huge
common. It was there that Resch, after
pushing a barrow up from Adelaide,
started his first brewery. Wilcannia, as
Mt. Murchison station, was first taken up
in 1850 as an outstation of Euston by the
Morey brothers, who pushed through
from the Murray to the Darling along
an aboriginal pad.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”; I had tried pretty well
everything in the wild-meat line except
flying-fox and bandicoot —I didn’t believe
in eating what my dogs wouldn’t. Then
my two neighbors and self rode down
from Piper’s Hole to Tommy ' Gully to
get a cow out of a mudhole. The gully
we found running deep, but we crossed
it and got the bovine out. She imme-
diately charged us and sent us up handy
trees. Next she swung towards the nags
that we’d foolishly left untied, cropping
the grass, and they promptly recrossed
the creek. Coming back she gave us a
contemptuous look and plunged anew
into the morass. We climbed down a
moment before a roaring wall of water
came down from the hills and raised the
creek 6ft. above its previous level. We
were marooned on a strip of country
roughly a mile across between two im-'
passable creeks. Perforce we camped,
grubless until Tom got a couple of roost-
ing flying-foxes with his .32. Having
singed their hair off with a handful of
burning grass, he dehided them with a
cunningly wielded stock knife, vocifer-
ously fearful that he might sever the
glands which, once cut, make the game
inedible. Cleaned, then roasted, the mam-
mals made a better supper than the “sit-
ting hens” that we’d sometimes eaten as
roast chicken at the Greek’s cafe.
“HOLY SMOKE.”
Gods there have been, of music and of wine,
Of storm and tempest, beauty, love and hope,
All things that agitate this heart of mine
And tease with loveliness its little scope.
But one obsession of the human heart
Stands godless in a world of many gods.
Though millions yet perform its ancient art
With wooden pipes and tiny paper rods.
Each hour of night and day in every hole
And corner of the world tobacco burns;
And, tumbling forth, the blue-grey vapors roll
Like spirits freed from long-forgotten urns,
Rising to dim and spiritual skies
Where Raleigh smokes his pipe in Paradise.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
QUICK and DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
OnogaS
with
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT'S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
GP 0 Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane,
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
The Mules Operation.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
h. H. B. Lefroy: The principal points
of difference between present practice and
knowledge and the matter contained in
the article (B. 9/2/’44) are: The Mules
operation as formerly known has, as the
result of research, been much improved.
It is now known, with the addition of
the longer tail, as the modified Mules
operation.
An important point is that the breech
skin removal is recommended to be made
on all merino females, whether wrinkled
or plain in the breech. The amount of
skin removed is greater than formerly,
and the purpose of its removal is
(1) to reduce the area of wool-
bearing skin in the crutch, and (2) to
extend by skin contraction, which results
from the removal of skin, the naturally
bare area around the excretory organs.
The cutting is now done with ordinary
dagging shears, more satisfactory than the
old method of using Burdizzo pincers and
knife, and subsequently rollcut secateurs.
All breeders now agree that the con-
certina type should no longer exist. But
there is a big gap between the concertina
and the plain-bodied sheep which, when
shorn or crutched, tends to show breech
wrinkles. To cast out all ewes which
have these little wrinkles would include
in the culls a large proportion of other-
wise highly desirable types.
Now that the cleaning up of the breech
by the Mules operation and the leaving
of the longer tail have been proved highly
effective, breeders can without fear retain
all good ewes which show some pucker-
ing in the breech. The argument that
big sacrifices by culling should be faced
in order to save the operation no longer
holds, since all merino ewes should be
treated.
Latest official figures from C.S.I.R.
refer to a test in which 10,000 young
ewes treated with Mules operation and
the longer tail received 120 strikes ; on
the same property during the same period
8000 older ewes not so treated received
10,800 strikes.
Every owner of sheep should study and
adopt the advice given in the supplement
to No. 2 Report of the Blowfly Com-
mittee, shortly to be available.
From my experience with the Mules
operation among about 8000 stud merino
ewes and lambs of the Peppin type dur-
ing the past five years, and with the
longer tail during the past two years, it
seems not too much to expect that re-
search into the blowfly problem already
carried, out in Australia will show even
higher dividends than has been the case
with prickly-pear. The modified Mules
operation with longer tail will be the chief
factor in th*e achievement.
f
Zebus in N. Australia.
“Graz”; Australia was late trying
zebus, although for years British breeds
hadn’t made a do of it in the North,
where pastures fail and ticks and tick-
borne diseases play Old Harry. It is
only ten years since 18 purebred zebu
bulls and heifers and a crossbred bull
were imported from Texas, and their
crossbred progehy are now outdoing
British-type cattle in size and value. In
the half-bred steers and females the ugly
zebu hump disappears. While they
haven’t the symmetrical lines of the
British breeds, among the quarter-breds
and three-eighths crosses are beasts that
would be difficult to distinguish from
pure Shorthorns and Herefords. Five
years after the first importations a pen
of zebu-Hereford cross steers came
second in a chiller beef competition at
Rockhampton. On the hoof they dropped
points, but gained ground by killing out
well—a zebu-cross carcass cannot be
judged by its cover.
Short, sleek hair and ability to per-
spire enable the zebu to maintain normal
body temperature in severe heat. Ticks
don’t worry him. His short hair is a
poor lair, his hide is thin but dense in
texture and hard to puncture, his tail
“I always let Ma shoe 'em — she's got such a Way with animals."
and long ears are very flexible and well
adapted to brushing off insects and his
skin is 'unattractive to ticks. Through
centuries of tropical existence the zebu
seems to have acquired immunity from
tick-borne diseases. When it was intro-
duced to Texas (U.S.A.) to speed up tick
eradication the ticks went, but the zebu
crosses stayed and topped the fat-stock
markets.
Zebu crosses are better doers on
rough feed, and hold condition over the
dry April-November periods in the
North. Quick maturers, they are ready
for market 12 to 18 months earlier than
others, and even then carcasses are 501 b.
heavier, and 27 p.c. more of them is
classed first grade. Dr. R. B. Kelley,
who reports on the zebu experiments for
the C.5.1.R., calculates the zebu cross
returns the owner 16s. Bd. to £1 7s. Bd.
more per annum than British types.
“Zebu”; The zebu claim has been
revived with the official approval of the
C.S.I.R. of zebus for North Australian
conditions. Some cattlemen there con-
tend that the zebu ‘and his crosses are
not wanted in any country where it is
possible to run British breeds. The zebu
strain needs to be kept under rigid work-
ing conditions to produce good beef
conformation.
The C.S.I.R. maintains that the breed
and its crosses withstand severest drought
conditions. Purebreds are completely
tick-repellent and halves and quarters
less susceptible than English breeds. Also,
the comparison at the meatworks favors
zebus, which are usually ready for
market a year earlier than other imported
types. Studmasters say that if the zebu
is allowed to run -ad lib. valuable
northern herds will soon deteriorate;
also, the zebu has an unmanageable dis-
position.
Mangolds for Pigs.
“Sarina”; The pig-raiser should list
them for autumn planting. High in nutri-
tive elements, they’re relished by pigs ;
fed with maizemeal they put on fat.
Most stock relish them.
A greedy feeder, nitrogen is the man-
gold’s main need. New scrubland, green-
manured land or forest land stuffed with
nitrogenous farm manures suit it. Phos-
phates are also necessary. Use 2cwt. to
3cwt. of super., broadcast just before the
last ploughing or just below the seed in
the drills at sowing. Sow 31b. of seed to
the acre ; drills 3ft. apart. They fail jn
very shallow land.
Careful soil preparation is worth while
for the good it does in limiting subse-
quent weed growth. Inter-row cultivation
can start immediately the plants are “up
in full row”—a month after sowing—and
can be done often to prevent packing of
the surface. Thinning out to 1 Sin. be-
tween plants leads to quick, strong growth
and sizable roots.
Watch the roots and pull as soon as
ready. Some farmers leave ’em in the
ground and pull ’em as required, but this
is a mistake. If rain falls they’ll resume
growth and will deteriorate badly. After
pulling they can be cleaned by washing ;
or, better still, allow them to dry in the
sun and then rub the clinging dirt off.
They are best stored in a dry room or
shed. Slice the roots before feeding them
to pigs,
A Good Little Paddock.
“Curlew”; We’re in the Victorian
Kelly country; the soil is derived from
granite, which does not give the richest
of soils. It is sound, healthy stock
country, and of recent years the combina-
tion of phosphate fertiliser and sub.
clover has given good results, not the
least being the enrichment of the soil by
the clover after the growth of a-few
crops, mostly oats.
Before the advent of super, a paddock
would be turned out, “worn out” and
carrying much sorrel. Fallowing im-
proved matters, and super, proved a big
advantage. But usually the cultivation
paddock became a pretty tight clay patch
from which all humus was gone and
which water penetrated very slowly. Sub.
clover improved this by restoring fertility,
opening up and aerating the soil.
I’ve used large quantities of super,
and sub. clover. Subdivision permitted
rotation grazing, so that a paddock need
not be flogged bare. Some paddocks are
closed in October for meadow hay. By
this means we have hay for use when
needed. Considerable quantities of low-
growing stuff and Burrs are left by the
mower and eaten by stock. No matter
how closely grazed,, there is always
abundance of seed to carry on.
Neighbors, remarking “That’s a good
little paddock,” ignore the fact that
management has made it so. Actually,
the property was one of the small
reject pieces—not taken by 'the early
settlers. It is higher ground, falling
away to north and south, so that
the rain that penetrated the soil had only
about a quarter of a mile to soak before
it was clear of the boundary. This meant
but little seepage water, so that it was a
dry property, well drained, but having
no lower ground where a body of seep-
age water would give damp situations in
a dry time.
Using 2cwt. per acre of super, on the
clover makes luxuriant growth, quite cap-
able of three to four sheep per acre.
Normally this country is about one sheep
per acre. My very best paddock gets
only lewt., but I never mow it. It is on
a fairly steep slope facing east. The
ridge above it protects it from westerly
winds, and it gets the morning sun.
I had grown a few crops on it, oats,
pumpkins, potatoes. The last crop,
potatoes, was planted along the face and
hilled, so that now the land is terraced
across the slope, having furrows every
yard or so. This stops run-off after
rain. Being a snug camping site,
stock use it very much, though of late
years a paddock below tends to
cut them off, from getting there
and depositing droppings. The site,
warmth, no run-off of rain, moderate
fertiliser, no harvesting of fodder, so that
it is returned to the soil, has made this
my very best* little paddock. This is
worth pondering over, particularly the
terracing into yard-wide strips. Perhaps
it means five sheep per acre —kept well.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: Working horses need good
feed and attention to maintain top con-
dition. Sweet oaten chaff, plenty of it,
with a night run on green pasture, is best.
A small ration of green feed acts as a
tonic on chaff-fed horses. Curry-comb-
ing, often neglected, keeps the nags in
better trim. Careful attention to harness
and tackle gives a man and his team a
better chance for smooth working.
“Lub”: A horse’s sore shoulder won’t
prosper under that treatment advised in
B. 5/1/’44. A padding of bag between
collar and sore aggravates the condition.
If you must work the horse (illegal, by
the way) pad the collar in such a way
that no contact can be established with
the afflicted part. After washing the
sore dry well and smear with vaseline or
a good stock ointment.
“Agro” : To mend an old, leaking tank
cover inside walls and bottom with old
wire netting. Punch holes through the
iron so that the netting can be held hard
against the tank with tie-wire tied through
to the outside. Then cover the inside
with a rendering of cement compo about
Ijin. thick trowelled on. The mixture
should be about three parts washed sand
and one part cement. The surface should
either be trowelled smooth or rubbed
reasonably smooth with a piece of bag
when the compo has dried somewhat.
Do the whole of the rendering in one,
operation. Water can be let into tank
a few days after job is finished.
“Pat Ater”; Sow all the brassicas that
you can place for early and late winter
use. Brassicas are all members of the cab-
bage family cabbages, cauliflowers,
Brussels sprouts, kohlrabi, broccoli, tur-
nips and swedes. Choose them according
to climate and soil.
“L.C.”: Given cool weather and moist
conditions onion mildew will spread
rapidly and losses will be serious in
stored and field bulbs. The fungus shows
up first in the leaves as pale, downy
blotches that increase in size till the
whole of the leaf’s affected, turns
yellow, withers and falls. Destroy
affected plants. Burn off all debris close
to the beds and select better drained
ground for the new sowing. Don’t use
seed from affected plants.


EMUSTEO m
Services.
:
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 3.
AGA
kesd., tra d e mark
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
made IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros, Ltd.,
Perth.
Old. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the ,Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
wm
co\
It's your fight your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
195 8 D-11.42
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. Isolationism Alive.
(From an article by a N.Y. “Times”
Washington correspondent.)
In the U.S.A. every public opinion poll
has shown a majority in favor of setting
up some international machinery to pre-
serve peace.
Whether isolationism is dead, either in
Congress or the country, is another
matter, however. In the opinion of many
Washington observers it is not dead but
dormant. In its pure form it may today
be championed openly only by the Re-
publican group among whose best-known
members are Colonel Robert McCormick,
of the Chicago “Tribune,” and Represen-
tative Hamilton Fish, and whose strength
is greatest in the Middle West.
This group has until lately favored the
selection of General Douglas Mac-
Arthur as Republican Presidential candi-
date. Recently it has shifted its ground
and urged that the candidate should be
one who would appoint General Mac-
Arthur as Secretary of War.
Those here who believe that a relapse
into isolationism by the United States
would be an irreparable disaster are not
worrying about this open manifestation
of it. They believe that the American
people are committed in their minds
as well as by their words to par-
ticipation in world affairs to main-
tain peace. They wonder only whether
isolationism will metamorphose into im-
perialism or a xenophobia, which will
make co-operation with other great
Powers as difficult in practice as desired
in. theory. It may be possible, they admit,
to achieve co-operation while retaining
sovereignty. But they do not see how it
will be possible without mutual trust.
They found little basis for good faith
in such complaints as that made by the
five globe-girdling Senators that when
American soldiers regained territory in
the Pacific a British resident was always
waiting near at hand to reassert owner-
ship for the Crown. This could only be-
come legitimate matter for legislative
complaint if the rule in this war were to
be “conquerors, keepers.”
It is true that the Russians have also
exhibited a desire to safeguard themselves
by pushing their frontiers outward.
Soviet Russia has been isolationist, too,
and is also finding how easily isolation-
ism can transform itself into imperialism.
Isolationism is a habit of mind not
easily overcome. Its comparative is
nationalism and its superlative imperial-
ism. When isolationism becomes inter-
ventionism it leads far less naturally to
international co-operation than to power
politics. It is in that sense that some ob-
servers here see it still very much alive.
Still a Hard War.
o Condensed from “United States News.”)
Not much optimism over an early or
easy victory is shown by professional
military men. Stress now is laid upon
the difficulties and the sacrifices that must
be made in 1944. As these officials size
up the outlook:
War end either in Europe or in the
Pacific is not yet clearly in sight. No
easy way to win is available. It must be
expected that, as we close in and shorten
the lines of the enemies, their resistance
will be intensified and our losses will
increase.
Much is said of strategic bombing and
of precision bombing. Bombing is im-
portant, but it will not win the war.
Damage is limited, continuity of attack
is not obtainable, and ground is not held
by air attack. Occupation must take place
and advances must be made in force and
by force.
The major war effort will continue to
be centred in Europe. Russian offensive
is likely to continue. It, however, prob-
ably will be limited to once-Russian terri-
tory and to small contiguous areas. Rus-
sian war aims remain uncertain.
Germany’s offensive land-power, air-
power and submarine-power have been
weakened, her man-power substantially
reduced. Bombing continues with con-
siderable, although not decisive, effect.
Yet there is no sign of early German
defeat in Europe. Germans doubtless
would be satisfied to stop the war where
it is. They hope to make the Allies
tired of war, as the one way to save
themselves.
Japan is showing signs of weakness in
the South-west Pacific. Success of the
Allies in the East Indies is predicted
within a reasonable time.
Japan’s shipping is suffering heavy loss
from U.S. submarines. Her naval forces
have had to face considerable attrition.
Even so, Japan has dug in at important
points in China and the East Indies and
will be dislodged only with difficulty,
There always is the chance that the
public may tire of the hardships of a
foreign war. This is the hope that both
Germany and Japan hold.
The professional appraisal of the war
outlook suggests no easy way to victory,
but it does recognise that real progress is
being made. Military men think that
Germany can and probably will be de-
feated by the end of this year. After that
the war with Japan is expected to con-
tinue for at least another year.
What Will Victory Mean?
(.From an American “Foreign Affairs’’ article
by Geoffrey Crowther, editor of London
“Economist.”)
At this stage of the last war, friend
and foe alike knew the main general
principles of the world order that would
follow on an Allied victory.
But who knows today what an Allied
victory would mean? Of the four major
Allies, two are democracies, but, apart
from the general conviction that people
should be allowed to settle their own
affairs, how much of the formulae of de-
mocracy do the Americans and British
regard as articles of export? To take a
specific case, should we recommend the
Germans to set up a replica of the
Weimar Republic, or the French to restore
the Third Republic—supposing that our
advice were asked for in either case?
And, if not, what do we recommend?
Moreover, the other two major Allies do
not, in their own affairs, practise anything
that we should recognise as democracy.
Some allege that the real preference
of the Western Allies is for legitimist,
conservative, monarchist Governments in
Europe. One may think that it is not so.
But can anyone of us say, of full know-
ledge, that it is not so? We want Gov-
ernments to be democratic, yes. But we
want them to avoid the mistakes that
were made in the name of democracy
after the last war. And where does that
leave us? Does anyone know?
The confusion is hardly less in the
sphere of international organisation. The
League of Nations is still alive, and the
many small nations of the world will not
abandon without a fierce struggle the
doctrines of sovereign equality and equal
sovereignty on which the League was
founded, or the principles of arbitration,
collective security.
There has been much talk of other
conceptions. Much has been heard of
the international police force. Some
conceive it as a genuinely international
body, responsible to a world agency, to
which, consequently, the essential attri-
butes of sovereignty would have to be
ceded. Others conceive it more in the
light of a continuance into the peace of
the concept of the present major Allies.
This latter has become almost a majority
concept; and even most of those who
criticise the idea of an Anglo-American
alliance (should anyone propose it, which
no one in authority has done thus far)
are usually content if it is enlarged to
cover only four of the nations of the
world. Dtfes anyone know whether the
system to be created will be a “Great
Power system” or a generally collective
one? If a compromise, will it lean more
one way or the other? And do we
believe in disarmament, for ourselves, in
the practically foreseeable future?
Our economic principles are equally
indefinite. Do we still believe in free
individual enterprise as the basis of eco-
nomic activity? Many Americans —pro-
bably the majority—say they do, though
the vehemence and frequency with which
they say it seem to suggest the existence
of a doubt. (It was not necessary to
make any such profession of faith in
1919.) Most Englishmen have very
serious doubts whether private enterprise
can any longer be regarded as the sole,


For Australia at War . . .
QYe ~Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
o
m
O
O
2
TO'^
i
Be Coupon - minded . . .
Buy TOP DOG MEN'S WEAR
To-day, more than ever, buyers choose brands
of known quality because they feel that it’s the
only safe way to get utmost value for their
coupons. It is particularly true of working
clothes.TOP DOG MEN’S WORK TROUSERS
measure up to the exacting standards of long
wear, quality, good fit, and reliability that make
them a good coupon investment now and in the
days of peace to come. And don’t overlook that
other investment in War Savings Certificates
and National Savings Stamps why not buy
them to-day.
Inserted by the Proprietors of
TOP DOG MEN’S WEAR
BREKS TROUSERS SOVEREIGN HATS
Give them the care that means long wear
GUARANTEED
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
I -
, ■ off*
Always fresh • •
Always smooth
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
b in £lO National Savings Bonds!
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years* Reputation for Quality
5064 a
or even as the principal, determinant of
economic activity. And the Russians
have no doubt at all that it cannot.
In this supremely important aspect of
human society, what would an Allied
victory mean? Do we believe in the
gold standard? In the old sense, clearly
not (for the minority of the faithful is
very small). But do we believe in the
possibility of universal currency stand-
ards in any sense? It is the question
that has underlain the recent international
discussions, and no answer that is
given can be more than experimental.
Do we believe in a return to a com-
mercial regime of moderate tariffs only,
with the abolition of all the other ob-
noxious obstructions to world trade that
have grown up in the last generation?
The American and British Governments
share some hopes, but not much confi-
dence. The Russians have not been
heard from. And if we do not believe
that the international economy of which
free trade and the gold standard were the
chief symbols can, or should, be re-
created, what do we believe in to take
its place?
This is a formidable list of questions,
and if there is anyone who can answer
any one of them —answer it, that is to
say, not for himself alone, but as express-
ing the dominant view of the United
Nations, or even of the two democratic
Great Powers-—then he is a far bolder
man than I am.
The war of 1914-18 was. to be the
means of plucking good out of evil, an
opportunity to finish off the job on which
the Western democracies had been en-
gaged for more than a century. Every-
body knew what the ideas were because a
hundred years had been spent in work-
ing them out.
Now nobody knows for sure. We
have not yet made up our collective
mind (and not many people have made
up their individual minds over the whole
range) whether there is life in the old
dogmas yet, or whether our problems
are so different that they cannot be
handled by the former body of doctrine,
however amended. Is the twentieth
century an extension of the nineteenth
century, or something different? We do
not know, and it *is very foolish to cavil
at Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill
because they have not taken an after-
noon off to tell us. They do not know
either. The Western democratic v/orld is
perilously close to a vacuum of faith.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
Europeans stand today at a crossroads, and
are preparing to move forward in one direction
or another. Most Americans naturally hope
that they will move in the direction of Parlia-
mentary democracy and private enterprise, and
American interests demand that Americans give
them every encouragement to do so. But
Russia’s presence in the victorious coalition
assures powerful support' for those who prefer
to follow the road leading to an authoritarian
State and controlled economy. If enough Euro-
peans elect to follow that road, then Americans
will be compelled to readjust completely their
economic, if not their political, relationships
with Europe. — Demaree Bess; ‘‘Saturday Even-
ing Post?’
* * * *
To judge from the “liberal” press today,
one would imagine that isolationists during the
last Presidential campaign were a little clique
of crackpots, Lindbergh, Coughlin, Wheeler,
Nye, Hamilton Fish and a lunatic fringe of
America-Firsters. The fact is we were 22
million strong at least, and if you add a fair
percentage of the 26 millions who voted for
Mr. Roosevelt because they thought he would
not fight unless we were invaded, there were
perhaps 28 or 30 million pre-Pearl Harbor
isolationists. — U.S. “Catholic World” editorial.
« * * *
Russia, facing the colossal tasks of reconstruc-
tion, needs the support of German technical
skills and German industry. It cannot
regard the blotting out of that industrial
might with the same equanimity as Americans
or Englishmen do. Deprived of the backing
of German industry, it would be too dependent
on British and American economy, and thus
at a disadvantage in the political manoeuvring
which Stalin foresees in the ahead.
David J. Dallin; “American Mercury.”
* * * &
In a conversation with a German diplomat in
occupied Paris in August, 1940, I asked him
how Germany proposed to settle frontier dis-
putes, and he replied impatiently “What differ-
ence do frontiers make any more? Give us
the kind of government we want in any country,
and we don’t care where the frontiers are put.”
Many Europeans now share that view, and it
explains recent happenings there which would
otherwise be obscure. It explains the civil wars
in Yugoslavia and Greece, the complicated
manoeuvres of French politicians at Algiers, the
agitation among exiled rulers and statesmen in
London, Washington, Cairo and Mexico City.
What these Europeans foresee is some kind of
general elections in post-war Europe in which
revolutionary issues will be decided. The out-
breaks now occurring may be described as pre-
election skirmishes, with rival candidates and
platforms jockeying for position .—Demaree
Bess; “Saturday Evening Post. ’


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
Divorce Notice.
■£9 T A L y IN 4 MAUD JONES formerly of Ebenezer.—
™£ N P TICE that y° ur husband REGINALD ERIC
JUNES has filed a Petition in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales (Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction)
JNo. 330 of 1944 graying for a divorce on *!ie ground
ot your desertion for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
Ist May next and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. ETHER & ETHER Solici-
tors 350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY
Registrar in Divorce.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 2 Q), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
BRANDALER’rS
PENS
J Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& SEASBACM A CO. L UU BIKMINUHAU. KNO
For Blood, Veins, and Arteries
bU* 8
T tt
ED
REG/STE
Take It—And Stop Limping!
JTVERY sufferer should test this wonderful new Biomedical treatment,
which brings quick relief from pain and weariness and creates within
the system a new health force, overcoming sluggish, unhealthy con-
and arousing to full activity the inherent healing powers of
Jne body. No ailment resulting from poor or sluggish circulation of
the blood can resist the action of “Elasto.” Varicose veins are restored
to a healthy condition, the arteries become supple, skin troubles clear
up, and leg wounds heal naturally. There is quick relief from piles
and rheumatism in all its forms. This is not magic. It is the natural
result of revitalised blood and improved circulation brought about by
JUasto ’ —the tiny tablet with wonderful healing powers.
Everybody is asking—what is “Elasto”?
THIS question is fully answered in an interesting booklet, which ex-
plains in simple language this amazing method of revitalising the
blood. Your copy is Free, seb offer below. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto” is not a drug, but a vital cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus enables Nature to restore elasticity to
the broken-down and devitalised fabric of veins and arteries, and so
to re-establish normal, healthy circulation, without which there can be
no true healing. NINE TIMES OUT OF TEN THE REAL TROUBLE
IS BAD CIRCULATION.
“No sign of varicose veins now."
“Completely healed my varicose
ulcers.”
“Relieved my Rheumatism and
Neuritis"
What Users of “E las to” say:'
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
"My doctor marvelled at my quick
recovery from phlebitis”
Send for FREE Booklet <*
Stmgly send your name and address to “ELASTO,” Box 1552 E, Sydney, for your
copy of the Interesting “Elasto” booklet. Or, better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed) from your chemist today and see for yourself
what a wonderful difference “Elasto” makes. Obtainable from chemists and stores
everywhere Price 7/6. one month's supply.
£ taSta unit yen pwuiM L
IN DUSTRI ES SERVED
by WERNER
. . . . REFRIGERATION
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
\c»
C<
©*
V\o
,tc\»
\c®
VV»'
.n°
Jw
L t>' s
GO
e» l
VA°
iT 1 /
Gr°
ecu’s
»n* St ° r * teI ’
5?/
Dairies. Fishmongers
&
° a/ry Produ ce Shops
flNMnewker*
Hwf is Mou
Here is a representative group of the many
industries being served by Werner electric
refrigeration—much of it special war-time equip-
ment that is giving Werner engineers added
experience, which must result in better refrigera-
tion for YOU and YOUR INDUSTRY.
Keep your mind on WERNER when you consider
YOUR future refrigeration problems. It will
serve you well as it has served Australia’s war
effort. 1
R. WERNER PTY.LTD
BURNLEY STREET, RICHMOND.
REFRIGERATION for INDUSTRY
INTERSTATE AGENTS—N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO. PTV. LTD. 1 74 Clarence St SYDMFy- c * ~ A / , u,ui tc on r- *
St„ ADELAIDE; W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH- OLD •G A ROCNF PTY E TrnH' : 30 J G^ e
St., Woolloongobba, STH. BRISBANE; TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD.,36 HOBART?S9 LAUNCESTON
Service Department.
Wants.
Words of song “How Paddy Stole the Rope.”
—3432.
Information Sought.
The leaves and fruit of my citrus trees have
started to drop off although watered regularly.
What is wrong?
The trees have probably been overwatered,
causing root decay. If they are too badly
affected to recover, dry the soil to a consider-
able depth by planting a deep-rooting crop
such as lucerne before replanting. If frees are
still of some value, ensure that water penetra-
tion is shallow.
* * * *
Is it possible to store hail-marked fruit?
Provided the damaged portion of the fruit is
healed the fruit will keep as well as apples free
from hail blemishes. If, however, the fruit is
damaged either on the skin or the flesh and has
not' had time to heal, it should not be stored.
* * * *
I suffer from leg cramps while lying in bed.
Remedy ?
While lying on the back in bed elevate limbs
at an angle of 60deg. from the horizontal and
keep them there for about three minutes. Then
rest in horizontal position for five minutes.
Repeat this several times, and do the exercise
several times daily. Gentle massage does no
harm.
* * * *
Can you suggest anything to prevent hair
falling out ?
Try rubbing the following in once daily: Five
grains salicylic acid, {oz. tincture of cantharides,
45 minims castor oil, lOoz. methylated spirit.
* % , * Jfc
Recipe for mulberry wine?
Boil 61b. berries, 51b. sugar and juice of three
lemons in one gallon of wafer for 15 minutes;
press through colander and strain through fine
strainer. When cool add four tablespoonfuls
of brandy and bottle. Leave uncorked and
each day fill bottle with wine to replace any
feremnted out. In 15 days wipe necks, cork
and tie down. Ready to drink in two months.
* * * *
(1) What were the results of the two Les
Darcy v. Eddie McGoorty contests? (2) What
did Tommy Burns weigh when Jack Johnson de-
feated him in 1908 ?
Darcy won both on knockouts —the first in
the 15th and the second in the eighth round.
(2) Announced weights were: Burns, 12st. 04ib.;
Johnson, 13st. 101b.
Brief Answers.
E.A.C.: The Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege was opened in March, 1891 E.M.: If
the patient needs hospital treatment and is too
ill to decide for herself, put her into hospital
and then notify the relatives B.B. : Trouble
is probably due to irrigation with unsuitable
bore water. Send a pint of the water to the
Department of Agriculture for analysis....
T.J.P.: No books on those subjects are avail-
able C.J.S.: Question cannot be answered
for security reasons L.H.M.: During the
financial year 1941-42 59 persons were assessed
for Commonwealth income tax on a taxable
income of £5000 and over M.E.S.: Rubber
rings for Agee jars and inner lids for Agee
specials are obtainable from Nock and Kirby,
George-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the US. No
liability is undertaken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.M.: Any young man reading such sound,
platitudinous advice would be justified in com-
mitting the seven deadly sins... .E.M.T.: Stop
wotting... .M.F.T.: Not more but not less
dreadful than most patriotic anthems... .E.L.:
lighten, polish and avoid elementary rhymes.
... .T.L.G.: “I thought it might at least make
your Answers column.” It did M.E.H.;
“I am aware that it is bristling with imperfec-
tions.” Yes; but like a straw broom or a
porcupine it’s all bristles.,. .E.M.: “In the col-
lection of beahtiful poems of Rupert - Brooke
there are many brilliant and lovely lines.” If
you want to write criticism you’ll have to do
more than be trite in a heavenly sort of way.
•• -C.C.D.: Not at that length J.McE.:
“Shore Etching” needs a clearer and stronger
ending... .G. 8.: You need a typewriter ....
T.R.R.: The phrase had been used by Auden.
Verse promising but flattish H.E.H.: Might
make a song... .M.McE.: Keep at - it E.E.S.:
Pleasing but remote D.T.L.: Style hack-
neyed ... .JJ.R.: That cook has already been
placed in an A.B.C. competition and published
in The Bulletin Dismal
A.K.F.: “A local lad returned home for the
festive season.” No doubt the Yuletide log
blazed merrily and a good time was had by all.
. ...E.M.0.: “The long, lean, lank, lissom
figure”—a walking stick? ... .C.W.: Small beer.
. ...R.T.: Elderly English rustic with pigeons
be a-comin’ ’ome ’e be A.L.H.: “Rogan
appeared at the door with a decided list to star-
board.” It took him right into the w.p.b
G.M.: “With a slightly cynical grin Jeannie
picked up the offending pulp and tossed it out
the window.” Thank you, Jeannie R.J.0.:
Little girls sob not here 8.H.: “ ‘Oh, God,
is this what I have lived for?’ he cried in a piti-
ful voice and disappeared into the storm out-
side.” He must have read that story right
through H.T.: Horse a bit thin G.H.H.
(England): Miles off our beat V.C.: Some-
how, we thought he was going to have a heart
of g01d... .H.M.W.: % Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.L.M.: Never met Melbourne policeman
with feet like Pavlova’s X.: Nothing like
him... .C.L.C.: Tin-hatted warden pouring
bottles of beer into an A.R.P. fire bucket
caused an outburst of sobbing around the office.


SECURITY
FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF TRUSTS
The appointment of The Trustees, >
Executors and Agency Company
Limited as Executor of your Will, en-
sures ample security for the perform-
ance of the trusts:
Paid-up Capital £140,000
Uncalled Capital 660,000
Reserves .. .. 160,645
£96OM.
In addition the Company offers more than 65
years’ specialised experience, also continuity, im-
partiality, accessibility, secrecy, continuous audit,
moderate charges and sympathetic treatment of
beneficiaries.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free explana-
tory Booklet detailing the advantages of the
Company’s services.
the trustees executors
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1678.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray ;
Sit Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORSi
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
motors and switchgear
garbage destructors
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
MTitten
June. Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 259,077 5 p.c. = 236,960 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256,731 5 „ „ 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935. . 263,937 5 ~ ~ 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
1936.. 298,227 6 „ ~ 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
1937.. 342,041 64 ~ ~ 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
1938. . 365,975 7' „ ~ 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 7 ~ ~ 331,730 35,000 4,429,200
1940.. 389,492 74 ~ ~ 355,426 35,000 4.428,266
1941.. 384,589 ~ ~ 355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942.. 377,162 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 74 „ ~355,426 15,000 4,422,837
Talking at the Canberra summer school
of the Australian Institute of Political
Science, the Prices Commissioner, Pro-
fessor Copland, placed the trading banks
among industries he considered suitable
for “immediate” Government control
after the war. He added that “these [in-
dustries] were examples of activities which
either were or threatened soon to become
socially dangerous monopolies.”
How, or in what way, the professor
now considers the trading banks are, or
threaten to become, “socially dangerous”
he didn’t bother to explain. What he
did explain in “What have the banks
done?” published in the difficult days of
1931, was that:
Confidence in the currency has been sus-
tained mainly because the policy pursued
was controlled by the banks and not by
the Government. The chief criticism to be
made of the banks is that they have given
too much and not too little credit to Gov-
ernments. But it must not be forgotten that
the Commonwealth Bank took a strong
stand against undue increase in the float-
ing debt and the private banks repeatedly
urged economy in public expenditure. This
had much influence in bringing about in
May and June, 1931, the conference that
evolved a scheme of reform in public
finance under which Budget equilibrium is
to be achieved in a period of three years.
Meanwhile, the professor changed his job
—and he has done a lot of good work
in the difficult field of war-time price con-
trol. Further, the trading banks have
come very much under Government con-
trol, details of which have been previ-
ously analysed in these columns. And
purposely Government has made the
business virtually a monopoly. No indi-
vidual or corporate body can now set up
as a bank in Australia without first
obtaining Government consent.
Recent experience in spheres other
than banking suggests that further exten-
sion of Government controls —which
might be taken as another name for
nationalisation —Would, if long practised
in peace, indeed become socially danger-
ous. What traders want to know, and
should be told as soon as possible, is
which controls are likely to be released
after the war, and when. Another perti-
nent question is whether the time isn't
now ripe to begin relaxing some of the
more irksome existing controls.
As for the trading banks, custody of
portion of their deposits is such a power-
ful factor in credit control that some
rights in this respect are likely to be re-
tained by the central bank. Also, regu-
lated thawing of now frozen bank de-
posits can be expected, possibly by con-
trols and priorities over capital expendi-
ture and raw materials, while scarcity of
the latter continues, at any rate. And
open market buying and selling of Gov-
ernment securities by the trading banks
might remain a regulated activity, too,
because of possible effects upon interest
rates. Control over the direction in which
money is spent will be a ticklish question
which might well be left in the hands of
the trading banks, whose services in this
and other respects have made them a
pillar of strength in the past. And no
harm would be done if the banks were
given more headroom by raising the
present low “ceiling” for their profits,
which ignores the risk and cost factors
altogether.
Last term C.B.S.’s net earnings (down
£3064) were 7.8 p.c. on the £4,739,013
of capital, buj only a wink over 4 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined). The div. was kept at
1\ p.c., and nothing more can be ex-
pected under existing restrictions.
Under the present controlled and
rationed economy, Government financial
policy dominates the banking structure.
Expansion of central bank credit to
finance spending on war account,
rationing and other controls have
brought about shrinkage in bank ad-
vances and heavy growth in deposits and
liquids, as the following comparison of
C.B.S.’s balance-sheet figures shows:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Notes .. .. £13,602 £13,549 £13,542
® ills V V ' ‘ kHiH? q 1 61,316,365 69,941,462
Deposits* .. 53,713,813 )
Liquids .. 20,895,574 32,229,532 44,127,625
Advances .. 42,114,246 36,690,503 33,603,347
Premises, etc... 1,206,620 1,162,908 1,133,096
Other assets .. 582,862 430,499
* Including provision for contingencies.
Last term a contraction of £3,087,156 in
advances was accompanied by a growth
of £8,625,097 in deposits, etc., and
£11,898,093 in low - interest - bearing
liquids. Special war-time deposit with
the Commonwealth Bank was
£11,982,000, carrying 15s. p.c. interest.
When the books closed, liquids amounted
to 63 p.c. of liabilities to the public, de-
posits to only 48 p.c. of advances, and
the bank was holding £7 12s. 9d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own-. It all spells strength and low earn-
ing power.
Westralian Farmers. Ltd.
To Re- De-
July. Loss. Dividends. serves. flcit.
£ £ £ £
1934. . ■ 567 Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3,969 Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36,536 Nil 36,536 8,528
1939.. 6,522 Nil 6,522 2,006
Reserves.
1940.. 34,652 5 p.c. = 10,739 23,913 21,907
1941.. 50,853 5 „ „ 10,774 40,079 61,986
Milk rounds written off, £10,025 . . 51,961
1942.. 41,130 5 p.c. = 10,803 30,327 82,288
1943.. 18,212 4 „ „ 8,654 9,558 91,846
This is one of a group of co-operative
selling organisations which endeavors to
market farmers’ produce at best price
and low cost. It ran into trouble at the
beginning of the 1930’5, because it had
borrowed heavily to lend to wheat-
farmers before the big break in the
markets, and for the next decade surplus
earnings were swallowed in wiping out
bad debts and in repayment of money
borrowed.
War bumped up cost, deprived the co.
of its chartering business and the profits
that went with it, and reduced turnover
in the merchandise, agricultural machin-
ery, motor-agency and liquid-fuel sec-
tions, owing to shortage of supplies. But
the deadwood had been pruned out of
the accounts, and shareholders, who are
mostly clients, got back into the picture
with a 5 p.c. div. in 1940, after a 10-year
drought.
Last term, less wheat but more wool,
livestock and skins were handled, and
demand for the co.’s stock and poultry
foods, turned out by the factory set up
for the purpose a couple of years ago,
strengthened. But Government acquisi-
tion and marketing of many primary pro-
ducts have displaced some of the co.’s
services, and affected returns from others.
Altogether the drop in gross earnings
(£253,183) was £125,291—£86,970 on ac-
count of commissions, etc. (£88,776), and
£38,321 in respect of earnings from all
other sources (£164,407). After provid-
ing for taxation (£12,000, down £38,000)
and allowing for minor reserve adjust-
ments, net earnings were £22,918 lighter
at £18,212. A point was knocked off
the div., leaving it at 4 p.c., and £6OOO
of the £9558 that remained was ear-
marked as “bonus” for clients, to be dis-
tributed when the outlook becomes less
foggy.
As war-time shortages of agricultural
commodities become less acute, and sur-
pluses begin to appear, there will be less
of a seller’s market for these staples,
and price and other controls will need to
be relaxed or directed toward limiting
price declines. Anticipations are that the
wheat carryover and new production in
Canada, Argentine and Australia will
satisfy fully heavy post-war relief
demands from Europe.
During the year the co.’s working
agreement with Co-op. Bulk Handling—
formed in conjunction with the trustees
of the Westralian wheat pool in 1933 —
ran out, and the undertaking was handed
over to the toll payers. However, the co.
will maintain its connection with wheat
as paying and shipping agent for the
wheat board, and as sole receiver in the
State of bagged wheat. With Govern-
ment encroachment upon its activities
the co. is now giving more attention to
manufacture. The new dehydration plant
at Bridgetown is scheduled to come into
full production during the current term.
Finances wear a healthier look:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £213,978 £214,730 £216,320 £216,357
Debentures .. 124,371 117,256 113,07 8 66,051
Sundry creditors 672,991 290,823 273,855 244,873
Tax provision. . 50,000 12,000
Freeholds, etc. 118,188 123,092 123,464 134,628
Plant, etc. . . 43,512 48,044 44,515 55,861
Shares in other
cos. . . 87,037 42,134 32,165 32,546
Loans . . 35,613 5,309
Stocks . . 122,432 118,749 121,230 112,876
Debtors . . 630,564 286,269' 273,727 212,398
Cash, etc. . . 13,807 114,607 135,i30 91,651
Last term £47,027 was lopped off the
debenture debt and £28,982 off the
amount coming to trade creditors. To
do this, pay the tax bill and spend,
£22,510 more than was written off on
fixed assets stocks were reduced by
£8354, debtors’ balances by £61,429 and
cash, etc., by £43,479. The more or less
liquid surplus (£127,547) was £3OBl less
than at the previous balance, owing to
outlay on fixed assets.,
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933 . . 6,257 7 p.c.= 5551 706 16,670
1934 . . 4,477 54 ~ „ 4362 115 16,790
1935 .. 4,247, 0., ~ 3965 282 17,072
1936 . . 5,957 71 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 . . 7,126 8„ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 6,592 74 „,, 5947 645 18,509
1939 . . 5,627 7 „ 5551 76 18,585
1940 . . 8,272 8 ~ ~ 6344 1928 20,513
1941 . . 12,644 8 ~ „ 6344 6300 26,813
1942 . . 13,892 8„ ~ 6344 7548 30,709
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
1942 . . 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 7548 30,709
1943 . . 14,293 8„ „ 6344 7949 38,658
War with Japan cut off the growing
export trade the co. was developing with
Eastern and Southern Asia, and reduced
the demand for leather in the upholstery
trade in Australia and Maoriland. But
the gap has been more than filled by
rapid war-time growth in local demand
for the belting and other industrial
leathers which Ludowicis have been turn-
ing out ever since 1858. Indeed, substan-
tial additions have had to be made to the
tannery, belt-making factories and power-
transmission engineering plant in order
to cope with recent demands.
Buying and selling prices in the indus-
try are now pegged, hut costs continue to
creep ahead. Still, after allowing for de-
preciation (£2379, up £566), and includ-
ing a profit of £3OO on sale of shares, the
co.’s net earnings last term were the best
yet, being 18 p.c. on capital as against
17.5, 15.9, 10.4, 7, 8.3, 9 and 7.5 p.c. back
to 1936. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
and more was put by than was distri-
buted, money being wanted in the busi-
ness to finance bigger turnover.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital .. . . £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities. . .. 27,929' 40,018* 71,951 49,529
Freeholds . . . . 58,978 59,028 62,519 63.219
Plant, etc 10,391' 10,944 16,653 14,926
Stocks . • . . 38,956 33,235 57,675 50,542
Book debts ’. . 17,918 38,171 387516 35,219
Cash, etc... ... 5,58 4 8,8 4 0 10,68 3 7,669
■’’lncluding tax provision.
All the money that became available last
term was used to reduce the outside debt,
down £22,422. On plant £1727 more was
written off than was spent. The year's
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£43,901) was £8978.
What the future holds for Australia s
tanning industry will partly depend upon
the wisdom of Government “planning.
Before the war over three-fifths of all
Australian raw hides were treated locally.
Now the lot, plus whatever can be had
from Maoriland, are handled in local
tanneries. In the early post-war years
the demand for hides and leather prom-
ises to be a strong one, from both Europe
and Asia. But financial difficulties might
force some countries, especially China,
Thailand, East Indies, etc., to buy on


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Abvt.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydiaulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Abvt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents aup Trade Marks. —Anvt.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® Local-ion,
ot YOUR RUPTUHI
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eye* and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H,Ro*eiCo..Pty,Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features o it high-priced
Imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
ONLY
£l7/10/. SnSm
Bin It mtirtly in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
9tff 9 AO If
S.l 3 IM o onj
voiaoud ' ■
msMHtu MMd
V S.ll H
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
LEATHER
BELT I N G
•
PULLEY*
COUPLI NGS
SHAFTING
GEARS $t HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
VfiUUfV
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
£26,300,000 of Protection
taken out with A.M.P. last year
People’s Savings Do Double Duty by Providing
Personal Security While Swelling the War Loans.
ONE reason why so many men and women lack
income in their old age is that they have never
had any plan for making their old age secure.
They may have dreamed of security but they have
never acted on any plan.
Security is a boon, but men and women have
to earn it by action.
Any man or woman in good health can take
action simply and easily by joining the A.M.P.
Society.
Last year new policies for £26,300,000 were
taken out by new and old members. For the previous
year the new policies were for £23,000,000.
These wise citizens not only added to their own
personal and family security, but added to the
Nation’s security because a large part of the money
they put into the A.M.P. goes straight into the War
Loans. Thus their savings do double duty.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sit Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq..
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb Manager for New South Wales.
Head Oflice: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
best-credit rather than best-price basis.
And this applies to other goods, as well
as leather. In pre-war days the British
Government did much toward solving a
similar problem by creating a fund to
assist export sales on a credit basis. It
will be a case of the early bird catching
the worm.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd.
National Press Pty., Ltd., has taken
over “Smith’s Weekly,” together with
the building, plant and goodwill, from
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. The purchase
price was £75,000. Owing to heavy
losses the board endeavored to dispose
of the two papers, “Smith’s Weekly” and
the “Referee,” together with their assets,
in 1939. No buying offers were received,
and publication of the “Referee” ceased.
“Smith’s Weekly” was leased to National
Press Pty., Ltd., as a going concern for
three years at a rental of £4050 per
annum. The lessees had an option to
purchase the building for £35,000 (the
amount of the mortgage), and “Smith’s
Weekly” and plant for £40,000. Owing
to sharp increase in the Federal land
tax, a new lease and option of purchase
by September 1, 1944, was granted to
National Press, the annual rental being
increased to £4550. Last term Smith’s
net loss was £334. Pref. shareholders
have been shown an empty basket for
the last five years, whilst ords. have
gone without since 1930, when an un-
disclosed amount was distributed out of
profit on sale of the “Daily Guardian.”
Cables and Wireless, Ltd., is the big
organisation—it was previously Inter-
national Imperial Communications, Ltd.
—with a paid capital of £30,000,000,
which took over all the Empire submarine
cables, and now operates many wireless
services as well, including the London
end of the Australian beam service.
Within its sphere, it handles all the most
important cables on behalf of Empire
and Allied Governments and defence ser-
vices, and a large slice of commercial and
other traffic as well. The British Gov-
ernment is a shareholder, and divs. are
limited to 4 p.c.
* * * *
Austral N.Z. Mining, an Austral Malay
float operating auriferous flats near
Cromwell, on the Clutha (M.L.), made a
better showing during the 12 months to
Oct. 2 last, thanks to improved recovery,
lower costs and bigger yardage:
Bullion.
A
t ' \
Total Average
Dredged, recovered, c.y.. Cost,
c.y. oz. gr. c.y.
1941 .. 3,302,000 12,361 1.80 4.00 d.
1942 . . 3,267,000 7,162 1.05 4.01 d.
1943 . . 3,541,000 8,496 1.15 3.57 d.
The reduction in costs is encouraging,
but recoveries are still disappointing,
being only about 33 p.c. of expectation,
deficiency being most marked in ground
where bore values were highest. The net
result of the year’s operations was a profit
of £8776 as against a loss of £3778 for
the previous year. That was after allow-
ing an inadequate £lB9 for depreciation;
no provision was made for amortisation.
Paid capital is £211,750, of which
£210,000 is in f.-p. £1 ords. and the
balance Is. deferred shares, held by the
parent and deferred only as regards
return of capital, except for the purpose
of sale or reconstruction. The property
is equipped with a 3| million c.y. p.a.
electrically-driven dredge, and 28,000,000
c.y. was bored to average 3gr. gold. The
stuff was nearly all contained in about
18 inches of wash, resting on an undu-
lating blue-clay-and-schist bottom. It is
considered that bores in the area dredged
bottomed on an “abnormal percentage of
richer patches.” Returns since the close
of last accounts are reported “very poor
indeed,” and it has been decided to aban-
don the rest of the Athenaeum area and
move the dredge upstream, where richer
ground, also bored previously by an-
other co., is available. Hopes are that
results here will retrieve the situation
created by the poor outcome of dredging
in the Athenaeum area.
* * * *
Berjuntai Tin Dredging, paid capital
£170,000, of which London Tin Corp.
owns about 76 p.c.—Australia is inter-
ested in the balance —is holding £52,650
net cash, etc., outside enemy-occupied ter-
ritory. Funds were transferred to Lon-
don just before the registered office, direc-
tors, dredge and property in F.M.S. fell
into Jap hands. To enable the co.’s
interests to be watched and protected,
an extraordinary general meeting will be
held in London on June 23 next to re-
move the old directors, appoint three new
ones (all officials of London Tin Corp.,
who will act without fee) and open a new
office and register in London. It is the
only practical solution of the co.’s diffi-
culties at the moment,
* * * «
Melbourne-controlled Tongkah Com-
pound, paid Capital £207,113, received
£6942 during the year to Sept. 30 last —
£3913 from liquidated buffer pool stock
and £3029 from interest, etc. Exes., in-
cluding taxation, took £1319, leaving a
surplus of £5623. Liquid assets in Aus-
tralia total £127,221, of which £43,161 is
represented by Treasury bonds and
£81,310 cash. There was only £903 com-
ing to outsiders. Property, plant, etc., in
Malaya stands in the books at £91,068,
and investment in subsidiaries (Tongkah
Compound No. 2, No. 3, No. 4 and No.
5) in Malaya and Thailand at £140,977.
Claims against possible war damage have
been lodged with the authorities in
London, and there the matter rests till the
war ends.
* * ♦ *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet Gold
Mines (W.A.) announces a loss of £6388
stg. for two years ended March 31, 1943,
raising debit balance to £130,773. Direc-
tors state that resolutions for winding up
will be submitted later. It is doubtful
whether shareholders are likely to rescue
much, if anything, from the wreck. Co.
started production on its Westralian mine
with a champagne banquet attended by
the Lieut-Govemor, politicians, news-
papermen and others. A few years later
(in 1942) the shpw closed down and the
plant was sold to the Government for
£25,000 Australian.


WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH
YOUR MONEY
AFTER THE WAR?
There’s still a long hard road between us and
Victory. As the Prime Minister, John Curtin,
said: "Whether it comes soon or late depends
upon the energy which we throw into the
conflict.”
Short of fighting and other essential war-time
tasks, there’s one best way for each one of us
to contribute to Victory. That is to save all
we can to help finish the war. .
"v;i
fi
■MW
HERE’S WHERE SAVINGS
GOME FROM
Many things have disappeared altogether from
the market—others are scarce, and rationing
has been necessary to see
that everyone gets a
fair share of what is
available.
Quom
*SOLV \
Between the absence of some types of goods,
the shortage or inferior quality of others, you
\LMWcTfs*K'Dl^
'A
are going to have some
surplus money which you
won’t want to spend on
anything unnecessary.
Because you have surplus
money (and because you
want to win the war)
you will buy Victory
Bonds.
Y.
You will thus make a direct personal contribu-
tion to the war effort. You will help conserve
labour and materials for defence production.
and because you do not
compete for the dwind-
ling supply of goods in
the shops, you aid the
Prices Commission to
keep prices down.
=
Your Victory Bonds are a fine, secure invest-
ment on which you are paid good interest,
and you’ll have a fine fund of savings ready for
your use in the vastly improved post-war life.
Your Victory Bond makes the peace we’re
fighting for take on a tangible, worthwhile
meaning.
3TO-.
as
GET READY FOR THE
STT HO
VICTORY LOAN
Make an advance subscription now at any Bank, Savings
Bank or Stockbroker, or buy 5/- National Savings Stamps
at any Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office.
PV.16.19
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Gross Growth in “Savings”
Thrift is a virtue of national conse-
quence. In peace-time the savings of the
people provide funds for national de-
velopment, and, since thrift means sav-
ing, it also means less spending on non-
m^N so r re ; abo^ and
materials for that development During
peace almost the entire country s produc-
tion is available for civilians, which
should mean more savings, more national
development. In war-time a large pro-
portion of production has to be set
aside for fighting purposes, and is not
really available as savings or develop-
ment of civilian value. In Australia’s
present war effort the proportion is about
50 p.c. But though civilians as a result
are on restricted living standards, and
though such national development as is
going on has mostly a war basis, we see
the anomaly of people’s savings accumu-
lating at a rate never previously ex-
hibited. This is mainly because the poli-
tical problems accompanying the task of
financing the war have been too much
for the Commonwealth Government.
Savings-bank deposits throughout the
Commonwealth were £10.9 million higher
at the end of January than they were a
month earlier. Totalling £425 million,
they showed an increase of £lBO million
compared with the last pre-war month,
This growth of 73 p.c. in one particular
kind of savings since the outbreak of war
is fairly indicative of the general Aus-
tralian experience a not altogether
healthy accumulation of earnings, chiefly
by wage-earners, that fails to exhibit the
straightforward payment of war’s cost and
wastage. While the nation becomes
materially poorer through concentration
upon means of destroying the enemy in-
stead of building up living standards,
a great many people have, .mostly in
financial terms, become much “richer.”
Since Labor took office the increase in
s.-b. deposits has doubled every year. In
the year to January, 1942, the growth was
£23.3 million, to January, 1943, £48.6
million, and to January, 1944, £107.6
million. Though it may be put forward
lh a l this saving has been largely forced
u P° n wage-earners because of the restric-
“on on home-building and the rationing
ZJSS* ° f , mo - St C1Vlll ? n B °°? S ' V hese
ssrsrzvffiM
war has demanded> and -i t follows that
th< . financial cost has been of the same
magnitude. The fact that there has been
an enormous rather than a moderate in-
crease in war-time savings-bank balances
shows that the lower incomes, in spite of
the undoubtedly heavy taxes many pay,
are still not contributing fully to the
undoubtedly heavier cost of war either in
taxation or loans. It is true, on the other
hand, that some income-earners, especially
in the higher categories, have made
exceptional contributions to the cost of
war. Evidence of the real depreciation in
value of Australian money as a result of
war and war-time financial methods can
be seen in the black market for motor-
cars. Restricted though petrol and tyre
allowances are, second-hand cars a few
years old have in some cases sold at a
higher price than when new. The prose-
cutions one reads about are less than one
per cent, of such black-marketing,
In the hands and secret hoards of the
public there is also an exceptional amount
of currency. At the end of 1943 there
was £l5O million of notes held by the
people, a growth of £ll5 million com-
pared with just before the war. Some of
this increase is due to the number of
Australian and Allied troops who carry
unusually large sums around with them,
but in the main it has been the result of
currency hoarding, the object of which
sometimes is to avoid taxation,
The public has also put £4O million
net into war-savings certificates. The
limit that can be legally held by one per-
son in this security is £250 worth. War
loans subscribed by the public, the banks
and the insurance cos. have totalled
more than £5OO million, apart from
Treasury bills discounted. It is likely
that much of this figure does not repre-
sent true war-time savings, but rather a
diversion of capital, and that in any case
too much of it has been put up by the
“financial institutions” to represent sav-
ings on the part of the people. But so
much of the latter as constitutes the in-
vestment of current life-assurance pre-
miums is paft of the people’s war-time
savings. A good deal of the £5OO million
subscribed to public loans, however, has
been the reinvestment of savings-bank
deposits, and such amounts should not be
taken into account twice when calculat-
ing war-time savings.
The position where war expenditure is
paid for out of taxation is one in which
the Government pays out, in defraying
the cost of war, no more money than it
takes from the people—a cost from which
almost nothing of an economic value
returns. Where money is borrowed
direct from the people the position is
similar, with the important exception that
Commonwealth securities, representing a
debt on the Government and the country,
are put in the people’s hands to compen-
sate them for the loan of the money.
Where a Government borrows from the
banks it does not reduce the people’s
money at all, but increases it when it
pays for services and munitions. De-
positors are entitled to withdraw their
funds at any time even though those
funds have already been made the basis
of bank loans to the Government. The
inflationary possibilities of such finance
methods are kept in check at the present
time only by reason of the disabilities
placed upon the civil spending or invest-
ment of money, these disabilities dis-
couraging the withdrawal of deposits
from savings banks. Where Treasury
bills are discounted with the Common-
wealth Bank to pay for war expenses a
similar excess of money is put into circu-
lation.
The trading "banks, following a policy
dictated by the Treasury, have passed on
to the central bank £156 million of their
excess deposits. These deposits have
formed part of the base for the discount-
ing of £372 million of Treasury bills
issued by the Government to pay for
war waste. Like the investment in war
loans of deposits by the savings banks,
this reinvestment of trading-bank deposits
in Treasury bills is a pyramiding of
credit on a foundation of war expendi-
ture. The increase in deposits in trading
banks since war began has been in the
vicinity of £l7O million. It is partly due
to the liquidation of stocks and other
trading assets by industry and partly to
the accumulation of savings.
To the end of December the present
war had cost Australia £l3BB million, of
which £954 million was met out of
borrowed money. Since then the rate of
spending would carry the current war
debt to beyond £lOOO million. This is
almost entirely owing in Australia. Over
a third of the debt represents Treasury
bills, an indefinite but substantial portion
of the balance represents other bank
borrowing, and the remainder is made up
of genuine public investment. Too little
of this unknown remainder is so made
up, however, and too much of the total
is represented by secondary borrowing.
Only 31 p.c. of the total war bill since
1939 has been paid for as we have gone
along. As that war 'bill is something in
return for which we can expect little of a
lasting value, and as during the running-
up of that bill we have been concentrat-
ing almost entirely on subsistence for
the people and the prosecution of the
war, it follows that since 1939 our assets
of use in peace-time have probably
slipped back in value. Certainly they
have not advanced in real value by the
extent of the £lOOO million growth in the
debt, nor even to the extent of the growth
in the people’s savings already roughly
indicated. As our money is no longer
backed by gold but by the immediate
productive value of our industries, as
appraised in the eyes of the world and in
our own, it is plain that we have an excess
of money—and debt —in comparison with
pre-war values of our fixed and floating
assets. This inflation may be offset
wholly or partly in the post-war era by
cheaper production methods, or it may
be absorbed to some extent by national
expansion. But it is an unfortunate fact
that the political conditions which have
led to our present difficulties are the very
opposite of those which will be necessary
to provide the beforementioned counters
to post-war inflation. We have to break
the vicious circle.
Commonwealth public war loans since
hostilities started;
Interest, Amount
Opened. P.c. Subscribers. Raised.*
Dec 1, 1939 .. 3£ Gom. Bank £2,000,000
Mar. 1, 1940 .. 3f or 3f 14,339 7,676,000
May 29, 1940 .. 2\ or 3f 32,792 20,582,000
Nov. 28, 1940 . . 2\ or 3f 21,830 20,505,000
Apl. 30, 1941 .. 2* or 3* 57,217 27,871,000
Oct. 7, 1941 .. „ „ 83,379 34,158,000
Feb. 17, 1942 .. „ „ 244,595 48,332,000
June 2, 1942 .. „ „ 196,541 37,375,000
Nov. 3, 1942 .. „ „ 455,688 82,686,000
Mar. 16, 1943 .. „ „ 433,365 101,822,000
Oct. 5, 1943 .. „ „ 560,000 126,000,000
2,099,746 £509,007,000
*. Excludes conversions.
The First Victory Loan, opening soon,
will be for £l5O million.
* * * *
Ramie Textile Syndicate has been
formed in Sydney to exploit and develop
a patented process, the work of M. M.
Wise, for the decortication and degum-
ming of ramie fibre. This fibre —“China
grass”—is extremely strong by compari-
son with silk, cotton, flax or hemp, but
up to date treatment has been a prob-
lem. The process of Mr. Wise is said
to be cheap, simple and effective, and
to have been tested out by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture. Trustee for
the syndicate is Allan Clunies Ross, and
chairman of the management committee
Lionel A. Krone. The syndicate is
arranging to grow its own ramie in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
A huge parcel of Harris, Scarfe ords.
has been disposed of in Adelaide lately,
and some of this scrip has got as far
afield as Sydney, On successive days
16,000 and 47,000 shares were sold at a
price averaging about 6s. 3d. Quotations
have since recovered to 6s. lOd.


Personal and Missing Friends.
IP FLORRIE KEAN, a niece of GEORGE TURVEY
GELLEY, late of Buckland, in Tasmania, Farmer,
deceased, will communicate with the undersigned,
she will learn of something to her advantage.—-
TINNING, PROPSTING, MASTERS & SOLOMON,
158 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Solicitors to
the estate of the said deceased.
Save precious days in sending to New Zealand
Now, when every day, every hour, every minute count*,
it wiD pay you to send “Air Freight” to New Zealand.
Tasman's Service is vital and valuable —especially in emer-
gencies I Reasonable rates. Customs clearance* arranged
on request. Distribution by Air in New Zealand available.
Enquire now from Qantas Empire Airways or Union
Steamship Co. Ltd. of N.Z. Ltd. (Sydney and Branches.)
TASMAN EMPIRE
AIRWAYS LTD.
Srltbano
Auckland
Sydney
i
*€S*.
Melbourne
mm
\ .
v se i
SEND IT BY
TRANS-TASMAN
AIR FREIGHT
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman■ F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director, S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
War-time NERVES
and HEAVINESS
HOW TO BEAT THEM
AND FEEL FIT AND WELL
War-time worries, irregu-
lar hours and meals often
result in faulty elimination,
nerves and heaviness.
You feel run down, weary
and out of sorts.
But there’s no need to stay
that way. Just take R.U.R.
for a while, and gain for
yourself the real relief ex-
perienced by so many
people all over Australia
and New Zealand.
R.U.R. gently nudges kid-
neys and liver, and gets
them on the job again.
It aids in reducing uric
acid accumulations, and
keeps bile flowing freely
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions
are restored, and glowing
health is a speedy result.
Pain and discomfort dis-
appear. ‘
So if you are suffering
from rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis, kidney
troubles, sluggish liver, con-
stipation—get R.U.R. right
away. If you can’t get
R.U.R. locally, send 4/- for
the smaller size, or 7/6
for the money-back guar-
anteed full treatment to
R.U.R., 841 George Street,
Sydney.
TAKE R.U.R. AND RIGHT YOU ABE
PE * HjIPS WANT
AN EXTRA ROOM
* *
o
19
zs
?«b
5^5
The family, has
been growing up during the
war years . . . and when peace comes you’ll be
busy fixing that extra accommodation which you can’t
build now because the exigencies of war must first be
met. But with the coming of peace you’ll be able to put
your plans into effect—with Masonite. That’s the ideal
material for modernising the house, building additions
economically and easily.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SA VE FOR IT*..
AND BUILD IT WITH
MASONITE PRESDWQOD.. .TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE... QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.), LTD.,
from wood fibre.
★INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
MA 22-43
fg
“Pay As You Earn”
Mr. Chifley, Commonwealth Treasurer,
insists that there is a taxation lag year,
but does not demonstrate why. It is
true that a person who had an assess-
able income for the first time in, say,
1939-40 paid no tax thereon until the
following year, and from that aspect is
a year (or thereabouts) behind. But
that does not dispose of taxpayers who
have been paying since the inception
of Commonwealth income tax. There
seems to be no doubt that with such
people there is no legal lag. It is in this
matter that Mr. Chifley refrains from
“entering into any disputation.”
Caucus members were told, before en-
dorsement of the Parliamentary Com-
mittee’s proposal, that
Last year, employees were brought for-
ward three months in their tax payments;
that is to say, in the first nine months of
last financial year they paid the full year’s
assessment. In the remaining three months
they paid one-fourth of this year’s assess-
ment.
The proposed cancellation of nine
months’ tax will, therefore, bring employees
on to a complete pay-as-you-earn basis as
from July 1 without increasing the deduc-
tions from wages and salaries.
These statements were on a par with many
others made by the Government in recent
history. Numbers of employees operating
under the group assessment system in
1942-43 did not complete their payments
until early in June, and in order to meet
their current assessments by March 31
this year have had to set aside much
heavier instalments than those scheduled.
The 25 p.c. loading is by no means a
thing over and done with in the case of
thousands of employees—possibly tens
of thousands of them.
The sweeping misstatements indulged
in over this taxation matter are
typical. The Government seems at all
times reluctant to face up to its respon-
sibilities openly and to let the people
face up to theirs.
The secretary of the Institute of
Registered Tax Agents suggests that the
25 p.c. loading paid between April 1 and
June this year be allowed as an instalment
(a) in the case of those unable to meet
their liabilities by March 31, 1944, in
respect of those liabilities; ( b ) in the case
of those who have been able to pay by
March 31, in respect of the liability for
1944-45. “Under this system the em-
ployees in class ( a ) will have 15 months
to meet their 1942-43 taxes, and em-
ployees in class ( b ) will have 15 months
to meet their 1944-45 taxes.”
The regard for employees is perfectly
legitimate. Equally legitimate is the case
of other taxpayers now paying 18s. 6d.
in the £ who will be required to pay 20s.
for the next three years. The Treas-
ury in this case is as unprincipled in
its attitude as the Department of Infor-
mation is indecent in its snooping into
private correspondence for purposes other
than those of national security.
Pay-as-you-earn taxation is a Bulletin
proposal of long standing. But with the
Government it has been, like so many
other essential measures, a “shotgun”
affair. Mr. Chifley made a mess of uni-
form income taxation, another necessary
thing, and he looks like making a still
worse mess of pay-as-you-earn.
Howard Auto Cultivators, which in
peace-time concentrated on agricultural
machinery at its factory near Sydney,
has had a war-time job to do,
like most engineering concerns. But
recently, because of the food position and
the fact that “rotary hoes were immobi-
lised all over Australia and New Zealand
owing to shortage of spare parts,” it was
agreed with Government officials that
nothing less than an output which would
wipe off 2\ years’ arrears in six months
would be any good. A weekly output of
40 Junior rotary hoes and at least five
22-h.p. tractor hoes per week was required
by the Federal Department of Agriculture
as well. In June and July of last year
negotiations resulted in an assurance that
the co. would be allowed (1) necessary
materials, (2) services of necessary sub-
contractors, (3) extra male and female
labor required, and (4) the diversion of
desired machine tools. The Ordnance
Production Directorate gave the co, the
assurance, and so far as materials and sub-
contractors are concerned there has been
no hitch. But in the case’of man-power
and machine tools nothing has been done
—other departments were involved. The
co. speaks of overstaffed Government
offices, with qualified turners, fitters and
toolmakers “doing clerical and simple ad-
ministrative work,” and it looks in that
direction, not to the army, for man-
power. It is sending out work to other
shops while its own machinery remains
idle. As a lesson in (a) lack of depart-
mental co-ordination and (b) lack of real
“rationalisation” of industry, the case of
Howard Auto Cultivators is entirely a
representative one. The requirements of
the Department of Agriculture and the
food front generally have been defeated
by red-tape.
* * * *
During the four years of war to the
end of August last Canada used bank
credit to the extent of $893 million, the
equivalent of £260 million Australian. This
bank credit included special issues of
bonds (£9O million Aust.) issued to pay
for gold and foreign exchange taken over
from the Bank of Canada and other
Canadian residents. During the same four
years the Commonwealth used bank
credit amounting to £299 million in
Treasury-bill finance alone; banks, es-
pecially the savings banks, were also in-
volved for many more millions of bond
subscriptions. Clearly Canada has not
found it necessary to avail itself of bank
credit to the same extent as Australia,
this being especially noticeable when the
Dominion’s larger population is taken into
account. Its war effort in terms of money
or production per head has been no less.
The principal explanation rests in the
fact that the Canadian war Budgets have
averaged about 50 p.c. revenue and 50
p.c. loans, with an average of 40 p.c,
revenue to meet actual defence outgo.
In Australia this year it is hoped to pay
for 44 p.c. of the total Commonwealth
Budget outlay out of taxation, and to
meet 29 p.c. of actual defence outlay out
of taxes after deducting all civil expendi-
ture. The contrast is obvious.
* * * ♦
One of the sad stories of Australian
mining enterprises during the war has
been Tableland Tin (N.Q.). Apparently
possessing tin-ore pretty close to pros-
pectus estimates it has nevertheless failed
to do any good for shareholders with
the price of the metal well above early
anticipations. Failure has been on the
dredging and financial sides. Capital out-
lay was underestimated, and there have
been repeated mechanical difficulties. The
co, was floated in 1937, but the big four-
million c.y. dredge did not have its trial
run until last year.
* * * *
During 1943-44 it is expected that com-
panies will pay £52.5 million of all the
income tax collected in the Common-
wealth and individuals £l4O million. The
States will get back £32 million of all
classes of income tax. The £52.5 mil-
lion paid in tax by companies represents
a penalty for incorporation. The share-
holders pay tax in full again when profits
pass to them.


THE SERVICE MAN
Landing in the Admiralties.
“Ek Dum”: On March 1 General
MacArthur announced a surprise land-
ing on Los Negros, in the west Ad-
miralty Islands. It had resulted, he said, in
tightening the Allied blockade of Japan’s
remaining bases. Indeed, the landing
“marks the final stage in the great swing-
ing moves pivoting on New Guinea,”
which had been the basic purpose of the
operations initiated on June 29, 1943,
when the South-west and South Pacific
commands were united under General
MacArthur. The axis of advance had
been shifted from north to west, and
the Allied supply line, “previously so
precariously exposed,” was now firmly
secured, “not only by air coverage, but
by our ov/n front, to which it is per-
pendicular.”
It was added that the operation was a
delicate one, and that its final success laid
a strategically firm foundation for the
future:—
The enemy’s supply line has been defi-
nitely and conclusively severed, and only a
minimum of blockade-running, by sub-
marine and individual surface craft, is now
possible... .In addition to the troops
trapped in the Solomons [an earlier com-
munique estimated them at 22,000], some
50,000 of the enemy, largely in New Britain
and at Rabaul, are now enclosed. Their
situation has become precarious and their
ultimate fate is certain under blockade,
bombardment and the increasing pressure of
besieging ground forces. The end of the
Bismarck campaign is clearly in sight with a
minimum of losses to ourselves.
Los Negros is at the eastern end of the
Admiralties group, two degrees below the
Equator, almost joined to the largest
island of the group, Manus, Many an
Australian tourist in a B.P. ship has
loitered ashore on Los Negros without
perhaps knowing the island’s name, and
all will remember Moekerang, the land-
ing station. With the western end of
Manus, Los Negros forms on the north
the capacious Sea Eagle (“Seeadler”)
Harbor. On the west of this haven,
and on the north-east tip of Manus, is
Lorengau, central station of the Govern-
ment district of the Admiralties. Many
a river is narrower than the strait be-
tween Manus and Los Negros.
Los Negros is a pecular island, a sort
of bent dumbbell with a narrow neck
between two main blobs of land. Momote
is on ffie southern of these expanded
areas, near Moekerang, about seven miles
by crow-fly, it would seem, from Loren-
gau, The approaches to the field from
the Moekerang section of the island to
the north and from the western part near-
est Manus and Lorengau are narrow
necks of land.
Methodical Operations
The Americans landed in Hyane Har-
bor, south of Moekerang, in the usual
manner. There was bombardment by
Allied warships and aircraft. The ap-
proaches to the island are better than
most. Ships can get in close, but it is
a case of ’ware reefs.
Some of the warships came in until the
bombardment was point-blank, but
except for a little wild shooting as the
first wave of barges left for the shore,
under sea and air cover, the Japs did not
answer their fire.
The first landing party, consisting of
units of U.S. Cavalry (First Cavalry
Division), made the shore without
much interference. But machine-guns
opened up on' the second wave as
the boats rocked over the reef at the
harbor mouth and worked in through the
narrow channel.
There were a few casualties, and one
or two launches had to turn back. ■
Little or no resistance was met with
ashore by most sections of the landing
force. Within two hours Momote air
strip had been taken.
General MacArthur himself came
ashore and decorated the first man to
land —Lieut. Frank Henshaw. The general
inspected the airfield, with its broken
palms and knee-high kunai.
Opposition developed on Wednesday
morning as troops tried to advance across
the two narrow necks of land to the north
and west. The enemy began an attack
with a heavy mortar fire which continued
all night. He tried to infiltrate the U.S.
lines. But on Thursday General Mac-
Arthur’s H.Q. reported that there was
no indication of any general movement
by Japanese forces. And air reconnais-
sance showed no air activity at Loren-
gau, where there is supposedly a good air-
field, nor any shipping in Sea Eagle
Harbor.
Enemy fighters appeared on the scene
about noon on Thursday—six “O”
fighters, five of the newer Haps and four
Tonies. Thunderbolts, though out-
numbered, shot down seven and possibly
another four.
By night fresh enemy counter-
attacks had developed as new reinforce-
ments came in, while heavy rain fell.
They continued on Friday night.
On March 5 it was reported that these
attacks had been defeated; that 3000
Japanese had been killed or wounded—
-700 bodies had been found on the
western side of the air strip alone—for a
U.S. loss of 61 killed and 244 wounded.
While U.S. troops were reinforced from
the sea, the enemy was reinforced from
Lorengau, into which naval units pumped
shells for some time.
The casualties suggest that the battle
was a slaughter. Enemy fighting spirit
and effectiveness seem to have been in
strange contrast to the grim qualities
shown at Finschhafen, at Buna-Gona and
Oivi and in Burma.
The losses inflicted on the Jap here, as
at Cape Gloucester, where he was re-
ported to have lost over 7000 men for a
loss of hundreds of American troops, are
unprecedented in modern warfare between
well-equipped enemies. A theory dating
from the Russo-Japanese war is that Japs
differ greatly in, fighting quality.
The bombing of other centres round
the Bismarcks continued —at Hansa Bay,
90-odd miles north-west of Madang on
the New Guinea mainland coast, where
243 tons of bombs were dropped in one
raid, and Rabaul. Little enemy resist-
ance was encountered.
At the week-end Colonel Knox
announced that a motor-patrol boat had
entered Rabaul harbor and left in safety
without being attacked after a quick look
round. No enemy shipping was seen in
the harbor, and for more than a week
no anti-aircraft has been encountered
over Rabaul. It was a bold feat. The
entrance is narrow, the channel within
point-blank gun range from each side.
Colonel Knox said that the enemy’s lack
of air opposition to Allied air attacks at
Rabaul and Kavieng in New Ireland
was probably due to the attacks on Truk
and Saipan, which were the main
Japanese refuelling depots.
New Guinea’s Position
According to the High Command the
Allies are in control of the Huon Penin-
sula, though the Australian forces have
not yet made their way down from the
Finisterre Ranges and the Allied forces in
the Saidpr area have not yet pushed their
way up from Bogadjim.
Thus the enemy still occupies about
450 miles of the New Guinea mainland
north coast against the 3DO-odd miles
occupied by the Allies. And his way is
open to escape along the New Guinea
coast to the west into Hollandia and
Dutch New Guinea. North-west of
Saidor he holds all sea and territory for
2000 miles, and in this area has not so
far been challenged, save in small
sporadic air raids.
Between the Saidor sector and the foot-
hold secured on Los Negros, which
represents about one-seventieth of the
area of the groups, is a sea gap of
about 250 miles. From Los Negros to
Kavieng is another sea gap of about 250
miles. From Kavieng southward the
whole of the islands and seas are in
enemy hands for 280 miles to Nissan,
including New Britain, apart from its
western end, and New Ireland.
Thus, in an area of sea and land cover-
ing roughly 120,000 square miles, with
gaps of from 250 miles to 300 miles be-
tween Allied occupation points, and with
an all-round perimeter on east, north and
west of 1000 miles, in which the only
land occupied by the Allies is the tip of
Los Negros, there are 50,000 troops who
are held to be gone coons, as well as
22,000 “trapped in the Solomons.” Their
“situation [is] precarious, their ultimate
fate certain under blockade, bombard-
ment and the increasing pressure of be-
sieging ground forces.”
It is a position without precedent. It
can mean only that the High Command
believes that Admiral Nimitz’s naval
superiority is now so widespread, intense
and flexible that even a 300-mile sea gap
opening directly into enemy waters can
be blocked off except to barges and sub-
marines.
Success in Arakam.
“Ek Dum”: The battle in Arakan,
about which the Jeremiahs were so miser-
able for a time, turned out to be a real
victory for Lieut.-General Christison,
G.O.C. of the 14th Allied Army, which
consists entirely of British and Indian
troops.
The general, who lost his only son in
Burma during General Alexander’s re-
treat, was able to say afterwards that the
forces had given the enemy a “nasty
crack” and helped him to learn that wars
cannot be won by sudden treacherous
assaults and battles by surprise attacks.
What actually happened was that the
Japanese tried their stereotyped tactics of
going round their attackers and infiltrat-
ing the rear.
This time, the British were prepared.
The enemy may have expected to find a
medley of clerks and administrative units,
with communication piling up from the
rear, when he circumvented the main
force to begin his infiltration and en-
velopment. He found instead a series of
strong box positions, after the model
used in Libya, but better conceived in the
Burmese situation than in the desert. In
these the Seventh Indian Division was
cut off. Between and round the boxes
the enemy flowed happily. When he
tackled the boxes, he found them too
tough to break open and too well sup-
plied for any possibility of starvation.
The air forces, mainly American, fed
to the besieged ammunition and medical
requirements, renewed their armament
and even delivered morning newspapers,
while a main blow was organised.
Then the jubilation of the enemy, who
had talked for days of plans for driving
on into India and even to Delhi, turned
to consternation as his infiltrated sec-
tions were ground to bits and the rem-
nants put to flight with British, Indian
and West African troops in pursuit.
There is American criticism of Lord
Mountbatten for not launching a big
campaign in Burma, but it is unlikely that
this drive will come till resources are
available. In any case, the decision as to
the time is not in the hands of Lord
Mountbatten, but in those of the Allied
Staff Committee in Washington.
Sir Archibald Sinclair, British Air
Minister, said in a House of Commons
review;
We look forward to the day! when
victory in Europe will release more of our
forces to fight the Japanese. Meanwhile
we have been building up our forces and
the Japanese have lost air superiority they
enjoyed in 1943. As fast as we can send
more Spitfires we shall. One thing'is cer-
tain —we shall not forget that in our hour
of need Australia sent her forces across the
sea to help us. We shall not relax our
efforts until our common enemy is defeated.
But that can scarcely happen this year.
The Supreme Command is unlikely to
commit itself to land operations which
depend on huge, concentrated and per-
manent shipping allocations until it knows
from test the requirements of the
European invasion which the critics are
so eager to see have precedence.
Preparations in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: Last week Italy was again
swept with terrific weather. Both sides
have been bringing reinforcements into
the lines of the west and the Cassino front
and preparing for the final battles for the
Anzio bridgehead and the road up the
Liri-Sacco valley to Rome.
At Anzio there was continual heavy
local pressure and counter-pressure, and
the Germans were reported to be build-
ing up intense concentrations of troops
and armor on short stretches of front,
with a view to trying their old Tobruk
tactics. Anzio is well prepared.
With the Maorilanders transferred from
east to west, there have been changes in
the Eighth Army, still in snow-covered
terrain on the east. Once more the Poles
are fighting side by side with British
troops, as they were in Tobruk. This
time their corps with the Eighth Army
consists mainly of the troops who left
Russia via Iran.
Allied aircraft based in Italy have made
the most of the transport difficulties
which the enemy is suffering through
strikes in Milan and other portions of
northern Italy. They had a busy week
harassing enemy communications, includ-
ing the marshalling yards at Rome, which
were thoroughly battered.
The Vatican newspaper “Osservatoie
Romano” declared that an attack on
Rome on Friday was made with devas-
tating fury. Many civilians lost their lives
and many buildings were destroyed, in-
cluding the Church of San Benedetto,
while the windows of the ornate Pauline
Basilica, which stands well outside the
walls beyond the Pauline Gate on the
road to Ostia, on the coast, were shat-
(Lred. “Osservatore Romano” said nothing
of a Rome Radio allegation that bombs
from the raid, which was the heaviest
daylight attack on Rome in six months,
fell near St. Peter’s and threw debris into
the square in front of the cathedral.
Earlier in the week Vatican Radio re-
ported that bombs had fallen in the Vati-
can City,
St. Peter’s is right on the opposite side
of the city and the Tiber from the mar-
shading yards.
The Air War.
“Ek Dum”: Diversified with devastat-
ing blasts by Lancaster squadrons using
the new 12,0001 b. R.A.F. bomb (the first
was dropped on February 6), the Allied
air forces continued their almost non-
stop raids on the north of France, while
carrying out attacks much lighter
than in the previous week—on Germany
in dreadful weather.
Most of the night bombing of Ger-
many was done by Mosquitoes, which
now carry a 20001 b. load.
Heavy raids included an attack by 600
aircraft on Stuttgart on March 1 in which
the R.A.F. lost only four machines. The
same night five raiders were shot down
over Britain in the second light raid of
the week. A few h.e. bombs fell in the
London area.
Day bombing of western Germany by
U.S. heavies under cover of R.A.F.
Dominion fighters was reported to have
begun on March 3 in the south and con-
tinued next day in the north. There were
four attacks on Berlin, which for the first
time was hit in daylight on March 4 by a
force of convoyed U.S. heavies; 14
bombers and 23 fighters were lost. The
only other attack on Berlin in daylight
was by Mosquitoes on Jan. 30.
British Air Minister Sinclair said last
week that four-fifths of German fighter
strength was held for defence in the west,
and that in bombing operations from
Britain 2500 aircraft and nearly 18,000
men were missing, though losses were
becoming progressively less. He added:
The Germans are now using the greatest
concentration of guns and searchlights that
any Power has ever mustered and a fighter
force much greater than that with which
we broke the' enemy in the Battle for
Britain. But there lies before us, now
clearly attainable, the glittering prize of
air supremacy.
It is not yet attained, and Germany
very evidently has not thrown in its full
potential.
More Retreat in Russia.
t
“Ek Dum”: In Russia last week the
thaw and the Finnish peace negotiations
acted as warning signs to the enemy to
move fast. The southern flank of his
Leningrad front, reaching down to the
Sokolniki area, he hastily swung back
through the forest belt to the outskirts
of the Polotsk, Pskov and Ostrov de-
fences.
The movement was so swift that it must
have been voluntary, but Moscow corre-
spondents poured out their usual flood
of stock jargon, though for the moment
the word “trap” seems to have dis-
appeared ; “net” is becoming fashion-
able instead. That a “trapped” or
“netted” division can get out has been
proved in Burma.
Concerning the southern part of the
Leningrad front, where a Russian out-
flanking operation was said to be in pro-
gress, a mid-week report was that Ger-
man resistance was increasing with every
yard yielded, and that the enemy’s re-
serves were already so much stretched
that he was relying to a large extent on
minefields and booby traps to hold up
the Russians.
This paraphernalia was rather a sign
that the retreating foe had reached a
staging point where he-proposed to make
a temporary stand while organising
further retreat. No counter-attacks of
note had been reported in the area in the
previous few days, and elsewhere the in-
vaders showed no signs of feeling a short-
age of reserves. The slowing up took
place when the heights before Pskov were
reached. Here fierce fighting began for
the city, the Germans resisting strongly.
At the Baltic end of the Leningrad sector,
between Lake Peipus and the sea, the
enemy was holding the Narva line, about
30 miles long, his left flank on the Baltic
shore, his right on that of Lake Peipus.
Ice had melted to such a state that the
lake formed a sufficient water barrier.
Enemy in a Tight Place
On February 28, however, a sudden
cold spell froze the lake solid, opening
the way across the ice for the Russians
and endangering the southern flank of
the Narva line. The Germans rushed
strafing ’planes to stop Red Army pro-
gress. The thaw seems to have caught
the Germans off guard, though their
operations continued to be a reversal of
their method of entry into Russia, and
they did not begin to move out of the
Narva gap on the road to Tallinn till
their southern forces had reached the
Pskov heights. The main German retreat
seems to have been well on the way when
the Russians crossed the Narva River
on a 20-mile front from Lake Peipus
northward, and cut the Tallinn railway
behind Narva town, which was left with_


CD
am
some sort of a garrison to play Tobruk,
with only the sea and air for outlet.
This manoeuvre must have been born
of urgency and not considered strategy.
There was genuine evidence in the situa-
tion round Peipus that the front had sud-
denly gone out of control for the enemy
when the lake froze, and that his opera-
tions were not so ordered as they had been.
There was a report that three German
generals—Engelbracht, commanding the
163rd Division, Lindemann, reported
killed by the Russians early last year,
and another —had been shot for need-
lessly giving up ground and jeopardising
the army’s flanks and rear —as they cer-
tainly were jeopardised on the Narva
front before Narva was surrounded.
There might, also, have been reason to
fear for the northern flank of the Pskov
defences before they were consolidated
after the Russians had reached the shores
of the lakes.
In the Dnieper Bend
By the week-end the front was alive
all the way from the Baltic to Vitebsk,
on the Beresina and on the Krivoi Rog-
Kherson line in the Dnieper Bend. There
the enemy, under severe pressure, was
hauling in the bottom of his salient under
shelter of the northern wall of his Black
Sea-Bug-River railway corridor, about 30
miles south-east of Krivoi Rog.
Moscow declared the fighting terrific.
Reuter’s young man announced that the
German line was “shaking and breaking”
everywhere before “one of the greatest
Russian offensives of the war.” There
were no signs of a break, even in the
Dnieper Bend, where great things had
been promised when the 20-odd divisions
which had “closed the Kanev trap” were
hurled against the already cracking enemy
front. Berlin, incidentally, alleged that
during the week Hitler reviewed and con-
gratulated the “formations” which fought
their way out of Kanev salient. Moscow
replied that they had been annihilated.
Actually, .the fury of the blizzard and
a temperature of 30 degrees below zero
extended the whole length of the front
by February 29. Snow lay in deep banks
and visibility on parts of the southern
front was limited to feet. The scale of
activity could be measured on much of
the front by those facts.
On March 5 Moscow announced that,
on the 100-mile front from Shepetovka
to Luck, in Poland, the enemy had been
pushed back about 30 miles towards
Tarnopol. It was significant that this
retreat was made from the marsh edges
only to higher ground and at a point so
far west as not to endanger enemy forces
in the Dnieper Bend. Moscow announced
also that Marshal Vatutin had been
moved from command in this sector,
now under Marshal Zukhov’s control. It
ignored a Berlin claim that the change
was made because Marshal Vatutin had
allowed the Germans in the Kanev
pocket to escape.
Attack and Defence in the Air
“Ek Dum”: A sign of the times which
passed almost unnoticed was the disap-
pearance of Coastal Command and
its replacement by a new organisation
known as the Air Defence of Britain.
Coastal Command had a glorious record,
and it must always be a source of pride
to real Australians that Australia’s own
first heavy squadron (No. 10 Sunder-
lands) was a pioneer member of it, and
that thousands of Australians have served
in it.
In 4\ years of war Coastal Command
has patrolled thousands of miles of sea
a thousand times, warded off sorties or
attacks on the grand scale almost every
day, mauled enemy squadrons off British
naval ports in which scarce a house re-
mained undamaged in the days of the
Battle of Britain, sunk U-boats and
many another type of craft, laid hundreds
of square miles of mines under the foe’s
singed nose and stood escort to a myriad
convoys. It was Coastal Command
which, in a brief half-hour of slaughter,
settled the legend of the Stuka in Britain.
It was Coastal Command, now with tens
of millions of flown miles and thousands
of its dead counted, which began and
continued the strategic attacks on Ger-
many’s occupied coast of France. It has
been Britain’s main watchdog and de-
fender right up to these present days of
the turning tide: But it has disappeared
with scarcely a newspaper comment
either on its victories or on the implica-
tions of the change.
Strategic Bombing
In this field there are two factors which
favor the enemy. First, while British
bombers have to fly hundreds of miles
from either north or south to attack the
main objectives at which strategic forces
strike, factories, marshalling yards, aero-
dromes, base dumps and armament
centres, bombers and fighters in an enemy
strategical force based on France have
a two-to-one advantage in distance, in
saving of petrol, in fatigue of man-
power and machines and in exposure to
opposing anti-aircraft fire. The Lancaster
which raids Berlin spends perhaps eight
or ten hours in the air, for seven hours
of which it may be under intermittent
enemy attack.
After an attack on London a German
machine can actually pass from southern
suburbs over Channel defences in a single
power-dive, this, of course, at a speed
which is not possible to bombers going
out over long stretches of enemy territory
from Britain, heavily loaded with bombs
and ammunition, or coming home half
full of wounded and with starlight show-
ing in a dozen places through the fuselage.
The German bomber partly crippled over
South London is an hour from its aero-
drome, half over its own territory. The
crippled Lancaster over Leipzig needs
perhaps five hours to get out of flak.
So close are the embarkation points for
British forces along parts of the Channel
to landing places on the Continent that
they become virtually part of the enemy’s
tactical air force’s problem—in other
words, British ports will be part of the
initial battlefields of invasion.
Second, the Allied air forces have to
strike at a distant target, which makes
huge calls on fuel and man-power and
machines, and which is spread over hun-
dreds of thousands of square miles. On
the other hand, the main strategic target
of the enemy, England, is a very narrow
and congested area —a quarter the size of
Germany, leaving out occupied territory
—scarcely a mile of which is not packed
with military objectives of importance
and scarcely a ten-acre block of which
is not traversed by important military
communications.
For aerodrome fracks and aircraft
building approaches alone there have been
built in Britain since 1940 concrete road-
beds equal to a 30ft. highway from
London to Pekin—over 8000 miles —and
aerodrome runways equivalent to a
similar road from London across the
Indian border—another 4500 miles-odd.
Together they are equivalent to a first-
class highway from London to Mel-
bourne via South Africa.
Berlin’s Damage
There is no such thing as absolute de-
fence against bomber attack, short of
the provision of a defensive air force so
large as to keep potential attackers in
their own country or completely immo-
bilise their aerodromes. The number of de-
fending ’planes and the amount and range
of anti-aircraft fire which can com-
pletely ward off or nullify a fast-moving
armada of 500 bombers with a marked-
out area to be inundated with tens of
thousands of incendiaries and thousands
of tons of high explosives in 20 minutes
or so are beyond imagination, much less
possibility.
Berlin had strong and modern defence.
Its destruction of raiding bombers is
higher on a percentage basis than the
German raiding parties have suffered
over London, for the simple reason that
R.A.F. and U.S.A.A.F. bombers are far
longer under fire than the Germans raid-
ing only from deep in France. But Ber-
lin has been torn to bits almost as badly
as Hamburg was torn to bits.
Descriptions of what reconnaissance
pictures have revealed are available only
up to last December before some of the
most damaging raids. But those who
know Berlin will realise what was done
to its heart from the following. Build-
ings listed as seriously damaged included
the main offices of the Ministries of the
Interior, Transport, War, Justice, Home
Office, State Forests, the 33rd Corps
H.Q., the Statistical Department and the
Aircraft Production Association. Less
seriously smashed were the Ministries of
Food, Agriculture, Propaganda and Edu-
cation, the Chancery, the old Chancel-
lor’s palace, Goebbels’s official residence,
the State Ministerial Directorate, the
Academy of Law, the Gestapo Office in
the Alexander-strasse, the new Reichs-
bank and the University and its hall.
The official square mile must look like
a bit of Tarawa,
Out in the armament and electrical
suburbs, Siemenstadt, Wedding ' and
Reinickendorf looked worse than East
London after the whole of Goring’s
savage visits.
Growth of Bombers
It has yet to be seen what the enemy’s
big bombers are really like and how
effective. He has machines as large
and as heavily powered as the Lancaster.
And one equivalent used from Paris
against a southern English port is worth
four used from North Britain against
Leipzig or Frankfort-on-Oder.
So fax thete is no trace of heavy Ger-
man day bombers of the type of the
Fortress 817 and Liberator 824, which
are babies beside the new machines com-
ing forward, or of hedgehog defence air
battleships. There are already in com-
mission U.S. machines which carry 13
or 14 guns, mostly of .50 calibre, with a
13-pounder 75 in the nose.
And the new super-Fortress 829,
according to “Flight,” will have a wing-
spread of 140 ft. —38ft. more than the
Lancaster; 28ft. more than the Short
Sunderland —will be powered by four
2000-h.p. engines, and much more heavily
armed and armored -than the existing
Fortress, which by comparison will be-
come only a medium bomber. With a
loaded weight between 50 and 60 tons,
it will be able to carry eight tons of
bombs to a goal 500 miles away or
three tons to a point 1500 miles away.
Some of the turrets are operated by re-
mote control.
It is a great advance in day bombers,
bad news both for the implementers of
Germany’s strategic defence-by-attack
and for Japan, which it will bring
within range of 1500- and 2000-ton
attacks from the Chinese mainland.
Britain is supposed to have larger
bombers than the Lancaster, but no de-
tails have been released. The R.A.F.
certainly has some new and intensely-
armed machines worthy of the nation
which set the aerial standards of the
world with its 1936 designs, and which
never has lost its supremacy in the face
of the competition of all the other great
nations.
It is, however, a mistake to think that,
when the real test comes as spring or
summer approaches, Britain will not feel
the strain heavily, perhaps even danger-
ously.
The Year in Being
This year will see the air war grow
into a tremendous contest, in which all
the fighting will not be done on one side.
In the wide spaces of the Russian
front the air does not play so large a
part as it is likely to play in the
compressed battle areas of the west,
where huge populations are inescapably
packed among hundreds of square miles
of war industrial areas. It is quite
obvious that in eastern Europe air fight-
ing carried, out in proportion to land
fighting would make too great a drain
on the fuel, machine and man-power re-
sources on so long and so deep a front.
The daily claims regarding mutual air
casualties in Russia usually are not
so great as those in the air war carried
on from Britain and Italy in the last six
months.
The British have borne the brunt of the
struggle with war and death on their
doorstep and the sound of enemy guns
and bombs in their ears for upwards of
42 months. Per head of population their
production, attained by 10, 12, 14 hours a
day of toil in which old and young, rich
and poor alike, have shared, has been
the largest in the history of the world,
even though for nearly a year their cities
were being pounded into rubble and
hundreds of thousands of them slept in
railway undergrounds and cellars and
went on cold provender for a week.
During the greater part of that period
mbst of the males and a very large pro-
portion of the females among the popu-
lation, deprived of meat diet, short on all
the vitamin foods, ’have supplemented
their long hours of work witl* a rigid
service in the defence forces such as the
Home Guard under penalty of imprison-
ment for failure to attend parades or
duty.
Now they will be called on to suffer
new and heavier labor burdens, perhaps
mingled with shortened food supplies,
and with new bombardments suffered
alongside considerable man-power losses
from the actual fighting.
The New Defence
They are, however, better prepared
against strategic attack. Many of their
greatest factories have gone deep under-
ground into cavelike cities out of reach of
fire or bombs. Air defence and night
fighters have been revolutionised. The
barrages of British cities have become a
tremendous thing.
The secret 3.7-inch ack-ack gun, which
threw a shell 12,000 ft. further than the
German 88mm., and the secret 4.5-inch,
which threw a shell double the
weight of the 3.7, did as much as any-
thing to defeat the bombings of Britain
in 1940-41 ; and these have been im-
proved out of sight. The old firing rate
of the 3.7 —12 rounds per minute —has
been greatly increased. The new pre-
cision fuses double the gun’s accuracy
at 50 per cent, greater range. In 1940
ack-ack gunners Were amateurs without
radio location, without the new precision
instruments. Now they are veterans,
scientifically trained and equipped, and
the meagrely spaced' batteries of 1940
have become a forest of barrels.
Air defence opens its crucial year with
armament which, on an average recently,
has destroyed eight enemy ’planes with
the quota of shells which destroyed one
machine in 1940, even though the birds
in 1940 came over much thicker, slower
and lower.
Range and accuracy have been so
much increased that the record-holding
battery for daytime shooting bagged its
quarry at seven miles. The night record
was made on Jan. 13-14, when an Me4lo,
the German opposite number to the Mos-
quito, came in from the north towards
London, and was wrecked with 30
rounds in pitch-darkness by a heavy bat-
tery at an altitude of four miles.
The Strain Grows
But all this intensification of gunfire
and multiplication of scientific devices
in themselves mean strain comparable with
that in a front-line infantry attack. Quick
and accurate use of the simplest scientific
instruments involved in radio location
and in accurate gunfire calls for great
concentration. Keeping of the great
batteries of such instruments in order
under the impact of the friendly barrage
mingled with the bomb detonations is a
difficult and delicate task.* The human
wear and tear, apart from wounds and
death, must be great and incessant.
At a post-mortem last week on London
defences during the previous few days
one recorder reported that men and girls
of the uniformed Auxiliary Territorial
Services, working on plotting instruments,
had been blinded by gun flashes penetrat-
ing their eyeshields.
Another described the effects of the
enormous blast, due to the power of the
guns, as a result of which “men were ren-
dered stone-deaf; there were bleeding
ears and noses ; doors burst, locks and
electric-power systems were put out of
gear” and one salvo “made the hands of
a stopwatch jump six seconds”:
Because of the hundreds upon hundreds
of rounds fired from a single site in
one night, the gunpits were filled with suffo-
cating fumes. In, one, two men nearly
collapsed; others were violently sick; others
tied wet handkerchiefs over their faces and
these became jet-black in a few minutes.
Some of these troubles can be cured and
mitigated.
But their recital gives an idea of what
tens of thousands of Britons may shortly
be enduring nightly, apart from the strain
of long, ceaseless hours of work, partial
starvation, anxiety for loved ones, of
whom almost every British home which
has not already lost its quota will have
somebody engaged in the battle lines for
weeks, perhaps months, on end when the
second front for which fatted youngsters
of the Sydney Domain have so longed is
fully created.
The least we can do for this great and
sorely-tried people is to send them as
much food as we can, even if it means a
measure of rationing that they would
regard with longing
In brief:
British submarines are believed to have sunk
a Japanese aircraft-carrier and scored a torpedo
hit on a Jap cruiser in the approaches to the
Malacca Strait. Another sub. made a success-
ful attack on a cruiser, but its final fate was
not seen. A medium-sized supply ship was
sunk.
* * * ♦
An R.A.A.F. Sunderland crew headed by
Flight-Lieutenant R. D. Lucas (Sydney) de-
stroyed a U-boat several hundred miles west of
Ireland. The fight began at 3000-yards range
and ended at 200-yards.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports the loss of H.M.S.
Warwick, a destroyer; also of an auxiliary
cruiser.
# * * *
President Roosevelt has announced that it
had been decided to apportion the Italian fleet
about equally between Britain, U.S.A. and the
U.S.S.R. If delivery can be effected, the ships
will more than double the strength of the
Russian Fleet, which has no modern battleships
or heavy cruisers. Most of the modern Russian
cruisers and destroyers were designed in Italy,
where some of them were built and some
engined.
* * * *
Allied H.Q. in North Africa stated on March
5 that the Desert Air Force, which includes
R.A.A.F. units, destroyed between 25,000 and
30,000 tons of enemy shipping in February,
mostly in the Adriatic. Many other vessels
were damaged.


..\M
u/:
m
o
o
o
m
e-
&
JtyeM farlel
The Masse’s a tiger for work—which explains
Why the Armed Forces rushed it for tanks, guns and
’planes.
And also the reason your Televisor
Will depend upon Masse —after the war.
It’s developed such kick and such long life as well.
It’ll televise anything Telies will tel.
But meanwhile take care of your Masse in case
You can’t gel another; they’re hard to replace.
Everywhere
There are
Masse Dealers
MB 2-12-43.
BATTE RIES
are tigers for work f*
HOTEL
Bent, Phillip
METROPOLE
nd Young Street*, Sydney.
Hllli ns >ll
Hill mm
liflillM S
ill fttSil
111
? &
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate Tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines).
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Orteli, a mare who was sold as a two-
year-old for 50gns. because it was feared
she was touched in, the wind, upset stable
and public calculations by defeating
Lilette and Distinction in the Newmarket
Handicap at Flemington on Saturday.
She started at 25 to 1, whereas her stable-
mate Phoines, backed sensationally from
7 to 1 down to clear-cut favoritism at 7
to 2, finished only seventh.
A six-year-old by Great Legend, sold
recently for 500gns., from Gipsy Love,
Orteli has been a rare bargain for owner
R. Dorman. Always partial to the
straight-six, she has won 10| races and
almost £6OOO in stakes for him. Accord-
ing to her trainer, Orteli’s wind is un-
affected. She “makes a noise,” probably
the result of being kicked on the nose
when a foal, but actually is a high-blower.
Constitutionally, she is sound. Burberry,
second favorite at 7 to 1, finished second-
last, but ample excuse was possible for
him. Another runner collided with him
at barrier-rise and knocked him out of
the race.
Kintore, 10-to-9-on favorite, failed to
stay the seven furlongs of the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes. He showed the brilliance
expected of him, holding a lead of four
or five lengths at one stage, but was run
down in the last furlong and beaten into
third place by L. Robertson’s representa-
tives, Delina, and San Martin, Delina,
equal second favorite at 9 to 2, has the
imposing record of three wins, two
seconds and £3755 in stakes from six
starts. She is by Manitoba from Ronda-
lina, bred by H. Telford, of Phar Lap
fame, and sold privately to A. H. Grif-
fiths. San Martin, backed at long prices,
had raced only once previously, and im-
presses as certain to improve.
Lawrence, racing in the same interests
as Delina, outstayed Sirius and Precept
in the St. Leger. Favorite at 5 to 4, he
hit the front a furlong from home after
the outsider, Whitten, had set a sound
pace in an endeavor to steal the race.
Lawrence’s success probably bore out the
judgment of critics who contended that
he would have beaten Precept in the
Derby but for an injury a week before
that race. Precept, however, may have
done better on Saturday had he not been
deprived of a final pre-Leger run. Sim-
mering finished a poor fourth, and obvi-
ously is not herself. Lawrence (Law
Maker-Gay Element) has been a splendid
bargain at the 350gns. he cost Griffiths.
Seven wins and four placings have yielded
£7064 in stakes. He was a first acceptor
for the Australian Cup, to be run next
Satuday, but at the time of writing no
decision had been made concerning a
start.
Counsel completed a treble for trainer
L. Robertson when he unwound another
devastating finish to win the first Bruns-
wick Stakes, one mile. Last at the half-
mile, and second-last entering the straight,
he won easing up. Counsel’s win made
him a hot favorite for the Cup, but on
Monday it was announced he was not
to run.
,_j • |
. Saturday s meeting at Randwick w s
introductory to autumn racing, and i
was palpable that some of the com-
petitors were not wound up and were
started more with a view to B°°“ tram ‘
i n 8 gallops than any belief they were
ready to win. ....
In ' the G i enfie ld Handicap Triad
(Thompson) ran up to her best form.
Second to the pacemaker Lagoon soon
a f ter barrier-rise she ran him down in
the straight, and won easily from Hydra
and Warlock, the last-named shaping well
after being unlucky early in-the piece,
Bruce Wood was a fair fourth, and the
ess about the efforts of some ot the
other runners the more gratifying it
should be to their connections.
After getting away indifferently Gaunt-
let quickly got to the front in the War-
wic£ March Handicap, but though, after
| eac iing into the straight, he looked like
seei s it out he wea kened in the last
furl ’ g giving place to Night Parade,
Th just as success for the latter see med
probable, Neta Linette, with a fast fin-
ishing run, beat him on the post. The
hrst two improved upon their Rosehill
f° rm °f the previous week. Beau Timide
ra ised his backers hopes, and
though Tidal Wave was reported to have
been made the second leg of a big Don-
caster and Cup double last week he did
nothing to put his Cup backer on good
terms with himself.
In the first division of the Farm
Novice Burling ton had a big lead at the
straight * en tran?e, but eventually finished
a j back, the three -year-old First
Water (R Smith) winning from S ir
Francis and Goshawk. The winner, who
is trained by j Carey? is by Midstream
f rom Enchantress, a half-sister to a good
stayer in Carry 0n Susquehanna and
Br j gb t Spot were nearest the place-getters,
and tbe W ell-backed Bruegmah never got
Peter’s Pence was at the head of affairs
turning into the straight in the second
division of the Farm Novice, but had
nothing to do with the finish, High
Stepper (F. Smith) scoring by a head
from Yaralla’s sister Kardinia and
Harrier, whose chance was a winning
one halfway down the straight. The
winner, who is described as being by
Caine Carrington or Spearfelt, is out of
Violosca, is a half-sister to Prince Bar-
dolph (Sydney Cup) and other winners.
Mome, Dance Time, Wee Laddie and
Wintune were nearest the place-getters,
and the time was a quarter-second
faster than First Water recorded in the
first division.
Miss Sovereign (F. Shean) won the
Ingleburn Nursery all the way. Liberality
being the only runner near her in the
first half-mile. Cold Shower, who was
always in a good position, looked like
overhauling Miss Sovereign inside the
last furlong, but she held him off. Invic-
tus ran on well to beat Britannic for
third. Liberality and Felcorn headed
the remainder. Badly drawn at the
barrier, Victory Lad got away well, and
had a clear passage, but was beaten
after going half a mile. He has not
grown much since the spring, but looked
really well. Birthright, who was above
herself, was not sighted.
When Moorland ran up second to
Bestow in the straight in the Berala Han-
dicap his backers expected him to come
right on. However, the task was beyond
him with 10.2, the well-seasoned but not
impressive-looking Bestow (J. Foley)
doing the better at the finish. From the
top of the straight it was a race between
the two, but Cockrow was a fair third,
and should win in the near future. Fal-
con Knight was below expectations.
Bestow is by Nuffield from Gipsy Fate,
by Tonbridge (imp.), son of Pommern.
Beauhead (Thompson) won the Sunny-
side Welter in good style and time, after
being second to St. Elmo into the
straight. Arahura looked dangerous just
after turning for home, but the winner
was not really troubled. Babillard’s third
pointed to a probability of a return to
his earlier form. Wellesley, who made
up leeway in the straight, will fare better
over a longer distance, but nothing
favorable can be written of the form of
Ballot, Magi or Thrax.
* * * *
Fortunately for bookmakers many
backers have short memories, otherwise
they would not now be taking ridicu-
lously short prices about some Doncaster
and Sydney Cup doubles without even
weights to assist them in their selections.
Last year Kingsdale (favorite at 6 to 1)
won the Doncaster, but the 3-to-l
favorite. Eureka, was nowhere in the Syd-
ney Cup, which was won by the 6-to-l
chance Abspear. Since then the straight-
out prices of winners of important
doubles have been: Epsom and Metro-
politan, Kiaree 40 to 1, Main Topic 7 to
I ; Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup, Sir
Neith 8 to 1, Cream Puff (favorite)
9 to 4; Carrington Stakes and Tatt’s
Cup, Trimmer 20 to 1, Grand Fils
II to 2; Challenge Stakes and Anni-
versary Handicap, Yaralla 6 to 1, Grand
Fils 9 to 2.
* * * *
The tote turnover at Randwick on
Saturday was £130,161 55., making the
total for the 16 days at the A.J.C. head-
quarters since August 1 something over
£1,742,000. If the present average is
maintained nearly three millions for the
season will be reached at Randwick.
Great, however, as is the increase in tote
betting, it is dwarfed by the business the
books are doing.
.** * *
Erroneously reported to have died in
Maoriland last year, Kincardine (sire of
champion Kindergarten and other good
gallopers) is alive, well and virile at Mel-
rose Stud (Berlins, Westport), and, with
ordinary luck, good for several more
seasons of stud usefulness. Kincardine’s
owner is well satisfied with his record as
a foal-getter, and writes me that he may
be sent to Australia as soon as war con-
ditions are more favorable.
* * * *
New sires included in W. Inglis and
Son’s catalogue for their yearling sales
at Randwick on April 11, 12 and 13 are
Agincourt (imp.), Ajax, Beaupartir (imp.),
Merry Mathew (imp.). Pure Gold, Seven-
Fifty and Titan (imp,). Of the 74 stal-
lions those with strongest numerical
representation are;
Dark Lover .. 19
Brueghel .. .. 16
Tresco .. .. 14
Golden Sovereign 13
Hall Mark .. 13
Double Remove .. 13
Midstream .. 12
Marconigram . . 11
Assignation .. 10
Merry Mathew .. 11
Felcrag .. .. 10
Hua .. ..10
Le Grand Due .. 9
Mosaic .. .. J
Mr. Standfast .. 9
Manitoba .. .. 9
The Marne .. 9
Pentheus .. .. 9
Talking .. .. 9
Ajax .. .. 8
Winooka .. .. 8
Melfort .. .. 7
Sylvandale .. 7
Agincourt.. .. 7
Andrea .. .. 7
The Buzzard .. 7
Titan .. .. 6
Oro 6
Nuffield .. ..6
Veilmond .. .. 6
Constant Son .. 6
Racing was carried on in Japan up to
last year. This year it is entirely banned.
The Japs are not now on such good terms
with themselves as a few months ago.
* ♦ * *
Added money for the English classics
is greater this year than last. The Two
Thousand Guineas, Derby, Oaks and St.
Leger have each been increased by
£lOOO, and the One Thousand by £5OO.
The Derby will carry £3OOO added money
and the St. Leger £2500.
* * * ♦
Totalisator betting was nearly 60 per
cent, heavier in the State of New York
last year than in 1942. The turnover
was $266,445,665 (something over
£A80,043,000). In betting tax the State
received over $17,000,000 (approximately
£A5,175,000). Horse-owners as well as
the State have benefited by the boom in
betting.
Miscellaneous
Faster and cleverer, Bobby Clarke
started off like a winner against Cliff
Bowen at Leichhardt. After five rounds
he slowed down and was eventually
beaten on points. He was floored twice
by rights which seemed to carry no great
weight.
Charging wildly in the eleventh round
of an interesting fight at Sydney Stadium
Eddie Miller and Tommy Johns met head
on —literally. Miller dropped and was
declared the winner on a foul. Had
Johns sunk to the floor he might have
received the verdict. Conceding nearly
a stone, Miller outboxed Johns in a big
majority of the rounds, and would have
got it on points anyway.
AUSTRALIAN CUP SELECTION.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Similar 1
Lawrence ~ 2
Liberal Knight • 3
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(At Moorefield.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Trial Stakes Handicap; Thanks
America, 1 ; Alertful, 2; Medieval
Queen, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Chantilly, 1 ;
Colophon, 2 ; Lady Quality, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap; D. 5.0., 1 ; Bronze Orchid, 2 ;
Aquatic, 3.
Canterbury Handicap; Gauntlet,
1 ; Two’s Company, 2 ; Wellesley, 3.
Highweight Handicap; Brueghe-
lier, 1; Sir Francis, 2; High
Stepper, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Grand Pro-
dige, 1 ; Mary Lou, 2; General
Smuts, 3.
AUSTRALIAN CUP.
Similar ... *. \
Valor 2
Sir Romeo or Peter ... 3


Public Notices.
I, CLARA MARIE BURGIIEIM, of former German
nationality, born at Fraustadt, Germany, and resident
over five years in Australia, now residing at Cheeridel,
Warren, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PAUL ECKSTEIN, of Austrian nationality, born
at Vienna, Austria, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 30a Lavender Street, North
Sydney, N.S.W., intend do apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, EVERT ALEXANDER FRILUND, of Finnish
nationality, born at Pederson, Finland, and resident
16 years 'in Australia, now residing at Farm 2393,
Ballingall, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920‘-1936.
I, CORPORAL ROBERT KAPFERER, A.I.F.
turned Middle East and New Guinea), of French
nationality, born in Paris, France, and resident five
years in Australia, now residing at 14 Birriga Road.
Bellevue Hill, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Women citizens are rifling their pantry
shelves and driving the local grocer nearly
desperate with requests for the unobtain-
able in their efforts to do the right thing
by Sydney’s Mayoress. Mrs. R. J. Bart-
ley is running a stall in Martin-place on
Australian Comforts Fund Day. Its
stock will be a lavish display of kitchen,
bathroom and general household goods.
To help build up reserves invitations
issued in the name of the civic hostess
summon Sydneyites of credit and renown
to her rooms on the afternoon of the
ninth of March (that’s tomorrow) at five
thirty. Each of the invited, whether
Greek or not, is to bear a gift for the
k., b. or g.h.
Great interest was shown in the wed-
ding of Joan Marks, of Woollahra, and
Hugh Westmacott, of Clifford Downs,
Carrathool, N.S.W. The bride and
’groom had known each other only one
week, though their families had long
been acquainted, The two met at a
party, and immediately wedding bells
were in the air. The tall and graceful
Joan is one of Sydney’s popular
well-knowns, and with less than seven
days’ preparation can be reckoned among
the most attractive brides that All Saints’,
Woollahra, has blessed. There was no
special wedding tailoring for the ’groom ;
he had been in Sydney on business, and
his luggage had been sent on its home-
ward way. Joan’s father is Walter
Marks, a former M.H.R.
The Historical Society had a pleasant
field day when its members, tea-basket
in hand, converged on the Botanic
Gardens and listened with attentive ear
to reminiscer -in - chief Superintendent
Hawkey. First stop of the afternoon was
made about the sunken garden, a
memorial to the State’s pioneers. This
was originally the site of the old garden
Palace Exhibition, the handsome top gates
of the present flowerful enclosure having
been wrought for that great occasion.
After the sunken garden a trek was made
to that part of the grounds which had
been the first farm of his Majesty’s
colony of Botany Bay. Standing here on
the green sward fringed by tall and shade-
ful trees it was like listening to a fairy
tale to hear of the planting of those first
seeds so carefully guarded on that long
and arduous passage from England, For
once Governor Phillip’s choice was at
fault, for the soil proved too meag/e for
the needful crops.
One of the most interested of the audi-
ence was Miss Manning, whose father was
Judge William Montague Manning. Miss
Manning, whose smooth skin and bright
eyes belie her 81 years, could remember
things about the gardens which were only
bookish knowledge to even the narrator.
After the tea interval there was a flutter
of bright summer frocks up the stairs
of the old herbarium. Here botanist
Robert Anderson took over the lecturette.
The herbarium is a treasure-house. Its
wealth is the loot of bush and field and
farm. Here are the hundreds of species
of the eucalypt. Here are the pre-ice
Age blooms picked by Solander and
Banks from the flowering shores of
Botany Bay. President Alfred Stephen,
secretary Price Conigrave and Dr.
Mackaness were speakers of the back-to-
Arcady outing.
The Stage Dbor Canteen is on the left-
hand side of Barrack-street, going up
from George-street. It is a cheerful-
looking basement, and at the moment it
is ringing with the hammer and the screw-
driver. It is being fitted with seats around
the walls, and when the last slap of paint
is adjusted and the floor space cleared
it will prove a bright spot for men of
the Allied services. Harald Bowden, of
J. C. Williamsons, is president of the com-
mittee, which, of course, is made up of
well-known theatrical personalities. The
pale-green (just off white) wall will be
decorated by Bill Constable with murals
depicting comedy and drama down the
centuries. There’s to be special lighting,
each shade in the form of the double
mask of comedy and tragedy. Concealed
lighting and dull-red dancing floor should
make this invitation to the waltz rather
alluring.
Doors open nightly at five and do not
close till eleven. There’s a properly-built
stage with dressing-rooms, so that the
nightly stage show will be presented in
good style. There’s a roster of over 300
voluntary helpers. Like all the other
service canteens, the Stage Door is an
altogether voluntary offering to make the
service man’s lot a happy one. Proposed
menus sound toothsome; even the plump
pig is making the Stage Door one of its
first ports of call. And mentioning ports
reminds that men of the merchant navy
will be welcome guests. There’s to be a
nominal charge for meals, but there’s
dancing with bright young actresses
thrown in. Harry Withers, of 2GB, is
organiser and secretary of the venture.
Bunny Campbell Grey, of the Minerva,
called the first meeting in the cause.
The widow of famed surgeon knight
Herbert Maitland became the wife of
another knight last*week. Her bride-
groom is Frederick French, till recently
a commodore of the P. and O. shipping
Company; his knighthood was be-
stowed for war services. The new
Frederick French lady has a wide circle of
friends to whom she is endeared by her
gentle manners and quick sympathies.
The pair will make their post-war home
in England. Till then her flat in Mac-
quarie-street will be their dwelling.
At the Conservatorium tomorrow
night Elizabeth Harbutt will give he’r first
public recital. But the Sydney singer has
been arranging many private recitals for
war efforts. She is keen on choral sing-
ing, and for some time sang with the
Royal Philharmonic Society. Elizabeth
is also a player of the ’cello, and while
with the Philharmonic often played this
instrument for the society at rehearsal.
The A.B.C, Choir was also the richer for
her clear mezzo-soprano, and she is proud
to Jell that she was one of the chosen
who sang during Sargent’s tour. The
pianist of the recital will be Marcel
Lorber. The Kindergarten Union will
reap the harvest.
Past president of the Y.W.C.A. and
gifted speaker Mrs, Arthur Grenfell will
arrive in Sydney, probably next month,
after giving the once-over to Adelaide,
Perth, Alice Springs, Melbourne and
Canberra, The object of the lady’s tour
is to bring first-hand news of women’s
war service in Great Britain, and a big
part of her message to the women of
Australia will concern current thinking
on post-war plans and rehabilitation. In
turn she will tell the women of England
how wp are thinking and what plans we
have to overcome the problems of the
future. Prom N.S.W. the visitor will go
on to Queensland and Maoriland. She
has already visited India. The British
Government has provided her with super
flying priorities. Mrs. Grenfell is a niece
of Sir Regina'd Talbot, a former Gover-
nor of Victoria,- Lord Wakehurst is a
kinsman.
As far as secretary Kathleen Gaden
knows there were no leap-year proposals
at the Overseas Club party last week.
The time "and the place and the means for
once were met, but possibly the leap-
year proposing habit has not yet grown
into an old Australian custom. The
guests of the day were a group of Allied
officers, and there was a bunch of fresh-
looking lads of the merchant navy on
deck. The room was massed with flowers,
and the late-afternoon party was up to
club standards. Knight Keith Smith and
his wife received, the speeches were brief
and fluent, the Australian-American
atmosphere very cordial.
Lieut. Hugh Paterson, only son of
poet “Banjo” Paterson, was among last
week’s bridegrooms. He and Rhona
White, of Edgecliff, were made one with
benefit of the Presbyterian Church,
Double Bay.
State Premier McKell took part in a
wedding last Saturday. He squired
cousin Cynthia McKell when she sought
St. Canice’s, Darlinghurst, to keep her
matrimonial appointment with John J.
Reynolds.
From Melbourne
The call to women to tackle the many
necessary jobs on the domestic side of
hospital management brought a steady
stream of inquirers to the Town Hall,
where the recruiting drive for hospital
staffs is centred. Those who came to
offer their services or even to find out
how the land lay were treated to a help-
ful chat about the types of work offering
and the places accepted applicants were
likely to be working in. “I’ll show you
a picture of the hospital if you like” was
a frequent offer from the interviewers.
Volunteers numbered all sizes and ages,
from slim, young things to over-forty-
fives. I
Cold meat and salad luncheon was an
inspiration on the part of Market Fair
organisers, as fair day was a scorcher.
Diners flocked to the lower Town Hall
and kept the staff of volunteer waitresses
trotting briskly between kitchen and
tables. The drying wind, too, kept the
tea and biscuit department busy. The
fair was a record success, and brought a
goodly sum to A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion’s funds. A military band booming
out well-known tunes gave the true
carnival atmosphere, and bran pies and
lucky-dips amused the very young. Mak-
ing the wheels go round were Mrs. Clive
Steele and Mrs. Walter Carnegie and
their band of hard workers from the
ranks of A.I.F. mothers and wives.
Lieutenant Ron MacGregor (A.1.F.)
and Corporal Lois Green (W.A.A.A.F.)
are engaged. Lois is the daughter of the
late G. C. Green. Her mother, Mrs, I,
A. Green (nee Menzies; she’s a sister of
R.G.), is secretary to the Exhibition
Trustees and a stalwart supporter of many
good causes, including R.A.A.F. auxili-
aries, in which she has a special interest,
as son Bob is an R.A.A.F, pilot. Lois
studied interior decorating while her be-
trothed was doing a course in metallurgy,
so they’re old fellow-students. Ron is
the son of Mrs. G. L. Heysen, of Bris-
bane, and the late A. MacGregor. An-
toine made this picture of Lois.
March 14 is the date of the Yankee
Doodle Dandy Ball sponsored by the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, which has done so
much fund-raising over many years. The
title of the ball harks back to the days
before Independence became a certainty.
The old tune (for more than a century
a nursery favorite and but lately, in a re-
hashed version, a popular lilt) commands
two full pages in Grove’s Dictionary of
Music. Apparently it was composed in
England about 1750, and a surgeon with
General Amherst’s army adapted it to
American conditions.
The ball promises to be a gay affair.
The Town Hall is the spot chosen, and
dancing is to be from eight till two, with
Bob Gibson’s band, Pam Corrigan to sing
and John MacMahon as compere. May
Downs is arranging a “Can-can” ballet
dressed with an eye to the ball’s title.
Mrs, Norman Picot is organiser, and the
committee includes Mrs. H. F. Foote,
Mrs. G. W. Campbell and Mrs. F. W.
Jandrey. Ticket secretary is Mrs. Wilfred
Race, and Mrs. W. G. Graves is arrang-
ing entertainments.
The Herbs Auxiliary for the fighting
forces is calling for more herbs ; not, as
in the past, for more helpers to sort and
pack those on hand. The demand for
herbs is overwhelming now that the ser-
vices appreciate the concentrated food
value and vitamin content of dried herbs.
Herb-growing is very easy ; in fact, thyme
flies along, and so do most other kitchen-
garden varieties. But seed-producing is
an expert job, and the auxiliary has this
in hand, so that it can outfit would-be
growers.
being in shorter supply than
even before, Air Force House is facing
a problem with lads queueing up from
morn till eve to buy a packet from the
hostel’s canteen. To make up for the
shortage organisers have hit on the
scheme of selling chocolate as well or as
a substitute, and are finding that it goes
down very well with the R.A.A.F. lads.
Old lace and georgette made April
Macintosh’s wedding frock for her mar-
riage with Major Dick Hamer. With long
lace veil as well, the effect was Dresden-
chinaish. Major Hamer was at Tobruk.
Son of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Hamer, he is
a partner in the legal firm of Smith and
Emerton. April is a younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Norman Macintosh.
April’s sister, Mrs. John Elder, was
matron of honor, wearing her own pink
wedding frock.
The Grant Hay family was more than
once in the news last week, first with the
announcement of Alison’s engagement to
Captain Curry, U.S. Army, a horse-lover
like herself. At the same time Mrs. Dun-
can Fraser Smith (Pat Grant Hay that
was) scored a turf win with Counsel. All
Grant Hay daughters are racehorse
owners (Alison herself owns Home
James), and their stud-farm on Flinders
Island turns out some very speedy steeds.
Mary MacGregor filled many interest-
ing roles with the Gregan MacMahon
players. In her new role as chatelaine of
Brandon Park (she married John Chirn-
side a few days ago) she’ll no doubt be
as successful a hostess as other Chirnside
wives, who’ve made a name for the
family for hospitality through all the
decades of Victoria’s history. Mary is a
daughter of Peter MacGregor, K.C., of
Queensland.
Behind the opening of the exhibition
of rare prints in aid of the Blinded Sol-
diers’ Fund there runs quite an unusual
tale. The show marks the debut of the
Vertu Cottage Galleries (13 George-
parade, off 113 Collins-street), which are
being run by Mrs. Roy Maclellan as a
spot where exhibitions of arty stuff may
be ’ held (she’s a collector herself and
vows that nothing but the exceptionally
expert in craftsmanship will get a place).
The galleries were originally a couple of
small and unexciting rooms, but their
chatelaine has decorated them with an
expert hand. Shows will be held for
various Town Hall appeals as they come
along.
Melbourne Uni. students, past and
present, are interested in the news that
Joyce Dunn is being appointed to a lec-
turing post on the History side of the
Arts School. She’s a very recent gradu-
ate and a very young one, but has shown
a flair for teaching. Unlike so many
reputedly clever students she has origi-
nality. Joyce, who will be doing part of
the work which Miss Jessie Webb did,
was, during her course, one of Miss
Webb’s students.
The news that the American general
hospital staff are moving on and vacating
the New Royal Melbourne, in which
they’ve been since arrival here, was read
with regret by those who’ve met and
made friends with these doctors and
nurses. They have been very popular
during their stay here, and nurses par-
ticularly were often entertained out in
the country by Victorian friends. Heales-
ville Sanctuary was a frequent place of
pilgrimage. The University tennis courts
were placed at this staff’s disposal, and
often rang to American voices.
News comes from overseas of the death
of Victor Dandre, Pavlova’s husband. He
came here as her business manager. In
Czarist days he had been a member of
the Russian Senate (a body of consider-
ably more importance than the more
widely-known Duma). Those who knew
the back-stage life of the ballet said that
Dandre’s good judgment and artistic taste
contributed much to the success of the
dancers he managed. In person he was a
marked contrast to the tiny, vivid wife —a
Russian of the big-built, fair type and a
pillar of calm solidity that made him a
contrast with the intensely emotional and
highly-strung people about him.


SURFER 'S FOOT
$
mwsM
TIOOK ”
Btrwu*
. ysl//!
FROM YOUR
CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
Can Cripple You
ir Beware of this crippling
infection. You may be infected
without knowing it. The first
signs are cracked skin and itch
between the toes. These danger
signs call for prompt treatment
with lodex to kill the germ and
to soothe and heal the damaged
tissues.
★ In severe cases see your doctor
|ODE\
NO-STAIN lODINE
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM.
Urgent priority orders for U.S.A. Naval Mobile Hospitals prevent delivery of private
orders for some weeks.
We feel sure our clients will put up with this temporary delay in t»rder to protect the
health of our gallant allies against—
DYSENTERY, TYPHOID, HOOKWORM AND OTHER INTESTINAL
DISEASES INHERENT IN CLOSET PANS.
Private orders for Dissolvenators will be delivered in order of priority, but there will
not be any delay in delivery of Hygeia paper and Dissolvent.
Seven years’ guarantee against corrosion affecting efficiency or longevity.
HYGEIA SANITARY COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. Phone; B 1052.
Seven years’ guarantee against corrosion affecting efficiency or longevity.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian Producers
Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., Perth; Win. Crosby & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Tasmania,
T
i-
WAR IS NOT ALL DESTRUCTION
War is not all destruction. Out of tke crucible emerge new discoveries,
new applications of electrical science, which Philips will harness to the
needs of peace and progress just as they are to the demands of war. Born
of grim necessity, these advances will benefit the very civilisation in whose
protection they were evolved.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
•and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
So that others
may live...
This is one world, one war. The United Nations have
achieved co-ordination not only of military strategy
but also of production, each nation supplying the
other with the weapons it is best able to produce
easily and quickly.
Food is one of the most important war weapons and
can be considered one of Australia’s great and special
contributions to the Allied victory plan.
STILL GREATER FOOD
PRODUCTION NEEDED
Australia’s total food production
is now at its highest point on record.
And yet, if our minimum obliga-
tions are to be met, our production targets for the whole of
1944 must be set at still higher levels.
Vast quantities of Australian food are helping to support exist-
ing fighting fronts. We must also be ready to send supplies at a
moment’s notice to any new front that may be opened.
BRITAIN’S RATIONS
PAINFULLY SMALL
Then there are our own and other
civilian populations, notably the
people of Britain. Even with what
we plan to send them they will remain on the bare subsistence
level, their rations painfully small compared with our own.
FOOD WILL HELP TO
SPEED THE FINISH
To produce food, and more food, is a
responsibility every Australian citizen
must shoulder.
Remember that food saved is equivalent to food produced.
Now is the time for all to resolve to play their part on the
food front and so add power to our fighting arms, bring
succour to those in need, and hasten the day when our enemies
will be finally overthrown.
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F.ia.27
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted Woman, over 45, one day a week
for cleaning, on bus route. JA 3329.”
—Suburban paper.
Traffic will be diverted on that day, of
course.
•I* '
“It has been stated that the outlook for
potatoes in New South Wales is not nearly as
bright as it was a few months ago.”
—“Great Northern.”
As seen through their eyes, that is.
4* *l* *1 -5*
“Don’t Hoard Unwanted Articles!”
—Perth “Daily News” heading.
Manhandling.
“ ‘Hold Your Man’ School for Brides
Urged.”
Above the beat of my heart, as it were,
I heard her—or thought I heard.
“You’re late, darling,” said my wife.
“You must be tired.. . .Oh, and you
needn’t worry about getting tobacco this
week ; I talked four ounces out of the
grocer.., .There’s a bottle of beer by the
chair that I got today... .Dinner’s just
ready ; it’s a roast with four veges
Never mind that ash, dear, it’s good for
the carpet... .1 put the baby to bed early
—he’s asleep already.... The Dobsons
wanted us to go over for a musical even-
ing tonight, but I stalled them off
Saved you some coupons today. I was
tempted to buy a new costume, but
managed to resist it”
The next thing I knew was an elbow in
my ribs and a much more realistic sort
of voice in my ear:
“Come on now. It’s six o’clock. Hurry
up and give the baby his bottle, because
I want my breakfast ready by eight sharp
because I’m rushing in to Snitchem’s to
see the new styles, so you’d better leave
your ration book for me, and do see
if you can be home early tonight, we’re
having a scratch tea because we’ve got
to rush over to the Dobsons’ early”
Plum.
“Yes, carrots like a little liquid stimulant,
too.” — “S.M.H.”
Naturally they’d be among the first to
take advantage of the black-market liquor
traffic being driven underground.
•F •h 4*
“Eyebrows should be kept natural, not too
thin.” — Woman’s paper.
And very little pluck is needed.
•5* + 4*
“Thousands Unable to Buy Joints for the
Week-end.” — "Sun."
Well, they’ll just have to hire tents, like
other holidaymakers.
First Aid.
“If you mend and make do you will wear
better and you’ll feel better.” — Woman’s paper.
I was visibly shocked when you told me
you yearned for
Your freedom, and left me alone to my
pain.
1 felt broken-hearted; I knew I’d been
spurned for
A whim winch you wouldn’t or couldn’t
explain.
But after we parted my case didn’t
worsen;
In fact (and I hope that you won’t be
offended).
With help and the care of a gifted young
person.
I’ve had my heart, darling, invisibly
mended !
P. O. M. C.
I taxed my wife concerning this.
“I’ve not a thing I wouldn’t miss,”
She said. ‘‘There’s nothing I can do.
Wait, though ! I COULD get rid of you.”
BUTCHER-BIRD.
No Reciprocity.
“Feed your garden and it’ll feed you.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
I’d eat my hat if I could eat
My garden, for it’s got me beat.
On withered hopes and weeds I’d sup,
But, looking at it, I’m fed up.
YAIR.
Query.
I always observe, O my dearest and
fairest.
That when we are tied in a passionate
kiss,
You throw back your head and you close
up those rarest
Of eyes, giving sweet indications of
bliss.
But, say, is it really my manly attraction
Or technique that causes those optics
to close ?
Or is it, my sweet, an (esthetic reaction
To shut out the redness afflicting my
nose ?
T. W. NATHAN.
El Duco.
“The unsuccessful Argentinian Navy revolt
against the Government of President Farrell was
led by Lt.-Colonel Duco.”
In the best Buenos Aires circles Col.
Duco had long been regarded as a
soldier of the very highest lustre. He was
also looked upon as slightly eccentric,
owing to his sporting a colonel’s tunic, Sam
Browne and spurs, bell-bottomed pants
and a sailor’s cap worn at an Admiral
Beattyish angle and walking with a pro-
nounced roll on the parade ground, to
which he always insisted on being piped.
Also, he used to get his troops singing
“Whisky for My Johnny” and “What
Shall We Do with a Drunken Sailor” as
they pushed round the capstan which
hoisted their hammocks and seabOots to
the barrack-room roof. Yet by what
means other than the exercise of such, as
it were, amphibious ritual and custom
could a colonel hope to lead a navy
revolt?
A natural corollary was that such a
polished fellow as Col. Duco reflected
the views not only of sailors who wished
to be mistaken for soldiers, but soldiers
who wished to be mistaken for sailors ;
obviously, therefore, he had a consider-
able following.
But it was the gallant colonel’s tactics
rather than his strategy which led to his
failure as a rebel. Sad to tell, Duco got
badly mixed.
Broadly, he planned to seize the post
office and the contiguous Government
broadcasting station. He had sufficient
nous not to attempt his coup during the
short siesta hour. He knew that after the
Government troops had been awakened
from the siesta and put on guard they
would then sleep sounder, and it was
then he would strike.
But Duco was fired with a determina-
tion to outdo Moscow in the lavishness
of its victory celebrations, so he ordered
the 85-year-old Warships to give a 200-
gun salute of 75 salvos. Unfortunately
he decided to do this in advance. The
first salvo thundering out almost wbke
the garrison. Seventeen salvos later the
commandant was aroused and,' cleverly
deducing that as firing was going on gun;
must be going off, he hastened with” his
troops to the G.P.0., hoping to learn
something from a returning postman,
It was after the last victory salvo had
been fired that Col. Duco set out. Cutlass
in hand, he appeared with his men two
hours later at the square in front of the
post office. He would have made the
half-mile journey from his ships a half-
hour earlier only his insurgents decided
to have their deferred siesta en route, in
spite of the brush Col. Duco had with
them over it.
Drawing his troops up the colonel
ordered a full broadside, but they had
been issued only with cutlasses, which
were slightly outranged by the machine-
guns of the Government troops,
Col. Duco is now regarded in Argen-
tinian army and navy circles as dull,
A Government spokesman says Duco
will now be scratched for all engagements
for a long time.
BO.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2jd. per line.
“A.A.F.”
Perhaps if our Dictator of Informa-
tion, Mr. Calwell, had ever been in khaki
we would have been spared the dissen-
sions that have occurred since the en-
forced playing of “Advance, Australia
Fair” at picture shows.
My companion at a recent show was
an ex-Second A.I.F. Digger with a leg
permanently stiffened by shrapnel in the
knee. For the first half of “A.A.F.” no
one took any notice, as similarly recorded
by “Petrie” and “Zake” (B. 9 and
16/2/’44), although a few wore that
expectant look that awaits the radio news.
Then a few people struggled to their feet,
and by the last bar most of the mob
around us had followed sheepishly. A
harsh female voice rasped from the row
behind us: “Look at them two! Too
tired to get up, I s’pose! Pity they
wasn’t up with our boys in the jungle!”
My companion squirmed in his seat and
muttered things that would have seared
her eardrums as 50 pairs of eyes were
directed on us.
As the lights went up our returned
badges were noticed and a general titter
was directed at the old battleaxe behind
us. As w r e rose to leave she too spotted
our badges and Bill’s lameness, and her
expression for one moment was like
Eddie Ward being misreported.—J. R. D.
(N.S.W.).
Post-war Defence
There is a flood of propaganda for
post-war reconstruction—no unemploy-
ment, free medical attendance, free Uni-
versity education and sustenance, pen-
sions ad lib. and .so on ; but is anyone
giving the slightest thought to post-war
military preparedness, an army, navy
and air force and the cost of them? With-
these none of the ideas for future
betterment can rest on a sound basis.
We must be prepared to hold Aus-
tralia by force, and that’s not an easy
job for seven million people. Britain
cannot give us much protection in the
future even if she feels so inclined. The
U.S.A. might, but it seems doubtful
whether these countries will be concern-
ing themselves with Australian interests
very much in the early post-war years.
They’ll have troubles of their own, and
if we go on building up secondary in-
dustries at the expense of primary ones
we can never expect any help from out-
siders.
Therefore, powder before pensions and
preparedness before economic ease. We
must arm to protect our country. There
can be no Harvest Festival Feast unless
we do. — Telescope (Tas.).
Post-war Australia
The outstanding subject of discussion
wherever soldiers forgather is post-war
Australia. Our Governments will prob-
ably do what is in their power to estab-
lish the post-war security of returned
soldiers, but security may not be on hand
for Governments to offer us.
Most soldiers are young and left jobs
in which they were “on the way up,”
both in efficiency and financially. Though
the A.E.S. has done a good job, the
average Digger has little inclination to
spend his recreational time in study.
Then, again, the soldier who can save is
the exception. He gets little enough on
which to live, and, being human, he in-
clines to excessive spending during his
meagre leave periods.
In contrast, civilians are making more
money than ever before, and the record
of savings bank deposits shows that many
of them are thrifty. The profits of black-
marketing and racketeering, too, are being
socked away.
Most soldiers, on discharge, will have
£lOO or £2oo—few will have more. After
the war prices will rocket, and a great
proportion, if not all, of deferred pay
will be absorbed in buying essentials.
Little will be left for the prqmotion of
enterprise or as a nest-egg against con-
tingencies.
The soldier will be to some extent un-
skilled, less suited to his job than, the
man who has been kept on the job
throughout the war. Preference to re-
turned soldiers will not necessarily mean
that an employer will promote a less-
skilled man over the heads of others.
Few soldiers attempt to offer any
remedy for these difficulties—they leave
that to the men who are supposed to lead
the nation—but they all feel that some
effort should be made to ensure that the
wrong type of citizen does not gather the
fruits of their sacrifices. Four Chev-
rons (N.S.W.).
Nationalisation of Medicine
Bakers and butchers render services to
the community in the same way as
lawyers, dentists and doctors. All are
now free to choose whether they work
on their own account or for wages or
salaries, and many professional men pre-
fer to work for salaries. It is now sug-
gested that this freedom be taken away
from the medical profession, and that all
doctors become salaried servants of the
State.
There is no need for such a change,
nor any benefit to be derived from it,
nor is there any reason why doctors
should be singled out for such treatment.
The medical profession should obtain the
help of all lovers of liberty and
democracy in standing out against this
proposal of the coterie of politicians and
officials who are temporarily controlling
the destinies of the Commonwealth. If
these men are allowed to proceed with
this and other schemes of nationalisa-
tion, Australia wifi be under Fascist
government of a kind which would
gladden the heart of Mussolini himself. —
Democrat (W.A.).
“Who gave you two permission to Wear beards?“
A.B.C.
“A.B.C. Weekly” in its last issue had
an editorial patting itself on the back
for now being “established and a valu-
able asset.” It claims a circulation of
60.000 a week, from which it is con-
cluded that 200,000 listeners a week read
it. Note —listeners, not license-holders,
but no doubt it is hoped that the public,
and perhaps advertisers, will not detect
the difference.
The article goes on to say that “to
obtain the same Australian cover and
the same amount of space at advertising
rates as the Commission commands
through the journal would cost at least
£70,000 a year.” Where would the same
amount of space cost £70,000 a year for
such a limited circulation as the
“Weekly” enjoys?
The , 1941-42 reporff of the Parliamen-
tary Broadcasting Committee says the
Commission told it thaft the cost of adver-
tising its programmes in the daily papers
of the capital cities and 15 country papers
was estimated at between £70,000 and
£90,000 per annum. At a rough estimate
the circulation of the metropolitan
dailies in all States, plus that of 15
country papers, would be at least
2.500.000 copies a day. The Commission,
on its own say-so, could have had this
for £70,000 to £90,000 a year ; now it has
the audacity to say that it would cost it
£70,000 a year to get the same space and
coverage as it gets from the “Weekly,”
with a circulation of 60,000 copies
weekly.
It is up to the Commission to explain.
It should remember that listeners have a
right to expect truth in advertising.—
Listener (N.S.W.).
The A.B.C. news “session” following
the national news is becoming somewhat
of a joke in the northern part of Queens-
land. The “session” is always announced
as being the “State” news, but seldom
is any incident outside of Brisbane
recorded. They say in the North that a
man has only to fall over in Queen-street
and skin his nose and the whole State has
to hear about it. The same man could
break his neck in Townsville or Mackay
and no one would be any the wiser.—
E. P. (Q.).
Westralia’s Leg. Council
W.A. was the first State in the Com-
monwealth to elect a woman to Parlia-
ment, and is the first State to be repre-
sented by a woman in the Senate, but I
venture to predict that no woman will
ever enter the W.A. Leg. Council.
This queer denial of democratic prin-
ciples is elected on a property-owning
and rent-paying franchise. Very few
women qualify, and it takes more than
chivalry to get any woman into Parlia-
ment.
Any man who pays (or owes) 6s. 6d.
per week rent can exercise the fran-
chise. It was denied to my mother,
who reared a large family, including six
sons, five of whom served in the last war.
Most of us, too, were reared in the back-
blocks, when even Dad did not have a
vote, because perforce we lived in a
tent.
None of my sisters has ever been
privileged to vote for the august body
that puts the finishing touches on State
legislation. They all married, and their
husbands pay the rent. — George (W.A.).
Staggered Elections
Staggering of Parliamentary elections
as a means of exercising continuous con-
trol over the Government of the day (B.
23/2/’44) would probably result in
wholesale confusion.
In a time when parties were evenly
balanced (and that often has happened in
Australasia) fortnightly by - elections
would alternately swing one party into
power and then into opposition. A bloc
of two or three members would then be
in a position to dictate to the Govern-
ment, while the sensitivity of the elector-
ate would cause the sidetracking of any
legislation of a contentious nature, thus
causing political stagnation. Pierrot
(N.S.W.).
Our Golden Christmas
Most certainly our Christmas is
Golden (B. 16 /2 / ’44), and there’s
another point about it that might
be noted —ours, not the northern world’s,
must come in the same season as the
original. Joseph went to Bethlehem to
pay his taxes (Luke ii, 1 to 5). No
taxation department, since such began,
would risk a large proportion of profit-
able taxpayers perishing by the wayside
from freezing or heat exhaustion, so the
trek would certainly be timed to begin
when winter was well over and end be-
fore midsummer heat. Early summer,
therefore, would be the time the Star
shone. — Ellae (N.S.W.).
A New Australian industry
The war and the book shortage have
created a demand for Australian read-
ing matter, to which Australian pub-
lishers have risen splendidly. They have
done a grand job under trying conditions
of paper and labor shortages—with many
irritations.
A supply of books has come along
dealing with subjects as diverse as the
four winds. Much of it is in light vein,
but there are books dealing with Aus-
tralian life and letters, history, flora and
fauna to which even the savants have
turned for enlightenment and erudition.
Not only overseas visitors but Aussies
themselves are learning something of a
great country which apparently was not
thought worth publicising previously. In
itself that seems a worth-while job to me
and many other writers.
The surprising part of it all has been
the quality and care obvious in most of
the works published. Binding and pro-
duction have been of a consistently high
standard, arguing well for Australian
publication in the post-war period—when
better-grade material will be available. It
would have been thought impossible prior
to war that our publishing could reach
these world standards.
My point is that when better and
literarily prosperous times return our
own writers must not forget the hand
that helped them over these lean war
years. Those who remain successful and
even scale the heights to fame —including
literary “snobs” —should not rush with
their best works overseas to British or
American publishing houses. Let them
give their works to Australian houses
first. Royalties won’t suffer.
It is time we got out of our literary
swaddling clothes.— Pat Ater (N.S.W.).
The Mud Brick
Unless housing authorities insist on
adhering to conventional methods of con-
struction there need be no shortage while
there is soil left in Australia. Mud
bricks are a perfect building material for
the Australian climate, being warm in
winter and cool in summer.
They were used by the Romans, by the
chateau-builders of France and by
British farmers, and their use was re-
vived before the war by one of the lead-
ing architects of England for building
large country houses. Some of the houses
the Romans built are still standing and
old farmhouses of England are uni-
versally admired ; many a modern archi-
tect would like to claim paternity of
buildings as lovely.
I suggest to the housing commissions
that they get every town council in the
country to put a few workmen on making
the bricks. In a short time they would
have a colossal number at no cost except
the labor and the small amount of
machinery required for the making.
When the mould is removed from the
brick the sun comes along and dries it
for nothing. Experience has shown that
it is far more resistant to moisture than
concrete, and walls can be made of any
thickness—chateaux in France are in
some cases 30ft. thick.
Every citizen who wants to erect a
dwelling and every farmer who wants to
put up a henhouse or a storeroom should
have the right to come and take so many
mud bricks annually up to a certain
figure free, gratis and for nothing, being
charged for excess in the same way as
with water. When the farmer goes to
collect his quota he could take along a
load of bush timber to be made into
beams and posts on the circular saw
which every council would maintain as
a communal facility.
The number of houses that could be
built in a short time in this way would
be enormous. Moreover, it is impossible
to make a house built of mud bricks as
ugly as the conventional fibro-cement or
even the factory-made machine-brick
erection, so the look of the country
would be transformed within a decade,
with a consequent good effect on morale.
Compared with some of the feats of
organisation which have been performed
in this war, this architectural revolution
would be a trifle. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
In Defence of Jazz
“Mid-Channel” (B. 2/2/’44) says
jazz appeals to the ignorant. What about
Stokowski? According to a 1943 American
magazine, Stokowski gave a one-hour jazz
programme over the radio, and in intro-
ducing it said: “Jazz is a part of our folk-
lore and folk music. It has no traditions
and no limitations, and will go on de-
veloping forever as long as musicians
give free rein to their imagination. Jazz
is unique—there has never been anything
like it.”
Now let me quote from the “Saturday
Evening Post”:
In January, 1943, Ellington’s contribution
to music was hailed at a concert of all his
compositions at Carnegie Hall. In honor
of his 20th anniversary Ellington was pre-
sented with a bronze plaque bearing the sig-
natures of Stokowski, Rodzinski, Fritz
Reiner, Deems Taylor and other musical
illuminati. Here Ellington gave the world
premiere of his “Black, Brown and Beige,’’
the longest swing tune ever written, which
lasted 45 minutes, and stunned the Carnegie
Hail audience.
Also from the “Saturday Evening
Post”:
When the famous composer Stravinsky
visted New York he was met by a deputa-
tion who asked him where he would like
to go. He said the first place he wanted to
go was to chase up to Harlem to the Cot-
ton Club, to hear Duke Ellington’s mag-
nifique jazz symphonies.
It is not my intention to support or
justify the existence of that type of jazz
known as “Jump Music,” created specially
for jitterbugs.— Rameses (Q.).


mm;.
V
wmsmSi&V/ ,
/ T 3
i. £■«
m
M
Three Safeguards for the
. Future
War Loan Bonds
Savings Certificates
Life Assurance
Every pound saved to-day is a
contribution towards the security
of your country now and your
own security and peace of mind
in later years.
When contemplating that next
Policy, contact the City Mutual
Life Office.
v
The funds of the City Mutual Life
Office are invested within the
Commonwealth of Australia and
the lives assured are selected from
within Australia.
Emulate the practice of this
purely mutual and Australian
Life Office by placing every
available pound in the War
Loans.
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
ESTABLISHED 1878
Total Income for 1943
War Loan Subscriptions 1943
Assets Exceed
£1,600,000
£1,030,000
£12,500,000
WM. BENNETT, General Manager .
