

f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.— No. 3359
Wednesday, June 28, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaocr.
Jeppelts
DUBLIN'S CUSTOMS HOUSE.
OTANDING an North Wall of the famed and beautiful Liffey,
'‘-•''which flows directly through Dublin, is this great square
Customs House, opened in 1791 and erected at a cost of £400,000.
There was strong public opposition, mainly for political reasons,
to the erection of this building, but, under the leadership of the
energetic and enterprising Right Hon. John Beresford, the work
was commenced in 1781,
An outstanding feature of this building is its central dome sur-
mounted by a statue symbolic of that great Irish characteristic,
Hope. With this and several other noble buildings—mainly the
creation of the eighteenth century—modern Dublin is, rather than
a city of trade, an administrative and cultural centre. The public
buildings of Dublin which rival this Customs House in elegance
of architecture are the Bank of Ireland, once the House of Parlia-
ment ; St. Patrick’s Cathedral, and,* above all, Trinity College, which
is an honor not only to Ireland but to Great Britain. Like every
other great city, Dublin has those quarters through which a tour
is as interesting as one through the East End of London. Wherever
the visitor goes in Dublin, the happy buoyant disposition of the
people of the Emerald Isle is conspicuous.


f
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. >>
.1 fy Name ~
My Address
S B. 144 ..
AGE
The Red Page
PAPUAN GOLD .
The most pleasing of Lewis Lett’s
anecdotes in Papuan Gold (Angus and
Robertson) concerns one Dirty Percy.
Dirty Percy was the dandy of the Gira
field. He always appeared at Tamata in
spotless white ducks and highly polished
shoes. His hair was smoothly brushed and
accurately parted, and his beard trimmed to
a point and glossy with brilliantine-. His
favorite recreation when on holiday was
to wait in the store for newcomers and to
fire shots from his big Colt revolver as
near to them as possible without hitting
them.
Eventually this Bad Man of the North
picked on the wrong man. Matt Crowe,
six feet four in height, told Percy to stop
putting shots through a stranger’s beard ;
Percy let fly at a bottle of beer on Matt’s
table.
“Behave like a kid,” Matt rumbled, “and
you’ll be treated like one.” He returned
to his comer with the Colt expert in his
hand, sat down on an empty packing-
case, placed Percy face downwards across
his knee, and proceeded to smack, his back-
side with his right hand until the victim .
howled for mercy. Percy did no more
flash shooting, and left the field soon after-
wards.
There is also the enterprising dentist
who visited Tamata in 1901. The miners
who had had their teeth pulled waited
patiently for the dentures he had prom-
ised them.
They came. Thirty-odd sets of them.
But they were quite obviously second-,
hand; and they were all packed together
in the same box without labels and without
any means of knowing which belonged
to whom.
And there is the storekeeper at Bogi
who decided to dynamite an alligator.
The mudbank was a big one, and he had
to wade over it for a hundred yards, up to
his ankles in black ooze, before he was
within reach of his intended prey. He
threw the charge carefully and saw it land
within a foot of the beast’s shoulder.
Thirty seconds later it exploded. The
alligator shook himself violently, then
turned and ran at what seemed incredible
speed towards the storekeeper.
The storekeeper ran. The alligator ran
after him.
He saw the yellow-green snout come
level with him. He opened his mouth to
yell for help that could not possibly come
in time —then collapsed in the mud, shaken
by hysterical laughter. The alligator, fully
as scared by the explosion as the store-
keeper was of being eaten alive, slithered
on over the mud, up the low hank, and
into the safety of the scrub.
The present commentator would just
as soon argue with an alligator as ques-
tion Mr. Lett’s knowledge of Papua. He
has lived and worked there, and both
in this book and in his earlier Papuan
Achievement writes with the confidence
of an authority. Which makes one of
his anecdotes a very interesting problem.
He describes how the miners used to
fish with dynamite, tying the charge to
a stick and throwing it into the water,
and how one miner had a faithful dog
which delighted in retrieving sticks, and
how the faithful hound, foolishly retriev-
ing a stick loaded with dynamite, pursued
his master through the jungle with it.
This is, of course, Henry Lawson’s “The
Loaded Dog.” Did the incident really
occur in Papua and had Lawson heard
about it? Is it a classic myth of all gold-
fields? Or did the Papuan hound, being
a devoted reader of Lawson’s short
stories, decide to put into practice what
the writer had invented?
These yarns are the lighter side of
Papuan Gold. The rest of it is as dark,
as dramatic and as violent as one has
come to expect in the stories of the jungle.
The history of the early gold-seekers, it
is a record of fever, hardship, clashes with
the natives, scenes of terror alternating
with narratives of heroic endurance.
It was made painfully evident that the
new track cut by Giulianetti was little
better, if it was not even worse, than the
old road over Mount Knutsford. There
were places where it was almost impossible
for loaded carriers to pass; and on one
steep descent many of them gave up the
effort, and sat down on the track and cried
like children. By persuasion and their own
fears they were induced, to struggle on;
but on the next day their spirits fell again
at the sight of skeletons lying by the road —
the bones of other carriers who had pre-
ceded them, and who had died from ex-
haustion and the cold of the mountains.
Mr. Lett is an expert on the adminis-
tration of New Guinea and, enlivening
the survey with accounts of raiding
parties and cannibalism, wprks into the
story of the gold-seekers a’ further con-
tribution to' our knowledge of the diffi-
culties, the failures and the successes of
the white man’s law in the jungle.
The book will probably have a wide
audience. It is timely and it is colorful.
Novels and plays will one day be written
about the Papuan goldfields; they could
be the setting for a magnificent film.
Anybody who is putting down the facts
so that the arts may use them in the
future is doing a service of the first im-
portance ; and so, too, is anybody who
is helping to impress on the Australian
mind the story and the significance of
New Guinea.
Tobruk and Bataan.
The greatest attraction of G. H. Fearn-
side’s Sojourn in Tobruk (Ure Smith Pty.,
Ltd.) is that it is written by an A.I.F. man
who fought through the siege. The open-
ing chapter on the retreat to the town
and the Concluding chapter on its relief
are good pieces of reporting, convincing,
strong and moving.
Capable sub-editing might have made
the whole book equally valuable, for
there are good, passages everywhere.
What should have been done, but has not
been, was to remove the attempts at “fine
writing,” the chapters that read like
magazine short stories, the cliches that
creep into and mar even such authentic
narratives as the chapter on the relief —
“Night is now casting its sable mantle
over us,” for example.
After the impressive opening chapter,
excellently conveying the weariness of the
retreat and catching its tragedy in the
story of a map accidentally shot on a
crowded truck, there comes a humorous
yarn still convincing in spite of its “wow”
ending. But then there is a story of a
padre meeting his brother in circum-
stances which not only the magnitude of
the coincidence but the forced, unnatural
dialogue and conventional magazine style
make completely incredible. It may have
happened; but, as written, it is romantic
fiction.
Inevitably, from that point onwards,
the reader is never at ease. An Australian
ration party, lost in the dark between the
lines, blunders into an Italian ration
party, also lost, and a pleasingly humor-
ous scene results. Fact or fiction? There
is a ghost story. Fact or fiction? A
prisoner is made to run into a minefield.
Fact or fiction? Either fact or fiction
would be acceptable ; but the mixture of
both in this particular manner is in-
digestible.
Disregarding the overwriting of the
padre story, the occasional cliches and
the times when a nervous facetiousness
again makes for unreality, Fearnside has
genuine ability both as a reporter of facts
and as a maker of fiction. “Advanced
Dressing Station” in particular—at once
a picture of the front-line soldier’s re-
action to the comparative safety of the
dressing-station and a powerful study of
character —would be accepted in any
company either as a short story or as a
chapter of history or autobiography. The
author has the makings of an auto-
biography here ; and the makings of a
picaresque novel; but neither has been
made.
Despite an unfortunate dust-jacket, on
which the Australian soldier is represented
as the village idiot in an advanced state
of melancholia, Fearnside’s book will
probably be widely read. It deserves to
be, but Tobruk still waits for its epic.
Much the same may be said of Colonel
Carlos P. Romulo’s I Saw the Fall of the
Philippines (Harrap).
Bataan and Corregidor will probably
produce an American epic, as Tobruk
will an Australian. Filled out with mani-
festos, broadcasts and official communi-
ques, I Saw the Fall of the Philippines
is least successful in what the epic will
most need: the visualisation of the men
in their foxholes whom the author
visited and fought beside.
But as the narrative of a man who saw
the Philippines campaign from the begin-
ning to the end —the author was the last
man to leave Corregidor, escaping in a
patched-up ’plane from an airfield on
Bataan under fire from the Japs—it is
eminently readable.
Fishing for Fossils .
Lesser men take rod, line and a parcel
of malodorous prawns and fish for fish
in the sea ; but Charles Fenner, author of
Mostly Australian (Georgian House,
Melbourne) takes a hammer and chisel
and fishes in solid rock;
There is one form of fishing in which
I have found glory and delight; this is
seeking for fossil fishes in ancient rocks.
It is a rare sport. All the forces are against
you; hard, resistant rocks, elusive frag-
ments that lead you on, heavy boulders
to be quarried and split, and so on. But
once you capture your specimen, then in-
deed you have something to treasure and
to ponder over.
Something of the ardor of the fossil-
fisher is needed in the reading of Mostly
Australian. There is no unbreakable
rock, there are few boulders ; it is lightly
and pleasantly written. But there is a
fair amount of clay, sand and even rubble
to be cleared away before anything as
startling aS a fossil fish strikes on the
hook.
Among the brief essays (really over-
expanded paragraphs), among much that
is slight and much that is familiar, there
is interest to be found in the note on the
aboriginal astronomers who see the
shapes of a giant blackfellow and a giant
emu in the gaps in the Milky Way; the
abo. customs in connection with the
chewing of pituri, notably the courteous
gesture of exchanging well-chewed quids
on meeting a friend; a glimpse of gulls
on Kangaroo Island feasting murderously
on the young of cormorants; the revela-
tion that the asphodel of classic poetry is
the sonorously-named onion weed of
Australia ; a narrative of the travels of
the Bathurst burr, showing how it arrived
on the tails of horses from South
America and, clinging to Australian
fleeces, made its way to Galashiels in
Scotland, where, with 200 other foreign
plants, many Australian, also brought in
with the wool, it now flourishes.
There is a note on those curious pupa;
of a wingless weevil which are formed of
limestone and are known as “rabbits’
eggs.” Crocodile fossils in Victoria are
discussed; and in a pleasing chapter on
the water- or whirligig-beetle, a wog of
many oddities, there is the information:
The habit of life of the beetle requires
that it shall, as it darts around in circles,
keep watch for insect prey both in the
air and in the water. As it swims, the
surface of the water comes midway up
the eyes. The eyes themselves are divided
horizontally, the bottom half being adapted
for underwater vision and the top half for
air vision—a remarkable arrangement.
Recalling the work of Holdaway, Gay
and Greaves, Mr. Fenner notes the
organisation of the termite mounds:
1,806,500 individuals for one ordinary
mound, 86 in every hundred of which
were workers, 11 soldiers and three
nymphs.
On the phenomenon known as the will-
o’-the-wisp, once believed to be super-
natural and later, in more scientific times,
“a ball of gas,” Mr. Fenner writes:
But the dawning of some knowledge of
chemical facts brought about questionings.
There seemed to be no gases that would
collect in balls in just that way, nor could
such gases glow and continue to move
for long distances as did the objects under
discussion.
Science, consequently, now prefers to
believe that the phenomenon never
existed. Which seems a very convenient
way of dealing with it.
Notes on phosphorescent fungi and
showers of fish and frogs are other odd-
ments of interest. The book as a whole
neither glows like a fungus nor falls like
a shower of frogs, but, as has been
shown, it has its moments.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Arthur Murch’s outstanding ability as a
painter has been recognised in the Syd-
ney art world for years. But a Murch
as gay and free as he is in his show at
the Macquarie Galleries is something
new. In No. 15, “The Catch,” he has
achieved the impossible by making a still-
life of a fish look alive and happy. Curi-
ously, Murch paints his ladies not only
with the same gaiety but in the same
glowing colors as his snapper: red and
gold. No. 18, “The Connoisseur,” shows
a sugar-daddy with a blonde—a nice
piece of affectionate satire —and the
subtler No. 9, “The Flea,” is as witty
and charming a painting as one could
wish for. Painted in Murch’s peculiar
woolly style (though the reverse is
true of a desert scene, “North from
the Alice”) the landscapes are gener-
ally unreal; but the freshness and vitality
that are the keynotes of the show
as a whole are seen again in two paintings
as remote from each other in subject as
No. 3, “Kurbmaltji,” the diabolical head
of an abo., and No. 22, “John,” a note
in oils on the head of a child.
“F.S.”: For the succession of soldier-
artists’ shows in Melbourne there is prece-
dent: Manet, Cezanne, Corot —in fact,
most French artists —had to do their
terms of training, and Tolstoy wrote a
work that attracted the Czar’s notice
when he was serving in the Crimean War
and was beleaguered in Sevastopol. The
latest of Melbourne soldier shows is Wil-
liam Plowman’s at the Velasquez. Plow-
man is an ex-Nat. Gallery student who
is serving as a gunner. In between artil-
lery practice he has painted portraits of
privates, majors and colonels, Y.M.C.A.
officials and nurses, the surrounding land-
scape and anything else that took his
fancy. A large picture of the great tent
show is a memorial of his pre-war days
when he was a commercial artist with
Wirth’s Circus.
Melbourne Tivoli’s “Leap Year Crazy
Show” isn’t much more or less crazy
than previous Tiv. programmes. If Jim
Gerald was any crazier than he is in this
one he would have to be signed up and
the public would lose a valuable aid to
relaxation. The craziest item on the
menu is perhaps the Minuet of a Million
Mirrors, in which the walk-on ladies are
dressed in a way that suggests an insane
indifference to the current Melbourne
weather. Another demented item is Molly
Duval as a munition worker. Inky Wil-
liams as a foreman and Alban Whitehead
as a singer. The music in the show, how-
ever, takes a turn for the better on some
occasions.
At the talkies;
In “Undercover” (Sydney Lyceum), about the
Partisans of Yugoslavia, Ealing Studios has
wisely refrained from obvious propaganda.
Godfrey Tearle gives a convincing portrait of
a Nazi commander; Mary Morris enhances the
reputation she made when teamed with Leslie
Howard in “Pimpernel Smith”; John Clements
and comedian Tom Walls, the latter cast as
a fiery old patriot who cannot restrain himself
under his commander-son’s discipline, invest
their roles with life in a story which, if it
strikes a minor note at intervals, is generally
sound.
The best feature of “Guadalcanal Diary”
(Plaza), the screen version of Richard Tre-
gaskis’s best-seller, is its naturalness. Also,
20th Century Fox has done a good job in
showing the toughness of the going against de-
termined opposition. It is too full of action
to need any acting; battle scenes are vivid,
and the whole is salted with strong humor.
There is much that is charming in “Tender
Comrade” (Regent), a story, developed in flash-
back form, of four war-factory women of
widely divergent types whose husbands are all
overseas and who take a house together. The
chance of getting Ginger Rogers in an emo-
tional final scene being too great a temptation
for any script-writer, tragedy stalks in.
Showing that Eugene Ormandy had
quickly moulded a big instrument worthy
of his batonless hands, Sydney Symphony
Orchestra swept boldly into the bravura
passages of the opening Toccata at the
A.B.C. concert at the Town Hall, and later
gave the Intermezzo much beauty. The
big Bach work in C Major, finishing with
the lively Fugue, was delivered with the
proper organlike quality. Ernest Llewel-
lyn was soloist in the “Adelaide,”
Mozart’s violin concerto composed at the
mature age of ten, and he achieved a fine
singing tone, making the item the best
of the night’s work.
“C.Q.”: A fiddler who followed Leo
Cherniavsky at Melbourne Assembly
Hall was the youthful Lyndall Hendrick-
son, of Adelaide. In the Brahms Sonata
in D Minor, the Chaconne in G Minor
of Vitali-Charlier and assorted pieces,
ranging from the fierce Ritual Fire Dance
of De Falla to the sweetness and light of
the Schubert Rondo, she showed a
steadily maturing skill and refinement,
and the ability to feel as well as think
about the music.
The assembling of a “jury” of Sydney
notabilities at the first performance of
“Night of January 16th” at the Minerva
took up a lot of time for no very great
reward. Funny in a small town where
everybody knows everybody, that sort of
stunt could hardly mean very much in a
big city. The assembling of a large and
remarkably capable cast paid much better
dividends. Consisting simply of a murder
trial, on which the audience makes its
own decision, the play as a whole doesn’t
satisfy—for the reason that the plot is so
complicated by alibis, lies, forgeries, con-
flict of evidence and confusion of corpses
that probably the author himself had no
idea what the verdict should be. But
the excellence of the acting makes it
pleasantly entertaining as it moves along:
notably Peter Finch and Lawrence H.
Cecil, nicely balanced as the opposing
attorneys; Thelma Grigg as the lady who
did or didn’t commit the murder; and,
among the witnesses, Hilda Dorrington,
Edgar Yardley and Leonard Bullen.
Sydney is at last beginning to develop
a school of young actors of genuine
strength. Dry, forceful, a little brutal,
Peter Finch’s attorney in “Night of
January 16th” might have come straight
out of James Gould Cozzens’s The Just
and the Unjust. Making his second
appearance at the Minerva, Leonard
Bullen played the gangster Larry Regan
with the sort of easy vigor that warms a
whole theatre. A third comparative new-
comer, Kevin Brennan, whose convincing
and humoious portrayal of an Australian
in Ivor Novello’s “Fresh Fields” at the
Royal recently was noted in this column,
has been pleasing all the critics —includ-
ing The Bulletin man —by his perform-
ance as Bottom in May Hollinworth’s
production of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” at the same theatre. Campbel
Gray did not make much of his brief
appearance at the Minerva this time, but
he, too, has been deservedly coming into
prominence.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
MEN S ALL WOOL TWEED WORK
COATS in Mid-Grey All Wool Aus-
tralian Tweed, with 3 patch pockets
and 2or 3 button fastening. Sizes
43 to 46 in. chests 21/
12 Coupons
ALL WOOL SERGE WORK
TROUSERS with 3 pockets, plain
bottoms, strongly sewn and cut
suitably for working wear. In fast
dyed Navy. Sizes 30 to 46 in.
waists 27/6
5 Coupons
MEN’S WINTER WEIGHT
LUMBER JACKETS. In Navy Blue
Woollen Coatings, tailored with 2
roomy pockets and adjustable waist.
Ideal for outdoor work. Sizes S.M.,
M., 0.5., X.O.S 28/6
12 Coupons
Some Essentials
for the
Menfolk
MEN’S PULLOVERS. All Wool
Knitted Pullovers of medium weight
and warm quality, with V-neck and
long sleeves. In shades of Grey,
Blue/Grey, Navy and Maroon.
Small, Med., O.S 20/6
X.O.S 22/
9 Coupons 5 '
%
4Z
a
MEN’S ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
in neutral shade, light weight. Size
34 to 44 in. chest or waist.
UNDERSHIRTS, short sleeves, 6/8
5 Coupons
UNDERPANTS to ankle 8/6
6 Coupons
Also in a medium winter weight,
warm finish.
UNDERSHIRTS, short sleeves, 8/9
5 Coupons
Men’s Depts. —Ground Floor , George Street.
MEN’S ALL-LEATHER BRACES.
Strong and reliable in wear, elastic
inset at back 2/11
Also Superior Quality Leather, 5/11
1 Coupon
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) PO. Box 2712 C. C.P.0., Sydney
Telegraphic Address: “Hordernia,” Sydney


THE TOMMY-GUN
By P. D. MANTLE.
FOR the tenth time John
Mason tried the work-
ing of his sub-machine-
gun. The bolt was all
right, the drum was fixed
with its fifty rounds of death,
the barrel was clean and
ready for its job.
He looked at the squat, unlovely thing,
Mustn’t disgrace it. It had been old
Danny’s tommy-gun, and Danny had
loved it like a brother. He had done
good work with it, too ; he was still hold-
ing tight on to it when he had died in
the corporal’s arms. John promised him-
self that Danny’s gun would be used as
its owner would have wanted it used —
shooting straight and hard and often.
He hitched it to his shoulder by the
length of native rope that served as a
sling. Then, putting on his tin hat, he
followed the other two men down the
track.
His nerves were jagged and his hands
trembled. The last two days had been
a strain. Sitting. Just sitting there within
half a mile of three hundred Japanese
and watching. All day, with telescope
and binoculars, watching, sitting and
watching. The tension, the inaction, the
strain of waiting.
But their observation had told them
all that was worth knowing of the place
they were to attack.
How carefully they had planned it all.
Two days of continuous watching, and
now they knew everything that could
possibly help them on a successful stunt
with a happy ending: the best way in,
the best way out; the cover they could
expect as they moved in for the kill; the
chosen hut with its sixty unconscious
victims ; the entrance, the back door —-
they knew it all.
Bill the corporal had worked it all
out. The exact number of paces from
cover to the hut door—not forgetting
that you took shorter steps walking in
the dark. The fallen log that they would
have to miss, just eleven paces after the
clump of bushes.
They knew where the sentry was
posted. They knew what time he was
relieved. Knew the trip-wire that ran
near the edge of the scrub and the tins
that were tied on it to jingle a warning
of possible attack,
The moon would come up at three
o’clock. As Bill had said, it would be
stupid to creep quietly in and then see
the moon sail over the palm-trees so that
you were standing there in the moonlight
like Romeo and Juliet. Yes, they knew it
all. But after the stunt they would know
something else. The way back—yes,
they’d planned that. But how many of
them would get back they did not know,
O LOWLY, so slowly, they worked their
way along the track. An hour dragged
by. Slowly, slowly downhill. John felt
the sweat of fear run down his face.
Fear, it was hellish.
At last the corporal raised his hand
and the three men sank to the ground,
This was the beginning. They edged for-
ward to the village clearing,
John’s brain was echoing the words
that Bill had said so often. “We’ll walk
it, not crawl. There’s no moon ; we’ve
the hill behind us, and we can’t be seen,
No use tiring ourselves out; we’ll need
all our energy later. Walk in slowly and
lie down at the entrance o£ the hut.”
The corporal rose to his feet and
moved forward. The others followed,
John felt a panic longing to run—to run
forward, yelling to hide his fear, to end
the strain of suspense. He walked.
Nine more paces, eight more, six more,
two. He sank to the ground by the
others. Bill the corporal nodded. They
took out their grenades and pulled the
pins. Nodded again. They let go the
striker levers that whined away into the
darkness. Death was just seconds away,
His heart thumped twice, the corporal
nodded and they all threw the bombs
inside the hut.
Twice more John’s heart thudded in
his chest, and then the §ilence was
smashed by explosion. Two more ex-
plosions blended together. One second
of silence, and then the screams and
groans of mutilated men. The three com-
mandos were on their feet and firing into
the hut.
Inside the hut was darkness. Even the
spurts of flame from the barking guns
showed nothing of the target. They
sprayed their bullets into blackness, and
the screams told them that the aim was
true.
Once, twice, three times John traversed
the hut. Vaguely he was aware of shout-
ing in the village. And then the corporal
was yelling an order. He turned and
bolted into the night.
From other huts in the village came the
sound of firing. Against the bamboo
background a score of heads were seen.
And the Japanese were firing.
Into the night in a dozen
directions they fired with rifles
and pistol guns. The dog
was barking and men were
shouting. The three Austra-
lians ran for the scrub.
Then Bill fell. Maybe ,a rock, maybe
a twist of creeper. And down he fell
with a crash that seemed to scream aloud
to the enemy. ,
Dimly John saw Dave stop and t i
back. Bill was struggling painfully to is
feet. And in the blackness loomed a
screaming horde of Japanese. He turned
to face them and fired into the pack,
Silhouettes dropped and disappeared. He
fired again. Then the whirr of the spnng
told him that the drum was empty. The
nearest man was almost on them now
and Bill was calling him.
With a great effdrt he swung the
tommy-gun into the foremost Jap and
heard it hit with a sickening sound. Then
he turned and ran blindly into the night,
,
I I PHILL with gasping breath he ran.
His hat was gone and bushes
dragged at his hair. There was blood in
his mouth and sweat in his eyes. Twice
he ran into trees and many times
stumbled. But the cries of the enemy
were fading in the night. And then he
saw Dave and the corporal. They fell
into line and hurried along the track,
An hour later, when he could think
clearly, John realised that something was
missing. Something that he should not
have lost. Tin hat? That didn’t matter,
The gun? Yes, the tommy-gun—poor
old Danny’s tommy-gun! The Japs
would have it now. But there were a lot
fewer Japs who would use guns after
tonight.
They stumbled on into the darkness.
BESSIE
By ESMEE STRATHDEE.
ON Thursdays we always had a
scratch breakfast, and were hur-
ried out to light the fire under “The
Copper” because Bessie was com-
ing. It was an unorthodox day for wash-
ing, but we had a fine unorthodox way
of doing it, so nobody ever felt put out.
Stan carted a small galvanised-iron
tank over to the creek, and filled it with
water. Then, with the carthorse strain-
ing, the water slopping over the slide,
Stan waving his whip in the air and
balancing behind the tank, the washing
water was brought into the backyard.
“It’s criminal,” Mother would say re-
heinously, “the things that poor woman
has to put up with! If she wasnta
good Christian lady shed never come
out here to do our washing.
“Why? She gets well paid.”
“Well paid!” Mother’s laugh could
express any needed emotion. Now it
rang with sardonic amusement. “Five
measly bob! Do you know what she gets
at Dempsey’s? Ten bob! And gas
boiler, set-in tubs and all.”
“Dempseys wear white coats; and two
sheets on every bed. Our wash ain’t
nothing like theirs.”
“Well, of course, I like two sheets, too.
But where’s the money to come from?
Tell me that! You’d better harness up
and go in to meet poor Bessie. Two
miles is too far for any woman with bad
feet to walk before a heavy wash.”
I LIKED going in to meet Bessie, with
' the sun barely up, the bush gone crazy
with bird songs, dew on the shadow-
dappled grass, and the smell of eucalyptus
heavy in the air.
Bessie’s company was good, too. She
had a ready laugh ; was not above a
coarse joke or two, so slyly delivered you
were never quite sure whether she’d
meant it your way or if it was just your
own bad mind, I liked to watch her
hands on the reins—they were such small-
boned, red-skinned hands, and looked as
if every bit of dirt had been scrubbed off
them with strong soda water. She always
took the reins going back, and I was free
to look for birds’ nests in the bush near
the road, and to whistle up those whose
acquaintance had already been made.
“You’re a one, all right,” Bessie would
say, half laughing at my antics. “Don’t
you never want to go to the city? A
great lump of a thing like you and no
idea of fashion or flirting! ”
“Here’ll do me, all right.”
“When I was your age I was in town
working at the People’s Palace. That
was a wonderful place, now. A real
palace, with brass polished like gold.”
“Like Dempsey’s?”
“That’s nothing, just nothing, to the
places I’ve been to. Don’t you do no
envying of them Dempseys now. You’ve
got more than them, in a way.”
“How?”
“Well, your Ma. She’s a one. Would
you like Mrs. Dempsey, with her gold
hair and brassy teeth and nasty way of
turning good into bad, to have the ruling
°^Xj U nc |„ a
„ *
nt J Elaine There s going t
be a pile of trouble there soon, you mark
m Y words;
»w oW ’i ™ • -n. *
Th^, k X hl ,™?C S ”
Th Th y," ‘ f she told
things d left it t 0 reason
y hether &ey were right or wrong,
“p) 0 you always wear that blue dress,
Bessie?”
she laughed,
“To and fro I do, love. But you
wouldn’t catch me washing in it. I’ve got
me old working clothes in this brown
paper.”
“I like blue on you.”
“Fair dinkutn?”
“H’m. Doesn’t make you quite as
yellow as the black.”
“Lord love a duck! You can pay a
pretty compliment, you can.”
She pulled the horse in to drink at a
hole near the bridge. For a second it
seemed to my fancy that everything
stood still to listen to the noisy gurgling
in the horse’s, throat. Then he lifted his
ugly head and set the bridle and bit
jangling, sending a shower of diamonds
into the air—crystal drops that reflected
every color in the sun’s brilliance,
“Why are you a Christian lady,
Bessie?”
Her soft, full mouth hardened momen-
tarily. “No cheek now.”
“I’m not, truly. Mother calls you that.”
“Come on, Gyppo.” She flapped the
reins over the horse’s rump and sent him
lunging reluctantly up the steep incline
to the road,
“Are you wild, Bessie?”
“No. But I guess your mother’s just
the truest, kindest soul on this earth.”
“Why?”
“Because she never sees no evil no-
where. She gave me a leg of veal last
week, and her with you lot of hungry
dingoes to feed.”
“We’ve got a ‘joey’ now. Bill shot a
doe in the top paddock and brought the
‘joey’ home in the pouch. It drinks milk
from the baby’s bottle.”
\\J E were in sight of the low, ram-
* » shackle house now. Bessie steered
clear of a red sow with a tribe of piglets
clinging to her sagging teats. Mother came
hurrying out to receive Bessie, Stan
shoved damp wood under the kerosene tins
that were always called “The Copper,”
sending clouds of smoke into the air.
“Everything’s ready for you, Bessie,”
called Mother when we pulled up.
“Good,” returned Bessie, and sprang
out of the sulky.
ttT , . S ... ,
Ive got the whites on boiling, dear,
so you can have a cup of tea before you
start. How’d you get on this week?”
“No room for complaint. Old Harth
give me a kiss on Monday, then came
back and give me ten bob not to let on
jf lL , A u gre u Wa f h the J + u haVe -
Nothing else but silk undies and things.
e w i es go o e aun ry,
Their voices receded as they went into
the . , ho “ se - I iet *° h ° rs J g °,‘V he , h f-T
paddock, where he d be handy for taking
Bessie home. Then I set off to thocora-
field, where Bill and Stan were already
at work pulling corn.
~,, ~ P ~ !•
When we went home for dinner a Ime
of dungarees flapped at one end or the
yard, a row of towels at the other. In
the middle of the grassy patch a snowy
pile of dry bedclothes reared into the air.
Bessie sat under the mulberry-tree nuis-
ing the baby.
Fathfer came up with a sugarbag of
sweet potatoes and put them in the sulky
for Bessie. Somehow the potatoes made
us feel better about the measly five bob.
“Why don’t we always have a table-
cloth. Mother?” asked Stan, wiring into
the leg of a stewed fowl.
“Because we don’t always have a lady
with us, you galoot,” I returned.
Bessie beamed at us all.
“It just ain’t like work at all coming
here,” she said.
“We’re not flash,” said Mother com-
fortably.
“Is it true about Elaine Dempsey?”
That was Bill—Elaine had snubbed him
once.
“Fm not saying. I don’t gossip about
my places. But I’ll tell you this much,
Grosen’s mare is going to beat your
Doddles in the Cross-country if you don’t
watch out.”
“Get out!”
“You come home about four to take
Bessie home,” Father commanded, look-
ing at me hard over his cup of strong
black tea.
“Yes ; I’ll be finished by four. There’s
only the coloreds to do after dinner. It’s
me feet slows me up.”
“And the inconvenience,” put in
Mother. “I always say half the wash is
over with set-in tubs.”
“Well, it’s all in a day’s work. There’s
some I could name with set-in tubs who
oughter pay their grocer’s bill first.”
“Try this treacle tart, Bessie,” said
Mother, pushing along the enamel plate.
Bessie sighed happily. “You can cook
and no getaway. I’d come to wash with
no pay for a bit of your pastry.”
“Too right,” approved Father, and we
all regarded the familiar tarts as if we’d
never seen them before.
THE horse was harnessed into the bat-
tered old sulky by the time I got
home again at four. The shadows had
reached the pigs’ pen, and the fowls were
already clucking round the back steps
in readiness for the evening meal.
Bessie and Mother had just finished
afternoon tea, eaten off the end of the
kitchen table.
Mother poured me a cup of cold dregs
and brought out the cake-tin.
“Here you are,” she said laughing. “It’s
the last piece of sultana block. You’ll be
an old maid now.”
“Not her,” kidded Bessie. “Knows
too much already.
Bessie was wearing again the trim blue
suit and straw hat. By her plate was the
tight-wrapped brown-paper parcel. Her
hands were a little cleaner, a little redder,
if possible.
“Throw a bit of firewood into the sulky
for Bessie,” requested Mother. “She has
such a job to get a hold of any in town.”
So I piled the front of the sulky high
with short ends, and Bessie gave the baby
a last hug and a kiss on his fat, greasy face.
“You’ll come again next Thursday?”
appealed Mother.
“Sure thing, love. When they come for
me I always say ‘No. Thursday’s re-
served.’ I wouldn’t slip you up.”
She leaped nimbly up beside me.
“Thanks for the spuds. I’ll bring you
the skirt pattern next time.”
Mother stood, the baby on her hip,
watching till we drove out of sight.
Bessie began to sing parodies on
“Mademoiselle from Armentieres,” and
the horse’s trotting feet clattered out
a rhythmic accompaniment. The road
lay washed in shadows, and the bush was
still with evening.
WHEN I got home Mother was sepa-
rating in the tumbledown dairy. The
baby was scooping handfuls of froth
off the separated milk and stuffing them
into his mouth. I picked up the pails
and filled the calves’ buckets. One by one
they butted their way to the dairy door,
pushed their heads into the bucket and
drank till their sides inflated like foot-
balls.
“Why is Bessie a Christian, Mother?”
“Well, she’s good, Bessie is. Maybe
that’s why. I dunno.”
“You belt us for swearing. But she
swears.”
“She don’t seem to mean it for wicked-
ness.”
“She pinches things.”
“Only from them that can well spare
it. She’d give you her last ha’penny,
Bessie would, if you were stuck.”
“Does Bessie go to church. Mother?”
“Not her. Only Christmas Day, of
course, and Good Friday, like all Chris-
tian people.”
“But you said”
“Oh, get out with your questions! She
never done you no harm, did she?”


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3359.
Wednesday, June 28, 1944.
MAGNA CHARTA IN REVERSE.
On June 15 (Old Style), 1215, the other King John agreed that “No freeman shall be arrested or detained in prison or in any way molested unless by the lawful judgment
of his peers and by the law of the land....To no one will we sell, to no one will we refuse or delay, right or justice.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
;
__ „_ . Directors:
g* S' E"° r i E ‘j W S b
P. H. nor avi ams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-24, Collms
Street , Melbourne .
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westsaua : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
London : I Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
DISHONEST AND
DANGEROUS.
As reported in the third person, W. M.
Hughes “said he would support the
Federal Government’s appeal for extra
powers” ; and then there was a shift to
the first person:
I have always opposed the holding of a
referendum in war-time.
This is astonishing, for, as every school-
boy knows or should know, the self-
styled opponent of war-time referendums
was responsible for two. On October 28,
1916, as head of a Labor Government,
and on December 20, 1917, as head of a
Nationalist Government, he put conscrip-
tion for overseas service to the vote. In
each case his proposals (they differed,
though not materially) were defeated;
but that was not the worst result. From
the time lie elected to try to transfer a
grave responsibility of Parliament and
of himself asleader to a necessarily unin-
formed electorate, the nation began to be
divided into two camps, and in a very real
sense it has never ceased to be divided.
This division has been exploited for
political purposes even in this war. And
to force civilians and service men, most
of whom must be sick of voting—there
have in nine months been elections for
both Houses of the Commonwealth Par-
liament, for the Lower Houses in West-
ralia, Queensland, South Australia and
N. S. Wales, and for the Upper Houses
in South Australia, Westralia and Tas-
mania—to vote at a Commonwealth refer-
endum on a confusion ot questions,
discrimination being forbidden for the
first time, will unwarrantably and injuri-
ously divide them once more. It will be
like drawing a rusty fish-knife over un-
healed wounds.
The Government is not asking for
“extra powers” in war-time, although as
its case has been presented in some quar-
ters this wrong impression may be
formed. It has now, and will have until
we are at peace with all our enemies, all
the powers required for the safety of
the country, construed in the broadest
and (as witness some of its owp perform-
ances) the narrowest way. It has now
and will continue to have, regardless of
what .happens at the referendum, all the
powers required for the care of those
who have fought and are fighting, and
of the disabled and their dependants and
those of the dead.
In the last war there was a long gap
between the armistice with each of the
defeated enemies and the peace with each.
Going on his experience of what hap-
pened then and afterwards, and on his
knowledge of the still more distracted
condition of the countries through which
the present war has whirled. General
Smuts has suggested that this time there
may be no peace treaties at all, in which
case it will be within the competence of
the Australian Parliament to declare
when the war is over. Certainly, until the
war is over the defence power will remain
in the Government’s hands, and to the
defence power, as interpreted in High
Court judgments in the two world up-
heavals, there is no revealed limit.
But Labor is afraid that the defence
power will run out before it has taken
the large strides towards socialism on
which it has set its heart; and so are the
Communists, who are supporting its war-
time referendum for all they are worth.
Mr. Ward has plans for “taking over”
the coalmines and the trading banks and
the life-assurance societies (in fact, “all
forms of insurance”) and industrial con-
cerns like B.H.P. Mr. Makin finds that
£100,000,000 has been invested in Gov-
ernment munitions factories, and he wants
these factories to be “used in the post-
war period for the benefit of the people
by providing them with the things essen-
tial to home life” —in competition, of
course, with taxpaying manufacturers. Mr.
Forde has rosy dreams of “a programme
of most urgent maintenance and develop-
mental works, to cost £200,000,000, plans
for which are being prepared by the
National Works Council.” Mr. Chifley
has surrounded himself with a swarm of
doctrinaires, mostly young and all en-
thusiastic, who have undertaken, as a first
step, to “build 50,000 homes in the first
peace year” (“plans are being prepared
by the Commonwealth Housing Commis-
sion”), and in general to show the capi-
talist how to do everything and push him
round if he doesn’t do it to their liking.
Mr, Scully is the proud parent of a Rural
Reconstruction Commission which is
“laying plans that should enable the man
on the land to draw a steady and adequate
return, while paying to the worker on the
land a decent minimum wage”—if it were
laying eggs it would be far more useful
at the moment.
There is literally a host of projectors,
all preparing or “laying” plans, and non-
elected persons on the Government pay-
rolls are actively campaigning for an
affirmative vote. The notion is being
fostered that unless Labor and its planners
secure the powers they are after nobody
not already provided for will have a job
after the war, and almost everybody not
so provided for will be broke.
In a queer collection of inaccuracies
and sophistries called “The Case for
Yes” Dr. Evatt asserts that “the powers
are necessary to protect the middle groups
and wage-earners, the service men,
workers, farmers, small businessmen,
housewives and, above all, the children
of Australia.” Against what? “A depres-
sion even worse than the terrible depres-
sion of 1931-32.”
The Commonwealth has saved you from
disaster in war-time. If you vote YES the
Commonwealth can also save you from
post-war inflation and post-war depres-
sion.
And will, he declares, his Government
and its cohorts of doctrinaires and bureau-
crats and the hierarchy of union bosses
to which it goes humbly every few
months to present an account of its stew-
ardship and receive fresh instructions
being ready with “national guidance.”
This, from the No. 4 man in an Admin-
istration which, vast as its powers are,
and arbitrarily as they have been exer-
cised in a multitude of cases —notably
those of Old Diggers arrested and held
for many months without trial, persons
tricked by pimps into committing offences
against regulations and others who have
been prosecuted on the score of infor-
mation extracted by the censorship—in
its abject subservience to union bosses
and mobs refuses to interfere with strik-
ing coalminers and slaughtermen, would
be amusing if it were not outrageous.
The depression was world-wide, and
has been ascribed to many causes. In
the English-speaking world it .made no
distinction between countries with unitary
systems and countries with federal sys-
tems ; it smote them all. Not until the
idea of this referendum occurred to the
Labor-socialist party which claims (for
itself and its part of the nation) that it
possesses all the brains and all the virtues
and produces all the wealth and does all
the fighting was it ever suggested that it
arrived in this one country and was pro-
longed because the Commonwealth Par-
liament was short of powers. It lasted
longest, and its worst effects were experi-
enced, in the United States, on whose
Federal Constitution our own was
modelled.
In that country, in peace and war, the
legislative and executive powers of the
Federal authority are equivalent to those
possessed at and exercised from Can-
berra —they are really not so great, since
uniform income taxation has not been
achieved. But, though the Americans
are as keen as any other people on pre-
venting a post-war depression, there is no
movement in any quarter for greater
Federal powers, nor has planning for
reconstruction been handed over to a
horde of doctrinaires. For the rehabili-
tation of service men and the readjust-
ment of industry to post-war conditions
both great parties are relying in the main
on Free Enterprise, which has served
the nation and all its Allies so mag-
nificently during the war —on Free Enter-
prise informed by patriotism, a spirit
which Labor-socialism invokes only
when it puts a war loan on the market.
For the care needed by disabled and
necessitous service men and the depen-
dants of the maimed and dead the powers
already reposed in Congress and the Gov-
ernment have been proved sufficient, and
they have been, are being and will be
exercised generously, as befits a nation
with generous traditions. In both fields,
no better example could be adopted, and
no greater powers are required in
Australia.
Dr. Evatt looks to his own N. S. Wales
to give him the “majority of all the elec-
tors voting” needed as well as “a majority
of the States.” While he was in West-
ralia trying to persuade a very doubtful
body of electors (when he got among
Government railwaymen he descended to
typical class-war jargon and threats), a
writer in the Labor “Standard” explained
what the referendum is for. It is to dish
“avaricious reactionaries” and advance
the cause to which Labor-socialists (and
Communists) are devoted:
If Labor is to implement its new ten-
year plan of socialisation, it must first of all
strive to increase the State-owned sector
of Australian industry at the expense of
the capitalist sector. That involves keeping
a firm grip on the splendid new factories
built for war purposes at public expense
Labor needs to confront the power of the
moneybags with a mighty State combine
of credit institutions, factories, farms.
transport and co-operative distribution
that will ensure the victory of the socialistic
tendencies in our economic life.
At the same time it was reported in the
Communist “Tribune” that “the Aus-
tralian Communist party is actively cam-
paigning for an overwhelming Yes vote,”
and is “publishing a pamphlet” and issu-
ing “special leaflets, posters and buttons”
(there is no paper or metal or financial
shortage where Communists are con-
cerned) ; and the composition of a com-
mittee which will “organise the campaign
in N. S. Wales” was announced. It
consists of Communist-party delegates
Chandler and Jeffries; Labor Council
delegates Anderson, Wright, Kelly,
M.L.C., and King, M.L.C., and Official
Labor delegates Dickson, M.L.C., Stew-
art, M.L.C., and Taylor (vice-president of
the State A.L.P. and member of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board), with Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Chifley as “leaders of the cam-
paign.” That lets the cat out of the bag.
In short, the referendum is aimed, not
at non-party Constitutional reform —that
pretence is being abandoned—but at a
vast extension of compulsory collectivism,
with new pyramids of regulations and
fresh legions of officials. It is a Labor-
socialist manoeuvre supported by Commu-
nists and already enveloped in a poison-
ous class-war atmosphere. It is dishonest,
wasteful, useless and dangerous, and
should be rejected.
The R.S.L.'s Problem.
When the R.S.L. Diggers hold their Aus-
tralia-wide Congress later this year they
will have one thumping big problem on
their hands —that of whether or not they
should alter their Constitution to admit
to their League militia and others now
ineligible. It came up for exhaustive dis-
cussion at the last Congress in Hobart,
but was shelved, partly in the hope that,
given time, it would solve itself.
It has not done so, nor is it likely to do
so now. If anything, it has become more
involved. For one thing, Queensland
Diggers have meanwhile decided on the
admission of returned militia to their
State’s branch. This probably will not,
but it could, lead to a break-up in the
League as a whole, and this, in turn,
might be disastrous to Digger hopes of
a fair spin when the war is over. Even
as it is, what the Diggers will need to
ensure a fair go will be a doubling
of their united strength rather than any
weakening of it.
Already there are ominous signs of a
hard struggle ahead for the Diggers in
retaining the principle of preference in
appointments and employment that
helped many of them between the wars.
There have been moves in one and
another of the Parliaments aiming at
abolishing such preference. A number
of politicians have aired their views to
the same end. The A.C.T.U. has a
passed resolution on its books declaring
that preference to service personnel after
the war “is not in the best interest of
the nation and should be abandoned.”
The N. S. Wales Labor Council stands
by a resolution declaring that “the rais-
ing of the issue of preference to returned
service men is not in the interests of
service men or of the nation.” Both
these bodies carry considerable weight
with the Commonwealth Government.
The Prime Minister has had to wait on
them for orders. In fact, on matters of
this sort, they instruct the Government.
There have been others as well. In the
N, S. Wales Legislative Council there was
strong opposition to a returned-soldier
preference amendment to an Arbitration
Bill, the amendment having been sub-
mitted at the request of the then State
president of the League. One Mr.
Maloney asked why “returned-soldier
preference should be confined to soldiers,”
adding: “Thousands of men and women
eager to get into the armed forces are
restrained by virtue of regulations
which determine that their services are
more valuable in industry.”
There is even an ex-service organise*
tion now in existence, claiming a mem-
bership of 23,000 and expecting this to
total 50,000 before the end of the year,
which has given out that it “does not
desire preference to returned soldiers.”
The proportion of returned soldiers in
its ranks is not stated, but, as an ex-
service organisation, whatever its com-
position, its outlook must certainly be
included in the ominous signs. It holds
—as do others opposing preference —that
“the necessity to have preference envis-
ages unemployment, and this war is being
fought that democratic people may have
social security.”
This points to some of the confusion
through which the R.S.L. Diggers will
have to make their way to a decision.
The basis of the whole trouble is, of
course, Australia’s confused army ar-
rangements ; and the R.S.L. Diggers have
a fair case if they say that straightening
these out is a Government and Aus-
tralian responsibility which certainly
should not be wished on to their League.
Still, the confusion is there. It enabled
Mr- Calwell to aim a sneer at a League
president; “Men, thousands of wnom
he doesn’t want in his association, are
now protecting him as well as me and
every other Australian citizen.
The responsibility for this state of
things, as for altering it, unquestionably
does not belong to the R.S.L. This
League was formed in the last—very
different—war by returned men for re-
turned men. What sort of spin returned
men of that war would have got without
it can be gauged from all that it did for
Diggers between the wars. As Lieut.-Gen.
Gordon Bennett put it the other day,
“thousands of Old Diggers would have
suffered only for the help it has given
them.” By the signs looming up, thou-
sands of New Diggers will probably
suffer if this same League does not only
remain strong but doubly strong.
At present the services in its view con-
sist of (1) A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and suchlike
volunteers, who, on return from active
service abroad, are eligible for member-
ship; (2) ditto volunteers, ineligible be-
cause they have not been on active ser-
vice ; (3) compulsory-service personnel,
ineligible whether they have seen active
service or not (except in the Queensland
branch, to which returned militia are ac-
ceptable).
Thus to the League there remain more
distinctions than even the dodo-minded
Commonwealth Government insists on
perpetuating. Here there are only the
two groups, the volunteers and the com-
pulsory-service forces, with the strong-
Government leaning towards the latter
in the favorable restriction of their fight-
ing services within specific map bound-
aries. This would be bad enough even
if the Government, in the “reinstatement”
section of its referendum proposals, re-
versed the distinction in favor of the
volunteers, who, as entirely distinct from
the others, are there to fight for the
country and the Government wherever
called upon to do so. But, though it has
favoritism for the others in the matter of
fighting the war, this Government does
not favor the volunteers in its proposals
for the “reinstatement and advancement
of those who have been members of the
fighting services of the Commonwealth.”
Unlike the League, which splits them up
into categories in the matter of member-
ship, and unlike the Government’s own
splitting of them up for the fighting part,
the Government indicates that it intends
to regard them all as one when the fight-
ing part is over. This has been epipha-
sised by the main sponsor of the refer-
endum, Dr. Evatt:
The question has been asked whether or
not the inclusion of the word “fighting” in
the phrase “members of the fighting ser-
vices of the Commonwealth” excludes non-
combatant personnel, particularly female
members of the defence force. It certainly
does not. The word “fighting” is applied to
and defines the “service,” not the indi-
vidual member. The term “fighting ser-
vices” is not defined in the Commonwealth
statute-book, and is a popular rather than a
legal phrase. In my opinion, however, the
“fighting services” consist of the Army, the
Navy and the Air Force, including all their
members. Every member of the defence
force of the Commonwealth belongs to the
“fighting services.”
In this part of his pro-referendum
appeal Dr. Evatt further said:
Whether or not a general preference
should be given is obviously a matter of
policy, to be determined in the light of
circumstances. But it would be absurd to
leave in doubt the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment’s power to give such a preference, if
it desired to do so.
In the face of this extraordinary
widening of the possible range of prefer-
ence, taken together with variously ex-
pressed hostility to the A.I.F. —not by
Dr. Evatt, but by more than enough of
them —the chance of the R.S.L. retain-
ing first preference for returned volun-
teer fighters, with the referendum passed
and the present crowd in office, would
seem slim indeed. It is, in fact, not half
a step from these Evatt proposals to the
hopes of those who would abolish prefer-
ence altogether. The slogan can already
be heard: “This is total war; everybody
is equally in it ; therefore, if there is to
be preference, it must be preference for
everybody.” And that, of course, adds
up to preference for nobody. The
Digger who has fought and suffered, has
been through the unimaginable hell, is on
the same footing with those who have all
through lived in comfort, earned high
wages and had the time of their lives.
What is going on under the Diggers’
eyes is a breaking down of the principle
of preference. Already this has reached
a stage where the Diggers will need every
ounce of strength they can muster to
reassert the principle as it hitherto
stood. Unless they are to be heroes in
war and cold-shouldered afterwards they
will need an even stronger unity than
that which held their League together as
a national force and enabled it to do so
much between the wars. Their decisions,
of course, will be their own, and these
have always been broad and sound. Now
they are up against probably the most
complicated domestic problem they ever
faced.
One way out—-of course, bristling with
complications —might be a broadening of
their Constitution to allow admission to


membership of service personnel on sub-
mitted bona fides, these to be considered
and decided upon by well-selected League
committees. Under such a plan militia
who had seen active service would seem
sure of admission. So would all volun-
teers who could positively establish that
they were in active-service units, but,
through no fault of their own, had not,
when the war ended, seen active service.
One illustration will go to show just
how complicated the whole matter is.
Personnel serving in base jobs abroad are
now eligible for membership, but neither
such personnel nor even active-service
personnel still in Australia are eligible,
whatever the case they might individu-
ally be able to make out for themselves.
The alternative to some broadening of
the League is its continuing as an organi-
sation of returned volunteers. That could
mean the rising of a larger, even a rival,
organisation, and, though the R.S.L.
would still stand as the higher body in
real prestige, this is a matter in which
mere size could be most important.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Australia First Inquiry.
The inquiry into the Australia First cases
opened in Sydney last week without the
internees having been notified what would
be alleged against them. It was adjourned
by Justice Clyne, the Commissioner, to
allow them to examine the documents
and learn for the first time—more than
two years after they were placed behind
barbed wire what evidence, if any,
existed when they were accused by
Mr. Forde of having been involved in a
treasonable conspiracy to welcome the
Japanese, to sabotage vulnerable points
so as to make defence impossible and
to assassinate prominent people; also,
why Dr, Evatt still believes some of
them to be associated with a “quisling,
subversive, anti-Australian, anti-British
group” prepared to stab Australia in the
back at the moment of her greatest peril.
Mr. Dovey, assisting the Commissioner,
did not mention these charges—he said,
in fact, that there were no charges as a
basis of the internments —and it was made
clear that the New South Wales men had
no connection with persons in Westralia,
two of whom were convicted and sen-
tenced, one to three years’ and the other
to two years’ imprisonment, and two
others acquitted.
It came out that all the internees but
one, who refused to give the undertakings
demanded by the Security Department,
had been released, most of them on the
recommendation of internment tribunals,
and that several of them had been cleared,
including two returned soldiers. One,
Harley Matthews, rose in court and com-
plained of “distorted reporting,” which,
he said, had resulted in his being placed
in danger. That there was warrant for the
complaint was shown at the week-end,
when K. P. Bath (described as “a thor-
oughly respectable and worthy citizen
who found himself in an internment camp
by reason of misplaced enthusiasm”) was
assaulted by cowardly ruffians in a city
street.
Of Matthews, a Gallipoli veteran,
severely wounded and mentioned in dis-
patches, it was said by Crown counsel:
At this stage I frankly find it difficult to
put before your Honor evidence which
would show why he was interned. He was
apprehended with the others.
It was left to one of the counsel for
other internees —Matthews was not
legally represented—to bring out that
the Security Department had offered
Matthews financial compensation.
The other Old Digger, M. F. Watts, a
Commonwealth Peace Officer at the time
of his internment, was also cleared
(“There is no reason to doubt Watts’s
loyalty, honesty and truthfulness; he
seems to be a very decent man,” though
“gathered up by something which had
got beyond what he imagined”). Watts
was not present to hear his clear-
ance —broken by his trials he was lying
on the “seriously-ill” list in Prince of
Wales Military Hospital.
Another soldier involved was not at
the inquiry—he is away with his unit.
It is good to know that the Commis-
sioner has declared that he will not place
any restriction on evidence, and that the
inquiry will have the widest scope.
France Rising Again.
From a friend of France:
It is good to read that the Tricolor is once
more flying over Elba, swiftly, though not
bloodlessly, taken by French troops with Anglo-
Amercian support on the sea and in the air,
and that the same cordial co-operation is
in evidence in the civil domain at Bayeux. An-
other, if minor, cause for satisfaction is that
the term “Big Four” has disappeared.
It was always invidious and has a very un-
fortunate history, wherever and whenever
applied. From its application, since it was re-
vived in the Northern Hemisphere, France was
pointedly excluded, and so, of course, was
General de Gaulle. It is now plain as a pike-
staff that neither can be excluded, during the
war and after. General de Gaulle’s National
Committee of Liberation has been recognised
as the Provisional Government of the French
Republic by all the Governments in exile, and
by the Government of Sweden. The British
Government is now obviously willing to accord
recognition, but it is waiting on a still reluctant
Washington.
The Washington attitude seems strange, seeing
that its favor has not been withheld from
Marshal Tito. George Glasgow, writer of a raft
of books on foreign affairs, and connected with
the “Contemporary Review” and “New
Europe,” recently declared in the latter publica-
tion that there was no such person as Tito nor
any such rank as marshal in the Yugoslav
army. Mr. Churchill’s son Randolph has since
stated, apparently in reply, that there is such
a person and that he is a whale of a marshal.
However, Tito was unheard of when Mihailo-
vich was fighting and De Gaulle stood forth
as the impersonation of Free France, and, for
all that the non-Communist world knows, Tito
might then have been carrying a banner with
a familiar device and the legend “Down with
the Imperialist War!”
Washington’s reluctance has been attributed
to a fear that recognition of De Gaulle and
his committee might lead to the U.S.A. being
associated with a Communist blood bath in
France. Certainly the Pucheux trial at Algiers
had a very ugly appearance, suggesting that the
former Vichy Minister was sacrificed to Com-
munists’ thirst for blood. But it now trans-
pires that the Communists ferociously object
to the mild measures adopted by the De Gaulle
Regional Commissioner at Bayeux, particularly
in the case of a Vichy-appointed prefect, and
approved by the General himself. If this means
that De Gaulle is prepared to break with the
Communists rather than countenance another
Terror, it is all to the good.
A regenerated and united France is neces-
sary to Europe and the world. A France
divided and inflamed by civil war would be a
curse to both.
“Quota Sold."
Towards the close of the rationing year,
thousands of people found themselves un-
able to buy many things, notably footwear,
blankets, pyjamas and flannelette for
children’s wear. The uproar in Sydney led
Dr, Evatt to appoint W. J. Bradley, K.C.,
as a Commissioner to inquire whether un-
necessary hardship had been caused to
the public “by the adoption of any restric-
tive practices by manufacturers, whole-
salers or retailers” in April and May.
Apparently nothing was said about the
“restrictive practices” of the departments
controlling these things, but enough came
out in the evidence to show that what was
termed “inharmonious relations” between
departments had as much to do with the
scarcities as anything else.
Controller of Supply: “An additional
120,000 blankets will be available during
the next six weeks.”
Counsel for the Retail Traders: “You are
satisfied that everybody can get a blanket?”
Controller: “That is not my duty. I
have released blankets asked for by the
Rationing Commission.”
The Commissioner: “Are you working
satisfactorily with D.1.P.? No friction?
No delay?”
Controller; “Delay; but I don’t know
the cause?”
Commissioner: “There is not the co-
operation between departments one would
expect.”
When the Director of D.I.P. was asked
about his relations with Supply, he had
to be pressed into a wary admission that
theire had been “difficulties.” It came
out, too, that D.I.P. had “500 officials”
in U.S.A. and a staff of 1200 in Syd-
ney, and that there was a liaison
officer between D.I.P. and Supply, though
the D.I.P. Director refused to accept
responsibility for him.
The D.I.P. Director admitted that
14,000,000 yards of duck, drill and over-
all material and 38,000 dozen terry towels
remained undistributed by his depart-
ment. The drill, etc., was received eight
months ago.
Why the delay? He had to “discuss,
the matter with the Supply Department.”
If there was “no interference from other
departments” his department could “dis-
pose of imported goods in 30 to 40 days.”
He believed the holdup of towelling was
due to traders awaiting price fixation.
The Commissioner commented that these
holdups were “incredible.”
At another stage, when a departmental
witness was trying to explain a hold-
up, the Commissioner remarked that
he would have done the job in less
than half the time, and he proved it. A
returned soldier came forward and said
he had been denied coupons necessary
to carry on a boot store. In a day or
two he had the coupons. Apparently,
had it not been for Mr, Bradley, he’d
never have got them. Later, a Rationing
official said if a man sold his business to
go to the war he would not necessarily
get a permit to resume it on discharge.
The Commissioner: “Say a bricklayer
was badly knocked about and advised to
start in some sedentary occupation?”
Witness: “He would be refused a permit.
I would have to refuse if.”
The Commissioner: “On May 8 a man
whose son was in the A.I.F. wanted to
open a business in partnership with his son.
The father is a discharged soldier from this
and the last war, his daughter is in the
A.W.A.S., her husband in the R.A.A.F.
The father has been in the retail business
for 32 years.”
Witness: “I know nothing of that file.
Another man dealt with that.”
Whereupon the Commissioner said
grimly that he wanted to see the man who
did deal with it.
The Commissioner has announced
that he will issue a three-part report
dealing with the general state of affairs,
specific findings on matters brought out
in evidence, and recommendations. Judg-
ing by the capable manner in which he
has so far done his job, the public can
expect a fair and accurate summing-up
from him, with no punches pulled.
PREPAREDNESS.
“Honorable Americans in Saipan already, so we haven’t much time?”


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaint's. But be sure you get DOAN’S.
-
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which We manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
lorced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY., LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES: LA5034-5-6
f
f
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
r 4olders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Under vigorous Commonwealth lead-
ership the Australian nation is winning
the war.” Italics and all, it appears in the
referendum pamphlet. Well, somebody’s
winning the war, but under this “vigor-
ous” leadership the country can’t get
nearly enough coal, and the “leadership”
has had to appeal to a British M.P. to
talk to striking miners.
Newspapers in the three eastern capi-
tals, with one exception, gave the
referendum pamphlet scant notice.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” was the ex-
ception ; it published the thing in full,
using five columns, or 110 inches. Others:
Melbourne “Argus,” Min. ; “Age,”
15jin. ; “Herald,” 17in.; “S. M. Herald,”
21in.; Sydney “D.T.,” 25in.; Sydney
“Sun,” nil. But, then, Sydney and Mel-
bourne were sharing the Pyjama Girl
between them, and a girl in pyjamas, no
matter how dead, sells more papers than
any political question.
Federal politicians are still talking
with mixed emotions of a tearful “S. M.
Herald” protest that the office worthies
alleged to be “menaced by a man-power
drive” were “critics, not of the Govern-
ment, but of Mr. Calwell and Mr. Ward
for their anti-Government acts.” Liars
who live near South Head cemetery assert
that for hours after the thing appeared
three generations of Fairfaxes could be
heard rolling over in the family vault.
The' Republicans are framing their
Presidential platform and choosing their
candidates; the Democrats are to do
the jobs next month. Roosevelt is
a certainty and Dewey is a warm
first favorite, but it seems unlikely
that Vice-President Wallace will be
bracketed again on the ticket. He has
antagonised heaps of Democrats by say-
ing amazing things. One was that the
object of the war was to give everyone
in the world a quart of milk a day; an-
other was that a revolution was in pro-
gress, though in U.S.A. it mightn’t take
the Moscow turning. His latest outbreak
was a pamphlet “advocating post-war
freedom for Asia’s subject and colonial
peoples,” in which he rather suggested
that the British should fix a time limit
for getting out of India and the Dutch
out of their islands, meanwhile training
and preparing the natives for self-
government.
A spokesman for the Scientific Workers
lauded in the Communist “Tribune” has
been airing his views in a letter to another
editor. He must have regretted it when
one Canny sourly asked “Did any funda-
mental scientific discovery ever emanate
from a mind imbued with the idea that
the goal of all Scientific Workers was a
working week of 35 (daylight) hours, 50
p.c. additional remuneration for over-
time, three weeks’ cumulative annual sick
leave and four weeks’ annual holidays?”
vSciehce is one thing that can’t be
unionised.
According to Scully, “the most obvious
solution of the dairy problem is concen-
tration on the individual.” Cow or man?
A good-as-Labor paper believes that
“the granting of specific subsidies would
go a long way towards ensuring the grow-
ing and storing of all kinds of fodder
necessary to regulate production through-
out the year.” If a man has to be paid
to conserve fodder—which ants, bees and
real farmers do as* a natural process—he
should give up farming, get himself a
Government job and work for a “yes”
vote in the referendum.
There are signs that- the war-bloated
Commonwealth public service is split-
ting into two camps, old hands and new
hands. Both camps are concerned with
keeping their jobs, and most of the old
hands can fairly maintain that their jobs
have been proved necessary. And from
both there is a reaching out for greater
power, but old hands are restrained by
considerations which don’t bother new
hands, particularly the doctrinaires among
them. There will be no holding these
gentry unless the people do it.
Queensland schoolchildren attending
the Armidale (N.S.W.) college found
themselves regarded as foreigners during
a five-weeks’ vacation. They were denied
travel permits to go to their homes, and,
as one indignant parent put it, were
“marooned in Armidale and apparently
expected to roam the streets for five
weeks,” Thus early the youngsters
learn what it means to cross an imagi-
nary line from their homes in this Feder-
ated country.
Two statements published side by side
in Sydney “D.T.”:
There are no worse housing conditions
in Australia than in Sydney, an official or
the War Housing Division said last night.
The State Government is planning to
build a large block of administrative build-
A GOVERNMENT HOUSE FANTASY.
“Many people in Sydney can’t buy blankets.”— Said at the “Quota Sold” inquiry.
“Another dozen copies, your Excellency, with the compliments of the Sydney
‘Morning Herald. ’”
ings after the war the largest block of
Government buildings in Australia... .Mr.
McKell has set aside £300,000 This fund
will be augmented from this year’s surplus.
And doubtless one of the new palaces
will be allotted to the Housing Commis-
sion.
Predicting a change of Government in
Finland, a London correspondent wrote
that “the new Prime Minister may be the
colorless, characterless Foreign Minister,
M. Ramsay, who has big shipping in-
terests and who belongs to the Swedish
party.” He is Sir Henrik Ramsay, and
his forebears were Scots. A Ramsay may
be colorless, but rarely characterless.
Ruling the Communist affiliation motion
out of order at the Sydney A.L.P. con-
ference was just eyewash after all. The
Corns., stacks of them, were allowed to
remain at the conference and vote on all
questions, and Kelly, M.L.C., the chair-
man, who did the ruling out, is now, with
other A.L.P. and Labor Council bosses,
associated with delegates from the Com-
munist “party” on an Evatt-referendum
committee. Meanwhile the Communists
continue to burrow into union and A.L.P.
branch executives, and are increasingly
gaining control.
t-, ~ . T ,
r °m Fi iday next the new Labor Sen -
tors will qualify to take their seats, and
Calweil and Ward have already threat-
ened that, with majorities in both Houses,
Labor will shake things up. But it won t
do any shaking up till after the referen-
dum &
’. , ,
Conferences called by the Metal and
Munitions Union [“Balance Sheet
Thornton’s show] will push the demand
that B.H.P. guarantee 52 weeks’ wages
a year to all ironworkers in this mono-
poly’s Port Kembla and Newcastle steel-
works and bring forward plans to turn
shipbuilding and ship-repairing into
trades that will offer security to the
workers,” whether they work or not is
understood. The extract is from the Com-
munist “Tribune,” and the “demand” is
styled a milestone on the path to social-
ism The Government” seems to be
willing to the extent of making it unlaw-
ful to sack anybody when or if it carries
the referendum.
Communists have been violently attack-
ing A. de R. Barclay, of the Sane Democ-
racy League, and demanding to know
what he has done in the war. Too old
himself to serve, he has lost his only son,
and a braver lad never wore A.I.F. uni-
form. Such of the father’s enemies as
are union secretaries and the like (exempt
from military service in this country but
no other) run no greater risk than that of
bruising their shins tripping over a kerb-
stone.
There is a bit of feeling among N.S.W.
country Laborites because Billy Sheahan
was left out of the reconstructed Minis-
try. A barrister-in good standing, Sheahan
has been a live member who has made
his marble good in an electorate (Yass)
where Labor never previously had more
than a 6-to-4 chance, and in addition to
having brains above the Ministerial aver-
age he is an Old (17th Battalion) Digger.
Surely that wasn’t a disqualification.
Because of the coal shortage Melbourne
has had its third' raceless Saturday. Ac-
cording to a sporting writer, turf addicts
are “seething with indignation,” the
seethers being furious, not with N.S.W.
coalminers, but with Dunstan. The sporting
writer morosely suggested that Dunstan’s
action was “calculated to give ahti-Labor
interests propaganda for the forthcoming
referendum.” Dunstan doesn’t have to
do that —Evatt and Forde can be relied
on to supply all that is necessary.
While the Attorney-General was in
Westralia talking about depriving wage-
payers of the right to lire, his deputy-
leader, Forde, made another pilgrimage to
the N.S.W. coalfields (the south this time)
to plead with the coalies to dig a bit of
coal. The coalies, being “protected”
workers, can’t be “fired” under war-time
regulations, and they showed their appre-
ciation of this “security” by staying away
from Forde’s meeting in large numbers,
though he’d dragged Collindridge, the
British coalie M.P., away from his com-
panions to help him implore the miners
to be kind enough to work. Nobody need
imagine that either Forde or Evatt saw
anything funny in the situation.
Comrade Wells, the N.S.W. Miners’
Federation president, recently visited
Leigh Creek, the S.A, coalfield opened
by the Playford Government, whereupon
the A.W.U, sent an organiser hotfoot to
the Creek. The organiser’s first com-
munique from the scene of battle said
that, “despite the efforts of the Miners'
Federation to form a branch, I have no
doubt that the A.W.U. will retain nearly
all its members there.” This body-snatch-
ing is a grim business—for union bosses.
Eight uniformed men concerned in
“the leakage of German Red Cross
cigarettes -and tobacco” from a p.o.w.
camp in S.A. got sentences rang-
ing from six months (two) to four
years, with, in most cases, discharge
with ignominy from the forces. Four
were army postal officials, one be-
longed to a prison company and the
others were members of garrison bat-
talions. “Here,” commented Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” mordantly, “you can steal
things consigned to A ustralian , soldiers
with much less worry about penalty.” It
is the same in Sydney; in both States
fines are the order of the day. South
Australia is the only State where the Law
seems to get really angry about theft and
black-marketing.
Voting record of the Republicans in
Congress, as set down in a Democratic
paper:—
Repeal of the arms embargo: House, 21
Republicans for, 143 against; Senate, eight
Republicans for, 15 against.
Passage of lend-lease: House, 24 Repub-
licans for, 135 against; Senate,. 10 Republi-
cans for, 17 against.
Draft (conscription) Act adoption: House,
52 Republicans for, 112 against; Senate,
18 Republicans for, 10 against.
It is a sobering thought that the Repub-
licans look like capturing Congress in
November, even if they fail to elect a
President.
As a sequel to the Poles’ refusal to ac-
cept the dismemberment of their country,
the integrity of which has been guaran-
teed in a sheaf of treaties and agree-
ments, to say nothing of the Atlantic
Charter, they have had to contend with
a virulent propaganda campaign to which
at least one Australian has lent his Red
or Parlor Pink pen. One allegation is
that “Polish soldiers from White Russia
and Ukrainia were tortured in Edinburgh
because they demanded to be transferred
to any other Allied army to fight the
Germans.” The allegation was vouched
for by “Pravda,” the paper that accused
Britain of secretly negotiating with Rib-
bentrop for a separate peace. “Pravda”
charges merely convict “Pravda.”
“Cap. P.”: Mr. Murphy, the Com-
monwealth Food Controller, went on the
air the other night to proclaim that critics
of the food administration were sabo-
teurs, and that it was the duty of the
people to “reject the evil-minded person
who urges them to complain for the sake
of complaining.” I’d give all my hopes
of a breakfast egg to have Murph. meet
my missus.


(Vilando
ROYLO
%
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Wilfred G. Burchett, the onetime Mel-
bourne freelance journalist who wrote a
thoughtful warning book on New Cale-
donia before the Japs started fighting,
has written a perhaps even better one on
the Wingate expedition into Burma. He
has travelled widely in Asia since he went
over that way for the “Argus,” and was
wounded when machine-gunned by Jap
Zeros. In his latest book he quotes Major
Fergusson saying of young Duncan Men-
zies, the S.A, Rhodes scholar who was
killed on the expedition, that in him “I
lost one of my best friends, and Australia
a citizen who would have contributed
much.” Fergusson, who, like Menzies,
was in the Black Watch, added of his
friend: “Of old Highland stock, his
family, though four generations settled in
Australia, still sought its wives from the
West Highland, village whence it had
come early in the last century.”
Eugene Ormandy, the American con-
ductor widely and favorably known here
with A.8.C., has among other useful
talents that of getting on famously with
his orchestras. Those who played under
his baton in Sydney are among the loud-
est in praise of him, which certainly could
not be said of some past visiting con-
ductors. A child prodigy grown up—
admitted to the Royal Academy of
Music, Budapest, at five to study the violin
—Ormandy established himself before he
CONDUCTOR ORMANDY.
was 20 as a violinist in Europe, then got
to America. Now, at 44, he’s Musical
Director of the Philadelphia Orchestra
and since he crossed the Pacific has been
offered and accepted the job of sharing
the rostrum witth Toscanini for the. big
N.B.C. orchestra. Hungarian by birth,
American by adoption, Ormandy’s a like-
able cove by any standard.
Liquor Taster to the Health Commis-
sion in Melbourne, Charles Walter Rob-
inson has retired. Good liquor-tasters
get more of the sensation than the com-
mon or garden drinker, and don’t get
heads, so there’s much to be said for the
job. With an interim during the last war
when he served with the A.I.F. and ended
up a major, Robinson has been tasting
for 30 years. He can remember the days
—not so long ago, either —when it was
possible to buy a counter lunch in Mel-
bourne of curry, sausages and spuds, with
a pot of beer and a cigar, for threepence!
“H.W.M.”: The passing in Mel-
bourne of Peter Mcßride’s widow recalls
that Peter was known as the Min-
ister who was never seen without a
cigar. Once, during his administration
of the Mines Department, he made
a costly mistake. Presiding at a country
meeting when a collection was being
taken up for a local identity, he pulled a
note from his pocket and handed it to
the organiser, who immediately an-
nounced that “Sir Peter has headed the
list with a fine donation of £10.” The
donor looked aghast for a moment, but
recovered himself and bowed to the
applause. . Later he told the story against
himself. He had pulled out the wrong
note.
John Goodchild, appointed principal
of S.A. School of Arts and Crafts, has
been “acting” head ever since L. H.
Howie retired. Goodchild, who is also
one of the five members of the National
Gallery Board, came to the front as an
artist after serving in the last war. He
was commissioned by Australia House
to make drawings of war cemeteries. A
sound artist and a quite first-rate etcher,
ho is represented in most Australian
galleries.
The Optical and Scientific Instrument
Panel of the Ministry of Munitions has
lost the services of Professor T. H. Laby
as chairman, though not before its main
aims had been attained. One of the most
brilliant physicists in Australia, the Pro-
fessor of Natural Philosophy at Mel-
bourne University has seen the 0.5.1. P.
develop the manufacture of high-grade
optical glass to the point where Australia
becomes almost independent of outside
supplies. Bora in Creswick (Vic,),
the remarkable village which produced
the Lindsays, Curtin and a dispropor-
tionate number of other eminent people,
Laby was educated at Sydney University
and Cambridge. He holds the record of
13 students qualifying, for the Exhibition
of 1851 Scholarship. In the last war he
shared in the design of the first anti-gas
respirator.
Though in Australia all the time,
Edward Vliet, a young Dutchman who
recently lobbed in Melbourne, didn’t
know that England was at war with Ger-
many till 1940 and didn’t hear till last
year of Pearl Harbor. Vliet was born
21 years ago of Dutch immigrant parents
on a cattle station 270 miles north of
Cooktown, the isolation so complete there
that supplies are laid in for five years.
The first news he got of the war was
from a stray newspaper wrapped round
a parcel in 1940; the second was in
November last year, when he saw a_ news-
paper with a photo, of, Dutch soldiers in
Australia and gleaned the information
that the Japs had overrun Java. Leaving
his station he started to hitchhike and
walk to Melbourne to enlist in the Nether-
lands forces. It took him six months.
“J.K.”: Recent mention of long news-
paper ownership brings up the Swords
family. Today the Dandenong (Vic.)
“Advertiser” is in the hands of James
W. Swords, ex-Digger and good fel-
low. In 1840 his grandfather, James
Walter Swords, came to Victoria, then
Port Phillip, and joined Johnny Fawkner’s
staff on the Fawkner paper. Striking out
for himself. Swords and a partner pub-
lished the first newspaper at Portland.
Later he founded the Ballan “Reporter”
and then the Kilmore “Free Press.” The
Dandenong “Advertiser” was founded in
1874.
S.A. honors;
C. B. Anderson, one of the latest C.M.Gs.,
has been Railways Commissioner in S.A. since
1930, and is on the War Railways Council.
G. A. W. Pope, 1.5.0., is chairman or member
of nearly every board handling produce, and
had a term in London as S.A. Trade Commis-
sioner. F. H. Harrison, C.8.E., is Chief
Mechanical Engineer of S.A. Railways, Area
Controller for Aircraft Production, and a power
in troop movements. J. N. McGilp, 0.8. E.,
himself a prominent stockbreeder, is chairman
of the Land Board and a member of the
Pastoral Board. Ornithology is his pet side-
line. Mrs. Hastwell, 0.8. E., wife of a bank
manager at Quorn, has done years of strenuous
work in giving hot meals at all hours of the
day or night to soldiers.
Lacking visits from mainland theatri-
cals, Hobart these days has to rely on
local amateurs for its light stage enter-
tainment. A producer of some tiptop
shows in this line is Linus Donnelly, who
is otherwise Judge’s Associate, One of
his efforts packed the historic Royal for
a good run.
Maoriland’s War Minister Frederick
Jones is well linked-up with Dunedin.
He was born there, worked for 21 years
in a boot factory there, held practically
every position to be held in the Boot-
makers’ Union, and now represents
Dunedin in Parliament. Going in as a
member in 1931, he became Postmaster-
General and Minister of Defence and
War Pensions when Labor took over in
1935. He’s doing a good solid job, with-
out fireworks.
Poet on the land:
These days poet “Gerardy” makes only occa-
sional visits to Sydney. His Muse isn’t heard
from at all. The reason for both is that
when Edward Gerard, a few years after having
seen the 1914-18 war through as a Light Horse-
man, decided to have a crack at the land, he
went down to the N.S.W. south-west slopes,
on the fringe of the Riverina, with his mind
made up to make a do of it. The going was
tough, but he got there all right, and today is in
a fair way out these. His Muse hasn’t been
finally dumped. He still writes a bit, but doesn’t
send it along for print. Neither of his two pub-
“ GERARDY .”
lished books —The Road to Palestine and Aus-
tralian Light Horse Ballads and Rhymes —holds
his best work. This was written in Sydney
after he got back from Gallipoli and the rest
of the L.H. campaigning, but is yet to be put
between book covers. South Australia has first
claim to "Gerardy”; he was born at Yunta.
Westralia has next claim; he went there as a
three-year-old; was brought up and schooled
in Boulder City, and had his first verse pub-
lished in the Kalgoorlie “Sun,” which The
Bulletin’s “T. the R.” once edited, and which
published, among others, “Dryblower” Murphy
and “Bluebush” John Philip Bourke. N.S.W.
has third claim; “Gerardy” enlisted in Sydney;
freelanced in the same city for a couple of
post-war years; and has worked a nice little
slice of the State ever since.
Due for retirement. Inspector Murray
Caffyn, after 37 years of the Victorian
police force. An artilleryman before
he became a policeman, he commanded
the mounted men who attended the
forthcoming G.G. and the present King
when they were in Melbourne.
Successor to his father-in-law, Dr. L.
Keith Ward, as Director of Mines in S.A.,
Samuel Benson Dickinson is a 31-year-old
Tasmanian who arrived in S.A. four years
back as Assistant Government Geologist.
After taking his B.Sc. with first-class
honors at Melbourne Uni. in 1939, he
did surveys for Mt. Lyell and Electro-
S. B. DICKINSON.
lytic Zinc and a Commonwealth survey
of goldfields. A thesis on S.A. copper-
fields brought him his M.Sc. from his
Alma Mater. Then he did the aerial
survey and geological mapping of S.A.’s
Leigh Creek coalfield.
As part of the Y.M.C.A. centenary
doings in Sydney president Hubert Fair-
fax, of the “S.M.H.” family, handed life
membership badges to a dozen enthusiasts
who’d been associated with Y.M. for 40
years and over. A. E. S. Talbot, 55 years
a member, hailed originally from Maori-
land, founded a jewellery firm in Mel-
bourne, and is an estate agent. A lieut.-
colonel at the last war, Horace J. Salier,
joined Y.M. in 1900; he is an executive
insurance officer with A.M.P. An optom-
etrist, C. Clifton Wilson became a
member in 1902 ; a fine singer and a
debating enthusiast. Arthur Burley, hon.
treasurer of the association, has also been
in since 1902 ; he’s managing director of
Berlei, Ltd. James C. Dunbar, in since
1903, is Insurance Office of Aus-
tralia’s manager. E. Frank Vickery, 41
years on the job, is a solicitor. T. C.
Reynolds and Albert G. Thompson like-
wise have 41 years’ continuous member-
ship. Reynolds was one of the Melbourne
directors, and is now on the committee
dealing with p.o.w. work ; in business life
an'insurance manager. Thompson, trans-
ferred from Brisbane Y.M. many years
ago, is also an insurance manager. Four
others started in 1904—biscuit-maker
William Arnott, who, though retired, still
supports the association liberally; Fred
Danby, H. Chas. Fusedale and Arthur
W. Perriam.
No overwhelming respect for Hitler’s
latest “secret weapon” is held by Sir
Oliver Simmonds, the British aeronautical
authority who has landed in Melbourne.
He regards the pilotless ’plane as the most
ridiculous weapon the Germans have yet
invented, a sheer waste of engineering
productive power. He puts its present
use on a par with the artillery com-
mander who, by firing vast quantities
of shells indiscriminately without ascer-
taining where they’re landing, invites a
court-martial for wasting ammunition. Sir
Oliver has qualifications as a critic. After
the last war he did a course in aeronautics
at Cambridge, entered the Air Ministry
and later joined the Supermarine Com-
pany as a designer when Britain was
seeking to wrest the Schneider Cup from
Italy. He was first assistant to R. J.
Mitchell, the man who turned the tide
by producing the Spitfire—they worked
together on the S 5 seaplane, the Spitfire’s
immediate ancestor and the winner of the
Schneider Trophy. Chairman of the Joint
Air Transport Committee, council mem-
ber of the Royal Aeronautical Society
and a Conservative M.P., Sir Oliver was
in the jR.F.C. in the last war, and is these
days a big industrialist.
Into the silence:—-
In England, victim of a German pilotless
’plane, A. E. Berry, member of the Austra-
lian textile mission to America and Britain.
He was on the staff of Import Procurement,
with the job of arranging a freer flow of tex-
tiles from overseas to Australia.
In Sydney, at 77, knight John Harrison,
founder of the Matraville Garden Village for
Soldiers, member of the Federal Capital Com-
mission, and a leading building contractor whose
firm put up some of the biggest buildings in
Australian capitals.
In Sydney, at 71, Canon Arthur Henry
Garnsey, warden of St. Paul’s College, Sydney
University, for close on 30 years. Born af
Windsor (N.S.W.), he was an M.A. of the
Uni. (1896) and was chaplain of Melbourne
Grammar from 1899 to 1905, before becoming
Precentor of Christ Church Cathedral, New-
castle, and later, for seven years, warden of
St. Paul’s College, Armidale. The day before
his death the St. Paul’s council put on record
its “deep appreciation of his great services to
the college, the University, the church and the
community.”
At Kanmantoo (S.A.), at 77, Harry Dove
Young, vigneron, sportsman and M.H.A. for
many years before retiring in 1940 through ill-
health. The Harry D. Young Hurdle Race was
named after him in recognition of his 20 years’
chairmanship of Onkaparinga Racing Club.
In Adelaide, at 70, William Levy, who
learned the printing trade at Broken Hill on the
“Barrier Miner,” and afterwards in S.A. worked
for both the old “Register” and the “Adver-
tiser.” Music wa'S his sideline, and he was at
one time president of the S.A. Bands Associa-
tion.
In Adelaide, at 80, Richard Nifschke, a lead-
ing baritone 50 years back, when he sang with
the veteran Armes Beaumont and the young Ada
Crossley to the accompaniment of young Harold
Davies, now Professor and Conservatorium
Director. Nitschke had 30 years in London,
but then returned to S.A. He raced some good
horses.
At 77, at Mount Gambler (S.A.), H. J.
Clezy, who went there 50 years ago as an
accountant with E., S. and A., and later went
into business as fin auctioneer. Of four sons,
the oldest is E., S. and A. manager in Thread-
needle-street, London, the youngest holds a
similar post in Hobart, and another was
manager of various branches in Australia prior
to joining the forces. The fourth son is with
the A.I.F.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ear Punisher”; The recent retirement
of a Victorian liquor inspector has re-
solved a problem that has perplexed me
since the first time I entered a bar,
namely, how the Ganymedes and Hebes,
in the days when it was customary to in-
vite bartenders to have one too, could
hold such a mort of liquor. This inspec-
tor reveals that most barmen and bar-
maids, rather than rebuff the customer’s
friendly gesture and discourage trade,
poured themselves out a nobbier of cold
tea. In these days National Securiiv
Regulations ordain that the contents of
bottles in the bar must be in accordance
with the label, so it is fortunate for the
barkeeps that nowadays neither customers
nor the house feel impelled to shout for
one another.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Apart from their ordi-
nary jobs, city boys of today have
daily and week-end avocations that help
swell the purse. Among these are selling
newspapers and sweets in theatres, caddy-
ing, polishing service men’s boots and
helping the milkman. Another source
of revenue is going out in sailing boats
to meet incoming ships and exchanging
newspapers for cigarettes, etc. Putting
a pound or ten shillings on the gee-
gees is nothing unusual for many a lad
in his teens ; and, of course, snooker,
"Oh, no, Smith—any captures you make become the property of the
Australian Military Forces."
billiards, cards and two-up receive atten-
tion. School holidays are now more than
ever welcome, seeing that so many lucra-
tive jobs are open to boys, T/ie nine-
year-old next door sells me 40 cigar-
ettes a week scrounged from service men
who court his sister. Occasionally, seeing
1 m a, good customer, he whispers a hot
tip for the races, too.
* * * *
Jindivick”: Let’s get this color-patch
controversy straightened out. It is per-
fectly legal, being ordained in General
Orders, for a man bearing an “X”
number to wear a color patch with a
grey background. When more than 75
p.c. of a unit has transferred to A.I.F, it
is gazetted an A.I.F. unit and can add
A.I.F. to its designation. Many such
units have served in N.G., though, to
he sure, they are still referred to as
“militia.” The original A.I.F. divisions
now have a great number of those trans-
ferred militiamen in their ranks. Such
men are as much entitled to a grey back-
ground as the original enlistment who has
been a “day boy” since the outbreak of
war.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Where is the Melbourne
National Gallery’s Aphrodite? She re-
appeared after the Jap scare had evapo-
rated, and then vanished once more. It is
to be hoped that the authorities aren’t
restoring more of her. One of her legs
was restored by a British sculptor with
lamentable results. If you run your eyes
down the line of her body, the part that
the third-century Greek did is full of
life and variety, but the restored part is
as dead as mutton. She has an odd history.
The feet were discovered by Sir Cecil Har-
court-Smith under the foundations of an
eighteenth-century house in Oxfordshire,
England, and the head and torso in a
stonemason’s yard at Wallingford. The
fragments were put together by a pupil
of Derwent Wood and cleaned up at the
Victoria and Albert Museum. The Felton
Bequest bought them for a song in 1929.
It was one of the best buys in the Felton’s
history.
* * * *
“Tiki”; Maoriland, usually more criti-
cal than appreciative of its sister Com-
monwealth across the Tasman, has come
a lot closer since a common imminent
danger has threatened. Compliments are
beginning to fly, as witness the kind
words of a Wellington newspaper, which
says the place of English comic papers,
beloved by youngsters, has been taken
by “Australian comics with an inimitably
Australian flavor,” and goes on to remark
that “Australian artists produce work far
superior in craftsmanship, story and
moral tone to that of any other country,
the U.S.A. included.”
* * * *
“Pawan g”: Queenslander Sister
Kenny’s infantile-paralysis methods have
been under fire from the heavy guns of
the American Medical Association, which
denies that she prevents or decreases i.p.
and accuses her of ignoring the factor of
spontaneous recovery when patients who
have failed to get a cure from the ortho-
dox institutions recover under her minis-
trations. Sister Kenny has retorted that
the medical profession was infuriated be-
cause an outsider had discovered some-
thing it did not know, and added that if
the American people wanted her work
she would see that they got it. The lady
has warm U.S.A. champions who aver
that doctors don’t or won’t grasp the
basic principle of her discovery. She
objected to the artificial immobilisation of
paralysed muscles by the use of plaster
casts and splints and insisted on the im-
portance of relaxation and re-education
of the affected organs which have “for-
gotten” how to perform their functions,
The method is a combination of psycho-
logical and physiological treatment and
it is claimed to have had beneficial results
m more than 75 p.c. of cases, one of the
best known being that of Marjorie
Lawrence.
*' * *
“S.T.S.”: The bravest man —or the
most inflexible? He lives at Port Pirie
(S.A.), and has returned all his clothing
cnnnnnQ tv, r incf ,
saving thru it h a t Wlt » a over ' note
keen S tbr-m • \ d • be< p a stru §S le to
effort* tif ta r t> aCe strenuous
familv ” 6 ema e members of my
y ‘ .
“Axrrxra”. , * ,, T
mq r , Ba P tlSt p burcb m M.L.,
e i y a century of serenity, is ex-
penencmg its first big rumpus. Centre
ol the whirlwind is Rev. Alexander
“Another step an I'll shoot!"
Hodge, D.D., pastor of Auckland Taber-
nacle, which has about the biggest Baptist
congregation in the Dominion. It isn't
a heresy hunt, and there’s not a whisper
against the good doctor’s life and con-
versation, but some who were once of
his flock allege he is a bit too autocratic
as an administrator. The Baptist Union
sent a commission of inquiry to Auck-
land, took evidence for 23 hours (Dr.
Hodge being represented by two counsel),
decided that the charges were proved and
suspended Dr. Hodge from the ministry,
subject to confirmation by annual confer-
ence. As a result the Auckland Taber-
nacle, by a vote of its congregation, has
seceded from the Union. Dr. Hodge says
that doesn’t make it any the less a Baptist
church, as every such organisation “re-
gards its individuality and independence
as inviolable.”
* * * *
“P.McM.”; An American home-life
flavor has been introduced to Brisbane
in the form of hay-rides. All sorts of
carts have been pressed into service, and
Allied service men are to be seen daily
happily ensconced in these, chewing straw
and serenading long-haired mates.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A middle-aged man with
a vivid imagination has turned up in S.A.
again after an absence of ten years. He
telegraphed from the Victorian border
to Adelaide Hospital “Have been over-
doing it a bit with booze. —Dr. Bruce,”
and on arrival was admitted for alcoholic
poisoning. “I have Melbourne and Edin-
burgh degrees,” he told the staff, “and
lost my eye at Tobruk.” Then the police
asked him some searching questions, and
he admitted he was not a doctor and
lost his eye at Mildura, through running
into a post. The police dug up 15 previ-
ous convictions for posing as a medico,
and testified that accused once went so
far as to give a death certificate. Three
months this time.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Herbert Butcher, of the
English Parliamentary Delegation, has a
special interest in Australian history.
From the tower of his Lincolnshire parish
church can be seen the birthplaces of three
Australian explorers—Flinders, Bass and
Sir Joseph Banks, botanist with
Cook, w"as the son of a local squire, which
accounts for so many Australian geo-
graphical features having names derived
from the fens country. The Victorian
Leg.'Council in 1853 voted the widow of
Flinders a pension of £lOO, but she died
before the slow sailing ship could bring
her the information. The money went
to her daughter Ann, who married Wil-
liam Petrie. That lady, in a letter of
thanks, said the money would be spent
on the education of her son. He became
Prof. Matthew Flinders Petrie, the Egyp-
tologist.
.** * *
Kings Pawn : Jhe Chess Associa-
tion has ord ? re t d a best out of
betweea Lajos Steiner and
M. E. Goldstein who drew for first place
in this years N. S. Wales championship
tournament. Steiner, who established
himself as a topnotcher in Europe before
came to Australia, figures in all
m °? e l n chess textbooks - ” d credited
with daring innovations in play. He seems
to have taught his Australian opponents a
i ot> f or they have given him several tough
games, and he has been beaten on occa-
sion by Goldstein—an old campaigner
who has held championships of Victoria,
W.A. and MX. Goldstein over a decade
a go fought a similar play-off with Kosh-
nitsky (now absent on service). Draw
after draw resulted, the contest going on
for months before a conclusion was
reached with Kosh. (the holder) still
champion. There are safeguards against
such a prolongation this year. On this
occasion also spectators will not be
flowed to crowd round the players. They
watch the game on a “demonstration
on which each move, as played,
Wll be
“Craiser”: Federal departments are
contemplating a scheme for retiring
public servants at 60 instead of 65, as a
post-war measure to increase employ-
ment opportunities for returned soldiers
and the younger generation That’s a
poor idea. I Jive in a district much
favored by public servants and others as
a place to retire to. It isn’t Jong before
most of them get bored, and from get-
ting bored they become sick and a good
many of them die long before their
allotted span. The war brought some of
them out of their retirement back to the
dd j c b 01 - a f res h one, and they look as
if they had received a new lease of life.
Few men in these modern days have the
interests or have acquired the skill that
will tide them over the awful prospect
of having 24 hours in every day to use
in their own way. Examples like R, H.
Deparfmen'it'tL^atm
t ory 65, and ten years later is still going
strong, are exceptions. During his term
of service Croll published a dozen or so
books, studied anthropology and walked
the open road for thousands of miles, and
the moment he got the opportunity his
retirement gave him he streaked off into
Central Australia to see Binghi for him-
self. But the average civil servant is not
like that.
* * * *
“Caballer” remembers some cooks;
The war has brought in its train a new brand
c ,°, ok ' Th M haTd ‘ ,ookin g- bla( ; keadd
specimen who would announce Here s the
breakfast—if youse don’t like it here’s the cook”
has gone. He passed with the bawling sergeant-
major and the red-faced Colonel Blimp. But
while he flourished his resignation, or threatened
resignation (a frequent occurrence), was given
verbally after the manner of a harbor-master re-
proving y acht f™™ long range. A whole
company would go in fear of its chef, and a
reputation for having “bluffed the cook” was
the highest praise a man could gain. Only
once did 1 know a <l uiet one - He was on head ’
quarters> and was re p r i mand ed by the C.O. for
some slight offence. We were aware that he
brooded over the rebuke, but little we knew ol
the fathomless depths to which the resentment
m his soul had sent him until he brightened up
one morning and for a week whistled and sang
a s he cooked the colonel’s breakfast. At the
end of the week, when the empty plates came
back th f c ° ok f°} e for . tbe first djP® s !f“ tbe
black cloud had descended upon him, and ex-
plained the depth and subtlety of the re-
venge he was taking. “I’ve fried his bacon in
Dubbin for a week now, and that’s what the
cow ’ s g oin § to have as lon S as 1 m here. In
support of his statement he held up a tin of
“Dubbin, specially manufactured and prepared
for waterproofing and softening army boots.”
POLITICAL CRUSADERS.
Throughout the next nine weeks, while travel of
opponents of the referendum is restricted, Ministerial
cars, petrol, and tyres will be available as usual for
touring Ministers, who will doubtless take every
opportunity for scattering gems of referendum
thought.”— Menzies.
Who are those blokes who chug-chug hither and
hence
About the countryside from west to east
Looking (you can’t but note) as if the expense
Was not a thing to trouble them the least?
Are they staunch souls whom patriotism spurs,
You ask, to aid the war for freedom fought?
Not much, my son. They’re merely Ministers
Broadcasting gems of Referendum thought.
The cost of cars, of tyres and petrol, too
Burdens that lowlier mortals find so hard,
Aie items that these travellers can view
With lofty and contemptuous disregard.
Their country pays for bagatelles like these,
Albeit some may wonder if it ought
When salaried propagandists hit the breeze
To scatter gems of Referendum thought.
Soon crowds shall catch and radios record
In earnest accents of assured belief
Rich pearls of wisdom from the lips of Forde,
Crisp legal subtleties from Evatt’s brief.
While Europe stays a bomb-swept battleground
Where deeds full-charged with destiny are
wrought.
Our rulers choose the time to rustle round
Dispensing gems of Referendum thought.
Chaps, would you learn why high resolve de-
mands
And duty calls on you with full accord
To put more powers into Labor hands
(Including those of Calwell and of Ward)?
Then never fail to gather round the ring
Where missioners—to whom the cost is
naught—
Devote their talents to distributing
Free gratis gems of Referendum thought.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


* * * *
“V. Cluse”: In the grim days when
Sydney blacked itself out and started
nervously at any sound resembling that
made by a ’plane engine, the sirens
dragged some of us wardens from our
beds late one night. To me and my
patrol-mate came a lady in nightwear and
on the verge of hysterics. “Here,” said
my mate, “you can’t run about in the
street. Better get inside and” “My
Effiei My Effie!” she burbled, half-
sobbing. “The sirens woke her and she
rushed out before I” Gently we
led her to a handy porch and there
managed to learn that the missing one
was six years old and wearing a red
dressing gown. By that time the dis-
tressed lady was almost demented, so
I left her with my mate and dashed to
the post for the first-aid party and rein-
forcements to hunt the lost. So it came
to pass that, for the next half-hour or
so, tin-hatted wardens with masked
torches climbed over fences, struggled
through lantana hedges, peered into
porches and garages, argued with sus-
picious canines and disturbed house-
holders and chased shadows along dark
lanes. In the end, long after the “all-
clear,” we struggled back to the post —
there to find that the lost was found. To
me and the mate, since it was our patrol,
fell the honor of restoring her. We carted
her to the house, opened the gate and
firmly propelled Effie; red dressing gown
and all, through it, calling maledictions
down on all women with pet Poms.
* =K *
“Tuart”: In Karrakatta (Perth) ceme-
tery recently Mines Minister Panton, for
the R.S.L. State executive/ put a red
poppy wreath on the coffin of Lieut.-
Colonel Eliazir Margolin, D. 5.0., one of
the best of Old Diggers. A Russian Jew,
born at Bielgorod 66 years ago, Margolin
went to Palestine in boyhood, and, his
parents dying there, he emigrated to
Westralia in the first year of the Com-
monwealth. A bent for soldiering took
him into the old W.A. Rifles, and he was
a commissioned officer before the first
World War, in which his service was
unique. He was in Gallipoli and France
with the 16th Battalion (that of Murray
and McCarthy, the V.Cs.), being on the
peninsula from the first day to the last,
though thrice wounded; then he com-
manded a battalion of the Royal Fusi-
liers, and led a Jewish battalion in Pales-
tine, where for a time he became
Governor of Jerusalem. But Westralia
had his heart, and there he returned, to
make money in the motor business, be-
come a pillar of the Diggers’ League and
Legacy and, a prince of good fellows and
generous to a fault, to be hailed every-
where as “Margy.” There would be no
opposition to Jewish immigration, in the
West at least, if Australia could be sure
of getting a fair proportion of Jews as
good as “Margy.”
* * * #
“Oxmead”: I can’t help wishing that
Norman Lindsay had put one more figure
into his “Who Put Australia on the
Map? ” The inclusion of the huge Arthur
Orton, or De Castro the illiterate
slaughterman of Wagga, as Jimmy Ed-
mond once described him —would have
added an extra picturesque touch to the
group, if only for the vast bulk of the
subject. I can recall a London paper re-
marking in 1882, when the Australian
cricketers won their first victory against
England, that they had given their country
more advertisement than anyone since
the Tichborne Claimant. Which, in a
sense, was true enough. In the early
’seventies Orton set more people talking
about Australia than Ned Kelly was to
do a few years later.
“Emmakell”; I question “Colonial
Cove’s” statement that the term “Crown
prisoners” was always used in early Aus-
tralian documents apropos of Britain’s
erring sons and daughters (B. 7/6/’44).
Among family archives referring to the
coming to this country of a seafaring
ancestor were ship’s papers, including
some sort of a bill of lading. Names of
the crew I have forgotten; but I remem-
ber always the words “Cargo-male and
female convicts.”
* * * *
“Ackford”; “Jurumudi” (B. 24/5/’44)
has evidently had little experience in the
burning pf carcasses, human or other-
wise, or he wouldn’t question the possi-
bility of separating the bones, the only
parts that survive, from the ashes of a
pyre, however big it might be. Bones
when burned don’t crumble into dust.
I was once on a murder trial where the
killer had had unlimited firewood, yet
the Crown produced about half a kero.-
tinful of calcined bone, all sieved from
the ashes of the pyre. Moreover, cal-
cined human bone has very great powers
of resistance to further heat: cupels used
in the assay of gold ore stand the full
heat of the muffle furnace; they are
made of compressed calcined human
bone. And burned human bone can
endure when kept from contact with the
soil. Prowling round what was once the
site of Carthage we came on an Arab
purveying some nice little earthenware
pots with lids to match. Inside each pot
were the bones of an infant probably less
than a year old; cast to the flames at
least 2000 years ago, sacrificed to the
brazen god, Moloch. Even the tiny finger
“Two can play at that game , see!”
bones were identifiable. So if Buddha
was 80 when he was burned his calcined
bones may well have lasted till today.
* * * *
“One 8.K.”: Fremantle City Council
and the W.A. Historical Society com-
bined Westralia in a brief ceremony to
mark the 115th anniversary of the foun-
dation of the State. There was a public
holiday, but, to the bitter disgust of a
“West Australian” writer, the sun re-
fused to shine and “beneath a veil of
vapors looked anaemic and dispirited,
and then would again be shrouded en-
tirely in great triumphant armies of bil-
lowing black cloud masses.” This was
halfway through an anniversary article
which began with Bernard Shaw and
ende4 with Oliver Wendell Holmes, and
read as though written before a blazing
fire with hot rum —or its war-time equiva-
lent —handy. It’s a poor heart that never
rejoices.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Death of H. W. Stevenson,
who took the crown from Roberts, re-
minds one that Australia, with the Lin-
drums and the Grays, has figured famously
in billiards. The game was introduced
here a little over a hundred years ago.
A constructional genius named Spencer,
who ran a pub in Pitt-street about where
the Arcadia Hotel is now, had Sydney’s
first two tables. He made one of them
himself, buying up all Penfold’s stock of
pencil-eraser rubber (in blocks, cut up as
required) to make the cushions. A
measure of disrepute hung to the game
even at the start of this century because
of its association with hotels, and “pro-
ficiency in billiards betokens a misspent
youth” was a widely-held axiom. Sharpers
frequented billiard saloons on the look-
out for mugs. Experts themselves, they
praised the play of their opponents, let
them win small stakes, and then made
their kill. Complete respectability set in
when George Gray the elder put billiard
tables in a boys’ club he had spon-
sored in the rooms under a church in
Melbourne,
* * * *
“Bundaberg Forever”: Surely our little
coastal Queensland town has contributed
more than its share of this country’s
notables. Gladys Moncrieff was born
there; so was Molly de Gunst. In
the sporting field Bundaberg produced
Les Heidke, who distinguished himself
in international football, like his father
before him; Don Tallon, the wicket-
keeper who has headed for big cricket
when the war-gong crashed; Teddy Rogers,
a champion cyclist in his day; and
Tommy Miles, whose sprinting is still re-
membered all over Australia. To aviation
Bundaberg gave Bert Hinkler, whose
family still lives there. Also we have
produced politician Frank Barnes, though
whether that’s a boon or not we haven’t
decided.
•** * *
“X.S.”: A munition factory girl on her
homeward way in Melbourne at 3.15 a.m.
asked, for a lift, and was subsequently
charged with being found in unlawful
possession of, a milkcart. Her defence
was that the milk-oh went off to serve
customers and the horse bolted. It was
found in a street in Richmond. Remark-
ing that the girl had been abducted by the
horse the P.M. dismissed the information.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A man was hanged lately in
S.A. for a particularly deliberate murder
in an office over a business quarrel. And
now sentimentalists who opposed the
death sentence (and other people, too)
have turned practical and are saying “But
why should his family suffer?” Subscrip-
tions for the family have been coming
in every day.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Hydrophobia (B. 7/6/’44)
is a fearsome thing to witness. As a boy
in the Old Country, returning in the dusk
to the kennels where we kept a score or
so of retrievers, I met a horror that
looked like a de luxe edition of “The
Hound of the Baskervilles.” With a
drunken lurch, its muzzle flecked with
foam and its eyes gleaming green in the
half light, it reeled toward me. I.lit out
for the nearest tree, a cypress whose
sleqder stem I had omitted to mark in the
brief time allowed me for selecting a
refuge. My cries, mingling with those
of the gibbering creature snapping and
tearing at the base of the trunk —approxi-
mately three inches in diameter —caused
a passing Hodge to assume that the place
Was haunted. When my father had at-
tended to matters with a rifle I descended,
relieved to think I walked upright and
was not doing Catherine wheels and
beating a tattoo with my heels on the
back of my head, the cheerful local
* legends of the first and milder symptoms
of hydrophobia tending in that direction.
# * * >1!
“K.A.”: The suggestion that a cut of
Lawson should appear on Australian
stamps calls to mind other literary figures
used in stamp designs. Western Samoa
typified Stevenson with three stamps, one
a likeness, one of his tomb on Vaea Hill,
and one of Vailima, on Upolo Island,
where much of his writing was done.
Byron was pictured on stamps printed by
Greece in 1924—a portrait, and one of
the poet exhorting sympathisers at Mis-
solonghi. Bacon's portrait appeared on
Newfoundland stamps in 1910, Raleigh s
on 1934 British Guiana stamps, Charles
Qarwin and the Beagle figured on 1935
stamps in Ecuador, and John D. Bour-
chier, Balkans correspondent of London
“Times” and devoted friend of Bulgaria,
on that country’s 1921 stamps,
* * * *
“Bo”; Long inured to the dispatches
bf correspondents who have trapped 274-
million Huns in river bends on the
Eastern Front, I did not find my eye-
brows elevating when I read a cabled
account of a most unusual Frenchman
in liberated Normandy. To a correspon-
dent he pointed out a group of German
prisoners herded near by:
See that officer, that one, that cow?
Last week this cow of a man made me
work on a beach building fortifications.
Now I watch him and am most happy.
Phooey to the Germans!
I .now confidently expect to hear of a
French civvy who, scorning to wave his
arms like flails or rattle off inde-
cipherable patois at 350 w.p.m., leans
cross-legged against a telegraph pole and
drawls to his liberators: “Say, you bozos,
it’s sure goidarned time you showed up.
But, cripes! did them flamin’ Fritzes
do the Flyin’ Pieman act when you blokes
pushed yT bibs in! Bah goom, choom,
coom on into the boozer and soop oop
some suds. Ye’ll no’ be havin’ a spare
saxpence about ye that ye dinna want
the noo? Och aye!”
* * *
“Caballer”: The first aerial bomb to
present itself for my inspection was
dropped from a Turkish ’plane flying
300 ft, above Reserve Gully in Nov.,
1915. It was of polished brass and about
20 inches long. A bunch of colored
ribbons tied to its tail acted as a fin, and
it looked as if it weighed between 20
and 30 pounds and would be no fit com-
panion for youth. It hit the side of the
track 10 yards away and did not explode,
while I tried to hide six feet and thirteen
stone of infantryman behind a one-gallon
tin of water, expecting to be sent star-
ward in thin spray. It lay there 15 sec-
onds when a runner picked it up and
carried it into the colonel’s dugout with
a “Look what they’ve dropped outside,
Sir!” For two years the CO.’s answer
was used by the R.S.M. with great effect
in dismissing prisoners, runners and sig-
nallers from his presence.
* * * *
“Avon”: Caen or Kahng (B, 21/6/’44)
has a link with Maoriland. The Anglican
cathedral which gives Christchurch its
name of “Cathedral City” is said to be
practically a replica of the Catholic cathe-
dral at Caen. I say “said to be” because
I have seen the original plans, and they
were signed by Sir Gilbert Scott. These
plans were revised and redrawn by B. W.
Mountfort, an architect who emigrated
to Canterbury in one of the first four
ships. Nevertheless, at a time when
Scott’s fame was at its zenith and while
Mountfort was a respected member of
the Christchurch Diocesan Synod (he died
close on 50 years ago) every Anglican in
the province to whom the cathedral was
mentioned would say “I suppose you
know it is copied from the cathedral at
Caen, stone for stone?” I always sup-
posed that Mountfort was responsible for
that chunk of information.
* * * »
“Petermac”: I breasted the saloon
bar, and after paying an extra penny for
two middies asked for a bottle of wine.
The barmaid eyed me suspiciously. “You’ll
have to ask Mrs. Graball —she’s the only
one allowed to sell it.” I sank two more
middies waiting for Mrs. Graball to
appear. Yes, she would let me have a
bottle —five shillings, please. I handed
it over and ordered another middy. Half
an hour passed and still no sign of the
bottle. I sank another couple, tipped the
barmaid and begged her to use her influ-
ence to get what I’d ordered. She’d do
what she could. “Cripes,” I remarked
to a taciturn bloke standing alongside me.
“A man’ll die of old age before he gets
his wine,” “Thash all right—l ordered
mine an hour before you and shtill ’aven’t
got it.” Staggered, I determined to hang
on. After I had sunk five more drinks,
the wine appeared. By this time my taci-
turn friend was practically paralytic. Put-
ting the bottle in his pocket, I was help-
ing him to the door when a bloke barged
into us and I dropped my bottle. I don’t
remember much about the fight, but I’ve
still got a thick ear, a black eye and a
stiff neck, and it seems the wine I didn’t
get cost me about thirty-five bob.
# * * *
“Cass”: For a quick recovery after a
bender (B. 7/6/’44) grapefruit is my
prescription. I never go on benders my-
self, but as a member of a large staff I
always kept a stray grapefruit on hand to
save some of the lads from the boss’s
wrath after a night out. It never failed
to do the trick.
NO BEER.
“It might have been,” some poet soul has
sung— , .
1 can’t remember who or where or when
Claiming no sadder words were ever wrung
Dejectedly from any human tongue
Or pen.
“It might have been. ’ You breathe it with a
Alike about some girl you might have wed
Or when some horse, on whom your hopes were
high
To bring the bacon home, gets beaten by
A head.
You see some chap attain to wealth and fame
Which once you fondly hoped would be your
due
And speculate that, if you’d played the game
As skilfully, it might have been the same
With you.
And there are downcast eyes and shoulders
bent
That seem to voice despondency acute
At chances missed through some malign event,
Just as pathetically eloquent,
Though mute.
Such looks you'll strike in faces drawn and
tense
When, ’long with other thirsty souls, you
steer
From pub to pub where notice-boards dispense
The ghastly truth, the grim intelligence:
“No Beer.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Betcha”; On sale days Stocker was
not a man to be trifled with ; arriving at
the yards under agreement to help him,
George fervently wished he hadn’t left
the list of sheep tallies on his front gate
post. Knowing what would surely hap-
pen, he pondered the possibility of grab-
bing Stocker’s and making the six-
mile return trip' without being missed.
He watched eagerly for an opportunity.
Half an hour later the boss started
arguing cattle brands with a prospective
seller, and as the situation grew more
and yet more involved George backed off
carefully, slipped into the car and hit the
high spots. In record time he was back,
had slid the bus in under the trees with
several others, and with the list in his
pocket reached the yards and idly waited
for Stocker to finish writing. “Yes ; well
that’s all the cattle,” the man in charge
said presently, “Now —er —ah, here you
are, George. Good; we’ll sort these
sheep. First, y’ better get that prize dog
of yours,” George looked round and
whistled. “No, no ; I tied him up half
an hour ago, old man,” fussed Stocker.
“Wanted him kept fresh for the sheep
work, y’ understand. Get him, will you?
He’s under the back axle o’ my car.”
$ 4; $
“lamsur Veya”: Let me put these
synthetic bushmen right! The searcher
would not call “Hoi” unless the lost per-
son was an attractive blonde who had
missed her rendezvous by a few hundred
yards. Nor would he expect his “coo-ee”
to be heard half a mile away ; so he takes
a comfortable stance near a dead tree, in
an elevated position, and drums on it
with the back of his axe. The synthetic
bushie would pick up that “call” over
two miles away; but what’s the use?
He’d be lost again next day.
* » * *
“See Gee”: Joe laughed at our advice
about watching his step when he went
shooting in the scrub, “All y’ got t’ do
is watch the sun when you go in and you
can’t go wrong,” he said. When he turned
to come out he found the sun a total
blackout. From a tree on top of the
ridge he still couldn’t get his bearings.
Then he remembered passing along a
clearing where an old pine had fallen and
decayed. Twenty minutes later he was
back at the same spot. He knew enough
of bush lore to realise that a man is pro-
perly bushed when he starts to circle.
Careful not to bear to the left again, he
set off in a straight line, sighting from tree
to tree. Twenty minutes and he was back,
sitting on the same pine-bptt. Not bad
going: two complete circuits in forty
minutes! We heard his coo-ees later, and
found him on hands and knees crawling
through the undergrowth not 50 yards
from the same old pine. Now Joe won’t
go into the scrub on a cloudy day for
quids.
* * * *
“Sarge”; This business of going
pseudo-troppo has its points. In our
small, out-of-the-way camp we keep a
“troppo” dog, Peter. Although he’s not
actually there, he’s a valuable outlet for
pent-up feelings. Many a time when
the skipper has been a bit outspoken to
one of the lads or the iooked-for letter
has not arrived, the luckless one wanders
away into the bush alone, hurls a stream
of abuse at Peter, accompanied by a kick
that would severely dent a real dog, and
returns to camp relieved of his ill-temper.
* * * #
Chuck’: Couple this with “Yarra-
gundry’s” report (B. 17/5/’44). A letter
for young Bruiser arrived at his home-
town address and was duly opened by
his mother. It was a final notice from
militia authorities warning the recipient
that should he fail to report for duty at
a certain address within 14 days drastic
action would be taken. Greatly upset, the
old lady sought my aid, declaring she
could never get in touch with her son in
the short time allowed, and did I think an
extension possible? Bruiser was still with
the A.I.F. in the Middle East, where he
had been for two years.
* * * *
“Blue Gum”; The wanderings of sea
birds cause headaches for those who; try
to keep track of them and locate their
nesting sites. No one is yet sure where
the common mutton-bird goes to after
it has finished breeding on the Australian
coast, but the whole population of these
birds disappears into the void during
“So you’re a gravedigger, eh? Well , you Won't find any body in
that beer!”
winter. Some observers consider they
range the seas on the fringe of the Arctic
Circle ; others that they go to the Antarc-
tic in search of plankton. Kindred birds
have equally mysterious habits. In sum-
mer coastal waters support hordes of the
little black-and-white petrel known as the
fluttering shearwater, and, although this
is the time when they should be breeding,
no nesting-place has ever been found in
Australia. The bird breeds in Maoriland.
Most islands off the Australian coast have
been searched by ornithologists, but a few
inaccessible ones yet to be investigated
may reveal the secret regarding the breed-
ing of this and other ocean-wanderers.
In this respect Tasman Island, off the
extreme s.-e. tip of Tasmania, has recently
come into the ornithological limelight by
the discovery there of the only kndwn
breeding-place in Australia of the com-
mon Maoriland mutton-bird. This is a
different bird from the Australian variety,
and the discovery indicates that sea birds
given to extensive travelling occasionally
breed outside recognised nesting colonies.
* * * *
“Wester”: A Sydney paper reports a
detective’s evidence in a Victorian bush-
fire inquest: “Detective Watson Hunter,
of Ballarat, said that the day after the
fire he found the remains of a campfire
under some pine-trees in a corral used
for mustering sheep.” I’m .mightily in-
terested in this new method. For years
we jumbuck-punchers have been com-
plaining that, despite all the advances of
modern science and invention, we’ve still
got to use horses and dogs for mustering.
I’ve spoken to the boss, and he wants to
know where he can get a few of these
corral things, though I suspect he’s hoping
they might enable him to dispense with
our services, too. He always reckoned
he was running a benevolent institution.
“Balurga”; “Squeaking Tree’s” bloke
might successfully have thrown dust in
a cow’s eyes and neatly flipped her over
by the front leg (B. 17/5/’44). Generally,
a cow or bullock charges with its eyes
shut. But never rely on a bull doing it.
You can’t bluff him. His murderous eyes
are wide open, and throwing a handful
of dust or a hat won’t deviate him one
iota from his course. He handles his
bulk with terrifying agility, and I’m
always relieved when we get a cleanskin
bull into the crush and get the saw to
work on the butts of his horns. Inciden-
tally, I’ve seen old speyed cows almost as
wild and savage as a bull, far worse than
any breeder or bullock ; and in odd cases
a bullet was the only means of stopping
them.
3{C % *
“Simon”: Regarding the canine pro-
cess that may be largely governed by
association of ideas (B. 14/6/’44), the
same may be said of the horse. My
father had a young spirited utility mare on
which he was yarding some young horses.
In turning a breakaway a young colt got
badly entangled in a six-wire fence. The
sight of the struggling animal and the
twanging and breaking of the wire strands
drove the mare into frenzied trembling.
We had her until she was over twenty
years old, but it was never safe to twang
wire within her hearing; even the sight
of a man getting through a wire fence
always awoke the old trembling and the
danger of a bolt.
“Lik Lik Liar”: In reply to “The O.D.’s”
challenge (B. 7/6/’44) I must confess that
in all the years I have spent among sheep
and horses I have never heard a stallion
blow the alarm nor a ram whistle either
that or any other tune. I have been on
nodding terms with horses from Rand-
wick to the Rankine (N.T.) —draught
stallions, station sires and brumbies —
and what usually happens on being dis-
turbed is that the stallion rounds up his
mares if time permits, then he faces the
danger area, head and ears erect, tail and
mane flowing, and lets out a sharp de-
fiant whistle. The sound contains a
variable proportion of snort mingled with
the whistle but it could not be defined
as “blowing.” That term is used to
describe the labored breathing of a
winded horse. My experience of rams
is that they are the least vocally demon-
strative of all sheep and make little or no
noise when alarmed. Sheep usually rely
for warning on the sudden movement of
an animal on the edge of the mob, re-
sulting in an instinctive surge together or
away from the danger direction. A ram
bailed up by a dog usually faces him in
silence and stamps a foot. On occasions
they will expel the air through the nos-
trils in a nervous sniff, but “The O.D.’s”
whistling ram must have had a couple of
blades of grass fitted into his nostrils.
“Sur Cingle”: I suspect “The 0.D.”
(B. 31/5/’44) of practising as a bush
lawyer. In the first place I stated that the
horses I’ve met don’t take to bread and
sugar unless taught to do so. In the
second, I recorded the fact that I’ve used
these foods to make friends with colts —
I didn’t say it was to “catch prads,” as
he asserts: we don’t need cajolery to get
a bridle on properly handled youngsters
where I am —and added that I’d known
only one horse to come to the strange
stuff of its own accord. The only incon-
sistency about that exists in the traffic-
dazed mind of “The 0.D.” In case he
still doesn’t understand: when a
youngster has quietened down, the time
has come to teach him, if you want to
make a hack out of him and not just
another two-months-in-and-three-months-
out worker, that a man represents some-
thing besides work. Then, in order
that he may associate something pleasant
with your appearance, you teach him to
eat sugar. Perhaps my par.-sparrer
doesn’t understand that-horse paddocks
in this S.A. district are rather too large
to strew with buckets of molasses or
loaves of bread. And if we did put the
prads in the night yard land leave ’em
with a lot of crusts and stuff lying about,
wouldn’t that be teaching them to eat
bread?
“Fitz”; Those nags who munch bread
and sugar are equine pansies; for a real
he-horse let a grey owned by Eric Trad,
of Wingham (N.S.W.), take a bow. After
cleaning up the honey from a hive he
started in to" do the bee-eater out of a
job. When he had gulped down the last
bee he tried chewing up the hive itself.
Although stung early and often he stuck
to his job. Next morning the old moke
was a trifle groggy, had swollen eyes,
ears and mouth and couldn’t whinney.
Three days afterwards he was as right as
rain, and was looking round for more
bees and hives.
* * *
“Bo”: The drought had lasted for
five years. Tanks and well had long
since been bone-dry, and twice a day
Ben harnessed up old Barney to the sled
and brought up a drum of rather yellow-
ish water from the creek. Then one
afternoon black clouds started to bank
up from the west. Just on dusk, with
the thunder rolling across the hills, the
first big drops fell. Then it started in
earnest, and all night it beat a mad tattoo
on the iron roof. In the morning it
was still coming down in sheets. Ben
was up earlier than usual. When Mrs.
Ben put her head out the kitchen door
later she saw Ben, a cornsack over his
head and shoulders, sloshing through the
mud leading Barney. On the sled was
the 44-gallon drum. “What on earth are
you doing?” his spouse asked. Ben
looked surprised. “Why, this is y’r
washin’ day, Tuesdey, ain’t it?” he asked.
“I got to get it up so as to give that
yaller crick water time for the sediment
to settle, ain’t I?”
“S.G.”: “Prickly Pear” Charlie had a
home that not even a bunch of com-
mandos would have cared to attack.
When he got his block in the pear coun-
try, Charles knocked together a shack on
the only bit of open land and cut out of
the thickets yards for poultry, horses,
cow, etc., using the pear for fences. He
cut openings through each fence and
hung gates on ’em. About every three
months he went round with the axe,
squaring up and trimming his fences,
thus dispensing with the business of
straining and dummying, safe from any-
body he didn’t want to meet and safe
from bushfires.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Less than 20 yards ahead
26 stalwarts battled for the possession of
an inflated piece of leather; perhaps 12
yards behind a raucous group of partisans
urged their respective heroes on to vic-
tory or Valhalla; but the little ground-
lark seemed to be living in a world of its
own. With a quick-running gait it darted
in short bursts around and about the
goalposts, pecking here, then there, pre-
sumably for grass seeds. Once the ball
came thumping within a few* feet of the
little brown creature, followed by a stam-
pede of pounding boots, but the bird
merely ran swiftly to one side and re-
sumed its jaunty prospecting. At this
point a dog joined in with the muddied
oafs. Spurning kicks and curses, Bluey
was really having a ton of fun until he
tripped the ref. It was an unpardonable
crime. Ignominiously the mong. was
carried by the scruff of the neck to the
touchline and suitably farewelled. For
some minutes the canine remained sub-
dued, then his eye fell on the sporting
lark. No winger ever sped down a line
straighter than Bluey in pursuit. The
lark, making no attempt to rise hi/her
than 18in. above the ground, suddenly
swerved and returned to its former posi-
tion. When the dog returned to the
attack the lark with a daisy-cutting flight
reached the opposite end of the field in
record time and alighted. Bluey arrived
just in time to begin the return journey.
After the third lap the quarry left the
field and headed across the paddocks,
still flying close to the ground in hops
of a hundred yards. Until the match
ended and Bluey’s boss whistled him off,
the will-o’-the-wisp game went on. I
verily believe that the bird enjoyed it,
otherwise surely such a notorious high-
flier as a lark would have soared far away
from its tormentor.
GULF ROAD.
The old rough road, the Gulf road, its thousand
miles were spread
Across the plains and rivers, across the ridges
red; , ,
It heard the horse-bells tinkle and the songs
of pioneers,
The long road, the Gulf road, that’s lost among
the years.
From Burketown to Rockhampton—long days,
long leagues between;
Hazard of quicksand crossings, of swamp tracts
dank and green; , , ■
The barrier of the ranges, the roll of skybound
plains— „ - ,
The road to new horizons that swelled the leap-
ing veins.
The gaunt red dingo knew it, and the wild-eyed
The hunting myall crossed it with boomerang
and spear;
Steel shoe and red wheel seared it while the
timid kangaroo
Stood by and watched with wonder the wagon
trains come through.
The rush of ringing cattle beneath the dust-
cloud’s pall; ,
The fevered gold-rush streaming, the Gulf road
knew it all;
The graves of sun-bronzed bushmen who dared
the drought and flood —
The danger road, the Gulf road, was salted
with their blood.
Upon the dark Fitzroy the dawn still routs the
And over ’Burketown rooftops the “Morning
Glory” fades,
And still, along the Flinders, range wide the
wild-eyed steers;
But the old road, the Gulf road, is lost among
the years.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“OkUimer”: “Curyo” Charlie drove
into Lascelles in pouring rain and found
that the race meeting had been post-
poned until next day. He joined the
crowd hanging round the pub, and began
to yearn for the opportunity of helping
them to play up the cash that was burden-
ing them. But the Law had objections.
It didn’t mind, it told Charlie, his setting
up his sweat-wheel on the racecourse, but
it had rpoted objections to its being set
up in either the public thoroughfare or
on licensed premises. Charles accepted
the ukase. About 3 p.m. the weather
cleared and the crowd became restless.
Then a rumor went round that two were
to settle an argument with fists over
behind the Council Tank, and “don’t
wake the John up or he’ll stop it.” An
hour later the crowd, having gathered at
the spot and found no fighters, discov-
ered Charles in its midst with his sweat-
wheel and persuaded him to open up.
Nobody ever discovered who started that
rumor, and “Curyo,” happily bedding
himself down that night, buried the secret
deep in his cunning old heart.
Up * * *
“R.F.E.”: Early last yea-r two other
n.-w. Victorian farmers and myself put
in concrete channels to divert water from
a creek to fill our dams. This creek runs
regularly except in years of exceptional
drought. A week after the work was
finished a fox and his lady dug their
home barely a chain from the works
in the bed of the creek, and reared their
four pups. Last year proved to be the
driest for more than a decade. We now
watch the foxes for seasonal forecasts.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I had a dawg once,”
the big fellow said. “Not a bad sort of
a mong. I’m workin’ in Mildura an’
stayin’ at a boardin’-house run be a young
widow. Well, before I’m there long I
notices that I get more on me plate than
the other blokes, there’s a extra blanket
on me bunk and a few other things which
make me eye that widow pretty hard.
She starts purrin’ up t’ me, an’ I’m goin’
dead careful, ’cos it’s a nice joint t’ stay'
at, the job’s a good one, an’ I ain’t givin’
her any chances o’ draggin’ me to the
altar. I reckon she must’ve bin pretty
cunnin’, ’cos after a bit she starts
a fuss o’ me dawg, feedin’ him up an’
kiddin’ t’ him. The mong wags his tail
an’ grins at her, real pleased.” Mat got
up and lifted his axe. “Hold on,” 1 said ;
“what became o’ the hound?” “Left him
there,” he said, “an’ did a bolt meself
one night. Any dawg that’ll fall f’r a
woman’s tricks ain’t fit company f’r a
bloke like me.”
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”; The streets of Gul-
gong (N.S.W.) are narrow very.
“Warroo” Walters, cashed up from the
Mudgee races, awoke one hot night,
found the publican and said “Min’ if I
drag me nap out in the yard?” The
publican didn’t mind, so “Warroo”
grabbed an armful of bedding, staggered
down the passage and through the door,
threw the nap on the ground and sub-
sided thereon. An hour later he was
awakened by an indignant motorist who
wanted to get past. “Warroo” had gone
through the wrong door and was block-
ing the main street.
* * * *
“Blue Gum”: Tasmania once made an
effort to wipe out of existence the quaint
marsupial “tiger.” The unsettled western
forests are now its home. Recently, how-
ever, it has been seen in the Tyenna
Valley timber country near the newsprint
works, also at Adamsfield and in the Lake
“There y' are, jus' like I said —an' the fixed price is one an' a penny!"
St. Clair national park, reports indicating
that it is nowhere near being extinct. It
is now wholly protected, and, although
Sydney Zoo has made tempting offers to
obtain a pair for breeding experiments,
the Tasmanian Fauna Board considers
that the best way to preserve the animal
is to leave it alone in its natural haunts.
This pouched, wolflike creature, about
the size of an Alsatian dog and tawny-
brown in color, has wide, black stripes
down the sides of its body like those of
a tiger; its long, tapering tail cannot be
wagged freely because of the stiff joint
at the body.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: Every boiler fireman
knows that it is easier to maintain a head
of steam once the sun has set. Also, it
is easier to maintain a good head on a
cold day than on a hot ope. Simply a
matter of atmospheric balance. A cold
night atmosphere weighing heavy around
a hot chimney stalk draws the heated
fumes out more quickly, while at the
same time, by virtue of the same density,
it pours in more fiercely at the ashpit
opening. To the boiler fireman the
damper tells the story; on a broiling hot
day he will toil despairingly with the
damper full open; on night shift his
boilers will carry the same load with the
damper half down and the fireman taking
things easy.
« * * *
“Bad Australian”: I fail to under-
stand why “Narrin” should doubt another
sport’s statement that he had killed sur-
face-swimming fish with bow and
“ Quick-run us in, sport!”
arrow (B. 14/6/’44) Before the Kanaka
was thrown out of Queensland many
“walkabout” boys secured most of reir
tucker by shooting fresh-watei mulle ,
flock pigeons and the big, succu en
“whampoo’ with the bow and arrow. A
sharp-pointed arrow was used for fish,
and one tipped with a rounded piece of
hardwood for the birds. The round-
ended arrow was quite effective, and
could always be retrieved, as it dropped
to the ground immediately upon impact
with either bird or tree limb.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: There’s one place
where not even the best of night sight
avails, and that’s a thousand feet under-
ground when the lights go out. In that
kind of darkness a man can’t see even his
finger held a couple of inches in Iront
of his eyes. Queer things have occurred
to men in such darkness; about the
queerest happened to a miner in the old
Chaffers g.m.. Boulder (W.A.). Having let
his candle drop out of his spider through
allowing it to burn too low, so that the
iron ring got hot and lost its grip, he then
discovered that he was out of matches.
But the platman would certainly have a
light, and it was only a matter of about
400 feet along the crosscut, and one could
feel the way by keeping alongside the
wall. But the platman wasn’t there. And,
more, the inevitable idiot had left the
wooden bar up that ordinarily guarded
the mouth of the shaft. So, suddenly, the
walker in the dark found himself
stepping into space and hurtling down-
wards ; with the bottom 400 feet below.
But he survived. The cage in that shaft
happened to be below him, descending.
Falling at the rate of 15 feet per second
he overtook it, the cage’s descent at about
five feet per second cushioning his fall.
After that he was the one bloke off
whom you could always be sure of
borrowing a match.
* * * •
“Lower Tops’l”: All this talk about
giant gropers attacking divers is boloney
in the opinion of Murray Islanders work-
ing from luggers in Great Barrier Reef
waters. These native boys, when under-
water, either naked or in a diving suit,
never worry if they spot a large groper
reclining or cruising about near at hand,
as it is rarely that the big fish annoy
them. If by chance they do, these skin-
divers well know that the largest of
groper have teeth no longer than those
of a human, and that the attacker can
be pushed aside with both hands. Accord-
ing to Ned Pitt, a Murray Islander and
diver who is now Jack-of-all-trades at
Johnston’s sawmill on the Barron River
(N.Q.) there has been only one case of
injury by a groper. That was a boy from
a lugger belonging to his father, Douglas
Pitt, who in the 1920 cyclone swam 1
miles to Cape Grafton. Off Cardwell
the boy, while endeavoring to push a
large groper aside, had the point of ms
nose bitten off; he’s alive today. But
it’s a different story with sharks wheie
these skin-divers are concerned. On
sighting a man-eater the boys surface im-
mediately, as they know no way of com-
bating them, and fatalities have been too
numerous to mention.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Dossing in a circle of
fires (B. 7/6/’44) has an equally effective
counterpart in North America. There
they build a “long fire” the whole length
of a log about 20ft. long which lies
parallel to a bank or wall of rock
about 4ft. from it. It’s known as “fire
and fence” because in level country they
build a brush or log fence abbut 3ft
high to take the place of the bank or
cliff. The direct heat from one side and
the reflected heat from the other ensure
all-over warmth.
* * * *
“C.R.”: There’s often a bit of history
behind paddock names, though it’s not
always easy to unearth. Strathfield
station (N.Q.), for instance, has paddocks
called Gold Reef and Golden Hole—a
subtle reminder of gold that wasn’t there.
Same property has a spot known as Bung-
eye Corner. A true enough name, as I
found when I was down that way one fly-
time.
* * * *
“Bass Strait Pirate”: Mention in these
columns of storm-lashed Preservation
Island in Bass Strait and of the former
lessees, Maclaines, of Clarke Island, re-
calls that a month or so ago this family
evacuated 22,000-acre Clarke Island after
a tenure lasting 85 years. It was taken
up by John Maclaine, who first came
to Hobart Town as a major in the British
Regulars. His sole survivirig son, George
—another son went to the Klondyke rush
and disappeared—spent a lifetime wool-
growing on the bleak island, and he
remembers in 1875 its granite-lined shores
being littered with cargo from the ship
Cambridgeshire, wrecked near by. George
is an omnivorous reader, with a retentive
memory of a kind only acquired these
days in quiet places, and he could dis-
cuss in detail anything from Antarctic
exploration to the Bourbon dynasty. Of
late years the releasing of rabbits on
Clarke Island reduced the carrying capa-
city by 1000 to 3000 sheep. Handicapped
by the one poor anchorage at Kangaroo
Bay, these days especially, the island
station is the loneliest of places.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The radio quiz question
was “What is a filly?” One lady thought
it was some sort of a horse. The next
competitor gave the answer: 1 A young
female horse.” “Oh, no,” said the an-
nouncer, “not a horse.” The third and
last contestant took the hint. “A young
female mare,” she submitted. “Right,
declared the Master Mind. Apparently
male mares are not unknown in radio
circles.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Having once been caught
by an overnight flood, “Dashmerags
Smith always took the precaution of tying
empty kero.-tins to his nap when bunk-
ing close to the river on low land. He
took his usual precautions the night he
camped below the pump at Tapalin, The
river was a banker, and there was a
chance of the billabong rising. The pass-
age of the steamer J. G. Arnold, with tvyo
barges, brought a heavy wash which dis-
lodged the fowlhouse and its occupants
and swept “Dsfshmerags” into the billa-
bong. “Don’t worry about me bunk,”
he gasped as we fished him out; she 11
float till morning.” Daylight revealed the
tins and parts of the bunk, and on them,
patiently awaiting rescue, several of our
chooks and a stray porcupine. “Dashme-
rags” was so excited he wanted to apply
to the R.S.P.C.A. for a medal.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Steve collected two dead
marines from Sandy’s hut, corked the
drench tight and was looking round, for a
dark place to put it when the Scot returned
from a bender. From his hut door Sandy
watched Steve enter the stable, a bottle
in each hand. Presently he came out
still carrying them, and made for the
haystack. Sandy bent low and followed.
He stuck closely to the fence till he
reached the yards, then, hiding himself
behind a big yellow box, he watched
Steve shove the bottles into the hay. Steve
smoothed the stack, retreated a few
paces and looked round thoughtfully. In
a few minutes he changed his mind,
crawled under the stand, dug a hole and
transferred the sheep medicine. Piling
earth and straw on top he marked the
place with a stone and returned to the
shack. It was two days before they
came on Sandy, but Steve bets that when
he recovers he’ll be healthier than any
woolly in the district.
PAYING OFF.
They’re paying off the Leopold
You, Johnny Weser, join the line.
You needn’t think,’’cos you are old,
Your tum’lT come ahead o’ mine.
The gals can wait, the gals can sing
Outside the gate like anything;
Until we’ve changed good oil to gold,
They’re payin’ off the Leopold.
They’re paying on a seven-munce cruise,
Two hundred tun of oil we got.
So watch y’r step an’ p’s and q s
The pay-off blokes might grab the lot.
Slop-chest account —a pair of boots,
October fifth, at seven bob—
They gabble off the list, them coots,
With one for someone’s bloomin’ nob.
They’re paying off the Leopold
Hark while the slop-chest lists unfold.
Two socks, five bob; two shirt's, fifteen;
Tobacco by the bloomin yard.
If they was made o’ velveteen.
Why would two singlets come so hard/
An’ in their gab they doubles ’em...
The gals’ll wear their Sunday best;
An’ that is all that troubles ’im,
That bloke up there called Jimmy Bold,
Harpooner off the Leopold.
The fiddler’s waiting—let ’im wheeze;
Aye, let ’im dance with Sues an’ Sals
An’ lead us to the Seven Keys
An’ every bloomin’ key a gal’s.
A-dancing or in cabs we’ll go,
Old whalers leading boys astray.
Who was it said he’d never blow
His wages when he got his pay—
When once his pay was his to hold
And they paid off the Leopold?
Oh, he would be a grocer then!
He would keep all that came t'o him,
And find a job ashore where men
Drift easily down futures dim.
Maybe he’d be a publican,
Or get three acres arid a cow,
But nevermore a whalerman
A-drinking in the Barley Mow
That was before the rum was rolled,
And they paid off the Leopold.
They’re paying off the Leopold—
Oh, Johnny Weser, dance your jig!
Don’t think because ye’re growing old
Ye can’t outdance old Pat the Pig.
Your pocket’s filled, your heart’s alight,
And linked with hearts as gay as yours
You’ll sing like lories every night,
As long as your fat roll endures.
And when at last its tale is told
You’ll sail again in the Leopold.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


0
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: B, SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC,
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES. LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
f
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
C\ANpGAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
‘ °i‘s!“. b BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia- 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks far
Bone-chewing Cattle
f* I Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum or
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583S, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4C58 Melbourne, 75SK, Brisbane, 712F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo Fly.
“Norther”; Months ago M.O.L. con-
tributors called attention to the south-
ward spread of the pest, warning that the
dairy country was already invaded and
the fly on the rampage. Now R. F. Cor-
nish, in Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” says
“all efforts to check the southward move-
ment have failed Graziers are satis-
fied that there is no hope of stopping it
by present methods.”
David Rivett, chief of the C.5.1.R., was
in Queensland early this month, and said
the C.S.I.R. was trying to find a means
of control, including the use of a trap
and “possibly” a new chemical dichloro-
diphenyltrichloroethane, or “D.D.T.” “It
is highly effective against flies, but so
far we haven’t found a vehicle in which
it is entirely satisfactory. Also it is not
yet certain that it may not harm the
After Pearl Harbor the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture began looking for
insecticides that would protect U.S. ser-
vice men from insects and insect-borne
diseases.
In 1942 they tested a lone pound of
D.D.T. which U.S. agents slipped out of
Switzerland. By May, 1943, it was being
manufactured in a new half-million-dollar
plant D.D.T. can be made cheaply in
great quantities. In powder form, dusted
on underclothing or inside shirt sleeves and
trouser legs, it protects against body lice,
and to some extent against ticks and chig-
gers. Used in a spray, it will make your
living-room walls toxic to flies for as long
as three months after one spraying! Yet
this remarkable chemical is not even faintly
irritating to men or animals.
A Bureau of Entomology worker in
Maryland, L. D. Goodhue, has been try-
ing D.D.T. in freon, a refrigerator gas
which is harmless when released in air.
Combining them, he rid a big cafeteria
of insects, cleaned up pets brought to
him and stopped small insects by spray-
ing wire screens. Freon is more costly
than the common oil spray—it may not
be obtainable in Australia at present—
but its greater efficiency with an insecti-
cide like D.D.T. makes it cheaper in the
long run.
If all this is true, and there seems no
reason to doubt it, the C.S.I.R. seems to
be dragging the chain a bit. If the stuff
“can be made cheaply in great quanti-
ties” there’s no reason why it shouldn't
be tried immediately on buffalo-fly-
infested cattle. Admittedly scientists have
to be dead sure about things like this,
but somebody will have to hurry up if
buffalo fly is to be stopped.
U.S. Wool-sampling.
“Murrawong”: From U.S.A. comes a
report of a new system of wool-classing
on sale floors. A machine drives a cylin-
drical shaft into a bale and extracts a
core of wool which is then tested and
scoured for type and yield of the bale. It
is stated that this method cuts down the
present margin of error (20 p.c.) by half,
but if the “coring” method can get only
within 10 p.c. of correct valuation it is
hardly likely to receive consideration in
Australia.
Under the Australian auction system
woolbuyers were specialists, and on their
valuations depended their reputations and
livelihood. Under the war-time appraise-
ment scheme most of them are still on
the job—for the British Government —
but the woolbroker, as the growers’ agent,
still has considerable say in the matter.
Where buyers trained in different ways
once differed widely in their individual
ideas of counts and yields, today they
work.on a “Table of Limits” which sets
a type for almost every staple grown in
Australia. Owing to their original diver-
gence in training, various appraisers may
not agree on placing one lot of wool in
a certain type.
In the matter of yield, few buyers
would undertake to place a yield on any
sample. A man who bought chiefly
specialty wools—high-yielding spinners’
types —would not feel so confident if he
had to handle red, sandy wools or burry
crutchings. The human factor in ap-
praisement has been cut down as far as
possible by specialisation, but it cannot
be entirely overcome.
The final test of spinning quality and
yield can be made only when the wool
"Quick, get the water-bottles, Bert; here comes the water-cart!"
has been scoured, combed and spun. For
some years scientists in Australia have
been measuring wool fibres, and have
demonstrated that assessing quality by
appearance of crimp and fibre is not
reliable. Many fleeces to which experts
have given full points for evenness have
proved under the microscope not only
to vary widely in diameter of individual
fibres, but to possess a true spinning
quality far different from that indicated
by present methods.
There should be a good opening for
a commercial wool-testing laboratory in
Australia. Samples of doubtful lots
could be tested to clear up arguments.
The service would be of immense benefit
to stud breeders. Many studmasters
might be surprised to find that their
strong-woolled sires were actually fine
wools, or that they carried a fleece vary-
ing from 56’s to 70’s. That’s what the
microscope has proved already, and the
wool industry needs such information.
Machines in Dairying.
“Pat Ater”: Mechanisation is the only
method by which dairy-farming can be
lifted from drudgery and inefficiency. If
the small man is to survive in competi-
tion with the bigger machine-run con-
cerns he must look around for means of
improvement.
The days of haphazard dairying are
passing. Those who rely on natural pas-
tures and good seasons to pull them
through will be beaten in the race of.
costs. It is the natural law of progress.
Bigger demands are calling for increased
production, with cleanliness, quality and
speed as assets.
These things can be done quickly and
cheaply by machinery: Stepping-up re-
turns, sowing fodder crops, improving
pastures, making silage and hay. Milk-
ing machines ensure quickness and effi-
ciency, guarantee cleanliness and lower
the bacterial count in milk.
The N.S.W. dairy mechanisation
scheme is the first concrete method of
affording assistance to small dairy-
farmers. Tractors, with single to three
furrow, mouldboard and disc ploughs
and harrows, rotary hoes and reapers
and binders are available for hiring at
nominal cost. At Campbelltown, where
a Rural Co-operative Society was formed
to take advantage of the scheme, 1000
acres were treated by mid-March. The
society has a depot for housing and
treating its pooled machinery.
Farmers not in a district served by such
a scheme should form their own society
to buy and run pool machinery. Expert
labor is available to service the machines.
Rearing Calves.
“Hux”: In certain Queensland dis-
tricts some farmers are not rearing calves
but going flat out on milk production
while the price is high. This shortsighted-
ness means, in time, acute stock shortages
and lowering of herd standards. A calf
can be reared on substitutes that cost less
than milk if (1) the proportion of digest-
ible proteins to digestible carbohydrates
is in the vicinity of one to three or four ;
(2) the ration is palatable and easily
'digested; (3) the food is cheap—pollard
or concentrates.
For the first week feed the calf on
the colustrum. To the calf weighing
about 601 b. at birth, feed 61b. to 71b.
daily at blood heat (lOOdeg. F.) for the
first week ; several feeds are better than
two. Second week, change over to 61b.
fresh milk, 21b. water, plus a tablespoon
of meatmeal. Third week, reduce the
milk to 41b., add 51b. water, 2oz. meat-
meal and £lb. pollard. Give plenty of
water and place on good grass. Fourth
week, again decrease the milk by 11b.
and increase pollard to 4ib. or fib. and
4oz. meatmeal.
In the second month, pollard and meat-
meal are built up to Iflb. and fib. re-
spectively per day. After two months,
milk is eliminated from the feed and
the animal is run on fresh pastures. Hay
or silage may be fed in small quantities.
As the calf takes to grass, the pollard
can be reduced by fib, daily, the meat-
meal being kept at 6oz. to Boz. This
amount of meatmeal is needed up to six
months, when the calf should be weaned.
Maizemeal soaked in boiling water can
be substituted for pollard. If the area’s
deficient in minerals, supply salt licks and
salt.
Good shade in the paddocks, draught-
free pens, regularly liming of sheds to
prevent worms, and thorough sterilising
of buckets are aids to good health.
On the Atherton farmers are rearing
calves from birth to weaning at six
months on pollard and meatmeal. Similar
concentrates can be used, provided the
nutritive ratio is about the same. Too
early a start with pollard will set up
white scours. Starting with a little meat-
meal and building up the pollard ration
prevent trouble.
Hints for the Farm.
“Graz”: R. A. Tomlinson, Eumun-
gerie (N.S.W.), dusts slaked lime on fly-
strikes. Lime dries up and cleans the
wound of the fly-attractive smell. It
heals quickly, thus avoiding the necessity
for second dressings. If lime causes
bubbles when put in water it is not suffi-
ciently slaked. A tin with pepperpot
holes is used for applying the lime-dust.
“Hux”: For burns in animals use
tannic acid in proportion of loz. to a pint
of water. Dressing with equal parts of
limewater and raw linseed oil is also
effective. Don’t use kerosene ; it burns
the tissues. To reduce shock caused by
burns house the victim in dark stables
and supply plenty of drinking water.
“Portergaff”: To freshen up old brick-
work use a weak spirits of salts solution:
eight parts water to one part spirits. Wet
the bricks well, then with a piece of hoop-
iron as a scraper loosen stray daubs of
mortar. Brush the acid solution into the
brickwork until it begins to bubble. Wash
down thoroughly with water to complete
the job.
“L.C.”: Vegetable pests can be divided
into chewers and suckers. To control
the chewers use a wet spray of 11b. arsen-
ate of lead in 20gal. of water or equal
parts of slaked lime and wheat flour.
Cover every atom of the plants. Nicotine
sulphate at the rate of loz. to 4gal.
slightly soapy water is deadly to the sap-
suckers. Phenyl—one part in 80 parts
water —is a good substitute. For fungus
diseases, dust with flowers of sulphur or
spray with lime-sulphur or Bordeaux
mixture.
“G. 1.”: Don’t buy a cheap light-gauge
crosscut. The weight of the heavier one
makes it cut quicker and soon saves the
extra cost. Don’t set it first thing in the
morning, as you may break a tooth. If
not an expert, stick to the old peg-tooth,
as it is easily sharpened, the peg and rake
type being rather complicated. *
“Plane Creek”: Should have made
myself a bit clearer (B. 24/5/’44). I
didn’t mean that half-hardy fruit trees
should be raised where they are to re-
main. They really should be raised in
flowerpots—l use cut-down tins —and the
holes should be dug 4ft. deep in damp
weather. Later, when the soil is dry,
blast them with dynamite—a great sqil-
loosener. But pawpaws, custard apples
and soursops, mangoes and bush lemons,
also guavas, are set back by transnlant-
ing, and should be, set where tb e to
stay. These trees grow and m a
wild state in parts of N.Q.
“Sarina”: If “J .S.’s” statement (B.
24/5/’44) , that it is useless to grow
fruit-tree seedlings without grafting is
right, how would new varieties be pro-
duced? Grafting merely assures that the
desired variety is grown. With citrus
trees, seedlings will give good results,
provided the originals are good. Two
mandarin seedlings that I transplanted
from beneath a Scarlet Emperor man-
darin tree turned out to be Scarlet Em-
perors, even though adjoining Thorny
and Glen Retreat mandarin trees were in
bloom simultaneously. Also, five seed-
lings from under an orange-tree whose
neighbor was of a different variety grew
into bigger, heavier-bearing trees than the
originals.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Empire Stands.
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment .)
Long before the present war it had be-
come fashionable to talk about the decline
and growing disintegration of the British
Empire. So prevalent was the notion
that “England’s day is done,” not only
among the Empire’s enemies but even
among some British intellectuals, that it
gave rise to speculation as to who would
inherit the pieces.
It was thi3 notion which helped to lure
both Germany and Japan into a war
which to them was first of all a War of
the British Succession as an essential step
toward world domination. And the lurid
criticisms of British administration and
warfare in the Far East, in Singapore, in
Burma and in India undoubtedly con-
firmed them in their calculations.
Now the British Empire has been tested
in the fires of war for going on five years,
and as a result of this test Mr. Churchill
has been able to proclaim, not only that
he is not going to preside over the liqui-
dation of the Empire but that, “while
the world is in crisis, the British Empire
and Commonwealth within itself was
never more united.”
The nature of the British Empire is per-
haps best illustrated by a contrast with
the most ambitious empire project of our
time —that of Nazi Germany. Con-
ceived in pride and hate, the German
project was based on a conquest of the
world in which some races were to be
exterminated entirely and in which all
nations, including those with age-old
national cultures and traditions, were to
be denationalised and degraded to
drawers of water and hewers of wood
for a German master race composed of
all men of “German blood” throughout
the world but ruled by an autocratic
Fiihrer in Berlin.
To the Nazis this project appeared to
be merely an imitation of what they con-
ceived to be the “world rule” of the
English-speaking community, with this
difference, as they explained, that while
the British Empire and the larger Anglo-
American community were merely acci-
dental theirs would be a “planned empire”
which would exclude all fortuitous cir-
cumstances and would therefore last for
a thousand years. They knew nothing
of the imponderables which made and
saved and maintained the British Empire
and the Anglo-American community.
But it is perhaps well to recall these same
imponderables for the benefit of those
who are now planning wider world or-
ganisations and international super-States
for the maintenance of peace at the ex-
pense of national independence.
Stunned by Stalin.
(From the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
People who have been watching what
Russia does instead of listening to what
her foreign apologists say refuse to be
stunned by anything that comes out of
Russia in this period of her ascendancy
in Europe. The only thing that stuns this
school of thought is the willingness of
the other Allies, including us, to confine
the other Allies to confine their part to
saying Yes and signing all cheques.
Not having taken a chance on an out-
and-out prediction for several months
now, we hereby let down our hair and
make this one, to wit:
Unless the Anglo-American Allies dig
up a German policy in a short time, they
will wake up some morning soon to find
themselves stunned by the news that
Stalin has a policy for Germany which
will have at least the merit of definiteness.
They will also be staggered to note that
the Germans he does business with will
not be Communists, maybe not even
Liberals. In fact, they could be National
Socialists deloused of Hitler, Goebbels
and a few others. On this point, the
English “Nineteenth Century and After”
declared recently that Stalin preferred a
conservative regime to a radical one for
Germany because “a revolution carried
out by the German Left, with Russian
support, could not last, and perhaps could
not even begin. But a revolution carried
out by the Right could last and could
preserve the Russian-controlled German
economic order.”
Therefore, our advice to the “don’t deal
with those wicked reactionaries” intellec-
tuals is to take note of the fact that
Stalin deals with people who can deliver
the goods. If the so-called Liberals will
concentrate on that they won’t be so
stunned when Stalin recognises De
Yalera, takes over Austria or otherwise
demonstrates that he is a modern, high-
octane power politician, able, when neces-
sary, to forget his basic ideology.
Needs of Peace.
(From an “Atlantic Monthly’'' article by Sir
William Beveridge, author of the Beveridge
Report on post-war social security for Great
Britain.')
There are three main conditions of
security in the world after victory for the
United Nations. The first is that justice
should be established in place of force
as the arbiter between nations. The
second is that there must be a reasonable
opportunity of productive work for every
individual. The third is that there must
be assurance of an income sufficient to
keep a person above want when for any
reason he cannot work. Each of these
three conditions is essential. How can
they be secured?
The establishment of justice in place
of force as arbiter between nations
cannot be secured by any one nation for
itself. No nation can be free, not merely
from war but from fear of war —-which
in some ways is just as destructive of
security—by its own arms. No nation is
strong enough by itself to act as police-
man for the world, or would be accepted
by other nations in that capacity. Last-
ing peace, the first condition of security,
can be achieved only through the positive,
permanent co-operation of a group of
strong nations that are prepared, on the
one hand, to submit to justice them-
selves in place of using their strength
to establish their claims, and, on the other
hand, to provide the force without which
justice between nations cannot be estab-
lished. As Mr. Churchill once said:
“The scales of justice are vain without
her sword.”
The second condition of security is
that the industry of each country should
be so organised as to provide a reason-
able opportunity of productive work for
all its citizens while they can work. The
main question here is how far this re-
sponsibility for using resources in peace
as fully as they are used in war can be
undertaken by private enterprise, and
what part the State may have to play.
Different nations, no doubt, will answer
this question in different ways and will
adopt different methods for organising
their industry. Some, like Russia, may
rely wholly or mainly on State enter-
prise or, at least, on complete State
planning. Some, like the United States,
may rely wholly or mainly on private
enterprise. Some may rely on a combina-
tion of methods: Mr. Churchill has
spoken of harnessing State enterprise and
private enterprise in Britain to the
common task of maintaining productive
employment and raising standards of
living.
There are many varieties of possible
action in this field, and there is no need
for all nations to act the same way.
But even in countries which leave the
main business of organising employment
to private enterprise, as the United States
certainly will, there are some things
for which Government action will be
needed: to stabilise employment by pre-
venting or counteracting cyclical fluctua-
tion with its alternations of boom and
depression ; to stabilise agricultural prices
and production ; to stabilise commercial
policy, so as to make possible a steady
flow of international trade.
For all these purposes, moreover, the
Governments of different nations will
need to act, not separately, but in col-
laboration. In so far as the maintenance
and improvement of standards of living
involves trade between nations, the in-
dustrial system of every nation, whether
collectivist or individualist, communist,
socialist or capitalist, or a blend of any
of these, must work within a framework
of international trade, must make possible
an orderly development of trade. There
need not be any indissoluble arrange-
ments between nations on this matter.
Each nation may retain administration
of its own economic affairs, but it will
be necessary to build up gradually a code
of good-neighbor behavior in regard to
international trade, and a common
policy as to how it shall be conducted
and shared among nations. One of the
most urgent needs of today is that the
nations should get together now to frame
a policy and a system for the conduct of
world trade after the war. If they do not
do so, they may lapse into that self-
destructive economic nationalism which
caused almost as much ruin after the
First World War as the war itself had
done.
The third condition of security is that
the individual should be sine of aa in-
come when for any reason he cannot
work, whether that reason is sickness,
accident, old age or unemployment. The
main method I proposed for Britain is
social insurance combined with children s
allowances, guaranteeing to every citizen
at all times, on condition of readiness to
serve while he can serve and on conditon
of contribution while he is earning, an
income sufficient for his subsistence and
the subsistence of his dependants, whether
he is earning or not earning. This sub-
sistence income will be given as of right,
whenever the risk insured against —un-
employment, accident, sickness, old age
or premature death —arises, without in-
quiry as to what other means the in-
sured person possesses ; he is thus left
with full incentive to make whatever
additional provision above the compul-
sory subsistence he may desire and be
able to make by voluntary saving or
insurance.
The susbsistence income will be given
not as charity, but as an insurance on
condition of contributions. It will be
given under controls preventing malinger-
ing and idleness. With the guarantee of
a minimum income goes provision, also
on an insurance basis, of medical treat-
ment of all kinds for all citizens, at home
and in hospital, to keep them always as
well as science can make them.
These, then, are the three conditions
of security for all men in all lands —
peace, a job when one can work, and
income when one cannot work. Which
of the three conditions is most impor-
tant or comes first in time ? All three
conditions are indispensable. If we fail
in any of them we do not achieve
security.
Claims to Air Bases.
(From an American ‘‘Foreign Affairs” article by
Sir Frederick Handley Page, managing director
of the Handley Page co. and vice-chairman of
the British Air Registration Board.)
The claim of the United States to a
prescriptive operating right in the air
bases built abroad by American labor
and materials is a source of some mis-
understanding at the moment.
The British view is that it is difficult
to distinguish the part of a nation’s war
An article published in the
“Hamburger Fremdenblatt ” quoted
Benito Mussolini as saying that he
believed the Allies had planned to
transfer him to the United States
to put him on exhibit as a war
criminal and charge a fee to see
him. —Madrid correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
effort which goes into the making of an
air base from the parts which go into
the making of an aircraft carrier or the
making of a cap for a six-inch shell. All
these items have a common purpose: to
win the war.
We British do not expect to gain
material assets from the war which we
can turn to our advantage in the peace.
We think of the ability to remain free
as a sufficient gain. Americans may not
altogether realise how near we came to
enslavement.
Perhaps the difficulty over the air
bases springs from a suspicion in Ameri-
can minds that the eastern half of the
world is anxious to shut out the air
services of the western half. That, of
course, is unfounded. No such exclu-
sion is imaginable unless Americans
wished to exclude commercial ’planes
coming from our side of the Atlantic.
That seems to me a no less ridiculous
suspicion.
Undoubtedly, the use of those bases
which America built outside her own
boundaries will be available to her if she
wants them. All that is necessary is that
an hour or two be spent in friendly dis-
cussion during the transition period in
order to arrange the matter.
Canada, U.S. and Empire.
(As viewed by a N.Y. “Times” correspondent.)
Canada today is in a state of visible
and self-conscious transition. She is
making exceptional sacrifices and suf-
fering heavy losses in the war, but no
country is likely to come out of it more
strengthened and benefited. The im-
portant part she is playing in the war
as the third naval Power, the fourth mili-
iary air Power, the third contributor of
finished military stores to the Allied cause
—all without benefit o£ American lend-
lease—gives her a new measure of her
productive capacity and a new sense of
potentiality in the post-war world.
Canadians used to speak of themselves
as “the big little nation” with the accent
on little. They were always thinking of
the size of the population compared with
that of the United States. Now the em-
phasis shifts, to the size of their territory
and the immense possibilities it offers tor
development.
They see themselves as an up-and-
coming nation, not a great Power but cer-
tainly a world Power holding a strategic
position upon the new political map by
virtue of their place on the main high-
ways of the sea and air and because of
their closeness to Russia and western
Europe. They are beginning to want
more people to fill their vast empty
spaces. They are in a mood for change.
There is a widespread feeling of part-
nership with the United States. It is not
too much to say that a new and, in mapy
respects, unique international relationship
is developing between the two countries
as a result of their close collaboration in
a common military effort. Never before,
perhaps, have two separate nations co-
operated unreservedly as Canada and the
United States are working together at this
moment. In war production the two
countries are acting almost as one nation,
and Canadians appear to view these
tightening ties with real satisfaction.
This closer relationship with the United
States does not tend to weaken the his-
toric, economic and political bonds that
united Canada to Great Britain. On the
contrary, the war has intensified the
emotional attachment and marked up the
value Canada places on her membership
in the Commonwealth. This is due in
part to her belief that she is an increas-
ingly important and influential member,
while at the same time, since the war has
drawn the British and American systems
together, she sees less and less reason why
she should not belong to both —a kind of
junction point in that linking of systems
in a world pattern which Canadians pre-
fer to an organisation based on the
dominance of three or four Powers. This
preference explains Canadian objections
to the ideas expressed by Lord Halifax
and Marshal Smuts, interpreted in Canada
as leading to inevitable rivalry.
Changes in Russia.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
Many students have noted that Marxian
internationalism has been replaced by an
intense Russian nationalism based on
Russian traditions ; that the Marxian class
struggle has been replaced by a patriotic
struggle for home and country; that the
supposedly classless Soviet society is de-
veloping into a hierarchy with greatly
differentiated powers and incomes for
various strata ; and that Soviet economy
has adopted numerous purely capitalistic
techniques, including not only incentive
wages but also profits and capital
accumulations, heretofore denounced as
“surplus value” resulting from “exploi-
tation” of the workers by the capitalists.
A new study, made by three experts
formerly active in Russian affairs as
economists, writers and at times as
officials, deals primarily with the status,
power and remuneration of Soviet in-
dustrial and agricultural managers. It
does not call the Russian economic
system State capitalism but rather speaks
of State monopoly, and it likewise
makes plain that the operations of the
Soviet plant manager are subject to the
State’s over-all planning and price-fixing.
But within these limitations the plant
manager is boss within his plant. The
restraints and supervision of workers’
councils, Soviet commissars and trade-
unions imposed on him in the beginning
have been removed. He .is responsible
for the operation of the plant and the
quantity and quality of its production ;
he hires, fires, promotes and fixes the
norms of piecework pay, which is the
prevailing form of pay; he organises
training, directs “socialist competition”
and is responsible for measures protect-
ing Labor’s health and welfare. But he
is also responsible for the profits of the
plant, which under a fixed-price system
must be obtained by greater efficiency.
And these profits, which are divided be-
tween the State as owner-capitalist and.
the plant, determine the plant’s develop-
ment, and therewith also the manager’s
income, power and career. For the profits
are the test 6f the plant’s efficiency; and
this efficiency determines his bonuses,
which are often of much greater import-
ance than his salary. The trade-unions
have been purged of their revolution-
ary leaders and eliminated from the
machinery of hiring and fixing wages.
The trend would seem to be away from
the “primitive Communism” remanticised


The World follows Britain's lead . .
v.'V
m
r,
i m
i '- ."r
m
W:
m H
r
r
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank. — out-
standing military weapon of the period and fprerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war. Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0.,R.E.
The originator of the
Tank , raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915..
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtauids Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
B
CXAVSAT
Australia asks for your money •»
an enemy would take it.
Every £lO National Savings Bon«
helps to keep you Free!
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
by the Marxists and symbolised by
Lenin’s workman’s shirt and cap. But
the plant managers have attained their
authority not so much as plant managers
but as members of the ruling caste, the
Communist party, to which most of them
belong. And the Communist party still
exercises a totalitarian rule directed by
its Central Committee, whose primary
aims are more political than economic.
But the progressive transformation in
Russia provides further explanation for
the curious gyrations of the Communist
parties elsewhere, and especially in
America.
Dominions Post-war.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent.)
At the end of the first World War
the Dominion forces were among the
first to be sent home and demobilised.
This time their Governments will have
to face the inevitably unpopular neces-
sity of having to maintain considerable
strength in the overseas occupation
armies, in both Europe and the Pacific
area, after the war.
That will be a departure of a very
radical kind from all previous policy,
for it breaks down the whole former
conception of the obligations of these
countries.
The extent to which they’'will partici-
pate in occupation and in the future
world-security forces will be, of course,
a matter for the ultimate decision of
the peoples and Parliaments of the dif-
ferent countries. It is, however, obvious
that the Prime Ministers, in approving
[at the Empire Conference] the present
armistice and, occupation plans, are com-
mitting themselves to a new principle
and policy that they may later have to
defend against those in their countries
who adhere to the old conception of no
commitments and no military service
outside their own territories.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The Russians have carefully refrained from
bombings. They will enter the countries they
conquer, in some instances, as deliverers. Our
own armies will enter countries strewn with
rubble by our bombs, and they undoubtedly
will meet rankling hatred, bred by the trial by
bomb. We must face these facts frankly, even
while recognising that the balance sheet of war
indicates quite clearly that the bombings must
go on. —Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. "Times.”
The defeat of Willkie indicated the deep-
seated anti-Roosevelt, anti-war, pro-isolation-
ist conviction in the hearts of the voters in the
Midwest. —John O’Donnell; N.Y. "Daily
News.”
;jc H: *
In some essential productive practices and
techniques, Russia is today even more “capi-
talistic” than the United States. However,
inasmuch as both the new capital and the
principal means of production are still owned
and operated-by the Russian State its system is
not a private capitalism as in the United States,
but a “State capitalism.” The new doctrine
holds that such “State capitalism” is more
progressive than private capitalism. But is is
also only logical for it to proclaim any kind
of “capitalism” as a “progressive” system and
to remove the old dogmatic obstacles to co-
operation between “Socialist” Russia and
“capitalist” America and Great Britain. From
that point of view, the new doctrine might be
welcomed in the interest of victory and the
future peace. It might even force the demo-
cracies to bestir themselves if they want to
cope with future Russian competition. But the
effect which the merger of both political and
economic power in the hands of a few men
representing the State has had on individual
liberty in Russia may also serve as a warning
to those who advocate a like merger in the
present democracies. — N.Y. "Times.”
* * * *
The post-war organisation of Europe and,
in fact, of the world, President Benes of
Czechoslovakia said in an interview, depends
most of all on the United States. I had told
President Benes that America fears Europe may
split up into spheres of influence or return to
the old war-provoking balance of power system.
In either event, I added, the chances were that
the United States would refuse to underwrite
the arrangement. “My answer to that,” the
President replied, “is that what happens de-
pends most of all on America. If she turns
isolationist again, as she did in 1920, the inter-
national lineup after the war will take one
direction. If she decides to collaborate along
the lines laid down by Secretary Hull and the
Connally and Fulbright resolutions it will take
quite another.” — N.Y. "World-Telegram’'’ Lon-
don representative William Philip Simms.
India, in spite of herself, is growing day by
day and night by night and slowly, ship by
ship and ’plane by ’plane, month after heart-
breaking month, into something that the Jap-
anese certainly never dreamed of or counted
on in their co-prosperity aggression. It is
possible to say this now because the danger to
India from Japan is assuredly over. Never
again in our time will any potential invader
have the opportunity that Japan muffed in the
winter of 1942 when she drew up her armies
at the hill barriers that separate India from
Burma. The Indian Army itself is a formid-
able force strategically placed and made up of,
or perhaps one should say made into, the finest
type of men that India can offer. The army
is proven and is understood and recognised and
relied upon. The army is good.” —Chicago
"Sun” correspondent in India.
* * * *
Everything is to be thrown into the try for
an early decision in Europe; the offensive will
be all out. Russia is war-weary, very tired,
using up great reserves of energy. England
is tired, worn by five years of war strain,
anxious for a decision. China, on the other
side of the world, is down, and nearly out.
Result is that more and more of the war load
will fall on U.S. if decision is delayed. This
will be the only country with the great reserve
strength, with the power that will be required
to win the wars in both oceans. Of course
Germany is war-weary, too. She has been
fighting five years. Her losses have been heavy.
It has been two years since a major victory.
Bombing is bringing attack to her home
territory, adding to what must be great strain.
Everything suggests that the next few months
can be decisive in Europe. If they are not,
then only U.S. power will stand in the way of
a stalemate. Bulk of any fighting in 1945
would have to be done by U.S. armies and air
forces. That’s true of the Far East as well as
of Europe. —" United States News:”
* * * *
Canada has made up its mind on foreign
policy—namely, adherence to the plan for an
international organisation of peace-loving
nations, membership in the British Common-
wealth of Nations, close consultation with these
nations but no commitment to accept their
majority decision in foreign affairs, no guaran-
tee to speak in a common voice to the world.
—Canadian correspondent "Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
Millions of men born abroad, but preferring
this country [U.S.A.], have become naturalised
American citizens. Therefore, let those bom
Americans who prefer other countries become
naturalised aliens. It is not to be counten-
anced that they remain here and use their citi-
zenship to betray your country and mine.—
Col. McCormick, of Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
“Can anybody still pretend that there will
ever be a Parliament of Nations or a World
Court with power and willingness to issue a
summons or an injunction in the case, of five
little nations v. Stalin, et al? , Can anybody
seriously count on an international police force
with power to enter Russia carrying a search
warrant? Who is to be the chief of such a
police force? Who is to drive the patrol
wagon? Who are to be the policemen? How
many? And how armed? Who is to ad-
judicate the case?” —Leading U.S. National
broadcaster Rupert Hughes.
* * * *
No man can foresee the outcome in terms of
weeks or months but the doom of Hitler and
his armies is sealed. The relentless pressure
of an Allied ring of bombers and infantry will
be exerted to a climax. Before another year
rolls around, the empire Hitler built should be
a shambles. —Washington correspondent N.Y.
"Sun.”
The 61st anniversary 'of Karl
Marx’s death, to which the Com-
munist press in this country still
devoted a large spread, passed
without a single word of mention
in the Russian press. — N.Y.
“Times."
The foreign policy pursued by Prime Minister
Churchill and Foreign Minister Eden recently
has been subjected to much critical analysis,
not so much from the angle of.its objective as
for the means taken to achieve it. There is a
strong feeling in some influential quarters that
the Foreign Office has been so obsessed with
the importance of Britain’s function as a
bridge between an increasingly nationalistic
Russia and an economically imperialistic United
States that the moral leadership which might
have been exercised has not been exerted as
fully and forcefully as it might have been.
Many Britons have become considerably con-
cerned regarding the cynical acquiescence of
their Government in Moscow’s sometimes
high-handed actions and its failure to stand up
more vigorously for British rights in the eco-
nomic field against what they regarded as en-
croachments by American business. —London
correspondent N.Y. "Times.”
* * * *
Let us not become outraged and self-right-
eous as the facts about China come to light.
As long as strikes flourish in both America and
Britain, as long as “Easter” parades reveal our
fashion industry going at full blast, as long as
our black markets burgeon in many communi-
ties, as long as the Truman Committee and
others uncover fantasies of profit-making and
industrial faking together with labor hold-ups
of indescribable effrontery—as long as these
things continue, we are in no position to cast
the first stone. —“Christian Science Monitor ,f
writer Erwin D. Canham.
* * * *
Now that we see the great aircraft carrier
and battleship force which has been constructed
since Pearl Harbor for our main offensive
against Japan, we know that the kind of war
the Navy decided to fight against Japan could
not have been begun arty sooner. To have
created this new amphibious power in two
and a half years is a miracle; it could not
have been created in less time. Until it was
created the United States could fight only
secondary and holding campaigns in the
Pacific. —Walter Lippmann; N.Y. "Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
Winston Churchill, in discussing the Atlantic
Charter, said he had made reservations to that
document. We thought that there was a perfect
cohesion between Roosevelt and Churchill,
between the United States and Great Britain.
But Churchill had made a reservation, which is
mixing sand in the glue of cohesion. Churchill
said: “I asked for the insertion of the follow-
ing words in the Atlantic Charter, which can
be read in that document: ‘With due respect
for their existing obligations.’ These are
limiting words and they were inserted for the
express purpose of retaining to this House and
to the Dominions the fullest possible rights
and liberties over the question of imperial
preference” I am not writing this to quarrel
with Churchill over Britain First, which is his
business, and the British may well thank God
that they have at the helm a leader who thinks
of his own country and his own people above
all else. My purpose is to point out that all
this cohesion requires looking into to make sure
that it is not the horse and rabbit sausage
variety—one horse to one rabbit. The fact
remains that the Government of the United
States did not choose to inform the people
that any limitations had been set to the cornu-
copia of good will overflowing in the Atlantic
Charter. And it is no wonder that the Charter
should be a dead and forgotten document
with most, and subject for a requiem by Win-
ston Churchill, as the war has reached that
stage when Stalin needs to partition Poland
and the future of India and Saudi Arabia are
of greater importance than the fate of Belgium
and Holland or the future government of
France. In a word, tempus fugit and the
politicians change their tune. —George E. Sokol-
sky; N.Y. "Sun.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
ROGERS.—lnformation required as to the where-
abouts of EDWIN JAMES ROGERS, a soldier in
World War No. 1, who at one time lived in Sydney
and afterwards went to Queensland. Son of Annie
Young (formerly Rogers), who lived at Yorketown,
South Australia.—EXECUTOß, TRUSTEE & AGENCY
CO. OF S.A., LTD., Adelaide.
Public Notices.
I, FRANCESCO DINARTINO, of Italian nationality,
born at Ragusa, Sicily, and resident 14 years in
Australia, now residing at No. 62 Foveaux Street,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936. ,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY MORRIS late of Burnley Victoria and
Camooweal Mount Isa Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that WILLIAM MORRIS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3502 of 1943 on the grounds of deser-
tion by you without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you raaj
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-first day
of August 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY Solicitor
81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagii Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007-8
and at aii branches
■O,
' ■
For all types of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
jQueen streee PTV. ltd. Brisbane, o ld.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HHHO
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2Y) 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
WOLFE'S
Chromatic
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Speed the Victory BUY VICTORY BONDS
it it- tttttt.ittt :. 'tt
m
S* sgs M
/*
:‘v
■
<ii'■■&•■
Wm
Wm
is
| «*r
«ii
■
ill
iy
to a.n^ 0 "
ofnei#*®"!
* 4.,,
1 j
Wherever you find good roads,
commerce and industry thrive.
Where there are bad roads the
fortunes of the whole nation
languish. ... Isolation and loneli-
ness eat into the hearts of the
people.
The future of Australia depends
first on the development of vast
areas by water and soil conserva-
tion, irrigation and cultivation . , , then on the development and
maintenance of roads and' airports. These will bring our vast
hinterland closer to rail and dock, closer to markets.
Caterpillar Tractors and W. & J. Earth-Moving Equipment, with their
huge working capacity, have proved, over and over again, that they
can perform these tasks at a fraction of the cost and of the time of
- older methods. Just now all our resources are turned to winning the
war, but we are also laying plans for helping win the peace.
CATERPILLAR DfSSU
RES. U.S. PAT. OF/.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ‘Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone —Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Iweedle, Port Macquarie.
" ’Phone~Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone— 2839 . 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475,
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Cl 8-33-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy A Self-made Merchant's Letters to
His Son. —3482,
Information Sought.
Which British ' fighter-pilot has the greatest
number of “kills” ?
Group-Captain “Sailor” Malan, with 32
enemy ’pl anes a t latest accounting. He is a
South African in the R.A.F.
« 9 * *
How are supplies of galvanised-iron and its
products distributed to the public ?
All sheet galv.-iron is controlled by the
Supply Department, which makes releases to
meet requirements. Although fairly easy to
secure a release to cover requirements, there is
a lag of up to 10 months before delivery.
* * * *
• Who or what was Belarus Jack ?
A Risso’s dolphin that haunted Pelqrus Sound
(M.L.) and often swam ahead of ships on the
Nelson-Wellington run. It became so popular
that when attempts were made to shoot or
harpoon it a special protective Order-in-Council
was made. The fish disappeared during the
1914-18 war.
* * * *
Description of bottle-tree ?
A large tree confined to Q’land and N. Aus-
tralia, with leaves growing on the sterile
branches. The stem abounds in a mucilaginous
substance which is wholesome and nutritious,
used as a food by the abos. This juice is
obtained by cutting holes in the trunk. The
trunk is contracted at apex and base, the
swollen part holding water. Trees reach 50ft.
to 60ft. high, with a diameter of 6ft. or 7ft.
at the thickest portion of the trunk. Owing
to the shape the tree is sometimes called gouty
stem.
* * * *
Dates of birth of Martin Luther, Napoleon
1, George Washington and Edward Benes?
(1) Nov. 10, 1483. (2) Aug. 15,' 1769. (3)
Feb. 22, 1732. (4) May 28, 1884.
* * * *
How to mix mortar for cementing tiles to
a brick wall ?
Mix (dry) two parts fine sand with one of
cement, blend well and add water till “quaky.”
The mortar should be neither too wet nor too
dry, as sagging will make the surface uneven.
Spread with a flat trowel.
* * * *
Are restrictions on transfer of land, etc., re-
laxed for a trustee selling to wind up an estate ?
Although there is no provision made for this
in the regulations, in practice special considera-
tion is given to such cases.
Brief Answers.
8.E.K.: Webster’s International Dictionary
gives “preventative” as a separate word. The
Oxford Dictionary is accepted as an authority.
Fowler’s Moderh English Usage is a standard
reference Y.S.: Try the Foster Knitting
Machine Cos., 75 King-street, Sydney S.D.P.:
How to Pay foy the War is obtainable from
Macmillan and Cos., 32 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne C.L.C.: There is no Government
reward for finding traces of oil.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
Oh, land of hills and rolling plain
With sheep whose wool has brought us fame . ~
Oh, land of billabong and plain
Where dwells the kangaroo of fame;
The emu too has found a homo
In boundless space wherein to roam.
.... J. 8.; “ Twas of a mother and her child in
the cold and gloomy streets.”. Turned ’em
from the door F.M.C.: Dewy grass, whis-
pering trees, cupids dancing and fragrant
breezes —the ' w.p.b.’s overstocked with them.
B.J.W.: Prosy... .A.E.H.: Like most
poems on music, it trudges along miles beneath
its theme H.E.R.: You might have left
Homer his “rosy-fingered Dawn” D.H.D.:
First two lines on Melbourne at night are
straight from what Wordsworth said about
London at daybreak... .J.W.L.; Heavy weather.
. ...P.M.W.: Too many adjectives, and it
doesn’t get anywhere... .A. 8.; Read some of
this century’s poetry C.J.L.: Disjointed.


‘(She
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1943
LIABILITIES
£ £
Capital Authorised ... £12,000,000
Capital Issued 12,000,000
Less: Reserve, liability thereon ... ... 8,000,000
„ Paid up ... 4,000,000
Reserve Fund 3,250,000
Pinal Dividend payable February, 1944 101,062
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 163 338
Total Shareholders’ Funds . ’—— 7 514 4QO
Curtrency Reserve I'OOO 000
Deposits, Bills Payable and other liabilitiesj including ’
provisions for Contingencies and Exchange Adjustment
Account fil 557 157
Notes in Circulation ... .' ‘‘ [" ’ 7^29
Balances due to other Banks 8^075
——— 61 582 761
Acceptances, Confirmed Credits, and Engagements on
behalf of Customers 4.189,038
NOTE: The Australian and New Zea-
land assets and liabilities are in-
cluded at the par rates of exchange
end the net difference which would
have arisen had they been converted
at the rates ruling at the date of
the Balance Sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£74,886.199
ASSETS
£ £
Coin, Bullion Notes and Cash at Bankers 6,440 785
Cheques of other Banks 1,075’400
Balances with and due from other Banks ’ 37015
Money at Call and Short Notice in London ... 325|000
Treasury Bills—Australian Government 5,000,000
New Zealand Government 1,415,000
Public Securities (valued at or under Market Price)—
British Government Securities 2 579 490
Australian Government Securities 7]864 119
New Zealand Government Securities ! 3 023,777
Local and Semi-Government Securities .’. 430,680
- 10 oqo ndc
Tax Reserve Certificates—British Government ’. 100 700
Special War-Time Deposit with Commonwealth Bank of Australia 9 070 000
Balance of Remittances and Drafts in transit and Bills Receivable
at London Office and Branches 3,142,005
Loans Advances and Bills discounted (after making provision for 40 ' 503,9 n
debts considered Bad or Doubtful) .... 8 Provision
Bank Premises in Australia and New Zealand at cost,' less amount a ' 3X,3 ’ 4< "
written on
London Leasehold Premises at cost' V.H 2 305 ,96
Less: Reserves against same and accrued Interest 78^547
Uab Selt S US Jrconha r Acceptances. Confirmed CrediT^Td
• ♦ ** * ••• •*• ••• •• • 4,i0y,u«50
£74.886.199
LONDON, 11th January, 1944
JOHN H. DAVIDSON 1 „ „
HUGH FLOWER I Directors P ’ H ’ McINTYRE - Manager
M. N. HOGG j S. F. GARDNER, Accountant
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT
Austmna: aI MELBO g URNEf A ‘ E ’ B ' GOODE - °«*ce m
THOMAS. Ser at Sydney (Cnr - Pitt and Hunter Sts.. Sydney): Mr. W. H.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
Free from
CONCORD H
Alkali or L’®®
ARDW A L L
t Wsmm
iMk
*1
wm.
go*
S':';':
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and othor wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base tor receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags,
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANV LTD., Building Materials Division
SVD N E y . MELBOURNE. .. BRISBANE ... ADELAIDE ... PERTH
Pl 4-44
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Go., Ltd.
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544.502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1.556.864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616.338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 ~,, 156.250 ) 0 , , 7K , OR9
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 1 95,4751 ’ 805 ’ 962
1939.. 290,286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
1940.. 294,430 10 „ ~200,000 1 c, ion i qqq
To staff fund, £lO,OOO f 84,430 1,999,428
1941.. 364,639 10 p.c. = 200,000 164,639 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000.. 2,129,067
Docking & repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
1942.. 411,564 10 p.c. = 200,000 211.564 2,490,631
1943.. 506,863 10 „ ~200,000 306,863 2,797,494
1944.. 332,315 10 „ „ 200,000 1 7
To staff fund, £25,000 j 107,315 2,904,809
Too much notice need not be taken of
profit figures in the table from 1941 on-
ward, That is because they include addi-
tions to the “insurance fund and sundry
branch and other reserves.” Under this
heading the co. has included unspecified
amounts received in payment for stock,
plant, furniture, etc., taken over by the
army at outlying branches. The amounts
so received have been reserved to pro-
vide for replacement of assets when the
war permits.
To the extent that these reserve addi-
tions represent capital, profits in the table
have been overstated. The following
analysis of p. and 1. figures shows what
has happened:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Gross £/ £/ £> &
earnings. .1,284,081 1,593,523 1,241,715 1,405,202
Exes. .. 845,020 1,110,446 878,045 1,002,963
Balance ~ 439,061 483,077 363,670 402,239
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 178,440 288,642 162,206 175,667
Profit claimed 260,621 194,435 201,464 226,572
Reserve move-
ments* .. +33,809 +217,129 +305,399 +105,743
Xet per table. 294,430 411,564 506,863 332,315
* Unexplained additions (+)
For the four years to the close of last
accounts net additions to reserves in
question total £722,253 as against
£112,184 for the four preceding years.
There was some heavy writing off to
cover trading losses in battle areas in 1942.
Profits claimed averaged £231,909 over
the quinquennium to the end of March
last, or £31,909 more than the 10 p.c. div.
called for. The 10 per cent, has been an
annual event for the last 25 years, and
nothing is in sight at the moment to sug-
gest that it is likely to be interrupted.
The business is now spread mainly
around the Australian coast and across
the Tasman to Maoriland ; there is an
office in London and an agency at San
Francisco —a very useful link under exist-
ing conditions. The Rabaul, Madang,
Salamaua, Kieta, Port Moresby and Sam-
arai branches (all in the New Guinea
area) ceased functioning, and so did those
at Samarang and Surabaya (in Java),
owing to either enemy occupation or
Allied military activity.
The folding up of trade activity in
operational areas released a lot of work-
ing capital, as evidenced by the growth
of £882,135 in investments during the
1942-43 term. Still, whatever the co. lost
in earnings through ordinary trade chan-
nels it largely recovered through service
demands for merchandise, etc., which
it is well fitted to meet because of its terri-
torial spread. Last term turnover sprang
£2,131,167, reaching £15,909,330, partly
owing to acquisition of new Allied ship-
ping agencies. Profit claimed (£226,572)
was 1.42 p.c. of turnover, compared with
1.46 p.c. for the preceding term.
And earnings from merchandise and
other trade activities are supplemented by
returns from investments. These include
holdings in Burns Philp (South Seas),
Queensland Insurance, Bankers and
Traders’ Insurance, A.U.S.N. Co.,
Penney’s, Jantzen (Aus.), the recently-
acquired Imperial Arcade property, in-
cluding Arcadia Hotel, Sydney, and
others, as well as a wad of Government
securities, to which £720,000 has been
added since war began—the last £lOO,OOO
of it was put into the First Victory Loan
since the close of accounts.
And there are the branches already
referred to and Solomon Islands De-
velopment and Choiseul and Shortland
Islands Plantations awaiting commercial
resuscitation ’when the war permits,
thanks to the success of the American
navy and Allied land forces in driving
back the enemy. Only Rabaul and two
branches in Java now remain in enemy
hands.
The co.’s fleet, or most of it, has been
taken over by the British and Australian
Governments on a charter basis. Aus-
tralian charter fees, however, barely cover
present increased cost of overhaul (about
100 p.c. more than in 1939) and obsoles-
cence, Some of the vessels have been lost
owing to enemy action, but they were
covered by insurance. As for the prob-
lem of replacement, the chairman says:
If permission to build in Britain was
given we would be a long way down the
priority list. If we could get the class
of vessel we want at a reasonable cost in
Australia we would prefer to build here.
But if we have in post-war years to com-
pete, as we have done in the past, with
many of the great nations for Pacific
trade, we must be able to secure vessels at
somewhat near the same cost as our com-
petitors. If to replace a vessel we had to
pay double the price in Australia that the
same unit would cost in the U.K. it' might
be an economic impossibility to compete
with foreign shipping.
At the moment the board can do no more
than wait and see. Bureaucratic controls
have already greatly increased industrial
costs, as well as generated frictions
which, if allowed to develop, will slow
up economic progress.
Here is a glimpse at the solid financial
structure;
„ 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities .. 2,356,082 3,088,759 3,040,434
Properties and
shipping . . 2,625,008 2,449,655 2,421,882
Investments, etc... 2,047,903 2,930,038 2,394,264
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,126,486 1,634,649 1,704,804
Book debts .. 941,529 820,904 1,404,884
Cash , . . . 205,786 151,007 144,407
The year’s brisker trading is reflected in
a contraction of £535,774 in investments
and growth of £70,155 in stocks. The
expansion of £583,980 in book debts is
due partly to the same cause and partly
to regrouping of accounts. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£2,607,925) was £111,764.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1934.. 29,214 6|p.c. = 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935.. 30,880 8 „ „ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1986.. 31,295 8f „ „ 27,795 8,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937.. 33,005 9j p.c.= 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938.. 37,091 9|- p.c. t= 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939.. 39,681 10 „ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000 343,412
1940.. 42,020 10 p.c. = 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941.. 48,100 10 „ „ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942.. 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
1943.. 38,006 10 „ „ 37,596 410 853,856
1944.. 38,200 10 „ „ 37,596 604 354,460
This stoutly-ribbed vendor of paper,
printers’ requisites, fancy goods, etc., has
a management which has grown up in the
business and shown ability in adapting
itself to changing economic conditions.
Despite the elevating effect of taxation
and war conditions upon prices and costs,
and the blanket thrown over the co.’s
civilian trade by the rationing of news-
print and difficulty in obtaining supplies
of printers’ and other requisites, net earn-
ings and the financial position have both
stiffened. For the five years to the close
of last accounts profits averaged £39,805
as against £34,390 for the preceding
quinquennium.
Newsprint has been in extremely short
supply. Isolation of Sweden and Fin-
land affected the output of British mills,
and a ban was placed on export of many
types of paper they produced. This
brought a swing to Canada and U.S.A.,
and, for a while, to Japan for imitation art
and other papers of the super-calendered
kind. After Pearl Harbor not only did
trade with Japan fold up, but most of
that with America also, owing to the
shipping problem. Local mills in Tas.
came into production and eased the
strain, but they have been unable to cope
with requirements. Hence the rationing
of newsprint and reduction in size of
newspapers, which have been fed in their
attenuated form partly from pool stocks.
A year ago the co. was waiting for
considerable supplies of lend-lease paper
which had been on order in America for
many months. Arrival of this and other
supplies assisted in a “considerable in-
crease” in last term’s turnover, and so
did easing in October last of the restric-
tion on use of newsprint from 27|- p.c.
to 35 p.c. of the 1938-39 tonnage. After
providing for taxation and other contin-
gencies, including purchase of new cars
and lorries (when available), and charg-
ing £9ll (up £388) spent on plant, etc.,*
against earnings, there was little change
in the net result. It was 10.1 p.c. on
capital as against 10.1, 10, 11.5* 11.1 and
10.5 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c.
The usually hungry printing trade is a
more self-reliant brotherhood these days:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £375,965 £375,965 £375,965 £375,965
Liabilities .. 109,650* 147,673 199,822 205,078
Tax reserve .. 68,562 72,241 61,888
Freeholds .. 120,565 126,381 126,381 126,381
Stocks .. 137,258 209,922 165,389' 195,317
Debtors . . 445,781 890,551 319,397 314,313
Cash, etc. . . 118,822 228,191 400,116 370,779
* Including tax provision, etc.
Last term stocks increased by £29,928.
To meet the outlay, together with
a reduction of £10,353 in the tax
reserve, cash, etc. (mainly Government
securities), was drawn upon for £29,337
and debtors’ balances were reduced by
£5084. Liabilities (up £5256) include an
unspecified amount in the staff provident
fund, etc. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£61,443 = 325. 7d.
per pound of paid capital) was £1396.
Freeholds, worth a lot more than their
bare value, remain unchanged. The co.
is obviously well equipped to finance
expanding trade requirements when they
arise.
Adoption of the suggestion that Aus-
tralia might be induced to drop lend-
lease arrangements and revert to a cash
basis for purchases from U.S.A. might
not do the co. any harm. Lend-lease
paper probably doesn’t carry quite the
margin of profit that open market pur-
chases used to, and, subject to shipping
space being available, supplies are likely
to flow more smoothly and in better
volume through ordinary trade channels
than through Government bottlenecks.
Lend-lease was introduced to circumvent
difficulties that arose from trying to fight
a common war on the basis of individual
national actions, and it developed into a
svstem of mutual aid for war purposes.
With things as they are at the moment,
the scrapping of lend-lease would be to
Australia’s advantage so far as overseas
credits are concerned, though emphasis
would be on the dollar rather than
sterling.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
_ _ To Re— Re—
Jan., Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1934 .. 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71 830
1935 . . 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74^633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 . . 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 . . 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
S'hare premiums, £5OOO . .. 109,205
1939 .. 24.719 10 p.c. = 19.438 5281 114,486
Pkrmbwan, Wright and Subsidiary.
1940 .. 2,734 2 p.c. = 4,000 113,208
1941 . . 22,717 8 „ „ 16,000 6717 119,925
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 118,522
1942 .. 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
Taxes charged to reserves, £2OOO .. 118,774
1943 . . 16,392 6J p.c, = 13,000 3392 122,166
1944 . . 17,617 7 „ „ 14,000 3617 125,783
With one eye on post-war developments


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN' NEW ZEALAND,
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
Your Dog
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
E
Filter
Cylinder
F I
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGES!,
CAMPERDOWN,
SYDNEY,
MANUFACTURERS
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANDALFRS
m
a*
do aot experiment with imitations.
a BSIXDIUBS * 00, LML USUIxaBI.IL UNO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
TROJAN SEA ...
'JpiIESE mighty engines of war “ dock ” where there are no
docks. They just push up to the shore and unload their
troops and tanks, reminiscent of the Trojan horse of Greek
mythology.
Unfaltering performance from engines is required in such
war service. To get such performance, Caltex Lubricants
are universally used.
Caltex engineers and laboratory chemists have rendered
Caltex lubrication unfailingly reliable. Insist on Caltex ..,
There is the correct grade of oil for every purpose.
iJSt
WISE
CALTEX LIMITED
Serving the Nation
Importers of Caltex Motor Spirit. Kerosene and Lubricating Oil.
CJPSTIS
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
•
It’s your fight—your money is needed note.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
2441. S 44
the board has earmarked a number of
country towns for establishment of new
branches, and other avenues of expan-
sion are also being explored. During
the year three N.S.W. depots at Albert,
Pilliga and Lake Cargelligo were closed,
and one in Victoria, at Lake Bolac, was
shut down, but another was opened at
Shepparton. That left the co. with 35
country branches in N.S.W. and Victoria
and offices in each of the two capital
cities to cater for the produce, station
supply, carrying and general-agency busi-
ness built up over the last 60 years.
Owing to a dry spell in the back coun-
try during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, hand-feeding of stock
was resorted to, to the benefit of the
carrying side of the business. Com-
bined gross earnings of the parent and
its subsidiary—P.W. Pty. (paid capital
£5000), formed in 1935 to handle the
wholesale side of some of the parent’s
business were £7906 stronger at
£175,235. After setting aside £17,000
(up £1900) for taxation and making “full
provision” for depreciation and bad
debts, net profit was £1225 better at
£17,617, equal to 8.8 p.c, on capital com-
pared with 8.2, 8.1 and 11.3 p.c. in the
three preceding years. The net figure
includes £2336 dropped from somewhere
into insurance reserve (£48,399). Half
a point was added to the div., taking it
to 7 p.c.
The co. has not fared badly consider-
ing man-power, petrol and tyre ration-
ing, and other obstacles in the path of
outback war-time trading. Balance-sheet
figures compare as follows:
f —Term. &
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 215,719 184,628 147,373 158,589
Taxation prov. 6,080 27,794 16,462 31,306
Property & plant 137,183 130,177 125,586 120,348
Book debts . . 230,671 230,443 161,925 159,082
Merchandise.. 141,479 158,217 179,990 195,825
Shares other cos. 11,899 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 13,755 17,560 30,701 43,574
Stocks (up £15,835) are partly insurance
against possible scarcity of supplies. The
rise of £11,166 in outside debt was offset
by a growth of £12,873 in cash and secu-
rities and £7157 in debtors’ balances.
The co. has £30,000 invested in war loans,
and holds shares valued at £4BOO in
Murray Shipping, Ltd., which showed a
net trading loss of £2346 for the year
to Jan. 31 last. Including shareholdings,
there was an improvement of £10,035
in the more or less liquid margin
(£213,616) last year. '
Raub Australian G.M. Co. (F.M.S.)
received £l4OO in interest during the 12
months to the end of March last. After
paying directors’ fees (£300), office exes.,
etc. (£276), and taxation (£159) there re-
mained £665. Commonwealth Govern-
ment securities, including accrued interest,
figured at £37,565, and there was £459 in
the bank at Brisbane. Unpaid divs.,
nearly all Singapore register, totalled
£21,783, and there was £lBO coming to
creditors in Australia. The difference
between the book value of assets and
liabilities, etc., in Malaya appears as an
asset in suspense at £247,122. In reply to
the co.’s request for ex gratia payment of
interest on its Malayan investments,
British authorities informed the board
that, in the case of cos. which had estab-
lishments in Malaya at the time of the
Japanese occupation, there exists no
means of knowing that their Malayan
assets have not been taken over by the
Japanese equivalent of the custodian of
enemy property. Consequently it is not
definitely known that payments of in-
terest on investments are not being re-
ceived by such authority. Another matter
that cannot be settled until after the war
is the co.’s claim for war damage to mine,
property, etc. Though the mine had
given shareholders a few anxious
moments, owing to erratic behavior of
ore-bodies, ore-grade is considered suf-
ficiently high to warrant reopening the
undertaking when the enemy has been
driven out.
* * * *
The graphite deposit at Munglinup,
about 76 miles nor’-west of Esperance
(W.A.), is attracting attention again. A
geological survey in 1917 disclosed that
deposits of the stuff occurred in beds of
graphitic schist associated with gneiss.
The zone mapped is about 1200 ft., and
the outcrop, weathered and marked by
small magnesite boulders, varies in true
width from 65ft. to 210 ft. Prospecting
shafts have been sunk to a depth of 50ft.,
and short drives and crosscuts made into
graphite-bearing formations up to 10ft.
thick. Whether the stuff can be mined,
treated and the concentrates sold at a
profit under post-war conditions remains
to be seen. Commercial demand for
graphite is chiefly for use in connection
w'ith foundry faces, crucibles, pencils and
crayons, lubricants, paints and pigments
and commutator brushes.
* * * *
Dividend aggregate of Westralian gold-
mining cos., mostly London-controlled, is
likely to be higher this year than last.
At present there are ten dividend-paying
goldmines in the West, six on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile and four on other
fields. Kalgoorlie contributes half the gold
lodged at Perth Mint; the balance comes
principally from Wiluna, Gwalia, Cool-
gardie, Menzies, Lawlers, Norseman, Mt.
Magnet and Marble Bar districts.
* * * *
Expenditure, principally Common-
wealth money, on production of strategic
minerals in Westralia last year totalled
£Bl,OOO, Tantalite was got at Wodgina
and Greenbushes, mica and beryl at
Meekatharra, antimony at Nullagine and
wolfram at Westonia. As for other
minerals, pyrite was produced at Norse-
man, phosphate at the Abrolhos Islands,
alunite (from which is extracted potash) at
Lake Campion, and blue asbestos in the
Hamersley Ranges. Blue asbestos is
tipped to be one of the State’s main
mineral products in the near future.
«•-.«*
Great Boulder (W.A.) is to pay a final
div. for 1943 of 3d. stg. a share, less U.K.
income tax of 10s. in the £, on August 14.
Books closed on June 9. An interim of
the same amount was handed to share-
holders on January 21. Previous to that
they had received nothing since 1940.
Ultra-deep mining as a means of ex-
pansion of gold production is being
talked of in S. Africa. At present gold-
mining there goes down to about 8000 ft.
It is reckoned that ore-bodies could be
profitably mined to between 13,00 ft.
and 14,000 ft. This would require expen-
diture of millions of capital, and the
people who could or would find the
money—£4o million sterling has been
mentioned —would want to know a lot
more than has thus far been vouchsafed
about technical and other problems, and
what terms they could expect.


IN THE ‘•OUTBACK"
It’s a good life outback. Happy, clean and free. BUT
there’s one great drawback . . . lack of modern sanitation.
Overcome this by installing a HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
This completely self-contained sanitary system requires NO WATER
SUPPLY. It runs continuously. Emptying and other embarrassing tasks
are eliminated. Sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile
solution that drains away into the soil . . . dangerous germs . . . unpleas-
ant odors .. , flies ... all are banished completely. Gives the country one
of the main conveniences of city life. Thousands in use in homes, offices,
military hospitals, etc., throughout Australia. Any handyman can install
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
—FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON
lIYOEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge St., SYDNEY. ’Phone 81052.
Kindly forward me free illustrated
pamphlet on the Ilygeia DissolVenator.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.6.44.
i
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES. ETC.
ƒ
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto In relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief—the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
,As a result, normal, healthy
circulation Is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple: skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheuihatlsm are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
mitered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
‘No signs of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
'Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
.address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
bydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
/teum, fivwwU /
Business,Rollery,Etc.
At the End of 1943-44
It looks as though this financial year
will end with the national debt at about
£2400 million. When war began Aus-
tralia’s debt was in the vicinity of £1295
million. We shall soon be seeing a posi-
tion where the debt has doubled since the
war began. Almost every penny of the
war-time borrowings has been used to
pay for war. There have been no “public
works” of consequence other than those
which have primarily a war-time use.
Certainly a number of essential indus-
tries owned by private enterprise have
expanded their capacity, which should be
useful in peace-time, but, so far as the
Government accounts are concerned,
there has not been much addition to the
nation’s productive powers of peace-time
goods as a result of the huge increase in
the national debt. Even shipyards, in the
majority of cases, are the responsibility of
private capital.
Where the Government is to get any
return on its war-time outlay it will most
likely do so through increasing taxable
incomes and land values. There have
been many port, harbor, road and aero-
drome improvements that have gone into
the increase in the debt; after the war
these things may assist industrial expan-
sion generally. But the fact remains that
a great proportion of our war expendi-
ture has been waste from an economic
point of view, and to the extent that it
has been waste it will become, through
the interest charges on the portion paid
out of loans, a post-war burden upon
the people.
A fortunate circumstance of the great
growth in the debt has been the com-
paratively small rise in the interest bill.
Because of severe controls over the rates
of interest offered by public bodies or
private persons, the cost of borrow-
ing has been kept low. On June 30,
1939, interest on the public debt was cost-
ing the Commonwealth and States £46
million a year. On Dec. 33, 1943, it was
costing £66 million. Since then additional
borrowings have probably brought the
cost to something over £7O million a year.
But, even at that, the cost is still only
about 50 p.c. higher than pre-war—not
double, as the increase in the debt might
suggest.
There is, however, the possibility of a
delayed-action bomb showing up in the
debt position after the war. Interest levels
in Australia are artificially low. What it
has been possible to do in keeping in-
terest down under war-time powers it
may be quite impossible to do by finan-
cial policy after the war. The short-term
public borrowings of five years’ duration
may not be converted at 2\ p.c., and if it
is proposed to fund the Treasury-bill
debt, which recently amounted to £373
million, the open-market rate is bound to
be above the 1} p.c. now being paid.
But if the war takes the favorable course
suggested by some high overseas authori-
ties it is possible that we shall see the end
of it with the ultimate cost of servicing
the national debt something less than
double what it was when the war started.
At the present time we are adding to
the debt at a lower rate than we were a
year ago. It is true that there has been
more public borrowing, but, by reason of
a curtailed recourse,to bank-credit finance
the total loan money used in paying for
war expenditure during the 11 months to
the end of May was £342 million, com-
pared with £383 million during the cor-
responding period of the previous year.
The reduced dependence on borrowing
has been made possible by a greater
taxation revenue, income tax in particu-
lar showing a very big rise. This in-
crease has been partly owing to higher
rates operating for a full year and partly
because of the 25 p.c. surcharge that
accompanied the introduction of pay-as-
you-go.
War expenditure in Australia for the
first 11 months of 1943-44 was £5Ol mil-
lion, the same as for the corresponding
period of 1942-43. This year’s outgo in-
cludes more reverse lend-lease, and it also
takes in the cost of subsidies made neces-
sary by the prices ceiling and the inflating
tendency of Australian costs. The cost of
munitions, etc., must be considerably
lower this year as compared with last.
That would be quite possible without any
falling-off in the production of muni-
tions ; there was the probability of a big
reduction in capital outlay on plant, and
in any case it is likely that once
machinery for the manufacture of small
arms, field guns and ammunition got
working at capacity a great deal could be
produced in a short time. A less satis-
factory feature of our war expenditure
during the year now closing has been
that it represents higher costs in most
cases. It has had to bear the burden of
war-time inflation applicable to the pro-
duction of war goods and payment for
war services, and in addition it has borne
substantial subsidies to the civilian price
level.
Taxation remains at a very high level
in the Commonwealth. The present is a
time of particular strain, because of the
surcharge that accompanied the cutting-
out of the lag year. There is very little
money-incentive to work hard, though
black-marketeers and tax-dodgers are hav-
ing a run of activity all their own. In
spite of the lack of money-incentive there
are a proportion of Australians who are
doing their utmost to assist production
and the war effort. On the other hand,
we see highly-unionised bodies striking
whenever it suits them, and we hear
clamors from the same direction for the
cutting-out of taxation on overtime and
for the unpegging of wages. One trade-
union delegate has accused Mr. Chifley,
the Treasurer, of becoming “hysterical
about the war effort” to the detriment of
unionists’ pockets. It would sometimes
seem that these aggrieved gentlemen be-
lieve that they should in no way bear a
share of the country’s war burden.
It appears that the big unions a reset-
ting more favored treatment at the hands
of Man-power than they are at the
Treasury. Many munitions jobs are cut-
ting out, but dismissals have been
cushioned by unionist pressure. At the
same time white-collar workers who were
conscripted for various manual jobs are
treated with scant consideration by offi-
cialdom. Whatever the cause, there
appears often to be wide disparity as to
the conditions under which various types
of man-power have been put to work.
Some men of high professional or artistic
ability have had a particularly rough trot.
Management of the men under Allied
Works Council control seems to have
been especially bad.
Having been instrumental in creating
many major problems in Australia today
—excessive war-time inflation, excessive
labor indiscipline and excessive disrup-
tion of private industry—the Labor party
is asking for powers after the war to set
things right. First of all it was going to
make a paradise of Australia simply by
using bank credit on the grand scale.
(That was Prime Minister Curtin’s idea.)
But now inflation has become a major
worry, so, urged on by Drs. Coombs and
Ross, the Government is asking for post-
war powers that will enable it to “con-
trol” the monster it has largely been in-
strumental in creating. But the record
of the Government has been that it turns
from the manufacture of one threatening
monster only to create an additional one.
It is so bereft of sand and com-
monsense that it often does the bidding
of economic acrobats and departmental
despots. The bureaucratic adventurer is
having a whale of a time in Australia
today.
There is evidence that various depart-
mental machines have been set up, exer-
cising enormous powers over the citizen
and over industry, which do not co-
operate successfully, and which individu-
ally are run on a system of remote con-
trol that soon shows its weakness in the
hands of the rank and file of the staff
which deals with the people. This state
of affairs is bound to arise where staff
is not selected with a high regard for dis-
cretion and efficiency, and where a mass
of regulations are supposed to be en-
forced. To those in a position to see
what has been going on, “nationalisation ’
in Australia has received a very bad ad-
vertisement. It is unlikely that post-war
controls operating with the same poli-
tical bias and the same emphasis on doc-
trines and class distinction would be any
more able to promote the welfare of Aus-
tralia as a Whole. Even the approach
to the referendum is loaded with politics
and trickery.
And so Australia, a large portion of it
in suspended animation, comes to the end
of another financial year, with the close
of the fifth war year approaching. There
are shortages of food and clothing that
seem to vary according to man-power,
transport and political considerations in
various States, but it is remarkable,
nevertheless, how those with a mind that
way and the money seem to be able to
get what they want from some source or
another. There is an enormous amount
of money about, though those whose in-
comes have not risen since the war started
and who pay their incomes taxes are far
worse off than before the war in spite of
the difficulty of spending money on neces-
sities. The plenitude of money about is
as much a danger as an asset to the
people holding it by reason of the infla-
tionary danger it represents to the whole
country. And it has produced a feeling
of independence amounting almost to
arrogance among certain classes whose
“rise” in the community is nearly always
a threat to law, order and production.
In 1945 Australian London loans which
will come up for optional or definite re-
demption total over £lOO million. Aus-
tralia’s total London debt is in the vicin-
ity of £540 million sterling, while £4l
million is owing in New York. The
national, debt of Australia, including the
internal debt, is now approximately £2400
million ; the internal debt is fast rising as
a result of the war, while the external
debt is being reduced slightly. Australia’s
London funds have risen from £49 mil-
lion to £ll2 million in a year, and this
should assist in looking after any part
of the redemption operations next year
that is not provided for by conversions.
* * * *
The Chief Judge in Equity, N.S.W.,
has decided that claims by the Commis-
sioner of Taxation, totalling £13,849,
against the Scottish Loan co. (in liquida-
tion) in respect of John Woolcott Forbes’s
income tax must be admitted by the
liquidator. Before Forbes “skipped” in
January, 1939, Albert Levitus, then man-
aging director of the Scottish Loan co.,
executed a guarantee of Forbes’s taxation
liabilities. The liquidator took the view
that Levitus could not bind the co. in
this guarantee. The Court ruling is that
the guarantee is valid. The Scottish Loan
enterprise was one of Forbes’s most disr
astrous ventures from the point of view
of those who paid 30s. each for the
shares.


1
BIGGER BOMB LOADS
£
-.. thanks ta
“FLYING HORSEPOWER 99
MoMoil
Vacuum's Overseas Associates have found
a way to produce a new super fuel that
will help the United Nations' great bomber
fleets to carry hundreds of extra tons of
bombs to blast the way to Victory.
The secret is the "magic'' "Bead Catalyst”
which coupled with another new develop-
ment, the TCC process and the famous
Houdry process, will not only improve the
quality but also increase the quantity of
the vital 100 Octane Aviation Gasoline.
This remarkable new fuel will give tp air-
craft a quicker manoeuvrability, greater
speed and greater bomb-carrying capacity.
Thus, the United Nations' air fleets will be
given a new power for Victory—" Flying
Horsepower."
The Petroleum Industry is busy in other
directions, too . . . producing "Butadiene"
for synthetic rubber, "Plastics" for shatter-
proof glass, "Toluol" for T.N.T., and fuels
and lubricants of all types to serve the
Allied cause.
Serving the Nation on Land , Sea and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY S
Vl-4 14 (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA* -
In view of the damage to the Austra-
lian economy caused by the present Gov-
ernment’s administrative failure and poli-
tical preoccupation, in spite of its enor-
mous powers, the claim by Dr. Evatt
that additional powers are necessary in
order to “prevent depression” after
the war is rather shattering to the
composure of anyone possessing a
sense of proportion. The Labor party
has been ever one to insist that
inflation is an economic stimulant that
has no hangover, and in the early
part of this war the party was a
great booster of the virtue to be found
in using oceans of bank credit. Even the
Prime Minister got carried away with the
idea. Treasurer Chifley is now struggling
in the coils of the inflation boa-constrictor
and having a tough time, with worse
to come. Additional Commonwealth
powers are not going to prevent these
things in the peace any more than war-
time powers are doing now. Powers
will not of themselves provide us
with better administrators. Economic
problems of the peace will be far more
involved than those of war-time. Only
those who have made few sacrifices them-
selves can fail to realise what a part
patriotism has played in the willing shoul-
dering of the war burden. When the war
is finished there is bound to be a re-
action by those who willingly bore their
share against those who evaded it or
were let off. There will be a revival of
that self-concentration (even now very
apparent in the case of some politicians)
that no additional “powers” will check.
Only good administration will be capable
of directing it in the right way.
* * * *
Australia remains the only Allied
country with a price ceiling for Stock
Exchange securities. Not even Maori-
land, which, before the war, went to ex-
tremes in matters of “controls,” has
found it necessary to put limit prices on
stocks and shares. And there has been
no noticeable abuse of the free market.
But the difference between Australia and
New Zealand prices for a number of
stocks is indicative of the injustice suf-
fered by the holder of shares in the Com-
monwealth. Here are comparisons;
Amt. N.Z.
Maximum. Price.
Bank of N. S. Wales ..£27/10/- £37
Union Bank .. .. £6/17/- £B/9/-
New Zealand Insurance.. 70/3 89/-
Queensland Insurance .. 52/6 63/-*
Huddart Parker .. .. 47/- 63/-*
A.C.I 50/6 57/6
Broken Hill Prop. .. 40/- 44/6
Carlton Brewery.. .. 68/9 70/-
Colonial Sugar . v ..£5l/5/- £5B/12/6
Electro. Zinc, pref. .. 56/6 59/-
Felt and Textiles .. 40/6 51/6*
Morris Hedstrom .. .. 23/- 42/3*
Tooth and Co. .. .. 56/- 58/3*
Woolworths .. .. 18/- 19/9
* Buyer.
Chief sufferers under the Common-
wealth system of controlled prices are
those forced to sell, including persons
interested in deceased estates. The situ-
ation is made the more difficult by the
tight control kept over hank loans even
where banks would be prepared to lend
money on the security of good shares in.
order to meet probate charges.
* * * *
Morris, Hedstrom, the big; Fiji trading
and plantation firm, has shown a net
profit of £85,839 for the year to March
31, compared with £80,747 in the preced-
ing period. The later year’s depreciation
allowance (£35,769) was £11,200 lower.
Ordinary dividend of 8/r p.c. (the same)
calls for £44,234, and 6 p.c. pref. div. takes
£13,152, leaving £28,453 for reserves. The
holding of cash and investments has risen
from £184,494 in 1939 to £948,727 at last
balance day, a large part of the total being
in war loans and other Government secu-
rities. It is illustrative of the control
exercised over the Australian sharemarket
that scrip in this co., which makes most
of its profits in Fiji, has an Australian
ceiling price of 235., whereas in New
Zealand 425. 6d. is freely paid for the
shares.
* * * *
The pref. shares in Whakatane Paper
Mills have a market in Maoriland at 255.
The ordinaries are less popular. In addi-
tion to the fact that divs. appear to be
in sight of pref.-holders, there are sub-
stantial arrears accrued on the scrip as
well.
-i- sjs •!» H*
Since October, 1943, the strength of the
Civil Construction Corps has been re-
duced from 52,000 men to 21,000. There
is to be a further reduction as work in
the far northern areas becomes unneces-
sary, says Mr. Forde. The Allied Works
Council has carried out work costing
£l2O million, and has still on its books
projects estimated to cost another £26
million. In addition, it is getting monthly
orders from the services and Common-
wealth departments to the average value
of £3 million. To carry out this pro-
gramme, Mr. Forde says, the council has
a technical and administrative staff of
about 5000, and with ordinary workers,
as well as the C.C.C., it is now employing
about 28,000. “Rumors that the A.W.C.
is to be abolished soon are entirely with-
out foundation,” the Acting P.M. insists.
Such suggestions, indeed, do sound in-
credible in view of the well-known atti-
tude of the Government. The assurance
of Mr. Forde that “the conversion of
the A.W.C. into a works authority of
a more permanent character may be con-
sidered soon” is much more like it.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s repeated claims that
certain Government departments fail to
co-operate, that they slow down the tempo
of the nation’s business —war business in-
cluded —unnecessarily, that the majority
are overstaffed and yet inadequately
staffed so far as results are con-
cerned, that complete records of vital
stocks of materials seem to be in the
possession of no one department and
that doctrine and delay stand in the way
of fair dealing and efficiency—all these
claims are being fully substantiated by
evidence given at the “quota-sold” in-
quiry. Bottlenecks, stocks of flannelette
held up for months, 1200 on the staff of
the D.I.P. in Sydney alone and 500 in the
U.S.A., delay in permitting discharged
A.I.F. men to set up again in the busi-
nesses they relinquished in order to fight
for their country (refugees by the hun-
dred have got established in the mean-
time), the successive “prodding” of each
departmental official along a long line
of departmental officials in order to get
anywhere, even to a bottleneck: the in-
quiry has been an eyeopener as regards
these things, nearly all of them admitted
or alleged by officials themselves.
« SH * *
“Without quoting figures,” Keith
Butler, manager of B.H.P. steelworks,
told British and Canadian Parliamen-
tarians that only the U.S.A., Great Britain
and Germany are equipped for a greater
per capita output of steel than Australia.
Country - party leader Fadden an-
nounces that one reason for the Queens-
land convention’s opposition to the refer-
endum is that it represents a “political
pretence to obscure the sinister motives
of those whose objective is the destruc-
tion of our present democratic form of
government.**
* * * *
Fred Burley, founder and governing
director of Berlei, Ltd., now in Aus-
tralia, for years looked after his
co.’s interests in Britain but latterly
has been on a Government task,
Burley says that Churchill is a good
picker of Ministerial talent, and that Lord
Woolton is the best pick—though actu-
ally he was Chamberlain’s pick. England,
in spite of the low ration of butter, meat,
eggs, sugar, etc,, has never, been in better
health. Children are biggerpnd heavier for
their age than they have ever been, partly
because of the introduction of dining
facilities in schools throughout England,
Canteens cater for working people on a
highly-efficient scale. Burley believes that
Lord Woolton’s transfer to the job of
Minister for Reconstruction emphasises
the importance the British Government
places on this problem, and is of the
opinion that the Old Country will come
out of the war one of the best-organised
and most efficient nations in the world,
The Beveridge plan is by no means
shelved, says Burley, Something will
eventual ly come out of it, even if not
the exact original programme.
* * * *
Failure on the food front would be a
disgrace to Australia which, coupled with
the limited area of operations reserved
for the militia, might do much to over-
shadow the splendid work done by other
industries and all arms. The food posi-
tion in the Commonwealth is inexcusably
bad, and it is shocking that at this
stage of the war so little is being
done to keep the Old Country fed
even on the low “Woolton” ration,
Dairy production has dropped very
seriously in Australia largely because
of economic and man-power factors, it
is no use blaming seasons all the time,
There has been a bad breakdown owing
to inflating costs, demoralisation of labor,
maldistribution of man-power, heavier
call-ups of rural workers than of trade-
unionists 2nd. the utter uselessness ot
“responsible” Ministers when they are
confronted with problems other than
political ones. Above all, the bureau-
cratic frustration, direct and indirect,
of the farmer has been an obstacle to full
production. Bureaucrats who seem quite
ignorant of the real problems of rural
production continue to run riot in their
pushing-round of land-men and in their
insistence on form-filling, control of sales
and general overloading of the diminish-
ing number of producers. The position
seems approaching where the Labor Gov-
ernment will cower in fear from any
strong union or bureaucratic body which
feels energetic enough to say “Boo!” to
it. As a result, inadequate measures are
being taken to make proper use of union-
ists who are no longer of value in the
munitions and associated industries. Tens
of thousands of these unionists were
laborers before the war, and have got
into trades only as dilutees. Now they
have a large say—sometimes the pre-
dominant say—in the affairs of the unions.
They are not being put on to the more
important work now demanded—the pro-
Auction of food. The result is that an in-
creasing number of Australians are not
doing nearly the amount of work they
are being paid for out of the public purse,
and too many are doing work that is not
necessary. Coupled with the tendency of
bureaucrats to keep their departments as
large and important as possible—and
some sections of these departments merely
harass the people—there is a waste of
man-power and an unnecessarily high
taxation burden that is discouraging all
private producers, who, while they last,
are the producers of the real national
income.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japanese Fleet Out.
“Ek Dum”; Events in the mid-Pacific,
heartening as they are, are evidence that
the last days of the New Guinea and
Solomons campaigns have not provided
a real test of Japanese fighting quality
or spirit, such as may be expected in the
decisive phases of the Pacific war.
There are believed to be still over
100,000 of the enemy in General Mac-
Arthur’s zone, from Hollandia to
Choiseul. They are for the most part
inactive under steady bombing of their
bases.
But a few thousand, now probably re-
duced to a few hundreds, on Biak Island
have fought bitterly against a superior
American force, which—as reported by
the Allied Command—was able to inflict
casualties which included 2300 dead up
to the week-end, and which throughout
have been ten to one American and Allied
casualties. When last heard of the rem-
nants, cut off from all hope of escape,
were still fighting desperately as they re-
treated to a corner of the tiny island
pursued by shell, bullet and bomb on a
terrifying scale. At Saipan, in the Mari-
anas, the resistance is equally fanatical.
The Fight for Saipan
Saipan is 18 miles long. It is shaped
like a two-legged grasshopper, with the
head at the north-eastern end, the two
legs in the south, one on each side of the
broad, deeply-indented Magicienne Bay.
On the north-west coast, above the old
town of Garapan, a long, thin sliver of
reef runs out at an angle towards the
south-west, forming a wide anchorage,
Tanapago Harbor.
Across its widest parts—the “legs” in
the south —Saipan is six or seven miles
wide. At the back of Magicienne Bay it
is three or four miles wide ; the rest is
two miles or less wide. There are sub-
stantial hills. There is tropical vegetation.
The total area is about 70 square miles.
The Americans landed on the west
coast, between Garapan, just south of
the mouth of the main anchorage, and
Aginpan Point, which forms the extreme
south-western angle of the island. They
were on a front about 5% miles long,
with Garapan on their left flank.
Into the island, with its canefields and
tropical growth, were packed, apart from
the civil population, about 30,000 soldiers.
They were assailed by landing forces
backed by the might of the Fifth U.S.
fleet, in which the main task force
(T.F. 58) could provide carriage and
launching for 1000 aircraft, or about 14
machines for every square mile. The
island was battered by the latest and
heaviest guns in the world from the
world’s newest battleships. It was struck
by every kind of shell from every angle,
from cruiser and destroyer and from air-
craft carrying guns up to 75’s.
Then the landing forces got ashore and
plunged halfway across the island, in-
flicting fresh heavy casualties. But the
enemy’s resistance increased. He made
savage counter-attacks across torn-up
sugar fields. In one of these his com-
panies seemed to melt away, and 25 of
his tanks were smashed and became pil-
lars of fire.
There was little chance of rescue, no
chance of major air cover from the land
from any outside source, no main bases
nearer than the Philippines and Formosa,
1500-odd miles away, and—if it can be
called a main base—Bonin, 800 miles
away, which had troubles enough of its
own without rescuing Saipan.
After nearly a week, the Americans
were on the borders of Aslito aerodrome,
two miles inland. The defenders of
Aslito were in a hopeless position, since
the 3600ft, runways were under fire from
every type of gun. The Japanese had
lost 21 ships. Their counter-attacks ashore
had been reinforced by an attempt to
take the invaders in the rear from Tana-
pago harbor with several landing barges.
They had kept every inch on the Ameri-
can front under heavy fire. Not till June
21 was it announced that the Americans
had burst across the southern part of the
island to Magicienne Bay and the east
coast, leaving one or two isolated but
strongly-resisting enemy pockets in the
hills round Naftan On the southern shores
of the bay.
At this stage, when a general attack by
Marines on the remaining part of the
island was either imminent or in pro-
gress, with the backing of a heavy naval
bombardment, news came which over-
shadowed the land fighting, though the
land fighting continued on a bitter scale.
Indeed, on June 25, the Americans had
scarcely extended their left flank in the
west, and Garapan was still in enemy
hands, though seemingly about to fall.
The initial artillery battle was over, but
enemy infantry formations were still in-
tact with the main fighting to come.
Jap Fleet Out
The first announcements mentioned a
tremendous air battle which had lasted
several hours on June 19, and which
ended in the destruction of 300 enemy
aircraft which were thrown at the Ameri-
can Fifth Fleet, plus 53 shot down the
previous day.
On June 22 Admiral Nimitz issued a
communique;
The United States Fifth Fleet made a
surprise attack on the Japanese Grand
Fleet on June 19, and carrier-based air-
craft sank four and possibly five enemy
warships, including an aircraft-carrier and
three tankers, damaging nine other war-
ships.
The engagement, which took place be-
tween the Marianas and the Philippines,
ended at nightfall with the Japanese fleeing.
The American task force suffered no ship
losses and lost only 49 ’planes, 21 in com-
bat. Two U.S. aircraft-carriers and one
battleship suffered superficial damage.
Enemy casualties were itemised as a
carrier (believed to be the Zuikaku, or
Dragon, 17,000 tons, completed in 1941),
which was hit by three 10001 b, bombs and
sank ; a hfeavy carrier severely damaged
and left burning furiously—another sister
ship to the Zuikaku was reported to have
been sunk on June 18 by a torpedo—a
battleship of the Kongo class (29,000
tons, eight 14-inch guns) damaged; a
light carrier of the Chiyoda class (a
new vessel, about 9000 tons), hit by at
least one bomb ; one cruiser damaged,
three destroyers believed to be sunk,
three tankers sunk, two tankers severely
damaged and 15 to 20 defending aircraft
shot down.
Mr. Forrestal’s Statement
Mr. Forrestal, Secretary for the Navy,
announced that the action would be
called the Battle of the Western Philip-
pines. He said that the Japanese were
extremely cautious and did not come
very far east, so that it was possible only
to send home a single air attack against
them just before dark at very long range.
He added: —
Some of the Japanese vessels were
damaged and may be able to make port
and eventually return to fight. This is
especially true of the warships, only one of
which was definitely reported sunk.
There was no actual battle contact be-
tween ships of the opposing fleets. The
fighting was all from the air.
Japan’s Version
Tokyo, as usual, let itself go:
.On Monday part of the Japanese com-
bined fleet cornered an enemy task force
which was separated info three battle for-
mations west of the Marianas. Taking
the initiative, we engaged the enemy, and
the Japanese Fleet sank or damaged five
aircraft-carriers and a battleship and shot
down more than 100 aircraft'. Our losses:
a carrier, two tankers and 50 aircraft.
Domei recorded the “heroic” death of
Rear-Admiral Yoshimasa Nakahara in
the “Greater East Asia area.”
Toyko Radio then produced awe-
some lists of American ship “casualties”
which had no support in Admiral
Nimitz’s definite assurance that up to
June 20 no U.S. naval ship had been lost
in the operations round or off Saipan.
Tokyo’s lists :
June 15: U.S.S. North Carolina, 35,000
tons, nine 16in. guns; lowa, 45,000 tons,
nine 16in. guns.
June 16: Two aircraft-carriers of the
Essex type, left listing and on fire (they are
new, about 24,000 tons); one other large
aircraft-carrier and a 10,000-ton converted
cruiser, in the same condition.
June 19; One battleship, two cruisers, a
destroyer, a submarine and 300 aircraft.
June 25: Four battleships, 11 aircraft-
carriers and six cruisers sunk or damaged;
“more than” 400 ’planes.
Under these supposed losses Uncle
Sam seemed to be bearing up far more
stoically than was Tokyo over its “re-
sounding, unparalleled victory, the
greatest triumph since the ignominious
sinking of Prince of Wales and Repulse.”
Bonin was raided again on June 23
and 60 enemy ’planes were shot down.
Twelve enemy machines reached the
U.S. carriers but all were destroyed, the
U.S.A.F. losing four machines.
Other raids have been made on the
Kuriles, Yap, Palau and other bases in the
enemy “mandated” islands, apart from
New Guinea and the Solomons. And a
further 16 enemy vessels have been sunk
by U.S. submarines.
U.S. Pacific H.Q. estimates that in the
mid-Pacific nearly 800 enemy aircraft
have been destroyed in a fortnight apart
from those lost on carriers.
Japanese Intentions
It seems unlikely that the Japanese
Grand Fleet intended to stage a first-
class battle. Perhaps it involved itself in
a large-scale sortie to draw off forces
from Saipan and save face against the
challenges of American Radio. Perhaps
it hoped to lure Vice-Admiral Mitscher’s
Task Force 58 into an area where it would
be pitted against a superior battleship
squadron and where its power as a
carrier unit would be offset by the ability
of the Japanese air force to provide land-
based fighter cover and torpedo attack
from the shore.
Admiral Mitscher and his companion
fleet commanders in the Pacific are likely
to eschew foreign shores and land-bound
seas, especially since they carry with them
a great fleet train of mother ships and
tenders, with its own special protection
which can keep the main fleet at sea
many hundreds of miles further from its
land bases than battlefleets usually oper-
ate.
So the Imperial Grand Fleet will have
to be unusually skilful to achieve two
objectives— to keep all the American fleets
and the British Fleet based on the Indian
Ocean under check, and to prevent any
of them from approaching Japanese terri-
tory or the Chinese coast to cover large-
scale offensive operations. To achieve
this, it will have all its work cut out,
especially in view of the Allied aircraft-
carrier superiority and the growing Allied
superiority in heavy,, long-distance
bombers of the 829 and improved
Liberator types.
Converging Allied Forces ,
It has been here pointed out many
times that the strategy of Allied offence
in the Pacific probably would develop
navally from three directions —from
Pearl Harbor (Admiral Nimitz) and from
Ceylon (Lord Louis Mountbatten), with
a force from Australia holding up the
bottom of the bag. Ceylon is within
a few hundred miles of main objectives.
Till the last few weeks Admiral Nimitz
was thousands of miles from any.
Admiral Nimitz has been carrying out
his part of the contract at an almost in-
credible rate. And the British naval-air
attack on Sabang and the northern end
of Sumatra a few weeks ago, followed
last week by an onslaught on the Anda-
mans, shows the way the wind is blowing.
The Andamans are only 320 miles off
the Malayan coast and a little more
from Rangoon. They lie squarely on the
flank of the sea routes from Singapore
to Burma, and they are 550 miles from
Bangkok. But while so much has been
accomplished in the last few weeks a
glance at the map has a sobering influence.
Ceylon to Saipan is 4600 miles; to
Darwin, by a straight line drawn from
Manila, about 2000 miles. And these
distances are air line. They are much
longer by sea.
Campaigns in Asia
The Manipur campaign is virtually
over, with the Imphal-Kohima road
cleared. For the privilege of crawling
back through the wet forests to the
Chindwin during the monsoon, the
Japanese have paid with between 13,000
and 14,000 dead. British, Indian and
Chinese troops are in Mogaung.
In China, Japanese pressure down the
Hankow-Canton railway reflects Japanese
realisation that the sea to the China
coasts may soon be under control by the
Allies, and that land communications
from the north and the walling off of
Chungking from the ports will be a
necessity vital to defence in the next few
months.
At the week-end a bitter fight for Hen-
yang was going against the Chinese, and
it seemed that an enemy success here
might endanger the whole of Marshal
Chiang Kai-shek’s hold on southern
China.
In Cherbourg.
“Ek Dum”: Steadily American forces,
.vith powerful naval and air support,
closed on Cherbourg along the many
lanes and roadways of the Cotentin
Peninsula.
After the cordon had been thrown
across the base of the peninsula in the
broad strip between St. Sauveur and La
Haye-du-Puits, with its two ruined castles,
it did not take long to spread out to the
north. (One spot on the west coast in the
original U.S. capture was almost Ameri-
can territory already, for there Lindbergh
once alighted.)
The enemy quickly withdrew to the
main defences of the port.
Cherbourg is not a big town. About
the size of Ballarat, it lies on a com-
paratively flat but rocky coastline round
a broad bay. The naval and inner com-
mercial harbors, perhaps 70 acres in ex-
tent together, have been dug out of the
land behind the centre of the bay, like
huge dry docks. Behind them, centrally
placed, is the main railway station and
the terminus of narrow-gauge lines whirb
run in along the eastern top of the penin-
sula to Barfleur, whence the lights of
England, 70 miles away, can be seen.
It was from Barfleur that the White Ship
sailed 824 years ago, with Prince William
and his hundred nobles and the butcher
Berold, the sole survivor.
At Cherbourg, is a statue of Napoleon,
whose body was brought hither from St.
Helena, but none to the men of Yar-
mouth who sacked the town many cen-
turies ago. There are an Avenue Sadi
Carnot, a Rue Louis Philippe, a Rue
Emile Zola, a Rue de la Paix and a
Champ de Mars.
Two miles from the shoreline of the
bay is a prodigious breakwater which cuts
off the Atlantic roll from the bay—the
Digue, with hoary forts at its end and in
its centre. At its eastern end is the lie
de Pelee.
It is inside the Digue that the great
Atlantic liners anchor in normal times,
passengers going ashore in scurrying
tenders.
Overlooking Cherbourg from the south
are a series of hills, not very high, but
forming broken country out of which
little rivers and rivulets run towards the
sea. Upon these, guarding the roads along
the coast or inland, has for long been a
ring of intense fortifications —the Batterie
Haute de Bretteville, overlooking the
Barfleur highway ; the B. de Roule, on a
112-metre hill beside the Valognes-
Carentan-Caen road ; the fortifications of
Octeville, guarding the road to St. Sauveur
and across the little wandering Divette,
which meanders through the valleys out
of Cherbourg Bay and across the penin-
sula towards Carteret. No doubt the
Germans made these hill approaches
into a maze of bunkers and pillboxes.
U.S. Progress
It seemed that the Germans in the be-
sieged portion of the peninsula were not
in great force nor of first-class quality,
and, as was suggested here last week, they
seemed bent rather on holding out long
enough to cover effective demolitions
than on settling down for a siege. They
had some hope of blocking the 600-yard-
long channel which leads from the bay
to the naval and commercial basins and
of destroying military buildings, but not
of wrecking the Digue, the one bit of work
in Cherbourg which realised Napoleon’s
ambition to repeat there the marvels of
Egypt. It is about 150 feet wide at the
base and 30 feet or so on top, and more
than two miles long, so that its destruc-
tion would call for a powerful lot of
explosive.
By June 20, two days after the com-
munications in the south of the peninsula
had been cut, the Allies had pushed for-
ward to within two miles of Valognes,
the great road junction of the north, 17|
miles from the port, a sleepy old town,
on the little Merderet stream, where Wil-
liam the Conqueror was nearly wiped
out by rebel barons,
Along the road from St. Sauveur to the
west of the main road and rail through
Valognes to Carentan, advancing troops
had passed through Bricquebec, with its
octagonal keep, 16 miles from Cherbourg,
on a path last trodden by Englishmen
at war when William de la Pole, Earl of
Suffolk, gave it up as his ransom in 1429.
Hereabouts are wooded hills round the
Seye valley, pleasant country as you
pass across the railway and the river en
route to the port. The Americans made
rapid progress in it, four miles or so to
Rauville la Bigot.
The Germans admitted that this ad-
vance was achieved without major fight-
ing. But it was obvious that the last
phases of the struggle marked by the
bringing of Cherbourg into artillery range
were being entered upon, though they
might take some time.
By next day Valognes had fallen. So
had Les Pieux, 12 miles from the port
on the western road; also U.S. forces
were among the broken watercourses of
the west coast, near where J. F. Millet,
of the Angelas, was born. This is near
the road to the Cape La Hague light-
house, which is at the north-western tip
of the peninsula on a small rocky island.
American Artillery
Thus the Americans were on the verges
of the ring of outer defences, and the port
itself was within range of, all types of
American gun. The big eight-inch rifle
of the U.S. artillery, which is mounted
on two 38-ton tractors and travels with a
20-ton mobile crane for assembly, has
a range of 19.8 miles for its 2401 b. shell.
The 240 mm. howitzer, which fires a
3601 b. shell, is ranged to 14-odd miles,
while the “long Tom” 155 mm., firing a
951 b. shell, reaches 14.2 miles, and the
105 mm. can be aimed accurately at nearly
seven miles.
Another advance brought the frontal
units on June 22 within a few hundred
yards of the main defences at many
points. The Germans were entirely within
their perimeter, holding off the advance
with minefields and massed field guns and
mortars, but apparently with no air
support.
American man-power increased con-
«'idr=*ra'hlV ' crt Airt nowol one) cimnnrt


Missing Friend.
TIPPINS or POWELL. —Anyone knowing where-
abouts of MARY TIPPINS, nee JONES, or her
daughter ANNIE POWELL, or latter’s sons WILLIAM
and JOHN POWELL, please communicate with
MALLESON, STEWART & CO., Solicitors, 46 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
I, PTE. HINRICH JEURGENS, of former German
nationality, born at Bremen, Germany, and resident
seven and a half years in Australia, now residing, at
Mascot Camp, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
Matrimonial Jurisdiction. No. 487 of 1944.
Mr. Justice Macrossan S.P.J. Mr. Justice E. A.
Douglas.
BETWEEN WALTER FREDERICK BOWMAN
(otherwise known as Walter Frederick Boorman)
PLAINTIFF and CHARLOTTE CHARITY BOWMAN
(otherwise known as Charlotte Charity Boorman)
DEFENDANT. —TAKE NOTICE of the trial of this
action at the Supreme Court House Brisbane on a
date to be fixed such date to be after the expiration
of a period of five weeks from the publication
hereof. DATED the Twentieth day of June 1944. —
RICHARDSON, CARTER & CO., Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, 129 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
To the abovenamed Defendant, formerly Of Wells
Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM DAVID JOSEPH ROWLEY late of
679 King Street Newtown New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELLEN KATHLEEN ROWLEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1658 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 21st
August 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from CHARLES M. CRANITCH Soli-
citor 297 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RITA BEATRICE WOODING late of 330 Vic-
toria Street Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
ARTHUR CHARLES WOODING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1936 of 1944 on the grounds of
desertion without any cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Fourteenth day of
August 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from HERALD BRUCE BRIERLEY &
ENGLAND 109 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar.
Sfyt/ieiti sot/(dtfhr/tle tPam
one enthusiastic correspondent on June
22 even packed 375,000 Americans into
the peninsula. He must have been the
same correspondent who a few days
before heard a Russian barrage from 150
miles away; or perhaps he was one of
the many bright lads who succeeded in
firing 2000 tons of shells from 600-odd
naval guns in ten minutes on invasion
day.
At any rate Cherbourg was being bat-
tered flat by an incessant procession of
bombers and strafers, and by an increas-
ing rain of shells from converging land
guns and naval heavies out at sea on the
east.
By June 25 American tanks had broken
through the rough country and were in-
side the environs of the town a mile
from the naval basin. The taking of
Cherbourg from then onwards was merely
a cleaning-up operation.
At 4 p.m. that day the U.S. armor
rushed the town itself from two direc-
tions, and the Germans, ahead of the
official Allied announcement, “presumed”
that Cherbourg had been taken.
On the British Perimeter
Meanwhile, all attention being centred
on Cherbourg, admittedly an important
immediate objective, other groupings
were going forward which were a better
indication of the true nature of both
the offence and the resistance, and of the
difficulties of the invasion.
The British and Canadian sectors had
been much strengthened. The building
of more and more airstrips added every
day to the bomber and fighter support
of the armies a kind of support in
which the Germans still appeared com-
paratively to be lacking. Weather im-
proved, and there was a calm Channel,
allowing the speeding-up of deliveries,
though air visibility was patchy.
British and Canadian forces made some
progress along some of the seven roads
spreading out from Bayeux through the
Cerisy Forest, towards the Vire and St.
Lo in the west and along the Orne and
across the canal to the Dive, seven miles
out towards Troarn, an old Benedictine
centre in forest land on the road to the
Seine estuary.
To this east flank, according to Ger-
man reports of June 22, the Third Cana-
dian Division, which had landed at the
mouth ot the Seulle, had been switched.
But the main pressure had been on a
broad-fronted spearhead on the other side
of the beachhead towards St. T° and the
Vire Valley, through the Cerisy Valley.
Against the sides of this four powerful
heavy German armored divisions kept
their squeeze, but ineffectively.
On June 25 the British-Canadian front
became alive. The British struck before
dawn with great weight of artillery and
tanks against the high ground inland from
and east of Tilly-sur-Seulles towards the
converging roads at the rear of Cae,n.
The Germans admitted that the attack
was no raid, but a real offensive, aimed
primarily at the Odon Valley road to
Vire and the Caen-Domfront and other
roads to the east, with a view to the isola-
tion and capture of Caen. It looks as if
it may be classed as the first full-scale
battle of the invasion.
The Test of Rough Country
Everywhere, by whatever route the in-
vaders were advancing, they had reached
the limits of the low coastal lands and
were coming into rough hill country, ex-
cept in the extreme east and in the most
westerly of the southward drives out of
Carentan towards Coutances. The drive
at St. Lo is through the hilly verges of
the winding Vire Valley, timbered and
providing plenty of cover.
The road from Caen to Vire (46 miles)
crosses the Orne and then the Odon,
and climbs up the Odon Valley. But at
Villers Bocage, 17 miles out, reached and
abandoned in the second week of the
invasion, it comes up against a wild,
rocky hilltop which is ideal for defence
and which would take some forcing.
There are many such hilltops hereabouts.
The next strategic route is that of the
railway from Caen to Domfront, 55 miles
or so inland. It goes up the twisting Orne
Valley, crossing the stream six times in
the first 18 miles and plunging within
the first ten miles into the part of the
country whose nickname of “The Nor-
man Switzerland” speaks for itself. A
few more crossings of the river amid
crags and forests and the train suddenly
dives through a tunnel in the Collines de
Normandie and comes out on the other
watershed, a few miles from Conde, and
with Domfront not many miles away,
perched on the very edge of its 200 ft-
. cliff over the Varenne.
Next, there is the Le Mans road,
which hits the Granville-Paris railway at
Argentan, whence the four knights ot
Henry II set out to kill Thomas a Becket.
This road traverses the Dives Valley and
climbs into the watersheds of the Loire
tributaries. Next the loop road to
Falaise, through sunken country suitable
for tanks. Ten miles out the road goes
through a shallow pass between forest-
covered hills and into the great fruit nur-
sery district of Ussy, in the Laise Valley.
Directly east from Caen is the Liseux
highway, on the fringes of which, 13
miles out, is the mound which marks the
site of the ancestral castle of the Mont-
gomeries, not far from the home town
of Camembert cheese and the birthplace
of Charlotte Corday, Again it is a de-
fendable route for armor.
There is, in fact, no direction in which
the Allies can push ahead towards the
Seine and main roads and railways to
Paris and the east in which they are not
moving into country in which the enemy
can see every move.
On the other side of the Orne towards
Brittany, though the forests and craggy
plateaux are suitable for infiltration, they
also provide strong positions covering
the roads and limit the rodtes by which
invading- armor and heavy transport can
travel.
This is true for a long distance south
till the ranges which lie between Chatres
and Domfront, and north of Le Mans,
are surmounted.
And let there be no mistake about the
enemy’s strength. His heavy tanks, Tigers
and Panthers, have so far proved them-
selves hard to knock out, and the 88mm.
guns of the Tigers have a very powerful
kick. The German snipers, though not
the best, are well served with cover and
are numerous. A scorched-earth policy
is being adopted so that towns like Tilly-
sur-Seulles, when captured, prove to be
only smoking heaps of rubble, teeming
with booby traps, mines and delayed-
action bombs.
The Germans are showing themselves as
aggressive in defence as in Italy, sending
out strong tank detachments which fight
to the last and then retire, still hitting
back savagely.
The German perimeter will have to be
burst by sheer weight of men and metal,
now that the limits of naval bombard-
ment have been reached, a problem all
the harder because of the fluidity of lines
and the experience of the Germans in
intact retreat, gained in Russia, where
they have had a bitter schooling, and be-
cause of the intensity of the road system,
which allows of great lateral mobility.
Artillery and Transport
At the same time the two dominating
factors are artillery (which includes the
air) and transport power. And in these
the Allies have overwhelming superiority,
or will have soon.
With more heavy vehicles, more re-
serves, more fast hard-hitting guns and
domination from the air umbrella,
General Montgomery should be able to
keep the initiative and increase his as-
cendancy.
But he has great tasks to face, and he is
not even on the threshold of them as yet.
This summer will tell exactly what the
results of the Russian campaigns have
been on German morale and whether the
Russians have destroyed the number of
the Germans that Moscow declares
they have destroyed: “more than
7,800,000 killed or captured.”
It will give some indication of what
political and general conditions are in
occupied Europe —a very vital factor
which everybody takes for granted but
which may not be all it seems when
viewed through the eyes of 8.8. C. and
Leftist “observers,” who see' the Con-
tinent as a gaunt and starving waste full
of Communist patriots burning to throw
off the Fascist yoke and seek revenge.
In Normandy there has been no evi-
dence that this is so. The Normans so
far encountered have proved to be the
same old fatted Normans, minding their
own business, making their camembert,
feeding well and drinking well and much
more interested in cows than in any ism.
Gigantic Air Operations.
“Ek Dum”: Allied air operations are
now so widespread and have so much
weight behind them that in any two or
three weeks as great a weight of ammu-
nition is hurled at the enemy in the form
of bomb, shell and bullet as was used by
the Germans in the five crucial months
of the Battle of Britain in 1940-41.
The main fields of operation are:
(1) Withering attacks on the areas of northern
France from which the enemy’s flying bombs
are coming.
(2) The actual war front in France, which
calls for the huge variety of fighters for cover,
strafers for the front battle line, bombers and
dive-bombers for precision bombing of com-
munications, fowplanes and gliders, sea co-
operation machines and hospital ’planes. All
these need their own priorities and timetables
in aerodromes, fuel supply and man-power.
(3) A similar organisation of a variant type
acting on the Italian front.
(4) The strategic air forces which are keep-
ing up the bombing of German and French
interior industry and communications.
(5) The shuttle-bombing squadrons operating
from Italy to Russia and Britain to Russia and
return, and co-operating with the Partisans
in Yugoslavia.
(6) The sea-reconnaissanfe, anti-U-boat and
convoy ’planes whose domain is the whole
of the North and South Atlantic, the Mediter-
ranean and the North Sea.
(7) The British air defences.
(8) The great trans-ocean ferry and trans-
port services which swiftly carry men, goods,
drugs and wounded across oceans.
(9) A complete duplication of all the fore-
going in the Indian and China and Pacific
zones, according to the local conditions of four
fronts.
In all, easily 3,000,000 men and women
are involved in these services for Europe
alone, and their operations are so diver-
sified that it is possible only to give an
idea of their immensity by the selection
of details —such as that on one day on
the French front U.S. bombers alone
made 2000 sorties and dropped 1100 tons
of bombs on a few Square miles. Nearly
the whole of these great operations are
being carried out by British Empire and
American machines, crews and ground
staffs. Aircraft figures on the Russian
front show that there aerial fighting is
on a comparatively small scale by com-
parison with the western fronts.
Robot Bombing
Mr. Morrison, the Minister for Home
Security, said on June 23 that, though in-
evitably there have been casualties and
damage, there was little damage of
national importance. The numbers killed
in southern England in the first five nights
of the attacks were less than the total for
five German night raids Feb. 18-25, which
were on a small scale by comparison with
Allied bombing of the Continent.
It is admitted, however, that robot
attacks may have been experimental, and
that the enemy may send over his devilish
bombs in greater numbers and from
greater distances.
The fact that the bomb bases are on such
a scale that they have withstood short-
range attacks by 23,000 individual Allied
machines over five months shows the
seriousness and extensiveness of enemy
preparations for the robot onslaught.
And much larger and faster robots than
hitherto were noticed among the flights
of smaller originals.
The air war is far from its maximum.
It cannot be counted on to reach its peak
till September.
Onward in Italy.
Quietly and efficiently General Alex-
ander’s Eighth and Fifth Armies push for-
ward in Italy at a rate which would pro-
duce an epilepsy of fnthusiasm among
correspondents and commentators if it
were kept up in Russia.'
Rome fell on June 4. Three weeks
later Elba, captured by the French, was
in Allied hands. The Fifth Army front
was 122 miles from Rome. The Eighth
Army, in more mountainous and difficult
terrain, was attacking temporary German
holding positions east and west of the
Trasimene Lake, 160 miles by air and
over 200 miles by road from where it
began the Battle of Cassino on May 11.
And Marshal Kesselring, though en-
deavoring to pause for breath and to
allow consolidation on the Florentine
cover line, was still kept running.
The Fifth Army alone has taken more
than 36,000 prisoners.
Russian Front Flares Up.
“Ek Dum”: The Russians have been
encountering little opposition in Finland,
though there were signs of stiffening re-
sistance at the week-end. Meanwhile the
Red Army rolled over the much-sacked
town of Vipuri (Viborg) and along the
Flelsinki railway and its flanks, while
refugees poured out of the capital and
southern towns towards central Finland.
Other Russian drives have been
launched across the Svir River, between
Lake Onega and Lake Ladoga, and along
the Murmansk railway. The Germans,
who are supposed to have six divisions
guarding the nickel mines of Petsamo, in
the north, have not entered the battle.
On June 23 a Berlin communique re-
ported the opening of- a new Russian
offensive on the central White Russian
front against Mogilev and Vitebsk.
Later Marshal Stalin issued orders of
the day to the effect that the Russians
had pierced the deeply-echeloned defence
area north of Vitebsk, on a front of ---
miles to a depth of from 12 to 26 miles, and
had widened the breach to 50 miles and
reached the Dvina River on a breadth of
22 miles ; that, south of Vitebsk, there
had been an advance of 16 miles into a
breach widened to 50 miles ; and that on
the Orsha front, on the main Minsk road,
a strong defence line north of the
Dnieper had been pierced over a front
of 12 miles to a depth of 10 miles.
It was also announced that in the
Mogilev sector the Pronya River had been
crossed, strongly fortified enemy de-
fences broken and an advance of 13 miles
made on a width of 30 miles.
The Germans reported a heavy defen-
sive struggle against the Russian offen-
sive and admitted the enlarging of pene-
trations in their lines.
The swiftness and width of the ad-
vances are inconsistent with any large-
scale resistance in positions where the
enemy resisted the strongest Russian
efforts for weeks at a time right up till
last February.
It looks as if the Germans propose to
fall back across the border of Poland
to the strong network of railways along
the river systems east of Vilna ; perhaps
even to the Angerapp Line, defending
East Prussia.
Their fighting is merely a brake on the
Russian advance. The real test will not
come until the horns of the .great arc of
defences based on the East Prussian
lakes, the Vistula and the Carpathians
are in one piece as a front.
Then the decisive struggle in the
Battle of Russia will be fought out.
Meanwhile the Russian front must be re-
garded as a secondary front.
Shuttle-bombing by U.S. Air Forces
has been developed to some extent
against the widespread objectives of the
eastern zone and has been supplemented
by some of the heaviest air attacks yet
made on Germany, including the largest
all-time assault made on Berlin. This was
carried out with 2500 machines in day-
light on June 21, Thunderbolts making
the trip for the first time. About 50
bombers and 15 fighters were lost, in-
cluding 12 which came down in Sweden,
and 40 enemy machines shot down.
The day marked the extension of
shuttle-bombing previously between Italy
and Russia to a new route between
Britain and Russia. It was asserted by the
enemy that American machines had been
bombed by heavies at Poltava and 30 de-
stroyed, with hangars. An American re-
port says the Germans attacked two
Russian airfields used by Americans,
killing three airmen and destroying a
number of ’planes.


ss»
•2s
Ti
c:
TJ
/
confidence
Reason
As we see the paper headlines there can be no
doubt that Victory is on the way, but Victory can
be delayed, unless each one does his own part faith-
fully. Here on the home front we must work and
save and lend our money to buy the equipment,
guns, munitions and supplies our troops need in
ever-increasing quantities as their Victory drive
strengthens and quickens.
There is great reason for confidence in quick and
certain Victory when we see money pouring from
people’s pockets into arms for our fighting forces.
They are doing their part in the field of battle.
We must do our part by lending every penny we
can get together.
SAVE FOR VICTORY
Buy 6d. War Savings Stamps, War Savings Certificates
and 5/- National Savings Stamps.
AL.9.20
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LONCER-LA STING
f
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
TRAVEL
CASE S
SPORTING NOTIONS
With only six races at Randwick on
Saturday backers had more time to bet,
Totalisator turnover, £136,256 10s., was
only £2OOO less than the previous Satur-
day, when there were seven events. The
crowd, 45,600, was 7000 bigger than in
1943.
High Flight showed by winning the
Botany Handicap (his fourth in succes-
sion) that weight does not stop a horse
when he is fit and in fo’rm. Backers again
disregarded his improved form, and he
started at 8 to 1, giving the Ring a good
winning race. High Flight led all the
way, and his rider, R. Maxwell, had not
to force him unnecessarily to hold off
Highgate and Triad. By Melfort from
Queen Balak, High Flight has won £2415
in stakes since Mrs. C. Ryan, wife of his
trainer, bought the gelding late last year.
Highgate finished solidly and will win
races if kept in training. Lord Neith,
equal second favorite with Kingsdale,
gave an impossible start from thie half-
mile, finished seventh and will be im-
proved greatly by the run.
Few horses in recent weeks have been
more costly than Tribal. The colt, how-
ever, has not been lucky, and he is so fit
that he seems certain to win a race before
long. Favorite for the Botany Handicap,
Tribal finished only fourth; but he was
jammed against the fence for nearly half
a mile, and did not get one opportunity
to challenge High Flight. Allowing that
the wet track suited him. Tribal showed
stamina to win the Chelmsford Stakes
(nine furlongs) last September, and it
might be good policy now to try him
again beyond sprint distances.
An outside barrier position did not pre-
vent Steadfast from leading practically all
the way in the Three-year-old Handicap.
“D. M. Longson” paid 2000gns. for
Steadfast after a two-year-old win at
Rosehill a year ago, but the horse took
a long time to strike form again. Stead-
fast struggled on to beat Fine Art, with
Castle Frontenac third. Both placed
horses were unlucky, Fine Art being cut
off both at the start and in the straight,
and Castle Frontenac propping when
making a fast run at the leger. Six fur-
longs was too short for the favorite. Cock-
crow, who might develop into a good
middle-distance stayer.
Heavy Three-year-old backing for
Chinook, who had not started for two
months, did not accord with the colt’s
appearance before the race. Chinook
looked too big, but he is one to follow,
although he finished only eleventh. His
rider, Munro, did not persevere after
Chinook had been squeezed out in the
straight. Another well-backed horse worth
watching is Allan Veil, despite his failure
in the Trial Handicap. Apprentice F.
Williams was of little use to Allan Veil,
who returned to the enclosure as though
he had not had a race.
Increased prize-money has not im-
proved the standard of winter stayers.
Orderly, Russia and Prince Buzzard, who
fought out the finish of the Winter Plate,
had filled the places, but in different
order, in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill three weeks earlier.
Orderly showed unexpected stamina to
hold off Russia, who, however, did not
gallop straight for the winning-post. Wel-
lesley, a surprise favorite, moved up
smartly at the turn, but he seems to have
lost his finishing run and ended a very
moderate fourth. Shining Night was
ridden quietly, to ease the weight of his
9.10, but it anchored him just the same,
and Bartle did not knock, him about in
the straight.
Merrimba ran about a lot towards the
finish of the Exeter Handicap, which,
however, he won comfortably from
Streamford and Arahura. All horses
seem to gallop well for the Queensland
rider Moore, who had Merrimba fairly
close all the way. A section of the crowd
heckled as Merrimba returned to scale,
but the old horse deserved his win after
19 successive-defeats. Marcondis, who
drifted but still started favorite, did not
gallop at any stage. He is not entirely
sound, and probably had one of his off
days. He looked well and it might be
unwise to discard him.
Removal, warm favorite for the Second
Nursery Handicap, shocked his backers
when he leapt high over the crossing in
the straight. He settled down again and
won by three lengths from High Tide.
High Tide ran out under pressure and
may be given time to develop before
racing again. Removal (Double Remove-
Miss Jean) was bred by his owner, G. A.
Ferguson, who won the 1940 Adrian
Knox Stakes with Removal’s half-sister,
Climax, Goldmine finished well after
giving a long start from the turn, but
Marlborough finished last after being well
placed for six furlongs. He has been up
a fair time, and may need a short rest.
Greater experience helped Medieval
Queen’s rider, F. Smith, to win the Trial
Handicap, confined to apprentices who
had not won 20 races. Smith, however,
allowed Medieval Queen to veer in near
the finish and was suspended for a month
for carelessness. Medieval Queen made
a fast run from the half-mile, and won
comfortably from Bright Spot, who was
at auction for 360gns. only on
Friday.
* * »
Plans formulated by owners and trainers
of several Grand National Hurdle can-
didates have been upset by the succes-
sion of abandoned meetings. Their horses
are not as forward as had been antici-
pated, and Anpapejo, who had figured as
second favorite, will not be a runner.
Anpapejo ran a good race on the flat at
Pakenham on Saturday, but he has not
raced over jumps since early this year.
Condition of Cape Hero, favorite, cannot
be faulted. He has come through a
searching preparation, is the form horse
with three wins from as many starts
over hurdles —all at Flemington—and
should not be troubled by the distance.
His principal dangers may be Silgaro,
from the same stable, Benghazi and
Hullabaloo.
* * * $
The big-betting craze which marked
Sydney courses a month or two back
flared again at Randwick. With £5OO
bets common, bookmakers held more
than on the biggest race days of a few
years ago. Whether such betting does
racing much good is open f to doubt. When
big sums >are involved there is always
an incentive to wrongdoing, and there are
always fellows who prefer a sure £lOO
dishonestly to a possible £lOO honestly.
* * * *
Every now and then a two-year-old
winner in winter develops into a Derby
horse, but winter form usually has so
little bearing on spring chances that the
boosting of classic prospects for recent
winners is a little ludicrous. Invictus,
Flying Step, Good Idea and Removal are
promising colts, but until they race
against Shannon, Majesty and others in
August or September a true estimate of
their class is impossible. However, it is
so hard to get a good horse that exalted
hopes by owners and trainers are under-
standable.
Only ten of the original 137 acceptors
were on the course for the opening day
of the Winter Cup trotting meeting in
Perth on Saturday, The Trotting Associa-
tion had decided to run the meeting de-
spite a boycott by owners and trainers.
The few people who paid to see the farce
have been invited to attend the next meet-
ing as guests. Pony owners and trainers
went on strike in Sydney in 1923,
but the boycott was called off after the
A.R.C. had run a few meetings with a
handful of horses and jockeys,
* * * *
The continued policy in Sydney of en-
couraging apprentice riders should show
results after the war. Whether young
jockeys learn as much in races for appren-
tices as when pitted against experienced
riders is open to question. These days
of restricted meetings, however, their
chances of gaining mounts in open com-
petition are limited, and some plan is
necessary to give them opportunities. The
present riding standard in Sydney is com-
paratively low, and racing will suffer in
future years if the youngsters are not
given vital race practice now.
* * * *
So many experienced horses are run-
ning erratically at the end of their races
at Randwick that close observers wonder
whether the false rail is responsible. In-
stead of the wide stretch to the winning
post, the temporary rail, placed towards
the centre of the course, makes a com-
paratively narrow lane. Even racehorses
might suffer from a mild dread of con-
fined spaces!
* * * *
As Ocean Swell started at 28 to 1 in
the English Derby, his win must have sur-
prised the keen judges. Although a
moderate as a two-year-old, the colt
showed rapid improvement early this
season, and he was picked as a Derby
prospect after winning the Column Stakes
(li miles) at Newmarket. The London
“Sporting Life” then wrote of him as “a
racinglike son of Blue Peter, who un-
doubtedly stays well.” Subsequently
Ocean Swell must have run bad races to
have drifted so far out of the Derby
market.
Miscellaneous
Because his State is short of coal. Pre-
mier Dunstan banned Modnee Valley
races on 'Saturday. The V.F.L. regards
him as a benefactor: it got 96,000 at its
six matches. A large proportion went to
St. Kilda to see the Richmond v>. “Sowth”
game, but “Sowth” couldn’t make a show
and was swamped 17.10-11.11. So were
most of the other losers; Carlton 17.12-
12.11 v. Collingwood, Footscray 14.18-
9.10 v. Hawthorn, St. Kilda 13.14-9.13 v.
Geelong, Fitzroy 10.17-7.10 v. Mel-
bourne, Essendon 21.18-8.12 v. North
Melbourne. The games left the “four,”
Carlton, Richmond, Fitzroy and Foot-
scray, untroubled.
* * * *
In Saturday’s Rugby Union University
upset Randwick’s winning sequence, 14-6.
Uni. was superior in all phases of the
game and won comfortably, despite the
loss of the captain, Lyttle (injured), early
in the second half. After a hard tussle,
mainly among the forwards, Drummoyne
drew with West, 9-9. Randwick is now
two points ahead of West, with Uni.
third and East fourth. Other games:
East 9, Parramatta nil; St. George 14, North
6; Gordon 17, Manly 14.
* * * *
Fighting far below his form, Tommy
Colteaux was well beaten by Cliff Bowen
at Leichhardt. Bowen took little
notice of the punches that met him as
he came to close quarters, and handed
out plenty. Not a hoot was heard when
Elliott, substituted for Pearson, to whom
Colteaux had objected, crowned Bowen.
Boomed as a suitable opponent for
Patrick, and with height, reach and
weight in his favor. Day drew a big
reward for a poor showing at Sydney
Stadium. He was vigorous but crude in
the first round, and thus early it was
plain that he wasn’t in Patrick’s class.
In the second he ran into a left that
unsteadied him, and another on the
temple knocked him flat on his back and
out.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances .)
Encourage Handicap: Skip
Bomber, 1 ; Generator, 2 ; Roger, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Cordiality, 1 ;
The Artist, 2 * Swan River, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Hall
Stand, 1 ; St. Elmo, 2 ; Milanja, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1 ; Russia, 2 ; Prince, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Fine Art, 1 ; St. Quentin, 2 ;
Clarion Call, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Castle Fron-
tenac, 1; Glendower, 2 ; Chief Man,
3.
G.N. HURDLE SELECTIONS.
(At Flemington.)
CAPE HERO 1
SILGARO 2
BENGHAZI 3


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney Town Hall has never seen so
many tear-dimmed eyes as on last Thurs-
day. The women of Sydney had met to
farewell Lady Gowrie, and to every
woman present it was a personal parting
from another she had learned to love dur-
ing days of peace and days of war. Now
that the moment of departure draws so
swiftly near, the barriers between the
vice-regals and the ordinary citizen are
melted in regret. The crowded Town
Hall gave evidence of this.
Lady Wakehurst spoke of the inspira-
tion Lady Gowrie had been to all who
knew her, of her sympathy with and
thoughtfulness for others that kept her
often until the early hours of the morn-
ing writing letters to those whom trouble
had touched.
Lady Cowrie’s speech was a hymn of
praise for the women of Australia in
general, and the courage they had shown
in the days of war. She paid a special
tribute to the women outback,-who even
in peace waged war with drought and"
bushfire and loneliness. The Lord
Mayor’s lady, State Premier McKell’s
wife and Ruby Board in turn gave ex-
pression to what was in every woman’s
heart: sorrow at the saying of this fare-
well.
The stage looked like a piece of Aus-
tralian bush with its ferns, and wattle-
trees, like two sentinels on guard, stood
one at each side of the group of speakers.
The edge of the platform was bordered
with flowers, arranged in garden baskets,
the suggestion that each woman bring a
posy for the guest having proved as popu-
lar as it had with members of the Lunch-
time Music Club.
Lord and Lady Gowrie and Lord and
Lady Wakehurst brought a large party
to the Ormandy concert on Saturday.
Lady Cowrie’s .velvets glowed like the
heart of a deep red rose ; Lady Wake-
hurst’s were black. During the evening
Lady Gowrie thanked everyone for their
help in making the evening such a suc-
cess. (The concert was in aid of the
Gowrie Scholarship Fund.) Turning to
the orchestra she said that she hoped that
some day it would go to London and
play, perhaps, under Ormandy—“and be
as good ambassadors for Australia as the
Australian Eleven.”
The wedding of Phyllis, daughter of
the Victor Raveses, of Glifton Gardens,
and Lieut. Bruce Scott Cuttle, A.1.F., son of
the John Cuttles, of Cremorne, took place
at St. Stephen’s, Macquarie-street. The
church, packed with friends, was deco-
rated with gladioli and autumn leaves.
The bride wore white Chantilly lace, the
train long, the veil a foam of white tulle.
Five bridesmaids, their frocks each of a
different colored net, struck a vivid note
against the khaki uniforms of the grooms-
men, all of whom, like the bridegroom,
are of the A.I.F. The reception was at
the Wentworth.
Conductor Eugene Ormandy has re-
ceived a letter from a mother in Oxford,
Mississippi, whose son, a 20-year-old
pilot, has been reported killed “some-
where in Australia,” saying she had re-
ceived a signet ring belonging to her boy,
found by the son of a Mr. Moody, of
Mareeba, near Cairns. She writes:
“Would you look up this Mr. Moody
and see if he would tell you how he got
our boy’s ring and how he knew our
correct name and address? And would
you see what you could find out about
our fine young son? If killed, how? and
if buried, where? You have no idea ;
Sir, how very heartbroken we are.” Mr.
Ormandy, c/o A.8.C., Sydney, would like
to hear from Mr. Moody or Sergeant
Albert Woodward, who sent the ring.
“Baa, baa, kind sheep, have you any wool?”
“Yes, sir, yes, I have three bags full.
One for the master, one for the dame.
And one for the little home they’re building
down the lane.”
Surely the sheep is Australia’s most
munificent benefactor. It provides men’s
suits, women’s winter clothes and
blankets, and brings whacking cheques
from abroad to the grazier. Now the dear
little creature is about to give from its
poor-quality wool (according to Sydney
man L. Smith) board linings for homes,
and thus eke out the post-war timber
shortage. In the years to come the wise
girl will not only hoard linen for her
glory box. She will also keep a few
sheep and start growing her own home.
American Independence Day Ball will
take place at the Town Hall on Monday
(July 4), and organising secretary John J.
Read will welcome all ranks of Allied
forces. General MacArthur has given
his patronage to the frolic, and General
Thomas Rilea has promised to be
present: so has N.S.W. Red Cross
Director Blythe. Profits will go to the
Lady Gowrie Red Cross Convalescent
Home, Gordon ; and Matron Horswell,
who is in charge of the home, will be a
guest. Tickets from Paling’s, Australia
Hotel and Red Cross House. For reser-
vations ring XU3471, UJ3223.
There are plenty of thrills these nights
at the Minerva. The play “Night of
January 16th” is the trial of Karen
Andre (Thelma Grigg) for the murder of
big businessman Bjorn Faulkner. The
Minerva is stark, cold and as forbidding
as any courthouse. Legal procedure is
followed right through. Members of the
jury, called from the audience by the
Clerk of the Court, file on to the stage,
where they are sworn in by actor
Vaughan Tracey. On the first night legal
highlights took a busman’s holiday and
acted as jurors. These included Judge
Markell, Windeyer, K.C., and W. Dovey,
K.C. Others empanelled were tennis-
player Jack Crawford and Jimmy Bancks.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly and U.S. Army
Col. Agnes Brown took their places
behind the footlights apparently to see
that justice was tempered with mercy.
Sydney legal man Clifton Penny was the
Judge who sacked the jury because their
verdict did not agree with his conviction.
So Karen will appear in the dock every
night before a fresh jury, but Clifton
Penny will be the Judge during the whole
assize.
The Town Hall took on some of the
glamor of the East for the “Night in
Cairo” Ball. The foyer with its display
of rich embroideries, its brassware and
trinkets, all for sale, might have been
one of that city’s bazaars, so vivid were
the colorings, so attractive the girls in
Eastern dress, who did a thriving busi-
ness selling treasures and sweetmeats.
There were a magician to astound the
brain, and dancing girls to delight the
eye. Mrs. W. C. Falconer, pictured here,
was the honorary secretary of this glitter-
some success, the proceeds from which
go to the Anzac House Fund. Mrs. Fal-
coner’s husband, a chief engineer in the
merchant marine, has been a p.o.w. in
Singapore for two years. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
Mrs. Eugene Ormandy has arrived, and
now that he knows she is in the audi-
ence her husband’s conducting will be
more inspired than ever. Mrs. Ormandy
is small, dark and very vivacious. She
is a Viennese, and she met her husband
when she was harpist in the Philharmonic
Orchestra, under Toscanini. Her first
teacher was novelist Vicki Baum. Now,
she doesn’t play any more —in public. One
artist in the family is quite sufficient, she
says.
Mrs. Ormandy went straight from the
boat to the Town Hall, where her hus-
band was rehearsing. She was delighted
when she knew that he not only had a
house, but a housekeeper all ready as
well. She is looking forward to making
his favorite dishes and to grilling him a
nice thick juicy steak. For Ormandy,
like most other artists, has one of these
for his early dinner on the day of a
concert.
In its three months of existence the
Stage-Door Canteen has made many
friends, and these packed the Town Hall
for the second Stage-Door show. This
was a ,brisk non-stop affair from eight
until ten. The programme fairly bristled
with the names of radio stars. Those not
behind the footlights helped at the front
of the house. John Cazabon did a spot
of ushering. Lyndall Barbour, Thelma
Scott and Lesley were among the
programme-sellers, while Lynn Foster
looked after the front of the house. Mrs.
Campbell Gray, who is c/ie/-in-chief on
Thursdays at the canteen, was sighted.
Terry * Howard, considered by some to
be Australia’s Frank Sinatra, was one
of the popular /performers. Strella
Wilson and Marie Burke lifted their
voices in song.
From Melbourne
Street cries that would have passed
muster in Old London were heard on
Friday, the voice-lifters being mostly
amateurs. To raise funds for Red Cross
gaily-decorated booths for selling and
raffling had sprung up overnight, stocked
with hams, bicycles and other raffleable
articles. Uniformed tram conductresses
helped with many of the stalls, putting
terrific gusto into the “Roll up, ladies and
gentlemen” patter that sold tickets.
The R.A.A.F. choir, all male and
showing more enthusiasm than the
solemn choristers usually seen on con-
cert platforms, made the Assembly Hall
rafters ring on Friday night. Songs in-
cluded such out-of-the-way items as an
adaptation of an aboriginal chant,
examples of thirteenth-century counter-
point and a whistling addition to a
Chinese folk-song. In addition to these
garnerings from the corners of time and
space the audience enjoyed such old
favorites as “Rolling Down to Rio” and
Gounod’s “Soldiers’ Chorus.”
Women who’ve fashioned dresses out
of the parlor curtains in these couponed
days have their opposites in the house-
proud wives who will have new seats in
their chairs even if they have to put
patches in their slacks. Hessian and
sacking have filled the bill for some —
dyed so that they are no longer identifiable
by their plebeian hue. Fropi New York
comes a tale of hostesses re-upholstering
furniture with heirloom frocks of satin
and brocade, but this is of little practical
aid to those who’ve inherited no more
than good advice. A smart woman who
is always in the forefront of the fashion
has covered the floors and chairs of her
flat with various tints of a sort of
hatters’ felt —gay and more durable than
flimsier fabrics.
Pictured here by Ashmore Studios is
Mrs. Deloffre, ticket secretary of the July
14 Ball for the French Forces’ Welfare
Fund. Organising the ball is the French-
Australia Association, the group that ran
an Easter shop so successfully last year.
Mrs. Deloffre is Australian-born and
French by marriage. The festal spot will
be the St. Kilda Town Hall. Bill Scott’s
band will make music, there will be
cabaret turns, and the singing of “The
Marseillaise” will be a dramatic incident
of the evening. Interested in the ball’s
success is the new representative of the
French Committee of Liberation, M.
Pierre Mathis, who comes from Alsace.
Letters from Australian brides of Allied
service men who have crossed the Pacific
make interesting reading. Most send
happy accounts of meetings with “in-
laws,” who seem to be free of the fault-
finding propensity they are commonly
credited with in these parts. There is
reference in most letters to the problem
of adjusting Australian ideas about
clothes to American climatic conditions.
Lasses who are making their homes in
mid-continent are finding that their school
geographies were quite right in averring
that inland spots are subject to extremes
of temperature. Very hot summers and
bitterly cold winters demand a greater
proportion of washable cottons and yet
make a necessity of furs.
Many of the brides say the country-
side they’re living in doesn’t look so very
different from the environs of their Aus-
tralian homes. The cities, too, don’t over-
poweringly impress them except, of
course, the fantastic grandeur of New
York. Lasses settled in Chicago use the
phrase “just like Melbourne,” a refer-
ence apparently to the likeness of Lake
Michigan and the shore “drives” around
it to Hobson’s Bay.
Time was when imitation pearls were
common as clothespegs and could be
picked up for a few pence, but now,
when the world’s production is attuned
to stern purposes, they have become
scarce and, as naturally follows, very
much desired. As one damsel put it, “all
pearls are now of great price.”
Allison Nelson (Allison is a family
name, which accounts for the double “1')
is in Melbourne full of enthusiasm for
the concert platform and a lively admira-
tion of Eugene Ormandy, under whose
baton she played in Sydney. She is hop-
ing to see the American conductor again
when she passes through this city on her
way back from the Tasmanian tour which
follows her appearance here. By then,
of course, he will be conducting the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra. Allison will
finish her tour in Perth, then return to
her home town, Adelaide, td continue her
studies for a Mus.Bac. degree. She s
just 16.
Victorian legislators of bygone genera
tions would have been a bit surprised if
they could have foreseen a State dinner
entirely devoted to feminine guests, in-
cluding the guest of honor. Dr. Edith
Summerskill received this attention last
week. Hostess was the wife of Premier
Dunstan, who was supported by her two
attractive daughters. Other guests in-
cluded women representing various acti-
vities who have made a place for them-
selves in the life of this city.
A point that Dr. Summerskill’s talks
here has brought out is that the difference
in political history between this country
and the United Kingdom has a marked
effect on feminine reactions. She made
it clear that she and her hearers belonged
to different political generations —not a
matter of age but of lawmaking. The
suffragette ardor that tinged so many of
her remarks was a little lost on this coun-
try’s women, long accustomed to the
franchise (English women weren’t fully
enfranchised till 1927).
Tin Alley Players’ much-rehearsed
show “They Came to a City” will open
on July 1. The opening will be attended
with a flourish of trumpets, as the players
have J. B. Priestley’s special blessing on
the show. When trouble cropped up as
to production rights an appeal was made
to the author himself, and this promptly
produced permission to go ahead. The
plot unfolds Priestley’s notion of a brave
new world set out in the guise of fan-
tasy.
“The Little Foxes,” the American play
that brought crowds to picture theatres
when Bette Davies starred in the film
version, will be put on by Brett Ran-
dall’s St. Chad’s Theatre group on July
22, with Irene Mitchell in the leading
part. Playing opposite her as the unfor-
tunate husband of the shrewish heroine
is Sydney Conabere. Wilma Harrison
and Dorothy O’Keefe are also in the
cast.
One of the most successful of Mel-
bourne’s voluntary groups is the Minis-
tering Children’s League, which is start-
ing a drive for funds now that its seaside
holiday home has been returned after
being borrowed by the Government. This
League has had the bright idea of pro-
viding a holiday home for boys of school
age, at which they can have their kind of
fun without the irritating presence of
sisters and mothers and other impedi-
menta.
The Grant Hay family moved out of
Melbourne in a body to attend daughter
Alison’s nuptials with U.S. Captain
Charles Curry, which took place in Bris-
bane. Bridegroom hails from Kentucky
and has that State’s regard for horse-
flesh, so he’ll feel at home with his new
in-law^.
Ruth Clerici made a Madonna-like
bride in a Limerick-lace veil when she
married Dion Johnston (R.A.A.F.) on
Friday night. Ruth finished her training
some time back, and has been a nursing
sister for many months. She is the only
daughter of Mrs. Clerici, of Sandring-
ham, and the late Major C. J. E. Clerici,
who was Postmaster-General for Bengal
at one time. Bridegroom is the younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Johnston,
Gawler (S.A.).
Recently Melbourne presswomen have
almost lived at the city’s best-known hos-
telry, and one of them being shown into
the corner suite which overlooks the inter-
section of William and Bourke streets for
the 'second time that day suggested that
an interview with the well-sat-upon couch
and chairs might yield more exciting copy
than is usually obtainable from careful
politicians and world travellers. Said she,
addressing a buff cushion, “Did you like
Toti dal Monte or do you prefer the
slimness of Dr. Summerskill? You do?
Well, now how did the men treat you?
Did Lewis Casson throw you at Sybil
when she muffed her lines, or was Sybil
wearing the pants? You surprise me!
But, at any rate, you must admit that
Homer Samuels did manage his Galli-
Curci very well, and he knew when an
interview had lasted long enough.” A
whistling kettle is a pretty invention, but
for press purposes a talking cushion
would be more useful.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK CHARLES BROOK late of Wagga
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
IRENE BROOK has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1249 of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Ist of August 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from DETTMANN AUSTIN
& MACLEAN Solicitors 28 Martin Place Sydney.—
(t.,5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DORIS LOUISE HALLORAN late of Sydney
and Portland and JACK DAVIS late of Portland. —
TAKE NOTICE that EDWARD HERBERT THOMP-
SON HALLORAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2868 of 1943 on the grounds of adultery If
either of you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 31st day of July next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
PERCIVAL GARFIELD TRUMAN Petitioner’s Soli-
citor 10 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
You CMMet t
SPARE PARIS
An impression exists in the minds of many vehicle owners
that all spare parts have been frozen and are not available,
except to very high priority users. THIS IS NOT CORRECT.
It is true that certain parts are controlled, and that it is
necessary to obtain an official permit before any of the items
on the controlled list can be obtained. We entirely agree
with this Government policy and are assisting in every way
possible.
Actually, the Control of Automotive Spare Parts Regulations
were introduced to ensure that stocks of parts in short supply
are conserved for replacement in vehicles doing essential work.
However, a considerable number of parts are not controlled
and are available in the ordinary way to any ear or truck owner.
In addition, where stocks are ample to provide for the needs
of cars and trucks operating on high priorities, permits may
sometimes be obtained for items on the controlled list.
If you need parts for your car or truck, see your nearest
NASCO Distributor who will gladly advise you regarding
availability, and if necessary the action to be taken to obtain
them.
REMEMBER! Genuine G.M-H parts fit exactly • • .
save installation time and give longer life. *
Use Genuine G.M-H Parts in all G.M-H cars and trucks.
11l 11
NATIONAL AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE COMPANY
(DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.)
1241 c
Ruwolt
■iO
k
Wm
Ibe
1
■
is -
; ' -:
mmmmmmmmm
Rubber Calender. Approximate Weight 30 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of the many types
of machines designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Rubber
Industries in Australia.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
SMOKE-OH!
“Her husband’s typist was a very impudent
girl and it was a mystery why he put up with
her.” — “Sun.”
Perhaps he liked her giving cheek to
him.
#»J*
“Is there a sincere Christian lady, musical,
and with furniture, who would care to meet
gentleman, same, with home.”
• —Matrimonial ad., “Advertiser,” Adelaide.
Perhaps he’s a musical-chairs fiend.
4 4 4 4*
Charged with having represented to a cus-
tomer that a pair of shoes offered for sale—
and bought—were made from ‘ooze’ calf he
was convicted and heavily fined.”
—Police Court item.
The public now wants to know ooze
calf it was.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Reno divorce statistics reveal that in 90
p.c. of cases the interested couples have become
tired of each other and further connubial happi-
ness would be impossible.”
—American exchange.
The Court sums it up in one word —
stalemate.
“In many towns in France the guillotine, not
the firing squad, will repay the debt patriots
owe to those who helped Hitler.” — “Sun.”
Collaborators, in short, will get it in the
neck.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do not throw away a clock which won’t
go.”— Weekly paper.
It will serve as a bundy for the Govern-
ment abattoirs.
Masquerade.
“To disguise an old suit beyond recognition
buy a yard of material in dashing check and
make a brand-new top. Garnish it with an
inset panel, a twisted belt and knotted buttons
made from pieces of old jacket.”
—Fashion article.
Badly needing a new suit but having
neither cash nor coupons to spare, I de-
cided to conceal my old grey in such
fashion that even my best friends
wouldn’t know it. First dipping the suit
in violet ink I gave the coat a smart
action-back, spiced it with a scarlet silk
handkerchief tucked in the outside breast
pocket and replaced the bone buttons
with bright brass ones. Next I snipped
the frayed cuffs from the trousers and
creased them down the sides. The waist-
coat proved a problem to alter, so I
simply reversed it and let in a panel of
Cameron tartan embroidered with bottle-
green teased wool.
Never lacking in self-confidence, I
chose a fine Sunday afternoon to give
my camouflaged clobber an airing, and
before I’d gone two blocks I was arrested
as a potential zoot-suiter!
P. O. M. C.
“Heat slowly and allow to simmer until
thick and clear. Pour into hot jars and seal.”
— “Sun.”
Making sure, of course, that there is
plenty left for the seal.
4* 4* 4*
“By lifting prohibitive import restrictions on
made-up corsets, the Government hoped to
obtain sufficient corsetry to meet requirements
and save face.” —“ Courier-Mail. v
What, to save face ?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Darling,’ murmured Angeline, T want you
always to separate me and my money in your
thoughts.’ ” — Novel.
Most men would do that without a
second thought.
4* 4* 4* 4*
‘Very often two or three pots have cured
chronic cases when all other remedies had
failed.” — Advt.
Two or three pots do make a man feel
better.
Meteorology.
“An explosion in the sky at Brighton-le
Sands, which silenced wireless sets for a few
moments, was attributed to a meteor.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
When Crosby fans infest the home
And goggle-eyed Sinatrans roam
From knob to knob in search of swing,
It now appears the only thing
That can defeat the dismal wail
Is something on a cosmic scale.
The merciful phenomenon
Has come, and done its best, and gone ;
But sufferers from crooner’s ear
Are looking to the stratosphere
And hoping for a few encores
By longer-lasting meteors.
P. M. Lusk.
Service.
“On being told that the new maid was mar-
ried the waiter immediately ceased making
advances.” — Magazine story.
When told to check his passion
For fear that he might slip,
In customary fashion
The waiter took the tip.
T. W. N.
Bitter-sweet.
“The plaintiff, Miss Gall, tendered a number
of letters, which she alleged were written to
her by the defendant, beginning ‘Dearest
Honey.’ Plaintiff was awarded damages.”
— Breach-of-promise case.
’Twas not the decent thing at all.
And one that cost defendant money.
To let this girl continue Gall
When she was willing to be Honey.
F. M.
Something to Chew Over.
“Tests reveal sensitiveness to the following:
wheat, flour, milk, tomato, beans, feathers,
These foods should be eliminated as much as
possible from diet.”
—From a service medical report.
“Well, my man,” said the M. 0.,
“what’s wrong with you this morning?”
The last of the sick parade, his face
registering anguish, squirmed and held
his midriff. “It’s me guts, doc.,” he
groaned. “They all seem twisted up or
something.”
“H’m. Perhaps you have eaten some-
thing that hasn’t agreed with you. What
have you had lately?”
“Well, they chucked us a tin of m.
and v. yesterday arvo, and y’ know what
sorta scran that is, doc. So I went out
and shot an emu and et it,”
“Raw?”
“No, doc. Cooked it.”
“You ate a whole emu yourself?”
“Well, it wasn’t a very big one. And
I didn’t eat the lot. Its feet were
too tough, and a bloke couldn’t be ex-
pected to get through its beak. Its neck
was a bit on the stringy side, too.”
“You plucked it first, of course.”
“Square up, doc.! Do y’ think a
man’s goin’ to make a fatigue party of
himself just fer practice? I et feathers
and all.”
“You removed the bird’s insides first?”
“Yair, doc.”
The M.O. fixed his patient with an eye
that had suddenly become stern. “Just
as a man who is his own lawyer has a
fool for a client,” he said, “so the mug
who is his own cook gives his customer
dyspepsia. Surely you should have
known that to render them digestible and
to infuse in them that nutritional value
which puts them so high on the list of
vitamin-packed foods feathers should
always be cooked while the bird’s inter-
nal works, particularly the gall bladder,
are still in!”
“Blime, doc. I didn’t know that. I
just thought”
“And another thing,” went on the M.O,
“Just how did you eat the feathers?”
The emu-eater stared. “Why, I just
chewed ’em up, o’ course, just as y’
would a horse’s mane, a possum’s fin,
a wombat’s hide or any other good
tucker.”
“Exactly! Mere ignorance. King’s
Regulations distinctly lay it .down that
feathers, army pattern, must be eaten
only one way: quill end first, so that
no resistance is offered the gullet as it
goes down. That's where you made the
mistake. Medicine and duty, corporal.”
Next day the same fellow was back
on sick parade. He’d eaten another emu,
had followed the instructions as to eat-
ing the feathers, but he was worse than
the day before.
The M.O. scratched his head. “I can’t
understand it!” he mused. “Ordinarily
feathers constitute a wholesome, palat-
able, digestible and satisfying dish. Per-
hape you have an ultra-sensitive digestive
system. Tell me, are there any foods
that your stomach finds particularly re-
volting?”
“Well, me stummick sorta turns over
every time I see bully beef. But I haven’t
et any lately.”
“Ah! Now we’re getting somewhere.
Do you sleep close to where it is stored?”
“Well, doc., as a matter o’ fact the
Q.M. dumped a bag of the stuff just out-
side our tent a coupla days ago and it’s
still there. I been sleepin’ with me melon
only a few feet off it.”
The M.O. thumped the table. “That’s
it!” he said triumphantly. “You are
allergic to it. Get rid of the bully an’
you’ll be all right. All the same, I
wouldn’t eat too many feathers if I
were you. I’d concentrate on the beaks
and toes —they’re really excellent rough-
age ! ”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2 Id. per line.
“Not to Reason Why” ?
What is expected of the soldier? “Loan
officers” exhort him to invest paybook
credits in war savings' certificates. A
considerable amount has been raised by
these service “purges.” Is it fair to ask
a man to buy the bullets he will fire at
the Japs? Fight the war and pay for the
war is asking too much.
As it is, the soldier has to pay taxes,
to pay fines for breaches of discipline, to
pay through the nose for canteen articles,
to pay train fares if his leave is not on a
home-leave pass, to pay exorbitant prices
for everything while on leave and to pay
the supreme sacrifice if he stops an enemy
bullet.
He is expected to put up with snubs
and snarls from shop assistants, wait-
resses and “civil” servants. He is ex-
pected to queue up for practically every-
thing and sit on the pavement and twiddle
his thumbs because of lack of entertain-
ment in most of our cities and towns.
He is expected to put up with miles of
red-tape, crowded troop trains and the
threat .jot association with naughty
civilians put in the army if they fail to
do a day’s work now and then.
He is expected to believe that the
Governments have the best available
brains in the land at work on post-war
rehabilitation. He is expected to shut his
eyes to the treatment that so many of
his discharged cobbers have received.
Too much can be expected of too
many.—C. G. (R.A.A.F.).
A.I.F. and Liberation
I know we are substantially repre-
sented in France by the R.A.A.F.—I
have a son there who is a fighter-pilot in
a Mustang squadron —but as an old
Digger I cannot but regret that the
A.I.F. has no battalions there to share
in the glory of the coming victory in
Europe—E. S. Holmes (N.S.W.).
Invidious Comparisons
What good purpose is being served by
comparisons of the numbers of men
enrolled, actually fighting or not, by the
several Allied Nations? They lend them-
selves to accusations that this country or
that is not doing its fair share of the task.
The enemy eagerly seizes on that sort of
thing as propaganda, from the effects of
which Australia has not escaped.
The numbers of men in the ranks do
not tell the whole tale of a country’s war
effort. Take the U.S.A., whose vast com-
mitments to produce munitions for all
engaged on our side in the conflict require
her to employ in her industries an army
of workers and supervisors beyond the
power and resources of any other Allied
country. So with Britain, the achievements
of whose war industries will thrill the
world when they can be told. —W. C. T.
(W.A.).
Seamen’s War-time Pay
The article headed “Attack Being
Made on War Bonus” in the “Seamen’s
Journal” of April, 1944, quoted by “In-
terested Seaman” (B. 31/5/’44), is in-
accurate and misleading.
My authorities are my own “pay-off”
sheets, which, as all seamen know, are
only too accurate. The article states that
“many nations adopt a zone system and
award different rates in different areas.”
How many countries beside the U.S.A.
and Sweden use this system? Most ships
paid the same bonuses on the tough Rus-
sian and Malta convoys as they would
on a trip from Melbourne to Launceston.
What authority has the “Seamen’s Jour-
nal” for saying Norwegian and British
seamen receive 120 p.c. and 100 p.c. war-
loading respectively? An ordinary sea-
man on a British ship is paid £8 10s. a
month wages, and £lO a month war-
loading ; an able seaman receives £l4
wages and £lO bonus. The higher the
seaman’s rank the bigger is the dispro-
portion between his wages and the flat-
rate £lO sterling a month bonus for all
hands except the boys, so how does the
“Seamen’s Journal” figure that 100 p.c.
bonus is paid? The bonus on Norwegian
ships is higher, but it is standard for all
ratings, even including boys, and is not in
ratio to wages.
Surely this is a more democratic
method than the percentage loading used
on Australian ships. Everyone on a ship,
from captain to cabin-boy, takes the
same risk, so why not the same bonus for
all hands? An able seaman on an Aus-
tralian ship is paid £27 Bs. a month
(wages plus 33j bonus), which is less
than the approximate £3B a month
(wages plus 33i flat-rate bonus) paid to
an able seaman on a Norwegian vessel;
but compare the Australian deckboy’s
money of £8 13s. 4d. a month with the
Norwegian deckboy’s pay of approxi-
mately £25 a month.
If the Greek ships pay 200 p.c. war-
loading, their original pay must be very
small, as the combined wages and bonus
is only £2B and £3O sterling a month for
able seamen and firemen respectively.
Don’t imagine, “Interested Seaman,” that
a Greek vessel pays 200 p.c. bonus on the
Australian wage of £2O 11s. and £22 11s.
per month for able seamen and firemen.
—Matros (W.A.).
Post-war Education
By all means, “A. Bo” (B. 10/5/’44), let
us have health and physical training and
other practical subjects on the post-war
curriculum, but why your grudge against
geography and history?
Properly handled, these two subjects
becbme first favorites with the average
youngster, and lend themselves readily to
correlation with language, art, music,
civics, handiwork, science (particularly
agricultural science), and health and
physical training.
A proper understanding of the lives,
ideals, environment and history of its
own and other peoples is essential to any
“To show me appresheaiion of Wot y're doin’ for us I’ll let y' 'ave it cheap.
Eighteen quid a week, with breakfast .”
nation which does not wish to become a
hotbed of racial and nationalistic preju-
dice or gullibility. History forms one
of the two chief subjects—the other
is literature —studied in the Danish
People’s High Schools, and this Danish
system of secondary and adult education
is by achievement probably the best in
the world. — Tarko (A.1.F.).
Housing and Population
Housing and social security are all-
important factors in deciding the size
of the family. I am one of five and
the mother of two. Neither my husband
nor I consider that we would be justified
in having more. Here are some of our
reasons: —
A public servant, he is destined to
spend his working life in one country
town and another, departmental houses
supplied, but not rent-free. Up to date
we haven’t met a house with more than
two bedrooms, nor any bedroom capable
of holding more than two single beds—
at a squeeze —plus a wardrobe.
In regard to finance, after 20 years’
service, we don’t hit the £lO per week
mark. Large slabs taken off for super-
annuation, insurance, rent and income
tax reduce us still further. In the event
of a depression we are the first to get
the axe.
A hundred years ago, or considerably
less, dental and medical treatment didn’t
worry parents. Their children took a
chance. Today we are advised to have
regular attention. We are told to give
our children plenty of milk, fruit, eggs.
We are also told that the only hygienic
way to keep food in the summer is in a
refrigerator. Up to date ours hasn’t
materialised.
Another point is domestic help. Unless
the woman with a fair-sized family is to
be tied down to a continuous round of
drudgery help must be obtained. On a
salary such as ours we can’t afford help.
One of Five (S.A.).
“Another One of Six” (B. 24/5/’44)
contradicts my statement that the housing
problem is Australia’s main barrier to
the present population trends. Says the
Victorian Director of Infant Welfare (Dr.
Vera Scantlebury Brown): “Overcrowd-
ing, especially in the number of families
living in rooms, was a major cause of the
loss of 26 babies of every 1000 under one
month of age in Victoria last year.” The
doctor said that “in Holland only 16 in
1000 of such babies died.” It has been
revealed here by health inspections that
as many as 16 people have been living in
two rooms. The housing problem is the
barrier to a healthy, constantly-increasing
population.— One of Six (Vic.).
The Living Standard
I commend your article “The Standard
of Living” (B. 14/6/’44) to the attention
of officials of the R.S.S.L. That “the great
illusion of the wage rate at its face value”
is not understood by most union officials
was shown at the recent Melbourne con-
ference, where a controversy arose over
pegged wages and many delegates ex-
pressed no concern over inflation.
The weakness of the Beveridge Plan
was that it attempted to fix a sum of
money for benefits proposed, and this
applies in our pension scheme for soldiers.
Fix the total pension rate at, say, £4 per
week, and probably in a very few years
that £4 will not purchase as much as £3
would when the Act was passed. The
yardstick should be purchasing power.
Benefits, too, should be definitely de-
fined in the Act. If the benefit is rent,
then the standard of house should be
specified in the Act; if clothing and food.
the quantity and quality. All pensions
for partial disablement should be stated
as a proportion of full pension.
On these specifications the money value
could be determined at any time by a
properly constituted authority. In a few
years’ time Governments will have for-
gotten the sacrifices of the fighting men,
and it will be a difficult matter to get a
revision of pensions.— D. B. Corfe
(N.S.W.).
The Nursing Profession
I’m sure “An Old Nurse Who Knows”
(B. 31/5/’44) is wide of the mark. Trainee
nurses and most other nurses are spared
the expense and inconvenience of travel-
ling, yes ; but the reason is that they have
to be on the spot so they can be called
at any hour. If there is a nurse in a
public hospital today who hasn’t had to
go through a day’s work without a wards-
maid she is among the fortunate few, and
even if there is a maid we all have a
certain amount of cleaning to do every
day. I, for one, have done the maid’s
work for her frequently. In the kitchen
there are always cups to be washed and
dishes from intermittent meals. When I
first went into the wards I spent half my
time in the kitchen.
“A nurse’s meals are prepared and
served up to her,” Amazing! One would
think she would come off duty and get
her own meals. And as for spending her
time off duty as she pleases, that is not a
privilege—it is anyone’s right; but it is
often impossible to spend your leave as
you wish, because you may find you have
a lecture on your day off and you always
have to be in by a certain time. Imagine
the outcry of most girls today if they
were forbidden to be out after 11.30 p.m.
Admittedly, nurses must have a certain
amount of rest, perhaps more than the
average; but why should the whole pro-
fession be subject to disciplinarian rule
because a few scatterbrains might run
jvild and ruin their health? We all know
what it is like to have to go out when
we are nearly falling asleep on our feet,
and there are not many, if the choice was
their own, who would not go to bed. And
we are not able to choose our weekly
leave. In rare circumstances you may be
able to arrange for a certain day off duty,
but more often than not you will find it
has already been altered for you.
Of course, we have free hospital and
medical services. So have many other
people. Why not nurses?
It is an honor to belong to the nursing
profession, but it is sad to see intelli-
gent, fine and keen young women being
disheartened and disillusioned by the wall
of officialdom which confronts them ; by
the irksome duties.only indirectly asso-
ciated with nursing, used in its widest
sense; by the lack of encouragement or
of any appreciation of their long hours of
arduous and trying work ; last, but not
least, by the many hours of overtime
work, quite frequently spent on cleaning.
There is only one thing carries a girl
through, and that is her interest in her
work, which must always surpass her
despair.
My advice to any girl wanting to be a
nurse is to go ahead and enter a public
hospital as a probationer. She will be
under no obligation to stay, and uni-
forms, if she should decide that nursing
is no life for her, can easily be dis-
posed of.—A Trainee Who Knows
(Vic.).
Rabbiters and Income Tax
A body of men in my district earn big
money out of which they pay little or no
income tax. These are professional rab-
biters, many of whom are at present
making £l5 to £2O a week.
To see them sign the skin-buyer’s book
with a fictitious name and hear them
over a mug of beer* skite about their
cleverness puts a funny taste in my
mouth.
Together with shearing and such occu-
pations during the off-rabbit season,
most of them must accumulate a tidy
tax-free pile in twelve months. — Lasto
(N.S.W.).
The Referendum
We’re certainly going to have a “new
order” after the war if the Federal Gov-
ernment knows anything about it. It’ll
be one in which bureaucratic bungling
will be hidden from the public by a
muzzled press.
Employment? There’ll be work for
everybody. The all-powerful, all-know-
ing Government will prescribe it. The
stoker will have to go on stoking, the
farmer will have to continue farming,
the street-cleaner who wants to turn ac-
countant will have to stay where he is,
unless Man-power directs him elsewhere.
And so on.
Dr, Evatt threatens internal chaos
unless his new order i§ ado*pted. I
can foresee plenty of it accompanying
his new order. Aussies are nasty cows
when they are livened up.
I’m a farmer. I’ve voted Labor during
recent years because it looked like my
best hope. But here Labor must stop, or
our boys, brothers, relatives and friends
will have shed their blood in vain.—W. C.
(Q.).
The Compulsory Vote
In saying a lot of Australians don’t
vote intelligently, James Merran (B.
24/ 5/ ’44) is right, but let’s add that half
the time they haven’t got anybody intel-
ligent to vote for.
Who gets the vote when you do your
damnedest to vote intelligently? Is it
anybody you know? Do you know him
personally? Would you have him as a
business partner? Do you know if what
he says is what he really believes, or is
he just trying to shove in for the take?
Ten to one you don’t know him from
a bar of soap. To say we select our
representatives is bunk ; we can vote only
for those who have been selected by
somebody else or by themselves.
Anybody can go up for Parliament
without giving any more evidence of his
ability than comes out in his speeches.
He may have the gift of the gab, but no
other gift, so far as anybody afterward
can discover.
It’s bad enough to have compulsory
voting at all, but the thing that hurts
most is to be threatened with a fine for
not voting for a charlatan or a nitwit.—
Enveen (Tas.).
Nationalisation
Loud voices, echoes of empty minds,
call for the obliteration of our big busi-
nesses by confiscation or taxation. But do
not forget that concerns like B.H.P,
Myers and Holden’s-G.M. have been
built up by giving us what we want.
They have become big only because we
have clamored for what they have to sell.
—F. P. W. (W.A.).


» .
V S '• '
P ?pPPp
.. '
ill
...
aipißisi
WJW • . •' V-- & ..
■
i; m ■tm
in
I
I
% >
fe
M
saS
*;■■■■>;. ■
p
,' 4 J VP' f
■
PPPiiC
; . i
;,. . ■ ’
■
Realities
DECAUSE the leaders of the Australian
iron and steel industry recognised the
important part increased steel production
would play in our struggle for survival
in event of war, and promptly acted
to develop our steel - producing capacity,
AMD WAR PRIORITY MAGNESIUM
THE glistening magnesium ingot shown above in course
of being reduced to powder for use in tracer ammuni-
tion, flares and incendiary bombs is another B.H.P.
product. At a time when shortages of magnesium threat-
ened to hold up Allied ’plane production, B.H.P. sponsored,
pioneered and perfected this light-weight metal’s manu-
facture in Australia. Production started in July, 1941.
Because magnesium is one-third lighter than aluminium
yet possesses great strength when alloyed with small percen-
tages of zinc and manganese, it has become indispensable
for aircraft construction.
Australia is assured of steel supplies to
meet the extraordinary war-time demand.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.,
has played its part in the attainment of
this fortunate position, which is further
enhanced by the fact that the Company
makes B.H.P. Steel available at the
world’s lowest prices.
When victory is won, versatile steel will
once again revert to happier applications.
It will shape our national rehabilitation
and progress, and be the prime factor in
every scheme of housing, employment and
better living.
The
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Iron and Steel Works - - - NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Shipbuilding and Blast Furnace Plant - WHYALLA, S.A.
Offices at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and PERTH.
